
I graduated in 1976 from a high school in North Dallas and this entire
movie is so spot on it's scary. It is my favorite film. I've seen it
hundred's of times and every time it's like watching it for the first
time. Only someone that was there and lived through those days could
have directed such a movie. I drove a 70 dark blue Chevelle SS 454 with
a 4-speed, over 400 HP and all of the goodies Wooderson described.
Starting that car up, listening to the roar of that engine and burning
out in 1st gear while in a thick cloud of blue smoke in front of the
high school at 3PM while wasted......doing over 80MPH in 2nd gear....oh
yea! I feel sorry for the teenagers today that drive the limp wrist
fluffs of metal that pass themselves off as cars these days. 

I was a stoner like Pickford smoking weed non-stop. Some mentioned that
the heavy drug use was not too common. Well, at our school it was
beyond common. Before school, during school (in the bathroom and
football field) and after school. Our school had a smoking area outside
the cafeteria where everyone went to light up. 

The opening scene with Aerosmith "Sweet Emotion" slowly building up and
Pickford driving his Goat and girlfriend in the school parking lot
kills me every time. I cannot imagine a better opening scene for the
movie. That was pure genius. The funny thing is Linklater did not show
getting licks from the coach or the principal. For all the
"uninitiated" back then all a coach or an asst. principal had to say
was "Smith, I want to see you back at my office now". Our coach had a
paddle he personally made that he kept on his wall over his desk. It
had about 30 holes drilled in it and it was covered in black electrical
tape! When that one came down you knew it! Now with all the PC people
coach would go to jail for "assaulting the poor boy" Hell, back then it
was called character building. As I remember from the 7th grade on
licks were given out. 

The soundtrack. Best ever. Might as well be back at White Rock Lake or
Lake Ray Hubbard on a Friday night getting wasted. Head East was a nice
touch. Every time I listen to that soundtrack I remember things I have
not thought about in 25 years. The man that portrayed Pickford's dad
was dead on. Accent, demeanor along with the big caddy and the tennis
playing wife in the mini-skirt and puffed up hair. 

Some of the reviewers mentioned they did not think it was too realistic
showing/mixing a lot of sexual activity among the freshman girls. That
is another point I must dispute. Maybe at their school in their town of
500 or their strict upbringing but at our junior high and high school
the freshman and younger girls were pretty wild. I mean really "wild"!
This is coming from someone who "lost it" at 12. So insinuating things
about a 15 or 16 year old freshman is pretty tame. 15 and 16 year old's
were the "world travelers" to us 13 or 14 year old guys. 

There is something about this movie that pulls me back over and over
again. It's hard to describe. I'm not sure what it is. Am I a Wooderson
that enjoys reminiscing? Am I someone that prefers simpler times? Am I
someone that is so sick of PC people that a movie like D&C is like a
breath of fresh air? Was there something magical in the air back in
1976? The country was celebrating 200 years of freedom. Now within the
last 30 years it seems that most of those freedoms have been slowly
whittled away with and all that is left is a former shell of the old.
Especially after 2001. 

The best scene? To me it's a toss-up between the opening "Sweet
Emotion" GTO in the school parking lot and the Emporium scene with
"Hurricane" playing in the background while (The Past) Wooderson, (The
Present) Pink and (The Future) Mitch walk into the Emporium while the
camera films every little nuance in slow motion. The cockiness of
Woods, the mellow Pink and the innocence of Mitch. Put that scene on
slow motion and study their faces and the reaction shots of their
peer's faces as they acknowledge their presence.

Your own personal time machine if only for an hour and a half. Slip the
DVD in, turn the lights down low, take a couple good strong hits and
wash them down with a few Tallboys. Use your imagination and for the
briefest of time you are back in 1976. I wish they made more movies
like this instead of the sugar coated pablum coming out of Hollywood
nowadays.

Remember this?

Howard Hughes died, Robin Trower-Bridge of Sighs, Jeff Beck, Kawasaki
Z1, Kawasaki 750 triple 2-stroke, 45 cents a gallon gas, 104 octane
gas, Frampton Comes Alive, Bad Company - Shooting Star, Elvin Bishop -
Fooled Around and Fell In Love, Jimmy Carter, Dirty Mary, Crazy Larry,
1969 Dodge Charger 440, 2 Lane Blacktop, 3 finger lids, windowpane,
Diamond Dogs, J. Geils, Midnight Special, Wings Over America tour, Bad
Company - Movin' On, Mott The Hoople - All The Young Dudes, SD 455 with
the Big Bird on the hood, Marshall Tucker Band - Heard It In A Love
Song, Emerson, Lake and Palmer - Brain Salad Surgery, Edelbrock Tunnel
Ram with Holley Double Pumpers, getting high at dusk while listening to
Pink Floyd's "Time" and looking at the Dallas skyscraper skyline
against the setting sun.

If you do then Dazed and Confused is right up your alley. If you don't
then still watch it, the characters in D&C cover all generations, just
the cars and clothing have changed.
<|_=00=_|>
There are spoilers in this review...

What a great, great movie. If you want to know what being in High
School in the mid 70's was like, rent this film. I grew up in the metro
Manhattan area. We didn't have the freshman hazing, and few of us could
afford the cars (although we sure knew about them and lusted after
them), but the rest of this movie is so dead on about my experience of
High School in the 70's that it's scary. Every character in the film
corresponds with someone that I knew during that time. Yes, there was a
lot of pot smoking, yes, obtaining beer was quite easy for underage
kids...I used to buy it in bars when I was 16. We made pipes in shop
class. We hung out and had parties at night, drove the streets drinking
beers and smoking joints listening to the same music. There were no
youth centers though. The girls that I knew were as beautiful, and also
struggled to get into their jeans. They used pliers too, but they also
put them on while they were wet to further get that skintight look.
There was no HIV virus to worry about, Herpes was not a big thing then,
the biggest worry was getting pregnant. Everyone was having sex... All
of these facts also were no big deal. Most of my peers grew up just
fine, and now are upstanding pillars of the community. Many today would
like you to believe that this is an example of the road to ruin. It was
an incredible great time. The film has interesting character
development, with the same types I remember. Philosophers, heads (now
called stoners), bullies and waifs. This is my American Graffiti and it
is perfect. Waxing nostalgic? Perhaps, but anyone that didn't live
through that time will sill love the dialog in this film, as it deals
with the universal experience of that point in one's life. This is high
school in the 70's. Check it out.
<|_=00=_|>
"Dazed and Confused", which takes place during the 70s, was one of the
best movies of the 90s. It really is phenomenal how much talent was in
this ensemble; if you want to see Adam Goldberg, Matthew Mcconaughey,
Milla Jovovich, Joey Lauren Adams, Parker Posey, or an almost
completely unrecognizable Ben Affleck (playing the sort of role he
would almost never play again, an a**hole) before they were stars, look
no further. And of course this was an early movie for director Richard
Linklater, who had made the relatively unknown "Slackers" previously
and who would go on to make "School of Rock", which was almost as good
as "Dazed and Confused".

Taking place on the last day of school in a small suburban town, "Dazed
and Confused" is a brilliant ensemble piece rivaling anything done by
Robert Altman that covers the broadest spectrum of teenagers
imaginable. We see the nerds, the potheads, the jocks, and the
cheerleaders, as well as the incoming freshmen, as they celebrate the
beginning of summer. Some celebrate less than others, of course;
freshman hazing is a big part of the movie, both male and female. The
dialogue is fresh and unexpected; lines about George Washington's
proclivity for marijuana, why you just gotta love high school girls ("I
get older, they stay the same age", as McConaughey's character says),
and the herd mentality when a fight breaks out demonstrate how
all-over-the-map the dialogue can be, and it's always affecting and
usually quite funny. 

Of course, it's the acting and the characters that really steal the
movie, and it really is amazing how many people in this movie went on
to bigger things. As I said before, Affleck was the most surprising,
but Mcconaughey had the most memorable role as an older dude who can't
seem to let go of his youth, a slick slimeball who chases after
under-age jail bait. And he has never been funnier or better than he
was in this. Eventually, his character will wake up and the kids aren't
going to want to hang out with him and the girls aren't going to want
to sleep with him anymore, and he's going to have a rude awakening. But
for the time being, he's all macho cool swagger, and Mcconaughey pulled
off the part perfectly. Parker Posey is also excellent, playing a
senior bitch (but only because she's "supposed" to be) unleashing a
humiliating hazing on the incoming freshman girls.

You have to give props to the writing. It's not a long movie, but it
covers so much ground that it feels big. At one point, a character says
that the 70s obviously suck. That may have been, but it's never looked
cooler than it did in "Dazed and Confused". And the soundtrack must be
mentioned too. The 70s was a decade full of musical highs and lows, and
thankfully the soundtrack highlights the highs while ignoring the lows,
and we have songs by Aerosmith, ZZ Top, Dr. John, War, and other
seminal 70s rock figures (curiously missing: "Dazed and Confused" by
Led Zeppelin, but that's forgivable). Brilliant; there's not a single
clunker, and it adds to the free, easygoing atmosphere of the movie.
"Dazed and Confused" is quite possibly the best "teen movie" ever made,
and, from the point of view of someone who grew up in the 80s anyway,
the best movie about the 70s ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
Dazed and Confused (1993)

Cast: Jason London, Rory Cochrane, Sasha Jenson, Wiley Wiggins,
Michelle Burke, Matthew McConaughey, Adam Goldberg, Anthony Rapp,
Marissa Ribisi, Shawn Andrews, Cole Hauser, Milla Jovovich, Joey Lauren
Adams, Jason O. Smith, Ben Affleck, Christin Hinjosa, Parker Posey,
Nicky Katt.

Directed by Richard Linklater.

"Dazed and Confused" is one of the best teen films ever made, and for
many reasons. It stands the test of it's time, along with George Lucas'
"American Graffiti" and John Landis' "Animal House". It shows the highs
and lows of partying, friendship, and drugs. The plot is about upcoming
seniors and freshmen in a Texas town on the full last day of School in
1976. The characters are very likable in this, well, at least most of
them. Richard Linklater gives a great independent direction. This isn't
a film that encourages kids to do drugs, but it shows a true portrayal
of teenagers in a America, in a very fun way. "Dazed and Confused" is
one of my all-time favorite films, and one that I can watch over and
over again. Well done.

5/5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
This became my all-time favorite comedy the first time I saw it. I was
a small child in the 70's, but I do remember that era somewhat, and the
characters in this movie reminded me so much of my teen-aged neighbors.
The music is right on-one of the best soundtracks I have ever heard, a
must-have for any 70's classic rock fans (in fact, it is so
comprehensive, there are two volumes). Superb performances by Jason
London, Sasha Jenson, Rory Cochrane, Milla Jovovich, Adam Goldberg,
Parker Posey and Matthew McConaughey highlight this film, but the rest
of the cast is just as great. It is no wonder that a majority of them
went on to become major stars-everyone shines with this hysterically
funny and nostalgic script written and directed by the amazing Richard
Linklater. The movie flows beautifully, every scene is funny, and the
chemistry of the characters is just amazing. Party at the moon tower!
<|_=00=_|>
"Dazed and Confused" details the last day of high school for the
typical youths of America in 1976. Shot in and around Austin, Texas,
the film failed at the box office in 1993-94, but has gone on to
achieve a well-deserved cult status. I never even heard of the film
until this year when I saw most of it on TV and promptly decided to
pick it up the DVD when I got the chance.

To my mind, "Dazed and Confused" is one of the best high school
comedy-dramas, along with 1982's "Fast Times at Ridgemont High." The
difference between these two films is that "Fast Times" contains more
goofy antics whereas "Dazed" is more of a docudrama with amusing
flashes. In other words, although "Fast Times is generally realistic,
excepting the over-the-top parts with Spicoli, "Dazed and Confused" is
more like a slice from real life.

What makes "Dazed" work so well is that it gets the LOOK of the
mid-to-late 70s just right, particularly the hair & clothing styles.
Secondly, the actors pull off the material expertly. In fact, a large
part of the film's success is the excellent casting choices. Both are
no easy feat. Speaking of the actors, you get a few up-and-comers here:
Matthew McConaughey, Milla Jovovich, Ben Affleck and one or two of
lesser note (as far as future popularity goes).

All the standard school archetypes are here: the jock who parties on
the side, the bullies, the hot sister and her little long-haired
brother, the black dude, the hot (feminist) teacher, the streetfighter,
the cool guys, the geekier crowd, the babes, the guy who graduated
years ago but still hangs around, the mentors & mentees, etc.

And then you have the standard school experiences like parties at
friend's houses, keg parties, fleeing bullies, dealing with coaches &
teachers, flirting, the possibility of sex, hanging out, meaningless
conversations, fights, smoking pot at school or in your friend's
bedroom, etc.

Like "Fast Times," "Dazed and Confused" is a joy to watch -- whatever
your age -- because it successfully takes you back to the high school
years with all its joys & agonies.

Some don't like it because it's more of a slice-of-life film than a
plot-driven, contrived story. The plot here is simple: It's the last
day of school and the youths want to celebrate. If they can't party at
their friend's house (because the dad catches wind of their plans)
they'll have a party at the park or wherever, but they WILL party. The
rest of the film involves their interactions within this context.

I've heard some complain that the film conveys a terrible message. What
message? There is no message. The message is that school's out and it's
time to celebrate! Besides, there are a few positive points that can be
mined from the proceedings: the arrogant bully gets what's coming, make
a stand and fight when you have to (even if you get beat up),
ultra-tight pants must be put on with pliers & the help of a friend, be
true to yourself, etc. But -- really -- this isn't a movie to look for
deep messages, its simple purpose is to take you back to the school
years -- in this case, 1976 -- and all the fun & painful experiences
thereof.

No review of "Dazed and Confused" would be complete without noting the
excellent soundtrack. You get some great rock/metal of the 70s like
"Sweet Emotion," "School's Out," "Stranglehold," "Do You Feel Like We
Do," "Love Hurts," "Paranoid," "Rock & Roll Hootchie Coo," "Rock & Roll
All Nite," "Slow Ride," "Cherry Bomb," "Tuesday's Gone" and many more.

GRADE: A
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the best teenager, high school flicks which tops
most of the many other films i have viewed. It depicts male and female
struggles with all the temptations that face youth and will continue
for generations to come. (maybe even worse). The beginning of the film
cautions the public that drug use is going to be viewed and it sure is
clearly displayed through out the entire picture. Beer drinking is
being digested like it is water on tap and bottoms up appears in more
ways than in bottles. The classic act is destroying mail boxes and also
a bowling ball being thrown into the back window of a car. One of the
teenagers talks himself into getting a six pack of beer from a liquor
store like it was taking candy from a baby. Lots of hot looking gals in
tight pants being zipped up with pliers in order to get their nice
forms skin tight. Very entertaining film and extremely realistic and
down to earth. All the actors gave outstanding performances. Enjoy
<|_=00=_|>
Dazed and Confused is a lot like the time in which it takes place. The
film doesn't have much of note to say, but you get the sense that it
has a good time just being there. By 1976, Vietnam was in the rear-view
mirror, as were much of the struggles of the previous decades. It was
almost like people were sick and tired of caring about things and just
wanted to get wasted. Notice how nobody seemed to care when their
teacher was trying to tell them about the 1968 Democratic Convention or
our "aristocratic" forefathers. There is a certain innocence about the
period that our up-tight and violent world of today could use right
now.

Our film shows us the trials and tribulations of kids just looking to
get high, drunk, or just save their butts from being paddled on the
last day of school. Not much of note happens in this film. We just see
kids doing what kids are still doing. They are all just out to have a
good time. There are plenty of familiar faces in this cast, but nobody
really outshines anyone else. The film is paced in a manner that
doesn't let us get to know too much about the characters. We spend a
minute or two with one group of friends, then we see what another group
is up to. The most memorable scenes in the film are more painful than
funny. We see next year's freshman class (girls and guys) get pummeled
by the seniors. We see the destruction of property. We see a fight or
two break out. Plenty of beer and pot are consumed by all. And there
really isn't much else to it.

Linklater films the action from a completely neutral vantage point.
There is nothing at all pretentious or preachy about any of the subject
matter. We see some cool cars, tight jeans, long hair, and just about
anything you would associate with this time frame. The film lacks the
humor of Porky's or The Hollywood Knights. It also lacks the tragic
desperation of The Last Picture Show. That said, this film is still
worth taking a look at. Especially if you were in high school at the
time. I was just a toddler in 1976, but I could still relate to these
characters, and their need to party.

7 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>

Intelligent comedy-drama about the last days of a bunch of high school
seniors having a big bash in 1976. Excellent film all around with a well
written script by director Linklater and a superb cast that features
McConaghey, plus one of the finest compilations of classic rock ever.

<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes I write reviews and I can see people reading them, cursing my
words and saying that I don't know what I'm on about. I'm well aware at
how well Dazed and Confused was received, getting 5/5 ratings from the
majority of viewers. I guess that means I just missed something about
it and it didn't work for me.

It's about the last day of school in an American High School, back in
1976. The older students are looking forward to generally beating up
the younger kids (as is tradition... apparently - all I can say is that
this didn't happen to me at school in Britain during the eighties and
nineties and I'm glad it didn't!).

I found most of the characters either unlikeable or boring. I found it
hard to root for someone who enjoys bullying people smaller than them
(which is most of the older kids), just as I found it harder to
identify with the younger ones who just sort of spent most of the film
running away or waiting to take a hiding. Plus there's no real story.
What you have here is a collection of scenes with numerous different
characters all doing their own things on the last day of school.
There's also too many characters. Many don't really have much impact
and aren't really fleshed out enough to be believed in. I think it
would have benefited with a smaller cast. Although, the cast is pretty
impressive - maybe not when this movie was made, but, in retrospect,
there are a fair few Hollywood A-listers all here in the younger
(pre-fame) days.

However, as much as I didn't really like it, I had to give it credit
for getting the 'look' of the period right on. It really could have
been filmed in the seventies for the way it was presented. Plus the
soundtrack was right up my street. For once a film set in the seventies
didn't have a single Abba track involved and there was far more use of
some 'classic rock anthems' such as Alice Cooper (hooray!).

I didn't hate it, I just didn't like it as much as everyone else
apparently did.
