
This is basically the filmed dissatisfaction of upper-class yuppie
life. These are people who have everything but seem to live in a swamp
of self loathing and hateful arrogance and selfishness. Their tart,
affective interplay is like watching a game of mumbletypeg, but with
words. These are the kind of people you would not want to live next
door to, but these are the people who usually seem to win in our
society, sad as that is to ponder.

Jason Patric plays the single most evil person in movie history. His
'shower scene' is sick, twisted, but oddly humorous. You hate yourself
for laughing, which is the point. In that way you understand how these
people are born. They are us.

This is arrogant mall culture, the kind of American decadence the
Soviets warned us about. At least they were right about that.

The film is about how creeps become dissatisfied at their own
creepiness. Great dialog, the ending makes complete, yet sad, sense.
Our world is mad, and we need to change it, before it eats us whole.
<|_=00=_|>

YOUR FRIENDS & NEIGHBORS / (1998) ***1/2 (out of four)

"Your Friends & Neighbors" is not really a film about sex, although every
single scene, in some form or another, depicts its characters' obsessions
with sexuality. The sex is not the subject of the film, but rather a medium
for the characters to display various forms of behavior. Through eight very
different characters, we realize the differences of behaviors,
personalities, attitudes, and various degrees of selfishness. Although
wealthy and classy, none of the characters are role model citizens. This is
a tricky film to watch, never particularly entertaining, but often
curiously
involving. The sexual content and strong language will turn many audiences
off, but this movie does have a solid understanding of itself, and I honor
its art.

Neil Lebute is clearly more interested in the characters' sex lives than
in a clear, concise story.  Ben Stiller and Catherine Keener play partners.
They have good friends, another couple played by Amy Brenneman and Aaron
Eckhart. Stiller and Brenneman have an affair. Keener has issues with her
partner's verbal expressions during sex-she finds a mate in a female
artist's assistant played by Nastassja Kinski. Eckhart is his own favorite
sexual partner. Jason Patrick plays a cruel, arrogant womanizer who forces
his will on others. Eventually, the characters' selfishness destroys their
own relationships. We become infatuated with these circumstances.

Many of the scenes contain a strange, subtle power of intrigue. One of my
selection of scenes takes place in an art gallery, where the various
characters chat with Nastassja Kinski's character. They have the same
conversations, but the scenes end differently. Another fantastic scene is
where the three men relax in a steam room and discuss their favorite sexual
encounters. Jason Patrick's explanation packs a powerful, disturbing punch.
Although these scenes do not necessarily construct a story, that's not a
problem. The focus here is the vivid dialogue, the aggressive behavior, and
the keen direction. This isn't a movie about a story. It's a movie about
behavior.

The characters talk about sex constantly-whether it's in the supermarket,
the basketball court, in bed, an art gallery, public restaurants, gym
showers, their homes, business places, steam rooms, and more. The movie
lacks passion to share with the audience, but we can tell Lebute is
passionate about writing these characters. There is constantly an uneasy
tension between most of them; they form no chemistry or charisma. He
isolates them in their own world so that we can watch the interaction, not
the romance.

"Your Friends & Neighbors" initially received an NC-17 rating by the MPAA.
It contains very little nudity, no violence, and only a few scenes of
actual
sex. It received an R on appeal, but perhaps we should examine the
association's motives for the higher rating. The discussions of sex in this
movie are more vivid, more disturbing, more vivid than any actual act of
sex. In a way, the MPAA honored the movie's power. They proved that Neil
Lebute's social drama is certainly not for all audiences, and it's not
really a great movie, but we should strongly respect the angle and courage.


<|_=00=_|>

Good movies do not have to be about pleasant subjects, many excellent films
are about depressing subjects or have sad endings. Neil Labute's first two
movies are definitely not happy, and delve deeply into the dark side of
modern human existence.  They both address the same issue, human dysfunction
and evil amidst the bounty of white collar America.  In "Your Friends and
Neighbors", Labute has us eavesdrop on two Yuppie couples and their friends.
For various reasons (mostly of a sexual nature), the couplings are
disintegrating, and we're treated to listening in on the action; in
bedrooms, in restaurants, and in steam rooms. Labute writes excellent
dialogue and the movie is well acted. Unfortunately, "Your Friends and
Neighbors" lacks the dramatic punch of his first film. We just watch as the
characters screw up their lives, and the lives of their supposed friends and
loved-ones. Afterwards you just want to take a shower. A toss-up to grade;
if it sounds interesting rent it.
<|_=00=_|>

Jerry lives with Terri but Terri is irritated by everything he does
especially the way he talks during sex and needs to analyse everything. 
They are friends with Barry and Mary who have sexual problems as Mary is
rarely roused for sex.  Jerry makes a move to meet up with Mary to have sex
behind Barry's back.  Meanwhile Cheri works at an art gallery and picks up
people there and Jerry and Barry's friend Cary lives his sex life devoid of
any care or consideration for anyone else.

I have previously seen In the Company Of Men so I was prepared for the sort
of view point the director seems to take regarding the nature of men and
women but even then, this is still a pretty depressing look at
relationships.  Our characters are barely even given names, certainly no
last names, and they are rarely used when you listen.  More than that the
names are pretty typical – the sort of names you might make up if you were
put on the spot, like John Smith.  The point being that these characters are
not supposed to be fictional but more `everyman' characters.  However is
this what everyone is like? – does everyone have major relationship issues
and try to have affairs with their best friends etc?  Do people really have
stories of male rape as their best sexual experience?  I doubt it – this is
a real condensing of the whole human experience into a handful of
characters.

It works quite well because it is very frank and this kept my interest.  Not
shocking but I did want to keep watching because the dialogue was good. 
Sadly I could have cared less about the actual lives before me.  As a plot I
didn't get involved partly because it was so fake feeling – it was obvious
from day 1 that LaBute was not going to give us the luxury of even one
mildly messed up relationship, no – it was obvious that everything that
could fail would.  The dialogue does save the film as it is well written and
darkly funny, however it just wasn't enough of a story – instead it was
rather smugly self aware.

The cast do well with the dialogue and the film is staged more like a play
than a roaming film, with mostly static interior shots used.  Stiller is
good but doesn't excel himself.  Eckhart shows how good an actor he is by
playing a character so the opposite of his character in LaBute's previous
film and playing it well.  Patric steals the show but his character is the
least developed.  He is the funny one and is like Eckhart's character in `In
the Company Of Men' in that he is selfish and cruel to women.  However his
character seems to be LaBute's ideal in this piece as he is the only one who
seems to get what he wants – is this the moral of the film?  The female
characters are weaker as you'd expect.  Brenneman cuts a pathetic character
and simply mops around a lot.  Kinski is given little to do although Keener
has a stronger part to play.

Overall I enjoyed this because it was full of good dialogue that keeps you
listening because of how very frank it is.  However that doesn't mean that
the story or film is involving and it does feel a little distant and not
based in any life I've ever lived.  A bit too cruel, harsh and dark but it
just about gets by on those credentials – but the music of Metallica played
on violin is worth watching the credits for!
<|_=00=_|>
"Your Friends and Neighbors" (1998) is the second film by
director/writer Neil LaBute and it tells the story of three couples and
their complicated friendships and relationships. I've seen it more than
once during the last couple of days - and I found it incredibly clever
written, well acted (especially by Jason Patric and Catherine Keener -
their only scene together was the second best in the movie - so dynamic
and tight) and skillfully directed. LaBute certainly has a very unique
sense of humor and he knows well the history of cinema. To give all
characters the names that rhyme - Mary, Barry, Terri, Cheri, Cary and
Jerry - was a clever idea - the characters are interchangeable in their
relationships and it does not matter really, who is with whom - Mary
with Barry or with Cary or Jerry or Barry with Barry, and Cheri with
Terri or Jerry? The important thing is that they are selfish and often
unpleasant and despicable people who are not happy with themselves and
can't make happy their spouses or partners. Another interesting trick -
the repeating scene in the Art gallery that starts with exactly the
same words for each character but leads to different developments. I
mentioned that LaBute knows his movies. Have you noticed the poster
from Goddard's Le Mépris, (1963) aka "Contempt" with Brigitte Bardot?
"Contempt" features one of the most fascinating and longest scenes of a
breakup ever filmed. The breakup scene between Terri (Catherine Keener)
and Jerry (Ben Stiller) started like in "Contempt" but it only lasted a
few minutes and it was a good scene. Actually, I loved all scenes with
Catherine Keener and if I have to choose one character that I liked, it
would be Terry. Seems that Charlie Kaufman might have seen LaBute's
movie because Terry and Maxine from "Being John Malkovich" have a lot
in common. I was actually waiting for Terry to say to Jerry, "The thing
is if you ever get me, you would not know what to do with me". 

Jason Patric was a revelation - I don't know him very well but I
remember that he gave a very good performance in "Narc". As for the
scene in a steam room, it is not just the best of the film; it is one
of the best scenes - monologues ever. I know not many would agree with
me but the scene is as powerful, unforgettable and strangely erotic as
the monologue in Bergman's "Persona". LaBute's writing, his camera, and
mesmerizing performance by Patric made this scene an instant classic. 

The film is not perfect and sometimes it drags but overall I found it
interesting and enjoyable. You don't have to like the characters in
order to like and appreciate the film. Sadly, the beautiful, sensual
and talented Nastassja Kinski (Cherri) does not have much to play while
Ben Stiller does and I am not his fan - even in this film. 

LaBute's usage of "Metallica"s "Enter Sandman" (performed by
Apocalyptica) during the opening and the closing credits instantly
pulled me in and Bryony Atkinson's song "My Hollow" is terrific.
<|_=00=_|>

Neil LaBute is one of my favorite filmmakers of recent years, and this film
is one of his best. He creates distinctive characters, some selfish, some
self-loathing, and lets them develop in sometimes unexpected ways. The
writing is satirical at times, but that's fine - it's never forced. The
directions in which these characters go ultimately feel like natural
progressions. Sometimes you can't believe what you're seeing and hearing,
but it all fits. The cast is up to the challenges of the material -
especially Jason Patric, who gives his best performance in
years.
<|_=00=_|>

"Your Friends and Neighbors" is a movie about relationships, sex and
the effects of both. This is pointed out clearly in the beginning when Jerry
(Ben Stiller) uses direct address as an introduction. By having Jerry
(Stiller) speak directly to the movie audience, LaBute communicates the
significance and meaning of his movie. 
This movie is a fine example of a character-based movie done the right
way. LaBute manages to have six very round (if not dynamic) characters whose
interactions serve to show the frustration of relationships quite
eloquently. One of the best aspects of this movie is the dialogue; the
characters' feelings always come through through their conversations. Even
Mary (Amy Brenneman) is able to portray her feelings effectively with her
concise statements. For example, her response to Jerry (Stiller) when he is
trying to become involved with her again is "people are weird, and you
couldn't keep your erection." There are countless dialogues like this one,
quick-witted and bitterly realistic. If you aren't the kind of person who
enjoys a true character-based movie, maybe you should skip this one. All the
characters have very real flaws that abrogate any growth, for those of you
who crave action and a happy ending; this movie will most likely bore you.


<|_=00=_|>
CONTAINS SPOILERS THROUGHOUT The first time I saw this film, I came
away not liking it. It was disturbing, heavy, and none of the
characters were very likable. But through the years I have seen it a
few more times, and it has grown on me considerably.

I must be honest here-I saw it only because it had Jason Patric and
Aaron Eckhart (two actors that I can truly say I became a fan of from
seeing them in their earliest roles-Lost Boys for Patric and In The
Company of Men for Eckhart), and they delivered on their performances.
Patric's character is one of the most twisted and narcissistic
characters in cinema history, but he brings a vulnerability and a
likability to the screen, and it's hard to hate him. You want to know
where he's coming from, and you get a glimpse after he describes a
brutal sexual encounter in which he attacks a classmate, and then says
it's the best sex he ever had. Even though it is an ensemble cast,
Patric owns the film. Eckhart, in a 360 turn from his character in the
aforementioned In The Company of Men, plays a nerdy, emotionally
distant husband who can't enjoy sex with anyone but himself. Amy
Brenneman, as a neglected housewife who has an (almost) affair with Ben
Stiller's character does a good job, but you never see it coming when
she ends up with Patric, and it makes no sense. The always brilliant
Catherine Keener puts in another deadpan performance, this time as the
bitchy artist type who decides she prefers a woman (the luminous
Nastasja Kinski) over Stiller. She does get hers in the end, after she
snottily rejects Patric's character and he puts her in her place. Ben
Stiller, who most of the time annoys me with his constant mugging and
nervous jittery energy, fits in well with the cast, and you end up
feeling sorry for his character. He means well, he just seeks out the
wrong women.

The movie is talky, but the conversations are riveting. You want to
hear more, and learn more about what makes these characters tick.
Overall, I give the movie an 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

With a better cast and an even more 
disturbing group of characters, Neil LaBute 
failed to disappoint in his sophomore effort. 
Laced with dark dialogue and realistic reactions 
conducive to the actions of the characters, 
this film actually surpasses In The Company 
of Men in regards to the evil that is known 
as the human condition. With some great 
performances by the likes of Jason Patric, 
Catherine Keener, Ben Stiller, Amy Brenneman 
and Aaron Eckhart, this film really sucks you 
into this unsatisfied world of betrayal and sex. 
A film only Todd Solondtz couldn't have made 
(if anyone else could have made it).
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most fascinating moments in this film is the scene in which
the three men each tell about their most exciting sexual liaison. Jason
Patric's anecdote is amazing, both as written and as acted. A virulent
misogynist with no empathy for the women he has used sexually, he tells
a story in which a bunch of jocks, including him, rape a homosexual to
show what contempt they have for him. The Patric character is last in
line and in describing his encounter with the abused rapee, he
expresses more than a deep empathy for the victim, but in fact
something like respect and love. The implications inherent in his
anecdote have kept on resonating for me ever since, but the capper to
it all is how powerfully Patric tells the story. I wouldn't
particularly want to re-see the rest of the movie, but I could watch
that scene again and again. Why is Patric so underrated? He was also
very good in Incognito.
