

Let me just tell you that, as a middle aged film buff, I have seen my share
of flicks, good and bad. Very few rate as high as "The Game" in
entertainment value. "The Game" is most definitely one of the "most fun"
movies to hit the silver screen in a long time. Filled with plot twists and
turns, this film takes the movie-goer on a psychological roller coaster
ride
from the tile screens to the final credit roll.

"The Game" is truly an intelligent tale, sort of a brain teaser that you
get
to watch and listen to, with a time limit. You have just 128 minutes to
solve this, and chances are, like me, you'll be hanging on the solution to
this puzzle until the very end.

The script was well written by a writer who clearly understands the needs
of
an adult audience. Yes, we like our fun but we like to exercise our brains
once in a while also. And let there be no mistake about the great
performances offered here by Michael Douglas and his co-stars. I was
engrossed by all and couldn't take my eyes of the screen.

There is plenty for everybody here. Fun for all. A big winner in my book
and
definitely on my list of all time favorites. Get it and enjoy the
ride!
<|_=00=_|>
Whether you love it or hate it, The Game definitely will not bore you.  By
far the most engrossing movie I've ever watched.  I saw this on the big
screen and throughout most of this masterpiece I kept asking myself, "where
is this movie going?"  For 128 spirited minutes The Game takes your mind
and twists it ruthlessly, contorting it in any way it so desires.  Michael
Douglas is the perfect actor for this role, he played it flawlessly.  I
love this movie, it's definitely one of my personal favorites.
<|_=00=_|>

Very few films have captured my attention 
the way The Game did. Every turn, every 
corner seemed to have some hint of intrigue 
and deception. This film would be the life's 
work for any major film maker, but then again, 
this David Fincher were talking about.

Years from now, when Fincher is honored 
with his lifetime achievement award at the 
Academy Awards, his true fans will always 
remember this film. It put a whole new twist 
on the idea of "plot-twist." One of the few films 
me and my father both liked (we never agree 
on any film).
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say I didn't expect this. I didn't have great expectations
when I saw this. Especially considering the cold reception given to it
by critics and audiences alike. But it is one of the most original
Hollywood thrillers ever.

The story is about an investment banker named Nicholas Van
Orton(Michael Douglas in one of his best roles) who is greedy and self
centred and who lives alone in his huge mansion. His brother(Sean Penn)
gives him a card telling him to contact the company and it is his
birthday present to him. What follows is absolute edge of the seat
stuff and it shows David fincher at a time when he made some of the
finest movies ever seen in Hollywood. In the midst of all this, he
meets a waitress named Christine. Revealing more might spoil the movie
for you as it is a fun roller-coaster ride with many twists and turns.

What impressed me about this movie was the atmosphere throughout the
movie. It is classic David fincher with the dark tone and great
background music. The camera work is excellent especially in the scene
where his father falls down to his death. These scenes also show
another side to Nicholas van orton and indicate why he became the way
he is. He starts out as a one dimensional guy but then when faced with
crisis he shows so many sides. I feel the game is more a character
study because it shows the myriad changes in his behaviour throughout
the movie. Rather than depending on gimmicky twists and quick
editing(which is the popular way of making movies today), The Game
depends solely on atmosphere and the strength of its performances.
Deborah Kara Unger gives a great performance as a character with shades
of grey. She is the perfect person for this character with her
mysterious look. Sean penn as usual gives a great performance but
unfortunately he doesn't have much screen time.

Another aspect of the movie is the dark humor. Michael Douglas gives
certain comments with a deadpan delivery that makes it even more
humorous. In many ways the Game can be described as a satire on society
and how people forget the most important things in life when pursuing
success. It is interesting how facing a crisis brings out the most
basic emotions in people and how it changes people is the basic theme
of this movie. We experience the same emotions as Nicholas and thus it
becomes a ride where we don't know the truth till the last moment.

I had tears in my eyes at the end and the credit should go to the
direction and the music. The slow motion sequence at the end is also
well done and this has got to be one of the best endings of all time.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

"The Game" took me on one psychological thrill ride after another loaded
with twists and turns scene after scene.

Michael Douglas pulled off his best performance as Nicholas Van Orton a man
who is approaching his birthday. Upon which he receives an invitation to
play a game given to him by his brother Conrad played by Sean Penn. Nicholas
reluctantly agrees and soon finds out that the game is more than he
bargained for.

I thoroughly enjoyed this film because I never knew who was trustworthy or
what was going to happen next, this truly was one film that must be seen by
those who enjoy never knowing for sure how a movie will turn out.

"The Game" is all Michael Douglas and how well he pulls off his role of
being the innocent who happens to be in the middle of a game he can't
control. However, a really good movie can not be pulled off by one actor, a
whole lot of credit should go to Sean Penn and Deborah Kara Unger for their
convincing portrayals in this film. 
<|_=00=_|>

Nicholas Van Orton, a successful businessman lives a good life until an
unexpected birthday gift from his brother destroys it all. Nicholas has been
enrolled in a game - "a profound life experience" that begins quietly but
soon erupts in a rush of devastating events. Van Orton has to win this
deadly game or lose control of everything in his life. And this time money
and power are meaningless. This is a suspense/thriller, that does manage to
hold one's attention. The film stars Michael Douglas and Sean Penn. Deborah
Kara Unger (David Cronenberg's "Crash") turns in a fine supporting roll as
well. Davd Fincher, director of Seven and Aliens 3, continues to set high
standards for motion picture making. This lastest entree of Fincher's does
not lose a beat in delivering the maximum impact of the story. This movie
will get into your head. It will keep you guessing the whole time. If you
don't give this movie a chance you'll never know what you
missed.


<|_=00=_|>

This has to be one of the more interesting psychological thrillers made
recently.  Just when you think you got ahold of the plot it changes!
Playing with "the implicit viewer" this movie has a tendency to constantly
surprise and redefine itself in relation to the "expectancy horizon". What a
wonderful positive redefinition of "Seven", culminating in a refinement of
the human nature and at the same time leaving the viewer with a subtle taste
of the "rosicrucian initiation" in the mouth.

Definitly worth a view!
<|_=00=_|>
THE GAME is the type of movie that was very popular at the turn of the
century - One that has a great twist in the tail . Unfortunately when
the great twist is revealed the film comes crashing down . The
producers may claim that that THE GAME is more of a journey than a
destination whereby the audience are transported somewhere but the more
you think about the plot at the end of the line the more the audience
will complain that the journey was a little too contrived to be worth
going back on the same route 

!!!! SPOILERS !!!! The premise involves " what do you get for the man
who has everything " , Nicholas Van Orton has everything we wants in a
material world but it's come at a price where he's a lonely middle aged
man and you're instantly reminded of Michael Douglas Oscar winning role
in WALL STREET as Gordon Gekko . His brother Conrad buys him a birthday
gift from Consumer Recreation Services and then all sorts of strange
and dangerous things start happening 

The problem with the scenario is that when the ending is revealed your
suspension of disbelief may not have been suspended enough . The
comments pages for this film is full of people pointing out things like
" What if Nicholas got mugged in Mexico, or if he jumped off a
different part of the building or if he did or didn't contact such and
such a person ? he wouldn't have arrived at the ending " and they're
right . In fact if you stop to think about it it also means that every
single previous customer who used CRS must had a successful time other
wise the customer would have sued the company in a multi million pound
court case . Are you trying to say all that excitement wouldn't have
caused a previous customer to have a heart attack or be seriously
injured , perhaps even killed ? Why do you think no one in real life
has come up with something like CRS in real life ? That's because of
the real life possibility of litigation 

I do confess that I'm taking things a little too serious and people
will point out that it's only a film and they're right . For most of
the running time I found THE GAME rather compelling entertainment
similar to TOTAL RECALL without the high body count and sci-fi elements
and though everything disintegrates with the revelation I do recommend
THE GAME as entertainment mixed in with a redemption plot
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS.

I think it was Chuang Dz who is supposed to have asked: "Last night I
dreamed I was a butterfly. Today, am I a butterfly dreaming I am a
man?"

The question, like this movie and many others before it, deals with the
problem of distinguishing what is real from what is illusory. An old
philosophical question. But this movie does a pretty good job of
exploring the issue.

The plot, basically is this. Sean Penn enrolls his brother Michael
Douglas in something called "the game." Douglas enrolls in this
program, a birthday present, without having any idea of what it's all
about. Douglas is an extremely wealthy control freak who lives a life
encased in ice. He's brutal to subordinates, frosty to friends, and
lives alone and likes it. Then things begin to go wrong. First little
things. His pen leaks and stains his shirt at the airport. A waitress
spills wine all over him at his favorite restaurant. A man seems to
drop dead in front of him. Then things spin wildly out of control.
People shoot at him. His bank accounts are emptied by the people
running the game. A wild taxi ride ends up with him trapped in the car
at the bottom of San Francisco Bay. He's drugged by someone he trusts
and wakes up dressed in rags, his nose bloodied, with no ID and no
money, in a rubbish-strewn Mexican graveyard. This has happened to me
once or twice and I can tell you -- it's discomfiting. 

It's like an episode from The Twilight Zone or John Fowles' novel "The
Magus". Or, citing cinematic history, like the pod people or
Carpenter's "The Thing" or Steve Railsback in "The Stuntman." Who
belongs to the conspiracy and who doesn't. Or does ANYBODY not belong?
And, as a birthday present, this "game" is like one of those really
ugly ties that somebody gives you, that you know you'll never wear, but
you can't take it back either.

Douglas gives a surprisingly good performance. He has greater range
than I'd previously given him credit for. He shows the same disdain for
others that he did as Gordon Gekko but he brings a fragility to the
character as well. When he sees mouth-to-mouth resuscitation being
given to someone he displays what could easily pass for real disgust.
And when he cuts his hand on a sliver of glass, he grimaces with pain
while he rinses it and wraps it in a handkerchief, the way the
adventurer of "Romancing the Stone" would never do. And there is none
of the comfortable matter-of-fact laid back quality he showed as a
doctor and boy friend in "Coma." The other performers are competent but
Douglas has the only role that stands out.

Interesting use of location shooting too. San Francisco doesn't look
like an urban theme park here. Almost all the scenes take place at
night on depopulated streets and they make San Francisco look about as
ugly as it's possible to make the city look. The dialog doesn't leap
out at you but it does have its quiet wit, which I'm not sure is always
appropriate. Douglas loses a shoe to an attack dog. "There goes a
thousand dollars," he remarks to his companion. "Your shoes cost a
thousand dollars?" she asks. "That one did."

At the movie's end, just when you think the game is over, there's yet
another twist coming, the last one leading Douglas to suicide by
jumping off the roof of a high-rise hotel, only to land safely on an
air bag judiciously placed below in what looks like the lounge of the
Sheraton Palace. The movie is entirely implausible. As explained at the
end, there isn't a believable moment in it. But it has the kind of
illogic that a real nightmare has. The viewer may realize afterward
that what has happened is impossible but Douglas has no way of finding
that out. Everything seems askew to him as it does to us while we
watch. Even Daniel Schorr on CNN has an interactive exchange with him.
"This is impossible," says Douglas. "That's right," replies Schorr.
"It's impossible. You're having a conversation with your TV set." If
you can't trust Daniel Schorr something is seriously screwed up.

Alas, the denouement does flunk the believability test, and badly.
Douglas has been put through hell, and it all turns out for the best --
all those dangerous pranks, the living nightmare, the humiliation, the
druggings, the action movie clichés, all have made him "a better man."
He's grateful. Whereas a lot of fairly normal people, myself included,
would try to track down every soul involved in this scam and beat the
living crap out of them. I'd make a particular point of celebrating my
brother Sean Penn's next birthday by crowning him with a crowbar -- a
real one.
<|_=00=_|>
After the great success, both with critics and with the public, of
"Seven", Director David Fincher turned to this film. It has often been
said that this movie was one he'd wanted to make for a long time and
upon viewing you can really see his belief in both characters and the
story- overall an excellently directed movie.

Although several people argued that "Seven" was gory, in my opinion it
wasn't, for example, there is a total lack of blood in the Lust scene,
something which I particularly admired- the fact that a director could
make a chilling and shocking movie without resorting to piling tons of
blood onto the screen. Fincher continues this streak in "The Game" by
drawing the tension and shocks of the film by using psychological
terror.

Unfortunately, the movie could not parallel the success of "seven" upon
its release and also received mixed critical reviews, however since
then it has become somewhat of a cult movie with far more success on
DVD than in the box office.

Perhaps most notable about the film is the fact that (apparently)
Fincher himself often seems to direct his actors in a detached way, the
way one might move around chess pieces in a game. Whether this is 100%
true or not his direction, the acting and just about everything else is
superb.
