

Samuel L. Jackson is superb in this hard look at the pressure that American
Teachers can face. The story begins simply enough, but soon leads us into a
jungle of what is right and what is wrong. It encompasses the themes of
machismo, gangs, respect and the fallen and tainted profession of teaching.
Jackson plays the destroyed Teacher, whose life is torn apart after a
serious stabbing by one of his own pupils. It follows his fight to cling on
to the only thing he has left in his life, Teaching, but soon that too is
torn away from him. Watch for this amazing insight into the state of some
American schools and for the complex discussions of right, wrong and what it
takes to exact a change.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Reynolds, the director of "One Eighty Seven", a film written by
Scott Yagermann, supposedly a teacher himself, shows he is a man that
clearly understands today's problems in the inner city schools.

Some of the children, of mostly immigrant parents, are lured to join
gangs in order to survive the hostile environment. These are the same
children who could benefit from the free education in their new adopted
country. Instead of making something out of themselves, they create
their own problems and will end up doing menial work, or in jail
because of the choices they make.

This is the basic premise to this story, in which, a decent man and an
excellent teacher, is stabbed at the beginning of the film, and not
only is his body injured, but also his spirit. The relocation from
Brooklyn to L.A. proves to be the wrong move. If Trevor Garfield
thought he had it bad in New York, he is not prepared for a school
system in California that seems to be a disgrace.

This particular school, where Trevor is hired as a substitute teacher,
has some of the most dangerous teen agers of the city. It appears that
kids have the upper hand in whatever is going on because its principal
is more interested in avoiding being sued by the students than in
educating them. In fact, they rule the school. The worst thing that
comes out in the film is how Cesar, a teen ager, who is a bully and a
criminal, can't even read! There are a few other aspects the film is
trying to explore. Teachers who are corrupt, like is the case with Dave
Childress, who admits to having had sex with one of the students. The
young woman who is being helped by Mr. Garfield turns against him, only
to redeem herself at the end, after it's too late for her to recognize
a valuable lesson Trevor taught her.

Samuel L. Jackson gives an intense performance portraying Trevor
Garfield. Mr. Jackson shows in the film another dimension to his method
of acting. He is never boring. John Heard is the corrupt Dave. Kelly
Rowan is Ellen, a teacher who judges her fellow teacher and is repulsed
by what she finds out. Clifton Collins is good as Cesar, the ignorant
young man, a product of the gang mentality. Karina Arroyoave is seen as
Rita.

"One Eighty Seven" is an eye opener about why some students aren't
learning in school and a tribute to the teachers that are trying to
educate them in spite of the horrors in the classroom.
<|_=00=_|>

Kevin Reynolds' 187, although billed as another "straight-laced-teacher-turns-troubled-urban-highschool-teens-into-well-rounded-individuals"
movie, goes above and beyond this tired premise.  The provocative story
(which was apparently written by an actual highschool teacher) breathes new
life into the otherwise stale highschool-drama subgenre.

Samuel L. Jackson's performance as Trevor Garfield is fantastic, and his
many emotional scenes and powerfully delivered lines of dialogue work well
at allowing the audience to sympathize with the disenchanted Garfield and
relate to his humdrum life.  Also, the characters are much more dynamic and
developed here than in most movies of this kind.  The student as well as the
faculty roles are all given unique personalities, backgrounds, and adequate
motivation for their actions, which is a refreshing departure from the
typical "the reason they're bad kids is because they grew up in the
'hood"-style characterizations.

Although a few of the supporting performances are somewhat stilted (mainly
because they are overshadowed by Jackson's excellence), the highly original
story is clever enough keep anyone's interest piqued until the heartrending
(although arguably contrived) ending.  187, aside from being smart,
touching, and one-of-a-kind, really shows off Reynolds' ability to
successfully convert a good, solid screenplay into a good, solid film.  And
since this movie was made directly after his abominable WATER WORLD, we
should all by doubly impressed by his efforts!
<|_=00=_|>

Violence in schools is the subject of this bleak, hard-hitting, drama,
starring the always reliable Samuel L. Jackson in another great performance
who plays a teacher who moves from a tough Brooklyn school after being
stabbed repeatedly by a student in the back to an even tougher LA school.
187 is a vastly underrated thriller, intense and gripping throughout, and
the ending is powerful and satisfying. 8.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Samuel L. Jackson is not only one of the coolest guys alive, he´s also a
great character actor what this film shows very impressively. I don´t know
how bad the circumstances at some American schools really are, but I think
"187" is much more realistic than liars like "Dangerous Minds". Kevin
Reynolds also did a great job as director. In the whole film there are no
spectacular things happening, but it is suspense-packed and dramatic from
beginning till the end. Also the photography and the score are excellent,
because they reflect the depressive and hopeless situation perfectly. The
"Deer Hunter"-like showdown and the desperate speech of Rita at the end will
keep you sitting on the chair, left deep impressed and considering, while
the whole film is already over for a long time. (9/10)
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film a bunch of times years ago, back when I bought it. I
liked it a lot. Now I am older and I'm working as a "sub", just like
Mr. G. So I came to think of this film again, and now I've just
finished watching it again. It is excellent. Even though conditions are
not _that_ extreme here in Denmark, there are still a lot of
similarities, and I feel with Mr. G. I'm a little bit closer to
understanding what is going on in his head. I think this film does an
excellent job in portraying its characters. The conflict and the
subject of teacher/student relationship are brilliantly described.
Furthermore, all of the actors, and Samuel L. Jackson in particular,
are doing great jobs. What I also notice watching it again is the
absolutely beautiful camera-technical and lighting effects.
<|_=00=_|>

I actually stumbled across this movie on premium cable.  At first I was only
mildly interested in watching it.  But before I knew it, I couldn't take my
eyes off the screen.  It is unusual for me not to figure out the "punchline"
to a movie very early on, but this movie didn't allow my mind to even go
there.  I was very pleasantly surprised by this movie and would recommend it
to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, I just finished watching One Eight Seven.

A great film -- I went into it expecting a fluffy action flick, and got
the
wind knocked out of me.

I read the remarks above and was struck by the notable lack of comments
about one of the defining qualities of this film -- it is a modern,
Hollywood treatment of an old, old story--  A story that was already
ancient
when it was packaged a couple millennia ago as the "New
Testament."

(Uh, I guess I should mention that some spoilers will follow, although I
doubt that any significant details that folks won't see coming themselves
will be given up.)

This is the story of a Good Teacher who is moved by compassion to
sacrifice
his own life in order to demonstrate the folly and absurdity of man's
inhumanity to man.

This story has been told and retold again and again, with varying degrees
of
success.  (The Green Mile is at one end of the spectrum, and Cool Hand
Luke
is at the other.  "Which end is up" is, I suppose, a subjective
thing.)

What makes this a good movie is it's subtlety and ambiguity.

Okay, it's not always -that- subtle.  The introductions were a bit of a
groaner--

----------------------------

Childress: Roosevelt high?  Isn't that where that teacher got stabbed to
death?
Garfield: Actually, he survived.
Childress: No, there was this gang-banger, had a ten-penny nail, he
stabbed
him about a dozen times in a hallway, and....   (LONG PAUSE) ...you're
him.
Jesus Christ.  You're him.  It was you.

-----------------------------

But at least his initials weren't J.C.  Giving him the surname of an
assassinated president is a little more elegant, although points come off
for finding it necessary to reinforce the synchronicity of it by having
him
glance up at the list of "AMERICAN <dead> PRESIDENTS" when he
realizes
he's accidently walked into Childress's American History
class.

One thing's for sure, Samuel L. Jackson sure knows how to "Give to Cezar
what is Cezar's."  (Not a misspelling of Caesar -- Cezar is the name of a
"Severely Emotionally Disturbed" student.)

A great screenplay, brilliantly photographed, excellent sound
design.

The ambiguity of Garfield's moral character is interesting to me--  He is
never *shown* to do anything wrong, (with the exception of yelling at
someone in a road-rage incident,) but there are some *implications* of
wrongful behaviour.  (Don't wanna give anything away, so I'm treading
carefully.)  Even these *implied* actions are ambiguous--  Do the
circumstances justify them?  The writer clearly wants us to think about
it.
Hard.

<|_=00=_|>
After a vicious assault on him, Trevor Garfield, a teacher, moves
cities and works as a temp. However, he finds that things are even
worse at his new school. Dealing with an important subject, this is
immensely engaging and tense. While not based on any specific case,
this was written by an actual teacher, and, frankly, it does feel
terrifyingly authentic and realistic. The psychology is completely
accurate, and this is not black and white. This is well-paced, and
never boring. The plot is compelling throughout, and though you can
figure some things out before they occur, this most likely *will*
surprise you. Every acting performance is spot-on, and all roles are
marvelously cast. Jackson is impeccable, and his particular knack for
playing someone who holds anger and may lose control at any moment is
excellent for this. This has a great soundtrack, with music that fits
the environment(which is very nicely established; they found perfect
locations and types of people), without making it appealing. The
editing and cinematography are incredible, if dangerously close to
being flashy. There is a bit of brutal, bloody violence, a lot of
disturbing content, moderately frequent strong language and brief
nudity in this. I recommend this to anyone mature enough to handle it.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This great movie makes us thinking how to manage school problems and
violence in the family or in our society. A very realistic film well packed
as a thriller and with excellent actors . Why didn´t won Samuel Jackson the
Oscar for his top performance? I was not bored from the start to the end.
There were many plots and I recommend this film to everybody. I saw it
already twice so don't miss it. I gave 8/10.
