
This is a popcorn movie, a chick flick, that leaves a lot to be desired
all around in the ethics department. Normally I am a huge fan of Julia
Roberts but in this woeful tale, she fails to come across as her
typical vulnerable and endearing self.

The improbable plot revolves around a food critic, Julianne, who learns
just days before the wedding that her long time best friend (and former
lover), Michael, is about to be married to a lovely rich, blonde girl
named Kimberly. In fact Michael invites Jules to be...no, not his best
man...but the maid of honour. Jules flies from her home in New York to
Chicago for the wedding, not to wish the newlyweds well, but instead to
steal Michael away from Kimmy and make sure the wedding never comes off
at all. She has four days in which to convince the unsuspecting groom
that she herself, not Kimmy, is the bride for him.

My first of many problems with this unlikely tale is that former lovers
do not tend to make ideal best friends for all the reasons revealed in
this movie, namely lingering passionate feelings and issues of
jealousy. Furthermore, Jules's second best friend (as it were) is also
a man...her editor, George, who conveniently happens to be gay. Does
this girl not have any female friends at all, like most young women? 

Actually, George comes off as the character in the movie with probably
the most integrity, which isn't saying a lot in this tale of immoral
fluff. He's a true friend to Julianne, flying from afar to be with her
and offer comfort. He indeed gives Jules sound advice, namely to just
tell the guy she loves him, and later when it's obviously not working
out, to graciously let Michael go. However, George is cast as the
stereotypical homosexual friend, which has all been done to death by
Hollywood. Jules pretends to be engaged to George in order to elicit
jealousy from Michael (just one of her countless lies), but this
fabrication doesn't seem to go anywhere. They never really officially
undo the ruse. By the way, I love Dionne Warwick's singing but found
the entire singalong at the rehearsal dinner just too silly.

Jules is a stellar example of the old expression...With friends like
her, who needs enemies? She's no friend at all to Michael (much less a
BEST one), having no concern whatsoever for HIS happiness, until
possibly the very end. Instead she's essentially nothing more than a
jealous ex lover who lies, manipulates, and connives. Jules uses every
trick in the book to split up Michael and his fiancée, including
attempting to get Michael fired, allegedly at the behest of Kimmy and
her dad. True, she repents of this horrendous deed, but it's hard to
cheer for a "heroine" this unscrupulous. She doesn't get Michael in the
end, nor does she deserve him. One gets the impression that this is not
true love, but more a case of wanting what she cannot have. For some
reason, Scarlett O'Hara came to mind while I was watching this.

Michael is indeed handsome, but the description that comes to mind here
is "jerk". Frankly, Kimmy can have him! I wouldn't want to marry a man
that reminisced ad nauseum about old memories with a former girlfriend
right in front of me four days before our wedding. Is he too clueless
here to perceive how left out and potentially jealous Kimmy feels? I
was practically waiting for him to bring up past sexual escapades with
Jules and expect Kimmy to politely listen! Michael is surely one of the
most insensitive grooms ever to grace the big screen. Also, he sort of
leads Jules on, dancing rather romantically with her while they recall
their old song. Not to mention jocular references to her about having
seen her naked in the past. Not my idea of a nice platonic friendship
for a man about to marry another woman.

Personally, I was cheering for the loving bride to be, played to
perfection by Cameron Diaz. Except that it's a little hard to buy her
passive tolerance of her fiancé's rather unusual close friendship with
his ex girlfriend or her colossal stupidity in not seeing through
Jules's motivations from the start. Otherwise, she's definitely the
sympathetic character of the piece, as when Jules sets out to humiliate
her rival by insisting Kimmy sing at the karaoke bar, despite her
vehement protests. Of course poor Kimmy is made to look like a female
needing liberation when she announces that she's quitting college in
the interests of her future husband and his career. Oh dear me no, it
would never do for anyone entering a marriage to contemplate any sort
of personal sacrifice! I found the whole ladies washroom scene near the
end tasteless and ridiculous, when all the women are cheering on the
potential verbal cat fight between Jules and Kimmy. Surely the
screenwriters could have come up with better than this.

Just an aside, what is the point of the pathetic ice sculpture joke
other than to be crude? I normally love the romantic comedy genre, but
the quality seems to be sadly deteriorating these days. This isn't the
absolute worst movie I've ever seen but really, it isn't that amusing a
comedy nor is it much of a romance. Hopefully Jules experiences a bit
of personal growth, but that's about all that can be said for this
story.
<|_=00=_|>

For a while, I was getting concerned about the direction Julia Roberts'
career was taking, after misfiring in such dismal duds as "Mary Reilly" and
"Michael Collins" where she seemed so shell-shocked that her radiant smile
was nowhere in sight.

Thank God she rebounded for "My Best Friend's Wedding".  This film, while
not perfect, is a shining example of what makes Julia so radiant and
desirable in the right role.  And she sure gets it here.

As Julianne Potter, Julia gives the same sweet, radiant glow she offered us
in "Pretty Woman".  Seems she's fallen in love with her best friend for ages
Michael O'Neal (Dermot Mulroney) - unfortunately, it's on the eve of his
wedding to an effervescent, perky girl (Cameron Diaz) who does her darndest
to make Julianne her best friend...as well as her maid-of-honor.  Of course,
Julianne does what any right-thinking young lady would do: everything in her
power to break up the wedding of the title.

This is not as melodramatic as it sounds: this is, in fact, one of the
brightest, smartest and all-around funniest comedies of the decade.  All the
lead characters make the absolute most of their parts and revel in the glory
of love, double-dealing and flat-out lying.  Along with being extremely
romantic, this has to be the most cleverly-plotted love story ever: for
every plot thought up by Julianne, there's a twist or foul-up that has
everything to do with true love and/or blind devotion.

There are great faces in the background, too.  Susan Sullivan, Philip Bosco,
the great M. Emmet Walsh all lend able support and offer their own fine
support.  But how can I mention them in the same paragraph without adding
Rupert Everett into the fray?  As Julianne's gay editor/friend, he adds
great color to all his scenes, especially at the dinner with the wedding
party at the seafood restaurant (you've seen it, you know what I
mean).

I won't spoil anything by saying that true love wins out in the end; face
it, would you WANT to see Julia Roberts as a BAD GUY?  Maybe you would, but
not in a romantic comedy.  In fact, the main surprises lie in the twists and
turns that lie throughout this film.  Every twist makes the story all the
more interesting and (incidentally) funny.  Of course, the music makes the
proceedings all the better (with a heavy assist from Dionne Warwick on two
occasions).

So to recap, what else can I say: if you love Julia Roberts, love stories,
comedies and weddings, here's your movie.

Ten stars and a copy of "Dionne Warwick's Greatest Hits" on CD for "My Best
Friend's Wedding", where true love wins but true friendship comes in a close
second.

Keep up the good work, Julia.
<|_=00=_|>

 Julia Roberts gets a great opportunity to showcase her talent here, and she
runs with it. Some of her physical comedy bits are reminiscent of Lucille
Ball. She plays a character that could come off as a real jerk, but her
natural charm and self-deprecating manner are endearing.
She displays real acting chops, especially in the scenes on the tourboat and
in the gazebo. 

Cameron Diaz turns in a real star-making performance as a ditz who becomes a
wildcat when threatened. Her acting in the karaoke bar is fearless and
really establishes her character's personality.

Rupert Everett, is, well, fantastic. He acts as Roberts' conscience, and
delivers some of the funniest lines in the whole film.

This is one of the most uproariously funny mainstream Hollywood movies to
come along in a long while. The script is packed with zingers, and the cast
makes the most of it. At the same time, it has some genuinely poignant
moments. Don't let it pass you by. 
<|_=00=_|>
It was difficult to root for Julia Roberts. It would have been like
rooting for Joan Crawford in "Queen Bee" or Gene Tirney in "Leave Her
To Heaven" She's a latent nasty piece of work. A woman, we're told,
intelligent, successful, but her feelings are of the lowest most
ignorant kind. I didn't believe it, sorry. Not believing spoiled the
whole fun for me. I though the premise was tapping into the worst in us
and that in a comedy is really frightening. I'm sure the director,
producers etc didn't do it on purpose but they obviously didn't think
the whole thing through. The success of the film is another frightening
aspect. Frightening on two counts - or audiences are blind and
unaffected by the potential evil here or I'm raving mad and I'm seeing
things. Whatever the case, I saw it and it frightened me. Two major
saving graces, maybe three. The cuteness of Cameron Diaz's performance,
the beauty of Dermot Mulroney and a smashing Cary Grantish turn by
Ruperet Everrett. Go at your own peril.
<|_=00=_|>

I hated it. I couldn't even focus on the plot, the characters were
nauseating. Roberts' is utterly selfish, her boy friend is quite lame, and
his fiancée is such a pushover that I wanted to shout at her every time I
watched her. Sorry, but I cannot see the fun in an hour and a half of Julia
Roberts tripping with almost any object she had near.

I really hope that Hollywood will stop making movies with such awful
stereotypical female characters. There are many movies with this male-driven
kind of women who seem incapable of having a mind of their own. It would be
great to see comedies with female characters that can be funny and smart at
the same time.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was a pleasant surprise for me after hearing mixed responses from
friends and acquaintances.  I can see why it wouldn't appeal to some people
: Julia Roberts in a romantic comedy could be pretty slushy stuff; but then
again if you watch it wanting that sort of thing you're likely to be
disappointed.  Yes, so it is romantic and even a bit slushy at times, but
has a sharp script and fast pace which keep you amused 95% of the
time.

One of the things which appealed to me was the way moments of melodrama were
defused into comedy - check out the two girls' confrontation with an
audience of women (gathered by the call "Catfight!") whose oohs and aahs
forestall any emotional reaction we ourselves may have to the scene.

Some of the camerawork is also more interesting than one might expect, with
particularly powerful close-ups where one or two faces fill the screen. 
Julia Roberts' beauty comes through in a long shot which starts to look
like a shampoo commercial: long curly hair spills around her head as she
lies in despair on the floor (the public safety message being, don't ever
sit with your back against a door which an irate ex-lover might wrench open
at any minute); nevertheless, the proximity gives us an intimacy with her
character we might otherwise miss.

Another effective shot of this kind (two heads on a pillow fill the screen)
drives home the theme touched on here of the devastatingly attractive gay
man who is made doubly so by his inaccessibility (as more fully explored in
"Object of my Affection").  George (Rupert Everett) is a fantastic
character whose sense of fun, wisdom, sensitivity and English accent make
him every girls' ideal object for unrequited love (or maybe it's just me
).

The disappointing aspect for me was the film's final affirmation of sexist
values and a rather superficial and one-sided view of "real" love - but you
'll have to watch it to see if you agree with me on that.  Basically in my
opinion, some of the ending lacked the self-awareness and sharpness of the
rest of the film.  However, overall I would recommend it for an amusing and
sometimes clever 90 minutes of celluloid.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe some of the negative comments I read from other
contributors reviewing this movie.

I own this movie on video and have seen it many times and have enjoyed
it each and every time. I think this is easily one of the best comedies
to come out of the 90s and I actually place it on my personal best
films ever list.

I can't see what people don't like about this movie.

First of all, these people who question how can they like a movie where
the main character is so rotten just cracks me up. First of all, it's a
movie people, it's not real life. Second of all, Julia Roberts'
character is not a rotten person. Her character simply gets wrapped up
in the moment and loses her judgment momentarily (it's a COMEDY
people!!).

Near the end of the movie her best friend played by Rupert Everett even
asks her if she's sure she's acting out of love or out of some desire
to win. I think the movie clearly shows that Julia's character and her
long time friend and one time boyfriend played by Dermot Mulroney have
had a long and deep friendship and that there are certainly strong
feeling between the two. The fact that they made a pact years ago that
if both were unmarried by the time they turned 28 they would marry each
other underscores this. The movie plays itself out that Julia's
character has basically always re-assured herself that if she weren't
to find some knight in shining armor she would always have her old
boyfriend who she does love (just not in a romantic way anymore, though
she takes the length of the movie to realize this) to marry.

The movie is extremely well directed. The blocking (where the actors
stand in relation to the camera) and what is shown/revealed either to
the audience or to other characters is top notch.

The pacing is great with hardly a slowdown in the entire movie. Those
times the movie does lessen the pace for a moment are to showcase a
tender moment between Julia & Dermot. A particularly bittersweet scene
is when Julia & Dermot share an afternoon taking a cruise through
Chicago's downtown river. They share a song, a hug and look into each
other's eyes and we as the audience wait to see if they profess their
true love for each other, but the moment passes as they pass under a
bridge and into the shadows and we realize that moments are fleeting
and love can be fickle.

The music is awesome in the movie with so much of it throughout the
movie that the movie almost plays like a mini musical with various
songs being sung in parts by characters throughout the movie.

Rupert Everett is hysterical as the gay male friend and Dermot Mulroney
is totally underrated in his thankless role as the put-upon groom.

Cameron Diaz gives one of her best performances as the cute as a button
bride.

This is an outstanding example of what a mainstream, big Hollywood
studio movie can be.

Buy this movie. You'll enjoy it over and over for many years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
An unpleasant comedic vehicle for Julia Roberts about a woman who
realizes too late that she's in love with her male best friend and
decides to sabotage his engagement so she can have him for herself.

Roberts is game, but the movie is pretty bad. It makes the main
character so sadistically unpleasant that not only do you not root for
her and her buddy (played by an unappealing Dermot Mulroney) to get
together, you hope bad things happen to her to punish her for her
crimes. Not a great set up for the character with whom we're forced to
spend most of the movie.

Cameron Diaz plays the fiancée as a perfect little blonde, and Rupert
Everett plays Roberts' OTHER male best friend, this one gay, who looks
bored to be in the movie.

Grade: C-
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't like this film. The whole premise of a woman setting out to
sabotage and destroy her best friend's wedding. Okay, so Julia Roberts
plays the conniving woman - I guess that is supposed to make us fall in
love with her and forget all the havoc she is wreaking. I for one
didn't find it funny. In fact, most of the film annoyed me. Including,
and especially, the stupid sing-along songs and those idiot twins.

Okay, so they try to redeem the bad plot by having Julia not be
successful in the end and we are all supposed to forgive her for being
so ruthless - right? Wrong - it just didn't work for me. Not funny.

Not funny.

Still not funny...
<|_=00=_|>
I think I like the movie most for Rupert Everett. His walk (which he
describes as panther like) was amazing. he sticks to his friend, giving
the only sensible advice possible. Say a little prayer for you was
amazing, his story of his engagement with Julia was so delicious.

Julia's mean streak was magnificent.. also her eyes when she sees her
best friend being carried away.

I enjoy this movie every time, and cannot miss the Rupert parts at all
!

Although if you look closely, the sudden love for Dermot Mulroney is
not natural. Not for a minute would a character like Julianne be happy
with someone like him. She could rough it in seedy hotels, but not be
tied down to someone's schedules. 

So you are kind of relieved that Julianne walks free in the end. And
she does have this magnificent friend like Rupert who drops everything
and comes to her rescue. If he hadn't been gay, he would have been
besotted with her and that is the kind of a man Julianne really needs

I like it that Julianne remains single in the end. That is what life is
like, sometimes you have to hand over your loved ones and deal with
life on its own. There is no magic guy who appears the minute you are
single.
