
Spoilers Ahead:

Well, did you like seeing how far we have come from the Icon of the 60s
James Tiberius Kirk? You could beat on him all day; three or four guys
at a time, he gets back up on his feet bloody and bruised. Then, he
kicks your butt. Look, what we have here. A bald, emaciated, little
baby girl that cries like she lost her dolly. Well, I can tell you one
experience Rene will not have to endure: seeing Uncle Jean Luc crying
like a little baby girlie who wet her panties. What a sight! See,
ladies we do not find this endearing like you do; as the instrument of
castration Troi looks on approvingly. We do not call it vulnerable; to
us, and all real men it is neutering. This was preceded by the sailing
ship where we were taught that it is funny to push men into the water
but very wrong and inappropriate to do so to a woman. Their crew is so
pathetic. We have the token Klingon castrated just enough to no longer
be threatening to the matriarchy. God help this country if we are ever
attacked with these men to save us. Soren is the only person capable of
acting in the movie. How I wished he would unleash a little of the old
ultra-violence on this cast. Yes, Data the worst stand up comedian in
the universe. I would have fixed that emotion chip quickly for him.

Could I ask a question? If you could travel anywhere temporally, why on
earth would you go to a moment where the physical battle's outcome was
problematic? Any person with a working brain would have gone into the
distant past where Soren was alone and helpless; years before any of
this was taking place. I can answer it for you. Because they would have
to kill him, Trekkies cannot do that sort of thing, that is a no no. We
saw that in Insurrection where never mind if the particles would help
trillions of other people; we are not allowed to use force for good. We
might hurt someone's feelings. See, if by progressive, instead of my
word decadence, the word is inaccurate unless you mean progressing off
the side of a cliff suicidally. Could Kirk's death have been more
insignificant and ignominious? I am not a Trekkie, Thank God, but I
grew up with Kirk. This is the death scene you wrote for him? Contrast
to Spock's noble death in Wrath Of Khan. What a piece of crap this
movie was!! You can see why most of the original crew refused to be in
it. Why Shatner allowed the Icon that he was to be sullied like this is
beyond me. 

Watch some of the original episodes, please. The sight of the Icon with
Baby No Tears who has the temerity to lecture all of us on death. Gee,
leave that to the warriors amongst us, stick to playing with your
dollies. If I had weeped like a three year old little girlie, I would
not presume to speak about death to anyone. How do you think the Kirk
of the 60s would have reacted to weepy baldy? The movie is to the TNG
crew what Star Trek 5: God Wants Out Of The Movie was to the original
crew. Nemesis was bad but it had lots of action and excitement; this is
boring, maudlin, emasculated and features the pathetic death of a
legend of the 1960s that boys like myself grew up wanting to be; we did
not choose emaciated, weepy, bald weaklings. The movie is a minus 100.
<|_=00=_|>
I was for some reason compelled to put this into the old DVD player
last night, and was pleasantly surprised. After 2009's big-budget
reboot (which I was duly dazzled and entertained by), this comes off as
a think piece/art film in comparison, and a time capsule from a period
where 'Star Trek' was everything Gene Roddenberry wanted it to be-
cerebral, compassionate, and thoughtful- and people were eating it up
by the millions.

I recall being thoroughly underwhelmed by this in the late 90's- my
younger self, like many others, was expecting a bombastic 'Event'
movie- Kirk was meeting Picard, for crying out loud! But instead of a
ripping, old-style Star Trek space opera, we got K&P meeting in a log
cabin, while Kirk made breakfast, followed by an extended pony ride in
which Kirk's character does little but support the story's themes of
mortality. And you know what? That's FINE!

I recalled Roger Ebert's review of the second 'X-Files' movie, in which
he called it refreshing, adding that it was heartening to see a summer
franchise film that "didn't have a villain as big as a building".
'Generations' doesn't have a villain at all- it has an energy ribbon,
and a scientist who desperately wants to harness that ribbon's power
after a personal tragedy. What it does have are several indelible
sci-fi images (the ribbon approaching Dr. Soran on the mountaintop, the
Enterprise-D saucer touching down on a planet's surface) and an
abundance of class. This is a gem of a film that now seems to hearken
from an era when every genre film didn't have to be shown on a
three-storey screen and have 3-D shrapnel flying at the audience
throughout.
<|_=00=_|>
Been home nursing an emergency tooth extraction over the past week and
nothing was able to assuage the misery like wallowing in "Star Trek". I
watched a bunch of the cartoon shows & made myself come to grips with
THE FINAL FRONTIER (re: Shatner's movie), which managed to be fun when
regarded as a study in applied narcissism. But boy how I dislike
GENERATIONS, and won't be watching it, though I decided to try and deal
with my feelings about it once and for all.

I think its a cop-out, a cheap sloughing off of responsibility that
should have been handled with graceful dignity. This is not the way
that I will remember Star Trek. I say that because for me the essence
of Star Trek is James Tiberius Kirk, watching him grow & learn. I
switched on the spoiler warning disgronifier in case you are not aware
that Captain Kirk dies in this movie, and for absolutely no reason at
all. It was as if to say his learning curve was arbitrarily being
concluded in a re-write, even changing the way he died from the
original script (two versions were filmed) for reasons that have never
been explained to my satisfaction.

I had learned to like TNG and her crew by the time the film premiered,
though I think that Tourette's Guy is probably right when he addressed
what Brent Spiner is up to these days. Google it if you don't know what
I mean, I always despised Data. He was a decent plot device and they
did come up with at least one great episode where they got him a sweet
girlfriend with nice legs, but enough with the emotion chip already,
OK? It's clear that his model was incompatible for the input, they had
long milked the gimmick dry, and it turned him into a jerk.

I did like watching the saucer section crash, which in a theater looked
about as believable as Godzilla destroying Yokohama, enhancing the
enjoyment. The producers knew we would get off on seeing it and were so
kind as to show the mayhem twice, providing the film with it's two most
interesting sequences, thoughtfully shot from different angles for
variety. But the rest of the treatment left me cold. I didn't give a
damn about the Nexus, which sounded pretty swell compared to graduate
school. I went with my fiancée at the time, smuggling in a flask of
blackberry brandy so we could drink a toast to Kirk when he finally
bought the farm. Turns out the bottle was 3/4's empty by then due to
the draining experience of watching the film. Which looked muddy and
rushed, filled with subplots that went nowhere, cameos by assorted Next
Generation personalities which distracted from the focus, and a forced
sentiment that was at odds with my own feelings about the show.

Which was great, don't get me wrong! Heck the TNG episode "Tapestry" is
one of Star Trek's finest hours, whichever series that turned up in
rocked. It was just that the series run had come to an end with a
superb show-stopper of its own. There was no unfinished business left
to attend to, no need to "pass the baton" as producer Rick Berman put
it, by having the Original Series crew and Next Generation crew appear
in a film at all. The classic crew made a rousing, emotional exit in
the very satisfying THE UNDISCOVERED COUNTRY. Kirk had said himself in
the soliloquy that it was the final adventure for that crew, but by
forcing the issue Shatner became the proverbial drunk who wouldn't
leave after the party was obviously over.

Which in many ways turns out to be the case as Shatner used his studio
muscle to not just get himself written into the picture but threatening
to direct at one point. The whole subplot involving Kirk is a
distraction from the rest of the story and feels superimposed, though
yes, the horse riding scenes with Picard are nice. But if they had to
happen at the expense of the dignity of Kirk's character then they were
as unwelcome as his demise. Shatner also bullied himself into the film
specifically to have his character killed off heroically, then posited
himself to come back in the 2009 prequel film, as if. I now realize he
deserved to be left out of that one, having cast his fate already. It
was about time someone made Bill keep his place in the line after such
an unnecessary curtain call.

Kirk deserved a better movie to go out in, or rather his own movie if
it was that damn important. And I say it wasn't: Why kill off anyone in
the Star Trek universe at all if there are an infinite number of ways
to bring them back? Emotional death scenes suck, and it made the film
perfunctory or formulaic in my eyes, trying to fix what wasn't broke in
the first place. On its own the Next Generation crew's story was pretty
good, and from what I've read a lot of what they would have been doing
ended up being chopped out to make room for Kirk's scenes back when
A-list talent movies at least didn't run three friggen hours. This crew
was short changed, eventually coming back to make at least one good
feature in FIRST CONTACT, though by then my heart just wasn't in it
anymore in part due to GENERATIONS.

So I don't know. I thought maybe I had confused my feelings for the
woman I had gone to see this with the film itself, which I have seen
since on home video and didn't like any more. Actually less, wishing
I'd had more of that blackberry brandy or at least a six pack of
Romulan ale. Here is a Star Trek movie that will drive a classic series
fan to drink, and that isn't ever a pretty thing.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
I remember when this first came out I thought "Wonderful. Kirk and
Picard in the same movie" Sadly, I was disappointed. Don't get me
wrong, it's not that it's bad. It just could have been so much better.
It feels like Star Trek - The Understairs Cupboard Clearout. Don't need
Kirk any more so we'll kill him off. Enterprise D? We'll get a new
ship. And there's the Duras sisters lurking at the back. We certainly
won't want those any more.

Kirk's role is so short lived it was hardly worth bringing him back
(and watching Shatner waddle around makes me think they should have
called the film Star Trek 7 - The Search for Kirk's Waistline). As for
Kirk's death scene that was just an insult. Falling off a bridge. It's
what I'd do, not a space legend (still don't know why there's an iron
bridge on an uninhabited planet)

There's also an irrelevant subplot featuring Data and his emotion chip,
though Data's life form song is a great moment.

Overall, a wasted opportunity
<|_=00=_|>
Generations has long been criticised as one of the poorer Star Trek
films but I disagree with that assessment.

One of the focal criticisms people make about the movie is Kirk's role
in the film. William Shatner is afforded nothing more than a glorified
cameo. However, I think this adds to the picture as opposed to
detracting from it; Generations is a Next Generation movie, so to
feature Kirk prominently would be a mistake and a slight on TNG cast,
who all acted ably in their first screen adventure.

Also, Kirk's death (also heavily criticised) to me is well done too.
The character had long stated in the series and films his destiny was
to die alone; and although not strictly true, his death did seem remote
and lonely and the fact he died not in a hail of bullets added to the
picture in my opinion.

Patrick Stewart as Picard, and Shatner demonstrated real chemistry
together,and Brent Spiner as Data steals nearly all the scenes he's in;
an emotion chip adds some real comic moments.

Malcolm Macdowell also is a terrific villain, with a real, simple aim
which thankfully makes the plot a lot clearer as science, admittedly
complicates matters a bit too much in several sequences.

All in all this is a terrific, traditional Trek adventure. Well worth a
watch.
<|_=00=_|>

Though nearly all would disagree - especially Star Trek fans - I consider
this the best of the Star Trek movies and the best science-fiction film of
the nineties. I had no problem with the storyline which many found weak,
laughed up a storm at the humour, loved the musical score, was dazzled by
the special effects, was impressed by the acting (superior to that of the
cast of the older series), and recognised the climax at the correct point in
the film - the meeting of Kirk and Picard - old and new captains of the
Enterprise. I preferred this film, the seventh installment in the Star Trek
films, to the eighth episode "First Contact" which I found over-acted and
containing unnecessary decline in the rectitude of the
crew.
<|_=00=_|>


Above average Sci-fi action drama movie that has a modest production in
comparison to the average high qualily fare STAR TREK film.This 7th Star
Trek movie played more  like a special TV episode which although still
good,kind of let down a lot of high expectations due to a great potential
storyline and incredible trailers.The movie was rushed and the
screenplay/script really took the steam out of the storyline.Also,the
special effects were very trimmed down.Still,if one is a big Star Trek
fan,you will never forget the emotional scenes of Captain Kirk(what a guy!)
and the great acting of Shatner (not to be outdone by Stewart!)
here.Yes,this one could have been so much better but I would take a Star
Trek movie over the majority of Scifi movies out there!For Star Trek fans
only...... 
<|_=00=_|>
One does have to admire Star Trek: Generations and what it tries to do.
In short, it is given the difficult task of having to bring closure in
two ways: 1. Closure for the character of Kirk, who's been around since
the beginning of all Star Trek, and 2. Closure for the TNG series,
which had just wrapped, and now had to destroy their Enterprise-D set
before moving to further adventures. For the most part, you have a
success until the last act.

We start with a prologue with Kirk, Scotty, and Chekov which is well
done, plus it's nice too see Alan Ruck show up. Kirk acts a little
different than he does in the TOS movies (more on that later). There is
then a clever transition to 80 years later, aboard the holodeck. For
the next hour and a half, you have a great ST movie. All the TNG cast
is there and Riker, Troi, Crusher, and Whoopi Goldberg are all GIVEN
SOMETHING TO DO (this became a problem in the later movies, which
focused on Picard and Data, and the rest of the gang felt tacked on).
The story is solid, there're moments of humor, philosophical ideas
behind the Nexus, and Malcolm McDowell plays a nice villain; he doesn't
have much screen time, but is still well acted and had a great
backstory.

Where the film starts to falter is when Kirk and Picard meet side by
side. The scenes fall flat for several reasons: 1. The idea of the two
of them meeting sounds great in theory and may excite fans, but the
truth is that they're very different characters, don't really have the
best chemistry or make all that great a team. 2. The premise of the
Nexus starts to seem contrived, just a plausible explanation so both
characters can meet, and it raises more questions than anything else.
3. The biggest problem of all is that Shatner never seems to fully get
into the character of Kirk. He plays him as just a character making
one-liners, winking at the camera; he knows he's just making an
extended cameo. This may really be the fault of the script's; Ronald D.
Moore and Brannon Braga had written for TNG and had never written
Kirk's character before. That leads into the ending...

MAJOR SPOILER! Others have said so before me: the emotional impact of
Kirk's death is somewhat lost because he is a supporting character in
this story, and we do not see him grow very much. This is not to say
it's all bad; I do very much like the idea that Picard is the only
witness to his predecessor's death.

And that's Generations pretty much. Great film right up till the end.
One Final Note: it's become a well-known story that Brent Spiner hates
cats and when filming the scene when Data is reunited with his cat, he
remarked "Does it have to be the cat? Couldn't he find Geordi?"
Frankly, I think that would've worked MUCH BETTER, and been a great
redemption for Data. Shame they didn't follow his advice.

The result is a good ST film, but not as great as the classics in the
series: 2, 4, 6, and 8.
<|_=00=_|>
This was truly the worst of the Trek films, brought down by its own
hubris. Let's look at its sins. 

* Killing the Greatest hero in SF for no good reason. * Destroying the
Enterprise-D for no good reason. * Killing Picard's loved ones for no
good reason. * Turning Picard into a crying sissy-boy. * Turning Kirk
into a jerk. * Turning Data into a babbling idiot.

In some ways, time has undermined this film. In 1994, one could see TNG
and TOS as almost equals. Since then, the Next Generation crew has
diminished in stature, while the Original Series crew has risen. (Why
else would they recast it in ST-XI?) 

But the reality is that this just isn't a very good film and never will
be. It's dramatic flourishes are diminished by how badly they are
handled. Come on, not only killing Kirk, the greatest hero that Science
Fiction has ever produced, but then killing him with SCAFFOLDING? It
like having John Wayne break his neck tripping over the spittoon in the
saloon! 

The films other fault is that it is too derivative of TNG. You'd have
to have seen those episodes to know who these characters are.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite some other people's reviews on this site, I thought this was an
EXCELLENT Star Trek film.  In fact, this is probably one of my favorites of
the films.  I thought everything about this film was above average, the
story, the special effects, the acting, the directing...EVERYTHING!

I thought the story was absolutely brilliant and quite inventive.  I really
loved seeing the two captains fighting and working together.  Also, I love
the idea of this place, "The Nexus", a place where time has no meaning, you
can relive all of your favorite memories and your dreams become a reality. 
I thought the story was excellent.

The special effects in this film were definitely above par!  There are
several scenes that just made my jaw hit the floor because they looked so
good and were done so well.  I've noticed a few people have complained that
they used the exact same footage of the Klingon bird-of-prey exploding that
was used in "Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country", but I say "if they're
going to use some archive footage to save some money and put that money into
the other special effects that they need for the movie, more power to them"
!  Besides, the scene is such a tiny scene in the movie and it wasn't the
climax of the film anyway, so where's the problem?

The acting and directing are top notch in this film.  I thought all of the
actors did a fantastic job.  William Shatner pulls off a great performance
in his final Star Trek film, as well as James Doohan and Walter Koenig.  The
Next Generation cast does a great job as well, Patrick Stewart, Jonathan
Frakes, Michael Dorn, Brent Spiner, LeVar Burton, Marina Sirtis, Gates
McFadden and Whoopi Goldberg all pulled off great performances!  Malcolm
McDowell did a fantastic job as the antagonist in this film!  I also really
enjoyed seeing Alan Ruck and Jenette Goldstein in the film, although they
both had very small roles.

All in all, I thought this was a great addition to the Star Trek series and
a great transition from the original Star Trek crew to the new Star Trek
crew.  Also, I love this film because you need to know very little about the
original Star Trek films to enjoy this film.  The only thing you need to
know is that James T. Kirk (William Shatner) is the star of the original
films and that Scotty (James Doohan) and Chekov (Walter Koenig) co-starred. 
Also...it may be useful to know that Commander Sulu was another one of the
original crew members (but not terribly important).  Anyhow, I would
definitely recommend this film to any sci-fi fan and to anyone that likes
the Star Trek films.  I hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for
reading,

-Chris
