

It's rare for a cop movie to combine elements from "The Untouchables",
"Thelma & Louise" and "The Brady Bunch".

Unless, of course, the lead character has a tendency to run his car into
parking meters.

"The Naked Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult" brings the lofty trilogy to a close
with the same old cast (Kennedy, Simpson, Presley) and slapstick antics
involving a prison breakout, terrorist plot and the Oscars.  And there in
the center is Lt. Frank Drebin (Nielsen) on the verge of retirement and
fighting with bad guys, shopping carts and Weird Al Yankovic while trying
convince lovely wife Jane (Presley) that the spark in their relationship is
still there.

How can you talk down a movie like this; it's as useless as putting up a
tent in a windstorm, so they say.  You have to enjoy stupidity, one-liners,
gags and visual puns, as created by the ZAZ boys (Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker)
and delivered by a cast of pros (including Fred Ward and Pia Zadora!!), all
with the tone of adolescence and insanity you've come to know and
love.

And if you don't, why are you reading this?

Kudos go to Anna Nicole Smith, who makes her debut in movies here in a big
way (sorry) and shows she is at her best when laughing at herself.  Good
job, Anna.

Favorite scene?  I lost count after the first 10 minutes; it's an exercise
in futility, every scene will make you chuckle, laugh, guffaw, roar and/or
howl with delight.  Besides, why spoil the fun?

And as for Nielsen...as always, he is THE MAN!  Even when throwing up in a
tuba.

Ten stars for a great "Final" trip down into Dumbville.  And one star more
for the very last scene - classic!

Thanks, Frank.

 
<|_=00=_|>

Retirement has not been good for Frank Drebin. His marriage is on the
rocks and he feels emasculated as he no longer has the power of the law
or the ability to shot bad guys. When he is offered the chance to help
out with some undercover work, Frank jumps at the chance – even though
Jane storms out. When the info Frank finds points to imprisoned bomb
expert Rocco Dillon he agrees to go into the jail and infiltrate his
gang in order to find out his plan.

Despite the fact that the second part was a little bit of a dip from
part 1, Debin was brought back for a final insult and managed to
produce a very enjoyable conclusion to the series. Opening with one of
the best moments from all three films (a hilarious expansion of The
Untouchable train station scene) the film keeps up a very consistent
tone that has plenty of big laughs as well as lots of little things
that will keep you chuckling. Its not that the film has no misses (it
does) but they are covered by the sheer weight of hits that it
includes. The plot is fairly simple but is well done to include a few
basic set ups – the prison, the break out and the Oscars; each part is
very funny if you're in the mood for it and, hey, even if you're not it
is pretty infectious.

The writing is good – it is easy to forget how hard it is to write a
good spoof, but recent attempts have shown had easy it is to misjudge
the film and just be silly rather than funny. Another big part of the
film working is yet another great performance from Leslie Neilsen, who
makes it all look so easy! Ward is a great addition to the cast and is
much better than the bad guy from the second film – Ward plays it gruff
and straight, making it all the funnier. Presley is so-so, with her
character kind of shoe-horned into the film to her detriment, but she
does have some good moments. Freeman is good value and Smith, well,
Smith has a good body and that's about it – but fair play to her for
sending herself up like that, it's not like she needed the money after
all.

Overall, this is a very enjoyable film as long as you are in the mood.
Even if you aren't roaring with laughter you'll still be chuckling
along. The material is hardly the height of wit or intelligence and
some viewers may find it to be all a bit broad but fans of the genre
will love it and get plenty of laughs from the material and the mostly
good performances.

<|_=00=_|>

The third and final installment and best of the Naked Gun series features
Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) talked out of retirement to track down a
terrorist who bombed a city hall building. First Drebin must go undercover
in state prison then after escaping Rocco Dillon (Fred Ward) plans on
bombing the Academy Awards you bet Frank and the police squad to the rescue
no matter how comical. The laughs just keep coming with this film! The Naked
Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult showed that films have parody, films throughout
the years can become copycats except scenes are different with parody. Prime
example is at the beginning of the film when the famous stair scene with the
babies and the mob from the "Untouchables" is portrayed in a humorous
manner. In fact parody is present in the opening credits in the form of Star
Wars and Jurassic Park. Slapstick comedy mirrors almost every scene of this
film as every funny and even the serious moments involve horseplay of some
kind. And the dialogue is just as funny as can be these Naked Gun characters
try to make everything they say twisted to where it sounds just as funny as
possible. Leslie Nielsen is the funniest man ever in comedy films every
scene he does cracks me up! George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson are nice funny
sidekicks to Nielsen once again the casting of them both paid off they
always made the Naked Gun films a pleasure to watch. 1993 Playmate of the
year Anna Nicole Smith has better than average acting abilities and why she
doesn't act more is a mystery to me she added a certain needed sex appeal to
the final Naked Gun. I hate Paramount finally done away with the Naked Gun
movies I hope to see another one made. Buy or record this one it simply is
one of the funniest movies of all time it's sad in a way the series ended I
know I laugh and enjoy this film so much I just had to record it and add to
my video collection, like me you will watch it again and again for the many
laughs and stupid mishaps.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say that this is one of the greatest comedy trilogies I have
ever seen. Leslie Neilson has never stopped with the laughter and his
fearless performance as Frank. Presilla does a fantastic job and her
Thelma and Louise with Ellen Green was just memorable and fun to watch.
OJ Simpson, the "downfall" I like to call it, because three months
later came the murder trials.

Anna Nicole Smith was actually amusing in this film, I loved the crying
game parody. There are a lot of great spoofs and jokes in the film. I
think anyone who needs a good laugh or loves the Naked Gun movies
should watch 33 1/3, it's just guaranteed of a good time.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed the movie. The film is entirely fun and you cant
stop laughing at the silly things that happen in the movie. Though it
gets a little boring for a short while, overall the movie is a blast.
The scenes are executed well. The Hollywood spoof of the movie was just
fun and rocking. Anna Nicole Smith is amazing in her sex appeal and has
done justice to her part.

The actors have done their part well and the movie entertains you
completely. Though the jokes are silly and not realistic, a movie is to
entertain and this justifies its purpose. A nice watch over a Saturday
afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
Now former Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) has a tough time
that he is not working with the Police Squad anymore and his wife Jane
(Priscilla Presley) is now an lawyer. Although she wants a baby, he has
a tough time getting her pregnant. His former partners
(Oscar-Winner:George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson) wants Frank to spy on
Tanya Peters (The late Anna Nicole Smith), since Tanya is involved with
a hired bomb expert Rocco Dillon (Fred Ward). Which Dillon is in
prison, at first Frank was supposed to get her address but he lost it.
When Jane leaves him, thinking that Frank was fooling around with
another woman. Frank decides to go undercover as a prisoner to get
closer on Dillon. Frank knows that Dillon is planning to destroy and
kill many of innocent people for a price but where ? 

Directed by Peter Segal (The Nutty Professor 2:The Klumps, Anger
Management, Tommy Boy) made an entertaining spoof comedy, based on the
short-lived TV series back in the early 1980's. Nielsen is always an
hoot in the lead. The cast seems to be having an great time. Although
the reviews were mixed and at the box office was less promising than
the first two but still, this was an major success on video. There's
some lively cameos throughout the feature. If you are fan of these type
of silly comedies or "The Naked Gun" movies, you will certainly enjoy
it. Written by Pat Proft (The Naked Gun:From the Files of Police
Squad!, Hot Shots! Part Deux, Scary Movie 3 & 4), David Zucker (An
American Carol, High School High, Top Secret!) and Robert LoCash (CB4).
(****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
So, here we are then, with the third part of the very silly 'Naked Gun'
series. For some reason, David Zucker isn't in the director's chair
this time; and his replacement is the man who would go on to direct the
2004 disappointment '50 First Dates' a decade later; Peter Segal. This
doesn't matter, though, because Zucker still shares a writing credit,
and the series always belonged to Leslie Nielson anyway. Still, this
third part isn't as good as the first two, by quite a margin. The story
is less expansive this round, and the film is also a lot shorter
(probably a comment on the fact that the writers were running out of
ideas...), but it still has it's moments that are really funny. As
usual, quite a few of the jokes don't work, but there's usually one
that does just around the corner after a failed one. One sequence in
particular involving Frank Drebin in a dance number is one such moment.

The thin plot is mostly a parody on the crime classic 'White Heat', and
it involves Frank Drebin going undercover in jail and eventually having
to try and thwart an act of terrorism. Naturally, this is just a
springboard for lots and lots of gags, but that's no bad thing. Leslie
Nielson approaches the role with the usual gusto, and does well with it
again. Leslie Nielson's comedy works because he looks so ridiculous,
and he can just stand around doing nothing and make you laugh. The
Naked Gun series is a good waste of time if all you want is a laugh and
this second sequel delivers on that front too, although not in quite as
good a way as the first two did. Still, there's a lot worse comedies
around.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this one was almost as good as the first film and a bit
better than the second one. I liked the whole infiltration of the
prison plot and the retirement aspect of the film more than all the
politics of the second film. However, Leslie plays Drebin in a bit more
of a goofy fashion this go around. There are also other things in this
film that were not really in the first two installments like the scenes
that parodied other movies. Scenes like these were not in the first two
movies, from what I remember anyway, but there are a couple of them in
this one. Such as the opening which parodies "The Untouchables" and a
"Thelma and Louise" one as well. However, the film has a nice
conclusion at the academy awards which makes fun of Hollywood's biggest
night in grand fashion. The plot has Frank retired, but he is coaxed
out of retirement to break into a prison and find out a sinister plot.
The villain this time is Fred Ward and he is good as is his gang. There
are some surprises here and there too. I just thought this one was a
bit more humorous than two, but not quite on par with the first one.
Close, but not quite.
<|_=00=_|>
'Naked Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult', the third and final film in the
Naked Gun series, is a hilarious slapstick fare, where it's lead star,
the late Hollywood Legend, Leslie Nielsen, proves once again, that he
is an unstoppable/unforgettable talent. 

'Naked Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult' Synopsis: Frank Drebin comes out
of retirement to help Police Squad infiltrate a gang of terrorists
planning to detonate a bomb at the Academy Awards. 

'Naked Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult' is a faithful & satisfying sequel.
It raises a lot of laughs, especially in the climax, the entire
Academy-Awards Sequence, which is absolutely hilarious. Pat Proft,
David Zucker & Robert LoCash's Screenplay is genuinely funny &
extremely arresting. Peter Segal Directs this slapstick comedy,
decently. Cinematography & Art Design, are worth a mention.

Performance Wise: Nielsen, as mentioned before, is unstoppable in here.
The legendary actor delivers a laugh-out-loud performance, and holds
the film from start to end. Priscilla Presley supports well. George
Kennedy is excellent. O.J. Simpson is fair. Fred Ward & Kathleen
Freeman are passable. Others lend support. 

On the whole, 'Naked Gun 33 1/3: The Final Insult' is slapstick comedy
at its best.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie doesn't pretend to be anything other than a sequel. It
doesn't pretend to be a serious movie. For that I have to say, the
critics underrated this movie. Leslie Nielsen is a brilliant comic
actor. I see in Nielsen an actor committed to take comedy to the
highest level. Nielsen doesn't care about a lame joke or two, as long
as he nails the point of his comedy. The last half hour of the movie, I
was rolling on the floor with laughter. The academy awards scene was
one of the funniest ever. Everybody was good in the movie, even the
Anna Nicole Smith. Fred Ward was funny as a bad guy. You don't think of
Ward being a comic actor, but he was so honestly playing a bad guy that
the comedy just oozed out without effort. OJ Simpson, who is hard to
see the same after his murder trial, is a very intelligent and talented
comic actor. Believe it or not, he knows how to do funny things without
having to act. I love this movie, and recommend a good dose of Nielsen
anytime life gets you down.
