
I liked this movie. I thought it kept it's edge and that was largely
because of Madonna. I didn't want to like Madonna in the part...she
seemed too flighty, too self-involved. I didn't hold out too much hope
for her acting.

She really surprised me. Not only did she do a wonderful job with the
script as given, she also went so far as to watch footage of Eva Peron
and got the hand gestures and facial expressions down.

I also heard that she is credited in obtaining permission from the
Argentine government to film at the Casa Rosada. Eva Peron is STILL
considered a saint, and they were worried the movie would show her in a
bad light. Madonna proved to them (and then followed through on film)
that she was going to give the role dignity...to show Eva Peron in a
balanced way as a person with flaws, not an evil woman bent on
destroying Argentina.

She actually made the movie for me to the point where I couldn't
envision anyone else in the role.

Antonio Banderas was also a bit of a surprise for me. I didn't know
anything about him and kinda considered him eye candy instead of a
serious actor. I was pleasantly surprised when I found out he can sing
as well as act. 

Jonathan Price was good at portraying a Juan Peron. He could be gentle
and kind to his friends, but also showed no remorse for "removing"
anyone who opposes him. I read in another review of this movie that
Price wasn't barbaric enough for the part. Juan Peron WAS very
charismatic...he had to be, or else he would NEVER had been elected
president.

One of the things I liked most about this movie was that all the people
in it seemed real. The extras were neither overly good looking or
freakishly ugly. They looked like anyone you would see walking down any
given street.

The cinematography is splendid, and it's hard to beat the soundtrack.

It's an 8/10 for me.
<|_=00=_|>
As a Lloyd Webber fan, I was thrilled to hear 'Evita' being made into a
major motion picture. But I had my doubts that Madonna could play Eva
Peron. Then I saw the movie and realized Webber's genius in casting her
to play the lead. Madonna shines as Evita and proves her vocal talent
on 'Don't Cry For Me' and 'Buenos Aires.' Another pleasant surprise was
Antonio Banderas playing Che. I had no idea he could sing! And sing he
does! He was the showstopper in an excellent role. And Jonathan
Pryce...what can I say about the Engineer from 'Miss Saigon'? As Juan
Peron, he holds his own against the powerhouse playing his wife. And he
has some of the best facial expressions I've ever seen on an actor.
'You Must Love Me,' written specifically for the movie, was the
Oscar-winning song for the talented composer; a tribute long overdue,
if you ask me. Excellent casting! Excellent effects! Excellent movie!

To quote TIME magazine, "You must see 'Evita.'" Yes, you must. Some of
you will love it, some will hate it. But I hope that you all agree that
Lloyd Webber is a genius. He is the true star of the film. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I cannot imagine ANYONE seeing this movie and not being completely blown
away by it.  It is one of the most beautifully done pieces of work I've ever
seen.  I have never seen anyone act and sing and dance their heart out the
way Madonna does in this movie, and she deserved an Oscar as much as anyone
EVER has.  She portrayed Eva amazingly, and they made her look so much like
Evita you buy it's her.  Madonna stretches her vocal cords incredibly to
sing this part, her voice is as gorgeous and strong as ever in this movie,
and she sings it fabulously.  She dances...well, like Madonna, with talent
and grace and style.  She acts it perfectly, every facial expression, every
tear, every line.  After this movie was made, I didn't hear ANYONE ever say
Madonna couldn't act ever again.

Taking the movie from the stage to the screen was hard to do, but the
directors and producers succeeded in having it still blow your mind, even on
screen.  The scenes are dashing, the way all the pieces are put together is
genius.  You love and hate Evita, you sympathize and despise her.  You're
fascinated by her though, whatever emotional feelings you may have towards
her.

But don't think Evita's the only thing incredible about this film.  Who knew
Antonio Banderas could sing???  I didn't!  He sang great for how hard Che's
parts were, and for it being his first time singing.  He also acted the part
of Che fantastically.  His chemistry with Madonna is there and he uses it to
the fullest to bring out the magic between Che and Evita.  He had an even
bigger role to fulfill than Madonna in the transition from stage to film. 
Madonna is in real life much like Evita so this part was like home for her,
but Antonio's stretch to become Che was right on key, and you just love
him.

And Jonathan Price!  Dear God, he was beautiful too, and did again, genius
work.  He is a stage actor, so of course he played Juan's intensity just
right.  All three of these actors deserved AT LEAST Golden Globes, and
Madonna deserved an Oscar, along with the director who blew your mind with
the movie, making you laugh and cry.  This movie is in one
word...phenomenal.
<|_=00=_|>

Saw this film just after release in Jan '97. Not much impressed. Wife
bought the CD and began playing it on car trips. Music grew on me to
the point where I found myself taking spins in the car alone, just to
play the CD and totally absorb the experience.

One evening in '99, caught the film on TV and enjoyed a perfect ecstasy
in relating the music to the scenes, which I had forgotten. Played the
CD less frequently over the next few years. Then, this spring (2004),
HBO began showing Evita repeatedly. Watched it night after night,
becoming transfixed by the music, the dancing, the cinematography, the
nuances of Pryce's portrayal of Peron.

Lately, I've been watching the DVD once a week, using the NEXT button
to bypass the violence and the army/high society chants. What comes
across is a softer, gentler story of "poor girl makes good, marries
famous man." It's a story rich in melody -- the Latin beat of "Buenos
Aires", the soft sax of "Another Suitcase" and "I'd be Good For You",
the touching strings of "Don't Cry For Me" and "You Must Love Me.". And
the film is framed in moody, unforgettable backdrops. To name just one,
the all-pervading afternoon sun -- hot on the dusty plain, glowing
hazily upon the bustling Buenos Aires streets, aslant along the long
corridor and stairs, as Peron carries the dying Evita to her bed, and
finally, an eery spotlight upon the draped casket lying in state. 

Madonna is superb, both in voice and screen presence. Pryce's
performance is a triumph of the actor's craft. Banderos is a perfect
Che, although, in my view, he shines as a tertiary star behind Madonna
and Pryce.

See Evita, if you haven't already. If you've seen it ten times, see it
again. There is still more pleasure to take from this wonderful film
with each viewing.

<|_=00=_|>

This was a simply stupendous movie. The visuals and costumes were stunning,
 the new realization of the musical score excellent. Madonna deserves more
 credit than she has gotten for this. Although her voice is perhaps a bit
 thin for the role, she really stretched herself for this, and did a fine
 job. Banderas was simply fantastic. Most of the naysayers (and there are
 many), clearly don't care for Weber, or for musicals in general. Of course
 it isn't "deep", it's a musical! The question is how well was the original
 play transformed to the screen, and I would be hard pressed to imagine
 anything more successful than this. 
<|_=00=_|>
Evita, the long awaited musical is Madonna at the top of her game, and
in all her splendor she nails the role of the First Lady of Argentina,
Eva Duarte de Peron!!! Madonna's portrayal of Eva Peron not only
resurrected the story of Eva's life, but breathed new life into her as
well! Madonna finally surpasses the cardboard reading, she's given us
in past films, and generously gives of herself to this role, something
warm, alive and tangible. Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's music and
lyrics were just that, until Madonna made them her own! Precise
enunciation and pitch sent me into the stratosphere, Madonna was no
longer a singer, but now an accomplished voice to be reckoned with! The
meticulous attention to detail on the sets, costuming, and shooting
helped propel the grandeur of the film and it's believability. Madonna
finally leaps beyond her persona and truly BECOMES the First Lady of
Argentina, Eva Duarte de Peron!!! The Golden Globes took recognition of
the hard work put forth by crew, actors and director. "Evita" snagged
'Best Director' for Alan Parker and 'Best Actess in a Musical or
Comedy' for Madonna, well deserved! A must see film!!
<|_=00=_|>

I knew before, that Madonna can sing but now I know what she also can act.
Meanwhile, I knew before that Antonio Banderas can act, but now I know what
he can sing. And in Evita he sang incredibly good. I agree, Madonna wasn't
bad, but Antonio really stole the show. He brings to the movie incredible
latin style. Also very good Jonathan Pryse as president Peron. This movie
was very well directed and have very good cast.  But, best in Evita, of
course, are music and songs. With excellent songs and pretty good singing
Evita becomes on of the best musical movies ever made. Alan Parker bring out
the political climate from that years very well. Maybe whole movie was too
political, but now too many time have passed and nobody shouldn't care about
that.  Best songs for me are Don't cry for me Argentina and nearly all
Antonio's songs. In fact, only one minor problem in the movie is that
Madonna in the beginning of the movie looks too old. 

Worth seeing for any music and movie lover. Sorry for my bad
English

8,1 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

"Evita" is an opera, albeit a rock opera, in the true sense of the word --
there can't be fifty words of spoken dialogue in the entire movie.  Music
drama is a highly stylized form, which admittedly is not everyone's cup of
tea.  Perhaps that is why the overall rating given the film by IMDb voters,
6.3 out of 10, is as low as it is.  To those of us who like the operatic
form, though, this is an outstanding film, beautiful to look at, well acted,
and most importantly well sung.  The only weakness I found was the one that
inheres in every Andrew Lloyd Webber piece:  too much recycling of too few
musical themes over two-plus hours.  Nevertheless, Tim Rice's lyrics are
wonderful, they are consistently inventive and drive the story.  Madonna was
good in the title role but Antonio Banderas's performance as Ché was great,
both dramatically and musically.  "Evita" is highly recommended, 8 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>

Excellent Lloyd Webber-Rice musical is finally brought to the silver screen
twenty years after the release of its concept album.  Being used to watching
flashy, colourful musicals, namely from MGM, full of catchy tunes and full
of breathtaking dance routines, "Evita" left me quite shocked.  It was the
first (and last) "political" musical I saw.  The music impressed me at once,
however the story and the setting did not quite do so at first sight.  It
was only later, when I read something about the life story of Eva Peron did
I really appreciate the excellent work Lloyd Webber and Rice did.  Even
though they were not 100% faithful to the real story, the bio-musical gave a
somewhat clear picture of what type of woman Eva Peron was.  The movie was
great with its re-enactments of the 1940s-1950s Argentine elections,
however, having personally performed in the stage version (playing a
descamisado, a waiter, a policeman and one of Eva's lovers), I cannot but
point out the several drawbacks it had.  It is true that the funeral, the
electoral campaign and the terrorism were by far better on screen than on
stage, yet the stage musical had a certain charm which was lost in the film.
It could be due to the fact that on stage there was some dancing involved
while the movie had none; it could be because one was live and one was
playback; it could be because some of the harmonies were lost in the movie;
it could be simply due to the fact that in one I participated while in the
other I was just a spectator.  I don't know, still the stage version was
more "alive".  Nonetheless, in order to be fair, I have to admit that the
movie version did have some improvements as regards to the play.  The best
one of them was the song "You Must Love Me". Apart from finally re-uniting
composer and lyricist after more than 10 years of cold war, it presents the
First Lady of Argentina as a woman who has some feelings, who is afraid in
front of her approaching death, who is not only interested in becoming
vice-president, as the stage production tends to hint. How much this is
historically true is beyond me, yet it is good to give some human element to
the heroine.

I was quite impressed by the actors' interpretations.  Madonna has finally
showed the world that she is able to look great without taking her clothes
off, that she is more than just voice, boobs and scandal.  Jonathan Pryce
was excellent as the Argentine president - such a pity he had so little to
sing, having such a great voice.  Antonio Banderas impressed me - I did not
know he was that good at singing.  The role of the narrator was quite a
breakthrough after his ‘tough-guy' parts, and he did it quite well.  Some
critics said that this movie would set the way for future film versions of
musicals - I hope they were right!

<|_=00=_|>
I used to think that there were a couple of absolutes in this world
other than the standard issue ones. One is that I will always hate
Andrew Lloyd Webber and another is that Madonna will never be a good
actress. After seeing Alan Parker's 1996 musical "Evita" however,
starring Madonna and featuring the music of Andrew Lloyd Webber, I have
had to amend those two statements slightly.

"Evita" tells the true story of Eva Peron, the wife of Argentina's
former president (and dictator) Juan Peron. In a story that was
ready-made for Hollywood, she started out as the illegitimate and poor
daughter of a man who dies when she is very young, sleeps with a
mediocre nightclub singer at the age of 15 in order to gain passage to
Buenos Aires, and from there begins her struggle to reach whatever
achievements her ambitions require (which is a lot). Using her body to
gain important friends (because, frankly, she didn't have any acting
talent) she becomes an actress and radio star before she meets Juan
Peron, at the time, an up and coming politician. They get married and
the two work to get him elected as the president of Argentina on the
platform that "they are workers too". When he is elected, Evita's
popularity grows even more, to the point where her dreams of becoming
the vice president of the country could be realized, until she is
stricken with cancer and dies, essentially with the image of a saint,
at the age of 32.

"Evita" is a gorgeous, lush film, full of thousands of extras, great
location scenes and features a very talented cast. It acts almost as an
incredibly big budgeted and elaborate music video, mainly because it
features almost constant singing, and well, it stars one of the most
visible music video stars of all time. Madonna finally found her part
in this film, and no, it wasn't just easier because she didn't have a
lot of speaking lines. It is clear that not only did she take voice
lessons (which actually is true) because her voice quality was better
than "normal", and has stayed that way since the making of this film,
but she was able to knock off some decent dramatic moments. Banderas,
though he spent a lot of the film looking pretty furious with the
camera, doesn't have to prove any acting mettle (anyone who has seen
him in an Almodovar film can attest to this) but did come up with a
surprisingly good singing voice. Jonathan Pryce, who was curiously cast
as Peron also did a good job, though his part was fairly minor, and
even at that he was relegated to giving Evita a lot of loving looks.
All in all, however, the slick production, some catchy music (I cannot
believe I am actually saying that I actually really like a film
featuring the music of the insipid, mainstream, gnome-like Webber) that
is good enough to listen to extra-curricularly and performances that
weren't bad made for a pretty good and very entertaining viewing.

Don't get me wrong – there are more than a few eye-rolling moments in
"Evita", but the good definitely outweighs the bad, exponentially. The
story, while coherent, was pretty mediocre, and I found that I felt
that there were some things that were glossed over or trivialized with
a cute musical number. Admittedly, however, this IS a musical and you
don't sign up for a hard-hitting knowledge fest when you watch one.
This wasn't the first time I had seen this film, and yet I still end up
getting so wrapped up in the action that I end up bawling a couple of
times, and this viewing was no exception. More importantly, though, I
didn't feel like a doofus when I recommended it as a movie that three
guys and I should watch together, because while it's slick and a
musical, (and therefore, traditionally, a chick film) there's enough
compelling elements to the film that will keep some guys happy as well.
Good job, Parker and thanks a lot for blowing two of the absolutes I
normally stand by. 6/10 --Shelly
