
Sharp knives, big guns, awesome fights, great dialog, wonderful
characters and Selma Hayek looks better then ever. These are just a few
reasons why I like this movie.

"Desperado" is more than an action movie. It has tons of fun in it
which makes the movie extremely likable to watch. The action is way
over the top but it works very well since the movie obviously doesn't
take itself serious. It's fun and cool to watch at the same time.

"Desperado" is a kind of movie that really needs no story and basically
there isn't really any. All the fun characters, dialog and action
sequences make you forget that there isn't really a story. The Quentin
Tarantino cameo is especially entertaining and so are almost every
Mexican bad guy that are all in one way or another over the top.

A must see, in my opinion.

9/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
I've heard many people say that they couldn't follow the plot of this
flick.I think they totally missed the point of this movie.ITS AN ACTION
MOVIE.thats the whole plot.Its called lets find the bad guy,and his
henchmen,and kill them.I thought it was absolute genius.Skip the
plot,and go straight to the action.Banderas was pure fire.All his
emotions smouldering just beneath the surface.The stunts and effects
were first rate and extremely entertaining.Even the extras did great
work.I would recommend this film to anyone who is wanting some great
entertainment.Mark me don't go looking for some Oscar winning dramatic
performances.But it is fun,pure unadulterated fun.Also the photography
is absolutely first rate.As is the almost Kubrickesque atmosphere of
the film.Ydnar
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many adjectives one could use describing this film, I
wouldn't know where to begin to start. I'll just try to limit them to a
few. The headline here states one of them. Others could be "ludicrous,"
"fun," "amusing," "stupid," etc. You get the idea.

Robert Rodriguez took the profits from his first film, "El Mariachi,"
and continued on with the story now with more funds, so he made it
glossier, more explosive, added some name actors and, of course, way
overdid it, making it almost a cartoon it is so outrageous. He
continued this with the third film, "Once Upon A Time In Mexico" which
is even more of the same. 

If something worked subtly the first time, filmmakers think that to
improve on it is by bombarding the audience with it the next time. They
don't know when enough is enough and, boy, does that apply to
Rodriguez. He does keep you entertained, though, once you check your
brains at the door and begin watching the show. However, all this
excess makes it lose any credibility "El Mariachi" might have built up
with the first show in this trilogy.

Whether the movie is really dumb or its just tongue-in-cheek humor by
Rodriguez, it has super-style and fun to watch. Talk about stylish! No
wonder Quentin Tarantino and he are good friends and the latter has a
guest appearance in the film. They both love having fun with the
cameras.

The first eight minutes let you know what you are in for:
outrageousness. It's an 8-minute scene at a bar involving a story told
by Steve Buscemi. It's one of the highlights of the movie.

Antonio Bandaras and Selyma Hayek are the "good guys" but they aren't
exactly Billy Graham and Mother Teresa. If they are the good guys, you
can imagine how evil the "bad guys" are? Speaking of them, two of the
toughest- looking hombres in the business are chief among the villains:
Joaquim de Almeida and Danny Trejo.

Some of the action scenes are so outrageous you laugh out loud. My
favorite was a guy shooting rockets out of his guitar case! As that
tells you, it's just a wild ride: 103 minutes of south-of-the-border
Rodriguez-Tarantino lunacy and despite what may sound like a bunch of
insults, I always have fun watching this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Sinking us back into the gritty life of a tormented guitar player,
Rodriguez sets the stage for an amazing film. This time, Antonio
Banderas steps into the role of the troubled Mariachi as he continues
his quest to rid Mexico of the corrupted drug lord that destroyed his
life. Using friends like Steve Buscemi, he finds the town that is
harboring his villain named Bucho. The Mariachi's form of questioning
normally leads to several dead, a cinematic gun fight, and some classic
Sergio Leone verbiage. Unfortunately, our hero does not escape
unscathed and finds himself being healed by the likes of Carolina, a
bookstore beauty played by Selma Hayek. Together they build a steamy
relationship that will help our Mariachi reach his final destination.

As more gunfights, explosions, and blood rock this independent
blockbuster, we soon discover a hidden secret about our hero, one that
could change the course of his destination.

This was an impressive second outing by director Robert Rodriguez.
While I was worried that Hollywood would have drained too much of his
imagination, it was instead the direct opposite. Hollywood gave him the
tools to build an amazing 'sequel'. While different, yet the similar to
his independent feature 'El Mariachi', Rodriguez sets the stage for a
roller coaster film that makes you hold your breath and pray for more.
He has taken elements from his first film and expanded them to new
levels. Banderas is perfect as our 'new' Mariachi and the chemistry
between him and Selma Hayek cannot be contested. Banderas' ability to
control this enraged man was spectacular. They worked as our two main
focuses of this film. Coupled with some humorous moments with Steve
Buscemi and Quentin Tarantino, this film successfully stood on its own
two feet thanks not just to the action, but the actors in their
respective roles. 

Finally, Rodriguez is a genius behind the camera. He is able to give us
exactly the right amount of action, drama, and comedy for our liking.
He is the proverbial salad bar of cinema. While giving us this deeply
rooted character hell-bent on destroying this drug lord, he also lets
our imaginations wander with his comical and cartoonish action
sequences. The scenes of men flying through the air after being shot
are somewhat comical, yet completely Rodriguez. He has successfully
created this world that is all uniquely his own. Rodriguez has done
this by giving the world depth and outside characters. He builds
suspense and also suspicion all at the same time.

Overall, an amazing film (in case you haven't noticed) that should be
found in nearly everyone's film collection. 

Grade: ***** out of *****

<|_=00=_|>

A true 90's cowboy movie, everyone who saw El Mariachi could foresee that
this picture would take the concept to the top. Fast-paced, greatly shot,
incredibly edited, this movie refuses to take itself seriously and is
well-succeeded in so. Antonio Banderas is the perfect Mariachi, adding a new
depth to the first movie's main character. He seeks revenge. Revenge for all
the things they did to him. And he will get it, the easy way or the hard
way. Fellow portuguese Joaquim de Almeida is Bucho, the villain, whose
relationship with El Mariachi turns out quite surprising near the end. Until
they both meet, there will be much gun-slinging action to fill the screen
with anthological scenes, like the bar fight, the "Quedate Aqui" song and
the final showdown. The movie is a comedy, even in the action scenes. I
guarantee it, it's two hours of fun and a visible influence of the Westerns
and B-Movies in someone's talent. Cracking good fun, which becomes
addictive. Memorable movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Desperado (1995) was a fun and big budgeted version of Desperado.
Robert Rodriguez has fun with the film and the characters from El
MARIACHI. Antonio Banderas stars as the mythical El Mariachi whilst
Salma Hayyek co-stars as his love interest. Cheech Marin, Danny Trejo,
Steve Buscemi and Quentin Tarantino are among the other stars who make
guest star appearances.

El Mariachi is hiding out in another small desert town. He's become a
legendary vigilante who's still seeking out justice for his dead
girlfriend. He has a companion (Steve Buscemi) who helps him out find
those who were connected to the boss from the first film. During one of
his hits, a hired gun from another crime family comes into town (Danny
Trejo). He also fits the description of El Mariachi (somewhat). A local
book dealer (Salma Hayek) crosses paths with the legendary crime
fighter. Who is the man behind all of El Mariachi's sorrow? Why is he
so desperate to single handedly trying to crush the crime in the area?
How does he do it by himself? Is he that good? To find out the answers
for all of these questions you'll just have to watch DESPERADO.

A fun second parter to EL MARIACHI. Unlike most sequels, you don't need
to watch the first film to enjoy this one. It's just another
entertaining film that'll burn some time. Enjoy!

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

After watching El Mariachi, it was easy to see the improvement in production
values between the two. Not surprising, considering the difference in the
price tag of the two films. But, as I pointed out in my El Mariachi review,
money isn't everything.

Although better visually, Desperado benefits from better actors who bring
more life to the characters. The overall effect, given another reasonable
plot, is to make a much more polished looking film that deservedly did as
well as it did at the box office.

The aforementioned plot is, essentially, the same as the first film when you
boil it down - the Mariachi ends up killing a lot of no-good drug-dealers
and warlords etc. - and there's the obligatory love interest. But although
very similar, this movie was more enjoyable due to it's overall finish and
style.

I originally watched this movie some years ago, long before I got to see the
original El Mariachi, so I suppose I am a little biased in preferring this
one to the the first in that Banderas IS the Mariachi as far as I was
concerned. But not to knock the first movie, which tells us the early
history of the Mariachi, and is a worthy film in its own
right.

Desperado is good, if sometimes a little gory, fun. Nothing to analyse too
much, just enjoy. If you have the opportunity, watch  the original, then
this one and things will make a lot more sense. Desperado has enough back
history woven into it to make it a standalone film, but the overall
experience is better watching the two back to back.
<|_=00=_|>
Rodriguez follows up 'El Mariachi' with 'Desperado'. Many seem to have
preferred the raw look that 'El Mariachi' had and while 'Desperado' is
more 'sophisticated' in the making and more polished, that doesn't
prevent it from being an awesome action entertainer. For me, it was
just as much fun as 'El Mariachi'. Rodriguez does what he does best. He
already mentioned that his Mariachi films are a tribute to the western
cinema that names like Sergio Leone and Clint Eastwood defined and
'Desperado' works perfectly with its comic book story, quirky
characters and over-the-top action sequences. Moving at a rapid pace,
the direction and editing are top notch. The cinematography is
brilliant too. Antonio Banderas does a good job taking over the role
from Carlos Gallardo (who sort of plays his sidekick in this one).
However, it is Salma Hayek that steals the show even though the story
is dominated by El Mariachi. As Carolina, she is sensual, witty,
charming and quite clever too. Hayek delivers a very natural
performance and owns each and every one of her scenes. In addition,
there are some wonderful cameos by Cheech Marin, Quentin Tarantino,
Steve Buscemi and Danny Trejo. Overall, 'Desperado' is full throttle
entertainment. This is what an action entertainer is supposed to be.
<|_=00=_|>
Credit IMDb. With this sequel to his prize-winning independent previous
film, "El Mariachi," director Robert Rodriquez joins the ranks of Sam
Peckinpah and John Woo as a master of slick, glamorized ultra-violence.
We pick up the story as a continuation of "El Mariachi," where an
itinerant musician, looking for work, gets mistaken for a hit-man and
thereby entangled in a web of love, corruption, and death. This time,
he is out to avenge the murder of his lover and the maiming of his
fretting hand, which occurred at the end of the earlier movie. However,
the plot is recapitulated, and again, a case of mistaken identity leads
to a very high body count, involvement with a beautiful woman who works
for the local drug lord, and finally, the inevitable face-to-face
confrontation and bloody showdown.

Desperado is a decent but overrated installment in Rodriguez's infamous
trilogy. Action scenes are stylish, Banderas is a bad ass, but I felt a
bit cold when it was all done. Some of the scenes wowed me, yet some
bored me. Banderas's and Hayek's chemistry was the real story here.

Performances. Antonio Banderas is as cool as ice here. Unlike Once Upon
Time in Mexico, he's able to roam free here. He was highly
entertaining. Salma Hayek is easy on the eyes, no doubt, but she can
also hold her own acting wise. She's sassy, sexy and credible. Cheech
Marin has a cool role as a bartender, while Danny Trejo rocks it.

Bottom line. A bit overrated, but the good outweighs the bad for the
most part. Settle your expectations and you'll be OK. You might even
think it lives up to the hype, but I didn't. Worth a watch.

6 ½ 10
<|_=00=_|>

If there's one thing that Desparado does better than 99.5% of movies it's
the gun fight sequences. Antonio Banderas is a man on a single minded
mission. Much like Travis Bickle in Taxi Driver only not as cool. Banderas
does a great job as nameless man with a suitcase full of really cool guns.
Great supporting performances by Steve Buscemi (great joke), Danny Trejo
(cool with knives), Cheech Marin, and the super sexy Salma Hayek. Good
action choreography, writing, directing. Special kudos to the
cinematographer and his lighting crew for keeping Antonio Banderas in the
dark at the beginning. Tons of great scenes and the afore mentioned gun
play.
Stole the sleeve gun idea from Taxi Driver. I kind of wish the Desparado's
two friends at the end wouldn't have died, they rock. It was a good waste
of
cool characters. Watch this with Taxi Driver, El Mariachi, and Red Heat.
9.3
out of 10.
