

I know it's fashionable to trash successful movies but at least be honest
about the trashing... Pvt. Ryan was fiction but it was pretty good
HISTORICAL fiction. The details were well thought out and based on reality.

There was nothing stupid about the portrayal of the German army... Rommel
DID blunder in his placement of force, The high command DID think Calais was
going to be the invasion spot, not Normandy. Hitler didn't wake up until
noon on that day and his aides were afraid to wake him. The Rangers did come
in right behind the first wave and did take a beach exit by sheer will to
get the hell off the beach. The bluffs were the scene of heavy close
fighting. The german defenders were mostly Eastern European conscripts from
defeated areas. (note that the 2 men that tried to surrender were NOT
speaking German). There WAS a young man rescued from interior Normandy after
his brothers were all killed. He WAS an airborne trooper (the difference was
that he was found by a chaplain and was removed from the front.)

The battles inside Normandy were small actions town to town, street to
street, house to house. Small actions like taking the radar station
happened. Small actions like a handful of men defending a river bridge
against odds happened. Small squads of men, formed out of the misdrops
banded together ad hoc to fight. There were all enlisted groups and all
officer groups. A General did die in the glider assault. FUBAR aptly
described much of what happened that day.

And there were only Americans in the movie because the Brits and Canadians
were many klicks away in a different area... this was Omaha beach. The story
was an American one. And Monty DID bog down the advance and everyone knew
it. And as for "American Stereotypes"... well those pretty much define
America: my college roomie was a wise-ass New York Jew. My best friend was a
second generation east coast Sicilian.  My college girlfriend was a third
generation German. My first wife was French and English. I'm Irish, my boss
is Norwegian and I work with a Navaho... you get the point?

So much for it being bad history. It was in fact an excellent way to let a
jaded and somewhat ignorant-of-their-past generation *feel* something of
what their grandparents (LIVING grandparents) went through. It is perhaps
less important that the details be exact as the feel be right. Even now the
details are not fully known or knowable about that campaign... it was too
big, too complex and too chaotic to be knowable. There is not even an
accurate casualty count of D-Day itself.

Now as to the depth of characters. What I saw there was the extraordinary
circumstances into which ordinary people were thrown and what happened to
them. I saw the things that would mark a generation (I have heard in my
elderly male patients sentiments similar to what Cpt. Miller was expressing
when he announced his ordinariness) I saw the dehumanization that occurs
with war and its mitigation moment to moment, man to man... Cpt. Miller
didn't know anything about Ryan and he didn't care... until Ryan revealed
his humanity to him with his story of his brothers. Pvt. Reiban was ready to
walk out of the situation until he discoverd his captains ordinariness and
his humanity. Then he began to look to him almost as a father. Pvt. Mellish
rightfully delights in his revenge for all the times he's had to take it
because he was Jewish by telling German captives he's "Juden!" Nerdish Cpl.
Upham can stand alongside his bigger, stronger, braver Ranger compatriots
and describe the poetry and melancholy of Edith Piaf's song... then face his
cowardice, turn around and stand up in the face of danger and finally
demonstrate the dehumanization of the enterprise he was enmeshed in by
executing Steamboat Willie... even though Willie had no more choice about
being there than Upham did and in other circumstances would have made a
friend.

I could go on and on with this but enough already. OK, perhaps it is not The
Best Movie Ever Made but it is still a good movie. And if one will take the
blinders of fashionable negativism off they will see it. Finally, this is
not a patriotic story... if anything it is an acknowledgement and thank you
to all those old men still out there that did so much for us. To them I say
a deep and sincere thank you.


<|_=00=_|>

To think that this movie did not win Best Picture is a crime. Director
Steven Spielberg uses all of his talent and resources to give to the world
the greatest war film ever made.

Though it's true that this is not the type of movie you want to sit down
with the family and eat popcorn, the emotional drive of the picture, the
story's poignant messages, and the fantastic acting of the cast draws you
into a world that is both dangerous and unpredictable.

Spielberg is able to take you into action and make you feel as if you are a
participant in the movie and not just a viewer. This is Tom Hanks' best
movie he ever did. Forget his performances in Philadelphia and Forrest Gump
(though they were also good); he should have received another Oscar for the
role of Capt. John Miller, a leader who must act strong in front of his
men,
but must also hide his emotions from them.  It would have been
well-deserved
if he won again.

I give this movie my highest recommendation. Saving Private Ryan is a movie
that makes you realize how life is precious and how honor and duty, though
they are deep philosophical concepts that are praised in war, can put you
in
jeopardy of losing your life for something you may not believe
in.
<|_=00=_|>
It gives a million reason why no one should go to war and one very powerful reason to go to war. It is a soul numbing realistic depiction of what 
our grandfathers, fathers, uncles, brothers and sons have faced in humanities darkest moments. Not just in WWII but in any war. No one can see this movies 
without being altered in some way. No one should miss it with the EXCEPTION of those war veterans that have already been there. The surround sound puts the 
audience in the middle of the battle. 

Steven Spielberg has out done himself and effectively held up a mirror to civilization for events to which we should all be ashamed of, rather than 
appalled at the movie for its real life depictions. I suggest that this movie be made standard view for congress as well as the President each and every 
time the question of war comes up. This movie would not stop future wars but I would hope the objectives would be much more clearly defined. I say this 
as a US Marine.
<|_=00=_|>

I'd heard a couple of startling things about this film before seeing it. I'd
heard that many veterans were having a hard time getting through the film
without breaking down. I'd also seen interviews with veterans who'd seen the
film and found the film to be incredibly realistic and consequently
difficult to watch. Intriguing comments, since we all know there is no
shortage of films about war from this century.

There are not many films that I've seen that have actually made me
physically react to the action on screen. I'm not speaking of the
three-dimensional variety either. What I mean to say is this film had me
contorting and cringing at the gripping, horrifying action on screen.
Somehow the extreme violence can be justified as the whole world knows that
this is an important chapter in human history and a startling, graphic
depiction only adds more weight to the seriousness of the subject matter.
I'd have to say this is probably one of the most important films of the 20th
century because of its frank approach to one of the darkest periods of our
time on this earth. 

I am always deeply moved and fiercely proud when given cause to consider
those that gave their lives to protect our way of life and liberate those
that already suffered dislocation, imprisonment and attempted genocide.
These soldiers were truly noble and deserve our deepest gratitude. This
sentiment is a common one, and will go some lengths to explain why this film
has meant so much to so many.

Even with the attention to detail and care taken into how it was shot to
accentuate to the fullest degree its realistic approach, it is still hard to
imagine what it must have been like to be part of a war. But this film goes
a long way to help your mind get around it. It's hard for me to say what
kind of impact the cinematography would have on someone watching it on the
small screen of a television versus the big screen, but from my perspective,
this film really does benefit from a theatrical presentation.

What "Saving Private Ryan" does extremely well, is show the world the harsh
reality of war without pulling any punches. The story about a squad of
soldiers sent to retrieve the surviving brother of three dead soldiers is
told with competency and due reverence from all perspectives of the
characters involved. It is an uncommon and intriguing drama, but it serves
as an excuse to describe a setting, rather than the other way around. The
story manages to move us through all sorts of different landscapes and
scenarios, giving us an unforgettable glimpse of a world unknown to most of
us, and terrifying to those who are familiar with it from personal
experience. 

<|_=00=_|>

I have never been affected by a movie the way Saving Private Ryan affected
me.  That movie really took me out of my seat in the movie theater and
practically had me believing I was really in the battle with John Miller.
When somebody was dying in that movie, it felt as if you could almost feel
their pain.  Speilberg did an unbelievable job of putting realism into this
movie with the camera-work and everything else.  Simply amazing.  An all
time great.   
<|_=00=_|>

It's been over a year since first seeing Saving Private Ryan -- it's a
worthy effort by Speilberg--his best since Shindler's List by far. You've
probably heard about the amount of violence, blood, and gore and that's all
true--it's got the Viet Nam movie style violence (and then some) but it's
not gratuitous. Were it sanitized like early WWII movies, modern audiences
probably wouldn't take it as seriously.

The movie has that trademark Speilberg style--the structure is all tied up
and unified from beginning to end, the emotional symbols abound, the music
swelling when he's working at your emotions, the hand held camera that
worked so well in Shindler's List to give you a feeling of participation,
camera angles and periods of silence to disorient you (like Shindler),
suspense techniques learned from Hitch... It's a movie that stays with you
for a period afterwards.

Hanks will be the early front runner for Oscar after this flick--Academy
members like him AND it IS his best acting job ever. While Speilberg will
likely be criticized for attempting to
manipulate the audience's emotions while keeping a distance from the inner
core of his characters, Tom Hanks reveals a really complex military leader
in this story, and does so without
overacting--somehow it comes from within. While you may not empathize deeply
with many of the platoon, you will still feel something because of the
relationship that is formed with Hanks.

After the initial set-up, you will have the opportunity to participate in
the D-Day operation and experience the horror of it. Those who have been in
a real war can comment about how realistic or not Speilberg captures its
chaotic horror in this scene.

In my case I again feel very lucky that my draft number was high, so I never
had to face Nam like many of my classmates. Speilberg reminds us brutally in
"Saving Private Ryan" that we All have a debt to pay to the brave souls who
have sacrificed so much for us. What Tom Hanks does with his performance is
to remind us of this debt in a very personal way.

<|_=00=_|>
Without looking, I am sure other reviewers here have headlined their
article "Best War Movie Ever Made"" and I agree. However, before
briefly discussing the film, let me just say if you don't have a decent
5.1 surround sound system, you aren't going to fully appreciate this
movie (DVD).

It's a great film to start with, and sitting in a room surrounded by
five speakers with bullets flying from all directions around you - as
in that spectacular 22- minute opening scene or in the final 45 minutes
of action against the Germans in tanks - is an astounding movie
experience. The sound in this film elevates it even higher.

The visuals are outstanding, too. I've never seen so many grays, beiges
and olive-greens look this good: perfect colors for the bombed-out
French city where the last hour takes place, perfect for the faces and
uniforms of the gritty soldiers, for the machinery, the smoke-filled
skies, etc.

My only complaint is the usage of Lord's name in vain 25-30 times, but,
hey, when you consider it's tough men in tough times, that's what you
are going to hear. In real life, the profanity probably was worse than
the film. 

It's hard to picture the brutality of war being any worse than you see
here, but it probably was. This is about as graphic as it gets. The
violence and gore was shocking when this film came out in 1997 and
still is when watched almost a decade later. It's unbelievable what
some of the WWII soldiers went through, but that can be said for any
war. I believe the purpose of this film was to pay tribute to the
sacrifices these men made, and it succeeds wonderfully. Hats off to
Steven Spielberg and to Tom Hanks, the leading actor in here, both of
whom have worked hard for WWII vets to get the recognition they
deserve, not just on film but in a national memorial.

Anyway, language or blood and guts aside, this is still an incredible
portrait of WWII. The almost-three hour film is riveting
start-to-finish, especially with that memorable beginning action scene,
probably the most dramatic in the history of film.

As "entertaining" as those action scenes were, I found the lulls, if
you will, to be even better. Listening to Hanks and his men discuss
various things as they look for Private Ryan, was fascinating to me.
Hanks is just superb in here and once again shows why he is considered
one of the best actors in his generation.

The most memorable and powerful moment among the "lulls," is the shot
early on of the Ryan mother sinking to her knees on her front porch as
she realizes she is about to get disastrous news from the war. Moments
later, Harve Presenell, playing Gen. MacArthur, eloquently reads a
letter by Abraham Lincoln that is so beautifully written, so profound
that it is quoted near the end of the film, too, and I never get tired
of hearing it.

This is a man's movie, and shows the horrors of war as few others ever
have. To say it is "memorable," just doesn't do it justice. It is the
greatest war movie ever made....period.
<|_=00=_|>

The opening beach assault sequences were the most violent, realistic, and
upsetting filming I've ever seen; looked as though the thing was actual
combat footage. The shushing noises of rounds cutting through the air was
the most chilling part of all. Perfect portrayal of the insane stupidity of
war and the anguish of all who enter this most foolish of enterprises. A
must see.
<|_=00=_|>

During the Normandy landings during WW2 two brothers are killed.  In another
part of the world another of the Ryan brothers is killed in action, leaving
their mother with one remaining son and three telegrams due to be delivered.
 A group of men, led by Captain Miller set out to reach Private Ryan and not
only break him the news but to safely return him for return to the
US.

What can I say – it is an excellent film despite some minor flaws.  The plot
is based on a real life situation during WW2 and allows for us to follow a
group of men as they take part in the horrors (and humanity) of war.  This
is the film's strength and it is never stronger than in the first 25 minutes
and, to a lesser extent, the final 20 minutes.  The opening of the Normandy
landing is simply pure emotional power and is really well done – it is so
powerful that the actual plot itself is a bit of a letdown.  I love Band of
Brothers because the focus was on the war and what it was like to be
involved rather than a sort of soap opera story.  Here the plot is still
very good but can't really follow that opening.

It also sinks into sentiment a tad too often.  For example Ryan's mother
lives in this sort of Norman Rockwell painting that is Spielberg's vision of
middle America.  Also there is a little too much use of gawkish dialogue as
well – although it's hard to criticise the death scenes for being emotional,
because they should be.

A minor flaw that is easy to get over is the lack of Brits.  Like Band of
Brothers (which had a few cockney accents) this is an AMERICAN film – so of
course they will focus on the American experience.  However it would have
been nice to have some British (or any other) voices or faces among the
Allies.  I can understand why the film opens and closes with the stars and
stripes and why the film focuses on the yanks but a little bit of
perspective would be useful.  There's nothing wrong with focus – but when it
totally excludes huge bits of information then it's a problem.  It always
makes me think of the way that Michael Caine took his children back to the
UK when they were taught in an US school that WW2 started in the 1940's (ie
– when America joined).

However this is a minor flaw as, in fairness, it's an American film – why be
surprised when it's focus is Americans!  Of the cast Hanks is good – he is
much more subtle than his Oscar roles where he played to the crowd.  He
benefits from having a great support cast of good actors, current actors,
old faces, up and comers etc.  Sizemore, Burns and Farina are the good
current actors.  Damon, Ribsi, Diesel, Martini etc are all very good on the
way up – although Damon has one of the simplest characters.  They may all be
slight stereotypes of Americans but it's not a major flaw – just a screen
writer wanting to cover all bases I think, although it does grate that they
cover all these backgrounds but can't squeeze any other Allies in to the
edges.

Overall it is excellent despite some stereotyping, US flag waving and the
usual Spielberg love of sentimentality.  Even if the actual plot is flimsy
Spielberg expertly puts us as close to experiencing the horrors and the
humanity within war as I hope we'll ever be.
<|_=00=_|>
Steven Spielberg makes a unique motion picture in regards to the D-Day
invasion of World War II just in the gritty reality of the detail… For
more than twenty minutes he revives for us the landing at Omaha beach…
No one was prepared for how horrific it really was… No one understood
what was going on: The terror, the chaos, the maelstrom of bullets, the
near-deafening explosions…You really got a sense of what these guys had
to go through… 

Within that perplexity, the focus settles on six soldiers under the
command of Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks) after they've survived their
terrible hours breaking through the first line of German defense,
they're given a strange perilous mission, to find one man, Pvt. Ryan
(Matt Damon), a paratrooper who's somewhere behind German lines… For
them, it's an abstruse order, but they have to get it done…

Throughout the film, Spielberg's attention to detail is amazing… For
me, the most chilling scene in the movie is the death of an American
officer… It's one of the most intimate… It's also a slightly confusing
moment because two German characters resemble each other so greatly…

Toward the middle, a German soldier called "Steamboat Willie" is
introduced… By the end of the film, he has become the 'bad' German…
Later in the movie, another German is involved in the final fight… He
takes part in an exceedingly painful scene of hand-to-hand combat with
the American soldier… The two German soldiers have similar short
haircuts and black uniforms… Because they looked so much alike, many of
us have believed that they're one character… They're not, and the
distinction of the two is very significant…
