
Bruce Willis and Milla Jovovich star in this wonderful sci-fi tale.
Chock full of killer performances and excellent effects.

Korben Dallas is your average ordinary New York taxi driver. Fresh out
of the military, unlucky in love and this close to losing his job. One
day the ultimate fare literally falls into his lap as Leeloo enters his
life via the roof of his cab. Leeloo it seems was genetically
manipulated to be the ultimate weapon against pure evil but her beauty
and butt-kicking hide a more fragile nature that Dallas and a host of
others will have to step up and help her save humanity.

This amazing sci-fi adventure from Luc (Leon) Besson has a little
something for everyone. Beauty (the gorgeous Jovovich with orange hair
even), action and gun-play, excellent acting, amazing visual effects,
romance, creative sets and costume design, dynamic and interesting
music and a mildly annoying but funny Chris Tucker. You name it…this
film has it in spades. 5th Element is hands down one of the best
science fiction films ever.

I've seen it many times and always want more. I highly recommended it.
<|_=00=_|>
I think The Fifth Element is the movie I have seen the most... It is a
perfect mixture of action and comedy, science-fiction, suspense and
romance. Set in a not so far future, the eternal battle between good
and evil is shown to us in an extravagant setting. Flying cars,
aeroplanes that go at the speed of light, weird creatures and ugly
aliens are only a few things that are present during this film. The
story has never been seen before : Good has only one weapon to defeat
evil; it is composed of four stones representing the four element
(water, earth, fire and air) and a perfect creature. These five
elements have to be united before the forces of evil arrive to earth.
But evil has found help and the stones have disappeared. Bruce Willis
(one of the best action actors of our time), Milla Jovovich, Ian Holm
and Gary Oldman make the suspense even more intense. Chris Tucker is
incredibly funny and ads a lot to the comic side of the film. The story
is extremely imaginative and is, in my opinion, one of Luc Besson's
best. I have never seen anything else like it. The costumes, designed
by Jean-Paul Gaultier, are unbelievably imaginative and fun. They are a
big part of the extravagance and originality of the movie. The score,
by Eric Serra (one of my favourites) is simply a work of art. And last
but not least, the special effects are absolutely excellent, adding to
the quality of the movie. If you are looking for action and a good
laugh, this is the film to see. But the actors are not the only things
that make this film worth seeing. Click here
<|_=00=_|>

I really believe that they billed this movie wrong.  Many folks came in
expecting the next Star Wars and were disappointed, to say the least.  It's
not like Star Wars.  It's kinda like a live action comic book.  Visually
stunning, awesome use of color that just jumps out at you, and non-stop
action, lots of it done with tongue firmly in cheek.
Plot?  Well forget the plot, it's the weak point of the film.  But hey who
ever said comic books had to have strong plots?
Willis, Jovovich, and the rest do a fine job.  I especially like the
casting of Jovovich, she exudes innocence, vulnerability, sex, exotica,
intelligence, and kung fu machismo all at the same time.
So turn off the cynicism sign as you watch and just enjoy the ride.  Great
stuff!
<|_=00=_|>

THE FIFTH ELEMENT is a complex film....if you WANT it to be! It offers
varying levels of analysis depending on the tools you have to dig
with!
On the surface, a "leave your brain in the cloakroom" sci-fi yarn, you may
well find wanting!  As far removed from STAR WARS as Austin Powers is from
DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER. this film is pitched uniquely at those who can laugh
at life but who have deep down an unquenchable desire for adventure and
the
romantic.

Set on a futuristic earth, where really nothing has changed except the
technology, Bruce Willis is STILL John McLane, a has-been stormtrooper
reduced now to driving air-cabs for a living...same old premise for him -
nothing's changed much since STRIKING DISTANCE, except maybe the yellow
hair-rinse. Now, legend has it that in a time long long ago, the forces of
darkness visited earth and were repelled by the unification in close
proximity, of four stones representing the four elements. earth, wind,
fire
and water together with a fifth "element" of unknown origin.

Dear old Ian Holm is Priest Cornelius, an expert authority on the five
elements and keeper of all knowledge on things magical and
mysterious.
Gary Oldman in arguably his most way-put role is General Zorg who has done
a
deal with "The Dark Side" and whose sole purpose is to take possession of
the elemental stones. The scene wherein he demonstrates the new weaponry
to
his alien henchman (from which the one-line "summary quote" above is
taken)
is an absolute classic of cinema.
Milla Jovovich (Married to Besson at the time of the flick) is absolutely
rivetting as Leeloo, the cloned/unzipped humanised fifth element. She must
have practised long and hard perfecting her ancient language
dialog....it's
amazing. She strikes exactly the right note as a being of purity,
femininity
and warrior woman. As the film progresses she assumes the identitiy of the
perfect girl any man would wish for and want to protect.

The comedy angle is hysterical, the action sequences in your face, and the
fx generally impressive if not mega weird at times. Color and visuals play
a
major role in this pro-European production, the continent where not
surprisingly it was most successful. The outcome naturally is predictable
and in the best traditions of "will love save the day?" as if it wasn't
always going to???

So, there u have it. Watch it one-dimensionally and that's what you'll get
back. let it flow, immerse yourself in IT and you couldn't fail to have a
good time, unless of course you are clinically dead or devoid of any sense
of fun or fantasy ....but in that case you'd be wasting your time anyway,
it
wasn't MADE for you!
<|_=00=_|>

The Fifth Element is another fine example of the filmmaking talents of Luc
Besson. Luc Besson, a creative genius and the director of classic films such
as The Big Blue, Nikita and Leon (The Professional) has returned to the
genre that started his filmmaking career, sci-fi. In The Fifth Element Luc
Besson realises his life long ambition to make a film based on a story he
thought of while still at school, Zaltman Bleros. Writing and directing the
film, he skillfully mixes humour with action and amazing visual effects that
put The Fifth Element in a class of it's own. Stunning performances are put
forward by Milla Jovovich, Bruce Willis, Ian Holm, Chris Tucker and Gary
Oldman, who returns to work with Luc Besson after playing Norman Stansfield
in Leon. The Fifth Element show us how well comedy, action and romance can
be put together. Overlooked at the Academy Awards, Luc Besson won the Cesar
for Best Director at Cannes in 1998 for The Fifth Element. Simply, an
excellent film, 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie. It isn't your typical same alien vs. human movie
where there is blood everywhere, and the humans win right before
they've thought it was the end. It is much more interesting. The story
has love vs. evil in a whole new way, and there's a lesson to be
learned through it.

Honestly, I didn't really care about the plot all that much. The
imagination and creativity is awesome! I love the colors and the ideas
they came up with, especially how the design of the city. The
futuristic clothing is cool too. The only thing I was disappointed in
was the enemy aliens. They looked a little too artificial.

My favorite thing about the whole movie was the music. It went from
techno to opera to jazz, and to all over. I loved the music, partially
because they used Engima and Vangelis. Many people are like, "what the
heck was that?" when they hear the music, but it fits the movie
perfectly and leaves you with a feeling more than a theme. I like the
randomness of the music, it works well with the quirkiness of the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
There is so much entertainment in this movie it would be almost stupid
to write about its flaws. Especially the story is not the best thing
here, but who cares. I liked every scene, every moment in this movie.
The movie opens in Egypt, 1914, and we meet some strange creatures.
From here on we know this is not going to be a normal or very serious
sci-fi action movie. The creatures tell a priest that the stones are no
longer save on earth and they take some things. They tell the priest
they will return in 300 years, when evil arrives.

300 years later. The strange creatures return but they are attacked by
other strange creatures. The only thing that survives is reconstructed
and turns out to be Lee Loo (Milla Jovovich). She is the fifth element,
the ultimate weapon against evil. Evil here looks like a great ball of
fire. Lee Loo escapes from the authorities, and in an astonishing shot
we see how a city looks like now. She jumps of a building and ends up
in the flying cab of Korben Dallas (Bruce Willis). He saves her from
the police, she asks for priest Vito Cornelius (Ian Holm), he brings
her there.

We learn a little more about Lee Loo here. She needs four stones, the
four other elements, to save the world. The stones are on a vacation
resort where we meet DJ Ruby Rhod (Chris Tucker). He has some funny
scenes as well. We have also met Zorg, who is played by Gary Oldman in
a great way. The attack on the strange creatures early in the movie was
planned by him. He wants the stones as well, he is offered a lot of
money for them. How the story develops from here I will not reveal.

The story doesn't even matter. In every scene we have something to
like. Beautiful settings, great visual effects, Gary Oldman, the
beautiful Jovovich or the funny moments from Bruce Willis, Chris Tucker
and Ian Holm. May be this movie is not for everyone but if you don't
think to much you will definitely like it.
<|_=00=_|>
After making heavy movies like La Femme Nikita and Leon, it is somewhat
of a departure for Luc Besson to do this comic, pulp, sci-fi film The
Fifth Element. Looking at his work now, with such high-octane humor as
the Transporter series, among others, (written by Besson, but not
directed), it doesn't seem that out of place. He just must have decided
to only direct his more serious fare and leave the fun stuff to others.
However, The Fifth Element is by no means a slight film without a fan
base. As far as sci-fi goes, this is a very capable installment. With
its mythology, creatures, action, and special effects, the movie has
everything going for it. The humor that's infused just makes it better,
vaulting it through genres and making it accessible to almost everyone
who gives it a try.

Like most of its ilk, the story revolves around an evil force about to
devour Earth and the rest of life itself as it increases in size and
power with each influx of destruction and hate thrown at it. Every
opportunity to blow it up only makes it stronger. Through a series of
fortunate/ unfortunate happenings, (depending on who you are aligning
with), we have the paths crossing of a priest who holds the answers for
survival, an ex-military, cab driver bent on having some fun and
excitement, a strange woman from another place at the center of it all,
an evil mercenary out for money, and the government of the galaxy
trying to save face in front of inevitable extermination. It is good
versus evil traveling through space in order to either shed light or
death out to the universe as victory.

In what is a nice little introduction to the myth of the fifth element
that will unite with the more common four to wipe out evil, we learn of
those who keep the secret of its location. We don't quite know if these
aliens are good or not until later, but we do find out the impetus for
their coming to the temple on display. A cut forward in time introduces
us to the president of the galaxies, (played in what would seem to be
horrible casting, but ends up being pretty good with Tommy "Tiny"
Lister, Jr.), and our head priest in the guarding of the truth, Ian
Holm. Holm explains what the dark force coming after them is and goes
on the quest to find the fifth element and her four stones needed to
combat it. This supreme being, played wonderfully by Milla Jovovich
with a childlike glee and discovery, falls into the unwitting hands of
cabbie Korben Dallas—Bruce Willis at his sarcastic bad-ass best. Willis
must join with Holm and Jovovich on a mission to recover the stones and
find a way to save the world.

A lot of the success lies with the man behind it all, Luc Besson. His
script is made up of a pretty solid plot line as far as the world
destruction goes. Everything makes sense and is explained in a way to
not bore us, but instead in tidbits culled from the numerous characters
running about it this singularly unique landscape. The art direction is
spectacular and for being a decade old, still has some nice special
effects that stand up. I've always been a proponent for prosthetics,
when able, at the expense of computer graphics. Reactions are always
better from actors who have something real to play off of and the
lighting and environments just become more realistic. Even so, when
computers are used, the effects are more subtle than flashy and never
take away from the story that is being told. No matter what spectacle
is on display, the script is what is important.

All the personalities on display also lead to much of the greatness
that The Fifth Element has to offer. Bruce Willis is the king of this
kind of role. His quips and rapport with those around him are
priceless. Other standouts are Chris Tucker, in an early role for him,
and the great Gary Oldman. Tucker takes loud and obnoxious to a whole
new level, but it works flawlessly. His radio DJ has no shame when it
comes to working a crowd or chasing the ladies, but his utter fear of
danger is hilarious. As for Oldman, I have to believe Besson just said
create something fresh. This villain is a pastiche of so many crazy
components. His futuristic hair, complete with plastic half shield, is
plain weird; the southern accent and buck teeth look is just the right
amount of hillbilly; and the disposition of greed and ambivalence is
perfect for a bad guy. When he explains how destruction allows all the
little machines that man created to finally have work cleaning up the
mess, it's fantastic. The real beauty, though, is that no matter how
many strong lead roles are here, the little guys steal scenes as well.
Singer Tricky is great as Oldman's "Right Arm" and Mathieu Kassovitz
partakes in one of the best scenes in the film when he attempts to mug
Willis at his apartment.

Even with all its camp and fun, Besson keeps it all grounded in drama
as any fantasy tale does. He has a real vision for aesthetics and has
changed his scope often as he goes from film to film. From the
mobster/corrupt cop world of New York, to the countryside of war with
Joan of Arc, he never pigeonholes himself in a style. I am still
holding out hope that his newest, Angel-A, with all its black and
white, stylish noir feel, will hit the big screens here in Buffalo. It
will be a real shame if the rumors are true and the completion of his
children tale, Arthur and the Minimoys, will be the final work by him
as a director.
<|_=00=_|>

Three hundred years ago, the powerful weapon of the fifth element was
removed from Earth. Three hundred years later and pure evil has stirred
in the far reaches of space – and is heading straight for Earth, with
traditional weapons unable to stop it. When the Fifth Element is
returned, the ship is attacked and seemingly lost – but scientists are
able to recreate the fifth element and are surprised to find it is a
beautiful young woman, Leeloo. When Leeloo escapes custody she is
helped by ex-army taxi driver Korben Dallas. Korben takes her to the
priest she names, but he finds that everyone wants her for one reason
or another – then he finds that both the army and the priest need him
to go on a mission to reclaim the missing four stones and save the
Earth from evil.

I have seen this film several times and will usually come back to it if
I find myself in the mood – but yet I also find myself thinking of its
flaws whenever anyone asks me about it. I can't understand why I do
this because I really do enjoy this film even though there is much I
sort of dislike about it. The plot is one of the weak points; generally
it is quite good as an idea but it has many weak points that make it
seem rather silly and overly busy. While this is not enough to really
damage the film I know that it has put some people off in some
audiences, but for me it was only a minor problem as these rather silly
bits were all part of a film that had a great sense of fun running
through it. Some of it didn't make much sense and at times I got the
feeling that the film had more ideas than it really knew what to do
with, but the majority of it worked well. The action is good but you
should be prepared for the fact that, like much of the film, it is done
with a certain amount of tongue in cheek humour. Suffice to say I never
found it dull and it has plenty going on for the majority of the film

Visually is the area where the film is strongest and I could watch it
for this alone. The effects are great and are full of imagination as
well as looking very impressive. The design work of Dan Weil is very
well used and compliments the effects used – the film looks lavish and
rich all the way through and matches the wonderful costumes from
Jean-Paul Gaultier. Of course much of the praise goes to Luc Besson who
has managed to pull this together really well to produce an endlessly
impressive film, which manages to be a fun and exciting sci-fi.

The casting also backs this idea up and features many performances that
are spot on with tongue in cheek performances that match the tone of
the film perfectly. Bruce Willis delivers the same, great mocking
performance that he tried in Hudson Hawk but here he does it in a film
that is better structured and less silly than that one and it works a
lot better. He still delivers the goods as an action lead but he puts
his tongue just far enough in his cheek so as to be there without
hurting the film! I don't want to overdo it (after all – he is Bruce
Willis!) but I thought he was very well cast here. Oldman is very hammy
but this also works as it matches the humour of the piece. Jovovich had
a very difficult role and it is easy to laugh at her baby talk etc but
I think she made it work well and gave a good performance against the
odds. Holm is pretty good and brings humour to his role as well.
Tucker, sadly, fails to do the same as these and his overblown
performance doesn't even fit well within this film (god knows where it
WOULD fit!) and he only succeeds in being shrill and very annoying
throughout – not all his fault, his character is a wholly unnecessary
part of the film. The support cast is roundly good and features a raft
of famous faces in minor roles including Lee Evans, Brion James,
Tricky, Luke Perry and Kim Chan. Generally the cast seem to be right on
the same page as their director and compliment the material and tone
perfectly.

Overall this is far from a perfect film and some may find the humour to
be at odds with the sci-fi action; but for my money the fact that most
of the film backed up this tongue in cheek tone made it all work. Some
of the plot has too many ideas or unnecessary elements but most of it
is really good and, combined with mostly good performances and stunning
designs and effects make for a film that I will watch many times even
if I cannot help but see the weaknesses that many others cannot get
past.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is excellent! Chris Tucker's "Ruby Rhod" makes the film, he
is incredible. I have never seen such controlled mania in a character.
The diva is also another excellent sequence that mixes opera, martial
arts, and rock excellently.

Mila Jovovich as "Leeloo" (Or Leeloo Dallas Multipass, as she calls
herself) is excellent as the warriorish fifth element who saves the
universe.

The "good" aliens at the beginning of the film and the elements of the
film in general bring to mind "Brazil" or "12 monkeys".

Bruce Willis is good at negotiating (inside joke, see the film) his way
though the movie.

I highly recommend this film and i guarantee you will be watching it
again to see all the little parts that you missed the first time
through.
