

I absolutely love this film.  Christina Ricci is perfectly cast and gives a
great performance as a 16 year old who tries to manipulate and bully all of
the other characters into bowing to her sick and twisted view of the world.
While Ricci's character is not immediately likable she is somehow compelling
and is effecting in driving the film.  Ricci's character does and says
hateful things throughout the movie but the film is successful in
maintaining it's own view on these topics without squelching her characters
voice. Hopefully what we see through her character is that despite the
hateful things people do, there are real human beings behind these actions.
I ended up liking the character for her survive at any cost mentality and
her resolve.

The movie is hilariously funny and at times touching.  Lisa Kudro turns in
another great performance as a lonely single girl who is pining for the
affections of Ricci's gay half brother.  The humor is not of the joke a
minute or slapstick variety but grows out of the situations and
relationships between compelling characters.

The writing and directing are also superb.  I especially liked scenes where
the director showed how easily we can be manipulated by mood and music as
well as the points that we show in a character's life.  Ricci's narration is
biting, wicked, clever, bitchy and witty.  I can see however, how one could
be offended and turned off by it.  But the narration is not for shock effect
but rather to frame the main character.

I wouldn't change a frame or a line in this film.  It's funny, intelligent
and warm in a strange sort of way.  A definite must see.
<|_=00=_|>

The Opposite Of Sex – 1998

The Opposite Of Sex stars two of my favourite actress' – Lisa Kudrow
and Christina Ricci. Needless to say, they were my main motivations for
seeing this film. Expecting a fairly average film you might say I was a
little shocked when this turned out to be a well scripted, well acted,
suitably gritty and compelling drama. The Opposite of Sex is narrated
by the appropriately cynical lead character, Dede Truitt (Christina
Ricci). The narration is highly amusing and witty and provides the
audience with a release during tense and heavily themed situations.
Dede Truitt basically walks into her half brothers life (Martin
Donovan) and causes a stir among his sister in-law (Lisa Kudrow) by
stealing his boyfriend who was originally thought to be gay and now
decides he is bisexual. The whole film is constantly asking questions
about Sex and what it has done to humanity. It works on two levels, one
being that it has heavy themes and can be coarse at times. However Lisa
Kudrow offers comic relief playing a straight square teacher who
disapproves of everything and everyone in life especially sex. That is
until she finds Sex on her doorstep. The Opposite of Sex is a brilliant
film, when Christina Ricci was in her prime. It deserved much more
praise than it got which is such as shame. 9/10

<|_=00=_|>

The Opposite of Sex does what Don Roos set it out to do. It brings the
subject of homosexuality in all its forms to light in a hard hitting,
funny
in your face joy ride - but yet it's not a 'gay movie'.
Ricci is wonderful as Dedee, our young 'tour guide' to this strange
journey.
Through her eyes we see her world of lies, deception and confusion. At
times
you might not like her, but thats what is great about the movie, it pulls
you in.
If your into witty one liners, a fast story line and terrific acting (two
thumbs up to Lisa Kudrow!)than this movie is for you. After a movie that
makes you think about other peoples lifestyles and situations? give it a
try.
As an eighteen year old, I recommend this movie for older teens and up
and
give it a 8/10. 
<|_=00=_|>

I avoided seeing this movie for a long time but finally gave in last week.
It was very funny, touching and insightful.  It did occur to me that Lyle
Lovett could use an acting lesson or two, and that Ivan Sergei is way too
good looking; its borderline annoying.  Martin Donovan and Kudrow make the
movie; their characters were completely believable.  Last but certainly not
least is the best young American actress, Christina Ricci.  She really makes
every part she plays her own.  I suggest the Christian Youth or whoever they
are stay away; everyone in this movie has too many human qualities for you
to tolerate.
<|_=00=_|>

This film has laughs, but they are not all clumped in together.  Which is
good, because with a story like this, it is neccesary to have comedy in just
the right spots.  The film shows us Deede (played to perfection by hot
Christina Ricci), a 16 year old going on 17 who is having a baby soon, but
the results of the next 9 months will surprise everyone (which includes a
cast of Martin Donovan, Lisa Kudrow, Johnny Galecki, Lyle Lovett and Ivan
Serguei).  A good idea becomes a close to very good film by vhaving a good
lay out of a story and good sarcastic humor to match.  One of the better
films of 1998.  A-
<|_=00=_|>
I selected this movie on an impulse and ended up loving every bit of
it. It isn't as black a comedy as most people profess, you laugh at
some very witty scenes and a few conversations are very poignant and
insightful. Note these bits: Lucia and Bill at the hotel in LA when
they have a conversation about relationships, Matt and Bill at the log
cabin in Canada and lastly, when Dedee delivers the last voice-over. I
will remember this movie for quite some time. We have a trash-talking
southerner: Christina Ricci (in one of her better roles) who takes some
pretty illogical decisions in life and affects so many lives around
her. Martin Donovan shines as her half-brother, seemingly very pacified
and unnerved about things in life (a doormat personality, perhaps?).
Watch out for Lisa Kudrow: she steals the show with her expressions and
acting.
<|_=00=_|>
There's something so off-kilter about this film. Something that makes
it stand apart from others of its kind. The structure is pretty
complex, if one takes into accounts all of the turns in the story the
film makes. The performances are aces, but Kudrow really stands far and
away at the top. One of the finest TV actresses ever, if not the finest
(her work in TV is masterful) she has the perfect blend of comedy and
drama here. Her work is effective on a dramatic level, even though it's
also a pretty hilarious turn. This is a fantastic performance, hitting
all of the right notes and pitch-perfect keys that one can hit. This is
highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Ricci was really good.  Has talent & will be seen again.  The movie was so
thoroughly unbelievable.  Rented it on video when my local store had a "two
for one" night.  Big mistake.
When will hollywood wake up????
<|_=00=_|>

A cast of talented actors and actresses does not make up for a what a tired
and time consuming miss-match of a movie this is.

One liners may be all the rage in 'Will & Grace' but this particular
'flick'
left with a funny taste in my mouth (no pun).

Character development is hidden away amongst the over-the-top narration.
The
story lacks emotion and depth and is very contrived - even for a Hollywood
picture.
It is a movie where the stars look quite simply out of place in their
surroundings.

High expectations of a wholesome quality film were suddenly tail-spinning
just 30 minutes through. At the end of the movie we had crash landed and I
wanted my money back.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, now I understand the reason why many people will dislike this
movie. It deals with many taboo issues, such as underage sex/pregnancy,
homosexuality in a unfavourable light, murder, profanity, mischief and
illegality. Writer/director Don Roos gambled the movie's entire
ideologies in order to get the important message across. Lets face it,
it's not as if Roos is an inexperienced scriptwriter of this ilk. After
all, he penned the screenplay to another "Anti-women's liberation"
movie, 'Single White Female'. He seemed the perfect guy to translate
the honesty of lower/middle class America to the screen; and the style
he chose to produce the movie in needn't be mentioned at this stage.
Now, onto the film itself...

Didi Truitt (Christina Ricci) is the most cynical and sarcastic of all
teenage girls. She believes the world owes her favours and should pay
dividends. Her step-father passes away and so she leaves her mother and
goes to find her long-lost step-brother Bill Truitt (Martin Donovan) in
hope that he will take her in and give her the life of Riley, which she
never had at home. She takes a gun with her...

She knocks at his front door - his boyfriend answers; this shakes Didi
up, but nevertheless she is in desperation, although she never lets it
transcend. Her step-bother is an English teacher at the local high
school: He is a pushover of a man who has no discernible masculinity
whatsoever. He lost a very close ex-boyfriend to AIDS a year before
which is obvious to the viewers that this wrecked his life, but to his
"handsome airhead" of a boyfriend, Matt Mateo (Ivan Sergei), it is not.

Due to the close relationship he held with his ex, he has since adopted
a possessive and maniacal "sister-in-law" figure, Lucia (Lisa Kudrow),
who wholeheartedly disapproves of Didi right away. Lucia is a dominant
presence in Bill's life and she takes the helm whenever any crisis is
imminent. Many people hate Lucia - she doesn't care.

Didi and Matt have a crush on each other and basically, they end up in
bed together. After months of sneaking around behind Bill's back, Didi
announces that she is pregnant, and that Matt is the father. They steal
Bill's $10,000 stashed in his safety deposit box and elope to Los
Angeles where Matt takes up a minimum wage job to support Didi and the
unborn child. Matt quits his job after running into Bill and comes home
early one day to find Didi in bed with Randy (the guy with one ball).
She announces to Matt that the baby is in fact Randy's. The latter has
a terrible temper and he and Matt begin to rumble. Didi and Randy leave
together and set up home elsewhere. He and Didi have a confrontation in
which she ends up killing him.

Matt visits and they leave together to escape the law. Didi has the
baby and the audience's expectations are toyed with again here. The
narrator (a monotonous and cynical Didi) tries to convince the viewers
that she dies during childbirth. This is held for about 15 seconds,
then the truth is revealed.

At the end of the movie, Didi goes back to school - more bad-tempered
than ever - and Bill is left with the child, while he becomes involved
with Didi's parole officer. The final shot is where Didi shouts "Go!"
to the audience. A sign of anxiety and depression, or just plain
swings-and-roundabouts for a troubled teen? Anyway, I've missed out a
bit involving a character called Jason and the media circus that he
erupts on Bill's already sucky life. But just in case you read this
before watching the movie, at least there's a couple of surprises in
there for ya.

All in all, an excellent, if complicated, movie (of course, in my
opinion). There are not enough honest movies like this one. In a time
when the only teenagers Hollywood churned out were those from 'American
Pie' and 'Cruel Intentions', it was a breath of fresh air. I am a firm
believer in that people should be taught the importance of
self-discipline when growing up. Knowing how to deal with certain
situations, etc. I also believe that Hollywood perhaps shouldn't gloss
over things as much as they do. It is really important that some people
have access to a film that deals with adolescence frankly; and as far
as the message goes - It leaves a deep mark that you won't soon forget.

Great Movie - ****
