

It's a depressing fact that the moviegoing public is being brainwashed by
critics to hate everything involving Kevin Costner. When released in 1997
this breathtaking, thought-provoking epic was largely ignored and limped
to
a box office gross of $14 million, thanks to some vicious
reviews.

Lest we forget, Costner made the magnificent Dances With Wolves, but that
was in the days when we were told it was okay to like him. His directorial
follow up is every bit as good.  He knows about directing.  He coaxes
great
performances from his casts. He has real vision and takes chances. Like
Michael Cimino, his efforts are belittled and mocked while directors with
clearly less talent are applauded.

So to all those people who stayed away in droves and screw their faces up
at
the mention of this film, I say watch it before you criticise it. Don't
rely
on some magazine writer to tell you who's good and who's not. Your brain
is
there for a reason. 
<|_=00=_|>

I truly do NOT understand why The Postman was attacked as viscously as it
was by the film media (there films much more worthy of the Golden Raspberry
Awards in 1997).  I loved this film and was very impressed with the loving
amount of dedication that it demonstrates on the part of the actors, writers
and director.  This was a GOOD movie: it had a strong and intelligent story;
excellent and interesting characters; and real feel for the post-Apocalypse
genre.  I felt that Kevin Costner's everyman act worked beautifully in this
film and created a sense of reality for the character and of his situation. 

As far as the sci-fi novel by David Brin, this film exceeded it in every way
possible.  Where Brin had to rely on cheezy sci-fi standards (like
supersoldiers) to resolve his story, this film does using only two men, both
frauds, and both with radically different understandings of what constitutes
a proper society.  That is what made this film great (and I rarely use the
term great), that this film was essentially an examination of America and
what America means.  It was a parable of sorts about the types of men
Americans are and what they are capable of (notice that the head bad-guy had
a traditional, classical education, while Costner did not; he appreciated
these things but they were not at the center of his belief system... I
wonder why).  

While I do not agree with every aspect of this film (I am a Medievalist and
a Platonist, so I don't necessarily feel the same way about the Western
Canon that the film-maker may have), I still find it to be a beautiful
reflection on the psyche of the American everyman.  America has a tradition
of rejecting the absolutist ideals of the past in favor of the pragmatic
relativism of today, and I think that this film is a parable of the divorce
of America from the traditions of Europe.  

Overall, this is a complex and entertaining film and I highly recommend it
to anyone interested in examinations of American culture and tradition,
perhaps as a double feature with Citizen Cane (I am not, however, claiming
that the Postman was as good a film as Citizen Cane, only that they have a
similar theme... what does it mean to be an American?).
<|_=00=_|>
A Far better movie then it's critics make it out to be. "The Postman"
is a good solid film about the end of the world and the chaos and
confusion that follows with the unwitting soul that destiny choose to
bring those who survived the apocalypse back to a better life and
promising future. 

Corny yes but in a positive and constructive sort of way. With the cast
of Kevin Costner on down giving the film the sort of believability that
you just don't see in most of the "End of he World" movies that have
been projected on the silver screen since "Things to Come" back in
1936.

"The Postman" unlike most "End of the world" movies carries through the
entire movie, which is almost three hours long, a positive and
uplifting theme that you rarely get to see in these type of films. The
ending of the film, call it corny it you will, was really moving
without being obnoxious like it could have been had it been made by a
lesser talent then Kevin Costner.
<|_=00=_|>

I know a lot of people hated this movie. I know why. It is a little
saccharine in places and yes, it is not always believeable. But this is
one
of the few time a screenplay is better than the book it was based on. This
film always fills me with such positive energy and hope. it is funny in
places, sad in places, tragic and action-packed in places. Costner plays
Eric with such a fresh attitude, and you can almost hear the voices in the
characters head pulling his loyalties. The cast is perfect and in many
places the cinamatography is sublime. The cross cuts are so clever it made
my eyes ache with envy that i didnt think of them and the action sequences
are fast and timed to perfection. this remains one of my favourite films
and
in all honesty people should give it a little more respect. no matter what
you think of the script and characterisation technicly this film is top
draw. Sets, locations, effects and design grab you by the hand and take
you
someplace you actually want to go. i would much rather make and see films
like this than dross like 'chaicago' and 'moulin rouge'. this is a film
for
grownups with a bit of imagination and respect for the film makers
art.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie, unlike most people, I hadn't heard anything at all about
this movie prior to seeing it. I wasn't expecting to see a bad
movie.

What I found was an interesting Epic. It isn't a great movie , but it is a
good movie. I honestly don't understand why anyone would call this the
"worst movie ever" as I have heard on several occasions.

Give this movie a chance, don't go expecting instant gratification.

<|_=00=_|>

I've seen this movie twice, and it is overall better than 80% of the trash
movies being released these days.

Those of you familiar with statistics and "normal" distributions, look at
the "user ratings" for this movie.  A full 12% give it a "1" rating, which
is obviously bogus.  Look at the shape of the distribution, and you'll see
that the valid rating for this movie is somewhere between 7 and 8, which are
the most "common" ratings, which makes perfect sense.  A 7.5 on a 10 point
scale is where most people would rate it.

It has such an uplifting story of a re-construction after a war, and banning
together to fight evil, that I don't see how anyone with a heart could give
it less than about 6 or 7.  See it if you haven't already!
<|_=00=_|>

This film was excellent. The acting ranged from average to good, the fight
scenes were convincing, the costume design was superve, and the set design
phenomenal. The problem with this film is, that it's sci-fi, and as we all
know, sci-fi has that nasty habit of making people think. And hay, who
likes
to do that nowadays?
This film asks the question...what if, right now, all of civilization
fell apart. no more super-market, no more police, no more government. The
truth of all things would be revealed...money would be just green paper,
your television would be a piece of junk, and everything that you lived for
would take a back seat to survival.
Who would you be? a Warrior, a wonderer, a tyrant, a diplomat? would the
meek inhereit the earth? would the rich and powerful be pathetic and
powerless when their paper-empires crumble in the nuclear war? and
America...would that dream of the land of the free, home of the brave
survive after it's government has been destroyed? and who would preserve
it?
who would insure that after the End, the government of the people, by the
people and for the people would not parish from the Earth? would
you?
This film is a must-see for thinking people...for all you brainless
slaves of the critics...stay home and watch Titanick(Hurl!) for the tenth
time.


<|_=00=_|>
"The Postman" is one of those films that has become almost synonymous
with the concept of "lousy, awful, horrible, terrible, stinking mess of
a movie." Like "Plan 9 from Outer Space," "Ishtar," or "Gigli," it is
sometimes invoked in this manner on Internet message boards or in
chatter between friends. But is "The Postman" truly such a horrible
disaster? I would argue that its bad reputation is overdone.

Make no mistake, this movie is no "Citizen Kane." There is no way, by
any stretch of the imagination, that this could be called a "great"
movie. But every week B-movies that are orders of magnitude worse come
out. What is it about this one that accounts for its enduring lousy
reputation? This in itself is an interesting question.

Part of the answer has to do with Kevin Costner. It is hard to imagine
now, but at one time (especially in the wake of "Dances with Wolves")
his reputation in Hollywood was towering and unassailable. Costner
squandered his mega-star status with a series of expensive yet mediocre
duds such as this one, and in the end "The Postman's" crime is not that
it is a truly terrible movie, but that it is simply a not-great movie
that deflated the public's hopes and expectations of what Kevin Costner
film should be. The curse of too-high expectations. 

The worst aspect of this movie is its occasional pomposity and
self-importance, derived from Costner's own enormous mid-90s ego, and
it is easy to laugh at the final scene or various dramatic sequences
with swirling symphonic music and glistening slo-mo shots. But if you
can get beyond this and look at the movie as just a somewhat
entertaining way to pass a few hours, it really isn't that bad,
especially if you are a fan of the "dark future" genre of films. Will
Patton in particular provides a good, convincing performance, as do a
number of other minor characters.

And the world of "The Postman" -- a decayed, post-apocalyptic,
decentralized

America where the federal government has collapsed -- is interesting in
its own right. Remember, this film was borne of the early/mid 1990s, a
time that gave us Timothy McVeigh, anti-government sentiment, Waco, and
fear about "militias." There was a sense in the air that America could
possibly disintegrate and fragment into local areas battling each other
in the long run. This world view seems very alien in the post-9-11 era,
where there is much more of a consciousness of being an American,
"rallying around the flag," and the role of the federal government as a
powerful military force, for good or for ill. Nowadays fear of
outsiders and terrorism has largely replaced fears of internal anarchy
and domestic unraveling. "The Postman" reminds us that not so long ago
America envisioned its dark possible futures in a very different way
than it currently does, and this in itself is instructive and worth
pondering.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all...I liked it...I really did! It is a film by Kevin Costner,
starring Kevin Costner, surrounds Kevin Costner's character, and a movie
that is simply...Kevin Costner. But if you liked Kevin Costner in such
films
as "Dances With Wolves", "Robin Hood", "The Bodyguard", and even slightly
in
"Waterworld", then you will like this film. I know it is three hours long
(I
got refills on both the popcorn and super-size soda and still ran out),
but
I didn't find it as unbearable as those less-than-perfect-movie-critics
have
claimed. I found the time to go by quite like you would expect three hours
to go by and didn't find myself being bored or dozing off. Yes, the story
line was a bit predictable and Kevin played the reluctant hero that he is
known for...but I liked it. Bottom line...if you want to do something nice
for your postman, tell them you are going to go see the film in their
honor...because like their motto says...not rain, nor shine, nor sleet,
nor
nothing...not even the lack of being a country will stop the mail from
getting through.
<|_=00=_|>

I found the movie to be better than anticipated (perhaps because I feared
 the worst, thanks to all the "anti"hype).  Costner did a great job
 transforming a hokey script into an attractive film. It's use of symbolism
 and Shakespearian references were well placed, though seemingly not
 accepted. This only strengthens the fact that movies "wax too philosophical"
 for the general audience, especially an American audience which usually
 can't handle any movie beyond 1 and a half hours.  This is why the Action
 genre is so popular while the Epic genre sees a rare release.  Also, Great
 scenery and camera work help the story along, not to mention good acting. 
 In its roots, Postman is an old fashioned movie without the heavy, overdone
 special effects we badly crave(Armaggedon, Starship Troopers).  The Postman
 is merely a metaphor for strength, courage and conviction.  The movie could
 have been about "The Cook" and still work as well.  Shame on Hollywood for
 trashing such a great star!!  (lest we forget the references to "Kevin's
 Gate" during DANCES WITH WOLVES, The negative buzz surrounding ROBIN HOOD,
 and even WATER WORLD.)    Movies that went on to become hits!!
