
... or no, a 15, maybe.

This is right up there with 'The Lion King' and 'Mulan'.  I had the
treat
to see this last night, and through it all, even the toddlers in the
theater
loved it!  People have said this is a breakthrough animation-wise, but
story-wise, this is like mind-blowing.  Tarzan himself is the first truly
deep Disney male character since ... I can't think of a really deep Disney
male character, except perhaps Simba from The Lion King.  Tarzan has
everything that makes you realize that, though he's raised by apes, he's
truly human, and even his upbringing can't hide that (C'mon, if you were
raised your whole life thinking you were an ape, and then suddenly find out
you're really something else, wouldn't you also be disturbed?)

From the first to the last scene was awesome.  Tarzan and the ape Kala's
backgrounds were told briefly, poignantly, and emotionfully.  There's
(intelligent) humor and love, which only add to the film, and there's an
obvious love between Tarzan and Jane.  Someone here said they're not in
love, that it's obvious, but I have to strongly disagree.  The scenes
between them are funny and give you a feeling that there's a strong
attraction (and not just because Jane's interested in studying apes).  And
even Jane's father, though he's a small background character, he helps the
plot along, and while you'd describe him as "dithering", he has his own
funny bone (When Jane is describing Tarzan to him by drawing a picture on a
blackboard, she starts to go on about his 'wonderful eyes', and in the
midst
of her daydream, her father comments, "Would you like me to give you and
the
blackboard some private time?" Riot!).

No, Clayton's not a Jafar or a Gaston, but he's not really the enemy
here; he's just an antagonist to help along Tarzan's inner conflict.  The
real enemy would be Tarzan's battling against his 'true' world (the one
with
humans) and the one he's grown up with (the one with apes).  Clayton just
resembles a threat to Tarzan's ape family.  In the past, villains were a
direct challenge to the hero; here, he is a threat, sure, but he's not the
whole movie here.  I like it better this way.  In real life, there's rarely
a big evil soul against you, and Clayton seems like a realistic greedy,
nasty guy, rather than the cliche megolamincal weirdos of most animated
features.

I loved Phil Collins.  And while it's great hearing Ariel sing, I think
background music was better for this particular movie.  I couldn't see Jane
or Tarzan singing; it makes the whole thing almost unrealistic.

Tarzan himself was wonderful!  Charismatic, emotional, outgoing, and at
the same time, goofy and boyish.  The scenes between him and his ape
mother,
Kala, were so tender.  I haven't seen such wonderful emotions in
live-action
movies.  And even Kerchak ... let me tell you something about him.  Even my
mom said he was real.  I don't think he was too mean.  He felt threatened
by
Tarzan's presence.  It wasn't out of superiority.  When Kala first shows
baby Tarzan to him, Kerchak is worried about the existence of other humans
in the jungle, which might endanger his family of apes.  He only worries
about his family, too, and I suspect that, while he keeps a stoic face over
the death of his own baby ape in the beginning of the movie, he's not ready
to adopt another baby (if one of your kids died, would you be so willing to
adopt another right away?  I know I wouldn't).

The Lion King, Mulan, and Tarzan all have the same thing in common; they
all show true emotion and character, unlike the basic fairy tale fluff like
Cinderella and Bambi (nothing against fairy tales, but I like to see
true-to-life stuff, you know?).

This is a must-see.  If Disney keeps this up, adults may start to change
their views of animated stuff.  It ain't just for lil' kids anymore!
:)
<|_=00=_|>

The true measure of a family film is to watch a child's reaction. My
(normally jumpy) three-year-old sat with enraptured glee through this movie
and was able to articulate the plot back to me with amazing detail. That's
not a parent's rambling, its a credit to a brilliant movie. Tarzan ranks
just below Beauty and the Beast and Little Mermaid in the list of the best
of Disney's new films.

Disney formula (rogue orphan, evil villain pretending to be a friend, whacky
sidekick, neurotic friend and lots a snappy tunes) has never been more
apparent, but it works perfectly. But the real joy of this movie is its
breathtaking beauty and the message of living without prejudice.

Don't expect anything new from Disney, and do not expect a detailed
retelling of the original novel. But do expect to see their product refined
even further and at its best since Beauty and the Beast. This is a kid's
movie, but any grown-up can like it. Minnie Driver and Wayne Knight provide
the best voice overs.

As my six-year-old daughter told me once, "I like movies with scary
beginnings, silly middles and happy endings." Needless to say, she loved
Tarzan.  **** out of ****.
<|_=00=_|>

As much as I admired the regeneration of the Disney animators in the eight
films produced since and including THE LITTLE MERMAID, the formula got to be
pretty static and predictable.  I couldn't see the hoopla for BEAUTY AND THE
BEAST as an Oscar nommed Best Film.   It was like all the others.   However,
I feel that the studio's latest, TARZAN, does deserve a best film nom.  Why?
 It's thoroughly integrated, non-formulaic, and is the first Disney animated
film to have a grown man as its hero (all the others have had heroines,
animals, or teenage males - Aladdin and Quasimodo - as its centers).  
Tarzan's issues involve an identity crisis and a social adjustment disorder
and he's far more intelligent and clever than any of the human actors who
have portrayed him thus far.   The personalities of the leads are
beautifully fleshed out - Jane is complex, funny and intelligent.  Tarzan is
anything but one dimensional.  The score (both the songs and the background
scoring) is exceptional as is the sound.   The animation is amazing -
especially the flying through the vines of the forest and lighting hits a
new high.  The gorillas are beautifully and naturally brought to life.  I'm
going out of my way to hype this film to everyone I know.  It's a true
classic - a gem.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay. They rewrote the whole legend. But Disney has an unerring way of
doing that. Anyone remember Pocahontas? They even changed Cinderella,
Snow White, and every other Disney Masterpiece sitting on your shelves,
so why does it matter that this, too, was changed?

It matters on several different levels, but the most important reason
it matters is because Disney, in their positioning among the children's
entertainment market, is in the unique position to actually teach these
legends, these snippets of history, these morals and ethics, to the
children of their audiences, rather than proffering sugar-coated,
merchandized over-glorifications in exchange for the great American
dollar. 

That having been said, this is still an entertaining introduction to
the legend, but I highly suggest "Greystoke: The Legend of Tarzan, Lord
of the Apes," (1984), directed by Hugh Hudson. It is the most faithful
adaptation I've ever seen, and a highly enjoyable adventure, which
carries a PG rating and is safe for most ages to view.

A lot has been said about the deep canvas effect used throughout the
jungle scenes, and I must admit that I found the technique highly
effective and extremely well done. I do computer graphics myself, and I
was very impressed with the 3D effects throughout, including the water
variants and textures used in the ship scenes, the fire effects used in
the jungle, and the smoke effects from the guns used by the poachers.
The textures and backgrounds were absolutely stunning, and for me, as a
graphics artist, that's what I look for when I view a quality
animation.

Very good endeavor.

It rates an 8/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this surprisingly good because not only was animation well done
- which they all seem to be in the past decade - but an involving,
action-packed story that was interesting start-to-finish. The action is
not overdone, however. The color in here is magnificent and it looks
spectacular on DVD.

The film turned out to be a good combination of drama, action, comedy
and romance. I would think this would be a little too frightening,
however, for little kids, for those wondering about that. The only
negative I had was listening to the grating voice of Rose O'Donnell.
That, and her New York City, accent, is definitely not appealing.
Otherwise, I have nothing but good things to say about this film.
<|_=00=_|>


Animated Disney films always seem to be the same in hindsight.  It's only
when
the directors get the inclination to try something bigger that the films
achieve a legendary
status.  It's been ten years since this new Disney renaissance began with
"The Little
Mermaid", the new "Tarzan" represents exactly what is wrong and what is so
very right
with the Mouse House's approach to the animated features.

During these last ten years, the studio has learned what's worked, and
what
doesn't.  Disney always plays it safe.  The "Tarzan" opening is very
similar
to the
mega-successful "The Lion King".  They compress the entire backstory into
a
10 minute
opening, and it works like a charm.  We all have to admit that Phil
Collins
hasn't done
anything substantial in the last ten years as well, yet his songs for this
new film are spot
on.  They narrate the film and guide the audience perfectly through this
loose adaptation
of the Edgar Rice Burroughs novel.  Having been weaned on poor character
songs
throughout the years, it's deliciously blasphemous to not have to sit
through 5 or 6 god
awful musical numbers that even the composers don't seem to like.  It
brings
an
unexpected freshness to this well-known material.
With "Tarzan", Disney is taking on a character and story that has gone
through
countless adaptations.  This animated approach seems to fit just right.
By
not having to
rely on a physically impressive (but poorly expressive) actor, the
animators
have created
the most believable Tarzan yet.  He glides through the jungle with ease,
dragging behind
his the well worn knuckles of an ape-man.  It's probably one of Disney's
most impressive
creations, even though it is one so renowned.  Tony Goldwyn brings the
voice
of Tarzan
to life with unexpected sweetness.  While used sparingly, Goldwyn manages
to
capture
the character with ease.  I also enjoyed Minnie Driver's spunky voice for
Jane, making
her the most palatable animated heroine since Lady.  Rosie O'Donnell is
about as grating
as you might suspect and Glenn Close is perfect as Tarzan's ape
mother.
It's the villain that Disney needs to work on.  While watching "Tarzan"
you
can
easily feel that the addition of the bad guy is superfluous.  He's just
there because the
filmmakers think we can't go without it.  They're dead wrong.  The flick
is
filled with
lush visuals (courtesy of the more prominent GCI work), grand music, and a
strong story.
We don't need forced conflict.  The conflict within is what "Tarzan" is
all
about. The
rogue brings the film down more than it should.
Coming out of "Tarzan" I had feelings I haven't felt from a Disney
production in
some time.  I was moved by the material, shockingly filled with emotion.
I
came out of
the theater humming the music, not an easy thing in the years of "Mulan"
and
"Hunchback".  I also came out impressed that Disney might be making baby
steps to a
new and brighter future of animated films.  I look forward to it.
------------ 7
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great film, it moves right along fast, has great characters,
action, voice, music is just right, great animation, you name it. Lives up
to the Tarzan heritage and then some. I highly recommend this one.

Definitely something to jump up and down about.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie draws a sense of awe throughout the entire story.  Though its
plot may be formulaic, it executes better than any other formulaic movie
this year.  This is the best animated film  I have seen in the last 5
years
since "The Lion King".  The images are absolutely wonderful to look at.
The
music by Phil Collins is so powerful that it energizes the whole movie
making you feel emotionally charged all throughout.  I feel this film
could
have never been made in live action, since it gives a totally new
perspective on what Tarzan may actually have been like, his movement, his
upbringing, and most of all, his interaction with jungle family.  The
musical sequences by the gorillas were silly, but entertaining (it is a
Disney film isn't it?).  And Tarzan's movement through the jungle is so
spectacular that it makes Aladdin's flying carpet escape from the lamp's
abyss seem pale in comparison.

Though most of Tarzan's leaping, swinging, and tree surfing seem
unrealistic, we have to keep in mind that this is an animated film, and
since it is Disney's, thrills will be expected.  Tarzan delivers exciting
thrills, fills you with awe through the entire film, without sacrificing
the
story and the underlying theme.  This is a WONDERFUL, WONDERFUL FILM.  Go
see it.

If you have to decide between Star Wars I and Tarzan, it's no contest...
Tarzan is the film Star Wars I should have been.
<|_=00=_|>
Arrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
That is the main phrase of what Tarzan uses when trouble is about to 
come. I did enjoy this movie, every minute of it, it was made in 1999, 
i think it was is the first ever tarzan movie to be made into a catoon 
and to be made by Disney. I you like this movie then i am pretty sure 
you will like Tarzan and Jane because that concludes the next part of 
Tarzan of what he gets up to this time in the jungle and what missions 
he does. I give this movie 10 out of 10 because i think it's brilliant. 
I hope they will make a 3rd Tarzan movie, it would be great to see 
Tarzan as a daddy. Who know what the future will hold, i hope there 
will be another movie because Tarzan is so cool.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved "Tarzan"! 

I was afraid that Disney would cheap out on the romance but there was
enough in it for me.

I liked the Phil Collins drums, but wasn't crazy about his voice
throughout the whole film (nor were the restless toddlers in the
audience), rather than character voices singing.

The animation was wonderful,incorporating computers and gels.

The elephant was too much like Horton Hears A Who, but Rosie
O'Donnell's voicing of the ape friend was wonderful.

(originally written 7/12/1999)
