

I'm astonished how a filmmaker notorious for his political
left-wing fervor could make such a subtle, non-sanctimonious
picture. If you're for capital punishment, you'll still
be
for it after seeing this. If you're against capital punishment,
you'll still be against it. But whatever your stance is,
this
movie will, at the very least, make you reflect on why you
feel
the way you do. There's not one false note in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Robbins's 'Dead Man Walking' is a brave piece of cinema. Though the
film is about a man on death row and a nun's struggle to help him, I
liked how he presented both sides of the central theme of capital
punishment. This isn't a preachy film about capital punishment being
wrong or right as I doubt one's opinion would change on that after
watching the movie. But, it's more of a subtle movie that tells the
story of two people who form an unlikely friendship.

This couldn't have been an easy film to make yet he manages to pull it
off. Poncelet is a ruthless murderer and in no way does Robbins condone
what he has done but he and actor Sean Penn manage to win Poncelet the
viewer's sympathy. The execution is terrific. The last scene
particularly stands out. We see, in flashback, what had happened while
Poncelet meets his ultimate fate. We see how he and Helen make the
final connection, we see remorse in his eyes, we see him dying a slow
death and at the same time the horror of the crime is exposed to us. We
know that what he did is unforgivable but he finally took
responsibility for that which allows us to see him as a human being
rather than a ruthless killer. This also makes the whole tragedy more
astonishing because you just ponder, like Sister Helen, on how such a
normal human being commit such a heinous deed? 

Both Sean Penn and Susan Sarandon deliver powerful performances. We
pretty much see most of the film from Helen's point of view. Sarandon
clearly has put a lot of heart into the role as she skillfully
downplays her part showing tremendous depth and pathos. Sean Penn plays
his difficult complex character with ease. The supporting cast do well
(watch out for a young Jack Black and Peter Sarsgaard).

The score is mesmerizing, especially the Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan tracks.
I also felt that sense of isolation that was brought out in the prison
scenes. The terrific writing grips the viewer's attention right from
the start. Even though we can predict Poncelet's fate, we are drawn
into the fascinating transforming journey of these two intriguing
characters.
<|_=00=_|>

I haven't seen many films that really, truly made me rethink a long-held
position or opinion on a thorny issue, but "Dead Man Walking" is one of
them.

I read Sr. Helen Prejean's book, upon which this film was based, when it
first came out in 1993.  At that time I was utterly supportive of capital
punishment -- to quote the script, I felt anyone who committed crimes
horrible enough to land them on Death Row was an "expendable human being,
suckin' up tax dollars."  I also had personal experience with the issue when
an entire family whom I knew in my childhood were slaughtered by a man who
is now on Death Row for his crimes.

As you might imagine, I was disgusted with Sr. Helen's book.  I thought that
trotting to death row and holding the hand of some scumbag who'd killed
innocent people was about the lowest thing anyone could do, and as a
Catholic I was offended by the seeming hypocrisy of it.

Because I had disliked the book, I never saw the film until about two weeks
ago, when I bought a remaindered copy of it in a video store.  I have
watched it four times since then, mostly because I am trying to work out my
feelings on it.  I am still a supporter of capital punishment, but it's
going to be less easy for me to ignore the fact that (to quote again),
"There's nobody with money on Death Row" -- and quite a few more blacks, now
that I think of it, AND the fact that, like Matthew Poncelet's character,
the men who are being executed are human beings who have feelings and fears.
 It's easy to jeer at Matthew on the day before his execution, fretting
nervously about whether the lethal injection will "hurt," like a little boy
at the doctor's office for a penicillin shot, since his victims' last
moments certainly "hurt." What isn't easy is to realize that while the
victims of these inmates didn't know they were about to die until it was too
late, the inmates themselves have what seems like a blessing at first, but
upon deeper examination is the greatest curse:  knowing the exact hour and
day they will die, and having to face it day by day, hour by hour, minute by
minute.

I'm sorry if this review offends people who are sincere death penalty
supporters.  I still consider myself to be one, but my thinking has been
reformed somewhat and I'm more ready to listen to the opponents and try to
make compromises; maybe that's what this issue needs more than anything.  I
will say finally that ONE part of this film did offend me as a Catholic: the
symbolic "crucifixion" of Poncelet during the "last words" scene.  That was
the one place where Robbins strayed from his even-handed approach to the
issue -- the only one I could find.

In all, this was a fine film that made me rethink an explosive issue, and I
recommend it highly to anyone debating the pros and cons.
<|_=00=_|>

Tim Robbins did a masterful job directing this film. I say this because he
avoided convention and cliché. He also oversaw superb performances from
Susan Sarandon (who won an Oscar for her role) and Sean Penn. Even more
amazing, Robbins doesn't patronize. He just tells the story and lets the
events play on the viewer's mind. This is so effective because it allows the
viewer to form his own opinions on the death penalty, one of the most
controversial subjects of our time, without being unfairly manipulated in
either direction. I can't recommend this film enough, 9/10.

<|_=00=_|>

"Dead Man Walking" is a piece of incredible filmmaking.  All the acting is
top-notch and realistic, and the script examines the issue of the death
penalty from both sides, paying equal homage to both.  Above all, this is a
deeply moving story of redemption, of death with dignity and loss of ego.
Any film that deals this courageously and maturely with such incredibly
difficult subject matter deserves a rating of 10/10.  Thank you, Tim
Robbins!
<|_=00=_|>

	In a world in which debatable and misunderstood subjects can be listed
endlessly, this powerful 1995 film takes on one at the top of that list;
moreover, it does it objectively and realistically, and with a sensibility
and sensitivity that makes it a truly great film by anyone's measuring
stick.  And to add some irony to it all, even the subject matter of this
film has been widely misunderstood, as it is wrongly perceived that this is
a film about the pros and cons of the death penalty; it is not.  At the
heart of `Dead Man Walking,' directed by Tim Robbins, is a subject that in
reality is possibly the most misunderstood of all, and with good reason,
because it just may be the hardest thing there is for a human being to
really-- and truly-- understand.  And it is what this film is actually all
about:  Forgiveness.  Real forgiveness; not excusing a heinous crime or the
perpetrator thereof-- not saying that what's happened is okay-- but finding
the strength to go on, and to do so by choosing life.

	Director/screenwriter Tim Robbins has crafted and delivered a faithful
adaptation of the novel by Sister Helen Prejean, in which she discusses her
involvement with the death-row inmates to whom over the years she has
ministered her faith in God.  As chronicled in the film, what for her was to
become a lifelong pursuit of not only justice, but human dignity, began with
a simple letter from a death-row inmate at the Louisiana State Prison at
Angola.  Sentenced to death for rape and murder, Matthew Poncelet (Sean
Penn) was reaching out to anyone who would listen, when his letter ended up
in the hands of Sister Prejean (Susan Sarandon), who soon found herself
venturing into a territory of which she had absolutely no knowledge or
experience.  And Robbins has successfully captured Sister Prejean's
emotional and turbulent journey succinctly, while managing to keep it devoid
of any maudlin sentimentality, which makes it not only real, credible and
believable, but makes it a poignant and thoroughly emotionally involving
experience for the audience.  Through the medium of the cinema, what was
once a personal, significant emotional experience for Sister Prejean,
becomes one for everyone who sees this film, as well.

	For her soul-stirring, impassioned portrayal of Sister Prejean, Susan
Sarandon deservedly won the Oscar for Best Actress.  Sensitive and fraught
with emotional depth, her performance is incredibly touching and real,
especially in the way in which she conveys Sister Prejean's underlying
natural fragility and vulnerability, which she adamantly tempered with the
toughness she needed to carry on with her endeavors on behalf of Poncelet
(and in reality, a total of five since she began).  Whatever your point of
view regarding the matters examined in this film, Sister Prejean is without
question an individual of heroic proportions, which Sarandon exquisitely
personifies here; and she does it without resorting to any superfluous
melodramatics, but rather by keeping it real, by subtly and humbly exploring
the humanity of the person in a very believable expression of
characterization.  It's an extraordinary performance, arguably the best of
Sarandon's brilliant career. 

	Turning in a career-best performance, as well, is Sean Penn, who was
nominated for Best Actor for his portrayal of Poncelet (he lost out to
Nicolas Cage, who won for his performance in `Leaving Las Vegas).  Perfect
for the part in every way, Penn has quite simply never been better, before
or since.  He effectively presents Poncelet as a real person, rather than as
an overblown caricature of a monster capable of perpetrating the crimes
depicted here.  Not that it makes Poncelet any less despicable; just the
opposite, in fact.  It makes it genuinely disconcerting to be faced with the
fact that someone who looks like a guy who could live next door to you could
be capable of such things.  And that's the strength of Penn's performance--
it's so disturbingly real, presented with depth and nuance; you have but to
look into his eyes to find the imperfections of a troubled soul.  A terrific
performance, and -- as good as Cage was in `Vegas'-- Penn should have
received the Oscar for it.

	In another stand-out performance, Raymond J. Barry is memorable in a
supporting role as Earl Delacroix, father of one of Poncelet's victims. 
With limited screen time, he nevertheless develops his character in such a
way that enables you to empathize with him, as well as with Sister Prejean,
as it is through him that we are given some insight into just how complex
and seemingly tenuous her position is, at least on the surface.  Barry
presents Delacroix in such a way that gives the necessary balance and
perspective to the story, which is ultimately extremely effective and helps
to underscore the message of the film.

	The supporting cast includes R. Lee Emery (Clyde Percy), Celia Weston (Mary
Beth Percy), Lois Smith (Helen's Mother), Scott Wilson (Chaplin Farley),
Roberta Maxwell (Lucille Poncelet), Margo Martindale (Sister Colleen) and
Jack Black (Craig Poncelet).  It is doubtful that this film will change
anyone's mind one way or another about the death penalty, but that was never
the intention; what was intended, was to make a thought-provoking,
emotionally involving film, which is exactly what Robbins has accomplished
with `Dead Man Walking.'  Regardless of your personal point of view, this
film will have an impact, and hopefully will open some minds to the true
nature of forgiveness.  For, as we see through the character of Earl
Delacroix, true forgiveness is not something one merely decides to do, but
is a task that can become a lifetime's work.  And it's possibly one of the
hardest things in life to effectively accomplish; and you come away from
this film with an appreciation for individuals like Sister Prejean, who has
selflessly dedicated her life to helping those in need, and to filmmakers
like Robbins and Sarandon for bringing her to life for millions of people
who otherwise would never have known her.  I rate this one 10/10.           
       

	    
<|_=00=_|>
'It's easy to kill a monster, but it's hard to kill a human being.'

Set in St. Thomas Housing Project and Angola Prison in New Orleans,
"Dead Man Walking" is the true story of Helen Prejean (Susan Sarandon),
a Louisiana nun Sister who befriended Matthew Poncelet (Sean Penn), a
murderer and a rapist bound for a lethal injection machine for killing
a teenage couple… Sister Helen agrees to help the convict and to remain
with him till the end—an act never before attempted by a woman… 

At their first meeting, Poncelet swears to the nun that his accomplice
was the one who shot both of the kids and pleads her help for a new
trial in order to convince the pardon board hearing to spare his life… 

The film challenges the audience to actually give some thought to the
human consequences of the death penalty, but gives voice to angry
bereaved parents whose kids were shot, stabbed, raped, and left in the
woods to die alone… 

As Poncelet's execution looms closer and closer, his character is seen
deceptively complex, harboring doubts about the rightness of what they
were doing to him… In one moment, we hear him sensitive asking for a
lie detector test to let his mother know that he is innocent, in
another we see him furious playing the victim, blaming the government,
drugs, blacks, the kids for being there… Poncelet never understood that
he has robbed the Percys and the Delacroixs so much, giving them
nothing but sorrow… They are never going to see their children again,
never going to hold them, to love them, to laugh with them… 

In the scenes leading up to his execution, the death-row inmate drops
his terrible facade and reveals his identity… Luckily both Sarandon and
Penn are here exceptional—carrying out successfully an exquisite,
tangible harmony of souls… When Sarandon was looking at Penn, she was
projecting compassionate eyes brimming with tears… She asks him to
visualize her as he dies— ''I want the last thing you see in this world
to be the face of love''—in that moment, we truly believed that she'll
be the face of love for him…
<|_=00=_|>

"Dead Man Walking" deals with one nun's struggle (Susan Sarandon in her
Oscar-winning part) to help a convicted death row inmate (Sean Penn in an
Oscar-nominated role) come to terms with his imminent execution. 
Writer-director Tim Robbins does something very difficult in this film, he
makes us care about the unsympathetic character that Penn plays.  Susan
Sarandon and Sean Penn dominate the film in every aspect imaginable, they
play a complicated chess match at times and eventually become close friends
by the end of the picture.  The fact that Sarandon and Robbins are openly
against the death penalty in real life just adds to this film.  Their strong
opinion on the subject leads to an unforgettable motion picture that is made
well and performed well by the two leads.  4.5 out of 5
stars.

<|_=00=_|>

How do you know if a movie is good or not? It is the impact it has on you
that makes the difference. "Dead Man Walking" upset me a great deal. I
watched it twice. I don't know if I will be strong enough to watch it again.
No, I did not feel good at all after watching it, but the film was as
successful as it can be.

Robbins did a great job in incorporating all aspects of this controversial
topic. He avoided making an argument that could easily be seen as biased or
subjective. I hope that many people get to see "Dead Man Walking". I believe
that anyone who supports or opposes the death penalty so enthusiastically
should see the movie.

I don't know what else it could take to finally convince everyone that this
relic from ancient times does not have a place in modern society
anymore.

The movie itself does not make an argument for or against death penalty. It
describes reality. The reality is the best argument against the death
penalty.

A 10/10 for great performances, good filmmaking, and for the most important
film made in years

Thank you, Tim Robbins!


<|_=00=_|>

"Dead Man Walking" is one of the most powerful movies I have ever seen. I
find it hard to believe that anyone, after having seen the movie, could feel
indifferent about the film or its message. Tim Robbins does not try to
impose his ideas and beliefs on the viewers, but manages to make a film that
are in most ways sympathetic to both views on the death penalty -- whether
it is right to murder a murderer or not. I have always known where I stand
in this question, even as a child, and this movie -- despite the fact that
it does not really take any sides -- made me even surer in my conviction
that it can never be right to murder *anyone*.

Sean Penn is absolutely brilliant in his portrayal of Matthew Poncelet, his
nomination for an Academy Award was very well-deserved. Even if Nicolas Cage
does a great job in "Leaving Las Vegas", I would have been happier if Penn
had won the award. Susan Sarandon is also brilliant and she deserved the
Academy Award she won. And Tim Robbins certainly deserves the vote I have
given this film: 9/10!

