

This movie never fails to generate strong reactions, both positive and
negative.

Much of the negative criticizes the wooden acting, soap-opera beautiful
stars, and unreasonably military tactics that lead to an enormous human body
count.  

But that misses the whole point.  The actors and plotlines are supposed to
be caricatures of themselves.  We are presented with a seemingly utopian
society, where everyone is beautiful, the world is united under a single
government, and patriotism is rampant.

The further the movie goes, the more the viewer realizes just how horrific
this supposed utopia really is.  Patriotism is exploited to trick young men
and women into going off to a pointless war.  The beautiful people are
mercilessly chopped to pieces by their insectoid opponents.  And the united
world government uses its control of the media to brainwash the public into
supporting this bloody war.

Yes, the Nazi symbolism is a little heavy-handed.  But that's the whole
point -- the intertwining of this "perfect" society with such a deeply evil
subtext is supposed to be disturbing.  What's even more disturbing is how
close to our recent (American) history this movie truly is.  Yes, it's a
caricature, but it's a caricature of a very real and frightening
phenomenon.

How different are the government propaganda ads in Starship Troopers from
the "Loose Lips Sink Ships" campaign or the "10% for War Bonds" posters in
1940s U.S.?  How dangerous is it to have a society where everyone looks the
same, thinks the same, and acts the same, even to their own death?  This is
the message behind Starship Troopers, and it's a chilling one at
that.

And for me, it works.
<|_=00=_|>

Starship Troopers is a subtle and insidiously subversive movie that proved
frighteningly prescient in the wake of post-9/11 uberpatriotism.  Both
Heinlein's book and Verhoeven's film are valid and interesting political
statements at opposite ends of the spectrum.  Heinlein's novel was
criticized as fascist at the time of its publication, and for all his
obvious talent as a writer I'm inclined to agree.  The movie is as much a
sendup of the original novel as it is a satire of jingoist American
politics.  It really is a shame that despite the squeaky-clean heroes
plucked straight from the soaps, the Mormon extremists, the multiple-amputee
mobile infantry retirees and the propaganda shorts masquerading as news, the
vast majority still seems to regard Starship Troopers as a stupid action
movie and, for some reason, absolutely refuse to consider that it might be
something more.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

One of my favourite films, this one.

I love the way Verhoeven approached the idea of Man v Beast. Our "heros" are
beautiful, white-teethed Americans, firm of body and morals; our villains
are decapitating stick insects, cockroaches, and giant maggots.

Yet who are the real heroes ?

The white-teethed Americans are vacuous, shallow thugs. They are thrust into
a war with the Bugs, whose planets, we are told, have been invaded by the
Americans. The Bugs are justifiably annoyed. 

I couldn't help but laugh at some of the "Nazi" parallels drawn by other
reviewers. What Verhoeven is putting across in this film is not a polemic
against Nazi ideology, but an attack upon American Imperialism in the latter
part of the last century. He is satirising American crusades against other
countries, whose inhabitants are portrayed in the American press as no
better than Bugs. 

Had Verhoeven wished to attack Nazism, he could have given the good guys
German accents; he didn't, he gave them American accents. The "Nazi"
symbolism as commented upon by other reviewers is not Nazi symbolism at all
- it is totalitarian symbolism, full stop. It is right-wing, "bomb them back
to the stone age" American totalitarianism.

Why do I believe this ? 

Check out the scene where American kids are encouraged to stamp on
cockroaches by an overly excited parent. Check out the high
fives.

Verhoeven has done a mighty job here. He has made a film which has great
action, great cinematography, very cute women (and boys) and yet the film
still manages to take the mickey out of the New Order in a very funny and
effective manner.

10/10 
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the famous Robert A. Heinlein novel, Starship Troopers is set
in a world of the future where militarism is the norm, largely because
we've discovered alien civilizations of huge insect-like creatures and
we're at war with them. The film follows a quartet of high school
friends as they make their varied ways through the military.

Starship Troopers is both a tongue-in-cheek satire of society and an
intense sci-fi/action/war film filled with horror-like insect monsters
and a healthy dose of graphic gore. That's a genre combination that
will not please all viewers, especially if the tongue-in-cheek humor
goes over their heads. For those more in tune with the genre melding,
Starship Troopers promises a quick, edge-of-your-seat ride from the
first moments to the last.

The film can be looked at in three sections, with slight crossovers
from one section to another. The first is focused on the social satire.
The cultural differences of the future are given in mostly indirectly,
and occasionally, the point is what hasn't changed, or perhaps what is
currently (per the film's setting) in vogue as a retro element. The
second and third sections could be seen as a sci-fi Platoon (1986),
with the second section focused on military basic training and the
third focused on wartime. Like Platoon, the basic training scenes show
order and a clear sense of purpose, while the wartime scenes show
comparative chaos.

That the film could be compared to something like Platoon shows that
although director Paul Verhoeven and screenwriter Edward Neumeier are
aware that the material could easily be seen as absurd, they have the
chops to make it believable and suspenseful at the same time.

This is not to say that Starship Troopers is a rip-off of any other
movie. The film-making here is highly original, and we could almost see
the entire film as a computer-based CNN-styled collection of wartime
newsreels of the future. It remains quick, witty and intense
throughout. My only regret is that they didn't incorporate Yes' song
Starship Troopers in the score somehow.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about the ignorance of conquerors and the fact that war
makes fascists of us all. Now that doesn't sound like a lot of fun,
does it. But guess what: it is fun (by the truckload - at least if you
have a pitch-black sense of humour and you do realise what this film is
and what it wants to achieve).

Paul Verhoeven was a master at making Sci-Fi films which worked both as
perfect mainstream popcorn cinema and as very intelligent social
commentary on the direction - he felt - society was headed. And despite
the fact that the over-the-top satirical elements and highly political
undercurrents in Robocop and Total Recall were only appreciated by a
few critics at the time, those two films became huge hits at the box
office: because they also offered great action, amazing special effects
and overall great entertainment.

My guess is that Verhoeven felt encouraged by that success, and so with
Starship Troopers, he didn't just sneak in some subversive parts: he
went full-blown satire. Sadly, that didn't go down too well with
audiences and critics alike; apparently most viewers didn't get the
film at all (the - seemingly - good guys wear Nazi uniforms? What the
heck?). Verhoeven even got accused of being a fascist, and it took the
director's commentary on the DVD to finally make it once and for all
clear what Starship Troopers is about and what the writer's and the
director's intentions were. 

I wonder whether the studio execs realised what Verhoeven was up to
with that film; maybe the director just took their 100 million dollars
and ran with it. The result, in any case, is a unique oddity that I
personally feel is on par with films like District 9 or even Stanley
Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove. It's a masterpiece. And much like another
glitch in the Hollywood machine, David Fincher's Fight Club, films like
that rarely get made (and not with such budgets), because more often
than not, they end up as flops.

Apart from the underlying themes, on the surface Starship Troopers also
has a lot going for it: amazing effects that still hold up very well
and insanely intense battle scenes with more blood and guts than even
the meanest gore-hound could wish for. So no matter how it came about
that a studio ever green-lit this and gave Verhoeven a 100 million
dollars - I for one will forever be grateful for this unique subversive
masterpiece. My vote: 10 out of 10

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>

The truth is that this is a brilliant film that, like Verhoeven's
earlier "Robocop", is an insightful satire and critique of fascism and
at the same time succeeds as a sci-fi thriller. It can be enjoyed at
both levels, though obviously it is much richer when the viewer
comprehends the satirical and critical level as well.

It's not as if the satire is so subtle it's hard to get. If anything,
it hits you over the head with it. But at the same time, it is very
disciplined and consistent in not tipping its hand and giving the game
away, which to me makes it much more successful and enjoyable than if
the satire and social critique were blatantly broadcast. That's the
strange and wonderful thing about "Starship Troopers" and "Robocop" --
one viewer might totally not get it, while to another, the
critical/satirical level is totally in your face and is what the film
is really all about.

I don't know if I'm describing it well, but watch it with the
film-makers' commentary turned on (on the DVD version), and director
Paul Verhoeven and writer Ed Neumeier lay it all out very clearly: the
film is about how war makes fascists of us all. Very timely today
(2004) with US imperialism wreaking havoc in Iraq & Afghanistan.

On a technical level, the film is excellent. The bug special effects
are top notch and the whole bug society and hierarchy is deeply thought
through, as is the future Earth society's politics and technology. The
acting is excellent, and the balance between the characters'
interpersonal story line, the bug war story line, and the underlying
political satire and critique, is perfectly handled.

A truly exceptional film, Verhoeven's best so far, topping even
"Robocop" in my opinion, and fully deserving a 10 out of 10 score,
which I rarely give.

<|_=00=_|>
On one level this is a pure action flick at its best. Amazing effects,
mindless violence by the tanker-load and the good-guy gets the girl.
Nothing more to say, really.

However, this isn't a pure sci-fi action film; this is military sci-fi
in all its fascist glory. Guns, warriors, alien scum and pretty
explosions rendered in a disciplined manner. I wouldn't call it
tongue-in-cheek, its too hardened for that. I wouldn't call the satire
in your face or subtle; its more... subliminal. Sublety by another name
perhaps. I don't read so far into films as others do; maybe I'm right
for it, maybe I'm not. You just cant get it so wrong. Certainly people
spend less time actually reviewing films.

Uncharacterized enemies, a one sided view the situation, rampant
jingoism, those are the trademarks of militarism. This film catches
them well in a futuristic setting. A little slow to start but still
enjoyable, with just the right sense of innocence and its loss,
replaced with the hardened edge that invariably lies within success.
When the action finally gets going, it really gets going. The effects
are stunning for 1996 when they were made, and even 10 years on they'll
still be impressive. I thought Casper van Dien was more impressive than
the film really shows; certainly the screen test on the DVD seemed to
show a greater depth IMO. Denise Richards was a little too wide smile
for the film, but Dina Meyer pulled off the 'chick with a gun' more
convincingly than any other woman I've seen on film (they always seem
uncomfortable with it, but Meyer carried herself naturally). Her
character was pretty good too ;-) . Clancy Brown clearly enjoyed
himself, hamming up the stereotypical drill-instructor pleasingly, and
Michael Ironside was wonderful as the hard-nosed and competent
Leiutenant. The cheesiness beloved of action films was there but it
never became too cheesy to detract from the work (unlike say 2004's
King Arthur). Another thing that takes this to the level of military
sci-fi.

Basically, brilliant. As clever as the others here say, depending on
the level you watch it, but maybe not subtle in the way some like to
think. If you want a working definition of the military sci-fi I've
been harping on about, this the one i refer you too. I just wish there
were more examples like this.
<|_=00=_|>

                 Again the same story of: "go to watch a movie after read
many reviews telling you how bad it's the movie just to find something
incredible" and really it was. I remember wait to see and action film about
great space heroes, and even when I found heroes and action, I found a
awesome and satirical story about the evolution of the human race and how
the path of war falls in a road to hell. More than that, Starship troopers
it's that kind of science fiction films with great a big special effects but
at the same time a terrific script. A shocking story, more realistic and
cruel than many movies about real conflicts, where you can feel the havoc
and the pain of any battle.
               The acting it's good, the soundtrack it's one of the best
works of Basil Poleoduris. After this you can read the book of Robert
Heinlein founding how far goes Paul Verhoeven in every scene and every
character creating. But the best of all is how everything has a reason,
there's no word or scene without a meaning, even the promise of the
beginning remain intact making clear some disturbing things about some
character(s). An movie to watch more than two times.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is about war and militaristic society and its effect on mankind.
I agree with Leonard Maltin (the professional movie critic) that everything
is directly modeled on WWII battles and WWII movies.

The enemy is irrelevant, and characterizing the enemy is not important.
That is why we never get any explanation for why the bugs are attacking us,
how their weapons work, etc.

The movie is extremely gory to make the point that "war is hell", and war
consists of a lot of "blood and guts".  It is also making the point that our
tolerance for violence is constantly accelerating.  In this future world, it
is no big deal to get stabbed through any part of the body, it is even a
part of military training.  Pain is of no concern, you simply call for
"Medic!" and get on down the road.

The movie does not try to be cute or funny.  The viewer does not have to
listen to the aliens being called all sort of combinations of cuss words by
the heroes.

The characters are realistic. They sometimes do the right things for the
wrong reasons and vice versa.  At times we are not sure who is good and who
is self-motivated.

I also liked the shower scene. Just the concept of 19 year-old,
physically-fit, men and women casually showering and bunking together is
fascinating.

It is obviously one of those movies that you either love or
hate.
<|_=00=_|>

While some of the characters and lines in the movie were a little
underdeveloped, the overriding story of the evolution of our society into an
aggressive, militarist regime cannot be ignored. The action scenes were
great, with flawless computer animation (how Titanic beat it for SFX I will
never know) and enhancement supported by what can only be described as
gore-laden prosthetics. I thought they could have left the love story out,
but that's Hollywood.

Very watchable, and a nice change from the Alien movies - this is WAR, not
some isolated pit-fight! I love the Alien movies, but Startship troopers
just has a lot o' lead, heads, and bodies flying left, right and centre! I
thought the Mobile Infantry could have used better weaponry (apparently in
the novel that it's based on, the MI has powered armour with assault cannon
and missile launchers etc.) to battle such a foe, but I'm just being
technical.

If you want a nice beer & pretzels movie to yell and scream at, then this is
it.

10 out of 10
