

Incredibly true-to-life story about life at work.  Anyone who's ever worked
in a large office will find at least one thing, probably more, that they can
relate to.

Look at the characters: From the receptionist with the annoying high-pitched
voice, to the clueless management, to the soft-spoken guy with no backbone
(or so you think), this looks more like a documentary than fiction. 

The daily situations of the office environment, including paper jams in the
printer, static electricity, and slow computers, are hilarious for some
reason when they happen to the people in the movie.

Throw in some great acting, a good story, and the humor of Mike Judge, and
you'll find one of the best movies ever made, hilarious from start to
finish.

<|_=00=_|>

You'll be wearing' your "Oh Face" after viewing OFFICE SPACE.

This one goes out to everybody who dies a daily death in a "cube", and I
think you all know who your are.  You can't wait to get out at lunch, head
over to some assembly-line crap-food franchise like "Chotchkie's" for some
extreme fajitas, and try to make it back in time before the Bill Lumberghs
of the house bust your chops for taking too long of a lunch.
MMMM-KAAAYYYY!
This movie even made "gangsta' rap" listenable, which I thought would
never
be possible.

Best Scene: Peter dreaming an oiled-up Lumbergh having sex with Joanna,
and
pausing for a quick gulp from his coffee mug.

Mr. Judge (and 20th Century Fox), I'm still holding my red stapler here,
hoping in vain that you'll finally release this on a special edition DVD.
Please include the 1991 short on it as well, WHEN you do.

This is the funniest movie of the last ten years, but of course, it failed
commercially, and Mike Judge will probably never do another live action
film
because of that.  So thank you America for supporting crap like THE
HAUNTING, MESSAGE IN A BOTTLE, and WILD, WILD WEST back in '99, and
letting
OS die at the box office.

<|_=00=_|>

Easily one of my favorite comedies, and sort of a source of medicine for the
pains of working in an office with complete idiots. Ahh, cubicle life.
Anyone who's ever worked in a corporate office can relate to this film on
some level, and can probably swear that they know someone exactly like one
of the characters depicted here. Mike Judge really captures the aspect that
makes office life so miserable, which is without a doubt the characters that
you must deal with that your personal life would normally exclude. There is
no question that he must've had his own bout with the way of the office
bitch, as he shows that he knows it all too well. Out of the comedies I've
seen, I can most identify with this one.

Kudos to the casting department for putting together a unique group of
people to portray the perfect characters for the story. Peter, Samir,
Michael Bolton, and especially the Milton and Lumbergh characters, are all a
true treat to watch and never get old upon reviewings.

A true comedic classic, but probably for more of a niche audience. Having
never worked in an office before, you may not enjoy it as much as
others...but then again, I could be wrong and is still worth checking out.
But if you have or do work in an office, this movie is a must
see!

Office Space has a special place in my heart for others reasons too. Parts
of it were filmed within walking distance of my apartment, and my girlfriend
lives in Peter's apartments from the movie, which is also right down the
street! That just adds even more to the fact that I can identify with this
film 100%, especially considering I drive the same way to work as Peter did!
Too weird.

Um, yeah, go see it.
<|_=00=_|>

Every aggravating thing about working in an office, from the traffic on the
way to work to that damn copier, is in this movie, and dealt with in ways
that we've all wanted to, at some point or another. Well, except for the
traffic, of course. The traffic  remains undefeated. Besides telling a
highly amusing story about office workers who are just fed up with it all,
Office Space is full of other little comments on society, such as the way
the film points out the sheer goofiness of geeky white guys who listen to
hardcore rap music. The film presents a heavily exaggerated version of the
typical office, but underneath that exaggeration, the depiction is very
accurate. You have the fairly timid but passive aggressive superior, Bill
Lumbergh, portrayed hilariously by Gary Cole, the repressive office
cubicles, the mumbly guy that kind of weirds everyone out, and of course,
the disillusioned office employee who just doesn't care anymore.

Ron Livingston fulfills this last role very well, being very open about his
dislike of his job and his intentions to do as little as possible for as
long as he still gets paid, but it is the weird guy that really gets laughs
consistently, whose name, in this case, is Milton. This guy's hilarious
situation involves having been laid off years before without knowing because
no one told him, because he still receives a paycheck due to a glitch in the
payroll system, and whose primary concerns seem to be the location of his
cubicle, his red stapler, and the fact that last year, he didn't receive a
piece of cake at the office party. The way that this guy's situation gets
consistently worse and the way that he is pushed further and further toward
the edge of sanity is one of the funniest things about this movie. And we
can't forget the Indian guy, Samir, whose grammatically flawed exclamations
also provide for an endless source of comedic entertainment.

Jennifer Aniston plays a small role as Peter Gibbons' (Livingston) love
interest, as well as that of a waitress who is also sick and tired of the
ridiculousness of her job (such as a specified minimum of pieces of `flair'
that employees must wear to work). Ron's home life is another thing that is
parodied in this high quality comedy, as the shortcomings of living in an
average apartment are clearly and side-splittingly portrayed. Clearly, the
office scenes are by far the funniest of the film, and the eventual criminal
plot to embezzle a huge sum of money from the company and take up a
lifestyle of not really doing anything, despite the fact that it is also
very well done, can be largely overlooked because of the sheer hilarity of
the rest of the film. This is excellent stuff from the famous creator of the
endlessly amusing Beavis & Butt-Head who, with Office Space, has further
proved that he is just the type of guy who knows what's funny.


<|_=00=_|>

I must admit,I did not think much of Office Space when I
first
saw it in the theater,but I've seen it several times since,and
I
have got to say it has grown on me quite a lot.This is
an
appropriate tribute to people like me everywhere who hate
their
jobs.I am not a big fan of rap music,but the rap score
somehow
makes the film even more appealing.The plot is hilarious,the
characters are hysterical,and it's just a fun movie.If
you
hate your job want to feel at least a little better about
it,this
film is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
If you work in a cube, and love satire, this is your movie! Those who
would slam it probably do not get it and that's fine but those of us
who do will see it multiple times. This movie does for office workers
what "This Is Spinal Tap" did for musicians. That means it may not be a
movie for everyone but for those chosen ones, it means getting together
with friends a couple of times a year to enjoy a classic and quote it
constantly on those other 363 days when they're not watching it! If you
are a cube dweller, then I need you to go ahead and check out this
movie, uh that would be great. I too rated it a 9 because of the
gangster-rap soundtrack. Save for that, I would've gone ahead and rated
it a 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Hooray for Mike Judge! I didn't think there would be a way to make fun of
"office life" without merely being a living Dilbert strip and using all of
the same tired old workplace jokes. Kids in the Hall did it, and now Mike
Judge has done it also. I am surprised to see Jennifer Aniston in a movie
this entertaining! The use of hardcore gangsta rap as the soundtrack to
the
boys' underhanded deeds and violent ass-kicking of office equipment is
hilarious and brilliant. Gary Cole's droning delivery and poor Milton's
despondent mumbling doesn't get old... in fact it stays very funny. We all
know someone who obsesses a little TOO much about their chair, or how many
paper clips they have on their desk... and Milton makes you feel a bit of
sad sympathy, especially when he doesn't get any cake. Peter's cronies
Michael and Samir are classic software engineer guys that could work at
any
company, and Peter's construction-worker neighbor (Oswald!) is a
refreshing
change from the white-collar drones that infest his day. In the end Peter
discovers this is the way to go... fresh air, hard labor and a bright
orange
vest in the perfect antidote to ummm... yeah... that would be great....
this
movie is great, whether you're an office worker or not. It makes you think
about all the millions and millions of damn cubicles out there... and all
the people that fill them. How many of them feel suffocated and hopeless?
If
this film makes even ONE person take a day off and go fishing, it's done
it's job.
<|_=00=_|>

I honestly don't think there's enough good things to say about Office Space.
It has everything a great film needs: A great story, great acting, great
jokes, great soundtrack, great everything! Hell, we even get to like the
characters, as with most films no one cares. Even though this is a comedy,
it actually deals with a very big issue: disillusionment. And most comedies
of this type don't do that sort of thing.

The disillusioned Peter Gibbons (Ron Livingston) has an office job at
Innitech that he really hates to the point where he confesses that everyday
is the worse day of this life because of it. He has two disillusioned
friends there: Michael Bolton (David Herman), who gets a lot of harassment
due to him having the same name as the singer, and Samir (Ajay Naidu), an
Indian immigrant who just wants to keep his job. Two other men who work with
them are Tom (Richard Riehle), a man who wants to make a `Jump To
Conclusions Mat' to get rich, and Milton (Stephen Root), a mumbling man who
can't stand up for himself. Their boss is the evil Bill Lumbergh (Gary
Cole), who makes them work on the weekend and torments everyone, especially
Milton. Peter loves Joanna (Jennifer Aniston), a waitress at a restaurant he
often goes to that he loves, but can't ask her out due to having no
confidence and a pushy girlfriend named Anne (Alexandra Wentworth). After
being hypnotized by a hypnotist that dies before he can complete the
process, Peter gains all the confidence he needs to decide to not quit his
job, but just not to go, ask Joanna out and leave Anne. But surprisingly,
instead of getting fired, he gets promoted, while his hardworking friends
get fired. After this, they decide to get their revenge by putting a
computer virus in Innitech's computers to slowly make millions, but it goes
horribly wrong.

I love this movie. I really do. Even when I first show the trailer for this
in cinema about 5 or 6 years ago when I was about 11 years old I thought
it'd be a good movie, and how right was I? Beyond 100% right! All the actors
do a great job in this, especially Ron Livingston, who should've got a lot
of acclaim for this film. I honestly hope his career becomes really
successful someday. I also loved Peter's neighbor Lawrence (Diedrich Bader),
who is hilarious. There are other great comedies out there, like Wayne's
World (1992) and Joe Dirt (2001), but this is just movie magic! Director
Mike Judge is a comic genius! Who thought that the toilet humour of Beavis
and Butthead could be beaten by office humour? I hope everyone involved in
this film continues to make great films like this.

Oh, and just before I finish this review, I have to say one thing. Even
though I love this film to death, I honestly hope they don't make a sequel.
This is just one of those rare films that are perfect, and I don't want an
inferior sequel(s) to ruin this. A sequel should only be done if it's just
as funny (if funnier) than this. And besides, the plot has no where to go,
so they should leave this alone. The best way I can sum this film up: A
brilliant classic!

Rating: 5/5!!!


<|_=00=_|>

	There's something about a study of life in a `cubicle' to which just about
everyone can relate; at least everyone who has ever had to get up every day,
go to work and punch a time clock, then go home and wait to do it all over
again the next day.  In `Office Space,' writer/director Mike Judge (the guy
who gave us `Beavis and Butthead') captures the essence of the work-a-day
world, in this case in an office setting, though it could be on any job
anywhere, from the largest conglomerate to the smallest business concern;
anywhere a `corporate structure' is in place and employed.  The subtle humor
of Judge's vision is funny, and often downright hilarious, and all with very
little exaggeration of the way things really are, from the weekly
`motivational' talks from the boss, to staff meetings, corporate `mission
statements' and the protocol of cover sheets and memos, all of which-- as
portrayed here-- have a sterling ring of truth to them.
	The central character of Judge's story is a guy named Peter Gibbons (Ron
Livingston), a software analyst for `Initech,' who after working with a
therapist finds himself in something of a transcendental state of mind,
whereupon he divulges to a pair of consultants-- `efficiency experts' sent
in to streamline the company's operation-- that he does only about `fifteen
minutes of real work' a week, due to the very structure (or lack thereof) of
the company itself.  And his refreshingly honest candor in outlining his job
description soon has quite an unexpected effect on his life, as well as that
of a couple of co-workers.  Judge perceptively expands the satire to
encompass facets of Peter's life outside the office, as well, which gives
the audience even more with which to identify, like driving to work in
bumper to bumper freeway traffic that has slowed to a stop-- in Peter's
lane-- while the cars in the next lane going flying by; and when he changes
into THAT lane, IT comes to a standstill while the cars in the lane he just
left start to whiz on by.  It's an application of Murphy's Law that -- while
certainly nothing new-- works well within the context of this particular
story, in which the humor is derived from emphasizing the annoying, mundane
things that happen to us all on a daily basis.  Like getting in the shortest
line at the supermarket and taking longer than anyone else to get checked
out.  
	Livingston gives a notable performance, giving Peter that sense of the
`everyman' who'd like nothing better than to break free of the rigors of the
8 to 5 existence.  He brings an affable presence to the screen that
perfectly communicates what Judge is attempting to say, and does it in such
a way that it validates Peter's being selected as `Champion of the Cause' as
it were.  Also turning in memorable performances are Stephen Root (a
terrific character actor), as Milton, a guy whose very existence seems to be
a study in suffering abuse and degradation; and Gary Cole, as Peter's boss,
Bill Lumbergh, whose impudent, laconic methods of intimidation, delivered in
such a droll manner, make him the boss everybody loves to
hate.
	The supporting cast includes Jennifer Aniston as Joanna, the waitress with
a minimum of `flare' who has trouble `expressing' herself, according to her
boss; Ajay Naidu (Samir); David Herman (Michael Bolton); Richard Riehle
(Tom); Joe Bays (Dom); John C. McGinley (Bob Slydell); Paul Wilson (Bob
Porter) and Diedrich Bader (Lawrence).  Reminiscent of the world portrayed
in the `Dilbert' comic strip, `Office Space' works because it effectively
puts real people in real situations, and brings you into contact with some
characters you're going to recognize; I guarantee that no matter what you do
to live, thrive and survive, you've run into these people, worked for them,
and alongside them.  It's a case of art reflecting reality, and to Judge's
credit he's succeeded in making a funny movie that really hits close to
home, without resorting to any gross or infantile humor to do it.  It's a
film that simply puts the `corporate experience' in the spotlight and gives
you a chance to laugh at `the boss,' and maybe even a little bit at yourself
along the way.  I rate this one 8/10.          
<|_=00=_|>
It still boggles my mind that this classic working-person's comedy was
overlooked at the box office. Unlike today's dumbed-down, unfunny
comedy-schlock, Office Space's script was carefully written before the
camera began shooting. Based on his Milton shorts, Mike Judge wrote and
directed Office Space and did a great job. The film is cleverly
written, nicely plotted and paced, and holds interest even after
repeated viewings (something I can not say for most comedies).

Peter (Ron Livingston) and his friends have a permanent case of 'the
Mondays.' Stuck in dead end programming jobs in an uncaring corporate
environment, with a series of ridiculous, annoying and dysfunctional
co-workers, Peter has motivation problems. At the request of his
equally aggravating girlfriend, he subjects himself to occupational
therapy via hypnotism, but just as he reaches a deep trance state, the
hypnotist drops dead, and Peter is left in a state of blissful lack of
inhibitions. And as things begin to go wrong, they actually get better
- through the films twisted (but oh so truthful) logic.

Ron Livingston leads a nicely cast group of actors, including an early
appearance by the now-famous Jennifer Aniston. Diedrich Bader is
especially memorable for his heroic portrayal of Lawrence, the
next-door neighbor and guru. And Ron Coleman and Stephen Root are
wonderful.

I have seen Office Space at least ten times, and it, remarkably, does
not get old. The recent tendency to dumb-down comedic film exhibits
contempt for its own audience. A return to comedies that don't punish
people for thinking would make me a fan of the genre, and this would be
a great example to draw from.
