

I don't understand the trashing comments I just read.  This film is very,
very good.  I've seen it at least 5 or 6 times and it was enjoyable the
first and last time I saw it.  The film making was superb.  I actually did
some research to see where that cottage was located and see if there were
any rentals.

I saw no character flaws in anyone.  Each character was precise and very
believable.  Continuity errors were at a minimum.  I also don't understand
the rating this movie got.  It was NOT THAT BAD!  If there was poor
acting,
or plots, or errors then I could see trashing the movie.  But
really!

Even the musical score was perfect for each scene.  A mixture of real
classical and real rock.  The music score designer deserves an
'A'.

Best parts:
1) Beethoven's nose in the beginning, followed by his dream
sequence.
2) Anything Regina did.  She was perfect!
3) Grodin trying to explain where babies come from.
3) The bully sequence at the fair (bite this guy in the
weiner!)
4) The hamburger eating contest.
5) The tree stump scene with Penn.
6) Finally, all of the grunting noises Beethoven made.  I can actually
imitate each one.  My kids love it when I do that.

Come on people.  The movie was really enjoyable with quality Hollywood
direction and design.  Please stop knocking it.  Give it another try.  Or
next time, try watching it with a child.  You'll see.


<|_=00=_|>

Watchable first sequel to the surprise hit stars Charles Grodin and Bonnie
Hunt as the reprising Newton family, whose slobbering Saint
Bernard--Beethoven--gets himself a female doggie to make love with and
produce tiny little doggies with. Problem: Two evil dognappers are chasing
after the puppies.

Why do they want them? Well, why did Cruella Devil want puppies? Because
they're villains.

A very poor movie, but compared to "Beethoven's 3rd, 4th" and "5th" this
looks like a masterpiece.

2.5/5 stars -- mediocre but watchable sequel.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
Okay I know a lot of people don't like this movie, but I don't see what
is wrong with it. The Newmans this time decide to take a family
vacation and of course bring Beethoven along. Although this time he has
had puppies. The puppies mother is after them and tries to steal them.
But the family sticks together to try and save the puppies.

If you enjoy the first one then you will love this one. It is the same
great cast and family setting. It is a non stop laughing fest just like
the first.

Most of the time sequels aren't as good, not in this case. There are
some great scenes involving Beethoven and his puppies. Children of all
ages will love this along with their parents!
<|_=00=_|>

Now, why would they have a sequel? I'm curious. The family has already had
an adventure by saving the dog from the first film. You'd think "OK, they
live happily ever after". Nope. 

LITTLE SPOILERS

Beethoven falls for another St. Bernard. And they have puppies together, but
Beethoven's girlfriend's master wants the puppies. The kids take the puppies
without her permission. And she stalks the family to get the puppies. The
family goes on a vacation. The children all learn morals of life. The
parents fall in love again. And Beethoven cries over his girlfriend. And the
woman happens to bump into them again. I mean, how more silly can you get?
What are these family's chances of having to save their dog once again?
We'll never know until the third one.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of people don't realize that this film was nominated not only for
an Academy Award, but also a Golden Globe and Grammy Award! That third
item gives it away -- the song "The Day I Fall in Love" from this movie
garnered all of the nominations, and deservedly so. It's a wonderful
composition performed brilliantly by Dolly Parton and James Ingram. It
has become one of my favorite songs of all time and it easily
outclasses this movie.

In my opinion it was practically a miracle that the song got honored by
the three biggest award firms because the movie is nothing special and
a lot of times brilliance goes unnoticed when it is contained in a
sub-par film. Also the song got very little radio airplay; the video
only appeared occasionally on VH-1.

At any rate, other than the superlative song, there are some cute dog
scenes in this movie. And Debi Mazar is definitely a highlight as the
101 Dalmatians inspired villain.

My best recommendation is to watch the music video for the song. It
includes all of the best highlights from the film (the aforementioned
cute dog scenes), you'll hear the incredible song and get glimpses of
the stunningly cute Ashley Hamilton and not end up hating him because
of the schmuck his character ends up being in the film.
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't a bad sequel but it's unable to measure up to the first
"Beethoven," which was an extremely likable film. This is still a
"cute" film and one parents and all the kiddies certainly will like.

It features a litter of St. Bernard puppies, and who doesn't go "aww"
at the sight of little puppies, especially St. Bernard's? The puppies
are the main story here, which turns into a "crime" story when "Missy"
is dog-napped and the little ones also become endangered.

I didn't think this was a "silly" story as there are some good morals
and lessons to be learned, but it was a bit "sappy." I get a little
annoyed, too, when animals are pictured as smarter than the humans. I'm
sorry but, as much as you might love pets and hate some people, that
just ain't so.

Nonetheless, if you loved the first movie you'll find enough to like in
here to enjoy it. If you thought the first film was just okay, you
won't like this.
<|_=00=_|>

BEETHOVEN'S 2ND, in my opinion, is even cuter than the first BEETHOVEN. I
laughed REALLY hard when George (Charles Grodin) first discovered the
puppies in the basement of his house and said, "OH, no!" Those puppies were
absolutely adorable! In my opinion, Regina (Debi Mazar) and Floyd (Chris
Penn) were like Cruella and her henchmen, Horace and Jasper! I was so glad
when the puppies got them all dirty. I mean, what human being would want to
drown five sweet, cute, innocent puppies? When Beethoven caused the deck of
Taylor's (Ashley Hamilton) lake house to collapse, I was relieved. This was
because he saved Ryce (Nicholle Tom) from being raped. In conclusion, I
HIGHLY recommend this cute movie to all you dog lovers or Charles Grodin
fans who have not seen it.

<|_=00=_|>
BEETHOVEN'S 2ND, in my opinion, is even cuter than the first BEETHOVEN.
I laughed really hard when George (Charles Grodin) first discovered the
puppies in the basement of his house and said, "Oh, no!" Those puppies
were absolutely adorable! In my opinion, Regina (Debi Mazar) and Floyd
(Chris Penn) were like Cruella and her henchmen, Horace and Jasper! I
was so glad when the puppies got them all dirty. I mean, what human
being would want to drown five sweet, cute, innocent puppies? When
Beethoven caused the deck of Taylor's (Ashley Hamilton) lake house to
collapse, I was relieved. This was because he saved Ryce (Nicholle Tom)
from being raped. In conclusion, I highly recommend this cute movie to
all you dog lovers or Charles Grodin fans who have not seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
The entire Newton family of Charles Grodin, Bonnie Hunt, Christopher
Castile, Nicolle Tom, and Sarah Rose Karr are back in their roles from
the first Beethoven movie. That lovable slobbering St.Bernard is also
back and he's now a family man.

In the first Beethoven movie the star has a leading lady who is a
female of the same breed. But now Beethoven's beloved is the object of
a custody battle between Debi Mazur and her ex-husband. Mazur doesn't
really want the dog, she's just using her as leverage. Now Beethoven
becomes a daddy when the female gives birth to four handsome young
pups.

This of course is a bad situation, but the Newtons one and all take a
hand and families human and canine are stronger than ever.

Debi Mazur does her best Cruela DeVille imitation in her performance
and she's Cruela if Cruela came from Bensonhurst in Brooklyn. Her
boyfriend Chris Penn is muscle head with his little gray cells few and
far between. They deserve each other, but they're pretty funny too.
Mazur looks like she's enjoying herself.

Best moment for me though is Nicolle Tom when young rich player Ashley
Hamilton invites her up to his bedroom for a quick romp. Beethoven
rescues her in a truly spectacular manner. Those St.Bernards are really
strong animals.

Beethoven's 2nd even got some Oscar recognition in the Best Song
category for The Day I Fall In Love.

Beethoven's 2nd may not have pleased the critics, but it's still fine
family entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
It was only because of the unexpected financial success of the original
film about the lovable St. Bernard dog that the makers decided to cash
in with a sequel the following year, I knew it had puppies in it so I
watched, from director Rod Daniel (Teen Wolf, Home Alone 4). Basically
Beethoven the St. Bernard dog has settled nicely living with the Newton
family, father George (Charles Grodin), mother Alice (Bonnie Hunt) and
the children, teenage daughter Ryce (Nicholle Tom), young son Ted
(Christopher Castile) and young daughter Emily (Sarah Rose Karr), he is
happy but he longs for something more. Then one day walking in the park
he meets female St. Bernard dog Missy, whose owners Regina (Batman
Forever's Debi Mazar) and Brillo (Kevin Dunn) are trying to settle a
divorce, she wants $50,000 and the dog, Beethoven helps Missy to escape
Regina and they fall in love. It is later discovered that Missy has
given birth to four puppies fathered by Beethoven, the Newton children
find them, Regina also finds out but wants to get rid of them, she is
told though that she could sell them off for big money, but the
children take them before she can get to them, and the three of them
hide and take care of the four puppies in the basement. Eventually
George and Alice find out about the four St. Bernard puppies, George
reluctantly agrees that they can keep and look after them until they
are more mature and can be given away, in the meantime the puppies are
given names, Chubby, Dolly, Tchaikovsky, and Moe, and George faces
anger and frustration of growing dogs, like before with Beethoven. The
Newton family are having financial difficulties, but they are able to
get away for a short vacation, being allowed to stay for free in a lake
front house owned by one of George's business associates, Beethoven and
the puppies are taken as well, and as time goes by the family are
united more and more. Regina and her boyfriend Floyd (Reservoir Dogs's
Chris Penn) are coincidentally staying near to the Newtons' vacation
residence, they go to the county fair where George and Beethoven enter
and win the burger eating contest, Missy escapes from the car she is in
nearby and is reunited with Beethoven. Regina recognises the children
and gets her opportunity to steal the four puppies, a chase ensues and
takes all characters into the wilderness, Floyd threatens to drop the
puppies into the river, George tries to stop the trouble, but Beethoven
charges in and sends him and Regina falling off the cliff into a pool
of mud, this breaks and they are swept down the river. In the end, five
months later, Brillo visits the Newtons after hearing what happened to
them, he explains that the judge for the divorce has given him full
custody of Missy, Regina gets nothing, Beethoven and she are happy with
George, Alice and the children, and the puppies almost grown up look
like they are staying as well. Also starring Ashley Hamilton as Taylor
Devereaux, Danny Masterson as Seth, Catherine Reitman as Janie and
Mousehunt's Maury Chaykin as Cliff Klamath. This film is essentially a
rehash of the first film, only with more dogs and a love story between
two St. Bernards, the cute puppies will make the younger audience
members smile, Grodin and Hunt are indeed amiable, Mazar is very
pantomime villain doing her Cruella De Vil act, and the naughty doggy
behaviour will get some chuckles, I agree what slows the film down a
bit is the sentimentality, but as an all round family film it is
reasonably good fun, not a bad comedy. It was nominated the Oscar and
Golden Globe for Best Song for Dolly Parton and James Ingram's "The Day
I Fall in Love". Worth watching!
