

I still don't quite understand why "GQ" never conquered the box office.
The movie is clever, hysterically funny, surprisingly moving and, as
one reviewer pointed out, more respectful of (and better at
communicating) the ideals of "Star Trek" than any of the recent "Trek"
movies or television incarnations. The script is inventive, the special
effects are vivid and powerful (especially when the actors see the real
ship for the first time, and when the rock monster rampages through the
ship), and the characters are incredibly well drawn.

I'm also puzzled by the negative reactions some people have to the
film. Does the film fail to register because the "Trek" social
phenomenon is unfamiliar to them, thus there's no frame of reference?
I'd really like to know.

Comedy is possibly the hardest genre to get right, because line
delivery, timing, direction and character shading all have to be pretty
much perfect or the movie just won't be funny. GQ nails these elements
-- right on the head and in virtually every scene -- and keeps up the
pace by constantly moving its characters forward. Tony Shalhoub (Fred),
Sam Rockwell (Guy Fleegman) and Enrico Colantoni (Mathesar) in
particular are so dead-on perfect in their scenes that lack of box
office and the Academy's traditional indifference to comedy are
probably the only reasons these guys didn't get Oscar nods. (Okay,
well, 1999 was also an incredibly strong year for American cinema.)

But GQ is also strangely moving -- particularly in the way it derives
comedy from despair. The actor characters' lives are in ruins, not
unlike the aliens they eventually save from extinction. Perhaps this is
why -- even though the characters don't know it yet -- the two groups
get along so well and why the actors make the decision to actually
become their TV characters in the end. This may also be why the dismay
in Mathesar's face when he learns the truth is so painful.

I suspect GQ also got lumped in with the likes of "Scary Movie" and
"The Naked Gun" movies in the public's collective conscious: It was
perceived as just another spoof and therefore not worthy of significant
attention. I hope the movie develops enough of a cult following that it
one day reaches that wider audience it deserves.

<|_=00=_|>

This film was amazing.  I saw the trailers and swore I'd never watch it.
A
couple of friends overruled this after watching it in the theaters, and
I'm
glad they did.

Not only is this film an amusing spoof of Science Fiction Fen-dom, it's a
brilliant action-adventure/science-fiction film in its own right.  The
only
other film I can think of that is a righteous satirical look, yet a
splendid
example of the genre, is the Fifth Element.

Galaxy Quest Has It All. Beautiful women in scanty clothing.  Love
interests.  Computers.  Space ships.  Ugly and evil monsters.  Blasters.
Arcane martial arts.  Dynamite catch phrases.  And best of all, the very
population that is satirized is the group that Saves The
Day.

The dialogue is brilliant - you'll find yourself quoting from this film
regularly.  The acting is marvelous.  Tim Allen doing William Shatner
doing
a Heroic Spaceship Captain is worth the rental all by itself, not to
mention
Alan Rickman's memorably dry performance as the
I-Am-Not-My-Strange-Looking-Alien
character.

The first thing I thought upon leaving the theater was that I had to see
this film again.  The first thing I thought upon seeing it again was that
I
would have to own this movie.  Check it out - you won't be
sorry.
<|_=00=_|>

Comedies are usually pretty tricky for me.  Either I'm laughing my head
off
and nobody else gets it, or everybody else is laughing and I'm looking for
the nearest exit.  But Galaxy Quest had everyone in the theater laughing,
including my companion--who hates science fiction.  It cut across ages and
backgrounds with a very simple premise--you are what you believe yourself
to
be.

As a fifteen year veteran of science fiction conventions, I've seen the
phenomenon from both sides of the stage.  I've met the get-a-lifers, the
just-for-fun guys, and the not-so-rare I'm-only-in-it-for-the profit gang.
I've met actors who loved the whole shebang, actors who loathed it, and
actors who didn't have a clue what was going on.  Fandom is a very big
place, with room for all sorts.

And Galaxy Quest got it right--the conventions, the costumes, the geeks,
the
groupies, even the mocking "mundanes" who attend cons looking for kicks.
It
took notice of all the science fiction cliches, acknowledged them, and
then
twisted them to its own comedic purposes.

Galaxy Quest captured not only the silliness of fandom, but the
inspiration
of it.  In the end, the demoralized and cynical actors found strength and
meaning in the same characters which stereotyped them.  The geeks saved
the
day.  The good guys won.  The bad guys provided entertainment to masses of
fans.  Things blew up.  And isn't that what science fiction is all
about?

The entire cast was excellent, especially Tim Allen and Alan Rickman doing
their best Shatner and Nimoy impersonations.  Special credit must go to
the
four actors who played the naive aliens.  Their wide-eyed innocence
reminded
me of the quality that drew me, and draws children of all ages into the
world of science fiction.

This movie didn't rely on vulgarities or overt violence.  It didn't need
to
resort to meanness or cruel jokes, either.  While it poked fun at science
fiction and its fans, it never resorted to the kind of mockery you see in
other films.

Galaxy Quest is a solid, funny movie.  Go see it.  Take the kids.  Go see
it
twice.
<|_=00=_|>

I generally rate films highly based on how often and how much I'd like to
watch them again. I can watch most films more than once, but only a few have
the necessary qualities to watch over and over again. Comedy films are never
that high on my list of "watch agains". After seeing a joke or comic scene
once, it's hard for it to have the same impact again and again. I well
recall being in tears of laughter when I first saw Airplane at the cinema.
But now I find it hard going and even the inflatable pilot only raises a
smile.

So it's rare that a film like Galaxy Quest (a scifi comedy) comes along, but
very welcome when it does. There's a lot of homage paid to Star Trek, of
course, and old scifi shows in general and fans of those will have no
trouble spotting the moments culled from those shows.

The cast are all exemplary in their roles as ex scifi stars who get
catapulted into the real thing and have to save the galaxy. Tim Allen and
Sigourney Weaver give good, solid performances here. In particular, Weaver
shows a talent for comedy here that was lacking in Ghostbusters.
Tony Shalhoub's bumbling, out-of-his-depth technician is also a nice
addition.

But out of all of them two really shine for me. Alan Rickman, whose facial
expressions throughout the film just have you laughing out loud without
needing to listen to what's being said. And Sam Rockwell, who plays the
"extra crewman" who's always convinced he's going to get killed, because
he's a nobody and not one of the regular cast.

The whole film is chock full of delightful silliness and memorable scenes,
such as where they enlist the aid of geeks to navigate them through their
own ship as the geeks know the plans off by heart.

A great film, much underrated at the box-office and destined to become a
classic.

<|_=00=_|>

'Galaxy Quest' couldn't be better. It's not a mockumentary, it's not a Star
Trek parody. It's pure comedy based on the Star Trek legend with excellent
actors and absolutely brilliant production.

The visuals are magnificent. You would expect nothing but mediocre stuff for
a space comedy, but this is not the case with 'Galaxy Quest'. These are the
best effects for a space movie, since 'Starship Troopers'!

The story is also very original and interesting. Not only jokes on thin air,
but a great story nonetheless. The triumphant ending is beautiful, it
elevates you! In fact, it would easily compete with the some of the best
Star Trek stories of all time.

Don't miss it!

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
There are very few comedies out there that manage to get laughs from
all of the jokes; "Galaxy Quest" is one of the few films that pretty
much gets them all.

As corny as it sounds, the film is practically perfect in its
execution. It parodies a genre that had been screaming for it for
decades. It's funny from start to finish and even manages to have a
heart while on the way.

When the film was first released in theatres, I didn't have any desire
to see it. I don't think the advertising was right for the film. I am a
huge "Star Trek" fan and I found the advertising made the picture look
stupid with juvenile humor. A co-worker insisted I see it, saying if I
didn't I would regret it for the rest of my life.

Luckily I didn't ignore him, because he would have been right!

There are a lot of reviews for this film here, most of them positive. I
am quite glad to see that I am not alone in my praise for this film.

Most certainly it's not "Citizen Kane" by any means, but for what it is
and what it is trying to do, it succeeds in every aspect. The
screenplay is technically brilliant (in terms of structure,
characterization, and wit!). ILM does a terrific job in the visual
effects department (as they most often do), and David Newman's score
not only parodies but also develops into a heartwarming action score (a
paradox? I think not!).

"Galaxy Quest" - If you haven't seen it yet and you love "Star Trek," I
only have to ask....."what ARE you.....waiting for?"
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing that makes a good movie good is always a great story.
The whole idea of actors from a long ago space series being mistaken
for being the real deal by actual aliens is indeed ingenious.From
there, you put together a top notch cast.They hit the nail on the head
there. Tim Allen is a natural for the Jason Nesmith role.A great cast
is nothing if they don't work well together.Not to worry.They are
superb. This movie is an excellent twist on the old good vs.evil
concept.There are movies whose ideas are so unique,you want to love
them and not be disappointed.Take my word,Galaxy Quest delivers the
goods.Warp speed!
<|_=00=_|>
A set of hammy TV actors turn up for a sci-fi convention only to be met
by real aliens who, having only seen them on TV, mistake them for a
real space crew.

Given that Star Trek and Star Trek fans are such campy jokes to start
with you don't have to have such the imagination of Charles Dickens to
see there is potential here.

The real surprise is that we don't get cheapo jokes, but fully formed,
fully funded jokes. Indeed there is more plot and budget than many
films that try play it straight.

The crew being actors think there may be a buck involved and go along
with what, they initially think, are over-the-top fans and before they
know it they are in space having a fully formed adventure.

Jokes about spacemen, mad Trekkies, transporters with side-effects,
token blacks, interracial love, British thesps who detest what they do,
aliens who don't have a sense of humour, characters who think they are
going to be killed because they don't have a second name, and lots,
lots more.

Once again I stress that this subject was a sitting duck for satire,
but what is amazing is how clever the script is, worse will win Oscars.
And the jokes just keep coming. Not all of them funny, but the ratios
of hits to misses is pleasingly high and the cast are good enough to
make themselves look like idiots as well.

The climax is both and funny and appropriate and had me laughing over
the final credits. Highly recommended unless you are the butt of some
of the film's bang-on-the-money jokes.
<|_=00=_|>
"Galaxy Quest" is an excellent feel good comedy that's enjoyable for
the entire family.

Even though the concept of the movie is not original anymore, the story
is still enjoyable and fun enough, mainly thanks to the cast who seemed
to be enjoying them selves during filming.

Tim Allen is surprising good as "William Shatner" like captain and Alan
Rickman is perfect in his role. Sigourney Weaver perfectly makes fun of
her own "Ripley" character from the "Alien" movies and plays the
complete opposite of this character. All the characters are fun and
entertaining because they are humane instead of heroic. There also is a
fine stereotype space villain.

The movie perfectly makes fun of "Star Trek", the fans and everything
else around it. Well, I'm not sure if making fun of is the right way to
say it, it's more like holding up a mirror, without making the Trekkies
look like complete fools.

But it's a comedy so how about some laughs? Well, there are a few
laughs but this movie is more of feel good, fun, entertaining comedy
instead of an hilarious one. The movie also knows to be emotional at
the right moments.

Other thing that contribute to the greatness of this movie are the
special effects and the musical score composed by David Newman.

By Grabthar's hammer...what a movie.

9/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

GALAXY QUEST (1999) ***1/2

Starring: Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver, Tony Shalhoub, Alan Rickman, Daryl
Mitchell and Sam Rockwell   
Directed by Dean Parisot, written by David Howard. Running Time: 104
minutes. Rated PG (for action violence and some gore, mild language, and
brief sex-related material) 

By Blake French: 

As I walked out of the theater in which I screened "Galaxy Quest," I thought
how surprised I was to have enjoyed what seemed as a cheesy family spoof.
But the film turned to be an action adventure with some really hilarious
moments. I loved the film. It has qualities of a successful science fiction
drama, but also contains a variety of comical characters that had the whole
audience overwhelmed in laughter. "Galaxy Quest" is right up there with "Toy
Story" in merit, it entertains adults and children alike, standing out as
one of the year's best family films. 

The story details the adventures of a canceled television science fiction
fantasy cast, similar in content to "Star Trek." "Galaxy Quest" is the name
of the program. In their years, the stars, including Jason Nesmith, Gwen
DeMarco, Fred Kwan, Alexander Dane, and Tommy Webber, were some of the
biggest, most popular names in TV. Now, their means of making a living is
signing fans' autographs for a price and being cast in amateur
presentations. 

There is very detailed character development here. The characters are
wonderfully cast and brilliantly portrayed. Unfortunately, most family films
don't contain the patience for such necessary material. We bond with these
characters; they are likable, funny, energetic and independent.  These
individuals are the key of success to this kind of movie.

The real plot begins when strange people come to Jason beging for him to
save their existence from a powerful evil force who wishes to wipe them out
of the universe forever. Naturally, at first our television star is
skeptical, but when the strange people turn out to be humble aliens and
transport Jason to their spaceship, he realizes this is something serious.
The aliens begin to explain that they think he and his "Galaxy Quest" team
are the only people in the universe who can save their race. He rushes to
the members of his old cast and tries to justify his experience. He says
that there are extraterrestrial creatures who require the help of their
"Galaxy Quest" characters. None of his friends believe him, but once again
give in when they find themselves transported off earth, onto the creature's
spaceship.  Of course, the aliens don't realize that their hopeful heroes
are simply out of work actors, but who needs to tell them? So it is up to
Commander Peter Quincy Taggart, Lt. Tawny Madison, Tech Sergeant Chen, Dr.
Lazarus of Tev'Meck, and Lt. Laredo to save the day for our innocent and
haunted alien life forms. 

"Galaxy Quest" is a slapstick comedy that is smart, and does not go over the
edge with its humorous material. It leaves room for several other essential
elements such as happiness, romance, honesty, excitement, and contains a
dramatic purpose. The story is very original, and contains a firm theme of
action in its premise. It also has lots of outstanding visual effects and
sight gags that are effective and interesting to watch. 

Although the film gets a little off-track near the end, "Galaxy Quest" is
still  high energy laughs audiences will come to the theater expecting. This
is one of the most victorious movies of this year in its execution of the
script because we anticipate what we are going to view is a silly comic
spoof. Even though parts of the film fit that definition, in the end we end
up with a lot more than that.

Brought to you by DreamWorks Pictures. 


