
Rarely can film satire make you laugh and be worried about the future
at the same time. Levinson's film does just that, with a great cast and
great writing, this film succeeds.

You may have noticed that many of the posts and reviews argue that this
is not plausible. Obviously these posters do not realize that satire is
supposed to be over the top and show what can happen in extremes, and
ironically, this came out just after Clinton's sex scandal, and is
still relevant today with George W. and will continue to be regardless
of the president. Also, some may think it oversimplifies the public as
idiots, but this isn't true, especially if they are being deceived and
information is withheld. There are some implausibilities, as in why no
reporters went to Albania or how other countries didn't get involved
other than denying the charges, but these are small and even addressed
in scenes with the rival candidates, news reporters and even CIA head
William H. Macy.

Really I don't know how anyone can not like this film since it is
smart, funny and scary all at once with fine performances and direction
all around. This is an American political satire classic that is sadly
becoming less satire as time goes on.

OVERALL: 9/10. Buy or at least rent before the satire becomes reality.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this before the brouhaha with Clinton and Lewinsky broke, and I
imagine most of the negative comments about this film came because they saw
it after and thought this was a Nostradamus film.  When I saw it, I thought
it started a bit slow, and was a bit too self-satisfied (like the scenes of
people crying at a concert; that seemed fake).  However, for most of the
way, this is sharp, biting, and yes, funny, though when I first saw it, I
thought it was more accurate in its Hollywood satire than on its government
satire.  Time, of course, proved me wrong.

David Mamet will never be universally loved, because not only does there
seem to be a large group that doesn't get him, but that thinks those of us
that like him are degenerates.  Myself, I happen to think he's one of the
best playwrights and screenwriters working today (though I'm split so far on
his novels).  His writing may be highly stylized, but I guess I'm in tune to
the rhythms of his dialogue.  And he doesn't assume his audience is dumb;
rather, he seeks to challenge them by asking you to come to your own
conclusions, rather than hit you over the head.  And he does that very well
in this movie; at the beginning, we may think Conrad Brean and Stanley Motss
are real sleazebags, but at the end, while we deplore the action they take
of faking a war just for political ends, we can't quite dismiss them
either.

Of course, a lot of that has to do with the performances of Robert DeNiro
and Dustin Hoffman (Anne Heche is also a standout as Winnifred Ames, the
increasingly bemused presidential aide).  DeNiro seems at first like a teddy
bear here, with his beard, his hat, and his bow tie, but he transfers the
energy associated with his more volatile roles (TAXI DRIVER, RAGING BULL,
GOODFELLAS et al) to guile and street smarts here.  The way his eyes probe
whoever he's talking to, and the way he anticipates almost every verbal
comeback the other person has demonstrates that(he can't anticipate every
event, of course, but once he gets used to it, he can).

But the standout here is Hoffman.  There's been a lot of comment on Hoffman
basing his character on Robert Evans.  My own theory is he read Lynda Obst's
excellent book HELLO, HE LIED, which talks about the producer's role, and
simply played that.  I formed that theory because of his mantra whenever
things go wrong, "This is nothing!", especially when Winnifred reads him the
riot act after their plane crashes.  There's a part in the book where Obst
talks about having to argue budget with the studio, and realizes it's all a
game where they have roles to play; she argues for more money, the studio
for less.  Just as Winnifred's role is to be pessimistic, and Stanley's is
to be optimistic.  And Hoffman never condescends to Stanley, instead showing
a talented, maybe amoral guy who deep down is so insecure that he values
credit even over his life("F*** my life, I want the credit!" is one of the
best lines of the film").  Contrary to his line, this film is not
nothing.
<|_=00=_|>

I do not understand the people who did not like the movie. For me this
is the greatest political satire since Chaplin's "The great dictator".
Both de Niro and Hoffman are great as well. This movie is not about
Clinton although they did predict correctly the Kosovo war, and
Albanian terrorists. It is about American political system which is
made by and for TV. Several lines from that movie ("Why Albania?" -
"Why not?", "Albania does not rhyme", "What do you remember about the
Gulf war? One smart bomb... I was in that building when we shot that
shot", and many more) are impossible to forget because everyday
political life does not let us forget them.

<|_=00=_|>

Barry Levinson's under-rated "Wag the Dog" is a brilliant piece of satire
which is to the 1990s what "All the President's Men" was to the 1970s. The
president is in trouble after a sexual scandal with an under-aged girl.
Enter Robert DeNiro and Anne Heche who want to distract the nation with
something else as they try to get their boss out of the hot seat. The only
problem is: nothing is going on. So it is up to them to create something to
rally the country around the executive-in-chief. Now enter sleazy, but high
class Hollywood director Dustin Hoffman (in a well-deserved Oscar-nominated
turn) who is contacted to start an imaginary war. He agrees and the plan
works, but as time goes by more and more problems occur and the lies
continue to snow-ball. Levinson's excellent direction and Hilary Henkin's
clever screenplay raise the performances of all involved. Naturally DeNiro
and Hoffman are guaranteed to excel in a film like this, but good work is
also done by people like Heche, Denis Leary, William H. Macy, Woody
Harrelson and even Willie Nelson (!?). Somewhat ignored in 1997, but still
one of the best films of that year and one of the more important films of
the 1990s. 4.5 out of 5 stars. 
<|_=00=_|>

Wag the Dog is a brilliant satire of the American political system with
enough realism to make it plausible. It speaks the strongest to people who
already have a visceral loathing of the American democratic process (not how
it was in 1789 but how it is now). They see a degraded and ignorant public
easily duped by politicians who are no more than habitual liars who will say
anything to get elected but lack any idealism whatsoever. Intelligent,
funny, but also very depressing, 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

During the campaign to re-elect the president of America, an underage sex
scandal between a girl scout and the president in the oval office.  To
divert attention spin doctor Conrad Brean is called in to manage the fall
out and hold it off for the 11 days till the election.  Conrad employs
Hollywood producer Stanley Motss to produce a war in Albania to divert the
media away from the real story.

This was made before Clinton was accused of misconduct with Monica Lewinsky
and the subsequent re-start of military action in Iraq.  This seemed to give
it a much greater feel of realism and much more credibility.  However even
before this happened it was still a very sharp and very good satire on
political spin, but also managing to have a dig at Hollywood movie types. 
The story is told in a very stage-play fashion and is dialogue driven with
very funny moments throughout.  It's not as terrifying as a real look at
media manipulation could be because it chooses to be a comedy instead but it
still makes plenty of valid points.

The two leads are excellent at the head of an all-star cast.  De Niro
manages to be a professor-style character while at the same time having an
easily accessible sense of menace just beneath the surface.  Hoffman is good
sending up Hollywood producers well and drawing parallels between the
creation of a film and the creation of political news stories.  The cast
also has a series of cameos and extended cameos who add both humour and
quality to the film - Willie Nelson, Denis Leary, James Belsuhi, William H
Macy etc.

Recently in the UK we've had huge problems with spin doctors running the
Labour Government - to the extent that 11th September was described as
"good" by one as it gave them the chance to bury several bad news stories
that they had stored up.  And more recently with various Governments' waging
a media war to win support their stance regarding military action.  This
film doesn't make hugely serious points but it does make you think about how
the media is used to shape public perception and make us think what those in
charge want us to think.

Overall a very funny, very clever satire that has a great cast, the only
criticism being that it stretches it's point a little too far with the "old
shoe" section.
<|_=00=_|>

It had been a while since I last watched 
this film, but I once again remembered 
the reasons why I loved it so. Thoughtful 
and evocative, this film really captured the 
nature of politics and spin doctoring. This 
certainly ranks as one of the best political 
comedies of all time. The over-the-top 
attitude of the film didn't detract from anything, 
making this still quite believable. It also 
demonstrated how people's emotions 
can be manipulated when aggressively 
attacked. The fragile nature of the human 
spirit tends to make us more susceptible 
to such manipulations, as demonstrated 
in this film. With the exception of Anne Heche, 
everyone's performance in this film was 
rather good. The only other downside was 
Mark Knopfler's score, which was completely 
out of place in this film.
<|_=00=_|>

Hollywood is sometimes able to produce satirical films that, in
retrospect,
appear to predict future developments in American politics. `Being There',
the story of a simple man whose homespun philosophy is taken for profound
wisdom and who, as a result, becomes a candidate for President, may look
like a satire on the Reagan administration, but in fact it was actually
released in 1979, during the Carter years. `Dave', which features a
womanising President called Bill whose marriage is in trouble because of
his
adulterous relationships and his trimming of his radical principles, came
out in 1993, just after Bill Clinton had taken office. It must, however,
have been planned well in advance and was presumably not actually intended
as anti-Clinton satire, but that is how it tends to come across today.

`Wag the Dog' is another film that proves to have been unintentionally
prophetic. Shortly before an election, the President is embroiled in a
potentially explosive sex scandal which threatens to end his presidency in
disgrace. In order to distract the public's attention, his advisers
concoct
a wholly fictitious military crisis in the Balkans and hire a Hollywood
producer to provide the necessary harrowing footage of war scenes. When
the
Albanian government protest that their country is not in fact at war, the
aides present this as a triumph of American diplomacy that has averted the
threatened crisis, and, in order to keep the affair in the public's mind,
concoct a further sub-plot involving a supposed military hero (in real
life
a convicted rapist in a military prison) held prisoner by a rebel faction.

All of this may seem very familiar, but bear in mind that this film was
made
in 1997, two years before President Clinton, faced with a potentially
explosive sex scandal which for a time threatened to end his presidency in
disgrace, took America to war over a crisis in the Balkans. At least he
didn't need to concoct a fictitious war. The parallels with the more
recent
Iraq war are perhaps less exact, although the scenes involving the
supposed
hero `Old Shoe' were strongly reminiscent of the ballyhoo surrounding
Private Jessica Lynch.

Like `Being There', `Wag the Dog' is not, of course, a work of social
realism. In real life, a simpleton like Chance could not become President
without being found out, and no administration could actually get away
with
inventing a bogus war. (That's why they have to provide real ones).  In
order to make a satirical point, both films exaggerate prevalent
tendencies
in modern political life. `Being There', among other things, is about
self-deception- Chance never pretends to be anything he is not, but those
around him deceive themselves by seeing him as what they want him to be.
`Wag the Dog', on the other hand, is about political `spin' and the
deliberate deception of the public. Politicians try and deceive as many of
the people for as much of the time as they think they can get away with,
and
the media will go along with such deception for as long as it is in their
interest.

`Wag the Dog' has some sharp points to make, and there is a very good
performance from Dustin Hoffman as the Hollywood producer Stanley Motss.
Motss is recognisably suffering from status anxiety in its most acute
form-
the form that afflicts the brilliantly successful and wealthy man who
still
feels undervalued by society and will do anything, however unethical or
even
dangerous to his own safety, to win public recognition. (He complains that
there is no Academy Award specifically for producers, ignoring the fact
that
one is not needed because the producer traditionally receives the Best
Picture award).

Despite that, however, I felt that the film as a whole was not as sharp or
as funny as it could have been. I think the reason is that it is basically
a
one-joke film; once the war story has been exploded, the plot tends to
lose
direction. The idea of concocting a wholly bogus war is a brilliantly
surreal satirical conceit; the idea of concocting a bogus hostage drama,
although more inherently plausible, lacks the same inventiveness, so the
`Old Shoe' scenes come as something of an anti-climax after what has gone
before. I felt that Robert de Niro as the presidential aide Conrad Brean
was
less effective than Hoffman; I have never thought that comedy is his forte
and that he is at his best in serious roles. (I may be judging unfairly,
as
there are several of his comedies that I have not seen). I also felt that
it
was a mistake not to show the President in the film- this may not be a
realistic film, but the idea that a spin doctor could create a fictitious
war without even the President being aware of what is going on strains
credibility past its limits. Moreover, as we found out with Nixon and his
attempted cover-up of the Watergate affair, the culture of spin involves
our
elected leaders themselves, not just members of their staff. Overall the
film had its moments but could have been better. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a thoroughly enjoyable movie. The story is probably familiar so
I'll just summarize it. The president of the USA gets caught having sex
with a teenage Firefly Girl and DeNiro and Heche hire Dustin Hoffman,
an old Hollywood hand, to produce a distracting event, like a war with
Albania, to flood the media and distract the public's attention for
long enough (11 days) for the president to be reelected.

One thing after another goes wrong and each time Hoffman comes up with
yet another colorful lie to extend the life of the story. The CIA
publicly ends the war prematurely? No problem. "This is NOTHING!" cries
Hoffman, "You ought to try shooting 'The Four Horsemen of the
Apocalypse' when two of the four horseman die two weeks after the
beginning of principal photography!" No war? No problem. Hoffman
invents a hero who was left behind in an Albanian prison camp. "Every
war has a hero." The man chosen to be the hero -- Woody Harrelson --
turns out to have spent the last twelve years in a military prison for
raping a nun. Lies are piled upon lies.

We all know that political spin is put on everything that happens in
Washington. This movie came out in 1997 during Clinton's presidency but
he never started a war to deflect criticism. And yet the way Levinson
has directed it, and the way the performers attack their roles, it is
almost completely believable that deceptions like this take place.
Hoffman stretches his acting a bit but he is never so hammy that he is
unbelievable as a Hollywood producer. "Ramon, bring me my veggie shake
now." And, "They told me I couldn't make 'Moby Dick' from the point of
view of the whale!" He brings to the part some of the smooth-talking
duplicity that he showed in "Papillon" and "Midnight Cowboy." He glows
with self satisfaction as he spells out his accomplishments to DeNiro.
"This is the greatest thing I've ever done, bringing this war to a
satisfactory conclusion." DeNiro: "But there was no war." Hoffman:
"That makes it all the more difficult." Nobody else is in the least bit
over the top. They play it the way Levinson directs it, as a realistic
straightforward story. None of the actors seems to know that he or she
is in a comedy and it works very well.

I don't think I'll mention any more of the gags because I don't want to
spoil it. But it's hard to forget the scene near the end of the film
when Hoffman is looking out the window at the funeral of Harrelson's
character. Huge American flags, the casket being carried by the "men of
the 303" (invented for the occasion). Hoffman spreads his arms
expansively and says to DeNiro -- "Look at it. The whole thing is a
******* fraud, and yet it's 100 percent honest!" A victim of his own
egotism, Hoffman decides that he wants credit for the production and is
perfunctorily disposed of, having "suffered a massive heart attack
poolside." 

This was probably a funnier movie when it first appeared. President
Clinton and Monica Lewinsky and Linda Tripp and all that. A war built
on a string of lies seemed so outrageous that it was impossible to take
a movie like this seriously. Well, circumstances change. The movie is
still a great success but my heart sank at the sight of the flag-draped
coffin returning from "Albania." The story seems equally outrageous
now, but in a very different sense of the word.
<|_=00=_|>
Can a movie created in the late 90s still speak to a voting audience in
the late 2000s? Prior to "Wag the Dog" my answer would be "no", but
watching, and now re-watching it for a second time in the past week,
this film could be watched today, watched next year, or even watched
prior to the next four elections, and it would continue to feel
current, real, and modern in today's political/cinematical world. The
power of the dialogue, the intense chemistry of the characters, and the
constant interruption of the television generation into the political
world will continue to keep "Wag the Dog" out of the black hole of
cinema – it will not be dated, never forgotten, and forever enjoyed. As
we continue to allow CNN to give us our news, this film will remain as
vivid as America's apple pie.

Act I: The Chemistry of the Characters 

Robert DeNiro and Dustin Hoffman could play chess for three hours, and
it would capture my attention from beginning to end. DeNiro is a
powerhouse of an actor, not just because he can play the tough gangster
type, but also because he can take a character like Brean and give us
simple, verbose, and intelligent. His range can be seen throughout this
film. He commands each scene that he is in, focusing our attention on
each of his words and lingering on his next move. In my eyes, it is
more powerful than "Goodfellas" or "Casino" because of his subtle
nature. The scene that stands out for me in "Wag the Dog" that requires
viewing for DeNiro's talent is that between CIA Agent William H. Macy
and DeNiro discussing the honesty of the war on Albania. To me, this
shows the power of his talent.

Jumping onto the other side of this film, there is Dustin Hoffman.
While DeNiro pulls his obvious strengths with this film, Hoffman makes
"Wag the Dog" more than just a political film. Listening to the
commentary, Hoffman discusses the fact that he nearly didn't make this
film because he couldn't find Motss's character. Thankfully he did, due
to his compelling portrayal; we are taken from political conspiracy
cinema to this raw human drama. The final act was sublime due to both
DeNiro and Hoffman's chemistry, but also because we believed Motss'
words. As audience members, we wanted to see him tell his story
(knowing that he never would). It was the human element, the Motss'
true self, that we were drawn to, and Hoffman stayed true to those
moments until the very end. This isn't your typical Hollywood happy
film, this basis itself on – albeit conspiracies – but honest
conspiracies. Could you survive the greatest hoax ever and promise not
to tell a soul? Surrounding these characters, we had Willie Nelson,
Denis Leary, Anne Heche, Kirsten Dunst, William H. Macy, John Michael
Higgins, and – who could forget – Woody Harrelson. These are our
players, and they take us from scene to scene with the greatest of
ease.

Act II: The Writing & the Directing 

David Mamet. Does anything else need to be said? Having been a full
time follower of his work, I was not surprised to see that it was his
quick-witted words coming from our characters' mouths. It is the
fast-paced level of intellectual banter that transforms "Wag the Dog"
into the powerhouse that it is. It works because you finish watching
the characters actions and it is the words you find yourself quoting
for weeks after. Mamet's political punch to this film was reminiscent
of Kubrick's ideas behind "Dr. Strangelove". The two were films that
were absurd, but it was also the ideals that they were satirizing that
makes both viewable today; just as powerful as they were when they were
released. Mamet's words with Barry Levinson's direction takes "Wag the
Dog" into perfection. There are no heroes, there are no villains, and
we know so little about the characters that it is simply the story, or
the words, that pull us into this film. The beats are hit, the angles
are crisp and tight, and our characters are perfection – possibly the
best casting in years. With this in mind, we have only the third act
remaining – cause, as everyone knows – there is always a third act! 

Act III: The Final Thought

Overall, "Wag the Dog" is perfect. Very few films in my eyes fully
carry the honor of being watchable at any time, any decade, or any
political year – but "Wag the Dog" does. Watching with a group of
friends, I was surprised as to how many had not seen this feature,
remembering that it had been birthed nearly 11 years ago, it still
seemed surprising. "Wag the Dog" overturns those political conspiracy
theories and makes you laugh, think, and realize the impact of our
commercial media. It was enjoyable to hear the current terms like
"plumber" and "commercial president" in this 1997 film, boasting the
truth that this film was made before its time. Looking back, there are
those that could complain about our premise being too cliché, that the
same conspiracy theories have been done again and again, but to me,
this was fresh. This entire film was fast-paced, amazingly acted, and
media driven. In the commentary, it is talked about how it is rumored
that the media doesn't even check sources any further, and this is a
glowing example of that regime.

Grade: ***** out of *****
