

I remember when i had a short stint working for this telemarketing
company,
my boss used to always say "A sale is made on every call. Either you sell
them what you are selling or they sell you an excuse."
This is the message that this film hammers through: the lure of fast money
and the power of persuation; you can destroy someone's life with one
phonecall.
Now unlike the characters in Boiler Room, im not trying to scam you out of
your life savings- so stop reading these reviews and see the
movie.
You won't regret it. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Although Giovanni Ribisi is the main character, Seth, one of the most
outstanding performances is by Vin Diesel as Chris.  In Boiler Room he
shows
that he is more than muscle as he acts his pants off!  If you like Wall
Street, you will love this - there is even a tribute to it in the movie.
An
intelligent movie dealing with the desire to get rich quick, regardless
of
the consequences.  A must see!
<|_=00=_|>

This film owes a credit to Glengarry Glenn Ross and Wall Street, but I
actually liked this better.  Why?  Because it seemed more real to me (the
script and acting probably did it) than the other films.  I liked the
Giovanni Ribisi character, who changes slightly through the film, but
eventually we see the real side of him, which is great.  Funny, thrilling
and cool, this film may not be for the weak at heart, but it is for anyone
who can afford the tickets.  Ben Affleck appears (in one of his better
performances) as Ribisi's showy and pushy boss at the stock place.  One of
the better films (top 20) of the new year.  A+
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know all there is to know about the stock market.  I know the basics
and that could get me by until I asked people that were much more well
versed and graceful when it comes to that side of business.  I do know
however that the stock market can be sleazy and deceitful at times and it
can also be cut-throat economics.  With this in mind I went into this
picture with high hopes of at least a film that would teach me something
about a part of life that I knew very little about.  I was also intrigued
because Ben Affleck looked like he had the Alec Baldwin role from Glen Gary
Glen Ross, that small but explosive role where the seasoned vet comes in and
tells eveyone how to sell, when to sell and what the best way to screw
people out of their money is..... and hey, what do you know, I was right. 
Ben Affleck does have a similar role to Baldwin's.   But what I wasn't
expecting was the film that was before me.  Boiler Room is one hell of a
film and even if you know very little about stocks and bonds and insider
trading and what-not, there is still plenty in here to keep you
intrigued.

The actors in here, while not huge by name alone, are quite good and keep
your attention.  As I said earlier, Ben Affleck intrigued me the most,
perhaps it isn't so much him but the character he plays.  He was the
cocky-know-it-all-millionaire-playboy that cares about nothing but closing
the deal.  He is greedy, self centered and most of all damn good at what he
does.  He teaches the new recruits how to become ruthless and mechanically
shut off emotionally.  In his world of stocks, there is no place for
feelings of guilt, sorrow or pity.  In his world all you have time for is
greed and anxiety.... anxious to cash you next $100 000 paycheck.  Ben
Affleck has a small role in the film but it is an effective one. 

Giovanni Ribisi plays the good guy here, Scott Caan plays a young and
wealthy broker that uses his wealth and power as a way to let go of his
anger by constantly getting into physical altercations.  But in an
impressive smaller role, the one who impressed me the most was Vin ( Caparzo
from Saving Private Ryan and also the lead in Pitch Black )Diesel.  He plays
his character ( Chris ) right down the middle.  He wants Seth ( Ribisi ) to
succeed but he doesn't seem as ruthless as some of the other brokers and at
the end he does something incredibly noble in the face of imminent doom, and
that is what I found compelling about his character.  Most of the other
characters are all driven by success and money and show little compassion,
but Chris ( Diesel ) does have that side to him and I enjoyed Diesel's
performance quite a bit in Boiler Room.

The story is also quite intriguing and it is both fun and a little horrific
to get into the heads and lives of these men as they deliberately try to
ruin people's lives in the hopes of bettering their own.  They fraudulently
sell normal people bogus stocks to bogus companies and it doesn't matter
that the people they are selling to are family, blue collar workers that
want so badly to believe the American Dream has just landed in their lap
that they believe anything that these total strangers are saying to them
over the phone.  And that gives the movie it's edge.

Boiler Room is the best movie I have seen so far in this new year.  Although
the new year is not even 4 months old yet, this is one film that may have a
chance to make my top ten list of films for the year 2000.  This is the
first film for writer/director Ben Younger and at the age of 27 it looks as
though this guy has a good future in the game.  Not that I am comparing
Younger to Spielberg or Boiler Room to Jaws, but Steven was 26 when he made
Jaws and look where he is today.  Again, I am not saying that Younger is
following in those footsteps but it is a great film for a guy that is three
years less than 30.  I highly recommend this film to everyone!

8.5 out of 10.... a great triumph for Ben Younger and all
involved.
<|_=00=_|>

The plot in Boiler Room is true to reality. A friend of mine was telling
me
about an outfit he used to work for in the 80's. Worked just like JT
Marlin.
They switched name three times in two years. My friend called people who
lived far away so he wouldn't have to run into them at the grocery
store.

The way the company keeps their brokers hungry is by encouraging
excessive
spending, such as luxury cars, so they have to make even more money to
keep
up with the lifestyle.

Boiler Room has a group of young actors that all play their parts well.
Giovanni Ribisi makes a good appearance, and Nia Long needs to be in more
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
The large and well-selected cast turned in very powerful performances.
They crafted a convincing range of emotions, from cunning cut-throat
manipulators of their clients' personal wealth during office hours, to
brief examples of their "boys will be boys" shenanigans after hours.
The story line is built completely around their personal financial
greed, the hapless victims they scammed to realize it (with the
greatest focus on one of them), and a well-sustained sense of mystery
that plants seeds of possibilities along the way. The ending was not at
all predictable; it could have gone in any of several directions. The
viewer gets the impression that if these predators could yank even the
last remaining penny out of a client on his (they targeted males)
deathbed, they'd gleefully do so and view it as a major coup giving
them full bragging rights. There's a hint of information about how
legitimate stockbrokers earn their credentials and that was
enlightening. The romantic angles are minimalized and that serves to
benefit the film. The language is consistently coarse, but certainly
seemed realistic for the characters' ages, their business sector and
their work ethic. For everyone who enjoyed "Glengarry Glen Ross," "Wall
Street" (both of which are alluded to in the film), or even more
appropriately "The Crooked E: The Unshredded Truth About Enron," this
feature will really score a bulls-eye.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll sum this film up in 5 words, 'on par with fight club'.

This is a great film, every second of this film is worth 9/10. I'll
start with the films flaws. Firstly, the main character is very weak,
I'm not sure whether it's poor writing or bad acting but he just comes
across as an idiot rather than the deep, flawed, entrepreneur that the
film wanted to portray. Secondly, even in the year 2,000 floppy disks
were an ageing technology, without giving much away there's a scene
where an entire companies data is copied to a floppy disk. The film
includes a lot of central characters and doesn't provide any back-story
for any of them, this wouldn't be so much of a problem if the central
character wasn't so weak but by the end of it you feel as though you
haven't seen a single character develop or even begin to understood any
of the characters but you have just seen a good film.

Praise: This film is amazing. The film really captures the desires of
society and gives them a face. The characters really convey the shallow
two facedness you come across every day where they're happy and
pleasant until something happens that could even remotely damage their
cash flow. Every person you've ever met that wanted to make a quick
buck is in this film, the consumerism and lack of social conscience
that constantly plagues society is so prevalent in this film. It also
approaches the topic of share trading from a much more accessible
angle, they don't put much effort into adding the right industry terms
or showing scenes of the NY stock exchange - they show the consequences
of share trading, the lack of understanding of the average consumer and
give you a better understanding of where the money comes from. If
you're anything like me then this film takes you on a ride where you
are the main character every step of the way until finally you return
to life with a much deeper understanding of the desires people succumb
to in modern society. This film includes very young appearances by a
lot of famous actors, Ben Affleck, Vin Diesel etc. who all pull their
weight to give life to the film. I'm explaining the film in a very
stale way but I can't help it, it's on par with 'fight club' - you
can't explain why the film is good in a way that does it justice, just
watch 2 hours of cinema that will improve your quality of life.
<|_=00=_|>
Boiler Room is basically about a young college drop-out, played by
Giovanni Ribisi, who is seeking the quick way to the top. He starts an
illegal gambling casino in his home, but is soon offered a job as a
stock broker. This is a fast-paced occupation full of young guys who
don't know what to do with their money. They gamble constantly, they
party constantly; drugs, women and cars. On the surface, this is easily
brushed off as a formulaic, pop-culture movie. If you pay attention
though, this is a lot more than that. The subtext for this story is the
relationship Ribisi has with his father. This relationship holds a lot
of tension, and through the film goes through many changes both
positive and negative, and culminates in a tear-jerking revelation.
I'll admit it, I almost cried. But there is also a lot more going on
here, most notably the story of one of Ribisi's clients who had
domestic problems he had to face with his wife and children. His
performance was impressive, and you really felt for him.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in the old days what Giovanni Ribisi went to work at was
euphemistically termed a 'bucket shop' and the practice of holding onto
profits and never really paying except in select instances was referred
to as 'bucketing'. The regulations put in during the New Deal curbed
them somewhat, but the deregulation that occurred during the Reagan
Years put operations like these back in business. That and
telemarketing did the rest.

Our protagonist in this film is Giovanni Ribisi who's a kid that I can
somewhat identify with, one who can't seem to please his rather stern
father, Ron Rifkin, who also happens to be a federal judge. He'd like
for Ribisi to get into traditional professions like law or medicine,
but Ribisi is a child of his era and is on the lookout for a quick
buck. That he gets from his current endeavor which is running a small
casino out of his apartment. Though illegal Ribisi runs it honestly,
but that fact makes no never mind to Rifkin.

One of his steady patrons, Nicky Katt, interests him in going to work
at his brokerage house which is not located in the heart of Wall
Street, but out on Long Island. 

Gordon Gekko would be proud of this bunch, trained by Ben Affleck who
lives the Gekko creed from Wall Street of 'greed is good'. But this
crowd could never get in Michael Douglas's front door, remember what a
hard time Charlie Sheen had in Wall Street. You've got your list of
prospects, aka suckers, and you get on the phone and sell, Sell, SELL,
but only what you want sold in a given period. The activity drives up
the price and then it deflates, but not before the broker gives out. On
Wall Street, it's called 'kiting' a stock.

Michael Douglas's Gordon Gekko takes us to the rarefied world of big
time Wall Street corruption. These guys are the minor leagues of the
same sport. Ribisi as he soon finds out was living more honorably as a
casino entrepreneur. But he can't get out mainly because dad seems to
have somewhat changed his attitude. And Rifkin's respect is all he
wants.

Boiler Room works best during the scenes with Rifkin and Ribisi, their
up and down relationship is the key to the whole film. Other
performances to watch out for are Nia Long as the secretary clearing
$80,000.00 a year because of her insider information, Vin Diesel as a
cheery hedonistic sort of bucketeer, and Nicky Katt is a more intense
variety of the same breed.

The one to really watch out for is Ben Affleck. It's a small part, but
Affleck does wonders with it. Now this is a man who could really have
made it Gekko's world and wouldn't have had the trouble that Charlie
Sheen had crashing it or the conscience pangs after he discovers what
it's all about. Affleck should have gotten Oscar consideration in the
Supporting Actor category.

In fact the whole film is sadly overlooked, don't miss it if it is ever
broadcast.
<|_=00=_|>
There is hardly a movie that after nearly a decade proves even more
real than reality itself, thus being perhaps one of the most prescient
movies ever. Who would 've predicted that in less than a 10-year time
America and the world would have found itself on the brink of a total
collapse with eggheads and presidents alike unable to do anything to
stop this chaos , having been brought on by that very human quality in
its most negative sense , namely one of the basic destructive forces
within men –greed ?! Yep , the authors of this film should be
immediately named presidents of Harvard Economics Departments for
painting a completely real picture of 25year old brokers at a anonymous
JT Marlin , where only one rule applies : from now on you are in the
world of 'as if ': act as if you were a multi-billionaire,as if you had
a 9 inch penis ' , as the sky is the limit , and those selected ,will
earn their first million$ within a year , and how - by lying , by
selling non-existing stock to 'suckers'or to 'the old and dumb ' .No
level of shenanigans , subterfuge, pretense is shied upon , as long as
the line is open , and hundreds , perhaps thousands , constantly fed by
the Orwellian propaganda of joy , prosperity and progress are virtually
standing in line to feed their primordial sin – avarice ! Even though
this little known celluloid work of art , propelled with a proper
amount of fiercest rap and ingenious shots of Big Apple-sorry , more
like the most vicious image of Gotham City and its environs , ends on a
bright note, the damage of this philosophy of no work – roof top
returns are unfortunately seen today on every corner of the globe with
the horrible prospects ahead. Superb acting by everyone , specially by
G. Ribisi and V. Diesel and a film that must be shown as lesson number
one at all Economics Departments around this planet . With Nobel prize
winners for this arcane ' craft ' cum philosophy cum science-Economics
in obligatory attendance !
