

When I first saw this movie, I was ten, and even then I liked it. The script
itself housed very funny one liners, particularly form Spacey's character.
But I was amazed at how fast the film itself moved. In the first, you are
following these scientists going to Africa to find a virus outbreak. Next
thing you know, you're watching a helicopter go head on with a plane.

First comes the acting. Dustin Hoffman is stupendous as always, Rene Russo
plays Robbie with realism, Kevin Spacey makes for a good humor man, Cuba
Gooding Jr. pulls off the green man trying to earn respect, and being a
bad-ass at the same time. As always, Morgan Freeman is wonderful. Any role I
see him in is a role I remember. He's always different, too, neigh does he
ever repeat in characterization. Sometimes he's funny, sometimes he's
incredibly serious. Last but not least comes Donald Sutherland, one of my
favorite actors to date. He can jump into the shoes of any character,
including the general trying to protect a secret he knows he shouldn't. One
actor whom I particularly enjoyed watching was J.T. Walsh. It's a great
shame he died, I liked all his stuff from Breakdown to Pleasantville. He is
only in Outbreak for about five minutes, but he has one of my favorite
monologues in the history of film. He commands attention as he speaks.

Next comes the story itself. A very to-date story. A one all can relate to
because it could very well happen. A virus from Africa makes its way here
and begins infecting all, without a cure. I liked that there was a hero
aspect in Sam Daniels. he was the tracker, the hunter, the curist. Coupled
with the story comes the dialogue. Rich, under-appreciated, funny, and
serious all wrapped into one. As I said before, the monologue for Walsh is
brilliant. Many lines are etched into my mind, and are often used in
conversation. Too bad no one knows what I'm saying.

I'm a bit surprised this film didn't bode too well with audiences. Mayhap
they didn't want to see what could happen, who knows? My only complaint is
character endings. You insinuate what happens to McClintock and Ford, also
Sam and Robbie, but we don't ever see Casey again. I could infer that he
dies, but he could very well have survived. I wish there was a way to
know.

Finally comes Wolfgang Peterson's remarkable direction. I've been a huge fan
of his movies since this movie, including Air Force One, Enemy Mine, not
much for Perfect Storm, but his upcoming Ender's Game should be good.

At the end, I felt a certain sense of relief and wonderment. But I have to
say the soundtrack is rather exquisite. I have always liked James Newton
Howard, and though the cd is short in time, it's a time I cannot forget.
Particularly the end theme when it's chopper vs. plane time. What a song,
keeps me in suspense every time. I like songs that are taken for film
trailers as well. It's still too bad not a lot of people know about this
movie.

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
"Outbreak" isn't any kind of masterpiece, but worth seeing
nevertheless. Portraying the army trying to contain a deadly virus
brought by a monkey smuggled into the country, the movie seems
especially relevant, what with bird flu and all. A particularly
disturbing scene takes place in a movie theater, when a person coughs
and the camera follows the particles catching on everyone's lips as
they laugh, unaware of the fate that awaits them.

The always dependable Dustin Hoffman plays as intense a role as ever as
the colonel in charge of trying to control the virus. Rene Russo,
Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey and Cuba Gooding Jr. also play their roles
very well. Donald Sutherland's menacing looks are perfect for the kind
of character whom he plays. All in all, Wolfgang Petersen directs
another good one here.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was everything that many action thrillers are not.  For one, the
action really was thrilling at times.  The story was well written and
directed, and for a film that wasn't really "over the top" by action movie
standards, there were many tense moments to enjoy.  But what struck me the
most was the cast.  I mean, this is about as good a list of actors that you
will ever find in one movie, and they all deliver, just as you would expect
from all this talent.  It's truly one of the most exciting movies that I've
seen in some time. 
<|_=00=_|>
Hoffman is a U.S. Army doctor who specializes in disease control, and
is burdened with personal problems following a recent divorce. He and
his research team have their work cut out for them when they're
assigned to try and contain a new, terrifyingly deadly virus that's
made its way from Africa and caused an unprecedented epidemic in a
small U.S. coastal town. It's a race against time as they try and
locate the host animal carrying the virus, as well as save the lives of
the town inhabitants before his Army superiors can carry out their own
agenda. Suspenseful, well-crafted thriller is not always surprising,
but it is believable and acted with conviction by a dynamite cast. ***
<|_=00=_|>
Outbreak (1995, Dir. Wolfgang Peterson) 

It's 1967 and there's a deadly outbreak of 100% mortality rate virus in
Motaba River Valley, Zaire. The Valley is destroyed to prevent the
virus from spreading, but 27 years later, the virus finds its way over
to the USA aboard a monkey. This time though, the virus has evolved and
is now airborne, as Col. Sam Daniels (Hoffman) races to not only
prevent a virus epidemic but to prevent the destruction of Cedar Creek
by the corrupt Maj. Gen. Donald McClintock (Sutherland).

Great acting from its talented cast and superb storytelling make a well
made film which hooks you into waiting for the final outcome. Story
doesn't focus on the effects of the virus, but rather the hunt for the
cure, which makes a far better film.

You want a hotshot scope-jockey, fine, but, frankly, I'm hurt. – Maj.
Casey Schuler (Kevin Spacey)
<|_=00=_|>
When a disease in Africa is found , extreme measures are necessary to
stop a rapacious epidemic , as dinky Colonel Sam Daniels (Dustin
Hoffman) of the United States Army Medical Research Institute for
Infectious Diseases is sent to discover it . When he reports back to
his chef officer General Ford (Morgan Freeman) and tells him that they
should put out an alert on this disease but the General that since the
disease is so far away and not airborne that it can't possibly reach
the U.S . However, a monkey from that part of Africa was captured by a
man (Patrick Dempsey) and brought the USA and tried to sell it but when
the person he tried to sell it to rejected it he released it. Col.
Daniels wants to look into it but General Ford denies his request so he
turns to his estranged ex-wife (Rene Russo) , who works at the Center
for Disease Control or CDC to look into and they discover it's the
African disease but since it kills very quickly, Col. Daniels feels
that it's been contained until another outbreak and learns the virus
makes the bubonic pest look like a cough . The virus expands rapidly in
the air like a common cold but the Army superiors have an agenda to
their own . Meanwhile Hoffman must contain the virus that's somehow
made its way from Africa to the USA and the events go awry . But
military intelligence (Donald Sutherland) have other plans to avoid
deadly virus in which a sub-continent the size of America may be
consumed and decimated . 

Suspense thriller with plenty of action and intrigue about a deadly
virus is spread in the air . The pictures results to be a metaphor for
AIDS panic in the same way that 50s extraterrestrial films mirrored
fears of Red Menace . The story shows the scientific methods by which
such viral ills are identified and tracked , including touches on the
ethical problems as germ warfare , elimination of infected and several
others . Nice performance for all-star-cast as Hoffman , Russo , Morgan
Freeman as a good general , Cuba Gooding Jr as intrepid official expert
on helicopters , Kevin Spacey as helper and many others . Appears
unjustly uncredited T.J Walsh as US President , Dale Dye and Lance
Kerwin . Colorful and appropriate cinematography by Michael Balhaus ,
Clint Eastwood's usual . Stirring and adequate musical score by James
Newton Howard . Good direction by Petersen who does have its thrilling
moments , most of them in the first half , though the second half
degenerates in a superhero movie in which Hoffman turning into an one
army man -almost caricature and barely credible- against the military
intelligence represented by nasty Donald Sutherland . Wolfgang Petersen
has directed very good films since his beginnings in Germany with ¨The
Neverending story¨ and ¨Das Boot¨ ,after that , he emigrated US where
realized ¨Night of shattered crystals¨, ¨Enemy mine¨ , and the
successful ¨Air Force one¨and ¨The patriot¨ , though his last film was
a semi-flop , the remake ¨Poseidon¨. Rating : well worth watching ,
better than average .
<|_=00=_|>
With a deadly virus spreading like the Flu in the town of Cedar Creek,
Military and Civilian Viral Specialists Dustin Hoffman and Rene Russo,
are caught up in a race against time to discover a cure for this
Microscopic Menace, known as Motaba. This isn't the first time that the
virus has struck, but last time out is was hidden from the public and
remained in the hands of the Military, as the perfect Biological
weapon.

Desperate to keep the Weapon Safe, Morgan Freeman and Donald
Sutherland, will stop at nothing to protect it, even if that means
killing innocent Civilians.

With the cast already mentioned and support from Kevin Spacey and Cuba
Gooding Jr. the film is packed with fine acting performances, and
enough thrills and tension, to show us exactly how serious the threat
of this weapon is, and the lengths that people goto, to preserve it.

Very realistic in content, this is turns out to be a fine Dramatisation
of a very real threat.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Personally this film is in my top 10. It is a real treat of a movie to
watch which not only acts as pure entertainment but also a deeply
involving film which involves great performances and some real
thrilling moments. It all starts with the wipe-out of an African
village due to a deadly virus. However the virus is transported to the
US by a small monkey which is smuggled by boat. The film then tracks
along as more and more people get infected and the virus mutates making
it airborne and more of a threat. "It spreads like the flu" The actors
involved are Dustim Hoffman who as usual does an outstanding job. Rene
Russo is used well as a love complication. Kevin Spacy is brilliant as
the doctor with a sense of humour. Morgan Freeman and Donald Sutherland
seem to be having fun with the material and things get interested when
they clash at the end. The film, although thrilling at times (e.g a
spectacular helicopter chase and an attempt to break out of the
quarantined town) is extremely emotional as it does follow a few people
as they are diagnosed with the virus. However, this is where the film
also goes downhill a bit. We are expecting to see the chaos and mass
panic of a virus infected town. However things seem abnormally calm,
and I got fed up of main stars getting infected just to add to the
pressure to Dustim Hoffman's character.

But overall this film is brilliant, I strongly advise everyone tries to
watch this. it isn't everyone's cup of tea but is still a brilliant
film which I will treasure and keep in my top 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Next to big volcano's erupting, hurricanes and other twisters, diseases
are an excellent source of inspiration for the creators of disaster
movies. Why? The answer is quite simple. We all know that diseases like
Ebola and AIDS haven't always been among us, but that they were present
somewhere on this planet. We don't know how it suddenly finds us, but
it does. And since most of us are very scared of the unknown and we can
be pretty sure that not everything has been discovered yet, movies
based on this subject can be quite believable and scary.

When a new deadly disease is discovered in Africa, Colonel Sam Daniels
of the U.S. Army is sent to investigate it. As soon as he returns he
warns his boss, General Ford, that they should put out an alert on this
virus, even though it is far away from the USA and not airborne.
General Ford refuses, since it is contained and unlikely to show up.
But what both men don't know is that a monkey, carrying the deadly
virus with him, has been captured and is being shipped to the USA,
where a man who works at the customs house takes it and tries to sell
it to a pet store. But when the sale isn't closed, the man doesn't know
what to do with the monkey and releases it in the woods near a small
town in California. A few days later the man collapses and dies in
Baltimore and at the same time a new outbreak is starting in that
little Californian town. Colonel Daniels, his team and his ex-wife will
do anything possible to find a cure so they can save the population
from being bombed by the military, but what they don't know is that
there may have been a cure all along...

Overall the story of this movie certainly isn't bad, but sometimes I
started to find it all a bit too much. A new disease that mutates,
that's possible. The army that wants to know more about it, there is
nothing new about that. But than talking about military conspiracies, a
president who wants to bomb his own people... that one I really didn't
buy. And that's too bad, because I'm convinced that this could be a
very powerful movie, if only they should have left out a couple of
elements. Still, that's about the worst thing that I have to say about
this movie. The acting for instance is OK. With people like Dustin
Hoffman, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, Donald Sutherland,... they have
found themselves a very nice cast, which may well be the best reason
why you should watch this movie, even when you aren't a fan of disaster
movies (like me).

But not only the acting looks OK, so does the direction. With a man
like Wolfgang Petersen, I immediately have some high expectations of
course. He's the man that gave the world the ultimate submarine movie
"Das Boot" and that always makes me hope for the best. Even though this
movie never reaches to that extremely high level, it sure is better
than average. The man still knows how to create the necessary tension
and how to keep you interested. So, if it hadn't been for the not
always so effective story, this movie would have scored very high on my
list. Now I give it a 6.5/10 (which certainly isn't bad).
<|_=00=_|>

When a deadly virus decimates an African village, the US authorities
attempt to draw a line under the incident and take the line that a
reoccurrence is unlikely. However, a monkey has become a carrier for
the virus and has reached the US. When Jimbo Scott smuggles the monkey
out to sell to a pet store, he is infected and spreads it to others.
Eventually the local town of Cedar Creek becomes overrun and the US
form a barricade around the town. With the politicians planning the
destruction of the town to stop the virus spreading, Col Sam Daniels
and his team race to find some other way of stopping it.

Whether you viewed in back in 1995 or now, where the threat of viral
attack doesn't seem so unlikely, this film should be gripping on the
basis of the material. At points it does have good moments but
generally this generally suffers from trying to do too much and having
a script that cannot control its subject. For most of the film the
virus is almost a concept rather than a real threat and it talks a lot
without really delivering. Even when an entire town is quarantined and
dying, it all remains very calm where really it needed fear and panic
to seep into every character and every scene. Sadly it doesn't do this
and the film bogs itself down in personal infections, squabbling
ex-partners and so on – did we need the main characters to get the
virus? Wasn't it enough for an entire town to be dying and for the
world to be at risk? Anyway, at the midpoint the film suddenly becomes
an action movie with helicopter chases and a plot that can best be
summed up as 'catch the monkey'.

Even with this section, the flaws are rife – the action bits are OK but
it seems unlikely that finding a monkey somewhere in the US would be a
more complicated task! This is not to say that it isn't entertaining
because it just about manages to be enjoyable enough, but nowhere near
the potential that this had. Part of the reason is a plot that
struggles from logic gaps and a lack of intelligence and urgency. The
lack of intelligence comes from the film completely ignoring the moral
complexities that come with such a situation – the film ignores the
fact that bad things may need to be done to stop the virus and instead
just paints good guys (save the people) and bad guys (bomb the people).
The lack of urgency comes from the failure to really make the virus a
threat; really I needed Cedar Creek to become the US in miniature –
having everyone calm didn't do it for me and I needed more than just
two cars making a break for it. But then the writing generally isn't up
to the task and the heavy dialogue is pretty average at best with
clichéd lines and far too much 'personal' stuff between the main
characters.

Even the main 'bad' guy is a fudge as it just paints everything black
and white.

Another reason that this doesn't live up to its potential is the sheer
numbers of faces in the film. Hoffman makes a strange action star but
he does OK with what little he is given. Russo is no good at all and
happily has little to do but deliver the personal 'involvement' that
the film cannot manage to deliver any other way. Gooding is pretty good
in a semi-action role and Spacey has some good lines before he too
becomes a cheap emotional device. Sutherland gives a by the numbers
performance as he has nothing to really work with, but Freeman is more
interesting because he does. It's just a shame that this talented cast
were not used better in this film. An aside that was interesting to me
was that Dale Dye has a minor role in the film while also serving as
military adviser to the film. He is an interesting man because his
career has grown from adviser to being a reasonable actor to becoming a
writer, producer and (recently) a 2nd unit director – clearly a
motivated and talented man who it would be interesting to listen to
talk sometime.

Overall the potential is there but it is unrealised. The cast are great
on paper but have nothing to work with in a script that delivers
average dialogue, no real characters, no moral ambiguities, no real
involvement and no sense of scale or threat. It does have some pace at
times and it has enough 'OK' moments to be worth watching maybe once
but I was annoyed that the potential of the material alone was missed.
I think the film can be summed up by the ending – one minute we have an
exciting helicopter stand off and the next we have a pay-off that is so
lazy and so simplistic that I was actually visibly annoyed by it.
Passable entertainment if you are in an undemanding mood but it never
even gets near the potential it had.

