

One of the best points of this movie is what it seriously would be like to
be invisible.  I'm sure everyone, at least once in their life, has wanted to
be invisible, but how few of us really thought about the negative side
effects?  This movie shows them.  Nick (played by Chevy Chase, whose great
in a serious role,) gets turned invisible in a lab accident.  As soon as the
CIA find out about this, they stop at nothing to obtain him.  And if they
can't have them, no one can (including himself.)
Although the film has a large amount of funny parts and an overall light
tone, it isn't necessarily a comedy.  There is a serious over tone to it
that makes it very interesting as well as funny and can be enjoyed almost
purely for it's story line and insight on what it would really be like to be
invisible.
Definitely worth a look for anyone who's up for a good
movie.

<|_=00=_|>

Memoirs of an Invisible Man tanked in 1992, and was seen by many as a dismal
failure, and a sure sign of Chevy Chase's film career demise.  However, I, a
life-long Chase fan, was pleasantly surprised by the film, and enjoyed it
thoroughly.

It is fast-paced, quick-witted, and features a terrific dramatic turn for
Chase.  While the story is somewhat muddled, and the other performances,
especially Darryl Hannah's, remain a bit stoic and wooden, the eye-popping
special effects are truly top notch.

Chevy Chase has never been respected in Hollywood, and his movies are always
deemed as failures, but to me, and others, he is a comedic genius, either as
the familiar buffoon, such as Clark Griswold of the superb Vacation series,
or as the aloof wisecracker, such as Irwin Fletcher, in the Fletch
films.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some interesting lessons to learn from this film....not that
any of us will ever get to learn this since we'd have to be able to
turn invisible. However, when we think about all the fun we could have
being invisible, we don't think of all the problems it would cause us.
This movie brings some of those to light, so to speak.

I enjoyed Chevy Chase and Daryl Hannah in here and I am not fans of
either of them. Chase is funny in this film and does an outstanding job
playing the role not just with humor but drama, romance and suspense.
You get all of that in this movie. Hannah provides the beautiful face
and someone for Chevy to chase.

This is another PG-13 movie that really should have been rated R with
the language, for one thing. Overall, it's a film whose title may sound
hokey but the story is done well. It''s actually though-provoking.
Being invisible would not be all fun and games.
<|_=00=_|>
This John Carpenter movie is actually a really good spin on the entire
invisible man concept. Chevy Chase is a little too large of a man to
pull off the invisible man role. He does do physical comedy well and is
okay at drama here. Unfortunately, he's not at his "Fletch" level in
the movie either; something I'm sure everyone expected to happen,
because there's his completely unnecessary voice-over/narration.
Basically, this seems to be a casting mistake, and a part probably
intended for a non-comedic actor?

The fx are excellent, as we see an invisible man see himself eat, then
vomit; he smokes and we see a very short but stunning effect. And the
building where it all began is quite a feat of computer and chroma-key
engineering. There are a lot of fx here that predate every fx the
stinkfest "Hollow Man" gave us 8 years later. The chase (pun not
intended) and "Fugitive"-like story is hardly original, though
Carpenter does move things along for the most part. The very last scene
during the closing credits doesn't lend credence to the semi-serious
tone which preceded it.

Although "Memoirs--" is no classic, this invisible man movie is far
superior to the aforementioned dog "Hollow Man". And at least it has a
friggin' point.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen this movie a couple of times, and I like to watch it ever
since I saw it the first time when its on TV. The plot is moderately
original, the settings are good, and on top of all, we see great acting
from all three leads: Sam Neill, Daryl Hannah and - to my surprise -
Chevy Chase. My main memories about him the time I saw the movie for
the first time was him sitting behind the wheel of an estate car,
playing is undoubtedly most famous Clark Griswold character, which I
really do not like. The more astonishing that it just takes a darker
setting, some good co-actors, and the fact that he is visible only
about half the time of the movie, and there you go, some fantastic
Chevy Chase acting over there. He played his character very authentic,
although maybe a little too cool later on during the movie. Maybe this
movie cannot hold up to more popular Hollywood movies of its time, but
it is a quite decent story with good acting and some very nice ideas. 7
outta 10, with a +1 star understatement bonus.
<|_=00=_|>
Chevy Chase is at it again. This time he plays a yuppie who become
totally transparent after a freak accident. In "Memoirs of an Invisible
Man", Nick Halloway(Chase) becomes both victim and pawn of the CIA.
Halloway becomes invisible following an explosion in a laboratory
which, makes him a perfect weapon against the enemy. However, someone
in the CIA wanted him for more than that. So Nick escapes, and goes to
the woman he loves dearly, Alice Monroe(Darryl Hannah). She thinks that
Nick is dead, but when she sees the truth, it's out of sight.
Literally. Nick's personality and wit gives him the edge when
Jenkins(Sam Neill) would give him a promise to give him back his
molecules so he can be living a normal life again. So far, Nick finds
his condition a bit of a plus so far. He can play practical jokes,
without getting caught. The only way you can get caught is to misuse
the ability of stealth. It's a lot of fun, it's too bad it didn't do
well at the box office. This movie is perfect for home viewing I
believe. It wouldn't hurt to be invisible, just get used to it. 4 out
of 5 stars!
<|_=00=_|>
Memoirs of an Invisible Man is an Under-Rated Comedy from classic genre
director John Carpenter, it has Chevy Chase in the title role with fine
support from Sam Neil who is Chase's Nemeisis Darryl Hannah is the love
interest who look's great in the role ten years after blade runner. the
critics may of been harsh upon the film when it was released but like
many John Carpenter film's (witness the terrific The Thing')it later
found it's audience via video and DVD. the special visual effects by
industrial light and magic still stand out today especially the matte
paintings. all in all it's an enjoyable film although don't be
expecting an all out effect's extravaganza like his previous works as
this is more or less light hearted which is fine it's unfortunate that
Carpenter's track record has never produced anything memorable since.
<|_=00=_|>
In San Francisco, the stock market executive Nick Halloway (Chevy
Chase) does not like commitment and is a man with no family and very
few friends. One day, he goes to the bar and meets his friend George
Talbot (Michael McKean) that invites him to join his table with his
wife and their friend Alice Monroe (Daryl Hannah). Soon Nick and Alice
make out in the ladies' toilet and when Alice leaves the bar, Nick
drinks too much. On the next morning, the hungover Nick has to visit
his client Magnascopic Laboratories and he decides to take a nap in the
bathroom. However there is an accident in the building and Nick does
not hear the alarm for evacuation. Soon part of the building and Nick
become invisible. When the rogue CIA agent David Jenkins (Sam Neill)
finds that Nick is invisible, he convinces his supervisor Warren
Singleton (Stephen Tobolowsky) that would be very important to capture
Nick to be studied and he chases Nick everywhere. Meanwhile Nick is
seeking Dr. Bernard Wachs (Jim Norton) expecting to restore his
visibility. Will he be well succeeded? 

"Memoirs of an Invisible Man" is a totally different film directed by
John Carpenter, especially the music score that is not made by him. The
weak screenplay is lost between sci-fi, romance and comedy and the
story is too conventional. Daryl Hannah is very beautiful and together
with the special effects, make this movie worthwhile watching. My vote
is six.

Title (Brazil): "Memórias de um Homem Invisível" ("Memoirs of an
Invisible Man")
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS

Since Ralph Ellison wrote "The Invisible Man" in the 1950's, the notion
of the individual with the unique hiding ability has been well in the
minds of teenage boys the world over. Every male on the planet will at
one point or another have dreamt of being invisible and sneaking into
the girl's changing rooms. Often when people create their own films on
a similar premise, they always create the man as your well meaning
individual who wants to fix himself. Ultimately he's never your average
guy though. In 1992 though, John Carpenter directed Chevy Chase in
arguably the most unique aspect of this story ever.

In "Memoirs of an Invisible Man", Chase plays yuppie Nick Halloway.
Having a doze at a conference as a result of a nightmare hangover, Nick
is genetically altered and awakes to find himself transparent. Now
chased by Government agent David Jenkins (Sam Neill), Nick finds
himself an invisible fugitive.

This film is a great laugh for late night entertainment. With Chevy
Chase in his finest role, the film has a charismatic leading man who
manages to play the part superbly. Adding to this an eerie performance
by Sam Neill, and your on to a winner.

Yes, OK admittedly this film is never going to win any awards, except
perhaps for it's clever effects, but it's well worth watching. With
great performances, a decent script and a few good jokes, "Memoirs of
an Invisible Man" is a clever little film well worthy of praise. Enjoy
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: It' ain't great, but its funny and interesting, and packed
with wildly imaginative special effects. 

Part-Hitchcockian manhunt thriller, part-James Whale and part-screwball
special effects comedy, John Carpenter's 1992 misunderstood MEMOIRS OF
AN INVISIBLE MAN is a delightful although not entirely great comedy. Or
was it really meant to be a comedy? Although it's obviously a Chevy
Chase vehicle pumped up by (for-the-time) groundbreaking special
effects. But was it really a comedy? John Carpenter refuses to tell us
exactly what the identity of, not the character, bu the movie. It was
both a thriller, a comedy and a love story at the same time. And,
although Carpenter wasn't able to balance all three genres together and
make them mesh together completely, he does provide an interesting and
skillfully-made little film. The special effects are dated compared to
today's standards (By the following year, these kind of special effects
would be extinct and would make way for CGI with JURASSIC PARK) but
they are still quite convincing at some scenes. As a matter of fact,
they're actually quite funny in some scenes (The scene where Chase sees
the food he just ate digesting was pretty hilarious). The performances
are decent at best, with Sam Niell in fine form as the antagonist, a
ruthless undercover agent, and Daryll Hannah as a fine
damsel-in-distress. Chase is pretty good too, although due to his
comedic screen presence, it's quite hard to take him seriously during
his scenes that are meant to be serious.

Although flawed, MEMOIRS OF AN INVISIBLE MAN is a skillfully-paced and
hilarious film. It might be an overstatement to say Carpenter was in
control here, but no one can say he didn't at least do a passable job.

Rating: *** out of 5.
