

I guess that people can be split in two ways - those that like Kevin
Smith's
films and those that don't.  From watching his films, he seems to like his
characters to exist in his strange world where things are exaggerated and
ridiculous characters do unrealistic things.

That sums up Mallrats - it's the story of two friends who both lose their
girlfriends and then spend the rest of the day hanging around in the local
mall.  Whilst hanging around they meet friends and get into scrapes as
they
strive to get their girlfriends back.

I suppose if you looked at it coolly it's all a bit silly - fully of
ridiculous situations and scrapes that are resolved in unbelievable ways.
But then if you accept Smith's world of comic book style adventures and
cartoon film making then this is great.  Whereas his later Chasing Amy
brings adult subjects into the comedy - this is pure cartoon comedy,
although understand it's not dumb like slapstick - but crazy, clever
humour
with plenty of jokes occuring all around the main action.

OK the overall plot is weak at best, but the story is more about the
characters and the situations along the journey to the end of the film and
here is where Smith wins.  He has created crazy characters that are funny
and often exaggerated versions of people or of people's reactions to
situations (witness the magic-eye poster guy for an example of exaggerated
humour).

Lee is fantastic, this is the role he was made for - he reacts in an
exaggerated way to everything and really hams it up.  I suppose he's a
comic-book reading loser but in this world he is funny and in control.  He
is loud and abusive to others and it's great!  Jeremy London is a weak
straight man and doesn't really convince.

Jay & Silent Bob are good as always - although for most of the movie they
exist in their own little subplot of taking on the mall police.  Again
their
adventures are exaggerated for humour.

If you hated Clerks and Smith's other movies then you'll hate this.
However
if this world is one that appeals to you then you'll love this movie's
reckless abandonment of reality and enjoy the adventures involved in a
trip
to the mall.
<|_=00=_|>

As most Smith fanboys know, Mallrats has been trashed critically,
financially (bad box-office) and by a lot of Smith's own fan-base.

Personally I like it. Even without watching the DVD with commentary by
Smith
its obvious that this outing was backed by Hollywood, emitting a polish
and
lack of gloom that his other films don't have and thus gaining flack over
its lack of "Indie" look and feel and hammy storyline. Had this film been
in
black in white, shot using a cheaper production method, or had a less
happier ending, it possibly would have fared better with the fans than it
did.

Listen to the dialogue though and its soon apparent this is indeed pure
Smith. And it shines. The long diatribes about seemingly nothing, the
anti-establishment rumblings of Brody (who ironically spends a lot of the
film clarifying escalator ettiquite and other mall law), and a bigger
involvement of Jay and Bob (but not too much) make this as good, if not
better than the other Kevin Smith films and quite possibly my favourite of
his.

Its hard to rate this film, you'll either really like it and give it a 10
or
tuck into another chocolate pretzel after giving it a 1.

<|_=00=_|>
this is an incredible movie and if your a clerks fan (which I'm
assuming is the only Kevin smith film you've seen because its
blasphemous to watch them out of order) then this is even better.
mallrats is the kind of movie you watch once on DVD and don't take it
out of the drawer, because you know you'll wanna watch it later. its
laugh out loud funny and anyone remotely interested in the inner
workings of a geek or, like me, you are a geek, then this will give
voice to the geek generation and make it cool. Recently, The OC has
made comic books cool in the form of Seth Cohen. but before there was
Seth, there was Brodie.

easily the greatest character lee has ever played and the best
character that Smith has ever written, Brodie is obsessed with two
things, Comics and himself. and as long as the two are together, he
doesn't care. which is exactly what must be changed. ill let you find
out how.

jay and silent bob make a welcome comeback in a slightly more central
role with a lot more to do. with hilarious results.

i originally put 8 for this movie. but thinking about it again its a 10
and its going in my movies :) l8er days PaUl :)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is really extremely funny.

That is, if you are into either Comics, Science Fiction or Shopping
Malls.

The basic idea is simple: Two dumped guys try to win their girl-friends
back, and their brilliant strategy is to hang around in the local shopping
mall.

What makes the movie work is the wonderful mix of slap stick humor,
intelligent puns and gross sexual innuendos. The actors are excellent in
their roles, and I was surprised to see Ben Affleck and Claire Forlani,
two
coming actors, credited for supporting roles.

For a comic fan this movie is a awfully funny experience. But I can
imagine
that the film looses some of its appeal when you are not familiar with the
Marvel and DC comic heroes and the strange passion (and science) of
collecting comic books.

And to everybody who has also failed in seeing a sailboat in those dumb
3-D-pictures, this movie provides some comfort...
<|_=00=_|>

The second movie in Kevin Smith's 5 film View Askewniverse series is
Mallrats - a charming comedy about two losers, who, after being dumped by
their girlfriends decide to spend a day at the mall. - and try and win their
girls back. Jason Lee and Jeremy London play the dumped-and-depressed duo of
ex-boyfriends who both succeed in bringing to life the characters of .
Shannen Doherty and Claire Forlani - the two ex-girlfriends also perform
well here. It's been said - not just by critics and fans, but by Kevin Smith
himself, that Mallrats is a bad movie - and by far the worst of his 5.
Personally, I rate this 3rd... with Dogma in front, and Chasing Amy last - I
found this movie to be funny, charming and completely entertaining. Ben
Affleck's character was also funny to watch. Jay & Silent Bob appear to add
the cartoon comedy flavour, while Stan Lee cameos in an hilarious
performance of himself.

I liked the script and the way that the movie was paced, although at times
seemed like the scenes were stretched further than they should be. The sets
were good and the lighting and cinematography is good also. I don't really
have any major gripes about this film, it's just that, there are better
movies in Kevin Smith's series.
<|_=00=_|>

Many people are down on this movie, but I found it funny and enjoyable. I
wish the movie was a little bit longer and there was room for more stuff it
seems. Jason Lee does a great job as Brodie the bum Bruce, Jeremy London
stinks as T.S. Quint. Mallrats has memorable lines and scenes. Jason Mewes
and Kevin Smith are stellar as well as the rest of the cast of characters
except for Ben Affleck who I can do without in this movie. I think you will
like this film if you enjoy the mall.
<|_=00=_|>

To everybody who did not like this movie: You are not obviously Kevin
Smith
fans. I am, and everyone one of the NJ3 are great. This one is just
different. Shannen Doherty is surprisingly cool in this one, and Jason Lee
is hysterical. Jay and Silent Bob are hysterical as usual, and everyone
else
is great. Watch if you are a Smith fan, just keep an open mind.

<|_=00=_|>
'Mallrats' but is the kind of film you either like or don't like which
is pretty much the case with any Kevin Smith movie. I liked it. I
enjoyed all the dirty street humour, the awkwardness, the characters
and the concept.

It's full of slapstick comedies, comic book 'adventure' and some witty
(and dirty) dialogues. Even though many of the situations are
unrealistic, it's hilarious.

'Mallrats' is about two friends who both lose their girlfriends. The
two friends spend the rest of the day in the mall discussing things and
what to do about them. In the mall they meet some friends, enemies, and
weirdos. Though the plot isn't what would be referred to as a work of
'genius', it's more the characters and the funny situations that will
stick to mind.

The only sequence I didn't like was the toilet humour bit, about making
the hand stink. That sort of brought down the film a little. The film
was already on the right track with its funny characters and funny
situations. There was no need for toilet humour.

London and Lee play the two friends. London is okay while Lee is very
good. He pretty much steals every scene. Doherty and Forlani are
adequate. Lauren Adams is brilliant in a brief role and Affleck is good
as the evil Salesman. Mewes and Smith are alright (though some may feel
that they go a little over the top).

So all in all, you'll meet some very weird (and not-so-weird)
characters and exaggerated situations but I think you'll at least have
some good laughs. It's one of the better comedies from a country that
has made dozens of blockbuster garbage like 'American Pie'.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is about two of the most unlikable, unsympathetic losers ever
portrayed in recent memory.  They get dumped by their girlfriends - really
they should get dumped by the entire world.  They are self-centered in the
extreme, immature in the extreme, and incredibly annoying.  The whole
movie
is based on a single gimmick:  take an actual conversation, transcribe it
into Microsoft Word, then use the thesaurus tool to replace every
adjective
with more obscure ones.  That's it.  It goes on without pause for the
entire
film - people talk about nothing in this "clever" way.  I just saw the
film
last night and I honestly can't remember a single topic of any
conversation
that took place.  Needless to say, the two main characters are beyond
shallow.  They don't have any personalities other than that they like
video
games, comic books, and they just will not stop talking - ever.  Even
though
they never say anything.  We're supposed to be impressed by the clever use
of oddball words, for instance calling a pool table a "gaming table".
Man,
wouldn't you just love to sit through two hours of people doing this?  Let
me tell you, it makes Pauly Shore and his screwball take on Valley Girl
talk
seem enjoyable by comparison.

There are other characters:  Shannon Doherty puts in a cameo.  She's
really
the only likable character in the movie, and says about the only funny
line.
Some other girl who's name doesn't deserve to be remembered plays the
other
loser's girlfriend.  She recites a few lines of dialog at the beginning, a
few more towards the end.  Another girl named Gwen starts out all right,
she's like Kelly Bundy from Married with Children, except twice as slutty,
but by the end of her part she's speaking via the thesaurus as well.  Jay
and Silent Bob?  Jay is a stoner who acts like he's got to go to the
bathroom really bad;  Bob is just a fat idiot who spends the whole movie
pointing his hand at things and trying to use "the force" to move objects.
There's also a comic book writer who shows up to inject a large amount of
padding into a scene.  The head doofus asks him if that guy from the
Fantastic Four who was made out of rock, well, was his you-know-what made
out of rock as well?  Is that wacky or what?  Ha ha.  This goes on and
on.

Overall, this movie is flat out unwatchable.  The special features on the
DVD are a joke as well.  It's advertised as having over an hour of deleted
scenes.  The first ten minutes of these deleted scenes consists of a film
of
an unused script.  Actual film of the script, you know, hold the camera in
front of the paper and slowly pan down.  About two thirds of the "scenes"
are the writer talking about the scenes.  There's supposedly a trailer on
the DVD as well - good luck trying to find it.
<|_=00=_|>
Mallrats tells the story of two friends who are dumped by their
girlfriends on the same day. They seek solace at the local mall where
they hang out all day doing nothing but talk about their girlfriends
and comic books. They get into a series of situations that eventually
leads to the two enlisting the help of slackers Jay and Silent Bob to
get their girlfriends back. This is the second film in the "New Jersey"
series by Kevin Smith. This entry is miles better than its predecessor
Clerks.

I loved how Kevin Smith did this movie. Kevin Smith is a comic book
geek, so I'm glad he made a movie to portray that taste. Comic book
lovers will truly enjoy all the references and parodies within the
film. I know I did. That's what made the movie even more enjoyable to
me. The appearance of Stan Lee was the cherry on the ice cream for me.
Aside from that, this movie is just paced and styled better than Clerks
was. This was non stop laughs whereas Clerks was more of a satirical
black comedy. Also, a lot happened throughout the film even though it
only takes place within a day and within the same mall, rather than
Clerks which was slow moving and downright boring in some parts.

I enjoyed the acting in this movie. Jason Lee is hilarious as comic
book fanatic Brodie Bruce. Jay and Silent Bob have a lot more to do in
this film than in Clerks, and they make some of the funniest scenes in
the movie.

Overall, Kevin Smith had his practice with Clerks, so he had the
resources to make a better film, and he certainly did. If you liked
Clerks, or even if you didn't, you'll love Mallrats.

8/10
