

This is one of my favorite films, even though it has some problems.

The film caused controversy with some of the gay crowd (who didn't like the
negative press) and for the graphic sex (with bedroom violence). It became a
box office winner, that made Sharon Stone a star, and yet was basically
p****d on by the critics! The word is the film is better than your average B
movie skin flick, only by the quality of the actors, and Verhoeven's
ability. I feel the film is still not given the respect it's  due.

 I first saw the R-rated version, which is very good, but now you can get
the even better Unrated Director's Cut, which has even more graphic content!
If you don't like erotic-thrillers, then don't see it. But anyone with taste
will enjoy the thrill ride of events that take place in Basic Instinct. The
script by Joe Eszterhas was highly thought of in Hollywood, and if not for
the graphic nudity, a top star like Michelle Pfeiffer would have taken the
role made famous by Sharon stone.

Does the script go too far at times? Yes, but that's part of the films
charm, and after all, the now 'classic film moment' of Sharon Stone's leg
spread interrogation, likely would have been dropped in a conventional film.
Still though, I wouldn't have minded seeing a few less people getting killed
off, to keep even more suspense and realism.

 The score is also beautiful, and fans of Hitchcock's great "Vertigo" can
appreciate the homage that Paul Verhoeven has included. The film has a lot
of eye candy, but Jeanne Tripplehorn deserves special mention for her
impressive supporting role (sadly she hasn't done much of note since).
Michael Douglas does a solid job also, but I can't help wondering if a
better actor like Clint Eastwood could have brought more to the table. The
dialogue is not up to the level of "Pulp Fiction", but it's still
interesting and fun.

 I highly recommend this film for fans of adult mystery.

<|_=00=_|>

Paul Verhoeven has created a masterwork from Joe Eszterhas'
controversial script. Several sex scenes become a leitmotif, as the
participants appear to pummel, rather than love, one another with
their nether parts. But the most rugged and the most erotic scene
occurs between Detective Nick Curran, Michael Douglas, and his
colleague, Beth Garner, portrayed by Jeanne Tripplehorn. He
throws her against a wall and then against the back of a
chesterfield. That is only the foreplay. In this film sex is violence,
and that is Verhoeven's theme.

But there is more. Sharon Stone as Catherine Tramell has a
beautiful blonde form in that Beach Boy / California girl manner.
She plays her 'flashing' scene in the police interrogation room with 
wit and a touch of class. Throughout the film she is arch,
intelligent, electric. Her foil, Nick Curran, a troubled detective,
realizes she might be a murderer, but finds her personality and
her allure, irresistible. Douglas' performance is driven, masculine,
affecting ... yet he would be well advised to keep his trousers on
henceforth, for his sagging bottom is simply too comical.

There are several echoes of Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo (58). Both
pictures have as a setting the picturesque San Francisco area.
Jerry Goldsmith's music recalls Bernard Herrmann's symphonic
score. The stairwell in Curran's apartment building resembles the
vertiginous staircase of the Mission bell tower. And as with
Hitchcock the dialogue is often simultaneously  risque and
humorous, although more vulgar in keeping with the tenor of
modern times.

Eszterhas' script is carefully crafted, and it does not cheat. Life
proves ambiguous at many levels, and so does art. The mystery is
dark; the action, including a car chase, thrills; and the
locale continually shifts, from a cop station to Catherine's lovely seaside
house to a colorful bar where Catherine's jealous female lover and
Curran engage in a sensual battle for her charms.

Day, night, sun, rain, streets, highways, scenery, ocean, sex,
emotion, confrontations, death ... the film envelops everything,
perhaps even love. Here, Verhoeven, Eszterhas, Douglas, Stone,
have achieved some screen magic of the past.

<|_=00=_|>
Everyone who has seen the film, discover that the story runs into an
intense sexual chess game between a San Francisco detective ('But you
said you liked men to use their hands.') and a vivid writer ('No. I
said I liked Johnny to use his hands.') 

Catherine (Sharon Stone) loves coke and Jack Daniel's... She is
enigmatic ('How does it feel to kill someone?'), cool ('I like men who
give me pleasure.'), frank ("What are you going to do? Charge me with
smoking?") penetrating ("I've always had a fondness for white silk
scarves"'), in complete command of herself... Her character holds men
in her grip... To each uncrossing of legs, she masters every type of
attraction...

Catherine is a bisexual heiress, who teases, tempts and commands… She
refuses to let us know that she's a true threat... She creates one of
the classic Femme Fatale by leading us up to twist after twist, weaving
outcomes of situations to her advantage...

Nick (Michael Douglas) is the vice cop who drinks, and does a little
cocaine… He accidentally shot two tourists in the line of duty... He is
a troubled policeman who knows all about homicidal impulse... He is
torn between two skilled women at psychology... One of the women is an
evil manipulator... We can sense that Nick knows which one is the
supposed killer... Nick insists he will be strong enough to take her
down... 

The third intriguing character of Verhoeven's "Basic Instinct" is Roxy
(Leilani Sarell). She is Catherine's lesbian lover... Roxy is the
menacing blonde of the black Ferrari, who seems not to get jealous, but
to get excited... We see her wearing pants and a jacket, and dancing
with another woman... Roxy let Nick sees Catherine with two men, one of
them is a big, body-built black guy...

And there is another interesting character who deserves wide attention:
the police psychologist who helps Catherine understand homicidal
impulse... Dr. Beth Garner (Jeanne Tripplehorn) is a very good-looking,
dark-haired woman, who has been involved in a love affair with a
policeman... 

Basic Instinct's photography borrows a range of angles from
Hitchcock... The score, by Jerry Goldsmith, is wonderful... The film is
wildly considered a controversial and popular erotic thriller...
<|_=00=_|>

How does one begin a review of what is arguably the most controversial
movie of the 90's? Perhaps I should start by saying that although Basic
Instinct is complete trash with nothing residing beneath its glitzy
surface(despite the claims of Camille Paglia there are NO subliminal
meanings and the phallic symbolism of the ice pick is purely
coincidental)
it's also a riveting psychological thriller with Doublas and Stone
providing
an impressive double in a refreshingly gripping film.

I will not go deeply into plot detail, as the story is practically
part
of hollywood folklore, but in summary volatile cop Nick Curran(Michael
Douglas) falls in love with murder suspect Catherine Trammell(Sharon
Stone)
who may,or may not, have brutally murdered her lover with an ice pick. If
the plot sounds familiar its probably due to the fact that Basic Instinct
is
essentially a combination of writer Joe Eszthera's film 'Jagged Edge' and
director Paul Verhoeven's film 'The Fourth Man', both of which had their
fair share of sex and fashionable violence. Despite this Basic Instinct
still is enjoyable and having seen either of those films will have no
affect
on the unpredictability of the film.

At the centre of the film is Stone's performance which is actually
quite
superb(though in the long run this film's been more of a curse than a
blessing to her film career)as although she's easily the least probable
femme fatale ever to grace(or poison to be more accurate) the silver
screen,
Stone plays her with such zeal that we can't take our eyes off her. That
said it should also be pointed out that she becomes rather less
intriguing
after the first 40 minutes when she becomes involved with Michael
Douglas,
as her character loses a great deal of her mystique and her personality
has
less bite. Then of course is the infamous scene (which practically every
other reviewer has mentioned and I am going to be no exception) where
Tramell is being interrogated by the police and coolly turns the tables
on
them by exploiting their libidos and reducing them to drooling idiots,
totally ridiculous but easily the film's best scene and certainly one
that
is not going to be soon forgotten (no doubt to the chagrin of Sharon
Stone).

The rest of the cast are fine, with Michael Douglas doing the
character
he does best(the rather thuggish white male who constantly gets involved
with the wrong kind of woman), Jeanne Tripplehorn doing an adequate job
as
Nick's pyschologist and George Dzunda manages to be the only half-way
likable
character in the movie as Curran's best(and only)friend. Unfortunately
Leilani Sarelle is under-used as Catherine Trammell's enigmatic
girlfriend(I
forgot to mention Catherine's Bi-sexual).

The film is, of course, not without flaws. No-one (not even the
director)
could deny that Basic Instinct has such big plot holes you could park a
car
in them as for some of the events in the film to make sense characters
would
need to be either clairvoyant or in possession of other-worldly powers.
The
endings also a bit of a cop out (no I WON'T reveal it) as it was clearly
engineered so that it could be easily changed with a single edit if
preview
audiences were unsatisfied with it.

It is also impossible to ignore the huge controversey that surrounded
the
films release with a particulair furor being caused by feminists and
lesbians over their portrayal in the film. In truth the jury's still out
on
wether Basic Instinct is homophobic, but I personally don't think it is
as
the characters' sexuality is never really an issue although in fairness
it
is used as a somewhat cheap plot device to titillate the audience. The
case
made by feminists is much stronger as all the women in the film are
portrayed as dubious and potentially dangerous. The main defence against
all
this is that, frankly, all the characters are unpleasent and devious ,
with
perhaps one exception, and no discrimination is given in any way. The
other
issue was, of course, the sex scenes which ,although explicit, are really
rather passé these days.

The film is stylishly filmed, expertly paced, brilliantly directed and
has a superb music score from Jerrry Goldsmith.
I'll give it a high score(by my standards) of 8 out of
10

<|_=00=_|>

You know a movie achieves its objective when you think that a character is
sexier than the person that plays her.  That is exactly what Catherine
Tremell does.  She exudes sex and that is exactly her game.  She knows
that
she can play with people's minds by using her beauty and her sex appeal.
And she does it so well.

The epitome of this is the interrogation scene.  Much has been made about
nudity in film but this is one of those movies where every breast and
every
shot of someone's crotch is done so to further the plot.  The famous scene
that we have all witnessed now is a major part of Tremell's M.O.  She
knows
there are a room full of men asking her questions and she uses that
sexuality to play with them.  And it works.

The cast and the script and the direction are top notch and the movie
feels
like it is one big game.  And Catherine Tremell is the ultimate game
master.
I really loved this film and I rate it a perfect ten.

<|_=00=_|>
The title says it all, this is one great thriller which I rate higher
than "Se7en" or similar apparently top notch films in this category. It
has loads of suspense, high tension, catchy and memorable dialogues,
great actors, fabulous music score and an excellent director who didn't
get scared off by protesters and other hypocrites. And yes, they are
hypocrites in my mind, people who watch this movie are meant to be
mature, thus denying sex is either hypocritical or prudish. If that's
not your thing okay, then don't watch it but don't rate it low just
because you can't handle it. Because the sex scenes are really just a
few minutes long (I'm European and they're really aren't that strong)
but make up a large part of Catherine's character and are a fundamental
part of the plot. The film would be unthinkable without them but
shouldn't be reduced to them either. Naturally don't watch it with your
kids, but if you're not scared of some nudity and like thrillers you'll
love this one since it keeps one on the edge right until the end.
<|_=00=_|>

Paul Verhoeven is one of my favorite directors. His movies are so damn
entertaining. They always, well I should say most of the time, have wit
and
intelligence [Forget 'Showgirls' and 'Hollow Man', any director can make
mistakes] and have either graphic sex or violence or both. 'Basic
Instinct'
is in the latter category. It is so erotic and Stone and Douglas have so
much sexual chemistry that when you look at an Adrian Lyne film, you see
them for the crap they are.

Basic plotline has Stone's character, 'Catherine Tramell', accused of the
vicious sex murder of a retired rock and roll star. Douglas's character
has
a strange attraction to her, which may not lead to good things..... Paul
Verhoven has openly admitted that this film is a homage to Alfred
Hitchcock's  classic masterpiece 'Vertigo'. In fact, Stone wears, in
sequence, the same wardrobe as Kim Novak did [which makes you wonder, was
she wearing panties under her clothes]. That brings us to the
interrogation
scene, which is the best in the movie. Stone shamelessly flirts with the
cops' libidos until the buildup of sexual tension is so great, Stone
releases it by playing 'peek-a-boo'  with the space in between her legs.
Every male viewer cherishes that scene, simply because it is so sexy. That
word can be used throughout the film, as Stone and Douglas do the mattress
mumbo. At the time, the sex scenes were so realistic that the press went
wild and debated whether or not viewers were witnessing un-simulated sex.
The film is still quite sexually daring today and  has an intriguing
spider's web plot too. The plot's twists and turns manage to make the
movie
sexier as the viewer wonders whether Sharon is innocent or
guilty..........

The film's only misstep occurs at the end, with an unsatisfactory ending
that makes the whole film seem like some stupid, contrived game. But it's
not. It keeps it's fascination and it's sexiness and its suspense right up
till the end, which is what a good erotic thriller should. Actually, the
ending for some will lead to a lot of discussion if you watch the film
with
someone, as the film toys with two of the film's characters innocence or
guilt and does not give up all its secrets.....

The film is great Verhoeven. It has his usual, hilarious, seemingly
inappropriate kinky humor and extreme sex and violence to match. The fact
that Verhoeven is actually able to balance the film and make it funny and
sexy is wonderful film-making. Well, have I said 'sexy' enough times? Then
go rent it.........8/10

P.S. If you like this one, check out Verhoevens' Dutch film ''The Fourth
Man''. It has a similar plot and even a similar character that resembles
Catherine Tramell. If the ending of 'Basic Instinct' leaves you wanting,
check that film out. It is even better than 'Basic' and is more 'arty'. It
is also a little bit more daring erotically. 
<|_=00=_|>

The 90's was a decade that was blessed with many great movies, yet there are
none greater than that of Basic Instinct. It is a truly great film. With
Michael Douglas and Sharon Stone heading a wonderful cast, this was one of
the great thriller movies I can remember watching. It had everything a movie
could want, a bit of mystery, sex, intrigue and murder. There will need to
be a pretty good movie to replace this classic from the top as one of the
greatest all-time thrillers. 

Nick Curran is a disgraced San Francisco police detective who helps
investigate the murder of a prominent city official. Curran has a history of
alcoholism and drug abuse although he is clean now. Catherine Tramell, the
chief suspect, a spoiled rich girl with a background in psychology is toying
with Curran's mind. When Curran is taken off the case, he enters into a
dangerous relationship with Tramell, which could have bad implications. Soon
everyone Curran comes into contact with turns into a suspect.

Undoubtedly, this movie is most famous for it's high level sex scenes that
it contains. While I did enjoy them, they are overrated just a fraction. I
must admit Sharon Stone has an incredible body and she certainly knows all
the moves. These scenes also turned Michael Douglas into a sex manic of
sorts and partially ruined his first marriage to Diandra Luker. Yet they
create quite a mood for this film and are the main reason why it was the
success it was. 

The cast was great in this too. Michael Douglas is a Hollywood legend and
this film only made him even more popular. His role as a the down and out
cop was great. Douglas has some great films to his credit. These include
Romancing the Stone, Fatal Attraction (not to similar to Basic Instinct), A
Perfect Murder, and of recent Traffic (alongside his second wife Catherine
Zeta Jones) and Don't say a word. Then what do you say about Sharon Stone?
Before this film she was virtually an unknown, then she stormed on to our
screens, without letting audiences take a breathe. Her film credits include
The quick and the dead, Total Recall and The Specialist.

Other cast members include Jeanne Tripplehorn, who played Curran's ex-wife
and Psychologist Dr Elizabeth Garner. Her role made me feel very anxious to
realise what was going to happen. The sex scene involving her was a little
hard to take. Then you have the good guy of the film, Gus, played by George
Dzundza, but the way we see him go is also too much to handle. One other
actress I did recognise, was Leilani Saralle, who played one of Catherine
Tramell's gay lover's, Roxy. 

Basic Instinct had a very good director, that being Paul Verhoven. He made
this film extremely well and any other director might have got it wrong. He
has made some other good films including Robo Cop, Starship Troopers and
Total Recall. He did do one big flop, that being Showgirls. He commented on
that film by saying `I think it was bad too'. I am sorry Paul, but you were
right. Basic Intinct's script was pretty good in how it left you dangling.
It was like you were in a big game of cat and mouse. I can understand that
some people might not like it for that reason, but I thought it was good.
The movie also had a great musical score attached to it, giving the movie a
chilling feel to it. 

So, all in all Basic Instinct is a film that I will always remember. It was
so controversial that where I come from, I remember people needed to show
there ID to get into the local cinemas, because of its sexual and violent
content. I don't blame the cinemas for doing so, because it is not suitable
for young eyes to see. If you want to watch a great thriller, then sit down
and watch Basic Instinct. Trust me its ‘nice'!

Rating: 5 stars or 10/10


<|_=00=_|>

It'll wear ya out.  Those were the words uttered by an old guy who was
walking out of Basic Instinct that I overheard.  A woman asked if the
film
we just saw was any good and that's what he answered.  I did feel worn
out
by the experience of seeing this film.  It was a first rate crackerjack
erotic thriller.  A triple degree black belt in modern movie thriller
cinema.  Dutch director Paul Verhoeven proves himself to be a first rate
filmmaking madman with this monster work.

Sharon Stone became one of my fave rave movie stars after the release of
this flick.  All her other work has pretty much been second rate.  And
Mikey
Douglas once again pushes the envelope in Hollywood where everything
these
days must be safe and non-offensive.  This is badass dangerous
filmmaking,
daddy-o, and it's apart of what I call The Evil Three.  The Evil Three Of
Filmmaking.  Or the the three sexual films that really p***ed a lot of
people off.  The Evil Three consists of: Basic Instinct, Fatal
Attraction,
Indecent Proposal.  Too bad Mike didn't play Redford's part in Proposal.
That woulda REALLY honked those uptight squares off.

And don't listen to the stiffs who hated this film because of its so
called
negative portrayals of lesbians.  I think most intelligent folk knew
before
going to see this movie that most lesbians don't have a thing for ice
picks
and crotchless underwear.  A word to the wiseguy...  
<|_=00=_|>

Sure its dirty minded, and extremely violent, but underneath all of Paul
Verhoevens trademark sleaze there is a great film noir thriller to be seen.
The film has a sense of an old 40's or 50's film noir, but of course with
the 90's boundaries in taste and graphic nudity. The story is quite
involving and there are plenty of twists and turns and unresolved endings.
Michael Douglas is good in his role and must have really enjoyed film
shagging Jean Tripplehorn and Sharon Stone, while it is Stone who steals the
show as the writer Catherine, whose books write about murders that are
apparently being copied by a murdering female. Its very steamy but the
cinematography and the score are all very good and the film is more clever
than merely T&A. It is a film that has spawned many inferior clones, usually
TV movies starring melon chested playboy queen Shannon Tweed.
****
