
I don't think I'll ever understand the hate for Renny Harlin. 'Die Hard
2' was cool, and he gave the world 'Cliffhanger', one of the most
awesome action movies ever. That's right, you little punks,
'Cliffhanger' rules, and we all know it.

Sly plays Gabe Walker, a former rescue climber who is 'just visiting'
his old town when he is asked to help a former friend, Hal Tucker
(Michael Rooker), assist in a rescue on a mountain peak. Walker
obviously came back at a convenient time, because the stranded people
are actually a sophisticated team of thieves led by Eric Qualen (John
Lithgow). Qualen & co. have lost a whole lot of money they stole from
the U.S. government somewhere in the Rocky Mountains and they really
would like it back...

Essentially, 'Cliffhanger' is another 'Die Hard' clone. Just trade in
the confines of Nakatomi Plaza to the open mountain ranges of the Rocky
Mountains, complete with scenes created to point out the weaknesses of
our hero and keep him mortal. Naturally, that set up is totally ripped
to shreds soon enough, as Stallone's character avoids quite a large
number of bullets with ease, and slams face-first into several rock
faces with no apparent side-effects. After all, isn't that what action
movies are all about?

'Cliffhanger' is one of the most exciting action movies around. A
showcase of great scenes and stunts. One of the early stunts is one of
the best stunts I've ever seen in a movie, and while the rest of the
movie does not get any better than it did at the beginning, it
maintains its action awesomeness. John Lithgow's lead villain is
entertaining, and one bad dude. Quite possibly one of the coolest lead
villains ever.

'Cliffhanger' is easily one of Stallone's best efforts, definitely
Renny Harlin's best effort, and a very exciting action movie - 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Sly's best out and out action film. It is a superbly enjoyable movie with
some interesting characters, solid performances and Renny Harlins direction
is stylishly assured. Stallone is rarely this interesting in his action
films and he certainly looks the part in terms of the action scenes. This
was one of the best action films of the year and one of the most thrilling
and enjoyable of the 90's, a definite genre classic.
As a Stallone fan this is one I look back on with fond memories. Plenty of
superb action and Sly in prime action man form. Action lovers appreciate
this film because it has all the hallmarks that make a good aciton film. The
film looks great and there is great support from Janine Turner, Michael
Rooker and John Lithgow. ****
<|_=00=_|>
Wracked with guilt after a lot of things felt apart on that ledge, an
ace mountain rescue climber Gabriel Walker (Stallone) comes back for
his girlfriend Jessie (Janine Turner), while over the cloudy skies
where the weather looks a bit threatening, a spectacularly precarious
mid-air hijacking goes wrong and $100 million taken from a Treasury
Department plane get lost in the middle of nowhere followed by a crash
landing 

Stranded off the snowy peaks, and needing mountain guides to win back
the stolen cash, the high-trained hikers make an emergency call asking
the help of a rescue unit 

Unfortunately, Gab and Hall (Michael Rooker) have to team up to arrive
at the scene of the crash unaware that the distress call was a fake,
and a bunch of merciless terrorists led by a psychotic (John
Lithgow),are waiting for them only to find out a way off the stormy
mountain with the dumped cases of money 

With breathtaking shots, vertiginous scenery, dizzying heights,
perilous climbs, freezing temperatures, "Cliffhanger" is definitely
Stallone's best action adventure movie
<|_=00=_|>

Watching Cliffhanger makes me nostalgic for the early '90s, a time when
virtually every new action movie could be described as "Die Hard in a /on
a."  Cliffhanger is "Die Hard on a mountain," and pretty good, for what it
is.

But unlike Passenger 57 and Under Siege, which are decent Die Hard clones
on
their own terms, Cliffhanger dispenses with the enclosed feeling of many
action movies and embraces breathtaking landscapes that, in their
immensity,
threaten to overwhelm and  trivialize the conflicts of the people fighting
and dying among the peaks.

Years before other movies like A Simple Plan and Fargo dramatized crime
and
murder on snowbound locations, Cliffhanger director Renny Harlin
recognized
the visual impact of juxtaposing brutal violence and grim struggles to
survive against cold and indifferent natural surroundings.

The opening sequence has already received substantial praise, all of which
it deserves: its intensity allows us to forget the artifice of the camera
and the actors and simply believe that what we are seeing is actually
happening.  Not even Harlin's shot of the falling stuffed animal, which is
powerfully effective but still threatens to become too much of a joke (and
which he repeated in Deep Blue Sea), or the ridiculous expression on Ralph
Waite's face, can dim the sequence's power.

The next impressive set-piece is the gunfight and heist aboard the jet.
As
written by Stallone and Michael France and directed by Harlin, the
audience
is plunged into the action by not initially knowing which agents are
involved in the theft and which are not: the bloody double-crosses are
completely unexpected.  As Roger Ebert has observed, the stuntman who made
the mid-air transfer between the planes deserves some special
recognition.

Later, during the avalanche sequence, one of the terrorists/thieves
appears
to be actually falling as the wall of snow carries him down the mountain.
So far as I know, no one was killed in the making of this movie (a small
miracle, considering the extreme nature of some of the stunts), so
obviously
a dummy was used for the shot.  But the shot itself remains impressive
because we're left wondering how Harlin (or more likely one of the
second-unit directors) knew exactly where to place the
camera.

I'll take Sly Stallone as my action hero any day of the week, because he's
one of the few movie stars I've ever seen who's completely convincing as
someone who can withstand a lot of physical and emotional pain, and at the
same time actually feels that pain.  The role of Gabe Walker really
complements Stallone's acting strengths: he plays an older, more
vulnerable
kind of action hero, giving an impressively low-key performance as a
mountain rescuer who must redeem himself.

In contrast to many of today's post-Matrix, comic book-inspired action
heroes, Stallone's Walker is an ordinary man who becomes a hero without
any
paranormal or computer-enhanced abilities.  In Cliffhanger, the hero
almost
freezes to death, and his clothes start to show big tears as he barely
escapes one dangerous situation after another.  He winces when he's hit
and
bleeds when he's cut, particularly in the cavern sequence when he takes a
Rocky-style pummeling from one of the mad-dog villains.

It should be noted that the utterly despicable villains really contribute
to
the movie's effectiveness: when I first saw this movie as a teenager, I
was
rooting for the good guys every step of the way and anticipating when
another bad guy would bite the dust (or rather, the ice); at one point I
actually cheered as one of the most cold-blooded characters in the movie
deservedly suffered a violent demise.

Lithgow's British accent is as unconvincing as the movie's occasional
model
plane or model helicopter, but he's fundamentally a good actor, and one of
the few who can perfectly recite silly dialogue: in one scene, looking at
his hostages Stallone and Rooker, trying to decide which tasks to give
them,
he actually says "You, stay!  You, fetch!"  Even a better actor, such as
Anthony Hopkins, might have had trouble with that line.

Even if Cliffhanger occasionally tosses credibility aside, it does so only
for the sake of a more entertaining show.

Early in the movie, for example, Lithgow openly says to one of his men
"Retire [Stallone] when he comes down."  No real criminal mastermind would
have made this mistake even unconsciously: his carelessness allows Rooker
to
shout a warning up to Sly on the rock face, and this precipitates a
gripping
tug-of-war between Stallone and the bad guys trying to pull him down by
the
rope tied to his leg.

Lithgow could have given his order by a more subtle means, but the
sequence
might not have been as much fun to watch if it hadn't given Rooker an
opportunity to openly defy the arrogance of his captor.

Done very much in the style of a Saturday matinee serial or (at times) a
Western, Cliffhanger is built on such a solid foundation that it survives
some weak elements that would have undermined a lesser
film.

Besides the painfully obvious aircraft models mentioned before, the weak
moments include a couple of scenes shot on cheap indoor sets with REALLY
fake snow, as well as two other scenes involving bats and wolves that seem
unnecessary in an already action-packed narrative.  Finally, Harlin's
decision to film some of the death scenes in slow motion seems pointless,
since the technique contributes nothing to the scenes.

It's a shame that Stallone is now too old for action movies, because his
character in this movie seems so credible that inevitably I wonder what he
would be like years later.  But perhaps it's best that Cliffhanger stands
on
its own for all time, without a sequel: there are enough tired and
obsolete
movie franchises already.  There was an unofficial sequel that called
itself
Vertical Limit: compared to that clinker, Cliffhanger belongs on the
IMDb's
Top 250 list.

Rating: 8 (Very good, especially considering most of Stallone's other
movies.)

<|_=00=_|>

Hold on for dear life as Sylvester Stallone takes you on the ride of a
lifetime. With extreme non-stop action, gripping and suspense-filled scenes;
Stallone has proven why he is a SUPERSTAR with his role in "Cliffhanger." I
knew I would be in for an action packed treat as soon as I realized Stallone
was starring in this film; however, I failed to realized how great the other
actors were in this film.

Stallone is joined by Michael Rooker, Janine Turner and John Lithgow as they
produce quite possibly the best action film of 1993. The cast is perfectly
selected and chosen to play their parts. It was a joy to see a reversal of
roles. I'm not accustomed to seeing Rooker as a hero or Lithgow as a
villain; it is a refreshing change.

I couldn't have asked for a better villain than Lithgow. He is one of the
most ruthless and cunning villains I've seen. I enjoyed how he never let
anything get in his way and spared no expense to get what he wanted. I'm
glad I got the chance to see him play the villain and hope I see it
again.

Turner gives tremendous support to this film and creates an atmosphere where
it is enjoyable to watch. She is the heat that warms a cold room because
everytime she comes on screen it seems as though it is hot. It is a delight
to see an incredible actress to have that much power. Rooker makes up the
other the third of talented actors that makes "Cliffhanger" a delight to
watch. Rooker brings a fresh view to the film as well as credibility; all I
have to say is awesome work, Michael.

There is an avalanche of talent in "Cliffhanger." Stallone is an unstoppable
force and incredible action hero. After watching "Cliffhanger," I'm
convinced that Stallone was the only man for this job. Stallone had the fire
in his eyes for this part that told me he means business. Only true action
stars have the fire I saw; furthermore, I was fascinated with the strength,
power and conviction with which he took on the role.

Another reason I enjoyed "Cliffhanger" was the writing because it contained
unbelievable action sequences, a man dealing with redemption and dialogue is
awesome. I was impressed to see that Stallone also co-wrote the script
because he really has a knack for what action fans want.

"Cliffhanger" is a super-charged, heart-racing, suspense-filled action
thrill ride that you should take because at the end it will leave you asking
for more. 
<|_=00=_|>

Since I first saw this in the theater it has been my favorite. Since then
I've seen it countless times and I never get tired of it. The setting has
a
lot to do with it (the Colorado I know would be jealous), but the
storyline
is original and I liked how it used small town mountain folk as the
heroes.
There has not been a movie I can compare this too. John Lithgow plays a
smart villain, but I love how he is completely out of his element--he has
to
follow Tucker around and that's what keeps it interesting. This is an
action
movie at it's BEST. I don't think I'll see another that is so
entertaining.

You don't need 50,000 rounds fired to qualify as an action movie. It just
has to keep you captivated, not shell-shocked.

<|_=00=_|>
To be honest, I didn't like that much this movie when I saw it for the
first time. But I guess the trouble is that I haven't seen it in a
theater. Big Mistake ! Because the #1 thing to see in Cliffhanger is
the settings and #2 is the cinematography. Try to see this movie on the
largest TV possible and a great sound system. The music is good and
puts the movie to a higher level (and a commercial potential). The more
I see it, the more I like it.

It's definitely one of Renny Harlin's best movie. THis guy knows about
action. Die Hard 2, The long kiss good bye, etc. And it's particularly
good in this movie. The special effect are great and spectacular.
Stallone really needed that movie get back with success. Still good to
see him !
<|_=00=_|>
I'm far from a Sylvester Stallone fan and I guess the only time I
really appreciated his appearance was in the French movie Taxi 3, which
is an almost inexistent small role. And yet I must admit that this
movie was actually not that bad, even though I feared the worst.

When Gabe (Stallone) fails to rescue the girlfriend of one of his
friends and she plunges to her death from a 4000 feet high mountain
top, he can't possibly force himself to keep working as a mountain
ranger. For almost a year he doesn't set a food in the reserve, but
than he returns. Soon after he's back, they get an emergency call from
a group of hikers who got trapped in a snow storm. At least, that's
what the rangers believe. In reality it is a group of robbers who
crashed with their airplane in the mountains after their daring plan to
steal cases full of money from a flying government plane failed. The
cases are spread all over the reserve and they need the help of
professional climbers to retrieve them...

This is of course not one of the most intelligent movies ever, but in
its genre it's an enjoyable one. I especially enjoyed John Lithgow as
the evil master mind and leader of the gang of robbers. I know him best
from the TV-series "3rd Rock from the Sun", but I enjoyed his
performance in this movie as well. Overall the acting is OK, it had a
lot of action to offer and of course also some one-liners, but it also
offered a very nice decor. This movie was filmed in a magnificent
natural environment. I loved the snowy mountains and valleys, the
mountain rivers and the forests... Perhaps that's why I give this movie
a score higher than what I normally give to an action / adventure movie
of this kind. I give it a 6.5/10. If you don't expect too much, this is
an enjoyable movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Cliffhanger is a decent action crime adventure with some flaws from
director Renny Harlin whose admirable in making this movie about an
expert climber who finds himself taken hostage with a fellow friend by
a gang of dangerous criminals on the search for suit cases full of
stolen cash in the Rocky Mountains. Sylvester Stallone is impressive as
Gabe Walker the expert climber especially in the action/fight sequences
but some of them definitely border on the line of unrealistic. For the
sake of the film though I willing to suspend my disbelief. The rest of
the cast including John Lithgow, Michael Rooker, Janine Turner, Rex
Linn, Caroline Goodall, and Leon are respectable as the supporting
characters in the movie. The action/fight sequences are well executed
but as mentioned before some aren't very realistic no matter how tough
you are. The climbing sequences however are very well done because
instead of doing the whole film in a studio somewhere the locations
they chose felt very real and the Ariel views of the mountain ranges
are marvelous adding a touch of reality to the movie. The deaths are
inventive while others are sort of predictable. The villains are solid
but it would've been better if they had focused on a more central one
instead of having many of them. The pacing of the movie was a little
slow but the good outweighs the bad in this one. If you're a big fan of
Harlins or Stallone's than chances are you'll enjoy this one too.
Overall Cliffhanger has character development with enough action,
drama, some suspense, excitement, thrills, and good performances by the
cast who make this movie worth the time to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Every time a movie comes out which features rock climbing and mountain
travel/rescue, I cringe with anticipation, notepad in hand, and annoy
all my friends with my nitpicking. So, let me get that out of the way
first. I counted approximately 100 factual and technical errors related
to geography, climbing, mountain travel and rescue. Let's just say it
was atrocious, though not as bad as "Vertical Limit".

Viewed purely as a mindless action flick, I must say I was entertained.
The film was visually stunning with engaging action sequences. The
acting was superb- those poor bastards did all they could with their
ridiculous characters and inadequate, clichéd script. Cheers to
Lithgow, Stallone, and Rooker in particular.

I could be pretentious and pick the whole damn thing apart, but I think
Renny Harlin did exactly what he set out to do- entertain.
