
Tony D'Amato(Al Pacino) is the head coach of the Miami Sharks who are
owned by the Christina Pagniacci(Cameron Diaz) who is using the Miami
Franchise only for profit. Trouble stirs up after long time star
quarterback Cap Rooney(Dennis Quaid)is injured along with his back up
bringing in third string quarterback Willie Beamen(Jamie Foxx) who
becomes the face of the franchise after having great game after great
game. The only problem is that he plays only with his head and not with
his heart, with an aging team that needs an emotional leader to guide
them to victory. Also Starring: James Woods, Matthew Modine, LL Cool J,
Bill Bellemy, Lawrence Taylor, Charelton Heston, Aaron Eckhart, and
John C. McGinley.

In a cinema that rarely produces pro football movies, this is the cream
of the crop. It captures the reality along with the heroic story of a
nobody rising to the top. The movie is humorous, dramatic, and a
thriller for all sports fans.

This is not only one of Oliver Stone's best films but this is also the
start of Jamie Foxx's "good" acting career. Forget what the critics
said about Collateral or Ray being the beginning for Jamie Foxx. It was
Any Given Sunday. Willie Beaman is a complex character and Foxx nailed
the part. He was magnificent. He played the part to perfection and out
shined the great Al Pacino. The supporting cast was also incredible
with great performances from Cameron Diaz, LL Cool J, James Woods, and
surprisingly John C. McGinley. It is very rare to find a great dramatic
football movie but this is definitely one those small few.

Overall, this is one of the greatest sports movies of all time and it
is highly enjoyable for adult audiences.

I highly recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Oliver Stone is one of the most, if not THE most, passionate filmmakers
working today.  He's also a talented filmmaker, which a lot of people seem
to forget.  When both his talent and passion are at full strength, the
results are impressive(SALVADOR, PLATOON, JFK, NIXON).  When the passion is
still there, but the talent is tripped up by his passion and ambitions, he
makes flawed movies which are still powerful(WALL STREET, TALK RADIO, BORN
ON THE FOURTH OF JULY, HEAVEN AND EARTH).  But when he goes outside of his
passions, for either experiments(NATURAL BORN KILLERS), or to make
"mainstream" movies(U-TURN), he misses wide.  NATURAL BORN KILLERS, to me,
was a worse film, but U-TURN was, in a way, even more dispiriting, because
the former you could at least excuse as an experiment gone wrong, whereas
the latter screamed "Cash-in!"  You felt after watching Stone was too tired
to fight anymore.

Well, as ANY GIVEN SUNDAY proves, Stone, like his on-screen alter-ego, Tony
D'Amato(Al Pacino), may look tired, but he's still got fight left in him. 
Many have seen football as war, so it's appropriate Stone has long wanted to
make a movie about football.  And as Spike Lee did with HE GOT GAME, Stone
wants us to see not only the glory of the actual playing(as well as how
tough it is to earn that glory), but also the corrupt forces which are
pervading it today.  After all, we decry flashy players, and then complain
about those who are too boring, we talk about tradition out of one side of
our mouth and demand the game be updated out of the other side, we call
white players who exhibit boorish behavior "colorful" while calling black
players who exhibit similar behavior "punks"(and that's putting it mildly),
we complain about players who are overpaid while thinking nothing of owners
who spend lavishly on themselves and move teams around, we complain about
football being too dominated by TV yet sit around like couch potatoes every
Sunday and Monday night, we react with horror when players get hurt badly
and get addicted to drugs, yet we yell at them to murder each other on the
field and call those who don't chicken(to put it mildly), and so
on.

This is a wide canvas to cover, and yet Stone does a pretty good job of it. 
Especially good is how the relationship between D'Amato and his new
quarterback Willie Beamon(Jamie Foxx) encompasses a lot of that canvas. 
There are two scenes in particular which stand out; one where D'Amato sits
with Willie on the plane and tries to talk to him, but can't think of
anything which doesn't sound patronizing from Willie's point of view(like
music, where D'Amato thinks the fact he's mentioning black jazz musicians is
supposed to mean something), and the scene at D'Amato's house, where Beamon
talks of how, in the past, "playing for the team" was code for "Know your
place, boy," and have things really changed?  Willie has to learn that
playing for the team really does mean, as quarterback, getting them to
respect you so they'll play for you, and Tony has to learn that tradition
can't be stodgy, that it has to accept change.

Stone is less sure in other aspects.  Cameron Diaz does a good job as the
team's owner, but her character is a little too one-dimensional at times. 
It would have been more interesting to have here not just talk in terms of
money, but that the game, to her, really is more interesting the way Willie
plays it(maybe I'm biased, but I'm a fan of more pass-oriented games).  And
while I don't think Stone is as misogynist as he's been charged with in the
past, certainly it's evident here.  It's one thing to say there are groupies
in football, it's another thing to delight in showing them.  There are
sympathetic woman here, particularly Ann-Margaret as Diaz's mother, who
shows what being a football wife costs, and Lela Rochon as Willie's
girlfriend, who is unwilling to have that happen to her(the scene at the
party, where she feels both isolated from Willie and the other wives, is
nicely drawn).  Finally, Stone can't resist the ROCKY-type cliches near the
end.

But though it's flawed, there's still a lot of power here.  Except for
Lauren Holly, who I'm not a big fan of, the acting is all around excellent,
particularly Foxx.  I was particularly impressed with how well the athletes
did as actors, particularly Jim Brown(though he's an actor, so this isn't
surprising) and Lawrence Taylor.  And, of course, all the football scenes
are terrific and feel real.  It's always good when you see on screen what
you can't see watching the game on TV, and Stone accomplishes that here. 
Call it not quite a touchdown, but a film which convinces us Stone still has
fight left in him.
<|_=00=_|>

Sports movies are tough to make.  Creating the essence of the actual event
is the toughest.  Most films fall short in the editing process of the event
or through sheer carelessness and lack of knowledge.  ANY GIVEN SUNDAY is
somewhat of an exception.  It is hard-hitting and bloody like NORTH DALLAS
FORTY.  It is actually conventional when you think about it, like a warped
RUDY.  It is a hell of a lot more realistic than say, NECESSARY ROUGHNESS. 
These are all football films with varying degrees of success (except
ROUGHNESS), but Oliver Stone, in his usual over the top way, throws a
dizzying, mind-splitting film at us, much like the sport itself.  This is
why I liked it.

Oliver Stone began a wicked spell of filmmaking with JFK, evident in its
editing style.  Fast-paced, black and white mixed with color,
documentary-like methods ensued in NATURAL BORN KILLERS, NIXON, and the
ghastly U-TURN.  Nothing is new here with ANY GIVEN SUNDAY.  Football is a
battlefield Stone chooses to depict and depict it he does.  Even the most
ardent fans of the sport do not really know what it is like for a
quarterback to drop back and get rid of a piece of pigskin before 11 players
maul him.  You certainly get the idea watching this.  

Al Pacino is the dried up head coach of the fictional Miami Sharks and he
barks out the usual coaching cliches you hear in press conferences after
real games.  Pacino also seems to be sleep-walking through the picture.  At
times, he appears drunk even when he is not supposed to be.  Cameron Diaz's
character, a young chick owner, (yeah right) destroys any credibility the
film may have had going in (Even the NFL would have nothing to do with this
movie). Her constant bickering is so over-done, you almost feel like hurling
much the way Jamie Foxx does every time he enters a game as the team's 3rd
string quarterback.  Realisticly speaking, this is not a very sane film
about football.  It is a maniacal celebration of the game.  The scenes on
the field are the ones I cherished.  Beware of the locker room or domestic
sequences.

No one has ever put such energy into football scenes in a film before.  He
definitely had some good consultants.  There are some comical cameos -
Johnny Unitas and Dick Butkus play opposing coaches.  Lawrence Taylor can
actually act a teeny bit and Jim Brown shares the film's best off the field
scene with Pacino in a bar.  Stone tries to show us how the game has
changed.  He resonates past glory with quotes from Lombardi, dissolves
showing Red "the Galloping Ghost" Grange, and even Unitas handing off to
Ameche.  TV has changed everything, says the coach, and he is right.  It
seems to be all about the money nowadays.

That is the message, but you'll find yourself losing that idea in the lunacy
of ANY GIVEN SUNDAY and the bone-crushing, ear-damaging football scenes. 
They are filmed and cut with such raw intensity, you feel like playing
afterwards.  This is definitely a film for football fans only unless you
like big, sweaty men.  Is there a big game at the end that needs to be won? 
Yes, and this surprised me considering how unconventional Stone usually is. 
Basically, surrender your senses and thought process to Stone's most
entertaining film in quite some time.

RATING: ***  
<|_=00=_|>
It seems that many people dislike this movie and I can see why. First
of all it shows that professional athletes are far away from being
perfect. A lot farther than we would like to believe. The movie shows
that many athletes as we know are just out their for the money. It also
shows the corruption in the owners and politicians. But for me, all of
this is good thing. I like seeing a movie that does not include glory
in sports.

Another aspect of the movie was the cast. I thought the cast that was
put together was very well put together. I was especially surprised at
the performance of Cameron Diaz. I thought she played very well as the
viscous and corrupt owner. Specifically in the part were she
black-mails the mayor into giving the team money for a new stadium.
Jamie Foxx also gave a very well played performance as the new upcoming
quarterback. His role shows that he has become sick with fame and
fortune and has seem to forgotten who helped to reach his superstar
status. For example when he ignores most of the plays called in and
decides to run the game the way he wants to. He reaches as point were
he just flat out ignores everyone. For example he says: "I'm trying to
win coach. I ain't trying to disrespect nobody, but winning is the only
thing I respect." I think Oliver Stone shows that this is the problem
we have in our society, that everything is about winning. His
relationship falls apart with his girlfriend and seems to believe that
their is nothing that could stop him. He almost reaches a point were he
believes he is like a god. But, he realizes he needs a wakeup call or
he will end up like the some of the people around him. I liked the way
Dennis Quaid played as the long time starting quarterback who nearly
becomes paralyzed. Now my initial reaction after he got hit was that
his family would want him to immediately retire. What happened was the
opposite, his wife wanted him to risk being paralyzed and brain damage
so he can get one more contract although Dennis Quaid was trying to
explain to her that he is worried about what might happen to himself.
Or one of the confrontations between wife and husband when he mentions
to her that they should put the kids to bed and the wife responds by
saying:"Why can't we hire a maid?" This also adds on to Jamie Foxx's
role and shows that the players are pressurized by their families
towards good decisions and bad decisions and that the families have
also lost touch with what is important in life. As well with Lawrence
Taylor's role which shows the player-doctor relationship and the role
that age and lack of education forcing players to push themselves over
the limit for that last bonus, knowing after they retire they may not
survive in the real world. LL Cool J's role as the star running-back
shows that he no longer cares about the team or the game itself and
feels threatened by Jamie Foxx because he has brought a new style of
playing to the team and they tend to not agree with each other but
above all with this new style of play may not let him reach a certain
amount of rushing yards to reach his bonus. Again Jamie Foxx comes into
this part of the movie at the end when he hurts his arm but does not
tell anyone worried what might happen to his career. I think overall
this show that their is too much emphasis in sports and I'm saying this
even though I'am a big sports fan.

A very interesting part of the movie is the Al Pacino's role as the
head coach. His ongoing fighting with Cameron Diaz shows the
relationship between owner and coach. The coach wants to win games and
have control of the team but the owner wants the money, the power and
the credit for building a team. Pacino has fallen into a slump and
doesn't like the ways are looking for the future of the his job and the
sport. For example when he says: "It's TV, it changed everything,
changed the way we think forever. I mean the first time they stopped
the game to cut away to some commercial that was the end of it. Because
it was our concentration that mattered, not theirs, not some fruitcake
selling cereal." He believes the game no matters any more it is the
money and this is what I believe is the main point of the movie. It is
no longer the game that matters it is the people who put the money into
it and this is what has been or what will be the downfall of sports or
really anything.

I think that a good message through all these downfalls is that if you
stick together and focus on your goal you will succeed no matter how
big the obstacle, hence the title "Any Given Sunday".
<|_=00=_|>
Any Given Sunday is one of Oliver Stone's most enjoyable movies. Sunday
is pure entertainment, an action-packed spectacle that will delight
even the most ardent sports enthusiast. Stone draws on the usual
assortment of sports movie clichés, but he directs his actors,
including Al Pacino, Jamie Foxx, Dennis Quaid, and LL Cool J, into such
passionate and intense performances, that the movie is able to
transcend its familiar material. While its 160-minute running time is a
bit of a detriment, AGS works overall as a superior piece of escapist
entertainment. Also, the locker room scene, which showcases a
confrontation between Cameron Diaz and a football player with a giant
penis, is a classic.
<|_=00=_|>

Wild and outrageous, Any Given 
Sunday gives the viewer a glimpse 
into an athletic world not too far 
from the real thing. While some of 
the scenes were a little too over the 
top, it proved to be a very enjoyable 
experience. As a major football fan, 
I was disappointed in the fact the NFL 
did not allow Stone to use their logos 
and stadiums. Oh well, I seemed to 
enjoy the fictional league even better, 
even if some of the team uniforms 
were a dreadful. Jamie Fox portrayed 
Willie Beamon perfectly, epitomizing 
the selfish athlete with a cultured ease. 
While the speed of Beamon's rise 
proved to be a little too quick, the 
message in the rise and fall of stardom 
was more poignant than anything.
<|_=00=_|>

Let me start by saying that i dont like or even understand american football
and i personally think it does not come close to soccer but with this film
it did not matter a jot.
Oliver Stone had directed a film here that crosses all
bounderies.
You dont have to like the sport or understand it to appreciate how brilliant
this film is. 
It is shot so well ,it makes you fell you are in the game and as for the
soundtrack well that just adds to a mesmerising showpiece.
Stars such as Al Pacino, Dennis Quaid,James Woods and Cameron Diaz star but
for me the real Star of this film is James Foxx who plays the Quaterback who
begins to believe his own hype but ultimately understands that it the team
that matters.
One of the test of a good film is that if you start to look at the clock
throughout the film is usually means its not good , this film lasted 2 and a
half hours and i never looked at the time.
Brilliant.
9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Any Given Sunday (1999)

Al Pacino, Jamie Foxx, Cameron Diaz, Dennis Quaid, LL Cool J, James
Woods, Matthew Modine, Lawrence Taylor, Jim Brown, John C. McGinley,
Aaron Eckhart, Charlton Heston, Oliver Stone, Elizabeth Berkley.
Directed by Oliver Stone. Spoilers herein.

"Any Given Sunday" is a film that is a feast for the eyes, but not the
mind. Stone does a great job for creating a dizzying direction,
eye-opening visuals, and extremely loud sound, and he does all of this
with the 2 and a half+ hours that he has to spare with the film but
never does go deep into detail on the characters.

The story consists of a professional football team struggling with
their season. The film opens with a quote from football legend Vince
Lombardi, and then fades into a football game, where the starting
quarterback for the Sharks, Jack Rooney is hurt in the middle of a
game, unknown third string quarterback Willie Beaman is sent in for the
rest of the season. As Beaman starts rising to fame, aging Coach
D'Amato and Rooney begin to question if Beaman is worth risking the
rest of the season and their chance for the championship as he is
trying to make the team win by himself.

The performances are pretty good and powerful. Al Pacino and Jamie Foxx
do great with the lead characters, and other familiar faces such as
Cameron Diaz, Dennis Quaid, James Woods, LL Cool J, Matthew Modine and
John C. McGinley in the supporting performances.

One thing I did really like about "Any Given Sunday" is how the action
during the games is very realistic, gritty, and fast. It ultimately
captures the intensity and hard work from the sport of Football. But
like "Natural Born Killers" and "U Turn", the sound is so unbearably
loud and images are so fast and dizzying that the film could give some
viewers a headache. Stone has been known to cause controversy among his
films, and this is a way that he seems to do it, but it didn't bother
me so much as haters of the film. Despite of some of the strengths,
"Any Given Sunday" does have a few flaws. The film is unnecessarily
overlong, overly stylish, and underdeveloped. Stone really could have
made the film about 20-30 minutes shorter, and with most of the time
the characters are either playing on the game field or yelling at each
other. Some scenes showing Willie's rise are no more interesting than a
Nike Gridiron commercial or a Michael Bay film. Another thing Stone
forgets to do is add emotion to the film, and he replaces that with
mostly sports action.

Overall I really did enjoy this film a lot, for it's realistic football
scenes and the living hell that the players go through in order to win.
But at times it really does try too hard, especially when it's absent
with a great script and follows clichés of older Football (or even
gladiator) films. But I would recommend it to Stone fans and football
fans especially. A very considerate 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought what a great combo for "Any Given Sunday" - Oliver Stone and
professional football -- excess meets its match. 

So I grabbed a chance to go to the movies with my sons. They got a lot
more out of the first and third thirds of the movie that are football
games, which I couldn't follow at all, knowing zilch about football so
I missed any references to significances of plays and strategies and
didn't recognize the zillion football players past and present in bit
parts, but I got other visual and music references they didn't.

The football field is explicitly a jungle, with the sounds like an
elephant herd crashing. Of course Stone never says or shows once what
he can get across 5 times, so the jungle fever point of the primalness
of sports as a venue for male violence is accompanied by Native
American chants, aboriginal and Asian Indian mystic strains as well. I
don't know enough about rap to judge those selections -- I could tell
there were lots of lyrics about "niggaz" working for The Man type of
thing. 

The second third should have appealed to me as that's when the huge
ensemble has personal interactions and we learn all their selfish,
dastardly, unpleasant motivations, but I was on sensory overload.
Example: Al Pacino as the Old Guard Coach calls in Jamie Foxx as the
suddenly first string quarterback (in a terrific performance), for a
tête a tête on the pro's of Jazz over Rap, as a metaphor of the old
football of finesse (what? all those flashbacks to black & white
football games were of a subtle sport?). But when Foxx walks in Pacino
has "Ben Hur" playing on a wide-screen TV. As if we didn't get the
point Foxx actually says "The old gladiators, huh?" If we still didn't
get the point the conversation keeps intercutting with the chariot
race. And if we still didn't get the point of any reference in the
conversation to racial issues then intercuts to the galley slave scenes
from "Ben Hur" THEN on top of that, the NFL commissioner who puts the
Bitch Owner in her place for trying to play with the Big Old Guys is
none other than Charlton Heston.

No one just has a conversation -- everyone shouts, usually at the same
time, so I had to close my eyes and I'm not sure if I missed something.

This is Sunbelt Football of expansion teams where the sport is not a
Fall/Winter season - so the women were everywhere in tank tops,
cleavage, midriffs bare and hips swinging, even Cameron Diaz as the
Bitch Owner. Though all the women are really high priced prostitutes
(even usually sweet Lauren Holly is a hardened cold Football Wife).

What I don't think I missed was Stone's outsize determination to ignore
the homo-erotic aspects of male sports violence that "Fight Club"
reveled in. Aw come on Stone, not a single gay player in the closet? He
crowds the behemoths into locker rooms and showers that can barely
contain their bodies--but he's so afraid of showing them in contact
that he even at one point has one throw a baby alligator into the
shower so they scatter.

Everyone is criticized-- including the sportscasters, which Stone
revels in playing one (I think in general this movie is a show down
between Stone and Spike Lee as it takes on more racial issues than he's
done in the past). What a coincidence that ESPN is continually
bad-mouthed when there's a big legible credit at the end to Turner
Sports Network when this is a Time Warner movie and ESPN's a
competitor.

Stone of course goes out of his way to link football with war, to fit
into his oeuvre, with battle quotes from Vince Lombardi and some sort
of link with Pacino's father dying in WWII that was irrelevant it
seemed to me. 

I think this is Dennis Quaid's at least third football movie and in the
genre of such movies as "North Dallas 40," "Longest Yard," "Great
American Hero," etc. and this joins that pantheon as a terrific
football movie. 

The music selections were by Robbie Robertson (with Paul Kelly but I'm
not sure which Kelly that is) and he did as seamless a job as he's done
for Martin Scorcese. The music credits at the end were impossible to
read -- in 3 columns of a vertical font that was like watching the
credits on TV - plus the movie continues under the credits so all those
who bolted missed the ending.

Professional football deserves to be Oliver Stoned. But if I never saw
any more football that'll be fine with me. 

(originally written 12/27/1999)
<|_=00=_|>

I don't intend to add to the many positive comments about this movie.  I
agree with them.  But from another perspective:

First, I have never been a football fan.  However, any movie that combines
Oliver Stone and Al Pacino has to get my interests. I loved it.

One thing that did impress me more than anything else was the quality of the
sound design.  The 3 dimensional noises in the huddle, on the line, from the
grandstands; the growls and other sounds from the players; these things made
the movie live and my blood boil.  I was breathless.

Then these things interspersed with dead silences and slow motion dreamlike
sequences gave the action a spiritual quality.

I stayed for the credits to see who had done this sound work and I think
Wylie Stateman will get, at the very least, an Oscar nomination for sound
design.  If you ever wondered what this credit meant, see this movie and you
will know. This movie would have lost a great deal of its punch without that
sound designer's talent.

