

Let me say immediately that I would recommend this film to almost anyone but
the most literal-minded.  This film will be different things to different
people.  It can be a macho thriller, a subtle romance, an ironic look at
ourselves, or a combination of all these things.  The great thing about this
movie is not so much the plot, but the individual situations and scenes. 
What is meant to be portrayed as paranoid behaviour by Mel Gibson's
character, Jerry Fletcher, becomes quite funny when the viewer recognizes
his or her own self doing similar things, but in a context that is
supposedly "normal."  Jerry's having a padlock on his refrigerator and a
combination lock on his coffee will bring a smile to the lips of anyone who
has to deal with numerous computer "logons" and passwords to gain access to
even the most mundane things in our computer-dominated workplaces.  
Likewise, the writers and director are spot on when they show poor paranoid
Jerry going to separate mailboxes to post his various letters, while many of
us here in the on-line world will routinely use pseudonyms, proxies,
remailers, etc for the very same reason that Jerry takes his seemingly
abnormal precautions, i.e., to avoid potentially prying eyes.   So, who's
paranoid?  I thought this was very insightful.  As for overt humour, perhaps
my guard was down, but I laughed until tears came to my eyes when Jerry
tossed off joke about a man who had only three minutes to live.  Mel
Gibson's delivery of the punch line was perfect.  As for pathos and those
human moments, scenes in which Jerry would gladly die for just a brushing
kiss from his worshipped Julia Roberts might bring  back memories of
anyone's naive, tender years and momentarily make your heart ache.  And a
scene in which Jerry is unable to explain why he compulsively buys copies of
 the same book over and over again is very poignant, indeed.  Mel Gibson put
a lot of energy into what was obviously a demanding role and, as usual,
Julia Roberts lights up the screen in every scene she's in.  The film might
be a fantasy, but it's the sort of fantasy many of us can
appreciate.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie could be classified into different genres - suspense, romance &
thriller.  Not many films can say that, or if they can, many do not
succeed.
Conspiracy Theory, however, did.

The first time I saw this, I was on the edge of my seat.  It was very
suspensful.  I won't go into details if you haven't seen it, but it's
really
one of the best suspense films I've seen.

This wasn't a completely romantic film, no.  In fact, I wish it would've
touched on the romance more than it did.  Mel Gibson and Julia Roberts had
great chemistry.  Although nothing really happened between them, the
audience could clearly see Jerry's (Mel Gibson)love for Alice (Julia
Roberts.)

Now, the plot.  Jerry Fletcher has many wild conspiracy theories -
including
one that NASA is trying to kill the President with earthquakes.  He's a
cabbie & tells lots of people his ideas.  But the one person he seems to
tell the most to and thinks can help him is Alice Sutton, an attorney.  He
saved her months before the movie takes place when she was mugged.  He
seems
to get on her nerves, but she puts up with him.  He goes to her office all
the time.  He's obviously in love with her, but she doesn't feel the same
way.  Well, somehow "they" (CIA, FBI, you know "they") find out about
Jerry's crazy conspiracies & they go after him.  He and Alice are in
danger.

The acting in this movie was terrific.  This may be Mel's best.  His
portrayal of a crazy cabbie was so good and believable.  It's not really
like any other role he has played.  He did it so well & the audience
sympathized with him completely.  Julia was good too.  Her role wasn't
really difficult to play, but she made it believably nevertheless.
Patrick
Stewart also stars in this.  He made a great bad guy.

Overall, this movie was great.  It was very suspensful & the acting was
outstanding. 
<|_=00=_|>
This is a steady paced well made, twister of a drama, with sharply
laced comedy around the perimeter. I was told by a woman that I worked
with when this came out before I saw it, she said, "You're like Jerry
Fletcher. That guy Mel Gibson plays in that new movie, Conspiracy
Theory." The thing that I didn't tell her was that...I had driven a
taxi just the year before I met her. Oh, this is just getting too close
here now. Okay shall we...

I had absolutely no idea what she was talking about, but I went and saw
the movie. I don't think totally so, but maybe some small similarities
could be possible...I guess. So I was talking to someone when I drove
professionally and realized there was no one in the back...so what!

The casting was beautiful, all the players were superb! The plot was
right on, the twists, that would occur, here and there kept you
guessing and hopeful. The action was brisk and well set, propelling and
then slowing to a place of horror for a little while, then back 'on'
again moving fast! No matter what the opinion of the average
movie-watcher-Joe, Gibson always has a different feel. It doesn't seem
like he is a movie star, more rather a real solid guy, it seems that he
is who he is portraying. There is a certain style that he has that
seems like he could be related, or someone that you would like to
hang-out with and enjoy a beer. Julia Roberts shines in this. She
cares, she is real and it comes through from the time they meet on to
the departure and before the next meeting. Hey, there's a thought, Mel
and Julia could take another 'pairing' of roles together.

This was a truly wild ride with a very different ending. Worth Gibson
fan's or Roberts fan's time. 

This is a must see if you enjoy a solid story with racy action and a
wonderful plot that moves along and then slightly twists toward the
end. Recommended excellent (*****)
<|_=00=_|>

The thing that stands out for me in this movie is the wonderful (and
underrated) performance given by Mel Gibson.  His part calls for an uneasy
balance between a paranoid psychotic and romantic leading man and he treds
that fine line beautifully.  Despite all his craziness, he is totally
likeable and his relationship with the Julia Roberts character is
wonderfully complex and believable.  Julia Roberts also gives an excellent
performance and the chemistry between the two leads is perfect.

All in all, I loved this film and didn't understand why it was so
underrated
by the critics.


<|_=00=_|>
Now that the TV series "Monk" has become so popular, maybe a few more
people will check this film out. Mel Gibson's character isn't exactly
like Monk - more like a super hyperactive and politically paranoid
"Monk." He fits right in with Oliver Stone and the rest of the
"conspiracy" freaks. Stone, in fact, would like this film since it
gives credence to these paranoid fantasies and gives several cheap
shots to conservatives along the way.

Political propaganda-aside, this is a fun movie to watch and the most
fun might be Gibson's house, which is too incredible to describe here.
Mel is fascinating to watch and really makes this movie what it is with
his outrageous character "Jerry Fletcher." Julia Roberts gives a solid
performance while looking about as good as she ever looked. Patrick
Stewart is very effective as the bad guy. He reminded me of Laurence
Olivier's Nazi villain in "Marathon Man."

An involving story that holds your attention for the full 2-plus hours
and looks nice on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>

Mel Gibson gives a great performance here, as well as Julia Roberts! The
story is really good, and the movie has some great plot twists. The only
thing I disliked was the fact that Patrick Stewart didn't have a bigger
role...

The movie also has quite some funny moments and lots of action. This
definately is one of Richard Donner's best films to date, due especially to
the outstanding performance of Mel Gibson! If you haven't seen it yet and
if
you're looking for an intelligent, well-acted movie, this is the
one!
<|_=00=_|>

I found this film really hard to focus on, there was Mel Gibson playing a
paranoid crazy guy, being dragged off by government/non-government
'spooks'
and having some sort of weird obsession with Julia Roberts.  But as the
film
unfolded, and the storyline, a complex one, began to unravel it all
started
to make some kind of sense.  My favorite part has to be the self
destruction
of his apartment, that was quite imaginative.  Before I saw this i was
expecting something along the lines of Lethal Weapon, being the same star,
and same director.  But it was so completely different from what I thought
it would be and it actually ended up being a better film as a consequence.
Mel Gibson played a completely different character than what we usually
see,
which worked to his benefit and Julia Roberts proved with this film, that
she still had star power.  Definitely worth a look.  
<|_=00=_|>

  If you liked PAYBACK and 12 MONKEYS, you will love this film. 

I have one thing to say about this film... Mel GIbson.  He
plays
a paranoid, noble, apparent stalker, who has intelligence and wit,

but lacks ability to express himself fully.  Can't say
more
because it might ruin the movie.  
 CONSPIRACY THEORY IS A MUST SEE.  It ranks in my top 25
category

<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw this movie, there was some emotional moments. Gibson's
acting is the best on the world. He plays a cab driver (Jerry Fletcher) in
love with Julia Roberts(Alice Sutton), he has theories about conspiracies. He
puts his theories on a newsletter called "Conspiracy Theory", they're never
right, so no one gives a damn about it. But now, one of his theories is
right, but he doesn't know which one and the only person he trusts is the
person he loves.

In terms of romance, Consp. Theory was better then Titanic. How? Let's see:
In Titanic, DiCaprio meets Winslet, three days later, she strips for him and
they have sex in the back seat of the car. Is that love? Or teenage sex? In
Conspiracy Theory, he met Alice for six months, he's in love with her, but
he's shy, he doesn't just meet her and sleep with her.
And what's more romantic? The guy dies and she stays alive and stays sad for
the rest of her life (Titanic)? Or they both live and live happy ever after
(Conspiracy Theory)?
I'll give a 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

A great movie to watch.......is that sentence a conspiracy against you to
see this movie? Did the government tell me to write this? That's what it's
like through the eyes of Jerry Fletcher. A taxi driver who sees conspiracies
in EVERYTHING, even in money. The opening scene with the people in the cab
is great, all the "conspiracies" he warns them about...It's great. From
Richard Donner(Lethal Weapon 1,2,3 and 4), come Conspiracy Theory, a movie
that teaches you to trust no one. This movie deserves about 7.1 stars I'd
say, not 6.4, like IMDB has. the voters must not have really paid attention
to this movie because it's great. 

  The plot is conspiracy freak Jerry Fletcher(Mel Gibson), for some reason
can not seem to stop watching over Alice Sutton(Julia Roberts), and he is
always telling her about his new conspiracy theories, and she never has the
heart to tell him to just go away. So one day Jerry ends up being kidnapped,
and put in a torture room, where he is being asked questions by Patrick
Stewart(X-Men)(I won't tell you what his name is in the movie because it
might ruin a little bit). After he escapes and tells Alice, who thinks he's
crazy, they both end up finding themselves in a grand conspiracy, that leads
to one of the best climaxs I've ever seen. Mel Gibson is perfect as the
paranoid Jerry Fletcher, who has locks even on coffee cans in his
fridge(which also has a lock). Julia Roberts does a pretty good job as Alice
Sutton as well. Patrick Stewart was good as.....I'm not going to tell you
but he was good. And The movie had an excellent script, and the characters
interacted wonderfully together. It's a great film, and I'm glad it wasn't
filled with loads of F-words like other R rated movies. It's actually a good
film for kids I'd say 12 and older, it's really not all that violent. I
thouroughly enjoyed this movie and I definately recommend it to you. 4 out
of 5 stars
