

Macho B-movie madness at its sublime best, this crazy action quickie is
about as braindead as you can get: wooden acting, a terrible story and a
script that truly sucks. But with all the mindless violence on offer who
really cares. Gun battles, martial arts, Samurai sword slashing and gory
deaths are the order of the day, not to mention plenty of beautiful ladies
treated like playthings and shedding clothes at every opportunity. Despite
the tits and guns, there is some kind of story: Kenner (Lundgren) is on a
mission of vengeance. His parents were killed when he was ickle by crazy
Yakuza thug Yoshida (Tagawa), an ice-cool super-villain now specialising
in
drug dealing and generally looking mean. Kenner, adept in the Samurai
ways,
grows to be a law-abiding copper who's now right on his tail. Male bonding
ensues when policeman Johnny Murata (Lee, in his US debut), a hip-talking
dude with street credentials, is assigned as Kenner's partner in crime,
and
all hell simply breaks loose. You could say that there's an artistic angle
to all this fighting, shooting and banging, but then that would be a lie -
Showdown in Little Tokyo is a classic in a completely different sense of
the
word. 
<|_=00=_|>

People seem to be awful hard on this movie. I guess they must not be action
fans. I mean, come on, this movie's only purpose is to entertain. And it
does its job well. It moves at a very fast pace for its short 79 minutes,
has lots of good action, and a good sense of humor. What more could you ask
for in an action movie. I don't know about you,but thats all I ask for in a
action movie. Its not art and its not supposed to be. 3 out of 4
stars.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the action-movies i grew up with. Seeing it again on TV
just brings back a lot of memories. And actually the movie itself is
not all crap either! Kenner (Lundgren) and Murata (Lee) both have
trouble keeping their partners. Now they team up together to fight the
Yakuza in Los Angeles.

Buddy cop pictures are not the most uncommon movies to say the least.
But this is a movie that has it all. Campy acting, the worst one-liners
ever, nicely choreographed fighting, evil Asians and heroes that are
always on each others case. Not to mention the super-evil villain
played here by the legendary Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa who should be quite
used to these kinds of roles by now.

So, this is not exactly quality and it's not exactly good. But still it
contains all the elements that made it an instant classic when i saw it
for the first time. Half-naked women, cool heroes and loads of action.
So the rating is based more on the memories than the actual movie. But
for me this will always be a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is Great. I absolutely loved it.It is an action movie that
doesn't
take itself too seriously. It was made just for the sake to entertain
people. Dolph Lundgren is at the top of his game in this film. Brandon Lee
does a great job of playing Dolph's sidekick. The two make a terrific
team.
This is one of the best action movies to come out of the
90's.

<|_=00=_|>
This cheesy 80's classic with it's awful continuity, dreadful script,
half baked story and wooden acting still rates as one of my favourite
films of its kind.

The plot is loosely based around Dolph Lundgren's character "Kenner"
setting out for revenge on the Yakuza Oyabun "Yoshida" who killed his
parents when he was a child. Years later Kenner is an LA cop and
crosses paths once more with Yoshida when he comes to the USA to set up
a drugs syndicate.

As you'd expect, you get to watch Dolph and his side kick played by
Brandon Lee kicking ass and shooting holes in everything that moves.
There are a bevy of good looking, half naked women on display, the most
delicious of which is a young Tia Carrere.

My personal favourite in all the filming errors has to be when Kenner
sustains a gunshot wound and immediately clasps his shoulder in pain
followed by the words ..."Its OK, it went straight through". A moment
later the camera views him from the rear and there is no exit wound !
Even better though, a few moments later the camera re-focuses on
Kenners naked chest and the bullet wound is no where near his shoulder,
its actually in the left lung / heart region ! I don't think he would
be in any state to carry on fighting with that injury !!!

Because "Showdown in little Tokyo" refuses to take itself seriously,
much in the same mould as John Carpenters "Big trouble in Little china"
did, all you have to do is relax and enjoy the total self indulgence
that this film allows you ! 

Great fun. 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Reading some of these comments, it occurred to me no one seems to know how
to have fun anymore.  This movie is not meant to be a great movie. I don't
think any of the actors had intention of trying for an oscar.  It's simply a
fun movie.  The action sequences are pretty cool and the one liners are
hysterical. Dolph Lundgren and Brandon Lee are a great action pair. The
chemistry between them is amazing. If you just want to watch a movie that's
going to make you laugh, and get some good action with it, I highly
recommend Showdown. 
<|_=00=_|>
I give this movie a 5 for entertainment value.. This is the worst
acting i have ever seen in a movie.. It contained humorous script and
bad directing..

The main female character Minako is raped/"irredeemably betrayed" by
her 'owner' and feels it necessary to commit suicide.. yet in the
following scenes she strips down nude and jumps in a hot tub with a guy
she has only just met.. yes, he WAS her knight in shining armour, but
come on! THEN she pursues a sexual relationship with him, and the
camera displays her as the 'dominate' one. The 'betrayal' doesn't
appear to be affecting her in the slightest.

I feel sorry for the Johnny character, he appears to be second best or
third wheel throughout the movie. The main villain has a scar in his
left cheek.. of which looks better every time it is seen throughout the
film. Continuity seems to be an issue.

As much as this film has bad taste bad acting and bad script, it was
quite entertaining for myself, as a viewer, due to the above facts. The
unintentional humour is what made me watch through to the end, and
possibly even again on a day i need some cheering up.

All in all it was not bad for the era it was filmed in. Cheers.
<|_=00=_|>

Dolph Lundgren and Brandon Lee make a unique team.  The movie has plenty
of
action to satisfy action fans.  The action and fight scenes are
choreographed
well.  Brandon Lee is pretty funny, making lots of wise-cracks through
out
the film and Dolph gives a pretty good performance as a man looking for
revenge.  Great movie to check out especially if your a fan or brandons
or
dolphs and love action and martial arts!
<|_=00=_|>


Surely the rating should be higher? This is one of the better Dolph
Lundgren-takes-on-all-comers movies, and its got Brandon Lee
godamnit!

Ok, so it gets predictable, but isnt that why action movies are so well
loved? Its got enough of a storyline not to resemble Red Scorpion in any
way, but only just little enough to make it a totally enjoyable flick. I
mean, for 1991, what were you expecting? Considering that this was the
director who brought us Commando, this is the ultimate in bloke films. If
you want to clear the women away, put either one of these films on and
enjoy
a mens night in!

So its not Minority Report, its not The Shawshank Redemption but its
redemption at its best, feet first!

Oh, and Tia Carrare in a hot tub. Gets it at least one point.
;)


<|_=00=_|>

In general terms, what does the young-hearted, red-blooded, upbeat kind of
male really like to see in a movie?  Gunshots, girls, kicking, girls,
punching, girls, explosions, girls, outrageous dialogue, girls.......ok,
now
once we have cleared this up, one might now know what to expect from
Showdown in Little Tokyo, a great little film that never takes itself
seriously and only serves to entertain........that just may be all we
young-hearted, red-blooded, upbeat males will ever need in a
movie.


