

From time to time a group of people with a lot of guts come forward and
challenge
something, that every average thinking producer would get nightmares to
even
think
about making it.

Fear of failing must come to mind, if the setting says:

- only one actor for 80 min (and one dead body)

- 40 min of it basically limited to: "Hello,.. What's that?.. Albert
Miller,.. Over here,.."

- no BGM

- no adrenaline injections with savages, sharks, snakes
etc.

- just plain "Life is hard enough as it is."

I loved it for:

- the guts of making it

- the heartbreaking and real-to-life love story

- Tom Hanks' performance

- his companion Wilson

great movie / must see
<|_=00=_|>

I think this is an excellent movie..I've noticed many felt it "too long,
boring, etc..." which is to be expected in today's "gimme non-stop action;
I
haven't been doing anything for 5 minutes, I'm bored" mentality.  This was
a
true man vs nature movie that really made me think about what I take for
granted and I found myself wondering how I would react in such a
situation.
Would I talk to a volleyball?  you betcha...anyone who has spent any
significant time alone can relate.  Bought the DVD and will watch it for
years too come.    
<|_=00=_|>

I simply loved this film but was shocked by the bad reviews that people gave
it. To this I say to them: You seriously misunderstood the meaning of it. 
Although I won't reveal any real details about the meaning because I think
that you should try and understand it yourself. The movie was terrific and
simply breathless the whole time.  I felt awestruck about how the life of
one man could be so changed after an experience that Hanks went through.  I
say that every element of the film was perfect.  And for those of you who
hate Wilson, you have to understand about how human he really was to Chuck. 
I was amazed on how well this movie was made and think that everybody should
have an experience that should cause you to take stock of your life.  I was
so adamant to get this movie; I got it at 8:00 the day it was released.  I
give it an 8/10.  Well done Robert
<|_=00=_|>

Robert Zemeckis has his 4th best film here (behind Forrest Gump, Who Framed
Roger Rabbit and Back to the Future) with Cast Away.  Sure it might be
overhyped and some characters in the film aren't needed (not to mention it
depends on the liking of the lead), but when you have Tom Hanks working
harder than any actor in a movie this year, it is worth
it.

The story follows Hanks as a dedicated fed-ex deliverer who has a fiance
(Helen Hunt) and has to leave her Christmas time to go to Asia, but alas,
the plane he's on crashes in the water and, dare I say more (well I can
because practically everyone saw the all-revealing trailers)?  Well, Hanks
arrives on a deserted island and then the real fun begins as he survives in
a primitive way (probably remenicent of 2001, Hanks' favorite film), and
even finds a silent companion named Wilson (a volleyball).  That Hanks can
communicate with this volleyball, and almost make the ball as a real person
with real feelings that is almost like the Silent Bob to his Jay, is one of
the films triumphs.  The others of course being the whole lot of him on the
island and Hanks' performance.  If it was someone else, it would not be as
successful, but Hanks gives his all and (as usual) pulls through 5 fold
delivering one of the years and his best performances. 
A-
<|_=00=_|>
I have never seen a more meaningful and thought-provoking film. Right
from the start, I knew this was going to be a classic film, and my
opinion was not changed throughout the course of the movie one bit. It
delivers such a strong message of fear, survival and hope, that leaves
your mind devoted to thinking about it for a long while after. It made
me think about all my creature comforts, and what is actually necessary
in life. Talking to a volleyball has never been more dramatic! I also
loved the fact that there was little talking in the film, maybe that
was because i was staying in a hotel in France with french TV, but
anyway, it sort of made you guess how he was feeling, in a clever way.
This is one of my all time favourite films, and I could watch it again
and again without getting bored... so go and watch it...NOW!!
<|_=00=_|>

I'll be honest, the first time I saw this film, I wasn't too sure if I liked
it.  I mean, I certainly enjoyed it, but I just wasn't too sure of how I
felt about the film as a whole.  I must say that this film was MUCH better
the second time around.  And just got better with each additional viewing. 
I am a huge Robert Zemeckis fan, so maybe my expectations were slightly
skewed at first.  But, all in all, I've watched the film enough times now
that I can say "I love this film!!!"

When I really stop and think about it, the film is brilliantly executed. 
The scenery is absolutely breath taking, the special effects are so well
done that you don't even realize that there are special effects present. 
This seems to be a trademark of Robert Zemeckis (case and point, "Forrest
Gump").  The acting is very good, although, there's only 2 real sources of
acting in this film, Tom Hanks and Helen Hunt.  The rest of the cast was
good, but their roles were very minor.  Tom Hanks pulls off another great
performance, as usual.  You really can feel all of his emotions while he's
stuck on the island.  Also, not many actors have changed their physical
appearance like Tom Hanks did for this film, I truly applaud him for his
work.  As much as I liked Russell Crow in "Gladiator", I firmly believe that
Tom Hanks deserved it more (although that would be his third Oscar).  Helen
Hunt also pulls off a very nice performance.  There is also a good deal of
comedy in the film, and it is done very well.

This is one of the few films that I strongly recommend you watch.  There
aren't a great many films that I would say this, but this one I would. 
Although...if you aren't a fan of Tom Hanks, then you might have some
trouble with this film because a great deal of the film is him alone on an
island.  So, if that is the case, then you are off the hook.  So, I hope you
watch the film, and I hope that you enjoy it.  Thanks for
reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
I've always been intrigued with Daniel Defoe's "Robinson Crusoe",
particularly the importance of the items that Crusoe salvaged from the
shipwreck, items that Crusoe could not have made himself and which make
his survival and the relative elegance of the life he built for himself
quite plausible. The real-life inspiration for Crusoe was one Alexander
Selkirk who, in 1704, choose to remain on one of the Juan Fernandez
islands - four hundred miles from the Chilean coast - rather than
continue on a voyage with a captain and on a ship he did not trust.
Selkirk was left with bedding, a firelock rifle, some powder, bullets,
tobacco, a hatchet, a knife, a kettle, a Bible, his mathematical
instruments, and some books. Selkirk's four years on his own were a bit
more austere than Crusoe's fictional life, in large measure because of
his relatively meager stock of good quality tools. Selkirk also lost a
lot of his social skills.

I was interested to see how Cast Away was going to solve the tool
issues and how they would deal with a person living on his own for a
long period of time. The solutions were simply marvelous: ice skates,
volleyball, etc. Tom Hanks is superb in the role.

And as a bonus, the castaway's return home is a fascinating part of the
story. The driveway scene between Hanks and Helen Hunt is very powerful
and reminds me of the great Emma Thompson/Anthony Hopkins 'book' scene
from "Remains of the Day". Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
******This may contain spoilers******

It's a superb,well directed and well acted movie!Well done,Hanks!!!

I'm a Hanks fan!!!I really appreciate his outstanding performance.I
consider him a genius in acting.He never just acts.However,he gives
life to his characters ,and makes himself exactly what they are.Forrest
Gump,Saving Private Ryan,The Terminal,The Da Vinci Code,including this
movie are all my favorites.I'm always deeply touched by his movies.And
they often make me cry,make me think,and make me understand more about
life and love.Cast Away is without exception.

I was moved by Chuck's spirits. His imagination(he names a volleyball
Wilson and talks with him as a friend),his perseverance toward love,and
his courage to face problems,all these enable him to survive and
finally return to his homeland.

When Chuck and Kelly embraced each other in the rain, I burst out
crying.They are true lovers.But,fate is cruel.His beloved fiancée,his
only belief during those terrible days and nights is forever gone.His
hope is disillusioned.He is standing at a life crossroads,thinking and
hesitating.He has to choose a way to begin his new life.

I greatly recommend this movie.Don't feel boring,just be patient.I
think movies are not only seen by eyes,but also by heart.Use your heart
to feel what the characters feel.Then the more you see it,the more
you'll be inspired and the more you'll find.Finally,hope you enjoy
other Hanks movies!!!
<|_=00=_|>
From director Robert Zemeckis comes this powerful character study of a
man and his quest for survival. Hanks is a time-obsessed postal worker
on a routine cargo transport. His life is forever changed after the
plane crashes and he finds himself stranded all alone on an uncharted
island. We're drawn into his long, arduous journey as he struggles not
only to keep his sanity, but to stay alive so he can make it back to
the love of his life (Hunt). A fascinating, believable, and
thought-provoking portrait of a man and his fight to live, with a
remarkably ideal performance from Tom Hanks, and steady, effectively
leisure direction that allows viewers to accompany this resilient
survivor on his emotionally wrenching journey. A small idea expanded
into a one of a kind movie. ***½
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie, but I can't say the same for the reviews found on
this website. Far too many of these fall into 2 categories: Those who
thought the movie was a Crusoe-like story of survival and loved it, and
those who thought the film was an ad for Fedex and hated it. But the
movie is neither about "man against nature" nor about Fedex.

Cast Away is about love - about the difficulty of finding it in a world
obsessed with success, about the freakish accidents that can produce or
destroy it, about an ordeal that led one man to re-think what is
meaningful in life, and about the need to bring to the pursuit of love
the same resourcefulness and courage that enabled the hero to survive
on an island for 5 years.

Tom Hanks is superb as Chuck Noland - creating immense sympathy for an
ordinary guy trapped - not against his will - in a job that is eating
him alive. How many actors could have made Noland's attachment to
"Wilson" believable? Yet Hanks does.

The last section of the film, much reviled by many, is immensely
touching. Noland has survived 5 year's of utter isolation hoping to be
reunited with his fiancé and has resigned himself to death at least a
few times before he is miraculously rescued. Anyone who remains
dry-eyed during his meeting with Kelly, when their rich feelings are
both acknowledged and of necessity abandoned - is unworthy of being
allowed in the theater to see a film of such quality as this one.

That Noland's hard-earned wisdom about love and family will not be
wasted makes for a marvelous ending to the film. It has required all of
his ingenuity and endurance to survive on the island. It will now
require strength of a different kind to accept the irrevocable loss of
Kelly and open himself to a new experience, perhaps with Bettina. The
last scene, with Noland standing at the crossroads, as the haunting
theme is reprised for the last time, as Bettina drives toward her house
and as Hanks looks into the camera with new-found resolve - is classic
- though again, cynics are absolutely barred from enjoying it.
