

Richard williams started this ambitious animated film way back in 1968.
Working with him were some of the original Disney animators such as Art
Babbit and Grim Natwick as well as Ken Harris and Emery Hawkins from
Warners. The film was originally self financed by Williams with money coming
in from his animated commercials. After winning an academy award for Roger
Rabbit he got the film financed externally so it could be completed.  This
turned out to be a bad decision because after going over budget the
investors got nervous and pulled the film from him, having it completed by
someone else. The film had about 10 to 15 min left to complete when it was
taken out of Williams hands. Instead of just completing the film, the person
in charge of the completion decided to re-work the film to make it more
"mainstream". He replaced much of the original scenes with song segments and
farmed out the animation . The resulting film was released in a few
different edits. On called "The Princess and the Cobbler" in Australia and
one called "Arabian Knight" in the US by Miramax. The Miramax version is
much worse because they added constant narration and voices to characters
who were intended to be silent. After Disney purchased Miramax, it's version
ended up on home video under the original title "The Thief and the Cobbler".

Richard Williams "Work Print" which is the work in progress version is the
only way we can tell what this film could have been. It has not been
released, but can be found as a bootleg. 

<|_=00=_|>
I can't stand this film being so obscure. It was a 30-year-old labor of
love that Richard Williams promised to be the greatest animated film
ever, before it was taken away by his creditors. All he cared about was
the perfection of the art, rather than the restrictions of schedules
and budgets. What happened to the movie was awful, but the remaining
animation shines through, greatly. I, for one, was very upset with the
release of the Miramax version on DVD, with only pan and scan, and a
lack of extras. It was an insult to the original version. I really hope
the restoration project is revived soon. A fully restored Director's
cut is my on and only "Dream DVD". That film really changed my life and
outlook on animation. It deserves more recognition and it's a great
learning exercise for animators. Stay away from the Miramax version.
<|_=00=_|>
The Thief and the Cobbler, created by the animator responsible for
Roger Rabbit and the Pink Panther, was a beautiful film. That is, if it
ever were completed properly. The film is probably the big inspiration
for Disney's Aladdin, which was just as great. The animation is so
brilliant, not even the likes of Disney or Don Bluth could top it. It's
a film you'd have to feel bad for, since it took up to 26 years to make
and seemed to fail and get butchered.

It's about a cute mute (at least he should've been) named Tack, a
cobbler, who might compare to Jo-Jo in the Blue Sky version of Horton
Hears a Who. The other main character is the swamp-coloured, cheeky,
silent thief (at least he should've been silent). He is crazy for gold
stuff as Scrat from Ice Age is crazy for acorns and he stinks so much
that his flies follow him everywhere he goes. Tack falls in love with
the pretty Princess Yum-Yum, daughter of the lazy King Nod (the
inspiration for the Sultan), which gets the blue vizier Zig-zag angry.
Zig-zag is the inspiration for the Genie and Jafar who can say anything
in rhymes and is voiced by Vincent Price. The most important thing the
characters need to take care of though the Thief is just too greedy to
know about is the set of three golden balls above the tallest minaret.
If the balls were taken away, the dark, half-blind army of One-Eyes
will attack.

I've seen the three main versions; the Recobbled cut, the Allied
Filmmakers version and the Miramax version. First, I am going to talk
about the Recobbled cut. This cut is made by a big fan named Garrett
Gilchrist of a fan company named Orange Cow Productions. He compiled
footage and original sound tracks he collected from all versions of the
film and people who worked on the film, no matter if it's unfinished,
low quality or animated poorly by Fred Calvert. He also included
classical music to make it a little more epic. It could possibly the
best fan edit ever made.

10/10 for the Recobbled cut.

The Allied Filmmakers/Majestic Films version, The Princess and the
Cobbler, was released only in Australia and South Africa. It was taken
away from Richard after Warner Bros. rejected it and completed quite
badly by television animator Fred Calvert and the Completion Bond
Company. Fred added extra animation that looked as if Don Bluth
animated it (some of the extra animation was produced at his studio),
dialogue for Tack and crappy songs that made it quite a rip-off of
Aladdin. Fred also changed the plot by mixing up scenes a little. The
Thief was still silent, only making a few gasping, grunting or
chuckling noises, and Zig-zag kept his great Vincent voice.

3/10 for The Princess and the Cobbler.

Miramax picked up Fred's edit, called it "Arabian Knight" and ruined
it. They turned what could've been a masterpiece into a masterpiece of
crap. They cut some scenes out because they thought they were too
disturbing or long, added more repetition, gave Tack the inappropriate
voice of Matthew Broderick and gave everyone who couldn't talk some
annoying thought talk that distracted from the great animation. The
thief, voiced by Jonathan Winters, spoke about everything he could see
and thought that he was in the real world of the present day by
speaking present day references ("Nobody lives like this except college
kids.") and pop culture references ("I'm going to Disneyland!"), and he
wouldn't shut the hell up. Nor would anyone else. The edit overflowed
with dialogue, with tons of grunting voices and more usage of "What?"
from King Nod. And that's right; Phido and the other animals could
actually thought-talk as well. What, did Jim Davis suddenly take over
the production? This isn't a Garfield TV special. What were they
thinking? Did they care about the original's creator? It probably
inspired the butchery the Weinstein Company did to the film version of
The Magic Roundabout when they added cuts, random flatulence jokes, pop
culture references and moose dialogue.

0/10 for Arabian Knight.

So the only version of this film to watch is the Recobbled cut. Don't
waste your time with the other versions. A true-to-the-story
restoration of the film was put on hold when Roy E. Disney left The
Walt Disney Company so that the company could be totally butchered, but
Garrett Gilchrist hears that the Disney restoration has been continued,
so there's hope yet!
<|_=00=_|>

Here at last is the long-awaited theatrical release of Richard Williams'
"The Thief and the Cobbler." Begun in the late 1960s but not brought close
to completion until after Williams created "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" in
1988, it was conceived as an exercise in expression through animation,
with
an amazing roster of animation legends new and old [Art Babbit, Grim
Natwick, many of Disney's and ILM's new masters] passing in and out of the
project over many decades, all widescreen and 60s-groovy, baby. But now it
comes to us at last, and it's really not all that good. The reason?
Miramax,
a subsidiary of Disney and perhaps fearing the very obvious parallels to
their own "Thief" remake, "Aladdin," has cut the film to shreds. Not only
have they added three truly awful songs, deleted one character [the witch,
now just an eye], and removed much of the original's best shots, but the
rather nice original soundtrack has been replaced with a crass,
narration-heavy butchery that adds constant voice to Williams' great
silent
characters. Those who know anything about the original will consider this
a
hack job. But see it anyway, if only for the still-groovy animation and to
see where "Aladdin" came from. Now why wasn't Disney sued for this? A
great
work, by one of the great masters, and please Miramax, your version sucks,
so let's see the original sometime soon, ok?
<|_=00=_|>

I've had the opportunity to view a copy of the workprint Richard Williams
cobbled together (consisting of finished footage, storyboards, and pencil
tests), and it gives a good idea as to what the movie would have been like
if Williams had managed to finish it.

Is it better than the Miramax version? Most definitely. Miramax vandalized
the movie by adding those voice-overs for the Thief and the Cobbler
characters - a ludicrous idea, since these characters were designed to be
SILENT. Seeing these quiet characters not moving their mouths - but hearing
wise-cracking dialogue, and dialogue that doesn't fit the character's
personalities - is infuriating and very distracting. Though Miramax didn't
do all the butchery, since the movie was significantly cut by other hands,
and with poor linking animation added. (Not to mention some HORRIBLE song
numbers.)

The workprint beats the Miramax version by far - but it's not perfect. True,
seeing all that uncut animation - AMAZING animation - makes it a must see.
It's breathtaking at times. But if the movie had been finished, I'm sure
critics and audiences - when not gushing about the animation - would have
criticized the story and characters. There's barely a story here, and it
takes forever to get going. And once it gets going, there are plenty of
times when the story stops for a pseudo intermission. Apparently, Williams
was so charmed by all the vignettes that he thought up (mostly to do with
the Thief bumbling around and making an ass of himself), he didn't want to
leave any of them out. Seen by themselves, the vignettes are funny and a
wonder to the eye. But seeing one after the other...well, it gets tiring
after a while.

As well, with all the effort put in making visual splendor and animated
gags, it seems not much was put into fleshing out the characters more than
they are now. (Though they all have a charm that carries them further than
you'd expect.)

Though I do have some sympathy for Williams for the heartbreak he suffered
after being fired from the project (after working on it for more than 20
years!), he must accept his share of the blame for his firing and the
eventual butchery of his project, seeing that he constantly went over time
and budget, and refused to stop "improvising" as well as avoiding scripts
and storyboards.

Anyway, seek the workprint and avoid the Miramax version!
<|_=00=_|>

This is the greatest animated feature film of all time, but unfortunately
Warner Bros took it away from Richard Williams because he went way over
budget and schedule.

When they took over they added some terrible songs and dialogue to Tack
(who
never talked in the real version) and many other nasty changes, then
released it in selected cities in the US only.

It took 20 years to get made and has some of the greatest moving images of
all time.

The title is supposed to be "The Thief and the Cobbler"

My 8 year old son has loved it for years, never gets sick of
it.

Finally, Vincent Price's voice performance is excellent and it was one of
his last.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in the mid-90s, I first discover this movie on TV. And I
immediately found it to be another movie to enjoy.

Since then, it wasn't until the early 2000s, when I learn about it's
shocking and tragic history.

"The Thief & Cobbler/Arabian Knights" takes place in a fictional desert
world. The story focuses on a partly silent cobbler name Tack & a
silent thief. The kingdom they're in, is known for the protected
treasure of 3 golden balls. If those balls were to be removed from
their place, and fall into enemy hands. Then the kingdom will fall.
Tack was a poor cobbler until he got convicted for leaving tacks on the
road of the visor's parade. And was saved from imprisonment when
Princess Yum Yum had a liking for him, and asked for a cobbler to fix
her shoes. Not only did Tack found what appears to be the girl of his
dreams. He soon finds himself to be a possible hero of the kingdom.

Meanwhile the visor: Zig-Zag plots to steal the golden balls and
present them to the enemy side: The One Eye Army. With the gold balls
in their possession, they'll destroy the kingdom with their number of
soldiers and weapons of all kinds. Can a cobbler like Tack, really be
able to save a country? In development for more than 28 years. Making
this film the longest animated/feature length film to be in production.
The version I saw on TV, was considered to be an alternate and less
convincing movie than the other kind that was attended to be seen. As I
learn the original animators and writers spent so much time, the whole
thing was shelved by various distributors.

After seeing the revised version(which has numerous storyboard/UN
finished scenes). I was remotely surprised on how different it is.
Minus all the changes and unnecessary dialog & songs used in the
Miramax version.

A lot of people consider this to be a rip off of Aladin. But trust me,
it's way different from Aladin. Not as well known as Aladin. But it's
one of those movies that deserve more. If it was finished by the
original dudes who put their life's work into. Then people would
recognize it as a classic.

It's yet to get a better DVD release. And the revised version of this
film is out there, but hard to find. This and Twice Upon a Time are
perfect examples of animated movies that became fan favorites over the
years.

The original version is intended for sophisticated viewers. While the
Miramax version was made to be kid friendly.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw "The Princess and the Cobbler" in an Australian cinema in 1993.  I
gather that this version is much the same, but not entirely; and that
Australian (and, for some reason, South African) audiences got to see a
bit
more footage than everyone else.  Maybe I'm wrong about this.  I do know
that, in a sense, this movie doesn't exist: there's just a lot of footage
and more or less apt ways of putting it together.

Forget the ways of putting it together: the footage is great, some of the
most sumptuous and witty animation you will ever see.  I don't know how to
plead its case without making a false impression.  "Sumptuous", might, to
some people, suggest a kind of misguided photo-realism - but no, the
drawings are beautifully stylised.  "Witty" and "stylised" sounds a bit
like
code for that kind of animation whose only distinction is its cheapness -
but no, clearly a lot of work and detail has gone into the animation.
Perhaps I can put it best by saying that the villain has six fingers and
blue skin; but he's so convincingly animated that I was halfway through my
second viewing before I noticed either fact.

"The Thief and the Cobbler" was one of the earlier, more appropriate
titles.
It's the only title I've heard that accurately describes the story.  It's
not a bad story.  And the thief is a wonderful character.  For his sake I
would put up with any number of trite lyrics like, "She is more than this
/
She is more / So much more / She is more than this."

Forget I quoted those words.  Watch it - and bemoan the fact that you
can't
watch it on a wide screen.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the most innovative and amazing pieces of animation I
have
ever seen. The treatment of each of the characters was fresh  compelling,
unique and entirely hilarious, especially that of Zigzag the Sorcerer and
of
the Thief.  Princess Yum Yum was every bit as seductive as Richard
William's
Jessica Rabbit. The use of meticulously crafted geometric designs and
patterns for the backgrounds was a delightful change from the photo
realistic computer generated images offered up as the order of the day.
This
could easily have been considered an historic  piece of classic family
entertainment weren't it for the intrusive and entirely unnecessary
dialogue
of the usually funny Jonathan Winters as the voice of the thief. His
mumblings in no way moved the story forward or complimented the visual
personality of the thief, interjecting meaningless dribble into the what
would be otherwise, natural pauses in the rhythm of the story.  Richard
Williams could have easily basked in the same spotlight as does Tim Burton
or Roald Dahl.  I'll keep an eye out for a 'directors cut' to share with
my
friends.

<|_=00=_|>

This was a butchered movie.

You can't deal with "the Thief and the Cobbler" without recounting the
sickening story behind it, so here's the really short version (I may have
some facts wrong, so don't quote me on any of this).  Richard William's
wanted to be the first person to animate an entire feature-length movie all
by himself.  It took him nearly three decades to finish about twenty
minutes.  By the late 80's he was driven nearly insane drawing every single
frame of film *by hand* by himself, so Disney offered to help him finish
it.

They did a completely half-assed job on the remaining animation and songs,
added narration where there was no need, slapped the title "Arabian Knight"
on it, and whipped it in and out of theaters before the unwitting public
could say "'Aladdin' rip-off".

We'll never get to find out what kind of movie Williams would have made.  As
sad as that is, it's probably better to admit it's a non-issue and deal with
the movie we do have (and don't get me wrong; that does NOT mean that what
happened to "Thief" isn't disgraceful).  

It is worth a rental just to see what remains of the original, Williams
produced animation.  You will be able to tell the difference; the Williams
scenes are the ones where the characters seem to be roaming around a series
of Escher prints.  His finale, where the Thief destroys a gigantic
mechanical army with one slapstick accident after another, is still
breathtaking.  Fast-forward to these bits and, definitely, watch them with
the sound off.
