
I had to stop reading the commentaries, because some people thought
they were attorneys and rambled-on about injustice. My Friends, in the
era this film is about, none of the story would be unusual. There are
prejudices much worse even now - I was amazed that one person actually
compared this wonderful film to "Crash": give the world a break!! If
"Crash"...Ugh!...proved anything, is was to reassure EVERYONE racism is
still America's cancer.

I am from Biloxi, Mississippi - along the Gulf Coast. That city has
always been a melting-pot, so many different races live together. In my
youth, it was Czechs and other European races. Today, can you believe,
it is Vietnamese ! The city has also always been a tourist-area, and
always had some form of gambling before it became The Las Vegas of the
South - perhaps that has tempered the people there from the state's
interior's citizens. Canton - during the '60s - would have been just as
it is portrayed in this film.

Because of the many TV-courtroom sitcoms, etc., today's population
would wonder why there was no strongly-worded assurance the district
attorney planned "to appeal". What? We are not talking about modern-day
justice in this film - Shamefully, this is Mississippi at its worst,
and I know about that. We didn't have this kind of racism in Biloxi
then, perhaps because African-Americans "stayed in their place", a
shameful statement if there ever were one. All the foreigners and
citizens of other states who are not aware of those days - how can you
comment on the film, except to give a critique ? Like many of the
people who wrote commentaries, I can watch this film once-a-month. ALL
of the cast gave a superb performance; the story did not drag; the
places that were filmed were true-to-life; to some folk's surprise,
there ARE people who live in the state who do not speak like idiots:
people think I'm English!; Mathew Mc was astounding and Sandra
Bullock's performance was exactly as it should have been, as an
activist "little rich girl"; Southern gave a true performance of a
alcoholic lawyer; Sam Jackson was masterful and expressed the
difference in being "white" and "black"; Kevin Stacy's portrayal of a
Southern lawyer with all the connections, right on; I can think of no
one who wasn't brilliantly cast.

Missed by many people who made comments, this film is a statement that
today we are brutally MEAN to one another: "Crash" re-states this fact,
although it is not nearly as poetic. Do I own this film? You betcha!!
I'll most likely have to buy another, and it will be money well-spent.
Grishom knows how to get our attention, and "A Time to Kill" clearly
demonstrates all who were involved in its making were determined to
keep his story pure. Wake-up, People - many parts of our world are not
pretty today......
<|_=00=_|>

A truly tense film that takes place in present-day Mississippi. A young
African-American girl has been raped by two backwoods white men. Her father
(Samuel L. Jackson) takes the law into his own hands and kills the two. Now
the small town becomes a hot-bed of controversy as a murder trial starts
that gets national attention. There is the defense attorney (Matthew
McConaughey) and his bright-eyed assistant (Sandra Bullock) against
prosecutor supreme Kevin Spacey. A really solid film that works because of a
screenplay that pulls no punches and revolutionary direction by Joel
Schumacher. A great ensemble cast all excel here and the film captures a
place that has turned into a media circus very well. A film that you will
watch with clenched fists. An intense experience. 4 stars out of 5.

<|_=00=_|>

I was very much drawn into the book, and thought that it would be hard to
get the same feeling out in a movie.

At the beginning I thought I was right. From the beginning I was thinking
"they left out a whole mess of details." I was irritated that they did not
develop the characters better like in the book.

But by the 3rd quarter of the movie this was the last thought in my mind.
And by the end I understood that the screenwriter had very skillfully
budgeted his (limited) screen time for the most important parts of the
movie, where it is well spent.

I think the acting of the principals was very good, and I found especially
for Sandra Bullock as Ellen Roark - who was the most believable character.
Although the rest of the acting was very good, I felt she was the most
believable.

Which raises the main weakness of the movie, as good as it was, having
read
the book, I could not help being reminded that most of the characters were
in fact, actors in a movie. Except for Ms. Bullock, there was a bit of
woodeness to the "folk" in this small southern town. Also the plot is a
bit
contrived (but true to the novel). Most important is that (for me) it
worked. I was moved. Its a very good movie.


<|_=00=_|>

I'm not sure why I didn't see this film when it came out, but I watched it
for the first time last week and was blown away. "A time to kill" is not
only very well done, but it shows the way racism is dealt with in an
intertesting way. Every character is not only well developed, but the actors
playing them make it totally believable. 

Kevin Spacey and Samuel L. Jackson, who remain two of the finest American
actors are definetly one of the best parts of the film. I'm not really sure
how this film was received when it was released, but I consider it to be one
of the most well done films I've seen recently.
<|_=00=_|>
Courtroom dramas are well known for providing thrilling films, and that
is exactly what 'A Time to Kill' thrives on; entertainment value. It is
clear that the film, in spite of having some very potent themes, puts
most of it's focus on being entertaining and it's actually not a bad
film for it. Sometimes, films that want to be entertaining and have
themes fall down because they're too entertaining and the themes get
left by the wayside; but A Time to Kill puts its cards on the table
from the start, and it's always clear what this film wants to do with
itself. The plot follows a man who, after his daughter is raped and
almost murdered, decides to take the law into his own hands. However,
this man is also a black man living in a white supremacy state, and so
the film injects a racism theme into it's plot, which is always going
to mean that it will have some sort of social commentary within it.
However, that isn't the most interesting comment that the film wants to
make; as that plaudit falls to the idea of justice, and exactly what
justice is.

The film, based on a novel by crime writer John Grisham, presents an
impossible situation to the viewer and central characters; what do you
do when justice will prevail whatever the verdict? The viewer and the
characters must then make a choice between the law and general
morality, and it is there where the film draws it's most interesting
plot point from. While, as mentioned, it's always clear that this movie
is meant to entertain you; it's always nice to be given something to
think about as well. A Time to Kill benefits immensely from an
absolutely fabulous cast, which includes the likes of Samuel L.
Jackson, Sandra Bullock, Kevin Spacey, Kiefer Sutherland, his father
Donald Sutherland, Ashley Judd, Chris Cooper and more, all of which are
lead by Matthew McConaughey. It is the lead that most lets the film
down, as although McConaughey can definitely act, he's not quite
charismatic enough to deliver a lead performance in front of that cast.
Still, the movie is definitely very decent and although you probably
wont hurt your brain watching it, it will entertain you.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie dealt with such a deplorable subject.. such a sickening act,
without so much as one single gratuitously violent scene in the whole
perfectly realised masterpiece.

It's a chilling, thought-provoking, hard-hitting piece that's taut,
absorbing, and impeccably well-paced.

There are jaw-dropping performances by numerous top-flight actors here,
not a-one letting the ball drop even once. Not one actor's time or
talents were wasted in this extremely well thought-out project.. not
one actor wasted a cent of the money we paid to see it.

Matthew McConaughey's "Jake Brigance" was an incredibly lucky shot of
an acting debut that he took and ran with like the wind, turning in an
amazing, heart-stopping, truly star-making performance, which may prove
to be the crowning achievement of his entire career when all is said
and done.. It will be a treacherous climb to try and top it, certainly.

Class act Donald Sutherland is superbly cast in a quiet, and profound
role, as "Jake"'s, {now no longer practicing}, professor, a perfect
fit, this role, for a man of such rare eloquence~ There is a sizzling
sub-story going on between "Jake", a devoted family man, and Sandra
Bullock's character that could not have been tighter, steamier, nor
more well written and played out.

I recommend this movie to anyone who believes in justice, who has a
child, or only knows one.

You want cheap, tawdry, sleazy, violent 'entertainment'? There's not
one thing here for you~

Killing cannot be considered "right" by any means; but sometimes it's
just not as simple as "THOU SHALT NOT KILL". 

So many of us say, "I would kill for my children, {or other loved
one's}!".. but would we? ..Would we be in the "right"?
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best dramas I've seen.

Great performances from Samuel Jackson, Sandra Bullock and Matthew
McConaughey.

I've seen this movie four times and each time I see it, his closing speech
has made me cry loudly.

I highly recommend it. You won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>

This tough filming of Grisham's novel about a black man's revenge for the
brutal rape of his daughter by whites might lead one to some maxims for
guidance of anyone in such a situation. Don't wait for the law to help when
you know it won't. But, if you act on your own, be prepared for the worst.
Don't always assume that someone different is automatically your enemy.
That's racist mentality no matter from which end of the color spectrum you
are observing. There are probably others one might deduce. This is a
powerful and thought provoking film, well acted and produced. It puts the
KKK in a true perspective as a bunch of neo-nazi thugs, and, mirabile dictu,
there are no "obligatory sex scenes", at least not in the version I saw. My
only cavil is the "happy" ending. It seems unlikely in the given
environment, but then again maybe not.
<|_=00=_|>
A Time To Kill is based on John Grisham's first novel, the one he wrote
before he was famous, and the one that didn't skyrocket him to fame.
(That would be accomplished by "The Firm"). That's why this movie
didn't get made until much later, after Grisham was off churning out
meaningless books with the movie dollar signs fresh in his head. Unlike
most of those, this book was actually about something. It had meat, it
had weight, and it had heart.

But it also had a fatal flaw, and this fatal flaw gets translated into
the movie. Namely, "A Time To Kill" sets you up.

Here we have a black man (Jackson), on trial for the murder of two
white men who brutally raped and tortured his 10-year-old daughter. We
have an underdog lawyer (McConaughey) battling the big bad system to
save his client. And oh, by the way, the whole thing is set against the
backdrop of racism in Mississippi, complete with hooded KKK men burning
crosses.

In other words, we're supposed to sympathize with Carl Lee Hailey.
We're supposed to believe that a father who loves his daughter is
justified in killing the men who raped her. We're supposed to feel the
injustice of a system where a racist all-white jury could judge a black
man who was just trying to avenge a brutal crime. We're supposed feel
like we're standing alongside the people chanting "Free Carl Lee".

But the racism issue is a smokescreen, and the whole thing is
contrived. Carl Lee Hailey was a vigilante. Yes, there were mitigating
circumstances for what he did, but the fact remains that he wasn't
innocent. This would have been true no matter what his skin colour, or
the skin colour of the assailants of his daughter, the judge, the jury,
or anyone else.

And what's so heavy-handed about this film is that it paints anyone who
believes Carl Lee should have been convicted is a racist. The message
seems to be that if you believe that the law shouldn't be taken into
people's own hands, then you might as well be burning crosses on a lawn
somewhere wearing a hood.

This isn't the first time a heavy dose of sentimentalism is inserted
into a story like this, and it won't be the last. As a movie, A Time To
Kill stays pretty faithful to the book, and the acting isn't half bad.
But it played the hand it had been dealt, really. Even a good cast
can't elevate bad source material.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the worst kind of film.

The plot is ludicrous, the characters are unrealistic stereotypes who
never look like they believe it themselves. Are white people such
monsters that they will continue to call two white child rapists in
their 20s "good boys" and need to be persuaded that this might be
grounds for provocation? Are black people universally inspiring? Do the
Ku Klux Klan really stand outside court rooms shooting at lawyers with
nobody intervening? Do judges really think that a fair trial can be
conducted when the jury can hear a mob outside shouting "Kill him"? Do
black people really stand shoulder to shoulder with the Klan waiting to
hear the verdict? Do wives really take several months to realise that
their husband might be defending a man from unfair hanging because he
knew might have done the same thing? Do juries really acquit people of
murder because they feel sorry for them? Do lawyers really use a
defense of sanity in order to persuade people that their client was
temporarily insane? 

Worst of all, any high-minded principles of this film were lost to the
completely exploitative and gratuitous use of sexual crime to titillate
the audience. Was the subject of rape, let alone child gang rape,
really in competent hands here? Is it really a subject that belongs in
Hollywood hands? And if so, why the completely gratuitous kidnap and
stripping of Sandra Bullock? And the completely pointless statutory
rape charge against one of the witnesses? Seems like the director
didn't feel THAT strongly about sex crime after all.

This was taking the excellent plot of To Kill a Mockingbird and making
a crass, shallow, tasteless money-spinner from it. Shame on them.
