

This isn't a dreadful film, merely insipid.  The plot is deeply flawed and
implausible.  It tries to be a number of genres and fails at each.  It
fails
as a comedy, as a suspense thriller and as a horror movie.  It almost
succeeds as science fiction.  The direction is uninspired and Katie Holmes,
cute cherub face that she is, should be modeling teen clothing, not acting.
The only thing that keeps this movie from being a 1 out of 10 is Helen
Mirren.  Her performance is fabulously nefarious and is (almost) worth
suffering through the rest of it.  Her ability to transmute from imperious
to faux sympathetic to deviously manipulate and control her prey shows
masterful range.  Other than Marissa Coughlin's delightful Exorcist
rendition, Mirren is the only reason to see this movie.  A solid 3.0.

<|_=00=_|>
I hate it. And I hate it all the more because its meant to be light and
inconsequential, and it is, but yet still provokes in me such
nauseating and violent ire. Its a waste of my bile. But, it is so
catastrophically stupid and badly written I just have to collect my
thoughts.

1. Why didn't the stupid male teen lummox admit fault as soon as Tingle
took the stolen test out of stupid Holmes' bag?

2. After agreeing to just tell the truth why did they send female teen
actress B go to Tingle's door and proceed to just lie? Second obvious
chance for male teen lummox to admit all wrongdoing goes abegging.

3. Why do any of said lummoxes fail to listen to their own ideas?.
Tingle is manipulative, don't listen to her, she's trying to promote
disharmony within our group. Stop listening to her. Its a ruse. Don't
let her get to you... Whats that Mrs Tingle?.... Really? 

4. Why does being upset by Tingle (see 3) drive Holmes to have
presumably unprotected sex with irredeemably guilty male teen lummox?

5. Why does she even want to fornicate with said male teen lummox? To
paraphrase... Holmes (to Lummox) - "There's an unguarded innocent woman
tied upstairs, we're probably all going to prison for a long time and
its all your fault, you have no scruples or charisma, my accomplice and
best friend who has (somehow) always been in love with you has now fled
the crime scene in a jealous rage because she's been tricked (see 3)
into thinking we've slept together. Lets sleep together, that's made me
horny". 

6. And why doesn't this firmly establish Holmes as a colossally stupid,
horribly callous b**ch?

7. Why does illegally changing not only HER grade, but unjustifiably
sabotaging someone else's grade not only further reinforce Holmes as
being a horrible callous b**ch? 

8. Since Holmes is explicitly established as a horrible person, does
that not make Tingle the protagonist by default? Where is the tension
in the prospect of Holmes getting caught? 

9. Mrs Tingle has escaped and is on the phone in the living room.
Holmes sneaks into the MIDDLE of the SAME room and stands there. Has
Tingle seen her? I think she's gotten away with it.... no, wait.

10. One lummox screams "RUN!" when crossbow aimed at Mrs Tingle is
found to be minus the arrow. Run? From a 60 year old woman? Run where?
Run WHY? What does running solve? "She's got my ankle! We're all going
to die!" scream the three healthy teens. (Clue - Tingle is a superhuman
cannibal). 

11. Tingle has been assaulted, threatened, kidnapped, blackmailed and
tormented in her own home for numerous days. Don't call the police,
this is a matter for the principal.

12. Tingle's legally justified retaliation results in nobody getting
hurt. The simple question of "whats been going on here?" is fortunately
not raised by anyone ever again and thus all captors are absolved of
all crimes. Holmes gets her fraudulent award, all betrayal between
friends is never spoken of again and they all live happily ever after.

These are only the larger and more thematic ones. Everything, every
minute detail of this film is deeply and profoundly stupid,
unjustified. illogical and unlikable. 

I thought this would be cathartic but i just feel empty inside.
<|_=00=_|>

I will have to disagree with many comments on this movie saying that it was
only a bomb. I thought this movie was quite interesting, surely not a great
one, but good. The high point of this movie, in fact, is Helen Mirren. I
was
quite impressed with her inspiring performance - it kind of reminded me of
Kathy Bates in "Misery". It is quite rare to see such a great performance
like Helen Mirren's in an horror/suspense movie and this is the main reason
why I have decided to comment on "Teaching Mrs. Tingle".
<|_=00=_|>
History teacher Mrs Tingle seems to have it in for student Leigh Ann
Watson, who has her heart on achieving a writing school scholarship.
She receives another low grade from Tingle, which doesn't help. When
one of her classmates Luke steals the paper of the final history exams
and pops it in her bag, Mrs. Tingle finds it sticking out. She
threatens the three that she will go to the principal about it, but
he's not available. So before she reports it the next morning. Leigh,
her friend Jo Lynn and Scott head to her place that night and try to
convince her not tell the principal. However due to Tingle's
stubbornness, that find themselves reverting to drastic measures to
stop this getting out.

Wasn't fan of it when I first saw it, and after another viewing, I'm
still not one. Writer Kevin Williamson was on a roll after penning the
successful contemporary teen horror films; 'Scream (1996)', 'I Know
What You did Last Summer (1997)', 'Scream 2 (1997)' and 'The Faculty
(1998)'. He was riding the success (also not to forget the TV show
'Dawson's Creek), but this project would be the final bump. The
difference there, compared with this entry was other then writing the
screenplay, he was also making his debut in directing. The strange
thing though, was that I found his direction to be competently done,
but material he stormed up to flavourless and tired. It seemed to get
caught in playing both a black comedy and straight-out thriller,
without making it gel. The script is cluttered with quick-wit, on-going
gags, trivial stretches and gimmicky references towards other films,
but the problem is that it's too watered-down with so many contrived
developments and sappy moral currents disrupting the flow. The
fractured script had to be more strong and potent, since it's a
small-scale production that feels like you're watching a stage show
because of its mostly confined sets. It tries to play mind games with
the characters, but these moments are there to only serve the story's
poor progression into a puddle of stupidity and senselessness. The
film's ending takes the cake. Williamson's polished direction is sound,
but more so in a pedestrian way and therefore it lacks suspense and the
pacing even with its taut surroundings can really plod on. You
eventually feel it after the halfway mark, and it shows up how minor
the story is. The performances are tolerable enough, although if it
weren't for Helen Mirren's classy, icy portrayal of manipulative
prowess as Mrs. Tingle and a buoyant Marisa Coughlan, we would have
been stuck watching a vapid goody-to-shoes Katie Holmes. Barry Watson
is modest in his slacker part and Molly Ringwald has a lesser role. The
soundtrack packs enough energy, but I found it terribly overwrought and
shapeless in its choices.

Watchable, but mechanical all round.
<|_=00=_|>
Teaching Mrs. Tingle, this was the movie I saw multiple times on HBO
when it was released in 1999 and I couldn't get enough of this movie. I
absolutely loved it, I think because I was graduating Jr. high at the
time, I actually expected high school to be like this. True, it was a
bit far fetched at the time, but still it was a lot of fun to watch.
Who didn't fantasize about treating a teacher like this in high school,
the one who absolutely gives you a hard time for no reason and just
won't lighten up on you? OK, granted I don't think we wanted to play
"Mistress of Pain" by tying our teachers up, but still it was a fun
idea and this is just a fun movie to watch.

Leigh Ann is a high school student who wants to achieve top grades to
become valedictorian. However, her grade in History class is threatened
by her sadistic teacher, Mrs. Tingle. Mrs. Tingle has a special dislike
for Leigh Ann and down-grades Leigh Ann's well-designed project. The
teacher also stumbles upon Leigh Ann with the final exam, which had
been stolen and planted in Leigh Ann's backpack without her knowing,
and threatens to have her expelled for it. Leigh Ann and her two
friends, Luke and Jo Lynn, head to Mrs. Tingle's house that night and
try to convince the teacher that Leigh Ann is innocent. Mrs. Tingle,
however, does not listen. They try to grab Mrs. Tingle and she is
accidentally knocked unconscious. The students panic and tie Mrs.
Tingle to her bed. Pretending to be Mrs. Tingle, Jo Lynn calls the
school the next morning and feigns illness in order to buy themselves
some time, but all are unsure of what they should do next. Mrs. Tingle
eventually reveals that she hates Leigh Ann because Leigh Ann has the
potential to leave their small town and experience life, but her
honesty only furthers her captors' dislike of her. She also opines that
Leigh Ann has not got the guts to do anything that will get her in
trouble; you know that that's not a good thing to say to the goodie
goodie who needs adventure.

While the movie has a bit of an unbelievable plot, it's just a nice
escape and a good movie. It was funny, witty and intelligent. I loved
Helen Merrin in this movie, she was just awesome as Mrs. Tingle,
couldn't have been a better villain and was someone that you just loved
to hate. Katie Holmes actually held herself up well and had good
chemistry with then hottie of the day Barry Watson. The cast all
together had good chemistry. To be honest I'm surprised this movie
didn't get much notice after it's release, who knows if it might be a
cult classic somewhere down the line, but I think it's a fun movie and
if you get the chance to watch it, I'd suggest you take advantage.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

In the UK, we're lucky enough to see Helen Mirren regularly on tv,
especially as the lead in a crime drama series called Prime Suspect. In
Teaching Mrs Tingle, she offers us a splendidly embittered bitch, teetering
on the edge of caricature but always just - only just - on the stylish side
of the thin line. The supporting cast of young actors, Barry Watson, Katie
Holmes and Marisa Coughlan, are sexy and sassy - as the film is itself -
and
are good enough to suggest that in a few years time we'll all be watching
this wondering why we didn't realise how good it was when it came out. The
narrative's carefully managed by the writer (with none of the dreaded
Dawson
Creek verbal diahrroea), the photography and lighting are cleanly and
sometime imaginatively done, and the dramatic thrills generate emotional
excitement in a way that many so-called thrillers would like to emulate.
Someone making this film was absolutely first rate at getting the best out
of their team: maybe not everyone involved is going to do better later, and
maybe this will turn out to have been their finest hour - but if you want
to
see a really enjoyable comedy thriller, then try this excellent
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Fred Williamson's directorial debut is a movie targeted for teen agers.
This comedy, with black overtones, is not a total failure. The story
line is not the best asset of the film, which presents us with a
situation that doesn't go anywhere, as it brings a cruel side on the
young people in the story that doesn't ring true.

Mrs. Tingle, a tyrannical history professor, clearly dislikes most of
the students in her senior class. Leigh Ann, an earnest young woman
needs whatever help she can get from her teacher in order to get the
scholarship she so desperately needs. It is clear Leigh Ann will never
get any sympathy from Mrs. Tingle.

The situation deteriorates when Luke, one of the guys in Mrs. Tingle's
class gets hold of the final exam and shows it to Leigh Ann and Joe
Lynn, her best friend who has a crush on the young man. Mrs. Tingle
happens to walk on them and discovers it on Leigh Ann's bag. The
chances for the scholarship, and the possible for an expulsion from
school, are almost assured.

Instead of confessing, Luke, doesn't even open his mouth. He lets Mrs.
Tingle walk out vowing she'll do whatever to have them punished.
Expusion is a possibility for the trio. So what do they do? They go to
Mrs. Tingle's home wanting to make amends, but she is unmoved. One
thing leads to another as they try to get her to change her mind about
the theft of the exam, something she will never even consider.

The best thing in the movie is Helen Mirren. She is perfect as the
lonely teacher who loves to mock and ridicule the young people under
her. She is a frustrated woman who has no life, but who loves to make
fun of others because basically she doesn't tolerate the fact that some
other people are happy.

Katie Holmes, plays Leigh Ann. She is not as effective here as in some
other films. Barry Watson and Marisa Caughlan are Leigh's friends.
Jeffrey Tambor only has one scene in the film, but he makes the best
out of it. Molly Ringwald, Miichael McKean and Vivica Fox are seen in
supporting roles.

"Teaching Mrs. Tingle" doesn't break new ground, but it keeps the
viewer involved in it.
<|_=00=_|>
A cheap bizarre 80'-like Hughes-movie for the nineties without humor,
heart and morals... Mirren and Marisa Coughlan (asuming she does her
own voice-work, which I'm not quite certain of...) does some decent
acting, but the rest of the cast is pure TV-soap... Steals ideas from
all around. After the Mirren-character tells the Holmes-character that
shes seen right through her, one hopes that the movie has the guts to
follow through, but no - it cops out in ridiculous fashion with 3 fake
endings and still manages to let the Holmes-character get out on top
after having cheated everyone around her. Apparently it pays to be a
(w)bitch in this movie...
<|_=00=_|>
This absurd movie was about a "Goodie-two-shoe," teen-girl that really
wanted to be Valedictorian but finds her obstacle in a teacher name
Mrs. Tingle. Katie Holmes, who plays this "goodie-two-shoe," is faced
with "the biggest dilemma of her teenage life" when this classmate guy
of hers comes along with the final exams sample that should help them
nail Mrs. Tingle's test. Mrs. Tingle comes along, catches Holmes, the
classmate guy and her best friend with the sample of her final exam.
Convinced that the three of them planned on cheating on here exam, Mrs.
Tingle enthuses on her opportunity to ruin Holmes once and for all with
allegations that can take away any chance of Holmes passing her class.
And the classmate guy, who apparently has his eye on Holmes, always
wondered why she never gave him the time of day (he's an idiot)?
Feeling desperate, Holmes and her friends visit Mrs. Tingle in the
middle of the night to try to dissuade her in believing that Holmes was
planning to cheat. It all backs fire somehow when the classmate guy
points a bow and arrow at Mrs. Tingle, threatening her to make things
right for Holmes. Mrs. Tingle fights back but ultimately ends up as
Holmes and her friend's captive.

During Mrs. Tingle captivity under Holmes, they do everything from
tying her up and gagging her in her own bed to blackmailing her with
false pictures that they took of the unconscious Coach in bed with Mrs.
Tingle. I found myself cringing when the kids were making themselves at
home in Mrs. Tingle's house, eating up her food and going though her
private work. At one point, Holmes found Mrs. Tingle's grade book and
purposely changes the grade in her favor, decreasing the grade of her
challenge for valedictorian. The end played out like a childish attempt
to bring back the comedy that was sparingly in the beginning of the
film, resolving on pure irony, slapstick and absurdity.

This has to be the most unlikable and wickedly evil character Holmes
would ever play in her entire life. I wanted to help Mrs. Tingle get
free to really dig a grave for Holmes. She was manipulative, selfish
and conniving. She even slept with the classmate guy despite her best
friend's overwhelming interest in him...and she didn't like him. From
attempting to ruin her challengers grades by seizing Mrs. Tingle's
grade book to taking her best friend's man, you would think that Holmes
would get what she deserves in the end, right? Unfortunately, she
obtains everything her heart desires, showing that being wicked,
manipulative, selfish and whining can get you what you want.

Mrs. Tingle was suppose to be the character you didn't like. They
didn't bring me to that point once to believe that she was this woman
that needed to be "taught this lesson." She was like every other strict
teacher who even gave valid reasons for her resentment of the next
generation. Personally, I felt that her opinions about young people
were validated with Holmes and her friend's actions every time. I kept
hoping she could get free to call the police and nail Holmes. They kept
her tied up in bed, ate up her food like a bunch of pigs, drank up the
woman's wine, messed with her personal belongings and we're suppose to
believe that she didn't deserve to take a bat to each of their heads?
And the classmate guy has to be one of the most disliked characters in
the history of film. Forget idiot, we need a new word for him that
isn't in the Webster's dictionary. He brought the major trouble into
Holme's life then made things worse when he came into Mrs.Tingle's
house, uninvited behind Holmes, and corners Mrs. Tingle with a bow and
arrow. I was thrilled every time Mrs. Tingle had a chance to slap fire
out of him, or choke the wannabe actress best friend.

If you're a teen out there and want to see when a teen's manipulation
and wrong doing can get him or her the world, see this unfunny,
caricature filled, unintentional film noir.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw the film expecting the worst film ever made after reading some of the
comments here, but I was pleasantly surprised (at first).  In the beginning
the film starts off ok and I was starting to enjoy it until the kidnapping
of Mrs Tingle takes place.  From then on things start to go downhill until
the end which is totally stupid.

To get the most out of this film I think you'd have to be a fan of Katie
Holmes's 'Joey' character off 'Dawson's Creek', since it's pretty clear that
Holmes's 'Leigh Ann' is a direct rip-off of the aforementioned character
(not really surprising since Kevin Williamson who wrote/directed this movie
also created 'Dawson's Creek') - right down to the kind, friendly student
who is smart but lacks the money to get out on her own and thus really needs
those A's to get a scholarship for college.  Joey is my favourite character
off 'Dawson's Creek' so I didn't mind this, but those who don't will
probably be automatically annoyed throughout this film since the story makes
such a big thing about this.

The Plot - the film follows the story of Leigh Ann, a smart student who
badly needs to get high marks to earn a scholarship which represents her
only ticket out of town. Only problem is that her last assessment item due
is for her History class, taught by Mrs Tingle who is regarded as the Devil
Incarnate by all (including the principal) and who also has it in for poor
Leigh Ann and makes a mockery of her assignment she's submitted.  To make
matters worse later on Mrs Tingle catches Leign Ann and her 2 friends in the
gym with a stolen exam paper (which had been stolen by Leigh Ann's 2
friends) and she's determined to get them expelled.  However the principal
is unavailable until the next day and Leigh Ann and her friends have to try
and find some way to 'reason' with Mrs Tingle before then.

I won't post spoilers for those who have yet to see it but I will say that
from the time Mrs Tingle is 'detained' the plot loses itself and by the end
has descended into utter stupidity.  The biggest mistake IMHO was that the
writers made Mrs Tingle such a nasty person without any redeemable features
- she's a cruel person just because she feels like it and we're not given
any real reasons to help us understand why she is the way she is (there are
some hints given here and there but the film never attempts to follow these
through) and as a result we're left feeling pretty unsympathetic with
whatever happens to her.  In addition Leigh Ann and her friends continually
make the stupidest of mistakes (like constantly leaving Mrs Tingle ungagged
despite telling themselves repeatedly not to let her talk) and we're left
with feeling a bit unconcerned on how things may turn out for them since all
these actions are being obviously thrown in to create predictable problems
later on.  There's also the running parallel of the films detainment of Mrs
Tingle with 'The Exorcist' but these scenes seem totally unneccessary and
seem to only function as filler to keep the running time at an acceptable
length.

All in all, it had potential but unfortunately it fails to add up to where
it can deliver.  If the comments below concerning how a lot was cut out of
the film are correct then I wouldn't mind seeing a version with some of
those cuts put back in which would hopefully expand on some areas, but as it
stands I would only recommend it to people who are fans of the main
characters (especially Katie Holmes).
