
Wanting to re-visit the genre he created, George Romero approached Tom
Savini to direct a remake of his 1968 masterpiece, Night of the Living
Dead.

While the film follows the original closely, it does have some
important changes. Notably the character of Barbara is no longer a
gibbering vegetable but now much more balanced. Other changes help
blend the film much better into Romeros Dawn and Day. The use of tools
by the zombies for example, is lessened and removed at times, creating
more continuity between Night, Dawn, Day and Lands time-line of the
undeads abilities.

Some seem to automatically shoot down the remake in favor of the
original, I've watched this version almost as many times as Dawn and
Day, and believe the film tops the original in almost every way. 

Although the groundbreaking nature of the original will always remain,
Savini's Dead is a without doubt a classic Zombie flick and in my
opinion a perfect first chapter in the Romero Dead series.
<|_=00=_|>

"This is pure hell on earth."  Actually, what Tony Todd meant to say was
"This is one hell of a movie."  Tom Savini and George A. Romero have
succeeded in recreated a classic (which is quite hard to do).  Night of the
Living Dead '90 is faithful to the original, but still manages to scare and
surprise you by throwing in a few unexpected twists.  Director Savini
creates a great atmosphere.  This is one of my favorite claustrophobic
films.  It has the feel of an old, secluded farmhouse, and thankfully lacks
that Hollywood gloss.  The characters feel real as well.  The cast is
perfect.  Tony Todd, William Butler, and Tom Towles are the re-incarnations
of the original Ben, Tommy, and Harry Cooper.  And longtime Romero
collaborator, Patricia Tallman, revamps her character Barbara for the
nineties.  And you gotta love Bill Moseley ("They're coming to get you
Barbara.  They're horny Barbara.").  All of the classic elements (the feud
between Ben and Cooper, the claustrophobia) and a few new ones (a smarter
female lead, new ending) make this one unforgettable.
<|_=00=_|>

George A. Romero turns over his classic horror film to be remade, and it's
in the hands of Tom Savini (who did brilliant makeup for Dawn of the Dead
and Day of the Dead).  Now, I do have some mixed feelings about this movie. 
While in some aspects it's well made (er, for a remake), it can not match
the original, if only in tone and style.  But it also doesn't match up with
the original because until the end, most of the movie is a shot for shot
remake.  More style is added, to be sure, but Savini and Romero (who
scripted this one) could've gone farther.

With that said, Night of the Living Dead (1990) was an enjoyable horror
flick experience, one where it's a good time with color and gore and all
(plus more full frontal zombie nudity) and as long as you don't think too
deeply about what you are watching (and certainly don't try to compare the
1968 and 1990 versions together), you'll have fun.  B+
<|_=00=_|>

A lot of remakes of classic films rarely live up to their predecessors. The
original Night of the Living Dead was a classic horror and this adaption did
the original movie justice. There were a few changes but it generally stayed
faithful to the original.

Tony Todd as Ben and Patricia Tallman as Barbara do a wonderful job. Ben is
the character who is trying to hold everything together in the face of
insurmountable odds. Barbara is the female who initially encounters the
zombies but soon turns into an ass-kicking heroine. This differs to the
original where Barbara was a timid little madam.

The tension builds throughout the film. Perhaps there would have been a bit
more tension if it had been filmed in black and white but it was very tense
throughout.

The ending is also different as well but good nonetheless.

If you liked the original, then I recommend this version as
well.
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen every "Dead" movie many times, and I've even written a spec script
for "Dusk of the Dead." Here's what's right and wrong with this remake of
the 1968 classic.

***SPOILERS AHEAD *** SPOILERS AHEAD ***

1. RIGHT - Barbara getting strong. Looking at Romero's other films - "Dawn"
and "Dusk," strong females like Fran and Sarah play tough, believable
characters. The catatonic Barbara in "Night" '68 was way too weak,
especially for a Romero film. Although the execution wasn't as good as I
would have liked (more on that later), it was the right
decision.

2. WRONG - The music. Though the original used library samples for its
music, they were very well-picked and added a chilling side to the action,
with very few hitches. Here, though, an annoying score sometimes takes the
viewer out of the picture. Better to leave the music out
altogether.

3. RIGHT - Playing on people's expectations. The opening cemetery scene is
one heck of a shock. Shooting at a gas pump? Not a good
idea:).

4. WRONG - Harry Cooper. The point of this film was to make Harry out to be
a complete a--hole. He hits his wife, drinks, argues, and doesn't even sound
rational. The original made Harry an angry, nasty guy, but he helped some
(throwing the cocktails, etc.) and made some good arguments for staying in
the basement. Here, all he does is shout at everyone - not
fun.

5. RIGHT - Effects. Great makeup here, absolutely convincing. Much better
than the average horror film.

6. WRONG - Pacing. When the house is being boarded, the zombies attack
constantly, and overpower the humans several times. You'd have to be an
idiot to stay up there if the zombies were THAT strong. The first one made
staying upstairs a viable option.

7. RIGHT - The third option of just getting the heck away. With a rifle and
a shotgun, it shouldn't be too hard to get everyone past the zombies and
into the open.

8. NEUTRAL - The ending. Certainly a radical change for Barbara's character,
but it makes sense in context of Harry's behavior.

9. NEUTRAL - Decreased role of TV/radio reports. It's nice to focus on the
matter at hand, but seeing the wider view of things is fun, too. It's good
that they didn't explain WHY the dead were rising.

There you have it. Comments from a die-hard "Dead" fan. The film is about a
6-8/10, depending on how you like the series in general. It's comparable to
"Day," in other words.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm always wary of remakes of horror and science fiction classics as they
are almost always inferior to the original versions, in many cases REALLY
inferior. There have been a few successful and worthwhile attempts,
especially John Carpenter's 'The Thing' and David Cronenberg's spin on 'The
Fly'. Tom Savini's 'Night Of The Living Dead' is another good one. Even
though Savini is a legend in the special effects world I really expected
this to be awful. It wasn't. While not as literal as the misguided 'Psycho'
remake by Gus Van Zant, Savini sticks very close to the source material, and
doesn't mess with it as much as Carpenter or Cronenberg did. George Romero
scripted, adapting his original screenplay co-written with John A. Russo,
and both men co-produce. The main difference in this version, apart from
obvious ones like being filmed in colour and with some more sophisticated
special effects, is the expansion of the Barbara character, who is much less
passive and more important to the plot. Barbara is played by Patricia
Tallman who worked with Savini on Romero's cult favourite 'Knightriders'.
She is probably best known for her recurring role on 'Babylon 5'. Tony Todd
('Candyman') plays Ben, and is very good, and the underrated Tom Towles
('Henry:Portrait Of a Serial Killer') is excellent as the slimy Harry
Cooper. The scenes between the two are really strong, and add a lot to the
original. I also enjoyed seeing Bill Mosley (Chop Top from 'Texas Chainsaw
Massacre 2') playing Barbara's brother Johnny in the opening sequence. My
only real gripe about the movie is the surprising lack of gore, and also the
new ending which to me is nowhere near as good as the original. Apart from
that it is much better than I expected, and I highly recommended it to
anyone who enjoys Romero's "Dead" trilogy.
<|_=00=_|>

You can't help but feel a tingle of deja vu while watching the color remake
of Night of the Living Dead. It is essential for full enjoyment to have seen
the original since the remake takes the same story and twists and tweaks it
to bring it into the 90's. People are divided into two camps on this film.
They either absolutely hate it or they have been enraptured by the
change-up's that it pitches at you. I am of the later camp. At least Barbara
(played by the beautiful Patricia Tallman) has enough of her wits about her
to point out how irrational everybody else is being instead of being the
catatonic victim like the first time around. "They're so slow. We can just
walk right by them." She remarks to Ben (Tony Todd) who is adamant about
staying in the house. Perhaps this version isn't socially relevant like the
first, but it's nice to see that Romero can add a twist ending that can
stand on it's own merits, but really is amusing in light of the former
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Another zombie movie? How could there possibly be another variation on this
tired horror theme? These were my thoughts as I slipped my money through
the
window at the ticket booth back in the fall of 1990. After all, I was a
poor
college student who had to take prudent measures in order to ensure that I
had beer money when its all said and done. Not to mention the fact that I
was quite a horror fan, in particular a zombie fan who was very familiar
with the original Romero film. Needless to say this movie had a lot to
prove
in order to win me over.
Well, it did. What Tom Savini and company were able to do out in the
Pennsylvania countryside was nothing short of masterful. Of course I'm
talking about horror here. This is no Cassablanca, but within its genre
Night of the Living Dead is a standout. This film basically faithfully
retells the original Remero story with the benefit of better make-up,
special effects, cameras, lighting and cinematography. Notice I did not say
better casting or acting. Aside from the actual story these are two areas
that are partly responsible for the original's lasting
success.

<|_=00=_|>

Make-up maestro Tom Savini's color remake of Romero's 1968 classic follows
the original almost shot-by-shot,but it's of course not better film.This
remake was clearly made for younger viewers who refuse to watch
black-and-white films,no matter how good they may be.The result is
passable,but it lacks dark atmosphere and mood of the original.If this
version has anything to offer,it is Patricia Tallman("Army of Darkness")in
an engaging lead performance as a tough,independent heroine.This is only my
opinion,but I'm really fed up with "strong female lead" concept that every
new horror film seems to have.The next thing I dislike in this picture is
the lack of gore.For God's sake this film was directed by gore wizard Tom
Savini-the man behind such hard-core splatter flicks like
"Maniac","Nightmare" or "The Prowler".The violence is very tame-even by
today's standards.However the acting isn't bad,the zombies are pretty scary
and the film is never boring.Recommended for horror buffs all around the
world.
<|_=00=_|>
The dead come back to eat the flesh of the living. A small group of
people are holed up in a farmhouse. They have to fight the dead from
getting in...and each other.

There was no reason (that I can see) to remake the 1968 classic
"Night..." but George Romero (director and co-writer of the original)
wanted it. He scripted it and got makeup artist Tom Savini to direct.
The results are OK. It could have been a disaster but wasn't. It's not
a scene by scene remake but it does have some of the original dialogue.
Still it makes some pretty extreme changes.

Barbara in the first movie was little more than a basket case. Here she
is strong and intelligent and can hold her own. It's never really
explained how she became such a crack shot though. Tony Todd is a good
actor--but not here. He has the unenviable job of playing the part that
Duane Jones played so well in the original. He is good...but not
enough. The other actors are all pretty OK--the same as the originals
were.

There are some cute visual and verbal references to the first film and
the gore has been upped drastically (though not as much as it could
have been). There is also an eerie and very effective music score
throughout the movie. I found this a little slow but that's because
I've seen the first multiple times in the past. And this one tacks on a
screamingly obvious "ironic" finale.

It's OK--but the original is still the best. I give it a 7.
