
...if you like rock-a-billie and love a campy adventure in a
post-apocalyptic world were Elvis, the KING, has just died and there's a
guitar-strumming race across the desert to Las Vegas to see who will be the
next King crowned - you'll love this bizarre piece of comic book fiction
brought to life.  Our hero & his sidekick are chased across the desert by
Death(a cross between Tom Petty & Slash) and his archer henchmen. Our Hero
slashes his way through one unbelievable fight scene after another. Falcon
is truly amazing. The fight choreography alone is reason enough to watch
this peculiar piece of cinema.  The climax is a duel between our
Hero(Rock-n-Roll) and Death(Heavy Metal).  Who becomes the King?  Watch it
&
love it.
<|_=00=_|>

This film can best be described as a post-apocalyptic spaghetti western
samurai fantasy. Our hero is a taciturn Buddy Holly look-alike traveling
with samurai sword and six string guitar as he treks across scenic Death
Valley on his way to America's last outpost of civilization, Lost Vegas,
where he expects to be coronated as the new King, Elvis having died without
naming a successor. Accompanying him is a stereotypical post-apocalyptic
bleating child snatched right out of "Fistful of Dollars". Buddy slices and
dices his way through an evil bowling team, the Russian army, would-be
usurpers to the throne, and anyone else who gets in his way. The music is
good and it's wonderfully filmed, so have some fun and enjoy the ride.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is the best post-apocalyptic rock 'n roll samurai movie ever
made!  There are so many subtle references and spoofs to so-called 'new
classics' - 'E.T.', 'Road Warrior', 'Baron Munchausen' - and manages to flow
smoothly as well.

The story is too clever.  America is over-run and then largely abandoned by
Russia 40 years ago.  The last outpost of the American dream is Lost Vegas,
where Elvis rules as king.  Upon his death, a lone modern-day samurai
warrior with a guitar (Falcon) heads for Vegas to beat out other wannabes to
the vacant throne.  He hacks, slices, punches, and kicks his way through
every insane nuclear holocaust survivor who stands in his way, all the while
with a feral orphan boy in tow.

There is not a dull moment in 'Six-String Samurai', thanks to the
off-the-wall script and Jeffrey Falcon's acting and fighting.  I was very
surprised to find out that he hasn't done anything else since.  This movie
was incredible for an otherwise unknown martial arts bit actor who also
wrote the script and coordinated all the fighting.

It would be cool if there was a sequel, or better yet, a prequel to
'Six-String'.  I for one would love to see a movie about King Elvis in Lost
Vegas.

9/10.  Very highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, this film does have it's faults. Most low budget films do. But the
overall theme of this work is a multi-layered spoof of many genres. The Hong
Kong fantasy samurai film, end-of-the-world pictures, rock and roll
musicals, and the obsession with Las Vegas.

I had the fortune to see this film at a multiplex in Las Vegas, and was not
disappointed. Buddy is a bad-ass rock'n'roller with a katana hidden in his
guitar with his sights set on being the next king of Las Vegas. "The Kid" is
annoying and has a ear-splitting shriek (Why wouldn't he? No playmates, no
cartoons, just empty land and not a Gymboree or video arcade in sight!), and
the various bad guys (loved the evil bald bowlers) come in just about every
shape and size.

Elements of "Wizard of Oz", "El Topo", "Mad Max", Sam Peckenpah, and God
knows how many Kung Fu/Samurai films are in this, seasoned with a handful of
self-conscious humor.

Living in the Las Vegas area, I'm familiar with most of the scenes featured
(The bombed out gas station is the ghost town of Rhyolite, Nevada), so it
was a kick seeing some of those places in a film.

It isn't for everyone, and some will dislike it, mostly for it's campiness,
but this is a film that doesn't take itself too seriously...and neither
should you. 


<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a wonderful experience - the cinematography is stunning, the
fights exquisite and the music perfect.  One of the most enjoyable
theatrical experiences of all time; I'd recommend it to anyone with an open
mind about movies. 
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw this movie at in the rental section, I assumed it would be a
rip-off of EL MARIACHI or DESPERADO.  I rented it out of curiosity and
found
that I was mistaken.  This film is quite original and a little bizarre,
but
it is definitely the kind of independent movie that is worth seeing.

The budget is low, the costumes and special effects are sparse, and some
of
the sound is non-synchronous.  But this is all made up for with a story
and
directorial style that lends itself to "camp."  The stylization of this
movie is definitely what makes it worth seeing.  It is kind of an
over-the-top martial-arts, rock and roll, post-apocolyptic
odessy-adventure.

I enjoyed the flow of the story, which breaks down like this:  The hero is
traveling across the desert to the post-apocolyptic city of Lost Vegas, to
vai for his right as king.  Along the way he is tested by other
would-be-kings with the same goal in mind.  This allows for constant
samurai
style action/fight scenes.  But the story is compounded by the jugernaught
he must inevitably face, which is manifested by his ultimate competition,
a
"Death Metal Band" lead by Death himself.  The story is smart, allowing
each
fight scene to develop the characters.  We see Buddy, the hero, to be a
supreme, loan-wolf type fighter.  And Death, stalking close behind, is
ruthless and hard to beat.  This sets the stage for their eventual
conflict.
The first conflict they have is ended permaturely by outside influence,
which furthers the story by creating a score to settle in the final fight
scene.  I prefer when movies take the time to set up this kind of
conflict.
Rather than just throwing a good guy up against a bad guy and having one
big
fight scene, we get learn about the characters and the story.  Business is
left un-finished, which allows the audience to anticipate the climax.
This
adds suspense to the story and draws the audience in to the movie.  The
movie has a very good Second Act, which throws the main characters in to
great peril, with the bad guy's having all the advantages.  This is then
resolved with a great third act, finding clever resolution.  Very good
story
telling.

The movie is totally over the top and wierd, but the story is fairly
concise
and exciting.  The circumstances are totally bizarre, but the director
creates a world that is enigmatic and yet consistent.  I would say this
movie is kind of a "Mad Max in Wonderland."  It is not your standard
Hollywood tale, which, of course, made me like it even more.  Not to
mention, the entire movie is action packed.

I highly recommend this movie to anyone seeking an original action movie,
but on a critical level, just to be fair, I will list the few problems
that
I found:  I think the fight scenes could have used a little more
choreographing.  It looked like budget constraints were limiting the
number
of takes they could do, and they were making up for actual precision work
with simple slow motion and tricky camera angles.  Falcon appears to be
fairly well trained in Wu Shu, the standardized style of Chinese Kung Fu,
but he is no Jet Li...nor Zhuang Hui, for that matter.  It looked like he
could use just a little more practice (I don't think he nailed that
Butterfly Flat Spin in the sand dunes fight scene with the Death Archers).
However, he is good enough to be quite convincing, and he was genuinely a
lot of fun to watch.  The fight scenes still managed to be quite exciting,
and again, I highly recomend this movie.  Especially, to anyone looking
for
a good independent movie.  In my opinion, there really are not that many
independent action movies that are worth seeing.  The TROMA team tries to
make action movies, and they pretty much all stink.  Don't think that
SIX-STRING SAMURAI is another MR. KABUKI MAN NYPD.  Buddy would kick the
crap out of Mr. Kabukki Man!

I rated this film a 7 out of 10 on the IMDB.  Go rent it and let your mind
get a little bent.  Its really pretty clever. 
<|_=00=_|>

A personal favorite, Six String Samurai is an independent film melding and
twisting so many genres that I'm convinced this film is truly one of a
kind.
We'll never see its like again and that, quite frankly, is a shame.
Jeffrey
Falcon comes across as the epitome of cool as the katana wielding wannabe
king of rock n' roll. His quest to Vegas brings him in contrast with a
variety of oddballs left confused in the atomic dust of the apocalyptic
United States. From the Pin Pals and the cannibalistic Leave It To Beaver
family to the remnants of the Soviet Army; Buddy meets all types.

Six String Samurai should appease anyone with an interest in Road Warrior
styled apocalypse films. At most times the film tongue in cheek and filled
with humor. Still the action scenes show Jeffrey Falcon knows his way
around
martial arts and how to swing a katana. Take the tour across the rock n'
roll wasteland and give SSS a view.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a good movie.  With the title and description, I expected an all out
camp movie that would be fun and humorous, but this film has a lot of
spirit.  It's unique it's assimilation of several genres, for one.  It also
manages to create what has been destroyed in recent history of the martial
arts film genre, where the protagonist is tragically heroic, and flawed. 
This is not typical hollywood fare, nor does it cross that line into a pure
comic camp romp. The action scenes are excellent. The main characters are
multidimensional, despite what little dialogue (and what great dialouge it
has) they have.  The film is well photographed, going far beyond what
currently is offered in theatres.  The film also has a lot of heart.  It
never compromises its integrity for trying to make a popcorn movie.  It's so
fun fillled and free spirited, which is rare in movies today.  Plus, any
movie with buddy holly moving with the grace of bruce lee is nothing short
of unique.  This one's a winner.

<|_=00=_|>
First, the bad stuff. The film will not appeal to people who can't deal
with camp, with pure Lynch-like strangeness, or people who demand a big
budget production.

However, those who are willing to give an oddball film a chance will
find this to be a real gem of an indie flick. Imagine if you will Buddy
Holly, Mad Max, and Jet Li bundled into one character, fighting across
a desolate warped postapocalyptic Nevada. The dynamics in the movie are
all about conflict... Rock & Roll against Metal, Communism against
Capitalism, bravery versus despair. Mix that in with "Weird West"
touches, demented nuclear families, and warriors who duel with both
blade and guitar. There is even a hint of the manga, "Lone Wolf and
Cub" thrown in. That and some excellent Russian-influenced rockabilly.

Some of the scenes fall flat, sure... but few movies try to reach for
such imaginative and demented heights... and few succeed to this extend
on a shoestring budget. Despite its shortcomings, the action sequences
are exciting and well-done, and one really sees an American Apocalypse
which never was -- but in some ways happened, in our heads, at least.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has so many faults.  But why do I love it so
much?
First off the position of the bad guys is never really explained.  I mean
who exactly are the windmill people?  What makes Buddy flip around when the
kid cries? (Amen to the reviewer who mentioned the kid's psychotic episode
inducing moan)  Just what exactly happened at the end?  The music is great
but at certain times does not feel fitting for the situation.  Buddy repeats
the same lines over and over as if that will make them cooler. (ex. Float
away little butterfly, swell, etc.)

However, there is so much to love.  The instant Falcon appeared on the
screen as Buddy, the kung fu rocker, I was amazed.  I kept thinking to
myself, "dang, this guy is awesome".  The scenery and photography is
gorgeous.  As to a comment about erotic photography I did notice
that there was a similar scene.  Buddy and the kid are standing on opposite
sand dunes.  It looks like a pair of boobs to me, but that's just
me.

As for the guy that complains that Death was given a wussy guitar, that
seems to be the point to me.  Heavy Metal is contrasted with Rockabilly and
Surf Guitar.  The director obviously prefers the latter, and so do
I.

The dubbed voices are cheesy, but that doesn't make it any less cool.  I
loved the too short segment involving the "windmill god" himself.  But what
was with that kid who kept saying, "Tag! You're It!"  To get all the nuances
of the film you probably have to be an anime, hong kong, mad max, Sergio
Leone junkie.  I liked the fact that the movie was bloodless.  It helps to
keep the fun factor high.

This movie is just what the world needs.  Meteor destroying the Earth, bah!
A pale remake of a giant rampaging lizard, forget it.  Take a trip back to
the fifties when rock was revolutionary.
