
The timing, the plot, the acting, the variety of people, all of this
make up a movie which literally had me crying with laughter for the
entire second half of the film. I wanted to watch it again immediately,
and likely would have if it hadn't been 2:30 am. The idea of the film
is that these actors - playing actors - pull together, fight, and put
up with each other to keep a play going. This is John Ritter as his
amusing self, without going overboard. This is Christopher Reeve: tall,
good looking, humble, funny. Carol Burnett being just ... HER. This is
Julie Haggerty meek, mild, and under control. Mostly. This is Michael
Caine, sly and cranky. Typecasting? NOOOO!!*grin* The whole cast is
perfect for their respective roles. Tiny TINY bit of language, but
otherwise something for a variety of ages. Find it, make popcorn, sit
and watch - but don't eat the popcorn around the second half, you might
choke.

Maer
<|_=00=_|>
"Noises Off" brings door-slamming hilariousness to the screen as an
adaptation of the stage play. With the cast to die for: Michael Caine,
Carole Burnett, Nicolette Sheridan, Julie Haggarty, Christopher Reeve,
Denholm Elliott, and John Ritter, the storyline of a cast preparing for
out of town run of a comedy quickly descends to back-stage antics,
jealousy, lost contact lenses, and sardines at every turn. Peter
Bogdonovich steers this witty production of a play, in a play, in a
play with multiple staging's as dress rehearsal, opening night, and the
worst night in Cleveland is turned into a Broadway triumph.

The initial opening dress rehearsal sets up the story of the play's
characters, their original entrances and exits, key lines, and props if
all went well. From then on, the production deteriorates with backstage
gossip, romances, and fiasco mistakes that quickly become running jokes
of missed timing, malfunctioning props, and erratic ego's out of
control. Each character's quirks are their achilles heel and from start
to finish, the play's momentum keeps the cast on their toes as they
step on and over each other to curtain.

If you've ever done theatre at any level, this film is for you. It is
simply the most hysterical comedy of timing and entrances. If you've
wondered about theatre productions, this film is for you. And, if you
just love the theater, this film is definitely for you. It is filled
with trueisms that have happened, will happen, and could happen in all
the disastrous and varied forms.

I caught this film originally on HBO and laughed so hard I had to buy
the video. It is a wonderful film for great performances by the late
actors, Reeve, Ritter, and Elliott, and their brilliance is all the
more bittersweet by the excellence of their timing, physical humor, and
read of the lines. For the sex is Desperate Housewife, Nicolette
Sheridan in her underwear from moment one to last scene, on her knees,
and blind as a bat without contacts. Michael Caine should have been
acknowledged for this performance as he is so perfect as the harried
director that it makes his work in drama all the better. 

Each time I catch this film, it gets funnier and makes me laugh to
tears. See it just to cry over what great talent has been lost too
young, and just be amazed and amuzed at what great ensemble casting is
all about behind and in front of the curtain.
<|_=00=_|>

If you can keep up with this movie, you'll laugh from beginning to end.
The
movie that never stops.  This movies rapid fire comedy can make you dizzy
and it provides very few and small slow spots to catch your breath!  The
story of a inept theatre troope that just gets worse and worse, the closer
they get to the bigtime.  It reminds us that there is no business like show
business.  No business at all!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a great film, period. Great concept, great cast, great
plot. The inherent problem is the fact that most of this humor, though
very fresh, is lost on most people. Unless you have acted on stage in
some facet, this movie is mere slapstick. I saw this movie when I was
younger, before I started acting, and I liked it, but it just seemed
kind of shallow. Now that I have some stage under my belt, this movie's
humor is mindblowing, because the insanity is just that outrageous. I'm
not saying people can't like this movie if they aren't actors, but it
helps. What helps this movie as well is the intellect of the humor.
Below all the slapstick site gags and bad happenings, the depth of the
character development is vast and beautiful, making you really think
that these people, in the end, hate each other.

<|_=00=_|>

Michael Frayn's "Noises Off" is the farce to end all farces, a hilariously
funny play that had me fall off my cinema seat repeatedly because I just
couldn't stop laughing. 

In it, a group of moderately talented actors attempts to perform a bedroom
farce called "Nothing On", but their own incompentence and personal
disagreements get in the way to result in perfect, bizarre chaos like
nothing ever seen before on screen.

This is a long-time favourite on the stage, and Peter Bogdanovich has
masterly brought it to the screen. It's all about timing, you see (oh yes,
and "doors and sardines", as one of the characters puts it), and the timing
is just perfect, which is quite an achievement, given the movie's
extraordinarily fast pace.

I give this movie 10 points, not for depth (which there isn't), but for 90
minutes of perfect, witty, fast-paced and extremely funny
comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

I was only twelve years old when I saw this movie in the theaters.  I
could
not stop laughing during the entire movie!  Everyone in the theater (sadly
it wasn't packed) burst out laughing at what seemed like every single
line.
Although the play within the movie is a sex farce, other than Nicolette
Sheridan running around in her underwear, this movie is still appropriate
for the whole family.  Parents need not worry about covering their
childrens' eyes or ears.

The entire cast was picture perfect in their comedic timing.  The visual
sequences backstage were stunning in their crispness, all the while making
the audience have fits of laughter.  I laughed so hard I cried, and this
was
when I was only twelve.  Michael Caine is great as a hard-nosed director.
Nobody does physical comedy like John Ritter.  Carol Burnett's expressions
in the movie are just priceless.  And, this is one of the last movies
Christopher Reeve made before his riding accident that left him paralyzed.
I never knew he could do comedy, having grown up on the Superman movies,
but
seeing him as a bumbling idiot cracked me up.  And kudos to the rest of
the
cast for a delightful comedy!

Having been involved in several productions in high school, Noises Off
hits
even closer to home, as the backstage shenanigans, though not as brutal,
DO
happen quite often, for those of you who've never done theater.  I loved
watching the movie again after I finished high school and had the
experience
of having performed on stage.  Now there were experiences I could relate
to,
like two actors hating each other, love triangles (or even
quadrilaterals!),
and missing props.  Backstage during a play can be one of the most hectic
places in the world!  And the cast superbly brings out the sheer insanity
of
it, to the delight of the audience.

Looking at the last 10 years, to be cliche, they just don't make movies
like
this anymore.  Now the trend seems to be toilet humor like There's
Something
About Mary, South Park, and any Jim Carrey movie.  Don't get me wrong, I
loved the two movies mentioned above and laughed my butt off, but I
laughed
because of the toilet humor and the raunchiness.  And this comedy made me
laugh more than I ever have for any movie, bar none.  It is all the more
refreshing to see a comedy where toilet humor is not needed to leave the
audience in stitches.  A little sex humor, yes, but it is on the mild
side,
tame enough even for little kids.  It is not about "let's see, what can we
put in the movie to REALLY gross out the audience?"

So, go rent this movie today!  It is worth however much it costs!  If you
have never done theater in your life, you will find it a nonstop comedy of
errors.  If you have done/are doing theater, you will love this movie on
another level.  Watch it by yourself; watch it with others.  It really
doesn't matter, but most likely you'll want to share this movie with your
family, your friends, your loved ones, etc.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing movie - would give it a 10.

Fast paced, never a dull moment - rib tickling funny.

Those who see movies after seeing ratings - Please - this once check
this movie out before u see the ratings..........You will never regret
it!! Worth every minute of it!!!!!!

Comedy is so difficult to get right - often gets stretched & repetitive
in many comedy movies. Not so in this one - Its been timed to
perfection & makes it worth the watch & a memorable experience!

The original character & feel of a play has been maintained throughout
& carefully woven into a movie & at no point would it disappoint a
movie audience who may /may not like plays.........beautiful balance
between the "play" & the "movie"!

Do watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
You may have to see it a few times to catch it all, as it is very fast
paced, but there's not very many movies that have made me laugh so
much. An amazing cast with amazing acting. Often overlooked is the
ability to maintain character without busting up laughing at what your
co-star is doing...especially during long takes, which this movie has
many of. The late, great John Ritter's performance is the glue that
holds it all together, and Michael Caine's depiction of the pained and
tormented director is brilliant. It is also a great show of diversity
for the late Christopher Reeve, who is much more Clark Kent than
Superman in this show. Nicolette Sheridan in her undies is certainly
not hard to look at either!

Highly recommended...but don't just see it once, as I wrote before. It
was a bit confusing on my first one. It is also fairly family-friendly,
with only a couple obscenities exclaimed by Michael Caine in
hilariously funny moments of frustration.
<|_=00=_|>
I grew up on this movie, and am an actress. This is a movie that every
want-to-be actor or actress must see. 

There is nothing like watching this movie with anyone who has ever done
any form of acting on stage.But even if you have not done a day of
acting in your life, this will still cause you to split your seams
laughing. 

Christopher Reeves and John Ritter alone are worth the movie, but you
also get the wonderful comedy of Carol Burnett, Michael Cain, and
Nicollette Sheridan.

A powerhouse comedy for the ages.
<|_=00=_|>

"Noises Off..." is one crazy movie. Based on Michael Frynn's play, it's
about an inept travelling theater group doing stage productions of a British
sex farce. The problem with this play is that as each month passes by while
stopping from city to city, the actors start getting at each others throats.
Michael Caine is hilariously funny as the frustrated director who gets to
the point where he can't bear to deal with his clumsy actors because of the
tumult backstage. "Noises Off..." is filmed in three different parts. First
there's the rehearsal just before opening night in Des Moines, Iowa. Next
there's a stop in Miami Beach where we see almost all the action taking
place backstage. Finally there's the stop in Cleveland where the show
practically falls flat on its face. This final part of the movie felt like
torture to me. Nevertheless, "Noises Off..." is very funny most of the time
and I did laugh alot. Besides Caine, the great cast also features Carol
Burnett, John Ritter, Christopher Reeve, Julie Hagerty, Marilu Henner,
Denholm Elliott, Mark Linn-Baker, and Nicollette Sheridan. All give funny
performances and that helps to make "Noises Off..." a very good
comedy.

*** (out of four)
  
