

As a fat person myself, I encounter prejudice every day. Movies are
especially bad, because it is still considered okay to make fun of fat
people. Most skinny people just assume that we're lazy. They think that we
have the potential to be as thin as is considered "normal," but we just are
too lazy to do anything about it. That is absolutely false (not that the
skinnies would ever buy that, but I can at least try).

Anyway, to get to The Nutty Professor, I found it to be one of the most
sympathetic portrayals of fat people ever put on film. The only one that
tops it is James Mangold's Heavy, although the protagonist's weight wasn't
all that was harming his well-being. 

The Nutty Professor did have some physical comedy involving fat that one
could take as funny, but I never felt that the jokes were  degrading. The
main reason that I feel this was so sympathetic was that, though he
experienced life as a skinny stud, he did decide to be a fat man at the end.
One can chock this up to formulae, but something that Sherrman Klump said at
the end really touched me: "I could try to lose weight, but I'm always going
to be a fat man, and you're just going to have to live with that." I think
that a film where the screenwriters  who were bigoted would have said
something like, "I'll lose weight without this stupid formula." That's not
what happened, though, and I'm glad for that.
<|_=00=_|>
A general nasty tone to this comedy prevented me from rating this a "9"
or a "10," but it does have a ton of laughs, courtesy of Eddie Murphy.
He's at is best when he's at the dinner table playing everyone but the
kid. That is one of the funniest scenes I remember from any 1990s
comedy. 

His humor is very crude in here (another PG-13 rating that is
ludicrous) but very funny in spots, too. With that kind of humor, it's
easy to go over the line of "good taste" which he does on occasion.
Overall, however, Murphy is remarkable as all these characters. I
believe he plays seven in all. This is probably his biggest 'showcase'
ever on film, demonstrating his comedic talents.

Even though this has a childlike-romance-type feel to it, and a nice
message about bias against fat people, there are so many raunchy and
downright nasty lines - mainly at the comedy club or the dinner table -
that it's certainly not recommended for kids. This is a LONG way away
from the original Jerry Lewis movie. Still....for adults, this movie
provides a lot of laughs.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, that's how I feel about it.  And no one was more surprised than
me.

While I think Eddie Murphy is often hilarious, I don't care so much for his
scatological humor.  It make me think he wasn't toilet-trained
properly.

We get a fair amount of fart jokes in this flick, but they work because they
fit in the context of the scenes, and the characters' motivations.  They
make sense first, THEN are funny, rather than the other way around (or just
being silly because no one could think of anything funny to write). 

But overriding the gas glee is a thoughtful story about a fat man dealing
with his weight and trying to find romance.  The special effects that gave
Murphy his blubber are truly astounding.  It never looks fake.   And above
all this is the incredible screen chemistry between Murphy's Professor Klump
and Jada Pinkett Smith.  Smith is always genuine in her interest in Sherman;
and his bashfulness and sincerity are truly endearing. 

I found this movie to be a pleasant surprise.  I think you might,
too.
<|_=00=_|>

In my opinion this is one of the funniest movies you will ever see. This
Eddie Murphy at his brilliant best playing seven different characters in the
one movie. This is pretty much a Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde routine with
Professor Sherman Klump (Murphy) creating a weight loss formula which
transforms him into Buddy Love (Murphy). The best scenes of the movie are
the dinner scenes at the Klump house where almost every character you see is
Eddie Murphy. Very few other actors could have pulled this off.
10/10
<|_=00=_|>
In order to gain the affections of a sexy colleague, and more
importantly feel better about his overall self-deprecating image, shy,
grossly overweight genetics professor Murphy takes an experimental
serum that transforms him into a charismatic, testosterone-driven hunk.
Things go quickly awry however when he starts to lose his own identity
and battle his alter ego for complete control. This Jekyll & Hyde
formula is familiar but it's elevated by fresh, consistent laughs,
clever and innovative gags, terrific make-up/special effects and a
delightful performance from Murphy who's absolutely hysterical as he
portrays each member of his family. Lots of fun. ***
<|_=00=_|>

This is the funniest movie I have seen in the longest time.  It has become
 my all time favourite.  I do not usually like to look at movies more than
 once but this movie has me going again and again.  I have seen this movie
 no less than twenty times.  I love the dinner scenes, especially Grandma on
 her recollections of her long lost "relations".  It was really a scream at
 the Scream.  I thoroughly enjoyed Reggie.  He was unbelievable.
 So too was his singing.   I hope the sequel is just as
 amusing.  I think Eddie is a truly talented Actor in his own rights and I
 wish him all the best.  I would really like to meet him though I hope he is
 not snubbish as are some actors/resses.


<|_=00=_|>
"The Nutty Professor" is easily deserving of being mentioned with the
funniest movies of all time. This movie was nothing short of comedic
genius. Eddie Murphy cemented himself as a comedy legend with his
performance(s) in "The Nutty Professor". I would go so far as to say
that I've never seen two scenes funnier than the two Klump family
dinner scenes. For Eddie Murphy to have pulled that off so seamlessly
only showed his range and his talent. The two dinner scenes were gut
busting hi-la-ri-ous, and what made them so good is that you don't even
realize that Eddie Murphy is playing all of those roles. The second
dinner scene was particularly hilarious because of Professor Klump;
although he never says a word. He was so humiliated by his family's
actions that he had the most mortified look on his face, and a couple
of times you could even see him attempt to cut his wrist with a butter
knife. Priceless!!!
<|_=00=_|>

*** 1/2

Starring: Eddie Murphy (x 7), Jada Pinkett Smith, and Larry
Miller.

An obese college professor starts to fall for a pretty teacher.  He doesn't
think that people will like him if he was fat, so he uses a weight-losing
potion he created on himself.  It works perfectly, and the professor is
extremely thin.  Now, people treat him differently than when he was fat. 
But he soon finds out that the "thin" side of him has a mind of its own and
is looking to get rid of the "plump" side forever.

Murphy does excellent in all seven roles that are given to him.  The
scene(s) that really make it funny are the dinner ones.  I will say that on
a low note, Buddy is a little over the top.

I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

The theme of each of us harboring a darker side, just aching to get out
and
cause mischief, is an old one, but it truly flowered as literature in the
age of Freud.  Never before had our animal impulses been so -- well,
repressed.  The legs of easy chairs and sofas were dressed with tiny
floor-length skirts.  "Legs" were impolite, replaced by "limbs."  A
"bull"
was "a gentleman cow."  Virgins could be easily seduced because they
didn't
know the mechanics of what was going on.  Chicken parts became "white
meat"
and "dark meat" instead of you-know-whats.  Stevenson's Jeykll and Hyde
were
a perfect expression of this duality, the contrast between what we were
and
what we pretended to be.  The theme has been enduringly popular because,
to
some extent, it's still an appropriate way to interpret culture.  And
it's
also a flexible theme, one that can be changed to suit the times.  If
Stevenson's story was about sex (as was Wilde's "Portrait of Dorian
Gray")
then Jerry Lewis's 1963 movie, of which this is a remake, was about
subservient conformity.  This one is about physical fitness and
narcissism.

Never in my life would I have dreamed that someone could remake a Jerry
Lewis movie that made Lewis's humor seem subtly elegant, but Murphy has
managed to do it.  Eddie Murphy's movie is often extremely funny but
about
as understated as a train wreck.  I think the word to describe the
hilarious
dinner scenes that depend on open flatulence is "raunch."  I don't know
why
we find it funny when someone farts.  There are cultures, like the
Samoans,
in which it is taken for granted as an ordinary biological act and
receives
no more attention than a sneeze does in our culture.  Murphy's entire
movie
is about at that level of raunchiness, outdoing Lina Wertmuller's "Seven
Beauties," which has a corpse farting, outdoing Chaucer -- outdoing
everybody.

Murphy has a fantasy in which he is taken to the ER, filled up with gas,
and
the staff are unable to stop his body from balooning.  He swells to a
monstrous size, enveloping one of the doctors the way an amoeba absorbs a
food particle, smashes upward through the building, strides gigantically
through the city streets while people scream and run, reaches a hand
through
the upper-floor window of a hotel towards Jada Pinkett the way King Kong
did
with Fay Wray, reaches PAST Pinkett, and two huge sausage-like fingers
delicately pluck the leg from a roast chicken next to Pinkett's bed.  But
that's not enough gigantism.  Murphy gives this blimplike figure a spasm
of
intestinal gas which is released through the streets at hurricane force.
A
bum tries to strike a match and light a cigarette.  The city is vaporized
by
an explosion the size of a nuclear bomb's.  Okay, that's all.  I think
I'll
quit while I'm ahead, something Murphy chose not to do.

Sherman Klump, the fat man and the central figure, is a likable
character.
One of the reasons for this is that he is one of the few actors who isn't
constantly screaming with rage or laughter.  He speaks quietly and it's a
relief, what with all the bedlam around him.  But it's more than that.
Murphy actually brings pathos to the role, and without Disneyesque
condescension.  What I mean is, Murphy ACTS for a change instead of being
Murphy.  (He doesn't bring much to the alter ego, Buddy Love, except even
more Murphy than we're used to.)  There is a scene in which Sherman Klump
brings his date -- his first date -- to a nightclub and the comic begins
insulting Klump because of his weight.  Klump goes along with it genially
at
first but as the comic continues, relentlessly, humiliatingly, Klump's
accomodating smile fades and is replaced with an almost infinitely sad
resignation.  (He's been here before.)  He does well by the character in
other scenes too.

The subtext is disturbing.  I don't know if Murphy realized exactly what
he
was getting hold of.  Smokers having become pariahs, soundly trounced,
insulted, and penalized for their weakness, we've been seeking other
targets
and the searchlight has fallen on the obese, the out of shape.  "I can't
help it," said the Chairman of a sociology department, "but when I see
somebody who is overweight I just think of him as weak."  (That's a
sociologist talking.)  Insurance payments are higher for the overweight.
Some airlines now charge double the usual fare because fat people make
their
seatmates uncomfortable.  I've seen bumper stickers in California: "No
Fat
Chicks," and a red circle with a diagonal stripe drawn through the
silhouette of an overweight woman.  I won't go into the many studies that
have emerged from social psychology in the last decade or so, showing the
social handicaps suffered by the overweight.  I doubt that Murphy
intended
this movie to be so, but it is a stinging critique of our pitiless
society
as well as a very funny movie.


<|_=00=_|>

Eddie Murphy plays an overweight professor Sherman Klump and
six
other characters in this hilarious comedy.The doc falls in love with his
student Carla Purty (Jada Pinkett) and he creates a potion.The potion makes
him thinner, more handsome and more annoying Buddy Love.The Nutty Professor
is a remake for the 1960's hit comedy with Jerry Lewis.There are some
differences in these two movies.In the first version Lewis played a nerd doc
and in the remake Murphy plays a fat doc.Both movies are great.Murphy does a
great job playing seven characters in the movie.The Nutty Professor just
makes you laugh.
