
It takes guts to make a sequel to a movie after 20 years, especially
after the original has become a legend and the star has died since.

However this movie does a lot of things right and frankly, even if it
had been perfect, some people would hate it anyway. The film suffers
from not having John Belushi, but John Goodman puts in a good effort,
and I for one was surprised at the quality of his singing. James Brown
and Aretha Franklin reprise their guest roles. The music is not as good
as the original but still better than most music in the charts these
days.

The humour from the original is here but it is not as funny as the
original. In fact all elements from the original are here in slightly
inferior forms, with the exception of the car chase, which is better.

To be honest, it is worth seeing this film just to see how all the band
has aged. i would recommend it to anyone who enjoys Blues music, though
fans of the original may be disappointed
<|_=00=_|>

Contrary to popular opinion, this is not a sequel. It is supposed to be
a
tribute to the original. People who bash this movie without reading
Aykroyd's interviews are ignorant to the intent here. This movie was
originally to be a sequel back in 1981 just before Belushi died. When that
happened, the idea for another adventure fell away. But after almost two
decades, Aykroyd wanted to do something to revisit the classic film and
pay
homage to his friend and co-star Belushi, so he assembled this "Concert
Movie", which is supposed to be all about THE MUSIC, not the story. The
only
reason a story was put in was to keep it moving from musical number to
musical number, because everyone knows that straight concert films are
pretty boring, even if you really like the performer(s). So here it is,
for
the true Blues Brothers fans to enjoy. P.S.-And if your problem with the
plot was some of the cartoony style actions that occur (Cabel being pulled
heavenward and his clothes magically "changing", et cetera), remember that
the original had the same things. In the first one the entire band's
clothing "magically" changes for a concert, but if you know that this is
merely a representation of the character's psychological state and not a
literal change, then the film works much better. The same idea works for
the
much-maligned "zombie" sequence near the end at Queen Mousette's mansion.
Also, people complain about the Bluesmobile in this film being able to
drive
underwater. Well, in the first film the car flew, performed flips, and was
nearly indestructible. In fact, if you watch the DVD of the first film,
you
find in the deleted scenes and "Making-of" section that the Bluesmobile is
supposed to be "magic", because it was parked each night inside a power
transformer. How is that for cheesiness on the first film? So that also
explains Elwood's ability to smuggle himself in the dash of the car in
this
one, and the car being able to crash land from a fiery loop-de-loop at the
fairgrounds. Even though I wish this film could have been a little edgier
and darker in tone like the original, I do find its bold and effective use
of color to be magnificent and fascinating. Perhaps this film has a little
more depth than people expect, so they incorrectly perceive it to be a
lackluster and shallow mindnumbing entertainment. I know better .......
Remove the stars in the address to e-mail
me.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's another film in which I totally go against the critics - both
professional and on this board, who take themselves too seriously at
times. They hated this sequel to "The Blues Brothers," but I enjoyed it
very much. They need to chill a bit and realize the purpose of this
film: simply a tribute to the music.

How could any fan of "blues," not like this? I mean, look at all the
great performers in this film and how much better does it get to have
all of them join in for a couple of jam sessions at the end? The movie
sports a "Who's Who" of modern-day blues musicians and singers and also
is directed by John Landis, who has directed some of the most
entertaining films of the last 25 years.

Plus, it was simply a funny movie with two funny guys - Dan Akyroyd and
John Goodman - and a really neat-looking little kid in J. Evan Bonifant
who really makes me laugh. Just looking at this 10-year-old dancing is
his Blues Brothers outfit alone is worth a number of laughs. Some of
the characters in here are so outrageous they would be tough to
describe. The car chases, the dances and clothing and over-the-top
story all add up to two hours of lamed-brained fun. No, this isn't
Shakespeare and it wasn't mean to be. It's a much nicer-edged movie
than the first Blues Brothers, too. Unfortunately, too many people want
"edgy" material all the time .

Not only are the characters colorful, so is the cinematography, making
it both a visual and audio treat. So....just look at it as a blue
concert with laughs, and, hopefully, you'll enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Blues Brothers 2000 is a movie with good intentions, Aykroyd and Landis
once again team up to recapture the magic in tribute to John Belushi,
and almost all of the original cast are still here. Musically the magic
is still there and without a doubt this film is all about the music,
but the original Blues Brothers film was about so much more.

Blues Brothers 2000 like the first film has very little plot, and that
didn't matter the first time around, but this time; without the comedy,
the lack of plot is all too apparent. I just didn't find this film
funny, with a few rehashed gags and some new ones that didn't work Blue
Brothers 2000 really does struggle to entertain.

John Goodman doesn't try and replace John Belushi, and he actually does
a good job in poor role, but the introduction of a kid to the Blues
Brothers Band seemed completely pointless and adds absolutely nothing
to the film.

The saving grace is the music, with Eric Clapton, BB King, Aretha
Franklin, James Brown, etc. and the original Blues Brothers Band, the
music is damn good, but this alone is not enough.

Thanks for trying, but must try harder. 5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the few movies I have ever seen which actually made me
angry... not just disappointed, mind you, but downright furious! No one
expected this film to live up to the classic original, but for a sequel
to fall this far short of the mark is just plain insulting. This
cinematic ipecac fails on just about every possible level; the worst
failure being that is just no fun to watch! Instead, it made me
uncomfortable and a little embarrassed for the people on the screen. 

And for those who are confused by the fact that some people have rated
this movie very highly, notice that the majority of positive reviews
focus on the music. Yes, I love the Blues, and this movie features some
good numbers, but GOOD MUSIC DOES NOT MAKE A GOOD MOVIE!! If you want
to hear the tunes, by all means get the soundtrack CD. Or simply
fast-forward through the lame dialog, wooden acting, and ridiculous
plot to watch the music scenes. But I highly discourage anyone who
liked the original Blues Brothers from wasting their time on this
crassly commercial, soulless, and painfully unfunny movie. ...But
that's just my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>

I found Ackroyd to be completely horrible.  He looked more like Joe Friday
than Elwood Blues.  His Chicago accent was forced, the dialog moved through
at a horribly slow pace.  There was absolutely zero comic timing in this
movie.  Every scene in the movie, including the musical numbers, took too
long-from Elwood talking to the Penguin, to the Car chases-long shots of
police cars-to the car-under-the-water routing-to the 50 car pile up that
seemed to take 10 minutes.

The musical numbers-the lifeblood of the original-were completely devoid of
soul.  Aretha Franklin's lip-syncing in particular was horrible.  Matt
Guitar Murphy looked more like a broken down old man than the body-builder
he did in the original.  Who could believe that the `Dunn and Cropper'
radio
talk show could possibly exist when they both seemed to be reading off of
cue cards the entire movie?

The things that we funny and subtle in the first film-Elwood's parking
ability, Jake's transformation at the hands of Reverend Cleophus, the
miracle performance of the Bluesmobile, the new jobs of the former band
members, were hackneyed and overdone in this film.

The lack of energy from the band, though, is the coffin nail for this film.

They perform with such little life that CGI animation of a skeleton riding
a
skeletal horse over the stage has to be imposed during their rendition of
`Ghost Rider.'  This comes from the same Blues Brothers band that made the
theme to Rawhide sound like a hit twenty years ago.

Finally, the movie seems too bright and too clean.  The original took place
at night for the most part, and seemed dungier.  This film is shiny and
clean and that just doesn't feel right.  The new Bluesmobile didn't even
look right until Elwood littered up the dashboard with trash, and-get
this-the cigarette lighter worked!

Other fatal flaws: dumbing-down Elwood Blues, inserting a kid into the
cast,
having Elwood eat something other than dry, white toast, the
shaving-cream-ball schtick, no SCMODS, no lines like `Man, I haven't been
pulled over in six months.'  All the jokes hit you in the face-like they
all
have to be explained.  Complete bomb.


<|_=00=_|>

Who cares about the plot? There wasn't one. The best thing about this
movie
is the top notch music and performers. Having all those folks in one film
is
incredible. A hundred years from now, this film would be a great case
study
of the R & B, Soul, and Blues of this time. And this tease.stay after the
final credits, and you will be greatly rewarded. For this type of film I
wish there was 2 scoring systems, one for the plot and the other for the
music.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit that some parts of this movie were clever indeed.  It was
cool that they tied in the deaths of John Belushi and Cab Calloway into
the
movie's plot, making the characters they played dead as well.  If Jim
Belushi took the part of Joliet Jake, that would have been a disaster.
Still, the plot of this movie could have used some serious
work.
For instance, in the original movie, the Blues Brothers (a) were actually
brothers and (b) were on an actual "mission from God".  Their goal was to
make some honest money to save an orphanage from shutting down, while
trying
to flee from the police at the same time.  The movie brought back blues
legends such as Aretha Franklin and James Brown back into the spotlight,
and
it helped contribute to the death of disco.
Eighteen years later, Jake's dead, Cab Calloway's dead, the orphanage has
been shut down, so why are they being chased by the police?  Because a
half
brother of Elwood got p***ed off at finding his real past?
The kid, I must add, was a nice touch, and it was cool to see twice as
many
blues legends in this movie, including some new artists like Johnny Lang
and
Erykah Badu.  But there should have been a better plot, because it seemed
as
though the Blues Brothers Band were going from event to event for the
hell
of it.  Where's the plot in that?  Police, leave these guys
alone.
The big mistake in this movie was its attempt to outdo the original
movie.
The music was great, and I highly recommend buying the soundtrack.
However,
don't expect to see a plot in this story.  Otherwise, enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
If this movie was not a sequel of one of the best cult movies of the
past 30+ years, it would just a dumb movie, the fact it is is just an
insult to the memory of the original cast members who passed away. I
originally saw the movie when it was released on VHS, and rented the
movie for $3, in the late 90's, and I felt ripped off beyond belief. I
just recently rewatched the movie, and I feel just stupid for doing so.
The movie is even worse the second time around. There are no redeeming
qualities, or performances, to save the movie, which has a dumbass
plot, and is just boring to watch. The whole 'feud' with the russians
is like what a 2 year old would do, and shows early on what a disaster
the movie is. The ending is pointless, driving off into the horizon
with the cops chasing. Seems like no one knew how to end the movie so
they went the brainless way out, at least the first movie showed what
happens when you fool with the cops, you become the prison band, which
made the end of the original excellent. The only thing they could have
worked is have James take over John's role, because the explanation of
Jake's death is soooo stupid it's insulting. In the trivia to this
movie, it says the movie was ranked 4th, out of 25, worst sequels, I
would like to know what was worse than this? I would have said it IS
the worst. Even giving this movie a "1" seems like a compliment, but
they should add a vote of "Avoid at all costs", because this is the
case for this flop. I am really disappointed with Dan Ackroyd, he is
almost always good, and this movie looks like he was asleep at the
wheel.
<|_=00=_|>
The only way this film can not be awe inspiring is if you watch it on a
10" black and white TV with a 4 watt sound system. Maybe that's a bit
extreme, but I watched this on a 70" projection screen and 7.2 pristine
and precise surround sound. I have seen this film at least 20 times and
get the same pleasure from it each time. Aretha Franklin's voice and
the musical abilities of almost the entire cast would carry any film,
but this one doesn't need it. The story might not be completely
developed (euphemism) but the Russian mobsters and GI Joes scenes are
gutbustingly funny. Also, for anyone who has ever listened to "modern"
music and wondered where the world was going to, Dan Akroyd's
motivational speech is something to behold. Although I never expected
to say this, because I'm a non-religious person, the gospel choir's
rendition of "John the Revelator" sends shivers down your spine. I love
this film, and would recommend it to anyone who likes good music.
