
The Flinstones, next to The Simpsons, it's one of the best known
animated shows of all time, we all know the name Fred Flinstone. It's
such a great series, I grew up watching it, I still will catch an
episode or two on the Cartoon Network and I'm sure it's something that
my children will watch too one day. So in 1994, we had the live action
version of The Flinstones come into theaters, my family took me to see
it, I was 9 years old, it was either this or Pulp Fiction, I'm sure my
parents didn't struggle much with that decision. But still as a kid I
absolutely loved this movie, I think I wore out the VHS quite a bit. So
I grew up and of course caught the movie on HBO, I figured that I would
just give the movie another shot to see if it was still as fun as I
remembered and actually I still love it.

Cliff Vandercave, the Executive Vice President of Industrial
Procurement at Slate & Co., plans to appoint a Vice President of his
division to frame for a crime. To find one, he makes an exam to give to
the quarry operators, among whom are Barney Rubble and Fred Flintstone.
Fred loans Barney money so he and his wife, Betty can adopt a child.
They adopt a caveboy named Bamm-Bamm. Barney appreciates what Fred did
for him and is determined to pay him back. While taking the exams, Fred
fails it, and is disappointed since he will not be able to give his
wife, Wilma the wealthy life she used to have. Barney takes Fred's exam
up for him and notices how poorly he did. To pay him back for giving
him the money to adopt Bamm-Bamm, he swaps his exam with Fred's and
Fred is promoted to Vice President. Cliff orders Fred to fire Barney
because of his exam score, and he fires Barney at the Rubbles' surprise
party, but does his best to help Barney afterwards with financial
problems. But Cliff still has big plans to set Fred up for a big fall
and the Rubbles are starting to get sick of the Flinstone's over the
top extravagances.

Honestly, I really did enjoy The Flinstones as much as I did when I was
a kid, I know the main reason a lot of people complain about this movie
is because of the casting, but even with Rosie O'Donnell in it I
thought she was adorable, we had a great cast, everyone has their own
ideas, but just deal with it and understand who this movie was made
for. Granted as an adult I'm not going to go out of my way to watch
this movie by myself, but I still wouldn't mind at all showing this to
my younger cousins and watching it with them. It has cute jokes, a fun
cast, and a good story with tons of fun sets and props. I would
recommend this movie to watch with your family if you get the chance,
it's a rockin' good time.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was 8 years old when this movie came out and remember really liking
it despite the lackluster reviews it received from not only critics but
most of my friends as well. I don't remember anybody out and out hating
it, it just kinda got one of those "meh" grunts whenever it was
mentioned.

Now I'm twenty three and I just watched it again and I gotta say, I
still think it's pretty damn good. And unless you just simply are not
of a fan of the Flintstones cartoons I don't see how you can not like
this film. It plays like an extended episode of the series, with a plot
not unlike something we have seen in our Saturday morning reruns, but
loaded with enough clever one liners and risqué humor to elevate it to
a much more adult oriented comedy. It's also got tons of sight gags and
background jokes that you will likely need some multiple viewings to
appreciate. Not to mention the sheer scope and execution of the sets,
costumes and animatronic and CG dinosaurs are really something to
admire, especially for its day.

The actors all play their parts well too, John Goodman and Rick Moranis
as Fred and Barney are the standouts but there's nobody here that I
thought fell short. Yes, I would have liked to have seen Betty
portrayed with somebody with more curves in the right places...I mean
she was the hottie in the cartoon and Rosie O'Donnell's physique
definitely doesn't live up, but you have to give credit where credit is
due and while she may not look quite the same, she plays the part well
and has the voice and trademark giggle down perfectly.

Is this a fantastic film no...but I enjoy it every time I watch it and
I think the attention to detail and obvious care that went into making
this movie alone should keep it entertaining for years to come and
considering its unlikely anything quite like this will ever be done
again outside of its sequels, I would not be surprised if this movie
eventually earns its respect among film buffs in the future.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm rather disappointed to see that this film has such a low rating on IMDb,
this film was great!  I was a huge fan of the cartoon back in my childhood
and it was great to see the live-action version of the cartoon!  The story
is pretty good, although it is obviously directed toward it's child
audience, but I still loved it.

I can't talk about this movie without talking about the special effects! 
They were incredible!!!  Dino looked absolutely spectacular!  As did the
other dinosaurs and beasts in the film.  I really liked the sets and the
wardrobe as well.  You can tell that a lot of work went into this film and a
great deal of thought.

The cast was nearly perfect!  John Goodman was just fantastic as Fred
Flintstone and was perfect for the part!  Rick Moranis wouldn't have been my
first choice for Barney Rubble, but he did a superb job!  I've always liked
Rick Moranis, this guy needs to do more films!  Elizabeth Perkins was
excellent as Wilma Flintstone, and is quite the looker in the film.  The
only complaint I have is Rosie O'Donnell, I'm sorry, but something about her
just rubs me the wrong way.  I've never really liked her acting very much,
and I don't think she really fit the role of Betty Rubble.  I would have
preferred to see someone else in the role.  Kyle MacLachlan was a very good
villain and Halle Berry was PERFECT!  Elizabeth Taylor was a nice touch as
well, I wouldn't have expected to see her in the film, but she did a very
good job.

If you like the cartoon, then you should definitely give this a shot.  The
comedy was very similar to the television show, so I don't think you'll be
disappointed.  Anyhow, I really enjoyed the film and I hope that you will
too.  Thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

1st watched 1/12/2003 - 7 out of 10(Dir-Brian Levant):
Well-made live action imitation of the popular Hanna-Barbera cartoon
series.
Maybe it's because Hanna & Barbera were involved and were two of the
executive producers of the movie as well as having small roles in the
production.  Besides this, this classic tale of life in the stone age had
tremendous casting in the way of John Goodman(Fred Flintstone), Rick
Moranis(Barney Rubbel) and the entire group for that matter.  The movie
starts with the Rubbel family adding a new member in the adopted Bam-Bam
and
then the rest of the movie matches pretty much the way the two families
lived their lives & worked together as neighbors in the prehistoric town
of
Bedrock.  Of course there is evil-a-foot within a demented man in a higher
position in the stone quarry who tries to frame Fred and the rest of the
movie is a culmination of all this.  What is great about the movie & the
series the Flintstones is that no matter what trouble they got in, the
families always patched it up in the end showing us what true friends our
made of.   And besides all this the movie was funny & visually appealing
too
!!
<|_=00=_|>

Making a live-action, feature film out of a cartoon show is definitely not
an easy task, but the creators of this film pulled it off. THE FLINTSTONES
is one of the most entertaining family films to come along in a good while.
The great cast has a ball, particularly Elizabeth Taylor as Fred
Flintstone's mother-in-law. Highly recommended!
<|_=00=_|>

"The Flintstones" is a film that tries hard to be likeable and succeeds for
the most part, but with that said this is only a fair film at best.  The
cartoons come to real live and the nostalgia carries some of the film. 
However, the paper-thin plot destroys any chance that the film has to be a
complete success.  Naive Fred Flintstone (John Goodman) has been promoted
and is now a big-time businessman.  Of course the villains, Halle Berry and
Kyle MacLachlan, are just using Fred to steal from Mr. Slate's company. 
Wilma (Elizabeth Perkins) quickly becomes jealous of Berry, but overlooks
everything because Fred is raking in the cash.  Barney Rubble (Rick Moranis)
meanwhile is unemployed because he had the lowest score on an IQ test (he
actually switched tests with Fred because Fred had lent him money to adopt
Bamm-Bamm).  Throughout his financial crisis, Betty (Rosie O'Donnell) stands
beside him.  Fred finally becomes wise to what is going on, but MacLachlan
has a devious scheme up his sleeve.  All in all "The Flintstones" is a good
looking film with high production values, but ultimately the screenplay and
direction cannot save this film.  The characters play well on television,
but are somewhat out of their element on the big screen.  The cast is
hard-working in spite of the fact the material is just not present.  2.5 out
of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Live-action adaptation of Hanna-Barbera's TV cartoon brings prehistoric
blue-collar family man Fred Flintstone to life with the help of John
Goodman, exceptional in the role. The world of Bedrock is excitingly
captured, all the surrounding details look right, but unfortunately the
script is a pale, shapeless mess. Also, who cast Rosie O'Donnell as
neighbor Betty Rubble, the Snow White of the Sabertooth set? O'Donnell
is far too brash and distracting as Betty, who was mostly around in the
TV show as a foil for Fred's wife Wilma (adequately played by Elizabeth
Perkins). O'Donnell should have instead played Fred's mother-in-law,
although Elizabeth Taylor is game for this loudmouthed harridan. There
are some laughs here--although not big ones--while the "plot" is weaker
than any of those written for television. ** from ****
<|_=00=_|>

The Flinstones, starring john goodman, rosie, elizabeth p., and rick m.,
was
very cute and fun. It teaches you to forgive and that fame isn't as
important as your family and friends. From all the reviews it got and the
4.3/10 it got here, I didn't expect much. But I did end up enjoying it.
Pretty funny, too. Good Family comedy. I recommend this to people who like
the show "The Flinstones", or comedies. If you don't like either of those,
then you might not enjoy it as much.

Good Fun comedy! ****(out of five) stars
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a must for any fan of the great cartoon series from the 60's.
The special effects and the sets are incredible, they have put a lot of work
into making that. Every little detail, that can be seen in the cartoon, is
also in this movie, for example a lizard like dinosaur running on a wheel to
pull an elevator. However, less work has been done to write the plot, which
is somewhat week and full of cliches.
John Goodmann makes a great Fred, but Rick Moranis' Barney does not really 
resemble Mel Blanc's from the cartoon. I think his laugh is missing, also
the general way Mel Blanc's Barney speaks is different. Rosie O'Donnel's
Betty, on the other hand, is good.
This movie is still a must for any Flinstones fan. The plot is not the most
important part of this movie, the way Steven Spielberg made drawings come to
live is.
<|_=00=_|>
The Flintstones is a live-action alteration of the '60s cartoon that
does not remain too proper to the original animated series. The movie
doesn't do a very well job in incorporating Bedrock and its world into
the story or the viewing of the movie as it attempts to expand on the
original cartoon without having all too much creativity, BUUUUT, it's
still very good, and it's still a very lovely family adventure. I love
the Flintstones movie. The Flintstones is amusingly funny all the way
through with a likable story and a friendly disposition. The
Flintstones has pleasant visuals; it has greatly glamorous sets as it
is wondrously colorful. The interactive Bedrock environments are really
solid. The cast is full of chiseled actors, well....okay, it's a really
good cast. John Goodman plays a great Fred Flintstone. Goodman and
Elizabeth Perkins are both fine as Fred and Wilma Flintstone. Rick
Moranis is really good in a poorly written Barney Rubble character, and
Rosie O'Donnell is pissy and not good as she struggles in what's
supposed to be a sweet Betty Rubble character. This is a likable Kyle
MacLachlan role as he's good in a consistently well-written villain
character, but I have yet to ever take notice of MacLachlan while I am
watching the Flintstones. Holy smokes! Hello, Halle Berry! My goodness!
You're scorchingly beautiful! Wow! Miss Halle Berry as Miss Stone is
smoking hot! My God! Look at her! Halle Berry as Miss Stone is so
rocking hot beyond belief! Bamm-Bamm! The hottest girl in history!
Halle Berry as Miss Stone is melting me with her fire! Oh my! Sweet
Halle! Halle as Miss Stone gives one of the sexiest flirtatious jobs
I've ever seen! Yabba dabba do! Halle Berry is unbelievable as she
gives an all-time lovely performance. The Flintstones serves as a
launching pad to Halle's destined superstardom. Berry blatantly owns
this movie from beginning to end, and Halle is so clearly the great
standout star of The Flintstones, not so much in an 'everybody else is
bad she's so great' kind of a way but more so in an 'everybody's so
good oh she's so very good' kind of way. Berry's amazing. It's more
than just my imagination, Berry's scenes are just better; maybe it's
her performance, maybe it's her bodacious body in that dress. Her
scenes were meant to serve as a sweet getaway so that the audience
could get lost in Halle's gorgeous eyes, and her freakishly fine
physique for some time, but they actually serve as critical plot
points. Halle has all the best parts. Miss Stone is a respectable and
an elegant written character. Stone is the heroine of The Flintstones,
and Halle's the heroine of my heart. I love Halle so. The lovely
Elizabeth Taylor appears in her farewell performance and she's...so
lovely. She's too great a choice to play Fred's mother-in-law; I'm
grateful Taylor decided to do the role. Elizabeth brings real life to
the character. The Flintstones is a gay old time. It's very good family
fun that earns a good 6 graciously attributed to the perfect
performance from the irresistibly sexy Halle Berry.
