

Well, my goodness, am I disappointed.  When I first heard news of a remake
of Robert Wise's 1963 film, "The Haunting", I had a fear that it would be
ruined by an abundance of summer-movie sized visual effects.  But, deep
down, I had faith.  Surely, with such a talented cast intact...De Bont and
company will not ruin a film, who's original was a fantastic and frightening
movie that understood the delicate art of subtlety.  Well, subtlety, where
are you now!!??  My fears have manifested...a promising movie has gone
wrong.
Yes, Eugenio Zannetti's production design is jaw-dropping; the movie is
wonderfully photographed; and composer Jerry Goldsmith can never EVER do
wrong.
But, the script puts it's fine actors to the test..asking them to deliver
the kind of stilted dialogue that is only spoken in movies.  In the end, the
always wonderful Lili Taylor is the only performer to escape with some
dignity...and that's just barely.
But, the crime of all crimes is that the horror is shown to us.  We can no
longer use our imaginations, feel that horrible dread of fear of the
unknown.  No, we get some visual effects to SHOW US what we're supposed to
be afraid of...and you know what?  As wonderfully realized as they are...the
visual effects come off as sort of silly.  And the climax is a
phantasmogoric mess...but things had gone terribly wrong long before that. 

Everything in The Haunting is overdone and overblown.  I'm afraid there are
no real thrills or creaks in this old haunted house monstrosity...only
groans.   Check out the original instead.


<|_=00=_|>

For movie fans who have never heard of the book (Shirley Jackson's "The
Haunting of Hill House") and have never seen the 1963 Robert Wise
production
with Julie Harris, this remake will seem pretty darn bad.

For those of us who have, it is just plain awful.

Bad acting (what was Neeson thinking?), goofy computer enhancements, and
a
further move away from Jackson's story doom this remake.

Do yourself a favor and rent the original movie. It still effectively
scares
without hokey special effects. The acting is professional and believable.

For readers of the book, the  from 1963 follows the it much closer.

<|_=00=_|>
The Haunting, if you have seen the original, you know a great ghost
story, it's perfection on film. It's a haunting tale of 4 people who go
into a haunted house and with the simple trick of sound and movements,
it terrified people. It still remains effective to this day if you
appreciate film. So when The Haunting was remade in 1999, a lot of
people pretty much had the same reaction "WHAT? WHY? WHAT THE" But in
my opinion if a remake is respectful enough and just wants to reinvent
the story for the newer generation, I'm pretty cool with it. This is
definitely not the case, this is just a disrespectful boring shame that
will waste your time and I guarantee will deliver no scares pfft!
PG-13, what where they thinking? Not much apparently.

When her mother dies and her sister evicts her, Nell receives a phone
call, telling her about an ad for an insomnia study run by Doctor David
Marrow at Hill House, a secluded manor. Upon arrival, Nell meets Mr.
and Mrs. Dudley, a strange pair of caretakers who do not stay on the
property after dark. Shortly thereafter, two other participants in the
study arrive, wild Theo and "bad sleeper" Luke Sanderson along with
Doctor Marrow. Unknown to the participants, Doctor Marrow's true
purpose is to study the psychological response to fear. Each night, the
caretakers chain the gate outside Hill House, preventing anyone from
getting in or out until morning, when the caretakers open the lock.
There are no working telephones inside Hill House and the nearest town
is several miles away. Doctor Marrow revels the story of Hill House.
The house was built by Hugh Crain, Crain built the house for his wife,
hoping to fill it with a large family full of children, however all of
Crain's children died during birth. Crain's wife killed herself before
the house was finished, and Crain became a recluse. The first night,
Theo and Nell begin to experience strange phenomenon within the house,
including odd noises and inexplicable temperature changes. Nell is
confronted after the main hallway is vandalized with the words "Welcome
Home, Eleanor", and becomes extremely distraught, setting out to prove
that the house is haunted by the souls of those victimized by Crain's
cruelty. She learns that Crain built his fortune by exploiting
kidnapped children for slave labor and murdering them when they were of
no more use to him. He then burned the bodies in the house's fireplace
to hide any evidence. She also learns that Crain had a second wife
named Carolyn, of whom Nell is descended. Everyone thinks she's crazy
while Nell is convinced this is where she belongs.

Seriously, I suggest you stay away from this film, it's really stupid
and pointless. Not to mention the actress the played Nell, Lili Taylor
completely annoyed me, her performance, her look, just everything about
her, don't get me started on things I would do just to not see her in
film again. Catherine Zeta Jones just didn't fit in her role as well
and Liam Neeson, a wonderful actor wasted talent once again. The
effects are way over the top and too computerized, I just can't believe
that they would trash a wonderful classic with this crud. Believe me,
if you are going to be afraid of something, be afraid of seeing how you
can turn a great ghost story into an annoying piece of overblown
stupid. Oh, this film is already hurting me, just don't see it, it's
bad.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>

* and 1/2 stars out of ****

The Haunting is actually a relatively decent film for the first 45 or so
minutes.  The setup is promising, the production design of the mansion is a
sight to behold, and the cast seems to be enjoying themselves.  It's
unfortunate, however, because after that the film begins to fall apart,
leading all the way to the ridiculously bad finale.

Dr. David Marrow (Liam Neeson) is conducting a test on fear, using the
bait-and-switch method.  By doing so, he's pretending to do a study on
insomnia at the Crain estate, a manor 9 miles from the closest town.  The
"test subjects" that arrive include Eleanor (Lili Taylor), a hard-working
woman who has had little success in life, Theo (Catherine Zeta-Jones), an
adventuress  and proclaimed bi-sexual, and Luke (Owen Wilson), an all-around
jokester.

On the first night in the mansion, Eleanor and Theo hear thundering sounds
in the walls, but pass it off as a problem in the plumbing.  But events get
even more bizarre, as Eleanor sees some sort of a figure inside the
fireplace, that just as soon disappears.  Slowly, Eleanor begins to believe
that there are ghosts in the house, ghosts of dead children and the owner of
the mansion himself, the evil Hugh Crain.  She also makes a discover about
her connection with the mansion that could help free the children's
spirits.

The Haunting never features one scary moment.  Rather than going for subtle
chills or all-out shocks like in House on Haunted Hill, Jan De Bont prefers
to rely everything on the special effects, which really are rather
unconvincing, particularly the statues that come to life and the CGI
ghosts.

It even manages to get worse.  Now, to be fair, the film was getting dull by
the 90-minute mark so I was initially entertained by the effects-filled
finale.  But everything gets positively ridiculous in the last ten minutes,
as we find out evil ghosts like to play hide-and-seek and smash things up
real good.

The blame should fall on director Jan De Bont and writer David Self.  De
Bont seems to care more about what special effect to use next to "wow" the
audience rather than actually trying anything innovative.  Self really can't
seem to write a good story or truly interesting characters.  The dialogue is
perhaps the worse of his writing skills.

The only thing that keeps this film from a lower rating is the cast, and
they do their best to keep the film respectable.  Liam Neeson probably
delivers the best performance, being neither as dull or unemotional as
critics thought.  Catherine Zeta-Jones shows a lot of life as Theo, as does
Owen Wilson.  It's a pity that Lili Taylor's performance, which was decent
at first, turned to borderline camp by the finale.

With nary a true scare in sight, The Haunting should best be seen by those
who are scared easily or special effects fans.  For everybody else, this is
probably a house not to spend the night at. 

<|_=00=_|>

The Haunting is a film that boasts a really creepy house, good effects work
and sound work, a cast that seems to believe that everything around them is
real and that house.  There are scenes that make you jump, and the sinister
aspects of what went on at Hill House in the past, I found interesting. 
There are genuinely creepy moments in the film and I liked the way the
ghosts manifested themselves in sheets, curtains and the house itself. 
Jerry Goldsmith's score gave it the right atmosphere and the sound design
had voices popping up around you.  What I wish could've happened is for
something a little more intense.  Jan De Bont had a PG-13 rating to contend
with and I think that he held back a little too much.  Poltergeist scared me
silly when I saw it many years ago, and it still holds up.  The Haunting
could've used a few more scenes of pure terror.   The ending was for me, a
little anticlimactic.  Overall, I enjoyed it.  The acting is good and there
are moments that make you jump.  I just wish it scared me
more.
<|_=00=_|>

I didn't have too much of a hope I would like this new Jan De Bont film, but
after giving it a go today, I was impressed.  De Bont is a terrific creator
of suspense and camera setups. All his hard work as a cinematographer paid
off in movies such as these. He really knows how to build up an atmosphere
accompanied by subtle visual effects and sound design. The way that big
house groans and
'breathes' just makes my heart beat faster. Equally great is Jerry
Goldsmith's score. In some scenes when combined with the atmospheric sound
effects it made my neckhair stand up. I was genuinely terrified. A special
mention must go to the art direction and set decoration. The house has such
wonderful and at the same time disturbing architecture, the thought of
having to spend a night there gives me the chills. About the acting, I
thought it was nothing special. The Haunting is a solely audiovisual
experience, where acting is only of secondary importance. In short, I
enjoyed this movie and didn't think the ending was bad.  I see about 200-300
movies each year, and I see a lot of bad ones, but this is not one of them.
Go see it and decide for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

I know it is fashionable now to hate this movie.  I have seen hundreds of
spook films including he original 1963 Haunting as well as most of the
Hammer films.  This film is not restrained and does not hold back at all
which is probably why so many modern viewers seemed not to like it. Yet many
viewers can accept out of control films like Scream because knife killers
are more easy to believe for most people than demons or ghosts.  Actually
this film had many great scenes and the acting and special effects were
great.  I have seen it 15 times now and it gets better every
time.
     The director of this film has made a number of interesting and stylish
films and was not trying for the type of realism of the 6th sense.  The
Haunting lets go and is certainly not boring.  Perhaps this film might
appeal more to John Carpenter fans but more of an traditional plot
structure.  The old Haunting was also a fine film from 1963.  It was even
more scary.  See both and also The Innocents and The Legend of Hell House
with Pamela Franklin.  
       
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a remake of a truly horrifying and nightmare inducing 1963
film of the same name.  Why Hollywood thinks that digital effects and campy
acting is better than the imagination is beyond me.  This film is so full of
digital effects (none of which look real) and overacting that it cannot
compare to the original film which starred Julie Harris and Claire Bloom. 
This film is just plain stupid.  The original (in black and white) is still
the scariest film I've ever seen (and I've seen them all).  The original
makes you use your imagination to fear the unseen - this remake doesn't
allow you to do that and that is its biggest mistake.
<|_=00=_|>
This remake of the sixties classic of the same name has unfortunately
been somewhat slated by critics, although I feel it's better than most
people seem to think it is.

The location work is stunning and the set design has clearly had a lot
of work put into it.

Liam Neeson, Owen Wilson and Catherine Zeta Jones all perform their
parts quite well, but Lili Taylor is not as good as she should be. On
paper she should be perfect for the role of Nell and for much of the
film she provokes the necessary sympathy. She seems unable, however, to
scream properly, instead letting what sounds like an animal cry. Also,
she seems to say "Oh No" in exactly the same tone of voice every time
she sees something frightening, although to be fair this is as much the
fault of the script as it is hers.

Towards the end the atmosphere is slightly diluted by such things as
having the beds and statues spring to life which makes these scenes
much less frightening than they could be.

In spite of all this, this movie has a certain something that
regardless of it's faults, makes me want to watch it again and again,
and ultimately you can't ask much more from a film than that.
<|_=00=_|>
Considering the original film version of 'The Haunting" is in my top
ten films of all time' I approached this adaption with trepidation. I
was right to be cautious as this film is a poorly written and badly
executed load of old tosh, all those involved should be ashamed. the
original was terrifying to me as a child for one reason! you see
nothing. Robert Wise used innovative camera-work and superb lighting to
generate fear and this is why it work's. The shame of the new version
is that it relies on clever special effects and pyrotechnics to get
from A to B, sadder still is that the ingredients were there (actors
such as Liam Neeson, Catherine Zeta Jones) to do something different.
This film should only watched as an example of studio butchery!
