
I've seen just about every gay movie out there, and 'edge of seventeen'
is by far one of my favorites. The one word that best describes it is
'honest'....but it's also nostalgic, funny, wonderfully simple, yet
beautifully complex. The viewer can start off enjoying how accurately
it captures the mid 80's, especially the excitement and uncertainty
that Eric, the main character, is experiencing. Then, as the story
unfolds, each new development that Eric deals with as he comes to terms
with being gay is so well done, so honest and nontheatrical, that it
feels almost like a documentary. The movie's got a huge heart. Don't
miss it!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie many moons ago, but have not been aware of this medium
for commenting on it. 

I adore this movie, it was my life. Eric's discovery of his sexuality
one summer while working at Cedar Point in Sandusky Ohio is almost
exactly how I discovered mine. I thought as I watched it that someone
had stolen my journal, wrote a script about it, and then silently
returned it without my knowing. Eric's first love. His making friends
at a bar he was not old enough to be in. His developing style, in the
way many of us did in the 80's, bad hair and worse clothes, but great
music.

I could relate to this movie on so many levels. I think that any gay
man that found himself in the 80's should watch this film and see where
they fit into it. If this movie doesn't remind you of yourself, it is
sure to remind you of someone you know.

Loved it!
<|_=00=_|>

The film is a coming-out story set in 
Sandusky, Ohio, in 1984. It moves a bit 
slowly, but it is nevertheless sweet. The 
characterizations and performances are 
genuine and provide sincere laughs and 
tears. The film is amazingly accurate in 
showing the whole gamut of coming out.

The talented cast is wonderful, and the 
story ultimately is a healing experience.
<|_=00=_|>

EDGE OF SEVENTEEN is by far the more realistic and enjoyable "coming of
age/coming out" films to hit cinemas in a while.  On a thematic par with
the
Brit import GET REAL, this film touches on the reality of coming of age in
1984 mid-America, though I suspect it is pretty much the same in any
American suburb.  The competition must discount Britain's BEAUTIFUL THING
which is really an out and out romance. But it beats the cardboard
contrivances of DEFYING GRAVITY, a collegiate scenario of similar
ilk.

The awkward flirty moments building up to the first boy/boy coupling have
an
air of sexy familiarity.  Film's presumption that "all some guys want is
sex" is (unfortunately) dead on real.  Chris Stafford plays the leading
teen
with immense charm.  We'll see more from Stafford, surely.  His studly
co-star is suitably entrancing and is fine to look from the back during
their love scenes.  We certainly understand why our hero falls for this
college-age cad.

Naturally there's a gal pal, too, who here is underplayed nicely but a
little too Winona-like for comfort.  Broadway uber-dyke Lea DeLaria is
onboard for yuks but is just a little too odd and urban to blend in a
Sandusky supermarket.  Gay men will get teary as Stafford fesses up to Mom
that he's queer.  Film's only flaw is some obviously clipped editing.  At
least two scenes are confusing in continuity leading us to wonder
whahappened???

But EDGE OF SEVENTEEN is a winner.  Gay or straight, first love and coming
of age are themes that hit home.   
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie for the second time last night on cable some 3 or 4
years after my initial viewing. I enjoyed it the first time, but where
I am older now and myself am coming out of my shell more (pun intended)
as Eric did, I had a greater appreciation of it this time around. 

I was five years old at the time this movie took place in 1984, and
remember some of those tunes from the wonderful and fun soundtrack, but
more because I have downloaded them from the internet in recent years.
(ssssh) The gay bar in the movie looked like so much fun, especially
during that era of glam and new wave. The scenes there strongly
resonated with me, especially when Eric first goes there after a high
school party where he is called "queer" by the guy he was eying and
appears somewhat nervous before opening the door and walking inside (I
know the feeling), and when Eric instantly made friends there (it
helped that he already knew a patron, his boss, Angie (played by the
entertaining, if crude, Lea DeLaria), from the fast food joint he
worked at with Maggie (Tina Holmes) and Rod (Andersen Gabrych). Also,
his gradual evolution into his true self, both literally and
figuratively, struck a chord as well. It is difficult to keep up
appearances and to suppress who one truly is because of how one is
socialized and expected to be. It can be, for some, life-threatening
and tragically for others, life-ending.

Also, anyone straight or gay can relate to meeting that person (for
Eric it was Rod) who knocks your socks (block?) off and who becomes
your first love, whether you consummate that mutual attraction or not.
Eric is lucky; he got to be with Rod, even if not permanently. The
three main characters were very attractive and appealing and acted
quite well for an independent feature. Stafford was good in depicting
the struggle with one's sexuality that many of us experience and the
added pressure of having to conform to what our parents, peers, and
society in general expect of us when it isn't exactly what we feel on
the inside or want to be. Gabrych was a sexy seducer with a killer
smile, and Holmes portrayed a straight girl in love with her gay best
friend (Stafford) touchingly. The scene after they consummate their
relationship shows Eric clearly disoriented and one could tell by the
expression on his face that he knew he was gay and that heterosexual
sex wasn't going to do it for him. (Another moment I can relate to.)
After all, I really wanted to be in Eric's place in his bed next to
that sultry babe.
<|_=00=_|>

Anyone who grew up gay in the 70s and came out in the 80s can relate to
some
aspect of this wonderful film. The music, the clothes, and the look are
perfectly
recreated. The performances are honest, tender and intimate. The awkward
conversations and situations only add to the realism. The complexity of
Eric
and
Maggie's relationship is truthful and very emotional. Eric's internalized
homophobia  is something most of us go through...especially when we are
not
ready to "come out" to our parents and ourselves. I can recall dressing
outrageously and experimenting with my hair to make a statement just as
Eric
does and then denying that I was gay.

Yes, some men are portrayed as "queenish" and "promiscuous", but that's
because some real men are.  QUEER AS FOLK should be this good.

Chris Stafford shines, Tina Holmes is incredible, Andersen Gabrych is
seductive
and Stephanie McVay is the mom we all wish we had. The fabulous Lea
Delaria
belting out "Blue Skies" is an added bonus. Looking forward to more
greatness
from the talents involved here.

A great gay companion piece to THE LAST AMERICAN VIRGIN.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly did not think I would like this movie. Something about the
fact that it was based in the eighties made me a little edgy about
seeing it. But I was actually pleasantly surprised.

Chris Stafford, who I would very much like to see in bigger roles,
presented an incredible portrayal of a young man struggling with his
sexuality in a very bias environment. Not only did I enjoy the way his
character gradually came out of his shell and embraced this part about
him that he had tried so hard to deny for so long but I was just so
entranced and surprised by his performance throughout the film.

Anderson Gabrych as Rod was equally amazing. I was a little put off by
him at first and I was extremely wary of that stereotypical gay he
seemed to be at first introduction but I really enjoyed his
performance, as well. And Tina Holmes was wonderful as Eric's best
friend and her difficulty with the fact that the man she was in love
with didn't love her that way was incredibly believable.

I enjoyed each actor's portrayal of their character and the flawless
acting and the sexy (but tasteful) love scenes and just about
everything about the film. The only thing I did not enjoy was the end.
It felt awkward and cut short and if the director was aiming for a
cliffhanger, he certainly succeeded - but a little too much was left
unsaid for a completely successful closing.

Overall, the movie was one that I will watch many, many more times.
It's an emotional, realistic insight into the struggles of coming out
and embracing one's sexuality. Definitely worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the better "coming of age" films about gay youth.  Especially
effective in this movie is Tina Holmes, who plays Maggie, Eric's best
friend/girlfriend.  She brings a true sense of innocence to the film, and
when she discovers the truth about Eric, her pain is real.  This is a
young
woman to watch! The film doesn't flinch in its look at the wonder,
confusion, and deception associated with the coming out process, and
despite
some awkward direction, Edge of Seventeen succeeds at opening the eyes of
its audience, both gay and straight.
<|_=00=_|>

Liked this film and felt it was a nice try at giving us more of an
understanding of the teenaged gay coming out.  Lead actor playing Eric, was
excellent in portraying all the inner problems that lead to his willingness
to admit to himself what he wants for a sexual partner.  And who wouldn't
with Rod and Jonathan offering their hot little bodies to him for a night of
passion.  The one thing I feel he missed was the first kiss.  It could have
been played up more.  It sort of came out of the sex thing.  But then, a
view of Rod's butt soon made that disappear.
I liked the mother and her scene with Eric's admission he was gay.  She
showed not only the pain and confusion, but offered her arms and love to her
needing son.  Great acting, great scene.  The bar scenes bored me, but,
then, bars do bore me.  I wish more could have been made between Eric and
Jonathan.  Here I felt there mnight have developed a relationship and Eric
might have found some love in his quest for the truth.  But, it seems love
was not to happen.  At least at this stage of his coming out.  Too bad.  See
this movie, if only for the rare look of a teen coming out all by
himself.
<|_=00=_|>

"Edge.." takes on a huge challenge as it takes the audience
on an compromised guided tour of homosexuality in bloom
while maintaining its entertainment value. The film features
some excellent acting by some very unfamiliar faces and
strikes an appropriate balance between gay sex and gay
love.
Kudos.
