

...but oh was I thankful for it!!! All through the movie I kept on having
this big large smile sculpted into my face. For the record, I'm 25 years
old, and I've read "The Lord of the Rings" in three times for the first time
when I was six or seven years old. Ever since then, I read it at least once
or twice a year - therefore you can count me as a fan, for I follow the same
cult fan procedure with "The Hobbit" and "The Silmarillion" as well. Now
onto the movie... Gosh, I saw it more than one time, and I keep wanting more
of it. It just never gets boring! I really enjoyed the little stuff that is
found throughout the movie for fans of the books (the map on Bilbo's table
in his house comes to mind, it is exactly as the one in "The Hobbit" book
that I own), and I also incredibly enjoyed the intro sequence with the
re-telling of the battle against Sauron from the Silmarillion, never has an
ultimate evil being been so well depicted on the screen. It truly is Sauron.

 Those who argue the movie cuts too many parts or that it changes the story
too much are totally wrong. This movie could not have shown the whole first
time in its entirety - keep in mind that the audiobook version of
'Fellowship of the Ring' lasts well over ten hours, making a movie this long
would, well, make it way too long and besides, how would you financially
sustain such a project? I've read a reviewer saying he'd make all three
books with the time allowed for the first movie alone. I think it would be a
very fast-forwarding experience of a movie with 'Alvin and the Chimpmunks'
kind of voices, incredibly stupid to say the least.

Ok, so there are changes in the movie - well, this is Jackson's vision of
it. All of us have our own visions of the books, which may or may not be
compatible with that of Jackson's, but I can safely assume that nobody can
say they have a hundred percent the same vision of the story as Tolkien;
that's the thing with books: each reader has a different vision of it. As
for me, I was blown away. Never before have I felt so much at home in a
movie, it is as if I had taken a walk in the town where I grew up, the
Shire, Rivendell, Moria, Lorien, everything felt so much like home, I was
moved. I cannot tell of another movie that had me shed tears just by seeing
a landscape on screen.

As for the changes, well, I found good reasons behind all of them, and let
me tell you right away, I was happy that Arwen saved Frodo, yes, maybe
coming from a fan it will look like absolute heresy, but I enjoyed the scene
a lot. I did not enjoy it because it was supposedly politically-correct to
do so, or that I find Liv Tyler to be absolutely attractive; it was just
because I felt like even though it was a big change from the book, it was a
very good one indeed, it makes you discover the power, determination, and
courage of elves and the fact that even elven women, although great in their
beauty and seemingly fragile in appearance do not have anything to envy to
their male counterparts. And beside, as Arwen is to become a Queen later on,
it was pretty good to see her have a great first appearance.

The actors were great, they were a lot into their characters, and for the
first time, I saw elves as they were, quick, agile, terrifyingly effective
in battle - just look at how Legolas dealed with the hordes of enemies
without a single hint of fear in his eyes - these are elves as they should
be. Gimli was great too, I know people seem to think many characters were
not developed enough, but by the actions you can learn a lot. With Gimli a
lot can be learned about the dwarves, their pride, deep sense of honor and
family, their mistrust of elves, their love for strong beer and a good fight
against anything bigger, and their sheer hatred for orcs and the likes.
Aragorn was totally the ranger character, the ending scene as he walked
toward the horde of Uruk-Hai warriors was great, his attitude, his clothes,
everything about him just cried "ranger". Boromir was very well depicted,
desperate to save the people of Gondor, by any mean necessary, robbed of all
hope, yet in the end he redeems himself by showing his true valour, deep
down, he's willing to die to defeat evil, and when he recognizes his king in
Aragorn, on his last breath, I felt like watching a hero die, it was moving.
The hobbits were all great, Frodo is deeply sad and fatalist, and Sam is
just the 'best friend' everyone would like to have, just as it should be.
Finally, we have Gandalf, quite frankly, he looks mighty, Ian IS Gandalf.
The faceoff against the Balrog in the Moria is a memorable sequence, and
just shows how strong he really is, to be able to vanquish such a foe. I
can't wait for his return.

Quite frankly, I can't wait for the two other movies... In the meantime,
I'll watch this one over and over again. This movie has everything that a
good movie needs to have, and more. Plus, it just might bring more people to
actually read books that have more pages than the average little 25¢ novel
that has no value in it, which is great. Parents, maybe some scenes will
frighten your kids, but this movie has almost NO blood (even though it has a
good share of battle) and the foes are undeniably evil, plus it has good
values in it - friendship, courage, responsiblity, sacrifice for a good
cause, and the belief that anyone can help to change things. This is worthy
of Tolkien, this is a movie that will go down in history as being one of the
best ever, for sure.
<|_=00=_|>

Star Wars has been dethroned.  Although George Lucas' movies are good in
their own right (except for the juvenile elements he puts in to sell toys to
finance the franchise), his scripts (which borrow heavily from
J.R.R.Tolkien, mythology & religion) can't compare with the brilliance of
the literary trilogy `The Lord of the Rings'.  Granted, Lucas took on a
herculean task in writing & directing his story himself, but Tolkien's
words, along with Peter Jackson's faithful adaptation & inspired vision,
have created something no one man could equal.

 Of course, it helps that Jackson insisted on at least a 2 picture deal, &
New Line Cinema was brave enough to foot the bill up front for 3 movies.
They spent $180 million to film all 3 simultaneously.  With the New Zealand
exchange rate, that equals $360 million ($90 million ea.), but since they
used many of the same sets, and FX development costs were spread throughout,
we're seeing $120-$150 million on the screen.  This will ensure consistency
in plot, casting, tone, etc.

In 3 hours, Jackson has crammed everything essential from the first novel &
then some into the film, rewriting some scenes & dialogue with lesser
characters for the leads, leaving out only what there wasn't enough time
for.  Basically, you have two 90 min. movies running back to back.  There
are no slow spots, just one climax after another.  From the opening 10 min.
backstory where the Dark Lord Sauron is shown on the battlefield wiping out
men & elves 10 at a time with each swing of his mace, I was blown away.  The
romance between Aragorn, king in exile, and Arwen, daughter of the elf-lord,
is played up for the "Titanic" quotient, but it's well done.

 The story, sets, costumes & FX are so rich, you'll have to see the film
several times to absorb everything.  The unspoiled New Zealand locales are
spectacular, providing a variety of environments to represent the different
settings on the characters' journey.  The location sets are imaginative,
detailed & weathered, adding to their believability, while the studio sets
match them in meticulousness.  The costumes are at once familiar & strange,
drawing on both the medievil & the fantastic, but more important, they're
also functional & practical.  The music by Howard Shore is appropriately
sweeping, Celtic & folky in keeping with the novel, although it lacks the
memorable themes of John Williams or Jerry Goldsmith, but neither would
commit a year or more to a 3 picture project.  The FX are as they should be,
unobtrusive & unnoticed most of the time, there only to support the story
not draw attention away from it as in most Hollywood movies which try to
coverup illogical plots & bad acting.

 I'm particularly gratified by the casting of Viggo Mortenson as Aragorn
which was a last minute stroke of luck when the actor first chosen for the
part backed out due to differences with the director.  I've always thought
Mortenson had an intensity & striking but not pretty-boy looks that could
portray a flawed, dangerous hero instead of the villains Hollywood always
picked him for.

A stellar cast giving some of their best performances, visuals that deliver
beyond what I imagined, a perfect mix of humor, passion & tragedy, and a
feeling of grandeur, scope & impending doom.  Perhaps as an ensemble piece
with so many characters & the inability to concentrate on any one, it can't
be measured against some of the classic character study films, but even the
casual moviegoer can grasp the ideas & not get lost  As far as I'm
concerned, it's one of the greatest films of all time.

<|_=00=_|>

It is with no surprise that Peter Jackson's The Fellowship of the Ring
film
has received such mixed critics. Many viewers refer to it as being
childish,
boring and uninteresting. Seems to me that it is bound to the same fate
of
Tolkien's books, destined to be a target for the same type of
misunderstandings that keep attacking this literary masterpiece many
decades
after it's first publication.

Having read the books several years ago, I went to see this `impossible'
film when it came out with many doubts on my mind. I really liked it, but
left the theater with as many doubts as I had before. Was it perfect?
Well,
maybe not, but what an achievement.
After watching it a few times on DVD, and thinking about it for some time
now, I find myself loving this film more and more. Let me tell you
why...

The Lord of the Rings is a fairy-tale of myth and fantasy. Peter Jackson
directed a film that was considered, for a very long time, impossible to
make, and not only for technical reasons. The narrative roots are
incredibly
long and detailed, and the storyline is deeply connected with the
creation
of a fantastic continent from a time unknown called `Middle Earth'. It's
author, Tolkien, dedicated a considerable part of his life developing
this
continent's background, it's mythology and origins, it's different kinds
of
people, cultures and languages, and therefore it's geographic references
are
determinant to the unfolding of the story of the One Ring.

Peter Jackson went out to achieve the impossible and came out with a
recreation of the original that is pure and true to the story in every
detail. The first time the four hobbits meet a black rider on the road,
for
example, is absolutely faithful to the feeling of the book. The assault
of
the riders at Weathertop is another great example, and it captures that
feeling of danger, density and atmosphere that are the main
characteristics
of the tale.
Jackson also took some liberties with the story, and made some right
choices
along the way. If the so called `purists' may not approve the removal of
Tom
Bombadil altogether, it should be comprehensible that the travel from
Hobbiton to Rivendel is a very long and detailed one and could easily
make a
movie on it's own. I felt more uneasy with how short the Council of
Elrond
was. In the book, the council is where the whole story of the rings is
first
explained, and many passages from the past ages of Middle Earth are
unveiled. It is a fascinating moment of the story, that had to be
shortened
for obvious reasons. Still, after some consideration, I now agree with
the
options made by Peter Jackson, and think that the movie prologue narrated
by
Galadriel was the wisest choice.
The magic is all there when Gandalf shuts his eyes the moment Frodo
stands
in the council and says `I will take the ring'. It is there at Moria's
Gate,
and at the fall of Boromir. It is a powerful film that doesn't fit the
rhythm of the standard Hollywood action movie. It is a film that breeds,
that takes time to unfold, it's tale branching in every
direction.

I could go on and on, talking about all the different elements that bring
this film close to perfection, but I'll end saying that deep down, this
is
not about action, beards and big monsters. The greatest thing about this
film, to me, is that it brought me back to a time when I was in love with
a
different world where everything was possible. Reading The Lord of the
Rings
night after night, I came to understand what this thing of `mankind'
really
was all about. The corruption of absolute power, the importance and value
of
friendship, the inevitability of growing up, the strength of hope... That
this film could capture that magic, and be a new bearer to it's message
of
humanism, is a statement to it's greatness. Gandalf's words, that even
the
smallest person may change the course of the world, and have a part to
play
in the destiny of all, are immortal.

In the end, this is a wonderful film, but that doesn't mean you are going
to
like it. I cannot tell you what it is like to see this film if you don't
know or love the book. But I hope it may plant a seed on your heart to
discover a great world of fantasy, beauty and humanity. I believe Tolkien
would have liked that.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw the trailers for "The Fellowship of the Ring," I had
never
had any interest in reading the lengthy tome of a trilogy.  But seeing the
possibility of the movie, I immediately went out and read the whole thing,
insisted on receiving it for Christmas, and enjoyed every minute of it.
The
feelings I had while reading the series were heightened seeing it come to
life in the stunning movie.  I thought it was a fabulous work of
art.

I thought that having Galadriel tell what was basically the prologue of
the
book was a good idea, as it helped those who had never read the story.  It
also immediately involved me in the film; I felt I had an insider's
advantage on the rest of the audience.  Cate Blanchett has a wonderfully
deep and emotional voice; the way she speaks Galadriel is almost as
effective as her appearence as the Elven queen.  Also, showing the last
battle of Isildur and Sauron helped unfog a part of the novel that had me
a
trifle confused.

The entire movie is full of beautiful sets and landscapes.  The Shire was
almost exactly as I'd pictured it.  Hobbiton is cute and very whimsical.
Mordor was frighteningly well done, extremely real.  Rivendell had a
little
bit of a European-tourist-trap look, but was beautiful all the same.  The
entire backdrop of the movie (the mountains, Moria, Isengard) was perfect;
it's amazing that "Fellowship" was filmed in one country.

Now to the characters.  All I can say is, "Wow."  I was a little
apprehensive about the casting at first; I'd created such real images of
the
characters in my imagination, I almost didn't want them spoiled for me.
However, I was not disapointed in the least.  Elijah Wood, though not one
of
my favorite actors, was believable.  You could tell from the first glimpse
that Frodo was special; Wood's pale, sharp features contrast sharply with
the more ruddy, robust look of the rest of the hobbits.  He also cries
like
a little girl.  But his weaknesses and strengths make his Frodo an apt
choice for the starring character.  The rest of the Hobbiton gang was
well-chosen, too.  Sean Astin ("Rudy" forever to me) was loyal and a bit
bumbling, just like the Gamgee of Tolkien's telling.  Pippin and Merry
were
congenial, slow-witted lads, but very brave nonetheless.  Viggo Mortensen
is
outstanding.  He has the ability to make Aragorn both menacing and kind.
He
physically represents Strider to the nines with his strength and virility;
the action sequences of his are very passionate and exciting.  Some may
have
complained about Arwen's character being slightly expanded; I thought it a
good change.  In the books, you have to read the whole trilogy and then
rifle through the appendix in "The Return of the King" to learn the
history
between Aragorn and Arwen.  Liv Tyler is ethereal and breathtaking, but at
the same time displays the courage and magic that make the Elves the
beings
they are.  Speaking of Elves, I can't help but gush over the handsome and
ever-so-talented Orlando Bloom as noble Legolas.  Bloom captured the
archer's very movements; he treads lightly and fights fearlessly.
Legolas's
bowmanship was amazing; he looked so natural loosing his arrows
machine-gun
style.  He was my favorite character in the books, and his essence
transcends the film.  Gimli was pompous and brave, as well.  He is
well-represented in the movie.  Boromir was hopelessly lost, but at the
same
time valiant and strong.  Sean Bean gave an emotionally-charged
performance
as the tortured warrior.  Hugo Weaving was very good as Elrond.  He was
noble and cold at the same time.  And Gandalf.  What more can be said of
Ian
McKellan's showcase portrayal of the wizard?  He was magnificent.  He
could
be Gandalf, the kind old conjurer who set off pyrotechnics for
hobbit-children.  Then he could turn around and stun the life out of you
with Gandalf the powerful wizard, facing the balrog with defiance and an
iron will.  His Oscar nomination is well-deserved.

Peter Jackson is a brave soul to take on a project that could have
backfired
in so many places.  Instead of bringing us uninspired kitsch, he serves up
raw emotion, graphic battles of good and evil, chilling and wonderful
characters, and enough special effects (realistic, mind you) to make John
Cameron's mouth water.  Knowing that "The Two Towers" was my favorite of
the
books, I eagerly anticipate the second helping of "The Lord of the
Rings."
<|_=00=_|>

I think it is important to remember that Peter Jackson took up this film
not
in order just to make a film of `The Lord of the Rings' but because he
wanted to make a 'fantasy just like the `The Lord of the Rings'" as he
himself put it.  After repeating that phrase on a number of occasions the
question popped into his mind: "Well, why not the `The Lord of the Rings'
itself?".  In doing this he, of course, set himself an enormous challenge:
he had to make a really good `fantasy' film, one which would stand on its
own and be true to what he had originally wanted to do but he would also,
and here the task he had set himself was enormous, be true to the original
book and to make a film which the legions of people who have loved this
book
would feel happy with.  In the latter task he was certainly not helped by
the author or the book: Tolkein, it would seem, hated cinema.  The book
itself is `HUGE': this was not going to be the kind of task that the James
Ivory team set themselves, or Scorsese nor the kind of task facing Branagh
with Hamlet; nor was it going to be like the puny task that faced Columbus
with `Harry Potter' who had the bigger budget ($130 million for one film
as
compared with Peter Jackson with $300m for three).

I have just seen the first `volume' and can say without hesitation that he
has succeeded in both his goals.  It is not the book but a reading of the
book which is inventive and fascinating.  It is the kind of experience
that
makes you want to go back and reread the whole thing in the light of the
emphases that Jackson has brought to the story.  He focuses on the
corrupting influence of the ring and, through this focus, the character of
the chief protagonists of the story are revealed.  Clearly those most
tempted by it are mortal men (Boromir and even, in one moment, Aragorn),
those who already have power (Elrond - `The ring cannot stay here';
Galadriel; Gandalf and Saruman),  and, of course, those who would not
normally desire it but who by accident become ring bearers - Gollum,
Bilbo,
Frodo.  I can see why, in this reading, Jackson decided to leave out the
Bombadil episode.  Bombadil, like the Balrog, is beyond the ring but the
latter is important to the unfolding of the story of the fates of all the
characters, Bombadil isn't.

It is a miracle of this reading of the first volume of the book that one
can
see where Jackson is going and one can get a feel of how the reading is
going to unfold.  In a sense, Jackson's real trial - as far as those who
know the books are concerned - will come with the second film in the
series.
He has lived up to our expectation by creating even bigger ones: how can
he
handle the story of the chase andrescue of Merry and Pippin, the storming
of
Isengard etc - stories which don't really add much to the core theme that
is
emerging.  Or is he now going to add the theme of the great contest of
good
versus evil to the unfolding reading?

All of this points to the fact that the film, even though it is a feast of
special effects, focuses on character.  And this also explains why Jackson
chose the actors he did for their roles: they are not `big' names - no
`Sean
Connery', no `Alan Rickman', no `Brad Pitt', no `Sam Neill'etc.  He didn't
want them getting in the way of the story of character.  Ian McKellan's
talents, in particular, are used to tell a large proportion of the story:
an
enormous amount is conveyed simply through his facial expressions and even
by the language of his body. The other miracle in all of this is Elijah
Wood.  Like many others, when I first heard of Jackson's choice, I
groaned:
but Wood has been extraordinary.  He brings, as one friend said, a strange
kind of androgyny to the role and this is just perfect. McKellan has
already
been knighted: give Wood the Oscar.

And then there is Middle Earth: this is, as someone put it, another
character in the story and the New Zealand landscape, digitally enhanced
on
occasion, lives up to its role too.

Enough.  See this film!  Greatest film ever made?  How can one make a
claim
like that! Silly really; as silly as claiming that `The Lord of the Rings'
is the greatest book ever written.  Can't one simply love a story, enjoy
reading it a number of times amd lose oneself in it.  One CAN claim that
it
is the greatest work in its genre as is the film.

10/10

<|_=00=_|>

Breathtaking.  Unique.  Captivating.  Enchanting.

Within minutes of the start of this first chapter of an undeniably epic
trilogy, the audience was left gasping at the intensity of the images on
the
screen.  And we had nearly three hours to go.

The scope of Tolkien's masterpiece may have eluded film-makers for
decades,
but director Peter Jackson makes good on his promise: he has not only
brought us the tale of Frodo and his bold companions, he has brought us
Middle Earth.  And believe me, it is BIG.  Sweeping vistas and
hang-onto-your-seat camera shots send us zooming through the towering
cities
and citadels of Tolkien's imagination.

But even more impressive than the stunning visuals and
sound-effects-like-you've-never-heard-before are the actors who breathe
life
into the characters.  Ian McKellen's portrayal of Gandalf is nothing short
of awe-inspiring, and Elijah Wood's Frodo is one of the most unexpectedly
captivating performances I've seen in a long time.  The despair, terror,
and
determination of the Fellowship is all there, in spades.  I left the
theater
aching...from tensing every muscle during the fight and flight
sequences--the breathless and compelling kind we haven't seen since
Spielberg gave us a desperate charge onto the D-Day beaches of
Normandy.

Those unfamiliar with Tolkien's world may quickly find themselves lost in
it, but happily so.  The depth of his creation cannot be grasped in a few
hours, and it doesn't need to be; the struggle of good against evil
explodes
on the screen, and leaves little room for complaint.

The movie ended with a stunned audience sitting on the edges of their
seats,
feeling somewhat bereft.  We were exhausted, but no one wanted to wait a
year for more.

Jackson's ambitious first chapter is truly unlike anything you've seen
this
year.  George Lucas and Chris Columbus take note: this is how you deliver
on
a cinematic promise.

For everyone else: don't you dare miss it.
<|_=00=_|>

There's a very obvious problem when transferring any book to the big screen,
namely that some of us may already have seen it.

 It's not that the story holds no surprises (save for the occasional
controversies that surround the fate of characters like Hannibal Lecter),
it's just that many of us have already read the book, and thus we've already
directed our own version of the story. We've already seen it in our mind's
eye.

 And this is the problem that plagues The Fellowship of The Ring. You'll see
a lot of reviews here proclaiming it as nothing short of the second coming
of cinema, and a few that dare to knock its serious shortcomings. Let me
clear this up right now.

 The first issue that many may raise is that this is not a faithful
adaptation of the book. Quite right, while taking pains to ensure that they
stayed faithful to the novel, Jackson et al have not simply been able to
lift their screenplay directly from its pages without a few necessary
changes. There is a great deal of mindfulness in the film about the portion
of the audience (and it will be large) who are unfamiliar with the novels.

Accordingly a great deal more emphasis has been placed upon pacing and
storytelling more appropriate to a classic film narrative. Hence we need to
see Gandalf's protracted bid to escape the clutches of Isenguard
interspersed with the Hobbit's journey to Rivendell. It simply isn't
appropriate to expect an audience to bear with the Hobbits' journey, no
matter how good the actors are or how enthralling the story is, for upwards
of an hour without constant reminders of the films other protagonists OR the
threat of the evil they face. Having Gandalf just turn up at Rivendell and
tell his story via CGI-filled flashbacks simply wouldn't have had the
necessary effect.

 Secondly, the omission and reworking of characters. Yes, it was sad that
Bakshi felt his animation didn't need Tom Bombadill, and given that he
features strongly in Tolkien's other works this has to be frowned upon by
the die-hard fanatics, but introducing diverting, but ultimately pointless
episodes into the list of the challenges the Hobbits face is hardly going to
keep you riveted to your seat is it? I mean, a man who stops the Hobbits
being eaten, very slowly, by a tree with his power of song is just quite
frankly ludicrous in this day and age. The film is already stretching the
audience's suspension of disbelief as far as it can go. Hence the chaff of
Bombadill is cut. He isn't relevant to the rest of the story so he can be
done without. It's sad for Tolkien fans for him not to be there but there's
only so much celluloid available, even with a film this long.

 And yes, Arwen Undomiel never saved Frodo from the Dark Riders, but please,
remember your girlfriend needs to have something to sink her teeth into as
well, not just midgets and men with beards looking mean or scared as they
fight monsters. So, for gender representation and a bid to prevent half the
potential market (please remember that like all film, this is a product to
be packaged and sold) her character gets a drastic overhaul. Go sister!

 There are numerous other issues relevant to the faithfulness of the
adaptation from novel to screenplay but please, let's be content with what
we've got here. It's a hard task to do all this well and Jackson, along with
the rest of the boys and girls at Wingnut and WETA, should be commended for
what they have achieved.

 That said there are some definite flaws in the film, even those that can't
be overlooked by justifying the needs to relate to the popcorn and nachos
audience.

 Firstly, we've got the Fellowship itself. Now, Merry and Pippin, while not
really being established as Frodo's friends and thus not having the same
kind of bond with him as they do in the novel are moderately well
integrated. However, at the arrival of Boromir, Gimili and Legolas we just
get left in the dark. None of these three characters, all representing
important races, cultures and locations of the world of Middle Earth are
given no more than token arrival-shots to introduce them, and little or no
back-story as to how they came to be where they are or why they feel
compelled to join Frodo's quest. Offering their various weapons is noble,
and it sounds fantastic in the trailer, but when we finally get down to it
we just don't know who they are or what they're about. Accordingly we don't
ever really have time to care about any of these three, save for Legolas
whose fighting proficiency alone makes him stand out. Sadly, Sean Bean is
allowed little more than to switch from foreboding bad guy to friendly
companion and back again (thus betraying his characters ultimate fate from
the first time he opens his mouth) and John Rhys Davis is left with little
more to do than scowl and look short. It doesn't help that both these
characters seem to get a pretty raw deal for screen time, especially Gimli,
who is barely in the film at all. We won't even begin to go into the
seemingly superficial relationship we see between Sam and Frodo.

 All of this is indeed a shame. The film's greatest strength after its story
are its strong characters. However, whereas in the book they have the space
to develop and flesh themselves out here they have little more to do than
look in awe at Gandalf, perhaps not with a humble air so much as a wonder
that he's being allowed to soak up all the screen time.

 And yes, what you've heard is true; the fight sequences are shockingly bad.
Well, perhaps that IS an overstatement. The fight sequences aren't exactly
bad, they're riddled with good ideas and clever moves, but the camerawork
and editing is so erratic that you'll have a hard time picking out anything
to inspire awe or respect. The problem here is that the benchmarks for on
screen fighting have all been established nowadays by The Matrix, Crouching
Tiger and The Phantom Menace, and all of these films use lengthy shots to
allow us to soak up the fight imaginative fight choreography, rather than
have us crane our necks and dart about the screen with our eyeballs trying
to glimpse it like a rare bird or nipple-flash at a premiere.

 Now, these, yet again, are only a few of the problems. There's the
geography of Middle Earth, some ropey special effects moments and the clumsy
ending to deal with. But you can read the books and see the film for
yourself; I've already typed enough about all that here.

 BUT, now that I've just spent the main chunk of this review telling you
about the shortcomings of The Fellowship of the Rings as both a movie and an
adaptation let me tell you, it is good, exceptionally good.

 There is no denying that the storyline itself, acting, effects, props, sets
and so on and so forth are all spot on. Visually the film is a triumph and
WETA has now, without question placed itself ahead of Industrial Light and
Magic in terms of industry leading special effects. There are bags of style
to proceedings, with some sequences displaying the sheer amount of vision of
the whole team to bring somewhat vague sections of the novel to life.

All parts are played to perfection by the cast, and the casting is literally
some of the best and most appropriate seen in years, none of this
who-hot-and-who's-not Jerry Bruckheimer trash, it's a case of the best
possible person for the part at every stage of the film. We'll give
particular credit to Sir Ian Mckellan, Christopher Lee, Ian Holm and Elijah
Wood again here. No doubt they've had scores of favourable and loving
reviews already but these performances truly are worth mentioning just once
again.

 The film is a masterpiece from start to finish. Yes, it does take
perseverance, no it's not entirely faithful to Tolkien's work and there are
some serious flaws, but in a year that has been so barren of even five
decent mainstream movies I think it's safe to say that no matter when this
film had been released it would have outshone its competitors.


<|_=00=_|>

The reason why this first part of Jackson's 'Lord of the Rings' is
superior
to his latter two parts is because of restraint. Jackson was restrained
from
over doing it with the CGI and "epic" battle sequences, which in my
opinion
does not make a story epic. Part of the reason was simply because Tolkien
did not have very many battles in the first part of his book, which
thankfully forced Jackson to focus on creating a believable world rather
than a believable hack-n-slash action movie.

I don't find much entertainment in watching people mutilate each other,
but
I love it when a movie engages me in a world, and 'The Fellowship of the
Ring' does just that. Certainly the most breathtaking scenes in the movie
are the moments of patient observation, when the camera pans around and
captures the beautiful settings of Middle Earth. I must give Jackson
credit.
He did hire some very extraordinary artists that have envisioned one of
the
grandest interpretations of Tolkien's world.

There are about five particular moments that stick out in my mind and gave
me that tingle of goosebumps down my spine when I saw them for the first
time. The first is the introduction to Hobbiton. After the somewhat
awkward
prologue, I was beginning to have my doubts to whether the movie would
live
up to the book. But the movie surprised me. Hobbiton is perfect. The
houses
have flower patches and old fences, the roads look worn and made through
decades of travel, and the Old Mill spins with the laziness of a quiet
town.
Every color is vibrant and every moment looks as through it was taken out
of
a picture book. Although I still don't agree with the particular look of
the
Hobbits, I believe everything else in Hobbiton is worthy of Tolkien's
words.

The second moment comes after Frodo's awakening in Rivendell, and the
third,
during the exploration of the Halls of Moria. In both moments, the camera
pans away from the characters and outward into a static shot of their
surroundings. The moments make us feel like we're turning our heads and
gazing at the world around us just as the characters do. The golden
waterfalls of the elven city mark an interesting contrast with the dark
halls of the dwarfish mines, but each are inspiring in their own ways and
add to feeling of being engaged in a living world.

My other favorite moments come during the exploration of Lothlorien and
the
passage down the Anduin. And while I won't go into detail about the
scenes,
since they really should be experienced without any prior expectations,
they
are monuments in imaginative cinema. 'The Fellowship of the Ring' is one
of
those rare movies that I always wish I could reexperience for the first
time. Unfortunately, Jackson turned away from exploring Middle Earth in
his
next two movies, and instead, turned to fighting and warfare. He seems to
take a lot of pride in the love story and battle sequences he created in
'The Two Towers' and 'The Return of the King,' but it is was in his first
movie when he really got it right. In 'The Fellowship of the Ring,' it's
okay if the characters are uninteresting and have silly dialogue. Middle
Earth is the star, and the characters are the ones seeing it for the first
time.
<|_=00=_|>

'The Lord of the Rings' is one of my favorite books, I have read it several
times, and remember thinking the last time, about 3 years ago that if I made
a film I'd want to make it of this, but wouldn't it be almost impossible.
You can then imagine how strong my expectations were when I went to see the
eagerly awaited first installment.

 This film impressed me hugely, more than anything else because of how true
it was to my imagination, both in the characters as well as in the effects
and setting- a sentiment I have heard consistently from other fans of the
books. Elijah Wood brought across the character of Frodo with the kind of
haunted, frail courage that Tolkien captures so well in the books. Nor could
I find any fault at all with Ian McKellan's Gandalf, Viggo Mortensen's
Aragorn, and Sean Bean's Boromir, all of whom I thought were portrayed
excellently. I could pick out instances where I did think, 'no, that's not
right', however their seldomness in number would only serve to illustrate
the excellence of the overall portrayal. One thing that did stand out for me
was Cate Blanchett's performance as Galadriel, the part itself became so
perfunctory in the film that to me her alternation between benevolent seer,
and figure of potential terror seemed little more than a slightly confusing
detour with no real connection into the plot other than as a vehicle for a
glimpse into the future. But that was it.

I thought that the points where Jackson did deviate from the text were
completely the correct ones to do so. Shortening the opening Shire scenes
and cutting out the whole Tom Bombadil bit was great since frankly they
bored me slightly in the book anyway. Also, expanding the role of Arwen was
a sensible decision.

 However this film is by no means above criticism. The dialogue was in my
opinion terrible and purely there to drive on the plot. Normally this would
ruin a film for me (as in "The Matrix"), making it almost intolerable to
view, however fortunately here it proves little more than a minor
irritation. Also, the film seemed overall to be excessively plot-driven and
at times a mad dash from one action scene to another, the characters, for
all their truth to the book did seem flat and sometimes little more than
stereotypical fantasy characters. This is perhaps my major quarrel with the
film- I would have liked these characters to have come alive as people in a
way that was made impossible by the sparseness of the script and the
rollercoaster nature of the plot. In general the whole film lacked the depth
of context that I think distinguishes Tolkien from other fantasy writers.
However to have achieved this would have required a very different movie,
and you can't fault an action film for being an action film.

 This movie is undoubtedly not for everyone. A lot of people just don't get
fantasy- other than Lord of the Rings, I don't particularly either. However
in my opinion Jackson really has made an incredible achievement- his and
Tolkien's vision carried through suberbly by a breathtaking setting and
stunning special effects, as well as by a cast clearly as enthralled as he
was. He has taken on a huge task, and is dealing with it with breathtaking
success.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely love this movie, partly because the acting is really good,
but also for the CGI effects and the good storyline. I watched the
extended version and realized that it isn't boring like some people
think because some people I know think that FOTR is quite a lengthy
movie because of all the talking, but in my opinion, if there's not
talking, there's no story! If they just jumped to the fighting scenes
without any of the introduction, then you won't know where the movie
started from. I love the scenes where they get to fight, whether Orcs
or Nazgul, the fighting scenes are still the climax of the movie.

Another good movie to see after FOTR is TTT, of course. It is the
second part of this great trilogy and there are more climatic scenes.
Most probably, you'll enjoy that more than FOTR but don't shun this
movie just because it's a bit lengthy.

Overall, it's a great movie to see and it is really worth spending the
money to buy/rent the extended/special DVD to watch too. Definitely a
10 out of 10 on my scale! Actually, in my opinion, 10/10 doesn't even
come close!
