
Killing Zoe played in Seattle theaters for exactly one week in August
of 1994 and I managed to see it twice.Everything about this movie
worked for me: the writing, the cinematography,the acting, the editing
and the music. From the first images rushing through the streets of
Paris until the blood-soaked climax, I was mesmerized. I consider
myself lucky to have seen it in theaters with a good sound system
becauseI have queried friends who have seen it on video and they had a
completely different opinion of the film because they had missed key
lines of dialog that really go a long way towards investing Killing Zoe
with a certain quintessentially 90s vibe of doomed heroin-soaked
romanticism, giving it deeper levels than most people are willing to
admit.
<|_=00=_|>

'Killing Zoe' is a movie that has grown on me over the years. When I first
watched it I didn't think all that much of it, but each time I've seen it
since I've liked it a little more, and I'm at the point now where I like it
a lot. I don't think it's a GREAT movie, but it's a very good one, and
extremely underrated. Roger Avary's connection with Quentin Tarantino has
turned out to be more of a hindrance than a help to him. 'Killing Zoe' was
frequently dismissed as just another Tarantino clone, which to me is unfair,
because a) Avery actually wrote some of 'Reservoir Dogs', 'Pulp Fiction' and
'True Romance' (usually uncredited), and b) though the subject matter of
'Killing Zoe' is similar to say 'Reservoir Dogs', the approach is very
different. And let's face it the heist-gone-wrong flick has a long history
(the influence of 1950s crime classics 'Rififi', 'Bob Le Flambeur' and/or
'The Killing' on all subsequent variations of it cannot be underestimated),
and Tarantino was building on an already established tradition. As well as
that the hostage aspect of 'Killing Zoe' brings to mind 'Dog Day Afternoon'
more than anything by QT. Anyway, I think this is an interesting movie. The
violence is pretty blatant, but apart from that it is a subtle, character
driven movie. Eric Stoltz ('Pulp Fiction') and Julie Delpy ('Before
Sunrise') are both very good, especially in their first scene together, but
the real stand out performance is by Jean-Hughes Anglade ('Betty Blue') who
is outstanding. Anglade really makes the movie for me. 'Killing Zoe's
reputation seems to be growing as the years go by, and now that the mid-90s
Tarantino hype has died down it's about time it was judged on its own
merits.
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie.  I just rented it again,  and was not disappointed.
Sure,  it's bloody  (Tarantino produced it)  and nihilistic and all that,
but it's also got a wonderful sense of anarchy that most films are
afraid to commit too.  As Emanuel Levy says in his book about
independent cinema ("Cinema of Outsiders),  "it promises to take
off in unexpected directions but it's major distinction is it's gift for
hysteria and pompous existentialism."  It's all flash and blood and
Julie Delphys breasts and guns and just a helluva lot of fun.  Great
out there performance by Jean-Hugues Anglade as the insane
French bank robber and Eric Stoltz as the moral center (!?) of the
madness.  This film is even more fun when you've had a pint or
two beforehand.
<|_=00=_|>

Much hated by Tarantino-lovin' geeks who often haven't even bothered to see
it, KILLING ZOE is a nasty and hilarious gem, lacking much of Quentin's
trademark video clerk snottines n' know-it-all nerdy attitude. Combining
elements of old French noir flicks with a true nihilistic slant, Avary's
flick is a true avant-pop classic.   
<|_=00=_|>
i thought this film was absolutely brilliant, and only for one reason
only, because of jean Hugues anglade. he is easily the best actor in
the world and i would rank him in the same category as Robert De niro
and Al pacino, in fact i think hes better!!! killing Zoe was a rather
empty film i thought at times the relationship between Zoe and zed was
weird, how could they really be in love when they hardly knew each
other and he didn't even intervene when Eric threw her out of his
apartment!!! thought that was strange, they should really have called
Zoe by a different name as when you buy the movie you think that Julie
delpy's character ''Zoe'' has a lot to do with the film but in fact she
hardly features, because ''Zoe'' means ''life'' in Greek, so the title
of the film just means ''killing life''! other than that i enjoyed
killing Zoe souly because of anglade he truly steals the show, and is
one of the most profound actors I've ever came across, the film should
be seen to see him!!!! fabulous actor.
<|_=00=_|>
A rough and sometimes sordid movie is a short way to summarize this
film. It's about a no-nonsense gang of drugged-out French thieves whose
bank robbery attempt backfires into a bloody mess.

For those who object, be warned there are a fair amount of subtitles in
here and a lot of f-words. This was a tough gang, and the lead
characters are pretty grubby, they aren't really very likable people.

I like Jean-Hughes Anglade's accent and I always like ogling Julie
Delpy, although I've seen her look better. The city of Paris looked
good with some nice shots in the beginning and at the end of the movie.

Anglade, as the leader of the gang, was brutal but fascinating. My only
complaint was the film was too sordid in spots (drugs, language and
attitude). but overall, an entertaining crime film. It gets your
attention and keeps it.
<|_=00=_|>
Saw this movie twice. First time was a about ten years ago, when I was
still a teenager. Almost forgot about it, but when i saw it again I
realized this movie really shocked me at that time, and I even must
admit that it still does. It starts off kind of slow, but that's just a
tease for what's about to come. Don't watch this if you're weak at
heart, not that it is that explicit, but the violence is kind of
brutal, no sentimental bullshit, no mercy. If somebody ever asks me to
rob a bank, I definitely say no. I almost wanted to give this a 9/10,
but mmm, the first part should have been just a little more intriguing.
Once they're in the bank, oh man!
<|_=00=_|>

Compared to the endless tiresome shoot-em-ups like the
Schwarzeneggar--Stallone--Seagal type flicks, this movie shows style, class,
and sensuality. A tense, edge-of-your-seat movie where for a change you
DON'T know how it's going to end.
The only flaw in the film is that it has a very low-budget quality with no
real scenes outside in France, except at the very beginning at the airport.
Everything else looks done in some studio with a few scenic shots tossed in,
like a tv show that can't really go abroad and look authentic. But this
movie is well worth renting--and beats 90% of the manufactured, formula
plastic films next to it on the video shelf. An 8.5 out of 10. 


<|_=00=_|>

This film is pretty much a masterpiece and not just another crime thriller
made after Tarantino's success. Killing Zoe is Roger "a friend of Quentin"
Avary's directing debut and it deals with a bank robbery which goes
straight
to hell after night of heavy drug and alcohol use. Two old friends (Eric
Stoltz and Jean-Hugues Anglade) are the main characters of the film and
their friendship seems to suffer pretty much during the robbery
day..

I first saw this film about a year ago and then I thought that it was just
an OK action pick with violence and great dialogue. I didn't see inside
the
film back then and now I'm very happy to have viewed it again. The main
themes in Killing Zoe are friendship and things which can destroy it.
There
is also strong scene(s) concerning drug and alcohol addiction.

*Some kind of spoilers coming*

Zed thinks that his old friend Eric is his real friend and they are
important to each other and can trust each other. Zed soon learns the
horrific truth behind Eric and that he is real monster who perhaps has
AIDS
and is seriously hooked on heroin and other drugs. The end scene where
Eric
tells Zed that their friendship means nothing to him, is extremely
shocking
and surprising because throughout the film Zed seems to be important to
Eric. In the end of Ringo Lam's magnificent City on Fire (Hong Kong) the
main characters have developed a real friendship even though they are on
the
other side of the law, and the bad guy, Danny Lee, is really worried about
his wounded partner, Chow Yun Fat. But in Killing Zoe, the friendship
between the two lead men collapses and dies for ever. The director wants
to
make people to think about the importance of real friends and love between
human beings.

The drug taking sequence at night before the robbery is very intense and
realistic with all the hallucinations and nausea. The dangers of drugs and
other addictive substances come very clear during the infernal film. Even
the right minded main character (Stoltz) is about to collapse to the dark
side and the hallucinations are pretty disturbing and harrowing and won't
leave you after the film has ended.

*spoilers end*

So, after second viewing, I found this film a very great and unforgettable
experience which is definitely not just another "art house violence"
flick.
In fact, I prefer this as much as Reservoir Dogs, which has same kind of
themes as Killing Zoe, but omits the drug content.

But it is pretty sad to see that the final R-rated version doesn't look as
Roger Avary wanted it to look. There are numerous scenes in which it is
easy
to see that those scenes were intended to be longer or more effective. I'm
not talking only about violent scenes but also those hallucinations may
have
been stronger without the R restrictions. So I am waiting for the unrated
DVD release to come from some label sometimes in distant
future..

Highly recommended for fans of Quentin Tarantino, Peter Medak (Species 2
excluded!) and other interesting filmmakers of the 90's in this
genre.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Killing Zoe, is about an American safe cracker named Zed, who travels
to Paris, to meet up with a childhood friend of his. His first night in
Paris, he hires a prostitute named Zoe, to stay with him. Zed, and Zoe
connect with each other and become friends before they are rudely
interrupted by Zed's childhood friend Eric. Eric, takes Zed out for a
night on the town where they go to bars and do numerous different
drugs. Eric, and his friends plan to rob the bank the next day and Zed,
will be the safe cracker. While at the bank everything seems to go OK
with the robbery until people start dying and Eric, starts to show his
wild side. Also, Zed soon finds out about this and also finds out that
one of the hostages is Zoe, who happens to work at the bank. This
complicates matters. Winner of The Best Film and Critics Award for the
film's writer/director Roger Avary at The Mystfest. Killing Zoe, has
good direction, a good script, good performances by everyone involved,
good original music, good cinematography and good production design.
Killing Zoe, has stylish direction and some really good dialogue and is
also interesting and intriguing and it becomes more and more compelling
and fascinating as the robbery goes on and the film has a lot of action
and becomes very entertaining. Director and writer Roger Avary, wrote
and directed this film before he won the Oscar for co-writing Pulp
Fiction, and he does show great potential as a great writer and
director. He also demonstrated this in 2002 with the very underrated
Rules Of Attraction. While he has not gotten the same type of credit as
Pulp Fiction's co-writer and director Quentin Tarantino, Roger Avary
has talent all his own and will make it big in the movie business in
years to come and I look forward to further projects he comes out with.
