
Honestly, I think this is an awful movie... but I can't help but love
it! It has a cheesy plot, unrealistic characters, a bit of magic that
adds to the unbelievability and about everything else that a bad movie
has. And yet, this is one of my favorite movies to watch when I'm in
the mood to watch something light and fun. I'm almost embarrassed to
say I love it! I don't know what it is about this movie that makes it
so enjoyable to me. The basic plot... Sarah Michelle Gellar is a rather
unsuccessful chef who wants to become better and save her family's
restaurant. After buying a crab at a local market her luck begins to
change. Suddenly she is able to cook amazing food that is sort of
hypnotic and magical. She's offered a job as head chef at a posh new
restaurant by a gorgeous guy who (wouldn't you know it) she ends up
falling in love with. Give it a try. Maybe you'll love it too. I think
it's the whole food idea that gets me....
<|_=00=_|>

This is a charming film, very well acted and with great production values.
But, like the screwball comedies of the thirties, and the musicals of Fred
Astaire, it isn't for everyone. Of course, a romantic comedy which is based
on the magical ability of a crab to inspire Gellar to feats of culinary
greatness is a premise which might be hard for some to swallow. But I think
its worth the effort, and it's no dafter than many successful comedy of
earlier days. For those who follow such things there are three great
references to the films of Fred Astaire. First is when Flannery is choosing
the floor design for his new restaurant. The wavy black and white design is
straight out of Yolanda and the Thief (1946 MGM) where, in a number called
Coffee Time, Fred Astaire and Lucille Bremer dance on a huge floor of
exactly this design. As if to hammer it home Flannery's boss reacts by
saying " it looks like something out of an MGM musical". Reference number
two is to The Belle of New York (1952 MGM) where Fred Astaire and Vera-Ellen
kiss and float up to the ceiling. This is directly quoted in a kitchen scene
where, under the influence of the crab, Gellar and Flannery kiss and float
to the ceiling. These references are interesting because both films have
fantasy/magical themes and both are somewhat looked down on in Astaire's
oeuvre. The third reference is to Shall We Dance (1937 RKO)where in the
Gershwin number of the same name Fred Astaire is confronted with a long line
of Ginger Rodgers masked look-alikes. In Simply Irresistable Gellar appears
reflected in a long line of mirrors with Flannery temporarily confused as to
where she is, with both of them standing in a set that seems right out of
Van Nest Polglase's Art Deco creations for RKO. Here the reference seems to
be to the magician's art of illusion. Anyhow, after all that, you should
have a feel for whether this film is for you.

<|_=00=_|>

This is a light, cutesy chick-flick sort of movie. There's lots of
humor and silliness. This movie fortunately never tries to take itself
too seriously, because it would fail. The watcher who tries to take
this movie too seriously won't enjoy it. Go into it with the idea that
it's a silly movie meant to be laughed at and enjoyed, and you won't go
wrong. Sarah Michelle Gellar is really good for the role of Amanda
Shelton - she's very expressive and she does the dry humor really well,
but she also gets the emotional roller-coaster that the characters are
on and she does it smashingly well. Sean Patrick Flanery is excellent
as the guy who really can't figure out what the heck is going on but he
can't pull himself away from it anyway; and Larry Gilliard, Jr. as the
support man to Gellar's Shelton is simply funny. This movie is
definitely worth watching at least once.

<|_=00=_|>

This is a very sweet little movie. The "magic" business in it is there to
give it a little edge, and I think that they wisely don't explain it, but
the movie works best when they underplay it. It's at its best  around the
"shopping for plates" sequence when the characters discuss how often men
think about sex. It's handled with a light touch that is just right. That is
the tone that I would have liked to see the movie maintain, and which they
hit now and again during the course of it, but also missed from time to
time.

It's not a sure thing (it's no "Moonstruck", for example), but if you like
romantic comedy it's worth a look. I'd give it a 7/10 (slightly less than 3
stars, but close).
<|_=00=_|>

When I read about it in my TV guide, my first thought was 'boring'. But
since there was nothing interesting, I decided to watch it. And no regrets
taken. 
The story is very sweet, filled with lots of love and humorous situations.
Since I like movies where some sort of food plays an important part (I just
love Woman On Top!) then I loved this one too. Sarah Michelle Gellar and
Sean Patrick Flannery both do an excellent job. They make a great on-screen
couple together and you can even see the chemistry between.

All together, I liked this movie. Funny, sweet and definetely romantic,
spiced with bits of mystery and fiction, it was a good watch :)

9/10. Pretty :)
<|_=00=_|>

In my opinion, SIMPLY IRRESISTIBLE is a very heart-warming and romantic
movie. If you ask me, Amanda (Sarah Michelle Gellar) and Tom (Sean Patrick
Flanery) made the perfect match. Also, even though I thought that Chris
(Amanda Peet) was a beautiful woman, she was a little bit snobby. All in
all, the costumes were well-designed, the casting was great, and, the
directing by Mark Tarlov was fabulous! Before I wrap this up, I'd like to
say, "Sarah Michelle Gellar and Sean Patrick Flanery have scored big time!"
Now in conclusion, if you are a fan of Sarah Michelle Gellar or Sean Patrick
Flanery, and, you haven't seen this very heart-warming and romantic movie, I
highly recommend it. You're in for a good time, so, when you see SIMPLY
IRRESISTIBLE, prepare to be dazzled. 
<|_=00=_|>
was just that for me...simply irresistible! i couldn't help myself...i
am a sucker for romance combined with magic...mix in the overlay of the
sublime, and add a dash of the ethereal and you have the ingredients
for a sumptuous recipe. the cast was excellent, the settings of the
southern cross and the tom restaurant/creation were colorful and
mystical. everyone waiting with baited breath in anticipation of
amandas awakening and inspiration (to meet or supersede her dearly
departed mother's expectations)to explode into full blossom...magic
that runs in the female lineage of the family at least. it was time to
for tom to stop stalling and sabotaging a relationship destined to be
divine. amanda was determined to follow her hearts desire with or
without tom, but as we all know the dynamics of a divine couple (as in
soulmates), loving in harmony, can have an exponential impact on the
changes necessary to restore the love and the light to the universe! it
was evident to me this was a love that truly was meant to transcend
time!
<|_=00=_|>
This is Sarah Michelle Gellar's best movie! Unpretentious, genuine
young lady battling the reality of small business and about to see her
whole world go down the kitchen drain when she is saved by wonder.

And that is what this story is about wonder.. and food.

For me the details are everything. The plot is simple and that is
probably what disturbs a number of the reviewers.. but they admit it
themselves.. and they can't put their finger on it. Here we finally
have a story where everything suddenly goes right. And wouldn't you
like that to happen to you at least once! The movie has name players
but not A-listers. The story features a great deal to do with savouring
the taste of food, and who would go to see a movie based on food? Yet..
there are few pictures I enjoy more than this one. I am not a SMG fan,
but in this motion picture Sarah is absolutely perfectly cast. It is
her 13 Going On 30 role!
<|_=00=_|>

It's interesting to see Sarah Michelle Gellar play a character in a low-key
fashion. I recently rented the campy (and hilarious) Cruel Intentions to
see
her give a performance so unbelievably over-the-top I couldn't stop
laughing. Also, the less said about her role in I KNow What You Did Last
Summer the better. Though impeccably shot sequences in and around New York
give the film a glowing lusture, the script and the characters don't live
up
to the glow and seem to blend in with the scenery. It's supernatural themes
seem to get left behind when there's a moment of pesky plot to spoil the
visual pleasure, and I'm not convinced that anyone on screen wanted to be
there at all. Also, why does a young woman on the verge of bankruptcy dress
so well and have such impeccably styled hair? And why would she wear
designer outfits whilst making sauces? It's odd. It seemed to be a Vogue
photo essay in search of a Meg Ryan-esque romance. 
<|_=00=_|>

Simply Irresistible is one of my absolutely favorite movies. Typically
I like your "guy movies" ... you know, explosions and blood, but this
movie hits on my softer nerves. It's such an amazing movie for those
that believe in love, and the craziness of the whole deal. Those those
like a practical film, keep on looking! but here you have a light and
greatly acted film. The people who suggest that this film is not worth
your time, well clearly they didn't understand the film. It's all about
following your heart, and excepting the fact that love can oft times
bring unexpected changes in one's life and great consequences. A great
soundtrack and engaging story just add to my love for this film as
well.

