
Yes I know. I've heard all the complaints already. "That's not how it
happened" (as if anybody really knows); "All of those events could not
have co-occurred on the same boat in the same trip" (as if anybody
really knows); etc. etc. Well, here's my answer - it's a movie, just a
movie. Don't see a movie to learn about "what really happened" unless
the film states very clearly that it is a documentary. Films are, like
good books, supposed to tell you something true about people, about
things that happen, and about life. They're not (even when they're
placed in the documentary shoebox) necessarily about what really
happened and how.

The Perfect Storm is a heavily fictionalized speculation concerning the
experience of the Andrea Gayle and its crew during the 'storm of the
century' in the early nineties. George Clooney and Mark Wahlberg head a
fine, under-appreciated cast, as regular yankee fishermen, their
friends, and family, living in the Massachussetts town of Gloucester
(pronounced "Glosta" for those of you from away). Billy Tyne (Clooney)
is a once legendary long-line (swordfish) captain who is down on his
luck and needs a big catch to bring himself back into the fold. He and
his crew set out to find that catch on exactly the wrong day, in
exactly the wrong place. The second half of the film is their attempt
to get home, and also incorporates Coast Guard rescue action scattered
all around the Atlantic during the massive storm.

Having lived in Maine for years, and having gotten myself thoroughly
immersed in the ballads of Ruth Moore and the amazing New England
Maritime culture, I have to admit that I was predisposed to like this
film, despite all of the issues my fellow reviewers have harped on. And
no, I haven't read the book, nor do I intend to. Still, in an attempt
to be somewhat objective, I gave it an 8 and I'll give it an above
average recommendation, but I will also say that my inclination was to
give it an 9 or a 10.

This film mixes New England fishery and sailor lore, a few scattered
facts about the Andrea Gayle Story, and a lot of dramatic license, to
tell a story about the heroism of the average American and their
families. It is also an homage to the the New England fishing industry
and its traditions. Though it is easy to mistake the real life heroes
(the Coast Guard operatives who saved so many lives during that storm)
for the heroes of the film, the crew of the Andrea Gayle and their
loved ones are the real heroes here - in their valiant efforts to save
themselves, their boat, and their catch.

The performances and the script are strong and the characters very well
realized (though fictionalized). Wahlberg and Clooney are great.
Clooney gives the best performance I have seen him give. Some of the
smaller parts deserve special mention - Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio,
Michael Ironside, Diane Lane and John C. Reilly are always very good
(or better), but I was unexpectedly charmed by John Hawkes, William
Fichtner and Janet Wright.

It is impossible to discuss this film without talking about the amazing
special effects. To summarize, the first time I saw The Perfect Storm,
I actually had difficulty sleeping because I felt the bed rocking to
the rhythm of imaginary waves each time my eyes closed. Had I seen it
in a theater, I am convinced that I would have considered popping a
dramamine. Although at times exaggerated, this is the best film
re-creation of sea storms I have ever seen. Every scene is thoroughly
believable and marvelously detailed, even down to the weird patchiness
of an incoming torrent often called "the calm before the storm".

Obviously, I liked this film. And I will give it a strong
recommendation with a couple of caveats. First - if you're not somebody
who appreciates New England culture and understands something of the
kind of humble heroism "Glosta Men" (and women) are expected to have,
you might not get it completely. Second - if you come to this looking
for a story that rings true in the sense of objective history, you have
come to the wrong place. Otherwise, sit back with some popcorn and
somebody you love, and enjoy the ride.
<|_=00=_|>

Having survived (barely, on land) the "No Name Storm" of 1991 on the coast
of New England, I assure you this was a true story (I'm mentioning this for
the New Zealand poster who said it was adapted from a novel and others who
may not realize it really was a *true* story). Obviously, we can't know what
was actually said or done once the Andrea Gail lost radio contact (and isn't
that true of any movie based on "historical fact" - we can only surmise the
actual dialog and conversations that may have taken place).  However, the
characters were based on the actual crew members and the Coast Guard did
have to ditch one helicopter during the storm - from a story I read in
People magazine, I'd say the portrayal of the Coast Guard's actions were
accurate.  I can't say I liked this movie - perhaps remembering the terror
of that night (I lived in a seaside town and the ocean had come over the
seawall and was filling up streets 3 and 4 blocks in from the beach) makes
it difficult for me to watch this movie as entertainment.  In answer to one
post here, Clooney said that the Boston accent is one of the most difficult
and he didn't even want to attempt it - Markie Mark is from Boston so it
wasn't a stretch for him.  The special effects are phenomenal of course...I
just wish it had a different ending.  By the way, the statue of the
fisherman at the ship wheel shown at the beginning of the movie is an actual
Gloucester landmark (and you can see it on Gorton frozen seafood products
which come from Gloucester) - the legend on the base of the monument says,
"Those that go down to the sea in ships..."
<|_=00=_|>

It is inescapable fact that it is very difficult to take real-life events
and translate them into an interesting and thrilling movie.  Ron Howard
perfected the art with "Apollo 13" and now Wolfgang Petersen continues on
with "The Perfect Storm".   

This story of Gloucester, MA. fishermen who go out for one last try at a big
payoff in a slumping season packs quite a wollup once they get caught up in
an event that had never before been recorded:  the perfect storm.  From
there, you have to suspend belief just a bit and drink in the events
occurring aboard the Andrea Gail.  It's not tough, as the cast delivers them
perfectly.

George Clooney may have played his signature role as Capt. Billy Tyne,
skipper of the ill-fated Andrea Gail on that fateful day in 1991.  Clooney
comes off as neither overly glamorous, or bigger than life, but as a simple
common man just trying to break his fishing slump and bring home a big
payday for his boss, his crew, and himself.  When George relaxes and puts
himself into a role, he is better off, and Capt. Tyne is the pinnacle of
that for him.

Mark Wahlberg comes on board as Bobby Shatford, a rookie fisherman who is
trying to make a better life for himself and his girlfriend Chris (nicely
played by Diane Lane).  Bobby is the only character given equal depth to
Billy and comes off with the same impression:  a good guy who was trying
hard to make a better life.  Very nicely done here as well.

Supporting cast is good, John C. Reilly as Dale "Murph" Murphy, William
Fichtner as David "Sully" Sullivan, a late arrival to the Andrea Gail's
crew, Michael Ironside as the profit first Bob Brown.  All of these stellar
characterizations and serve brilliantly to put you into Gloucester of
1991.

Wolfgang Petersen has created a gripping film, full of chillingly realistic
special effects.  He skillfully took Sebastian Junger's novel and tweaked it
to fit the confines of the motion picture screen.  Casting and acting by all
involved was perfect and you never once feel like anything is overacted or
overly dramatic, just that you are somehow involved with the fear that had
to have been involved on that night.

4 1/2 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>

I was struck by the documentary quality of this film, and couldn't help but
look back to an earlier Peterson film, Das Boot, where we got up close and
intimate with all the crew of the submarine--where they slept, went to the
washroom, their soaking wet clothes, the damp, the stink of unwashed
clothes, the  claustrophobia on board.  I had absolutely no trouble
believing that Mark Wahlberg and Clooney were fishermen, trying to earn a
hardscrabble living against a tough and unforgiving sea.  The movie even
starts slowly, giving the viewers insights into their lives at home, why
they fish, and why they make the decisions later on in the movie.   Then
the
film starts to slowly build the tension as the storm builds in strength.
The special effects were absolutely believable, and Peterson piles on the
tension even while breaking it up by adding a parallel rescue at the same
time as the Andrea Gail begins to run into trouble.  An excellent summer
thriller that is a real roller coaster ride--literally and figuratively--on
water.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on Sebastian Junger's best-seller, Petersen's motion picture
relates the well known true story of six brave fishermen who really
fought for survival with all their heart, skill and tenacity The
hurricane hits full force just as their ice machine breaks down,
leaving the six men onboard with two choices: Let all of the fish they
have caught spoil and hang out for a few days till it calms down, or
try to salvage their income and pride by navigating 'right for the
middle of a monster.' 

It's a film of high drama, tragedy, hubris, and one of Mother Nature's
nastiest hurricane on record There is the bad weather, the constant
danger of mechanical failure, the perils of controlling a crew of
strong and colorful men, not to mention the threat of the fishing
itself in raging waters 

George Clooney is excellent as the disappointed skipper who couldn't
know the true price of fish, and whose dignity is wounded because he
can't find fish on familiar waters...

The women left on the shore include a friendly rival captain with
better luck; a worried woman afraid to lose her man to the cruel sea; a
caring mother begging her precious boy to be careful; and a sweet
single mom who shows up dockside the next morning to say goodbye 

"The Perfect Storm" may be considered one of the great sea movies It
is a terrifying adventure with thrilling images: The shark attack on
the deck of the Gail; Captain Tyne's exploits while trying to repair a
broken mast; the remarkable bravery of a chopper crew riding the scary
waves to save three lives trapped on a small luxury yacht; and the
mid-air refueling attempt for a rescue helicopter thwarted by strong
winds The 'Andrea Gail' was pushed straight into raging waters where
the real fish are
<|_=00=_|>

The Perfect Storm:  Billy Tyne is a swordboat captain who's hit a patch of
bad luck - while his colleagues have returned to port nearly bursting at
the
seams with fish, his hold is nearly empty.  Convinced that it is his turn
to
score the big haul, Tyne convinces his crew to go on one last run before
the
end of the season and heads for the North Atlantic.  He never figured
Mother
Nature into his plans.

I remember reading about the Andrea Gail soon after "The Storm of the
Century" hit the eastern seaboard.  It was only a matter of time before
someone tried to bring this story to the big screen.  Thankfully, it was
Wolfgang Petersen who did so - here he does for fishing what he did for
submarine warfare in "Das Boot" - puts the viewer in the midst of the
action
and scares the hell out of them.

I can say without exaggeration that I have never experienced a movie as
stressful as this one (the friend I brought to the premiere was literally
ill).  The movie starts out slowly and deliberately, gradually setting the
stage for what is about to come.  Petersen utilizes several subplots to
build the suspense: initially he focuses on the disappointment of the crew
as they repeatedly fail to hit the motherlode.  Masterfully intercut with
this are scenes documenting an idyllic sailing trip that turns ugly, and
the
Coast Guard attempts to rescue them.   Consequently, the tension, like the
storm, continues to build to a crescendo, and never wanes.  The movie also
feels real.

I have been in twenty-foot seas once in my life, and that was more than
enough for me (it was one of the few times I ever contemplated my own
mortality).  Watching this movie brought it all back: the waves looked so
real that it is often difficult to differentiate between the CGI and the
real thing.   Also, I could feel the waves as they pounded relentlessly
against the boat (the theatre I saw this in had a great sound system) and
was deafened by the shrieking wind.  The experience, is, for lack of a
better word, ferocious -  I kept everything to disintegrate in the
onslaught.  However, special effects alone do not adequately convey the
appropriate sense of danger.

Many of the water scenes were actually shot in heavy seas - they managed
to
film in the tail end of a hurricane - adding to the realism (several
members
of the crew were regularly feeding the fish...). The actors faced
additional
dangers - Mark Wahlberg came perilously close to drowning, not once but
twice, and was injured by one of the animatronic creatures.   Anyone
expecting Clooney or Wahlberg to be glamorous will be sorely
disappointed -
they are earthy, and scraggly.  But more importantly, their performances
ring true.  Indeed, all of the main characters deliver subtle, believable
performances.

I have never given a strong endorsement with an equally strong caveat -
you
must see this movie, but only if you can handle stress.  And yes I am
serious on both counts.

<|_=00=_|>

	Based on a true story, and dedicated to ten thousand Gloucestermen lost at
sea since 1623, `The Perfect Storm' is a powerful movie that will take you
places to which you've never been before.  Director Wolfgang Peterson has
deftly crafted an intense rendering of the story of the Andrea Gail, a
swordfishing boat captained by Billy Tyne that left Gloucester,
Massachusetts, in the fall of 1991, and soon encountered the storm of the
century.  After a less than profitable trip out, Captain Tyne (George
Clooney) sets out again in October, with a crew of five men, and heads for
deep water and a place know as the `Flemish Cap.'  It's a dangerous trek for
that time of year, but he assures his men that the catch will be worth the
risk.  What he could not foresee, however (nor could any meteorologist), was
that three major storms would converge to form a single storm, the likes of
which comes along only once in every one hundred years or so.  Fate steps in
further when, after their catch is made, their ice making machine burns out,
leaving them without the means of packing and preserving the fish.  They
have no choice but to go back in, directly through the storm, lest the fish
spoil, in which case all of their work, and the risks taken, would be for
naught.  Tyne lets the crew decide; do they turn away and wait out the
storm, losing everything, or do they prove that they're `Gloucestermen,' and
try to make it back.
	What Peterson did with this film, the way he tells the story, can be
likened to what Melville did with the novel, `Moby Dick;' as it moves along,
he fleshes out the characters and subtly provides an intimate portrait of
what this kind of life is all about.  He pays such meticulous attention to
details, that by the time you're in the middle of the storm, the impact is
extraordinary; you know what this boat is and how it works, you've smelled
the fish and the sweat and the sea, and worked alongside the crew.   You
know these people and what's at stake here.  You know the feel of the
fishing lines and the grappling hooks, felt that rush of adrenaline that
comes when you hook a big one, or when a huge wave washes over the deck.  He
gives you so much in this film, puts you in it so completely, that it primes
your senses for whatever's to come.  Combine all of this with the best
special effects imaginable, outstanding performances, and a terrific score
by John Horner, and you're in for the thrill of a lifetime.
	The charismatic Clooney is exemplary here as Tyne; he knows him from the
inside out, which enables him to convey a real sense of who this man is. 
And it shows in the way he carries himself, the way he walks and talks,
right down to the look in his eye.  He's tough without any unwarranted
theatrics or bravura, is self-assured, but aware of his own shortcomings, as
well.  It's a commanding performance with nuance and depth; It's all there,
and Clooney makes it real.  Mark Wahlberg, also, is outstanding as Bobby
Shatford, the rookie fisherman who can't stand to be more than two feet away
from the woman he loves, Christina (Diane Lane).  Lane gives a notable
performance here, too, as does John C. Reilly, who does an emotional turn as
`Murph,' the veteran fisherman with a young son he loves, and who lives with
the remorse of past mistakes that cost him his wife.
	Rounding out the exceptional supporting cast are William Fichtner (Sully),
Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (Linda), Allen Payne (Alfred), John Hawkes
(Bugsy) and Michael Ironside (Bobby Brown).  There are thrills and heroics
to spare in `The Perfect Storm,' but it's also inspiring; once you've seen
the Coast Guard in action, for example, you'll never take them for granted
again.  What makes this such a great movie, though, is that it's about real
people, doing their jobs and going about living their lives like we all do. 
It's an instance of ordinary people getting caught up in extraordinary
circumstances, and Peterson has made them accessible, ones with whom anyone
in the audience will be able to identify.  This is an emotionally charged,
unforgettable film; you'll experience things from the comfort of your seat
in the theater (or on the couch) that most people will never get close to in
real life.  And therein lies the true magic of the cinema.  This is one
movie you absolutely do not want to miss.
10/10.                  
	   
	     
<|_=00=_|>
By the time most people saw this film in a theater, or rented it, they
already knew the ship would sink and its crew would be dead in less
than two hours.

Surprisingly, this diminishes not one whit from the film's power. Even
on several viewings, the film never betrays a moment that is false,
maudlin, or sentimental. The plot is not what keeps people engaged
during this film. It is the issue. How do people face death? In this
film, the people are the captain and crew of the boat. They know their
job, commercial fishing, is difficult and dangerous, even in good
weather. The weather is rainy. The men need the money. They go out even
though they know they will meet a storm. They are used to risking their
lives every day. Few people appreciate how dangerous it is to deliver
that fish entrée to the table.

The storm turns into a hurricane that traps the men, plays rough with
them, and kills them. They struggle to save their own lives. They fail.
When they are neck deep in water in a compartment of the overturned
boat, they face death squarely. They talk, briefly, and
unsentimentally, about things they will not be able to do, people they
will miss. The stark, plainness of the acting achieves a powerful
emotional effect.

At the beginning of the film, the viewer meets the crew. On multiple
viewings, the film reveals nothing milked -- nothing artificial. The
men are solid, working people. There is no sappy foreshadowing.

Director deserves kudos, for maintaining tight-fisted control of a
vehicle that could have been campy, or worse.

The viewer will learn a lot about meteorology, especially about
hurricanes. The special effects are indistinguishable from live action.

All the actors, including George Clooney, maintain a stoic, engagement
with life, and they struggle to live, with no appeal to our pity, until
they die.

The Perfect Storm is more than a film. It is a parable.
<|_=00=_|>

Heading into this film I did not expect the full on and intense experience
that it delivered. I expected brilliant and seamless computer graphics, they
were delivered. I expected a fairly personal story about the people
involved, that was delivered. I expected some amazing sounds and sights, and
I got them.

While I was watching this film, I couldn't help being aware of the fact that
the people being tossed around the sea were, at least in part, real and that
this movie was based on what they went through. But I also got more... I got
to be in the storm and feel my heart quicken a little as the fishing vessel
edges up impossibly large waves, and then crashes down to face another.

It is not a pretty film, it portrays very well the harsh environment in
which it is set. It is a 'real' film, that doesn't seem to pull any punches.

The photography is excellent and really draws you in, it is fluid and makes
you feel close to the action. The acting is very good, it really connects
you with the crew of the Andrea Gail and those around them. The computer
animation is what you would expect it to be - almost seamless - it delivers
huge waves and powerful storm cells.

This is one of the best films I have seen in a long time, and truly removes
you from your reality and into the storm.


<|_=00=_|>

Active, exciting, moving...depressing.  I have so many mixed emotions about
this movie due to realising that more or less everything we see is true. 
George Clooney perfectly captures the busy, yet quite lonely man, that was
Billy Tyne.  Mark Whalberg, who supported Clooney in 'Three Kings', also
gives an excellent performance as Bobby Shatford.  The movie, on a whole,
succeeds where a lot of films this year have - it's gripping.  The whole
scenario of the storm, the crew, the boat and the relationships are so
scarily captivating it's unreal.  However, if you don't know the ending or
what goes on in the film, i won't say anything, but be warned!  This film
has scarred my mind.  The performances from all actors are so good, i was
depressed for about 3 days afterwards!  That is the only weakness however. 
It's a great film a really worth watching.  I would also recommend the book
to anyone who hasn't read it - A bloody good read, although even that has
it's depressing moments.  8/10 - worth purchasing because it could
effectively become a classic.
