
When Berkeley graduate student Finn decides to spend some time away
from her live-in boyfriend, and moves in with her grandmother and great
aunt for the summer, while finishing her master's thesis, she gets an
important and heart-warming lesson about love and commitment. Finn's
grandmother and great aunt are members of a quilting bee, and their
group (whose members have known each other for a long time) decide that
their latest project should have the theme of "where love resides." As
the quilt is made, each woman remembers significant events in their
lives which relate to love and the joy and pain that it brings. Each
woman brings her own perspective to the nature of love, from Anna (who
signs off on men completely after a bad experience)to her daughter
Marianne (who cannot settle on just one man). Some of the women have
been cheated on, some have done the cheating, while others just let
love die.

Along the way, Finn faces temptation in the form of Leon, a smoldering
hunk who pursues her in spite of knowing that she is taken. At the same
time, Finn must come to terms with her parents' failed marriage, as she
decides whether to accept her boyfriend's marriage proposal.

Inspite of the pains that the women have suffered in the name of love,
the movie does not in any way bash love or marriage (which has recently
become popular). It is a beautifully made film, and while it is
definitely a "chick flick," it might also appeal to the more
romantically minded guy.
<|_=00=_|>

The thing with American Quilt, which you will especially notice if you
have
already read the book, is that it has a lot of contents to deal with in
the
ranges of a feature film. But Jocelyn Moorehouse obviously wanted to pack
all the magic of the small stories of the women into this film, she wanted
an entire quilt, full of bits and parts. It is only when understanding
this
that one can fully appreciate this wonderful piece. Fynn, escaping her
partner and the life (marriage) probably unfolding before her, stays with
her grandmother and -aunt for the summer. The serious young eccentric, a
worried, messed-up hippie girl, confronts her future, her past and her
present (dealing with gorgeous Johnathon Schaech chasing her with smiles
and
strawberries), when she dives into the life- and love stories told to her
by
the women in her grandmother´s quilting circle. The rest is magic. See the
torture of love, the journeys of women and the revelations of grief and
new
beginnings, see what they hold dear, what will always stay with them, and
learn what Fynn eventually comes to terms with: That life is not about
perfection, it´s about balance, about putting the small things together,
just like a quilt. So, okay, mechanically, Moorhouse really doesn´t have
enough time for subtlety, and some characters and developments literally
just fly by without any diving in. This will lead people to saying it´s
superficial, but it´s not: It´s a journey, like looking out of a car
window
in another country: Just peeks. Bits. Parts. Parts of a quilt the movie
leaves you to put together. If you do, like I did, it´s so moving and
inspiring. Warm. The music of THE one-and-only Thomas Newman, the
beautiful
Winona Ryder, the charismatic ladies, the land, full of secrets and peace.
This is what makes it special. Fast, but special. And the final highpoint,
a
literal "storm" that blows everything apart yet puts everything together,
is
a cinematic masterpiece, proof of heartfelt, imaginative work of both the
writer and the director. They´re actually dreaming an ending together -
just
take this lovely movie in and stop bickering about reality. If you ask
me.
<|_=00=_|>
Creaking with metaphors, it is a lovely story to watch, with a knockout
cast well-skilled in ensemble acting. But it plods along, documenting
the making of a wedding quilt that incorporates the lives of each
person who contributes to it. Finn Dodd (what a hideous name), played
by Ryder, at her tentative and mysterious best, is spending the summer
with her aunts, while finishing her thesis. She is also engaged to Sam
(Mulroney), who seems to get needier, as Finn seems to be getting
coldfeet. The quilt is a gift for Finn's wedding, and is a labor of
love among a group of women whose lives are intertwined in the northern
California wine country, each of them sewing a panel that expresses the
theme, "Where love resides." But love resides in many different places
among these women – from sisters Glady Jo and Hy, entertainingly played
by Bancroft and Burstyn, who are exactly the kinds of aunts anyone
would like to have in their family, to the prickly Em (Simmons), and
the unconventional Constance (Nelligan). So many different stories, as
interpreted in quilting panels, do not always make a pretty quilt, and
much negotiating and compromise is the very nature of putting the quilt
together, as it is in life. Not Ryder's best work, but Burstyn and
Bancroft are delightful as the pot-smoking aunts, rockin' out to Neil
Diamond's "Cherry, Cherry." Simmons is a pleasure to see – with quite a
lengthy career behind her, she doesn't appear often. Samantha Mathis is
always charming – it would be nice if things would really *click* for
her career. Kate Nelligan is fabulous – I was never able to abide her
work, presuming her to be like the kind of tight-assed, judgmental
characters that she portrayed. But I unexpectedly caught her in
"Frankie and Johnny" (with Al Pacino and Michelle Pfeiffer), and could
not believe I was watching the woman I had scorned for so long. Now I
look forward to seeing her every time she appears. In spite of many
fascinating and multi-faceted characterizations, this vehicle does not
serve any of these actresses well. One expects Greatness out of such an
enormous and worthy cast, but the Entertain-o-meter stops short of Just
Okay, and one wishes that such talent had been applied to a script that
utilized their collective talent better. The concept of the story
revolving around this group-effort is a fine concept, but director,
Moorhouse, has to work hard to keep the story from fragmenting into
oblivion. Though not weighing in as a heavyweight, the multitude of
fine performances ensures that it is fine entertainment on a lazy day.
<|_=00=_|>

A very moving, beautifully-crafted film. As I have not read the book, I am
unable to compare the two. But the movie is enough: the acting is
wonderful, although we get only snippets of each actress/actor. The
message is wonderful, and the soundtrack is equally touching. I would
recommend this to anyone in love, or making a decision about love.
Inspiration is abundant in this film about a young woman about to get
married and in the process of building a house with her fiance. As she takes
the summer away from him to write a thesis and stay with her Grandmother and
Great Aunt, she finds them in the middle of making a quilt for her wedding.
She also finds a very attractive young man, tempting her to cheat. What
follows are stories told by and about each of the women in the quilting
circle. The young women discovers that love is not perfect, and that you
must take advantage of what you have, and that there is beauty in the known.


<|_=00=_|>

I have spent many pleasant hours mocking "How To Make An American Quilt" to
friends, but at this moment I want to play fair.  I'm sure that there are
many things to like about this movie and that somehow they escaped my
notice.  For me it was never more than a series of plot devices stitched
together (ha ha) to form an unsatisfying story.

Winona Ryder is always a pleasure to watch.   I've liked her better in more
irreverent titles like "Beetlejuice" or "Heathers".   Still, she wears
earnestness well, and manages to make bearable the Poloniusesque quilt
speech at end of the picture (see the quotes section).

The supporting players should be every bit as watchable (with several
centuries of acting experience among them, they ought to be).  I wish I'd
been allowed to watch them act.  Their function was to sit in front of the
camera quilting  and say a few words of introduction before the
flashback--as if they were hosts of a documentary.

I want to pause for a moment over Maya Angelou's casting.  It's always a
tricky thing introducing a famous person from another discipline as an
actor.  I call it the "Hey, you're Kareem Abdul-Jabbar" problem (based on
the scene from _Airplane_ where a kid recognizes the basketball player in
the co-pilot's seat.   The joke is in how much time he spends denying it).
Maya Angelou has screen presence, but does nothing to dispel the problem.
My dominant experience watching her was, "Wow, they got Maya Angelou, world
famous poet!"  Maybe this was the idea.  Maybe the filmmakers felt her
famous presence would, in itself, add depth to the proceedings, so why
muddy
it with anything as messy as an interesting character?   Her appearance was
less acting than promotion.  Maya Angelou wouldn't appear in a dog, would
she?

Well...

The plot reminds me of a line Robin Williams had about alcoholics, "You
realize you're and alcoholic when you repeat yourself.  You realize you're
an alcoholic when you repeat yourself.  You realize, oh dammit."  Each
woman's story follows a similar pattern.  Girl meets boy, sleeps with boy,
marries boy, boy leaves, boy comes back--each time unconvincingly (I wonder
how far any guy has ever gotten with the opening line "You swim like a
mermaid").  The Alfre Woodard story is the only variation, and as a result,
the only interesting one among them.

And of course Winona Ryder's Finn has a similar problem.  Does she marry
Dermott Mulrooney or does she go off with the local stud muffin.  I call
him
the local stud muffin because that's all he is.  The actor who played him
didn't convince me that there was anything under the perfect
I-don't-have-to-work-out abs that would compel her to do more than roll in
the field with him.  He wasn't a character so much  a plot device meant to
set up an obvious choice.  Handsome rogue or dependable architecht?  Given
the way the flashbacks ran, take a guess.

There are more scenes to pummel here.  There's the thesis blowing away in
the wind (she's the only grad student I've ever seen with no notes, no
paperweight, and, since she was using a typewriter, no carbons), and
there's
her random meeting with the Stud Muffin (who just happened to be hanging
out
in the groves with a picnic basket and a blanket for her.  I guess this was
set before the advent of stalking laws), but it would take too long to mock
them all.  The real trouble with the movie is that it was so earnest, so
desperate to convince the audience of its poetic depths, that it wound up
shallow, unsatisfying, unconvincing and unintentionally
funny.

Or, to put it another way--never have so many, who were so talented, worked
on something so ordinary.
<|_=00=_|>

There are some bits of interesting stories here that could have been made
into a powerful exploration of human relationships. There is a glimpse of a
couple who after their children are born, see their dreams fade and their
marriage die. There is a short scene about a black girl who is seduced, left
pregnant and abandoned by a white, rich boy visiting from college. But all
of this heavy material is left up in the air. It is the sideshow to the main
part of this film which is such a farce that is seems that the circus has
come to town.

Before I get to that, a few positive comments. American Quilt is beautifully
made. The lighting, sets, costumes, camera work often create a magical
atmosphere which is warm and comfortable. Another nice part is Winona Ryder
who I praise for not being anorexic like so many young actresses. She is
fine in her role. Maya Angelou also gives a good sometimes tough, stoic
performance.

Now the grim details. This movie centers around a young woman, named Finn,
who has cold feet about getting married and so cheats on her fiancé. This
part of the plot is so predictable. As soon as the handsome swimmer shows
up, we know this will happen. Now Finn's mother is known to have a different
man every month or so. So far this is plausible but there is much more. Now
to Finn's grandmother. Grandma had an affair with her sister's husband while
grandma's husband lay dying in the hospital. Now grandma and her sister live
together. Only in Hollywood would these two elderly supposedly small town
women light up a joint and puff away and live happily ever after even though
one woman slept with the other's husband.

What's really amazing is that this movie expects us to believe that this
could happen twice in the same small town. You see the grandmother and her
sister belong to a group of women who are making a quilt for Finn. Another
woman is having an affair with another woman's husband. Two women have had
affairs with two other women's husbands and they all get along in this
quilting group. It's truly amazing. 

After being surprised and chuckling about all of this, I still tried to
appreciate the better parts of this film. But what led me to give up hope is
that just after Finn confesses that she has cheated on her fiancé, a violent
wind comes, blowing her masters thesis out the window. Please, what is this
the Ten Commandments? 

I can only feel sad when I see half of a good movie here wasted by being
cobbled together with Hollywood nonsense. This is a lesson in how to make an
American movie mess. 

<|_=00=_|>

There are only two reasons to watch this film: Winona Ryder's wonderful (as
usual) performance, and Janusz Kaminski's spectacular cinematography.

Ryder breathes life into Finn Dodd, portraying her as a charming,
intelligent, and highly sensitive young woman struggling to define what love
and commitment mean to her. Ryder is one of those few actresses who is able
to relay a world of meaning in just her facial expressions alone. She's
mesmerizing to watch onscreen.

Added to Ryder's enchanting performance is Academy Award winning
cinematographer Janusz Kaminski's beautiful, flowing images. There are many
tiresome flashback sequences in this film, but they are all worth seeing
just for the artistic value of the photography. Kaminski makes wonderful use
of fluid camera movements and grainy filters to capture the essence of each
time and place portrayed. It's no wonder Kaminski won an Academy Award for
his work in Schindler's List and will most likely win another for Saving
Private Ryan.

Other than these elements, this film has very little going for it. The
screenplay is muddled and jumpy, and there are far too many characters with
far too many inconsequential flashback sequences that say very little about
the nature of either love or commitment. The story concerns nothing more
than a bunch of old women sharing completely one-sided and sexist sob
stories. Like The Joy Luck Club and Waiting to Exhale, this film portrays
men as little more than duplicitous, moronic, emotionally immature children
who are incapable of either expressing true love or loyalty. It is a
completely shallow look at adult human relationships and has nothing new or
profound to say about anything.

As a male supporter of feminism and feminist artistic expression, it saddens
me that films like this are, first of all, even made, and then marketed as
movies that modern women should see and even cherish. There are many far
better films about women and their unique experiences, the most recent one
being a small film called High Art, written and directed by Lisa Cholodenko
and starring Ally Sheedy in one of 1998's best performances.
<|_=00=_|>

This adaptation by screenwriter Jane Anderson (novel by Whitney Otto)
presents us with a character named Finn Dodd (Ryder), a 26-year old
college
student who has just gotten engaged to her long-time sweetheart Sam
(Mulroney).  She begins to realize the many changes that will come about
because of her acceptance to his proposal and needs time to think and
adjust. She decides to spend three months at her grandma Hy's house in
Grasse, CA, which is the center of operations to a longtime quilting bee.
During her tenure, she continues working on her master's thesis (a project
of which she continuously changes her topic), all the while listening to
the
quilting bee's romantic horror stories as they craft Finn's wedding quilt.

To sum it up, `How To Make An American Quilt' is the quintessential chick
flick awash with many familiar faces including Maya Angelou.  The Pulitzer
Prize-winning poet stars as Anna, the queen of an eight-member sewing
circle
consisting of Glady Jo Cleary (Anne Bancroft), Hy Cleary (Ellen Burstyn),
her daughter Marianna (Alfre Woodard), Em Reed (Jean Simmons), Constance
Saunders (Kate Nelligan) and Sophia Darling (Lois Smith).  Anna winds up
in
the Cleary household at 16 - pregnant, unmarried and helpless.  She will
dwell there until the birth of her child, meeting Hy and Glady Jo for the
first time.  Little does she know that these two young women will remain
in
her life for years afterward, their interest and skill in the art of
quilting mounting over the years by Anna's guidance.

There is also the story of Hy and Glady Jo themselves and their unspoken
bitterness towards each other - we learn that Hy is the reason for Glady
Jo's `self-expression' all over the walls of the laundry room.  Then there
is Sophia, an aspiring diver in her adolescence and later an abandoned
mother of three; Em, wife to a histrionic artist, suffering his recurrent
infidelity; Constance, a decent woman who endures the loss of her nearest
and dearest, left with only her precious memories and Marianna, a lover of
many but starved for the discovery of her soulmate.

We find as the film goes on that many instances of infidelity exist in the
characters' cluttered histories.  Half the women in this movie commit
adultery at some point and even Finn falls victim to temptation. Where as
once I could not relate, I find myself agreeing with many of Finn's
thoughts
and opinions on marriage upon becoming engaged - this includes a question
in
the very beginning that Ryder's voiceover poses to the audience: `How do
you
merge into this thing called 'a couple', and still keep a little room for
yourself?  How do we even know we're only supposed to be with one person
for
the rest of our lives?'  These kinds of questions number in the hundreds
of
intended couples as they come closer to walking the proverbial aisle.  I
know that I have had my own reservations about marriage ever since I got
engaged and many of my questions will never have an answer - I must trust
my
heart.and my gut.

Performances range in the areas of premium to mediocre.  Who comes at the
top of my list are screen veterans (and Academy Award winners, natch)
Ellen
Burstyn and Anne Bancroft.  These two never cease to amaze me with how
they
can turn a character inside out and make it their own.  Winona Ryder is
so-so (as she is in most of her movies) as Finn but she does manage to
touch
a few nerves with her dark and luminous eyes - those pretty peepers are
half
of her dramatic capacity.  Alfre Woodard is excellent, giving Marianna a
carved edge but a soft core.  Kate Nelligan is also wonderful but if you
really wanna see her flex those acting chops, take a deep breath of Lila
Wingo in `The Prince of Tides'.  Dermot Mulroney always seems to play a
nice
guy that gets taken for granted (The Thing Called Love, My Best Friend's
Wedding, Point Of No Return, etc.) and he does it again here - actis
repeatus, you might say.  Jean Simmons is a little disappointing as Em,
the
once beautiful and poised actress now only a shadow of herself.  Maya
Angelou does fine as Anna and some of Gen X's more popular faces make
brief
appearances in supporting roles (Claire Danes, Samantha Mathis, Jared Leto
and Jonathan Schaech).

This film is a fairly even script-to-screen production and will please
many
that seek a decent character study.  Of course, you can't outdo a detailed
and poetic novel or the insightful author who writes it.  As long as
novelists continue to exist and evolve, filmic adaptations cannot compare
(though there are a few exceptions here and there, e.g. Dolores
Claiborne).
This is not to say that `How To Make An American Quilt' isn't enjoyable -
it's just not on par with what can be translated through literature.  For
those who have read Otto's novel, it will earn your rigid
criticism.


<|_=00=_|>
Winona Ryder spends a summer with her aunts while writing her thesis
and deciding whether to marry her fiancée Dermot Mulroney. She learns
about life and love through her aunts and friends while they sew a huge
quilt together. Good, well-done but there's too much material for one
movie. There are 5 flashbacks along with the main story and they're
given very short shrift. The real pleasure is seeing a bunch of pros
(Ellen Burnstyn, Anne Bancroft, Winona Ryder, etc) act with a talented
then-unknown cast (Jonathan Schaech, Claire Danes, Mulroney, etc
etc)... everyone's good and on target. Nothing new script-wise but I
was never bored. Also good to see the late Esther Rolle and Jared Leto
in small bits. Worth catching, but very talky at times.
<|_=00=_|>

How to Make an American Quilt is a nice comfortable movie, and unlike so
many other films belonging to the 'coming of age' genre, it doesn't leave
the viewer feeling emotionally drained.  It is also unusual in that it
attempts to breach the generation divide in its appeal; however its success
in this respect is debatable.
     

Finn is 26 and, hoping for some peace and quiet in which to complete her
Master's thesis, she heads for her great-aunt's house in small-town Grasse,
California.  She also needs time to mull over a marriage proposal from her
boyfriend. This is an entrance cue for a smoulderingly handsome strawberry
farmer (in an unnecessary plot complication) to hinder Finn's
contemplations.  
     

Great-aunt Glady-Joe lives with her sister, Hy, and their constant bickering
is portrayed with sensitivity and humour by Anne Bancroft and Ellen Burstyn.
The two sisters belong to a quilting group, who are in the process of
creating Finn's wedding quilt - thematically titled 'where love resides'. 
This evokes something different for each of the women, all of whom - in
artificially contrived tete-a-tetes - explain to Finn the story behind their
contributions to the quilt.  The viewer is transported to a time when these
elderly women were young, and through them we (along with Finn) learn that
times may change, but affairs of the heart will always be
unpredictable.
     

These dalliances in the past are refreshingly piquant; unfortunately this is
countered by the film's occasional heavy-handedness.  The symbolic crow that
leads the women to their true love has all the subtlety of a flashing neon
sign.  Ultimately however, even if it does perhaps tie up the loose ends too
thoroughly, the film will leave the viewer pleasantly satisfied.


