
Charlie Sykes (Chad Lowe) and his girlfriend Rachel Clark (Kristy
Swanson) are traveling to Las Vegas to secretly get married to each
other. They decide to follow through a secondary road, and while
fueling their car in "Sam's Last Chance" gas station, they are advised
by the owner and attendant Sam (Richard Farnsworth) to not sleep after
the second tree in the road. They fall asleep in the car, and a
policeman arrests Rachel. Charlie returns to the gas station, and Sam
tells him that she has been arrested by a Hellcop, and he has to go to
hell if he wants to rescue his fiancée.

"Highway to Hell" is a gem underrated in IMDb. I have seen this
cult-movie at least six times, and I really love it. I have an used
VHS, and I do not know why this movie has never been released on DVD.
The clumsy baby face hero Chad Lowe has a great adventure trying to
bring his girlfriend back from Hell. The now famous Ben Stiller, in the
beginning of his career, is very hilarious in the role of a cook, and
also as Attila the Hun at the table with Hitler and Cleopatra. The
special effects and the music score are very good and I really
recommend this movie for fans of a trash and funny original adventure.
My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Estrada Para o Inferno" ("Highway to Hell")

Note: On 19 September 2010, I saw this film again.

On 19 August 2013, I saw this film again.
<|_=00=_|>
You have to be in the right mood. It helps if you know what to expect.
If you see this on cable, SNAG IT! Cameos by the Stiller clan are
priceless. Good fun! Why does this have a rating of 5.1? No sense of
humor! Why is this not on DVD? As a dealer of rare VHS (and DVD) the
answer is standard. The copyright owner has gone out of business / has
not had any licensing offers and is not prepared to reprint and market
on their own. There are thousands of such titles which is why there is
a flourishing industry of reprint labels like Alpha Video and many
others. We make a good living finding and selling existing copies of
movies like this. This is one of many titles that I had not heard of
but the high demand for used VHS copies got my attention. I have
discovered many enjoyable unknown gems this way.
<|_=00=_|>

Watch out for this one! It starts out as a slight horror comedy, gets
increasingly more bizarre as it goes along, and finally adds up to something
almost visionary. Certainly one of the most original and offbeat horror
films to come out in a long time, this one almost demands a second viewing
just to appreciate the imaginative production design, and a third just to
catch all the throwaway gags (a sign reads "Road To Nowhere" and, in smaller
letters, "Don't Buckle Up. It Won't Help"). Good cast, too, with Patric
Bergin being perfectly enigmatic in the first half, perfectly imposing in
the second. How refreshing to finally find a film that breaks away from the
traditional formulas and dares to do something new and different!    
(***1/2)
<|_=00=_|>

If you love quirky movies this one is a gem. Basically the story plays
out like this ... Charlie, played by actor Chad Lowe and Rachel, played
by actress Kristy Swanson. Are young lovers who decide to elope in
Nevada ... Bad mistake. They decide to take a seldom used highway where
they meet a old gas station owner played by veteran actor Richard
Farnsworth. It is at the gas station where Mr Farnsworth warns the
young lovers not to drive a certain highway while tired. Of coarse they
don't listen to him and procede to take the deserted highway where
Rachel is nabbed by a person known as " Hell Cop " He promptly takes
Rachel to hell to become satans ( Patrick Bergin ) bride. Charlie must
overcome his fear and rescue his love from hell. Hell turns out to be
both a terrible and humorous place with interesting characters. I
found the story well written and directed. If your looking for a fun
and unique movie to watch I highly recommend this now out of print
movie.

<|_=00=_|>

HtH is basically a comedy, accompanied by the overacting talents of the
Stillers, Anne Meara, and Gilbert Gottfried.  There's some nice plays on
Christianity, the Devil as a mildly sympathetic (or at least likeable)
figure, and Lowe and Swanson make a likeable enough couple.  There's
nothing
really "horrific" here.  Rather, Helegeland indulges in a lot of satirical
writing.  Look for how highways are paved in Hell, and Cerberus guarding
the
gates, for some more amusing scenes.  Basically an underrated and
underviewed movie that deserves more attention.  Check it out if you
can.
<|_=00=_|>

I caught this movie a long time ago, late at night, and I really enjoyed it.
 It just worked for me and was a lot of fun.  This movie has a guy's fiancé
kidnapped by some weird cop.  Turns out this cop is from hell and he has
taken the girl to be Satan's new bride.  The guy gets some help from an old
gentleman who apparently had the same thing happen to him.  The old man
gives the guy a gun and the guy goes to hell to get back his girl.  The
movie does really well at presenting hell for an obviously low budget movie.
 You get the feeling you are in another world.  There is plenty of action
and comedy here too, though not much in the way of horror.  The guy gets
some help here and there and runs into various obstacles along his way and
he gets to see the many sights and sounds that hell has to offer.  My
personal favorite was the road of good intentions.  This movie goes at a
good clip too, and it rarely slows down and there are a few twists along the
way as well.  The movie for me works on almost every level and if you ever
have a chance to watch this little gem do so.  
<|_=00=_|>
''Highway to Hell '' is one of my favorite horror movies! I don't
remember exactly my age when I watched it for the first time(I think I
was 11) but since the time I watched for the first time until now I
cannot be tired of the story! With some funny elements and also a
different plot, ''Hghway to Hell'' starts when Charlie and his
girlfriend Rachel are running away from their homes to marry. Charlie
is very worried with the possibility of Rachel's parents have asked the
police to search her, and they go as fast as they can to a different
road.In the middle of the road, they stop in a gas station, and they
are alerted by Sam, an old man, to not sleep at the road between the
strange trees. Charlie does not pay much attention and Murphy's law
happens: he gets sleepy and Hellcop, a bizarre and monstrous cop, takes
Rachel to Hell. Charlie now needs to go to Hell , with Sam's help he
gets a car from the 50's and a special gun, to destroy the monsters and
save his girl.

One funny fact was to see Ben Stiller in the beginning of his career in
the role of the cook from the Hell...I would never remember he made
this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I think I saw this movie for the first time on USA Up All Night,
because it totally seems like the sort of thing they'd have played.
It's a bit cheesy and campy, but if you like that sort of thing, then
you'll probably love it. It seamlessly blends elements from many varied
genres into a quirky comedy-fantasy, though I think maybe some people
were a bit confused or put off by the lack of clearly defined genre
conventions. In some ways, it's similar to Army of Darkness, though it
lacks many of the over-the-top gags and one-liners of that movie.

If you're a fan of Brian Helgeland, you really owe it to yourself to
check this out. It's one of my favorites of his, though I suspect he'd
probably prefer that we just forgot about his early work (Nightmare on
Elm Street 4, 976-EVIL, Highway to Hell) and concentrate rather on his
Academy Award-nominated work, such as Mystic River. Anyways, the story
is about a kid who has to rescue his girlfriend, after she's abducted
by the Hell Cop (Friday the 13th Part VI's C.J. Graham), who takes her
to hell. So, right away you've got an actor who played Jason Vorhees
and the writer of Nightmare on Elm Street 4. If that's not enough to
sell you on this movie, I'm not really sure what else to say, except
that Gilbert Gottfried plays Hitler, in a brief cameo. The movie plays
out as part road trip through Hell, part comedy, and part thriller. The
parts in Hell are creative, imagining it as a mirror image of our
world, except somewhat more bizarre and surreal, like something from
Mad Max, complete with biker gangs and vast expanses of blasted
wasteland (probably Death Valley).

Come to think of it, maybe the reason why I like this movie so much is
because it combines Mad Max with Army of Darkness. If that concept
appeals to you, I can't recommend this highly enough. If, on the other
hand, you're thinking that it sounds ridiculous, maybe it's best that
you don't waste your time, as it seems that this movie isn't really
beloved by all. Perhaps it's a bit too quirky.

I think that if it were given a chance, it could easily develop into a
cult favorite.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a rare, hard to find, out of print, underrated classic! I was
so stoked to find it on Instant Watch. Its got a lot of unique elements
and a interesting take on Hell...and young love. Its worth check it out
for its obscurity alone. There's a smoking hot cameo by Lita Ford and
Chad Lowe is good in the lead role as a man hunting down the HellCop
that kidnapped his girlfriend. There is some plot holes and some things
that go unanswered or unresolved but overall Highway to hell is a fun
and interesting forgotten road/cult movie. Was glad to finally see this
film...it really stuck with me all these years for some odd reason.
Plus, did i mention Lita ford?
<|_=00=_|>

Highway to hell is by far one of the funniest horror movies of all time.
There are tons of hilarious lines and scenes throughout the entire film.
As
a person who enjoys over-the-top horror movies, this is my favorite.  This
one beats all of the other comedy/horror movies I have seen to date: Jack
Frost, Head of the Family, Python, Raptor, Night of the Demons, Hell's
Highway (not to be confused with this one, Highway to Hell), Dead Alive,
Demons, Terror Toons.  While these movies do have their moments, Highway
to
Hell is consistent and overall a better movie.  I highly recommend this
movie to any fan of the comedy/horror genre.   
