

I just thought it was excellent and I still do. I'm grateful we're still
able to see different stuff from what Hollywood almost floods us with.
Saving Grace is smart and enjoyable - those who feel offended by the
marijuana thing better go see the America's bride sort of
movie.

Saving Grace also shows that a funny movie doesn't have to be stupid. I was
laughing my ass off during most of it but also pondering questions about
what was the female lead character supposed to do to pay her deceased
husband's debts.

In a nutshell - a witty storyline with typical English humour and good
acting and directing. You couldn't ask for more.

7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Great actors, an oscar nominee actress, stunning scenery, good strong story
line and more laughs than you can fit into my new handbag (and thats quite
big).
This film was brilliant. It was beautifully acted in the more serious
scenes
and the funny moments were . .well, side splitting. I have never heard a
cinema audience laugh so much, and tears were streaming down my cheeks
during the 'stoned ladies in the tea shop' scene.
Well done to the British film industry and to Craig Ferguson whose magic
ingredients have made sure this is one of my favourite films of the year,
if
not of all time.

<|_=00=_|>
What is so startling to me is the number of comments here. How come,
93! The film has utterly fallen into obscurity in town. I just by
chance popped by a VCD shop, which is on sale, and so fortunately to
have picked up this hilarious movie (73pence or US$1.29 ^_^).

The film title is just funny enough to make you associate the story
with it.

Grace, played by the versatile actress Brenda Blethyn, was in financial
trouble. And this small and elegant English village lady cannot but
save herself by a not-so-elegant trade through the help of her own
gardener and her late husband's unseen mistress in London.

I especially like the daredevil scene when Grace is fully dressed up
touting her masterpiece cannabis (cultured in her own green house) to
the undesirable figures in sleazy areas in London. Her act is comical,
prudent and daring at the same time. I find it hard to imagine a
well-dressed and French speaking Chinese grandma would approach me
touting home-made grass so reeklessly in Wanchai or Mongkok.

English humour or European subtlety can never be reproduced by
Hollywood, the air, the smell, everything belongs to the Brits and
Europeans. Lovely small production with bold attempt.
<|_=00=_|>

Excellent view of a mature woman, that is going to lose everything (even
the
pruner has a mortgage). The way she gets involved into this special
"business", the innocence, and the true love that exists between the
people
of a little town, it's mixed perfectly to give us as result a fresh, light
and funny comedy. I couldn't stop laughing with a very funny scene of two
old ladies in a drugstore.

I love European films, and with movies like this one, my opinion grows
stronger. A movie that I also recommend with my eyes closed, in this same
genre, is Waking Ned Devine.

Saving Grace, a comedy that many friends enjoyed as much as myself. You
will
love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Saving Grace is a nice movie to watch in a boring afternoon,when you
are looking for something different than the regular scripts and wants
to have some fun. I mean,the whole idea of this movie and all the
marijuana in it is such a craziness! It was the first movie I watched
with this theme(drugs/marijuana) that is not really criticizing it,only
making jokes about it. Grace Trevethyn is a widow,who lives in a small
town in U.K. and has many financial problems because of her dead
husband, who committed suicide since he was full of debts. The problem
is that Grace, who imagined to have some money saved for her, discovers
that she needs to pay all of her husband's pounds in debts to not lose
all of her things, specially her house that she loves so much. She
never worked before, and is in a tragic situation until Matthew,her
gardener who is very found of smoking pot, decides to make a
partnership with her in selling marijuana in large scale.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is inspiring to anyone who is or has been in a tough jam, whether
financially or emotionally. You will definitely laugh, which is the best
medicine! :) Left in a bad financial situation when her husband dies, Grace
has to find a new way to make some money and it's not exactly legal which
adds to the humour. Even my boyfriend liked it so don't think that it's a
chick-flic.
<|_=00=_|>

Saving Grace proves once again that you can't beat a good old dose of
British humour.  Despite an admittedly dodgy ending, this quaint and
charming story of one woman's unique method of raising much-needed money
lights up (Weak pun intended) my day every time I watch it.  Brenda
Blethyn
is faultless as always and the ensemble cast are superb.  (Especially the
legendary Lesley Phillips - this man deserves a knighthood!  It's full of
comedic gems, too, such as the doctor's 'bad news' regarding one woman's
pregnancy.  The post-office scene is also destined to become a classic
(It's
frighteningly realistic, too.  I should know...)All in all, only a dope
(Yes, another tragic pun) would fail to be enchanted by this wonderful
little film. 
<|_=00=_|>

A delightful gentle comedic gem, until the last five minutes, which
degenerate into run of the mill British TV farce. The last five minutes
cost
it 2 points in my rating. Despite this major plot and style flaw, it's
worth
watching for the character acting and the unique Cornwall setting. Many
fine
little bits to savor, like the tense eternity we all go through waiting
for
the bank approval after the clerk has swiped the credit card...made more
piquant when we're not - quite - sure the card is not maxed.
<|_=00=_|>

A lovely, charming movie in the vein of Local Hero (http://us.imdb.com/Details?0085859):
it populates a small coastal town in Cornwall, England with gentle ordinary
folk who all get dragged into or affected by a plan to save a lady in the
town who has fallen on hard times.

Lots of little fun bits easily lost in first viewing e.g. note who is
serving drinks in the bar at the end of the movie :-) And the scene close to
the end of the movie where all the inhabitants are dancing on the lawn,
including a naked policeman (you can tell he is a policeman because he still
has his helmet on!), is absolutely priceless.
<|_=00=_|>
Charming doesn't even begin to describe "Saving Grace;" it's absolutely
irresistible! Anyone who ventures into this movie will leave with their
spirits soaring high (haha).

Grace Trevethyn (Brenda Blethyn) has just lost her husband, but her
problems are about to get a whole lot worse. Her dearly departed has
left her with no money and outstanding debts. Faced with losing
everything, she has to find out a way to get a lot of cash...fast! She
gets an idea when her gardener, Matthew (Craig Ferguson) asks the
town-famous horticulturist to give him advice on a plant he is secretly
growing. Grace immediately realizes that his plant is marijuana, so
they decide to use her gardening skills to grow a lot of top-quality
weed, and then sell it to pay off her outstanding debts.

The most notable quality about "Saving Grace" is its likability. Every
character is extremely sympathetic, and, save for the first 20 or so
minutes, the film is non-stop good cheer. Everyone wants a happy ending
for everyone, even if it means turning a blind eye to some rather
illegal activities.

The acting is top-notch. Brenda Blethyn is one of Britain's finest
actresses, and here is why. She turns what could have been a caricature
into a fully living and breathing individual. She's a nice lady, but
she's not stupid. Craig Ferguson is equally amiable as Matthew. He's a
deadbeat loser, but he's so likable that it doesn't matter. The rest of
the ensemble cast fits in this category as well, but special mention
has to go to Tcheky Karyo. The French actor always has a aura of menace
about him, and that suits him well, but he also has great comedy
skills.

Nigel Cole finds the perfect tone for "Saving Grace." It's all about
the charm. One of the problems I have with British humor is that all
the energy seems to be drained out of the film. Not so here. The film
is thoroughly likable and always amusing. That's not to say that
"Saving Grace" is just a likable movie that will leave you with a grin
and a good feeling. While this movie is not an out and out comedy, it
does boast two or three scenes that are nothing short of hysterical.

If there's any problem with the film, it's that the climax is a little
confusing. The questions are answered though, and the ending boasts an
unexpected twist.

See "Saving Grace," especially when you're having a bad day.
