
"Tales from the Hood" centers around three drug-dealing youths. The
movie opens up with the three of them walking up to a funeral home run
by a creepy mortician named Simms(Clarence Williams III). They are at
the funeral home to pick up a stash of drugs. Instead of getting right
down to business, Simms entertains the three men with some rather
grisly stories. 

In the first story, "Rogue Cop Revelation", three white, racist cops
murder a black politician; all the while a black police officer is
watching the entire thing. The black officer is then told that if he
opens his mouth, he will join the politician. A year later, the
politician from beyond the grave contacts the officer so he can get
revenge on the cops who killed him.

In the second story, "Boys Do Get Bruised", as some people have
claimed, is an interesting twist right out of "The Twilight Zone". A
new boy at a school shows up the first day with a bunch of bruises on
his arm. His teacher begins to get very concerned about this. The boy
tells the teacher he got the bruises from the "monster" that lives in
his house.

In the third story, "KKK Comeuppance", a former Ku Klux
Klansman-turned-politician moves into a mansion that was once the sight
of a horrible slave massacre that occurred around the end of the Civil
War. There is a lot of distrust towards him, because of his shady
history. He is told by many of the protesters that a bunch of voodoo
dolls, which are inhabited by the souls of the murdered slaves, are
still on the mansion grounds. The politician shrugs all of this off as
just local superstition, until his assistant (who might I add is black)
dies mysteriously. Soon it becomes clear that the politician is not
alone in his brand new house.

In the fourth story, "Hard Core Convert", a gangster is arrested and
sentenced to life imprisonment for murder. Some years after being sent
to prison, he's offered a chance to be released, if he agrees to be a
participant in a brand new experiment. It is here that elements of "A
Clockwork Orange" begin to come into play.

Being African-American myself I feel "Tales from the Hood" is one of
the most important "horror" films to come out of the nineties. I really
like the fact that all though most of these stories are fiction, they
all are based on reality and have many issues surrounding the
African-American community that need to be addressed. Issues such as
police brutality, child abuse, racism, and black-on-black crime are all
brought to light here. I admit that although the horror elements of the
movie are a bit cheesy, it does get its message across without much
trouble. The stories themselves, while they aren't too original, are
very well written. 

The first segment, which may be the weakest of the four stories, has
one of the more important issues, which is police brutality. The idea
is sooner or later, the cops would get their comeuppance. You see the
three white officers probably still would not have been proved guilty,
even if the black officer had said something. Surprisingly, the black
officer is not spared from the dead politician's wrath.

The second story is probably the one that I find the most ironic. This
story proves that monsters do exist in real life, although they may not
always be in the form of what we've come to expect.

The third story is probably the mediocre of the bunch. This story gives
a new meaning "reparations". It also shows us that racism really is
ugly and that sooner or later, somebody in the present is going to pay
for someone else's past evil deeds.

The fourth story will prove to be the most important as it revolves
around the topic of black-on-black crime. The main character of this
story is an uncaring and unsympathetic young man who would kill
everyone on Earth given the chance. The best example of this is during
the sensory deprivation scene where he begins seeing hallucinations of
all the people he's killed. It also shows when innocent people are
caught in the crossfire. The scariest part of this whole movie takes
place during this segment of the film. It is in the part where the main
character is sitting in the cage before his treatment and he starts a
conversation with the man sitting beside him. The man as we quickly
see, is a white supremacist. The man then begins talking about how the
gangbangers are always killing each other off, thus helping along his
theory of "cleansing". What makes this so scary is that it is true and
that nothing is being done about it. The issue of gang violence is
something that really needs to be addressed.

"Tales from the Hood" is a very good movie no doubt, despite its flaws.
But you need to watch this movie, not expecting a horror film, but a
very important social studies lesson.
<|_=00=_|>
An eccentric funeral director shares four tales of horror from an
African American perspective with three young thugs. The first involves
a man who exacts his revenge from beyond the grave after being murdered
by crooked cops. The next tells of a boy alleged torment at the hands
of a monster may not be tall tales. A white supremacist politician
haunted by forces of injustices past highlights the third story, while
the fourth focuses on a gangbanger undergoing frightening behavior
modification.

TALES FROM THE HOOD benefits enormously from solid writing and an
entertaining pace. With a running time of under 100 minutes, director
Rusty Cundieff does an admirable job of cramming everything he's got
into each vignette. Few of us have the stomach for a horror movie with
a message, but this is one that succeeds. It has things to say about
racism in our society and says them in ways in which they've never been
said before. Though definitely not for all tastes, TALES FROM THE HOOD
is a surprisingly solid horror anthology.

* *Cast Note: Clarence Williams III, who plays the funeral director, is
best known as Linc from THE MOD SQUAD television series.
<|_=00=_|>

Tales From the Hood, another horror anthology film dripping with EC
comics-style ghoulishness, strings together four stories told by a
wild-haired, macabre funeral director (Clarence Williams III) to a trio of
gangbangers seeking their missing drug stash in a mortuary.  Virtually all
of the tales are familiar -- walking corpses and voodoo dolls are staples
of
the format -- but director Rusty Cundieff makes every effort to inject the
proceedings with social morality.  Child abuse, racism, and police
brutality
each get a pretty heavy-handed treatment, but the last story, involving a
voluntary "behavior modification" technique for an unrepentant killer (ala
A
Clockwork Orange) explodes off the screen.  In the film's most powerful
sequence, Cundieff serves up a quickly cut montage of unsettling images
culled from a number of state historical archives depicting vicious,
stomach-churning lynchings meant to deter the rapacious young killer from
wanting to harm any more people.  It's potent stuff, and makes one wish the
rest of the film had this kind of intensity.
<|_=00=_|>
"This ain't no funeral parlor. This ain't the terrordome. Welcome to
HELL mothaf*#%@!" In not too many words I want to express my respect
for one of the most underrated horror movies of the 90s. Like The
Twilight Zone it is a segmented film (although all directed by Rusty
Cundieff) that spans across a good variety of horror genres. The real
horrorshow here, though, is the domestic/racial issues against the
black community. Cleverly (and without being preachy or offensive to
white people), Cundieff disguised his agenda with rich characters and a
bone chilling conclusion.

The HIGHPOINT of this movie for me is the film's proverbial ringleader-
a funeral parlor director. The man, brilliantly and hilariously
underplayed by a bug-eyed Clarence Williams III, finds a stack of drugs
he wants to sell to three young hoods. As you watch you begin to wonder
what eerie agenda he really has in store. These scenes tie all the
vignettes together.

Also, the final segment is a very profound statement on gang violence
(although beware, this is the preachiest segment). I like to call it A
Clockwork Black because it applies Anthony Burgress's idea of reversing
violence onto the offender onto a gang leader called Krazy K. Those K's
in his name aren't a mistake either! Cundieff underlines a necessary
argument about between black-on-black violence by comparing K to a neo
nazi.

Like any memorable work of horror, Tales remembers to keep its monsters
metaphorical. Police brutality, domestic violence, racial profiling,
and gang violence are the most hideous creatures found here. I
complement Rusty Cundieff on a job well done there. Excessive campiness
and at-times generic camera work keep this from being great, but
nothing stops its relevance in the genre.

STAR RATING: *** out of 4.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, it's flawed, and it's cheesy, and it's over-the-top. It's equal
parts clever satire, straight-up homage, and occasionally even a
parody. There are many horror, exploitation, and black humor elements
sprinkled throughout the movie. I just can't understand why this movie
isn't beloved by more people. Maybe it's because the cast is mostly
black, and the stories revolve around inner city, black youth? Well, as
a white guy from the suburbs, I absolutely loved this movie. It's
flawed, of course, but when it works, it works better than most other
movies of this type.

If you're not familiar with it, this is a horror anthology highly
influenced by Tales from the Crypt, an old 50s horror comic book series
that birthed several spin-off movies and an influential TV series. It
also takes ample inspiration from the Twilight Zone, Tales from the
Dark Side, and Creepshow franchises. If you're a fan of any of these,
I'd have to highly recommend Tales from the Hood, especially if you're
also into Blaxploitation, from which it also takes some inspiration.

In the time honored tradition of horror/exploitation movies everywhere,
the guilty are punished with gory deaths and lessons are learned
(frequently too late). Is it preachy, didactic social satire? Perhaps,
at times. But it's also entertaining as hell. It has a great cast, some
really cheesy, over-top-the-top acting, and was produced by Spike Lee.
For me, that makes it almost required viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

Not really scary of a movie, but this movie really did serve a good purpose.
 I noticed that the four stories in this movie touched on four topics in
today's society: Domestic Violence(David Alan Grier, Brandon Hammond, Paul
Jai Parker, Rusty Cundieff), Police Brutality(Anthony Griffith, Tom Wright,
Michael Massee), Racism(Corbin Bernsen, Art Evans, Roger Guenveur Smith) and
Black-on-black crime(Lamont Bentley, Joe Torry, De'Aundre Bonds, Samuel
Monroe Jr., Ricky Harris).
There is basically a message in all of them but the 4th story in this film
was probably the best one.  Not an unpredictable movie but not at all bad,
and the ending was fantastic as well...
<|_=00=_|>
I had to wait more than 10 years to finally see this one. Not one
single copy seemed to be available over here in Europe. That was until
2007, when I finally got my hands on a Region 1 DVD copy.

If you like anthology movies, then you have no excuse for not seeing
this one. One of the best anthology movies of the 90's (it's up there
with "Tales From The Dark Side: The Movie" and "Necronomicon", if you
ask me). And probably the best horror movie from the hood with a nearly
all Afro-American cast ever made (because I can't really say I've ever
seen a ghetto-horror flick that was actually any good). Three
hood-rats, out to collect some 'shiiit', visit a freaky coroner who
tells them 4 terrifying tales of the supernatural.

The first tale is about three corrupt white cops who had it coming...
Wings Hauser is especially enjoyable in this one. He already evoked my
interest at the time after having seen his enjoyable performance in
"Night Shadows" (AKA "Mutant"). And by know I simply love the man.
Second story is about a boy and his bruises, which are being caused
by... a monster supposedly living in his house. Great and fascinating
conclusion this one had. The third tale has some killer-puppet action
going on in it of which Charles Band could easily be very jealous.
Corbin"The Dentist"Bernsen stars in this segment that revolves around
voodoo and slavery. The fourth and last segment gives a big nod to
Kubrick's "A Clockwork Orange". Enough said about that one. The
wrap-around story wraps it all up nicely, and has a very satisfying
conclusion. 

"Tales From The Hood" is actually more than 'just a horror movie'. With
Spike Lee being executive producer, you can rightfully expect that this
movie will carry important themes & topics like racism, politics,
police brutality, guilt, child abuse, brothers killing brothers, etc.
The message always comes across, but possible statements & points of
view never become too dominant. This film's primary goal is to
entertain a horror audience. And it splendidly succeeds in that. The
filmmakers also clearly know the rules of the horror-anthology-genre as
well as the tricks of the trade, all to great success. Need I even say
that the make-up and special effects are darn excellent too? The tales
from this hood, are all winners.
<|_=00=_|>
***SPOILERS*** In "The Hood" three homeboys Stack Ball & Bulldog are
mysteriously drawn to the Simms Funeral Home to get their hands on a
stash of, what they call illegal drugs in gangster jive, "The Sh*t"
thats supposedly hidden there. 

Forcing their way in they get the owner of the place the mortician Mr.
Simms to take them where "The Sh*t" is threatening to murder him if he
doesn't do "business" with them and lead them to it. Mr. Simms, who's
new in the business of drug selling and who's also a bit weird and
screwy but, for some strange reason, seems to show no fear at all of
these dangerous hoodlums! Who are all armed with handguns and ready to
use them in an instant. 

Simms tells the homeboys that they'll get "The Sh*t" all right in fact
by the time the night is over they'll be knee deep in "The Sh*t". But
before he takes them to where " The Sh*t" is he's got a few nice little
stories to tell them about some of the stiffs, that are now being
prepared for burial in his funeral home, stories that he calls "Tales
from the Hood". 

The first tale that Simms tells the hoodlums is about a former black
cop Clarence who went insane from guilt in not doing anything to save
the life of a popular black community activist Martin Moorehouse when
he was brutally beaten and then shot up with drugs, that caused him to
die from an overdose, by three of his fellow cops. Clarence ended up
murdering the three criminally-corrupt policemen on the one year
anniversary of Moorehouses murder and then lost his mind and later his
life. 

The next Tale from "The Hood" is about little Walter who's dad Mr.
Johnson constantly and brutally beats him and his mom to a pulp for the
slightest reason. Back in school a bully who also beat up Walter had
for some strange reason both his arms and legs broken when Walter drew
a picture of him and then crushed it. Having his teacher Mr. Garvy go
to see Mr. Johnson about Walter's fears of going home Mr. Johnson shows
up and, true to his nature, starts to attack the teacher as well as
Walter and his mom. The brutal and mindless Mr. Johnson soon ends up
broken to pieces and burned to a crisp by Walter doing the same thing
to him like he did back in school to the bully with his strange and
destructive powers. 

The third "Tale from the Hood" has to do with this racist politician
Duke Metger who bought this old southern plantation, that he'll run his
campaign out of, where the owner had all his slaves slaughtered just
before they were to be set free by the Union Army after the Civil War.
Stirring from their graves the souls of the murdered slaves came to
life by taking over a number of voodoo dolls buried in the mansion who
then vengefully and ferociously do the arrogant Metger in.

And finally the last "Tale from the Hood" is about local homeboy
gang-banger Crazy K which seemed to strike a cord with the three thugs.
Crazy K was brutally shot down in the streets by his fellow homeboys
who he was at war with over the control of the already mentioned "Sh*t"
that killed so many in "The Hood", like black atavist Moorehouse, over
the years. The story about Crazy K really shook up the three who it
turned out where the one's who did in the vicious and unrepentant Crazy
K. Now with all the tales and stories from "The Hood" finished Mr.
Simms takes the three hoods, who by now are getting very inpatient with
him, down to the cellar to get the valuable "Sh*t" all for themselves.
And they do get "The Sh*t" but it's not "The Sh*t" that they expected!
And worst of all Mr. Simms didn't turn out to be the wacky harmless and
non-offensive eccentric that they thought that he was! But "The Sh*t"
and the person-Mr. Simms- who took them to it turned out to be their,
the three homeboys, worst darkest and most terrifying nightmare! A
nightmare that dwarfs anything that they could have ever imagine in
their wildest drug-induced hallucinations to be really "Bad" in "The
Hood" or for that matter anywhere else!
<|_=00=_|>
A tribute to movies like "Dr. Terror's House of Horrors" and "Tales
from the Crypt", "Tales from the Hood" presents some horror vignettes
centering on life in the black ghetto. Some drug dealers go to a
funeral home to pick up their "s**t", only to have the eccentric owner
(Clarence Williams III) tell them about the fates of some recent
customers...with a twist at the end. At once a fun horror flick and
also warning about getting mixed up with the wrong people, this is a
cool one. A particular scene in the fourth vignette appears to be a
tribute to "A Clockwork Orange". All in all, a real credit for director
Rusty Cundieff and executive producer Spike Lee.

Featuring Tom Wright (the hitchhiker in "Creepshow 2"), David Alan
Grier, Corbin Bernsen and Rosalind Cash (in her final role).
<|_=00=_|>
An interesting, at times totally innovative take on the horror film
genre. Three young black hoodlums go to a funeral home where a bizarre
mortician (an eerie Williams) takes them on a tour and shares four
terrifyingly twisted ghost stories. The first involving corrupt cops is
routine and obvious; the second is a unique take on child abuse that is
creative and fairly creepy; the third involving vengeful voodoo dolls
is at times shocking, at times corny, but eerie and crafty in its own
right; the fourth about gang violence and rehabilitation is highly
imaginative and something to marvel at; the film's unique amalgam of
horror and social commentary isn't always on target, but the special
effects are convincing, and the performances rock solid, making this a
fairly impressive showing for all those involved. **½
