

I hear that ED WOOD took just $6,000,000 on its initial cinematic release in
the USA.  I'm not surprised.  The extraordinary thing is that the film was
financed and released at all.  Had it not been for the prestige that Tim
Burton had already earned from his previous projects, ED WOOD would no doubt
have foundered long before the cameras began to roll.  The result could have
been another 1941 – but it wasn't.  What came out of Tim Burton's
fascination with the `Worst Director of All Time' was something very rich
and strange – perhaps the most un-Hollywood Hollywood picture of the
90s.

I see two main themes in ED WOOD.  The first is the dreadful fear that
hovers over everyone who enters the creative arts – `Am I any good?'  `Is my
work any good?'  `How do I know if it's any good?'  `What if I think it's
good, but everybody else thinks it's rubbish?'  Artists use all kinds of
strategies to deal with these fears – some become eccentric, others
arrogant, others diffident.  Without the right to fail, no artist is likely
to take the sort of risk that sometimes, just sometimes, leads to great
work.  Tim Burton knew this.

Edward D Wood Jnr believed himself to be a creative artist.  Oh, how he
believed.  But he still failed to create anything worthwhile.  And this
leads to what I believe to be the second theme of the movie, and the reason
why I think it failed commercially.

Look at all the things Ed did right.  He believed in himself.  He followed
his dream.  He worked hard.  He was an entrepreneur – he did his best to
make others believe in his dream and help him to turn it into reality.  In
short, he did all the things that the self-help books, the daytime TV shows,
the junk ballads and the feel-good movies tell us will give you success.
Just wish upon a star, work all the hours there are to turn your vision into
reality and you will succeed.  Ed did all of these things.  And still he
failed.  He died short of his 60th birthday, living in a crime-riddled
apartment building, drunk, broke, supporting himself and his loyal wife
Kathy by writing formula pornography and making sex instruction flicks on
8mm.

America doesn't want to hear this.  Hollywood doesn't want to tell America
this – that you can try and try and try and still get nothing but
heartbreak.  This is why ED WOOD is such an un-Hollywood film – and why it's
one of the best Hollywood films of the 90s.

<|_=00=_|>

As one of the most overlooked films ever made, "Ed Wood" does for Tim
Burton
what "Malcolm X" did for Spike Lee and "JFK" did for Oliver Stone, it
ruins
any expectations one can have of Tim Burton, because he has set a standard
here that he will never achieve again.  An interest in the period in which
it is set is essential, given the set decoration is the film's greatest
triumph.  It's not surprising that Burton's first "biopic" is about
someone
revered in the b-movie heyday of the 1950s - that spawned Burton himself.
Burton must have felt he had to make this picture because without
filmmakers
like Ed Wood, Burton himself would have never existed. Set in seedy
B-movie
Hollywood in the mid 1950s - and wisely and beautifully shot in
black-and-white, Johnny Depp plays the titular character; a young,
talentless, but optimistic auteur who dreams of being a film director;
going
so far as to model himself after his idol, Orson Welles.  Despite an
over-reliance on stock footage, a tin ear for dialogue, and a fondness for
wacky, exploitative horror and sci-fi fare, Wood wiggles his way into
B-moviedom.  Casting anyone willing to step before his camera, Wood cranks
out a series of cheesy movies.

When he has a chance encounter with horror film legend Bela Lugosi, now a
74
year-old, foul-mouthed morphine addict wrecked by his lost fame, Ed sees
his
meal-ticket. Quick for his next fix, Lugosi doesn't seem to mind that Wood
is also an out-and-proud transvestite with a particular fondness for
Angora
sweaters, and soon begins starring in Wood's features. Lugosi, played by
Martin Landau, gives the story its biggest jolts of energy. Landau is
hysterical in scene after scene utilizing the "dirty old man" routine.
Remember, there is nothing funnier on earth than an old man who likes
profanity.  A gentle - albeit somewhat fictionalized - bond forms between
Wood and Lugosi.  Depp does a spectacular job of fleshing out Wood's
quirky
innocence and unbridled passion for moviemaking.  This may also be the
only
Johnny Depp film where you actually see him smile!

What ultimately makes this film so stellar is the impeccable production
and
costume design and the crisp B&W cinematography; it literally transports
you
back to the clean-cut, wide-eyed days of the 1950s.  I cannot recommend
this
film enough if you have an interest in the world of 1950s B-movies that
produced titles like "Teenagers From Outer Space" and "Project Moonbase".
This film functions quite well as a time warp.  I liken "Ed Wood" to epics
like "JFK" because like those films, this movie doesn't seem to be about
what happens as much as how it FEELS to be there; and that's what draws me
to the film every time I see it.  With "Ed Wood", I'm not always
interested
in following the story, but I'm totally fascinated with being inside that
world.  Tim Burton did the best job that anyone could in taking you
there.
<|_=00=_|>
Without question it's Tim Burton's best, most complete work and Johnny
Depp is superb. Perhaps it's the total understanding of his subject
that allows Tim Burton to fly so high here. The beautifully tailored
script gives room for some exquisite character drawings, Martin Landau
as Bela Lugosi, Vincent D'Onofrio as Orson Wells. "When you re-write a
script it gets better and better" tells Ed/Johnny to his girlfriend
with a smile full of innocence. What a performance! Johnny Depp is a
unique kind of actor, we never had anyone quite like him. How can he
manage to disappear behind a character and still bring with him his
full bag of tricks, I don't know, but he does. I only wish he wouldn't
get lost in mediocrities like "Nick of Time" "The Astronaut's Wife" and
"Secret Window" He belongs to the world of real, great filmmakers.
Better to risk with an original idea by Emir Kusturica than a "safe",
tired, Stephen King thing. Johnny, remember, we're looking at you for
clues about ourselves. More Ed Woods , please!
<|_=00=_|>
It's sort of embarrassing to admit it took me ten years to see this
film. I'm not really a big fan of Tim Burton, and while I never had
anything against him, I've only recently started to enjoy Johnny Depp's
work. Given the subject matter, this just wasn't a movie I was
interested in for a long time. But sometimes good things really are
worth the wait.

Ed Wood, of course, chronicles the Hollywood career of its eponymous
subject, truly one screwed up individual; a cross-dresser with a fetish
for angora, Wood churned out one horrifically bad film after another,
culminating with Plan Nine From Outer Space, before descending into
crappy porn films toward the end of his life. It isn't necessarily a
happy story, and Burton wisely only tells a small sliver of it, from
Ed's first movie, Glen or Glenda, through the premiere of Plan Nine.

But the love that Burton has for Wood and his movies shines through in
every frame. Though I find Burton needlessly artsy as a director, here
that tendency serves him frightfully well, as he manages to do the
near-impossible; make a film about someone that plays like one of their
films (the abysmal Dragon is a shining example of how NOT to do this).
Shot entirely in black and white, we see all of Wood's weirdos not as
they were, but rather as Ed probably saw them, through the bizarre
filter he must have viewed life with.

Depp is simply brilliant here, probably even better than he was in
Pirates of the Caribbean. He captures Wood's enthusiasm and slanted
viewpoint, but he does so in a loving, positive way. Wood accepts, as
we must, that he was a screwed-up hack, but it never drags him down; in
fact, Depp has him reveling in it, and it is that very passion that
buoys up the movie. It doesn't hurt that nearly everyone else is very
strong too, from Jeffrey Jones' crank 'psychic' Criswell to Bill
Murray's Bunny Breckenridge, who often talks about having a sex change
but never goes through with it. George 'The Animal' Steele captures Tor
Johnson perfectly, and even Lisa Marie is excellent as Vampira. But the
true great performance of the film, outshining even Depp, is Martin
Landau as Bela Lugosi. He won the Oscar for this, and deservedly so; he
presents Lugosi at the end of his life, a washed-up has been, a shell
of a man who was once a great star but is now no more than an addict.
Landau virtually disappears in the role, and all you get is Lugosi,
every tragic inch of him. Again, we see him not only as he was, but how
Wood and even Burton see him, and the effect is masterful. One speech
in particular, where Lugosi repeats a speech that Wood wrote for him
about once being the master of the world but now on the verge of coming
back is particularly haunting, and Landau is simply riveting.

Ed Wood is a rare beast – it's a Tim Burton film that doesn't go
overboard, it's a movie about Hollywood (sort of) that isn't
self-indulgent, it's a nostalgia trip that manages not to be sappy but
is still very warm and caring, and overall it's just a strikingly
well-done film. I was impressed on many levels, most particularly with
Depp and Landau, but really with the whole movie, that such a truly
screwed-up human being could be shown in such a positive, indeed,
loving way. Ed Wood is nothing less than a tribute to its subject, and
in that, as in many other ways, it succeeds marvelously. If somehow
you've missed this film, as I had until recently, you owe it to
yourself to see it. It's simply a wonderful piece of film-making that
should not be missed.
<|_=00=_|>

The theatre wasn't exactly filling up fast: so far my husband, a friend and
myself were the only ones seated. Just before the movie began, a young
couple walked in. And shortly after the movie began, they walked out. I
wonder if they asked for their money back. I hope they didn't get
it.

The movie was ED WOOD, Tim Burton's homage to trash-film director Edward D.
Wood Jr., which only played in Greenville for two weeks and did not show up
at the second-run movie houses. Apparently no one wanted to see it. Their
loss.

But perhaps I'm being too hard on those who don't appreciate the subtle
nuances of Eddie Wood's movies. To me, Eddie was a glittering bead hanging
on Hollywood's lunatic fringe. However, Eddie, a transvestite who often
directed his masterpieces wearing high heels and an angora sweater, was not
exactly your mama's director. He was no Frank Tashlin, who tried to make
Jayne Mansfield respectable in THE GIRL CAN'T HELP IT. He was no Norman
Taurog, who made Elvis look like a dork in countless girls-cars-and-guitars
flicks. He wasn't even Russ Meyer, whose exploitation films are legendary
in
their trashiness. No, Eddie just never seemed to get a break. He wanted to
be Orson Welles. He didn't even find the measure of fame accorded to Orson
Bean! He remained a pathetic outcast, forever a fringie.

Perhaps it is appropriate that Johnny Depp was chosen to portray Eddie
Wood.
Depp has a long history of playing outcasts and fringies -- Edward
Scissorhands, Gilbert Grape, Hunter Thompson. Depp makes it clear that
Eddie's angora-covered heart was in the right place. He worked hard on his
scripts, he gave important roles to spectacularly talentless actors like
Vampira, wrestler Tor Johnson and Eddie's own main squeeze, Dolores Fuller.
And he was very kind to the drug-addled has-been Bela Lugosi, even
dissuading the drunken Drac from committing suicide (which wasn't entirely
altruistic, perhaps, as Lugosi had threatened to take Eddie with him). Depp
makes Eddie appear almost human.

Depp's portrayal is just one of several that are outstanding: George "The
Animal" Steele as Tor Johnson, Jeffrey Jones as Criswell, Vincent D'Onofrio
in his cameo of Orson Welles and Bill Murray as Bunny Breckinridge -- one
of
the rare times Murray has immersed himself in his character and not been
merely Bill Murray with someone else's name. Also delightful is a brief
appearance by organist Korla Pandit, 1950's television personality once
billed "The Prince of the Wurlitzer."

However, all the performances in ED WOOD are overshadowed by Academy-award
winner Martin Landau as Bela Lugosi. For those enough old enough to
remember
Landau in TV's "Mission: Impossible," it perhaps isn't surprising that
Landau was able to hide so completely behind a spookily accurate makeup
job;
seeing Landau's Lugosi watch himself on television was eerie because Landau
looked enough like Lugosi to make it seem real.

The film ends on a high note, which Eddie's life didn't -- he died in his
sleep, watching a ball game, just a few days after he'd been evicted from
his apartment.

ED WOOD is not a family film. Some of the language is strong, drugs and
drink are abundant, and many of the characters are a shade on the bizarre
side. It might be hard to explain to one's children why this apparently
virile man loves to raid his girlfriend's closets.

Unfortunately, ED WOOD hasn't exactly burned up the box office. Perhaps it
is because so few people can relate to someone as weird as Eddie, with his
terrible stories about men in angora sweaters, killer octopi, blank-eyed
wrestler slaves and, the piece de resistance, aliens with eight failed
plans
to take over the universe. I believe Eddie himself felt like those aliens,
which is why, viewing PLAN NINE FROM OUTER SPACE, he said, "This is the one
I'll be remembered by." And perhaps that very weirdness made the story
appealing to me. Having lived as a misfit and outcast, working hard all my
life to reach a goal that has remained elusive, I can, to quote someone I
don't care for, feel Eddie's pain. It's too late for him, but perhaps
there's hope for me yet ...
<|_=00=_|>
It is a well known fact by now that Johnny Depp is a subtle, tender,
beautiful force of nature. Tim Burton has been able to create universes
that Johnny Depp can inhabit with the strange naturalness of someone
who belongs. "Ed Wood" is the ultimate demonstration of that theory.
You're introduced to the world of someone who appears almost a figment
of someone's imagination to realise that there is something of him in
you and me. What is incredible is that the realisation comes hand in
hand with a personal discovery. That funny weird kid represents more
than something but the best of you and me. Angora sweaters and childish
dreams. The purity of an artist with a talent that is concentrated in
his heart. Remember the Salieri of "Amadeus" torturing himself cursing
God for giving him the gift of recognising the talent in others without
having any of his own. Ed Wood, as told by Burton and Depp, is so far
away from that pathology that to watch his films after having met him
with Johnny's face is an entirely different experience. Everything
makes sense. Strangely enough (or not) "Ed Wood" died at the box office
but as it happens more often than not, "Ed Wood" is more alive today
than many of the greatest moneymakers of all time. Yes, that business
of time never fails. Greatness prevails.
<|_=00=_|>
Although I had never heard of Ed Wood before hearing of this film, I
now understand why anybody would even consider making a film about him.
Even though branded as "the worst director of all time," Wood was
refreshingly passionate about what he did. Of course, I can't really
judge his work, but from what I saw in this movie I'm pretty sure that
the critics are right about him.

But that's not the point of Ed Wood. Not at all. My favorite scene in
the whole movie is the conversation between Wood and Orson Welles. One
perhaps the best filmmaker of his time, the other a young, struggling
filmmaker without experience or talent, but each knows what the other
is going through. They have the same problems and the same ambitions.
The fact that one is a genius and the other a total failure is only
secondary.

The performances are all first-rate, starting with Depp and Landau and
going all the way to the supporting cast which includes a great
performance by Bill Murray. Opposing Ed Wood's statement that
"filmmaking is not about the tiny details," Tim Burton gave us another
great film filled with wonderful details.

The film does not go into detail about Wood's experiences prior to and
after making his first films which is understandable when you make a
little research on this very website.

This film made me curious about Ed Wood's work and maybe I'll get over
myself and check out Plan 9 from Outer Space or Glen or Glenda.

8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
There isn't enough weirdness of this ilk in the world. I rated this a
10 because it is perfect in its imperfection, just like Ed Wood was.
Come on, the guy did 'Plan 9' for cryin' out loud. How perfectly
horrible was that movie??

Landau was flawless as Bela Lugosi. Johnny Depp was his usual wonderful
weird self. What is there to say about Bill Murray that hasn't already
been said? Sarah Jessica Parker was brilliant as the not quite an
airhead girlfriend/wife.

Frankly, I just can't find anything wrong with this movie except that
it ends. I just wanted the weirdness to go on and on.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a Johnny Depp fan, and this film only reinforced my enjoyment of
his genuine talent. He's whatcha call a real actor. He's on record
("Inside the Actor's Studio" & elsewhere) as saying that his
characterization of Wood was a mixture of "the blind optimism of Ronald
Reagan, the enthusiasm of the Tin Man from 'The Wizard of Oz' (1939)
and Casey Kasem." Well, I must add that either he left out channeling
Jon Lovitz or that's where Lovitz got his inspiration, too. It is at
moments positively eerie how well it works, and without feeling like
Depp stole Lovitz's act--his overall character is so much more, so much
else, that the Lovitz echo becomes a small part of a larger coherent
whole, although it never disappears entirely.

Sarah Jessica Parker and Patricia Arquette as the principal women in
Wood's life are each endearing and effective in their own separate
ways. Bill Murray is fun as always, and the secondary and bit players
are very well cast.

Martin Landau . . . well . . . Martin Landau simply left me awestruck.
Depp is all over the screen doin' his best wacky movie guy and chewing
the scenery, Parker, Arquette, Murray, and the rest are obviously
having a real fun time backing him up, and Martin Landau is shuffling
around in the foreground muttering in Romanian and writing a book
called "How to Steal a Movie." Mind boggling performance, and
absolutely deserving every award it got him in 1995, which included a
Best Supporting Actor Oscar, Golden Globe and SAG Awards, and the
American Comedy Award for Funniest Supporting Actor in a Motion
Picture. (Incidentally, his daughter Juliet, better known to millions
of Buffy the Vampire Slayer fans as the vampire Drusilla, is one of the
supporting players.)

If I weren't already a Tim Burton fan this movie would have made me
one. He here makes an almost perfectly crafted period piece
(anachronisms noted--see the "goofs" page--and dismissed), half cheesy
fake scifi B movie and half period noir thriller, as a cinematic
biography about the quintessential cheesy fake noir scifi thriller B
movie guy. This film goes beyond pastiche, and beyond homage to a
genre, although it is both. With this film Burton genuflects--no,
prostrates himself--before the gods of 1950s low-budget black and
white, and the gods are pleased indeed. It seems like he must have
watched every movie made in America for under a million dollars between
1948 and 1962. I lost count of the echoes and parodies and pastiches
and mini-homages that fill, I think, every darn frame of the movie, and
which by no means are mostly of Wood and his work.

As with, I think, every movie biography, there's the odd gratuitous
fact changing (see the "goofs" page again)--you know, the "Why'd they
do that when the truth wouldn't make any difference?" kind of stuff,
and as glowing as this review obviously is I must also say that it is
in some ways an imperfect film--it glosses over Wood's later career,
for example. But it it so obviously a labor of love and joy for all
involved that in my opinion its imperfections are inconsequential. Ed
Wood stands proudly, with that slightly odd gleam in its eye, with the
best movie biographies made.
<|_=00=_|>
This was the movie that Johnny Depp should have been nominated for! He
was amazing! And seriously, this movie deserved so much more than just
make-up and best supporting actor. "Ed Wood" is a terrific movie that
every film fanatic will love. It has humor, drama, and romance. The
thing is, I had heard a lot about Ed Wood, and was curious on what his
life was like. My sister recommended this movie, and I think I might
steal it from her. Just kidding! But it's worth not only a watch but a
buy as well.

Everything about this movie is perfect. I don't think there is a way
you can change it to make it any better. I would highly recommend this
movie any time. Especially if you want to learn about the crazy and
interesting life of "Ed Wood".

10/10
