
It's 2006 and I still believe this is one of the best parodies of all
times, worth to include next to Spaceballs, Naked Gun and Scary Movie
(all 3 of them).

From time to time I like watching such movies, since I'm sick and tired
of all the modern "shoot 'em up" or "philosophy for n00bs" type of
films. It's relaxing and a good laugh always makes you forget about
everything else.

Now that was besides the point. Getting back to "Hot Shots", I can say
only one thing - excellent. And to be honest, every movie that starred
Charlie Sheen I've seen since was dull. Maybe it's a little unfair to
remember Charlie Sheen only for this role (he's a very good actor), but
he was so...funny in it that I can't help it. The movie itself is very
well glued together, the scenes are dubbed with the perfect soundtrack
to make you laugh 'till you fall off your chair and the comedy
techniques are (as somebody said before me) classic - no fart/burp
jokes or toilet humor.

Overall, I'd watch it anytime.
<|_=00=_|>

Hot Shots is one of my favorite movies when it comes to comedy. It was
made in a time that farting and burping weren't yet considered as the
very best humor has to offer. 

This film is very enjoyable when you don't know any of the movies this
parody has been based on (very hard to believe), but when you do know
the movies, Hot Shots is really hilarious from time to time. Most of
the time they make fun of Top Gun, but movies like Superman, Dances
with Wolves, Gone with the Wind... can be recognized in it as well. 

Topper Harley is an excellent pilot who left the navy because he
couldn't cope with the feelings of guilt over his father. His father
didn't do enough to help his co-pilot during a mission and the poor man
got killed in an awful way. When he found out, Topper decided never to
fly again. He now lives on his own with an Indian and a wolf, inhaling
helium. However, when Lt Commander Block offers a second chance, to
take part in secret mission Sleepy Weasel, Topper decides to fly again,
although this means that he'll have to deal with a difficult love
interest and his old fears.

This movie certainly scores above average when you ask me. Therefor I
reward it with a 7.5/10.

<|_=00=_|>

I watched this movie after watching a 
really poorly made one, so this film came 
off like Citizen Kane in many respects. After 
not watching this film for such a long time, 
I came into this viewing wit ha more trained 
eye, and to say the least, it was as good then 
as it is now. This is easily one of those 
parody movies that will live forever, especially 
due to all of the great scenes on the aircraft 
carriers (dogs chasing the plane, the dancing, 
etc.). While the film did have its dull moments, 
there were too many funny moments. Charlie 
Sheen seemed perfect for this role, simply 
because it looked like he tackled this movie 
with a serious purpose. Cary Elwes was also 
good, considering the stuffy Brit took on the 
whole comedy role quite well. Kudos to all who 
had a hand in this film.
<|_=00=_|>

Haunted by feelings of guilt over the actions of his father Buzz and
having been kicked out of the navy, Topper Harley has withdrawn from
the navy to a life of solitude, quiet contemplation and helium. However
when Lt Commander Block comes to him with an offer of a second chance,
to take part in secret mission Sleepy Weasel, Topper takes it up and
signs up for training and briefing with the other pilots. However with
a difficult love interest and his old fears resurfacing, can Topper
hold it together? Can the mission succeed? Can Admiral Benson get it
together? Only time, will tell.

The spoof genre is one that appears easy to do but things like Scary
Movie, Spaceballs and others all show that it is not as easy as it
appears – it is not enough to simply ape films unless it is done
cleverly and funnily as well. Hot Shots succeeds in this area by
managing to make such fun out of serious films that it is hard not to
laugh – in fact I watched Top Gun recently and found it impossible not
to laugh as I remembered Hot Shots! Of course it is not just the fact
that it spoofs movies but also that the dialogue is really, really
funny – totally off the wall and takes you by surprise at times. A fine
example of this is the dialogue given to Admiral Benson such as 'they
ran out of material before they got to the knee so don't give me any
sh*t'! This continues throughout the film and it rarely misses. Just
like Top Gun the romance aspect isn't as funny as the other bits but
even then it is still good. Some individual lines aren't as sharp as
others but generally the film has enough great dialogue and funny movie
spoofs (including quite a few Tom Cruise movies) to be consistently
funny even after repeat viewings.

The cast is often important in this type of thing and those who have
suffered the Wayans brothers mugging in their 'spoofs' will know
exactly what I mean – people like Leslie Nielsen make it look easy but
it really isn't. And that is why the cast here should be largely
praised for their straight delivery that serves to make the material
even better. Although not the star of the film, every scene he is in is
stolen by Lloyd Bridges – so great in Airplane, he gets the best lines
here and his character is hilarious. He is supported well by Sheen who
proves really able in sending himself up and he has done well in other
spoofs since then. The rest of the cast is made up of very familiar
faces who all seem in tune with the material provided – Elwes is fun;
Cryer and O'Leary embrace their one-note characters. Golino is a bit
dry in her delivery and doesn't help her already weak part in the film.
Minor roles for Swanson, Stiles, Dunn and others are also good value
for differing reasons and there are a few good cameos in there as well.

Overall, as with all these things you need to be in the mood but the
strength of the material and the high hit ratio makes it easy to enjoy
this film. Much more fun that Top Gun and consistently funny with
regular laugh-out-loud moments this is a great spoof that is only just
short of the greats like Airplane and Naked Gun.

<|_=00=_|>

Really funny movie spoofs Top Gun, Dances With Wolves and others. In the
centre is Topper Harley (Charlie Sheen), who is incapable of flying because
he thinks his dad is responsible for the death of his co-pilot.

But one day he is called back into the squad, as there is a scheme going on
about some new airplanes. Oh well, never mind that.

Funny stuff all the time, too much to talk about really. I love the 'Dead
Meat' character, when he is taking his last flight, claiming he knows the
answers to global warmth and Kennedy's assasination. That really cracked me
up.

One of the best spoofs ever. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Jim Abrahams' first solo comedy effort Hot Shots! is a smash comedy that has
many, many laughs and is as silly as anything Abrahams has done with his
uoltra successful team of ZAZ (Zucker Abrahams and Zucker) which made
Airplane, Top Secret, The Naked Gun and The Kentucky Friend Movie.  Hot
Shots deserves a place with them.

Charlie Sheen plays a top gun type of charater that is trying to go against
his father's reputation and still be able to fly and fight and all.  The
movie however doesn't try and go with the plot, which is always good in
these movies, and it succeeds in bringing silly, goofy laughs just by having
Lloyd Bridges act totally and utterly hilariously insane, or in just having
a pilot with moose antlers.  Deadpan.  A
<|_=00=_|>

Hot Shots is one of the funniest films I have ever seen in my life. I
laughed so much it nearly made me sick to my stomach. There's really no
better proof of a great comedy than when you laugh from beginning to end.
Lloyd Bridges is hilarious and Charlie Sheen is really great at these type
of films. The whole cast is great. Jim Abrahams has made a modern classic in
my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure why, but I guess I was interested in seeing the first Hot
Shots since my mom only has the sequel and I noticed the movie in
Blockbuster, I also love Charlie Sheen in comedies, he works so well in
spoofs. Not to mention all in all, I do love spoofs, most work for me.
It's just the kind comedy that I like. Hot Shots! proved itself to be a
worthy spoof that is more than worth watching. It spoofs Top Gun, An
Officer and a Gentleman, 9 1/2 Weeks, Gone with the Wind, Rocky, among
many other movies.

Topper is a pilot who is wanted back in the navy and falls for a woman,
but he has an edge is considered a rebel. Cary Elwes gives him a hard
time constantly, especially since his father caused Cary's father to
have a freak plane accident. Cary is also in love with Topper's woman
and wants revenge.

Hot Shots is a great comedy that I have to admit is a guilty pleasure,
but it has so much that most comedies lack now a days. It's just a fun
innocent movie that deserves a little bit of a higher rating. Charlie
Sheen rocks in comedies, although they have destroyed my new favorite
guilty pleasure, 9 1/2 Weeks, it's all good.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Hot shots!" is a great movie.
It will keep you laughing from the begining to 
the end. It has some really unusual
gags thrown in gratuitously, making it crazier
and funnier by the minute. I highly recommend
this comedy to all every one, and I guarantee
that you will not be disappointed in this one!!!!!!!!
and hey, don't over-look the sequel!!!!!!
I give this excellent comedy 4.5 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this was a decent send-up of the Top Gun movies and other films
as well. (Dances With Wolves, etc.) There are many hilarious scenes,
such as Jon Cryer's "Wall Vision" and Charlie Sheen's Indian nickname
translating as "Fluffy Bunny Feet." You know something bad and funny is
going to happen when Dead Meat reveals all that he's carrying-right
before he goes on a mission. Charlie Sheen gives a truly hilarious
performance as Topper-a man on a mission, in more ways than one. The
Superman and Dances With Wolves scenes are inspiringly funny, and the
movie was overall a good one. I recommend this to anyone who likes
comedies and spoofs.
