
Hyped to the heavens when it first came out as Schwarzenegger's
comeback movie, this 1999 film steers the Governor away from his
attempts at comedy and collaborations with Danny Devito and back into
the sort of action packed carnage that made his name in the first
place. However, where the likes of Commando had him portraying
invincible supermen with a neat array of guns and one liners to hand,
End of Days is considerably darker.

Set in New York on the eve of Millennium, the film shows a version of
the Austrian Oak previously never witnessed. He plays Jericho Cane, an
alcoholic ex-Cop in charge of a security squad who finds himself
embroiled in a battle to save a young girl (Robin Tunney) from being
raped by the devil (a sadly, rather ineffective Gabriel Byrne) and
bringing about Armageddon. As you do.

Cane himself is not the best sort of man for saving all creation
either. He is mired in deep depression, has abandoned any faith in God
he may have once had and when we first see him, is contemplating
suicide. However, saving the girl gives him a drive and determination
even when faced with some conflicting views from the Catholic Church
about how best to go about this. All of this takes place in a very grim
and gritty vision of New York where the rain never stops falling, urban
decay is rife and pillars of steam rise from manhole covers. It is a
fitting location for the end of all creation to begin and cast a dark
veil over the flick.

Of course, that isn't to say the film is all doom and gloom as there
are a few glimpses of just how seriously the makers weren't taking
their project (the argument between Arnold and Kevin Pollack in the
former's apartment is hilarious). Plus, while the story and characters
are all developed to match the atmosphere of impending dread during the
first hour and a half, the last twenty minutes are made up of the kind
of explosive action that strangely doesn't jar against the grimmer
nature of the rest of the film, though the CGI devil at the climax is
pushing it a little.

All in all, an enjoyable romp for fans of the Governator before his
attention was diverted by a political career. It compares well to his
classic eighties work by trying to do something different and while it
may not gel properly in places, for a good 80% of the running time it
does a very entertaining job.
<|_=00=_|>
Arnold peaked at the end of the '90s, I guess. He's battled
Terminators, Greek gods, bears, alligators, planes, and macho men in
fish net clothing. The only choice left is, of course, Satan. So they
put together a movie about Satan and gave Arnie the lead.

I think everyone working on this thought it would be much better than
it actually is. The script was in development for years and Arnie
fought to get it made. It's kind of unfortunate because Arnold gives a
fairly decent performance in a film muddled with clichés. Of course,
it's hard enough to buy a guy with a body like Arnold being a slob who
drinks beer and pizza smoothees for breakfast. Getting someone like Jim
Belushi might have seemed more realistic.

Apart from the physicality, Arnold's performance is fine. He cries. He
does the emotion scenes well enough - at least well enough to find
bearable.

It's the direction that ruins this movie. Peter Hyams is a terrible
director and has ruined some very unique films in the past (his most
notorious butchering in my opinion was of a 1983 Michael Douglas film
called "The Star Chamber" - great premise, awful directing).

"End of Days" is like "Exorcist" meets every supernatural thriller ever
made. On top of that, Gabriel Byrne should be more menacing. Robin
Tunney should be less butch-looking. The direction shouldn't feel like
some low-grade TV commercial - all style, no substance.

Is the movie terrible? No. It's not as bad as everyone made it out to
be. But it's pretty much the definition of "mediocre." Do I own it on
DVD? Hell yeah. It's an Arnold movie - it's an automatic must-buy. But
if you're not a fan of Arnie, I wouldn't recommend it - at all. It
pretty much feels like any average made-for-TV scary-flick - with even
worse direction.

The only other good aspect of this film was that it brought Axl Rose
out of seclusion to record his first original song in seven years with
a new incarnation of Guns N' Roses. The song, "Oh My God," didn't do
too well with the critics. A bit of a shame, really. I dug it. It also
fits the industrial, edgy tone of the film.
<|_=00=_|>

END OF DAYS / (1999) **1/2 (out of four)

By Blake French:

	"End of Days" is the first movie to seriously argue that "666" the
numerical sign of the devil, is actually a 999 upside-down. Since the film
was first released in 1999, the movie could not resist to throw in that
little contrivance. What can you expect from a movie when its premise is
based on the concept that once every thousand years if Satan impregnates a
woman during the hour from 11 p.m. to 12 a.m. on the last day of the
millennium, she will give birth to the anti-Christ who will bring the world
to an end? I am already thinking that the movie is vulnerable to logic (is
the time given in Eastern Standard?) and it will make its own limitations at
the convenience of plot. "End of Days" is particularly graphic in its use of
violence, but never really scares us, even with such a horrifying premise
like the end of humanity. 

	Arnold Schwarzenegger has not made a good movie in a long time. First
"Jingle all the Way," then "Batman & Robin," now we have a movie that
bounces back and forth between action and concept. There are the standard
"action movie scenes," where a person sways from a helicopter in mid air,
where a chase scene takes place at incredible heights, where someone grasps
to a high window ledge, where a subway train crashes, where a massive fire
erupts in Manhattan, and so on. There are also the false shocko moments
followed with a sudden burst of loud, startling music: the its just a cat
scene, its just another cop scene, its just a dream scene, its just your
imagination scene, he's not really dead scene, and its just maggots suddenly
growing out of an apple scene. The movie is also bound by philosophy. The
action is focused towards Schwarzenegger saving the world, but he cannot do
that all by himself, can he? Sure he can, if he can stop Satan (Gabriel
Bryne), from impregnating Christine (Robin Tunney), who was born under the
religious sign of a passing comet -- and based on her birth twenty years
earlier during the sighting of that comet – is the chosen mother of Satan's
child. 

	"End of Days" begins with an intriguing, although plausible, premise. The
bizarre events that transpire a few days before the end of the millennium
immediately inspire our curiosity. The action sequences are also fine,
intensified by thrilling music and a fast paced style. The movie opens on a
good note, and the remainder of the action sequences are also quite
exciting. The scenes also inspire a few questions. Satan kills many people
in this movie, people just like the hero, so why doesn't he just finish
Arnold Schwarzenegger off like he does with so many other characters. On the
other side, Schwarzenegger shoots the devil, who pulls his shirt up so we
can see the bullet holes immediately healing. When using a machine-gun, the
ammunition flings the Prince of Darkness backward and puts him down before
he attacks again. There are simply no rules to abide by here. 

	"End of Days" does not have a whole lot of explanation; it plays sort of
like your run of the mill action picture with the gimmick of the week. There
just is not a lot of true involvement or engagement after the premise. We do
care about Arnold Swarzzenegger's character, and Gabrial Bryne is an
especially convincing Satan. He is devilish, with fiendish appeal, proving
that tranquillity is the most terrifying evil. Al Pachino did an equally
diabolical job in "The Devils Advocate," but Bryne is even more terrifying.
Robin Tunney has nothing to do but exchange shameless subtext with
Schwarzenegger's character. ("You're better than everyone else, just
remember that." "I don't want to be better or worse, I just want to be
normal.") She is more of a plot device than an actual character.

	Excellent convincing set designs appear frequently, especially near the end
where the characters wander through dark chambers and dim hallways.
Cinematography also adds a nice touch to the suspenseful, mysterious
atmosphere, all done by the movie's director, Peter Hyams ("The Relic"). It
is too bad such good filmmaking does not have a story fit enough to back it
up. One more thing I just have to mention: Why do the cops always show up at
the end of the movie, after the action is over. I am getting very tired of
that.


<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes Arnie is a dreadful actor that is why I took 2 off right off the
bat. Also a little of Kevin Pollack goes a very long way. Hyams is a
gifted director OUTLAND answers any questions of whether he is up for
suspense or not. First let's talk about the real reason it is hated.
All the other devil flicks God loses or is on vacation apparently.THE
DEVIL'S ADVOCATE THE OMEN THE EXORCIST NEEDFUL THINGS God loses in all
these films prayers fail; the devil is all powerful. Without delving
into theology suffice to say boys and girls if you are going into
metaphysics stealing deities it would be nice if you knew who was who
and their respective histories. HELLO READ THE BIBLE Satan LOSES. These
fat new age decadents are so hilarious they want to steal the devil
because they have the same moral system NONE. Yet they go together dear
you cannot have Satan without God. Usually God is on vacation the Devil
runs rampant prayers are useless. 

What someone made a film where God defeats the Devil? A man prays God
shows him Michael's sword the weapon he sent Satan into hell with and
the man is saved sees his child and wife before he dies? OUT WITH IT!
In another time another zeitgeist this film would have been canonized.
If Cecil B DeMille lived today THE TEN COMMANDMENTS would never have
been made. He would be unemployed or making the vile trash like SIN
CITY if he wished to eat and pay his bills. I love the earlier reviews
cloaking the underlying real reason; it is suspenseful, has many pop
out scares the effects are still impressive. The devil is presented as
the lying double dealing murderous misanthropic monster he is. I love
when he holds arnie over the street,"you see those insignificant dots
down there that is what you are to me.'' No he is not bringing the
light or thinking happy thoughts. 

The ending models nobility and true love giving of yourself even to
death. Yes Sin City is a much better film for the kiddies. The moral
system is why they hate Christianity so much by the way. I am a
theistic existentialist yet it annoys even me. They must have their
films ethics free like where superman wipes out Metropolis but saves
Lois and a token family in Man Of Steel. The same in Star Crap: Descent
Into Moral Darkness. The man kills 60 people but saves his precious
baby; seeing a pattern here? Yes, atavistic narcissism that cares only
for itself others lives mean nothing. Yes the acting is sub par; have
you seen Man of Steel? It is better than Henry Cavill. I recommend this
film strongly yes it has the usual few Catholic scenes of their
visionaries, I know, just go get some popcorn come back. Rod Steiger
gives an excellent performance; Byrne portrays the Devil well and
theologically correctly. Cold and full of hate for God and hello Man
also. He is not your friend. 

Any film where God wins, faith is rewarded, nobility is modeled and
love shown for what it truly is New Age denuded; SACRIFICE. Parents the
film is quite violent with a graphic sex scene not for kids. The cable
censored version would be a better choice. Also the language. I love
the non PC scene where Satan says to the pedophile cop,"the scent of
all those boys is on you remember who you serve." Enough said, you get
my point guess the real reason the film is calumniated to death. Not a
mystery
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the hokey theology and overdone action, I still enjoyed this
film and found it to be astounding in certain parts, thanks to some
incredible special- effects, at least when it came out in 1999. They
still look pretty cool. I also enjoyed the nice visuals and excellent
sound.

You just can't take the story seriously, but how many films can you,
especially Arnold's wild movies? They are just there to be enjoyed, to
get a couple of hours of escapism entertainment. Among the baloney,
however, are a few profound statements of truth. Rod Steiger provides
them as a priest in the film. Unfortunately, the devil (Gabriel Byrne)
has some, too!

Overall, the story is very involving, so much so that it that at 125
minutes it can wear you. About 15 minutes of less action would have
been best. One of Arnold's most entertaining movies.
<|_=00=_|>
After "End Of Days" Arnold had not really made a hit. "The 6th Day" was
a decent SCFI movie, but was a little too corny. "Collateral Damage"
was also just a decent action movie, that suffered from some bad
writing. Finally "Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines" was a pretty big
letdown with way too much humor that just felt so forced.

"End of Days" is for sure his last great movie. "End of Days" takes
place right around when 1999 was coming to an end and many people
thought the world was too. Well in the film the Devil(Well played by
Gabriel Byrne)must mate with a chosen woman who could bring the earth
to an end. So, it's up to burned out cop Arnold to stop this plot from
happening.

The movie has a very goofy story only teenagers would find brilliant,
but the movie does have lots of big loud action,great performances,and
is well directed by Peter Hyams(Sudden Death,A Sound Of Thunder).
<|_=00=_|>
Arnold fans will holler in joy, fans of brainless action will holler in
astonishment, and Catholics will just holler.

Illogically written by Andrew W. Marlowe and ham-handedly directed by
Peter Hyams, *End of Days* gets The Terminator out of his open-backed
hospital gown (Arnold Schwarzenegger's return to the big screen after
his heart operation), whilst blowing things up in Mysterious Ways and
blaspheming Biblical verse to give Catholics something more to whine
about.

It is 1999 and doom-sayers the world over live in trepidation of their
computers going fritz and losing their downloaded porn. Even as the
technological stank of Y2K muttons the New York streets, ex-cop turned
alcoholic security guard, Jericho Cane (Schwarzenegger, with the
perfunctory "dead-wife-and-kid" back-story for Loose Cannon effect),
must brave theological waters to save 20-year-old virgin Christine
(Robin Tunney) from being conscripted as – wait for it – The Bride of
Satan. Dun dah daaaarrrh! Stupidity ensues.

For every anti-hero, there is his anti-Christ. Gabriel Byrne is the
devil here – and he's out to party like it's 1999, on a mission to
impregnate Christine with the Anti-Christ between 11 pm and 12
midnight, December 31, 1999 – ironically, in the hour that all porn
will be lost – thereby bringing about the End of Days. Being able to
read minds, conjure hallucinations and employ limitless magic, it
doesn't occur to Satan to expedite the impregnation process by
appearing months in advance and courting Christine as a teen model and
then closing the panty raid easily at the appointed time; instead, he
appears on December 28th like a Keyser Soze Terminator and wonders why
she doesn't welcome him with open thighs… (See above comment re:
stupidity.) Here is a movie where nothing makes sense the moment it is
uttered, let alone after contemplating its veracity or mythology. A
priest (Rod Steiger) tells Jericho that '666' is really '999' upside
down with a '1' in front of it. So wait - *Prince* is the Anti-Christ?

Satan Soze pursues Jericho and Christine (J and C – get it?) around
town, at no point doing anything which would actually precipitate their
capture. In one scene, Satan recreates Jericho's wife and child to
tempt him into revealing where he hid Christine. But if he can see so
deeply into Jericho's mind in recreating his family with enough nuance
to inspire nostalgia, why can't he see where Jericho hid Christine not
ten minutes ago? 

Satan can make an assassin talk without a tongue, yet he can't make
that assassin unjam a semi-automatic weapon. And when Jericho shoots
Satan at point blank range, Satan is courteous enough to open his shirt
to reveal the wounds closing, so Jericho won't worry unduly about
Satan's health - not sanitary to go about with open bullet wounds…
Matter of fact, instead of simply possessing Jericho himself to get
close to Christine and rape her, Satan expends so much unnecessary
energy on side-projects (crucifying the tongue-less guy, blowing up
Jericho's partner (Kevin Pollak) and then saving him, and then blowing
him up again, ridiculously battling Jericho when he could snuff him out
with the effort of thought) that we wonder whether a more efficient
assassin/lover shouldn't be put on the case – say, Antonio Banderas.

What I find most precious about *End of Days* is Arnold's valiant
attempts at The Method: "sad" means scrunching up his eyes and not
blurting out anything in a foreign accent; "depressed" means raising a
bottle to his lips and not blurting out anything in a foreign accent;
"deathly scared" means widening his eyes and not blurting out anything
in a foreign accent. There's definitely a pattern here, if we could
only decipher it.

In the end, the devil is dispatched not by the holy men whom Catholics
pray to for deliverance from apocalypses such as these, but from the
atheist Jericho. While the timid men of an impotent god exhort "faith"
and quiver in their cells doing nothing about Satan actually walking
amongst them, the Prince of Darkness is thwarted by a nullifidian with
a big gun and a foreign accent. Which clearly says something that
Catholics blindly refuse to hear: that even if the Devil were to exist,
those who have been indoctrinated to unconditionally and irrationally
fear him would be unable to conjure a belief in his downfall, let alone
act towards it. Further, they might not truly WANT him defeated, for
only through his contrary polarity does their god's existence become
tenable.

For it is written in the Book of Revelations: "And the Prince of
Darkness shall descendeth upon the Earth without any solid game plan,
and impregnate a virgin on a date which won't have any significance
until the Gregorian Calendar of the 1500s adopts the day numbering
which will put it in sync with the equinoxes and the Anno Domine syntax
which will annoy sensible people for millennia, by which time,
Christians will have forgotten Christ's actual birth date and
appropriated the pagan Saturnalia festival in its stead. And the Prince
shall effect a Revolution through tight purple pants and
ambiguously-lesbian band members…" I can believe the people being
drained of blood and crucified, and the alcoholic built like a Mr.
Universe; I can believe that a giant, supernatural monster can't kill a
guy armed only with a foreign accent; I can even believe that the devil
needs to perform some hokey thirteenth century Celtic Druid ritual as
foreplay - but what I cannot believe is the 20-year-old virgin in New
York City in 1999.

Especially around Prince...
<|_=00=_|>
End of Days gets a bad rap, but I think a great deal of this is due to
its initial premise. It's extremely 'cool' to be anti-religion these
days, so big-budget movies with a core religious theme tend to get
unnecessarily slammed. I'm not religious myself, but I do often enjoy
supernatural and religiously themed stories, due to the themes and
issues they frequently explore. So its success all hinges on whether
you can accept a plot guided by supernatural religious elements or not.
If you can, and you enjoy action movies occasionally, you'll probably
enjoy End of Days.

Arnold plays a depressed ex-cop turned high-level body guard with a
suitably tragic back-story. Some people will enjoy his performance,
others won't. Again, it depends on how you come to this. If you are
expecting a versatile actor who changes personality with every
performance, then you won't enjoy it. If you like Arnold, because he is
exactly what he is, Arnold, then you'll probably have a ball. After
all, who ever hired Charlton Heston or Humphrey Bogart or Christopher
Walken to play a part in any way other than the specific way they do?
You don't hire such actors because of their chameleon-like acting
abilities, you hire them because their sheer screen presence is such
that they stand out from the crowd and you enjoy seeing THEM in the
role. As such, you either relish those actors in their parts, or you
you dismiss them as wooden or bland. It depends on the viewer.

The director, Peter Hyams (2010, Outland, Timecop, The Relic), has a
tendency to enjoy very dark cinematography, and in this case it suits
things perfectly. There are lots of scenes lit primarily by flames or
torchlight, that set the tone. Meanwhile, John Debney's (Cutthroat
Island, Passion of the Christ) score is also one of his best, and
probably one the most effective 'demonic' soundtracks since Goldsmith's
Omen trilogy. I would be remiss not to mention the effects work as
well. Having watched the DVD special features, I was extremely
impressed with how much old-style artistry and craftsmanship went into
many of the effects. There was a great deal of miniature work involved,
which is too often sidelined for less effective CGI these days. End of
Days used a careful blend, only really using CGI where necessary.

End of Days is a great roller-coaster ride of a movie, entirely suited
to the date it was made for, and has a surprising amount of depth.
Under the action and excitement, it's really a story about the main
character's redemption, finding himself again, and discovering a
meaning to his life after all he thought he had lost. It's also a
classic good versus evil tale. To top it all off, we get a surprisingly
touching and moving finale, which perhaps left a lot of people on too
much of a downer, yet I found it the perfect conclusion to the story.

All in all, End of Days is either a love-it or hate-it movie. It's not
perfect, but I thought it was an excellent film, and one of Arnold's
most interesting characters. If you don't mind religious themes, enjoy
larger-than-life characters and adrenaline pounding action, then
chances are you'll probably have a fantastic ride.
<|_=00=_|>

Arnold does some good work in this movie. I liked his role as a
suicidal/alcoholic/wiseass. I think some people were shocked to hear
Arnold
speak more than one line at a time in an action movie.
..But for the one-liner lovers you get some good ones like -- Arnie(to
the
devil)"You're a *bleep*ing CHOIRBOY compare TO ME!!" ...and... Arnie(to
his
best friend) "Stop being such a P*SSY!"

Also, a good performance was put in by the guy who played Satan. The way
he
blew up the van....very creative.

The only thing i didn't really like about this movie was the ending. I
would have liked to see Arnold win in a different way.

Overall and 8/10. Didn't deserve the bad press it got. There are other
action movies like this one that are so much better received for some
reason. Religion's a very sensitive subject, so maybe that's where the
negative stuff came from.

<|_=00=_|>

Peter Hyams' End of Days stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as a fired and
alcoholic police officer, who is on the edge of sanity and tries to commit
suicide very often. He is now private security guard and traps a mysterious
sniper who tried to kill one of his clients. Soon he learns that there are
some very bad things going on in the city, and the new millennium is very
close..It is the last days of December, 1999.

I really liked the scare department in this demonic little horror thriller
from this talented director and director of photography, Peter Hyams. This
film is full of effective and very ominous images and scenery and the film
is very dark. I appreciate perhaps most the shots above the city and the
twisted use of camera up there. That really creates a feeling of evil and
that something very powerful and wicked is "above the city" and is about to
get power. Hyams once again shows his talent as he has been the director of
photography many times earlier in his own films. End of Days reminded me
occasionally of Alex de la Iglesia's great horror film El Dia de la Bestia
(Day of the Beast), a brilliant mix of black comedy and VERY dark imagery
and atmosphere. As incredible as it sounds, this mainstream produced film is
that effective, thanks to the talented men behind the camera.

There are some flaws, too, and the most irritating things is perhaps the
cliche ending, which I definitely won't spoil here, but is without a doubt
there only to satisfy the audience and create the safe and familiar Happy
Ending. If this was made 20 years ago, the ending would definitely have been
different; it would've been how the director wanted to, not hot the audience
wanted to. That tones the otherwise great and exciting finale a little bit
down, but fortunately it is not as syrupy as possible. Another negative
thing that I can tell is the editing which is very fast, unstylishly and
ineffectively fast and restless. Fast edits can be great elements if used
right and with skill, but in this film, they are in my opinion gratuitously
fast and too plenty. Just watch the action scenes and count how many edits
there are in one minute. The editors should have realized that sometimes -
and in this case - less is more. These "flaws" are still tolerable
especially when I keep in mind how many positive points there are in this
film.

End of Days is also very exciting and fast paced. The train segment is great
and especially the clock ticking finale when the millennium is about to
change, is very skillfully created and hold my full attention. The finale is
pretty similar to the finale in Kathryn Bigelow's own millennium related
film, a paranoid and effective thriller Strange Days (1995). In End of Days,
there are also couple of genuinely frightening, scary, sudden and loud
"shocks" that require a movie theatre to fully work. The nightmare sequences
are also chillingly original and brought to my mind the great horror
classics that even Hollywood sometimes produced. The demon which Christine
sees in her dreams is very scary and almost as frightening as the similar
character in David Lynch's masterwork Lost Highway.

As a horror film, End of Days works fine and creates an atmosphere that is
so rare in mainstream films nowadays. I didn't have any expectations when I
placed the VHS in my VCR, and so I was pleasantly surprised of what I saw
and experienced. If we stay in the 90's, I could say that End of Days is
kind of tamer version of Day of the Beast and without its comic elements.
There are comic elements in End of Days, too, but those are not,
fortunately, the usual Hollywood one-liners and stupid bits of dialogue.
Gabriel Byrne over-acts occasionally little, but many guys who play devils
seem to have this problem! He is almost as "cool and modern" devil as Al
Pacino in Taylor Hackford's Devil's Advocate, a film which also has great
atmosphere but is more restrained and drama oriented.

End of Days gets 7/10 from me. Great work again Peter!
