
I just finished teaching a course in northern Thailand called
"Understanding Cultures Through Cinema." This movie was the favorite of
the class (and I had some great titles in there!). The students were
very moved by the movie, and wrote great papers in response. This short
line is my favorite example: "I liked (reviewer) because (that
reviewer) doesn't say whether a terrorist who wanted to sacrifice her
life was right or wrong. When your country is controlled by others, you
want to have freedom." And this from a young sophomore who loves
romantic comedies! Talk about a breakthrough!!! Culturally, the
students tuned in to some important aspects that don't get noticed:
Malli sharing meals with Mr. Vasu, the important moral role played by
Lotus/Sorya, and the visual irony of the belt. I gave them a study
guide question: How would YOU end this movie? The answers were
poignant, and of course, they all mentioned the prevailing motif (which
I won't mention here because that would be a spoiler, yes?).

When I first saw this movie, I gave it 9. After seeing it several times
since, and especially seeing the reaction of my Thai students, I gladly
raise it to 10. This is one of my top ten movies of all time.
<|_=00=_|>

the terrorist is one of the best movies ever to come out of india. the movie
is totally unlike the normal indian bollywood movie. part-inspired by the
events surrounding the assassination of late prime-minister rajiv gandhi,
terrorist takes a look into the minds of an assassin.

the movie moves at a steady pace giving us time to understand the
protagonist and sympathise with her. this bond is accentuated by ayesha
dharkar's terrific acting, she clearly is a unique talent and hopefully the
whole world will get to appreciate her in star wars II.

santosh sivan who is essentially a cinematographer takes to directing and
comes up with a gripping tale. the movie shines with his brilliant work
behind the camera as well, capturing every beautiful raindrop & the
subtleties in dharkar's expressions.

the movie stands out as special, intelligent & warm, among its peers. a
truly significant movie

a fantastic 10!!
<|_=00=_|>

The movie is about a girl who is sent on a mission to assassinate a VIP
by becoming a human bomb. It can be related to the assassination of
Rajiv Gandhi, former Prime Minister of India. A notable fact is that no
where in the movie is there a mention about the roots of the girl nor
who the VIP is. It rather narrates the incidents that occur from the
time she is chosen on this mission. 

The movie has wonderful cinematography by Santosh Sivan and good
performances by all the artists. All the artists were very natural
making the movie more realistic.

The unconventional ending has done justice to the narration.

<|_=00=_|>
First, I will note that this movie is way atypical for an Indian movie:
1h30 long (instead of 2h30); no songs; no glamorous encounters that are
Fate's will to unite 2 persons; no super Tamil hero;...

This is a movie with hidden political plots.

While no places nor important characters are named, one can find out
the utmost realistic background of this movie.

The terror techniques are those of the LTTE: cyanide capsules for not
being taken alive, suicide bombers (LTTE invented the explosive belts.
Other terrorist groups then reused it), children warriors.

I did not understand that this movie is related to the assassination of
Rajiv Ghandi, but after reading such comments, I must agree (the fact
that Malli uses a boat to get to her mission location is a clue that it
is to happen in India; Tamil Nadu, from the language spoken by the
peasants).

When I read some commentators comparing this movie to 9/11, I feel they
are wrong: the LTTE terrorism is not about a godly will, but about
"freeing" Tamil people living in Sri Lanka.

Other commentators asked why there are some black screens when Malli is
thinking hard. Here is my answer: It is related to Vasu's comments
about the seed that need to go into the darkness of the earth to evolve
from tiny seed to a big tree. It is a rebirth of Malli. This fact is
also shown with Malli sleeping more and more in foetal position as the
assassination day approaches.

To be understood fully, this movie requires some background about LTTE,
Sri Lanka, Cinghalese VS Tamil situation...

While this movie is not in my top ten, it remains a good one. Santosh
Sivan proves here courage with a politically engaged movie that is
surely unpleasant to (some? many?) Tamil people. Even in the title of
the movie being "The terrorist" (instead of something like "the
Martyr", "the Hero" and so forth...)
<|_=00=_|>

"The Terrorist" is a non-violent film about violence and the subtlety of
its
camera work and overall direction might remind you of a travelogue rather
than a searing drama about  political fanaticism. The film takes place in
India and yet we don't have any information on what the conflict is nor do
we see the rebel leader whose hand controls all the subversion.  That
really
isn't important but what is important is studying the assassin, Malli, who
has so many close-ups that it border on obsession as the filmmakers try to
reveal the conflicts she has to resolve in her mind, from her eyes
blinking
at the drops of rain to her face to face encounter with her lover soldier
to
her final makeup before meeting her destiny.  Three men reveal themselves
to
Malli at pivotal points and the film underscores it with a technique of
keeping the background unfocused until it is called for - the lover
soldier
who sees Malli as an obscured vision, the boy Lotus who stands too late to
see his fate, and the VIP as he is greeted by the young women.  Never are
explosions seen nor direct killings exposed, we only hear gun shots or the
splatter of blood on the murderer's face or the bloodied machete.  The
film
seems to tip its hand by introducing the likeable 'Mad Vasu' and his
comatose wife with her outstretched hand of comfort but, in truth, we had
no
way of anticipating the ending. You might want to compare "The Terrorist"
to
"Day of the Jackal" or even "La Femme Nikita" but such comparisons would
be
unfair.  "The Terrorist" is a much better film because it allows the
audience to unravel the mind of an assassin, in isolation, without the
prejudice of killed bodies or self-serving violence.  "The Terrorist" is a
powerful adventure into the lonely paths of the human soul.
<|_=00=_|>

I am writing this review after the horror of Tuesday 9/11/2001. All of us
have wrestled with the question of how and why would someone commit such an
atrocity believing that their act was blessed and sanctioned by God
Almighty.

As I asked myself this question I remembered this movie.  I remembered the
beautiful vulnerability of the face of Ayesha as she struggled with her
decision to become a suicide bomber to seek justice for herself and her
people after she discovers that she is pregnant.

Ayesha is able to telegraph every nuance  of her thought and emotion as the
camera slowly, painfully examines every pore of her skin, every lash of her
dark, liquid eyes. While the premise of the film is fundamentally simple,
by
the time the film is over the sacredness of life and wrenching paradox of
its questions has been intimately explored. As raw as birth itself this
film
is a rare piece of poetry.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie should be seen, if for any other reason than to see a story told
with minimal dialogue.  The script couldn't have been more than 30 pages.
Great visuals, and great acting using expression and editing. The only
problem is that the ending should have been cut by about 5 seconds. Once
you
see it you will know what I am talking about.  With little dialogue I was
suprised how enthralled I was. I never once remember feeling like the movie
should move faster.  Worth a view.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is easily one of the best movies I have ever seen.  The idea of
seeing the human side of a guerilla-trained killer is amazing in itself, and
the film lives up to that promise.

Ayesha Dharkar is an extremely talented actress, much more than just a
pretty face.  Her portrayal of Malli gives a real sense of the conflict
between fatal patriotism and personal hopes, as Malli begins to question her
personal beliefs for the first time in her life.  Her rapid softening-up may
be unrealistic, but it is still a haunting performance that causes the
viewer to question, "Could I have made the same choice?".

The other characters play their purposes well, being cold (the guerilla
leaders), frightened (the boy Lotus), or lonely and sympathetic (the old man
Vasu).  However, this is plainly Dharkar's movie.

The score is unlike any I have ever heard, mostly because of the unique
Indian instrumentation and composition.  It does create an incredible
atmosphere of suspense, that grabs hold of the viewer and doesn't let go
until the gripping conclusion.

The combination of these two elements with a well-paced script (seems
neither too long nor too short) makes for an intense film with a lasting
impact.
<|_=00=_|>
My awareness of suicide bombers came slowly. Once it was grossly wrong.
I can barely trace its origins. Conrad's Secret Agent? The myth of the
eager kamikaze pilot? Self-immolating monks during the Vietnam War?
Joan of Arc retracting her recantation? Those last two political in
effect but without collateral damage. Maybe because the rest of us
associate suicide with despair or even illness, because we imagine it a
solitary act preventable by just the right word from a hotline phone
operative, I imagined that suicide bombers in the Middle East and
elsewhere acted spontaneously and alone. As if the first and only
decision could come seconds before boarding the target bus. As if
explosives grew under rocks and leaves. Reading the headlines I'd
perceive anger, despair, courage, but miss entirely that someone,
someone probably with no intention joining in the self-sacrifice, had
to provide not just explosives, but training in their use, and that
along with that had to come if not coercion then at least persuasion,
cajoling, indoctrination.

Much of Santosh Sivan's The Terrorist takes place in a forest as lush
as any Miyazaki's ever penned. Malli's journey to her VIP target is a
fairytale journey. She's a hero. Her sure-to-survive-her mentor purrs
"You're supreme: A thinking bomb." We say that now about tech, about
robotics, but in this context it's magic. Young boys, knowing, gape in
awe of her. Flashbacks to her brother's and to another's deaths imply
that she was born a terrorist so can't possibly feel or deserve blame,
and that her people's war is mystic, without beginning or end. In
flashback, she discovers beside a river a hand attached to a body
apparently dead, but that soon murmurs something "books" and then
"You're a girl!" He's never seen one so close. Gnome-like ferry guide,
Surya: "In the forest every tree, bird, leaf is known to me," but both
continuing and marring the magic: "I know here every mine is." When an
enemy patrol truck hits a mine he hides his eyes: "We must go another
way. There will be blood and flesh everywhere." When Malli kills, he's
distraught, disillusioned. Malli's less squeamish, yet her eyes, like
Surya's, never rest, never stop watching. In the dark river flashbacks
there's a side shot so near her pupil and iris form a huge reflective
orb.

Once she arrives, housed with the philosophy spouting oldster and his
comatose wife in a settlement that seems barely maintained against the
forest, the terror-bound watchfulness, self-protection, and
determination in those huge eyes of hers morphs just slightly toward
curiosity. With soldier-like spontaneity, she reports to her new mentor
the old man's questions, but backs off at the suggestion he's a threat.
She's changed from battle wear to saris, does chores, accepts the old
man's friendliness. When he hints that he knows her mission, she opts,
probably against her training, to protect him.

When she hesitates at assassination rehearsal, the coach prods "Don't
think! Don't think!" The phrase may damn him in the minds of some
viewers, especially us Westerners, but how different is it from Douglas
Adams's sarcastic but supremely reassuring "Don't panic!"?

In the final scene, while she hesitates, flower petals waft across her
hand. There the film ends. We don't know what she does, what happens.
In reality, she's hesitates so long, the trigger is so exposed, that
she might be trapped, might have appeared suspicious. The thing could
go off accidentally or by intent as they rush her. But no matter. The
film has ended. There is no beyond: only a loop back to film's
beginning. All was artifice, myth, hero journey.

I really hesitate, lest I offend about this film's very serious and
timely subject. But just as the near magic lethal forest here suggests
Miyazaki, Malli has no little in common with San, the wolf princess,
Mononoke, in Miyazaki's Mononoke Hime.
<|_=00=_|>
The strong side of "The Terrorist" is its realism, its weak side is its
romanticism. That it has sides that don't integrate is its biggest
problem.

Yes, the personal is political, but it should never subsume the
political. Important social issues and serious collective structures
cannot be reduced to psychology, nor can a specific liberation effort
be universalized. Although this Sri Lankan resistance force is viewed
rather fairly and quietly for a good while, in the end, it's
stereotyped as a manipulative, doctrinaire organization, demanding and
glorifying martyrdom. (It's as if the more individualized and symbolic
Malli becomes, the more generalized and symbolic of terror the
resistance army becomes) But more disturbing is the swallowing up of
the content of the actual movement for social justice of an oppressed
people. What is it that drives this extreme tactic in the first place.
And why isn't this central to Malli's thoughts? And why and how does
angst-ridden thinking under such dire circumstances make sense? All the
hard training, planning and danger involved in such an action gets
eclipsed by all this personal conscience material. And the heavy
reliance on close-ups merely underscores this separation of the
individual from the collective. As does the over the top symbols
engineered through the love story, the pregnancy (sex with a dying
soldier is the winner), and the potential birth--of a son (?).

This is not to say Malli's inner life is not important, but rather that
it's focused on at the expense of the outward world-bound look that is
the pivotal contribution of any social change movement. Who can Malli
be or become without this perception of the injustice and inequality
endured by her people? This whole yes-no Macbeth kind of thing strips
the actual in favor of the universal. What we really want to know about
her, but cannot know because of her isolation, is whether she is a part
of the resistance, and if so, what will be her participation within it?
How does a woman find her place in it? Malli can certainly find a place
with Vasu and with the dying rebel because both men are singularly
un-male (and lend much to the film). But they are also quite removed
from time--one by circumstance, the other by his choice to live outside
the greater social fabric, preferring the path of wisdom to the path of
history, and thus outside the resistance that Malli is tied to. Imagine
a film with Malli and Vasu sparring with each other's opposing
positions or philosophies as she prepares for her action--much more
interesting I think.

PS The provocatively negative title only reinforces the apolitical
nature of the film. (not sure of the Indian title)
