

This is a triumph for Don Bluth! I really enjoyed it. The songs are sweet, &
memorable. Jodie Benson (Ariel, The Little Mermaid) plays the title role, &
she has such a great voice. I would recommend this movie to any family who
is stuck in the Disney collection only rut. Give Thumbelina a
chance! 
<|_=00=_|>

So help me, this is the cutest thing I've ever seen!  I just love this film.
 First time I saw it, I went with my 7 year old brother, and was determined
to hate it - but, well, I just couldn't.  It's soooo cute, and the songs are
so good, and the story is so well told - it's just impossible not to like
it.  

The first thing that I really like about this film is that it (unlike, oh so
many Disney films) is actually very loyal to the original fairy tale by H.C.
Andersen.  They've added a few things, and changed a few details, but all of
the things they changed I had to agree with (hey, why not let Thumbelina and
the Prince meet at the beginning?  It makes more sense for them to already
be in love.  And what's wrong with making the Fieldmouse a girl?  It's Carol
Channing!)  This is very true to the original story - so much more than
Disney's THE LITTLE MERMAID (which was supposedly based off another H.C.
Andersen tale - but you'd never guess it).

The animation is good, it's not the best, but it's fine.  The real star of
this film is the music.  A beautiful score by Barry Manilow helped out by
fabulous voice work.  The wonderful Jodi Benson heads the cast (she was also
the voice of Ariel in THE LITTLE MERMAID) and she is delightful as
Thumbelina.  I've been lucky enough to meet Ms. Benson and I have to say,
she is just the sweetest person you could ever hope to know.  She's got a
wonderful, child-like speaking voice, and a glorious singing voice - just
the perfect choice for the lead.  She's joined in the cast by Gilbert
Gottfried, Barbara Cook, Carol Channing, and (another voice talent from THE
LITTLE MERMAID) Kenneth Mars.  

This film is just beautifully done.  It's faithful to the original, it's
lovely to see, and has a marvelous soundtrack.  I don't care that I'm all
grown up - this is a movie I can't help but love.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that grows on me. When first getting a copy, made
little mark, but after my 3 yr old daughter started requested this
repeatedly several times a day, I've found the songs and animation to
have grown on me. It has much of the enchantment and dreamy themes that
Disney studios seem only to accomplish during those revitalized golden
years of early 90's at Disney. But I trust my daughter's taste, and I
have a new found love now in this 10 year old hidden treasure myself. 

Jodi Benson has a beautiful voice and it may be this is on of the
leading attributes that captures attention the same way her Mermaid
performance as Ariel has done.

I believe the test of a good film, is one that captures year heart and
you can call you're own, and this one has found a way to do that.
<|_=00=_|>
I totally disagree which Pynchov. How dare he say the film was
terrible. The way he describes it makes it sound like a horror movie.
This film was absolutely brilliant. It was fun, enjoyable, enchanting
and had some memorable characters. I have had the video for years and I
would still watch it. The songs in the movie were inspiring and the
scenes were picture-perfect. It was nothing like that totally rubbish
2003 Thumbelina and Tom Thumb film. People must see the 1994
version!!!!! I think the frog characters were excellent and some of the
songs they came out with were really funny. The beetle ball was a great
scene and looked really unusual. The scenes were beautiful. Full of
luscious green fields and beautiful flowers, it was so inspiring! One
of the best characters was Jacquimo! I loved his accent!! Thumbelina
and Cornelius were the perfect fairy tale couple in a perfect
fairy-tale film.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I first saw this movie I have loved it. It grabbed hold of
my imagination. It also follows very close to the original story which
is more than I can say for several other books made to movies. It has
also captivated the imagination of my children. They will sit through
this movie and then talk about it all day. They even pretend to be the
characters. This movie is one of the greatest children's movies ever
made. It has comedy, beautiful music,a love story and it also teaches a
valuable lesson....To always follow your heart and you will have your
dreams realized. I recommend this movie to anyone who is in the mood
for a feel good movie that leaves you with the feeling that you can do
anything if you want it strong enough. I love the songs, I love the
story, I love it all.
<|_=00=_|>

Charming rendition of the familiar tale...
great songs, almost a show...
and not too sticky..
the whole family loves it!
<|_=00=_|>
Keep in mind the comments you read about this movie ARE opinions. Don't
base the movie solely off of those opinions. Rent it, and watch it
YOURSELF instead of listening to any crock or praise that may be posted
about it here.

PERSONALLY....

I enjoy the movie very much. I watched it when I was a tiny little
gremlin, and I still watch it now on occasion. I'm 15 and one of my
silly little fetishes are Disney movies. They're WAY better than the
new ones at any rate. (...and cleaner too, heh.) Thumbelina is a
wonderful Fairytale with pretty songs and the beautiful voice of Jodi
Benson. Fairies, jitterbugs, mice, beetles, fish, frogs, a mole, and a
swallow... all the tiny things. (With some big animals at the
beginning.) I think the main reason why i like the movie is the images,
the color (especially at the end) is beautiful. The story is a
wonderful children's fairytale. I don't know if kid's nowadays would
enjoy it or not, because they have all the Pixar stuff, but my five
year old sister does enjoy seeing it once in a while. I loved it when I
was little (and still do).
<|_=00=_|>

I LOVE Thumbelina! My Mom taped it for me when I was little and I  would
watch it every day. Now my niece does the same thing. I guess it runs in
the
family! A great movie for the family to sit down and watch together or
kids
to watch on their own. If you haven't seen it, SEE IT! YOU'LL LOVE
IT!
<|_=00=_|>
I positively adore this movie. I love all of the songs, especially "Let
me be your wings". The animation is fairly clear, and the story is just
adorable. Thumbelina was drawn most beautifully. I thought the
characters voices suited them perfectly, and I just loved the prince,
Cornelious. 

My friend and I both remember as a child, younger than we are now, we
were on the edge of our seats during this film, and thought it was very
dramatic at the time. Even now, I beg my mother to let me rent it, or
ask if she could purchase it for me. But even more, I like the music
and want the soundtrack. But alas, she will not buy it for me just yet
as I annoy her already by watching it non-stop when we rent it. My
favourite scene was when they danced and sung on the water and were
riding his "Bumble", and I also like the part when he gives her his
ring, and she gives him Forgetmenots. Oh, isn't it romantic?
<|_=00=_|>

  My friend and I sat down to watch Thumbelina last night.  It was her first
time, and I was excited to show it off for her.  She fell in love with it,
and, since I hadn't seen it in a while, my adoration of it was
re-ignited.
  I'll be honest:  you're not going to enjoy this movie if you don't like
animated features.  While there ARE a couple cheesy phrases in this movie,
if you watch it with good humor, you're sure to enjoy it.  This movie wasn't
made for adults, but it wasn't made for little children, either.  I think
that it's best viewed with an open mind and a friend.
  First, I'll start with the animation.  The characters' movements and
appearances are very reminiscent of other Don Bluth films, such as An
American Tail and Anastasia, which is definitely a good thing.  Not only are
all of the major movements very flowing, but smaller things are perfect,
like the twirl of Thumbelina's skirt and the characters' hair.  In fact, if
one looks hard enough, it's noticeable in every aspect:  characters have
little facial expressions, little movements, little changes in their eyes
that fully represent real life.  I'll admit that some of the non-human
characters are a little annoying in appearance and don't fit in perfectly
with Thumbelina, in particular hero, the dog; but on average, they blend in
pretty well.  One of the things I enjoy the most about the animation is that
when a character holds on to something, it actually looks like they're
touching it, unlike in most animated features (in particular, Spirit, but
I'll not hold a grudge against it).
  Secondly, I'd like to point out the scenery.  It's a bit simplistic in
some parts, but it always alludes to something more, and it really makes you
feel as if you were there.
  The storyline, while a little silly, is very entertaining, and I really
tended to feel the ups and downs of Thumbelina.  In some parts, it gets a
little tedious, but in general, it's wonderful.  The movie, in my opinion,
was very romantic, and, in a couple scenes, very, very sad.  There's also
just enough humor to keep the story flowing without so much that it becomes
the main focus of the plot.
  Finally, the sounds are exquisite.  The characters' voices are all
perfect, especially the mother frog.  "Always Follow Your Heart," the main
theme song, is horrible and extremely annoying, but all of the rest of the
songs are great.  "Soon," is very sad and simple, and it fits Thumbelina's
mood perfectly.  "Let Me Be Your Wings," is beautiful and is a perfect song
to reprise.  The first time that Thumbelina and Cornelius sing it, it's very
romantic.  *SPOILER* When she sings it to the mole after Cornelius, "dies,"
it's one of the most tragic and beautiful parts of the movie, and my
favorite.  Finally, at the end, when she sings it in the Veil of the
Fairies, it's haunting, and when Cornelius cuts in and proves that he's not
dead, it's uplifting. *END SPOILER*  "On the Road" is a cute song with a
Latin beat, and is fun to watch.  The song that the beetles sing is a little
annoying, but it's bearable.  "Marry the Mole," is funny and
well-placed.
  Now, my friend is 14, and I'll be turning that age this month, so I can't
honestly recommend it for adults, unless they're young-at-heart and enjoy
cartoons (which, I've noticed, often have a lot deeper themes than most
real-life movies).  If you're about my age, and you don't think that you're
too cool to enjoy an animated film, give it a try.  Oh, and if you're
bilingual, like me, rent the DVD and watch it in French.  They dub the
songs, and everyone adds their own touch to it that makes it just as good as
in English.
