

My daughters (ages 10 and 12) and I love this film, we cherish this film. 
We laughed, giggled, cried, hugged, and bonded.  I highly advise this film
to all mothers and daughters.  Some warnings.  There is a brief scene where
some skinning dipping boys are chasing the girls who have stolen their
clothes.  It begins with a very quick shot of an older boy's penis as he
flips into a pond (I didn't see at first, but my daughters did after
repeated viewings and use of the pause button), followed by a discussion of
male erections by the four girls.  The scene is so well written and handled
that parents could actually use it to break the ice in the discussion of sex
with their children.  I did.  The girls then proceed to steal the boy's
clothes and are chased on their bicycles by the four boys who are seen nude
from the rear.  This scene is played so innocently and cute that a parent
need not worry about it, though I have noticed my girls rewinding that
scene.  A parent should not worry about their children viewing this film,
however, the parent should watch it with their children.
<|_=00=_|>


Now and Then is a good film that has a likeable cast and is funny and
expresses friendship. Yes, it is definetley a girl's movie, but even
though,
I enjoyed it. The movie is like Stand By Me, except it shows girls's
perspectives. The film is a good and fun movie to watch for fun. I give
Now
and Then a 9 out of 10.  :) 
<|_=00=_|>

Now and Then used to be my favorite movie when I was younger and it still
remains one of my favorites. It's about four friends that have made a pact
when they were younger that if one of them ever needed each other they would
be there. Now that time has come. Chrissy( Rita Wilson) is about to deliver
a child and she wants her friends to be there. Roberta( Rosie O'Donnell),
Teeny( Melanie Griffith) and Samantha(Demi Moore) have all arrived and are
about to reunite again. While all this is happening, Samantha is telling the
story of their childhood and how their friendship began. In the younger
days, samantha is played by Gaby Hoffmann, Roberta by Christina Ricci, Teeny
by Thora Birch and Chrissy is being played by Ashleigh Aston Moore. This
movie is absolutely wonderful, it puts me in such a great mood. The story is
just so great, i could watch the movie all over again.It makes you think
that real friends do exist. I would give Now And Then 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

'Now And Then' is about a group of women who return to their old treehouse
and reminisce about the one summer that truly changed their
lives...

With an all star cast, 'Now And Then' features Melanie Griffith, Demi Moore,
Rita Wilson and Rosie O'Donnell, with Thora Birch, Gaby Hoffman, Ashleigh
Aston Moore and Christina Ricci playing their younger counterparts.

Teen star Christina Ricci ('Casper', 'The Adams Family') is great - as is
Ricci's 'Gold Diggers' co-star, Ashleigh Aston Moore - as the mis-informed
Chrissy. Bonnie Hunt ('Jumangi') and Devon Sawa ('Wild America') also
star.

The story is great - plenty of laughs to be had here, with sad moments, too.
The acting is A-Grade (the young girls look very promising) and the finished
product is a film all the cast should be proud of.

<|_=00=_|>
NOW AND THEN, in my opinion, is a very hilarious and touching movie
about the power of friendship. If you ask me, it makes you and your
friends stop and evaluate your friendship. I know it certainly made me
stop and evaluate my friendship with my really close friends. All in
all, this was a very good movie. In conclusion, if you enjoy buddy
movies, and you haven't seen this very hilarious and touching movie
about the power of friendship, I highly recommend it! You're in for a
real treat and lots of laughs, so go to the video store, rent it or buy
it, kick back with a friend, and watch it. If you miss it, I guarantee
you you'll regret it.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a cult classic girl movie and i still watch it today. Although I
did not enjoy the 'Now' version of the film, where the four girls are
grown up and re-uniting, mostly because i feel the characters dont
really like eachother anymore, i loved watching the 'then' part with
the four girls growing up in 1970's USA. The excellent soundtrack
just adds to the uplifting feeling of this film. Watch as we follow
Christina Richie and friends growing up through fun times (Devon
Sawa getting his clothes stolen) and bad times (Richie finding out
how her mum died). Look for an early performance from Brendan
Frasier as a soldier back from war, and Thora Birch before she got
all serious! Excellent film.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a great family flick. It was funny and charming. I watched
this film with my girlfriend, when she picked it out at Blockbuster I
cringed at the fact of having to watch it, but you know, I admit, I
enjoyed this film a lot more than I though I was going to. It was cute,
the plot was good, it actually kind of reminded me of another fantastic
film called "Stand By Me", but in a girl's perspective of course. If
you have young children, heck, if you don't have young children, give
this one a shot. This is a film I think any Female would probably
enjoy. If your a dude, put away all your manly inhibitions for about an
hour and a half, don't expect too much going into the film, and I think
you'll be pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a nice example of a fairly popular genre, the nostalgic growing-up,
adventure on the edge of maturity, friendship bonding thing.
As already mentioned, the adults are irrelevant and add nothing to the film
(not even acting talent).
The roles the girls take are all nicely stereo-typical, the princess, the
prude, the tom-boy, the 'normal' one - they could have been the Spice
Girls!
Anyways, if you want to see a cutsie flick that's nostalgic and fairly
innoffensive, this could be for you.
<|_=00=_|>

In this coming-of-age story set in both the 1970s and 1990s, the younger
cast is brilliant and natural, particularly Christina Ricci and Gaby
Hoffmann. The script soars with female teenage humor, friendship, and
pre-puberty naivete -- a sprightly soundtrack of 70s tunes takes older
viewers down memory lane. But then, just when the story about four best
friends during summer vacation in a new housing development is clipping
along at a compelling pace, SLAM! The film jumps forward 20 years and the
girls are grown-ups. And at these points, the movie groans along like a
garbage disposal with too many potato peels crammed in
it.

Remarkably, the dismal acting of these veteran actresses isn't as bad as
the
lack-luster script during these "flash-fronts". Were there separate
writers
for this film? I usually adore Rosie O'Donnell, but casting her as the
grown
Roberta was a horrible choice. Demi Moore's character is now self-absorbed
and self-pitying, and Melanie Griffin (super-famous actress) and Rita
Wilson
(pregnant homemaker) are insipid caricatures. None of these women are
one-quarter as interesting or delightful as they were when they were
adolescents, particularly Roberta (Ricci/O'Donnell). The film's flipping
back and forth between the decades becomes quickly annoying.

Suggestion: Rent the video, and fast-forward through the adult stuff.
Fast-forwarding the tape won't rob anyone of the film's message (something
like "friendship is forever," or "don't go into cemeteries at night"), and
it'll save you about 30 minutes of fidgeting, waiting for the film to turn
back to the four girls. At least they have fun. And the treehouse they
save
up to buy is every girl's idea of truly cool!
<|_=00=_|>
Having just recently watched "Now and Then" again, I decided to check
out what other people thought. Reading through a lot of the comments, I
noticed that many compared this film to Rob Reiner's "Stand By Me." I
guess I would consider the two to be of the same genre (coming of age),
but, to me, that's really the only thing the two have in common.

"Now and Then" is a fun film. It's got quick and easy laughs that many
(not just teenage girls) people will find humorous. I will say that
"Then" is vastly more entertaining than "Now"; the adult versions of
the characters briefly open and close the story, with forgettable
filler in between. "Then" offers some slight depth of character for the
four girls who embody stereotypes of adolescent girls (the princess,
the tomboy, the sheltered one, the seemingly normal one). "Now" still
embraces those stereotypes (the princess has become an actress, still
obsessed with body image; the normal one has become a writer, who
showcases her intellect by wearing black and smoking). There is no
growth amongst the adults. "Now" is focused on Chrissy's pregnancy and
reminiscing, while "Then" seems to get distracted amongst its various
subplots (unraveling Crazy Pete, watching parents fight, bicker with
boys, watch movies, build a tree house, ride bikes) without ever really
coming to a true conclusion.

For a movie hailed as a "Stand By Me" for girls, the film is lacking in
its overall sincerity. Whereas Reiner's film grapples (and in some
cases overcomes) 'mature' themes like death, acceptance, and
separation, Glatter's film skates over the big issues. "Stand By Me"
captures true childhood friendship (friends help friends get leeches
off their backs) "Now and Then" is only truly poignant, well, now and
then.

I'd recommend "Now and Then" for a time when you are in the mood for
something lighthearted and distracting. I'd second the opinion that
it's great for a girl's sleepover or something. But if you are looking
for something a little deeper and, in my opinion, more true to
childhood friendship, I'd tell you to skip this movie and go straight
to "Stand By Me." Note: "Stand By Me" is rated R; "Now and Then" PG-13.
Both films have great soundtracks.
