
I am sure many people who rated this poorly would rate "Bad Boys" a
phenomenal work of art. This movie, if watched with more than just an
eye for special effects, tells the story of people finding themselves
and becoming a family of sorts. The world in which we live has far too
little depth of character. Yes the movie was condensed in a few parts
but unless you intended it to be a 3 month long movie some parts had to
"wind up on the cutting floor" as one poor soul commented. People just
watch movies nowadays rather than "live" them, understand them, try to
find out what the message was. This movie showed soul, it moves me
every time I watch it.
<|_=00=_|>

With masterpieces like Alien, Blade Runner and the underrated, but superb,
1492: Conquest of Paradise, I am quite a big Ridley Scott fan. White Squall
is something of a let down in comparison, but it certainly deserved more
than a measly $10 million US gross at the box office. As you would expect
from a Scott film it boasts his trademark lavish production quality and
stunning photography. The sequences at sea at some of the most spectacular
ever filmed as Scott revels in the rolling waves and lurching ship, convey
the ferociousness at sea, even in fairly calm conditions like no other film
I can recall. The story however is less successful and is essentially (and
unusually unoriginal for a Scott movie) a Dead Poets' Society at sea, as a
motley crew of young boys, played by a talented and convincing set
youngsters, do a lot of growing during the course of the voyage under the
watchful eye of an Ahab-esque but eventually sympathetic Jeff Bridges. The
final scene most definitely resembles that of Dead Poets' Society. (Captain.
My Captain). However the film as a whole never bores and makes for
compulsive viewing at times particularly the superb storm of the title, that
is both moving as well technical tour de force.
<|_=00=_|>

White Squall

A group of boys joins a sailing vessel to finish their last year of High
school on board of the Albatross. They have to learn to work together and
act as a team, which at first, is not as easy as it may seem. As time goes
by they really become one group and get very close.

This plot may not be to original, and could be stereotyped as cliche.
However, as the story unfolds, it still stays fun too watch and jeff bridges
as the bold sailor, hard but fair, trying to make men out of different kind
of boys, each one coping with his own problems, keeps you
interested.

Though (for some people too) dramatic, me and my girlfriend really enjoyed
this movie. I can imagine some people having difficulties with the dosis of
emotion in this pic. It didn't bother me, i like it when it's well
proportioned and not too cliche, except for maybe the final scene, in my
eyes White Squall lives up to this.

I think this is an enjoyable movie, when you're just lying back on the couch
relaxing and let it flow over you. No difficult story, but it has great
shots and pretty good acting and most of the characters are reasonably
developed.

7,5 (for making us cry)


<|_=00=_|>
I love this film, it about a bunch of boys who either get sent on this
ship to get disciplined by their parents or some just choose to escape
their lives, They take it for granted tho, they don't realise how much
hard work it will be. The ship and their captain take them on a
journey, a journey that will probably change their lives forever,
facing their fears and coming to grips with their lives, they learn a
lot and pull together as a team. A truly moving story and another great
film by Ridley Scott. From struggles to strengths, this is an inspiring
film to watch with many good actors, Jeff bridges is really good for
this role playing a tough, wise teacher for the boys. I love this as it
is based on a true story, it makes it even more moving.
<|_=00=_|>
Well-done movie, with inspirational message, and a hopeful, touching
finale.

Jeff Bridges is a sea captain, owner and manager of a sea-going
school-ship for boys. He runs the school with somewhat of an iron fist,
while also allowing the boys room to grow to be men. It is this quality
that will later cause him trouble. He also has no patience for fools,
or boys trying to deal with their resentment of Daddy. In one memorable
scene, he banishes a dangerously troubled boy who spears a dolphin for
no other reason than he is confused and angry. It is this banishment
which appears to be the thing to finally reach this boy, and he will
later bravely shake off his father's influence and stand up for his
captain and shipmates.

Most of the movie traces their travels, studies and experiences in
exotic ports. Finally, they run into a severe storm, some kind of
meteorological anomaly, which devastates the boat, and takes the lives
of some of the boys, and Bridges's wife. The scene of Bridges seeing
his wife, alive, through the skylight of the sinking ship, powerless to
help or rescue her, is excruciating and memorable.

Bridges is taken to a court of inquiry to determine his responsibility
in the loss of lives. It is during this courtroom drama that the boys
of the school stand up and become the men Bridges' guided them to be.

Generally, men will get this movie, with it's subtle references to
choosing and traveling your own path, making choices of honor, being
responsible for your actions, being brave and standing for whats right,
no matter what. A scene where they are boarded by Cuban sailors drives
this home to the boys very effectively.

A surprisingly effective, touching movie, with solid performances all
around.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie for me is incredible! Since I like Sea and sailing boats a
lot this movie is just right movie for me (like Master And Commander
with Russel Crowe)and I believe for many others who likes Sea and
sailing. This movie presents happy and sad story at the same time. I am
delighted with characters of boys and others, with they relationship
and killing the dolphin was something terrible. Everyone of boys has
own big problems and we can describe that on the way what Chuck said:
"Some of us are here for discipline, some for escape. And the rest
don't even know why. I'm not sure where I fit in, but I can see a small
piece of myself in each of them. I think I'll have friends here, and I
hope this will be home." Very beautiful what he said, right? Ohh yes,
and sound effects in movie are excellent in my opinion. I was enjoying
the movie with great pleasure!
<|_=00=_|>

Well, maybe it isn't that bad. Some moments are touching, others genuinely
harrowing. And Jeff Bridges always comes up with something surprising. But,
"true story" though it may be, "White Squall" is overwhelmed by its obvious
schematic and Ridley Scott's signature gloss. Each young crewmember has a
stamped-on singular defect, Scott Wolf's tomcruisy precociousness is
particularly grating, and for all the magnificent ocean scenery and blather
about boys being forged into men, we're shown precious little of the
day-to-day grunt/teamwork that's at the core of the whole business. Add to
this the greatest assemblage of immaculate white t-shirts and bronzed,
hairless torsos since Abercrombie met Fitch, and a potentially gritty,
moving story lies trapped in amber.
<|_=00=_|>

I quite agree that it is a Dead Poets Society set at sea. It is a mistake
to
classify it as an Action Movie. It's about building trust and group
reliance
with some action scenes. The development of mutual respect between the
boys
is quite believable The acting is excellent in all cases. As a Jeff
Bridges
fan, I was surprised I'd never heard of it before it appeared on late
night
TV. The last looks exchanged between the captain and his wife are about
as
good as they get. Not a really great movie but I found it well worthwhile
as
a non-fan of action movies. 
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this film at 12:00am last night (tuesday 15th Nov) as it was
the best of a bad lot. With nothing else on the box I thought I'd give
it a go. And how glad am I that I did? Slightly glad. But not
desperately.

To be honest I thought that it was a reasonable film; adventures on the
high seas have to do something to become different from the rest. The
use of a freak weather event may seem like an oceanic take on day after
tomorrow, as I thought it would be reading a summary ahead of watching,
but actually the weather took up a very short amount of time. A lot of
this film was devoted to the rite of passage that the boys/ young men
go through before they reach the "white squall" itself, and this allows
for the typical moving goodbyes to trapped loved one as the ship sinks.

This is just one of the reasons that I didn't give this a higher
rating. The corny moments did make me squirm, and the moment when Frank
(one of the young men) rings the ships bell in court sent the
"corn-o-meter" off the chart and caused, to be honest, a feeling of an
anticlimax. There was of course the sterling speech from our hero
narrator, which we come to expect when a friend/mentor/good guy is up
against a court, but the inclusion of the bell ringing did perhaps sway
me towards an even lower rating before I reminded myself of the good
moments of the film.

There are some very believable performances all round, and I did
especially like the old grizzly English teacher, with his insatiable
love for his subject. Jeff Bridges does give a good performance and the
young narrator, Scott Wolf (did anyone else think he looked a little
bit like a very young Tom Cruise) did a good job as well.

All in all, it's a good film to be watching at 12 o'clock at night, but
it does sink into mediocrity as soon as dawn breaks and you can find
something worth watching. Not a must see, but not awful by any
accounts.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film on TV for the first time last week.  Although the story
line
was a little weak, the  film sequences at sea  were excellent, particularly
the final storm (white squall) in which the boy actors portrayed the
reality
of the tragedy.

Jeff Bridges gave a good performance as the captain whose task was to
instil
discipline and develop the characters of the boys in his charge.  However,
some members of the crew were miscast.

I highly recommend this film.


