

Disclaimer: If you are a viewer that mainly prefers arthouse-type movies,
then you might as well ignore this review. In addition, if you're not able
to take a few sci-fi leaps of faith, ignore this review, as well. We'll
both
be better off.

This is the finest action movie of all time. And, yet, believe it or not,
it's not the action in the film itself that makes this be the case. This
is
especially odd in a movie with a $100 million budget (in 1991!), with
multiple huge explosions, with thousands of bullets fired, and scores of
stuntmen used.

This movie is what it is, a perfect 10, because it takes the vision of one
of the most imaginative directors on Earth, and realizes them almost
perfectly with all the tools that fit the task -- actors, stunts,
puppetry,
models, and CG. Without the vision, this film would be nothing. Without
the
tools, this film would be nothing.

But, a little bit of background is due. This is the sequel to the
Terminator
(1984), whose premise was that a near-indestructible cyborg is sent by
evil
self-aware machines from the near future to destroy the mother-to-be of
the
military commander who would lead the humans to a victory over the
machines.
Oh, and this terminator machine would come from a time of war between men
and machines which followed a nuclear exchange that left billions of
people
dead, first. In Terminator 2, John Connor (the commander-to-be) is about
12
years old, and his mother (Sarah) is feverishly trying to prepare him for
his fate, even as she tries to stop the factors that will lead to the
nuclear war and the entire terrible future that made all this necessary.
The
machines now send a superior, more intelligent, shape-shifting cyborg
(T1000) into the past, to kill John himself. Meanwhile, future-John
reprograms the ex-evil Terminator (T101) from the original film, and sends
him into the past to PROTECT John against the T1000.

That's your basic plot. It does involve travel into the past, so it
immediately presents a time-travel paradox which can't really be resolved.
In order to even try watching this movie, you MUST LOOK PAST THE PARADOX.
If
you don't, this movie has zero credibility, and is not worth your
time.

What happens after the two terminators appear in the past is a wild ride
rife with macho action, dark reflection on the nature of man, and a few
rays
of hope, here and there. Schwarzenegger (the good terminator) and Patrick
(the bad one) make for such effective foes that the times they meet
on-screen are completely breathtaking (and odd, given that you repeatedly
see the relatively slim T1000 through Arnie through a wall or two).
Hamilton, as Sarah Connor, is a wonderful character -- tough beyond all
belief and completely focussed on preventing the nuclear war and ensuring
John's safety, yet clearly a little out of her mind with paranoia and
anger;
amazingly, you see actual character development (specifically, when John
and
T101 arrive at Dyson's house to prevent her from doing what she wants to)
in
her otherwise 2-dimensional character. And Furlong, as John, is not bad
himself as the extroverted kid who's confused by the fact that everyone
except his mom tell him his entire upbringing was based on a lie. The bit
players all do their jobs well, particularly Earl Boen who plays the
semi-sadistic mental hospital warden that stands between Sarah Connor and
her son (until the T1000 makes a chilling entrance).

With these players set in motion, it's up to the script to deliver the
real
substance of the movie. (One often sees great performances in mediocre
films... here the story transcends the performances -- an impressive
feat.)
The script delivers. The film is absolutely filled with great, classic
moments (I counted TEN all-star ones during my last viewing), and they're
evenly spaced through the movie. I mean, who doesn't cheer (at least
inside)
when Arnold steps out of the biker bar, fully clad in leather when "Bad to
the Bone" music starts to blast? The guy absolutely bleeds coolness. And
the
T1000 absolutely bleeds evil. But, with so many great moments, you'd think
the pacing would be a little uneven... not really! The film shifts from
place to place with an ease that makes perfect sense, never giving you the
time to start being a little nitpicking jerk, always driving forward, but
always doing so thoughtfully and with attention to detail.

Of course, this wouldn't be an action movie without some action. There's
plenty of it, and it's perfectly done. The CG effects for the
shape-shifting
T1000 were cutting-edge for the time, and still look great (whoever said
differently below is simply incorrect) -- even if they're completely
commonplace today. The stunts are completely insane in scale (at one
point,
a helicopter flies under a highway overpass; at another, a motorcycle
jumps
from the 2nd floor of a building into a flying chopper). (Probably, only
the
Matrix and the Lord of the Rings movies compare in terms of the level of
stunt insanity.) And the gunplay is delivered in perfect
Cameron-Schwarzenegger style (as opposed to the slo-mo John Woo-style) --
you'll see lots of heavy automatic and explosive weapons, and you'll see
them used well. The film is violent, and somewhat bloody, but ALL of the
mean-spirited violence is dealt by the evil characters, not the ones you
root for (Quentin Tarantino fans: sorry). And then the truly amazing
scenes
that bypass acting are shocking and memorable -- just wait until the
nuclear
detonation sequence.

I'm not sure what else you would want in a movie. Probably moral content,
and the movie has a very clear pro-human, anti-war message. The message is
a
bit stale, and the delivery IS, at times, a little heavy-handed (and some
moments with the T101 seem just a bit unrealistic, towards the end), but
the
movie has heart, and that you cannot deny. Plus, it simply rocks.
10/10
<|_=00=_|>
A Terminator(Arnold Schwarzenegger) was sent from the future to kill
the unborn son of Sarah Connor(Linda Hamilton) in the original. Now,
that Terminator has been sent back again but with a different
assignment: Protect John Connor. John Connor(Edward Furlong) is now
about 10 years of age and must evade a new Terminator sent to kill
him;The T-1000(Robert Patrick). Sarah, John, and The Terminator journey
together on their quest to stop Judgement Day, with a trailing,
shape-shifting Termiantor trailing from behind.

This is the greatest of the Terminator trilogy. I have watched three
times in the past year and have not found anything that Cameron could
have improved on. The move is a masterpiece in every aspect of film.
Schwarzenegger's acting might not be incredible but this is the perfect
role for him. He isn't supposed to show emotion or feelings. He is a
machine. I hate almost every one of his movies besides this trilogy
because he is a horrible actor but he works perfectly into this role.

The special effects are incredible beyond belief. The shape-shifting
T-1000 is some of the greatest animation I have witnessed in cinema
history. It absolutely blew my mind when I first experienced this
visual extravaganza. The animation looked so real(remembering this was
a good ten years). The movie included fast-paced action along with some
clever sci-fi drama/horror. The idea of a vast army of machines taking
over the world after sending off warheads to every major city should be
scary enough. But the T-1000 has very little lines and is just creepy
enough to make twitch when you see him.

Sci-fi movies can rarely be made in such way that can be looked at as
works of art. This is one of the few exceptions. The prediction of
judgment day with Hamilton watching a playground full of kids be burnt
to the ground is an absolute brilliant portrayal of Armageddon. The
theme that men will destroy themselves is also shown throughout the
movie also and is even said by The Terminator" It's in your nature to
destroy yourselves". This brings the movie to a whole new level of
sci-fi.

Overall, Termiantor II: Judgement Day is an absolute must see classic.
If you have not seen it, buy it! Because once you have seen it, you
will want to do so anyways. It is fast paced and highly enjoyable for
just about every audience.

I highly recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This superb sequel surpasses the excellent original in every department
and quite simply you won't see a better action film. Set 15 years after
the original Arnie may return as the good Terminator trying to protect
John Connor but he's a redundant piece of scrap metal compared to the
T-1000.

The opening hour and the last half hour is absolutely breathtaking with
action sequences that still remain unsurpassed. Their's also a
wonderful piece of storytelling 3/4 of the way through where Dyson
relises the terrifying consequences of the project he's neglecting his
family for.

The performances are memorable particularly Linda Hamilton's Sara
Connor and simply put, they'll never make a better action film.
<|_=00=_|>
Who said sequels aren't any good? "Terminator 2" is the ultimate
sequel, a big bad wolf ready to chomp the head off of anyone who
crosses its path. It's dark, it's mean, and it's one tough movie. It's
not as bleak as the first film, at least in terms of visuals, but
rather has a new kind of bluish-tint that supplies a great backdrop to
the ongoing battle between man and machine.

If there was ever a contemporary mainstream visionary director, it is
James Cameron. Here we've got Cameron's real thoughts on the series,
those repressed by a low budget in the original film. He lets loose
here, filling every frame with hard-boiled action and special effects.
He introduces a liquid metal Terminator that he wanted to use in the
first film, but graphic processors and CGI were not advanced enough in
1984, at least not advanced enough to work on the low means he had to
film the original. So his original dream is finally unveiled, and good
golly, is it wonderful.

Yeah, he's "back." Arnold (like he needs any introduction?) returns as
The Terminator, Series T-101, Model T-800, an indestructible cyborg
sent from the future to assassinate Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) in
the first film. Well, it's 1991. New film. New mission. He has to save
the future resistance leader of mankind who will ultimately defeat the
machines of the future, John Connor (Edward Furlong), Sarah's
11-year-old son. (Though his age has been switched from 11 to 13 and
back to 9 over the years, with no help from the third film that takes
place in 2003, yet claims he was 13 in 1991 though his age doesn't
match with his age in the third. We'll just leave it at 11 in this
film. Got that?)

Another model Terminator, the T-1000 (Robert Patrick), has been sent
back to 1991 programmed to annihilate John Connor. Which explains
Arnold's appearance. Arnold, an undoubtedly lesser opponent compared to
the T-1000, has to help save the day and learn to appreciate humanity.
It won't be easy. First, he has to find John Connor, who is a
rebellious angst-driven pre-teen living with foster parents. Then,
together they have to break into the local loony hospital and release
Sarah from the clutches of Dr. Silberman (Earl Boen), who believes
Sarah is delusional. (You may remember Silberman as the psychiatrist
from the first film, too.) Then, they have to stop a computer chip
designer (Joe Morton) from creating the first version of a SkyNet
computer, modeled after a destroyed chip his employment company
discovered at a large mechanical warehouse. (Which is, of course, the
chip from the destroyed T-800 of the first film.)

Whew. On with the film analysis, right? Where to start? This isn't as
fierce or brutal as the first film, but it's got plentiful action
sequences, a large budget, great special effects (even compared to
those gracing the screen nowadays), not to mention a great character
study of the machine we loved to root against in the first film. Of
course, this Terminator has no memory of the first film, since he
wasn't in it--SkyNet creates hordes of the same version machines on a
large conveyor belt and ships them off to fight in the war. Some are
sent back through time. So, with that in mind, John Connor's resistance
found an extra Arnold lying around in an abandoned warehouse,
programmed him to keep John Connor out of harm, and sent him through
the time portal.

Sarah doesn't trust him. In a deleted scene available on the Ultimate
and "Xtreme" edition DVDs, Sarah says, "You don't know what it's like
to try and kill one of these things!" It's an important scene that
should have been left in the final cut. In it, Sarah is about to
destroy the machine's central processing chip located inside his head,
when John stops her. It's important because it focuses on the fact that
Sarah still doesn't trust him, and came close to destroying him purely
out of prejudice, without giving him a chance. As much as I don't like
it when people go on about hidden meanings in films that obviously are
not meant to have hidden meanings and are purely little flubs made by
directors unrightfully analyzed for deeper meaning(s), "T2" clearly has
an underlying message: One, don't judge a book by its cover. Read it
first. Two, if an emotionless killing machine can learn to appreciate
life, why can't everyone? And three, the most important fact of all:
Never mess with a muscular man who walks into a bar completely naked
and requests your clothes and means of transportation.

I suppose the question on most interested viewers' minds is this: Is
"T2: Judgment Day" better than its predecessor? Well, in some respects,
yes. In others, no. It lacks the fierce brutality and darkness of the
first film, but makes up for it with spectacular visual effects and
action sequences. It lacks the horrific central focus of the first film
(futuristic, indestructible cyborgs with no feelings being able to
unemotionally kill), but it makes up for this with a new focus of
humanity, coming to accept your future, and how it would look if two
colossal killing machines entered into an arena together.

In some ways, I like the first better. But then I think about the
second film and I have a hard time choosing. I suppose if I had to
choose I'd choose the first film. And let me just state for the record
that I'm glad I don't have to choose.

5/5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Normally when people tell you about a sequel that was better than the
original or just as good, Terminator 2 is always guaranteed to be in
their list; why? Because this is THE action movie of all action movies,
next to Die Hard, this is the movie that isn't just about the action as
well, but has an incredible story and message behind it that will
always stay with you. Terminator 2 like the first Terminator film has
memorable lines, moments, and incredible effects. This is the film that
made you believe in "liquid metal" machines. Robert Patrick's
performance is flawless, to be honest I found him a million times more
terrifying than Arnold in the first Terminator, because Robert looks
like this normal average guy, but he's not like Arnold where he gets
shot and you can clearly see he's a terminator, Robert goes back to
human looking and won't stop. Not only that you don't know how to stop
him. Linda Hamilton returns and gives a great performance as Sarah
Conor who is no longer a meek little girl, she has turned into a strong
woman who will do anything to protect her son and the future. Arnold is
back and he's better then ever! No wonder in the future they made
several terminators that look like him, he's great entertainment.

Eleven years after Sarah Connor destroyed the original Terminator that
was programmed to kill her, two Terminators arrive in Los Angeles from
the year 2029. The first is a Terminator identical to the one that
Sarah first encountered, while the second is a new model which assumes
the identity of a police officer. John Connor is now a 10 year old
living with foster parents. Sarah's experiences have made her tougher
and more vigilant, but also desperate to warn humanity about the coming
apocalypse. After attempting to bomb a computer factory, Sarah is
arrested and remanded to the Pescadero State Hospital for the
Criminally Insane under the supervision of Dr. Silberman. Meanwhile,
the Terminators locate John Connor in a mall. After John is rescued and
a chase through the L.A. storm drain channels, the original Terminator
escapes with John on his motorcycle. The Terminator explains that he is
reprogrammed by the future John Connor to protect and obey John's
younger self. The other Terminator is a T-1000, an advanced new
prototype programmed to kill John. It is made of "a mimetic polyalloy",
a liquid metal that allows it to take the shape and appearance of
anything it touches. It can also form into knifes and stabbing weapons.
Learning that the T-1000 will likely kill Sarah and then mimic her to
lure John, John orders the Terminator to help free her. Initially,
Sarah is terrified by the Terminator; but after seeing it fight off the
T-1000, she accepts that they need its help. As they escape the city,
the Terminator informs John and Sarah about Skynet, the sentient
computer system that will nearly wipe out humanity in an apocalyptic
nuclear attack on "Judgment Day".

Terminator 2 is one of the best films of all time, this is a film that
I absolutely adore and if someone hasn't seen it, there's something
seriously wrong. This story is a special one: humans, are we our own
worst enemy? Arnold's line "It's in your nature to destroy yourselves"
is something that always sends chills down my spine because it's true.
I loved the relationship between Arnold and Eddie Furlong, interesting
to see a terminator take the place perfectly of a father and you see
the pain in Eddie's eyes of never wanting to let go of the terminator.
Like Sarah Conor said " The terminator wouldn't stop, it would never
leave him. It would never hurt him or shout at him or get drunk and hit
him or say it was too busy to spend time with him. And it would die to
protect him." meant a lot to me. Like I said, if for some odd reason
you have seen this movie, do see it! I promise you that it's just an
excellent film and one that will always stand out against cinematic
history.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Terminator 2 is the best film I have ever seen hands down. It surpasses the
original in almost every way except the first film had a darker moodier
atmosphere. But Terminator 2 has much much more, more character development,
better acting strong direction, and THE most amazing visual effects ever!!!
Cameron's and Schwarzenegger's best movie. A true classic.
The Best!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Terminator 2 perhaps shows that Cameron was at least was cognizant of
life and its meaning. I mean, this IS the movie where the end of the
world has the most impact outside of Dr. Strangelove, right? One of
those outstanding dream scenes in movies, one of the ones that actually
works because it's true in its savage simplicity, Linda Hamilton's
Sarah Connor sees herself in her 1984 waitress get up with baby John in
a playground and then everything gets wiped out by the BIG BOMB
(Dmitri) that also incinerates Hamilton into BBQ.

So it's with this kind of thought that Terminator 2 means to be the
most kick-assingest blockbuster of its (or all?) time while trying to
keep the loss of life very small - or, rather, the "Bad" Terminator who
was designed by the wizards at ILM can kill to its mission's content -
I mean, DAMN, it still looks great, and in its silver-liquid-chrome
simplicity much more, for me, impressive than the clanging junk of Bay
disasters. It's arguable, of course, that the Terminator (T-800) does
kill some people, incidentally, or, you know, all that gas from the gun
he shoots could make some people really screwed up but, hey, "He'll
live" is enough.

But if Cameron is "soft" at all here, it doesn't show too much... well,
okay, Lil' John (hehe) does squeak and squak those early 90's
amorphisms "No Problemo - chill out - listen to Kriss Kross - etc", and
Edward Furlong is one of the things that just does not hold up here.
He's serviceable at best, annoying at worst. He can cry okay though.

But it's Arnold, in his swaggering low-key and then with an occasional
grin awesome leading man turn, and especially Linda Hamilton who make
this tight script so compulsively watchable. Hamilton makes Connor into
what Cameron likely saw in his one-time wife/collaborator Bigelow - a
take-no-prisoners soldier who can take charge and has muscles and can
probably knock you upside the head (maybe that's why they divorced, he
couldn't take all that woman... but I digress, at any rate he moved
around a lot till his current wife) And there is also a vulnerability
still to Sarah that makes her so endearing. 

She can never be completely hard, though time and experience and the
dread of what's to come had scarred her, so by the time she has the
chance to kill the Man Who Destroys The World, she can't do it. A scene
like that is probably more emotionally gripping than so many other
scenes that try in these blockbusters (something like Days of Future
Past, which is a cousin of this flick, gets there). The fact Hamilton
wasn't able to parlay such high caliber performance work into a better
career is kind of sad, but at least this stands as a benchmark of a
woman action hero, one of the two Cameron Wonder Women really.

So, blast your Guns N Roses, say hi to the kid from Salute Your Shorts
(that's him, right, Connor's friend in the first act?) and ride your
motorcycle through LA - it's a bad mother-jammer of a blockbuster that
holds up enough to look over its faults (i.e. some dialog isn't tight,
like the voice-over, it's alright but whatever - perhaps it was
ambitious enough to best The Perfect Action Movie, which the first
Terminator just was).
<|_=00=_|>

What can I say about "Terminator 2: Judgment Day" that hasn't been
better said already? All I can say is that when I first saw the movie
(at only 9 years of age) it had an effect on me. It blew me away! It
opened up my eyes, and even at the tender age of 9, made me realize
what I wanted to do with my life: I wanted to make movies, and I wanted
to make movies like "T2". 

As I'm watching the film, I glance over at another patron and this
woman, her eyes wide, was gripping the arms of her chair so tightly I
thought they were going to break. When I saw that reaction, that
mind-numbing, adrenaline rush of pure excitement, knowing that that
movie had them completely, that is when I knew I wanted to make movies
and give people that same reaction.

And now, over 10 years later, "T2" is still my favorite film of all
time and I watch it religiously. I have written several scripts and
treatments all because of "T2" and I have tried to match that exquisite
balance of wonderful story/interesting characters/jaw-dropping
effects/non-stop action.

"T2" was the sole-guiding factor in my life - because of it, I KNEW I
wanted to make movies in any way, shape or form.

If you'll excuse me, I seem to be running out of air. Gotta watch "T2"
a little bit more...

<|_=00=_|>

I am not a big fan of sequels,as most of them disappoint,but
T2
certainly does not.In fact,it's a rare case,at least in my
opinion,
of a sequel actually surpassing the original film in terms
of
greatness.As in 99.9% of his films,Arnold Schwarzenegger is
the
good guy once again,but you don't mind once you witness
the
incredible villain performance of Robert Patrick.This film is
nothing
short of a beginning to end thrill ride.Let us not forget
the
talents of Linda Hamilton and Edward Furlong,who gave great
supporting efforts.Thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

WOW! The best word that describes this movie is "wow"! Not only to say
that this is the best Action movie of all time, this is probably one of
the greatest movies ever made . The people in my country watched this
film when there where limited VHS cassettes at all. And again, my
favorite Director did an timeless epic-masterpiece. Yes, an epic. Every
scene in this movie is beyond the perfection. The timeless plot.
Groundbreaking effects. Unforgettable "Hasta la vista, baby." .

Perfect direction for a sci-fix action film. When the action starts,
you're in for the ride of your life. There never be the same movie like
T2. What else I can say about this film? A Must see for everyone.
