

I'm not going to say that this is a great movie, or even a great horror
movie.  A more appropriate way of saying it might be that it's an
interesting movie.  Those poor filmmakers, they're starting to run out of
Stephen King novels to make into movies, so they have to turn to his short
stories.  Usually this means what should have been a 30 minute movie is
drawn out into an hour and a half or longer.  But in the case of Mark
Pavia's "The Night Flier", story works because Pavia is able to expand on
King's original story, and he also seems to have a bit of talent as a
director.

Most people complain that Miguel Ferrer's character, Richard Dees, is too
mean, or something like that.  QUIT COMPLAINING PEOPLE!  He's suppose to be
an utterly heartless, sleazy, sorry excuse of a person.  You're not suppose
to feel sorry for him at all as he descends to insanity.  Instead having
such a terrible lead character is suppose to pose the question whose the
real monster?  Or, actually I think it'd be more accurate to say, whose the
real hero?  Is there a hero?  Ferrer pulls off the performance perfectly,
making a character that could make James Woods or Clint Eastwood whimper in
fear.  Unfortunately the rest of the cast doesn't do so well, and this pulls
in the movie down a little way.

Anyway, Pavia himself has a talent for gloomy atmosphere, with his overcast,
gray skies and quiet music and always just slightly-off-angle photography.
He expertly subdues the beginning 2/3s of the movie and then throws a
bloodbath at us.  It's a very well planned and a shocking move on his part.

"The Night Flier" kicks into major gear towards the end.  The final, final
conclusion is a little weak, but it really couldn't have ended any other
way.

Overall, the couple flaws drag "The Night Flier" down to a good but not
great movie, but the really cool climax and other elements make up for it,
and make it a good time.  Be warned, it won't leave you feeling happy or
good.

<|_=00=_|>

I'm not really a great fan of vampire movies, in fact there are very few
that I could actually name that I like, nonetheless I rented ‘The Night
Flier' because the DVD cover looked rather interesting but I still didn't
expect much from this movie.

Richard Dees (Miguel Ferrer) is a journalist for a sleazy and morbid weekly
publication named ‘Inside View' and is assigned to cover the story of a
mysterious pilot who flies into rural airports and kills whoever is there,
draining the victim of all their blood. At first Richard doesn't want the
story but after seeing how big a story it could be and also wanting to put
ambitious young journalist Katherine (Julie Entwistle) firmly in her place
he accepts the assignment and goes in search of information on the killer he
later nicknames The Night Flier.

I was very surprised by the quality of this movie. Currently I am moderately
wary of Stephen King adaptations and with it also being a vampire movie my
hopes were not particularly high. The first ten minutes or so of ‘The Night
Flier' are fairly slow moving and rather tedious but that soon changes as
‘The Night Flier' becomes a quite adept thriller. It's not a typical vampire
movie and that is probably why I enjoyed it. Instead, ‘The Night Flier' is
more of a crime drama as the movie is directed towards uncovering the killer
rather than stopping the killer. This makes it an interesting thriller in a
way and despite some noticeably gory scenes stays away from the obvious idea
of concentrating solely on the killer's activities. Tension is built up
exceptionally by not concentrating too much on The Night Flier. The way the
movie plays out gives it a strong purpose as it leads to a blistering
finale. What we are left with is a story about a man on the edge who will do
anything to get his story. The character of Richard is a bitter man,
possibly socially maladjusted and one has to question whether he is in some
way disturbed by all that he has witnessed in his life? He shows mental
strength in his pursuit of success and seemingly fears nothing, showing no
compassion or sympathy for the feelings of others yet there are still
moments when he comes across as a much `softer' human being. Miguel Ferrer
does an excellent job of portraying Richard and his performance in the last
ten minutes of the movie is almost profound. The ending is brutal, in some
ways shocking and definitely not what I expected. By the end it becomes
obvious that there were two levels of horror working in this movie that came
together well to leave us with ‘The Night Flier'.

There were flaws with the movie though, a couple of plot holes and many
unanswered questions, though perhaps that the intent was to leave an air of
mystery over the movie. Apart from Ferrer I don't think the movie was well
cast as most of the other actors didn't really seem to fit the tone of the
film. Furthermore, despite many great make-up effects there were also a few
(one in particular) that looked awful and seemed to be totally out of place
with the rest of the film. The movie was also a little slow in places and
does not really get very good until about a third of the way through. These
few faults though aren't really enough to harm the enjoyment and whilst this
may not be to everyone's liking I personally believe it to be a well made
and appealing movie. My rating for ‘The Night Flier' –
7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I really don't understand all those nay-sayers."Night Flier" in comparison
to the recent so-called horror movies about vampires is pretty good.It's
quite scary,it's suspenseful,it's pretty gory and it's a good time!I hate
modern vampire flicks like "Blade" or "From Dusk Till Dawn"-they're simply a
big-budget Hollywood garbage with an overdose of special effects.Unlike the
other reviewers I like the character of Richard Dees-this guy is so
wonderfully mean that it's impossible not to like him.The acting is decent
and the special effects are okay.As for the gore,there is plenty of blood in
"Night Flier",but the violence is not excessive.However gore-hounds should
be pleased.Make sure you find this one!Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Richard Dees is a reporter and he is a vampire because he works for a
tabloid and earns his living by writing lurid stories and taking sordid
pictures. He's got a despicable job and he is getting sick of it. Dwight
Renfield is the Night Flier and he is a vampire too, but he is a "real" one
– an evil and supernatural creature feeding itself on humans. He flies from
one airfield to another across the U.S. on a black, private aeroplane. Of
course he always leaves bloodless corpses behind him and Dees ends up
chasing him with his tape recorder and camera. When they eventually meet,
the vampire doesn't really feel like killing one of his kind, and he is
ready to let him go. Yet Dees proves his curiosity will always make him
chase people like the Night Flier and he will bitterly regret it. At the end
of the film, everybody will see and remember Richard Dees as what he really
was, that is to say a nasty character living on people's suffering. Well,
this film is a great B-movie. The story is exciting, Miguel Ferrer is
excellent and the film has no Hollywood-like happy ending. I strongly
recommend it to anyone looking for a nice thrill and a few gallons of
blood.
<|_=00=_|>

A great Stephen King novel adaptation that scares the pee out of you.
Vampire are some of the greatest characters ever thought of. This movie
provides you with great dark imagery and a very creepy story. This flick
dazzles the eye, and stirs your imagination, as you sit paralyze with fear.
A definite must see for any horror genre fan.
<|_=00=_|>
You can say what you want about Stephen King-movies, but there's always
just enough talent and budget involved to not make 'em look cheap. In
THE NIGHT FLIER this talent mostly comes from actor Miguel Ferrer and
SFX-artists Kurtzman, Nicotero & Berger. Ferrer is an often overlooked
actor who most of the time only gets supporting rolls. But he'll always
be edged in my memory as go-getter Bob Morton in Paul Verhoeven's
ROBOCOP. Now he gets the chance to star in the leading roll in THE
NIGHT FLIER, and he proves that he can carry a film. He was just
perfect as the arrogant sleaze-reporter Richard Dees.

There's a mysterious figure flying in a black airplane and landing on
small airports at night. He leaves behind him a trail of mutilated,
blood-drained corpses. Richard Dees, reporter for the cheese & sleaze
magazine "Inside View", is put on the case. So he gets in his airplane
and starts following the same route as the vampiric murderer. Meantime,
a rival reporter (the rookie Katherine Blair) is also assigned to write
a story about it...

The plot is nothing too complicated, but it's built up nicely and even
manages to be a bit scary from time to time. It all leads to the
enjoyable final scenes at the last airport. The vampire is mostly kept
in the dark throughout the movie, which helps to build-up a little
tension. But don't worry, you'll be satisfied when you see it's ugly
scary face in the end. Which brings us to the work of our beloved
KNB-crew. The special make-up-effects are very decent and quite gory
too. And I also liked the fact that the vampire is able to mess with
peoples minds.

Okay, there are some improbabilities concerning some events in the
plot, but lets not make a big deal out of it. Just take it as it is:
It's a decent Stephen King-adaptation and a good vampire-movie, nothing
more nothing less. So switch off the lights and fly with it.
<|_=00=_|>

Spawned from a short story by famed novelist Stephen King, "The Night
Flier"
presents itself as a mystery that never strays far from
horror.
I honestly believe that this could be one of the most creative films of
the
'90s.  The dark and menacing tone keeps the viewer entranced, while the
mysterious elements keep them guessing till the end.  The plot is
coherent,
and never truly strays into cliches.
Production values, including special effects, for this film are
exceptional
when compared to similar made-for-cable movies.  The cast is led by a
composed and disturbing Ferrer, though the rest of is forgettable.
If you like horror films that are inventive and complex then this film may
very well suit you.
<|_=00=_|>

I didn't expect this movie to be very good, All of the recent Steven King
movies have not been very good, but this was not like him at all. It is a
fantastic horror movie. I recommend it for any horror lovers...this is a
great one.
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILERS! ! !

Armed with only a camera and a tape recorder, slimy journalist Miguel
Ferrer
hunts down a murderer known as The Night Flier, named so because he
travels
from location to location in his airplane.

The movie starts out like more of a murder mystery, and is very
interesting
to watch, as you are never told exactly what's going on, although when
corpses with bite marks on their necks start to turn up, it gets fairly
obvious. Ferrer tracks The Night Flier from location to location taking
photo's of everything related to the case. As aforementioned, it starts
like
a murder mystery. It truly is tense, gory, and exciting, all at the same
time. A lot of the story is told in a stylish sort of flashback, which
adds
to the tension as well as the overall style of the movie. The creepy music
and ambient sounds add to the atmosphere, and the fact that we don't see
the
Night Flier right up until the end also builds tension.

Ferrer plays the emotionally challenged journalist expertly, showing the
characters physical weakness, but mental strength to succeed. The whole
affair builds to an anti-climax, which I won't spoil - suffice to say,
it's
not a Happy Hollywood ending.

The Night Flier is by no means the greatest horror film out there, but
then
again, it's not a mainstream Hollywood movie, so it never will get the
recognition it deserves. It certainly gives the viewer a lot more than the
recent King flop Dreamcatcher, and is definitely worth a look, especially
for those looking for a decent horror or vampire movie.

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a notch above most King films.

I own the DVD of this film and I have to say that Director Mark Pavia did an
excellent job with this film. Especially with the end. The end is a great
tribute to George A. Romero's style but it goes further and becomes creepier
than anything I've seen in recent memory. I caught the last fifteen minutes
of this film on cable one night and I was hooked. I remember thinking wow
what a stylish film what the hell is this? So I researched and found out the
title and bought the film.

The film suffers from a lame screenplay and some stiff acting. Miguel Ferrer
was excellent, as was Dan Monahan. Michael H. Moss and Julie Entwisle were a bit stiff. All
in all this is a good horror movie and the DVD transfer is sharp
and the colors are precise. The sound balance is natural, without
over-placement of artificial sound effects.

Watch it alone on a stormy night!
