

 City Slickers entertained me enormously when I was a teenager because it
has some good, solid laughs. Nowadays, as I approach my thirtieth birthday
with frightening momentum, it still entertains me but it touches me too.
That's probably what makes it such a great film: the skillful intertwining
of humour, emotion and action.

 New Yorker Mitch (Billy Crystal) has reached crisis point in his mundane
life. Bored by his job in the lower reaches of radio broadcasting and
frustrated by the alarming rate at which years seem to be passing him by, he
senses that his life has been a failure. His two friends, Phil (Daniel
Stern) and Ed (Bruno Kirby) buy him a two week vacation for his birthday. No
ordinary vacation, mind... a fortnight driving cattle across the Wild West,
just like in the good old days. And it is while on this extraordinary 
vacation that the three buddies learn how to make the most of their mixed-up
lives.

 The performances are uniformly excellent, especially Crystal who is in
sharper form than ever before (or since, come to think of it) and Jack
Palance as the leathery trail boss whose simple philosophies are
surprisingly insightful. The scripting is outstanding, giving all the stars
a chance to do some good character development, while providing terrific
laugh-out-loud moments too. The film works on other levels too: the music is
stirring, the photography spectacular and the editting very sharp
(especially in a superb scene in which Crystal tries on an assortment of
ill-fitting cowboy hats, only to opt in the end for his trusty old baseball
cap). City Slickers is great entertainment, and one of the truly timeless
comedy masterpieces from its decade.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw this film I
thought it was a piece of wasted
Hollywood fluff. Then I watched it
again for some reason and liked it a
little more. The third time I watched
this film I became hooked. City
Slickers is wonderful fun. Billy
Crystal is perfect in the mid-life
crisis role and Jack Palance has
been waiting for this part his whole
career. Ron Underwood did a great job
with this one. It seemed cliched at
first, then I realized it is a great
original piece of comedy film-making.
<|_=00=_|>

Billy Crystal puts on a fine show in the comic western 'City Slickers'. This
is a consistently funny and thouroughly enjoyable comedy which stars Billy
Crystal, Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby as the 3 middle aged friends who take
a vacation in the west and get into all sorts of carry on with cattle and
Curly the cowboy. Crystal is a fine comedian and he certainly shows it here.
Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby do well too and there is an excellent show from
Jack Palance as Curly. There was also a sequel made called 'City Slickers 2
The Legend of Curly's Gold'. This was just as good and I also recommend it
if you like this. But see 'City Slickers' a classic comedy
western.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS Every generation's men have one thing in common. Whatever the
age range is, every man who has ever reached a certain age on this
planet has gone through a mid-life crisis. Whether they have it when
younger, or around the early forties, we all go through a period when
we question what we've done with our lives and feel trapped. In 1991's
often daft, and regularly inspiring, "City Slickers" our three heroes
all learn to appreciate life as they drive a herd of cattle to
Colorado.

Mitch Robbins (Billy Crystal) feels old. Waking on his birthday, he
finds himself feeling trapped and miserable. His friends Ed and Phil
(Bruno Kirby and Daniel Stern) also have problems in their lives. For
Mitch's present, he and his two friends go on a cattle herding holiday
to experience a childhood dream. When there, Mitch meets the stone
faced Curly (Jack Palance) who helps him to find himself again.

From the animated beginning standing out as a tribute to the Pink
Panther series, "City Slickers" has more magical moments than you can
count on your hands. Whether a hilarious line that you want to write
down to remember, or a visually stunning scene to the film's excellent
main score, you think of "City Slickers" and it's possible to think of
a moment to treasure.

The acting as well is top notch. Yes, it's true that Billy Crystal is
one of these actors / comedians that you love or hate, but along with
"When Harry Met Sally", this is one of his finest hours. Ultimately
though, it's not Crystal that should be remembered. Bruno Kirby as Ed
Furillo is a revelation, demonstrating a skill for humour and
sentimentality at the same time. Again though, Kirby, despite giving
such a good performance, is overshadowed by the stunning performance by
worthy Oscar winner Jack Palance. Winning the award for best supporting
actor (38 years after his nomination for "Shane"), Palance is
impossible to criticise as the mysterious Curly.

Key to the success of "City Slickers" is that simple fact that it truly
is an inspiring film. It's possible to create a long list of films
which can be described as 'inspirational', but there's just something
extra about this film which really hits the spot. Scenes where the
three friends ride their horses to the amazing score, they just hit the
spot and you find yourself wishing, even if just for a second, that you
could be there. It's magical.

Some people don't like Billy Crystal as an actor. That's fair enough,
that's their choice. Crystal is one of those who you do enjoy watching,
or you want to hit him. In "City Slickers" though, he pulls out one of
his finest performances. Helped by the flaw free Jack Palance and the
brilliant Bruno Kirby, Crystal leads the way in this often funny, often
inspiring and always enjoyable film. If you ever needed a film to smile
and feel alive to, this is it.
<|_=00=_|>

Excellent. Funny, romantic, coming-of-middle-aged, must
see.

I had some difficulty trying to categorize this movie. It is extremely funny
most of the time, but has an underlying emotional element throughout the
film which can send you to a reminiscent mood at times. The beauty of this
film is that it explores an uncommon theme among movie makers - the bond
between male friends which is just as strong as the female version, but not
discussed as often.

Billy Crystal plays a typical bloke in that uneasy period between being "one
of the lads" and being "old"  i.e. coming up to his 40th birthday. We are
drawn in to the lives of all the three main characters with the ups and
downs of having lived it all, settled down, and remembered what our youth
was like. To get an escape by going away with your old friends once a year
to relive your youth - sorry ladies, but all us guys do it now and then -
provides an excellent theme for this movie made better by the fact that most
viewers will relate themselves to at least one character in the cast, from
the lively funster who always has the bright ideas to the quiet lad who
secretly looks forward to finding out what his mates have lined up for him
this year. The fairer sex are not in any way left out of this character
identification with characters from the middle-aged housewife through the
feisty-but-dull teenager and back to to good ol' Old Dear - all smiles,
reliable no matter what life throws at you.

Without giving too much of the story away, it's difficult to say any more,
other than I voted this movie 8 out of 10 and if you do decide to watch it,
feel free to complain to me if you don't enjoy it - I don't expect any
complaints for this recommendation :-)
<|_=00=_|>

There really aren't enough good things I can say about this film.  The story
is absolutely fantastic, the acting is great, the cast is superb and the
comedy is hilarious!  The films' story is very entertaining and keeps you
interested from the first second to the last.  This is basically a film
about finding out what is important in your life and what means the most to
you...and also having a few good laughs along the way.  Not only that, but
there are actually quite a few touching scenes in this film as well.  Also,
just as a side note, I love the opening credits to this film.  It isn't
often that I can say that about a film.

The director, Ron Underwood, really out-did himself with this film.  I've
seen 4 of his 6 theatrical films so far and absolutely LOVED 3 of them
("Tremors", "City Slickers", and "Mighty Joe Young", the fourth one,
"Speechless", I have only seen once and I hardly remember it)!  I can't wait
to see his next work.

All the cast members involved in this film were excellent in their
respective roles.  The main characters are played so well and have such
great dialogue that you really feel like you know the characters.  This is,
without a doubt, one of my top 3 favorite films starring Billy Crystal (the
others being "Monsters Inc." and "When Harry Met Sally").  Billy Crystal is
absolutely hilarious in this film, I laughed incredibly hard the first time
I saw the film (and still do).  Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby play the
perfect buddies to Billy Crystal in the film and really have great chemistry
between the three of them.  Jack Palance is another great touch in the film.
 The entire supporting cast was excellent as well, I won't get into each one
though, because there are too many to list.  This film also yields a very
young, up and coming, Jake Gyllenhaal of "October Sky", "Donnie Darko",
"Bubble Boy", "The Good Girl" and "Moonlight Mile".  Jake does a great job
as Danny Robbins.

One other thing I think I should mention is the music in this film.  All the
music is perfect!  You can tell that the music was chosen very carefully for
particular scenes and it works so well.  I really enjoyed all the music in
this film.

This is another one of those movies that I highly recommend to everyone! 
There are so many good things about this film, I strongly recommend you see
it.  I hope you aren't disappointed.  Thanks for reading and happy
viewing.

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

City Slickers-was when I first saw the previews many years ago, nothing I
thought I'd be interested in.  Then I saw it. I was very much mistaken, I
got into this right away with enthusiasm-this isn't just a good movie, I'd
call it very good or even great. I didn't expect the depth and the beauty of
the storyline that I got. One of the best movies Billie Crystal has ever
made.

City Slickers had moments of comedy that were actually funny. Really really
funny. In addition, the emotional element that went along with the comedy
just made it a that much more satisfying movie going experience. This is a
movie that stands out by combining fantastic humor with a touching and
relatable story about three friends and the search to find who they really
are as people. And that this all takes place in such stunning surroundings
just completes the movie experience. 

The dialogue was real and relateable and what was done so well, was how all
encompassing the movie was-comedy,western,drama-everything was combined here
and the results flowed perfectly smooth and were great. This script was
superb.

Identity is an issue that all people struggle with at any age-the way these
people spoke to each other were probebly very close in nature to
conversations going on right now. The cinemotography was magnificent and the
characters were believable to the point where you either feel like you know
them or you'd like to. I think that's enough reasons to dig the movie! In
short-City Slickers is a surprisingly excellent movie that garners a 9 out
of 10 for me and can be enjoyed by all.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is for anyone who needs relief from a crisis, middle-aged or
otherwise.

Three buddies head down the trails to relieve their midlife crises. They
wind up sharing the adventures of a lifetime. I have enjoyed this movie each
and every time I have seen it. The comedy is pleasant, and you will not
exhale during the river rescue scene.
*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

This is one that I think every guy should see at least once. I could
really
relate to the character of Mitch's questioning his job, and wondering what
he should be doing with his life. I thought the movie frankly starts out
with a rather serious mood, relaxed by the characters joking about their
situations, but I liked that a lot. It makes you think about how heavy the
responsibility of providing for a family really can be. The humor is
totally
great in this film as well. Crystal especially had me laughing all the
time.
And as others have said, it kind of surprises you how the story gets
pretty
emotional down the stretch. Almost cried, but not quite. I just watched it
for the first time last weekend, gave it a 10, and look forward to
watching
it many times in the future.
<|_=00=_|>

"City Slickers" is one of those curiosities that is just good pure
entertainment that works in spite of itself. Billy Crystal is going
through
a mid-life crisis. It is time to get away. So he goes on a trail ride with
friends Daniel Stern and Bruno Kirby. What follows is a funny film that is
full of outlandish delight. Oscar-winner Jack Palance dominates in a very
short role as the man hired to look after Crystal, his friends and a group
of interesting characters. Charming little film. 4 stars out of
5.
