

I love this movie and have watched it more than any other film I own. What
makes it for me is the subtle face acting of the two leads whose comic
timing is perfect. Meryl Streep and Goldie Hawn have never been so good
(plus this is the only film in which Bruce Willis doesn't do his trademark
smirk even once).

Every role is played to perfection and the script is a comedy work of
art.

I won't bother defending it to those people who need their jokes hammered
home to them by comedy actors whose only way of getting a laugh is to gurn
and fart. Each to their own.
<|_=00=_|>
There is so much greatness in this unexpected Hollywood comedy that the
cheap shots are really cheap and, quite frankly, unbearable. Buried
somewhere between the special effects (extraordinary by the way) is one
the wittiest satires to come out of Hollywood in many, many moons.
Meryl Streep is sensational and Bruce Willis is, I swear,
unrecognizable in the best possible way. The movie hits the highest
moments when, for instance, Meryl asks Isabella Rossellini how much the
magic potion costs and Isabella replays: "Oh the sordid topic of coin"
sublime, exquisite, funny but with enormous regard for its audience.
But when Bruce calls Goldie Hawn to explain the "incident" at home he
goes through a TV style monologue that seems to belong to a sit-com and
not to the elegant vulgarity of this three sad, magnificent wannabees.
The dialog, for the most part, is the best in any American serious
comedy since Billy Wilder. The structure of the script is flawless and
inventive. The costumes are atrocious and certain scenes seem directed
by a 3rd assistant. I don't know how to explain it. However, I have it,
I own it and sometimes I put it on with my finger in the fast forward.
What's good is so good that makes the whole thing really worth it.
<|_=00=_|>
I never saw "Death Becomes Her" when it first come out because of a
review I had read somewhere. The review was dismissive and made a lot
of sense, so I decided to give it a miss. What a terrible mistake! This
is a movie I would love to see on a big screen. The script is so
brilliantly clever. Disguised as a silly comedy there is a world of
serious themes executed by a knowing cast. Meryl Streep in particular,
playing convincingly an actress without talent. I remember the bad
review criticized the writers for setting the story in a rainy, stormy
Los Angeles when California was going through a drought. Imagine if a
comedy about magic potions should worry about the accuracy of the
weather. In fact the Los Angeles of "Death Becomes Her" feels more like
Los Angelers than most realistic movies and it does it with nerve and
wit. "In 12 years in Los Angeles have you ever seen a neighbor?"
screams Meryl to his mousy Bruce. An absolute delight. Other hidden
treasures are a cameo from Sidney Pollack and a very funny and very
sexy "76 years old" Isabella Rossellini. A new cult classic and a total
must.
<|_=00=_|>

I must have seen this film about 15 or so times now. I love the vain,
shallow characters of Madeline and Helen who are the ultimate example of
what might happen if you took the advice of our "obsessed-with-perfection"
media to its illogical conclusion. Meryl and Goldie play their parts with
unrestrained enthusiasm, pushing them to the limit to emphasise that these
two who believe they are truly beautiful are, after all, just caricatures of
perfection. 

Like Icarus, Mad and Hell take no advice and pursue the unattainable
regardless of the cost. That they see every mountainous obstacle as a mere
minor inconvenience helps reinforce the humour of the film. Bruce Willis is
marvellous as Ernest, the unhappy mouse caught in the middle of their game;
the voice of reason amid lunacy.

The writing is witty and sometimes painfully sharp, emphasising in almost
every scene that beauty does not equal happiness, and the closer you come to
attaining an obsessively pursued physical perfection, the further you get
from real happiness and fulfillment. Stylistically our attention is focused
on this concept over and over again, with mirrors and reflections used very
creatively throughout the film.

We don't see a lot of clever satire these days, which is a pity. This is a
fabulous film.
<|_=00=_|>

Death becomes her has a really good idea: what would it be like to live
forever, stay young and beautiful? I don´t consider this movie gives an
answer to that, but it represents one over-exaggerated view - a particularly
well-carried out view. Goldie Hawn and Meryl Streep make an unique
performance and fit perfectly to their roles. Interesting was also to see
Bruce Willis in so different kind of movie I have used to see him. The plot
was a little bit too easy to guess beforehand, but I didn´t mind. Just
great!
<|_=00=_|>
When I first watched this movie, I felt like it is just one of those
movies that I would give a 6 score. But I found myself watching this
movie again and again. As conversations or question of immortality
arises, I found myself quoting or referencing the movie.

Because the movie is so watchable after so many viewings, I think this
is a classic movie. It is about two woman trying to steal a man and
fighting over their differences and jealousy. These woman wants to
pursue immortality while another man wants to choose mortality and live
a full life. It is the question of superficiality and immortality that
struck me deep. The other issue is the desire to find that fountain of
youth at the same time. The issues are as old as time. How do you feel
when someone comes to you and say "You are old!". That was one of the
phrases when a young man complains to Meryl Streep. These are some of
the things you will ponder.

Bruce Willis really surprise me this one as he no longer plays the
tough man image. While Goldie Hawn and Meryl Streep play great opposite
roles as the two jealous fighting women who fight over differences and
yet have to live together inspite of it. Yes, I have people I really
detest and must live with them. Therefore, a lot of issues in this
movie really hits me deep.
<|_=00=_|>
"Death Becomes Her" is over 20 years old but I bet it took a potion to
remain splendorous for ever. Everything ages, even special effects but
the elegance and wit of most of the dialog remains fresh and brisk. "I
wasn't the sort of girl who could say the word sexual without blushing"
tells Goldie to poor, emasculated Bruce - What happens to Bruce's face
is just brilliant. He can't believe it. He is excited and terrified at
the same time. A new DVD blue ray edition is overdue, with lots of
extra features, please. Why haven't we seen more work like this? I'm a
great fan of Martin Donovan and David Koepp, the writers, and this was
their second and last collaboration. Koepp went on to write Jurassic
Park and Mission Impossible and directed the delightful Ghost Town and
Premiun Rush. Martin Donovan does extraordinary work with actors at
Playhouse West and the Director's Playhouse of Los Angeles. I sat at
three of his sessions and I left inspired and breathless. I asked him
about "Death Becomes Her" and our exchange will be posted in his
Message Boards here on IMDb. It made me want to see the film again,
immediately.
<|_=00=_|>

This was way fun. One of my favorite guilty pleasures. All the actors are
in
top form here and I loved Bruce, Goldie, and Meryl. This is truly a
classic
in the black comedies. The score was terrific, set design fantastic, and
all
around excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
I mean, I doubted this movie at first from the beginning in Broadway.
But as it progressed, I was laughing so hard on certain scenes like
when Dr. Menville is reporting the murder of Madelyn and she suddenly
gets up and starts walking toward him. It was too funny and the effects
were so phenomenal. I mean literally. But then again, it won an Oscar
for its effects. I mean, the fight scene where the 2 start fighting
with shovels and Helen breaks off the metal end of Mad's and she throws
it right through her. "Yes! I mean No! Oh Damn!" That scene was just
side-splitting. Overall it was a good black comedy and I'd recommend it
to anybody. And Robert Zemeckis, I never knew he did such a great movie
because he's a head producer for Dark Castle Entertainment and he's
done some pretty bad movies from there like Ghost Ship and Thir13en
Ghosts. But wow, he has really made an excellent movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, call me crazy but wasn't this the first film that anyone had ever seen
Bruce Willis play a character that didn't involve him blasting bad guys into
the air with a machine gun? Don't get me wrong, I loved "Die Hard" and am a
big fan of Bruce but it was just so refreshing to see him play a character
that was so different to his previous (and, indeed, later) roles. His
performance of the downtrodden, weedy "Ernest" is masterful as he strikes a
perfect balance between the comedy and darkness of the film. If you like
black comedies (like me), you'll love this! Whoever thought of casting such
a genius combination of these three great actors in this film should be
applauded. Hawn and Streep are excellently cast as the two feisty women
competing over Ernest, desperately hanging on to their long-gone youth and
stopping at NOTHING to get what they want - the bitch fight between the two
gals is a scene NOT to be missed!

All in all, "Death Becomes Her" is a deliciously dark comedy with a
brilliant cast, great direction and some pretty convincing special effects -
considering it was made way back in 1992!
