

This was a slow moving but interesting story about a 50 something bohemian
photographer named Connie Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea) who is a serial
seducer
of impressionable young women.  His seduction is not really about sex,
although that is part of it.  Instead, it is more of an emotional
seduction
that involves his creating a symbiotic mentor/protégé relationship that
puts
him in control while feeding his ego.  His latest conquest is Harper
Sloane
(Sarah Polley), a recent college grad from a wealthy family who is all set
to go to Harvard Law School.  Clearly lonely and vulnerable and not used
to
the attention of men, she falls prey to the charms of this free spirited
older man and eschews law school to run off with him and live the artsy
life.

Director/writer Audrey Wells, whose best previous writing credits were for
"The Truth About Cats and Dogs" does an excellent job bringing this story
to
the screen in her directing debut.  Her shooting of the scenes was
sensitively done and brought forth a lot of the emotional elements of the
story and the characters.  It is clear that this was a labor of love for
Wells, but as is often the case, directing one's own work takes away the
objectivity about the script leaving most of the plot problems
intact.

It is believable that an insecure girl could be lured into a relationship
by
a charming older man who overtly appreciates her and believes in her
abilities.  May/September romances (or more aptly in this case
April/August)
are common and usually happen for all the reasons depicted here.  The
biggest problem with the story was the introduction of Billie (Gina
Gershon), one of  Connie's earlier alumni, so early in the story.  Billie
warns Harper of the specific manipulative lines that Connie uses
repeatedly
with each of his love interests, almost by rote.  She gives great detail
right down to the way he touched her and the fact that he calls them all
Guinevere.

At that point, Harper does exactly what one might expect, she leaves him.
Shortly thereafter, the story loses all credibility as she eagerly goes
running back to him, knowing full well that she is being totally and
impersonally manipulated.  The entire relationship after that waits for an
emotional explosion that never comes.  The whole thing just sort of
withers
away with the eventual breakup being no more than a fait accompli.  The
breakup scene was weak and cowardly, which detracted greatly from the
dramatic potential.  If Wells had put Billie's scene closer to the end of
the story to create the last straw it would have been more
effective.

Wells also misses a great opportunity to add fireworks by not emphasizing
Harper's relationship with her mother (Jean Smart).  There was a natural
emotional tension between the two and she was the one character who had
complete clarity about the relationship.  Finally, without giving too much
away, the gathering of the five Connie alumni at the end was a bit goofy
and
highly implausible given the gravity of the situation.  However, Wells
does
eventually redeem herself with a good ending and some of the best imagery
of
the film.

Sarah Polley was well cast in this film and exuded the pure naivety of a
young woman inexperienced in the ways of love.  She was wonderfully
awkward
and vulnerable and it was very believable that she could fall prey to the
ministrations of an older man.  Polley has a Winona Ryder quality about
her
and has excellent potential as an actress.  It remains to be seen if she
can
break out of the role of quirky teen.

Stephen Rea was hopelessly miscast in this role.  He didn't have the
emotional horsepower to play this character.  His acting is somewhat stoic
and wooden and this character needed to be charming, passionate and
obsessive.  The part required an actor more like Michael
Caine.

The best performance of the film goes to Jean Smart as Harper's outspoken
and gregarious mother.  She completely steals the movie with her
confrontational scene with Connie, explaining to him why he can't make it
with women his own age.  She is terrific in every scene she is in and the
fortune cookie scene is fantastic.

Overall, I rated this film a 7/10.  This film will probably be most
appealing to men over 50 and women under 25.  None of the flaws were
fatal,
but the pace was slow and the plot implausible in parts.  That detracted
from an otherwise engaging story and some very good technical filmmaking.


<|_=00=_|>

The young Canadian actress Sarah Polley can sizzle in character parts--she
burns a hole in the screen in her tiny bit in Cronenberg's EXISTENZ, and she
was luminous as the princess in the wheelchair in THE SWEET HEREAFTER. But
in leading roles, she seems both brittle and amoeboid. As Harper, the
insecure and overlooked daughter of a family of cutthroat lawyers, she has
one amazing scene--being seduced, her reactions fry out her speakers,
sending from giggly hysteria to overdrive lust. Harper is seduced by an
aging bohemian wedding photographer (Stephen Rea)--a lush who talks a big
game, pontificates in bars with his low-rent cronies, and makes a sport and
a pastime of mentoring (and groping) avid young women. But we don't see any
hunger, any passion or obsession in Harper. When the photographer, Connie,
tells her she has talent it's an obvious pick-up line--not because she
hasn't done any work, but because she shows no interest in anything but
being noticed.

The writer-director, Audrey Wells, doesn't show much interest in anything
else, either. The author of the scripts for GEORGE OF THE JUNGLE and
INSPECTOR GADGET, her first indie feature has more than a whiff of the
dilettante. Like AMERICAN BEAUTY, GUINEVERE likes to flirt with the idea of
having an "edge," then shies away from it. Both of these movies are just too
damned clear. The pleasure of that seduction scene is that Harper responds
in ways that are messy, funny, unprogrammed; every other scene in the
picture makes its point in letters so bold the thickest member of the
audience couldn't miss it.

You can take the girl out of the studio, but ain't no way you're taking the
studio out of the girl. The lechy photographer's big sin--the thing that
makes him evanesce in Harper's eyes--is that, at fifty, he's still stumping
and hustling for cash. Can Audrey Wells really intend that it's okay for
Connie to be a serial phony, an ego-inflating come-on artist, but his real
Achilles' heel is that he never made real money? (Wells' point seems to be:
Connie gets Harper's tender young flesh--he could at least pay the bills.)
Every scene is so blandly overdetermined it reeks of falsity--especially the
much-applauded one where Harper's bitchy mom (Jean Smart) comes into
Connie's loft and undoes their relationship with a single cutting
observation. (Would these lovers react with such shock to such an obvious
accusation?)

For someone making a movie about the romance of the artist's life, Wells
seems to have no clue how artists talk to each other, or even behave--she
seems to think that's egghead stuff the audience won't care about. But it's
that, not sex, that's supposed to be the fundament of Connie and Harper's
relationship. Despite Rea's and Polley's efforts, the movie drowns in
big-movie timidity. And the ending--a Felliniesque princess fantasy where
all of Connie's sweet young things gather for an All That Jazz adieu--maybe
intended to be tender. It comes across as a final, passive-aggressive
flipping of the bird to a half-forgotten, dirty-minded
teacher.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm putting this in here not so much for the purposes of explaining or
reviewing, but for 1) giving other haters of Guinevere a place to check
in, and 2) entertaining those who love to read negative reviews of
movies they know they're going to see anyway.

Poor, pathetic Harper, literally hiding in the closet at her sister's
wedding, her hair mussed and her bride's-maid dress sagging off her
shoulders. "You've obviously mistaken me for someone with potential,"
she barely manages to squeak to the wedding photographer, in one of the
multitudinous lines of on-the-nose dialogue in this self-conscious,
overwrought clunker.

Somehow this bright, beautiful 20-year-old has managed to get through
her entire life, including four years of college, without once meeting
a person who has affirmed her intelligence and her creativity, even
though she's smart enough to have been accepted into Harvard Law.
Similar ironies occur in real life--the beauty who thinks she's ugly,
the overachiever who thinks she's not doing enough--but at some point
you lose interest in a character who's either got some serious
personality disorder or whose creator (the writer) imagines that weird
gestures and speeches can take the place of psychology.

The beautiful, bright girl proves utterly vulnerable to the seducements
of the wedding photographer: an older, less-promising, often insolent,
and lecherous man who says things to her like "You can do it" and "You
must learn to detest the bourgeoisie." Oh, I don't remember if he
actually said *those* things, but his utterances are so much hogwash
that only an impression of nonsense remains. Harper is introduced to .
. . coffee houses! She listens to . . . jazz! Someone actually asks her
about her ideas for the first ever time in her whole entire life! To go
back to the biographical thing, how did this girl ever get the liberal
arts education required to enter Harvard Law without someone at least
once eliciting her opinion on something? And probably admiring it?
Without ever having a lively conversation with intellectual and
creative types? Without ever laughing? Without going through that whole
fascinating-older-man thing about ten times? Without getting a glimpse
outside the world she came from? 

Unlikely, weird scenes get slapped on, one after the other, without any
progress in character or conflict. She throws herself on him hungrily.
She moves in. He insults her, she runs away, she insults him and then
comes back, they insult each other and reunite. When he's at his
lowest, she goes into a frenzy of taking his picture, presumably off a
roll of film with about 200 exposures on it. Then she gets him into
focus and relents with a whimper.

Ultimately, the photog turns out to be every bit as bad as he promises,
and perhaps a little better since he's principled enough to send her
away when it's at the point where the relationship can do nothing but
drag her down. Fast-forward to so many years later and she's giving him
the last and only thing she can: her best wishes for a good death. The
scene drags on and on, and ends with his dissolution into heavenly
white light. Why? Whose story was this? "He was the worst man I ever
met. Or the best man I ever met." This ham-fisted summary, I suppose,
is supposed to be a specimen of brilliant, tortured, complex ambiguity.
To me, it's a failure to make a stand, an excuse for the writer to dump
a truckload of contradictions into a character then sneak away without
explaining any of it. And why end with him? Again I ask, whose story
was this?

Audrey Wells, you're a fraud.
<|_=00=_|>
I suspect the theme of this movie is a relatively common fantasy among
"mature" single men. Namely, find a very young woman who needs guidance
and love, attach no strings, and plan on her leaving as she grows up.
"Guinivere" is hard to watch in places, especially as the couple
arrives in L.A. and it becomes crystal clear to her what her man really
is all about. However, it is a well-done study of human needs and
conflicts. And ultimately, resolutions. 

Guinivere's mother's analysis is spot-on, mature women just don't have
"awe" of this dysfunctional photographer, and that's why he is always
with a much younger woman.

I gave this movie "8" of "10". Not because it is fun to watch, but
because it does such a good job of exploring family relationships and
individual growth.

Oct 2006 addition: Seeing part of it again today, I realized something
which escaped me on first viewing. The first time he asks her to pick
which of two photos is best, he was just setting up the rest of his
ruse. He used it as a trick of sorts to make her believe she had a
photographic talent.
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw of this film at the Montreal World Film Festival.  Stephen Rea
and Sarah Polley were in attendance.  You could not ask for two better
actors.  Rea plays a 45-50ish photographer who seduces 20 yr. old Sarah
Polley to give up her law school career and become an artist and his
live-in- lover.

The director and writer,  Audrey Wells,  also directed and wrote The Truth
About Cats and Dogs.  I intensely disliked that film because it was
implausible,  not grounded in any reality,  and because even the luminous
Jeneane Garafalo couldn't save it.  Audrey Wells also wrote Inspector
Gadget;  clearly,  her writing leaves something to be desired.  In this film
she manages to put interesting situations (May-September romance / high vs.
low class) forth but whenever they approach any hard edges here comes the
soft humour or easy way outs or just plain ambiguously unrealized character
motives.  Polley's character would get to say one disturbing or strong
thing,  then have go on acting so obviously well below her & her character's
intelligence.  

I consistently thought scenes were misdirected and that the writing gave up
on itself and fell into cliche,  sapping it of any force it had.  And with
the potential force between these two great actors never realized it was a
sad loss.  This is no Lolita or Educating Rita.  Consider even the
ballyhooed scene were Jean Smart,  in a good job,  takes down Rea's
character in front of her daughter (the 'awe' scene.)  The camera focusses
intently on Smart's malice.  Think how much better that little diatribe
would be if we were watching *Polley's* reaction while hearing the
*mother's* words.  That would be a real dislocation.  Then we could see the
full range of which Polley is absolutely capable.

Also,  the soundtrack music was very synthetic and touchy-feely and it
worked completely against the (potentially) creepy aspect of the film, 
until the white-light hogwash of the end.  But if you liked all that
white-light business in "Kissed" & if you could tolerate the preposterous
situation of Cats & Dogs, then maybe you will like this film. As it was,  I
found it singularly unconvincing,  the moreso as it went
along.

ps. Sandra Oh is very funny with the two minutes of screen time she gets. 
Sandra Oh is always excellent.  If you want to see a good Sarah Polley &
Sandra Oh film,  rent "Last Night".  It's brilliant.  For Stephen Rea,  look
forward to his next Neil Jordan film.
<|_=00=_|>

Guinevere: Harper Sloane (Sarah Pollack) is a painfully shy young woman
trapped in a household of lawyers lorded over by an alpha-mother (Jean
Smart) who treats her like a servant.  Destined to attend Harvard law school
and join the pack, Harper finds her salvation in Connor Fitzgerald (Steven
Rea), part-time photographer/philosopher, full-time con-man Svengali. 
Connor actually listens to what she says and offers her escape into an
exciting bohemian lifestyle.  Will he be her salvation or
downfall?
 
There are shades of Leaving Las Vegas in this film - it is dark and at times
unpleasant - one scene in particular made me so uncomfortable I turned away
from the screen.  To its credit, Guinevere,  like Leaving Las Vegas, is also
a very good film.
 
Sarah Pollack is outstanding as the withdrawn Harper (in stark contrast to
her brazen, street-wise savvy Ronna in Go!). Although she's actually twenty,
she looks fifteen, which helps to convey a believable vulnerability and
transformation.

Rea is truly manipulative as Connor, more pathetic than sinister, who preys
on young women - you're never quite sure if you should loathe or pity him.
Finally, Jean Smart does an excellent job as the hard-as-nails matriarch,
miles away from her smarmy character on Designing Women.

Well worth the price of admission.

<|_=00=_|>

All of the characters were honestly portrayed and I think that Ms. Wells
has
put together a very moving and appropriate piece. The dialog is witty and
very natural. Plot and dialog aside, this film is worth watching for the
performances alone! Stephen Rea and Jean Smart are both amazing and anyone
who had doubts that Polley is bound for greatness should see this
film!
<|_=00=_|>

	A young woman living in San Francisco, who has just been accepted to
Harvard, decides upon another path after meeting and falling under the
influence of an older man, an artist, in `Guinevere,' written and directed
by Audrey Wells.  Sarah Polley stars as Harper Sloane, who lives with her
career oriented, rather self-absorbed family-- her parents, Alan (Francis
Guinan) and Deborah (Jean Smart), and her older sister, Susan (Emily
Procter).  Rather self-conscious and unsure of herself, Harper has allowed
her parents to plan her future-- a career in law, though it is decidedly
against her own wishes.  Then at Susan's wedding she meets the photographer,
Connie Fitzpatrick (Stephen Rea), an artist, who quickly gains her
confidence and lures her into his own bohemian lifestyle.  She moves in with
him (unbeknownst to her parents, who think she's staying with a friend for
awhile), and he becomes her mentor; she is his `Guinevere,' and the only
demands he makes of her is that she `create' something every day.  The
choice of her artistic endeavors is entirely up to her; photography,
painting, writing, dancing.  but she must create.

	Inevitably, of course, their relationship develops beyond the
mentor/protege stage, and she learns some things about him that ultimately
lead to complications.  And she discovers that her reign as Queen Guinevere
may not be all that she had expected it to be.

	Wells convincingly presents the allurement of a lifestyle free of
constraints and overwhelming demands, which makes it quite understandable
that the indecisive Harper would choose to go with Connie, rather than
adhere to the wishes of her parents, who are rather cold and impersonal and
altogether controlling (especially her mother).  The fact that Alan dotes on
Susan and could seemingly care less about Harper, as well as Deborah's
apparent lack of actual concern for Harper, qualifies the facility with
which Harper is able to effect her plans so readily.  And even when Deborah
finds out what Harper is up to (which, of course, was inevitable), she seems
to take it as a personal affront more than anything, and is content with
merely denigrating the relationship into which her daughter has entered,
rather than even trying to change it, which ostensibly at least, would  be
the appropriate reaction of a concerned parent.

	Polley is well cast as Harper, as physically and emotionally she is able to
fit Harper's profile perfectly, and she gives a credible performance, though
given her unassuming manner and fairly nondescript appearance, it says more
about Connie than it does about her.  And what you have already been able to
deduce about Connie from his pursuit of Harper is further underscored during
a scene in which Deborah confronts him with her views on the situation
(which is arguably the most powerful scene in the film). 

	Rea is perfectly cast, as well, affecting a patient, reserved manner,
touched with an almost forlorn weariness evocative of a certain
wisdom-of-the-world attitude that makes Harper's attraction to him
believable.  And as the story unfolds, he very subtly allows you to see more
of what lies beneath the surface until, in the end, you have a concise
picture of who Connie really is.  It's a fine, understated performance, and
a good bit of work by Rea.

	In a supporting role that demands mention, Jean Smart gives a smoldering
performance as Deborah, a woman of seemingly insatiable needs and an
overwhelming desire to dominate.  And Smart plays it perfectly, from the
look in her eye to the telling way she carries herself, making the most of
her limited screen time and making Deborah the most memorable character of
the film.

	The supporting cast includes Gina Gershon (Billie), Paul Dooley (Walter),
Carrie Preston (Patty), Tracy Letts (Zack), Sharon McNight (Leslie), Sandra
Oh (Cindy), Grace Una (April) and Jasmine Guy (Linda).  Though not a film
with which you can get too emotionally involved, `Guinevere' has it's
moments and does manage to maintain interest.  The characters are real
enough, but they evoke a sense of ambivalence; these are not people you are
necessarily going to like or dislike.  In the final analysis, it's a good
film, and worth seeing-- but with the possible exception of Smart's
character, there is nothing especially memorable or compelling about it.  I
rate this one 6/10.

	   

	

	    
<|_=00=_|>
I got roped into watching this drivel by my girlfriend. It was On
Demand and I had had a couple of beers so I said 'why not'. Well, if
you're interested, here's why not: This galling display of perversion
is so caustic to the sensibilities of any thinking person that I cannot
believe anyone was truly happy with the film when it was completed. The
characters are beyond unsympathetic and venture into the realm of
embarrassing. Harper is a pathetic and hopeless individual if she made
it as far in life as her storyline says she did without the skills she
seems to lack. Worse, the life lessons she is supposedly learning
clearly aren't sinking in if,after realizing her love interest is
nothing but a lecherous, perverted, no talent, broke, lying loser who
preys on naive, helpless girls when he exposes his intentions in LA at
his former 'collector' friends' house, she happily goes along for the
ride with only a little tantrum. Absurd. The collection of similarly
abused women at the finale is just gross ("Class of '85!" Good
gawwwwwwwd). This film is such a poorly executed self indulgence that
it doesn't even live up to irony. Just plain awful. I can't even say
that its worth watching for a laugh, because there's nothing funny
about. Characters don't develop in any substantiated way. One second
people are one thing, the next moment another, for no reason. We are
led to believe that harper becomes successful. How? We never see one
piece of work. She never gets any connections to dealers or marketers.
Suddenly she just appears, wearing a mournful-yet-put-together looking
black dress instead of her usual MC hammer style washed out jeans (in
the late 90's? San Fran? really?) and tee shirt. Jesus. Where'd that
come from? A hopeless attempt at a heartfelt art movie that subverts
its own intentions with its meaningless artifice and sloppy, contrived,
indulgent imagery. I never post anything on the internet, but this was
so bad I couldn't help it. STAY AWAY!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I've just watched a film so bad, I am visibly shaken, nearly to the
point of vomiting. I love Sarah Polley. I find her mesmerizingly
beautiful, and I thought she did the best that could be done in this
film, under the circumstances.

That said, the 'Connie' character is just gross. And not even gross in
a passive sort of way. Gross in a way that leaves you hoping and
praying you can forget these memories, scratching to get the images out
of your head.

Can anyone tell me what Connie died of? I mean, it doesn't even say,
right? Is it cancer, perhaps related to his constant smoking? Or is it
something still more disturbing? I'll tell you, what did it for me was
the scene where he bites down on some piece of food, and his f*ing
teeth fall out. I mean, what the f*$%?!?! I saw that and nearly threw
up in my mouth. Then I went straight to the bathroom and brushed my
teeth for half an hour.

Poor Sarah Polley. Someone put her in a good movie. I still liked 'Go,'
in which Polley completely steals the entire movie from Katie Holmes.
