

It never ceases to amaze me how people can have such widely differing
*strong* reactions to a film. A number of negative reviews here, but let
me
add one more positive.

I loved this film, from beginning to end. I loved every aspect of it: the
story, the acting, the plot. I expected just another "Coach takes over
losing team and makes them winners" story. Those are fine stories now and
then, and I was not expecting anything more than mild entertainment. But
this film moved me. Now, I'm a middle-aged white boy, and while I've never
been rich I've never gone hungry either, and I've never had to worry about
getting shot on the way home, so maybe I don't really know what that
"sh*t"
is all about and maybe this film wasn't "realistic" in portraying all
that;
but it communicated to me, and that's what any film is all about. And
sometimes in order to communicate, you have to go half way between where
you
are and where the other person is, and maybe that's what this film did.
But
whatever, I got it.
<|_=00=_|>

Due to alot of negative reviews on this site I did not expect the movie to
be as good as it was.  However after watching it this evening I was
delighted by the entire experience.  While I agree that it goes along with
the "ducks" formula it deviates from it by not showing us the final game
with the final ten seconds for the team to win.  It spared us that and just
let us know with the final credits that the team won.  I thought the
performances in the movie were excellent, although even I (living here in
the deep south) found the accents of the children a little difficult to
comprehend.  As for the overall effect of the movie it entranced me,
completely, I kept having to rewind scenes to view them again and again. 
And, more importantly, if anyone ever doubted Keanu's ability to act then
one should only view the eulogy scene to know that his critics have been
simply barking up the wrong tree.  Strong, emotional, sympathetic and
completely believable... speaking as as part time amateur actress, do you
know how hard it is to cry, and cry believably?  Do you know how hard it is
to make your chin tremble..? My conversion to Mel Gibson fan was watching
him "cry" in Lethal Weapon... this has been my reconversion to Keanu fan...,
to cry so believably in a movie is worth quids in my book and to be able to
express emotion in such a way is worth any amount of praise.  Wonderful
movie.  Go see it.  
<|_=00=_|>

This is a stressful movie, with the gambling addiction and the gambling
machine on one hand, and street gangs on the other.  I really like the kids
and think Keanu Reeves plays it straight with them.  New York Times and
local reviewers aside--way aside, this movie is definitely worth a look.  I
spent eight years on Chicago's South Side, and i'm grateful a cinema team is
willing to show some emotion about some of the stuff that is part of grim
daily life.  The plot formula is good:  i don't like cold voyeuristic
slice-of-life with this material.  I like that the material is used with an
up-beat ending.  Let us enjoy the entertainment of it, and find some hope in
it.   Goethe said that hope is always the better choice.  And i will say it
here:  Keanu Reeves can act.   
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw this movie, I watched it with my daughter who was 10
years
old at the
time.  The language was kind of edgy but not too serious.  I'm sure she
hears worst
from her friends at school (even though we try to ignore those facts).
This
flick had it all.
From the coach struggling with his own morality, vices and (of course)
romance, to the
kids plagued by the daily atrocities of their neighborhood.  Through these
tribulations,
however, we learn that "showing up" (coined from the movie) was the best
way
to face
and overcome our problems.  This applies to all of us across the board.

I read a few reviews that discouraged kids from seeing this movie and I
wholeheartedly
disagree.  Why can we let our kids watch The Bad News Bears and The Mighty
Ducks but
discard a movie that gives us a taste of the reality of our inner city
youth
whom want to
play "Hardball"?  Yes they spoke more freely with there swearing than a
kid
from the
burbs. But isn't that the point? They're not from the burbs.  Yes there
was
a shooting
scene but you didn't actually see the shot hit.  But it's ok for our kids
to
see the Matrix
where people are getting shot left and right. sheez.  I hope that one day
America can
stop hiding the inner city from their kids and let them know how their
less
fortunate
counterparts living (and dying).  Maybe they will take less for granted
and
appreciate
their situation more after seeing this flick.  Maybe they will want to
help
solve some of
the problems when they get older except ignoring them like their parents
are
doing
because their parents sheltered them from the same things in the 70's &
80's.  I'm not
trying to sell this movie by saying it's going to change any social order
or
make your kid
a better person.  What I'm saying is... Let them watch it, talk about it
and
"YOU" will
make your kid a better person through your dialogue and time.  This movie
is
just to
supplement your efforts.


<|_=00=_|>

This film portrays the life of a group of boys who play one summer on a
baseball league organized in the projects in Chicago. With out flinching
an
iota in portraying the material decay and the real fear of violence that
permeates its setting, the film still shows the beauty of life--the
importance of "just showing up" and trying. The young, unknown boys give
outstanding performances which are matched by a moving performance by
Keanu
Reeves. Reeves, in his most emotive performance to-date, plays the team's
coach who is redeemed by his contact with the kids, by simply learning to
care about someone besides himself. Definitely NOT the "Bad News Bears,"
but
a great movie experience for everyone--sports lovers or not.

<|_=00=_|>

this movie was good. the little kids were funny, keanu reeves was pretty
cool. i also saw on the news the night before i went to go see this movie
that there was some big black guy whining about the language used by the
kids. he said that it was a "poor and grim representation of america's
preseption of inner city children." um..im wondering if this man even HAS
kids of his own, and if he does, he should hang out with them more often.
the language of the kids was strong, but if u mean to tell me that the
majority of kids living in the projects, or ANYWHERE ELSE for that matter,
don't use that kind of language, get your head examined. anyway, this was a
good movie and i enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to start by saying that this movie was actually a pleasant
surprise. Knowing that this was a movie based on a true story, made
with Keanu Reeves and a lot of kid-actors in it, I honestly feared the
worst. But after watching it I must say that it really wasn't all that
bad.

Sure, the story is as predictable as you can get them in Hollywood.
With a desperate white guy who is forced into coaching a children's
sporting team from a rough black neighborhood, you already know
perfectly what to expect and of course he will only keep doing his job
because of a beautiful lady at first (the kids school teacher), but in
the end he will learn the true value of these kids' will to win and to
make something of their lives, so they can get out of the neighborhood.
No the movie never gets far away from the stereotypes. But somehow it
didn't bother me all that much for once.

This is probably one of the best performances I've ever seen from
Reeves (except for his roles in "The Matrix" and "The Gift") and
despite the fact that this movie isn't a comedy, the dramatic story is
relieved with some nice humorous touches. I don't know anything about
baseball and normally I don't care about movies with baseball as the
subject either, but for once I kept watching.

As a conclusion I would like to say that if you are looking for an
original movie, you better start looking somewhere else, but if you
want to see a drama that exceeds the average Disney boundaries, you
might want to give it a try. As I already said, I was pleasantly
surprised by it and that's why I give this movie a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

In spite of its rather predictable set up Hardball is remarkably effective.
It's a terrific example of a mainstream film that squeezes itself
sufficiently out of the comfort zone to be both thought provoking and moving
without too often lapsing into the triteness we see so often.

Hardball is yet another genre movie about a desperate white guy (Keanu
Reeves) forced into coaching a children's sporting team from a rough black
neighbourhood. Does he coach a mob of losers to victory? Does he mature
while he does the job? Do the children gain valuable insights from their new
friend? Does a love interest hover for our desperado coach?

The first third of Hardball shows us Conor O'Neill (Keanu Reeves) in the
throws of digging an even deeper hole for himself with bad bets. He's
literally on the run from his creditors and is frantic to get one big win to
get the ghouls off his back.

We've seen that thousands of times before on T.V. and film but Hardball
worked the trick beautifully. A baseball bat smashing a hole in a wall,
where a head was a few moments before, can be extraordinarily effective
cinema if done right. I was sold. O'Neill's gambling mate Ticky, played by
character actor John Hawkes, has a bit of Steve Buscemi look about him and
that has to be a recommendation. 

Then we meet the children. The film is set in the notorious Cabrini-Green
area of Chicago, a high rise low income housing area which is being
progressively torn down. Cabrini-Green is now under redevolopment in what's
a bold mixed income experiment, incorporating low/no-income citizens into
what an area that was always surrounded by prime real estate.

The children are tough talking 13 year olds, but we're soon shown that
they're very frightened. Hardball shows their world as being one where they
are rightfully scared to be out after dark. One where people sit on the
floor in their high rise for fear of bullets coming in through the windows.
Again it was very effective film making.

The baseball is little league stuff in every sense of the word. The coach
doesn't seem to know much about baseball and his charges, strangely,
instantly improve their game on his arrival. There's the designated tear
jerking triumphs and I'm sufficiently chump enough to have been sold on that
too!

The token woman is provided by Diane Lane and she's O.K. but that whole plot
line could and probably should have been left out. But Hardball was strong
cinematic fare and well worth a look.

4 Sporting Flys Out Of Five

<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie.Yes,its about a baseball little league,yes it has
the usual "lets be a team and win" attitude,but its very well acted by
these kids and the dialog sounds real,also its not concentrated only on
the kids.

Its more like what the kids get to mean to this guy,who is sort of a
loser,and doesn't actually care much about baseball or anything else.

I thought it was well acted,surprisingly good for Keanu Reeves who is
not one of my favorite actors,but he seems inspired in this movie. I
thought it was very well directed and the whole ghetto setting seems
disturbingly realistic.It passes its social message in a simple,direct
way without preaching.

I recommend it to anyone who is interested in a low key likable movie.
<|_=00=_|>


Tonight I attended a sneak preview of the movie Hardball with a 10 year old
boy in tow.  Hardball shows the very gritty, dangerous life of some inner
city kids who are not only trying to survive, but to find some-thing worth
caring about- in this case, baseball.

Though not playing to a sold out house, the audience was very loud and
enthusiastic, even breaking into cheers at points.  I thought the storyline
was predictable (bum coach becomes a better man and gets the girl, kids
learn teamwork and sportsmanship) and similar to other movies about kids
sports teams.  What is unique to this movie is it's view of the kids off
the
field- their lives in housing projects, the dangers, drugs and problems
they
face just living every day.  It's a daring and very affecting storyline,
and
the cheering of the audience
proved to me that it worked very, very well.

Very solid jobs by cast, including Keanu Reeves, who does a fabulous
job
as the shiftless/compulsive gambler/reluctant coach who becomes much more
to
his team after realizing these kids actually have a rougher life than his
own.  This role seemed as well-suited for Reeves as The Matrix...and he
didn't even look good doing it. [He does clean up and flash the famous
smile
near the end!]

The kids steal the show here- and the audience I sat with fell for them as
hard as their coach did! Lots of sniffling and clapping in the house. My
son
loved the movie, too, the moral themes are well wrapped up in the story and
not sappy.

Some rough language, disturbing scenes of housing project life and the
gambling/bookie world, some sexual references, one death.  However, I would
grab the kids and go if over first grade.  Good opportunity to talk to the
kids about winning/losing, drugs, violence and education.  Best see it with
your boys film since the Mighty Titans scored a touchdown.  You may want to
go again...
