
I'm guessing that everybody knows the story of this movie by now, but
for those who might not have had the opportunity to see this great
movie, it's quite a simple formula. The Miami Dolphins mascot is stolen
and by word-of-mouth advertising Ace Ventura (Jim Carrey) is called
into manic action. His job is to find the dolphin and return it before
The Miami Dolphins' crucial game.

Jim Carrey is quite simply amazing, I never stopped laughing the whole
way through the movie. This is surely Carrey's best work, even now. OK,
Dumb and Dumber and The Mask are very funny movies too, but this takes
the biscuit. Everything Ace does made me laugh, from whipping football
player's with a towel to get a ring imprint to showing up at a mansion
party and being his usual manic self.

100 laughs per hour, if you have a sense of humour, then this movie is
for you!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Ace Ventura is the kind of comedy that stems directly from a TV show, and
in
this case, that show was probably In Living Color, where Carrey got most
of
his publicity before he became famous as a movie actor. A quick look
through
Carrey's filmography will prove that Ace Ventura is the film that really
acted as a springboard for his career. He had a few small roles in films
previous to Ace Ventura, the largest of which was probably his role as one
of the aliens in the awful film Earth Girls Are Easy, but after Ace
Ventura,
his career skyrocketed. The Mask (hey, he's still new, give the guy a
break), Dumb & Dumber, a sequel to Ace Ventura, Liar Liar, The Cable Guy
(oops), The Truman Show (ah, better), Man On The Moon, Me, Myself & Irene,
The Grinch, and there's no end in sight.

Sure, Ace Ventura does not compare to half of these movies, and is clearly
more on the side of the bone-headed comedy that he was doing on In Living
Color, but his talent is unmistakable. I first saw this movie when I was
in
high school, and I remember that I would ditch school and go to the
theater
to see it and I would laugh hysterically until my sides hurt every time I
saw it. There's something about seeing a slob at a tremendously rich party
who just doesn't care about the etiquette of the rich people. Did anyone
not
laugh when he was `testing' the food at Ron Kamp's
I'm-the-richest-man-in-the-universe
party and stuck his tongue out at that poor guy next to him? That whole
scene at that party is classic!

And, of course, it only gets better with Ace's dealings with Lois Einhorn.
The whole crying game idea may have gone a little too far, but it was
always
amusing. Jim Carrey saves Ace Ventura from sinking to the totally
brainless
level of more recent crapfests as the Scary Movies, and even makes this
into
one of the better comedies of 1994. This is not the type of movie that is
likely to win any awards, but you will remember the hilarious dialogue and
Jim Carrey's immediately recognizable rubber-faced antics in this film
that
served as a spring board to his career, which later brought us many more
excellent movies. Way to go, Jim.

<|_=00=_|>
In 1994, a year that gave us Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction and The
Shawshank Redemption, Morgan Creek Productions and Warner Bros.
Pictures came out with the funniest film of the decade, err, 1994, with
the Jim Carrey super-vehicle, ACE VENTURA: PET DETECTIVE.

Right off the bat, it is a Jim Carrey showcase: chasing missing albino
pigeons, rescuing a pampered shiatsu, and making high speed getaways,
this all works because it is Ace Ventura, a hilarious, live-action
cartoon character who spouts one-liners like an M-16.

The premise of the film is that the Miami Dolphin's team mascot,
Snowflake the dolphin, has been captured and needs to be found in time
for the Super Bowl. Ace is hired and the sexy Courtney Cox is made his
partner until the dolphin is recovered. With an assortment of funny
situations like Ace falling into a great white shark tank (!), a
montage of Ace searching for a missing jewel, Ace head banging in a
CANNIBAL CORPSE concert, it's all gold, and as you have read, Ace is
what drives this film into comedy genius! 

It was a busy and successful year for Jim Carrey, as he came out with
another pair of comedy blockbusters, the LOOSELY translated Dark Horse
comic THE MASK, and his hilarious buddy comedy with Jeff Daniels, DUMB
and DUMBER.

Thanks to Tom Shadyac for letting Carrey out of the bag and letting
this damn funny Canadian strut his lanky stuff.

It has some offensive, adult-oriented material, but if caught on
television, this is nearly perfect family entertainment: as long as you
don't mind your kids talking from their a$$es for the next couple
months.
<|_=00=_|>

While his later films are good, Ace Ventura is the best of all. Jim Carrey
brings his now famous style of acting to the screen. Ace is the kind of
guy
who you never know what he's going to do next, and that is what makes him
so
funny. The plot is not the best one out there and the actors in this one
are
not the best, but this movie is not for intelligent plots and famous
actors.
It's a whacky comedy that made Jim Carrey a star. The movie is not bad,
not
at all. Why people think that is just odd and strange. Guess there is no
appreciation for good movies these days.
<|_=00=_|>
Undeniably juvenile, but funny and entertaining comedy stars Carrey—in
his breakthrough role—as a goofy, wildly eccentric pet detective hired
to find the missing Miami Dolphins mascot. He's the right man for the
job but his childish idiosyncrasies, uncanny bond with animals, and
aberrant investigative techniques cause outsiders to question whether
or not he can actually make good on his word. Aimed mostly at fans who
really enjoy silly humor, others will quickly find it tiresome. There
are some amusing cameos by real Dolphin football players (including an
engaging Dan Marino) but this film belongs to Carrey and his constant
outrageousness. Sure-fire entertainment for fans of this genre. **½
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was the best movie Jim Carrey has ever did. It had
me and my whole family laughing non-stop! No one could have done this
movie the way Jim did. I could go on for hours about how great it is. I
could watch it every day! I would give it a perfect 10! The acting in
his movie was great. And Courtney Cox did an amazing job as Melissa!
She's such an talented and amazing actress!

One of the funniest lines: Melissa: Did you have any trouble getting
in? Ace Ventura: No, the guy with the rubber glove was surprisingly
gentle.

<|_=00=_|>
Now, these movies can't be taken too seriously. The storyline is silly,
the dialog is silly and the concept is silly, with one extraordinary
exception: Jim Carrey, who, in contrast, uses his extremely intelligent
wit and hugely humorous body actions to make this movie what it is,
hilarious.

The fact is, this mans arguably a genius, he made a possibly average,
run-of-the-mill, 'straight to TV' comedy into an all-time classic. You
can switch your brain off and literally laugh yourself to tears
watching the scenes in which he acts in. He CARRIES this movie, no
doubt and his performance in this is extremely underrated. Being one of
his first major roles and to actually manage to single-handedly make
this movie what it is with his sheer brilliance at being a
comedian-actor, well, it should not be overlooked.

But of course, it has it's flaws. The fact is, the scenes without
Carrey (Albeit, they're not many of them) really just shows this movie
doesn't have much else going for it besides the man himself. Many of
the other actors/actresses (Including Courtney Cox) just aren't funny.
But this movie, in my opinion, deserves an 8, because it's just really
showcasing Jim Carreys excellence. Watch it and believe me, you'll get
hooked!
<|_=00=_|>
We saw "Ace Ventura: Pet Detective" right after "The Mask" came out. We
could not have possibly predicted how wacky it would be. At the moment
when Jim Carrey started butt-talking, my dad shouted out: "Lee, he's
crazy!" And believe you me, he really was. Anyone who knows anything
about the movie probably knows that Carrey plays the title character,
who has to find the Miami Dolphins' mascot. But mostly, the whole movie
is an excuse for him to be silly. And of course, the woman who played
reporter Melissa (Courtney Cox) went on to play the reporter in the
"Scream" trilogy.

Well anyway, Ace Ventura really is a master of disguise, and it's
almost hard to believe that after almost ten years of stagnation in
comedy, this movie came and changed the way that we think about humor.
Hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey is a wonder actor. His performance in the box-office
blockbuster 'Ace Ventura: Pet Detective' is worth immense praise. The
Golden-Globe Award Winner delivers hilariously in this
slapstick-comedy, that is full of double-meaning jokes & over-the-top
sequences. As a film, it works and manages some truly funny moments,
but it's Carrey who makes this film a must watch.

'Ace Ventura: Pet Detective': Synopsis: A goofy detective specializing
in animals, goes in search of a missing dolphin mascot of a football
team. 

'Ace Ventura: Pet Detective' is meant for those who like
slapstick-comedies. This cult-classic is not meant for the pseudo
intellectuals at all. Reason? The Over-The-Top sequences, and the
unexpected digs at transsexuals, will surely not attract them. I,
how-ever, had a good laugh and I mainly credit Carrey for it. He is
fantastic as the Ace Ventura and in many ways, he immortalizes him. 

In terms of screenplay, there is not much to say, apart from the fact,
that it is true to the genre it follows. Tom Shadyac's Direction
captures Ace Ventura's journey, most convincingly. Cinematography,
Editing, Art Design & Costume Design, are worth a mention. 

On the whole, Watch it, but only, if you have the stomach for it.
<|_=00=_|>

Following the kidnapping of ‘Miami Dolphins' mascot `Snowflake' Melissa
(Courteney Cox) hires Ace Ventura (Jim Carrey) to track the dolphin down
before Superbowl Sunday.

The Nineties were generally good for Jim Carrey and ‘Ace Ventura: Pet
Detective' is a shining example of sheer Carrey hilarity! Jim Carrey plays
his character with his typical, undoubtedly unrivalled, madcap charisma that
has now become so famous throughout the world, yet this movie probably
remains the greatest example of just how outlandish a Carrey movie can be.
The plot is so thin that it becomes obvious that the story was made to suit
Carrey's style rather than vice versa and surprisingly succeeds well.
Carrey's extremely arrogant and oddball ‘Ace Ventura' character is
unexpectedly likeable and continuously places the viewer in a fit of
hysterics with the increasingly wacky scenarios he finds himself in.
Carrey's off the wall antics are what made this film and direct attention
away well from the flaws that the movie has.

It is safe to say that Carrey was the star and provided all the highlights
of this movie and while Sean Young (playing Lt. Lois Einhorn) and Courteney
Cox in some ways aided the movie they simply came off as bit-part characters
rather than stars as Carrey stole the entire show. Capable direction from
Tom Shadyac is a further high spot in this movie and recognition should also
be given to Jack Bernstein who co-wrote an astoundingly funny script with
Jim Carrey.

‘Ace Ventura: Pet Detective' is certainly one of the finest comedies Jim
Carrey has offered the world so far and despite missing the more
heart-warming moments that later films such as ‘Liar Liar' (1997) offered,
is a good movie in it's own right. However, as humour is viewer dependant it
would be unfair of me to say I recommend this movie to everyone. Those
people who dislike many of the Jim Carrey movies will probably not enjoy
this one and I can understand why some would condemn this movie as being
puerile nonsense. Many of the jokes do border on bad taste and much of the
movie has an atmosphere of schoolyard humour to it. I am aware that some
people will not find Carrey's zany antics and silly noises funny at all.
That being said I personally do enjoy this movie and feel that fans of Jim
Carrey and many other people will find this entertaining fun. To sum up – I
feel this is an enjoyable movie for teenagers, young adults and probably for
the more open-minded older audience despite being somewhat childish and
risqué. Not for everyone though. My rating for ‘Ace Ventura: Pet Detective'
– 7/10.
