

I disagree with the people here saying this is one of the worst films ever
made.  I'm somewhat of a connosieur of bad films, and that just isn't the
case.  It's competently put together from front to back, but the script
definitely could have used another draft or two.

At its worst, it's just unfunny, not mind-bendingly horrible as some would
have you to believe.  Certainly if you know nothing about the inner workings
of Hollywood you won't understand the references and almost none of it will
be funny.

I'm sure there were lots of references I didn't understand -- I get the
feeling people working in Hollywood would get more out of this movie than
the rest of us.  One odd reference is the repeated name of "Michael Ovitz"
throughout the movie.  It appears in the song "I Wanna Be Michael Ovitz" in
the soundtrack, there's a "Paging Dr. Ovitz..." in the background in a
hospital, etc.  It's not quite clear what writer Eszterhas's feelings toward
Ovitz are -- does he hate him or look up to him?

Another thing I don't understand is why director Arthur Hiller felt he had
to change his credit to "Alan Smithee", except that it's amusingly
appropriate.  Looking at the film, I can't imagine that it was changed too
radically in the editing, except  perhaps the ultra-acidic put-downs on the
title cards that introduce new characters.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is actually a rather intelligent, if cynical, satire of the
shallow and idiotic nature of Hollywood. More cameos than you can shake a
stick at. Ryan O'Neal is great as an amoral producer. Eric Idle is even
better as an unfortunate director named Alan Smithee whose movie is
corrupted by the studio. He wants to remove his name from the movie, but
since Alan Smithee is the pseudonym used for directors who want to remove
their name from a picture, he is out of luck and becomes... unbalanced. Very
dry, but very amusing. If you liked Last Action Hero and Purple Rose of
Cairo, you'll probably like this.
<|_=00=_|>
If you are in the feature film industry, what makes this picture so
funny is the close parody... some of the characters appear to be
modeled on real people. It would not be too far a stretch of the
imagination to believe that two of the characters are parodies of Peter
Guber and John Peters of Sony Pictures. Read the true story of these
two guys' careers, documented in the book, Hit and Run, then watch Burn
Hollywood Burn again. You will probably find the film twice as
entertaining as the first time you watched it. After having last
watched the film 7 years ago, I bought the DVD this week because I
wanted to see if I could grab the title track that I liked, and I also
clearly remembered (and liked) the graffiti art that was drawn for the
movie title. Once I got the DVD in my hands, though, I watched the film
all the way through again, and enjoyed it every bit as much as the
first time I saw it.
<|_=00=_|>

Why did I buy this movie? Because several (British) friends of mine were
discussing it passionately, declaring it a masterpiece satire full of wit
and irony that Americans (and Germans) would probably never
understand.

And because the cast list looks like a dream collection of funny actors:
Jackie Chan, Sylvester Stallone, Whoopi Goldberg, Eric Idle, Ryan
O'Neall....

And then this. My friends were right. If there is any humour, I did not get
it. The movie tells of film-editor Alan Smithee, who has been given a chance
at directing for the first time. An action blockbuster of unseen proportions
(and budget). Seeing this movie, I could not help suspecting that it depicts
quite accurately what might have happened behind the set of "M:I-2", with a
kind director being overrun by his star's and producer's egos.

Unfortunately, the story isn't told linearly, but in flashbacks, and in
interviews, and with the trailer for the blockbuster. It wants to be a
mockumentary. Like "Bob Roberts". 

But it just isn't all that funny. And Eric Idle is wasted, as he only ever
gets to run around screaming manically during most of the few scenes he has.

To some it might be a classic. For me it was agonizing....
<|_=00=_|>

I can't believe the negative quotes for this movie.  Sure, it isn't the
fastest paced movie in the world, but for sheer parody of Hollywood it
works
quite well.  Especially the Whoopie, Stallone and Jackie Chan
parts.


<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie like, three years ago on HBO, or something, and I thought
it was awesome. So I decided to see what people on the net had to say
about
it, and I was shocked. Apparently everyone and there mother hates this
film.
I don't know why. Sure it's no masterpiece, but only a handful of movies
are. When Roger Ebert said it was worst than Showgirls, he went too far.
At
worst, I expected reviews like 2/5 stars, or 4.5/10 points. Instead I got
things like 0 stars, something I didn't even know existed. I could see
people didn't like the way the actors looked at the screen (even though it
was a mockumentary), or the way you can't care too much for any one
character (even though it's a satire, in which society as a whole should
look bad). The movie has an odd flow to it (is that bad?), which I found
cool. I Don't see why people can praise films like "Memento" (which told a
story in an unconventional way, just like "Burn"), or "Spinal Tap" (which
has no real plot, just like "Burn"), and not give this movie, and at least
average review. If you can find it, watch it and decide for yourself,
don't
take the word of these flakers and perpetrators.
<|_=00=_|>

If you work in the film industry, you'll probably find
it
very funny.  Or at least quite amusing.  If you are employed
in some other fashion, you will likely think this film
ridiculous.
It is not, however, in the same league as The Player or
S.O.B. (from which this film seems to have "borrowed"
one basic story concept).
<|_=00=_|>

Real life director Alan Smithee is an editor by trade but is signed up to
direct the action movie `Trio' starring Whoopi Goldberg, Sly Stallone and
Jackie Chan.  However when the producer's final cut leaves it, in Alan's
opinion, a mess, he steals the master negative and runs.  This documentary
follows the story of what happens when a director is forced to watch his art
turned into a poor money spinner.

I hadn't really read the very negative reviews of this film before I watched
it and am a little surprised by the strength of feeling from the majority of
the critics.  Having said that, I can understand why this film is so
hammered – as it really isn't very good.  It started well and I thought it
had potential – it seemed that people were making fun of themselves and that
it would be a good satire on the industry and in particular, studio execs. 
However after a certain point it doesn't really do very much other than be
flabby, repeating, self indulgent and silly.  After Alan actually takes his
film and seeks refuge with the Brothers Brothers, the film is very messy and
not very funny at all.  The documentary approach had worked well up till
this point but from here it was a strange mix of action and documentary.  It
gets increasingly silly and increasingly less clever and
funny.

It had a few laughs but satire is meant to be funny – not just taking easy
pot shots with crude characterisations and jokes.  I still maintain it had
potential but it is a good idea crying out for a better script and director
(I notice it is directed by Smithee – I don't know if that's a joke or if
the real director really did disown it).  So from a good idea it goes
nowhere – the little touches are nice but the total plot is rubbish.  In
away it is both made worse and more bearable by the actors, who are a mixed
bunch.

Eric Idol is awful and he simply doesn't suit the material – watch the scene
where he turns his hat sideways and says `cool' and you'll see what I mean. 
Chuck D should really have known better than to deliver a meaningless
performance here – although I totally expect that from Coolio!  However,
Stallone, Goldberg and Chan are all quite funny and make fun of themselves
quite well.  O'Neal and colleague as the producers are quite good but are
dumbly stretched to extremes for the sake of humour.  For the majority of
the cast there seems to be a problem gelling – it feels like every single
person thinks they are in a cameo and thus add to the feeling of this not
being a film so much as a cobbled together affair.  The support cast is good
for names but the quality of delivery isn't really that
high.

Overall I'd stop short of adding to the list of boots that have been put
into this film, but I'd be lying if I told you I didn't feel like I'd waste
90 minutes – I do.  It started with a good idea but the script was nowhere
near sharp enough and the majority of the cast (certainly those required to
carry the film and not just be cameos) are just not up to the job.  Could
have been a fun satire but instead is an unfunny messy affair that doesn't
really have anywhere to go beyond taking easy shots at the
producers.
<|_=00=_|>
I am willing to bet that when the principle players in the making of AN
ALAN SMITHEE FILM: BURN, H0LLYW00D, BURN got together and read the
script they probably found it hilarious. But they were probably drunk,
stoned or deep into jet lag at the time. But somewhere between that
first reading and the film's release, someone surely must have sobered
up and noticed just how badly this film fails to deliver. 

The film is bad not just because it is bad, but because it
coulda/shoulda been pretty good. Joe Eszterhas's script is
sophisticated and savage and full of inside jokes. The direction by
Arthur Hiller/Alan Smithee cleverly juggles ideas and viewpoints. And
most of the cast give credible performances, even the nonprofessionals
who contribute cameos. Obviously, everyone thought they were making a
pretty good movie. In the end, the film is smart and pointed and even
insightful, but it is never, never, never, never even remotely funny. 

It is hard to pinpoint just why the film ends up being so depressingly
blah, but a good guess would be that it is a matter of attitude. ALAN
SMITHEE is just so insultingly smug. Everybody involved is basically
making fun of themselves, but not in jovial, lighthearted way. The
self-deprecation is condescending: "See," they all seem to be saying,
"I called myself a bastard before you had a chance. Nyah, nyah, nyah!!!
I beat you to the punch." I mean what is the point of self mockery if
it is intended to belittle someone else? Even the most mean-spirited of
satires require a degree of innocence; a posture that allows the
audience to find the humor and the hypocrisy for themselves, rather
than to have it force fed to them. For instance, the film's structure,
basically a series of talking head interviews, demands that the
interview blurbs seem spontaneous, not preprocessed and rehearsed.
Hiller skillful stages these little snatches of interviews as though
they are being given on the fly, in different places and at different
times, but they still seem canned. Even the characters' insincerity
should seem sincerely insincere, not like tossed-off one-liners at a
Friars Club roast. Even though everyone involved is obviously in on the
joke, they shouldn't appear to be. 

And a major inexplicable problem is the whole black thing the film
seems to be doing. This is a satire about a British director and bunch
of Beverly Hills/movie studio suits, so why does the film feature rap
music, African-American themed title credits and references to black
directors? Is black cinema supposed to be the new New Wave or
avant-garde? Is it supposed to be like references to beatniks in the
fifties and hippies in the sixties, a clumsy attempt to make the
squares seem hip and to make the story seem relevant (when ultimately
it will only make the film seem quickly dated)? The film can't fake
sincerity, why do the filmmakers think they can fake soul? 

In the end, ALAN SMITHEE seems to be little more than a home movie, a
gag reel to be played at the office Christmas party. If that were the
case, I suspect that all involved would still find the material funny.
But, what happens at the Christmas party should stay at the Christmas
party, otherwise it can just be too embarrassing.
<|_=00=_|>

This confounds in its badness.  And I know "badness" is not a word, but
"Burn Hollywood Burn" is not a movie, and that didn't stop
them.

All the actors in it should be ashamed... except Ryan O'Neil, whose
performance actually stood out and was pretty good.  But, that's all there
was in this picture that was good.  The music, the directing, the editing,
and especially, the writing.  Joe Eszterhas can chalk yet another bomb to
his over-paid resume.
