
This is a great series! Actually I could stop right here because I have
already said what needs to be said but just for people's enjoyment I'll
elaborate a little.

The acting is, much like in the two previous films, excellent. Somehow
Mel Gibson and Danny Glover never seem to get tired of each other and
it shows because their playful banter never seems to get tiring to the
audience. Mel Gibson is a class actor and this time around he develops
the character of Martin Riggs even further than he did in the second
film. He is so good at portraying emotions that the audience genuinely
feels with him. When he is angry you feel his anger and when he is sad
you feel sad, you get the picture. The fact that he is so versatile
shows in the contrasts of the character. He is both great in
action-sequences and in romantic sequences. As for Danny Glover he also
does a great job in bringing his character further and he really does
in this installment because you get to see the more negative sides of
the character this time around. In the first two films he was the
character who didn't evolve much but took pride in it. This time,
because retirement is rearing its ugly head, we get to see, what I must
suppose was, the facade stripped away and see Murtaugh in his raw, pure
form. Joe Pesci also returns this time for the comic relief and he is
still funny. There is just something about the character of Leo Getz
that is incredibly entertaining. However, the best performance is
perhaps done by Stuart Wilson, an incredibly underrated actor who has
sadly never really achieved a commercial breakthrough. He is the
villain of this film and is perhaps the best villain of the series
simply because he has more depth than any other villain in the series.
He is also given considerably more screen time than many of the other
villains so he really has a chance to shine. Rene Russo appears in this
film as Riggs new romantic interest and she may not be the most gifted
actress ever to be on film but her chemistry with Mel Gibson is
undeniable and her on-screen presence is pretty amazing considering
that she is a new entry to the character gallery.

The story of the film is the weakest out of all the series (yes even
the fourth one) and sometimes it kinda drags. Mainly, however, the
story is still highly entertaining and funny. The best element of the
script is the fact that villain is an ex-cop this time around and that
does that the heroes can hate the villain even more because he is,
aside from being a mean bastard, a traitor, almost a symbol of the
back-side of the medallion.

The action of the film is just like in the two previous movies
absolutely brilliant. The action is highly entertaining and well made
and Mel Gibson is excellent as an action star as well as many other
things.

All in all a great entry to a great series. 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Los Angeles police sergeant Roger Murtaugh and his partner, Sergeant
Martin Riggs, arrest Billy Phelps for trying to rob an armored truck,
this being just 8 days until Murtaugh is scheduled to retire. In the
interrogation room, Billy is murdered by Lieutenant Jack Edward Travis,
a vicious former cop who now sells guns that are stolen from evidence
storage facilities. The investigation of Travis teams Riggs and
Murtaugh up with Sergeant Lorna Cole of the Internal Affairs Division.
Martin Riggs has finally meets his match with Lorna Cole, a beautiful
but tough policewoman. Later, in a shootout against a street gang,
Murtaugh kills a gangster who turns out to be Darrell Smithers, the
best friend of Murtaugh's son Nick. A guilt ridden Murtaugh later tries
to drink himself to death, but Riggs helps him realize that they must
go after Travis, the man that Darrell's gun came from. They are also
joined by the hectic Leo Getz whom is now a legitimate real estate
agent.

Mel Gibson, Danny Glover, and Joe Pesci are back with director Richard
Donner for the third installment of the Lethal Weapon Saga, this time
joined by Rene Russo. Just like the first 2, this film has plenty of
comedy and allot of amazing action. This is a very enjoyable adventure.
<|_=00=_|>

I caught this movie on TV a few days ago, so I may as well voice my opinion.
 I've enjoyed all the "Lethal Weapon" flicks and I hope one day to buy a
boxed set of DVDs containing all four in the series.  Don't ask which one I
think is best.  They're all lots of fun to watch.  

Of course, the original didn't have as much humor as its sequels.  Mel
Gibson's character was a downtrodden loner, who was established as a "loose
cannon."  But as the series continued, he suddenly turned into Buddy
Hackett, cracking jokes left and right.  

Needless to say, Mel Gibson and Danny Glover make one of the best on-screen
duos in the history of film.  Their characters of Riggs and Murtaugh are
like polar opposites, but that's the beauty of it.  That's the essence of
the buddy cop genre.  The two partners are always at each other's throats,
yet they share a great bond and deliver much humor.  

Richard Donner is a spectacular action film director, and there are some
breathtaking stunts.  The opening truck chase is extremely memorable. 

And each and every scene is buoyed by great comic relief.  Gibson says a
great line when he arrests the fraudulent truck driver:  "You have the right
to remain unconscious.  Whatever you say...ain't gonna be much."  That's a
priceless line!  

OK, so the plot is meandering.  There are scenes that are very entertaining,
yet don't really move the story along.  But the whole movie is so funny and
exciting that I just think...who gives a damn?  I'm having too much fun! 

Joe Pesci's character, Leo Getz, adds additional comic relief.  His bleached
blond do is hilarious enough, and his nebbish schtick makes it all the more
humorous.  Rene Russo is also added to the cast, to provide some good eye
candy.  Just like the Bond girls, there's always a sexy love interest in the
"Lethal Weapon" movies.  In the second movie, there was Patsy Kensit. 

And there are some human elements to the story.  Danny Glover's Murtaugh
still thinks "he's getting too old for this s**t" and is about to retire. 
He's suffering a severe middle-age crisis and to add to his problems, he
ends up killing one of his son's friends--which he did out of self-defense. 
Sometimes I think Glover's acting talent is underrated.  And though this is
a fluffy action/comedy, he delivers the kind of powerful performance he
would in any Oscar-winning masterpiece.  

"Lethal Weapon 3" again showcases the immense talent of its two irreplacable
leads.  This sequel packs a lethal punch and delivers first-class
entertainment from start to finish.  And I love that Eric Clapton/Sting song
"It's Gonna Be Me."  

My score:  8 (out of 10)  
<|_=00=_|>

Lethal Weapon 3 is the thrid film in the series and just as good. Mel
Gibson, Danny Glover and the funny Joe Pesci are all back for the fun.
This
time they add the sexy Rene Russo to the mix who can hang with Riggs and
is
just as crazy. Underreated actor Stuart Wilson makes another good bad guy
in
this good sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

Riggs and Murtaugh arrest a man on gun charges just for him to be killed in
the interrogation room by ex-cop Jack Travis.  Travis is running illegal
guns.  Riggs and Murtaugh team up with IA officer Cole to track down and
stop Travis while Murtaugh also faces trouble at home as the illegal guns
impact on his family.

This third in the series is a lot more polished and refined than the first
two - there's a lot of money riding on this now!  The story is quite good
but it's not rocket science.  It's really all an excuse to have a series of
set pieces - from a building being destroyed to a desert showdown.  The
romance between Riggs and Cole take away from Riggs' madman style character
and makes the film a lot softer.  It also makes the action scenes a lot less
believable as he seems to revert to action hero on cue.  However it does
allow some humour.  The involvement of Pesci is funny but at times it's a
little stretched.

Gibson and Murtaugh are good, mainly because they're just having fun now in
well worn characters - like old shoes!  Pesci is not quite as annoying as he
was in LW2 but is still a bit of a spare wheel.  Russo is good as the love
interest and handles herself well.

Overall it's good fun but it lacks the dark, rough tone that made LW such a
hit in the first place.
<|_=00=_|>
Our friends Los Angeles policemen Martin Riggs(Mel Gibson) and and his
methodical pal Roger Murtaugh(Danny Glover now are patrolling through
the streets after a botcher explosion caused into a building. Roger is
about to retire when they encounter themselves into a dangerous case. A
previous police named Leo(Stuart Wilson) turned into criminal kingpin
and heinous weapons smuggling. Meanwhile Martin falls in love with a
tough police(Rene Russo) from Internal Affairs.

This fast paced picture packs noisy supercharged action scenes
,thrills, loud pursuits, lot of violence and murders.The wacky police
Gibson, always on the edge, and his partner the gentle and good father
Glover again give nice performances with special chemistry between the
two actors. They go after and run afoul a nasty villain well played by
Stuart Wilson, including to Joe Pesci as likable swindler. Furthermore
appear as secondaries Mark Pellegrino, Nick Chunlund,Alan Scarfe and
unbilled , the director's wife and also producer: Lauren Shuler Donner
as a nurse and the director Stephen T. Kay as a filmmaker. Colorful
cinematography by equally director Jan De Bont and atmospheric musical
score by Michael Kamen , accompanied by catching song by Eric Clapton.
Richard Donner directs with fair-play and the result is quite
entertaining. Acceptable and passable movie for enthusiastic of the
series won't be disappointed. It's followed by the last chapter 'Lethal
weapon 4' with same players adding to Jet Li and Chris Rock.
<|_=00=_|>

'Lethal Weapon 3' has the best opening sequence of all 'Lethal
Weapon'-movies, although the opening of the fourth installment comes close.
Martin Riggs (Mel Gibson) and Roger Murtaugh (Danny Glover) try to disable a
bomb and what happens in the end can probably only happen in a movie like
this. It is hilarious and spectacular anyway.

The movie starts eight days before Murtaugh's retirement. He and Riggs must
find an ex-cop named Jack Travis (Stuart Wilson). He steals weapons and
ammunition from the police. At first they thought it was an inside job so
Lorna Cole (Rene Russo) from Internal Affairs is put on the case. She is the
perfect match for Riggs, beautiful but tough. We also meet Leo Getz (Joe
Pesci) again. He kind of helps them with this case and again he is very good
for the comedy.

This is a fine installment although things get more and more familiar.
Still, as long as it is spectacular and funny that doesn't really matter.
The fun Gibson, Glover and director Richard Donner must have making this
movie is clearly visible on the screen.
<|_=00=_|>

	The most popular team of detectives in cinematic history is back again,
making the streets of Los Angeles safe and secure for the citizens at large
in `Lethal Weapon 3,' directed by Richard Donner and once again starring Mel
Gibson and Danny Glover.  This time the action literally starts with a bang
(a big one) when Riggs (Gibson) and Murtaugh (Glover) answer a call and,
suffice to say, Riggs can't wait for the bomb squad to arrive.  It makes for
a spectacular opening scene, but it's just a warm up for what follows.  Some
bad things are going down in the City of Angels, perhaps not unusual for
L.A., but someone is putting automatic weapons and armor piercing bullets
(called `Cop Killers' as they can penetrate a bullet proof vest) on the
streets, which is really bad news for police officers in general, and
especially for those in particular areas of the city.  Riggs and Murtaugh
are on the case, but it quickly escalates, and because of certain untoward
circumstances soon falls into the hands of Internal Affairs.  Which brings
Officer Lorna Cole (Rene Russo) into the picture.  And sparks begin to
fly.
	The first two installments of this series are hard to beat, but as they
say, the third time's a charm; and Donner must have had the shaman working
with him on this one, because he pulled off quite a feat-- making a third
that ranks right up there with the first two.  He seems to have found the
perfect balance with this one; the main characters are in place and
established, Leo Getz (Joe Pesci) is back, and the addition of Russo is the
icing on the cake.  The story is good, there's plenty of great action and
some sensational stunts, and the humor has been toned down a notch, which
increases the level of intensity of the drama.  In short, Donner measures
out all of the right elements to perfection and makes it all gel together
for the complete package.  And what a package it is.
	By now, Gibson IS Riggs, from the inside out; still somewhat on the edge,
but not quite as volatile.  And Glover could play Murtaugh in his sleep;
which may sound like easy street for an actor, but it takes real
professionals to maintain the credibility of characters they know so well
(it would be so easy to phone it in and let the details slip at this point),
and these two have what it takes.  Their chemistry remains intact, and
they've put polish on an act that was already shining.  The real chemistry
this time, however, is between Gibson and Russo, who click from the
beginning, starting with their first scene together.  Russo sparkles as
Lorna, putting some real style and spunk into her; there's just enough
edginess to her to make her believable as a no-nonsense I.A. investigator,
and it makes her the perfect match for Gibson's Riggs.  There's a terrific
scene between them, in which they compare battle scars, that fits their
characters so well and so credibly underscores the development of their
relationship.  it's a memorable scene, and a good example of how well the
script, by Jeffrey Boam and Robert Mark Kamen, was written.
	The supporting cast includes Darlene Love (Trish), Traci Wolfe (Rianne),
Stuart Wilson (Jack Travis), Steve Kahan (Capt. Murphy), Damon Hines (Nick),
Ebonie Smith (Carrie) and Gregory Millar (Tyrone).  In the world of the
Cinema, it's a rare thing when a sequel matches up to the original, and when
the third does, it's a real triumph; and `Lethal Weapon 3' is just that, a
triumph.  It's a quality action/drama that exemplifies why this series is so
popular.  Simply put, it's a good movie on it's own, and part of a great
series; so don't stop now, `Lethal Weapon 4' is ready and waiting for you. 
I rate his one 10/10.                     
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Donner again directs Riggs and Murtaugh in another action
adventure worthy of the title.

Rene Russo is introduced as Lorna Cole (internal affairs) and clashes
with Riggs and Murtaugh on the investigation of an arms dealer (Jack
Travis) Cole and Riggs begin to see eye to eye as their relationship
takes shape, while Murtaugh is torn apart after killing his sons best
friend in a kill or be killed shoot out.

Chasing the man who put the gun the boys hand the three join forces and
face the arsenal of armour piercing bullets being fed on to the streets
(cop killers)

Pesci's character takes a back seat but still provides some laughs in
this successful extension of the series.

Not as good as the first 2 films, but still good 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The third movie in the Lethal Weapon series is once again a great
addition. This film is perhaps the best of the bunch. Maybe the first
film is a tad better. As I said for the review of the second Lethal
Weapon, the crew knows how to make these successful films.

After a disastrous accident, Riggs and Murtaugh have been stripped of
their sergeant status. They are now patrolmen and they only have the
power to cite jaywalkers. But things gets out of control when a former
cop decides to wreak havoc.

The acting once again is fantastic. Glover, Gibson, and Pesci all had
great chemistry. The addition of Rene Russo adds more stardom to the
cast.

Richard Donner decided to add more comedy to this action-laden film.
Let me be the one to tell you that it works out evenly. There is plenty
of action to keep the comedy in check.

Overall, this is the a great piece of work. As people say, the third
time is the charm. I rate this film 9/10.
