
I have been a big fan of MK since the beginning, although I must admit
I lost interest in the game series after part III.

Buying MK Deception this past Christmas renewed my interest in the
series.

This movie was crap and I can't believe I bought this mess.

Good thing I found it for 9.99 at the used bin, so I wasn't out of
much.

I was expecting to see a REAL sequel to the first movie, which I found
fairly entertaining.

I thought the first film was very good and does the game upon which it
is based some justice.

Not the case with MKA.

The first problem is that they tried to fuse too much of MK2 with MK3.

Then, if you're going to replace a character with another actor
(Christopher Lambert), then at least make sure the new actor does a
batter job than the first. The first Raiden was a hard-ass, and you
knew not to mess with him. The second Raiden was a wuss and every time
we saw him he was going through a wall.

Weak portrayals of major MK characters was another flaw.

The actress who portrayed Sonya Blade was nowhere near as good as
Bridgette Wilson (the first Sonya).

Same could be said with Cage (Linden Ashby).

What was the point of even having Ermac and Rain in the movie if they
weren't going to be referred to? A very weak portrayal of Sindel,
Kitana's mother and the actress who played her isn't fit to act in soap
operas.

Line example: Kitana: "My mother is dead." Sindel: "As will be her
daughter!" Gimmie a break! Stick with the first.
<|_=00=_|>

By all that's Holy! A film that made me cringe the whole way through! Dear
Lord how the studio bosses must have laughed as they counted the money that
they made off this turkey. Now, I thought the first MK was an OK film, great
soundtrack, OK acting and plenty of fighting. A good no-brainer actioner.
But this....this....defies belief.

How on Earth can you get such a bunch of wooden actors together and still
manage to hide all the strings? It comes to something when you look at a
film and can honestly say the best actor in it is Brian Thompson! The actors
playing the bad guys overacted so awfully it was painful to watch,
expecially the centaur guy. He exuded ham to a level I've not seen
before.

The special effects were truly special, but only in a "special needs" kind
of way. Looks like they were lifted straight from the video game itself.
Laugh as you watch something resembling a dragon perform martial arts very
badly. Laugh as Brian Thompson turns into a......thing. Laugh at the
terrible lack of detail in it all. Laugh, laugh, laugh, laugh and laugh
again, right up until they slap the straightjacket on you and cart you off
to the loony bin. Because only someone truly demented would want to sit
through this terrible, terrible film. 

Eh? What's that Doc? Yes, I know I sat through it. But it was all in the
name of science, you see. I was doing research. By the way, you couldn't
loosen this jacket a bit, could you?

Anyway, as I say, the best actor was Brian Thompson. Only he saved it from
getting a 1, but even then, the rest prevented it from getting any more than
a 2.

Avoid it if you value your sanity!
<|_=00=_|>
I have been a huge fan of the MK videogames practically since the
beginning, and I really enjoyed the first Mortal Kombat movie. It
wasn't a work of art, but it was fun, funny, colorful and had some
great fight scenes. Anihilation, though, suffers from an extreme case
of sequelitis, with about half of the characters re-cast, all of which
were a step down, a dumb story line, wooden acting, effects that were
less advanced than the ones in the first movie, and a feeling of blah
pervading the whole thing. Perhaps the worst thing is the fight at the
end with the two really bad CG "animalities", a cheesy idea from the
game that should have stayed in the game. Liu Kang's dragon looked like
a pear with wings and a tail. Definitely avoid this one if you wish to
keep your glowing memories of the arcade game intact.
<|_=00=_|>

You know, I really liked the original Mortal Kombat. Sure they ripped off
the premise from another movie, but at least it was good (Enter the
Dragon).
I loved the games until the 4th one and was widely known as being one of
its best and most devoted followers. So maybe all this is why my
then-girlfriend's idiot stoner brother told me that he heard this movie
was
incredible, and I excitedly went to see it.

I'm a patient guy, and I have almost never felt the urge to walk out of
a
movie due to boredom (Tank Girl is the only other one I recall). But MKA
here is a joke. If you really feel the need to see this movie and be
surprised, then be forewarned because there are spoilers
ahead.

Here's one right off the bat. MKA isn't a sequel proper to the original
Mortal Kombat. The original MK was, reasonably, based on the first game. A
couple future characters made cameos, but that's it. So it stands to also
reason that MKA would be about the second game, the one most fans widely
regard to be the best. But whereas the MK film was made at the time that
part 2 was yielding to part 3, a lot changed in the extra couple years it
took for this film sequel. As MK the movie was leaving theaters, MK3 the
game was getting kind of a lukewarm reception, and people got sicker and
sicker of it by the time MK4 came out. By now the games were in 3d and the
storyline had gone from basic Enter the Dragon tournaments to all out
apocalyptic robot wars and sorcerors controlling the fates of a bunch of
new, generic characters. Until its decent reinventing in 2002, the MK
games
had hit a rough and oversaturated spot and would take 5 years to bounce
back.

So here in this worst time comes MKA, which skips the best chapter of
the
games entirely and jumps in at sort of a story junction between the 3rd
and
4th games, the worst.  So we have characters from all 4 games running
around
and interacting, which is goofy as it is, and things get worse when sense
is
tried to be made of it. For example, (spoiler), in maybe the first 2
minutes
Johnny Cage, a main character and semi-hero of the first movie, is
summarily
and unceremoniously killed off. My guess for this is because he wasn't in
the 3rd game.

Soon after (more spoilers. In fact, there will be several so if you
continue, do at the risk of ruining the wonderful cinematic experience
that
is MKA), robots from game 3 come in, negating the fact that their sole
purpose in the games was to hunt Sub Zero, a character killed in the first
movie.  Leading the attacks by these fiends and others is Shao Kahn, who
in
the first movie appeared as a giant demonic face in the sky and here
appears
as....a masculine human being.

Making things moe complicated is that elder God Raiden, played by
Christopher Lambert in the original, is here played by someone else and
seems to not want to fight at all, as the character has gone from wizardly
power god to short haired, weasely Power Rangers nerd, giving up his
immortality in the process and teaching our heroes a thing or two about
friendship and courage.  Huh?

Sticking things out, unfortunately for them, are Robin Shou and Talisia
Soto, who play central characters Liu Kang and Kitana and who've returned
from the original film. This time, neither of them are allowed to do
anything much more than look shocked at the stupid story developments, and
Liu Kang engages in a few fights that capture none of the magic or
uniqueness of the original film. And in fact this goes for any fight in
this
film that I care to remember. In the original, the fights were well
choreographed and showcased a good selection of acrobatic and martial arts
skill. Action was conveyed through close combat, good angles, and lengthy
tradeoffs. And at the very least, there was a genuine moment or two where
one might say "wow, that was a cool move!". This time, a lot of the action
is illusional, with the camera making quick cuts and sudden moves to sort
of
convey that stuff is going on. There's nary an actual hand-to hand combat
scene that lasts more than 30 seconds, and when you see what else was
thrown
in instead, you'll want to kill someone yourself.

For example, remember the character Baraka, with his beast face and
bladed
arms? He's here, and in fact is joined by several identical others, who
assault Liu Kang with their reflective cardboard blades in a high-flying
trapeze act straight out of the circus.  And what about Sheeva, 4-armed
character that should have been the answer to decently done Goro, 4-armed
creature of the original film? Well, whereas he was conveyed through
puppeteering and animatronics, here Sheeva is played by a tall woman in
generic spandex who tries to look menacing and does a couple unthreatening
hops with her cheesy extra special effect arms.

Things (don't) pick up later on, when Liu Kang randomly encounters
Native
American character Nightwolf, who explains that Liu must harness his
"animality" to succeed. Anyone familiar with the MK universe knows that
the
"animality" was a ridiculous player rumor which supposed that the MK games
contained a method of killing one's opponent by turning into an animal and
committing not a fatality but an "animality". This dumb rumor was added to
the 3rd game as fan service, and apparently delighted the producers of
this
film enough that it was actually explained as a real, feasible occurence.
"Feel your animality", N.Wolf says to Liu, urging him to harness the beast
within. Mr. Wolf then briefly shows Liu how to do it, and then asks,

"pretty cool, huh?"

We who haven't left the room yet are saying "no", but oh boy do we still
get a fun surprise. At the end of the film, Liu Kang fights with big
masculine guy (er, Shao Kahn), and instead of actual wanted fisticuffs, we
get to see the two of them feel their animality and turn into giant, god
awful stupid computer-generated beasts who do combat with each other. No,
I
mean it.  They turn into giant computer animated beasts. And we're not
talking about Gollum of the Lord of the Rings here- I mean big, shiny,
plasticy-looking "we know we want to make big magical creatures but don't
yet have the technology to do anything but make them eye-strainingly
obvious" effects. Liu Kang could reasonably have turned into a cool
chinese
dragon or something, but instead winds up being this big-nosed, cross
eyed,
dopey dragon thing. Shao Kahn turns into something equally ridiculous and
less memorable and the two have it out. Then at the last minute Shao
Kahn's
sorceror dad decides he's gone too far, disgraced the family name by
becoming a crappy visual effect, and makes him disappear or something.
Then
everyone hugs, and more or less runs far, far away.

I hope that this has been an accurate rendering of what my feelings are
for this film, because I actually haven't seen it in several years. I
don't
hate myself enough to watch it more than that. But if you want an actual
review without the sarcasm, just look at it this way: It is an insult to
the
MK franchise and its fans, it fails as a follow-up to the fun original MK
film, it fails TERRIBLY as a martial arts film, and in general it just is
a
dumb waste of time, an arbitrary, thrown-together cash-in sequel. Do
yourself a favor and just watch the original, and if you still crave more,
go play the games. And if you do insist on seeing this movie, then at the
very least inject some fun into it like trying to figure out where those
Baraka masks were purchased.
<|_=00=_|>

This is easily one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Painfully bad
acting, the replacing of actors from the first (wise move on those actors
parts) Too many charcters for to short of time. They would need like 3 hours
at least for all the MK charcters, and god help us all if they ever get that
much time for one of these movies.
Just Horrible.
<|_=00=_|>


I saw this film at the cinema the same day as I saw Lost in Space (the new
one, with Gary Oldman). By comparison, Lost in Space was high art full of
deep metaphysical dilemmas. MK:A is terrible.

I loved the Mortal Kombat games, and was pleased to see that MK The Movie
was better than Street Fighter II The Movie. Sure, it was a light-on film,
but it had some moments and I spent most of my time laughing at the
unintentionally bad bits. MK:A makes MK The Movie look
sophisticated.

The first five minutes basically drops a piano on the head of the first
movie - new bad guy, Johnny Cage dies, new heroes appear, minimal
explanation. From then on you have a sub-standard martial arts film packed
full of cheap costumes on cheap actors following a cliched script. I know
there's not a lot of narrative you can squeeze out of a fighting computer
game, but surely the writers could have tried a little harder to make
something work. Having gone to the movie with a guy who didn't play the
games, I had to explain what the hell was going on for the first half (like
why is that guy fighting him?) and gave up after that.

That said, this movie contains the most unintentionally hilarious moment I
have ever seen on film. Towards the end of the movie, Raiden moves from
having flowing straight white hair to a peroxided flat-top. There's a brief
mention of Raiden getting a haircut, and that's it. It makes absolutely no
sense, and thinking about it still makes me laugh.


<|_=00=_|>
MK-1 made by no-talent director Paul Worth..beep..Anderson was really
not that crap but this....this.....this......is just unimaginable! Some
memorable moments are

Motaro, supposed to be one of the toughest enemies has a visibly fake
plastic horn set glued to his head. Even a 2 year old would find that
out.

Another opponent, with 4 arms, supposed to be the third toughest, has a
2 second role and dies by a falling object! Johnny cage moves perfectly
straight for 100 meters during a kick, touches the bad guy! Dies! What
a way to start a movie!

A wise old Red Indian guy says "Pretty cool huh? Its my animality".
This guy is supposed to spiritual? He looks like a punk.

Final end for Shaoh Khan? He becomes a box! Originality! The CGI looks
like cut and paste from a 1985 modelling kit. And this guy is a
caucasian bald guy instead of a mongol.

There's no fighting, the opponents merely scratch each other.

What are the makers trying to prove with this? Was this an intentional
parody of the Mortal Kombat universe?
<|_=00=_|>
This sequel has diminished the image of the first movie, Mortal Kombat.
First of all, the death of Johnny Cage in the beginning scene of the
movie destroyed a lot of expectations as there were many who became
fans of Johnny Cage in particular. In addition to that, the action
scenes from Liu Kang were rather fake, in contrary to his action moves
in Mortal Kombat. The introduction of Jax was not explained, how did he
get into the hospital. Subzero's entry was understandable, but was it
the same of Scorpion? Baraka, Mileena, Sheeva, Ermac, Nightwolf, Jade
etc. are high profile fighters in the game, but in this movie, they
were represented horribly. Sheeva died without a fight, Nightwolf came
in just to hit an axe on Liu Kang, Jade was JUST A TRAITOR.

Shao Kahn's acting was the worst. His fighting style lacked the depth
and originality like Shang Tsung had in the previous film.

All in all, I would recommend the fans of Mortal Kombat to avoid
watching this movie if they want to maintain their good impression of
the first movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah its flawed. Its idiotic. It doesn't follow the video game well
enough. The acting is the worst you'll ever see anywhere. The fight
scenes are pathetic and the choreography is even worse than its
predecessor. The special effects are terrible and worse than you can
possibly imagine. The storyline is nonexistent. There are a lot of
scenes and parts which make no sense whatsoever. But at no point is it
ever boring. So it is highly watchable despite being a piece of crap.
If you be a fan of the MK franchise or are expecting a good movie,
watch it to see how bad a movie can get, just for education. It does
however take a special kind of talent to ruin a franchise and movie
which already has a good plot in place (refer to the MK video games).
This movie's entire cast and crew have that talent and so does a retard
called Paul Anderson.
<|_=00=_|>

The sequel to Mortal Kombat follows basically the same old story. The
special effects have taken a step backward, and the endless fight scenes
never give you a chance to breathe! They just keep going on an on, so much
that the story(even though it's already weak) is practically nonexistent.
Even worse, most of the dialogue is terrible and some of the acting is
extremely poor. I'm not even sure that fans of the first will enjoy this.
1/4
