

An absent minded professor discovers a new type of rubber that can be
harnessed as an energy source.  However his discovery causes him to miss his
wedding and lose his girlfriend.  While trying to demonstrate his discovery
to Sara Jean to win her back, he gets the attention of mobster Hoenicker who
wants the discovery for himself.

The story here is unimportant - it's all a bit daft and if you look too
closely at it, it all falls apart.  For example - the professor has created
a flying robot that has full intelligence and character but yet he hasn't
made any money for himself or his college!, is the flubber alive or not?
etc.  But really it's all about the set pieces and the jokes.  As such it
falls down a little - it's good for kids but there's nothing in the crude
slapstick for adults.  Jokes include the usual "people getting hit in the
head" style humour.

Williams character is not funny at all - a bit of a weakness in a comedy
lead.  In fact his forgetfulness is just stupid at times and doesn't have
any charm to cover it.  The funniest bits actually revolve around McDonald's
Wilson - he doesn't get good lines but he has lots of incidental laughs.  
Ted Levine and Clancy Brown have both done better than this and are limited
to comedy thugs - although both were probably glad to be in a big movie. 
Other well known faces include Raymond J. Barry and Wil Wheaton, although
these are also underused.  It's not really a movie about performances but I
think it's still important.

The best characters are Weebo and the flubber.  Weebo is quite funny and
actually has a deep character - she's the secretary in love with her boss
type - she also creates a strangely moving scene.  The flubber is good -
best in one big musical number halfway through and I wonder if they could
have had more imaginative scenes with it as a character rather than just a
bouncy ball.

Overall it's a kids film - don't expect anything more than
that.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had a lot of potential. While technically impressive and
very enjoyable with some genuinely funny moments, for some reason it
falls short. Of course there are redeeming qualities, such as the fun
music score by Danny Elfman, one of my all time favourite film
composers and an amusing turn from Robin Williams. Also the special
effects are greatly improved from the effects in the Absent Minded
Professor, and Flubber who is so cute steals the show. The performances
from Clancy Brown, Ted Levine and Marcia Gay Horden are entertaining,
and Jodi Benson (who voiced Ariel in the Little Mermaid)is a delight as
the voice of Weebo, whose death is absolutely heart-rending. However
the story is very predictable, and offers few surprises, and the
physical comedy was better than the patchy script which in places felt
uninspired. That saying some of the physical comedy has strong hints of
deja vu, and is rather hit and miss. Of course kids will lap it up, but
adults probably won't like it as much. The second half of the movie is
more meandering in quality compared to the first half, very little of
interest happens and some of the situations come across as ridiculous.
All in all, somewhat forgettable, but for a kids movie it is pretty
entertaining. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
This was a fun remake of "The Absent-Minded Professor," with
special-effects the main show here. We see and hear the following
impossible things: inanimate objects become human (with feelings, no
less!) and a flying computer called "Weebo." Obviously, this is just a
far-off story designs only for laughs (I know one person who actually
took some of this stuff seriously.)

Despite a bowling bowl repeatedly hitting someone in the head, it's a
fairly harmless movie with no language problems, which is a rarity in a
Robin Williams film. Robin is the "absent- minded professor," in this
"Dr. Philip Brainiard." You can call him, "Dr. Phil." There are one or
two sneaky-vulgar lines but nothing much.

With the flubber-substance making balls bounce forever, into every
object, you get a lot of slapstick scenes that are either stupid or
laugh-out-loud funny. The story, geared a lot more for kids than
adults, has a nice lighthearted feel to it. For adults, one viewing is
plenty, but kids will enjoy it multiple times.
<|_=00=_|>
Tastes and times have changed drastically since 1961 when Fred
MacMurray originally introduced the super-elastic stuff called
'flubber' to film audiences in Walt Disney's "The Absent Minded
Professor." In the high-tech, 1990's Disney remake "Flubber" reinvents
itself as an animated, gooey-green, silly putty blob of flying rubber
that talks and dances. Actually, flubber resembles a combination of the
Pillsbury Doughboy crossed with the shape-shifting water creature in
James Cameron's 1989 fantasy thriller "The Abyss." Inventive,
excessive, but tolerably entertaining, director Les Mayfield's remake
of "The Absent Minded Professor" will captivate both young and
absent-minded audiences. Happily, "Flubber" succeeds as a resilient
special effects laden tour-de-farce. Sadly, the remake lacks the wit,
warmth, subtlety, and comedic irony that distinguished its black &
white predecessor. The spectacular morphing effects of George Lucas'
Industrial Light & Magic Company and the visual wizardry of Peter
Crosman, Tom Bertino, and Douglas Hans Smith cannot offset the film's
hopelessly befuddled plot.

The story by John Hughes and the late Bill Walsh follows the zany
efforts of a scatterbrained university chemistry professor. Dr. Philip
Brainard (Robin Williams of "Popeye") accidentally cooks up a gravity
defying concoction called 'flubber.' Generating its own perpetual
motion, 'flubber' has uses limited only by the imagination. Unlike the
limp lump of 'flubber' in "The Absent-Minded Professor," the 'flubber'
"Flubber" radiates a mischievous personality, but the filmmakers never
solidify its amorphous character. Not only will Brainard 'flubber'
rescue Medfield College from bankruptcy and closure, but 'flubber' will
also redeem him in the eyes of the long-suffering sweetheart that he
wants to wed: Medfield College President Sara Jean Reynolds (Marcia Gay
Harden.) Brainard heads up Sara Jean's you-know-what list. Three times
in a row he has left her stranded at the altar! If things aren't bad
enough, Brainard's old academic nemesis Wilson Croft (Christopher
MacDonald of "Thelma & Louise") lurks in the background. Oil and
conniving, Croft plans to pilfer Brainard's fiancée as well as take
credit for his 'flubber' formula and the millions of dollars that it is
sure to reap. The professor's next bigger enemy is perhaps his worst:
corrupt businessman Chester Hoenicker (Raymond J. Barry of "Mad City").
Hoenicker's bratty son Bennett (Will Wheaton of TV's "Star Trek: The
Next Generation") flunked Brainard's class. Consequently, Bennett got
suspended from the basketball team. Initially, all that Hoenicker
sought was a simple change of grade so Bennett, the top hoopster on the
Medfield basketball team, could resume playing. When Hoenicker senior
learns more about 'flubber,' he joins forces with the equally
avaricious Croft to rip-off Braniard's discovery.

Women have come a long way since the 1961 original. Disney has promoted
the fiancée from being the college president's secretary to the college
president! Although Sara Jean presides over Medfield, she cannot keep
it out of the red without the help of a good man. "Flubber" implies
that women indeed have come a long way, but not far enough to get by on
their own wits. Moreover, Sara Jean's romance with Brainard appears to
occupy her every waking minute instead of the financial crisis that
threatens her small, private college. Her priorities appear demeaningly
misplaced. WEEBO, Brainard's flying female computer, serves as a sort
of bad girl here who gets her just comeuppance for tampering with
Brainard's social life. At one point, WEEBO creates a cyber-Siren image
for herself to detract Brainard from Sara Jean.

"Flubber" sounds like a can't-miss-hit from this description. If
anything, "Flubber" proves that absent-minded audiences appreciate
movies with an absence of drama. The original movie contained a richer
plot with a variety of nuances that heightened its hilarity. "Flubber"
smears on obvious slapstick to churn up laughs. John Hughes' script
relies on his tried and true "Home Alone" routines. Hughes deserves the
blame for this half-baked farce. For example, Hoenicker's henchman,
Smith (Clancy Brown of "Starship Troopers") and Wesson (Ted Levine of
"Silence of the Lambs") are clearly stand-ins for the Joe Pesci &
Daniel Stern duo from the "Home Alone" comedies. Brainard's flubber
clobbers them literally in the form of a golf ball and a bowling ball.
Smith gets nailed by a non-stop golf ball, while a hard flying bowling
ball wallops Wesson. When either object strikes them, these goons hit
the deck like pole-axed ten pins.

Director Les Mayfield of "Encino Man" and "Miracle on 34th Street") and
scenarist John Hughes cannot make up their own minds about flubber.
Flubber has endless possibilities, and its embryonic personality can be
playful but occasionally snappish, too. WEEBO accuses Brainard of
giving flubber "too much free will." Flubber never seems to live up to
its potential unless it is exploding, flying through rooms, and
cronking noggins. Most of the humor comes from how flubber reacts to
different situations more than how Brainard applies it. Because they
never define the nature of flubber, its wide open character lacks
dramatic clarity. For example, the filmmakers don't set any limits to
what flubber can do. Perhaps Mayfield and company chose green as
flubber's lime-green color because the special effects were so
expensive.

Credit goes to director Les Mayfield for the get-up-and-goo pace of
dizzy Disney film. He does a find job of seamlessly integrating the
over-the-top special effects with live action, too. "Flubber" is
aimless but predictable fun. The villains seem less villainous this
time around, and Christopher MacDonald's bad guy appears simply to give
flubber something through which to fly. The bowel humor here and there
adds little to the humor and seems out of place in a juvenile movie.
Parents may find themselves in a curious moral dilemma trying to
explain to their kids why Brainard's cheating tactics should be
condoned. He applies flubber to the basketball team's sneakers to help
them beat their tall, merciless opponents on the court. Danny Elfman's
lively music emphasizes the fast, bouncy pace of "Flubber" and helps
the film scoot right along to its inevitable happy ending.
<|_=00=_|>
Flubber came out during the mid/late nineties. This is the time where I
believe Disney began losing its magic in the movie industry. Disney
movies before always had the magical feeling and good stories. Flubber
does not not have either. The main good thing it has is the acting. The
acting is fairly good. This is not Robin Williams' best work, but he
does a good enough job.

The story revolves around a naive and eccentric inventor and college
professor portrayed by Robin Williams. he creates a "living" specimen
of goo that can shape-shift at will and is incredibly bouncy, but his
dedication to it's creation causes him to forget his wedding. He ends
up using the 'Flubber' to get his fiancé back and save his college from
threats of closing down. I have no idea how the movie tries to make it
work. I didn't really understand as a kid and I don't get it as an
adult.

The plot is weird, the directing isn't very good, and many of the
characters are wooden. Overall, this Disney flick can be skipped. You
won't be missing much
<|_=00=_|>
Philip (Robin Williams) is a chemistry professor at a college with
financial woes. On a side note, the school's president, talented Sara
Jean (Marcia Gay Harden) is Philip's girlfriend and she is deeply
disappointed that he has left her standing at the altar THREE times.
Yet, Philip truly loves Sara. His problem is, of course, that once he
is into an experiment, he loses touch with everything else in his life.
The day Philip misses his third trip up the aisle of love, he discovers
something big...that is, flying rubber or flubber. Knowing this could
be the invention that turns the college's ledger into the black, he is
eager to tell Sara of the news. Unfortunately, she won't talk to him
and is receiving the attentions of a rival chemistry prof at a nearby
university. It is this rival's intention, along with a host of others
connected to the school, to steal the rubbery substance for their own
purposes. Will they succeed? This is a mildly entertaining film, mostly
due to Williams star power and the spectacular visual effects the movie
offers. Flubber, indeed, takes on a green personality not unlike the
Pillsbury doughboy and bounces all over the place, causing much fun and
havoc. There is also a tiny robot-computer, living with Philip, that is
very appealing. Add on the eye-treat of flying cars and basketball
superduper jumpshots and you have a technically impressive film. Yet,
somewhere along the way, a bit of the original film's soul and joyous
freshness is lost. No, its not the fault of the talented Williams,
Harden, Christopher McDonald or the other cast members. They are quite
fine. There are also some laugh out loud scenes, such as the one where
Professor Philip starts giving a lecture, not noticing that he is in a
figure drawing class, or the ones where a neighboring boy, quite
rightly fears, to his father's consternation, what is outside his
window when flubber is out and about. In summary, the film's problem is
probably a case of trying too hard in the special effects category and
not enough in the remaining aspects of film making. Even so, it is not
a stretch to say that most families will like Flubber, as everyone will
be amazed by the stunning look of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A remake of an old black and white Disney flick called The Absent
Minded Professor that has long since gotten a bit stale, Flubber took
all the best elements of that and breathed new 90's life into the
premise, most of the pep in its step coming from star Robin Williams.
Keep in mind it was a critical bomb though, which just doesn't make a
shred of sense to me. It's fun, lighthearted, hilarious and just a bit
raunchy in places where it can pull it off. For whatever reason, it
didn't sit well with anyone other than fans like me who will furiously
shove a copy in your face if we hear that you haven't seen it. Williams
is college professor Philip Brainard, who is so absent minded it
borders on dementia. He leaves his lovely fiancé (Marcia Gay Harden) at
the alter TWICE, prompting the advances of irksome college dean Shooter
Mcgavi- I mean Christopher Mcdonald. He's on a quest, you see, an
obsessive quest to find the formula for... something. That something
turns up after a destructive whirlwind of disasters in his basement
lab, and in the form of Flubber, a lovable ball of green goo, infected
with incurable ADHD and an inexhaustible sense of humour. While the
utter the life of the party, Flubber does have its practical uses, such
as making cars fly and turning the hopeless varsity basketball team
into a bunch of flying Tasmanian devils who nail every dunk. This all
gets the attention of insidious local philanthropist and lowlife
Chester Hoenicker (Raymond J. Barry) who greedily wants the discovery
for his own. He sends his two goons Smith (Ted Levine) and Wesson
(Clancy Brown) to rob Brainard of his precious sentient mucous, which
turns into one of the most hilarious displays of slapstick comedy since
the Three Stooges. Oh, did I mention Williams has a little flying UFO
sidekick named Weebo, who has a perfect GIF reaction to everything,
before GIF's were even a thing? So much to love about this little
classic. Williams is his usual buoyant self, with some of his trademark
razor focus diminished in favor of doe eyed, vacuous forgetfulness that
would make Jason Bourne guilty for ever whining about his predicament.
Special effects are top drawer too, Flubber would look dapper in Blu
Ray if they ever felt so inclined as to release one, not to mention
aforementioned airborne automobiles and dear little Weebo. Can't give
enough glowing praise to this little treasure, and hiss enough venom
towards those sourpuss critics who assaulted it. Flubber for the win.
<|_=00=_|>
As a boy, I was always impressed and amused by the movies that I saw.
Some of them bring back memories of me watching whatever kids movie
that made me excited. But as time goes on, those memories are still
embedded in my memory bank. And sometimes, an fellow movie-goer can
sometimes get teary-eyed by going down memory lane. Some of those
movies do hold up well. Some of them, well.... get lost in my mind.

Take Flubber, for example. Flubber is the kind of movie that I enjoyed
as a young boy. But, I've grown up over the years and to tell you the
truth, it doesn't hold up for me. 

The story was originally from the 1961 comedy film, "The Absent-Minded
Professor". In that film, Fred MacMurray played the lead character.
MacMurray's character was a complete nut case who invents a new and
improved substance that can bounces off the floor due the amount of
energy stored inside. The substance was named Flubber, due to the fact
that it is flying rubber. The absent-minded professor tried to convince
his colleagues that flubber can saved their university from going into
shambles.

Here, Robin Williams plays the absent-minded professor. Professor
Phillip Brainard, (who could be a distant relative or son of the
original Absent-Minded Professor), is in the process of creating a new
substance that can raise money to save the college from closure.
Brainard's colleague is a flying robot called Weebo. Brainard soon
discovers flubber and from the start of it, Flubber doesn't want to
settle down. 

The story deepens as Brainard tries to convince the college president
and his fiancée, (Marcia Gay Harden), but it doesn't turn out the way
he wants it to go. He even expands the idea of flubber by converting
the substance into a liquid and then into a white cream. In one
particular scene in the movie, Brainard tries out the flubber by
spraying it onto a basketball that can bounces as twice as much as a
regular basketball. The idea even becomes more popular when it spreads
onto a basketball team. Their sneakers are also sprayed with flubber,
making them bounce more higher and faster than ever.

There are, however, bad guys in Flubber, and their job in the movie is
to try to steal the substance from Brainard. But, to tell you the
truth, you seen these bad guys before in a movie. And it's no surprise
that these characters are ripped right out of Home Alone. It's ironic
because the script for the movie was written by John Hughes.

I don't know what happened to John Hughes back then. He started off his
career with good movies like Sixteen Candles, The Breakfast Club and
Planes, Trains and Automobiles. But, after the big success of Home
Alone, I believe Hughes dropped his pen and started depending on
recycled material from his other movies to substitute in his scripts.
Recycled material soon resulted in forgettable movies like Dutch,
Career Opportunities and Curly Sue. Bad career move. And I supposed
Flubber can be included in this specific category of forgettable John
Hughes' movies.

Robin Williams looks as if he was practically on speed throughout the
entire movie. At certain times throughout this movie, I thought he
overacted as being the main character of the story. The slapstick did
not work this time around since it didn't make me laugh the first time
I saw it as a young boy. The flubber wasn't even worth my time since
there wasn't anything special about the green goo. In fact, when
Flubber soon shows up, the movie goes downhill from there with the
green gelatin bouncing around the movie, breaking windows and panes of
glass. I realize that after the movie was over, I forgot how many times
Flubber went through a window or a pane of glass. It was very tiresome
and boring the second time around.

Is there anything else I forgot? I don't think so. Except to say that I
won't be looking forward to seeing this movie since this is one of
those kids' movies that I like to forget. But, don't worry. There's
plenty of other good or great kids' movies that I saw in my childhood.
Flubber wasn't one of them. ★ 1/2 1 1/2 star.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw the reviews for this film, I was expecting something very
poorly made and bad quality. True, for an adult without a kid it isn't
ideal, but why buy a film if it has a cover like this when you're not a
child any more? Everywhere online it says this is a great kids flick,
for families and more. If you're like me and read reviews before buying
or renting a film, then you'd know not to get it.

Getting to what the movie is like, these aren't the best graphics, but
what do you expect in an 1997 film? The Flubber, Weebo etc. are already
neatly done, which I find quite impressive for a film made at that
time. 

The humor in this may not be the jokes, but not all kids understand
certain types of joke, so in the film they just went for the classic
'Bad Guys Whacked In The Face' type. There is no gore or extreme
violence in this, everything has a light-hearted touch to it and the
flubber truly seems fun to play with.

Robin does do a good job as the professor, making many wacky inventions
and always forgetting. Weebo played by Jodi, continues to be the kind,
thoughtful person - or in this case computer - that she is when she
plays Ariel in the little mermaid.

Overrall it's a pretty good film, not ideal for adults but then why get
a kids film?
<|_=00=_|>
Disney got Robin William's who became popular in the 1990s with family
entertainment films to remake the The Absent Minded Professor. Popular
with kids at the time mainly because it was co- written by John Hughes
who put some of his Home alone slapstick formula with two comedy
henchman played by Ted Levine and Clancy Brown.

William's discovers discovers some kind of flying rubber which may save
his college which is in a financial crisis. So excited he is with his
invention that he forgets his wedding day for the third time. Why his
bride to be could not make sure that in case he forgets, he is
accompanied by two people to drag him to the church on time is anyone's
guess.

His girlfriend who also happens to be the College Dean gets the
attention of a love rival and a mobster wants the formula for flubber
and sends his henchman to retrieve it.

Williams is assisted by an Artificial Intelligent flying robot called
Weebo which strangely is not marketed by Williams to save the college.

The film is knockabout slapstick squarely aimed at kids and they will
appreciate it the most. Adults will find the film too silly, flawed and
simplistic.
