

"Chasing Amy" is a clever and engaging urban love story that just exudes
with Kevin Smith's gritty humour. The film's examination of sexuality, and
everything involved with it, doesn't for one second sound untrue, even when
it makes sure that everything being pointed out is expressed frankly and
colourfully. It's not everyday we get a story of a heterosexual man falling
in love with a homosexual woman, and although the concept could easily have
resulted in a disaster of a movie, "Chasing Amy" manages to layer
everything
almost flawlessly. There are no predictable pitfalls in this film, and
nothing is wrapped up in a neat little package. We are offered a group of
characters that are likable but flawed, who don't always get, or give, what
we would usually expect. I have to say, I never knew what was going to
happen next, it manages to be consistenly offbeat without being
unrealistic.
Ben Affleck and Joey Lauren Adams have incredible chemistry together,
perfectly displaying all the emotional complications a relationship as
eccentric as theirs would have. Jason Lee was also outstanding in his role
of the vaguely jealous best friend. The only thing that bothered me about
this film was there was too much YELLING!! and it was slightly uneven at
times. But generally I liked it a lot, and I'm just thankful that Kevin
Smith is producing such fine work like this, it is truly a refreshing
escape
from Hollywood's formulaic sap.
<|_=00=_|>

"Chasing Amy" has to be the best love story of 1997.  It was emotional,
gripping, funny, sad, heartwarming, and had some great jokes.  How could
anyone deny that this screenplay was anything less than original, or
perfection.  Absolutely intoxicating.  The performances were right on and
the writing was magnificent.  Kevin Smith is, without a doubt, one of the
best new writers.  With this movie he goes to a whole new level.  "Clerks"
was great, and I think I'm one of the five people that enjoyed "Mallrats",
but "Chasing Amy" takes the cake.  Nothing else came even close that year.
That movie should have made a star out of Joey Lauren Adams.  She gave the
BEST performance in 1997 and was robbed of an Oscar nomination, as was the
script.  The scene outside of the ice rink is more than enough to show just
how good she was.  And anyone who can watch that ending, the you don't know
if you should cry or jump for joy ending, and not feel something, is
heartless.  The movie was great.  It is one of my personal favorites, and
will always be.  
<|_=00=_|>

My all-time favourite film!  Kevin Smith creates such truly endearing,
eccentric, quirky characters, and then manages to cast actors who seem
destined to play their roles.  Joey Lauren Adams steals the show (we need to
see more of this brilliant gem!), and the Jason Lee / Ben Affleck dynamic is
really powerful - all of the actors appear so natural and comfortable, and
Jason Mewes is a gift from God (and that's coming from an athiest!). A
beautifully written conversational comedy that very gently uncovers the
hypocrisy surrounding gender relationships. This film goes way beyond the
'acceptance of sexual preference' cliche, and instead concentrates on the
insecurities that all human beings are born with - gay or straight!  Mr
Smith, you are  truly a genius!!!   
<|_=00=_|>

Chasing Amy is again a look into some strange people's lives. This movie
 strays a bit from the style of Kevin Smith's first two movies, in that the
 story seems to play a more important role in the movie. In the past the
 story was almost irrelevant to the hilariously entertaining dialogue. Not
 that this dialogue is not strange and entertaining as well, but the story
 does seem to dominate more. Although I enjoyed Clerks the most, I enjoyed
 this movie as well. 
 
Don't you love how Brian O'Halloran from Clerks (Dante) keeps popping up in
 all of Kevin Smith's movies!?
<|_=00=_|>
Love stories are difficult to do well. So is comedy. Kevin Smith does
both. Very very well. 

Chasing Amy is, in my opinion Kevin Smith's best movie (Clerks 2nd,
Dogma 3rd) and I really don't know where to start the praise.

Traditionally, Hollywood romantic comedies are... well, bad. Really
lame PG-13 comedy, with some catch phrase repeated ad nauseum, and
always some sort of "hilarious" incident involving a baby or a cute
dog. And the characters are just as annoying as the lame jokes, so
ultimately, you don't really care about whether or not they get
together in the end.

Chasing Amy is different. These characters are lifelike.This isn't a
romantic comedy for teenage girls. It's a movie for adults. Almost
everyone can relate to being a situation where they've loved someone so
much, but due to certain circumstances, you just weren't able to have
that person. And I guess that's what Amy's all about. Unrequited love.
Well, Unrequited love and sexual identity, but that's another topic for
another day.

The real genius of this film is that for all it's serious themes, it
manages to convey it's message without being at all pretentious. Most
independent films have this sort of, arrogant pretentious "I'm so
artistic" feel about them.......And I hate that. Smith's success lies
in the fact that his movies are meaningful, and they're actually funny
as well. And Chasing Amy is no exception.

In short, you'll be hard pressed to find a more entertaining, and
realistic love story than Chasing Amy. It's combination of hilarious
dialogue, interesting characters, and realistic themes makes it a
winner.
<|_=00=_|>
Miles away from his usual low level comedy, in Chasing Amy, Kevin Smith
manages to deliver a great rom-com with some serious undertones.

There are the standard Smith jokes throughout the film, but this time
they take a backseat to the touching tale of Holden and Alyssa. I don't
know quite how he did it, but Chasing Amy feels real and unpredictable.
It's not some glossy Hugh Grant/Julia Roberts production, instead it's
filled with characters that feel more like real people, which is a nice
relief.

The film manages to be both moving and funny, and the cast do their
best work to date (Affleck and Adams at the hockey game must rank as
one of my favourite scenes of all time). This may not be Smith's best
known film, but it's definitely his best. [8/10]
<|_=00=_|>

To me a film can have no action and no real special effects and still be
great.  If that film can take it's characters and make them interesting by
making them speak the way we know people do, then you are left with a
fantastic film.  So is the case with Kevin Smith's wonderful film Chasing
Amy.

For anyone who thought that Ben Affleck couldn't act, watch this movie and
enjoy how he plays Holden.  He is honest in his approach to a character
that
is as complex as any great movie character.  Also cast perfectly is Joey
Lauren Adams as his girlfriend and Jason Lee is so good as Banky, his best
friend and business partner that I really could have seen him with an
Oscar
nod that year.

Kevin Smith's strength is that he knows how people talk and he is honest
in
his assessment of his characters.  And that is what makes this film the
gem
that it is.  And did I mention that it is a wonderful romance and it is
wickedly funny?

If all you've ever seen of Kevin Smith is Clerks, then check out this
awesome flick.  It certainly makes you appreciate how good Smith is at
writing characters.  A really great film.

Note****  If anyone is a true fan of Jaws ( and I, like Smith think it is
the greatest movie ever made ) then watch for the scene in Jaws where
Hooper
and Quint compare wounds to be parodied hilariously in this film.

<|_=00=_|>
Being a huge Kevin Smith fan, its no wonder I love this movie so much,
it is one of the best movies I've ever seen. Its a close toss up for my
favorite Smith movie, right next to Clerks. 

The Plot: Holden McNeil(Ben Affleck) and Banky Edwards(Jason Lee) are
two long time best friends and the co-creators of their successful
comic book Bluntman and Chronic. One day while they were pushing their
comic at a comic/sci fi convention, they met a girl named Alyssa Jones.
Holden immediately falls for Alyssa, but his hopes are shattered once
he finds out a shocking surprise, she's a lesbian. Still, they form a
great friendship which only makes Holden more in love with her. Once
Holden reveals his love to Alyssa, they form what seems like a great
relationship. Things change; however, once Banky fears that this
friendship will affect their long friendship and Holden has to deal
with Alyssa's rich past. 

The Good: This is a very well done movie. Kevin Smith is well known for
his creative dialog and clever direction in all of his movies, this is
no exception. The actors performances, especially those of Ben Affleck,
Jason Lee, Joey Lauren Adams, and Dwight Ewell, is exceptional. You
won't find better direction for this kind of movie. I normally don't
like love stories but this is one of those rare exceptions. 

The Bad: Nothing really bad about this movie but its not for everyone.
First off, the movie deals with some really touchy subject matter. Its
also one of the most profane movies I've seen. If you are offended of
either one of these subjects, I wouldn't recommend it.

Overall: Chasing Amy is one of the best movies I've ever seen. I give
it a 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>

Long-winded, painfully air-headed social commentaries make 
Chasing Amy extremely tedious.  Ben, as usual, is flat, boring and
awful.  And whatsername sounds worse than a whining Mini
Mouse.  Overall, an embarrassing waste of time.
<|_=00=_|>

more painful than listening to joey adams scream (in her obnoxious
squeaky
voice) at ben affleck (who proves, in this movie and others, that he is
the
most overpaid actor in america) for almost two hours... rolling around
naked
in broken glass?  pressing your face onto a red hot stove?  watching this
incredibly tedious film more than once is almost as foolish...
*obligatory
spoiler warning* affleck stars as a comic book author with the charm and
personality of plastic novelty vomit, opposite adams who plays the role
of a
lesbian who (for some inexplicable reason) abandons her alleged sexual
orientation when he makes overtures to her.  their relationship waxes and
wanes... as if the audience should care about what happens to two
thoughtless self-centered idiots... and the resolution is (for lack of a
better word) monumentally stupid.  the dialog is, as one might expect in
a
kevin smith film, fast-paced and eccentric (with characters rattling off
elaborate responses to one another in quick succession)... but the lines
(particularly those butchered by affleck) usually seem stilted and
unnatural
rather than humorous.

entertainment for kevin smith sycophants and men who cannot get over
pubescent lesbian fetishes... (2/10)
