

The Patriot is technically a good movie.  Nicely made with good
characters,
good acting, a strong storyline and fabulous cinematography.

But, to say this movie distorts history would be an understatement.  And
that is extremely sad in a movie that sells itself as an accurate
portrayal
of events during the revolution.  The Patriot, unfortunately, crosses the
line and try's to portray as 'actual fact' a film which is predominantly
fictional.  Hence, the 'real life' equivalent of Benjamin Martin actually
used to scalp Native Americans in his spare time (a fact neatly overlooked
by the director).

This 'rose tinted' view of history is at its worst during the
church-burning
scene where a British Army officer ordered the murder of many innocent
civilians by locking them in a church and setting it alight.  This event
never took place and yet, thanks to The Patriot, a whole generation of
Americans will believe that the British Army actually committed this
horrendous act in South Carolina -- when in fact history shows that it was
not the British Army that burned a church full of people in 1776 but the
Nazis that did during WW2.

As a Brit, I don't so much mind Hollywood always portraying us as the 'bad
guys' -- after all it is American money making these films -- I'm more
concerned that some Americans actually believe what they watch.  This is
especially true in movies like The Patriot which 'pretend' to be real.

It's a shame that in such a technically competent movie, which pays such
attention to minutiae detail like the costumes, that something as
significant as the accuracy of the screenplay could have been so
grotesquely
overlooked.


<|_=00=_|>
"The Patriot", the story of an American farmer who fights in the War of
Independence, is sometimes used, together with "Braveheart", as
evidence of a supposed anti-British prejudice on the part of Mel
Gibson. This is perhaps unfair to Gibson, who has gone on record as
supporting the ties between Australia and the British monarchy (hardly
the stance of a Brit-hating bigot). Although "Braveheart", which he
produced and directed, was very much Gibson's own pet project, he was
neither the producer, director or scriptwriter of "The Patriot".
Indeed, he was not even first choice to play the lead. The producers
originally wanted Harrison Ford who turned the part down, reportedly
because he felt that the script turned the American Revolution into the
story of one man's quest for revenge.

Because of its anti-British stance, the film was badly received in
Britain. One newspaper accused it of blackening the character of the
British officer Banastre Tarleton who served as the inspiration for the
villainous Colonel Tavington. One commentator went so far as to say
that it was the sort of film that the Nazis might have made about the
American Revolution had they won World War II. Unlike some of my
fellow-countrymen, I was not too worried about this aspect of the film.
The total death toll in the American War of Independence was remarkably
low, not only by modern standards but even by the standards of other
wars of this era, such as the Napoleonic War. Nevertheless, in every
war ever fought there have been crimes on both sides, and the War of
Independence was no exception. (The rebels could be as ruthless as the
British, but none of their atrocities are shown in this film). Some of
the deeds attributed to Tavington may be fictitious, such as the
church-burning scene, but in real life Tarleton had a well-deserved
reputation for brutality, and was not only loathed by the American
colonists but also distrusted by his own side. In the film the British
commander Lord Cornwallis is shown as outwardly gentlemanly and
honourable, but prepared secretly to countenance Tavington's methods.
In reality, Cornwallis wanted to have Tarleton court-martialled;
Tarleton was only saved by his influential connections.

I did, however, have some reservations about the way these events were
portrayed. It was originally intended to make the film about Francis
Marion, a real-life figure. Unfortunately Marion, although undoubtedly
courageous and a skilled guerrilla leader, was also a slave-owner (as
any landowner of substance in 1770s South Carolina would have been) and
was therefore deemed unworthy to be the hero of a modern blockbuster
(even though a TV series about him was made in the fifties). His
exploits, therefore, are credited to a fictitious "Benjamin Martin".
The slavery issue could have been avoided by moving the action to, say,
New England, but instead the film gives us a wholly unrealistic picture
of race relations in the period. The black workers on Martin's land are
all free men, and black and white live together in harmony, with black
soldiers willingly fighting alongside whites in the Continental Army.
This sort of dishonest, idealised portrayal of slavery was at one time
common in films like "Gone with the Wind", but I thought that it had
died out with the growth of the Civil Rights movement.

(Incidentally, a reason why so many Southerners supported the
revolutionaries was that slavery had been declared illegal in Britain
itself in 1771 and they feared that the British Parliament would
eventually legislate to ban it in the colonies. Needless to say, there
is no mention of this attitude in the film. In later life Tarleton
became MP for Liverpool, and a vehement defender of slavery. In this,
if in nothing else, he and Marion had something in common).

My other reservation about the film's political stance is similar to
Ford's. The film probably concentrated so heavily on British brutality
because it is difficult to interest a modern audience, even an American
audience, in the actual reasons why the war was fought. It is easy to
make out an intellectual case for the principle of "no taxation without
representation", which had been part of British constitutional thought
since at least the Civil War in the 1640s. It is much less easy to
justify the spilling of blood in defence of that principle, and Martin,
scarred by his experiences in the French and Indian Wars, is originally
shown as a pacifist, unwilling to fight or to support the Declaration
of Independence which he believes will lead to war. His son Gabriel,
however, joins the Continental Army, but is wrongly accused of being a
spy and threatened with execution. Tavington, believing Martin to be a
rebel sympathiser, burns down his home and murders another son, Thomas.
Martin is forced to take up arms to defend his family and then forms a
guerrilla band which he leads against the British. Despite the title of
the film, however, Martin is not really motivated by patriotism; he
seems less a patriot than a pacifist who has abandoned his principles
in order to seek revenge.

The film is attractively photographed, although I felt that it
sometimes showed a sanitised, prettified version of eighteenth-century
life. In some ways it reminded me of "The Last Samurai", another
visually attractive epic flawed by a dishonest approach to history and
by excessive length, although I would rate it slightly higher, largely
because Gibson makes a more commanding and impressive epic hero than
does Tom Cruise. From the viewpoint of anyone without patriotic
preconceptions, it can be seen simply as an exciting (if overlong)
adventure film- my wife, who is not British by birth, was cheering on
Martin and booing Tavington. Nevertheless, its approach to history
never gets beyond a simplified story of heroes and villains. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

WARNING: SPOILERS AHEAD

The Patriot is an indescribably bad movie that sinks to the lowest form of
film making for a quick buck.  Mel Gibson has gone and cloned his biggest
success (Braveheart) in hopes of duplicating its success.  The Patriot, like
Braveheart, is a completely ahistorical exploitation of real events in which
costumes and sets will be done as accurately as possible, but the actual
events are distorted in order to make it some kind of period piece version
RAMBO.  The main difference is that Braveheart was at least a good
movie.

One review said that the film had 'tremendous originality', well, if you
thought that The Patriot was original, this is obviously your first film. 
This is bursting at the seams with cliches. Let me list them for
you:

1: War scarred family man who wants nothing to do with the present conflict.
The American Revolution instead of the Scottish Rebellon.

2: A British villain who does everything that a screenwriter can think of to
look as evil as possible.  This particular one is so cartoonish he could
rival the Terminator.  

3: A murdered family member abruptly forces our peaceful family man into the
conflict. The one in this film is a barely developed son figure who you
don't really care about when he dies because you didn't get to know him too
well.

4: Children who are somehow able to outsmart trained redcoats
(?).

5: Lots of villains who all have terrible aim so as not to let our hero get
hurt.  Most of the stunts Gibson pulls in this film would get anyone killed
instantly.

6: An estranged family member our hero must reconcile in a teary, pointless
moment which is there for the sole purpose of tugging at the heart
strings.

7: Lots of cute little kids to make us go "aaaaaaawwwwwwwwww" and cry when
one of them dies.

8: A black man who fights with South Carolina for the cause of freedom. 
Does it make sense to anyone that a black man would ever fight with a slave
state?

9: A lone racist guy who hates the black man (only one racist guy in 1776
South Carolina?).  He predictably makes friends with the black man in an
abrupt and incredibly fake moment that made me want to
vomit.

10: A gun happy priest

11: A doomed teen romance that is grossly uninteresting.

12: A utopian slave society that lives on a beach and takes in Mel Gibson's
clan (?) even though these same slaves were hauled off by the Redcoats
earlier in the movie.

13: Eight or nine brutal murders of friends and family members of our hero
because the director and screenwriter have no idea how else to create
dramatic tension.

14: The climactic fight scene in which the Terminator villain is killed by
our hero and single handedly wins an important battle of the American
Revolution (the battle is never indentified).

Allow me to recount my other problems with The Patriot:
The battle scenes are rediculous and totally predictable.  Mel Gibson
somehow single handedly kills 20 men,mostly hand-to-hand combat with the
help of his sons who conveniently have the aim of expert snipers.  The final
battle is extremely boring because the Americans are winning for most of the
battle.  The characters are so black and white its almost laughable.  The
film does not have one scene where the musical score is not roaring and
trying to make sure you feel only what it wants you to. The film treats its
cliches as if they are original and profound.  The British are depicted as
Nazi swine who kill everything that moves while the Americans are all
helpless farmers who have to fight.

The Patriot is boring, pretentious and manipulative.  Avoid at all
costs.

Overall Grade: F
<|_=00=_|>
Being Canadian, I probably know fewer details of the Revolutionary War
than the average U.S. viewer, but note that many seem absolutely
outraged at the historical untruths of this movie. When I watched it, I
personally found it quite captivating but always have enough sense not
to get my history from Hollywood. Since my viewing, I've looked up some
info and note various inaccuracies such as misplaced characters,
exaggeration of British atrocities, inaccurate torching of a church
with townsfolk inside being burned alive, and depiction of American
owned slaves being freed to serve in the Continental Army. (Apparently,
it was the British who promised to free them if they joined their
forces, but later reneged.) My apologies if my facts aren't straight. 

It's the FICTIONAL story of a widowed South Carolina farmer, Benjamin
Martin, who is disgusted by his past supposedly heroic deeds during the
French Indian Wars. He has resolved to avoid participation when the
Colonies revolt against Britain and stay home to protect his seven
children. However, he witnesses atrocities against his two older sons,
Gabriel and Thomas, by the cruel British Colonel Tavington. Gabriel,
the oldest, has joined the battle against the Redcoats early on, been
captured, and sentenced by Tavington to hang. Thomas, the second son,
attempts to free Gabriel as he is being taken away, only to be killed
by Tavington right in front of his father. This forces the reluctant
Benjamin into the fray, organizing a local militia group of farmers and
ex Indian fighters who will tie up the British until the French arrive.

Mel Gibson gives a moving portrayal of the father who is driven into a
battle he sought to avoid in order to protect his family from the
British. For me, his personal and family story is the essence of the
tale. Just as one would expect, Benjamin Martin comes across as very
sympathetic and heroic. Apparently this character is sort of a
composite of possibly three different real men of that era. 

The film has wonderful period costumes, though also (like Gibson's
earlier Braveheart) more than enough violence for my taste. However, it
did bring to life for me the Revolutionary War, unfortunately in a
purely fictional rather than historical way. Though I enjoyed this
picture, it seems to have taken a lot of liberties with the truth. The
movie should therefore be considered strictly as entertainment, not a
history lesson.
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this movie for about the 20th time (I have it on TiVo) and
for the life of me I cannot find the disdain many who have written here
have commented on. Last I heard, this was FICTION - NOT a documentary;
Ken Burns did not produce not write nor direct nor narrate this piece -
Roland Emmerich, a man known for action FICTION did. Yes the depiction
of the Revolutionary War was NOT 100% accurate but was never intended
to be; just a drama set against the background of a war and it was
refreshing to see the war in the background, whereupon American blood
is spilled on American soil, was the Revolutionary War and not another
Civil War piece; indeed, the Civil War has been played so many times in
films over the past quarter century it was just refreshing to see a
different war....

Being somewhat of a military historian I will say that the depiction of
soldiers going musket to musket in the open field was indeed accurate;
many may find it interesting to know that according to the gentlemanly
practices of King George's army, both sides would also recess for tea
at noon every day and resume the fighting afterwards - guerrilla
warfare was not popular during the day which is why Gibson's militia
unit was so overtly successful early on. That being said, the comments
about the accuracy with the muskets are fairly accurate but I will say
that I only see straight barrel musket rifles - none of the bell shape
tipped muskets; the longer you keep a projectile on a straight course
the more accuracy at longer ranges despite the lack of rifling grooves
in the barrels (I spent time on Rifle Teams for 5 years). The prime
inaccuracy I noted was when Tavington shot the rider (running away on
horseback) in the back with a musket pistol at probably 40 yards or
more - so unlikely, it tarnished the whole scene.

My favorite person - Billings; Leon Rippey's cynical, almost giggly
snickering laugh completely stole the every scene where it was used and
he is a long term favorite actor of mine; Jason Isaacs absolutely best
screen villain of this movie (and perhaps in top 10 screen villains of
all time).

I guess it boils down to "different strokes for different folks" we all
have our opinions on this and I've aired mine.
<|_=00=_|>
I've always had a weak spot for historically inspired dramas. I like
movies like for instance "Braveheart", "Gladiator" and "Kingdom of
Heaven". I don't like them because they give me some good insight on
what that time period was like. Most of them aren't very accurate and
if I want to know more about the real history, I'll watch some
documentaries or read a couple of books. No, I watch this movies to be
entertained and that's also the most important thing I focus on when
reviewing this kind of movies: Did I like what I saw or was it boring
as hell? 

The story of the "The Patriot" is situated in South Carolina in 1776.
Benjamin Martin, a hero from the French-Indian war who has recently
buried his wife, is haunted by his notoriously brutal past. He decides
not to take part in the American Revolution against the British,
because he wants to protect his family and doesn't want to leave them
behind fatherless. When one of his sons, who earlier on had enlisted
against his will, returns home, it all starts to go terribly wrong. The
son is arrested by the British Colonel Tavington and accused of being a
spy. He will be executed, but before it comes to that point, one of
Benjamin's other sons runs towards the soldiers and is instantly
killed. This makes Martin decide to enlist anyway and he becomes the
leader of a makeshift militia, which consists of peasants, slaves, a
minister and other irregulars. They are successful in their fights, but
will all soon be confronted with the personal consequences...

As I already said in the introduction, I'm not looking for historical
accuracy, because I know I'll not find it in movies like this one.
Hollywood has a tradition of changing the actual facts, to make a movie
look more appealing for the audience and I'm sure the same has happened
more than once with this movie as well. No, what I want is
entertainment and THAT, I did get. Some major battle scenes, some
drama, the obvious patriotism, some decent acting,... it can all be
found in this movie and I must say that I liked it (most of the time).

The main problem that I had with this movie was the sometimes oh so
obvious struggle for the American hearts. It's almost like if they
forget that there are also people outside the USA who will watch their
movies. All the Americans are good and all the English, French,... are
bad and arrogant. Perhaps the American audience needs such stereotypes
in order to be able to identify themselves with that fierce warrior on
the big silver screen, but personally I can see past that fake
patriotism.

Nevertheless, this is an entertaining movie and I would say that it
sure offers some good value for your money if you aren't looking for
too much historical accuracy. The acting and most of the story (like
for instance the part in which he loses his boy) are touching and more
than OK. Overall I liked what I saw and that's why I give this movie a
7.5/10. It's no masterpiece, but it sure is better than average.
<|_=00=_|>

It's very easy to label this film as a Braveheart rip off from the trailers
(which is what I thought), but after watching it, it's actually a completely
different film.

The basic plot involves Mel Gibson's character and his family's experiences
surviving and fighting in the American Revolution in South Carolina.

The film really excels in it's cinematography and the beautiful locations.
Almost every shot in the film is picturesque and dripping with detail and
rich colors. The acting is also extremely well done with another rock solid
performance by the dependable Mel Gibson. In fact, I really couldn't find a
weak person in the cast.

Possibly the major flaw that I found was the film's running time of 165
minutes. There are some points where the film drags a bit and I think that
with a bit more editing and fine tuning of scenes this film could have be a
lean and mean 120 min. film.

Another complaint that I had was the battles. While technically  well staged
and choreographed, they also didn't quite get me involved like I thought
they would. In fact, I thought that some of the quieter scenes in the film
were some of the most successful.

Overall though, I enjoyed the film and while it has it's share of problems,
it's still turned out much better than I was anticipating.

Rating:8
<|_=00=_|>
The Patriot is NOT a documentary. It didn't pretend to be, and wasn't.
Loosely based upon Francis Marion (the "Swamp Fox"), it only touched on
Marion's impact on the Revolution in South Carolina. If anything, it
was downplayed. For instance, in real life, he had over 150 men in his
guerrilla band. The movie portrayed him as having far fewer. As a
documentary, it fails on this and many other points. As a movie, it is
a tremendous success.

As far as visuals, they were stunning. The wide-open vistas and battle
scenes were breath-taking and beautifully filmed. Yes, it was violent,
but that lent a realism to the film that most other films about this
era lack. The look and feel of this period was portrayed well.

The acting was superb. I won't give anything away, but this did NOT
(arguably) have either an entirely "Hollywood" plot – people, including
civilians, DIE, as they do in war – or much of a "Hollywood" ending,
despite a relatively happy one. That was impressive, and made the film
genuine, exciting and at times, shocking. Plot points such as Benjamin
Martin's youngest daughter's feelings about her daddy, and the romance
between his son and a young girl were touching, and even emotional.

I found some things complain about. Crisp, clean, brand-new Colonial
American flags suddenly appear after, and during, the final battle. In
reality they would have been rags by then – or at least not so clean.
One bad bit of dialogue: Benjamin Martin is on the beach with his
sister-in- law, and he asks if he can sit down. Her reply, "It's a free
country – or will be soon," was a 20th century throw-away line dressed
up with a 1780 caveat, and I cringed at it.

The film was historically accurate in many respects. The formal way of
speaking, plus the family-above-all, loyalty-to-The-Cause attitudes
expressed throughout, were genuine, even though both are out of favor
today. Children using weapons, and going off to fight on a moment's
notice, was not an uncommon story, and supposedly happened in a branch
of my own family. Relationships like Martin's and his wife's sister did
occur, often out of necessity. I was surprised to read afterwards that
the battle tactics of the last scene occurred, almost exactly as shown,
at the Battle of Cowpens, including fierce hand-to-hand combat. Colonel
Banastre Tarleton – the basis for the movie's character William
Tavington – was indeed seen as a war criminal by American colonists at
the time, and the real Tarleton even had a horse shot out from under
him!

But was it biased? Sure it was. Roughly a third of the American
colonists were Loyalists, another third were "rebels", and another
third were undecided. It would have made the story more complete and
complex to portray this (or the time Tarleton mistakenly slaughtered
some of those very Loyalists!) But I've read a poem online ("Ode to
Valour") dedicated to Col. Banastre Tarleton's "heroic exploits" that
would shame modern-day propagandists.

I think we all accept that not every British officer of this era was a
monster. In fact, in the movie – as in real life - Cornwallis and other
British officers were appalled that the "Ghost"/Swamp Fox did not play
by the rules of "civilized warfare", and chastised characters like
Tavington who also breached them. The real Swamp Fox knew a bit about
balance, however. After after the war, when the real Francis Marion
served in the South Carolina Senate, he is said to have advocated a
lenient policy toward the Loyalists. The real Tarleton survived the
war, went home to write his memoirs, was seen as a hero, and was
elected to Parliament. Maybe we need a sequel to cover all of these
other aspects of the story. Until then, this one is a must- see.
<|_=00=_|>
We all know and have seen the bias that is almost always presented in
books such as American books of history. For example, many historical
books I've read praise America no matter what circumstance they're in
(such as during the Revolution or Civil War). Even during such tragic
events as the 1833 "Trail of Tears" Indian massacre, you'll rarely read
any criticism of it in the typical history book.

Why? Because it's about America. America has built up a false image of
itself; America is shown as omnipotent, with no nation able to even
hope to match its power, and it shows America to be a pure nation with
few if any faults.

Obviously, we all know that that image couldn't be farther from the
truth, as America has numerous faults, and many nations have the same
if not more power than America.

But unfortunately, America won't stop brainwashing the public and make
them aware that this image is false. "The Patriot" is a prime example
of this propaganda.

Basically, Mel Gibson plays as an invincible farmer who has a vendetta
against the British, as he does in almost all of his historical movies.
Once again he plays the role as someone who despises the British more
than any other human on Earth. I didn't watch this whole movie, mainly
because I am simply too disgusted to watch it. Though a few parts of
the movie are historically accurate, such as the decisive British
victory at the Battle of Camden, but the rest of it is nothing but
American flag-waving idiocy.

One scene that I really despise is when Gibson and his two sons fight a
squad of British troops who are taking a prisoner away. His sons have
dead accuracy, and Mel displays super-human strength, as he kills over
10 British troops - including their officer - without taking a scratch.
Historically, any rebel foolish enough to attack even two British
troops would quickly be killed. But no, the directors made the movie as
far from historically accurate as possible, so Mel slaughters the
troops. Another scene I hate is when the British are shown to burn down
a church, trapping the people inside. What were those idiotic directors
thinking!!? Great Britain's state religion was Protestantism; even if a
British officer ordered a Protestant church to be burned, he would
executed for high treason against the church. Burning churches was
something the Nazis did, not the British, but apparently the directors
were so brain-dead that they decided to make the Britsh do this.
Another scene I hate is when Tavington kills an innocent civilian for
no reason. Tavington is based on the real-life Colonel Banastre
Tarleton, an excellent Britsh commander of cavalry. He was an excellent
general, not a cold-blooded killer, and most likely, he never shot an
innocent civilian in cold blood.

All-in-all, this movie is just plain terrible. The fact that it is so
incredibly historically inaccurate simply ruins the movie entirely.
<|_=00=_|>
Since the last film I reviewed was COME AND SEE the Soviet film
depicting Nazi war crimes in Bylorussia in World War 2 most
distressingly the inhabitants of a village being burned alive in a barn
I thought it'd be a good idea to rewatch THE PATRIOT a film set during
the American War of Independence starring Mel Gibson and directed by
German Roland Emmerich to see if it's every bit as bad as I remembered
and which caused a lot of controversy when it was released 

Unsurprisingly it is every bit as bad as I remembered . The battle
scenes of massed ranks standing in front of one another firing muskets
are vaguely realistic if only on a tactical level because in those days
chivalry at its most basic still existed in the mind of military men
and was a gentlemanly act . Strangely Richard Rodat ( The screenwriter
of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN ) and Emmerich seem to have created an
alternative universe where butchering the civilian population just
because things were going slightly badly was part of a strategy by the
Brits . There is some debate about atrocities happening during the
period but historians are unanimous that while some things may have
happened that could be classed as war crimes nothing on the scale as
seen in here did happen during the period . It led to one critic
Jonathan Foreman writing a famous article in The New York Post decrying
THE PATRIOT as " blood libel " 

Interestingly the film draws attention to the fact that the colonial
rebels were helped by the French . Before anyone starts to applaud this
fact their role is totally downplayed . There is a French officer
present who's aiding these patriots because his wife and children were
burned to death by these nasty Brits . Goodness me according to this
film the British empire's idea of war is stocking up on a lot of
matches setting fire to the nearest passer by who can't fight back .
You can almost understand why he likes to slaughter surrendering red
coats and it's left to Mel Gibson ( I won't refer to him as his
character's name since he's Mel Gibson playing ... well Mel Gibson ) to
point out that killing unarmed prisoners is wrong . Interesting too
that that it's heavily implied at the end of the film the French only
turned up at the end when the war was effectively over . I think that
might have been true of America's role at the end of WW1 but certainly
wasn't true of the French in the American War Of Independence . France
, Holland and Spain all gave military help to the colonials throughout
the war especially naval power . Effectively the whole world was
against Britain helping the revolutionaries on land and sea 

In this version of America everyone lived in a multi ethnic egalitarian
utopia where all men are equal before God . Not only were black people
not slaves but if look closely you can spot the occasional black face
walking along streets unhindered .One can understand how much hatred
Spike Lee has for the film and has been very vocal about it and it
really is laughably bad the way the film spins out how much equality is
afforded to African -Americans in the late 1770s . It's a bit like
watching a version of SCHINDLER'S LIST were no one actually gets
murdered for being Jewish . Just for the record Britain abolished
slavery in 1807 while the Americans didn't get round to it for decades
later . 

This is a movie that shows Hollywood at its very worst . If it'd been
made by a bunch of American journeymen film makers it would have just
been Hollywood rubbish . However since I'd previously seen COME AND SEE
it does leave a very disgusting taste in the mouth that it stars Mel
Gibson and has been made by a German director . The only good thing to
say about it is that it's so bad that no one will be able to take it
seriously
