
So, I married an Axe murderer is not the sort of Mike Myers comedy that
people have become used to over the years. Myers will, undoubtedly, be
most remembered most for his Austin Powers series, but this is a film
that certainly should not be forgotten; Myers was never funnier than he
is in this movie.

The plot centres around Charlie Mackenzie (Myers), a man who can never
have a girlfriend without finding a flaw with her which always leads
him to end the relationship. That is until he meets Harriet Michaels.
She seems perfect, but the flaw that Charlie finds with this woman, may
cost him his neck...

What follows is a tour-de-force of comedy. It is true that a few of the
jokes don't really work, but the ones that do REALLY work, and it 's
easy to forgive the movie for the ones that don't. In fact, I haven't
seen this movie in over a year, but I'm laughing as I type this. This
movie features some positively brilliant moments, from Myers' poetry
sessions ("Woman! Woah-man, wooaaaaaahhhhh-man"), to the very Scottish
father, played to perfection by Myers who has a duel role("Head! Move!
Now!") to Charlie's police man friend, who is definitely the man with
the most comedy; his conversations with Charlie regarding the song
"Only You", the moments with his police chief (a memorable performance
by Alan Arkin) and most notably, the parts with the commandeered driver
("No, it's one of my favourite things") are positively hilarious. The
entire cast of this movie delivers their lines with a great comic
timing; a lot of the quotes I mentioned aren't funny out of the context
of the film, but due to the way they are delivered and the context of
the movie, the dialogue is side splitting.

There isn't a lot of plot or heart to chew on with this movie, which
accounts for the lot of the reason that this is a short review; but
when a film is this funny, who cares what it's about? In the face of
Myers' more commercially successful movies, such as Wayne's World,
Austin Powers and Shrek; So, I Married an Axe Murderer isn't going to
win a lot of fans as it's not as outgoing as the other three and a lot
of the humour is very wry. However, this is Myers finest hour and this
little comedy gem should definitely not be forgotten.
<|_=00=_|>

Probably one of Mike Myers' finest films. The film is the story of Charlie
MacKenzie, a commitment phobic who performs in a coffeehouse as a poet.
Charlie is looking for the right girl of which he finds in Harriet, an
attractive butcher whom Charlie falls head over heels for. The two begin to
date but Charlie begins questioning his relationship when clues pointing to
an serial killer show up and point directly to Harriet. Funny performances
from Mike Myers pulling double duty as sarcastic Charlie and his Scottish
dad Stuart MacKenzie, Brenda Fricker as Charlie's horny mother who's got the
hots for Tony, Anthony LaPaglia as best friend Tony, and Nancy Travis as
girlfriend Harriet. Look for a few surprise cameos from the likes of late
great Phil Hartman, Michael Richards, Alan Arkin, Charles Grodin, Steven
Wright, and Debi Mazar. Definitely a good rent on a Saturday
night.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is an unexpected delight. It has the love story aspect most
women like, the mystery component that should please the watchers of
thrillers and some action sequences that males are sure to enjoy. There
was even a nudity scene so this has something for everybody.

Mike Myers is at his talented best playing both Charlie and his father.
In fact, it's his father's role that steals the show in both the
Harriet meets Parents scene with his comments about his younger
brother's "Heed" and also at the wedding with his shouting out "Lets
get P*seed" at the end of the ceremony.

Nancy Travis does a great job of looking slightly suspicious throughout
the movie. I especially like her appearance in the scene where Charlie
drives past whilst she is rolling out the awning wearing Dutch national
costume.

Anthony LaPaglia's portrayal of the frustrated undercover policeman is
a real hoot. You can't help but love the part where his Captain comes
into his office, kicks his feet off the desk and gets stuck into him
for nosing into a case belonging to Homicide, particularly, since when
he comes back into the office and tells him how much he loved that
outburst.

The other winner is Brenda Fricker who portray's Charlie's mother with
the hots for his friend (LaPaglia). I loved the way she explained the
story of Mrs X from her favorite paper "News of the World" totally
ignoring Charlie's depiction of it as a sensationalist rag.

Although there were some dead parts in the movie, they were easy to
ignore and more than made up for with the pace of the script. This is a
movie you can watch repeatedly, especially when you've seen everything
else in your DVD library, it's fun, not meant to be taken serious, the
hero gets the girl (somewhat) and nobody get's hurt except the drunken
bagpiper at the wedding reception.
<|_=00=_|>

In this greatly under-rated film, Mike Myers plays a man scared of
commitment, until that is he meets Harriet and they fall in love, but does
she have a rather macabre secret?

This film flows wonderfully, carrying you along before you realise it,
right
until the end.

Some of the better comedic moments, though, come from the cameos,
especially
by Steven Wright and Charles Grodin, who is always wonderful, whatever
film
he is in, although the poetry scenes are quite funny too.

For some reason this film was not as successful as other Mike Myers'
efforts
such as the Wayne's Worlds, and it does appear that audiences prefer Myers
in character than as himself, and indeed you will come out liking Myers
better as his father than as his main role, but nevertheless a great
movie!
<|_=00=_|>

"So I Married an Axe Murderer" is a delightfully offbeat, inventive comedy I
can see again and again, and laugh every time.

Mike Myers, in a dual role as the neurotic but romantic Charlie McKenzie and
Charlie's cantankerous father, gives the best performance I've seen from him
so far (I've yet to see the "Austin Powers" movies but I didn't especially
care for "Wayne's World," maybe because I couldn't stand Dana Carvey or his
character).  Nancy Travis is quite good as Harriet, the seemingly perfect
girlfriend who's got a secret.  The supporting cast also does excellent
work, especially Anthony LaPaglia as Charlie's policeman buddy
Tony.

What makes this movie truly special isn't the principal story line -- the
romance-mystery-suspense -- but the many wonderful bits of inspired
lunacy/hilarity along the way.  Among them: every scene involving the hero's
cantankerous dad; Harriet's sister Rose persuading Charlie to stay for
breakfast; Phil Hartman's cameo as a very intense tour guide at Alcatraz
(this scene gets butchered when the movie is edited for TV, even non-premium
cable; make sure you see the uncut version!); Charles Grodin as the surly
driver of a vehicle commandeered by a cop; an episode involving a guy who
works on the obituary page of a newspaper; the side-splitting scenes between
Tony and his precinct captain (a very funny Alan Arkin).   There are many
such moments throughout the film, turning up in the most unexpected places. 
The dialogue is witty, and the humor is completely unpredictable and
fresh.

<|_=00=_|>

The sad thing is that this is Mike Myers' lowest grossing film, which shows
just what most people know. It's absolutely his best one though, with more
likeable wit than the 2 Austin Powers pics and better characters and plot
than the Waynes World movies.

Myers can only really do about 4 voices (Himself, Wayne, Austin and a
Scotsman, which he's doing AGAIN in Shrek now) and he gets to show them all
off here, which is actually great. He's great as his miserable dad, and the
whole thing is just great fun, a really good film. Nancy Travis and Anthony
LaPaglia as his insecure cop buddy support Myers well all the way through.
Mike Myers and this movie just rule.
<|_=00=_|>
For a first (and I know it's not his absolute first but close to it)
this movie was fantastic. The more I watched, the funnier it got and
the best are the small nuances.

After following his work and being a fan of his other films I
appreciate the humour he's written into this movie even more.

If there's any doubt that this is a masterpiece, bring up the scene
where he visits his parents in any crowd and watch the quotables start
flying.

When asked what my favorite movie of all time is (a supremely tough
question for a movie buff) this one always pops out first. It's cute,
smart, hilarious, and no body gets hurt! Watch it! Love it!
<|_=00=_|>

Mike Myers gives Waynes World a rest and delivers what I think is a better
movie.... well better than Waynes World 2 anyway.
It is a truly great movie with Mike playing a duel role, firstly as Charlie
MacKenzie a young guy who is scared of commitment to women, then his dad
Stuart MacKenzie a very funny Scotsman who could take the lead role in X
Files with his ideas on Conspiracy.
Nancy Travis stars as a butcher... Harriet, who ends up with
Charlie.....
A great movie that is very funny in the pre Austin Powers age, a 7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
SO I MARRIED AN AXE MURDERER (1993) *** Mike Myers, Nancy Travis,
Anthony La Paglia, Amanda Plummer, Brenda Fricker, Alan Arkin, Michael
Richards. Hilarious comedy about a marriage phobia plagued neo-Beat
poet (Myers) who finds the girl of his dreams (Travis) may in fact be a
psychopathic serial killer.

Impressive supporting cast with absurdly hilarious situations and
performances. Myers also plays his ribald Scottish dad and Charles
Grodin has a hysterical cameo.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film on cable not long after its release and remember
enjoying it. But like most films, it didn't leave a lasting impression.
For some reason I have had a DVD copy of the film in my collection for
some time now, probably a b-day gift or some such, and I never watch
itLast night, sixteen years after it first appeared, I watched it
again.

Sometimes, a piece of art takes time and multiple exposures for its
audience to fully appreciate its quality. This is definitely the case
with this film. For me, a film should show me new characters or new
settings or give me a new way of looking at a recognizable situation.
So often films just give their audience the same tired stereotypical
content; Characters that differ in name only from other films and plot
lines that so closely follow previous successful productions that I'm
surprised there aren't more lawsuits between artists. Such is not the
case with "So I Married an Axe Murderer". With the tiny exception of
the girlfriend of the chief supporting character, every role can
accurately be described as unique. A butcher shop owner/operator (Nancy
Travis) for a leading lady that may be wielding her cleaver in the off
hours plus her curiously flighty sister (Amanda Plummer). A suburban
San Francisco family of intensely Scottish decent that includes the
youngest son with an enormous head and a Mother (Brenda Fricker) who
has no qualms about French kissing her eldest son's best friend just to
assure herself he's good at it. There's a light aircraft charter pilot
(Steven Wright) that probably shouldn't have been awarded a license and
a slightly embittered, slightly maniacal former Alcatraz guard/now tour
guide (Phil Hartman) who makes me laugh just to look at him on screen.
There's an undercover cop best friend (Anthony LaPaglia) that wanted to
be Starsky or Hutch but instead learns the job really entails filling
out a lot of forms and his boss (Alan Arkin) who, if it wasn't for Mike
Myer's performance, would have stolen the movie with his portrayal of a
Police Chief that can only be described as the antithesis of that
character that we've seen so many times in films and TV.

About Mike Myers: Intensely likable. Free and easy on film at a young
age he creates two wonderful characters that make us laugh hard
throughout. As the lead Charlie McKenzie and as his father Stuart,
Myers keeps the film moving with his paranoid yet irresistible charm
from Charlie and his Robin Williamsesque quips that flow from his two
characters accomplishing the most difficult task for such a
performance; namely, entertain without distracting from the story.

I've added this film to my "Favorites" list and recommend it highly. If
you liked "You Can't Take it With You" you'll love this more
contemporary yet equally quirky film of love and family.
