

A film which manages to perfectly sum up the dilemma encompassed by the
so-called Generation X: a generation that has never had it better, and has
it all for the taking - if only they could figure out just what 'it' is.

Nick (Tim Roth) carries the momentum of this notion, claiming that what he
wants "isn't in here, and it isn't out there...", yet he regardless embarks
on a voyage to Butte, Montana which is rumoured to be the City of the
Future: "I read that a while ago, so the future's probably already there".

Much of the film is concentrated on the aftermath of his departure, and in
particular his decision to leave his girlfriend Beth (Bridget Fonda)behind
in Arizona. Beth now must reach a similar decision in Nick's absence,
finally deciding what 'she' wants as opposed to the wants of those around
her (namely Nick). Also involved in this tangle of relationships are Nick's
ex-lover and Beth's best friend (Phoebe Cates), and a painter (Eric Stoltz)
whose introduction to the situation further complicates Beth's
thinking.

The film, like Glengarry Glenn Ross, is based on a stage play and this is
evident in the minimum of locations employed and heavy emphasis on dialogue.
However, this is really quite satisfying as characters are allowed to
express and develop far much more than is customary in other such, so-called
'soul-searching' films.

Stand-out performances from Fonda and Roth, and an intelligent
script.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is in a category I like to call time and place. It has a very
powerful resonance with someone who is experiencing a similar dilemma.
For
me I originally watched it when it came out and thought the dialogue was
well-paced and witty and the acting from Fonda, Roth, and Cates was
superb.
I recently watched the film again, because I had somewhat grown into its
situation.  Needless to say it was nearly poetic in a way.  That western
landscape and feeling of restlessness...  My only major complaint was the
scoring was a little tedious at times.
<|_=00=_|>
Bodies, Rest and Motion is an entertaining, well shot, well acted and
well written film. Yes, as the title suggests, it is "philosophical",
but it is certainly not dry or pretentious. The twists and turns used
to sneak the "philosophy" into the mouths of the characters are
fantastically clever. (Reminds me of Mamet.) However, this dialog is so
well written that it fits perfectly into the mouths of these
characters. This film can be watched two ways: as a slacker diary
similar to Dazed and Confused, Clerks or Mall Rats or as a
language-driven meditation on love, fidelity and ambition (lack
thereof).

I've read reviews that call this film pretentious. I suspect that those
reviewers don't appreciate that film can be linguistically creative and
intellectually stimulating while still being fun. However, I feel that
one of the reasons that this film was overlooked was that it was
classified as a romantic comedy. Do not go into this film looking for
"You've Got Mail" or "Down with Love". Also, don't go into this film
looking for a hero to cheer for (though you might just find one).

Judge for yourself: Would Eric Stolz, Phoebe Cates, Tim Roth and
Bridgett Fonda lend their colossal talents to pretentious garbage? If
you're a writer, screenwriter or poet, then snag a copy of the script.
Like Mamet's work, this script is well worth the read just to savor the
writer's talent for making seemingly mundane dialog speak volumes.

This is a very under-rated and under-appreciated film!
<|_=00=_|>

If you have an attention span of sit-com-length, this is not your movie. 
True, it's 90 minutes or so, but those moments are stretched- as they should
be.  Sid's character (the sage, of sorts) wants to stretch a moment, and
that is what this movie seeks to do.  For the most part, these characters
are ordinary people- and the actors play them as such.  The dialogue isn't
expository, but it's real- the characters interact as any person would. 
There are no huge turning points, explosions, love-struck stares, and all
the rest of the hollywood spin supposed to be "real."  These are people who
could live down the street.

The best part, though, was the cinematography- the camera work is beautiful.
 There are just enough jump cuts to get your attention, but for the most
part, the camera frames these ordinary lives without intruding on them, all
while capturing the oranges, reds, and warm whites of the Arizona landscape.
 

While the character of the painter is supposed to be a sage- offering wise
comments about identity and humanity, I was relieved when his mistakes/flaws
were finally revealed at the end.  All-in-all, the symbols and stress points
made for a thoughtful movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Bodies, Rest & Motion is the type of film that you stumble onto on cable
one
night, you recognize some of your favorite actors in it, so you decide to
watch.  I didn't get much out of this film.  I have always loved Bridget
Fonda and Tim Roth is one of my favorite actors -- I feel the film gave
them
a lot of material to work with.  Great acting -- I even found Eric Stoltz
to
be moving.

The story is not really there -- the film is more about human interaction;
goals; and love.  Not a picture worth seeking out, but fans of these
actors
might enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
"sex, lies and videotape" doesn't really have much on this film, except
for a more prurient twist. Like Steven Soderbergh's seminal indie hit,
"Bodies, Rest and Motion" is an intelligent drama dealing with life as
a twentysomething in middle (and middle-class) America. It's tightly
written, excellently acted and doesn't sound a false note along the
way, except for perhaps the mystical scene in the young redhead's house
when Tim Roth goes searching for his estranged parents. But that's a
small quibble. Revisit this lost gem, which showcases Eric Stoltz's
best role and performance, and his real-life lover at the time, Bridget
Fonda, as the put-upon Olive Garden waitress who always seems to pick
the wrong guy -- this time Roth as a morally bankrupt Circuit City
salesman. Phoebe Cates is just right as Roth's ex-lover turned
neighbor, who forgives him everything, except perhaps his treatment of
Fonda.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite the little attention this movie has gotten, and the varied,
sporadic
comments and reviews, "Bodies, Rest and Motion" is the most wonderful
thing
I have seen in years. The four actors (Fonda, Stoltz, Cates, and Roth)
could
not do better to bring to us a very subtle, touching, and elegant
portrayal
of loves come and gone and lives living on threads. There's no action
here,
and very little actually happens, but the dialogue and the attention to
details are so strong, you find you don't need anything more; you can
simply
revel in each actors' beauty and condition. You have to watch this movie
more than once, and you have to cry at times, it's that good. I'm
scratching
my head why this movie did not make greater acclaim. Either I'm going
mental, or the world is just missing out.
<|_=00=_|>

I found the plot of the movie very character driven. Instead of give a
plot
it gave a lot of emphasis on how each character felt.  No one really
changed
in the movie, situations just changed.  I liked the style of the movie
because it felt very real.  The movie moved along at a steady enough pace,
with a mellow tone the whole time.  The ending was less than revealing and
everything was left how it started, somewhat out of place.
<|_=00=_|>
I stumbled across this little piece of fluff on IFC television last
night. It had a cast worth checking, so in spite of IFC's unhopeful two
star rating, I settled in to watch. What an odd little film.

The actor's performances were good -- very natural in terms of their
interactions and relationships. The pace was a tad slow -- while I
don't think movies need fist fights and explosions to create pace, a
dialog-intensive film needs to beware of .........................
long..................................pauses. Still, that is a minor
criticism in my view. If that was the only flaw in the film, I could
and would have given it a higher rating because for the most part the
actors handled those dialogic gaps pretty well.

The worse problem with this film was its failure in my view to address
the fundamental "So what?" question. I was never given any reason to
care a whit about any of these characters, with the limited exception
of Beth (Bridget Fonda) whom I was hoping would get the hell out of
Enfield. After she left, I rooted for her not be found by the
pseudo-intellectual painter, Sid. Beth had made a couple of very bad
choices, with the amoral Nick (Tim Roth) and the vacuous
pop-psychologist, Sid, so I was rooting for her to stick to her guns,
enjoy the moments of pleasure she had with Sid, and get away before her
brain turned entirely to mush. Either Nick or Sid would have destroyed
her: Nick with his amoral outlook and lack of direction; Sid with his
pretensions of profundity that he used to shield his fundamental lack
of imagination and ambition.

Still, I didn't care a helluva lot about Beth either. She made the
right decision (finally), but her escape was not a complete triumph
because for all we know she fell into yet another destructive
relationship with some other needy weirdo two towns over.

All of these characters, in the end, were drifting along in pointless
situations. With a film so lacking in plot, brevity was important and,
thankfully, present. If this movie had pushed toward the two-hour mark,
it would have been an utter waste of time unless the time had been used
to give the viewer a reason to care about this crew of self-indulgent
dim-wits.
<|_=00=_|>

Like American Beauty this movie reveals the lives of many people in our
society although just a movie like the afore mentioned film it is closer
to
the truth than many  wish to talk about...lost  souls ...lost
chances...lost
directions.

It's funny yet depressing but with a possible positive future for the
characters. The ending leaves you on a cliff looking for the answers to
the
mess created by the characters actions .Tim Roth is a true genius hence
Lucky Numbers (excellent) and Pheobe Kates plays the part oh so well not
to
mention being her sexy self.

This is Drama but provides escapism though the sad and sometimes pathetic
lives of others 
