

'Under Suspicion,' a remake of the French film 'Garde a Vue,' is as
compelling and engrossing a psychological thriller as I've seen in years. 
The drama is wonderfully tense and taut, and, best of all, the suspense
holds out until near the very end of the film, lingering on afterward for
hours in the viewer's mind.

Gene Hackman plays Henry Hearst, a successful attorney in San Juan, Puerto
Rico who lives an apparently blissful life of luxury--he's got money,
respect, a gorgeous house on the coast, and, most of all, a stunningly
beautiful young trophy wife, Chantal (Monica Belluci, the voluptuous
heir-apparent to Sophia Loren, in one of her first US roles).

On the eve of the feast of St. Sebastian, during which Hearst is set to
deliver an address at a fundraiser for hurricane relief, he is called in to
the police department by his longtime acquaintance Victor Benezet (Morgan
Freeman) for additional questioning surrounding the death of a young girl. 
It seems that earlier that day, Hearst discovered the girl's body while
jogging.  It doesn't take long to discover that Hearst is a suspect,
particularly when he is repeatedly threatened and insulted by the tactless
Owens (Thomas Jane), a loose-cannon junior detective hot to make his first
big bust.  As the interrogation progresses--interspersed with stylish
flashbacks combing memory and real-time--it becomes apparent that the case
is far more complicated than it first appeared.  It seems that the
imminently respectable Henry Hearst has a fetish for young girls and a
secret life involving internet pornography and prostitutes.  Simultaneously
revealed is Captain Benezet's longstanding jealousy of Hearst, whom he has
watched gain wealth and prestige while Benezet has lost his wife to divorce
and struggled to get by.  As the intense intellectual combat continues,
truth becomes more and more murky, to the point that the characters are not
even sure of their own motives or actions.

This movie really stuck with me.  Without giving anything away, let me say
that the film will force you to consider the complexity of truth and memory
and the degree to which psychological trauma and coercion can influence what
we know about ourselves.  Hackman and Freeman are superb, and it's a
pleasure to watch them stretching their skills and chewing up the excellent
dialogue as their characters confront each other.  Thomas Jane gives one of
his better performances as the hot-tempered Owens, and Monica Belluci gives
a subtle and convincing performance while simultaneously being so
unbelievably gorgeous that you can't take your eyes off of her.  The
direction by Stephen Hopkins is superb--creepy and stylish, the
cinemetography makes maximum use of San Juan's many settings.

For some reason this one really flew below the radar when it was released. 
I highly recommend it as an excellent, memorable suspense thriller with
meaning and substance.
<|_=00=_|>

Most of this dialogue-intensive film takes place in an
office in a Puerto Rican Police Department with a top
detective (Freeman) grilling a wealthy attorney (Hackman)
about the rape/murders of young girls. Featuring
outstanding performances by both principals and technical
and artistic excellence, the film's story unfolds piecemeal
as it scrutinizes the Hackman character with painful
deliberation while holding out the "whodunnit" carrot until
the very end. More mature audiences with an appetite for this type of film
are likely to find "Under Suspicion" a
spellbinding tour de force by Hackman.
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILERS ---- What amazes me is how many of you viewers are so quick to
condemn this movie because you just don't get it.  Do movies always have to
wrap things up into tight little packages for them to be workthwile? 
Personally, I prefer movies that require you to think a little after it is
over to allow you to come up with what you think is the real meaning to all
of it.  Under Suspicion is that kind of movie.  It was pretty obvious to me
that the movie wasn't as much a murder mystery as much as it was about a man
struggling with his own personal demons, in particular, the loss of the love
of his life and his obsession with young women.  If you've ever been in a
relationship that ends poorly but you still are in love with that person,
you might understand.  It is quite obvious to me that Hackman's character is
in love with young (very young) beauty.  That is his flaw.  His stumbling
during the investigations is a direct result of his attempt to hide that
flaw and to reveal very personal things about his life and relationship with
his wife.  His obsession about young women is why he had the photographs of
them and why he knew one of them.  By telling the truth, he would have to
reveal this obsession.  His wife has her own problems, that is the green
monster he was talking about - jealousy.  She knows him too well that she
fears that as she ages, she will lose him to younger girls.  She allows this
obsession of hers to take over her reason and let's it destroy her
relationship with her husband.  In the end, Hackman's character is a lost
puppy, weak and pathetic, because he is unwilling to let go of a lost love
as he still loves her deeply and is in denial of the fact that she won't
come back to him.  He is holding on to that shred of hope that she will
realize the error of her ways and love him again.  But she can't do that. 
In the end when he finally realizes that she actually believes in his guilt
and helped to find the "evidence" against him, he finally realizes and
accepts that she will never overcome her jealousy and come back.  So, he has
nothing to live for and he confesses, mostly to get back at her I think.  By
confessing, he will ruin her too as she will lose all social standing she
has, etc.  And I think there is some self-pugilizing too.  I think he may
also be trying to punish himself for being such a fool for her and for his
obsession with young women.  The interrogation may have convinced him that
he was wrong for having this obsession, so his confessing accomplishes both
- punishing her and himself.  In the end, she realizes her mistake and even
contemplates suicide, but decides to try to make up for it and come back to
him.  He, however, actually has made some progress by finally being able to
let her go and rejects him.  She ends up losing in the end and he gains some
self respect.  At least that is where I think the movie
goes.

A couple of small points that people are making.  I am not sure why Puerto
Rico was picked.  Except maybe to add some irony by injecting an exotic
locale.  I don't think that choice is necessarily a good one, not
necessarily a bad choice either.  But it doesn't work well and it may have
been the director's choice not to exploit that.  Maybe the book got into it
deeper.  Also, the friendship between Freeman's character and Hackman's
obviously took place much earlier in their lives.  It appeared to me that
they had really be estranged for a long time leading different lives, his in
the wealthy, social world, Freeman in the working class world.  They knew a
little about each other, but not the details.  I do think they could have
expanded on this a little more for development though. 

Overall, I think this is a very good movie and worth seeing if not for
Freeman and especially Hackman's performances.  Hackman doesn't often do a
movie where he plays a vulnerable character.
<|_=00=_|>

In the middle of San Sebastian's Feast celebration in San Juan, tax
attorney
Henry Hearst is guest of honour at a fund raising event to help repair
damage from a tropical storm.  However, less than an hour before the
event,
Henry is called into the police station by friend Capt Victor Benezet to
clarify some points on his statement.  Henry had discovered a dead child
on
a local beach but the police doubt some of the things in his story.  As
the
time ticks down, Victor comes under pressure to release Henry but at the
same time his story begins to reveal lies.  The situation is only made
more
revealing when Henry's wife comes into the station.

Everyone loves a good thriller so it was a surprise to me how quickly this
film with it's heavy-weight cast managed to slip through the UK cinemas
almost unnoticed.  There is nothing significantly wrong with it to justify
the low box office it seemed to generate, so I'm not sure why it happened.
The story is set, for unknown reasons, in San Juan, a fact that is only
distracting as none of the principals are Puerto Rican and their presence
there is never really settled.  Anyway, the film is very much a play that
is
carried by the two main characters.  The revelations and movement of the
plot is engaging and it is great fun to watch.  The ending is difficult
though - we are taught to expect a certain type of ending in this sort of
film and it is slightly disappointing when it doesn't come.

I expected a big twist and, in a way, that happened but the fall out from
it
isn't well explained by the film and a lot is left for you to think about.
In that respect it is difficult, again because we are not expecting that
type of ending but also that it is quite hard to understand as it is very
tied up in the emotions of complex characters - complexities that we
having
been watching because we've only been seeing them as `twists' and
revelations.  That said, I still enjoyed the ending and thought it was
brave
to be different - just a shame it was badly handled.

The cast are roundly great and are a big reason that the film remains
gripping.  Hackman and Freeman are great actors and having them both in
the
same film was enough of a draw to get me watching.  The vast majority of
their scenes are shared and they interact together really, really well
when
it comes to the dramatics.  What they don't do as well is convince that
they
really are old friends.  Jane is good but his character is far too
simplistic and brash.  Bellucci is better than I have seen her, but she is
a
little too wound up emotionally.  She is very good looking and I was glad
that the film didn't just trade on that, but it didn't (or couldn't) get a
great deal out of her.

The director manages to add energy and style to what could have been a
rather contain piece (like a play).  Visually it is exciting but, looking
back, it was more important to develop character than deliver a slick
thriller - something he didn't do well at all.  The ending is weak because
it takes thought, as we have not been forced to look at the complex
characters.  It was Hopkins' job to make us do that but he can't manage
it.

Overall this is an enjoyable film that will frustrate many with the
ending.
Despite being a clever and different conclusion, it doesn't really work
because of the director making the wrong sort of film to suit that ending.
However for the vast majority it really works and the strength of the two
lead performances mean that, for all it's flaws, this is never a dull
film.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, I commented on this movie once a few days ago, encouraging viewers to
go and watch it and not try to learn too much before seeing it, so as not to
tarnish their perceptions. So many are troubled by the ending and don't
understand. No doubt, it makes you think and doesn't hand over instant
satisfaction or relief from the conflict. Does life always. Well, here's the
importance and brilliance of the ending. Henry is like many of us. Little
parts of our lives taken out of context or thrown into the wrong context
could leave us having to "explain." More than one part, public
embarrassment, a mixture of betrayal and enough suspicion could put you in
Henry's shoes. To highlight. The dog. The dog ran with him like most times.
But he didn't meet the dog like usual, rather the dog met him on the trail.
Even Henry first recalled it happened like always until he really remembered
it hadn't. But the dog was there and the dog found the girl. The dog's owner
says otherwise. Camille. Nothing really happened with Camille. But now, like
the dog, it looks suspicious to investigators. His wife always thought so
and made it part of Henry's nightly problem before this ever surfaced.
Something so familiar to him, he blurted out a denial before his wife ever
brought it to investigator's attention. Now they make it their business to
discover all they can about this from her, and get her side naturally. Henry
visited websites, innocently like many of us, but now the police see the
pornsites he looked at while he believed things were private and now he must
explain. He is a prolific photographer. As photographer's always do - he
shot many rolls of indiscriminate film and not surprising (by itself)
captured some of the victims at some point. The victims were public people
(which is part of why they became victims) and Henry had an abundance of
pictures related to these scenes around him. All this suspicion and
pressure, and his wife and the "lengths she went to" as Henry said, when
learning she dug through his darkroom and discovered photos he didn't even
realize he owned. Then she gave them to the police. He stands as the only
one saying aside from all this, he didn't do the murders. He looks at the
mirror and tells his wife to "come in here and face me." Given all his
thoughts and feelings, even he decides to go along with everyone. He gives
up. Doesn't care. He's the last one to join the parade. It all played out
and he tosses his hand. Begins his false confession which is fueled by facts
he learned from listening to the interrogators over the last few hours. (He
never suspected his wife did the murders as some have said). Then an
undisputable circumstance rears it's head and suddenly everyone pulls the
weight of suspicion away from Henry. For the first time they are on his
side. He's "free" but really far worse off than he ever was because of all
the things he realized about his life. He's has to accept who and where he
is, whether deserved or undeserved. As viewer's we became an integral part
of directing suspicion towards Henry, we too began thinking and agreeing
about his guilt. We too, wanted to find the shred of evidence that made him
"100% guilty." It isn't there, nor was it ever - just like Henry said. The
character's in the film are deflated, confused and unhappy with the ending -
just like you are!!                            
<|_=00=_|>

Ignore the grumbling about camera work, inexplicable location, Thomas Jane,
and some peculiar directorial choices. See this movie for Hackman - I'm hard
pressed to think of a more fully realized performance on film.  He's just
extraordinary.  
<|_=00=_|>

A film with Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman in the two main roles is a dream
come true for anyone who loves the art of acting, and their performances
here (especially Hackman's, who after all does have the more showy part) are
stunning. Stephen Hopkins' direction is hip, inventive and unstagy (though
it must be said that his "a person can physically visit someone else's
flashbacks" trick had already been done three years earlier, in "The Ugly"),
the dialogue is sharp, and the story is compelling. So what's wrong with
this picture? You guessed it...the ending! Simply put, the ending is
baffling and unbelievable, no matter how you try to "explain" it. This film
closely resembles the 1994 French thriller "A Pure Formality", and the irony
is that, although that was a much worse film overall, it had a genuine
surprise at the end, while "Under Suspicion" has the kind of "surprise" that
makes the whole film come off as one big red herring.     
(**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>

Like SE7EN there is weird (albeit appropriate) music. Like
SE7EN there is a jumpy, ADD-inflected title sequence. Like SE7EN
this film is dark and dreary, a vision of an ill-lit and illicit
milieu, raising far more questions than it answers. And Morgan
Freeman is playing yet another world-weary detective, swamped by
serial killings. There is even a young, hot-headed cop involved,
although Thomas Jane (Detective Owens) is certainly no Brad
Pitt. He was so grating in his part that I kept wishing he would
get off the screen so the two leads could get at it. 

And so they do. If in their last appearance together in 
UNFORGIVEN Hackman's character was tormenting Freeman's, then it 
is somehow fitting that here it is the latter's Capt. Victor
Benezet who interrogates, berates, persecutes and ultimately 
breaks down the resistance of Hackman's Henry Hearst, an
attorney who verily has a fool for a client. Capt. Benezet may
position himself as the 'good' cop in the 'good cop/bad cop'
scenarios he sets up with Detective Owens, and later, Detective
Castillo (Pablo Cunqueiro); but he is ever questioning, ever 
probing, ever seeking in his interrogations the heart of this
dark matter. He is even insinuated into his witnesses'
recollections, through a cool cinematographic trick appearing 
and asking questions in situ  in the midst of the film's
flashbacks.

In spite of interruptions from underlings, superiors, and
ultimately Hearst's spouse Chantal (Monica Bellucci in a tight,
controlled performance) , over the course of the film one by one
the lies and half-truths are stripped away, leaving Hearst with
only his moral turpitude and his pitifully sparse 
self-justifications intact. It is only another interruption from
one of Benezet's people that jerks us away from the sleazy,
soul-shorn sight. Yet the revelation that follows twists and
tears, sending our belief in this story and its implications
into a dizzying, perhaps fatal spin. 

In the ending sequence Chantal and Henry Hearst walk towards
each other, but somehow do not connect. They end up sitting
apart. In a way that relates to the way UNDER SUSPICION acts
upon its viewers. Sorry, no neat, happy ending here. Not even a
coherent one. 

<|_=00=_|>

I read some time ago that Morgan Freeman tried unsuccessfully for many years
to produce a remake of the French movie, GARDE à VUE ( Claude Miller, 1981)
before getting Gene Hackman interested in the project; despite their
notoriety, a few more years were required before the UNDER SUSPICION filming
started, with the two players acting also as executive producers (Hackman's
sole attempt to date, Freeman's second out of  five ones).
SPOILERS AHEAD 
SIMILARITIES AND DIFFERENCES.
Both movies have (of course) the same basic plot: a VIP, having found the
corpse of a young girl, reports it and soon becomes the main suspect of two
rapes and murders for  the police, but also for his wife; the  man,
entangled in lies about his doings during the night of the first murder, and
facing adverse testimonies in connection with the second one, is unable to
reverse the growing inner conviction of the police; the last straw occurs
when his wife supplies a piece of circumstantial evidence; he then gives it
up and confesses crimes  he is innocent of.. Both have four main
protagonists: the suspect (Michel Serrault/Gene Hackman) and his wife (Romi
Schneider/Monica Bellucci), two inspectors (Lino Ventura/Morgan Freeman and
Guy Marchand/Thomas Jane). In both cases the marriage has previously
crumbled.
Not having read the "Brainwash" novel by John Wainwright, I do not know
which movie is the closer to it. But the treatments of the films are very
different. Claude Miller sets his story in a middle-sized country town of
(presumably) the North of France, on a cold rainy night, and most of it
takes place in the dreary ill-equipped defectively-lighted office shared by
the two inspectors in charge of the inquest, thus establishing a grim
depressive atmosphere; the necessary flashbacks are few and as short as
possible. UNDER SUSPICION on the contrary is situated in hot and sunny
Puerto-Rico, and the  police office is large, clear, and apparently suitably
fitted: hence we do not understand why Morgan Freeman, sole inhabitant of
the room, complains about it; and the defective lamp, if it has its meaning
in GARDE à VUE, leads to nowhere in UNDER SUSPICION; the colourful Carnival
has atmosphere, but unfortunately the police precinct has none; and there
are many lengthy flashbacks, in which Freeman is inserted as a witness,- a
gimmick which soon  becomes rather tiring. 

CHARACTERS.
The characters too are treated differently: in GARDE à VUE Michel Serrault
is bitterly ironic, rather uncouth, and on the whole unattractive; he never
met before stern chief inspector Lino Ventura, who relentlessly strives to
establish his guilt; the other inspector is a bully, who beats up Serrault
when left alone with him. Romi Schneider comes from a family with a high
social position but no money. She willingly admits to Ventura that she
married Serrault in her mid-twenties for his money, after having been his
mistress for some time and condoning with his sex fancies though she has no
physical needs; nevertheless they were happy till the Camille incident (see
hereafter), when she shut her door to him; divorce is out of the question, -
for the husband  because divorce is looked askance at in the town where he
has his office, for the wife because she is totally dependent on him for
money. 
Gene Hackman is a more genial suspect, but his rather special tastes
regarding very young prostitutes   reinforce (rightly or wrongly) suspicion;
inspector Freeman shared his youth and has remained in speaking terms with
him; however, if the policeman has grounds for suspicion, he is also
strongly jealous of Hackman's huge fortune and beautiful wife; he is
therefore biased in his judgement - which  complicates matters to no avail;
the second inspector behaves more in accordance with his chief's politics
than in GARDE à VUE, and is less important. Hackman has known his wife since
she became an orphan, paid for her studies, and seduced her when she was 14.
From the Camille incident on, their marriage has been just a front.

THE CAMILLE INCIDENT
UNDER SUSPICION uses some of  the GARDE à VUE dialogue - unfortunately,
often not in situation; more, it is misused in connection with the Camille
incident (Camille being the daughter of Serrault's sister in GARDE à VUE,
but that of Monica Bellucci's sister in UNDER SUSPICION): on a Xmas night at
her niece's home, Schneider enters unexpectedly  the dim-lighted
dining-room, finds her husband and her niece gazing raptly in the other's
eyes, and realizes that they share a universe of their own from which she is
excluded and shall never be a part of. She develops an instant hate for her
husband.  She says later to Ventura "He had no right to have her gaze upon
him like a woman "; there is no inkling of any improper behaviour. Monica
Bellucci goes into Camille's room, finds her very excited, in the company of
her rather drunk husband: as she is convinced that he behaved badly, with
the girl's consent, uttering the same words as Schneider is nonsense. 

ABOUT REMAKES
What with the number of movies and TV films, the shortage of original
stories is unavoidable, and therefore you cannot object to remakes on
principle, nor demand that they be carbon copies; but the changes brought
must be as least as effective as the abrogated parts: in that respect,
making Hackman a photography addict has a use; but other alterations are not
so welcome.  For instance, Serrault's wife does not want children, and her
refusal can explain his unhappiness and attraction towards Camille. In UNDER
SUSPICION, Gene Hackman loves children, (his speech leaves no doubt about
it), but he had been married for several years prior to the Camille
incident, his wife says she is not sterile, and still they have no child 
no explanation is given hereof. Further, the discovery of the real culprit
in UNDER SUSPICION is narrated (rather badly, what is more), not shown, and
fails to attract your attention. And the discovery of a third victim,
Ventura's admonishment, the ultimate suicide of Romi Schneider and
Serrault's despair result in a far more impressive ending than Gene Hackman
going back home alone and presumably leaving his wife for keeps.

THE CASTS
The characters in GARDE à VUE are better delineated and more incisive than
in UNDER SUSPICION,  and give more opportunities to the actors: if Hackman
is excellent, his character is less complex than Serrault's, who fits his to
perfection; Freeman's performance is not one of his bests, while Ventura  is
outstanding as an inspector who fails to remain objective, and whose future
accordingly is bleak; Romi Schneider's delicate features and calculating
coldness are perhaps more suited  to the story than Monica Bellucci's
earthly beauty; Thomas Jane has not much to do, while Guy Marchand's
sadistic impersonation earned him a Cesar, the French equivalent of Oscar
for Best Supporting Actor. The Puerto Rican bit-players are non-existent,
where all the French ones are good (compare the native commissioner in UNDER
SUSPICION, who has no substance and whose warning to Freeman to proceed
carefully fall totally flat; on the contrary the French one is established
in two scenes as a man of power, incisive and demanding). 

					END OF SPOILERS
 
THE TECHNICAL TEAMS
Many of the best directors love to lend a hand in the writing of their
movies; such is the case for Claude Miller, co-writing a closely-knit script
with Jean Herman prior to directing it, incisively and faultlessly; witty
vitriolic dialogue by Michel Audiard and a perfectly suited musical score by
François de Roubaix are priceless contributions. The result is a taut
fascinating movie which never drifts from the trend of the story. 

Viewing UNDER SUSPICION, you have the feeling that the writers brought most
alterations regardless of their impact, for the sole purpose of justifying
their salaries. As to Stephen Hopkins's direction, it is uneven; together
with the loose treatment of the plot and its superfluous complications, it
fails to ensure the unity required for such a film.  
                                                            

CONCLUSION. 
Those who have not seen GARDE à VUE can be attracted by UNDER SUSPICION 's
cast and may find it a slightly better than average thriller; most of the
others will judge UNDER SUSPICION the unnecessary 
<|_=00=_|>
This is an intense drama that takes place between Gene Hackman as the
suspect, Henry Hearst, and Morgan Freeman as Capt. Victor B., mostly in
the form of an interrogation at a police station in Puerto Rico.

However, it has some interesting scenes that take place outside the
police station, while the interrogation is on going - showing us what
might have happened.

Both Hackman and Freeman do excellent work in this film, as expected of
these two pros. Thomas Jane, a good actor, has little to work with in
this particular drama, which showcases Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman
as the leads.

Monica Bellucci plays Chantal, the beautiful young wife of Henry
Hearst, however, in my opinion, her acting was only average except for
one scene where she is crying. Mostly she is just delicious eye candy.

As the interrogation continues, Henry's story keeps changing as Victor
hammers away at him about the rape and murder of two young girls, until
secret after secret is uncovered and fully revealed much to Henry's
humiliation.

Just prior to the ending, Henry goes completely out of character, in my
opinion, and when we reach the conclusion to the case, it is somewhat
disappointing. 

Other than the somewhat weak ending, however, the film is quite
riveting and held my interest entirely, although perhaps it is just a
bit overly long for a interrogation format, and does lead at times to
some repetition, it is nonetheless a highly entertaining film.

8 stars out of 10
