
I have to admit: this Adam Sandler no-brainer is hilarious, just had me
laughing right from the start. I'd rank it in my top ten funny movies
of my collection and it features one of my favorite characters in film:
Bobby Boucher Jr., a heckuva lot nicer guy than Sandler's "Happy
Gilmore." 

"Bobby" is about as innocent and a gentle-natured a guy as you'll find
this side of Forrest Gump. You can't help but root for him, and that's
the idea. What the film basically involves is another "Revenge Of The
Nerds" theme except it's "nerd "- singular - as the picked-on waterboy
turning the tables on the football jocks. Interesting to once again see
Jerry Reed, whom I haven't seen much of since his days in "Smokey And
The Bandit." He has much fatter face but everything else looked the
same. Then there is Henry Winkler, "The Fonz" who now is the opposite:
a guy with a terrible inferiority complex. All the characters in here
are wildly exaggerated.

This cartoon-like comedy may not be high-brow, but so what? It's not
totally low- brow either, but I do wonder why modern filmmakers cannot
seem to make a comedy without all the sex references and the profanity.
Nonetheless, Sandler's Cajun accent, his strange-looking-but pretty
girlfriend (Fairuza Balk) and crazy mother (Kathy Bates, in the
funniest role she's ever played) are all great fun to watch.

It's silly, particularly the ridiculous climactic football game, but
then this movie is hardly to be taken seriously. It's all absurd humor,
and 90 minutes was just right amount of time for it.
<|_=00=_|>
The Waterboy is one of those movies that I really loved as a kid, I was
12 years old when this movie came out and I thought it was just the
most hilarious movie I had ever seen. So growing up I re-watched it
thinking that I would still enjoy the movie as much as I did when I was
younger. But honestly I wasn't laughing as much as I did when I was 12,
I think because it was for the most part it was just junior high humor.
Is The Waterboy a funny movie? Yeah, I'm not going to lie, I still got
a few good laughs out of it; it's just baffling to me that a grown man
could make millions of dollars while making baby voices, that's the
power of Adam Sandler.

Bobby Boucher, a pretty stupid, stuttering, water boy with anger issues
due to constant teasing and his mother's excessive sheltering. He was
the water boy for the University of Louisiana Cougars or the past 18
years, but the players tormented him, and the team's head coach, Coach
Red Beaulieu, fired him for disrupting his team's practices. He later
goes to Coach Klein, coach of the Mud Dogs, and volunteers to work as
the team's water boy for free after seeing the filthy water that the
coach provides his players. During his first few hours of being
waterboy for the Mud Dogs, one of the players spits into the water can.
A flashback is then seen when the waterboy was a young kid working for
the Cougars. Coach Beaulieu refuses the right for the waterboy to
retaliate against one of his players for spitting in the cooler. Coach
Klein notices his anger problem and encourages Bobby to stand up for
himself instead of letting the players walk all over him. After
Grenouille, the team's captain taunts him, Bobby then sees flashbacks
of the people that also made his life a living hell. Bobby then
effortlessly runs onto the field, grunting and growling in sheer anger
and tackles Grenouille, shocking the whole team and prompting Coach
Klein to put him on the field, with positive results. Despite his
overprotective mother's disapproval, he secretly continues to play
football, and also secretly goes to school. He uses his anger to tackle
the opposing players by pretending they're the people who made fun of
him throughout his life. He quickly becomes one of the most feared
linebackers in college football and love interest of Vicki Vallencourt.

While The Waterboy is stupid in a lot of moments, over all it's just a
harmless comedy that is just for fun. I still love quoting certain
lines to it, especially when Bobby attacks his college professor
because his mama was insulted. Another reason I can't hate this movie
is that this was the time that Adam Sandler was actually funny and we
enjoyed seeing his movies. I think the reason why people just didn't
respond as well to this movie as his other films was due to the fact
that a lot of his movies are the same plot with a different character:
Happy Gilmore or Billy Madison. The Wedding Singer was his first movie
that was completely original and that's why it's so well loved. But I
still would recommend seeing The Waterboy for a few good laughs, you
have to love some of the fantasies that Bobby comes up with, such as
"Water sucks, Gatorade tastes better", you'll have to see what I mean,
but trust me, it's a good scene.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

A lot of people are shocked at how dumb, unbelievable, and campy this movie
is.  Obviously they've lived in a cave and never seen an Adam Sandler movie
before.

You don't watch Adam Sandler for a cerebral workout.  You'll never see him
starring opposite Anthony Hopkins or Merryl Streep.  Okay, I realize his IS
cast opposite Oscar-Winner Kathy Bates, but don't confuse me with details.
This movie is just a bunch of jokes wrapped around a weak
plot.

Still, the jokes are really funny.  I don't usually laugh out loud at the
movies, but I guffawed at many parts of this movie.  If nothing else, it
stimulates the Three Stooges area of the frontal lobe of your
brain.

On the down side, Rob Schneider must be a good friend, because his role was
obviously a last-minute toss in.  Schneider is not funny in this movie and
his "lines" are by far the campiest element of this movie.

Still, it was amazing how the crowd with which I saw it reacted to the
football scenes in the movie.  I looked around and everyone was anxious or
cheering like they're best friend was playing in the Super Bowl.  Also, this
is the hardest I've seen an audience laugh since "There's Something About
Mary".

In short, if you can accept the fact that the plot is completely
unbelievable and just watch it for laughs, you will enjoy this movie.  If
you're looking for Oscar-winning drama, go elsewhere.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a real no-brainer, but if that's what you're looking for then
this baby is right up your alley.
Adam Sandler specialises in this type of film, switch off the cerebellum and
just revel in the stupidity.
The Waterboy is not going to win any awards or even make its audience think,
but it will inspire some laughs if you let it.
As for it being similar to Happy Gilmour, you might as well say that it is
identical to half of the movies produced in Hollywood - unlikely hero comes
good, gets faced with a difficult challenge, overcomes it an wins the game
in the last few minutes! Sheesh, what movie doesn't use this formula
nowadays?
In short, don't expect too much from the film and you won't be
disappointed.
My vote 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

It's Adam Sandler.  Are we expecting a smart comedy, along the lines of
Woody Allen and Albert Brooks?  Of course not.  But like all his comedies,
it works.  Some of the jokes are truly lame (not in a funny way), but most
of them worked.  Sandler helped pen the script, so naturally the humor is
cheap and juvenile.  But everyone, young and old, has a kid or teenager
inside of them that is dying to break out.  That explains the success of
"There's Something About Mary."  I'm sure a movie with such widespread
success didn't reach only a young audience.  When an old man dressed like
Colonel Sanders gets hit in the head by a paperweight, call me immature, but
I'm going to laugh out loud!  Sandler does a great job at awakening the kid
in all of us.  It's truly evident that the kid in him is fully awakened. 

Honestly, I still prefer Sandler's "Billy Madison" (I will always love that
movie!) and "Happy Gilmore," but this is a good one too.  I never thought
Fairuza Balk was hot, before checking out this film.  Anyone who has seen
"The Craft" knows damn well she looked horrible!  And for good reason--she
was playing a witch!  Here, she looks hot, and walks around in a lot of
skimpy outfits--MMMM!  No matter how many times I watch this film, I can't
help but crack up at Blake Clark as Farmer Fran.  God, what an underrated
talent!  His main gag is you can't understand what the hell he's saying. 
Sure, it doesn't sound like much on paper--shows how the timing and
execution of a joke can really work wonders.  He also made a short
appearance in "Joe Dirt," so look for him in that one as well.  There are a
good deal of notable gags:  the Roy Orbison tattoo, Rob Schneider's "You can
do it!" character, etc.  I can't say this is a subtle comedy that you'll
want to check out over and over again to search for jokes you may have
missed.  To tell the truth, I think the film gets more lame in further
viewings.  Which is why it's good to watch it once or twice.  Don't wear it
out, because this kind of comedy can wear out easily--like those supermarket
brand AA batteries.  

"The Waterboy" is funny, mindless entertainment.  I recommend watching
it--just read a book afterwards...LOL.  Critics have criticized Sandler for
lowering viewers' comic standards.  Sure, his gags may not be as
intelligently crafted as those of the late Marx Brothers or Buster Keaton,
but he knows how to make people laugh and I'm not going to fry him for that.
 Some don't find him funny--and if you don't, I understand.  But I'm not
going to view Sandler as comedy's Hitler.  Believe me, I've seen much worse.
 

My score:  7 (out of 10)       
<|_=00=_|>
All of the characters were well developed and entertaining. This movie
never pretended to be anything more than it was..a fun, wacky comedy
with a bizarre plot. Anyone who beats this up for being dumb should be
taken out back and paddled. It is obvious THEY are too dumb to realize
that this was DESIGNED to be dumb. Anyway..there are too many scenes
that I STILL laugh at today, even though I have seen this 1/2 dozen
times. So, if you are looking for the greatest film ever made on all
levels..give this a pass..if you can relate to the humor, it's a
wonderful hoot! I am not a die hard Adam Sandler fan, but I think he
scored a 10 in this one for likability and laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
Adam Sandler's brand of humor may not be award winning,but it doesn't
have to be.He creates another memorable character here,and surrounds
himself with a good cast,including Henry Winkler,and Oscar winner Kathy
Bates.You would be hard pressed to find a film about the sport of
football that could be considered a great one,but the majority that I
have seen are entertaining enough,and this one is no exception to that.
If you are smart,you won't view this movie with an expectation of
greatness,but if you want genuinely funny silliness,this is a film for
you.It's a worthy edition to the comedy section of anyone's home
library.
<|_=00=_|>

Amusing but typical Adam Sandler vehicle about a water boy for a football
team who has the amazing ability to get extremely mad and violent (picture
Sandler as the Incredible Hulk). When a football coach (Henry Winkler,
a.k.a. The Fonz) sees Sandler's amazing talent, he gets him on his football
team...much to the dissaproval of his overcontrolling mother (Kathy Bates).

A lightweight comedy handled with playfulness. "The Waterboy" scores big
points for laughs. If you want an hour and a half of fun, see this
movie!

3.5/5 stars -

John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

I really liked the Waterboy.  It was crude, raw, and utterly funny.  Adam
Sandler gives his funniest yet since his 1995 cult hit Billy Madison.  In
this feel good movie, Sandler plays a dumb waterboy who gets on a football
team and becomes a damn good tackler.  Everything in this film is funny,
from beginning to end.  Henry Winkler has his best in years as a down on his
luck coach and Kathy Bates is Dead Pan funny as mama.  Great all around. 
A+
<|_=00=_|>
Now I am a huge fan of Adam Sandlers dumb-ass films but I think that is
why people have let him a have a career so long. They just love his
dumb-ass movies. The movie centres around the local water boy who when
the coach of the football team notices he can tackle hard when mad he
puts him as the new quarterback of tackeler guy sorry I am Australian.
The movie is good on many pointers as it shows that Adam Sandler can
play 2 different types of dumb guys, nice dumb and guys and mean dumb
guys. If you have not already seen this you should take some time to
seat down and enjoy the movie. Overall this movie is a fun excuse to
seat down and dumb out but I can see why people would not like this
film. I rate this film 83%.
