
John Frankenheimer didn't have a lot of credibility in his last few
years. His final film was the rather crap Reindeer Games, with Ben
Affleck, and in 1996 he gave us the utterly terrible Island Of Doctor
Moreau. However, he did do Ronin in 1998, which makes up for absolutely
everything.

It is a detachment from glossy, MTV-directed, Hollywood action movies.
If you want trash, like Bad Boys 2, then this isn't for you. Ronin
returns to the gritty, rustic and deadly serious actioners of the
Seventies, much like Frankenheimer's own French Connection 2.

The title refers to Samurai warriors in ancient Japan who were left
with no cause, or purpose, if their master was killed. They'd roam the
countryside, pretending to be thieves, beggars, even madmen and hiring
their skills out to the highest bidder. Much like the lost, wandering
freelancers that make up our cast of characters.

Robert De Niro is Sam, an ex-CIA agent (or is he?), who bands together
with a ragtag group of similar ex-spies for a "no questions asked" job
with what appears to be the IRA. First we have Vincent (the wonderful
Jean Reno), as a French agent who knows where to find just about
anything you want. Spence (Sean Bean) is a gung-ho SAS dropout who is
waaaaay out of his depth and ends up jeopardising the whole mission.
Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard), an ex-KGB spy who knows his gadgets and
another American called Larry (who is rather disposable). All of these
men are led by Deirdre (Natascha McElhone), a young Irish woman who
answers to Seamus O'Rourke (Jonathan Price), an IRA boss who is in a
lot of trouble with his superiors.

Still with me? No? Well I'm gonna continue anyway. The group's mission
is to steal a metallic briefcase from the Russian Mafia. The contents
of this case are a mystery; all we know is that a lot of people are
willing to pay mucho plento to get their hands on it.

As if the set-up wasn't tenuous enough, there is immediately too much
suspicion within the group to bear. And the already complicated plot is
thrown into endless chaos as double-crosses, double-double-crosses,
secrets and lies screw things up in a big, big way.

It sounds tough going, but it's not really. I'll admit I didn't really
like Ronin when I first saw it (or the second or third for that
matter), but it's one of those movies that creeps back on you.
Frankenheimer's direction is so flawless and masterful that every frame
of every scene flows effortlessly The acting is so well rehearsed and
the cast so well chosen that even in every gesture, idiosyncrasy and
subtle glance you can read into the characters's hidden motives. It
takes a good number of viewings to decipher Ronin, but when the story
is this well done, who cares? Since its release there have been few
action films that have come close to its intensity. Some, like Bourne
Identity/Supremacy try to emulate its bleak tone, but don't match up.
Supremacy has a car chase that was desperate to beat Ronin's, but is
far too flashy.

That's also the ace up it's sleeve. About 80 minutes into the film, the
second car chase is a juggernaut of film-making. Never before and
probably never again for a long, long time, has there been a car chase
so completely mental. No Michael Bay 1000 cuts a second, no
slow-motion, no stunts silhouetted against the sunset, just sheer,
relentless adrenaline, as DeNiro and Reno tear up the streets of Paris.
It's the centrepiece of the movie and a perfect example of what REAL
action film-making is.

Elia Cmiral's score is the other utterly perfect aspect of the movie.
Simultaneously lonely, seductive and mysterious, it surely is one of
the best themes ever and anyone with sense would go out and buy the
soundtrack CD right away.

Ronin is perfection from beginning to end, from Frankenheimer's strong,
imposing direction to David Mamet's script, riddled with cryptic
dialogue and double-meanings.

No one can deny Ronin's importance as a real action picture. No one can
watch crap like xXx, or 6 Fast 6 Furious, and claim Ronin to be a bad
movie. It has enough, maybe too much, integrity and intelligence to
shame anything that comes even halfway close. If you're sick of action
flicks, or films in general, where the audience just sits there
passively and is fed information, then Ronin is the cure.

It may sound like a bizarre comparison, but it's on par with Lost
Highway, as one of those movies you have to figure out in your own damn
time.
<|_=00=_|>
Every once in a rare while comes an action movie that is also a
genuinely good film. This is one of those movies. What makes these
uncommon movies what they are is simple: plot. No movie can compromise
that and in recent years Hollywood has been doing just that to show off
it's million dollar special effects and two cent story lines. This film
has both pulse pounding breakneck action scenes and developed and
interesting story.

The story starts when mercenaries are hired to retrieve a secret silver
briefcase with mysterious contents. The mission goes awry with betrayal
and we soon find out that everyone has their own motives and goals with
the mysterious silver case. 

The cast is good and the direction is smooth and keeps the story
flowing and it'll keep you guessing right up to the very end about just
exactly what is going on and who everyone is. Then, there are the car
chases and they are awesome. Truly awesome and even legendary by now.
Just like classics like 'Bullitt' and 'The French Connection' and goofy
camp films of the seventies (like the original 'Gone in 60 Seconds')
this film uses no hyper-crazy CGI in its action scenes and that proves
all for the better since it is an action movie, but it cannot lose all
it's credibility for the sake of some cars crashing. A thrill needs to
be at least partly believable, otherwise it won't be thrilling. In fact
the whole film has a more realistic feel to it with the relentlessness
of the action being not over the top, but still enjoyable for fans of
the genre. Then there are the characters who much more real as they
don't snap wise cracks while shooting bad guys square in the head one
handed with a pistol at 30 yards. 

All in all, this is a very good entry in the action genre and Hollywood
should take note. 8/10

Rated R for violence
<|_=00=_|>

I picked up this DVD in Asda's a few weeks ago and seeing it had Robert
De
Niro starring convinced me enough to buy it. Then seeing in the credits
it
starred Jean Reno, Sean Bean and Jonothan Pryce too made me realise I was
watching a winner here.

I wasn't wrong either, this film is brilliant.  The beginning is slow and
tense; dark, clear colours in the picture sets the mood perfectly. From
then
on most of it is pretty much action.

Five mysterious men of various backgrounds (ex-CIA, KGB etc) meet in
Paris,
France for a job headed by a Northern Irish woman.  The job is to steal a
case from a group and return the case to their as yet unknown employers.
Just as things seem to run smoothly, one of them is a double-crosser.

Now for some of the best bits, the car chases.  These are shot
magnificently
as Peugeot's, BMW's and Audi's tear through the streets of Paris.  These
chases are the most thrilling chases I have ever seen.  And when you get
chases, you get crashes.  Think on-coming traffic chases and you might
get
the picture.

This is a must see film. 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

This thriller from veteren John Frankenheimer is pure excellence, the
script, acting and action are top draw. De Niro and Reno are brilliant in
this as of course you would expect from two such excellent actors. The
action scenes are pulse pounding and particularly excellent are the car
chases, probably the best ever. Not only did the stunt guys risk their lives
but the guys shooting the action captured some truly thrilling close up view
from the cars as they speed along. The action also carries a certain degree
of realism to it, the shootouts are sensible and the car chases and crashes
seem very genuine no massive corkscrewing threw the air like most car chases
or cars jumping 100 feet in the air like in Gone in 60 seconds, which is all
very good but not for this sort of thriller. The pacing of the film was
great and there was a constant chilling atmosphere. As I said before Robert
De Niro and Jean Reno were exceptional particularly in their scenes
together. The support cast are good too with a brief but excellent display
from Sean Bean and Natasha Mchelhone and Jonathan Pryce are both good as
Irish terrosists with comendable accents. All in all a very god way to spend
a few hours.
<|_=00=_|>

"Ronin" is one of those rare action films like "The French Connection" and
"To Live and Die in L.A." that will keep a viewer watching from beginning to
end.  The performances in this movie are nothing short of superb and
terrific.  All of the key characters deserve a lot of credit, ranging from
De Niro, Reno, McElhrone, Pryce, Skarsgard, and especially, Michael
Lonsdale, who fills in the missing link with such detail and looks like he
made the little samurai action figures with extreme care.  The best scene of
the film isn't the shootouts or car chases, it's the conservation that Sam
(De Niro) and Jean-Pierre (Lonsdale) have over the Ronin myth.  I'll have to
admit that "Ronin" is the first film that I have seen was made by the crafty
veteran director John Frankenheimer ("Grand Prix", "The Manchurian
Candidate").   If you haven't seen "Ronin", go to a video store and rent the
movie now.     
<|_=00=_|>
A great movie that you can't just watch with one eye. It starts slow,
laying a strong foundation, and if it's on TV, it's easy to get lost by
not paying attention at the beginning. However, it's an outstanding
film, exploring the characters with a huge action movie in the
background.

It's visually interesting and doesn't ever let you know the things you
think you need to know, but by the end you've forgotten that you wanted
to know them in the first place. Robert DeNiro gives a strong
performance and doesn't get lost in some of the showiness he can
deliver when he's making up for a weaker story, and the supporting cast
is full of familiar faces, many of which blend so well into the
characters they play that, again, you can become lost in the story
(although this time, it a good way).
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Ronin is like going 25 years back in time. The European
locations, the cold and cynical characters, the deliberately ambiguous
and serpentine plot, the car chases, the treachery.... all these are
the standard ingredients of those twisty spy flicks that were
ten-a-penny in the late '60s and early '70s. And who better to direct
this retro-thriller than John Frankenheimer, the man behind such genre
masterpieces as The Manchurian Candidate and Seven Days In May?

A group of mercenaries gather in a Parisian warehouse. They don't know
each other, and they don't particularly know why they've been
summoned.... other than the fact that they're about to be offered a job
worth a considerable amount of money. Among the group is Sam (Robert De
Niro), an American "ronin" (the name once given to masterless Japanese
samurai-warriors who used to wander across the land offering themselves
as hired swords). Others include Frenchman Vincent (Jean Reno), English
weapons expert Spence (Sean Bean), East European electronics specialist
Gregor (Stellan Skarsgard) and ace driver Larry (Skip Sudduth). The
team has been brought together by Irish revolutionary Deidre (Natascha
McElhone), who eventually reveals to them that their task is to get
hold of a mysterious silver briefcase. They are not told what is in the
briefcase, merely that if they want to get their hands on their money
then they must steal the said briefcase from a team of ruthless agents
currently guarding it.

Throughout its running time Ronin keeps its plot very secretive (even
at the end we never learn WHAT was actually in the briefcase). In some
ways, this makes the story intriguing but it also causes a certain
degree of dissatisfaction as many of the loose ends are still left
untied as the final credits roll. De Niro gives a game performance as
the morally complex "hero", and Reno backs him up splendidly in yet
another of his charismatic, slightly villainous roles. The big
revelation is McElhone, a relative newcomer, who holds her own with all
these powerhouse stars without looking at all daunted. The action is
excitingly shot, especially the film's regular car chases and
shootouts. It's nice to see genuinely hair-raising stunt work being
used to achieve the effectiveness of these action sequences, as opposed
to the usual '90s dependency on digital trickery. Check out also the
amazing scene in which De Niro has to cut a bullet from his own
stomach, using a mirror and a sharp knife! While Ronin might be a
throwback to the films of yesteryear, with a story every bit as murky
and "cloak-and-dagger" as the old films it resembles, it still comes
across as an enjoyable and pacy piece of entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
A pretty decent action outing for Robert De Niro and John
Frankenheimer. Good photography of some of the seedier neighborhoods of
Paris and other French cities. This film is quintessential De Niro, and
he gets all the good lines. There is an interesting revelation at the
end, which I will not reveal here. The case everyone is after, is a
complete McGuffin, what Hitchcock called that plot device, the thing
which everyone wants, and it doesn't really matter exactly what that
is. I think that Frankenheimer may have been paying homage to Hitchcock
on this, as what is in the case is never revealed. Apparently David
Mamet was the script doctor on this film, and it ended up OK. I am of
two minds on Mamet, having liked "The Untouchables" a lot, and disliked
"Glengarry Glen Ross" and loathed "Oleanna". I also liked Natascha
McElhone, who I had never heard of. She is a beautiful and accomplished
actress. Some people complained about her brogue. OK, she's not Meryl
Streep. But then again, who is? A lot of actors won't even try. I look
forward to seeing more of her.

Oh, yeah, and some of the car chases were really, really cool, almost
McQueenian.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie begins with a bunch of international mercenaries, five to be
exact, gathering in a bistro in Paris… Working only for money, their
job was strictly to take intact a metal suitcase from several men—very
well armed— who'll be intent on preventing them… No information was
given about its contents, value or purpose… 

An extraordinary cast of actors forms the group:

Robert De Niro, the ex-CIA agent and expert strategist; Jean Reno, the
French mercenary; Stellan Skarsgard, the mysterious computer
professional; Sean Bean, the ace field man; and Skipp Sudduth, the
specialist in driving getaway cars… 

Dierdre (Natascha McElhone) is the icy Irishwoman who explains the
mission, but she is not necessarily the one fully in charge… It seems
that the 'handler' who pulls the strings is an Irish fugitive called
Seamus (Jonathan Pryce). 

The film becomes tense and very exciting when one of the five members
double-crosses the rest of the team, replacing the suitcase and leaving
with the one they got… Here appears a mysterious man— apparently in
love with Natacha Kirilova played by Katarina Witt, the East German
figure skater, 4-time world champion—interested in the suitcase… 

"Ronin" combines exotic European locations with the most sophisticated
movie car chase ever filmed on a superhighway when McElhone takes her
black BMW through the wrong lanes followed by De Niro in a blue FWD
Peugeot… 

De Niro is great to watch as the tough Sam, who remains cool regardless
of the peril of the operation… Equally not susceptible to alarm are
Skarsgard and Reno… Natascha McElhone brings a chilling, glacial
quality to the role of the forceful woman not afraid of anything… 

Frankenheimer doesn't recapture the intensity he once created in movies
like "The Manchurian Candidate," and the "French Connection"
<|_=00=_|>
John Frankenheimer crafted what was likely the last great movie of his
career with this international espionage thriller about rogue agents
who have found themselves out of place in post-Cold War era Europe.

With few exceptions, everyone is addressed by their first name only. As
the story progresses, this works well, since they could just as easily
be aliases. The film follows an American ex-CIA spook Sam, and a French
mercenary, Vincent, as they are recruited along with a German ex-KGB
agent named Gregor, a British military man named Spence, and another
American named Spence. An Irish femme fatal, Deirdre, tells them about
their mysterious mission to seize a case from some French gangsters
before it can be sold to the Russian Mafia.

The case is what Alfred Hitchcock called a McGuffin, something the
characters want, but the audience doesn't care about. And whatever it
is, people seem to think it's of great importance. Whoever has the
case, has control of the situation.

Spence proves to be a wimp at the job, and is given an severence pay
before walking away. Then, in the impressive takedown where the case is
seized in transit, Gregor turns out to be a turncoat working for the
Russians. But this is a difficult place to be for him, since they want
him dead just as much as the Irish do.

Deirdre, for her part, is covering for a cruel IRA man named Seamus.
Everyone has a reason not to trust their fellow man, and shootouts and
exhilarating chase sequences ensue.

This was something of a precursor to the more recent Jason Bourne
movies in style, although since no one is working at the CIA, we don't
have the jumpy editing. But it certainly has equal, or even superior
chases to the Bourne movies.

Robert De Niro is good as the wisecracking Sam. Jean Reno is even
better as his comrade Vincent. Stellan Skarsgard is sinister, but also
a little sympathetic. NAtascha McElhone and Jonathan Pryce, English and
Welsh respectively, play the two Irish characters, whose accents are
pretty good. Pryce is menacing in one of his more sadistic roles.

Overall a good movie. There is, of course, some suspension of disbelief
involved. But the way that Frankenheimer melds the environment to make
it seem realistic, it's easy to let it slide.
