

This was really something else. It was very bad, but damn, I got such a kick
out of it. Russell played his role to the hilt. 
My favorite scene was when the investigator people were talking and they
said, "Sid is evolving." Another one of them asked, "Into what?". Cut to Sid
doing a cocky sort of walk down the street while decked out in a pair of
shades and while "Staying Alive" by the BeeGees is playing. It has to be
seen to be believed. I started laughing hysterically right then and there.

I swear that Russ must have known what pure camp quality this was. I bet he
had a great time filming it. I must commend everyone, especially Mr.Crowe,
for being able to keep a straight face while putting this on.

I only have one real complaint about this movie. You'd think that
considering Sid had all these serial killers in his head, he'd be a little
more perverse. I mean, most deranged killers have a sadistic sexual side. I
would have really liked to have seen that. But I guess it would have become
too serious if they added that.
<|_=00=_|>
Virtuosity is by no means a great movie or a good movie. It is barely
above average. That though is because of Russell Crowe's character: SID
6.7 who possesses over 150 serial killer personalities. He is just
supposed to be used to train police but he escapes from his virtual
reality to the reality. That sounds pretty interesting and this premise
could be taken into many different directions especially since he is
such a complex character you could go so many different way going about
to make this film. Though this movie did not take the worst direction
it did not take the best one. This movie went for pure action and no
real drama or meaningful message. Now that is OK but it lacked in doing
this because of the: The directing which was average by Brett Leonard.
He made this into a very exciting TV movie which it is not. He had two
very talented actors in Denzel Washington and Russell Crowe yet he was
not able to generate the excitement and fast pace feeling that is
needed to make a good action movie.

The writing is also at fault too. The writing was not great here. It
seemed to have a lot of overused themes such as the cop trying to
retain the high status that he used too have and also the idiot cops
getting in the way. That is also OK but the dialog made this
interesting idea into a movie that was not so unfamiliar. Not much
originality in here despite having such a unique character. That is
always the script's fault whenever this happens. The writing and
directing just made this movie so frustrating to watch.

You cannot blame the acting. You could see that Denzel Washington,
already an established actor at that time, and Russell Crowe, not
established, really tried to push this movie forward. Yet there was
little to work with which made them look really average.

This movie could have been much better if it was made more into a
action/drama about the our inner battles. Considering that SID 6.7 had
150 personalities the storyline of his character could have made him
have a battle within himself. Now this was done to a minor level which
really annoyed me. They are many other ideas or methods that could have
really made this movie something but of course this did not happen. It
went for cheap effects, an over used clichéd storyline with a little
bit of a twist. That may work for some people but not for me.

I'am giving this movie a 6/10 rating because it had so much potential.
<|_=00=_|>

You can't help but like Crowe's gleeful portrayal of a schizophrenic
nano-bot serial killer in this ridiculous film, and with futuristic
fascists, pervey programmers and a bucket loads of virtual reality cyber
nonsense, this should really be a winner in the style of The Demolition Man
or the Robocop series. But where other films in the genre have used such
tools as wit and plot to keep the more intelligent of the viewers amused,
this film, um, hasn't.

The script is terrible. The acting (excluding Crowe, who only gets away with
it thanks to a camp smile and some fortunate direction) is wooden. And the
plot is illogical and frustrating.


<|_=00=_|>

In the near future, Parker Barnes (Denzel Washington) is an ex-cop who has
been sent to prison for murder.  The circumstances surrounding his crime are
disheartening and elicit empathy.  Now, he is offered a chance at freedom
from prison.  Parker must hunt down and destroy a murderous cyborg, SID 6.7
(Russell Crowe), who is menacing the general public after jumping out of a
virtual reality program.  The chase takes
on many twists and turns as SID terrorizes, shoots and kidnaps victims in
his path.  Can SID be stopped?

It may not be a science fiction masterpiece, but this film is worthwhile and
intriguing.  A second viewing may be required to truly understand and
appreciate its complex plot.  Then, too, the marvelous
special effects enhance the look and feel of the film.  It is not Denzel
Washington's finest hour (he is adequate); however, Russell Crowe is
positively gleeful in his portrayal of the ultimately designed killing
machine.  There are some humorous moments, somewhat lessening the overall
dark and somber tone. On the down side, the ending may be a little too pat
and leave a few loose ends untied.  Recommended for science fiction and
action movie fans who are on the lookout for lesser known films that may
satisfy them for an evening.  
<|_=00=_|>

So finally, after decades of futuristic scientists proclaiming that virtual
reality will someday be here, it's here - sort of. Hollywood's always been a
midwife for technology between the science industry and the common man, and
in the area of virtual reality it's given us "Johhny Mnemonic" and this
actioner, starring Denzel Washington.

Basic plot is this: The police have been using virtual reality as a training
method, to test recruits. Before they use it on real cops, though, they
draft crooks out of prison to act as guinea pigs. This is where Washington
comes in. A former cop (how convenient), Washington's been rotting in jail
for years. So the cops ask him to volunteer to be a part of the experiment,
and of course he agrees - but the computer he's going to be downloaded into
has other plans. The 'virtual' cops are supposed to face this tough criminal
in the system, you see, but the computer's decided to combine all of the
nasty characteristics of famous real-life killers - and then download itself
into a real, sentient being (Russell Crowe). And of course it's up to our
man Washington to save the day.

So there you have it, folks. It's a standard cops n robbers plot moved ahead
a few centuries to take advantage of modern technology. Of course, it's set
in the future, which here is portrayed as busy, grimy, a bit crime-riddled..
Hmm, a lot like the present, come to think of it, and not very inventive.
And the effects are nothing special, either; you'd think with virtual
reality being the centerpiece you'd see some dazzling special effects. Not
really. 

The cast is good, and Crowe turns in a solid (if a bit hammy, but most bad
guys are, aren't they?) performance. Washington is no better or worse than
usual, which means the real culprit is the script here. Do yourself a favor
and wait for a two-for-one night at your video store to see this
one.


<|_=00=_|>
Virtual Reality gets a look, following in the footsteps of "The
Lawnmower Man." If you saw "The Matrix"(99) and were wondering where
you glimpsed the VR scenery years earlier, it may have been in this
pic. Here, Denzel gets to briefly run around inside a VR world, chasing
after virtual killer Russell Crowe, known as Sid 6.7 (very close to
6.66, isn't it?). Sid 6.7 is the latest computer program, a
conglomeration of about 200 serial killers & mass murderers, and so
advanced it's virtually self-aware. The bulk of the picture takes place
in the real world, to which Sid 6.7 manages to escape to with the help
of very advanced nanotechnology. I believe this was supposed to take
place slightly in the future (1999), but from our perspective, it's old
hat and square. Everything looks outmoded and just old, except the
strangely hi-tech VR and nanites.

It's also interesting, from the modern perspective, to view an early
role of Crowe's, before he hit the A-List. He doesn't have much to play
with here. His character doesn't have the luxury of falling back on
deep psychological reasons for his murderous ways, because he's
inhuman. He's simply the latest software given locomotion in the
semblance of a human body. He's programmed to be the way he is -
there's no choice involved on his part. There's a brief mention of his
program evolving once in the real world, but there's no actual evidence
of that. Once in the real world, it's a simplistic chase & destroy
mission, with Denzel the only one in the city trained to stop him.
Denzel, just getting on the A-List a couple of years earlier, is
standard action hero here, driven by a brutal tragedy from before the
film begins. The motivations for a couple of key supporting characters
are suspect; the designer of Sid 6.7, for example, turns out to be
almost as psychotic, but it's hard to believe no one noticed this
before (was he influenced by the software?). Fichtner, as a government
aide, has the most thankless role, as an idiotic bureaucrat. The child
actress playing the daughter of Lynch's character went on to teenage
bombshell roles in TV series, the latest being "Charmed."
<|_=00=_|>
For the most part, "Virtuosity" is basically another virtual
reality-themed movie so full of action that it almost hurts. But
interestingly enough, there is a little bit of a plot here. Denzel
Washington plays Lt. Parker Barnes, who has to help find SID 6.7
(Russell Crowe), a virtual serial killer who has escaped into the real
world in 1999 LA.

Yes, that certainly sounds like it could degenerate into the kind of
garbage that Hollywood usually turns out. Much of the movie is in fact
vaguely reminiscent of movies like "Demolition Man". But maybe we can
interpret the movie as looking at the dangers of letting technology get
too powerful, like what "2001: A Space Odyssey" looked at. Obviously,
this isn't even remotely in the same league as that one, but given that
it was released in 1995, it almost seems like a prediction of how
computer-centric the world would become.

Not a masterpiece by any stretch - both Washington and Crowe have done
much better work (and now they're both Oscar winners) - but worth
seeing, if only once.
<|_=00=_|>

The first great film for Russell Crowe, 
and a very interesting film to say the 
least. Cyber culture is rarely ever 
depicted in movies, but this was one 
of those films which brought some of 
these underground tendencies to light. 
What was even more interesting was 
how evil Sid 6.7 was. Crowe did an 
excellent job of portraying the 
demented cyber villain. I especially 
liked Denzel Washington, who always 
manages to be believable in his role 
when he doesn't try to be a ‘soul brotha.' 
Granted, the cinematography was 
pretty average as well as the music, 
but then again, the performance of 
the two main stars really made this 
film a winner.
<|_=00=_|>

"Virtuosity" plays out a lot like any ultra-violent video game.  Denzel
Washington plays the hero Parker Barnes while an over-the-top Russell Crowe
plays Sid 6.7, the villain.  The setting is futuristic Los Angeles.  The
story is that a hostile computer program (Sid 6.7) has escaped cyberspace
and has assumed human form and an incarcerated cop (Barnes) is the only
person who can stop him.  Sid 6.7 craves media attention, as he is the
composite of 183+ serial killers including Adolf Hitler, Charles Manson, and
the man who murdered Parker's wife and daughter.  Sid constantly uses taunts
to try to get Parker to slip up and leaves a trail of dead bodies as well. 
The protagonist is played much like any other, he's vulnerable and is
determined to stop the villain.  The antagonist is like any classic villain,
completely over-the-top and only exists to be beaten.  However, Sid is not
like most video game villains.  Sid is nearly invincible because he is not
human, but a machine.  In addition to that, he can regenerate his injuries
by using the silicon properties of glass.  This proves to be quite a
challenge for Parker as it makes defeating Sid very difficult.  In the end,
this advantage is also Sid's only weakness: the larger his injuries, the
longer time it will take to regenerate and the easier it is for him to be
defeated.

Now some people may view "Virtuosity" to be, at best, ultra-violent
entertainment, which it is not.  This film is actually a lot more than that.
 What "Virtuosity" is trying to show us, is how truly f****d up our society
has or will become.  The best example of this is during the "Death T.V."
scene when Sid 6.7 holds a television studio hostage.  During this scene,
the camera makes numerous cuts to computer screens that are showing the
television ratings.  Note that when Sid 6.7 first takes over the studio,
that the very low ratings suddenly skyrocket.  From this evidence, one can
only conclude that our society thrives on violence.  In this case, Sid is
not the real villain here.  All Sid is doing, is giving us what we want, but
can never get, which is violence in all its purity and unrestrained quality.
 

So, in the words of Sid 6.7:

"You won't be able to take your eyes off the screen."
      
<|_=00=_|>
Yet another example of a high budget, low intelligence blockbuster
movie where the plot suffers at the expense of an action sequence
inserted in every ten minutes, usually involving lots of shooting and
special effects. While I have nothing against action films, I usually
like a bit of intrigue and clever plotting to help move things along.
Not so in this film.

The sole reason to watch is for the special effects, of which there are
lots, as the film uses virtual reality as a basis (much like its
predecessor, THE LAWNMOWER MAN). The best scenes are the ones where SID
is maimed/badly injured, and his limbs regenerate with the help of
glass. These scenes are cleverly done, although of course they do
borrow from TERMINATOR 2 (speaking of borrowing, the green blood inside
SID is strangely reminiscent of the green-blooded androids in
FORTRESS). At the end of the film there is a brilliant bit where SID is
thrown through glass ceilings and his arms and legs are all cut off.
However, they begin to grow back again.

Denzel Washington is the star of this film, somewhat surprisingly.
Firstly I thought he only appeared in high-class, intelligent movies,
but obviously not. The second surprising fact is his muscular, perfect
physique. Now the slim Washington is not someone I would immediately
suspect of possessing a body like Arnold Schwarzenegger's, so I presume
that it was in fact a bodysuit that the actor was wearing. Still, I
can't be sure. Washington is a good actor and is fine in his role, but
Russell Crowe, as the villain, is very obnoxious (intentional) to the
extent that he made me want to switch off. Not the intended reaction
I'm sure. Crowe is another Freddy Krueger clone who continually makes
stupid, lame wisecracks which will appeal to moronic teenagers, which I
for one am not.

Kelly Lynch is the expected love interest but is not given much to do,
appearing more like a second-rate Scully than anything else. And there
we have it. While the action and special effects aren't half bad (in
fact, they're quite enjoyable), the film is a clichéd mess to be
watched with the brain switched firmly off. And if Crowe hadn't been
quite so irritating it might have got a higher score.
