
It's amusing to see people getting so upset at not "getting" a film
others call great that they'll denigrate not only the film, but the
people who made it and anyone who does like it. There seems to be a lot
of that with Woody Allen. Stand-up comics aren't supposed to make great
films. Fortunately, Woody doesn't care what people think he's
"supposed" to do.

And make no mistake, "Shadows and Fog" is a great film. Not merely an
homage to the German expressionists, it abounds in the philosophies
Woody has discussed in all his films: god, love, death, sanity and
craziness, honesty, cruelty, tyranny, humanity. The characters in this,
one of the best of his screenplays, are all individuals, all facets of
Woody's immense understanding of the common man. The scene in the
brothel is stunning in its casual ordinariness. Kleinman (translation,
"little man,") is all of us, in the shadow and fog of confusing times.
Consider the line he delivers just before he blows pepper in the
crowd's face: "I never did anything to deserve getting in trouble." The
irony here is that much of the fascism that overtook Europe came
because too many good people did nothing. The lesson was as significant
when Woody made the film as during the time depicted, and just as
significant today. A great film, 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

This excellent black and white, set perhaps in Berlin in the 20's has no
conclusion, only vignettes in the period from midnight to dawn. The city is
engulfed in fear. A serial killer is at large..

The camera shots illicit tension. All is shrouded in dark and murky unusual
camera angles. The outdoor scenes are always somewhat blurred and slightly
out of focus adding to the climate of fear.

There is no plot per se, only chance meetings between participants. Of note
is the conversation in the whorehouse, stimulating and extremely thought
provoking. Woody's use of a revolving camera in the shot from face around to
face around to face while the girls talk and the conversation is heard no
matter on whom the camera is focused, -- this is a first. The viewer needs
to pay extreme attention. Moreover the background music of Kurt Weill adds
so much to the ambience.

Seeing this now makes me wish wholeheartedly that Woody and Mia never had
that horrible unpleasantness between them. Now the future forebodes there
never being such a pairing. We all do suffer, including
them.

I say this film deserves a 10 out of 10 and the critics be damned.  So many
critics are prone to criticize every theatrical offering of Woody just
because of his personal behavior.


<|_=00=_|>

I just saw `Shadows and Fog' for the first time this weekend, and while I
can't say that it immediately became my favorite Woody Allen film, I did
find it a very thoughtful and interesting film (not really a comedy), and an
exceptionally beautiful film to look at.

I know this is frowned upon at the IMDb, but a lengthy and very negative
review on this page of `Shadows and Fog,' along with a critique of Woody
Allen in general, has gotten my dander up, and I felt like putting in my two
cents.  Why on earth should I, or any film lover, care about how successful
a film is financially?  Why should I care if a majority of movie patrons
like a director's films or not?  From my perspective, some of the stupidest
trash makes the most money and sells the most tickets.  Sure, I liked
Jurassic Park -- saw it several times at the cinema, bought the video -- but
not because of how much money it made, or how many other people were going
to see it.  It was because it was fun, and I liked it.  Does that mean I
should damn more esoteric directors (like Woody Allen) to oblivion?  There
are directors whose work I don't always understand, but God bless them, if
they have the opportunity and the drive to get their cinematic vision
realized, more power to them.  I don't necessarily have to like their work,
or go to see it.  But on the whole, I'd rather be talked-up-to then
talked-down-to, and being a little confused by a film has never permanently
damaged anyone, so far as I know.

So calm down out there, you art-house-haters!  It's just entertainment. 
Read your 20th century history.  Limiting entertainment to its lowest common
denominator has been tried and tried.  No good has ever come of it, to my
knowledge.

And incidentally, if you have a predilection for Woody Allen films, and like
the look of old black and white expressionist cinema, give `Shadows and Fog'
a look.  It would maybe kill you?

<|_=00=_|>
Woody Allen's tribute to German expressionism is better than most
critics would have you believe. Sure there is very little plot to speak
of, it's more a series of vignettes and gags than a cohesive narrative.
Sure, it ends rather abruptly, never solving the mystery, but none of
this stopped my thorough enjoyment of this film.

As the title suggests the entire movie is designed in shadows and fog.
Shot with beautiful black and white photography, Allen and
cinematographer Carlo Di Palma create the look and feel of an unnamed
East European city as seen in such films as M and Nosferatu. The
lighting is set up so that in nearly every shot underlying shadows
engulf the scene. In the exteriors a vicious fog rolls across the night
sky obscuring most details. Through the fog bumbles Kleinman (Allen is
his typical neurotic schmuck role) trying to find his role in a
vigilante mob's plan to stop a serial killer roaming the streets. From
dark night until dawn, Kleinman wanders from place to place meeting a
wide variety of curious characters (played by an even more curious
group of celebrities), the most endearing of which is a desperate sword
swallower (Mia Farrow)who is has wandered into a brothel after fleeing
her cheating boyfriend/clown (John Malcovich).

It is a little unsettling to watch Allen do his normal schtick while
the characters around him are murdered, subjected to racial prejudice,
beaten by the police and discuss such subjects as love, sex, and
meaning. There is a subtext involving the plight of the Jews between
the World Wars, foreshadowing the Nazis. Yet the gags remain as solid
as any Woody Allen film. Amongst the seriousness of his subtext and the
films he is paying homage to, Allen finds away to bring full bellied
laughter. Though his quirky neurosis isn't as resolutely hilarious as
it is in such films as Annie Hall, it is still enough to fill the film
with mirth.

The film ends rather abruptly with Kleinman having never learned his
role in the plan, nor the killer having been caught. Yet as the credits
role we realize the mystery was not so much the reason behind the story
as method in creating it.
<|_=00=_|>

'Shadows & Fog' is, for me, all that which makes a perfect picture. I've
seen all Woody Allen's pictures, and none affects me in the same way that
'S&F' does.

The film is set in the early part of the 20th century somewhere in Eastern
Europe. The opening scenes set up what will become the basic plot (and
believe me, it is basic) of the film. Allen plays Klieinman, a simple clerk
who is awaken by a lynch mob hell-bent on catching a killer who has taken
to
strangling (or slitting the throats, nobody seems sure) of the
townsfolk.

As Kleinman leaves his flat in reluctant search of the killer, we are
introduced to the fog swept streets of the village. It is here that we find
the real character of this film. Allen uses the simple story of the hunt as
a means to introduce us to us to true beauty in the night. He uses lighting
and canted angles to produce a surreal setting unlike any film produced in
the last half-century. Note the way light filtering through the spokes of
the circus wagons reflects of the fog in a way so beautiful and haunting
that it's easy to forget we're watching an 88min comedy shot on sound
stages
in New York.

Setting the mood as such, Allen walks us through the streets and offers a
brief glimpse of the characters who inhabit the night. It seems as if the
whole town is up searching for the killer, and each of them is given a
short
moment to offer a bit of insight and then move on. However brief, each
character brings us further into the shadows and we soon feel a chill as
the
night air seems to fill the room.

The scene eventually shifts to a whore house where we are privy to a
spectacular scene. Five women sit at a table discussing relationships,
fascinating stories given that most of them are whores. Instead of cuts,
Allen simply places a camera in the center of the table and revolves as the
ladies converse. It's a scene reminiscent of the opening sequence of 'A
Touch of Evil' of the Copacabana scene in 'Goodfellas'.
Amazing.

There's so much more to say. Brecht's score is wonderful, the cast is
literally one of the best of the 1990's (Cusack, Malkovitch, Foster, Macy,
Riley, Shaw, Bates, Tomilin, Kavner, Pleasence), and the jokes are
hilarious.

Above everything, see this film for it's namesake ... Shadows and Fog. If
ever there was a homage to night and all its mystery and beauty, it's
'Shadows and Fog'.
<|_=00=_|>
I made the big mistake of avoiding this for years based on all the
garbage I'd heard slammed against it, and as a result it was one of the
last Woody Allen movies I got around to seeing. Well, it was worth
waiting for, as it turned out to be a real treat. This is one of
Allen's strangest works, probably his signature stab at a horror spoof.
The black and white moody photography is compelling, modeled after the
dark German expressionistic films of Murnau and Fritz Lang, as well as
a hearkening back to those delightful old horror and Sherlock Holmes
films from Universal Studios.

The action is set in an un-named village in an unknown time and place,
but it's patterned after the early 20th Century, with a hint of Germany
or even London. True to form, Allen plays a dweeb who is awoken at
midnight by an angry mob demanding that he assist them in tracking down
a Jack-the-Ripper-like serial murderer who's prowling the streets. He
half-heartedly gets dressed and ventures out into the moonlit fog,
unsure of just what's expected from him while he manages a few good
one-liner's in his apprehension ("they say the killer has the strength
of 10 men; I have the strength of one small boy -- with polio").

There are guest stars galore, some of whom have very small parts but
are fun to watch anyway. A traveling circus in town consists of a
female sword swallower (Mia Farrow) and her clown husband (John
Malkovich) who is having an affair with the Strongman's pretty wife
(Madonna). When Farrow catches the two of them in a caravan together,
she storms out alone into the dark and is taken in by a street walker
(Lily Tomlin) who lets her unwind inside her brothel with the rest of
the whores (two of which are played by Kathy Bates and Jodie Foster).
Some of the finest moments in the film come within the whorehouse,
complimented by philosophical discussion and interesting camera-work.
It's there that a wealthy young patron (John Cusack) fancies Mia and
coaxes her into bed for one night. Her ultimate guilt over the
encounter leads her back into the dense fog, until she meets up
(predictably) with Woody. Also in small roles are Donald Pleasence in
good form as a mad coroner who wants to analyze the essence of the
killer's "evil" (possibly playing on his involvement in the HALLOWEEN
films) and a wasted turn by Fred Gwynne (don't blink or you'll miss
him) as one of the villagers.

SHADOWS AND FOG is flawed to be sure (there are a lot of loose ends
remaining untied for one thing) but it's visually appealing and rich in
atmosphere and the language of the night. I enjoyed it. *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

A stellar cast, lovely B&W cinematography, funny dialogue (mostly taken from
Allen's play "Death"), a wonderful score of the music of Kurt Weill, a mild
satire of Kafka, etc. Reviled by many -- I loved it.
<|_=00=_|>

Shadows and Fog

starring: Woody Allen, Michale Kirby, Mia Farrow, and John
Malkovich

In a small european like town, lives a very nervous clerk, who out of
nowhere is awaken by a group of Vigilantes who are after a serial killer
in
the town who strikes in the fog at night. Klienman on the way meets a dark
adventure with twists, turns, suspenseful encounters with the killer
himself, a few lusty whores, a female sword swallower wanting a family, a
Gifted investagator using primitive techniques, and a drunk but effective
magician.

Coments: I feel that this film is very UNDERrated. It is a very good film
in
my opinoin. Here Woody Allen creates a totally new type of meaning to the
words: Adventure and Nostalgia. With a whole ensemble of celebrites, and a
dark mood and setting, this is one of Allens greatest films.
****
<|_=00=_|>
Allen is not a stranger to the black and white formula. One look at
MANHATTAN, for example, and you have a fantastic, classic film with
first-rate performances and a focused story.

The story is typical Allen, with overlapping plots, people who in some
way or other are interrelated to one another by the
six-degrees-of-separation rule and only serves to somehow have Mia
Farrow and Woody Allen converge in what seems to be a turning point,
which later on, somehow fails to resolve itself satisfactorily. It's
never known what European city this is, but the idea comes clear: Allen
evokes the moody black and whites of German Expressionism (I kept
thinking of M and its urban decay) and throws in some healthy amounts
of Franz Kafka's THE PROCESS where a paranoia is the main theme and a
man is to be convicted without knowing why.

Where SHADOWS AND FOG falters is not in the story per se: Allen packs
this movie with so many big-name actors in barely there parts, there's
no room to focus on the story which meanders as it is a little too
much. There's a message to be expressed, but with so much satirical
humor during the brothel sequence turning progressively dark once the
focus goes back to the killer at large, it would have been better had
there not been so much of the former and more of the latter. It remains
something of a stand-alone oddity in a career filled with urban angst
of the upper crust white intellectuals from his New York based movies.
<|_=00=_|>

I can't help but wonder what everyone finds so confusing about this film.
It
doesn't take a tremendous amount of knowledge to enjoy this well crafted
ode
to (and let's face it: spoof of) German Expressionism: a little Nosferatu
here, a dash of Caligari there, a couple of slightly less obvious
flourishes
(the "Sniffer" with a divine gift, the Circus, the mobs and the general
atmosphere) and you've got all you need. Of course, this is the most
basic
level in the film (I won't dig into Philosophy and message in a
commentary
but by all means it's there and worth musing over) but it's already
enough
to justify seeing it.

The idea of the confusing "shadows and fog" of Expressionist cinema
filtered
through Allen's off-kilter character world view is exactly what makes the
film so hysterical. The entire film is done in a beautiful black and
white
recalling the source material and the city's mob are all played perfectly
deadpan... except for Allen who manages to bumble his way through
obstacle
after obstacle trying to at least get a grip on the situation. If this
pile
of nerves moving through a dark sordid city doesn't make you laugh, I
don't
know what to say.

The film DOES falter in some aspects however. Mia Farrow is passable as
the
necessary sympathetic female lead, but in the end her presence doesn't
fit
in with the rest of the film's ambiance and one would have rather seen
more
of femme Fatale Lily Tomlin. Likewise, John Malchovich's Clown (while
obviously referential) sticks out like a sore thumb. It's a shame that
Allen
had to add these elements which end up detracting from the overall film,
but
one couldn't hold the film alone and Farrow manages to at least be a
proper
target to bounce lines.

In the end, a very strong film and one that entertains properly, but
obviously not one made for the uninitiated. However, for those who're on
the
inside of the "plan" (and furthermore, on the inside of the philosophies)
it's a tremendous bit of fun.

Recommended.

