

I was browsing the worst 100 films of all time here on the IMDB, and came
across this one.  While, from an adult point of view, I agree with all who
don't like the film at all, I think it's a little unfair because we are,
after all, not the target audience.  My son is 8 years old and he absolutely
loves it.  I feel sure that if there was a poll conducted of, say, six to
twelve year olds, this one would be in their top 100! 
Oh dear!  That was all I wanted to say, but the rules appear to insist that
I provide ten lines.  Right, that appears to be nine, (ignore this, it
displays differently when you're typing it in) so I'll just extend it a
little bit more...............  OK that should be ten!
No - They don't like that either so - What is an Egyptian King's favourite
chocolate?  Pharaoh Rocher.  (Ben, aged 8).
<|_=00=_|>

This movie starts out with a "martial arts" match between one of the power
rangers[out of costume], and some other guy, in which the ranger is thrown
from the ring, and hurts his leg or something. So they end up replacing him
with his kid brother or something as equally stupid. When he morphs, he puts
on the costume, then grows to the size o an adult. Anyway, they get new
"zords", which are actually cars. Way to go, robots at least made the show
seem cool, now they have cars. They have to rescue some little alien thing,
which is the love child of an Ewok and Gizmo from gremlins. Along the way,
the new pink ranger twists her ankle or something after falling into the
water, and the alien heals her with his glowing finger. No ET rip off there.
They take him...somewhere, and then they have this boat. The boat takes them
to the island, where the rangers have to fight the old red and pink rangers
who are being mind controlled. Did I mention that they have a sub plot going
where bulk, skull, Jason and Kim are prisoners of the enemies? Well, yeah,
they get mind controlled. During the fight, the big evil thing on the island
is released, and the rangers can stop fighting Jason and Kim because the
alien used his powers to fix their brains. The rangers go out to fight the
big guy, who's being called all powerful, and being completely overhyped.
They call out their cars, and start up this 8 minute sequence where the cars
drive around, the rangers wave their hands around, and the cars go together
to form a giant robot. They then proceed to hit the guy once. Once with the
sword. That's all it takes, and he blows up. I sat through that whole movie,
and that's the end? They kill him in one hit? The fight was shorter than the
robot forming sequence. There is no excuse for that.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not exactly a sequel from "Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers: The
Movie" from 1995 'cause it doesn't follow the events that took place on
the film, this is more like a 90 min. long episode to start the 5th
season of the series (The Turbo era). In fact, if you don't see this
film and see the rest of the season you wouldn't be able to figure out
how everything started.

I don't hate the movie that much, I just hate the fact that it is a
movie. This is, like I said, more like a 90 min. long episode. The
movie could have easily been left out and make the storyline a III
parts episode. Unlike the first film, this movie follows the rest of
the series, it is set in the same universe with the same people, with
the same sets, with the same suits...(Unlike the first film in which
everything was different).

Personally I highly recommend this film ONLY and EXCLUSIVELY to Power
Rangers' followers, NOT to the general audience.
<|_=00=_|>

"Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie" is a film that has to be seen to be
disbelieved. The first film, 1995's "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers: The
Movie", brought the six butt-kicking teens from the Fox Kids series to the
big screen for the first time. That movie was not all that bad. It had some
decent special effects, a somewhat interesting bad guy (Ivan Ooze), and the
six young actors who play the Power Rangers were fun to watch. Plus, that
film had a bigger budget. But they went back to the cheapness of the TV show
with "Turbo". The special effects, production design, and costumes are so
cheap and cheesy that you wonder why 20th Century Fox gave the go-ahead to
let these filmmakers (who are close to the TV show) make this film. Also,
the script is much worse than it was in the first movie. Bulk and Skull have
more screen time here. It has one of the least interesting villains of all
time (actually, a villainess). It's very, very, very, very, very, juvenile.
And the Power Ranger actors look as if they want to escape this atrosity. So
I have one question. Why did they release this movie to theaters? This
should have been released straight to video. Or better yet, release it as a
TV movie, were this series started in the first place. This movie was
totally inappropriate for the big screen. 

* (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
At first, I was expecting this movie to be like the first one - cool
costumes, original zords, great special effects, etc. In that regard it
was quite a bit of a let-down. It was really more of a 90-minute season
premiere than an interesting stand-alone movie.

Still, it had its moments: Tommy and Kat in the jungle (that snake
scene looked so fake, and when _hasn't_ Kat hurt her leg?!), the two
Rangers becoming evil. And it did have a little bit of big-screen
drama. The effects weren't exactly morphenominal, but they were pretty
much consistent with the show.

The biggest disappointment was the sorry storyline and lack of
explanation of where their new powers came from. Of course, there was
purportedly an earlier storyline in which Billy returned from Aquitar
in need of the Zeo crystal and a scene explaining their new powers, but
they cut that part out after David Yost's unpleasant departure from the
series.

To sum up, probably wasn't worth it to pay six bucks to see it, but
it's definitely a must for any hardcore Power Rangers fan (especially
since you kind of needed to see it for the TV season to make sense).
<|_=00=_|>

I just got the PRT movie on DVD and saw it for the first time and I have
mixed feelings about it.   The movie was basically a PRT episode with mildly
better effects.  As for Justin, he wasn't as bad as I thought he'd be. 
Sure, he was annoying at times, but by the way everyone kept talking about
him, I thought he'd make the movie completely unbearable.  It was cool to
see Jason and Kim again (damn Kim was hot), but they didn't really have big
parts.  Bulk and Skull were more ridiculously used than usual.  The forming
of the Turbo Megazord was done a lot better than they did on the show.  The
most annoying thing in the movie was actually a person, Divatox.  She was
just a completely obnoxious and annoying villianess, and I don't go for that
one bit.  Overall, it's a decent movie if you're a PR fan.  If someone is
not a PR fan, the only reason for them to watch it would be to see Kim and
Kat looking hot.  (PR Fans: 7 1/2 // 10  ::: Non-PR Fans 3 // 10)

<|_=00=_|>
"Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie" is about a wizard name Lerigot, who is
being hunted by Divatox and her space pirates as he travels to Earth to
find the Rangers. One of the Rangers name Rocky, who was the second Red
Ranger from "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers" and the Blue Ranger from
"Power Rangers Zeo" has injured his back while training with Tommy and
Adam for a charity fighting competition for the Angel Grove Youth
Shelter. So Zordon calls the Rangers to find Lerigot, while Divatox
travels to Earth and has finally capture Lerigot as well as Bulk and
Skull, and the original Red and Pink Power Rangers Jason and Kimberly.
The Rangers get new powers, along side with Justin being the new Blue
Ranger goes on a quest to find Lerigot and rescue their friends in
order to save Earth. The movie itself feels more like watching an
extended episode of the show, while the other "Power Rangers" movie
feels more like watching...well...a movie. Nevertheless, I actually do
like this movie, and I appreciate it for what it is as it is in the
style of a "B" movie for using practical effects of the Megazord, and
other objects. The acting is alright, and I don't need to go into much
detail about it. The movie does have some catchy songs along with some
exciting action scenes. Also, I don't hate the character Justin for
being the Blue Ranger as much as what the haters are saying. That is
just my opinion. I do say that I like the movie more than the actual
show. Although I would have like it if they ever do a director's cut
release to see the Rangers using their Zeo powers for one last time
before turning into Turbo Rangers. Also, maybe a bit more on
storytelling and some character development. Not a whole lot to say,
but I do think the movie is good, but I like "Mighty Morphin Power
Rangers: The Movie" more. I give this movie a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, so I know that the Power Rangers: Turbo series is one of if not
the most hated season in the Power Rangers universe, even among Power
Rangers fans. I know that I've read a lot of bad reviews about this
movie, but I don't think that it's bad. I find it to be quite good and
entertaining. It is a good setup up for a series and makes you want to
see more of it. But I also get the feeling that there is not enough in
it. A lot of good scenes were rumored to be cut. I will not go into
detail about that here in this review since I don't want this to have
any spoilers. I just hope that all these good scenes were filmed and
will pop up in a future release someday. I don't know all the people
who hate this movie. I will tell you right now, if you aren't a Power
Rangers fan, there is no reason to watch this movie and no reason to
flood this site with bad reviews because if it. But I like this movie
and I recommend it for Power Rangers fan. It isn't as bad as some
people think and I figure you might enjoy it to, provided you liked the
classic seasons.
<|_=00=_|>
I love Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers: The Movie, some good clean fun,
but this movie is just embarrassing, and nowhere near as fun.

The plot centres around an extraterrestrial wizard named Lerigot, who
goes to Earth in order to avoid capture by a crazed alien queen,
Divatox (no, seriously). She plans to use Lerigot to open up a portal
so that she can marry an evil dark creature, Maligore, and unite their
powers. Naturally, the Power Rangers must stop this.

Turbo: A Power Rangers Movie is nowhere near as much fun or cool to
watch as the first movie. Most notably, Aisha and Billy are completely
missing, with no explanation, and Kimberly is no longer a Power Ranger
either for some reason, even though she has an important part in the
film, thankfully, along with old regular Jason. Rocky is technically
there, but he suffers an injury at the start of the film, as if trying
to get him out of it, which is sad. Then we have a new blue ranger,
Justin, who really is much too young to be a Ranger.

A more serious problem is the Zords. The whole mythology around the
Power Rangers is much lamer here. The Zords are no longer kinds of
animals, they are now all cars, called "Turbo" powers, which just feels
nowhere near as imaginative. At a pivotal point of the film, the car
Zords merge into what I find hard to describe as anything but a
Transformers rip-off. Even worse than that, though, is the fact that
the Power Rangers, in Power Ranger form, have so little screen time.

Furthermore, the plot is terribly paced, and not very fun to follow.
The Rangers have to travel to another dimension via an old pirate ship.
Seriously? In the first half hour, a lot of time is wasted with the
Rangers trying to find Lerigot, and some insufferable scenes of him
wandering around the jungle. Nothing hangs together at all. Remember
how central the very concept of being a Power Ranger was to the first
movie? Here, it feels like little more than a gimmick.

Lerigot is a body-sized puppet who looks like an extra from The Dark
Crystal. With his wide doe eyes and nonsensical slurring, he gets on
your nerves very quickly, and he just does not stop. The rest of the
supporting cast is just as bad. Divatox's henchmen are just laughably
embarrassing, especially the insufferable Elgar. Remember Goldar, and
Mordant? Those were entertaining henchmen. Maligore, for a supposed
unstoppable force of evil, is incredibly ungainly and ineffective.
Divatox herself is amusing and Hilary Shephard Turner clearly has a lot
of fun with the role, but her overacting gets a little over the top.
All the puns are so self-conscious as if the writer were self-aware how
bad it would turn out. The special effects are much poorer than in the
first movie, too, especially Zordon (he barely looks like he's talking)
and Maligore's crater (amateur bluescreen mistake there). Thank
goodness Alpha is as good as ever.

The best part of the movie is an amusing cameo from Rita and Lord Zedd.
That's about a minute in length, and it made the movie for me. Too bad
that the rest isn't as fun to watch. Not even having Kimberly and Jason
there can help, really. There's none of the spirit of adventure from
the first movie. Do yourself a favour and pass this one up, you're not
really missing anything. Watch Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers instead.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a bad movie. Bad as in, it sucks. I'm a Power Rangers fan, even
today I watch Power Rangers, but this was bad. Not as bad as the series
(Power Rangers Turbo) which permierd a mounth after the movie was in
theaters. But The Movie does have it's good points. Like, Jason and Kimberly
returning and then turning evil. The big fight sceen at the end. But, I
think this series didn't deserve to go to theaters. I think the Power
Rangers series with the plots should have went, like Power Rangers In Space,
Power Rangers Lost Galaxy, Power Rangers Lightspeed Rescue, Power Rangers
Time Force, or even the newest series, Power Rangers Wild Force. Those are
the ones that deserve to be in theaters just like the first movie did. Turbo
should've been made for TV and not for theaters.
