

When this film came out with all of the PR and things, I hated it. I hated
it without even seeing it. Then, as with many movies, I caught this on
Digital Cable TV, by accident. I had NO intention of seeing it, but once I
did, I cannot tell you how much I loved it.

This is the Farrley Brothers at their funniest. The idea is simple, a guy
(Ben Stiller) who had a crush on a woman (Carmen Diaz) he knew since high
school and continued to yearn for her privately, finally getting an
opportunity to try to reconnect what never got going. This is something
almost everyone can identify with.

What makes this work...is its a dead-on hard hitting comedy.  The Farrley
Brothers spared no one: male or female, handicapped or able bodied, black or
white, rich or poor, job or not, straight or gay, animal or vegetable,
blonde or brunette, educated or not. It is NOT a cinematic masterpiece so
don't look for one, it is not a punch line comedy or slapstick comedy, it is
sophomore humor done very well because you're going to be laughing at what
you think you shouldn't no matter how much you want to say you would never
laugh at something like that. 

Plus the Farrley Brothers added in "some things" that...well... may have
just happened to you at some point in your adolecence, and put a
comedic/gross quality to it that shocks you into laughing at it. All through
the film you might laugh because you're thinking, "Better them than
me".....even if it was you!

Not for eveyone's taste, even those who think they know comedy, but this is
that kinda comedy that is hard to do once you've reached maturity and
forgotten what it was like to laugh at simple things. This is as simple as
it gets. Don't put too much into it, it is what it is, and to me, it was
really funny! Good Show!
<|_=00=_|>

A lot of my friends said they hated this, but after i saw it and loved what
I saw, it became apparent that many of these people hadn't seen it, they
just KNEW they would hate it from the degradingly mysoginistic slapstick it
supposedly represented.  Sorry, wrong movie.  This is a classic satire,
replete with balladeer narrator.  The gags flow fast and funny and expertly
walk the tightrope between politically incorrect and unkind.  This is
surprisingly a movie that is very true to itself and its characters with a
lot of plotlines that tie up nicely in unusual ways.  And, it's a feel-good
movie too.  Cameron Diaz and Ben Stiller are marvelous together in the
leads.
<|_=00=_|>

The plot is nothing new: A guy trying to get the love of the one he admired.
We all have seen something like this in the past, and we will see something
like this in the future. But in this movie the plot isn't
important.

When you watch it you just know how it's gonna end, and so the focus is not
on the plot but the actual happenings in the movie, and there's a lot.
First, the movie is funny, with its many gags that just keeps on coming (a
Farrelly Bros. tradition). They might not be in everyone's taste, but at
least they aren't forced or out of place. Second, the people seem real
enough to be in the situations they brought themselves into (kudos for the
great acting, though it could be better). Third, Cameron Diaz is adorable,
beautiful, and a marvel to look at. Plus, she got the job carrying the whole
movie and she accomplished that ever so gracefully. You just can't help but
fall in love with her too, along with every guy in the
film.

This is a very good romantic comedy by the Farrelly Bros.. Just like in
"Dumb and Dumber" or "King Pin", the brothers have made a comedy that has
just the right amount of everything. Excellent job!!
<|_=00=_|>

Insanely off the wall comedy from the Farrelly Brothers
that delivers from start to finish. Wonderful early
sequence with Keith David as Diaz's father busting heavily
braced Stiller's chops. Stiller's zipper
scene goes down as one of the funniest and most painful
things
I have ever witnessed on film. Diaz is divine the woman
of Stiller's dreams...Dillon is hired to find Diaz...He
falls in love with her and gives Stiller a bum story...
Lee Evans, a pizza boy, is in love with her too...
then Brett Favre comes into the picture.  Every scene has something
memorable from Dillon's attempts at reviving a dog to Stiller's "pre date
entertainment." A classic that doesn't take itself too seriously.

<|_=00=_|>

Did you ever see those annoying pop-up online ads about looking up old
high-school friends? Did you ever stop to think that this movie is
probably
responsible? Really, there could be no other impetus for people to want to
revisit the horrors of young adulthood then this sterling advertisement
for
reaching back and reclaiming the best of your past.

Ben Stiller is a sad-eyed magazine writer named Ted who never got over the
girl of his high school dreams, Mary, who vanished from his life after a
single date in which getting horizontal meant being carted away in an
ambulance. Ted has seedy detective Pat Healy (Matt Dillon) investigate a
lead in Miami. Healy finds her and reports back that she's a walrus in a
wheelchair. Ted thinks maybe he should check up on her anyway, to see if
he
can be helpful to her, but Healy explains she's now en route to Japan as a
mail-order bride.

Ted: What are they, desperate! She's a whale.

Healy: It's a sumo culture. They pay by the pound.

Actually, Healy is not being entirely truthful. Mary is single,
ambulatory,
and quite the fox in the form of Cameron Diaz. By the time Ted learns the
truth, Healy's already putting on the moves on Mary with the help of a
fake
identity and a pair of gargantuan dentures. To counter this, without
himself
being exposed as a `stalker,' Ted has to reintroduce himself under
similarly
false pretenses. Will Mary go for this old near-flame? And what will
happen
when she learns the truth?

A winning romantic comedy with gut-busting boundary-breaking bathroom
humor
and a sly sense of what makes people tick, `There's Something About Mary'
is
impossibly optimistic and reassuring even as it buries your head in the
gutter for cheap laughs. That's probably what redeems it and makes it such
a
joy to watch over and over again, the fact that this proto-`American Pie'
has a real heart. The makers of the film, Peter and Bobby Farrelly, reveal
in their DVD commentary that Ted's reaction to Healy's news of Mary's
condition is the key to making the film work, and they are
right.

Frankly, I could live in a world without `American Pie' and so many other
stupid raunch-fests of its ilk, but `Mary' is pure gold all the way
through.
Not only is the comedy saved by virtue of its brilliance (I never heard a
theater laugh so hard all the way through as I did seeing this in a stuffy
Greenwich, CT cinema), it's also a very cleverly put-together film, with a
lot of plot twists that hold up as well as the humor during repeat
viewings.
It's interesting to read people's comments and see them say that it would
have been a good film if they had held off on the bad-taste stuff. That
was
kind of what put it on the map in the first place, the `hair gel' scene
and
Magda's breasts and Ted's zipper problems, but I see what they mean. You
almost could make this film into a Hallmark romantic film, with minimal
comedy of any kind, and it would still be interesting. I don't think I'd
watch it 23 times like I have this version, however. The film never stops
upping the ante on the ick-meter, a large part of what makes it
brilliant.

Diaz and Stiller blend very well together, with special kudos to Diaz for
being so utterly wonderful and charming in the title role. You understand
what the title means without ever having it explained. Also terrific are
the
supporting players, major ones like Matt Dillon and Chris Elliott as well
as
Harland Williams as the six-minute abs guy and, of course, Puffy the dog.
Jonathan Richman and his drummer are especially valuable in their cameo
bits
that bookend the various acts in the movie, with songs that manage to be
as
funny and affecting as the show they are built around. And the end credit
sequence is the all-time best. I still smile when I hear `Build Me Up
Buttercup' on the radio, don't you?

<|_=00=_|>
I desperately wish that the Farelly brothers would go back to doing
gross-out comedies like they did with Dumb and Dumber, Kingpin, Me,
Myself, and Irene, and this. This is by far the best of all their
movies. There are three kinds of comedy. Comedies that make you smile
(Sixteen Candles), comedies that make you laugh (Airplane), and
comedies that cause you to nearly asphyxiate yourself from laughing so
hard. This is one of those rare third category movies. With the friends
I watched it with, the laughs sounded like nuclear bombs going off in
my room. It's that funny.

Thirteen years ago, Ted (Ben Stiller) landed a prom date with the most
popular and beautiful girl in school, Mary (Cameron Diaz).
Unfortunately, the date wasn't meant to be, for Ted has his manhood
damaged right in front of Mary, and ends up in the hospital instead of
the prom.

Thirteen years later, Ted decides to track Mary down, and have a second
chance with his dream girl. He hires sleazy private eye, Pat (Matt
Dillon)to find her for him. Pat finds her, and she's grown up
beautiful. Pat decides he wants to date her. He stalks her, finds out
everything she wants in a man, and poses as just that. Meanwhile, Ted
has been led to believe that Mary has become fat white trash in a
wheelchair. Pat and Mary start dating.

Well, by the end of the movie, every man who is involved in the story
has tried to make a move on Mary. We all know how it ends, but it's one
funny ride. One thing about this movie that's commendable is how the
mentally retarded character is treated. He is treated in a way that
isn't rude, or offensive. Mary sticks up for him, and he's really
innocent. The funniest gag in the movie involves a NEW brand of HAIR
GEL (compliments of Ted, and tested by Mary). I won't tell you what's
really being mistaken for hair gel, but when you find out, you'll laugh
so hard, you gag. This movie knows what a comedy of this type should be
like. Each gag goes somewhere, and is really big. They're usually
extended scenes with punchlines. Me, Myself, and Irene goes for the
cheapest laughs you can find, but There's Something About Mary takes
it's time, carefully planning each gag, in order to make it
gut-bustingly hilarious. That's just what this movie is. 10/10.

It is rated R for Strong Comic Sexual Content, and Language. Sex: 8/10
Violence: 3/10 Swearing: 9/10 Drugs: 2/10
<|_=00=_|>

I don`t like comedies but I do enjoy much of the Farrelly Brothers stuff and
THERE`S SOMETHING ABOUT MARY is their greatest achievment which is probably
down to their casting . Ben Stiller is perfect as Ted while Matt Dillon is
absolutely outstanding as sleazy ( And boy do I mean sleazy ) private
investigator Pat Healy . My only criticism is of Cameron Diaz who`s slightly
bland , but she is attractive and that`s all that matters

I suppose how funny you`ll find this film is down to your own subjective
opinion of what should or shouldn`t be made fun of . I`ll be honest and say
that jokes featuring stalking , serial killers , semen , spiking doggie
snacks with drugs and learning difficulties are all fair game ,and perhaps
I`m being too honest in saying I laughed out loud at these serious subjects
being made fun of ?

Sorry if this review has been very short but I find it difficult to write
hundreds of words about a film I love   
<|_=00=_|>
There's Something About Mary is an apt title, for there is something
about this movie that is quite endearing, particularly if you are a
gross-out fan. Even if you are not a real fan of gross-outs, as is the
case with me, you can still enjoy this film. This is because I find it
to be funnier and more enjoyable than most other gross-out comedies
(and that includes Team America). As a romantic comedy, it is also
enjoyable and that is saying something as romantic comedy is, to me, a
bastardised version of real comedy, often with a weak romance and
diluted laughs. This is certainly not the case here. Having said that,
it is not perfect: The Farrelly Brothers use a retard for cheap laughs
once too often, which I did not like, the disabled guy wasn't that
funny and the plot is a bit clichéd and predictable, but I expected
that. 

The story is about a man named Ted, who we see meet a beautiful girl,
Mary, during his teenage years. However, their budding romance falls
away when Ted gets his dick caught in his zipper. By the way, this
scene is absolutely hilarious and so is the aftermath, after the police
officer tells him to 'pull it out'; next minute, he is being carted off
in an ambulance, never to see Mary again...or so we think for a minute.

Until of course, he finds himself fantasising about Mary years later.
He hires a private investigator, Pat Healy, to do some snooping on her.
This takes a turn for the worse, as the investigator falls in love with
Mary and lies to Ted. Ted finds out about his deceiving ways, thanks to
Woogy and goes to see Mary himself.

This movie is hilarious at times, funny at others; occasionally, it
falls flat. There are too many hilarious and funny scenes to mention
here, so I'll mention the best ones: the 'dick zipper' one, the
'fishing line' one and the one where the retard goes psycho and hits
Pat Healy in the face. To be impartial, I will say that I have already
mentioned some of the imperfect bits above. 

The acting is quite good too. Ben Stiller does a good job as the nervy,
fantasising, sensible Ted, while Matt Dillon is good as the 'sleazy
investigator'. Cameron Diaz, in the days when she was still hot, is OK,
but not much more than your typical love interest. The rest of the cast
is nothing more than OK, including W. Earl Brown, the guy who plays the
retard (as anyone could play his role).

I'll finish by saying that this is one of the best gross-out/romantic
comedies I've ever seen and is definitely worth a Friday night or a DVD
rental. There is a good chance that you'll be laughing like I did
throughout the movie. To clinch this review, I will say that:

There's Something About Mary!

4/5 stars
<|_=00=_|>

In the past I have not been a great fan of the Farrelly brothers films,
however this film is an exception. The dog scenes were probably the funniest
personally, but there were heaps of other scenes that are well worth a
mention. Cameron Diaz was fantastic as Mary, the girl everyone is after and
Ben Stiller was excellent. Matt Dillon was way too over the top- I know his
role somewhat warranted it- but did he have to be so excessive? He seemed so
irritating. There is no doubt that the humour in this film is of the lowest
possible calibre, but it really works- think Dumb & Dumber, but only quite
good. Despite all the comic situations in the film, there is still something
undeniably sweet in the centre of the story, I think thats what made it
work. Its certainly not top class entertainment, but its highly recommended
for when you are in a stupid mood and need a good laugh.

<|_=00=_|>

The shock comedy aside (zipper and hair gel scenes), purposeful
unpolitically correct moments (humor at expense of handicapped,
animal cruelty), the most surprising thing about this film
is it has heart and is rather sweet.   It's not the completely
nasty, cruel comedy you might have been expecting.  There's
a
nice love story in here too.  It's corny and cliche'd and doesn't feel
overly cloying because there are enough shockingly
funny moments to offset it.  The acting is good, the pacing brisk, and the
jokes, well... you've heard all about the best
ones by now.
