

Since most kids' movies are horrible, parents dread having to sit through
them alongside their children.  But this is harmless, feel-good fun that
even a parent can stomach.  It's a tad unbelievable, and some stunts are
all
too convenient, but so what? We can all suspend a certain amount of
disbelief and enjoy a movie, right?
<|_=00=_|>
This is the kind of movie that will be remembered forever. This movie
was done perfectly and I have no negative thoughts about it. They chose
the absolute best music for this movie and I don't think anyone could
have chose better. It needs to be remembered, they should make it on a
special edition DVD. Even though they have come out with tons of Air
Bud movies after this, the original one will always be the best. The
Sadest part in the whole movie is the part when Josh leaves Buddy
stranded on the other side of the river. This will always be my
favorite movie, and nothing will ever change that. I give Air Bud a 10
out of 10 for great humor, sadness, and music. Great Job!
<|_=00=_|>
'Air Bud' is one of "doggy" movies so much in fashion in its time. And
it's surprisingly underrated.

This is by no means a comedy, although it has its funny moments. It is
dramatic, more than anything. In fact, this is often a depressing film
but joyful at the same time. 

Unlike its sequels, this one has a clever plot (a sentimental one, I'd
say). It's heartwarming, in the line of others like this such as 'Old
Yeller', 'Homeward Bound: The Incredible Journey', 'Napoleon' and
'Fluke'.

Despite the title, the story isn't just about our very dear canine
friend Buddy (even if he is the main star). The story also focus on
Josh Framm, who is a crucial character, together with the dog. After
all, they are destined to be best friends. Josh is Buddy's salvation,
but Buddy also plays an important role to save Josh's life. Buddy
escapes from his alcoholic and aggressive owner and finds a peaceful
life with Josh. On the other hand, Josh gets over depression and
shyness thanks to Buddy, which gives the him will to live and brings
back Josh's lost interest in basketball.

That's when the movie's most original thing happens: Buddy can play
basketball! That is just amazing! Like everybody else in the movie, to
see the dog playing basketball leaves me speechless. That dog has an
incredible talent for basketball and even more unbelievable is that he
never fails. He's a much better and natural-born player than the humans
themselves. He becomes the mascot of Josh's basketball team... which
brings them lots of luck.

The beauty of this movie isn't just in the dramatic story, but also in
the friendship between Josh and man's best friend. Plus, Buddy is a
Golden Retriever, my favorite dog breed. Golden Retrievers look so
friendly and pacific. They are in fact. They are among the world's
sweetest and most beautiful dogs.

But the magnificent scenario also gives beauty to the movie: rivers,
green places, a nice village. All of this is very well combined with
soft, relaxing and beautiful piano music (like in "Fluke").

Tom is an eccentric boy who always carries minor pieces of garbage to
give him luck. It is, however, a bit disturbing to see that Joe coach
throwing him numerous basketballs, causing the boy to shake nervously
and feel very tired.

Larry, although constantly picking on Josh, isn't really annoying or
stupid. He is more of an arrogant and jealous guy than actually mean. 

Despite having some deeply touching moments, the most heartbreaking
moment of the movie is when Buddy crosses the river and tries to follow
the river boat which Josh catches. That scene always makes tears come
to my eyes.

As for the cast, Kevin Zegers (a sports boy in real life, just like
Noah Hathaway) is wonderful in the role of Josh Framm and Buddy the Dog
is simply fantastic as Buddy. I was so sad when I found out that Buddy
died. He was a friendly, adorable, beautiful and very talented dog. The
little girl who plays Josh's cute little sister (whoever she is) is
alright either.

But I don't like some of the characters at all. Norm Snively is a
drunk, abusive man and a loser as a clown. Coach Joe is a jerk and
unkind. Larry's father is a jerk and a hypocrite. 

This should definitely be on Top 250.
<|_=00=_|>
The first of the 'Air Bud' series is as much wonderful as it is
horribly underrated, truly a 90's classic. It has a dignified place in
the list of the greatest animal movies as well. In many ways it is a
depressing movie but it's also heart-warming, touching, feel-good and
tons of fun. There's more to it to like, though. Cinematography is
really beautiful and pure. The soundtrack is just perfect for this
film. The boy and his devoted four-legged friend make a marvelous team
and have a perfect chemistry.

Even though the film's title obviously refers to the dog, his name is
actually Buddy - that is, once he ends up in the hands of Josh Framm.
Even as the movie starts, the little we see is enough to realize how
horribly the clown treats his dog (constantly yelling at him,
threatening him and hitting him hard with the newspaper). It is
heartbreaking to see that. Fortunately, this horrible man accidentally
loses him and he finds Josh Framm (a, I assume, 12-year-old who is
loving and caring but very shy and silent and currently under
depressive mood). They quickly become best friends, as Josh gives him
the treatment he deserves. Buddy is a very special dog alone, but he
has a special secret that makes him even more special: he can play
basketball (even more amazing, better than humans can!).

Even though the clown is a horrible person, he doesn't have that much
of a role. He is not someone I sympathize with and he certainly isn't
funny, although it is hilarious when his truck falls apart and he can't
stop it and accidentally drives it into a river.

Larry Willingham's father is a jerk. Even though Larry unfairly picks
on Josh, at least he isn't too bratty and is funny at times. But
Larry's father, that guy is such a jerk, although not overly annoying.
Coach Joe isn't especially sympathetic because he is very impatient and
temperamental, but he goes too far when he throws basketballs at Josh's
peculiar friend Tom with aggressiveness.

The movie is focused more on Josh and Buddy, who are the most likable
characters of the movie. Kevin Zegers is flawless as Josh Framm. Buddy
the Dog is amazing as Buddy (may this wonderful dog rest in peace,
wherever he is now). Brendan Fletcher does a good job as Larry. So does
Shayn Solberg as Josh's good friend Tom. The late Eric Christmas is
hilarious as Judge Cranfield.

Title in Portugal: 'Air Bud'.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie when I was a kid, and even back then I had little
idea why. I mean, it wasn't like I thought it was particularly funny or
touching or anything like that. I guess I just really liked the basic
premise, because you have to admit the central idea is pretty weird and
nutty. How stoned do you have to get before you come up with a dog that
plays basketball? How would that even remotely work? I'm really putting
too much thought in this movie I guess, but it's just so bizarre that
I've always found it very entertaining. I've learned the sequels
actually stretch the premise even further and involve dogs that can
play soccer, baseball and volleyball, but this one will always be the
one and only original "dog does weird athletic stuff it can't possibly
do"-flick.
<|_=00=_|>

I wasn't expecting Air Bud to be all that good, after the disappointment of
the other kiddie film, Soccer Dog, but I found this film weirdly impressive,
to be quite honest.

Josh (Kevin Zegers) is an introverted 12-year-old whose test pilot dad has
been killed, necessitating a family move to the leafy Washington suburb of
Fernfield. Here, he meets Buddy, a stray retriever, who can score baskets
with his nose and is adopted into the family home. Buddy's ball skills soon
cheer Josh up and ingratiate him with his peers, and they both make the
Timberwolves school team. Conflict arrives in the form of Buddy's previous
cruel owner Snively (Michael Jeter), a children's entertainer of the Fred
West school.

The direction is sloppy, the actors overact and the result is cheese on a
stick, but Air Bud still manages to entertain adults and children throughout
the perfectly short running time. The story of a basketball-playing dog is
magnificent, and Buddy is an irresistible golden retriever, he makes the
film as watchable as it ever will be.  

You'll cry, you'll laugh and you'll be weirdly uplifted, but don't expect to
be absolutely spellbound with Air Bud. But I do still recommend it, that's
for sure. 

I rate Air Bud 7 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

[CONTAINS SPOILERS]

      Norman F. Snively and his dog Buddy worked as a clown act,
Clown
and a Hound. They arrive to do a child's birthday party. Norm
isn't
really a very good clown and Buddy ended up upstaging him so the
two
are thrown out. Norm throws a temper tantrum then says he's
taking
Buddy to the pound but on the way, Buddy's crate falls off the back
of
the truck and lands in the street. It's nearly run over by a
car
containing the Framm family who were new to Fernfield. There was
mom,
Jackie and her children Josh and Andrea. Josh had lost his father
a
year ago and it looked as though his new life in a new town would
be
dull. At school, they tried enrolling him in an extra-carricular
activity, like band, but that didn't work out very well. On his
way
home, he found a basketball court in the back of an old,
abandoned
church so he began shooting hoops. That's when he met Buddy who
didn't
come very close to him. Josh decides to try out for the basketball
team
at school and surly Coach Barker makes him a waterboy. When Josh
is
sent downstairs to wash a load of jerseys, he learns that the
school
custodeon was in fact Arthur Chaney of the 1956 New York Knicks!

          When shooting hoops in the court the next day, Josh
saw
Buddy again and to Josh's surprise, Buddy could play ball so
they
played around the court for a while then Josh brought him home and
tried
to give him a bath and hide him from Jackie, but she soon found out
and
said keeping him was out of the question, but Josh got Buddy an
old
refrigerator box to sleep in in the backyard. Jackie agreed to
let
Buddy stay until Christmas which was two weeks away. So soon
Christmas
morning arrives and Josh runs downstairs to find Buddy under the
tree
with a big bow on his head. Josh was ecstatic! At school, Josh
tried
out for the team and to his surprise, he made it! In the mornings
when
Jackie went out to get the newspaper, it wasn't there. That's
because
Buddy would snatch it and bury it. Soon Josh learns that not only
can
Buddy pass the basketball around but he can shoot hoops! Buddy
becomes
a team mascot. It was that afternoon that Coach Barker was seen
throwing
basketballs at a teammate and the principal frowned on that so
Barker
was fired. Josh suggested the replacement coach be Arthur Chaney,
who
jumped at the chance. He taught the children about teamwork
and
sportsmanship. 

        Buddy got to play in an actual game. Things were really
looking
up! Buddy made news stories all over town, which unfortunately
Norm
got wind of so he stopped by the Framm house and reclaimed Buddy.
Josh
was devastated but he made a plan to go get Buddy and make it to
the
big game. Josh sneaked into Norm's backyard, unchained Buddy and
the
two escape. Norm sees, jumps in his faulty old pick-up truck and
gives
chase. They run all the way to the shore. That's when the brakes
give
out and Norm drives right into the river. That evening, Josh
and
Buddy play in the big game and WIN!! That's when Norm showed up
and
decided to take this to court. After much deliberation, the
judge
decided, well actually Chaney convinced him to let Buddy decide who
his
master should be. The judge allowed it. Buddy bit Norm then
chose
Josh so they all lived happily ever after.

        This movie is pretty good. It has it's funny moments.
I'm
sorry to say that Buddy the dog is no longer with us. He died after
the
film's release. From surgical complications or something.
Other
members of the cast include Michael Jeter as Norm. Why does he
always
get calls to play weirdos and crazies??! Bill Cobb is here too!
Air
Bud is followed by a seemingly endless line of sequels! Air Bud
II:
Golden Receiver in 1998 in which Buddy plays football, Air Bud
III:
World Pup in 1999 where he plays soccer, Air Bud IV:
Seven Inning Fetch in 2002 where he plays baseball and coming soon:
Air
Bud V: Air Bud Spikes Back. Notice anything familiar about that
title?
Hmm? I assume he plays football again. I saw Golden Receiver.
Wasn't
that great. I didn't see World Pup or Seven Inning Fetch. I
wonder
what he'll play next. Hockey? Golf? Foosball? Oh well. Future Air
Bud
movies will tell, I guess. But anyway, if you like animal comedies
and
good family movies, then I recommend Air Bud! He sits. He stays.
He
shoots. He scores!

-

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is actually really good. I mean, just the premise, a dog who
can play basketball, who could resist? It's so adorable. I don't think
this is really a kids movie. Anyone of any age can enjoy it. From
little kids, to teenagers, such as a myself, to young adults, to middle
aged adults, to seniors. I really do believe that anyone can like this
movie. Some parts did make me angry though. I hate violence against
dogs, so when I saw Buddy's first owner, yelling at him and mistreating
him, I was like "Okay, you need to calm your farm, and be nice to that
dog. If you can't be nice to a dog or any other animal, then give him
up for adoption, to a family, who will actually treat him like a
lovable best friend, instead of a side show act." 

Overall, I really like this movie, and I give it an 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie, as an owner now of 4 dogs, and as a kid
when I had a dog ,, I used to share lunch with the dog,, talk to
him/her... play all the things kids do with dogs.. this movie just
rocks.. I so hated buddy's first owner,, the stupid clown,, oh so happy
when the kid decides to take action against the clown. as far as a dog
playing basketball I actually wouldn't put it past an actual real life
dog to do it being properly trained and all, the only thing I feel
that's a little far fetched is the poor dog wearing those tiny dog
slippers tell me how a golden retriever is gonna run up and down the
basketball court in sneakers,, but other than that I really just loved
this movie,, it's a movie for all ages 9-99. enjoy folks.
<|_=00=_|>
(Some Spoilers) After being abandoned on the highway by his master the
drunken clown Norm Snively played by Michael Jeter, no relations to
Yankee star infielder Derek, Buddy the dog is befriended by young Josh
Framm, Kevin Zegers, who found Buddy lost and hungry wandering around
in the woods. Josh is having trouble adjusting to his new life in
Fernfield Washington and Buddy is just what he needs, a friend, to
spend his time with. As it soon turns out Buddy has this talent in
shooting basketballs through hoops by bouncing them off his snout that
can put Michael Jordon and Jerry West to shame! The film has Josh
together with his dog Buddy become the sensation of Fernfield High
School who do a half-time show that's draws more people them the
basketball game itself. 

It's the teams new coach school janitor and boiler room attendant,it
gets real cold up there in Washington State during the winter, former
professional basketball player for the New York Knicks Arthur Chaney,
Bill Cobbs,who sees potential in Buddy's,the team's mascot, ability to
play on the team and waits just for the right moment to put him into
the game. That comes at the critical game for the state championship
honors between Coach Chaney's Timberwolves and last years champions
Warriors! It's during this time that Buddy's former owner Snively,
while recovering from the DT's, sees Buddy on the local TV news
shooting baskets and a light bulb lights up in his head. Seeing dollar
signs and six packs of beer in his future Snively decides to get Buddy
back legally despite having abandoned him months ago. Something that
both Buddy and his new found friend Josh will do everything in their
power to prevent.

Corny at times but heart warming film with the sharp shooting Buddy,
who sadly passed away six months after the films release, making every
basket count as well as stealing ever scene in the movie. Not only was
Buddy able to score points but as Coach Chaney predicted motivate the
players, especially Josh, to improve their game as well. While Snively
tried to get Buddy back and make money with him by doing beer and dog
food commercials the dog with Josh's help escaped and ended up in court
in a dog custody case with Josh and Snively as the complainants.

***SPOILERS***Even though the presiding judge in the case Judge
Cornfield, played by Eric Christmas,is a big Knick, as well as former
Knick player Arthur Chaney, fan and was very sympathetic for Josh in
seeing what a crazy nut, coming to court dressed up as Bozo the clown,
Sinvely was it was in fact Buddy who made the decision to whom he
want's to stay with. And as it turned out that decision was final!
