
One of the early scenes in "Pulp Fiction" features two hit-men
discussing what a Big Mac is called in other countries. Their dialogue
is witty and entertaining, and it's also disarming, because it makes
these two thugs seem all too normal. If you didn't know better, you
might assume these were regular guys having chit-chat on their way to
work. Other than the comic payoff at the end of the scene, in which
they use parts of this conversation to taunt their victims, their talk
has no relevance to anything in the film, or to anything else, for that
matter. Yet without such scenes, "Pulp Fiction" wouldn't be "Pulp
Fiction." I get the sense that Tarantino put into the film whatever
struck his fancy, and somehow the final product is not only coherent
but wonderfully textured.

It's no wonder that fans spend so much time debating what was in the
suitcase, reading far more into the story than Tarantino probably
intended. The film is so intricately structured, with so many
astonishing details, many of which you won't pick up on the first
viewing, that it seems to cry out for some deeper explanation. But
there is no deeper explanation. "Pulp Fiction," is, as the title
indicates, purely an exercise in technique and style, albeit a
brilliant and layered one. Containing numerous references to other
films, it is like a great work of abstract art, or "art about art." It
has all the characteristics we associate with great movies: fine
writing, first-rate acting, unforgettable characters, and one of the
most well-constructed narratives I've ever seen in a film. But to what
end? The self-contained story does not seem to have bearing on anything
but itself.

The movie becomes a bit easier to understand once you realize that it's
essentially a black comedy dressed up as a crime drama. Each of the
three main story threads begins with a situation that could easily form
the subplot of any standard gangster movie. But something always goes
wrong, some small unexpected accident that causes the whole situation
to come tumbling down, leading the increasingly desperate characters to
absurd measures. Tarantino's originality stems from his ability to
focus on small details and follow them where they lead, even if they
move the story away from conventional plot developments.

Perhaps no screenplay has ever found a better use for digressions.
Indeed, the whole film seems to consist of digressions. No character
ever says anything in a simple, straightforward manner. Jules could
have simply told Yolanda, "Be cool and no one's going to get hurt,"
which is just the type of line you'd find in a generic, run-of-the-mill
action flick. Instead, he goes off on a tangent about what Fonzie is
like. Tarantino savors every word of his characters, finding a
potential wisecrack in every statement and infusing the dialogue with
clever pop culture references. But the lines aren't just witty; they
are full of intelligent observations about human behavior. Think of
Mia's statement to Vincent, "That's when you know you've found somebody
special: when you can just shut the f--- up for a minute and
comfortably enjoy the silence."

What is the movie's purpose exactly? I'm not sure, but it does deal a
lot with the theme of power. Marsellus is the sort of character who
looms over the entire film while being invisible most of the time. The
whole point of the big date sequence, which happens to be my favorite
section of the film, is the power that Marsellus has over his men
without even being present. This power is what gets Vincent to act in
ways you would not ordinarily expect from a dumb, stoned gangster faced
with an attractive woman whose husband has gone away. The power theme
also helps explain one of the more controversial aspects of the film,
its liberal use of the N-word. In this film, the word isn't just used
as an epithet to describe blacks: Jules, for instance, at one point
applies the term to Vincent. It has more to do with power than with
race. The powerful characters utter the word to express their dominance
over weaker characters. Most of these gangsters are not racist in
practice. Indeed, they are intermingled racially, and have achieved a
level of equality that surpasses the habits of many law-abiding
citizens in our society. They resort to racial epithets because it's a
patter that establishes their separateness from the non-criminal world.

There's a nice moral progression to the stories. We presume that
Vincent hesitates to sleep with Mia out of fear rather than loyalty.
Later, Butch's act of heroism could be motivated by honor, but we're
never sure. The film ends, however, with Jules making a clear moral
choice. Thus, the movie seems to be exploring whether violent outlaws
can act other than for self-preservation.

Still, it's hard to find much of a larger meaning tying together these
eccentric set of stories. None of the stories are really "about"
anything. They certainly are not about hit-men pontificating about
burgers. Nor is the film really a satire or a farce, although it
contains elements of both. At times, it feels like a tale that didn't
need to be told, but for whatever reason this movie tells it and does a
better job than most films of its kind, or of any other kind.
<|_=00=_|>
To put this in context, I am 34 years old and I have to say that this
is the best film I have seen without doubt and I don't expect it will
be beaten as far as I am concerned. Obviously times move on, and I
acknowledge that due to its violence and one particularly uncomfortable
scene this film is not for everyone, but I still remember watching it
for the first time, and it blew me away. Anyone who watches it now has
to remember that it actually changed the history of cinema. In context-
it followed a decade or more of action films that always ended with a
chase sequence where the hero saved the day - you could have written
those films yourself. Pulp had you gripped and credited the audience
with intelligence. There is not a line of wasted dialogue and the movie
incorporates a number of complexities that are not immediately obvious.
It also resurrected the career of Grease icon John Travolta and
highlighted the acting talent of Samuel L Jackson. There are many films
now that are edited out of sequence and have multiple plots etc but
this is the one they all want to be, or all want to beat, but never
will.
<|_=00=_|>

If you think "Pulp Fiction" is brilliant, you're wrong. It's more than that.
It's a milestone in the history of film making. It's already a classic. But
why? Because of the many "f" words, or maybe because of the brain and skull
pieces on the rear window of a car? No, that's surely not the point
(unfortunately some other users - fortunately the minority - don't get
it).
Tarantino has made a movie that's someway different from many other action,
gangster or crime movies. What's so different? He knows the subject of the
movie is "cool", he knows it's a product of mass culture, and he even likes
it by himself. But he smiles at it and tells three great stories with a lot
of irony. And this irony is the first point. The second point is that he
gave souls to extremely schematic characters. They surely aren't another
action heroes who you forget as fast as you can twinkle. They are human
beings like we are, talking about Burger King and McDonalds, about TV series
and a foot massage. They just earn their money with killing others or
selling drugs.
What else is so great about "Pulp Fiction"? It's the acting, the directing,
the cinematography, the soundtrack, the sense of humour and the whole rest.
In my opinion it's all worth nothing less than a 10 out of 10. A
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
Pulp Fiction may be the single best film ever made, and quite
appropriately it is by one of the most creative directors of all time,
Quentin Tarantino. This movie is amazing from the beginning definition
of pulp to the end credits and boasts one of the best casts ever
assembled with the likes of Bruce Willis, Samuel L. Jackson, John
Travolta, Uma Thurman, Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth and Christopher Walken.
The dialog is surprisingly humorous for this type of film, and I think
that's what has made it so successful. Wrongfully denied the many
Oscars it was nominated for, Pulp Fiction is by far the best film of
the 90s and no Tarantino film has surpassed the quality of this movie
(although Kill Bill came close). As far as I'm concerned this is the
top film of all-time and definitely deserves a watch if you haven't
seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
Viewers are taken on a ride through three different stories that
entertwine together around the world of Marcellus Wallace. Quentin
Tarantino proves that he is the master of witty dialogue and a fast
plot that doesn't allow the viewer a moment of boredom or rest. From
the story of two hit-man on a job, to a fixed boxing match to a date
between a hit-man and the wife of a mob boss. There was definitely a lot
of care into the writing of the script, as everything no matter the
order it is in, fits with the story. Many mysteries have been left such
as what is inside of the briefcase and why Marcellus Wallace has a
band-aid on the back of his neck, which may be connected. The movie
redefined the action genre and reinvigorated the careers of both John
Travolta and Bruce Willis. This movie is required viewing for any fan
of film.
<|_=00=_|>

My oh my.  "Pulp Fiction" is one of those roller-coasters of a movie.  It is
both a joy and a trial to sit through.  Amazingly original and
unforgettable, Quentin Tarantino's trash masterpiece never gets old or seem
outdated.  It put a face on American independent film making in 1994. 
Miramax had been around since the 1970s and no one had heard of it before
this film.  Studios went into a panic when this film came out because they
knew it would be an amazing hit.  Of course it was.  Independent film making
became the rage and hit its peak in 1996 when four of the five nominated
Best Picture films were from independent studios.  The screenplay and
direction by Tarantino are quite amazing, but the cast makes the film work. 
John Travolta (Oscar nominated) re-invented his career with this film. 
Bruce Willis cemented his celebrity.  Samuel L. Jackson and Uma Thurman
(both Oscar nominees) became marketable superstars.  Others who make
appearances include: Ving Rhames, Christopher Walken, Eric Stoltz, Rosanna
Arquette, Steve Buscemi, Frank Whaley, Harvey Keitel, and of course Quentin
Tarantino himself.  They all leave lasting impressions as well.  Samuel L.
Jackson stood out the most to me, his lack of substantial screen time may
have cost him the Oscar.  Just an amazing accomplishment, all involved
deserve recognition.  Easily 5 stars out of 5.
   
<|_=00=_|>
I can only speak for myself, but I had never seen anything as stylish,
cleverly constructed, well written and electrifying as this milestone
when I first saw it in 1994. What really pulled me in right from the
start is what we've now come to know as a Tarantino trademark: the
dialogue. When gangsters Jules and Vincent talk to each other (or all
the other characters, for that matter) there is a natural flow, a sense
of realism and yet something slightly over the top and very theatrical
about their lines – it's a mixture that immediately grabs your
attention (even if it's just two dudes talking about what kind of
hamburger they prefer, or contemplating the value of a foot-massage).
Then there's the music: the songs Tarantino chose for his masterpiece
fit their respective scenes so perfectly that most of those pieces of
music are now immediately associated with 'Pulp Fiction'. And the
narrative: the different story lines that come together, the elegantly
used flashbacks, the use of "chapters" – there is so much playful
creativity at play here, it's just a pure joy to watch.

If you're a bit of a film geek, you realize how much knowledge about
film and love for the work of other greats – and inspiration from them
- went into this (Leone, DePalma, Scorsese and, of course, dozens of
hyper-stylized Asian gangster flicks), but to those accusing Tarantino
of copying or even "stealing" from other film-makers I can only say:
There has never been an artist who adored his kind of art that was NOT
inspired or influenced by his favorite artists. And if you watch
Tarantino's masterpiece today, it's impossible not to recognize just
what a breath of fresh air it was (still is, actually). Somehow, movies
- especially gangster films - never looked quite the same after 'Pulp
Fiction'. Probably the most influential film of the last 20 years, it's
got simply everything: amazing performances (especially Sam Jackson);
it features some of the most sizzling, iconic dialogue ever written; it
has arguably one of the best non-original soundtracks ever - it's such
a crazy, cool, inspirational ride that you feel dizzy after watching it
for the first time. It's – well: it's 'Pulp Fiction'. 10 stars out of
10.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>

Tarantino is without a doubt one of the best directors of all time and
maybe
the best of the 90's. His first film, Reservoir Dogs was amazing and
claustrophobic, his segment in Four Rooms was by far the greatest (even
though Rodriguez's was excellent too)and Jackie Brown is a wonderful homage
to the Blaxploitation films of the 70's. However, Pulp Fiction remains my
favourite.

It was nominated for so many Oscars that I still find it hard to believe
that it only got one: Best original script. I'm not complaining because
Forrest Gump got best picture, since that film was also Oscar-worthy, but
come on, movies like Tarantino's or the Shawshank Redemption deserved much
more.

Anyway, going back to the movie, I particularly liked the first and second
chapters, and that's really a contradiction because one of the movie's
finest characters, Mr. Wolf, appears on the third. Bruce Willis also does a
great job, and as far as I'm concerned he fell in love with the movie right
after having read the script. I like the way his character gives a "tough
guy" image at the beginning and then we discover he's so affectionate and
tender to his wife. Travolta is obviously the star of the movie and his
second encounter with Bruce Willis in the kitchen along with the scene
where
he dances with Uma Thurman is when the movie reaches it's highest
point.

The other star is Samuel L. Jackson, who plays a wise assassin that
obviously knows how to handle situations. "And I will strike down upon thee
with great vengeance and furious anger..." is my favourite
quote.

Summarizing, Pulp Fiction is a modern classic and a must-see for anyone who
is at least aware of what a movie is. I give it a 9 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>
Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction is a terrific film. It also gets
better with each viewing, especially if one of those happens to be on a
big theatrical screen where all of the BIG compositions get bigger and
more detailed. How much else is there to talk about it after all these
years? It's filled with dynamite, sudden and always interesting action,
great and naturally clever dialogue, and memorable characters. Also,
the acting is always something to behold as by turns straightforward,
over the top, subtle, and just downright menacing and spot-on. The
directing is one of the strongest that we've seen from Tarantino, as he
makes his choices in pacing with shots in unconventional ways but never
in a way that would be distracting. And writing, already noted, has
been copied by many, and only equaled by a select few. 

The dance sequence. Samuel L. Jackson's superlative monologuing. It has
loyalty among low lifes, and many other odd characters that are all bad
and not one is a villain or hero. And somehow even after years of
parody and terrible rip-offs, it holds its own and- as one can say
after seeing it at a midnight screening- holds its audience as much as
it had the countless times before they saw it (or if they are, the
first time). The first time you're surprised, the second time you look
for the clues or other ambiguity, and then the third time you laugh you
head off. The fourth time... I'll leave to you.
<|_=00=_|>
I just finished screening this movie for the first time after putting
it off for a number of years because of what seemed like equivocating
appraisals from some of my friends. In hindsight, however, it seems to
me that while the movie must have definitely bowled them over, overall
they weren't sure exactly what to make of it or how to articulate what
were probably a confused mix of feelings. But I am so impressed that I
feel compelled to add a few specific observations to the many fine
reviews already on this database.

First, this movie hits you with an impact somewhere in between, say,
APOCALYPSE NOW and A CLOCKWORK ORANGE, and for some people may be just
as disturbing (however, in this respect I am happy to report I didn't
think it rose to the level of NATURAL BORN KILLERS). Full of
graphically violent action and language, PULP FICTION is not a picture
for everyone - I would definitely not recommend it to my parents, born
in the 1930's (even to my one fairly "hip" relative of the same
generation who, at age 66, still teaches high school sex education and
likes to talk about things like sunbathing nude, among other
potentially sensitive issues).

Irrespective of audience sensibilities, however, the film-makers,
supported by superb acting in every role, manage to create a world full
of the most fascinating sleazy characters possibly ever to appear on
screen. From Travolta's pronounced almost-child-like curiosity about
the world to Jackson's sincere and thoughtful philosophical ruminating
and Willis's deep devotion to the memory of his father, I think such
fascination lies not only in the characters' personalities as they are
portrayed but in the way they tantalize the viewer into considering the
possibility that such people could actually exist. As a lawyer of some
years' experience dealing with all sorts of people I was particularly
drawn to this aspect of the film.

Thus, and in response to some other reviewers' comments, I think this
movie is more character-driven than plot-driven. Instead of a story
peopled by basically weakly developed characters employed primarily as
a mere device to move the plot along, as is too frequently the case in
the movies (especially these days), the undeniably strong, clever, and
unpredictable plot lines in PULP FICTION are actually of essentially
secondary interest and importance, serving primarily as vehicles to get
you worried about the fate of characters you can't help caring about
despite the truly low attributes that otherwise form the basis for
their respective personas. As at least one other reviewer noted, when
the film ends you are actually disappointed, left craving more of these
crazy people and their explosive lives.

Finally, and as strange as it may sound, this film reminds me of
another Monumentally Great Film which one would never typically
associate with it in any way in a million years - CASABLANCA. As in
that film made way back in 1942, and as another reviewer has suggested,
perhaps its special appeal - its unusually high degree of emotional
impact - lies in its distinctly successful simultaneous application of
several different genres in a single film - drama, action, dark humor -
with the whole thing bound together by essentially flawless execution
in every department. And while CASABLANCA is no doubt clearly much more
wholesome and high-minded, like the older film PULP FICTION is not
without a pronounced theme of redemption, even if it is not as strongly
felt, considering all the later film's sleaze and violence.

In sum, when people say that this is probably the best film of the
1990's, it is easy to see why. Fundamentally a truly outstanding movie,
it is a must-see for anyone who considers themself a film buff and can
handle graphic subject matter.

(Incidentally, if you would like a more toned-down, much more overtly
humorous and less serious picture with a not-altogether dissimilar look
and feel, don't miss another 1990's Travolta picture, GET SHORTY.)
