

As gays and lesbians have achieved more and more acceptance in our society,
a countervailing force – led mostly by conservative religious organizations
- has been rearing its head in recent years.  The movement is often
referred
to as `reparative therapy,' the rather absurd notion that, with just a
little grit, determination and behavior modification, homosexuals can be
`cured' of their `illness' and groomed to take their place as fine,
upstanding members of the heterosexual community.  Certain `treatment
centers' dedicated to this dubious cause have even begun to spring up in
areas around the country, modeling themselves after 12-step programs like
Alcoholics Anonymous.

The makers of `But I'm a Cheerleader' have chosen to have a little fun with
the concept, imagining one of these centers in almost surrealistic terms.
Sweet-faced Natasha Lyonne stars as Megan, a regular teenager happily
content to give her all to her cheerleading squad and only mildly confused
as to why she can't seem to get quite as excited by her boyfriend as by
thoughts of her buxom cheerleader buddies.  Suspecting her of being a
lesbian – long before Megan herself does, actually – her `concerned'
parents, friends and boyfriend cart her off to True Directions, a treatment
center tucked safely away in the country.  In this bucolic setting, Megan
and a group of other `deviants' are put through the rigors of a 5-step
therapy program which includes admitting their homosexuality, undergoing
gender role playing and even `practicing' man/woman sexual behavior under
the stern tutelage of the mistress of the place.  In keeping with the
near-surrealism of the subject matter, the center is done up in an almost
Montessori school motif, with bold colored walls and furniture somehow
emphasizing the cold, inhuman sterility of the setting.

`But I'm a Cheerleader' is, by no means, a great or entirely successful
comedy.  Its attempts at humor, particularly in its opening scenes, seem a
bit forced and heavy-handed at times. Moreover, the tone shifts a bit
uneasily every so often, running the gamut from stylized absurdity to
heartbreaking seriousness.  Still, the undisciplined messiness is really
part of the film's overall charm.  It removes the work from the same
category as all those ultra-slick bubble-headed comedies about teens that
major studios seem to release with frightening regularity.  And the movie
does have many laugh-out-loud moments of inspired lunacy, showing to what
preposterous lengths many straights and even some pressured gays will go in
order to `correct' the uncorrectable.  We see the girls being given
instructions on how to use a vacuum cleaner, wear makeup and change
diapers.
The boys are instructed in the fine arts of wood chopping, throwing a
football and fixing cars.  These scenes work, in particular, not only for
their comic effectiveness but their underlying poignancy, as these scared
youngsters – many threatened with disownment by their parents if they don't
`straighten up' – give it their all, against all hope, to truly change, to
deny the very person their raging hormones are screaming at them to
be.

The movie also manages to make the gay characters seem real and believable.
Thanks to a superb cast, many of the teens emerge as touching,
three-dimensional people rather than the cartoon characters that they might
have become in a similar film of this kind - particularly when it would be
so easy for them to become so in the face of the caricatures of parents and
camp counselors who swirl around them in this highly stylized setting.
Prime among these is Cathy Moriarty, brilliant as Mary, the prim and proper
leader of the establishment, a woman whose righteous wrong-headedness the
actress captures to a comic tee.   In contrast, Rue Paul, out of drag for
once, gives a superbly understated performance as an `ex-gay' now working
for the enemy.  Among the teens, Lyonne and Clea DuVall, as the girl Megan
falls in love with, are the obvious standouts.  They turn these potentially
cardboard comic characters into full-sized, instantly recognizable young
women filled with yearning, confusion and a desire to both please others
and
be true to themselves.

And that is the ultimate message of this film.  Though done in an absurd
way, the movie strives to point out that all of us must be allowed to be
who
we are and to live the life that best suits us.  Whether we are gay,
straight or whatever, that's a philosophy of life we all need to be
reminded
of from time to time.


<|_=00=_|>
Incredible social commentary. Yes, It's a little campy, but it's all
supposed to be that way. It's an amusing look at attempting to 'rehab"
homosexuals with therapy and "finding their roots". Great acting all
around, excellent writing. 

Personally, it was the subtle things that did it for me. Mary's son was
funny, and the cut-outs (just pay attention to the boys' lessons) were
Hilarious. I thought it was a great tongue-in-cheek way of saying
"okay, this is stupid, we need to let them be" for the gay community.

If you're in the mood for a lot of laughing, and RuPaul out-of-drag to
boot, rent this one.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a completely different take on any 'coming out' movie I have ever
seen - but with RuPaul as a former homosexual turned 'conversion
therapist,'
it would pretty much have to be!

Mink Stole is delightfully smarmy as Amanda's (Natasha Lyonne) mother who
sends Amanda the cheerleader to `True Directions' a homosexual
deprogramming
camp - camp being the key word - mostly based on the fact that she doesn't
like her quarterback boyfriend's extremely wet and sloppy kisses and
(heaven
forbid!) she has a poster of Melissa Etheridge in her bedroom.

The camp is a wonderful, non-stop visual joke.

The girl's bathroom has literally thousands of daisies attached to the
walls. Their bedroom is a riot of pink satin, ribbons and lace worthy of
Mae
West.

The girls have to wear pink uniforms and do housework; the boys are in
blue
and have to learn to chop wood, work on cars and learn football. Watching
RuPaul work on a car is worth the price of admission alone.

Each of the kids has a 'root,' - the reason they became gay: ranging from
`a
traumatic bris' to `my mother got married in pants.'

Larry and Lloyd (Richard Moll and Wesley Mann, respectively) are priceless
as two of the first clients of True Direction and are now self described
ex-ex-gays. They rescue kids via the 'underground homo railroad' with the
message `that no matter who you are, be yourself.'

They are an absolute delight.

The final 'graduation scene' which wraps up the film very nicely is a real
gem - I didn't know they made lavender fatigues!

There were some real standout performances - Dante Basco as Dolph and Clea
DuVall as Graham deserve special recognition.

Don't run out as soon as the credits start rolling: There is one last
scene
that seals this film with just the perfect touch.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie definitely doesn't have as much recognition as it
deserves.

I absolutely love this movie.  I appreciate its comedy, and its love
story,
and the valuable lesson it tries to get across its audience: Just Be
Yourself!

This movie is about a typical teenage girl named Megan Bloomfield living
in
a suburban neighborhood.  She's got is all, looks, popularity, the jock
boyfriend, and also, she's head cheerleader!  But there is something odd
about this girl that no one can put their finger on.  Why does she seem
so
disinterested in making out with her boyfriend?  Why does she have
pictures
of girls in her locker?  Why does she eat TOFU?  There must be only one
answer:  She's totally, 100%...GAY!  It's the only reason for the way
she's
behaving, so off her parents force her to go, to a rehab camp called True
Directions for Gay People.  Six weeks in this place and you come out
straight as a pin, they claim.

Going in, Megan doesn't think she's gay, but it only takes her a few days
to
think otherwise.  Soon she is doing all the exercises to make herself
normal
again.

Then she meets bad girl lesbian Graham Eaton, a girl that shares a room
with
her.  Well at first, the two hate each other, but then soon afterwords,
become friends.  Graham tells her that no one can change who you are, but
Megan is determined to graduate.  Suddenly, the relationship between the
two
of them becomes more than friends, and Megan realizes she wants to be
with
Graham, and it doesn't matter what anyone else says, she will always be
Megan, head cheerleader, and lesbian.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a biting and hilarious parody of people who not only force
themselves into artificial molds but also feel the to make other people fit
the same stereotypical molds. The main attack of the satire is on the
delusion that homosexuals can be cured by people who are themselves
repressed homosexuals.

Deliciously silly victorian roles of males and females are superimposed on
the teenagers who struggle not to be who they really are. But the
garishly-colored costumes of the 1950's "Father Knows Best" and "Leave It
To
Beaver" style are as incongruous as the fake role-playing. In the end, at
least some of the young victims of this cruelty escape to face a life of
being themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
I was fortunate enough to catch "But I'm a Cheerleader" last night, and
I must say the only thing that bothered me was the fact that I hadn't
stumbled upon it sooner.

Megan Bloomfield is a beautiful blonde, who seems to have the life that
every girl has once dreampt of. She is a popular cheerleader, dating
the captain of the football team. All seems well until she arrives home
from school one day. Megan's family and friends confront her, and in
classic Intervention fashion proceed to tell her what they KNOW to be
the truth: That she is a repressed lesbian. She is sent into a "Rehab"
program ran by "Reformed" gays and lesbians. What could possibly go
wrong?

I believe it is worth mentioning that this film has an early John
Waters feel to it. Mink Stole, who has been in every John Waters movie
beginning in 1966, plays the role of Megan's Mother Nancy.

If campy humor and love catch your eye, check it out. It might make you
think a little, and it's sure to give you a few laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
To many viewers this is probably not much more than a well-made,
feel-good satirical comedy about teenage homosexuality and adult
homophobia mixed with some heart-warming moments, and indeed it serves
that function of somewhat superficial entertainment well. But it is a
lot more than that. If you watch carefully, this is an incredibly
honest, revealing and touchingly sensitive film on teenage identity
crisis and identity search interacting with social influences. It tells
you more than any psychology book could tell on adolescence, because
one cannot put all that into words. Natasha Lyonne as 17 year old Megan
(the heroine of the story) demonstrates amazing qualities of acting in
a role which is probably the most demanding any actor or actress can
face: that of a changing adolescent personality re-discovering one's
inner, formerly suppressed unconscious self over two months, while
still remaining herself in a way. If you compare her different faces at
different phases of the story, e.g. when she "just cannot think of
anything" at the camp, and when she looks into the bathroom mirror much
later in the film washing her teeth, you will see what I mean. If you
are not distracted by hilariously funny bits and jokes and you do not
consider poor acting by Cathy Moriarty, it is in fact a top quality
drama made superbly. Intimate conversations between the two leading
actors (Natasha Lyonne and Clea DuVall) tell more in one minute of this
film about life than most movie star celebrities do throughout their
whole career. Natasha Lyonne should have received an Oscar for this as
best actress, and she should have been offered leading roles in less
superficial films than "American Pie". A talent wasted. Her performance
in this film is an extraordinary achievement and a very touching
experience for anyone sensitive enough to resonate to it. I highly
recommend it for re-watching it several times: you will not get bored
if you are attentive enough.
<|_=00=_|>
But I'm A Cheerleader was a great look at what Hollywood rarely looks
at. Gays. It was a beautiful and funny movie with a great cast. Jamie
Babbit Directed her young cast brilliantly and the cast should be
commended on the believability of their characters. Each actor and
actress really becomes the role. Admititly it is not without its
drawbacks. Some of the scenes went to fast and we were not able to soak
in the jokes. In some scenes the actors who payed the gay men did over
act their roles a bit but i suppose they had to. Really needs two
viewings to appreciate it more. Also anyone who does not get moved by
'that cheer' must be made of stone. A great movie for anyone in the
closet or anyone just looking for a good feel-good-movie.
<|_=00=_|>

For anyone who grew up or is growing up gay in middle-America or just
about
all of America, get ready to return to the most twisted version of your
high
school years and laugh till you're pink in the face.  But, I'm a
Cheerleader
is one of the best gay themed movies to date.  It is certainly one of the
best comedies.  Sort of a Jeffrey turned female high school cheerleader
meets John Waters with only the best qualities of each.

I only wish this film had been available when I was a high school senior
nearly fifteen years ago.  It could have saved me thousands of dollars a
year in therapy!  If you are gay, and especially young or dealing with
coming out at any age either to yourself and/or to others please go rent
this movie.  This is one of the only films I've seen which shows you can
have a wonderful life and be happy and be loved and be
gay.
<|_=00=_|>

My gay best friend and I watched this movie together recently.  I found it
to be quite a funny and touching film.  It played on all the typical gay
stereotypes, while also discrediting them. I found it to be highly
enjoyable.  There were some genuinely comic moments to be found here.
Everyone (gay, straight, bi, or whatever) can get a pleasant laugh out of
this movie. Don't miss out on it just because of its controversial subject
matter. A+
