

I fell in love with this movie the very first time I watched it on cable. 
Don Johnson and Melanie Griffith were perfect in this tale of grief in the
aftermath of the loss of a child.  Elijah Wood, Thora Birch, and Sheila
McCarthy round out the cast and make this a poignant tale.

Melanie Griffith was never as vulnerable and powerful as she was in this
movie - and I liked her in Working Girl and A Stranger Among Us.  This was
by far her most affecting role.  And the almost always underrated Don
Johnson turns in another versatile and incredibly touching performance.  And
the emotion between their two characters is clearly palpable throughout
their estrangement in this film. 

'Paradise' truly is a gem!  If you haven't seen it, do so.  You won't be
sorry.
<|_=00=_|>

I wrote a short essay after watching this movie, not because it affected
me,
but that it left such a great impression. To me, the use of 'Paradise' as
title is apt, as the movie goes to show how many people continue to live
in
their private hells, when all around them is a place which seems like
paradise. These people, though socially interactive at times, seem more
preoccupied with the ghosts of their pasts rather than the blessings of
the
moment. Only when these characters are able to let go of the demons that
haunt them are they able to once again experience the joys of love and
intimacy.

This film can help us to evaluate the things that we allow to control us,
and help us to understand that instead of examining our lives under a
microscope, we should allow ourselves to look up and out sometimes, and
maybe discover all those things missing in our lives but which were right
by
us all the time.
<|_=00=_|>

I was surprised and touched by this film, starring two actors I do not
normally enjoy.  The on-screen chemistry between Don Johnson and Melanie
Griffith, as grieving parents, isolated in their grief, was amazing.
Elijah
Wood is convincing in his role as a friend's child, visiting the couple,
and
going through his own family turmoil.  Also excellent is Thora Birch, one
of
the most gifted child actors I have had the pleasure of watching.  A
wonderfully touching and uplifting film about hope and risk and coming
home.
One of my top five movies!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very sweet movie I have watched 3 times since renting it, and
would have watched it more if I didn't have to take it back. I would love
to
own this movie so I could watch it at least once a week!  Melanie Griffith
and Don Johnson are wonderful as a married couple in a lot of pain, but
still very much in love.  Elijah Wood is excellent in his role.  Both
Melanie and Don do a wonderful job. Don Johnson is so gifted as an actor
who
can show so much emotion without ever uttering one word, it never ceases to
amaze me.  I highly recommend this movie to anyone.
<|_=00=_|>

Surprisingly good. The cinematography and screenplay were excellent.
Griffith played the role beautifully as did Don Johnson.  This was the
only
movie that I liked both actors in.  Elijah Wood's best performance too.
This movie should have been nominated for many awards.  It isn't often
that
the screenplay, acting, setting and theme come together so poignantly and
effectively.  I'd give this movie a 10.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a pretty good drama about several people dealing with difficult
problems. At the center of the story is Williard Young (Elijah Wood), a
lonely little boy who is sent to his mother's friend's house for summer
vacation in a quiet, small town.

There has been a quiet, untouched bubble of emotional problems among the
residences of the town who are the main characters of the story. And
Williard's visit seems to make the bubble burst and each is forced to
finally confront the problems they had been hiding for so
long.

Primarily, that is between the Reeds, the people who Williard is staying
with. Lily Reed (Melanie Griffith) is the quiet, fragile type, damaged by
the death of their infant son some time ago, creating a pain in her heart
that she had never been quite able to get rid of. And it seems as though, it
is not something she wants to let go or to stop blaming herself for. This
decision, unfortunately, keeps her apart from her husband, Ben Reed
(Griffith's then-husband, Don Johnson [hubba hubba]) who can't seem to get
close to his wife, and has become bitter in his many unsuccessful
attempts.

Williard's presence, however brings them together, since both Lily and Ben,
enjoy his company once they warm up to him, of course. He is like the
surrogate son type. Though their relationship with Williard is often shared
separately, Williard tries what he can to bring the two together once and
for all, because he knows that they still love each other. They just don't
know how to get over the past and get their lives back together again. It
takes an awful lot of coaxing and some teary moments, of course. Melanie
Griffith pulls out all the stops for this role, as does Don Johnson. And it
works quite wonderfully because you can really see how much their son's
death really effected them, especially Lily. 

The summer vacation with the Reeds is a sort of therapy for Williard, too.
In part, his next door neighbor Billie Pike (Thora Birch) is one of the few
friends he has aside from the Reeds and his time with her is a good lesson
in the pangs of childhood like dealing with self-esteem, and learning the
truth about his legendary father.  

It is an all around good drama. The story has a lot going on, and all of the
actors, especially Wood and Griffith push things along quite nicely. You
never get into too much rambling dialogue, and a story with children often
entertains with little subplots of mischief while providing the comic relief
to this teary (but not overly sentimental) movie.  

<|_=00=_|>

Paradise was a beautiful yet underappreciated movie.  If it weren't for HBO
I probably would have never seen it.  

Melanie Griffith and Don Johnson play a married couple who's relationship is
falling apart after the death of their baby son.  Both are very good actors
and play their parts very well.  The scene in the attic when Don comes home
drunk is amazing and not the mess that it had the potential of
being.

Elijah Wood is playing a small a 10 year old I believe who's father says
that he's away at work but is really leaving his mother.  He is in private
school and doesn't have any friends.  One summer his mother sends him to his
aunt's house, most likely to try to hide the truth from him.  Elijah isn't
the best actor, but he's very good for his age.  Not to mention the cutest
thing that you've ever seen.

Thora Birch is a little country girl who doesn't know who her father is and
has a mother who really can't keep a relationship to save her life.  She
doesn't have many friends either but is very smart and inquisitive.  Thora
Birch is incredibly adorable and well on her way to her excellent role in
'American Beauty.'

The movie is somewhat slow moving at the beginning but builds up to a great
movie.  Everything is believable.  Don and Melanie are great together. 
Thora Birch and Elijah Wood also make a great duo.  This is definitely a
film worth seeing.  Don't be turned off just because you haven't heard of
it.  It's better than a lot of that trash that is highly
advertised.
<|_=00=_|>
I've lost count of the number of times I've seen this film. Even among
the fairly good films shown on TV nowadays, 'Paradise' stands out
because of its simplicity and naturalism. The plot in itself is not
new. It's about a person (a little boy in this case), who reconciles a
troubled couple. And it's about the couple themselves, who have become
estranged after the loss of their child. Jon Bon Jovi and Demi Moore
did that turn in Jovi's 'Destination Anywhere', which was good, but I'd
recommend the album not the film! What films with similar plots perhaps
lacked was the gigantic effort that everyone in this film has put in -
from the director to the actors, the music director, the set
designer...I can go on and on... What we see seems almost not a film,
the acting is so natural, it seems effortless!

Perhaps the fact that Melanie Griffith and Don Johnson were married in
real life at the time helped, they share a great chemistry on screen,
which helps when you are playing such emotionally charged roles. Elijah
Wood is absolutely angelic as Willard. I had seen him in three other
movies before I saw him in this one and I was pleasantly surprised to
watch what a pro he was even as a wee kid! His big break of late has of
course been 'The Lord of the Rings' trilogy, and I hope he continues to
act in more sensitively made films. About Thora Birch - boy, this has
got to be her most impressive performance till date! Even bettering the
ones she's given in 'Now and Then' and 'American Beauty'. She's a
veritable scene stealer as the precocious tomboy Billie Pike! And never
has friendship between kids been portrayed with such disarming
innocence - a credit that goes as much to Wood and Birch as to the
director, Mary Agnes Donoghue who has managed to get such incredible
performances from all her actors. Sheila McCarthy is perfect as the
single working mother of Billie who idolizes Joan Collins and for whom
marriage equals security, not love. Her character though minor, is very
well etched and poignant. In terms of poignancy, one might wonder at
the character of Louise Latham. She makes a cameo appearance as
Catherine Reston Lee, a painter living in seclusion in her little house
by the lake which Billie visits on one of her wild jaunts. The only
thing we hear of her later is when Billie tells Willard that she has
given her some watercolors with which she is now painting. Perhaps it
is an indication that Billie too will become a painter once she has
grown up. The character most likely has a bigger part to play in the
book on which the film is based. Even so, the screenplay of this film
is one of the best. Donoghue has succeeded in really getting under the
skin of her characters. This is also one of the few rare films in which
natural beauty forms a part of the unfolding drama and adds a wonderful
atmosphere to it. Not surprisingly, like many of its predecessors, this
film was also shot in South Carolina. 

Last but not least, this is a bit of trivia many would be interested in
- the music of this film is composed by David Newman and it is really
good. What many of you might have guessed is that he's the brother of
THE Thomas Newman who has has composed great music for such films like
'American Beauty', 'Little Women', 'How to Make American Quilt', 'The
Shawshank Redemption','Road to Perdition' etc. Genius, I guess runs in
the Newman family!

'Paradise', the film IS what the title means, see it to believe it!
<|_=00=_|>

I remember Siskel & Ebert giving this film a thumbs down.  However, I was
pleasantly surprised when I saw it, and how moved I was by the story.  Don
&
Melanie are wonderful together.  A bit slow moving in the story department
but more than makes up for it with emotion and heart.
<|_=00=_|>

"Paradise" reveals much about children of people who don't take the time to
care/supervise their kids and have no father. While the film is basically a
drama, its strength comes from dealing with the conflict of being forced
into a lifestyle one would not voluntarily choose after there father's not
around. Nevertheless, the film portrays children as resilient, capable of
not only facing such challenges, but mastering them.

This is definitely a movie parents should view and discuss with their kids.
So many topic are presented, some directly and others in a more subtle
manner, including, authority, creativity, punishment, rebellion, justice,
discipline, practice, seeking approval, friendship, becoming part of
something larger than yourself, pride, and lessons one learns outside of the
classroom. The camera work and direction is superb and worthy of larger
budget films, the acting is outstanding in word and deed. And the sound
track, including music and sound effects is one of Donoghue's best
efforts.

There is a certain "cuteness" to it, but the overall tone of the film is
super and the presentation by the young people makes you proud of their
efforts. Every 11-year-old must learn to make his or her way in the world by
fitting in. However painful the experience of growing up is, we tend to
forget it as the years pass.

This movie makes adults ponder the uncertainty of youth and many will have
had the revelation of Billie by the end of the film. If you are capable of
serious thought, "Paradise" will make you think about life
differently.Paradise is a great movie. is an up and rising movie sensation.
The rest of the cast isn't bad either. If I could buy this movie I would. It
is the story of a boy named Willard who is sent to his aunt and uncle's, who
are trying to survive a tragedy in the summer. The rest you'll have to see
for yourself. Once again Thora Birch shows us that she is an awesome
actress. She plays all her parts so well and I know she works hard for what
shes earned. She's pretty and a talented actress. Elijah Wood is great in
this movie and makes it enjoyable to watch. .I think that Paradise was
awesome.Melanie Griffith did a great job. Elijah Wood worked hard and he
looked great in the movie. You would love it. The chemistry between Elijah's
character and Thora's character was the best I've seen.


