
It's hard to believe that a movie that so hits the mark set by its
original intentions can receive some of the stupid, silly and brainless
reviews seen in these pages. This is a movie based on the original
comic book hero, so yes, we have a character in a costume. If that's a
problem for you because it's "unrealistic", well what would be
realistic for you? Lots of blood, sex with movie-star-hot men or women,
big explosions, exit wounds? Lots of that in your everyday life, I
assume? And yes, a lot of fantastic, unrealistic things happen in this
film, which may also pose a problem for you if your sense of wonder is
limited to things like who is going to win the next Survivor. Yet all
of these fantastic unrealistic things are all directly related to the
concepts of heroism and villainy.

This entire movie is about heroes and villains, right down to the cab
driver. It is not about how Billy Zane looks in purple spandex, or how
hot the female leads are, or how much you hate Treat Williams'
over-the-top performance, or how you think it "rips off" Indiana Jones
(funny, I'm pretty sure Jones was a nod, in part, to the Phantom!). If
these are your only reactions after watching this movie then you have
indeed wasted your time. Fortunately, time like yours isn't very
valuable when you would probably rather waste it spending days playing
the next version of Grand Theft Auto.

The Phantom revisits the concept of heroes. I'm not talking about
people like Vin Diesel, Pamela Anderson, 50 Cent, or this year's
American Idol. Heroes are people who have character, integrity,
morality, and courage; people who stand for, and stand up for, what is
right. With so little of this in the world around us today, I guess
it's not surprising that so many people have a problem with the
concept. These days the hero is the person who can kill the most
opponents (I can't call them "bad guys" here), screw over the most
people, get the most toys, or have sex with the hottest hotties.
Basically, we now equate heroism with personal gain and success.

The Phantom, like all true heroes, does what he does because it is the
right thing to do, not because he stands to gain from it. He is capable
of performing selfless acts that can make a difference for the better,
and on top of that, he does so anonymously! How often do you see that
in today's society? Drax is a villain because he is the villain, not
because we see him slaughtering innocents or committing some other
purely evil crime. We don't need to see Singh's band blow up a ship
full of people with body parts flying in slow motion to understand they
are also villains. It might require a bit of imagination, which also
seems to be in short supply these days, but the idea is that they are
as bad as you can imagine them to be. Once again that sense of wonder
has to come into play. The only thing I'm left wondering is how anyone
who sat down to watch this movie couldn't have known this.

In a nutshell: The Phantom is a comic book character movie wherein the
hero wears a cool purple costume and performs fantastic acts of
heroism, gets the girl of his dreams, and defeats evil by being a
paragon of virtue and valor. It is fun for all ages; the six kids that
sat in front of me at the theatre had a blast, and my mother likes it
too. The character's creator apparently approved of this film despite
its slight deviations from the printed version. And I give this movie
with heart and soul a 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie on TV last night and found it great fun.In the
best sense of the word.

Old fashioned film making, good guys and bad guys, clearly defined and
a good tale, well told. OK there were flaws in there also(mainly the
interior set pieces which look like sound stages), but they should be
overlooked, as its not a serious film and is not pretending to be
anything other than it is. Its a fantasy/adventure film, in the best
tradition, the kind they don't make anymore,no special effects, to speak
of, but good action, wonderful locations and some good acting, for this
genre. 

I expect in this day of high tech special effects, it may seem less
alluring to the more high tech minded but if your looking for some good
old fashioned fun, this is one to watch. Not my favorite film, by any
means but worth a look and deserves more than 5 out of 10, I give it 7
and hope somebody enjoys it for what it is, rather than what they feel
it should be.

A film for the family to enjoy on a rainy Sunday afternoon.
<|_=00=_|>
This 100-minute nugget of superhero charm was a lot more fun than I had
expected. I subscribe to Netflix, the mail-in rental service, so I had
forgotten which movie I had coming next. I groaned slightly when I saw
The Phantom was it.

I started watching, feeling that I was going to be in for a dud. About
a week ago, I rented The Rocketeer---a mildly entertaining movie with
some good moments, but didn't really add up to a DVD purchase or repeat
viewings. I thought I was in for more of the same, but alas. 

The Phantom had all the charm, action and humor missing from Rocketeer.

I particularly enjoyed the two leads. Billy Zane delivered the
one-liners with aplomb. He has the swagger, voice, demeanor and charm
to carry the role successfully. He transcends a rather mundane
superhero outfit. Treat Williams gave an amusing turn as the villainous
Xander Drax, ("Starts and ends with X.") Not the typically evil
superhero nemesis, he's more of a lighthearted villain in the "Gene
Hackman as Lex Luthor" mold, but his line delivery is spot on.

The movie definitely comes alive with the characterizations, a feel of
a time and place early in the 20th century, and always on the move, but
not too much in a hurry to make you enjoy these characters. I rather
liked the idea of a superhero with a pet horse and wolf.

I'm not sure I've seen a recent superhero film that strikes a perfect
balance of action, humor, sets and characters. Enough humor to keep me
smiling throughout, but mildly serious enough to engage me for the
duration.

Definitely worth a look for those who haven't seen it, and a future
addition to my DVD collection.
<|_=00=_|>
An old-fashioned adventure yarn is the best description of this
modern-day comic book-hero-come to life-story. This almost like one of
those early Tim Burton directed-Batman type adventures without all the
darkness. The language is mild (as it should be in these type of
films), the special-effects are decent and the sound is good. Best of
all is the scenery, some beautiful landscapes filmed in Thailand and
Australia.

Instead of the city being where our comic book hero performs his
heroics, this is out in the jungle, more like an Indiana Jones-type
story. It's fast-moving, it's hokey, it's unrealistic but its generally
fun to watch. Even the villain ("Xander Drax" played by Treat Williams)
isn't really all nasty.

The Phantom (Billy Zane) has the normal off-and-on corny romance
situation with feminist-journalist (does Hollywood know any other
kind?) "Diana Palmer" (Kristy Swanson) and the film gives you an
entertaining 100 minutes. It's no award-winner but at least it's
something you watch with your kids.
<|_=00=_|>

Though taken, almost literally, from the comic strip,
this wonderful film comes across more as a pulp magazine
adventure, a delightful period piece with a noble hero,
spunky heroine, great primary and secondary villains, and
some breathtaking stunts and location shots. Treat Williams
makes a marvelous villain, and James Remar, an underrated actor, plays his
henchman, an Indiana Jones gone wrong. Catherine
Zeta-Jones is the villainess, and Billy Zane seems to have
been born to play The Phantom. Nice cameos by Patrick
McGoohan and a New York cabbie. I said it once, but it's
worth repeating: fabulous stunts. Well directed, well paced,
a triumph of adventure film-making.
<|_=00=_|>

There's always a danger in bringing comic book heroes to the screen in that
most are pretty bad.  Some are satisfying, e.g., the Batman and Superman
films come to mind.  But, the Phantom was essentially a strip comic by Lee
Falk that I used to read as a kid and which had been around long before me
(I'll be 65 this year).  I remember seeing the serial at the Saturday
morning matinees and loved the comic strip.  Time passes and the Phantom
faded and then, in 1993, I went to Somalia as a consultant during the UNITAF
occupation and was billeted with the Aussies.  To my amazement, I discovered
the Phantom was not only alive and well Down Under, but there were active
comic books cults, conventions and the like there as well.  So, no wonder
the film enjoyed a revival of a defunct strip but, alas, there is much to be
desired in the effort and the final product is almost a parody of the
original.  My wife and I saw it for a bargain matinee and I enjoyed it. 
However, I suffer few illusions that it could not have been done better.  It
was a romp and maybe, as one reviewer noted, Catherine Zeta-Jones was worth
the price of admission.  Well, for my part, I liked young Billy Zane's
Phantom with the sheepish grin, Treat Williams's sardonic evil smile and
Christy Swanson's Diana, a pleasant departure from her Vampire staking role
as Buffy.  It was also good to see Patrick McGoohan, former Secret Agent Man
as the Phantom's predecessor.  
I think this film is worth the price of a rental for a rainy afternoon.

<|_=00=_|>

Having grown up with Lee Falk's "The Phantom" in the Sunday comic strip -
I
found this to be a very enjoyable action movie - - and much superior to
the
1943 Tom Tyler version.

I totally agree with a previous comment - that had this movie been
released
ten years earlier - during the Indiana Jones years - it would have fared
much better at the box office.

The action sequences were second to none - but were diluted by an attempt
to
introduce too many "story lines" into the plot.  Perhaps this was an
attempt
to appeal to too wide of an audience - in which case it suffered the fate
of
appealing to too few.  Perhaps one story line of the phantom vs the Sengh
brotherhood would have fared better.

The actors/actresses were not at fault in that the acting was excellent.
However the appearance of weak acting - was in my opinion - due to the
film
not being able to carry the momentum of the action and suspense of the
opening scenes - and as stated - having too many story lines to present a
smooth continuum of action and suspense.

All-in-all an excellent light hearted action film.

Congratulations to the producers who created a worthy big screen version
of
Lee Falk's "The Ghost Who Walks" - and Billy Zane who breathed life into
the
character.


<|_=00=_|>

Reminiscent of "The Rocketeer."  I wasn't going to see this at first, the
comic strip did nothing for me.  But the newspaper reviews were quite
positive.  Billy Zane is enjoyable in the role, and he worked his butt off
to get those muscles.  That's no fake padding in his suit!!  This is a
chance to see a pre-"Mask of Zorro" Catherine Zeta-Jones as the bad girl,
altho her switch to the good side late in the film is unconvincing.  Kristy
Swanson is also good fun.  I even liked James Remar as Quill - he mostly
does TV series now.  Beautiful filming locations and a snappy, crisp story
line.  It's a fun movie - try it & see!
<|_=00=_|>

If you go to a superhero movie and you have problems with guys wearing
tight
spandex, then you'd better just close your eyes.  Superheroes wear tight
clothes...get over it.  I think one of the best parts of this film is that
they make very little reference to it.  The Henson Creature Shop did an
excellent job re-creating the look of the classic Phantom character while
giving it just a bit more style.  As for the characters, they were light
and
enjoyable.  They don't need to be "deep" or meaningful..they need to be
comic characters and they succeeded admirably.  The plot was simple, but
engaging and the villains were perfect, no good, evil comic book baddies.
This is a great movie to give you the feel for what the real old adventure
serials were about.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very enjoyable movie, enough action to keep interest, yet clean
enough and without gory violence for the kids.

I used to enjoy following the comic serial in the local paper when I was
younger.  It was discontinued in my local paper a long time ago, but it
was
refreshing to see this theatrical adaptation made to possibly renew
interest
in this ancient hero, especially to the younger crowd.

This is Billy Zane's shining moment in theater because #1, he did not have
quite a big role in Titanic, and #2, he was such a dink in that movie
anyway.

Treat Williams gives the best effort in this movie IMHO, it is a bit
overacted, but he maintains the balance between humor and being dastardly
evil.

The basic premise of the movie, to Phantom newcomers, is that The Phantom
is
a superhero that fights for what is right in the African Jungle.  The
Phantom is called the Ghost who Walks, because he has survived for 400
years.  Little does anyone know that the Phantom lives on because each
Phantom grooms his son to take the mantle of the Phantom should the
present
Phantom faces an untimely death.  Unique to most superheroes, he uses
guns,
yet he makes every effort to not kill anyone he apprehends.  He resides in
the Skull Cave (Wonder if the makers of the Masters of the Universe owes
Lee
Falk some chunka chunka for this idea).  The Phantom has the loyalty of
many
of the natives that reside in the jungle and receives much assistance from
them.

In this adaptation, a thug from NYC by the name of Xander Drax has his
henchmen attempt to procure 3 mystical skulls which gives dark powers to
he
who possesses them.  The Phantom acts to thwart his efforts, as he knows
the
power these skulls contain.

This film contains action on land, sea, and air.  Catherine Zeta Jones
plays
one of Drax's stooges.  Her character has more depth than most of the
characters in this movie.

As much as I enjoyed the movie, there are some things that make you go
"Hmmmm..."

A horse and a wolf can both keep pace with a biplane speeding across the
jungle.  The Phantom must have fed them thier Wheaties...

The Phantom's alter ego, aka Kit Walker, takes a cab in New York City.  He
initally offers Bengala currency to the cabbie, then he offers a mitfull
of
jewels.  Now, when you give a NY cabbie a handfull of what appears to be
costume jewelry to the untrained eye, chances are you get screamed at
severely at best (taking into consideration this took place in the 1930's,
nowadays, the same action could get you brutalized in someway.)

Another is the Phantom chases Xander Drax and jumps into the water and
clings onto the plane they take to the Devil's Vortex.  Now, if any human
being grabs onto a plane soaking wet, hangs on when the airplane is so
many
thousands of feet above ground where the air is colder and thinner, you
would be freezing and getting light headed from the depleted oxygen as you
hang on outside during a trip across the Atlantic.

My favorite part of the movie, aside from the great scenery, is how Xander
Drax explains his name to Kabai Sengh in spelling bee fashion (Xander
Drax!
X A N D E R  D R A X! Xander Drax!).

Well, this movie has a great ending, which I will not give out.  Any fan
of
movies such as Raiders of the Lost Ark or Jewel of the Nile would really
like this one.

Enjoy!

