
It doesn't matter that the reviews of the book version of THE FIRST
WIVES CLUB were generally good. It doesn't take away from the fact that
it's nothing more than a thinly disguised bad story with a potentially
wicked set-up that has seen better days and which not even the good
chemistry of the three main performers can save.

On learning of the death of their one-time college friend Cynthia
Swann-Griffin (Stockard Channing in an all-too-brief cameo) due to the
abandonment from her husband, three recently divorced women, Annie
Paradis (Diane Keaton), Elise Eliott (Goldie Hawn), and Brenda Cushman
(Bette Midler) come together to get back at their former husbands by
essentially taking away their freedom. Sounds familiar? In 1989,
Roseanne Barr and Meryl Streep starred in SHE DEVIL, a bad (but
compared to this trash, a classic) movie adaptation of the novel of the
same name in which a middle-class wife, on being dumped by her husband
for a successful romance novelist, decides to destroy her home, her
family, and take away her husband's freedom by starting her own "club"
for women in the same situation as she. Even farther to 1980: 9 TO 5
told a similar story about three co-workers (Jane Fonda, Lily Tomlin,
and Dolly Parton) who band together to make mincemeat of their male
chauvinistic pig of a boss played by Dabney Coleman, and essentially
prove to the entire office that woman make work more efficient. And
even farther, to 1939, to a classic and the mother of all "desperate
housewives": THE WOMEN brilliantly told the acid tale of how society
women lose their husbands to social climbers, and while Mary Haines
(Norma Shearer) does what no feminist would do -- go back to her unseen
Stephen -- it is still a powerful tale of women, their men, and how
they survive in a Darwinistic society where bitches eat bitches for
lunch while playing bridge at 5 PM. And at the same time gave many of
its actresses (all icons, from Joan Crawford to Paulette Goddard to
Rosalind Russell to the great Lucille Watson) roles to sink their teeth
in, something that has essentially gone South in the Hollywood of
today.

But not to digress, even though I am talking of the same essential
theme, THE FIRST WIVES CLUB should have been a much better movie than
it is. All of the elements are there to make its comedy not only dark,
but biting, cruel, politically incorrect (contrary to its PC nature),
and not tack on the saccharine, cloying mess that pretends to be an
ending. At the same time, there has to be something to like about in
these three women: Annie comes across as vaguely sympathetic (a more
intellectual version of Mary Haines), but her shrillness is so
over-the-top and her transformation from klutz to business entrepreneur
so unbelievable it's not possible to feel for her. Bette Midler and
Goldie Hawn do better with what little material they've been given
while still being little more than caricatures. Hawn at least does poke
fun at Hollywood's treatment of actresses which may also be at her own
"persona" which has (as Elise Eliott says) refused to age, but other
than that, there's not much bite in her resolve to do her husband in.

Then we have the supporting characters, none which fare any better.
What is Bronson Pinchot doing as (yet another) affected character
stupidly named "Duarto Feliz?" (Don't writers do their research in
writing about characters with Spanish names?) None of the younger women
are written as little more as props, though at least Sarah Jessica
Parker has a couple of lines that hint of a different version of Carrie
Bradshaw. The husbands... well... they're essentially unrepentant
jerks, and while in THE WOMEN they remained invisible, there was the
idea that in that story they were actual people. That inexplicably, Dan
Hedaya's character suddenly does an about-face at the end seems made to
satisfy at least a part of the audience who would want to see at least
one of the women retain their partner. And what's with Annie having a
lesbian daughter if it doesn't tie into anything else in the story?
That lesbians hate men and make great allies to jilted women
everywhere? I didn't get it, I still don't get it, and it didn't work
for me.

It just proves that a bad screenplay filled with unsympathetic
characters will kill the central idea in a story, but also, that an
equally bad direction with odd takes and bad editing will further the
damage. Stockard Channing's death scene is so badly filmed it might as
well been an afterthought from another movie that somehow found its way
here. The sequence when Keaton, Midler, Hawn, and Pinchot intercept Dan
Hedaya's apartment is another study in absolute ineptitude in creating
comic slapstick, but then again, so is the sequence when Keaton
discovers her husband wants to divorce her and in pops Marcia Gay
Harden: what a lost opportunity to really make it the best moment on
the screen! Didn't anyone do their homework? Does anyone recall the
scene in THE WOMEN when Sylvia Fowler finds out her husband is set to
marry Miriam Aarons (who is right in front of her) and then rips into
her in a memorable cat-fight? That was a scene: this was a travesty.
Which most of this movie is, anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
Although many feel that the movie fell short I think they missed the
point of the movie. The movie starts showing four very different women,
and flashes back 25+ years ago when they were close collage friends.
Their lives have taken them in four different directions and their
lives are very different from each other. The movie isn't about making
fun of men, divorce, fame or fortune. Its about women friends - not
casual "how are you, nice to see you again" friends - the kind of
friends who know the you way down deep inside, and don't let you get
away with anything because they know you too well. These women interact
in a way that men will never understand, but that most women will
identify with.

In the end, this movie is great entertainment. Pure and simple. No
great message to deliver - just relax and enjoy it, thats what its
there for!
<|_=00=_|>

Like Nine to Five, First Wives Club purports to be making a statement -
albeit in comedy mode - about a serious feminist issue, but like that movie
is simply an opportunity to portray women getting back at men who have taken
advantage of them - and why not?! While the film may have little practical
application to the majority of women who are "traded in" for newer models,
but whose men are not as well heeled as the husbands in this film, it does
provide them with 100 minutes of escapist entertainment from three great
American actresses - OK Bette Midler may not be the best actress in the
world but she's certainly hugely entertaining. 

Midler plays one of three 60s college friends, who meet 25 years later and
find that they've each been deserted - her businessman ex-hubby keeps her
short of cash while buying skimpy designer dresses for his skimpy girlfriend
(Sarah Jessica Parker). The other two in the triumvirate are Diane Keaton as
a diffident door-mat, and Goldie Hawn as an alcoholic and facelifted
filmstar. But this is one movie where there is no doubt about the characters
undergoing an "arc" during its course, and hardly anyone emerges unaltered.
Along the way, there are lots of laughs, a few tears, and an unforgettable
rendition of You Don't Own Me. Elsewhere on IMDb, some ungenerous souls have
used the word hysterical to describe this movie; hysterically funny is
nearer the mark. 

 


<|_=00=_|>

When Cynthia commits suicide because she is unhappy, her three estranged
best friends meet again to discover that they are all having her same
problem. Their ex-husbands are all dating younger women. Well, anyone else
might just consider it over and that the world is sick and twisted. And that
this just is not right. But, these are three strong women. So together, they
decide to let their ex-hubbies have it by using damaging personal
information to take them for everything they've got.

One word describes this film - fabulous! At times, it's heavy-handed and
over the top, but by the end... girl power rules! Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn,
and Bette Midler are wonderfully professional and allow us to adore the
majorly flawed characters. Even in the story's attempt to moralize us and
feel it can now handle a general good will for all women vibe. Come out of
the kitchen and see The First Wives Club. Sarah Jessica Parker and Maggie
Smith have great guest parts. But not cameos, the sisters in this cast are
doing it for themselves. *** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
THE FIRST WIVES CLUB is a sparkling all-star comedy that hits all the
right notes and makes you want to cheer out loud while you're watching.
This is the story of three former college girlfriends (Diane Keaton,
Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler) who are reunited after many years due to the
suicide of a mutual friend (Stockard Channing) and all learn that they
have been dumped by their husbands for younger women. They bond and not
only plan revenge on their husbands but take their revenge to another
unexpected level that is curiously refreshing for a comedy of this
type. Keaton, Hawn, and Midler are marvelous as the women out for their
ex-husbands'blood. Stephen Collins, Victor Garber, and Dan Hedaya are
all on the mark as the scummy ex-husbands. There are funny bits
contributed along the way by Rob Reiner as Hawn's plastic surgeon,
Sarah Jessica Parker as Hedaya's mistress, Maggie Smith as a wealthy
divorcée, Bronson Pinchot as a faux designer, Eileen Heckart as
Keaton's mother, and Marcia Gay Harden as Collins'therapist/mistress. A
wonderful script is smartly mounted by director Hugh Wilson with an
energetic cast to produce a terrific film comedy which can easily be
watched several times and discover new pleasures on each viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a silly movie with plenty of entertaining comedy.  Any
male-bashing
in it is clearly intended in good fun, even if it's dead serious for the
characters.  I found absolutely nothing offensive about this film,
recognizing it for the light-hearted fun it is.  A lot of men ARE scum.
This just isn't the sort of comedy where generalizations and stereotypes
are
dangerous and offensive.  In contrast, I was rather frustrated by Waiting
to
Exhale, because I felt it was too serious in its male-bashing.  The women
in
First Wives Club seemed clever and delightfully devious, whereas the women
in Waiting to Exhale seemed to prefer to sit around discussing how evil
men
are and plotting bits of petty revenge that showed how superior they are,
not to mention setting fire to their husbands' property.  First Wives Club
takes a more constructive and intelligent approach to the problem and does
so with much hilarity.  I don't see how anyone can be offended by
something
as fun as this.  I also find a comparison to Birth of a Nation to be very
stretched, particularly since the attitudes in First Wives Club are not as
dangerous, and, as I have reiterated several times, they are not intended
to
be serious.  Overall, I would rate this film at least a
seven.
<|_=00=_|>
The First Wives Club is definitely one of the movies for me that works
so well because I love all the leads. They all are funny women who know
how to work the script because they have done it a million times over.
This movie is just great fun from beginning to end in that it is one
big drama after another that just seems exaggerated, but again that's
what makes the film. Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn and Bette Midler are
simply wonderful as usual. They throw their lines around and pop their
jokes like they are pros at this kind of thing and it shows. Now it is
why only the cast make this movie so well that it fails at other times,
being pretentious and completely unaccommodating, but if you give it
the chance The First Wives Club might surprise you on how well it
manages to be a very warming and fun watch for anyone who knows how to
handle it. The end sequence is my favorite.
<|_=00=_|>
I really like this film. Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler, Diane Keaton, and
Stockard Channing have been friends for years and all have something in
common - cheating, flaky husbands. So far, so cliché.

But the 'First Wives Club' is an inspired bit of fluff, fun,
perceptive, and full of high spirits. These forty-something ladies
replaced by younger models aren't going to take their fate lying down,
and what a hoot it is watching them set up their outfit to take fickle
men to the cleaners.

OK, the film is a little sexist, with a one-dimensional view of both
men and women; but it succeeds as entertainment. Some of the supporting
caricatures are simply hideous, but work well. You can also spot stars
of the future such as Sarah Jessica Parker in smaller roles.

If you take this film for what it is, you'll probably enjoy it. It's
one of those films that you'll either love or hate - but with this
calibre of cast it's worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, this was an entertaining movie, but it did not really stand out.
The movie started off slowly and seemed to end in a whimper. The main
characters came out on top, and the men that they were trying to
manipulate were successfully manipulated. This is not an original movie
as I had seen it all before in She-Devil. The only difference was that
it dealt with three women instead of one.

The basic premise is that four women graduated from college together
full of idealism. Later in life their idealism is destroyed as their
respective husbands walk out on them - and each of them handle it in a
different way. One destroys herself with alcohol, another constantly
complains and tries to hang onto her son, while another remains
oblivious to the fact that anything is wrong. The forth one throws
herself off of a building and it is this event that draws them all back
together. They realise that they had given their respective husbands
the best years of their life, and this has been discarded by them, so
they decide to get back at their husbands and destroy them. Basically
it becomes a similar plot to that of She-Devil.

There is nothing that really stands out in this movie that I really
wish to discuss. It looks at the frustration that women face in
divorce, and though this may be a rare case, women can be just as
vicious in divorce proceedings as can men. If we look at Liar Liar, we
see a woman milking the man for all that she can get - while here the
men have used the women and thrown them away. I agree that men can be
bastards, but so can everybody.

I guess the purpose of this movie was to try and bring us into the
women's point of view - but the theme can be gender-neutral, with the
exception that men (or men that I have known) will simply wallow in
their misery, while women will carry on. Even then that statement is
not entirely true as everybody reacts to a divorce situation
differently. I was going to make a comment that it was based on a book
written by a female, while the screenwriters and directors were male,
meaning that the female psyche is not portrayed as well as say a film
by Amy Heckerling. But this film does no such thing and is really a
movie about people being thrown away and then climbing back up to the
top.

In conclusion, I will say that this is not an outstanding or impressive
movie, and though entertaining after the first few minutes, it is
nothing that I will really talk about that much.
<|_=00=_|>
The story is about how three friends end up reuniting after a tragic
death of a friend. After this the three friends end up catching up and
seeing what life has done to them. Once the friends have their
emotional roller coasters with one another the decide to make the
husband they helped create and make success in their professions to pay
for ruining their futures.

What makes me absolutely irate are men who label this movie as
feministic hatred toward the opposite gender. I am a man and I found
this movie to be amazing in that it starts off labeling these men,
jerks. But through the emotional toil these woman went through, some of
the woman find out that their husbands were in fact decent men. This
film goes on to show you that you can't possibly know everything about
everyone. You have to live life and find out what it holds for you.
Plus after reading Olivia Goldsmith's original novel, I thought this
was an appropriate adaptation considering the audience. The original
novel would have been most certainly rated "R." I was not only
entertained, but I found myself chuckling at more than a few scenes.
Sure there is the wasted talent of Stockard Channing who is on screen
for all of 5 minutes. But then again if I had a chance to work with all
the wonderfully talented people in this movie, I would have taken that
part as well. I give it an 8 out of 10. I would have said 9 but Bette
Midler doesn't get more than one song to sing on the soundtrack!!!
