

Tim is a shy man who hasn't been with a woman in quite a while.  Woo is a
woman who is looking for her perfect man but has been played once too often.
 When a friend hooks them both up on a date things go wrong from the start
when Woo feels that Tim is only after one thing.  After that she drags him
through a series of misadventures as he gradually loses
patience.

I must admit to have taped this because of the presence of the lovely Jada
Pinkett Smith.  Ironically I watched this on the day that The Matrix
Reloaded opened in the UK – I wonder will she be boasting about her presence
in this film now that she has real hits under her belt.  The plot here is
almost an `urban' rehash of Blind Date, with Woo leading the mild mannered
Tim to despair.  However the majority of the film is poor and not very
funny.  The plot is very thin, so thin that it needs separate little
subplots for the other characters just to sustain the running time.  Sadly
neither of the two `friends' subplots are any good at all and are either
stupid or obvious.

The main `romance' between Woo and Tim is badly translated.  At no time did
you wish for these two to be a couple, even the `slow music during a
thoughtful taxi ride' moment seemed to come out of nowhere and indicate that
the film would be ended soon.  To be honest other than Woo's body I could
see no reason any man would want to be with her – certainly Tim could do a
lot better, which kinda goes against the point of the film.  Their episodic
adventures raised a few small laughs for me but not enough to justify the
time.

Pinkett-Smith is OK.  Her looks are spoilt by a lipstick colour that doesn't
suit her face and a general attitude that alienated her from an audience
that she needed to keep.  Davidson is better despite playing the same sort
of character as he did in Booty Call, he has more of a knack for comedy and
his character was easier to emphasis with than Woo.  The support cast are
all pretty poor whether it is Chappelle demanding his wife dress as a
`chicken ho' or Martin, Heath etc being `dogs'.  Cameos from LL Cool J and
Foxy Brown do nothing to liven it up.

Overall I am not against urban comedies although many of them do tend to
fall into lazy cliché that would border on the racist were they not produced
for the very groups they stereotype.  Here I had low expectations but was
still let down.,  Very few laughs, very basic plotting and such poor
characterisation that it was hard to like anyone in the film.  Best avoided
and very probably being tippexed off Pinkett-Smith's CV as I type
this.
<|_=00=_|>
"Woo" is about a woman (named, of all things, Woo!) who goes on a blind
date with a guy who hasn't been with a woman in a long time. Woo has
been through a lot with men and gets the feeling this new guy just
wants one thing, so she leads him on a series of late-night adventures
a la Scorsese's "After Hours." This movie is L-A-M-E lame. It's packed
with all sorts of awful dialogue, poor performances, racial stereotypes
(including the big fat black woman who waves her finger at everyone and
finishes every sentence with the word "girlfriend") and so on and so
forth.

Nowadays it's best remembered for starring Jada Pinkett (Smith), wife
of Will Smith. Her performance isn't that good and it's hard to believe
they based an entire movie -- including the TITLE! -- on her character.

Overall this is poor, stupid, (intellectually) offensive and insulting,
clichéd, stereotypical and worse than all that: uninteresting! It's not
entertaining, it's not funny, it's just dumb and annoying.

Not even worth watching on TV.
<|_=00=_|>
I should have known that this film wasn't going to be any good; the
director made another film by the name of 'The Guru' which has the
'honour' of being the only film that I've ever rated lower than 4/10(!)
The thing is with this film is that most of the time, you're laughing
at it, instead of with it. Some typical examples of this are
occurrences when the main character's friends, or indeed, any
characters for that matter, talk in the way that they do. You'll
instantly recognise the style; the typical 'gangster' accent which is
actually more amusing than a lot of the jokes. Given the fact this film
is made up of an entirely black cast, this method of delivering the
dialogue is constant throughout and is, in my opinion, very annoying
after a while. It's not 'Chris Tucker' annoying but it grates in its
own way.

This film's setting takes a bit of a 'road movie' approach as it never
lingers for too long in a certain place or setting, or at least that's
how these single route journey's in film SHOULD take place. In 'Woo',
the place of no return they set off from (the guy's apartment) right
the way through to the final scene is crammed with ridiculous scenes in
pretty generic settings and the frustrating thing is, is that they last
for far too long and are far too unfunny to be appearing in a film
which is listed under the comedy genre.

Incidences here include the farce that happens in an Italian
restaurant, a rather pointless and unfunny scene in the next setting: a
secret underground club which has the ability to hide its loud music
RIGHT until you get up close and open the final door and also in a
police station during which I can't even remember one joke. Other
frustrating things include the use of slapstick early on and a rather
irrelevant scene involving LL Cool J, whom the protagonist goes to
visit for advice on: wait for it…..music(!) I think LL Cool J appears
rather early/high up in the pre film credits yet lasts for about four
minutes. Yes, it's ridiculous.

Romance? Yes. Drama? Probably. Comedy? Erm: No Chance. One moment in
this film made me laugh and that was when a character went to switch
off his car alarm, only to find the car gone and the alarm lying there,
still in perfect working order. That's not enough, I'm afraid.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is set among New York's black community; all the main
characters are black, with white actors seen only in minor roles. (Is
this revenge for the way in which Hollywood used to discriminate
against black actors?) The title character Woo (this is presumably a
nickname although we never get to find out her real name) is a
beautiful young woman who is having difficulties in her love-life, and
accepts a blind date with a young man named Tim, largely because he is
a Virgo. (Her astrologer has told her that she is fated to find romance
with someone of that particular star sign).

This is an example of that classical romantic comedy plot, love
blossoming between two people of different temperaments. The shy,
diffident Tim, a law clerk, is having even more difficulties with his
love-life than is Woo; he lacks a social life to such an extent that
his friends nickname him Macaulay Culkin (because he's always home
alone). Woo, by contrast, is an outgoing, extrovert party animal, and
is keen to take Tim out for a night on the town. As this is a romantic
comedy, we know that there will be a happy ending; the interest of such
films lies in the route taken to reach such an ending. Unfortunately,
in this case the route taken is an uninteresting one. We quickly
realise just why Woo, despite her physical beauty, has not had great
success with men; the woman is spoilt, wilful and a prize bitch, the
sort of person who (in one of the film's most manic scenes) wrecks an
Italian restaurant after a trivial quarrel with a waiter. It hardly
seems credible that Tim would tolerate such an annoying and unlikeable
character, let alone conclude that she was the love of his life. He is
evidently even more frustrated than we realise. I am not sure whether
the problems with Woo's character are the fault of the scriptwriter or
of the actress, Jada Pinkett Smith. Probably a mixture of both.

The film has been criticised for allegedly perpetuating stereotypical
images of young black males. The character of Tim, in fact, seems to
have been designed to get as far away from these stereotypes as
possible- he is quiet, middle-class and lacking in self-confidence,
especially where women are concerned. The other male characters,
however, are written in a stereotypical way, presumably deliberately so
in order to accentuate the contrast with the untypical Tim. They are
loud, outgoing and streetwise, sexist in their attitudes towards women
and prejudiced towards gays. These characters did, however, provide
some of the more amusing scenes, which mostly had little to do with the
main plot, like the scene in the gay bar where one of the men mistakes
transvestites for real women (an old joke, going back at least to
"Crocodile Dundee"), or the "Chickie Ho" scene where a man makes his
girlfriend dress up as a chicken while making love. (She,
unfortunately, is allergic to the feathers and can't stop sneezing).
Unfortunately, amusement is in short supply, and the film as a whole
makes for pretty dull viewing, a sort of romantic comedy version of
those old blaxploitation action films from the seventies. 4/10
<|_=00=_|>

I had the displeasure of seeing this movie last night.  It was on one of
the
HBOs and it was one of those movies that is so bad, you can't stop
watching.
Afterwards, you just think to yourself, "why the hell did I just sit and
watch that awful, awful movie???"  Please don't waste your time with this.
There are only a few memorable, funny lines, but I don't even remember
them.
My mind is so clouded with how bad this was.  You'd think Will Smith
could
get his wife a decent part with how powerful he's become in
Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of WOO centers around a mismatched couple who meet via a
blind date . The eponymous Woo turns up at the flat of Tim who is a bit
of nerd and a complete contrast to Woo . Right away you realise that
this isn't a groundbreaking sex comedy and perhaps needed something to
set it apart from other movies in the sub genre and there's nothing
here that does 

But what really ruins the film is the ethnic stereotypes and I don't
think I've seen so many unlikely characters since watching black
exploitation movies like SHAFT and Hit-man . The audience are really
smacked over the head as to just how funky these black people are which
will probably cause offence to black people and white liberals and will
certainly irritate everyone else , so from having a movie that from the
outset would merely have been very run of the mill we have a movie that
is embarrassing . If you're going to populate a film with black people
at least give them non stereotypical quirks
<|_=00=_|>
There are three kinds of bad comedy: The painful, the so-bad-its good
and the boring. This movie falls in the third category. In 1998, a
black movie bombed so bad in theaters that it was dissed by everybody.
That movie was Woo. Steve Harvey even took a swipe at the movie in the
Steve Harvey Show: "Im available like 20 copies of Woo at Blockbuster".
Now I know that a movie that bombs at the box office doesn't always
mean its bad but Woo really does stink. The positive reviews on Amazon
are the first positive comments that I ever heard for this movie. I
hated this movie. Everybody I knew hated this movie. These positive
reviews are funnier than the actual movie itself. Woo looks like a
sitcom that was canceled for a good reason.

Story: Tim is set on a blind date with a Woo, a nutty woman who spends
most of their date trying to loosen him up. They get into some messed
up situations and end up falling for each other in the end.

What kills Woo is that nobody in this movie is likable. Tim is a
hapless geek, Woo is a neurotic freak and Tim's friends are the most
ignoble and annoying brothers ever in a movie. On top of all that Woo
is quite boring. I watched it recently and had to fight sleep for 90
minutes. Its a shame to because the actors in this movie all have
personality but it doesn't show in this film. Its not their fault, its
the dull material they had to work with. There is only one time I
laughed: when Frankie and Romaine where trying to convince Hop that he
was being fawned over by drag queens. Every other attempt at humor
falls flatter than Suge Knight after one punch. You know a movie sucks
when Dave Chapelle isn't even funny in it and he can be very funny even
when he is in a crap movie(think Screwed). In short don't waste your
time with this bomb. The script sucks and every actor and actress looks
like they were bored to death while participating in it. Plus Jada and
Tommy have zero chemistry together. Jada Pinkett would move on into
better things and Tommy Davidson's career started to fold after this
movie. If you want a better movie starring Tommy Davidson stick with
Strictly Business and Booty Call. If you want a better movie starring
Jada Pinkett stick with A Low Down Dirty Shame and Bamboozled. Woo is a
waste of time and film.
<|_=00=_|>
Not all movies are made to answer some of life's most puzzling
questions. Not all movies are supposed to be 'intelligent' or
'thought-provoking'. Not all movies are made to change the world. Some
movies are made for us to be able to sit back for one and a half hours,
forget all our troubles and just have a good scream. This is one of
those movies.. All my favorite comedy actors are here: Jada of course
(looking as lovely as I've ever seen her), Dave Chapelle, Duane Martin,
Paula Jai Parker, Aida Turturro, LL Cool J and Dartanyan Edmonds. Even
Foxy Brown makes an appearance and it's not too bad either.

Overall, it is funny. Everyone has experienced the "blind date"
syndrome and this movie takes it to another level. Lynne with the wine
and fried chicken was funny, Tommies 3 friends in the gay club was
classic, and everything that could go wrong for Tommie goes wrong. Jada
was very sexy, smart, and in control. Something a lot of men may not
enjoy watching. And who could hate a movie with the great Billy Dee
Williams making a cameo appearance? Many people hated this movie and I
can not see why unless your expectations were to high to begin with.
Just relax, watch it, laugh, reflect, and have a good evening. We all
know Jada and Tommy can do much better in other roles. All actors can
have an average film or too in their careers.

Overall rating: 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

"Woo" has a fine cast.  Jada Pinkett has great charisma.  Tommy Davidson is
a fine comic actor, though he isn't too convincing as a straight-arrow law
student.  The film is written in sitcom format.  The film consists of one
implausible scene of conflict after another (especially at the Italian
restaurant), desperate to find a punchline.  Some of the scenes work.  I
thought the scene at the transvestite bar was hilarious.  And I liked the
little cameo by Billy Dee.  That gave the film a touch of class.  It's too
bad LL Cool J only had one scene.  I liked his smooth "mack daddy"
character.  But with a film like this, even though it's a comedy, your
disbelief elevates by the minute and it just doesn't have a natural,
character-driven flow.  It forces itself upon the audience.  And the third
act is predictable and unconvincing.  This is a film that could've been more
than OK, if it had a little more wit and focus.  If this is about a 1 or 2
dollar rental at your local video store--this is not a bad film to rent. 
Otherwise, I wouldn't recommend this one.  
<|_=00=_|>

So a psychic predicts that "Woo" is going to have a good-hearted man for
the
hot night, right? Well, Jason predicts that you're not going to get a
single
laugh nor thrill from this wasted, inept, trashy, short urban comedy where
there are plenty more apartment buildings and nightclubs to shoot a
picture.
Ms. Smith is one good actress they've wasted there, but rest assured that
all of the acting (as well as the diversion) is to blame. Forget a
"one-star" review, or even a halfsie; this one is absolutely, positively
REJECTED.   
