
Just the opening scene turns off a lot of people, but that's too
because all of the film - all of it - is interesting with Rebecca
DeMornay excelling at a vengeful, psychotic killer nanny. This "nanny"
does about everything you could do to ruin a family. Yes, she's the
nanny from Hell.

I always thought Annabella Sciorra had an interesting face with a
knockout smile, at least back in late '80s, early '90s, so I enjoy
watching her. Here, she plays a good woman who is married to a good man
(Matt McCoy) - wow, there's an oddity in modern films: a happy and
faithful husband and wife! 

This is an involving film. Once you are into it, you're hooked and the
100-plus minutes go by pretty fast. DeMornay is so effective in her
role you just can't wait to see her exposed for who she is and justice
done to her.

I did think Sciorra's character would have needed more to go on to come
to the right conclusion near the end, but, usually every film has some
question marks regarding credibility. The violent, ending scene is very
suspenseful and well- done.
<|_=00=_|>

Long before the acclaim of "L.A. Confidential", director Curtis Hansen
offered up this trim, effectively manipulative and suspenseful film. 
Sciorra is a pregnant woman whose doctor (magnificently slimy de Lancie)
molests her during an office visit.  The ramifications of her subsequent
charges bring about the entrance of De Mornay into her life.  De Mornay
poses as a nanny and almost immediately wreaks havoc on Sciorra's household,
taking charge of it and manipulating the family, all while smiling
pleasantly.  The story is almost completely implausible and the credibility
of the script is stretched further and further as it goes along.  However,
it matters not because of the sure-handed, inventive direction and the
dedicated performance of De Mornay.  Taking a cue from Hitchcock, much of
the dirty business occurs in daylight among stark white walls and bright
outdoor settings.  De Mornay insinuates herself into the household and into
the minds of the viewer with an unsettling and fascinating malevolence.  No
one is safe as she meticulously works her dread.  Aside from her plots
against Sciorra, her shocking behavior includes calling a mentally
challenged man a 'retard' and saying the 'F' word to a grade school child.
This decidedly un-PC approach is at compelling odds with Sciorra and her
yuppie husband who both represent everything annoying and stereotypical
about their type and status ('talking' to their kids, 'processing'
everything psychologically, et al)  They are well off and think they're 'on
to' life, yet he's a dim bulb and she overreacts to everything possible. 
This makes a certain faction of the audience delight in seeing them
tormented.  Cutting a swath through all the bull is the stunning,
fire-breathing, no-nonsense Moore as Sciorra's friend.  This is one of the
greatest supporting turns of the '90's.  She owns every scene she's in, yet
ultimately can't beat De Mornay, thus creating a terrific onscreen rivalry
right from the start.  Moore has never looked this wonderful again, nor
essayed this brittle a role, but at least it exists as a monument to her
talents at playing a ball-breaking bitch goddess.  The excitement leading up
to her confrontation with De Mornay is palpable (thanks in part to some
great editing.)  The male cast is weak.  McCoy is often just plain bad and
Hudson is embarrassing as a 'slow' handyman.  Sciorra does well in a part
that does her no favors.  The film was a massive (surprise) hit, but she
wasn't able to ride it to anything much afterwards.  At least De Mornay was
briefly lifted to a higher position in the film industry.  Moore has fared
the best.  Zima (in her film debut!) is exceptionally cute as the daughter
and does a great job.  She later won a role on "The Nanny".  The film
inspired a raft of imitators featuring killer-sitters, killer-temps, etc...
but none found the wide audience that this enjoyed.  It's a credit to De
Mornay (and Hanson) that despite being petite and feminine, she comes across
as chilling and dangerously strong and violent.  
<|_=00=_|>
You have to hand it to the makers of THE HAND THAT ROCKS THE
CRADLE--once the story starts to unravel, you have to stay tuned to
find out how this manipulative bitch will get her comeuppance. It's as
simple as that. We know from the start that she has evil intentions,
but we never know how evil they are until she starts a series of
manipulative acts that demonstrate how cunning and remorseless she is.

REBECCA de MORNAY is so convincingly evil that you have to wonder why
her career didn't skyrocket after this. It's a performance worthy of
award consideration, but both she and the film itself have been largely
forgotten. None of the supporting players, with the exception of
JULIANNE MOORE, have become household names but they're all quite
effective.

The ending may be somewhat predictable--and most welcome when it
finally comes--but it's still stylishly done and a satisfying
conclusion to a tale of household terror when a nanny's rage goes amok
because of an incident in her past involving a woman whom she perceives
as ruining her husband's life. Sure, it's been done before, but never
quite so cunningly presented.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a chilling movie to spend a day or night with. Mrs. Moss
(Rebecca De Mornay) seeks revenge on Claire Bartel (Annabella Sciorra)
for reporting her husband Dr. Moss for sexual harassment, which lead to
the doctor's suicide and precipitating Moss' miscarriage. She poses as
nanny Peyton for the Bartel family, with the intention of raising hell. 

Rebecca De Mornay gave an outrageously evil performance. The plot is
solid and fast-paced; the only problem I have is the method Claire used
to interview Peyton for the nanny position. She only asked Peyton, "How
did you become to be a nanny?" leaving out relevant questions like
health, personal background, prior jobs, resumes, way with kids, etc.
Other than that, I enjoyed watching this movie and especially liked
Julianne Moore's character, with her making smart, acid wit remarks. I
especially liked her line "You have a Harvard education, make something
up." 

Overall, a great mystery movie with some good action mixed in. 

Grade A
<|_=00=_|>
The Hand that Rocks the Cradle is the cornerstone of the trashy chick
flick sub-genre. Many films since have used the same formula that makes
this one a success, and most have failed. The reason this film is
almost a resounding success has nothing to do with the plot or
characters, however, it's the way that director Curtis Hanson handles
it. The man who would go on to find acclaim with the astounding L.A.
Confidential directs with the utmost still, and while there are few
absolutely shocking sequences in this film; you would be forgiven for
thinking otherwise due to the way that Hanson handles every scene. The
movie leaves a lot of room for suspense, and every instant is made the
best of by the director. The plot seems rather routine these days (and
it probably did back in 1992), as we see a good all-American family
hire the 'perfect' babysitter. She's not quite so perfect, however, and
as we watch her pull down the family she's supposed to be helping from
within, this becomes abundantly clear.

One thing that makes this film hard to like for some people is the fact
that almost every motivation in the film is extremely unlikely. Would
you hire a babysitter who apparently 'just knew' you wanted one?
Wouldn't you become suspicious when everything started going wrong
after you hired her? The list goes on, it really does, and it would
seem that writer Amanda Silver just wanted to portray certain plots and
didn't care too much how the characters fit into them. It's also
obvious that the script was written by a woman throughout, with many of
the sequences being more aimed towards women. None of these bad points
really harm it though, because it's so well handled that it's hard not
to just sit back and enjoy yourself. The centrepiece when it comes to
the stagy set pieces is definitely the one with the greenhouse, which
is both psychologically pleasing and suspense filled. The acting is
just fine, with Rebecca De Mornay slotting into the deranged psycho
role nicely. The best thing about this film for me is definitely the
way that the babysitter manipulates the children and engineers
situations to her advantage. This may be trash at the end of the day,
but it's fiendishly done!
<|_=00=_|>

The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is a very solid thriller thanks to naturalism
and realism. This is one of the best thrillers ever made, and it's just too
bad it did not get the attention and praise it deserves. For one thing,
we've seen many thrillers that lacked realism while some were not thrilling
at all. 

HTRTC has it all. A solid story, solid cast, good directing and best of all,
a high level of realism. The story can actually happen to any family in
America, or anywhere in the world. The cast is great, and even though
there's basically no "big name phenomenon" (well, Julian Moore's now very
popular but not yet here) in this film, the performances are very good. In
fact, great! Rebecca De Mornay, who's young and very beautiful in this film,
has the best performance as the smart-beautiful-deadly Peyton. She's very
convincing as both wife and nanny, as well as temptress and killer!

Take note of some of the "sinful scenes" in this movie. Some scenes can be
very disturbing (not disgusting) but if you're matured enough, then you'll
get over this movie well. The "sinful scenes" do make a wake-up call in your
family life. Heck, better watch out for those evil nannies!

I highly recommend watching this movie, even though it does not have any big
superstardom at all. No special effects, no high tech gimmicks, no big super
stars, just a great story to watch. What are you waiting for? Put your Hand
on the Cradle and Rock!
<|_=00=_|>
Rebecca De Mornay and Julianne Moore, is what Hollywood is all
about-Stars who look like Stars and act like Stars. In fact Moore, went
to fame and fortune after this movie. This is incredibly gripping movie
with some fine acting by the cast including the actor playing the
retarded handyman. The casting is superb and the direction by Hansen is
near perfect But, it is Rebecca De Mornay (Peyton) with her ever
conniving and double faced sweet talk that steals the show (even the
red apple takes the brunt of her vengeance!) She thrives in her role
and a role that is custom made for her. The "Clair" character does so
well with her asthmatic attacks, that even a real patient could not
have done better. This movie has it all, beautiful and glamorous
actresses, suspense, thrill and one of the best movies that I had the
pleasure to watch and watch I did eleven times!!
<|_=00=_|>
Good thriller that tells the story of a vengeful woman who, by taking
the position of nanny, seeks revenge on the family she holds
responsible for the loss of her husband and her unborn child.

Rebecca De Mornay is very convincing as Peyton, the widow whom we
firmly believe is capable of anything, while Ernie Hudson is good as
mentally disabled social worker Solomon. Graeme Revell's music is good
too, even if it is reminiscent of Howard Shore's "Silence of the
Lambs".

The plot is predictable from the outset, and relies solely on suspense.
Director Curtis Hanson makes this work well though, and keeps us on the
edge of our seats.

Friday, May 22, 1992 - Knox District Centre
<|_=00=_|>
This domestic thriller was a box-office hit despite its mid-level
marquee pull and is entertaining and delivers plenty of suspense and
shocks along the way. A vengeful widow who has lost her husband to a
suicide and suffers a miscarriage plans to get even with the woman who
caused the trouble by filing a sexual molestation suit against her
husband. Rebecca de Mornay is the evil nanny who plots her revenge with
relish, her satisfaction obvious as her plans begin to bear fruit. The
nanny is not swayed by the innocence of the young girl or the newborn
baby she is hired to care for and intends to destroy the entire family.
Naturally, the parents are clueless as to what is going on until much
later, while de Mornay methodically turns the household into her own
domain, holding it in a grip of fear. Annabella Sciorra is the wife and
mother who confronts de Mornay in the final moments. Graeme Revell
contributes a nice music score.
<|_=00=_|>

the hand that rocks the cradle was a very gripping psychological thriller,
there is hardly any action or violence in the movie till the very end. the
suspense and the thrills are at a very psychological level and this is what
makes this movie rise above the ordinary, rebecca de mornay as the
psychologically imbalanced nanny is terrific. the script was surprisingly
good for a large part and the thrills were built up very
convincingly.

there is obviously a lot of situations that defy belief, but with a little
suspension of disbelief, they can be accepted. the cast is ordinary, and the
performances of the young couple was very amateurish, as also the
performance of ernie hudson as the mentally challenged
person.

this movie would have been a lot more thrilling and dark and satisfying if
it had not towards the end fallen in a whole deluge of cliches and
predictable lame movie ending traps. call me sick, but i think the movie
would have been far better with a darker ending.

on the whole a thrilling 8!
