

Ron Howard did a wonderful job of bringing some of the real-life problems
that firefighters face everyday in Backdraft.  I'm kind of tired of
hearing
the Monday morning quarterbacks on this site trying to talk about how bad
it
was and that it wasn't realistic, etc.  Take it from a REAL firefighter
who
has lost brothers in REAL fires and has lived through a REAL backdraft,
it's
NOT all fun and games, and it's far from glamourous.  This movie did an
excellent job capturing some of the emotions that flow through every
firehouse in America today, particularly after 9/11, we are a brotherhood
in
which the "I go---we go" mentality is a very REAL concept that most of us
live by everyday.  And the corruption part of the story, well that's
Hollywood for ya, if it doesn't have death, destruction, and
corruption...then it doesn't sell very well.  Yes there are corrupt
politicians and it wouldn't surprise me if things like that did happen,
but
it's far from commonplace and was just to enhance the film and give you a
person to "hate" in the film (JT Walsh, God rest his soul).

So I give it 4 out of 4 stars, very realistic, well directed, EXCELLENT
acting on Kurt Russell and Robert DiNiro's parts, and can't wait til I
find
it on DVD to buy it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of Ron Howard's better films. Much of the filming was done
on location in Chicago. Acting was excellent. Especially by Kurt
Russell and William Baldwin. I have heard a lot of negatives about this
movie, but I still feel it is worth a 9 at least. Steven and Brian
McCaffery's dad (also a fireman) was killed in a fire in 1971. Brian
was just a youngster, and along for the ride with his dad when he was
killed. Twenty years later, Brian has become a fireman after failing at
other pursuits. Steven is a lieutenant with the Chicago Fire
Department. Steven does not think Brian can cut the mustard as a
fireman, and Brian is out to prove himself. It makes for a great
sibling rivalry. On top of this, an arsonist is setting fires, and the
arson investigator, Donald Rimgale (Robert DeNero) does not have a clue
as to who it is. Rimgale is pressured by an egotistical alderman (J.T.
Walsh) who wants to be mayor. Brian has his problems working with
Steven, and finally gives up, and accepts a job working with Rimgale.
They find the links between all the fires, but Brian finds out more.
(who the arsonist is). The climactic scene in chemical warehouse is
great! I was told by someone that the funeral scene was overdone. I
don't think so...I have seen funerals for firemen and they look exactly
like what you see in the movie...Universal Studios in Hollywood had a
Backdraft set on their lot some years back (which I visited), and it
gives you a chance to see what these actors really faced...This is
without a doubt one of my favorite movies, and Ron Howard deserves his
share of kudos for an excellent directing job
<|_=00=_|>
Ron Howard's action/thriller about two brothers (Baldwin and Russell),
who have some differences but need to work together to find out whose
causing recent arson fires in their district. THe film is done well,
good acting for the most part, brilliant direction, and a decent
screenplay. I thought William Baldwin started out the first couple
scenes with a bit of a constant smirk on his face, but his acting
seemed to improve (or maybe grow on me), he gave a satisfying
performance. Meanwhile Russell was solid as well as his older brother
who is an old-fashioned bitter fireman who takes too many risks. The
female performances were rather average, Jennifer Jason Leigh was
decent as Jennifer a girl who helps Brian (Baldwin). Rebecca DeMornay
is not so great as Steven (Russel)'s ex-wife. Robert DeNiro was great
in his role as a fire department detective trying to solve the case.
J.T. Walsh was also decent in his role, which was similar but expanded
in F. Gary Gray's THe Negotiator. The best performance of the film came
from Scott Glenn who was great as a firefighter known as "Axe". I
haven't seen Ladder49, so this is my favorite firefighter movie as of
now. The script had some problems, as it didn't flow well, but the
actors managed to save it although i was particularly upset with one
dialogue between jennifer jason leigh and william baldwin which seemed
like a complete rip-off of the scene where Michael Corleone and Kay see
each other again after Michael is back from Sicily in Godfather part 1.
But for the most part the script was average, not bad, but saved by
brilliant direction, solid acting and great action. The music was done
very well and suited the film, props to Hans Zimmer for yet another
great score. The cinematography was also very good, especially in the
fire scenes, good job by Mikael Salomon. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's weird to think that when I went to see "Home Alone" in the
theaters, "Backdraft" was advertised right before the movie came on.
The whole thing is a little grimmer than we usually expect from Ron
Howard. It focuses on mutually hostile brothers Stephen (Kurt Russell)
and Brian McCaffrey (William Baldwin), both firefighters in Chicago
having to put aside their differences to fight an arson outbreak.

True, it doesn't really sound like much of a plot, but Howard knows how
to keep everything going. Stephen is the sort of guy with a bad
attitude whom you can't help but respect. Brian mainly shows that there
was once a time when Alec Baldwin's brothers could act. As for the
climax, that is really something that is likely to shock you royally.
But don't get me wrong. This is a good movie. Maybe not any kind of
masterpiece, but worth seeing nevertheless. Above all, it's not a
disaster movie (the less said about "The Towering Inferno" the better).
Also starring Robert DeNiro, Donald Sutherland, Jennifer Jason Leigh,
Scott Glenn, Rebecca DeMornay and J.T. Walsh.
<|_=00=_|>

Backdraft, proves once again, that Ron Howard is one of Hollywood's major
contenders.  This time around he explores fire through technical wizardry.

The movie itself is a tad bit overdone, story wise, but the effects are
absolutely astonishing.  And the acting, by mostly everyone is fabulous.  It
takes a lot to outdo Robert De Niro, but Kurt Russell manages to do so,
especially in the end sequence. And even better, William Baldwin shows he
can act.

Rating = 8 of 10
<|_=00=_|>
"Backdraft" is one of those movies that stays on your mind after you've
seen it. It is just so amazingly shot, and the story takes you in. When
I first saw this movie, maybe five years ago, I thought the fire
sequences were extremely realistic, and I still do. I thought that Ron
Howard did an excellent job directing this film, and the cast was
superb.

The story is about two feuding brothers, Stephen and Brian McCaffrey,
both of who are part of the Chicago Fire Department. The story covers
the reason behind the McCaffrey's feud, the hardships and adventures of
a firefighter's life, and the consequences of the phenomenon known as a
"backdraft". Someone is also murdering people and covering their deaths
with this phenomenon. The McCaffrey's discover that they have to work
together to solve this unsolvable mystery.

I thought that Kurt Russel was perfect as Stephen McCaffrey, because he
provided the toughness and grit necessary for the role. And William
Baldwin was perfect as Brian, the McCaffrey brother who is still
searching for his place in the world, and trying to fit into the role
that both his father once played and that his brother Stephen is now
playing. Scott Glenn is also perfectly cast as Axe.

The film perfectly shows the life of a fireman- the hardships, the
pains and the glory. It also shows that two people can put aside their
differences for the greater good. I strongly recommend Backdraft to
everyone. It is a very powerful movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Backdraft is a movie definitely worth watching from famous director Ron
Howard who continues to show his skill as a filmmaker with this one.
Kurt Russell, William Baldwin, Scott Glenn, Jennifer Jason Leigh,
Rebecca De Mornay, and Robert De Niro are great in the movie bringing
to life these believable characters we see on the screen. The rest of
the cast are admirable in their small roles including J.T. Walsh, Jason
Gedrick, and Donald Sutherland. Its better to watch this movie without
knowing too much about it because if you do than you're going to be in
for a heck of a movie experience. The film tells story of two brothers
(Russell and Baldwin) in the fire department whose bond is tested as
mysterious murders begin to occur by a dangerous arsonist on the loose.
Backdraft is an excellent story about fire fighters with realistic
action for the most part, suspense, some humor, and a little romance
that make for an enjoyable movie to watch. The film did seem to drag a
little near the end but its one flaw so the good more than outweighs
the bad. If you're looking for an entertaining movie to watch that's
worth your time and money then see Backdraft. You can't go wrong with
this film. It's definitely one of Ron Howards best movies on par with
Apollo 13 and A Beautitful Mind. It's really that good.
<|_=00=_|>

When you watch this movie, you'll never look at fire the same way again.
In
'Backdraft', fire is portrayed as a vicious animal that breathes and
devours. The story revolves around an arson investigation in the city of
Chicago where a sibling rivalry is flaring as well between Brian and
Stephen
McCaffrey. You'll be blown away by Industrial Light & Magic's special
effects and Hans Zimmer's dramatic score. Ron Howard put together an
incredible, thrill-ride movie with action, drama and romance all rolled
in.
Do not miss this movie and don't turn your back on a fire, it knows when
to
strike.
<|_=00=_|>
This work features some great, entertaining and witty banter by Kurt
Russell, the hot dog firefighter, willing to risk it all for the people
of his city. Okay, maybe that was a little overstated, but it's still
accurate.

I like this movie at least as well as the first couple of Lethal Weapon
movies. When there's action, it's awesome; when there's witty repartee,
it's witty; and when there's drama, it's dramatic. The performances
here are top notch, and the plot is intriguing, holding your attention
throughout.

Hats off to the Cowboys! Ron Howard's direction is inspired, the
effects are awesome, and the performances are legendary.

I was nothing, if not entertained.

It rates an 8.8/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie many times noe, and I can understand that many
people
slam this film for being corny and unrealistic. And they are right, it is
corny, but it is acted and directed with conviction, that it is hard for
me
not to like it. The core of the movie the story of 2 feuding firefighter
brothers played by Kurt Russell and Adam Baldwin. This part of the story
may
be cliched, but the 2 actors do a good job in their roles, especially
Russell, he plays the elder brother, trying to protect his screwup younger
brother from the dangers of firefighting. The other parts are less
successful, there is a subplot involving the wife of Russell's wife
inabilty
to deal with his risk taking in his job, Rebecca DeMornay does what she
can
with a small role. The other subplot of the story is the one that doesn't
work, it involves the murders of financial experts hire by a city alderman
to close down firestations for financial gain. This part of the story
should
have been scrapped, it just chops up screen time and is never compelling.
That leaves the action scenes, they are spectacular. The fire scenes keep
you on the edge of your seat. The special effects are great, but even
though
the script is corny the actors made me care enough for what was happening
to
them. It is directed by Ron Howard, who usually is more successful in the
human side of the story, he seems to have spent more time on the technical
side of the story than the human side. Too bad, even though I like this
film, it misses greatness due to a weak script.

Grade: B 
