

This is one great movie, but the thing that really made it special was
Wesley Snipes portrayal of a totally despicable character in Nino Brown.
He
didn't portray Nino as the stereotypical drug dealer.  Instead he
portrayed
Nino as a highly intelligent man who you wonder what would have happened
if
he had put his intelligence to more productive pursuits.  Also, Ice-T
wasn't
bad in his first major role and you can see how much he has improved by
watching Law and Order: SVU.

This is not your typical movie about the drug culture.
<|_=00=_|>
Van Peebles directs a great cast in this detached-from-reality film
about a truly evil drug-lord with a head for business and murder
(Snipes), and a tough, street-wise pair of cops (Ice-T and Judd Nelson)
hell-bent on bringing him down. The message is an important one -
slogans are not going to win the war on drugs, and the way the message
is carried in the film is more subtle than you might expect. The end of
the film makes the point very clear, and I won't discuss it because I
do not write spoilers. Like many of the more intelligent films made in
the early 1990s, New Jack City is also an indictment of the euphoria of
the Reagan years - telling the true story of what that time was like
for those living from paycheck to paycheck, or trying to live without
one, and dealing with the invisible "war on drugs" which had little to
no effect on anybody in our inner-city neighborhoods.

Snipes, Ice-T, Allen Payne and Chris Rock give stand-out performances,
and the rest of the cast provide excellent support. The film also stars
New York City, and definitely has an NYC flavor (seasoned with more
than a pinch of Hollywood). The cinematography is a little breathless -
not unusual for the genre but in this case a bit extreme. The script is
good, but perhaps too dense with rich plot details. And the editing
provides a few pacing problems toward the middle of the film which,
combined with the over-abundance of subplots, detract from the
development of the main themes. The soundtrack is excellent - including
a nice mix of hip-hop, rap, contemporary soul, and dance music - all
blended nicely with the imagery of the film. Van Peebles style is well
developed in this film, but I felt that some aspects of the plot were a
little too outrageous for the seriousness of the film's message, and I
fear that the message may have been lost on many of the film's viewers.

Overall, this is a good film. Entertaining and thoughtful, but
definitely not for everybody.
<|_=00=_|>


Through it borrows heavily from such gangster movies as "Scarface." New
Jack City is a good film that teaches (without preaching) the dangers of
drug use and those individuals who would use it for their own gain. The
film
centers around Nino Brown a drug lord who rises to power with his gang by
capitalizing on the drug of choice (at the time) crack cocaine. He soon
builds a huge empire known as the CMB. A police officer (Mario Van
Peoples)
is assigned to bring him down to do this he forms a special unit comprised
of Scotty Appleton (Ice-T) and Nick Peretti (Judd Nelson). The unit is
able
to bring down the CMB which was crumbling thanks to the power mad Brown,
through Nino isn't punished by the law, he does meet his end.

The film is a fast pace (moving from 1986 to 89' in only the first thirty
minutes). Through their are some obvious stereotypes (most notably the
Italian gangsters Nino crosses). It's a good film. That has a good rhythm
to
it, and is probably one of the best to come out of the urban gangster
genre
of early 90's.
<|_=00=_|>
As British TV is so bad at the moment I'm re-watching many of my DVDs.
I dug this out. Wesley Snipes is a very underrated actor just like his
peer Laurence Fishburne. He is excellent in this, and as another user
has commented, you see especially in the trial scene that his character
isn't quite the dumb-head he appears to be just misguided. It has a
fine cast. I dug the film out to watch Judd Nelson's performance again
in it as I've just re-watched the Breakfast Club and wanted to compare.
I can't remember who directed NJC but it's very reminiscent of a Spike
Lee film and just as hard hitting. It is just as relevant today as it
was back in 1991 in fact more relevant here in Manchester, United
Kingdom as we have seen over the past 7 years some serious divisions
within the black community.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very stylish movie. All the elements seem to have combined to
give
it a very distinctive look and feel. The soundtrack is excellent and
complements the story perfectly, almost like it is a part of the story. All
the performances are great but special mention has to go to Wesley Snipes
and the great Judd Nelson/Ice T double act. Okay the plot doesn't really
tax
your brain but if you are a fan of gangster movies or want a bit of
mindless
entertainment then you won't go wrong with this film.
<|_=00=_|>
New Jack City is a pretty standard affair which tackles the drug
problem which plagues America's streets, more so during the time that
this film is set, that being the late 1980's. It delivers it in such a
way that you just know there are some flaws abound yet pin pointing
them is a pretty hard thing to do, this is probably why the film seems
to have such a love/hate relationship with most people, hence the films
mediocre rating of about 'average'.

One thing is for sure, and this glares throughout, is the sloppy
editing this film has. It's quick, disorientating, dodgy montage
editing technique which crops up now and again is a throw back to what
poor edit jobs on television programmes were like and now and again,
the camera seems to cut away a little too quickly when someone is
giving a line of dialogue; this was very frustrating as just a little
bit of lingering camera now and again would have made the film a little
more atmospheric. At times, it felt a little like a music video given
the chorus of song that sometimes some characters burst into. This was
another little annoying flaw which cropped up two or three times. This
is a shame as the film had rolled along fairly nicely. 

Another thing was the characters themselves. Everyone just seemed to be
a little too 'whiney'. They were all too scared to stand up to
everybody else, and this included Snipes' character (The so-called
black Tony Montana) who really only agreed and went with the flow
throughout. Nobody really seemed to actually take charge of the whole
set up and authority was only really drilled home after exactly an hour
on the clock when, during a scene involving everyone involved, Nino
Brown (Snipes) pierces someone's hand with some sort of hidden ice pick
he has built into his cane. This was a shame as a shocking; violent
scene like this earlier on in the film would have worked wonders and
would have punched home any doubts we might have over Brown not being
the man to lead this operation we've been introduced to.

I didn't like the construction of some of the scenes, either. This
fault is twinned with the bad editing (already mentioned) and one in
particular is with the relative ease in which Brown's gang manages to
take over a multi storey building. This was early on in the film and
this was another chance to stamp some ruthlessness and authority into
the film, particularly once again with the character of Nino Brown. The
odd execution or anything else the writers could have come up with that
Brown maybe would have done would have been most welcome, however
instead of good crime film conventions we get sloppy editing with the
siege over in a flash as well as a bad hierarchy montage. It's also
about as bloodthirsty as an episode of 'Barney the Dinosaur'. This is
also a shame as this was a good chance for an action scene of some
sort, following on from the good chase scene at the very start of the
film.

One other thing was the rather forceful and abrupt message at the end
which wasn't too well timed given we're not NEARLY given enough time to
catch our breath from the films climax. A pause, some better music and
then the title would have done. What's the rush?

Apart from these things, the acting from the police characters;
including the internal feud between two of them and the whole
involvement of a rehabilitated character joining in was good and was
used well to create some suspense in the film, most notably the drug
factory scene, even if his behaviour WAS a little unprofessional. I can
see why this spring boarded Snipes' career as there are some things
going for it but I couldn't give it a second watch so soon after the
first and not everyone will like this film but if you go into it
knowing of these few flaws I've talked about, it could be a very
entertaining crime drama.
<|_=00=_|>
New Jack City is directed by Mario Van Peebles (who also co-stars) and
written by Thomas Lee Wright and Barry Michael Cooper. It stars Wesley
Snipes, Ice-T, Judd Nelson, Allen Payne, Chris Rock, Bill Nunn, Bill
Cobbs and Michael Michele. Music is by Vassal Benford and Michael
Colombier and cinematography by Francis Kenny. 

New York City, 1986 and crack cocaine is the drug of choice and Nino
Brown (Snipes) and his gang, the Cash Money Brothers, are building a
violent empire and cornering the market. Enter streetwise cop Scotty
Appleton (Ice-T) and loose cannon Nick Peretti (Nelson), who form an
uneasy partnership willing to push the law's boundaries to bring Nino
down 

The Black Scarface! 

On narrative terms it's basically an urban modernisation of the
Scarface story, the themes at work were nothing new back then, never
mind in cinema post 1991. That it is predominantly an African American
film caused many at the time to call it a Blaxploitation picture for
the 90s set, which is unfair, because it has more on offer than that
and doesn't shy away from the dramatics available with such a story.
True, it isn't pulling up any trees or breaking new ground in the
drug/crime order of cinema, but it's incendiary enough to be thrilling
whilst never romanticising the lifestyle of the drug gang. It paints a
stark world of a drug infested city populated by colourful gang
members, hapless addicts and edgy coppers, all sound tracked by pulse
pounding hip-hop beats. 

This was Van Peebles' first big screen directing outing and it's a
hugely impressive debut. So much so it begs the question on why his
subsequent directing career has been something of a none event? Here he
delves deep into the realm of neo-noir to provide the picture with many
visual smarts and techniques. Backgrounds are often showing oblique
angles, colour schemes such as garish greens feature in striking
compositions, a flashing red light is used adroitly on a character's
face as he struggles to hold his rage, a POV shot of a basketball and
the opening of the film with a slow zoom in on a crime about to be
committed on a bridge, these are just some of the flair tricks
showcased by Peebles. 

While some of the key characters that form Nino's gang are under
developed, Peebles does garner a great performance out of Snipes and
very good turns from Ice-T and Nelson. Snipes provides Brown with a
sinister swagger, yet a charm exudes from him that makes it believable
that people would be willing to be led by him. Ice and Nelson are a
cool double act, both Scotty and Nick pulse with machismo but are
equally flawed as characters. The other important character and
performance is Pookie played by Rock, a reformed crack addict now
helping the police. Peebles is unsubtle in his handling of the Pookie
situation, but it strikes the requisite emotional chord and puts
further dramatic worth into an already tense filled thriller. 

It's not as revolutionary as was once heralded, there is some formula
familiarity and the finale is telegraphed too easily, but this has
energy and style to burn. Making it one of the leading lights of the
drug crime sub-genre of neo-noir. It's a damn shame Peebles was never
this good again. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
20 years after his father, Melvin Van Peebles, had made a revolutionary
film called Sweet Sweetback's Badasssss Song, Mario Van Peebles would
direct something of a classic himself with New Jack City. He plays the
superior officer of a detective played by rapper Ice-T who we find out
has personal reasons for wanting the drug dealer Nino Brown, played by
Wesley Snipes, dead. Assisting him is partner Judd Nelson and a former
user played by Chris Rock before he joined the cast of "Saturday Night
Live". While Rock is better known as a comedian, he gives a fine
dramatic performance here. Of course, it's Snipes who gets the lion's
share of the acting highlights especially when his character's on
trial. While it seems initially the drug lifestyle is glamorous here,
it does show eventually that crime doesn't pay. So on that note, New
Jack City gets a high recommendation from me. P.S. While I managed to
watch this on YouTube, some parts were missing so I checked the Italian
upload on the site to watch what I missed and I managed to understand
what was going on despite the Italian dubbing.
<|_=00=_|>
New Jack City is from is probably an example of an early 90's
blaxpilotian flick which is straight up with other greats like
Boyz'n'Hood. However this focus's on more of the 1980's era when the
crack cocaine problem broke out onto the streets on New York City. The
movie is brilliant because unlike most gangster or mafia flicks which
almost portrait a hedonistic view , New Jack City is very urban and
down to earth . The film waste no time breaking into action with no OTT
clichés which we have all gotten used to seeing. The script was great
with a lot sharp twists and turns. Ice T performance was certainly note
worthy and it is easy to see how he would go onto play Law and Order ,
although I felt there were some stereotypical 'black cop' moments in
his performance which I am afraid I just did not by and his partner did
not really do much apart pass sarcasm and comes up with probably one
good idea in the movie. Having said that the star of the show was truly
Wesley Snipes because truly without him this movie would have been
nothing , although I am aware that he models him-self after Tony
Montana in certain aspects he was actually basing his performance on a
real life gangster , and it was a pleasure to see him on screen because
he was not portraying a typical hood rat! Instead we have got a person
who almost reminds one of Al Capone with his untouchable attitude but
at the same time is very intelligent! One might even be charmed or
might find him-self agreeing with the stuff he comes out with but
Snipes does a masterful job of showing us how evil this man really is
although with Robin Hood and his Merry men crew also it note checking
out Chris Rocks performance although he was added for humour he did not
shy away from the dangers of crack. The film only faulted with a few
minor things like the ending which probably everyone saw coming however
have said that , New Jack City was from time when I was growing up
where the word 'cool' was at an all time high with wacky track-suits
and hair cuts but the rap music still has not lost its shine along with
a very sharp anti-drugs message. I would recommend this one to fans of
blaxpoltation,Law and Order and also gangster flicks or just for Snipes
performance alone as you will watch one man who exploits the misery of
others as a business opportunity all in the name of the American Way!

NEW JACK CITY : 8.6 OUT OF 10

'You gotta rob to be rich in the Reagan Era!' - Nino Brown (played by
Wesley Snipes)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was a surprise.  I remember Mario van Peeble's father's
"Watermelon Man", an amusing comedy that turns anti-white about half-way
through and winds up rather a racist tract.  It's almost a convention in
movies about African-Americans who seem destructive to themselves or others
that they are turned on to dope by white guys.  Or, if they retain their
rectitude, it's the white guys that are at the head of the horde of local
pushers.  Of course white women flock to the heroes, etc.  We've seen it
hundreds of times.  But this one is different.  The majority of performers
are African-Americans, both the cops and the bad guys, neither of them
perfect in their goodness or their evil.  The characters seem to choose
their own destinies for a change.  Wesley Snipes is not given a loving
trophy blonde.  There is a token white cop, Judd Nelson, who was my
supporting player in "From the Hip," an extraordinarily good film itself,
who is permitted to say, "It's not a black thing.  It's not a white thing." 
Crack is the problem here, not race.  We're all in this together, which, in
these days, is a pretty progressive statement.  It's strictly a genre film. 
There is craftsmanship in it, if no noticeable attempt at depth, but it's
well and stylishly done too.  Van Peebles knows how to place the camera and
when to cut.  The performances are excellent for a film of this type. 
Snipes especially is a fine physical actor.  It winds up with the expected
shootout in an empty warehouse or factory.  I'd kind of put off seeing this
on TV, afraid of wincing through the prejudices I anticipated being
expressed, and I was pleasantly surprised to find them completely absent
here.  
