
It's a pity this movie failed at the box office, because in my opinion,
it's really good. It combines combines the classic dystopic sci-fi
future with a scorched Earth, a few heroes struggling against enigmatic
aliens and a corrupt military force, action style sequences that are at
times quite intense, and the typical slow-paced Asian movie
storytelling. Add to this a rich amount of influences from the FF
games, including eight mysterious spirits that must be found in time or
the heroine will succumb, as well as a lot of mythological references
that must be taken for granted rather than analysed to bits if the
viewer is to find any pleasure in this film.

The trouble is that the FF video game fans wanted a story based on the
games, or on their particular favourite in the series, and were
disappointed with both the story, the setting and the characters. The
average sci-fi movie fan, though, who ought to have loved the wicked
general (excellently voice-cast by James Woods) and his huge space
cannon, as well as the 'Aliens' styled surroundings and technology, was
put off by all the talk about spirits and world souls. Leaving for a
few of us who went to see the film with no real expectations, to enjoy
it.

Because it is a good film. The animation is, for the most part,
excellent, even if some scenes have a too blatant 'look what we can do'
boast to them. Particularly all the scenes of Aki's hair waving in the
wind. Personally, I didn't think the story was either too slow-paced,
nor too weird. It works well, especially if you like Asian movies. For
the European and American market, though, there's probably not enough
action and too much talking.

If this movie had been released this year, it would probably have been
given a better reception. The thought of fully computer animated films
isn't as new and strange anymore, and with films like Crouching Tiger,
Hidden Dragon, The Ring and Hero, the west is opening up for the Asian
way of telling stories. I hope to see more films like this, at least if
they are this well made. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why nearly all the critics bashed this film. I thought it
was great! The main reasons people have dogged it is because they don't
follow the plot and they don't think the animation looks real enough.

I did not have any problem following the plot. The second word in
"Final Fantasy" is a description of the type of movie this is. It deals
with the supernatural. The spirits, or "essences" of earth are gathered
to fight the alien gaia, as the arms and weapons used against the alien
spirits are ineffective and in fact destructive.

This movie introduced me to the concept of the gaia, which I believe is
a great metaphor for understanding how all life on earth shares a
common spirit. I don't truly believe there is a gaia, and you don't
need to either to enjoy this film. But perhaps some found that this
conflicted too much with their beliefs.

Now as far as the animation, this is the most realistic portrayal of
human characters to date generated by a computer. If you watch some
anime films, where there is a lot of action, they will show a frame for
a long time with only the mouths moving. People enjoy these animations.
Then why is this movie criticized so heavily for not looking real
enough? It's rather ironic. You should watch this movie expecting an
animation, not a full-feature film with real actors.

One explanation for this reaction is that, like figures in a wax
museum, characters that look too real but are not creep us out because
they remind us of dead people. But perhaps this is fitting for this
movie, because the soul of the earth is sick and life on the planet is
reaching its end.

In any case, I enjoyed this movie, and I liked the message. If you like
animation and enjoy a good fantasy story, you will like this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

A superb film - I'm so very glad that I ignored those who condemned this. I
bought it on the recently released 2 DVD set (which in itself is worthy of
purchase even if you didn't like the film - simply loads of extras,
commentary tracks, etc).

I loved the overall 'feel' of this movie - it invokes a sense of wonder in
me that few films have managed to achieve. It goes without saying that
visually (and aurally) the movie is a feast, but more than that it is a
movie for the soul.

Ignore those that don't like it - inevitably they simply didn't understand
it. It IS a convoluted (but ultimately simple) plot and you need to pay
attention, but if you do so you will be well rewarded.

Definitely a movie to be savored.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow, I guess there is SOME hope for video game adaptations. While not a
direct translation of the Final Fantasy video game franchise, it is
written by the series creator, whose name I cannot remember. On top of
that, his video game company branched off into a film company (Square
Pictures) just to go and make this movie. At least one can't complain
about the handling of the material.

But the big question here is: Do these guys know anything about
film-making? Maybe. Maybe not. Truth be told, they don't need to. The
beauty of this movie is that it does something new. It blends the world
of video game technology and storytelling with the art of film-making.
It cuts corners on film-making, but its uniqueness makes up for it. I
will admit that I'm a gamer, so I appreciate what was attempted here.
What we get out of this movie is an impressive display of what
animators and video game technology can do together. I know there are
other CGI movies out there, but, unless I am mistaken, they have all
followed the over-the-top cartoony path. This is where Final Fantasy
stands out. The animation is swelling with reality. From a technical
standpoint, this is a gem, and a reason at the least to give it a rent.

The storyline is subject to much scrutiny though. It's not for
everybody. This IS a film of Japanese origin, so anime fans will be
right at home with it. For the mainstream audience, however, that
remains to be decided. Although the script was revised to suit North
American localization (and done very well might I add), it still is
very Japanese in style, albeit with a bit less surrealism. It's
fast-paced and a bit abstract at times, but it is coherent.

In the end, I would say that one should rent this just to see the
technological achievement at the least. It's safe to say that all would
agree with that point. Depending on the person, you may get into the
storyline as well. Either way, you'll walk away with at least part of
you satisfied.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a dream come true for any science fiction fan. Unfortunately,
this film was not as popular as it truly deserved to be. It shows how
powerful the media can be when it comes to squelching a foreign (in this
case Japanese) film. It is by far the best computer animation ever to be
shown. If only the American computer animators could be this good! I was
really sorry they took the film out of the theaters so soon... before the
general public had a chance to really enjoy this film on the wide
screen.


<|_=00=_|>
I never played the computer game, and knew nothing about it. I was
drawn to this film because of the bold animations, but didn't expect
the film to do anything for me beyond simple entertainment. I was
pleasantly surprised. The excellent voice talent and stunning animation
allow Final Fantasy to drawn you in just as well as a live-action
version would have. It is very easy to forget that the characters you
are watching are animations, and the action is CGI.

A meteor has struck the earth, carrying with it phantoms who strip away
the life energy of whomever they contact. Dr. Aki Ross and her mentor
Dr. Ced are locked in a stand-off against the earth's military forces,
whose solution to this invasion may be worse than the invasion itself,
and the mysterious phantoms who seem to have no specific purpose and
can not be fought using conventional means. Following up on a
quasi-mystical theory of Dr. Ced, they set out to collect 8 living
spirits which must be used to harness the life force of earth itself in
defense of the planet.

This film is dark and beautiful, with each scene a masterpiece of
animated art. It feels less like a computer game than an immersive
experience in an alternative universe.

A fast-paced action film, Final Fantasy blends elements of folklore,
science and animated battle sequences into a satisfying, well balanced
and well paced film. It is probably the most thoughtful computer game
-inspired film I have seen.
<|_=00=_|>

Just to clear up a couple of points:-

a) This is a FILM, not a computer game. b) CGI people don't look or
move exactly like real people. That stated, Aki Ross is still a more
convincing character than ANYONE played by Keanu Reeves.

Final Fantasy is misnamed; there's little about the story that is
"final", nor is it especially fantastic, but what it IS is a pretty
decent mystical-science fiction (no, NOT "sci-fi" space opera) yarn.
Possibly owing to the real inability to successfully portray facial
expressions in the CGI characters, the mood throughout is sombre and
hard... so rather more like real life than your average Hollywood
space-opera swashbuckler. Frankly, because this story actually tries to
make a POINT, it probably disappoints the type of viewer who would like
a film like "Aliens". The overriding message is simply that brute force
is no use without understanding, and that's a timeless message that
many cultures would do well to think about.

And, of course, this film is just BEAUTIFUL. Probably best watched
while tripping on acid, if the truth be told.

7/10 and a future classic, as far as I'm concerned. This film will be
remembered long after things like "Starship Troopers" have been
forgotten.

<|_=00=_|>

I've waited for this one for quite a while, as have most of Square's fans.
There is a lot riding on this film, including the future direction of CG in
movies, the proud heritage of a name brand, and the chance to release a
worthwhile movie during a string of bad summer flicks.  So, does Final
Fantasy live up to it's hype?

Mostly.

First, the bad.  No, it has nothing to do with the games other than name,
but then the majority of the storylines of the games had nothing to do with
each other, either.  The plot is not necessarily original, with marauding
aliens nearly vanquishing humanity while a desperate band of outsiders hold
the key to winning (tired sci-fi, to be sure) and even the animation has
it's faults, mostly with the mouth movements and a few emotions lacking, as
the eyes and lips, and even hair had detail but no-one's cheeks or throats
moved, giving the characters a bit of a puppetry feel at times.  The
movement of humans in CG is still not quite fluid, but getting much better.
Also, the movie slows down considerably during the last twenty or thirty
minutes, which is perhaps necessary for the plot, but the change in pace
was
notable, even with the awe that the movie's end was aspiring
too.

But enough nit-picking.

The Good.  The imagery in this movie is startling, imaginative, complex,
even awesome at times.  It's amazing that while the machines, vehicles, and
mechanics in the movie are so realistic and detailed, so too are the
organic
forms such as the alien presence (sometimes seemingly more fluidly animated
than the humans!) and the incredible landscapes.  It is obvious how much
imagination went in to so many aspects of this movie.  The soundtrack,
while
not exceptional, is very complimentary and captures the dark feel with the
fast action and triumphant climaxes.  The characters were distinct,
like-able, and voiced very well (even if the digital mouths don't quite
match up most of the time).  The emotional scenes, while certainly not
perfect and a bit awkward, should be given grand credit for achieving the
level they do convey.  If you let yourself go, it's not impossible to be
entranced by all that this movie actually manages to pull off.  If nothing
else, then the effects alone are worth seeing, if the somewhat hokey
spiritual elements of the plot turn you off.  (If you consider the Force to
be hokey, don't bother.)

The Surprising.  Well, I was a bit put off by the simplistic way the
characters would look at each situation and then spell it out to the
audience, though there is more to the plot than casual sci-fi fare.
Because
of this, the dialogue was a bit goofy at times, but at least it usually fit
the characters.  But every good thing you've heard about the quality of the
CG work in this movie is true- it really is a site to behold, if nothing
else than for the effects.  As I mentioned earlier, if you consider how
much
this movie is trying to do, it's amazing that it pulled off everything
nearly as well as it does.

So, I think that most will be pleased, some will critique it heavily on the
negatives and not be as impressed, but the bottom line is that it is
definitely worth seeing.  Quality work in most areas, even story and
screenplay in my opinion (though that's certainly the most debatable
point.)
I left the theater without being disappointed, something I cannot say for
the majority of cinema fare.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie isn't a paramount to the 7th art but it certainly broke some new
ground. I expected a lot in the animation department and I was pleased with
what I saw. Being based on a video game prepped me for a rather
unconventional and perhaps lame plot.

Firstly, the animation: the use of realistic CG characters by this movie is
good, most of the movement of the animated people was very good except for a
bit of problems with speaking and expressions, you can also tell that the
animators learned how to make the characters walk as they made the movie,
the walk during the first 20 minutes (especially at the beginning) is
noticeably stiff. It gets better as the movie wears on though. The detail
level of vehicles and scenery is superb, you can even see dust falling as
the light streams in a window, this gives you an idea of how detailed it can
be.

 Second: story line, not too original, while not the best sci fi out there
by a long shot, it still has a decent if somewhat complex story line which
is hard to follow at times. It borrows heavily from typical anime plots
(with the biblical and mythological references, the mystic stuff and so on)
however what else can you expect. The ending is typical of anime so it seems
that the animators and writers themselves still regarded this as animation
and weren't trying to make it a true movie. It also borrows from well tried
elements like the military commander bent of the use of force over logic,
but as an animation it sure eats up disney's childish plots.

Summing up, this movie is worth watching for the animation, a second
watching will also probably clear up some things in the plot, it gives a
good idea as to what to expect from future animation and sets a new
standard. I came out of the theater with a sensation of money well spent and
I'll probably watch it again, not my favorite of all time but certainly
decent.
<|_=00=_|>

For a movie based on a video game, Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within was
very good.  Next to such atrocities as Tomb Raider and Street Fighter, it
positively shines, and when compared to the complete gibberish known as
the
Super Mario Bros. Movie...

Having said that, Final Fantasy: The Spirits Within could have been A Lot
Better.

If you paid attention to the Final Fantasy games, to any of the hype
surrounding the movie, or to the CGI industry in general, you already know
the computer animation for this movie is far-and-away the best ever done.
Back when Square first started producing the movie in 1998, they were
progressing at a rate of about one second of film PER DAY, because of the
immense quality of the graphics, and none of that quality was lost as
technology caught up and time passed.  The backdops are jaw-dropping and
the
CGI actors look more real than some actual actors.  Really simply, Square
declared itself the current king of CGI animation.  Pixar, Dreamworks,
move
over--the studio that cut its teeth on PlayStation games is in the
house.

Unfortunately, having been a fan of the Final Fantasy games since it first
sprouted on the original Nintendo, I'm a little jaded towards visual
grandeur.  And when you take that away, there isn't much
left.

The plot is pretty standard--Earth is a wasteland; most of Terra's
population has been wiped out by the unexpected invasion of
mostly-invisible
aliens called Phantoms.  The remaining Earthlings struggle to survive.
Aki
Ross (the main character) and Dr. Cid (there's been a character named Cid
in
EVERY Final Fantasy production since 1991) have isolated eight Earthborn
Spirits--not ghosts, but tangible lifeforms; one of them is a plant, and
don't ask me how the plant has a spirit--that, if combined, can wipe the
Phantoms off the planet entirely.  With the help of Captain Grey Edwards
and
his crack band of soldiers, the Deep Eyes (Final Fantasy also has a knack
for weird names--I mean, who came up with 'Premium Heart'?), Aki sets off
to
find, capture and use those eight Spirits.  And then finally there's
General
Hein, a megalomaniac fellow who's just trying to blow everything up using
a
a very large gun.

No problem there.  Anyone who plays Final Fantasy is used to Fetch Quests
(in which the main characters perform a service to a ruler, generally
retrieving a stolen object of enormous power, in return for help from that
ruler).  What I want to complain about are the characters
themselves.

They are FLAT.

A lot of them die, and we don't miss them except that they don't speak any
more lines.  Grey and Aki (male and female lead) don't really evolve over
the course of the story--and Cid is just there to provide technobabble.
Oh,
and by the way, there's almost no 'fantasy' elements in this movie, with
the
sole exception of the Spirits.

My two favorite games in the Final Fantasy series are numbers Eight and
Ten.
They are my favorites because they have unique, interesting, convincing
characters.  True, most Final Fantasy games take 40 hours or more to play,
giving the writers a lot of time to flesh the characters out, but
generally
within the first five minutes of being introduced to a character
(sometimes
within the first few SECONDS, as with Zell and Kimahri) you know most or
all
there is to know about them--they are already convincing, already realized
in the player's mind.  Square's GOOD at doing that sort of
thing.

If Square had bothered to invent real characters for Final Fantasy: The
Spirits Within, the movie would have SOARED.  As it is, it just barely
limps
along under the power of a few snappy lines of dialogue and a lot of
pretty
vistas.

It's worth seeing once, for the same reason any museum is worth visiting
once--you'll get to see things you've never seen before and may not see
again.  But if you're like me and prefer your movies to have interesting
characters and plotlines, be prepared for a disappointment.
