

In a time when we are almost constantly barraged with goofy spoof films,
it's amazing that no one had come out with a spoof of the James Bond films
until 1997. Those movies have been coming out and just BEGGING to be
spoofed
since the early 60s, and Mike Meyers is the one who finally steps forward
to
do what simply has to be done, and he does a wonderful job at
it.

Fans of the James Bond films will have a blast looking for all of the
allusions to the old Bond films and trying to determine which Bond film is
being spoofed at any given time, but it's important to keep in mind that
the
film pokes fun at the Bond series in good taste. Austin Powers:
International Man of Mystery is never disrespectful to the films that it
makes fun of, which is probably the single most important thing about a
spoof film that makes it good. This is why the Scary Movies, as just a
couple of examples, were such dismal, hideous failures. They try to be
funny
by viciously making fun of all kinds of movies, and end up looking stupid
because they have such a nonexistent right to do that. You can't make a
stupid, stupid movie and make fun of a lot of great movies (and some not
so
great, admittedly) and try to pretend to be respectable at the end of it
all. That's the recipe for a crapfest.

While it's true that a lot of the comedy in the first Austin Powers film
is
slapstick and obviously contrived, I think it should be a testament to the
quality of the film that it is still so funny! We see all of the
traditional
Bond clichés in this movie, such as the usual one-liners (which are made
fun
of extensively and with spectacular effect here), the fancy cars, the
goofy
cockiness, the teeth-grinding theme song, and the occasionally
inexplicable
popularity with the women (this allusion makes most sense when compared to
those Bond films that starred Roger Moore).

The plot involves a rivalry between Dr. Evil, an evil mastermind bent on
world domination, and Austin Powers, a mockish caricature of James Bond,
bent on stopping Dr. Evil's world domination schemes. Meyers portrays both
characters with hilarious skill, making Austin an awkward womanizer with
some serious dental problems, and Dr. Evil an evil schemer with a
hilarious
cutesy side. Neither character really seems like they belong in the role
that they serve (as a spy and a doctor of evil), which is where a lot of
the
comedy comes in. There is also, of course the fact that they both spend
most
of the movie 30 years in their future, completely out of touch with the
new
world that they live in.

This is not a movie to be taken seriously, and quite frankly, I can't
understand all of these reviews that I've read on the IMDb that are
constantly complaining that Austin Powers is so cheesy or so childish.
I've
heard this same complaint about lots of other movies that are also not
meant
to be taken seriously, but this one is especially confusing. I trust that
all you people complaining about how childish Austin Powers is realize
that
it is a spoof based on a whole series of movies that are also not meant to
be taken seriously, right? I mean, that would be a hell of an oversight to
miss that little detail. Austin Powers is one of the most refreshing
comedies to come along in years, and it's sad that there are so many
people
who completely missed the boat on this one just because they pretend that
the movie is something that it's not and was never meant to be. It's true
that the movie is immensely immature and that it has unfortunately little
re-watch value (one of the biggest problems with the film), but the
quality
of the comedy is unmistakable. 
<|_=00=_|>
Austin Powers: Man of Mystery I'm embarrassed to admit this
one-and-a-half hours of hedonistic humor was so enjoyable, but it was,
and the two sequels weren't bad, either, but not as good as this one.

This is stupid; this is corny; it has way too many sexual innuendos,
particularly for the millions of teens who saw this film.....but it is
undeniably funny. It's also extremely colorful and the '60s clothing is
a hoot to see once again (yeah, I remember it well.) This is the like
the TV-program "Laugh-In," but with a dumb story.

I have no complaints looking at Elizabeth Hurley ("Vanessa Kensington")
and Michael Myers ("Austin Powers"), with his crooked teeth, stupid
grin and ridiculous sayings made me laugh. This is a very fast-moving
film, a spoof of James Bond and a spoof of the crazy '60s. 

The 90 minutes go by quickly.
<|_=00=_|>

In this hilarious spoof of 60's spy flicks, a swinging secret agent is
thawed out of his cryogenic state in
order to combat his old nemesis. The laughs never stop as
Myers
entertains in two pivotal roles. Hurley is sexy as Austin's
partner and love interest. Robert Wagner finds ways to
make
fun of his "It Takes a Thief" character and is very entertaining
in the process. A quickly paced film that generates constant laughs with
each viewing. A sequel is soon to be released...Yeah, baby!
<|_=00=_|>

Aside from it's overwhelmingly raunchy humor,I consider this to be
a
great spoof of the spy genre and 60's culture.Mike Myers has created
yet
two more endearing characters in Powers and his nemisis,Dr.Evil.When
certain characters inspire imitation (and who hasn't at least
heard
imitations of these two,or perhaps even Robert Wagner's
character,
Number 2 and others),then you have done something right.This movie
is
good for it's amusing characters and good story line,but again I
think
it would have worked without so much vulgar humor.Worth a
look.
<|_=00=_|>

This is really a funny parody of the Bond movies. This is the best thing to
watch if you've seen a typical by-the-numbers Bond movie, one of the old
ones, for example, and thought it was ridiculous, or at the very least
something other than great. The plot is directly spoofing the old Bond
movies, with an evil villain trying to take over the world. The acting is
pretty good, for a spoof movie; the characters are mostly caricatures and
stereotypes, to further parody the Bond movies, but they add to the humor of
the film. Mike Myers is great in this movie, pretty much anyone who likes
him will probably enjoy him in this. I loved how it was spoofing the Bond
movies, sometimes even mentioning the ludicrousness of the characters
actions in details. If you're into 60's stereotypes, crude sexual humor and
some great Bond-spoof action, you'll most likely enjoy this. I recommend
this to anyone who enjoys spoof movies, and who's seen at least one Bond
movie and thought it was a bit ridiculous. It's filled to the brink with
crude sexual innuendo and Bond-spoofing. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw "Austin Powers", I was on the floor laughing. This movie has
every single memorable line you could possibly imagine. From "Yeah,
baby!" to "Riiiiiight", Mike Myers is a genius when it comes to comedy!
I think everyone could say that they laughed at least once to this
film.

Paroding of the James Bond flicks, Austin Powers is an international
spy who is a lady's man. Dr. Evil, is Arch Nemesis, goes into the
future of 1997 and now Austin must travel through time to find him.
When he gets to 1997, he has a beautiful assistant, Vanessa, who
happens to be the daughter of his former flame in the 60's. Vanessa
resists Austin's charm and wants to stick to business while Austin is
wasting no time to get to his "business" with her. Dr. Evil learns that
he has a son, Scott played by Seth Green. When Scott isn't as excited
to have Dr. Evil as a father, Dr. Evil tries anything he can to get
Scott to love him, including a hilarious scene in a counseling group
for father's and son's. But back into action, Austin must find Dr. Evil
before he rules the world with his kitty, Mr. Bigglesworth. But can he
do that and have Vanessa at the same time? 

You'll just have to see! My favorite characters that worked so well
together was without a doubt Seth and Mike as Dr. Evil and Scott. They
are just beyond hilarious and work so well together. I think a lot of
the other Austin Powers fans would agree. There first scene together
meeting is just really funny, "Give Daddy a hug! I'm down with the
kids, ducka ducka ducka!" "No! Get away from me you psycho!". Classic!
Like I said "Austin Powers" is just a great and funny movie that I
think you can get into if you're looking for a decent comedy. Come on!
We still say "Yeah, baby!" to this very day after all! Let's give Mike
some credit here! 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

A shagadellic movie baby, yeah. This is one of Mike Myers' classic movies.
Mike(Wayne's World) is the man playing Austin and Dr. Evil, Liz
Hurley(Bedazzled) is excellent as Vanessa, and Seth Green(Rat Race) is funny
as hell playing Scott. Some of the world's greatest celebrities also make
cameo appearences in this classic including Tom Arnold(True Lies), Cindy
Margolis(model), Will Ferrell(Saturday Night Live), Charles Napier(tough guy
roles), and Mike Judge(Beavis and Butthead) as Beavis and Butthead, who all
make this comedy even more funny. There is no way if anyone watches this
movie, they will not laugh; and the series gets funnier by movie.

For whoever is reading this and hasn't seen the movie: If you watch this
movie, you will laugh your head off!

<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure how, but somehow I managed to miss the Austin Powers craze
of the late 90's. I never went to see the flick, and then when it
became a pop culture phenomenon, I didn't really feel like seeing it.
Heck, since it was around everywhere and everyone thought they had an
Austin Powers impersonation, I felt like I'd already seen it by
extension. A few years ago, I managed to catch it on a bus trip, but I
must've fallen asleep or was too busy talking because a lot of the
movie felt unfamiliar. So this is a review from someone watching it in
full for the first time a few days ago.

Which is a bit unfair to the film, since it was such a huge part of pop
culture when it came out, there's no way to view it unbiasedly now. To
use the horribly tired phrase, this movie is so 1997. Like the title
hero (and his nemesis), it's practically frozen in time itself, and
watching it brings you back to the horrible time when everyone was
saying "shagadelic, baby", or "one million dollars". *shudder* So,
jokes that may have made me laugh were I to have seen it when it first
came out make me roll my eyes now. I've seen so many clips of this
flick that the jokes are already old. But, the thing is, I'm not sure
if they would've been that great anyway. Mike Myers' style is to push a
joke two or three (or four or five) beats past it being funny, in the
hope that the pushing of the joke itself will be funny. It's a knowing
wink to the audience that has made him a very successful man, but got
old with me around the time of Wayne's World.

In fact, pretty much all of Austin Powers' shtick got old for me very
quickly. Like many films from Saturday Night Live, clever comedic
premises (like the James Bond of the swinging-sixties parody) that
would or have worked great in five minute segments fail to connect for
a feature length film. The jokes are pretty obvious and juvenile,
bodily humour jokes that I've never really enjoyed (well, not since
making noises with my underarms stopped being the height of comedic
genius). The parody of the film is clever, but the jokes fall flat.

Well, I should say that most of the jokes fall flat. While Austin
Powers himself does little for me, I do find Myers other character in
the film, Dr. Evil, to be quite funny most of the time. Dr. Evil saved
the movie for me, I loved his out-dated plans for world conquest, I
loved his interactions with his son Scott (Seth Green), and loved the
scene where he and Scott go to group therapy. That all made me laugh,
even though I knew of most of the scenes.

But, he wasn't funny enough for me to give the flick a passing grade.
Again, who knows, if I had caught the movie back when it meant
something, I may have thought more of it. But, that speaks to the
staying power of the film, which is to say that there isn't much.
<|_=00=_|>
The humour at the centre of Austin Powers revolves around the stupidity
of its two predominant characters, that is to say its eponymous hero
and scheming chief villain. Neither character possess the requisite
cans one needs to make up a six pack and yet in this film's mixed up
universe, both of them have attained somewhat of a powerful position
and the top of their respective fields. The pair, both of whom are
depicted with ample relish by Mike Myers, embody a string of physical
western traits often synonymous with fictitious heroes and villains,
but with boundaries blurred in regards to their emotional states. In
Austin Powers, the idea of the heroic cultural icon (who makes friends
easily and exudes patriotism via his sports car decked out in the Union
Jack) is cruelly undercut by distorted facial features and rampaging
nymphomania. Likewise, his arch nemesis Dr. Evil is hideously hunched,
scarred and intent on world domination - yet melts when he realises he
possesses offspring. The pair of them are complete idiots, and they go
about their business incompetently and badly - Powers just happens to
always win because he is slightly less of an idiot.

Jay Roach's 1997 film is an amusing spoof, one which predominantly
targets that of the spy thriller; more specifically the James Bond
franchise, although Powers himself resembles Michal Caine's Harry
Palmer, another lead from a British spy series of the 1960s. It
remembers that getting the narrative right in these sorts of things is
just as important as sending up as much visual material as possible.
The tone and excessive use of the voice-over in something like "The
Naked Gun: From the Files of Police Squad!" are as important to the
comedy as anything visually amusing in that film. Likewise with 2009's
"Black Dynamite", wherein a narrative regarding the death of the lead's
brother and the ridiculously complicated plot to do a governmental drug
cover-up was just as crucial in its homage to poorly constructed
grindhouse of the 1970s as anything else.

It isn't a well-kept secret that, at the worst of times, stories in
James Bond movies have often been derivative and simplistic. Bond
movies are, in spite of their prestigious reputation and huge budgets,
often mere B-movies dressed up as A-movies. "Powers" depicts a madman
looking to erupt each and every volcano in the world for profitable
means, something not too far removed from a Bond villain's idea but
here played with the sort of happy, absurd energy often missing from a
Bond film out of that fact if they don't play that for grimaces,
they're going to look quite silly. The film begins in the 1960s and our
resident lead's superiority over all whom attempt to vanquish him is
reiterated by Dr. Evil in his conversing with several of the world's
lead assassins: a ragtag bunch of Arabs, Latin Americans and
paraplegics - none of whom have been so far able to kill Powers. Powers
himself is a man introduced to us with his own exuberant song and dance
number on a London street; a street so free of anything wrongful or
nasty, you'd think they were paved with gold had there not been so many
instances of a mid-shot being applied.

After a skirmish at a local nightspot, Evil decides to freeze himself
so that he may wreak havoc and chaos in the future; Powers additionally
so in order to be able to thwart the man – the plot is essentially
"Demolition Man". Social issues arise when both men are thawed in 1997,
as life in each of the respective decades for the film's lead is
pointed out as being very different. While far from a deeply engaging
social critique of attitudes towards sexuality and communication, there
is a timely sense of realisation during a montage whereby Powers learns
of this newfound decade whereby everything he stood for in the past
(speech, attitudes and even finger gestures) have effectively been
rendered irrelevant. These scenes might very well be the film's best.
On one hand, the film has things the wrong way around: people are far
more prone to easy, anonymous sex in the present day when compared to
forty years ago, where chaste attitudes were encouraged and people
often subscribed to it. Furthermore, the sort of dialogue synonymous
with Powers in the 60's would be far better suited to this incumbent
climate, where the on-going rape of the English language in the form of
abbreviations and acronyms making-do for words is the norm.

Unfortunately, the film pulls its punches on any social scientific
study in regards to the streets of London; where marching bands, warm
smiles, cars decked out in the national colours and dance numbers have
seemingly been replaced by swathes of immigrants that has rendered
parts of the city as un-British as possible. The film itself is riddled
with childish humour and inert remarks, but so what? Powers acts like a
maniac in regards to sexual interaction, but resists taking advantage
of women when they're drunk and is visibly nervous, even frightened,
when the silhouette of a seductive young woman nude dominates his field
of vision. My favourite scenes take place at the card table, wherein
Powers loses a hand of blackjack with a five following a mean exchange
with a baddie and double takes when he hears Alotta Fagina's name for
the first time. The film isn't smart but it's smart enough; it knows
its limits and never oversteps the mark, it's colourful and loud but
never aggressive. There is a competent madness to "International Man of
Mystery" and it's quite hard not to enjoy.
