

The journey that began on the small screen in 1967 comes to its end on
the big screen in 1991, after three TV seasons, six films, and the
creation of a cultural phenomenon unrivaled in the history of
television. The crew of the original series had met with mixed results
on the big screen, producing the excellent The Wrath of Khan, but also
the inexcusably bad The Final Frontier; the other four ranged from
passable to good. After the financial failure of Star Trek V, Paramount
brought back Star Trek II director Nicholas Meyer, and commissioned
from him the final voyage of the original cast. As Star Trek so often
does, the events depicted mirror the glasnost of the late 1980s, as the
collapse of the Soviet Union eased global tensions and heralded the
beginning of a new era. In the Trek universe, the possibility of
rapproachment between the Federation and the Klingon Empire raises the
hackles of hardliners on both sides, and Kirk and co. must prevent the
weak peace from being destroyed. The original cast is in fine form, all
of them giving their all to make the (potentially) final appearances of
their characters memorable. Despite William Shatner's reputation as a
ham actor, he delivers a great performance here; his final log entry is
one of Trek's finest moments. As the villain of the piece, we get
General Chang (Christopher Plummer), a Klingon out to insure "no peace
in our time". Plummer is superb, chewing scenery and spewing
Shakespeare with a wonderfully loathsome presence. I would rank Chang
below Khan and the Borg Queen, but far above all the other Trek
villains. There are some tacky anachronisms typical of Meyer's style,
and the usual amount of discontinuities and canon issues; but that's
inevitable, and I can accept it if it leads to a good story. Trek VI is
a good story. 9/10.

<|_=00=_|>

You don't have to be Einstein to figure out the Klingon Empire represented
the Soviet Union in the original series and films so it's fitting Kirk's
old
foes should re-appear and give the crew it's final adventure at a time
when
similar questions raised in the film faced the old Soviet Empire.

This is the best of the film series for several reasons. The timeliness of
the film's release with real-world events. (Funny how Col. West had a
contingency plan for terrorism along the Federation's border. Made me wish
we had one prior to 9-11) The issue of how people can be frightened of
drastic change (what a very Clinton-esque message) mirroring Kirk and
crew's
emotional baggage helps propel the plot forward and makes it believable.

A great tense score and tight editing (sorry, no overlong speeches and
theorizing) combined with terrific performances from Christopher Plummer
and
the best yet from the original ensemble kept me glued to my seat the whole
time. Additional characters are actually relevant, unlike Saavik, the
Marcuses, et al., and although I should have seen it coming I was
surprised
how far-reaching the conspiracy to kill Gorkon actually was, even
including
a Vulcan! Fun cameos from Michael Dorn, Christian Slater and Iman lighten
the mood. Her presence finally makes McCoy quip to Kirk "What is it with
you, anyway?" which is something that should have been said years ago.
Must
be the girdle.
The Klingon attack scene at the end is great unrelenting action and was
better than Khan's attack on the Enterprise in Part II (see my comments on
that film to get an idea).

"The Undiscovered Country" is essentially a mystery in space with
political
overtones and it's great fun watching Spock and Valeris unravel the
mystery
piece by piece. Valeris (Kim Cattrall)is given more to do than Saavik ever
was.  The only nit-picking comments I have is just why couldn't the
assassins just throw the boots out the window? If an explosion in space
wasn't monitored until the shockwave hit the Excelsior, how would the
Enterprise find the boots? Would the NCC-1701 just shift gears into
reverse?

A lot has been made about the clock errors. To me, it's not terribly
important since it's just background and your attention should not be
there
anyway. It was a bad idea to include such a prop though.

The only wasted role belongs to Scotty but he had his moment of greatness
in
"The Voyage Home" during the transparent aluminum scenes. He also delivers
the corniest line of the film during dinner with the Klingons: "Maybe we
are
looking at something of that future here!" Well, duh!

Everything that made Star Trek great is in this film: action, great
one-liners from McCoy and Chekhov, the peace message, the Klingons,
Spock's
logic skills, literary quotes and celebrity cameos makes "The Undiscovered
Country" a worthy send-off to perhaps the most celebrated ensemble cast in
entertainment history. Even if you're not a Trek-fan, you would enjoy this
picture and is well worth the rental/purchase.
<|_=00=_|>
The final Star Trek film to feature the original cast is an enormous
improvement after the awful fifth film, and might just be the best in
the series. Much of it is probably thanks to the return of director
Nicholas Meyer, who is responsible also for the classic Star Trek II:
The Wrath Of Khan (while film III through V were directed by cast
members). Meyer's very professional directing shows in every scene on
ST-VI, and the old cast - William Shatner (Kirk), Leonard Nimoy
(Spock), DeForest Kelly (McCoy), James Doohan (Scotty) and the rest -
give here what is without doubt their finest performance. Mind -
Shatner and Nimoy are by now 60 years old, while Kelly and Doohan are
well into their 70s. But there isn't a trace of the pathetic silliness
that characterized the fifth movie; Meyer knows what to do with these
aging actors that wouldn't make them look like idiots. What we see in
Star Trek VI is a much more mature approach, and the crew members have
to face, more than an outside enemy, their own aging, and their fear of
change. That fear is a key element here, and it's an issue that is well
handled and is always relevant.

While the old cast members are doing splendidly here, the movie
introduces some fantastic new characters. First and foremost, the
experienced Shakespearean actor Christopher Plummer makes a fascinating
villain in the conservative and suspicious Klingon General Chang,
endlessly throwing out Shakespeare quotes on every turn. ('You haven't
truly enjoyed Shakespeare until you've read it in the original
Klingon') Also, Kim Cattrall, who achieved much success lately in the
acclaimed 'Sex And The City'), plays the Vulcan Lt. Valeris and gives a
great performance. Finally, David Warner gives a brief but memorable
performance as the visionary Chancellor Gorkon. The real stars here,
though, are Shatner and Kelly, whose attempt to save the Chancellor's
life, as well as their trial for assassination before a Klingon court
(CAMEO: Michael Dorn, who plays Worf in the Next Generation, plays Kirk
and McCoy's attorney here - Colonel Worf. An ancestor, probably) make
for some of the best scenes ever seen on Star Trek. The directing and
camera work are splendid, and the script has just the right amount of
self humor, which was dreadfully lacking from the fifth movie (e.g.:
Spock: 'If I were human I believe my response would be "go to hell."
...If I were human.' All in all, a remarkable sign off for the original
crew of the Enterprise and one of the best sci-fi movies of all time.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a taut political thriller that rivals Dune for impact, if not for
complexity. The issues explored here are both timely and universal. Somehow,
this mixes the Star Trek mythos with commentary on the Cold War, race
relations and military down-sizing. It is indescribable how cool this movie
is.
<|_=00=_|>

I think that STVI is the greatest Trek film ever.  The reason I think it is
better then ST:FC is because First Contact was on such a large scale; save
all of humanity from oblivion.  Well, that's nice and all, but STVI was a
part of Trek history.  Peace with the Klingons, who would have guessed it.
Peace with the Russians, who would have guessed it.  Which brings me to my
next point, it parallaled current world situations (which is why I bring up
the USSR).  It's a brilliant movie that will last the test of
time.
<|_=00=_|>

Star Trek Movies are far more miss than hit, with only 3 excellent, 1 good
and the rest rubbish (although NEMESIS may be slightly above rubbish
level).
Anyway, this movie was meant to contrast 60s style leadership and ethics
with those of the 80s.  Borrowing from the modern leadership styles and
political correctness portrayed in the Next Generation series, "The
Undiscovered Country" explores (in typical Hollywood sci-fi fashion) how
our
present day society has progressed toward multiculturalism.  It explores
how
committed, loyal patriots can be burdened with their old prejudices after
the world/universe has changed around them.  The personal struggles of
Kirk
and the Chancellor's daughter, and even the violently opposed logical
conclusions of two Vulcans in the same circumstances (but with differing
priorities) are all clearly missed by most viewers.  Of course, as with
James Bond movies, Jim Kirk and his crew must save the day (and also
nicely
throw in some minor Star Trek future history trivia with the Khitomer
massacre etc).  An excellent story line, excellent themes, carefully
produced and directed, this is a science fiction classic on par with
Alien,
Blade Runner and, yes, much better than any of the Star Wars movies.

<|_=00=_|>

In the theatre years ago when I saw this film I thought gosh this is really
different for a Star Trek film. It had so much suspense and conspiracy, and
so much mystery that this was one of the best films in the collection. The
acting is great, the action and the effect are superb, and the music is very
good! I recommend this to all Star Trek and sci-fi film
fans!
<|_=00=_|>

Now this was a movie. The best case scenario for the orginial crew to leave
the movie scene, making peace with the Klingons and Sulu finally becoming a
Captain. Everything was great in this movie. It had humor, adventure,
mystery and just about anything else you could possibly want. The best
behind #2.
<|_=00=_|>
"Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country" is the final film with the
entire original cast. This is also the best of the series because we
see the Enterprise crew, past their prime, save the universe one more
time.

As the film opens, we are witness to an ecological disaster. As the
starship Excelsior, now under the command of Capt. Sulu (George
Takei)is on a survey, they witness the aftermath of the explosion of
the Klingon moon called Praxis. Even though Sulu is ready to offer
assistance, The Klingons want no help from them.

Later, the Enterprise crew is called into a top secret meeting and is
apprised of the situation,which is dire (Think Chernoble). Because of
the devastation (Which will destroy their ozone within 50 years), the
Klingons offer to extend an olive branch with the Federation. In other
words, The Klingons and The Federation want a peace treaty.

Considering that the Klingon Empire and the Federation have been at
each others throats for ages, this doesn't sit well with the parties
involved, especially Captain Kirk (William Shatner), who wants nothing
to do with the process considering that it was the Klingons who had
killed his son (See "Star Trek III: The Search For Spock"). In fact,
when Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy), who has been working with the Klingons
for the treaty, tells them that they are dying, Kirk viciously says
"Let them die!" Ouch. However, he has to follow orders.

Soon the crew of the Enterprise meets with Chancellor Gorkon (David
Warner), his officer General Chang (Christopher Plummer) and his
daughter Azetbur (Rosanna DeSoto). During a dinner in which pretty much
everyone is intoxicated with Romulan Ale, there is some negativity
among both sides, clearly indicating that the road to peace is going to
be a bumpy one.

And it is.

Later, the Klingon ship is fired upon, seemingly by The Enterprise, and
the Chancellor is assassinated, despite the attempts of Kirk and McCoy
(DeForest Kelley) to save him. Both Kirk and McCoy are arrested and put
on trial. Found guilty, both are sentenced to the ice planet known as
Rura Penthe. How bad is it? Judging from Uhura's (Nichelle Nichols) and
Scotty's(James Doohan)reaction, it would have been better for Kirk and
McCoy to have been executed on the spot.

Spock knows that a conspiracy is present. And so, while he is trying to
find out the facts, Kirk and McCoy try to stay alive on the penal
planet.

With time running out before the peace conference starts, the crew of
the Enterprise must not also save Kirk and McCoy, but to race to the
site of the conference to stop another assassination from taking place,
which will destroy any chance of peace. This proves even more difficult
when they discover that there is a Klingon Bird of Prey that can fire
when cloaked. And that those involved in the conspiracy work on both
sides of the coin.

What is interesting about the film is that it mirrors the general
feelings between the U.S. and the former Soviet Union. Once considered
enemies, each side works together for peace, even if both sides are
skeptical. We also see the flaws of the crew of the Enterprise:
everyone is prejudiced. Chekov (Walter Koenig), during dinner, mentions
"unalienable human rights," and is chastised by Azetbur for his
"racist" comments. Even Mr. Spock is prejudiced: he's so blinded by the
accomplishments of his Vulcan protégé Valeris (Kim Catrall), that he
doesn't see how much of a threat she is (He admits this to Kirk later
on) until it is almost too late.

It is nice to see the crew back in action one last time, and you can't
help but get a bit misty eyed (Gene Roddenberry, the creator of Star
Trek died before it's release, and this film is dedicated to him). A
nice way to end the series, but it's hard to say goodbye.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has it all, it has drama, action, special effects you name it.
It also has a nice resolving conclusion to the Kirk era of Star Trek, the
possibility of peace among Klingons and Humans.

On the technical side the directing is beautifully and masterfully done by
Nicholas Meyer. Well edited movie. The director took careful consideration
to keep you in suspense, for example, hiding the villain in the background
of the light, things like that.  The special effects, though not remarkable,
as in The Wrath of Khan's in-your-face effects, the effects in this movie
generally are good, the battle sequences in this movie are just as good as
The Wrath of Khan one.

Again a nice motif is the scripts placement of Shakespeare quotes into the
villain, just like Khan in Star Trek II.  Speaking of the villain, Chang,
here you see excellent acting thanks to the actor Christopher Plummer.

There are a lot of in-line jokes, which adds to that atmosphere of closeness
between the characters.  Sulu's transfer to a new ship, the Excelsior is
sought here.  The set construction and pieces are great.  The new enterprise
bridge looks more military like.  The presidential office (may note it is a
redone Ten Forward from St, the next generation), the peace talk location,
etc.

The end of the movie has a sad feeling towards it, a teary farewell to the
crew of the Enterprise, and a clear passing of the torch to the new crew.

A great movie that you must see,

Rating: 9/10

