
With two really good lead actors and people I like to watch (Tommy Lee
Jones and Ashley Judd) plus an on-the-run-"Fugitive"-type story, I
expected a lot. I wasn't disappointed, either, although it's a bit
hokey.

This is a very intense, involving story, a la the above-mentioned "The
Fugitive," except this time it's a woman chasing down her ex-husband
who set her up for murder. Once again, we see Jones in his familiar
role of chasing down the supposed-criminal.

As interesting as the story is, there are some credibility gaps such as
why Jones didn't have a picture of the ex-husband in the first place or
the always-annoying hesitation-before-shooting at the end which saves
the "good guy"...and a few other things like that which are
unrealistic. Will Hollywood ever stop that nonsense? 

However, clichés aside, overall it's very entertaining and always fun
to watch no matter how many times I see it. Both Judd and Jones are
excellent in these kind of roles.
<|_=00=_|>
When you are convicted for something like killing your husband you can
not be convicted a second time for the same crime. Sounds logical,
since you can't kill someone twice. But when your dead husband suddenly
shows up and you want your revenge, you can get that since you've
already had the punishment. These are the circumstances Libby Parsons
(Ashley Judd) finds herself in after she is released from prison, six
years after her conviction. How and why the husband (Bruce Greenwood)
framed her is not really important, he just did. Now Libby tries to
track him down with Matty, their son, as her main reason. The problem
is Travis Lehman (Tommy Lee Jones), her parole officer who is strict in
his rules. He does not believe her, but of course we understand this
will slowly change.

'Double Jeopardy' belongs to the group of thrillers where you expect
certain things to happen and you will see you were right. That is not a
bad thing, but it means the road to those predictable moments must have
something to offer. This film has some things, one of them is Ashley
Judd. Maybe it was because I always like Ashley Judd, but for me she
was the reason this film entertained me. She plays the clever Libby in
way that keeps her serious but sometimes quite funny as well.
Especially the sarcastic little remarks made me smile more than once.
Tommy Lee Jones is reliable as always, especially in 'The Fugitive'
kind of roles like this one is. Scenes between him and Judd are
entertaining on themselves. Greenwood turns out to be a nice villain.

Simply said: if you do not expect too much of 'Double Jeopardy' there
is a good chance you will have a really good time.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read all the bad reviews-I can say that it's really not THAT
bad-granted-this picture has no realism whatsoever but-I could rattle
off the names of many movies even more unbelievable that are still
considered good films.

Not that this is a really GOOD film or anything-but it does what it
does well-which is to get your attention and hold it-no great analysis,
no deep conversations afterward about "what it all meant". Just a bit
of time away from day to day life.

The movie is also trying to appeal to a particular crowd, the type who
like these type of "mind thrillers'(Guilty as sin is another one,
Malice, Final analysis etc etc) There's a whole host of movies like
this one.

Now this particular movie stars Ashley Judd who is so talented she
almost had me thinking she really was locked up-definitely a quality
actress-and if your a female and have just had a really BAD breakup you
may wanna see it for that "woman will triumph" quality.

Not that I'm saying this movie is great but I always tend to look for
the bad AND the good-I thought one of the worst thrillers(a lot worse
then this) was malice with Kidman and Alec Baldwin-that one was not
only improbable but also extremely boring-but I'm getting off the
subject at hand...

I liked this. saw it in the theater and rooted for Ashley all the way.

Seen a lot worse in my time.

And lastly if you wanna check out ridiculous movies(and it's a SEQUEL
to boot) rent "revenge of the stepford wives".
<|_=00=_|>

If you listen to the critics who knows where we would be.  I

ignored the comments that this was another Fugitive only a
female
version, but found the movie fast paced and well acted by Tommy Lee Jones
and Ashley Judd, as well as the whole cast.  I liked the story line and it
was exciting and the time just flew by.
Go see it you will enjoy it!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
... but enough about Ashley Judd.

Standard Tommy Lee Jones fare here, a thriller in which he is the cop/law
enforcement officer of some sort (in this case a parole officer) with a dark
past who saves the day.

Some good action, not bad stunt scene on a ferry, and the ever lovely Ashley
Judd, particularly fantastic in her working out scenes that were there for
nothing but gratuitous titillation, and who can complain about
that?
<|_=00=_|>
Ashley Judd is very beautiful and apt for this role. The way she
characterizes a wife,a mother and an victim is too good. Hats off to
Ashley Judd. After Elizabeth Taylor ,I like the acting skill of this
fine women. Ppl - watch this movie.Its a nice dose of suspense,romance
and dose of other emotions as well and Ashley Judd did her best. The
story is subtle. Good screen play. Good direction. All in all good
investment of time. Watch it for Ashley.They say that this movie has
some issue in the legal interpretation of some legal point but I think
that it has no relevance to the movie in so far as the way the screen
play is done.I believe that the movie doesn't weigh on that
interpretation alone as the climax just sinks into us without that
gravity. I personally think though the story is good,Ashley carried it
excellently well and an extremely delicate one at that. Infinite thanks
to this beauty of an actor and a person. Thanks all.
<|_=00=_|>

Nick Parsons, played by Bruce Greenwood, wants to protect his ill gotten
wealth; so he fakes his own demise. His wife, Libby, played by Ashley Judd,
is convicted of murder. While in prison, Libby finds out that her husband is
still alive and has taken her son to New Orleans and is living under an
assumed name.

Upon release, Mrs. Parsons breaks parole in order to get her son back. One
other thing, she realizes she can  kill her husband for real and not suffer
the consequences. Tommy Lee Jones plays the parole officer trying to bring
her back to custody. He ends up helping Libby.

Miss Judd is very beautiful and is probably on screen 97% of the movie. No
objection here. Jones was outstanding. This action thriller is worth seeing
more than once. 
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in the theater and really enjoyed it. Ashley Judd does
a great job as a woman convicted of killing her husband and realizing
later that he's still alive. The title, of course, comes from the fact
that since she's already been convicted of killing him once, if she
finds him and kills him for real, she can't be tried again.

Tommy Lee Jones is excellent as her parole officer, and Bruce Greenwood
is the dead husband who's not so dead.

Although this movie was very entertaining and well acted, it was
extremely derivative. Also, several elements of the plot in the first
scene were somehow telegraphed - or else it all seemed familiar.

Still, this is a good rental and a fun watch.
<|_=00=_|>

Great plot - excellent acting - beautiful sights and scenes.
Exciting story with lots of action.  Thoroughly enjoyable - even if one
knows the plot in advance.  Many touching moments. Strongly recommend this
movie which has something for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie by Australian director is now a weekly DVD but definitely
worth seeing. Ashley Judd plays Elizabeth "Libby" Parsons who loses her
husband, Nick, during a Yachting trip with him. During the police
investigation it is discovered that Nick was in a financial crisis at
the time of his death but left a two million dollar life insurance
policy collect. Suddenly a whole set of evidence is produced to
reinforce the allegation that she had a motive to murder her husband
and she is convicted of murder. There is a plot problem that in reality
she would have to wait seven years if he went missing from a boat
before the claim was paid and it would be unlikely she would be
convicted of murder without corroborating witness testimony from an
independent party. Nonetheless somehow she is convicted of her husbands
murder and it provides the intrigue. 

In prison Libby studies law in order to prove her innocence and when
she phones her friend Matty who has custody of her 4 year son she
accidentally stumbles on the fact that her husband may still be alive.
The insurance claim has been paid to her son and her friend can use the
money in his care apparently. Libby also learns that once convicted of
murder of someone that you cannot be sent to trial again over the same
murder and its called "Double Jeopardy" in legal terms. Libby is
determined to hunt down her Husband for what he has done when she is
released. 

Libby is released into supervised sentence under parole officer Travis
Lehman ( Tommy Lee Jones) but escapes custody and sets out to track
down her husband to prove her innocence. 

There is lots of action and Ashley Judd is such a great actress that
you become emotional attached to her battle through the film. 

Tommy Lee Jones also performs well in his role as he breaks ranks to
assist Ashley in quest to be reunited with her son in freedom.
