
An outstanding work – the consummate Indie.

A great, little satire that manages to make you identify with a
homeless, hopeless druggie.

Laura Dern is perfect as the indigent & insatiable "Ruth". She brings
an engaging hidden-beauty to the part, and with the help of Alexander
Payne's brilliant direction, she nimbly walks the wire between comical
hero and tragic pariah.

This gem clearly demonstrates that, even though the production budget
may be lower than a republican's principles - when great talent and
artistic enthusiasm couple, a work of genius is likely to be born.

Cheers, AB – a staff member of Prospect Point Productions, Inc.
<|_=00=_|>

It's truly gratifying to see that Alexander Payne has really made a name for
himself in the art of film direction, having made nothing less than two
fantastic social satires.  "Election" garnered him considerable praise as
will "About Schmidt," but in my mind, "Citizen Ruth" is the best.  It's not
as funny as Election in the sense that there aren't the moments that make
your jaw drop in terms of the delightfully vicious nature of the satire, but
the script is just as thoughtful as it is funny, and Payne did a remarkable
job satirizing what, by most accounts, is an "un-satirizable" subject. 
Laura Dern really deserved some kind of award (you know the academy would
never have the stones to recognize a film such as this...) as her
performance is both touching and hysterical.  Some said the film started off
great and then didn't really go anywhere, but I disagree.  The  final shot
says it all with respect to the direction of the story, and it really amazes
me that this film could be made without really taking a side on anything. 
Ultimately, I was blindsided by the film's astute message, which was not
even about abortion itself, but the selfish nature of the two sides arguing
it.  Payne will undoubtably move on to make compelling films in the future
that take advantage of higher budgets, etc., but "Citizen Ruth" deserves a
place amongst the best first features in any genre.   

<|_=00=_|>

Laura Dern gives what should have been an oscar-winning performance in this
satire of the abortion controversy. However this movie is not for the main
stream. She plays a homeless drug user and a user period. Not a nice
person.
She has four kids in three different places. The first scene depicts her
trying to hit up her ex for money displaying only a token concern for her
kids. But by the end of the movie you kinda like her (well, almost... you
still would never let her come to your house). Anyway when she is picked up
for the 16th time that year by the cops for sniffing household stuff
(anything she can find: glue, paint, brake fluid...), the authorities find
out that she is pregnant. The DA charges her with criminal endangerment of
the fetus, but hints that if she has an abortion the charge will go away.
While in the city jail she meets up with the Baby Savers and a tug-of-war
ensues between them and the Right-To-Choose people. The portrayal of both
sides is so devastatingly accurate that I doubt either side would know
they're being lampooned. This movie rates with Cold Turkey and Drop Dead
Gorgeous for its cynical, but hilarious portrait of American
Life.
<|_=00=_|>

Ruth (Laura Dern) is a young homeless glue-addicted street junkie, who
is arrested again completely doped. The justice realizes that she is
pregnant for the fifth time, and the judge offers her the option of an
abortion. Ruth is released under the custody of a family and sooner she
is involved in a pro-choice vs. pro-life (called 'The Babysavers')
dispute. This is the first time I have seen this movie and it is a very
acid social criticism of the American society hypocrisy regarding the
abortion theme. The story does not spare any side, showing hypocrites
persons on both sides. The pro-life are showed as religious fanatics
and narrow-minded persons, the deranged family who lodges Ruth has a
the father with sexual attraction in Laura and the mother a fanatic who
does not see the behavior of her own daughter. The pro-choice group is
showed as homosexual, but also faking a situation. In common, all of
them are radicals hypocrites. And Ruth indeed is not caring whether she
is going to have her fifth baby or not, abusing of drugs and alcohol
and only interested in the money offered by both sides. And the rights
of the citizen Ruth is the less important issue for both sides. Laura
Dern has one of her best interpretations and in the very beginning of
the movie, I did not recognize her. I believe she was not indicated for
an Oscar due to the polemic theme of abortion. The performance of the
cast and the direction are also excellent. My vote is seven, but maybe
this movie deserves a better ranking after watching it for the second
time.

Title (Brazil): 'Ruth em Questão' (Ruth in Question')

<|_=00=_|>

Occasionally you will see a movie that may take you some time to decide
whether you enjoyed it. By the second time you see it, you're better
able to fully appreciate the movie without becoming wrapped up in
confusing or disturbing plot elements. "Citizen Ruth" is one of the
best examples of this phenomenon I have ever seen. If you've seen it
before, give it another chance. If you have not, give yourself some
time to reflect after watching it. You will not be disappointed.

"Citizen Ruth" is the story of a woman, Ruth Stoops (Laura Dern could
not have been a better choice for this role), who has spent her
difficult life making a lot of bad choices. She is a quick-tempered,
irresponsible but naive junkie, who you can't help but root for. When
she finds herself pregnant yet again, with no intention of giving up
the model airplane glue and spray paint she regularly huffs, the judge
makes it clear that with all of her previous run-ins with the legal
system, Ruth had better "take care of the problem" or face serious
charges.

When the local pro-life group, the Babysavers (Kurtwood Smith was
another excellent choice to play the leader of this group) catches wind
of the judge's comments, they set out to save Ruth and her unborn
child. This, of course, turns out in a hilariously disastrous way, when
pro-choice gets involved to even up the playing field. Ruth's naivete
makes her easy for both sides to manipulate, and neither pro-life nor
pro-choice winds up looking very good.

The ending to this movie is not, in my opinion, as predictable as it
seems, and it really gives you something to think about - what is
"life" and how much (both in material and ethereal terms) is it worth,
particularly when it's placed in the hands of somebody who is in such
poor control of her or his own? Is it ethical to take advantage of
somebody's lack of knowledge for your own gain, or is it even okay to
try to change somebody's mind? Is Ruth Stoops a bad person, or just a
misunderstood and desperate woman? And what about her final choice?

This movie is worth a second look, and at a $3 rental fee, what do you
have to lose?

<|_=00=_|>
There is something about Citizen Ruth that keeps me coming back to it.
I must have seen it 30 times and haven't tired of it yet. It is genuine
and the people are so amazingly real. It's almost as if some of my
neighbours seem just like the characters in the film. That says a lot
in my opinion. The Mid-west is a land that holds a special place in the
American psyche. I can literally count on my hands the number of films
that truly capture its spirit. Citizen Ruth is one of those films. From
scenes in the hardware store to large rear wheel drive Fords,
everything fits perfectly. This film captures a place called Omaha
which for better or worse Hollywood largely ignores. It also treats a
controversial topic like abortion in a thoughtful manner. Excellent
film. Highly recommended.

10 out of 10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
In the wake of the huge success "Sideways" is garnering lately,
everyone should look back at this incredible film from Alexander Payne,
which shows off everything he and writing partner Jim Taylor are best
at- the dark skewering of small-town America, rich with satire and
heart. I had seen all of Payne's films except this one, and although I
really loved all of them, this may be his most fully realized. This is
probably because his targets are hit exactly dead-on, and the absurdity
of the situations are in fact, achingly real. Laura Dern gives a
wonderful and unflinching portrayal of Ruth, and the rest of the cast,
especially Swoosie Kurtz, Mary Kay Place, and in a small role, Burt
Reynolds, are exceptional as the targets of Payne's satire. Payne fills
his films with little details of small-town life, and here they add so
much to the point of the story. Take for example the grace that
Kurtwood Smith's character gives, which is barely heard because of the
roaring plane overhead. It is these details that are the crux of a
story like this. So as "Sideways" continues to claim many awards (and
rightfully so), I urge you to check out this earlier film from Payne,
and experience a brilliant little film, and one of the gutsiest movies
you may ever see.
<|_=00=_|>

Unlike every other young American filmmaker, buzzing like moths around the
asthmatic short guy from Little Italy, Alexander Payne has a pleasingly
atypical role model: Luis Bunuel. His brilliant ELECTION sets down a number
of Bunuel tropes in the chain restaurants and badly lit high schools of
Omaha, Nebraska, and his first feature, CITIZEN RUTH, is even closer to the
wall-eyed master's bone. 

The heroine, played by Laura Dern, is named Ruth Stoops, and that's an
understatement. Ruth begins the picture as a dumpster-diving skank whose
preoccupations are birthing bastards and huffing glue. Through a BEING
THERE-ish chain of circumstances, Ruth finds herself in the hands of a
family of Baby Savers (Payne's version of Operation Rescue), and then a
squadron of mostly lesbian, bourgeois, goddess-worshiping,
Frida-Kahlo-T-shirt-wearing pro-choice activists. Though the movie cannily
found a home with the Sundance crowd as a "satire" of both sides of the
"abortion debate," the topicality is strictly surface. CITIZEN RUTH is a
straight-up-Bunuelian demonstration of the hundred facets of human mendacity
and venality, cloaking their shivering skins in the warm fabric of Morals.
It's a cheerfully made thesis movie about the universality of
hypocrisy.

Payne has a curious, sure, light, on-the-money touch. Every detail you
notice--from a Baby Saver mom's Tupperware samovar of cherry Kool-Ade, to
Kurtwood Smith's Sav-On uniform (with a button that sadly screams "Ask
Me!")--is ever so slightly exaggerated and perfectly true. Payne's rendering
of his home town Omaha, its wan, angry Christians, and the kinda-gay,
kinda-liberal-artsy interlopers, makes the Coen Brothers look both
pizzazzier and much nastier. The single-mindedness of the movie is oddly
pleasing when it's mated with such a certain, gingerly approach. (Payne's
tastes run gratifyingly wide: his jokes, and his music, seem derived from
the works of James L. Brooks.) There's a two-dimensionality about CITIZEN
RUTH that makes it less deeply satisfying than ELECTION, but this is one
smart filmmaker. As the millennium rolls in, the likes of Wes Anderson and
Kevin Smith will be gagging on his dust. 
<|_=00=_|>

The title character of "Citizen Ruth" (Dern), an indigent
and pregnant fume-head with a potty mouth and bad attitude,
finds herself the unwitting cause of a clash of pro-choice
and pro-abortion activists in this bitingly satirical look
at the abortion issue in America. Dern makes an excellent
centerpiece for this award winning comedy which mocks both
sides of the life/choice controversy with a vanguard of
comic stereotypes. "CR" should be an enjoyable and fun
watch
for those mature enough for strong language and not so brittle as to
personalize the issues involved.

<|_=00=_|>

I thought "Citizen Ruth" was fine, biting satire and a movie that had to
be made at some point in America's history.  Like all good movies, it is
not really about the subject at hand - in this case, the abortion issue
- but about something deeper and more far reaching. "Citizen Ruth" is
about people who get so devoted to a cause they think important to
humanity that they forget to consider actual human beings.

Of course, the unavoidable problem with a movie such as this is that
almost all of the characters are unsympathetic.  Regardless of what
opinion one has on the abortion issue, both factions behave badly and
they do it supposedly on behalf of the most irresponsible, irredeemable,
unlikable (but still watchable) glue sniffer around, Ruth.  The effect
can be a little wearing, especially at the end.

The movie alleviates this problem by including one wonderful character,
Harlan, the cynical Gulf War vet.  He unceremoniously plunks his
prosthetic leg on the kitchen table.  He eats shirtless standing over a
sink.  He sees Ruth as a person, albeit a diminished one, and is willing
to give her what she really wants (money) in order to, as he says, level
the playing field, even though he knows she will squander it in a matter
of days and tells her so.  While he is on the prochoice side, he sees
the humor in the situation, as evidenced by his wonderful grin and does
not seem to lose track of his own humanity.  His dialogue is priceless.
Where everybody else speaks in rhetoric he cuts to the chase. My
favorite retort of his occurs when the sanctimonious Dale, a pro-lifer,
spouts out some Biblical condemnation at him and he responds by giving
the exact location in the Bible of the quote.  Naturally the actor
playing the part, M. C. Gainey, deserves much of the credit for creating
this appealing character.

The movie has many other merits but Harlan is my own personal favorite

