

It all started because of a lie.Rosewood is a quiet little town in
Florida.One day a white woman lies that an Afro-American man raped her.That
starts a war between the blacks and whites.Bunch of racists kill innocent
black people.
Ving Rhames plays Mann, a new comer in town who is hunted because he's
black.
Jon Voight plays John Wright, the only good white man in town who tries to
safe the African-American community of the town.John Singleton's Rosewood
from 1997 is amazing movie about the stupidity of people.This actually
happened in 1923 which sounds unbelievable.How idiotic can people be?Some
people still haven't learned.Here in Finland racism only seems to grow which
makes me mad.Stop being idiots!
There are some very touching moments in this movie.There are moments that
may bring tears in your eyes.Acting work is brilliant in the movie.Jon
Voight and Ving Rhames do very powerful role works.During Rosewood I had
many feelings inside me.One of them was anger.I'm white and not always so
proud of it.

<|_=00=_|>
I am white and grew up in the county where this really happened. I
remember as a child driving by the place where this community was.
There was a small sign that was put up by the Florida DOT that said
"Rosewood" but there was nothing there. I asked my mother why and she
was unsure what to tell me. Then when this movie came out I realized
what had happened. I began asking the elderly people I knew, but they
did not want to talk about this except for my ex-husband's step dad. He
remembered being a boy and the mob trying to get his father to join
them. He refused to participate and was threatened for the future of
his family. I am also ashamed to say that race relations have still not
gotten a lot better here. In 1969 when I was in kindergarten, I
remember being sent home due to race riots in the high school. I now
live in California, and I know some people found the movie distressing.
Unfortunately the south has a subculture of violence even to this day.
The actors did an excellent job on this film. I am so glad that the
filmmakers had the courage to take this story on. People tend to think
of Florida as an integrated state because of Miami and Orlando, but
central and northern Florida is still very racist. For example the
African-Americans still call the whites by names such as "Mr. John" or
"Miss Ellen". Then little town I grew up in ,Williston, still has the
African-Americans living on one side of the railroad tracks and the
whites on the other "better" side. There are some whites that are very
decent people and some blacks that are of very poor character. I keep
waiting and praying for the day when a person will "be judged not by
the color of their skin but by the content of their character" in the
words of the great Martin Luther King JR. PLEASE SEE THIS MOVIE!! If
Americas can take the violence that is in video games and stupid horror
movies they should be able to take the true portrayal of man's
inhumanity to man in this most wonderful film!!
<|_=00=_|>
Powerful drama is a gut-wrenching recreation of the destruction of a
once prominent black town. In 1920s Florida, the town of Rosewood is
built on an uneasy alliance between black and white citizens. When an
influential white woman makes a false accusation that she was assaulted
by a black assailant, angry white citizens form a brutal lynch mob
determined to either find the culprit, or coerce other black citizens
into revealing his whereabouts. The film's harsh subject matter is so
vividly realized by director Singleton, and acted with such great
conviction by its cast that the film is deeply unsettling and at times
unbearable to watch. If you can get past that, which is no easy task,
you can appreciate what a sharp, well-crafted historical drama that
this really is. ***
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw Rosewood at age 15, I was upset and shocked. To think that
people could do to one another is shocking. Their are scenes in this movie
that are hard to watch but that's part of the deepness. the film deserved
some Oscar nod but sadly it went unnoticed. A important film everyone
should
see.
<|_=00=_|>
Director John Singleton who's first film (Boyz 'N the Hood)left
audiences in awe has once again cast an emotional spell upon his
audiences. Some people have a question of how historically accurate the
film itself is. With some browsing around from site to site I found
that the place and time period hold true, along with with the weaponry
(I was skeptical about the dual pistol action)used in the film to be
weapons of the time period. Also while browsing I came across a quote
from the director himself "I am concerned about absolute historical
accuracy to an extent, but I am really more worried about being
truthful to the essence of what happened at Rosewood... I am making a
movie that people will respond to." With that in mind the general plot
seemed to take course as accurately as possible, (considering the
account of this event has several different death counts depending on
the source)all characters used the same names as the real life people,
well besides Ving Rhames' character Mann who is entirely fictional
built-in to make the movie more interesting. Other than that shady
character John Singleton kept to the truth and provoked a variety of
emotions from his audience once again, fulfilling his goal.In the end
it was a very powerful film on a tragic event.
<|_=00=_|>
John Singleton's Rosewood documents the tragedy of the Rosewood
Massacre in piercingly raw detail, showing us how a prosperous Florida
town fell to shambles from one woman's lie, spawning over a hundred
murders and massive calamity on the survivor's shoulders for years to
come. This event occurred in 1923, but is usually left unprinted in
history textbooks and shoved to the side as if it had never occurred.
Just a few weeks ago, a gunman opened fire on patrons in a movie
theater, killing twelve and wounding fifty eight. That story was the
most talked about thing for the entire week and still sneaks its way
into the top story.

Rosewood isn't written with anger, hostility, or a burdening grudge. It
is written with its mind firmly centered on history and examination
rather than shameful exploitation. The town of Rosewood was populated
mainly by blacks who are also operating most of it, with the notable
exception of the white grocery store owner, Mr. Wright (Jon Voight).
About 1/3 of the town is white, and most have a great disdain for the
blacks, which as we know by now wasn't atypical.

The film centers mainly on Mann (Ving Rhames), a World War I veteran
who travels aimlessly on a horse in search of land that he is willing
to pay good money for. When he shows up at a town auction and becomes
one of the highest bidders, he does nothing but generate sneers and
racist remarks from the patrons. Mann is, for the most part, impassive
towards the criticism. One of his friends that he grows closer to over
time is Don Cheadle's Sylvester, who happens to be one of the strongest
character actors of this or any other decade.

The hostility towards blacks skyrockets when the mentally unstable
woman, Fanny Taylor (Catherine Kellner) is triggered into a screaming
frenzy repeatedly saying a black man beat her, but did not rape her.
The reality is, Fanny is a victim to the abuse of her lover, who
consistently throws her around and leaves her bruised and battered.
Regardless, there is simply no justification for this kind of
impulsiveness.

And thus, the bell begins to ring louder and for longer and the towers
slowly begin to fall; the town becomes even more racially divided than
before, violence breaks out in the streets, houses are burned,
neighbors become enemies, and secrets holding important, valuable
information are kept until it's too late. A white sheriff (Michael
Rooker) has an understanding of the events that occurred with Fanny
Taylor, begins to piece together that the story of the evil black man
beating the white woman is a myth, but is unfortunately silent about
the event until violence overwhelms the once humble town. Even Mann
grows aware of the impending violence and unsafe nature of this town,
and fears because of his "new" status that he will fall victim to
murder.

The film touches on some other topics not usually explored in a period
piece, such as how the idea of racism is spread through explicit
teachings from father to son. One father teaches his son how to make a
noose, and continuously reminds him that the blacks are the enemies in
which the whites must take action against. This even involves the
father taking the son along on trips where they go hunting, and I don't
mean for animals.

Writer Gregory Poirier illustrates this story on a large, limitless
canvas for John Singleton to direct with a looming challenge. There is
an unusually broad amount of talent here and a plethora of characters
and situations to document, and Poirier is careful never to spend too
much time on one specific situation, but takes the time to balance the
events out evenly. It wasn't long before this that Singleton
constructed Boyz N The Hood, a film detailing the tribulations of
growing up on the wrong side of the street. That appears on my list of
most captivating dramas for its poignant dialog and incredible
performances. Rosewood is in an entirely different league; a film that
features many different scenes, all highly detailed and illustrated
intricately, that is strung together by an easily understandable story.

Speaking in terms of aesthetics, the costume and set design here is
lavish and meticulous. From the sets of the stores, to the simplicity
of the roads, the people, the clothing, and the shops, everything is
portrayed in such a refreshingly different light that it becomes
indescribably powerful. The care and attention here is not only
commendable, but award worthy.

Yet sadly, Rosewood, like the actual event, is a long forgotten wave in
the ocean of cinema and the world. The film's hefty budget, for which I
assumed was mainly used on costumes, set structures, and actors, proved
unable to be recouped and went on to become a commercial failure, only
seen by those brave enough to endure its tragedy with an open mind and
a hungering for knowledge. This is not a movie that many will be able
to digest easy. It's a long and brutal picture. But one that is
masterfully done in almost every respect and one that should brew a
healthy, informative conversation soon afterwards.

Starring: Jon Voight, Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle, Bruce McGill, Loren
Dean, Esther Rolle, Elise Neal, and Michael Rooker. Directed by: John
Singleton.
<|_=00=_|>

A small town in Florida in 1922, with a black and white population, breaks
out in violence and bloodshed. The reason for the trouble came about when
a
white woman claimed to be raped by a black man. This infuriated the white
populace into going on a murderous rampage leading to the deaths of many
innocent people and the near total destruction of the black section of
town.
A very exciting program based on a true story.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a very violent and sad movie--guaranteed to have an
impact on all its viewers. Because of the serious and violent nature of
the film, I would not suggest this for viewing by younger kids, though
for teens it probably will be okay--provided you watch it with them and
explain the context for the film.

The exact events that happened in this small town many decades ago are
very vague. We know, historically, that MANY people (mostly
Black-Americans) were killed by marauding gangs of whites. However,
exactly WHAT sparked it and the exact events are muddled by time and
the fact that there were very few living witnesses to the carnage. As a
result, the ONLY reasonable way the film could be made was to create a
fictionalized drama around the framework of the known events. And, as
such, it is an immensely touching and effective film.
<|_=00=_|>

This is probably the least known Singleton-movie -- I'd hardly heard of it
before I saw it on tv last night. It's certainly not Singleton's best, and
sometimes it feels like a tv movie, but it is still a good film. Rosewood is
no easy film to sit through; watching a lynch mob murder innocent people
(and knowing it is based on a true story) is almost physically painful --
but that also makes the film important.

So, as I said, the film is good, as is the cast. John Voight is good, and
both Don Cheadle and Michael Rooker delivers nice performances -- as always.
I'd like to see Cheadle and Rooker in more leads, though, they're too good
to always play supporting roles. (6/10)
<|_=00=_|>
Part of what makes "Rosewood" so hard to watch - but I recommend it
very much - is not only that it really happened, but also the thought
that the events portrayed may have partly been the root of what
happened in Florida in 2000. With this vicious racism so deeply
ingrained in our society, it's no surprise that Florida's government
deprived a number of African-Americans of their right to vote. For more
information about these sorts of things, read James Loewen's book "Lies
Across America: What Our Historic Sites Get Wrong".

But anyway, this is a great (and I would say under-appreciated) movie.
Jon Voight, Ving Rhames, Don Cheadle, Michael Rooker and Muse Watson
all do a great job in their roles. Definitely one of John Singleton's
really good ones.
