
All right...I think that many commentators hate this film for what
seems like good reasons, to them at least. And I agree that PS II is
definitely not for everyone, maybe even not for fans of the original
film - or even for fans of Stephen King.But there are things I enjoy
about this film.

I enjoy watching Clancy Brown chew up the scenery in the 2nd half of
the movie after his character 'comes back'. Brown has a real gift for
physical comedy and black humor, and he does a great job portraying a
shambling revenant...he just radiates savage, hateful glee, and very
effectively comes across as a...THING masquerading as a man, an agent
of chaos and misery just barely keeping it together long enough to
extract his revenge. PS II is worth watching just for his performance.

I enjoy the way the plot spirals out of control after the opening
events, as the two boys try to "fix" things early on by using the Pet
Semetary to cover up their, um, "mistakes", only to find themselves
completely over their heads.

There are individual moments of mean-spirited gallows humor that are a
lot of fun, and even a few good one liners - "No brain, No Pain; Think
About It, Won't You?" was a screamingly funny line in the context it
was delivered in. And the bit where Anthony Edwards staggers back into
the Gilbert house and you hear 3 more shots was perfectly timed, and
worth a chuckle.

In fact, I feel that the entire movie seems to somehow embody the
spirit and malice of whatever it is that brings the dead back from the
Sematary. The director and screenwriter manage to make every scene,
almost every shot, feel as if the "wrongness" of the Sematary has
infected the very air and light of the town from the very opening
shots.

And in this, they may have been too successful. The glumness, the sense
of oppression and airlessness and dread, the rot and gore and malice
from beyond the grave are simply too much for the average film goer; if
the director had backed off a little, and allowed a little more light
into the mood and not rubbed our noses in the gore and blood and
maggots quite so much, I think the results would have been more
accessible for a lot more people. There a moments where I wish that we
didn't have to see quite so many spurting wounds and decaying flesh and
that not quite so many characters had gotten killed in the last 20
minutes.

So...I think the movie was what the creators intended to make, but they
may have misjudged the reaction most people would have to their
creation. I can still watch this on occasion and admire the energy and
effort put into bringing this "feeling" to, er, life.
<|_=00=_|>
Many will lump this into the sequels of Stephen King based movies,
which is correct. This one was not written by King, but despite this
lack of originality it is a fairly good sequel to an excellent movie.

The mood is dark, just not as dark as the first film. We have Geoff and
his veterinarian dad relocating to rural Maine (and the location of the
Pet Sematary) after Geoff's mom is accidentally killed in front of him
while shooting a movie. In their new small town, Geoff's dad opens up
his own practice while Geoff has trouble adjusting to his surroundings.
He befriends another outcast, Drew, who has an abusive stepfather named
Gus to deal with at home. One night, out of meanness, Gus shoots and
kills Drew's loyal dog Zowie. Drew then gets Geoff to help him bury
Zowie in the notorious cemetery in hopes of bringing his dog back to
life. It comes back, just different, mean and nasty, like it's mad
about being resurrected and now hates everything and everyone (like all
things brought back to life in the cemetery act). This starts off a
chain of events that leads to the destruction of the lives of everyone
involved (and some who aren't involved incidentally). Now its just a
matter of who can survive the supernatural terror engulfing the town.
The storyline is fun and the acting is good enough. The gore and other
special effects are great.

I can easily look past the bad points in a film and see the good in it.
This film is like that for me. The film also posses qualities that make
me automatically like it. It is an underdog film (meaning it's not very
popular with most people on this site). It also has that early 90s
disillusioned grunge youth generation feel to it. Some may see this
quality as making the film darker, even mean-spirited, but I love that
era and love its influence in movies. This is just the frosting on the
"cake" for me, and overall the "cake" is worth a viewing on its own
merits, even if it's just so you can judge for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a sequel that has no connection to Stephen King. The only thing
carried over from the original is the same location. Parts of this film are
gory while violence over shadows the horror. This movie has been struck with
a mean streak.

A young widower(Anthony Edwards)moves with his young son (Edward Furlong)to
an old town in Maine. After hearing the legend of the pet cemetery where
sometimes the dead are revived; he wants to take his mother from her grave
and place her in the special burial ground in hopes of her rejoining the
family. The boy's best friend's stepfather is proof that the legend is true.
Some of the strangest scenes are funnier than they are scary. But don't rest
easy for there are times you will flinch.

Also in the cast are: Clancy Brown, Jason McGuire and Lisa
Waltz.
<|_=00=_|>
So i sat myself down today to watch the sequel to the famous movie "Pet
sematary" and expected a half-assed thing made only to drain a little
extra money from the Pet sematary fans. I was positively surprised
though as the plot was interesting(A widower vet moves to the village
from the first movie together with his son to start a new life) and so
was the characters. The actors was also good and performed excellent
especially the guy who played Gus(cant remember his name). He manages
to actually behave like a gleeful psychotic man without going so far
that his performance would evoke laughter instead of shivers. His
performance is without doubt the best part of the movie. This movie is
more gory than the original movie and has less of the psychological
terror elements that were a big part of the first movie although this
is rarely taken too far, a few moments of the movie features
over-the-top goriness but not enough to make it ridiculous in any way.
To sum it up: Pet sematary 2 is a good horror movie featuring both
psychological terror as well as gore, the simple yet interesting plot
as well as the performance of the actors makes this a movie well worth
seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Some of the scathing reviews from those who preferred the original PET
SEMATARY rather than this sequel, are misleading, no matter how
well-intentioned these viewers were. This horror film, full of the kind
of touches evident in any Stephen King story, is really much better
than these reviews would have you believe.

The premise, of course, is a silly one--that burying dead animals or
human beings in a specially cursed Indian sematary will bring them back
to life, deadlier than ever in evil intent. But once you get beyond
that, there's enough fright and scares invoked by the script and by the
clever direction of Mary Lambert, particularly in sequences involving
Clancy Brown. His return from the grave is marked by some really scary
and howlingly funny moments that give the film a sense of life it
otherwise would have lacked.

She has also directed her two youthful protagonists, Edward Furlong and
Jason McGuire, in such a manner that she gets skillful performances
from them. Furlong has a glowing presence that fits the material
beautifully and McGuire has a naturalness that is refreshing and real.

And the story actually covers a lot of ground, everything from bad
parenting to bullying from one's peers and lots of revenge motifs that
lead to some truly harrowing moments. Alas, it's true that much of the
action has a mean-spirited slant but all of it is somewhat softened by
touches of real humor.

Worth a look if you enjoyed the first PET SEMATARY.
<|_=00=_|>
OK this movie has some great music but why the hell not a soundtrack? i
been trying for years to find songs i have found some like the song
playing when the bullies take Jeff's cat and go on the bike chase the
one right after I've got spies by drama Rama... and the song played at
his moms funeral heres a list of songs i have gathered through out the
years

fading away- Jan king ( going to Barrie Zowey) I've got spies- drama
Rama ( at school) shitlist- L7 Reverence- Jesus and Mary chain ( the
part where Gus is chasing Amanda and drew in the car) poison heart- the
Ramones ( end credits) gush forth my tears- Miranda sex garden ( the
end where his mom is burning up in the bed yelling dead is better)
<|_=00=_|>
It's not gonna win any Oscars or even be remembered a few days after
you see it, but what you have here is a good, solid horror film with
lots of nice, bloody deaths and a fine performance by one Clancy Brown
as a nasty sheriff... who isn't much nicer before he's resurrected. It
has it's fair share of silly scenes, but makes up for it never giving
us a moment's peace once things get going... and the last part is one
big slice 'n dice after another. It's a better film than it's
predecessor, and I was pleasantly surprised how much it gripped me.
Worth a look.

Two final thoughts: 1: It's nice to someone who understands that when
you THINK a person who tried to kill you is dead, it's better to shoot
their corpse repeatedly just to make sure. And 2: What happened to the
cute kitten that goes walkabout in the second half without any
explanation, only to reappear for the obligatory happy ending? Get
Poirot on it now... 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
The ancient Indian cemetery with the power to raise the dead returns
and influences the lives of new residents.

I must say, good or bad, I am glad director Mary Lambert returned for
the sequel. As the first was her creation, it seems only fitting to let
her take the characters and concepts where she wants to go with them.
Had another director handled it, the film could have lost any flavor of
the original that might exist. (There is some similar tone and such,
which I think keeps it a strong sequel.) 

I love the young Edward Furlong (during his career peak) and Anthony
Edwards with a beard. Great casting that keeps this film relevant even
if it carried over pretty much nobody from the original. (I say "pretty
much" because I think it has no one, but a minor character might have
made it past me.)

The film as a whole has received negative reviews, but the fact is that
the original really is not that great. Although a modern classic, and a
pop culture gem, it is not actually a critically good film. So the
sequel by horror standards is not bad -- it actually maintains the
level of the original.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems to me that everyone is too critical when it comes to this
film. I never dreamed that the original would bear a sequel, and the
ingenuity involved to come up with this script should be commended.
Mary Lambert is a terrific horror film director and it is sad to see
that she isn't getting the chance to direct more of them (excluding her
recent D.T.V "Urban Legends" sequel). The atmosphere is well done and
creepy, and all in all this is an entertaining, fun, very gory romp
that fans of the genre should applaud. This film misses the like of
Fred Gwynne, but Clancy Brown steals the show here as Gus, the "dead is
better" sheriff that for the last 45 minutes really makes this script
work. Anthony Edwards turns in a solid performance, the biggest
drawback would have to be Edward Furlong (who has never impressed me)
and Jared Rushton who are horrible in their respective roles. Great
soundtrack included-all and all top notch entertainment for horror
fans.
<|_=00=_|>

Clancy Brown(Gus) is the man.  He was hilarious in this.  I know this
movie
isn't as good as the first but I don't think it was supposed to be.  The
first was dark, creepy and really awesome.  This has wit and is funny not
to
mention enough gore to keep any horror fan satisfied.  Watch it with not
many expectations and you'll find it to be a laugh riot.
