

Here, the makers took the original stock horror film and turned it into an
Indianajonesesque adventure in the tradition of Raiders of the Lost Ark.
The
most visually rich part of the film was the opening scenes set in ancient
Egypt. I would love to see an entire film built around that. The sets and
costumes were brilliant.

Especially tantalizing is the strictly painted-on attire of Patricia
Velazquez as Anck-Su-Namum; what a stunning visual; but it completely
upstages her performance. I have heard people talking about it. Some have
mistakenly guessed her top was a mesh costume of some sort; not true, it
is
entirely - and only - paint.

But Velazquez isn't the only thing to turn heads in the film, Rachel Weisz
is appropriately attractive, though not as startling; her character is as
solid and believable as she is lovely.

The newcomer, Oded Fehr as Ardeth Bey, set quite a few female hearts
aflutter; in our party, at least. The internet was lit-up searching for
more
photos of this guy.

At first, I didn't particularly care for Brendan Fraser as the primary
character (he's too well kept and cutesy for a rugged guy-type for me), be
he grows on you. He seems to be developing into a versatile actor who will
be around for a long time. His work here is good too.

The special effects were the real star of the film, and they were visually
rewarding and complimented the story in the right way in the right places.
How Arnold Vosloo dealt with those in his role as the mummy Imhotep should
be acknowledged. He must have had to imagine quite a bit of what he was
interacting with to pull it off, and he does so with great style and
substance for this type of role. He was nothing short of
excellent.

In fact, most of the remaining characters were well chosen. Jonathan Hyde
and Kevin J. O'Connor added to the film in important ways, too. Together,
everyone painted an enjoyable film, delivering exactly what it promised;
fun, action, and adventure.

<|_=00=_|>
"The Mummy" is an adventurous yarn in the vein of "Indiana Jones." It's
a lot of fun, very charming, and never tries to be more than what it
is. What is it? An entertaining summer flick which is not only worth
seeing, but perhaps even owning. It's one of those fun movies you can
return to over and over again and never grow tired of doing so.

It's hardly a remake of the Universal classic of the same name. It's
merely a new way to tell the story with the same basic idea - a
murderous mummy is brought back from the dead. This time we have a hero
and heroine who must stop him before he takes over the world, or
something along the line of world domination.

The hero is Rick (Brendan Fraser), a thief thriving off the very basics
out in Egypt circa 1930. Arrested and to be hanged, he is saved by the
heroine (Rachel Weisz), who believes he may hold the key to helping
them find an ancient Egyptian kingdom buried under the sand, if I
recall correctly (though it has been a while since I've seen this).
Little does she know what lurks beneath the sand near that old kingdom
is none other than the remains of a man who was caught cheating on the
king's wife years ago and mummified.

Now, after unearthing the remains of the kingdom, the expedition led by
our heroes come upon an ancient "Book of the Dead," which, when read
from, brings the ancient mummy back to life. Now he is out to kill,
regenerate and bring back his old lover - pretty neat, huh?

I own "Abbott and Costello Meet the Mummy," a great movie spoofing the
classic film. "The Mummy" isn't exactly a spoof but it's very
tongue-in-cheek. It knows it isn't an Oscar-winner, it knows it stands
nothing against the older film, and so it goes for pulp thrills. I
actually believe that this film is a bit classy in execution - compared
to many other entertainments floating around nowadays it stands as one
of the only films to return to the roots of the pure adventure films
like "Raiders of the Lost Ark" (1981) so successfully did.

Brendan Fraser is a perfect choice for the lead star. Calm, but with
ironic and sarcastic humor; cool, but a strong lead. I wondered what it
would have been like if they had casted an actor in his role who would
have taken it all more seriously. I bet the results would have been
disastrous. Fraser knows that this is all good fun, and he's having a
good time playing his role with comedy. Every once and a while you can
catch a wink at the screen that lets us know that he knows what he's
doing.

2001 brought a sequel to "The Mummy" named, of all things, "The Mummy
Returns." I found it just as fun as this film though some critics
begged to differ. Summer 2002 brought yet another "Mummy" film, this
one a prequel called "The Scorpion King" - it was a following of a
co-star of the first sequel. The Mummy was not in it at all. It was a
horrible film that wasn't near as fun as this one. So I recommend you
see "The Mummy" as soon as humanly possible. After that, see "The Mummy
Returns."

Either way, you simply can't go wrong.
<|_=00=_|>

Citizen Kane it ain't, but if you're looking for good, silly, H. Rider
Haggardesque fun, this is the film for you.  While it  hasn't replaced the
Universal classic in my affections, let's face it, the venerable original
creaks a little.  I mean,  Karloff's Imhotep only moves two feet per
hour --
geez, how will I ever escape him?  Arnold Vosloo's Mummy is considerably
more fleet, and frankly (from the dirty old lady's perspective) is pretty
darned buff for a dead guy.  A modern affectation, sure, but I like the
idea
of a mummy with a great butt.

Brendan Fraser looks good, has a fabulous voice, and a whole boatload of
goofy charm.  Hey!  Call me shallow, but that's pretty much all I'm
looking
for in a screen idol.  John Hannah was acceptable, if not inspired, as the
wastrel brother.  Rachel Weisz is gorgeous, and acquits herself well in
the
role of "Heroine in an Adventure Film;"  i.e., she screams and gets
rescued
a lot.

OK, I lie.  The modern "Heroine in an Adventure Film" is SPUNKY, screams,
and gets rescued a lot.

And as to Oded Fehr, who plays the mysterious desert guardian of the
mummy's
tomb (a role traditionally assayed by Welsh character actors) -- I and the
rest of the ladies in my party indicated, through a series of incoherent
grunts and some unattractive drooling, a strong desire to see much, much
more of him.  And we mean that both literally and figuratively.  Powers
that
be, please take note.

A couple of small caveats:  the bug quotient in this film is much higher
than I usually tolerate.  It puts you right off your Milk Duds.  And where
in the hell did those camels come from?

So if you're in a mood for brainless entertainment, I recommend that you
set
your intellect on stun, rush to the nearest cineplex, buy the large
popcorn
(WITH butter), and settle in for a couple of hours of colorful, loud,
over-the-top fun.

Catmommie
<|_=00=_|>
This is one film that caught my imagination like very few other
Hollywood action films I have seen before.Yes,on the face of it,this is
another sci-fi action adventure,a surefire winning card for Hollywood
-what's so special about that ?Oh yes,there is !To begin with,there is
the scenery at the beginning of the film that completely blows you
away,making you feel that this movie could be something above what you
had expected.And you are not wrong.The first surprise is Brendan Fraser
as the American soldier Rick O'Connell, who accidentally stumbles upon
Hamunaptra,the city of the dead,where the wealth of Egypt's greatest
emperor Seti the First is buried.After seeing him in "Airheads "
,"Dudley Do-Right " and " "George Of The Jungle",I was very very
impressed-this is one actor who can do both comedy and action and look
good doing it too !Then there is the beautiful Rachel Weisz ,playing
Evelyn Carnahan,who teams up with him to find Hamunaptra.She looks
great playing her role,and never allows herself to be upstaged by
Fraser, matching his brawn with her ever-alive intellect and quick
thinking.Kevin J.O'Connor who plays the double-crossing Beni is a very
new kind of villain,looking evil and ridiculous at the same time.But
when the resurrected high priest Imhotep( played by Arnold Vosloo)makes
his appearance in the form of "The Mummy", everything else becomes
secondary.This is CGI at its ultimate best,and precisely why the film
is so unusually absorbing .The horror and threat surrounding the curse
of the mummy becomes a concern not only for the protagonists in the
film but also for the audience-how will they kill something this scary
and powerful?, they ask themselves. .The special effects apart from the
mummy are also a treat to watch,and keep you glued to your seat.The
element that makes this film not only scary but also enjoyable is the
dialog.Almost every member of the large cast has a one-liner that will
make you laugh in spite of the sinister atmosphere surrounding the
story.The script never allows one second of screen-time to be wasted,
ideally combining action with fantasy and humor,creating a movie that I
consider a classic.Director Stephen Sommers has delivered a film that
is bound to stand the test of time,and is definitely one of my
favorites.
<|_=00=_|>
Rick O'Connell (Brendan Frazer) leads the beautiful Evelyn Carnahan
(Rachel Weisz) to Hamunaptra (The City of the Dead) where reading from
a book brings Imhotep (Pharaoh Seti I's High Priest) back to life.

Once revived Imhotep has only one purpose in this world, to bring his
love 'Anck Su Namun' back from the dead to join him, and will kill
anyone who gets in his way.

Although based on a Horror Theme, there is little horror on show here,
but there are plenty of Great Action Moments, some brilliant visuals
and some good humour.

The dialogue is well written and punchy, this combined with some great
characters bring the story to life and it turns out to be a terrific
Film that is more Action/Comedy than Horror.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Certainly this Universal remake is more in the vain of Indiana Jones rather
than the original Mummy.  It is high on adventure and comedy, and wins
because of it.  The sets, scenery, special effects are all first-rate.  The
film is fast-paced from beginning to end and is very suspenseful.  Stephen
Sommers again shows his talent as a director for creating action-packed
adventure with a high level of comedic overtones.  The cast are all very
good in their roles, yet none of them seem really to be taking themselves or
the film too serious.  Brendan Fraser is an affable hero, and Rachel Weisz
makes a good heroine.  Good support comes from John Hannah, Kevin J.
O'Connor, and the mummy, Arnold Vosloo.  Also a real treat was seeing
Bernard Fox in a small role as an aging British pilot.  Don't expect the old
mummy of lore in this one, but sit down and have one heck of a ride...a
rollercoaster of hijinks in the sands of Egypt.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems like a long time ago when this came out, but I remember it
being the first DVD I had ever bought sight unseen, meaning I had never
seen the film in the theater. I was pleased. I got what I had hoped
for: a fun, special-effects extravaganza. 

In fact, if you read a number of reviews, you see the word "fun" more
than anything. That best describes this film.

This was an Indiana Jones-Jason And The Argonauts combination adventure
story. It's cartoon-like in nature with an absurd swashbuckling hero,
outlandish action scenes and the occult theology that filmmakers love
so much. (The Mummy has God-like powers, even producing Old Testament
plagues.)

However, the film isn't all good news. It's too long by about 10-15
minutes and there is simply too much action and too much noise. The
film needs more lulls.

Brendan Fraser is pretty good as the Indiana Jones figure and Rachel
Weisz, a new face at the time, makes a solid impression in her debut.
The DVD offered a sharp picture which highlighted a number of
jaw-dropping scenes. It's pure escapist fun and not meant to be
anything else.
<|_=00=_|>

The title speaks for itself.This is arguably the greatest mummy movie ever
made(well next to The Mummy Returns).You ask why is this the best one?Its
the best one because it has a great story,good acting,beautiful sites at how
it really was in acient egypt and some of the greatest visual effects ever
seen by the human eye!Everything in The Mummy is fantastic!

Vosloo,Frasier,and Weisz and Fehr are very good in it.Lots of familiar faces
are in this one too.

Listen to the music,buy the score,its by Jerry Goldsmith!

Oh,by the way,The Mummy Returns is coming out in a few days,the soundtrack
is composed by Alan Silvestri(don`t worry,he did a terriffic job) is
available now!Buy it,it is the most impressive music you will ever
hear!
<|_=00=_|>

From beneath the depths of Hell, the ultimate symbol of evil is about to
be
reborn.  Beyond mortality, beyond death, this creature of the undead will
rise.  Darkness will fall for all of eternity...and this plague will
forever
swallow this planet Earth...

About two thousand years ago, in the land of Ancient Egypt, a
well-respected
high priest known as Imhotep (Arnold Vosloo) has been a very naughty man.
His one-stand with the Pharaoh's mistress may very well cost him his life.
After the Pharaoh discovers this illicit, forbidden love affair, Imhotep
and
the mistress murder the heartless Pharaoh without second thoughts.  As
payback though, Imhotep is to suffer the gravest consequences...

Imhotep is eventually sentenced to die a most horrifying death.  The
Pharaoh's guards have buried him alive inside a tomb, complete with
ravaging
scarabs and all.  What's even worse is that the guards have placed a
disturbing curse upon the buried soul.   Whoever opens the tomb of this
ancient evil will awaken the curse that has lied dormant for thousands of
ears.  All shall suffer eternal damnation, as the Mummy will release its
unstoppable powers upon the lands and onto the cities.   His reign of
terror
will spread...

For twenty centuries, this soul has rested in peace...  Jumping forward to
1925, a bunch of foolish archaeologists, driven by profit and ignoring all
admonishments, have decided to open the tomb of the wretched Mummy.  Well,
that decision was foolish...  Now, the armies of the dead will inhabit the
Earth and evil will take over...  Only Colonel Rick O'Connell (Brendan
Fraser) and his brave team of courageous souls can prvent the Mummy's
plans
to rule the planet.  Along with an alluring librarian and inspiring
archaeologist (Rachel Weisz), her timid brother (John Hannah), and an even
more craven sidekick, Beni (Kevin J. O'Connor), O'Connell and his company
of
wisecracking Smart Alec folks are mankind's last hope.  This though,
happens
to be another incident where the good guys are at the wrong place at the
right time.  Heaven have mercy on these souls...  Will faith spare human
lives, or can the world kiss hope goodbye?

THE MUMMY is so much better than I originally anticipated.  The special
effects alone will blow you away!  It is unbelievable how the Mummy is
able
to transform himself from a rotting, disintegrating corpse to a fully
developed supernatural being, and even to a raging sandstorm.  Also, those
creepy crawly scarabs scare the daylights out of me!  The scarabs
literally
crawl under people's skins!   Impressive production values, capturing and
recreating the ruins of Hamunaptra at its full glory, serve as another
highlight for THE MUMMY.

Sure, there are also the monstrous zombies, the nightmarish flying
locusts,
and the fallen skies.  Yes, there is also the requisite damsel-in-distress
(and love interest) who captures Imhotep's heart.  The venomous
super-villain who must eat the flesh of others in order to survive is a
plus
as well.  However, director Stephen Sommers (DEEP RISING) transcends
beyond
cliché material.  He brings to the audience original ideas with a
refreshingly cool tone.  He makes sure that there is style within the
special effects.  The eye-popping FX in general will keep crowds
contented,
and then some.

It is tough to keep a straight face when watching this movie, but you have
to praise Sommers and the cast for letting you have so much fun.  Yes, the
dialogue is indeed ridiculous as for some of the sequences.  One scene
that
had me chuckling throughout was when all the slaves were synchronically
chanting "Imhotep!"  Kevin J. O'Connor finds himself having some of the
best
one-liners as he may eventually switch allegiances and serve a different
master.  Yes, the humor is somewhat gratuitous, granted.  However, in all
sincerity, the humor is needed to lighten the film's dark tone.

The acting is more second rate.  Arnold Vosloo made a terrific villain and
Rachel Weisz lights up the screen with her gorgeous presence.  Fraser and
O'Connor are great also.  The rest of the cast is kind of listless though.
In spite of that, THE MUMMY is a spectacular spectacle laced with
show-stopping special effects and genuine chills.  The music, composed and
conducted by Jerry Goldsmith is pulse pounding and excellent.  The
orchestration is wonderful during this film's every thread of suspense.

Overall, THE MUMMY is one of the best blockbusters of 1999.  Nonstop
thrills
and surprises galore highlight this enthusiastic, fun-filled
entertainment.
THE MUMMY has lots of fun and excitement.  The only flaw that prevents
this
film from being a full fledged four star movie is its occasional lapses in
credibility and coherence.  At times, this film is extremely ludicrous,
but
who cares, its fanatically fun to watch.  Genre fans, take note.

Remember, you cannot keep the dead buried forever...

RATING: ***1/2 out of ****.


<|_=00=_|>

Brendan Fraser may well have established himself as the John
Wayne
of his day with his thrilling performance here.No one can take
the
place of the Duke of course,but Fraser approached his character
with
just the right amount of swagger,wit,and charm.This take on
an
often told story has all the charm of the old Saturday
matinee's
of years gone by,and all the thrills of the Raiders of the Lost
Ark
series.Excellent casting,with standout performances from
everyone,
particularly Arnold Vosloo,Fraser,and Oded Fehr.Highly
recommended.
