
First off; I can understand why people would dislike this movie; The
characters are all portrayed in an extremely stereotypical way, the
acting is considerably over the top most of the time, the story is
rather cheesy and not very believable - I mean which gay couple would
(or COULD) transform their eccentric home into a monastery-like
environment in 24 hours to pretend to be a cultured family to impress
the son's fiancée's parents?

...Yet I couldn't stop laughing all the way through, even after the
10th time. Why? It's BECAUSE the characters are so stereotypical, it's
BECAUSE the acting is over the top, it's BECAUSE the whole thing is so
unbelievable that it makes it scintillating to behold. Even though the
characters are stereotypical, the script has obviously been written by
someone who doesn't intend to contribute to the stereotypical view of
the gay drag community, but who rather wanted to create characters that
are lovable while at the same time shouting "don't take us seriously". 

This isn't a movie portraying life in the gay society; and everyone who
expects realistic (and hence probably rather unfunny) portrayal of such
a theme is better off NOT watching a comedy featuring gays (don't most
comedies thrive on making the stereotype seem funny?) It may not be
politically correct all the way, but hey; society's too hung up on all
this political correctness as it is,. The characters in this movie were
lovable, perhaps BECAUSE they were stereotypical depictions. However
they're brought to life so well by the actors playing them that it
doesn't make you shake your head in frustration over yet ANOTHER movie
portraying stereotypes, but rather makes you shake your head in
laughter over the deadpan things they say and do, which are so
obviously unreal at times that anyone who thinks this movie will
promote a false picture of the gay community needs a reality check. 

The script is amazing, and even though it may really be too over the
top once in a while, it doesn't distract from the overall picture. The
story isn't much; the focus on details is what makes this movie funny.
Little gestures, frowns, face expressions and little subtleties make
this movie one of the best comedies I have ever watched, and probably
one of the best comedies I will ever be fortunate enough to see in my
entire life. Contrary to what it may seem like at first sight, the
humor is overly refined without being intellectual, instead of jumping
in your face all the time.

What's more, the cast is great. Both Robin Williams and Nathan Lane are
very fine comedians who have the touch it takes to play a role like
this one. They make over-the-top stereotypes actually FUNNY, instead of
just laughable.

And yes, I HAVE seen the original movie, not all too long ago actually,
and I have to say the remake is twenty to the power of 99 times better
than the original. I barely laughed, and the original version was in my
eyes an utterly forgettable movie. And that coming from a person who
usually hates remakes. 

This movie gives the original "Birdcage" a fresh new shine and
transports the story into the 90's. Well made, on all accounts, I can't
think of a single criticism!
<|_=00=_|>

I'm disappointed to see that some people can't appreciate the
brilliance in this film! Robin Williams is on top form, with 'you're
taking your toothbrush to the grave, how Egyptian' brilliantly
improvised. Weiss is convincing in her role, as usual. Hackman is
great, as usual, and Nathan Lane is overly feminate, as usual.
Wonderfully cast and with a great script, it will please anyone with a
sense of humour. I pity anyone who can't enjoy it, for whatever reason-
homophobia, lack of intelligence, arrogance, narrow mindedness etc.
I'll admit that originals are often better, but that doesn't stop this
from being a film to be enjoyed. I recommend it to anyone looking for a
good laugh, happy watching!

Louis Hartshorn, age 15

<|_=00=_|>

This film has the distinction of being quite possibly the funniest film that
I've ever seen.  I remember seeing this film the night it opened and
laughing so hard that my friend told me she'd get up and leave me there if I
didn't shut up!

Almost everyone I've talked to over the years swears by how hysterical this
film is.  There is a reason for that: Nathan Lane.  This guy is a comic
genius.  He was nominated for a Golden Globe for his performance but should
have been nominated for an Academy Award as well if you ask me.  Originally
when I first saw it, I didn't care for Robin Williams' character at all but
the more I've seen it over the years (over fifty times) it grows on me. 
Dianne Wiest is her normal, ditzy self but is a scream here and Gene Hackman
in that last scene...well, I don't want to give away anything.

Half of the fun of this film is the verbal repartee between the characters,
especially anything between Hank Azaria, Nathan Lane or Dianne
Wiest.

If you haven't seen this film, you owe it to yourself to just have fun and
laugh the night away.  Enjoy it!!!

My rating: 4 stars
<|_=00=_|>
"The Birdcage" is a hilarious movie about a happily "married" gay
couple, forced to play straight for the marriage for Armond's son and
his conservative in-laws. Even though it is a bit stereotypical, it was
played with charm and energy and is absolutely irresistible. I really
enjoyed "The Birdcage" because it had a lot of serious issues, yet
managed to turn into a fun joke. We take the politic stand on gay
marriages so seriously, that I think this was needed just for a good
laugh at it.

Nathan Lane and Robin Williams, what terrific performances! Again, I
know it was stereotypical, but I have a couple friends that do actually
act like that. So, I was more than willing to go with it. I loved the
whole Nathan being the Mom dinner scene. It was just too hard not to
laugh. I am little surprised by the rating of 6.5. I think people
should see this film and just have a good time with it. Trust me, it's
just a fun movie and it's not offensive in any way.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of the best. Robin Williams and Nathan Lane are
phenomenal and hilarious, but the best performance throughout the film
is by Hank Azaria, as Agador, the adorable flaming butler. My favorite
scene is when both families are sitting together eating dinner. I don't
want to give anything away, but wow I was in tears. Gene Hackman is
extremely funny as a conservative senator. This film is colorful,
unique and will keep an audience roaring with laughter. Yes, the movie
follows some typical stereo types among a gay male couple, however, is
not offensive in anyway, shape or form. I think this is such a cute
film, and if you haven't seen it, or if you happen to be in the mood
for a laugh out loud movie rent The Birdcage.

My Rating: 9/10

<|_=00=_|>
THE BIRDCAGE is the hysterically entertaining Americanized version of
the French classic LA CAGE AUX FOLLES. In this version Robin Williams
plays the gay owner of a Florida nightclub who learns his straight son
(Dan Futterman) is coming home and is engaged to be married. Williams
learns from his son that his fiancée's parents (Gene Hackman, Dianne
Wiest) are straight-laced and ultra-conservative and will not be
comfortable meeting his gay father or his even more flamboyant lover
(Nathan Lane) and suggests Williams send Lane out of town while Hackman
and Wiest are in town. Instead, Lane puts on his best drag and meets
the parents as Williams' wife in one of the most hilarious dinner party
scenes ever filmed. This film is chock full of sparkling dialogue and
sharp performances. I also found it rather refreshing to see Robin
Williams playing straight man to Lane, who along with Hank Azaria as
their housekeeper, practically steal the film from everyone else in one
of the most entertaining comedies of the 90's. And the sight of Gene
Hackman in drag is something everyone must experience.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw "The Birdcage" because I'd already seen "La Cage aux Folles."  And I
thought this one was a great remake, if not better.  Robin Williams and
Nathan Lane give hilarious performances as the lead couple.  I haven't
seen
"La Cage" in ages, but there were tidbits in "The Birdcage" that I
remembered from the original.  Of all American remakes of French movies,
this is by far my favorite!
<|_=00=_|>
Though nothing can beat "La Cage aux Folles," the film on which this
American version is based, I still found "The Birdcage" delightful fun
and hilarious at times, thanks to the comic geniuses of Robin Williams
and Nathan Lane. Lane is the dramatic Albert, an over the top drag
queen who has lived for years with Robin Williams, Armand, the owner of
The Birdcage, where Albert performs. Armand once had a liaison with a
woman, which produced a son, Val, who now wants to be married to the
daughter of a conservative politician. In order for that to occur,
Armand has to become butch, all gay art work, etc., needs to exit the
apartment - and Albert must disappear for a few days.

Williams is hilarious - my two favorite scenes are his rehearsal with
Albert and a young man appearing with him on stage, and the scene where
he coaches Armand on being macho - priceless. Nathan Lane's shtick is
familiar to me, as I've seen him in "The Producers" and "The Odd
Couple" - he's a riot as the insecure, jealous, easily hurt Albert.

The role of Val is problematic, because how does one keep him from
looking like a complete bastard as he shuts out Armand, who raised him.
But Dan Futterman and Calista Flockhart as Barbara make a lovely young
couple. Gene Hackman and Dianne Wiest are very funny as Barbara's
befuddled parents.

It's been a long time since I've seen the French "La Cage aux Folles,"
and I saw the musical on Broadway as well. The French is superior to
any version. The musical is quite poignant and emphasizes its statement
in the song, "I Am Who I Am." The joy of the French film is that the
actors playing the lovers, Ugo Tognazzi and Michel Serrault, play their
roles very seriously, and the humor and poignancy come out of the
situation and the outrageousness of the Armand character (Albin/Zaza in
the French). In "The Birdcage," it's played for comedy all the way.
That's okay. You'll still enjoy it. But see the original.
<|_=00=_|>
OH.. my GOd! What a wonderful story, what a comedy.. I have no words to
describe what I felt when I watched this. You see Robin Williams in
this whole new character , he has never played this kind of role
before.. well it suits him, don't you think? HE did a pretty good job
with Armand Goldman, but what about his partner.. Nathan Lane, well
what about him? He played perfectly his SHE.. Albert slash Starina
Goldman slash Coleman role. They both do "fosse,fosse,fosse.. Martha
Graham.. Martha Graham.. MADONNA ..MADONNA! Who else could be a
"mother", a "Wife" and "just a guy" if not Nathan Lane, his shrieking
is so funny, he is a true woman in this picture. I can say nothing more
about the "Birdcage", you better watch it and find out the rest
yourself..
<|_=00=_|>
This is a funny, funny story about a gay couple pretending to be a
straight couple to impress the family of the son's fiancée. There are
moral lessons in this comedy to live and let live and to judge people
on their character, not their sexual orientation.

My girlfriend and I watched this movie together and we both howled with
laughter. We still treasure this movie and watch it again and again.

We had not seen either the original play or movie so this was a
standalone viewing. It was just terrific.

Williams and Lane are perfect as the gay couple. The look on Williams'
face when Lane comes into the house when the visitors are there is
priceless. Williams is a great straight guy (pun intended) for Lane's
antics.

I judge this movie on the amount of laughs it gave me and that has to
be a "10." Gene Hackman is perfect, as usual, as a moralizing,
hypocritical Senator.
