
How much of this is true, I cannot say. Perhaps I should do some
research on it knowing how "accurate" most Hollywood historical films
tend to be. For years, the white man was always the good guy; the
Indian, the bad guy. Then came, the present day "political correctness"
era where the Indian is the good guy and the white man is the bad guy.
Frankly, I don't care in this case because this movie is simply a very
entertaining film that is enjoyable to watch....and that's what movies
are supposed to be: entertaining. 

What makes it so entertaining?

1) a very interesting saga of the famous Apache Geronimo, fighting for
his people and also living a life dedicated to revenge; 2) A great
portrayal of him by actor Wes Studi, who has the perfect face and voice
for the role; 3) a very solid all-male cast, with memorable leads
played by Jason Patric, Robert Duvall, Gene Hackman and Matt Damon; 4)
wonderful golden-hued cinematography, filmed in the mountainous area of
Moab, Utah; 5) Not excessive violence nor a lot of profanity, rare for
a Walter Hill directed movie. This is one of the stylish Hill's
classier efforts. 6) Good sound if you have the DVD and a surround
sound system.

Yes, this leans in the PC class with big-time leanings toward the
Indian cause, but the Apache people apparently had a good case for
their cause, at least with Geronimo's convincing question near the end
of the movie: "There is plenty of land. Why do you want it all?"
<|_=00=_|>

'Let's start with this: All written history is revisionist. The
actual
events are revisited and revised in the perspective
of the "re-visitor." That said, this
remarkably well written, well acted, and generally
well executed movie is likely the best
account of the "Geronimo Campaign" out there. Head
and shoulders above much of the other
junk out there about this important American
figure. It is, to boot, beautifully filmed and deftly
directed. And the narrative approach worked
perfectly with this subject. Well worth a couple
of viewing hours by anyone who sincerely wants to
know what was up with all that.' 
<|_=00=_|>

With its superb acting, writing and directing, this masterpiece by
Walter
Hill is unique, not only in the way it maintains its epic quality in the
span of two hours, but in the strong chemistry between the two main
characters. The majestic music and scenic photography combine perfectly to
compliment the stunning performances of Wes Studi as Geronimo and the
breath-taking Jason Patric as Lt. Charles Gatewood. The special friendship
shared between the two grand, thoughtful men is the main interest that
holds
this film together, with Patric's performance being the most exceptional,
amid a talented supporting cast of big names.

As a righteous officer and gentleman who remains loyal but unpoisoned
by
excessive patriotism, Gatewood is a tough but calming influence in the
face
of great danger, while displaying a maturity that bewilders his more
primitive companion Al Sieber (Robert Duvall) who exclaims, "You don't
love
who you're fighting for and you don't hate who you're fighting against!"
In
this way, Gatewood is just as complex as he is likable, immediately
gaining
the trust and admiration of both his friends and enemies.

Whether he assumes the role of an ambassador with his deep eyes and
charismatic presence or that of a soldier with his masterful horsemanship
(performed by the actor himself), Jason Patric brings a special depth and
beauty to Gatewood, making him one of the most impressive and under rated
heroes ever captured on film. His presence alone makes this film a great
classic, as well as a thought provoking treasure!


<|_=00=_|>

IN I993 I had my first viewing of this great film. I was proud to see
how the story of the apache was displayed and the harsh treatment they
suffered and all they lost.I feel the truth was shown in this film.I am
part native American myself.I was especially interested.My friends and
I saw the film together and I must say at the end when they are on the
train to Florida after Geronimo's final surrender all of us were
stunned.It was one of the most powerfully emotional scenes I have ever
viewed.some people cried,and the emotions in the theatre were so
sad.Geronimo's final words moved me and I remember "No one knows why
the One God let the white eye take our land."this is to never be
answered and gone forever.I was haunted for years after this film.

<|_=00=_|>

This film was part of the revival the western genre had in the beginning of
the 90's in the wake of Dances With Wolves. Not all of the westerns from
this period are worth seeing (Bad Girls is a good example of that) but there
are gems among them. This film, Geronimo: An American Legend being one. It
makes an intelligent comment regarding the frankly despicable treatment the
Apaches, among other American Indian tribes, recieved at the hands of the
American government. In this lies the films strength and the presentation of
this theme is the focus of the film's plot. It plays like a historical
thesis or argument. This being terrific for people who are looking to know
exactly what happened to the Apaches.

However, people who search for great dramaturgical nerve in films should
avoid this film. Because there is none. The plot faithfully depicts the
historical progress of events and refuses to completely demonize the Whites
(although they clearly are being portrayed as the expansionist aggressors)in
order to build a protagonist-antagonist plot-structure. This makes the movie
slow, and for non-buffs a tedious experience.

Finally, the film has a terrific soundtrack by Ry Cooder and a knock-out
performance by Wes Studi as Geronimo!
<|_=00=_|>

As others have said, this is an excellent example of a revisionist
Western,
successful both as a 'quest' film and as history. Despite minor examples
of
the invariable desire of film-makers to embellish events (Al Sieber in
fact
died years later when a rock rolled on him while he was clearing a road)
this is as close as you'll get to a historically and visually accurate
movie
account of the pursuit of Geronimo.
<|_=00=_|>
This underrated Western (in Germany Hills picture disappears after one
week from the cinema) convinces with an excellent script (I realize
again, John Milius is much better in writing as directing), a stunning
photography and outstanding performances of the lead characters. Studi
is great, a wonderful study of pride and his understanding that he
never can win his war against white men. Especially this poetic and
realistic movie is by comparison with other Indian sagas not a fairy
tale from far west. Hill tells the truth and so we see only desperate
people and no heroes - on both sides. Great - a must see for fans. I
give 8 out of 10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
The valiant, if doomed, Chiricahua Apache tried (as did so many other
tribes) to be accommodating after being hounded to the breaking point.
Their famous chief, Geronimo, gave himself up voluntarily and tried to
lead his people onto the reservation. But, as happened so many times,
even after capitulation they were attacked in unwarranted fashion and
reacted by leaving the reservation whereupon they were hunted, and
hunted, and harried. Some people don't like this film because it tells
history more like it was than most movies do about the "conquering" of
the American west ... it shows both sides of the story, not just one.
With this movie, you can't identify with the hero on one side and the
villain or the other. Both are sympathetic, both are reprehensible
(isn't that the way a historical drama really ought to be played? In my
book, this is a plus). As a native of Arizona, where much of the
historical action took place, I find it disturbing that the countryside
in which the movie was made is either in some other state or in the
wrong part of Arizona, that characters seem to be able to get from
Tombstone to San Carlos in one day on horseback (either they had
multiple horses, or one dead one), and that there is a bit of
overstatement about the honor among the various Apache bands (with
reference to the reason that members of some Apache groups served as
scouts against other groups). All in all, though, I vote for this one
over all the other "Geronimo" movies that have been made.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the many films which are overlooked, 
the stark portrayal of the American Army couldn't 
have been more refreshing. While we are 
constantly exposed to the goodness of our 
forefathers, at least this film proved to be a little 
diligent to a true portrayal. Anyway, this film was 
excellent in the scope of its cinematography, 
scope and powerful script. Sadly, while Jason 
Patric has done little to enhance his career 
since this film, at least he shined for a few 
short moments, particularly in this movie. Wes 
Studi's performance as Geronimo was superb, 
adding depth to the legend which few people 
have only heard about through old wives tales 
and abridged history books. Robert Duvall and 
Gene Hackman were both excellent in this film. 
I also felt Matt Damon was excellent in this film, 
further giving precedence to the idea of him 
being a superior actor to his terrible actor-friend 
in Ben Affleck. A Truly excellent movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Echoes of John Ford westerns and 'Lawrence of Arabia' abound, both visually
and thematically, in this gripping character study of the relentlessly proud
Apache. A career high for Walter Hill and John Milius, this is also an
excellent introduction to the ambiguous nature of the Indian Wars, where
even the Indian heroes are guilty of killing unarmed men. Wes Studi and
Robert Duvall give outstanding performances.
