

"Manny & Lo" tells of two runaway girls and the how they
deal with the challenges which arise when one gets pregnant.
What this film lacks in big budget blockbuster appurtenances
it more than makes up for with it's creative and
unpredictable story, depth of character, raw charm,
tongue-in-cheek humor, and insightful sensitivity. A
wonderful little "sleeper" which necessarily starts slow
and
builds delivering pound-for-pound much more than films
with
many times the hype and box office. Most likely to be
appreciated by females and more mature males.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was wonderful.  The characters were developed so well I felt as
if I knew them.  Mary Kay Place was in top form.  This movie was
unpredictable yet allowed you to come up with your own view as to the
future
of the characters in the end.  This is one of those movies that are a
diamond in the rough;  a movie that once given a chance, and viewed will
be
watched by many because of word of mouth.
I loved this movie!
<|_=00=_|>

How 2 youngsters dealt with a traumatic situation, alone, 'till they
thought
it was beyond their control. To resort to kidnapping! (Kidnapee or
kidnapper
?)I identify with Manny because she thinks for herself with subtle
conclusions, knowing what's right disspite. I identify with Elaine because
when I grew up I ended up alone. And Lo 'is' my brother (For how he took
care of me at that age) I've been a movie buff for 29 years (since I was
10), and "Manny & Lo" is on the top of my list!!!!! Thank you Scarlett,
Aleksa, & Marry Kay....Thank you.
<|_=00=_|>
I think it could use some editing to speed the pace a bit. A pregnant
teen and her younger sister run away from foster homes and kidnap a
woman whom they believe can help with the pregnancy. This is the kind
of low-budget film that truly proves that a small story can be much
more meaningful than a larger one. This film is worthy of all the hopes
you have as all of the characters struggle against a system that has
perpetuated falsehoods. Are there annoying things in this movie? Yes,
like the overdone acting. But the movie has enough to keep you
entertained. For these reasons, I give this movie a rating of 7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film for the first time on TV Ontario last night and it was
a beautiful film both visually and emotionally. Lo (Aleska Palladino)
and her younger sister, Manny (Scarlett Johansson) run away using a
family car. When the film opens, we find them on the fresh, green turf
of a new sub-division being chased away by the property owners. Lo is
sixteen and pregnant and Manny is an 11-year-old with smarts. They make
the rounds of the countryside and small towns and kidnap Elaine (Mary
Kay Place), a retail clerk working in a baby boutique. Elaine is made
to sign a note that she is on vacation, leaving her owner and
co-workers to fend for themselves. This is totally out of character for
Elaine, who is a pillar of her community with a heart of gold. As the
movie moves along, we see a bond develop between the three female
characters with Elaine becoming the mother figure to the free-spirited
sisters, who come from a troubled family. The girls learn from Elaine
as she fills a void in her own life. Director Lisa Krueger has put
together a fine story that moves along slowly but draws the viewer into
the characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Laurel (Aleksa Palladino) is 16 year old Lo. Amanda (Scarlett
Johansson) is her 11 year old sister Manny. The sisters run away from
their separate foster parents. They steal gas and food. They break into
empty houses. They get by until Lo has to finally admit that she's not
fat, she's pregnant. They squat in an off-season ski cabin. They kidnap
baby-store saleswoman Elaine (Mary Kay Place) to help them with the
birth.

The story is fine for an indie. The dialog isn't anything great. This
is all about the two young actresses. ScarJo is lovely in one of her
early roles. She seems to always have that raspy voice. Palladino is
great. They have really good sisterly chemistry. The movie could be a
little sharper with the comedy and dialog. Overall, it's a fun indie
with those great young actresses.
<|_=00=_|>
Mary Kay Place, Scarlett Johansson and Aleksa Palladino star in this
breakthrough drama entitled,Manny & Lo.This is debut feature from
writer/director Lisa Krueger that tells the story of orphaned teen-aged
sisters that are living on the run, stealing food, and sleeping in
random model homes.

Two sisters, 11-year-old Amanda,also known as Manny; and 16-year-old
Laurel,nicknamed Lo, run away from several foster homes, sleeping
wherever they can, including in model homes.Lo is the rude, bossy,
incompetent leader, and younger sister Manny is her thoughtful,
realistic, logical underling. It quickly becomes apparent that Lo is
pregnant and they won't be able to continue their wandering lifestyle
of "keep moving and you won't get nailed." After a significant stage of
denial, Lo goes to a hospital for an abortion and is denied. Quickly
running out of options, Lo comes up with plan that seems ridiculous to
the observant narrator Manny. Since they don't know anything about
birthing babies, they kidnap Elaine, a middle-aged woman dressed as a
nurse who works in a maternity store. Together, the three women squat
in an abandoned house in the woods so the disgruntled Lo can have her
baby. Eventually, the owner of the house comes home and the captive
Elaine resorts to a strange solution to the problem.

This is an unapologetically small but wholly original movie, warm-
hearted but not precious, and possessed of a gently wacky
sensibility.Though employing no surreal devices and remaining within a
realistic convention, Krueger takes the story of two young sisters on
their own and somehow makes it seem unreal, strange, outside
time.Also,it is a sweet little fable only a bit shy on substance but
quite charming in the telling.Overall,it is a movie that will leave
viewers with a warm glow.
<|_=00=_|>

I can hardly write something more about this gem considering
the comments below. Without any spoiler given I only reveal
to
you that this movie is wonderfully well acted, plot is
very
appealing, kind, humorous and highly enjoyable. Really. Really
really.

Go and see it. Now.
9/10

<|_=00=_|>
This is the sweetest film. It's definitely a 'chick thing' with Manny
and Lo and Elaine bonding around an infant to be (Lo's). No men are
allowed in this paradise. One appears and he gets bopped over the head,
gagged and hog-tied. This is a fem-family made on the run. Lo (Aleska
Palladino) in her high teens runs away from a foster home with her
younger sister, Manny (Scarlett Johansson). It's a Thelma and Louise
crime spree made as a movie for children. Well, not quite. Turns out
Lo's pregnant. She has been hiding this from 11-year-old Manny, who has
the eye of Sherlock Holmes and is the brains of this team. They find a
rather nice, used only during the ski season cabin in the woods and
hole up to await the stork. They spot Elaine (Mary Kay Place), a lonely
spinster working in a baby clothes shop and kidnap her to help deliver
the baby. Everybody, despite gruff exteriors, has a heart of gold, and
togetherness and loving concern prevail.

And what's wrong with that?

Nothing really. But I was thinking: this is the obverse of male war
movies where none or few women appear, men doing their manly thing
killing one another, women irrelevant. I think that's the key word here
for director Lisa Kruege: in the reproductive game that is war by other
means, men are irrelevant. Or almost so. In war it doesn't matter how
many men are killed. As long as there are some left the population will
quickly spring back. Kill the women, though, and you have a serious
population problem. Manny and Lo and Elaine prove that you really don't
need the male: his sperm will do, and that way you don't have to put up
with his loutish behavior.

I think I got this right. Anyway, it's a cute movie.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>
This genre of film is a classic example of a theory on average taste:
Take a turd covered in chocolate then rolled in nuts and feed to the
general public who will give rave reviews to the curiously refreshing
tidbit. Now, to fulfill the 10 line requirement, here' an amusing
little ditty: There are smiles that make me happy. There are smiles
that make me blue. There are smiles that steal away the teardrops, like
the sunbeams steal away the dew. There are smiles that have a happy
meaning, that the eyes of love alone may see. But the smiles that filly
heart with sunshine, are the smiles that you give to me. Poo, poo,
poopy do!
