
My grandmother bought me this movie many many years ago (I still have
it on VHS) and I loved this movie then. The cute plot line and message
that you can do anything and be yourself makes it a cute movie for
young kids. Compared to some of the movies available out there now, I
would definitely show this to my children. There is singing, dancing
flowers, and a cute troll to boot!

No, it is not the most sophisticated film, but still a cute one! My
only caution is that Gnorga, the Queen, may frighten some children,
especially when she is fighting to with Stanley to take the children.
Overall, this movie still has a special place in my heart from when I
was young.
<|_=00=_|>
Whatever happened to the masterpieces Don Bluth gave us? Secret of
NIMH, hello? Of course, not ALL of his movies had to be like Secret of
NIMH...but at least have the wonderful vibe. Is that vibe in this
movie? Not even a little.

I cannot believe I watched this movie as a kid. Why do people like this
movie? I can't bear watching it! It's horribly written (I think Bluth
got help from a few five-year olds to write the script.), there is no
good moral, and it is sometimes confusing!

Before you rate this comment negatively, let me explain the thing that
gets to me most about this movie...

"Why is the moral so bad?" There were actually two "morals" in this
atrocity. One of them was "If you dream, good things will happen"

...I understand that it's something for the kids, but when you think
about it, that is NOT a good moral. You cannot just DREAM to get an A
on the test, to have a steady relationship, or get a good job...you
have to EARN it! I know that sounds a little over-the-top, but think! A
kid can't dream to have a puppy. Your kid is going to be pretty
disappointed if he dreams and he gets no puppy.

The second "moral"? Well, when we meet Gus, he's a kid who just wants
quality time with his dad. But he's always busy, so he always complains
that he never wants to do what he wants to do. After all the chaos he
went through, what does he teach the children watching this movie?

"Dad...maybe we can do what I want to do?"

Let it sink in. It may not sound so bad at first, but like the other
moral, when you think about it, it's not good at all. Kids need to
learn that they can't always get what they want and that their parents
have to work to pay for their food and their house. Again, that sounds
over-the-top, but again, think. 

Avoid this movie, especially if you're looking for something for the
kids.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the most pointless and boring animated feature
films of all time. Don Bluth had directed some stinkers in the past,
but this was by far the worst. By the end of the movie, it feels like
nothing happened. The animation is a step down from Bluth's previous
films, and the character designs and animation are just terribly loose.
The only real positives about this are the voice over acting, and the
lively musical score, despite only having bad songs.

Stanley the troll (Dom Deluise) is unlike the other trolls. He's more
interested in planting flowers and making the world pretty, where the
other trolls only want to cause misery. The trolls have black thumbs
that turn things to stone, but Stanley has a green thumb for bringing
plants to life. When Queen of the trolls, Gnorga (Cloris Leachman),
finds out about Stanley being a good troll, she shoots him up in the
air, and he lands in Central Park. Meanwhile, a little boy Gus wants
his dad to take him to the park, but his dad is busy, so he and his
infant sister Rosie go off on their own. They meet Stanley, and go on a
stupid adventure with him, while Gnorga is hot on their tail, and for
some reason wants them all out of the picture.

Babies will probably have a good time watching this, though some parts
may be too scary. Older kids will despise this, unless it has a
nostalgia factor to them, which it does to me, and I still hate it.
Everything is overly corny, and cheesy and sappy. The plot....heck,
what plot. It's pretty much just, little boy and girl go to park, meet
troll, he teaches them about imagination, bad troll comes in, chaos
ensues. The songs in the movie are really bad, which is weird because
the musical score is quite pretty. The voice over acting is actually
pretty good, with Cloris Leachman in an almost unrecognizable voice
over role, Charles Nelson Reilly doing the same likable voice he'd done
in so many other cartoons and Dom Deluise with his normal, over the top
voice. Other than the music and voices though, this is an utterly
ridiculous movie.

I dislike the beginning, and I downright despise the ending of this
sappy kiddie junk that should have had less put into the direction, and
more into the writing.

My rating: * out of ****. 75 mins. G.
<|_=00=_|>
Having looked at titles such as The Secret of NIMH, The Land Before
Time and An American Tail, this entire film is complete garbage. There
is only one word for an awful movie like this - STUPID. You heard
right. It's just plain stupid. The colors look sloppy and makes the
animation look totally fake. The songs are insane and idiotic. The
story is atrocious. The characters in unlikable and, well, just plain
stupid! They are annoying and unintelligent. The acting is awful. The
characters actions have little to no impact on the story's plot. They
also have no charm whatsoever. Their actions and egos are stupid. All
in all, everything about this movie is pure garbage!

Avoid this film at all costs!
<|_=00=_|>
If it wasn't for Don Bluths outstanding animation and the good voice
acting, this would be completely painful to watch. And that is being
nice, since this movie is mind-numbingly boring and it seems to make
very little sense. The moral of the story (you have to be brave to
fulfill a dream) comes in way too late, by this point my mind had
already melted from boredom.

There's no animation so beautiful I could watch an hour of things
bouncing around and smiling. At least half an hour of this movie
consists of just this and it's not like it's very spectacular to watch.

Plot? I couldn't find one. Things pretty much happen at random. 

The characters aren't very likable either. Stanley comes off as
annoying and too cowardly. Gus is a spoiled annoying brat who spends
most of the movie arguing with people and shouting "Rosie!". Rosie is
cute, but that's it. Gnorga was the only somewhat entertaining
character, but she doesn't spend much time in front of the screen
despite the fact that she is the villain.

There's also a big lack of humor, remember-able moments and inspiring
dialog. It's like stuff just happens, the characters talk because they
have to and... well, that's it.

What crowd was this movie aimed for? It's pointless and boring for
anyone over five, but the movie is too scary towards the end for anyone
at that age to enjoy.

It's hard to imagine this movie and "The Land Before Time" had the same
directors. How is it even possible?
<|_=00=_|>
A Troll in Central Park is not a terrible film. It's just extremely
sweet and innocent and this world isn't ready for it. Anyone over six
years of age will be embarrassed to watch this - even alone - but
that's more of a societal problem. But there are definitely reasons to
see this. The animation is amazing, particularly with the children.
It's realistic but somehow completely believable in an animated world.
And their movements are so fluid and realistic. You can tell every
action was acted out and studied meticulously. I really wish this was
done more often. The environments also look amazing, especially when
the human world comes into play. As for the cute or humorous sidekicks,
that's another story entirely. It's probably just a personal bias, but
I hate the way Don Bluth designs his more cartoon-y characters. Their
personalities aren't any better, ranging from "cute" to
marshmallow-peep-flavored-vomit "cute".

Anyone who loved The Secret of NIMH will be shocked to see this film. I
mean, how can the same guy who made a progressive, dark and outstanding
film be responsible for this? The story is very fairy-tale esquire,
like a children's storybook come to life. The villains are more
humorous than threatening, the characters spontaneously break into song
and dance and everything is whitewashed with cuteness. This is the
result of Don Bluth finally giving in to the pressures of Disney,
trying to replicate their formula, losing his identity in the process
and ultimately falling flat. Luckily, Anastasia would be a healthy step
up. But for fans of Bluth's one-hit wonder, it's kind of depressing.
<|_=00=_|>
Don Bluth has had his share of ups and downs in his long career. But
this piece of dreck marks the only time he has truly hit rock bottom.

I hesitate to use the word "movie" to describe this bomb because this
is not really a film. It is a lame idea loosely tied together with bad
songs and some of the most saccharine padding and filler you will ever
see in you're life.

The title character is played by Dom DeLuise (a good actor) and he does
what he can with the role but this character is hopeless. He's one
dimensional, annoying and just plain bland. The film's worst
performance is a tie between Cloris Leachman and Charles Nelson Reilly
who play the monarchs of the Kingdom of Trolls. Not only do they seem
to grunt their lines, but they talk over each other! I mean, come on!
Why make a movie where you can barely understand or hear what the
characters are saying? The rest of the cast is pretty disposable. I
personally think Jonathan Pryce should have played King Llort but
that's just me.

But it's not all bad. Some of the songs are OK, DeLuise does what he
can and the animation is typical Bluth: lush and beautiful.

But in the cold light of day, this dreck is simply an insult to the art
of animation.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, I don't think this is Don Bluth's worst film, but it's just an
unfocused mess in the animation industry. The story has some
motivational lessons at first, but the first forty minutes had little
to do with it until the climax, the characters are completely
uninteresting especially the villain who came across as generic, there
are some cutesy filler that got on my nerves, and despite it's
beautiful music score, the songs themselves are really forgettable.
Granted, the animation is beautiful with lots of nice backgrounds and
good character designs and the voice acting is excellent, but those two
flaws are outweighed by the flaws that I've already stated.

I've seen Bluth's better films, but this one, although not the worst,
is a terrible movie. Unless you have kids who would like to watch
something nowadays, fans of Bluth would most likely to avoid this at
all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
A Troll in Central Park also known as Stanley's Magic Garden is one of
those film, that I watch as a child and really didn't like it, then.
Re-watching it as an adult, I know the reasons why. I think the movie
was unintelligent, too cutesy pandering, and just not what I wanted
from a Don Bluth film. The reasons why 1982's The Secret of NIMH,
1988's Land Before Time, and 1986's American Tail; works, is because it
had a complex story with depth that makes it watchable for both adults
and children. There was action, comedy, and great animation. Here, it's
lacking. Honestly, any kid 6 or up, will think of this movie, as baby
drool. If the movie target audience was toddlers, sure it was success,
but if the target audience was kids like myself, at the time, it sure
was a failure. The movie is about Stanley (Voiced by Dom DeLuise) whom
been exile from the Kingdom of Trolls by Queen Gnorga (Voiced by Cloris
Leachman) & King Llort (Voiced by Charles Nelson Reilly). The reason
for this, was to stop him from producing plant life with his green
thumb. Don't know why, they're against it since they need it to breath,
but go with it. I have to say, I do love Queen Gnorga opening song
'Queen of Mean', you truly get why trolls like upsetting people.
Anyways, Gnorga banishes Stanley to New York City where, they believe
has no plant life. Not knowing of them, Stanley finds himself in
Central Park where two children named Gus and Rosie (Voiced by Phillip
Glasser and Tawny Sunshine Glover) help him find his happy place.
Unhappy by these recent results, and determined to suppress Stanley,
Queen Gnorga travels to Central Park, herself, to have a face to face
showdown with the Green Environment and his new-found friends. While
the movie indeed insulting to child intelligence. It somewhat told a
good undermine environment message. Yes, cutting trees are bad, and
planting trees are good. Ironic, ain't it? That the movie waste so much
paper to animated this film, to bring a message of saving trees. The
movie tells it, so awful. Having evil trolls with no redeeming elements
rather than realistic human characters wanted to destroy trees, doesn't
help save the environment. I tell you why! When you make your
characters less human, you suck out the humanity, meaning people are
less likely to see what they could become. Honestly, the 1972's movie,
'The Lorax' told this story, better. This film need to be a cautionary
tale of when someone, anyone, takes too much without realizing it.
'Absolutely Green' is a really positively song about being gentleness,
empathy and living up to your dreams. Still, believing and doing
something about it, are too different things. The movie wants you to
dream for a better world, but the film doesn't give you, any tools or
life lessons to make that happen. The movie kinda underhand the song
message, by having Stanley go as low as Gnorga, by doing violent acts
toward her. Yes, have the courage to fight what you believe, but
turning her into a bush, and the whole NYC green is just malicious.
There is reasons why we're don't live in the Forrest and Jungles, like
our ancestors, because being surround by certain wildlife is dangerous.
Yes, the movie is trying to be innocent, here, but honestly, who in
their right mind, think that New York City is better off a Jungle, has
to be crazy! I have to say, Stanley is an alright character. I know a
lot of people hate him, due to his over optimist attitude. Perhaps
because it contradicts what many people believe, is right. I do agree
ignoring the harsh real movie for a make-believe world is pretty sad.
The character can seem disrespectful and even indifferent to the
challenges faced by many people to the point, it felt like a slap to
the face. People want a realistic truth and mood in their fantasy.
Stanley reminds me of a long-time marijuana smoker who trips out how
the world should be, but has nothing really to show of it. Indeed,
Stanley is surprising a stoner. The entire film could an allegory about
the dangers of conformity. Remind me to Plato's Cave Allegory, a bit
with the character arch of Stanley. Anyways, most of the voice acting
is pretty good. The kids are bit annoying. I really can't stand Gus, he
was a bit too fussy. No character arch as the kid doesn't learn how
respectable, his dad had to work to provide food and shelter for him.
He's still a bit self-egoism in the end of the film. The pacing is not
that good. The movie partake in several minutes of undeluded filler.
Lot of plot-holes and puzzling questions throughout this movie. Some
examples are a four-year-old and his baby sister walk around the
crowded streets of New York, unattended, and nobody notices or thinks
this is suspect? Another one is how the trolls are aware of New York
and know where it is? Indeed, one of reason for this film failing in
the box office was because the film was released without any sign of
promotion and its release was limited. The distributor Warner Bros. did
not have any confidence in the film. That really tells you what they
think of the film. The movie is a form of cinematic torture for adults
and keep children in permanently infantilized. The movie isn't that
bad. The animation is colorful, and well done. It's a notch better than
those cheaply produced animated features that are released in straight
to video releases. Overall: Troll in the Big Rotten Apple is a very bad
troll as it lacks humor, conflict, and sense. Don Bluth had to be
trolling when making this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In the starry sky of the history of animation, Don Bluth stars as one
of the greatest directors to ever grace with his works. He achieved the
record for the highest-grossing animated film outside Disney not once,
but three times (An American Tail, The Land Before Time, Anastasia).

It is said that Don Bluth was the sole major factor that turned Disney
to re-organize their strategies, make "The Little Mermaid", and
ultimately lead to the Renaissance Age Of Animation.

But sadly, now that Disney was awaken again, Don Bluth was overwhelmed
with the competition against them. The issue is complex and I will
explain it in my upcoming review of "The Pebble And The Penguin", which
was the following Don Bluth film.

Now, I will talk about "A Troll In Central Park".

Well the technical features are high-quality, one of the things that
Don Bluth kept in all his filmography no matter if his films were bad.
The film has a colorful, contrasting, lavish animation, one of the
things Don Bluth never compromised. It even has that style of the
'30s-'40s (Snow White, Pinocchio, etc. ) feature films and short
cartoons in the gestures and mannerisms of characters. Rotoscoping,
employed in the children's parents, is also a nice thing to watch.

The music also saves what otherwise would be a forgettable film.
"Gnorga The Queen Of Mean" surprises the public with the sudden
modernity of a Pop rock tune like those of the '80s and '90s (why is it
that most of the times, the villains have the best songs in a film?).
"Absolutely Green" is a poignant song of the kind that makes your eyes
watery, complete with a children choir. The fact that is played in two
powerful, nicely executed moments in the films surely will make, at
least, the youngest of the children cry. Also the background music,
just like the animation, is employed here just like Dumbo and other
films of the early Disney era.

Now, it is when you start analyzing the human features that the film
starts showing its lacks... Tiger and Fievel had an excellent chemistry
going on in "An American Tail"... but it's hard to tell why the same
voice actors (playing Stanley and Gus, respectively) didn't work as
well here. Gnorga has the absolutely best performance of all the film,
with an outstanding job of Cloris Leachman in a rather weird role, who
clearly enjoys being so hammy and troll-like. Llort is the other
performance that passes the exam, although Gnorga wins all the awards
by far. As an Argentine I tried to find the dub for this film, but it
was never screened in Latin America so only the Spanish dub from Spain
was made. I watched the Spanish dub and then the original English. I
liked the original one for the voices of Stanley, the kids and their
parents, but the Spanish dub is way better for the voices of Gnorga and
Llort. Wow, even the Gnorga's song is upgraded from their pretty simple
original lyrics and adds way more vocabulary and intricate things!

Now, about the story... well, it's hard to call this a "story". And
mind you, I'm a Don Bluth fan but even I admit this film failures. The
film has many scenes and passages that seem shallow and simply don't go
nowhere, plot-wise, such as Gus and Rosie playing in the park with
balloons, boats or butterflies. The musical number of the flowers to
cheer Rosie, in another passage, also qualifies. All these scenes make
the film seem more like an "anecdote" of the children stroll in the
park, but then again, this method can still be done well. Miyazaki
proved in "My Neighbor Totoro" that you don't have to have a
plot-driven, rather "Western-style" kind of storytelling, but also you
can go in another way, with a rather "anecdote" or "trip" kind of
story. But you don't see in "A Troll In Central Park" the gracefulness
in which Miyazaki could present those kind of stories.

The film also seems to lack more soul, "Rock-a-Doodle" and "Thumbelina"
are also among the failures of Don Bluth, but it was their loads and
loads of characters that helped to give more substance and charm to the
films. Here you have too few characters, in a film with many
claustrophobic sceneries (a dark kingdom, an underground cave, barren
lands...)

And when all is said and done, you have to look up to the info and find
that this film budget was of $23.5 million, but only made $71,368... no
words. This was one of the lowest grossing films of all time, one of
the most notable box-office bombs (though not the greatest bomb of Don
Bluth)

So, even with the animation, the music, and Gnorga to redeem the film
and lift the rating, this is such a poorly executed, so underwhelming
film, with so many fails and lacks, and such a failure for costing
$23.5 million and only making 71 thousand dollars, that I will rate it
3/10. The reason I'm not rating this 1/10 is because of the
aforementioned lifting factors.

But luckily, even if this is the worst Don Bluth film, both critically
and financially, "A Troll In Central Park" will never be among the 10
worst animated films of all time, not even among the 20 worst ever...
for Don Bluth, even in the misery and the mediocrity, still had his
signature charm and willpower that made him one day leave Disney, and
start an animation studio of his own.
