
This is an outstanding thriller, a movie I have always enjoyed watching
since it came out. Apparently a number of people also did since a few
sequels followed featuring the main character ex-CIA analyst "Jack
Ryan," played by Harrison Ford.

Sean Bean was excellent as the revenge-obsessed villain, a member of a
"splinter group," as its labeled not really an IRA extremist, but one
too out-of- control for any group. Ford is the man best able to stop
him and the film is very interesting start-to-finish and smart enough
not to overdo the violence. Suspenseful is probably the best word to
describe the movie as Bean goes after Ford's family. 

Anne Archer, as Ford's wife, along with the rest of the cast, actors
such as Patrick Bergen, James Earl Jones, James Fox, Richard Harris and
a young Thora Birch make this a well- acted movie.

This is simply one of the best thrillers I've ever seen and almost
every scene is interesting.
<|_=00=_|>

OK, so it has some plot holes, and I generally spend a good amount of time
detailing for my husband the deviations from the novel (which are many,
since Hollywood doesn't make many five-hour movies).  And it's predictable
and artless and has plenty of clichés.  I make it a point not to read IMDB
reviews for a movie until after I've written my own, but even so I can guess
that this one has been torn apart on these points probably at least a dozen
times.  Now that that's over with, I'm going to admit that I like this
movie.  It feels like a tight thriller, good for those nights when I want
entertainment with some minor complexity.  I like to "go along for the
ride", so to speak, even though I know how it ends.  And going back to the
first time I saw this, before I'd read the book, I remember being on the
edge of my seat quite a bit.

Thora Birch does this film a lot of good.  Her expressions and lines are
quite well-acted, and she's cute without being syrupy.  Harrison Ford is
Harrison Ford; you either like him or you don't, and this movie isn't going
to change your  mind (I happen to like him).

Don't go renting this one if you want an artsy movie, or a beautiful movie,
or a movie with a perfectly tight script.  But if you can enjoy a film for
simple entertainment value, and you like Harrison Ford ;), this is a good
one for after the kids are in bed.
<|_=00=_|>

If I were to make a quick summary of this movie, it would be "a good, but
not great, action flick."  I don't think this movie was intended to be
innovative, to be great, to be memorable.  What it was intended to be was
entertaining, and it lived up to this expectation.

Harrison Ford is the master of remaining as low-key as possible.  He has
had
so many films where he can over-emphasize, over-dramatize, and simply
over-act.  Ford has the maturity to keep this from happening, and he does
so
again in this film.  Ford is supported quite well with such
actors/actresses
as James Earl Jones (reprising his role as Greer from The Hunt for Red
October), Samuel L. Jackson, and Anne Archer.  For an action flick, acting
is much above average.

It was also suspenseful...thrilling.  I thought the ending had a nice
build-up and climax.  I realize this is different from the book's
ending...but remember, these are two different visions...not the same one.
This brings up a big point in movie-watching:  Comparing a movie to a book
is the worst thing you can do.  They are two completely different genres.
More importantly, as I said before, they are two different
visions.

I'm not a big action fan.  I used to be, but anymore most stories are the
same.  To this end I would say Patriot Games is fairly mainstream.
However,
it was always fun to watch and sometimes thrilling to watch.  I'm also not
a
big Tom Clancy fan, but I've given the movies based off his books a shot
because again they are different visions.  The result is (at least with
Patriot Games) a good film to watch on a Saturday night with a bowl of
popcorn.  Don't expect great things, but don't expect to be disappointed,
either.

Rating:  7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Harrison Ford kicks some major butt in
this film and proves again that he is the
leading action star of his generation.
Ford's action movie's never really seem
silly, they always seem real. Alec Baldwin
should have never let the character of Jack
Ryan go, because Ford now personifies the
super agent. Nice direction from Phillip
Noyce and a great score from James Horner
make this a very good action film.  
<|_=00=_|>
Patriot Games is a more than serviceable thriller, perhaps a bit out of
date when viewing it now, but still a very effective good against evil
piece. The source material is so dense and intricate it was always
going to be hard to condense that into a 2 hour movie but I feel the
makers manage to keep it fleshy whilst making the respective characters
interesting and watchable. The acting on show is more than adequate,
Harrison Ford is great in the role of Jack Ryan, he manages to portray
him as a sensitive family man who can step up to the plate when things
get ugly, and Anne Archer is solid enough as the wife and mother caught
up in the web of nastiness unfolding.

The baddies are led by the brooding Sean Bean who is a little under
written, whilst Richard Harris is sadly underused, but the action set
pieces make their mark and thankfully we get a riveting final reel that
cements the steady ride we have under taken. It is formulaic to a
degree, but that is OK if the combined efforts of all involved are spot
on, and here they are, 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Patriot Games is a very well done
action movie. I didn't feel dumbed
down by the plot and everyone took
their role seriously. Harrison Ford is
the best action star of his generation
and this movie is a brillant example
of how Hollywood can sometimes make a
good action picture. The film is well
cast and the direction by Phillip
Noyce is top notch. Patriot Games is
well worth your while, especially if
you like smart action pictures and
Harrison Ford.
<|_=00=_|>

In Patriot Games, the always reliable Harrison Ford stars as reluctant
action hero Jack Ryan in Phillip Noyce's adaptation of Tom Clancy's Patriot
Games. Good suspenseful action sequences always entertain, though the
climatic boat chase isn't as impressive as it should be because it was
filmed at night. Sean Bean is convincing and suprisingly sympathetic as IRA
freedom fighter Sean Miller who lets his yearnings for revenge lead him
astray from his cause. The talented James Earl Jones and Richard Harris are
woefully underutilized though that's understandable considering this film is
primarily a confrontation between Ford's Ryan and Bean's Miller. Solid if
unspectacular, 7/10.

<|_=00=_|>

I have wanted to see this film for quite a while now. Ive
seen
The Hunt For Red October(1990), and Clear and Present Danger(1994),
and
Patriot Games is much better than them. Patriot Games is a
great
thinking man's thriller, although its much less difficult to
follow
than "Clear and Present Danger". It has plenty of suspense and
action,
and Ford's acting is terrific. I am so surprised that Patriot
Games
is often considered the worst Clancy film, and "The Hunt For Red October"
considered the best, but I think it should be the other way around. Overall
a great suspenseful movie. 9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

I have read all of the Tom Clancy fiction books and the first time I
saw the Patriot Games I was very disappointed that the movie didn't
follow the book more closely. I feel that the incident in England, the
way it happened in the book is much more exciting and entertaining than
the movie and it carries over to the gathering at the Ryan's home later
in the movie and the ending in the book is even more dramatic. But,
after watching the movie a few more times and reading the book several
more times I realized that because there is so much that happens in the
book, there is no way to fit it in the movie. I have come to the
conclusion that the story line in the movie has captured the basic tale
involved showing the type of person Jack Ryan is and the principals
that he stands for throughout all of Tom Clancy's books.

<|_=00=_|>
Patriot Games is a very suspenseful movie with great acting. This is
the second Tom Clancy novel adapted to the big screen after the Hunt
for Red October. I think that this movie is better than Red October.
However, I heard Clancy didn't think so.

In this film, Jack Ryan and his family are in London. Ryan happens to
be in the area where Irish terrorists attempt to kill the Lord Holmes.
After Ryan saves Holmes, he makes himself and his family targets to the
Irish. Will Ryan be able to protect his family? 

The acting is very good. It's great they were able to get Harrison
Ford. He's a fantastic actor. Sean Bean plays a wonderful villain. I
was happy to see Richard Harris and Samuel L. Jackson.

Overall, this is a fun, thrilling movie. I rate this film 9/10.
