
Ask most men within a decade of my age in either direction to list the
100 best movie scenes of all time, and the scene from "Wayne's World"
where they sing/lip sync Bohemian Rhapsody in the car will be on more
lists than not. It might even make every list. Not designed for the
"critically acclaimed" snob set, Wayne's World, the film adaptation of
the extremely popular Saturday Night Live skit by the same name,
targets its audience perfectly and never even enters the water, let
alone jumps any sharks. The movie is true to itself from start to
finish.

The bedrock of the film, as well as the skit, is the unbending
friendship of Wayne and Garth. Most children have one best friend who
stands out above all others, and there's no mistaking that Wayne (SNL
alum Mike Myers) and Garth (SNL alum Dana Carvey) have that type of
friendship. The best friends host a cable access show in Aurora,
Illinois, also sharing the skit's title. Other SNL alums, such as Brian
Doyle-Murray (Noah) and Chris Farley (a concert security guard), round
out the cast.

The plot centers around an opportunistic television producer named
Benjamin Kane (Rob Lowe), who, with funding from an arcade owner, turns
Wayne's World into a slickly produced national show, causing it to lose
touch with its audience, and causing friction between Wayne and Garth,
who feel they have sold out their fans and their roots. A love interest
is tossed to Wayne in the form of Cassandra (Tia Carerre), in
triangular form due to the attention paid to her by Kane as well as
Wayne.

The pop-culture cuisinart responsible for most of the SNL skits was
working in overdrive in this film, and that's a good thing. Everything
from product placements, to gratuitous sex, to lame plot devices were
lampooned. Rob Lowe was excellent as the sleazeball junior television
executive, while cameos abound from the rock world, including Alice
Cooper and Meat Loaf. Though not publicized as much as the other
quotables from the movie, my personal favorite scene was when Wayne and
Garth were each laying on parked cars, and Garth starts whistling the
closing theme from Star Trek.

SNL-based movies have been hit-or-miss since their inception, but this
was unquestionably a hit.
<|_=00=_|>

Wayne's World is a silly yet utterly hilarious look at two dimwits (based
on
they're SNL skit Mike Myers and Dana Carvey) who have their own public
access TV show called "Waynes World".  The story thickens to a nice touch
with Rob Lowe as a big time hot-shot who wants to bring their show to big
heights.  Tia Carrere has never been hotter as the woman who Wayne wants
and
"we'll be mine".  Many sight gags, many good lines, and probably all
quotable, this movie (like Myers' Austin Powers) belongs in a place in
comedy film history.  A++
<|_=00=_|>

The cultural references of Wayne's World may date it a bit, but the 
nature and personality of its humor set it apart. There is a kind of
naive benevolence and boundless joy which makes this movie so
lovable. Its aimless plot and exaggerated humor are cute, without
ever transcending that barrier into maudlin sentiment. This is a
difficult mix to achieve, especially when so many comedians go
out of their way to achieve "street credibility" through as much
forced vulgarity and stereotypical humor as possible.
Campbell and Carvey's characters were the ultimate comedic
anti-heroes for generation X, even more so than Jay and Silent
Bob, Bill and Ted, or Beavis and Butthead. They championed
amateurism, paraded self-affecting humor, and became 
worshiped for telling everyone they weren't worthy. If '60s pop
culture encouraged people to "do your own thing," Wayne and
Garth were the genuine article in the '90s. Two complete geeks
had fun acting as themselves, and became celebrated in the
process. One of the true comedy classics of our time.
8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Remember how wildly popular this one was when it came out? "Wayne's
World" didn't completely live up to all of the hype, but it's not a bad
little comedy. Mike Myers and Dana Carvey are great as Wayne Campbell
and Garth Algar, co-hosts of a basement-based cable access show. The
duo seem to have it made when their show hits the commercial airwaves,
but there might just be something sinister behind it all with executive
Benjamin Kane (Rob Lowe) in charge.

"Wayne's World" is not generally uproarious, but it certainly has its
moments (the backstage scene with Alice Cooper, portraying the
leather-clad rocker and his bandmates as political sophisticates, is
hilarious). Myers' act wears a bit thin as the film proceeds, and the
"serious" stretch in which Wayne seemingly loses his girlfriend and
best friend just doesn't fit. But even when it's not funny, "Wayne's
World" is usually reasonably entertaining and charming. Carvey's
bizarre Garth is one of the highlights, along with some memorable
parodies and writing.

Based on the popular "Saturday Night Live" sketch, "Wayne's World" is
definite period piece of the early 1990s. Its catchphrases ("... not!"
and "Schwing!" among them) were repeated millions of times over by
teenagers. It spawned a less-successful sequel, and although there was
talk of a third installment, it's almost a certainty we've seen the
last of Wayne and Garth. Nevertheless, party on!
<|_=00=_|>

WAYNE'S WORLD is actually one of the best SNL-inspired comedies ever made. 
Mike Myers and Dana Carvey are way cool as Wayne and Garth.  It's just
shameful that the movie contains mostly wasted music...HYUH, RIGHT, if
monkeys fly out of my butt.  I think it the music here is excellent.  Tia
Carerre is hot as Wayne's love interest, and Rob Lowe does a fine job as the
con artist who buys Wayne and Garth's show.  Believe me, it's
worthy.

4 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>

I saw Waynes world ten years ago and I still find it funny even now.It is
about two airheads who run their own TV show and don't get anything for
it..They are soon visited by a businessman who exploits them for the
show.

Waynes world even after ten years I still find it funny.It spoofs so many
things and it just makes me laugh.It also has a good storyline to play along
with.I reccomend watching Waynes world and the sequel in one night to see
what you think.
You will enjoy it.I rate 4/5.
<|_=00=_|>
Penelope Spheeris (also of the Decline of Western Civilization Series
and Suburbia) was chosen as the director of Mike Myers and Dana
Carvey's SNL creation. This is the film that catapulted both comedians'
careers into the stratosphere. 1992 is an interesting time in
alternative rock history between the peak of grunge in 1991, and the
coming crest of the "punk revival" in 1994 with Green Day, Offspring
and Rancid. Wayne's World reveled in this new "alternative rock," music
a concept which was at the time much more flexible than it is now. Rife
with irony, alternative rock was eventually the name given to the music
that blended aspects of rock, metal, punk, pop, and eclectic
"weirdness." While Wayne is the more metal half of the excellent duo,
Garth is the grunge/nerd/"punk" side of the equation. 

Heavy metal rock and roll fandom provides the backdrop for a non-stop
train wreck of social satire. Only in 1992; and only in Meyer's and
Carvey's comedic genius could Aurora, Illinois ever seem so cool.
Wayne's World, in the film's plot, is the name of a Cable Access
television show (dare I say "DIY") hosted by Wayne Campbell and Garth
Algar. Rob Lowe plays Benjamin, an advertising scout/producer who is
looking for talent to promote a chain of video game arcade stores. He
finds his muse in the low-brow witticism, promptly signs the boys, and
sets them up in a proper television studio. A battle ensues between Ben
and Wayne for the affection of one way-hot Cassandra (Tia Carrere) who
is easily lured away from Wayne at the first flourish of Benjamin's
bountiful extravagance. Wayne and Garth's plans to win back Cassandra
culminate in the film's tripartite finale. 

"...with an underlying revisionist's conceit that belied the film's
emotional attachments to the subject matter..." the film was truly
entertaining, whimsical, and relevant. And to reassure Garth; No, it
did not suck.
<|_=00=_|>
While Mike Myers may be better known for Austin Powers and Shrek,
'Wayne's World' was the film that really brought his comedic genius to
the mainstream public. Originally a Saturday Night Live sketch about
Wayne (Myers) and Garth (the underrated Dana Carvey) about two friends
who start a public access cable TV show in their basement, it's one of
the best (if not the best) SNL-to-film adaptations ever.

While the plot is fairly simple, where WW really shines is its clever
humour. It highlights and subverts the rules of film narrative,
something Myers carried over into Austin Powers, a trait which is
lacking in the more predictable comedies of today (especially the awful
"parody" films). Wayne and Garth talk directly to camera (which only
they are allowed to do), there's blatant product placement, pop culture
parodies, guest appearances, the famous Bohemian Rhapsody headbanging
scene and funny alternate endings. Top that off with the slew of silly
jokes and endlessly quotable lines (including one of the first uses of
the phrase "that's what she said"), and you have a film which – even
nearly twenty years later – still strikes a chord with viewers,
regardless of their age. Even towards the end, when the need to wrap up
the story cleanly can ruin many comedies, 'Wayne's World' still retains
its sense of humour, a prime example being Wayne's "Oscar winning"
speech to win back Cassandra (Tia Carrere).

If you feel like a laugh or want to relive some memories, then you
could do far worse than check out 'Wayne's World'. Excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in the early 90's, Saturday Night Live was brought back to life
with a great cast. Among them were Mike Myers and Dana Carvey who
created some of the most memorable characters Wayne Campbell and Garth
Algar. A bunch of Saturday Night Live movies were released, some were
gigantic hits like Blues Brothers and some were misses Coneheads(which
I loved by the way). Wayne's World was nothing on Saturday Night Live
but two stoners who just ragged on things, how could you make it into a
full feature length film? Not only did Penelope Spheeris do it, she
knocked it out of the ball park with Wayne's World. It's one of the
funniest movies that you could ever see with one of the most memorable
scenes in comedy history making "Bohemian Rhapsody" by Queen shoot back
up to number one on the charts.

Wayne Campbell and Garth Algar are the hosts of Wayne's World in
Aurora, Illinois, where they ogle pictures of beautiful celebrity
women, play air guitar and drums, and interview local people,
indirectly making fun of them over. One day Benjamin, a television
station executive, when he finds out how many people watch the show, he
instructs his producer Russell Finley to find out where the show is
taped, telling him they may have an opportunity for a huge sponsorship.
Benjamin shows up next week in Wayne's basement and introduces himself
after the show ends. He offers to buy the rights to the show and to
keep Wayne and Garth on for what he describes as a "huge" salary.
Little do they know that they are about to be sold out.

The cast had this absolutely amazing chemistry that made this film work
in all the right places adding new characters with Tia Carrere, Rob
Lowe, and Kurt Fuller. I love this scene where Wayne and his girlfriend
Cassandra go into a music store and he starts the riff on the guitar
playing Led Zepplin's song "Stairway to Heaven" and the sales associate
points to the sign that says "No Stairway to Heaven", thank you for
that message! I love Wayne's reaction to it as well "No Stairway?
Denied!", too funny. Also they meet Alice Cooper, who I met as a little
girl, and he is one of the most intelligent people you could meet in
real life and I loved how they captured it in this movie showing that
Alice is a character, in real life he's incredibly intelligent, gentle
and cool. He tells Wayne and Garth to hang with them and they just get
down on their knees screaming "We're not worthy!" and he leans his hand
out so they could kiss it! I nearly died laughing at the scene where
the T2 pulls Wayne over showing him the picture of John Conner "Have
you seen this boy?". I loved the multiple endings. There isn't a thing
I would change with this movie, it's a great comedy that is just
guaranteed to make you laugh till your sides hurt. I highly recommend
it, it's party time.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wayne's World (1992)

*** (out of 4)

Highly entertaining big-screen version of the Saturday Night Live skit
has best buds Wayne Campbell (Mike Myers) and Garth Algar (Dana Carvey)
partying and doing their public television show without much stress in
their lives. This all changes once they meet up with a crooked producer
(Rob Lowe) who decides to exploit their show. WAYNE'S WORLD isn't one
of the greatest movies ever made but it's certainly charming and funny
enough for what it is. I'd also say it's safe to say that this is one
of the better SNL transitions to the movies and a lot of the credit has
to go to its two stars. I think both Wayne and Garth would be downright
annoying characters had the performances been off in any way but both
Myers and Carvey really took these guys and made them, at times, stupid
but also very charming and just the type of people you'd want to hang
out with. There are all sorts of funny moments throughout the picture
but the real highlights deal with the boys and their interactions with
other people. Lara Lynn Boyle as Wayne's ex-girlfriend gets all sorts
of funny moments as does Brian Doyle-Murray who ends up being a sponsor
who gets on the wrong side of Wayne. There's also Ed O'Neill in a small
role as well as Meat Loaf and Chris Farley. Also on hand is a terrific
bit from Alice Cooper who nearly steals the film with the performance
of "Feed My Frankenstein" and the hilarious backstage access where he
talks about Milwaukee. Lowe also deserves a lot of credit with his
comedy here as he's perfect as the snake in the grass. Even Tia Carrere
does a nice job. Director Penelope Spheeris does a very good job at
keeping the film moving at a very good pace and there's no question
that she knows how to stage the various bits of classic rock music
throughout. Fans of the SNL material are certainly going to eat this up
as its as fresh today as it was when it was first released.
