
If your idea of a dark comedy is something like "Beetlejuice" or
"Deathtrap" or "Heathers", then watch out. This one makes them look
like Peewee's Playhouse.

You know how certain horror movies cross over into comedy? Like when
Freddy Krueger says "Welcome to prime time b!tch!!" and slams a girl's
head into the TV? Well, this is the opposite: comedy crossing over into
horror. It gets pretty weird, and if you're not expecting it, it can be
downright upsetting.

I think that's what makes so many people hate this movie. With an
all-star comedic cast like it has, it promises to be a laugh riot like
the DVD cover says. I was expecting something like "Ghostbusters" meets
"Fletch" meets "Summer Rental". Instead it's more like "Planes, Trains
& Automobiles" meets "Deliverance". In other words the comedy is very
low-key, not quite enough to offset the disturbing story.

Dan Akroyd, who plays a sadistic murdering judge, is just plain
frightening. John Candy, who plays the sympathetic policeman, gives the
story an air of tragedy. Chevy Chase is his usual wisecracking self,
but it can't compete with the horror & violence of the plot (being
trapped in a hicktown house while people are getting brutally murdered
all around you). You really have to be ready for it, otherwise you
might end up traumatized. The "Bonestripper" scene will give lifelong
nightmares to any kid under the age of 12, as well as impressionable
adults.

But now that you've been warned, perhaps you'll be able to take it in
stride. I'm not sure if writer Dan Akroyd intended this to be so
nightmarish, but it sure is. Definitely a one-of-a-kind. NOT for young
kids!!
<|_=00=_|>
I, unlike a lot of others, found this movie to be extremely funny- both
in a smart way and a sort of gross out way. Chevy Chase is really funny
with his sort of smart-ass, dry wit, probably his best performance
after Christmas Vacation. From the movies I've seen Demi Moore in, this
ranks as her best and shows that she can do comedy. Dan Akroyd and John
Candy each pull double duty in this one and do it well- I couldn't even
tell the second character Dan was playing until the credits rolled. The
sets are unreal- from the junkyard (complete with piles and PILES of
random junk and the Baby Huey-esquire Lil' Debil and Bobo) to the house
of the honorable judge, it's hard to believe they actually put this
together. Don't take everybody's word, check it out and you won't be
sorry...
<|_=00=_|>

This isn't a four star classic.  This isn't a motion picture epic to be
adored for ages to come.  This is not the measuring stick by which all
comedies should be measured.  However,  this movie has gotten a bad
reputation,  undeservedly so.  So,  what is this movie?  It's a harmless,
mindless romp through an amusing storyline played out by the witty rapport
of the core characters.  The sight gags and slapstick,  while cliche' and
childish,  are sure to bring a slight giggle.  What's more fun than a judge
who's idea for a great execution is dumping the accused in a rollercoaster
called the "Bonestripper?"  (Complete with Damn Yankees theme music,  no
less.)  The performance of the Digital Underground brings a shimmer of
surrealism to the whole ordeal.  No,  this isn't the best movie in the
world,  but it's far from the worst.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is bound to become a cult legend, and shows Dan Aykroyd at his
finest.  I highly recommend it to anyone who finds humor in the absurd.
The
film, though bizarre, reflects society in an uncanny way.  Somehow, the
characters portrayed in the movie seem strangely familiar, and this can
even
be unsettling (where have I seen them before?).  A lot of work went into
this film, and it should, IMHO, be taken very seriously as comic art of the
highest form.  I gave it this film a 9 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
I look up all of the movies I watch on IMDb, and I'm surprised that
this one is so disliked. I think the main reason is that with a cast of
such comedy legends as Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd and John Candy, people
were expecting a more conventional comedy. Most of their audience was
probably expecting something along of the lines of "The Couch Trip",
"Delirious" or "Fletch". I think people like me, who appreciate campy
horror films like "2001 Maniacs", "The Butcher" and any of the "Texas
Chainsaw Massacre" series, are more likely to find some humor in this
film.

Thanks to the remarkably bland title, I had no idea that this was a
comedy with a horror twist when I found it on a cable channel. The
completely pointless start of the film, which involves a party and some
sort of talk of some sort of business deal, also doesn't hint at what
the film is really about. It isn't until the protagonists get arrested
that all of the fun starts.

What follows is something in between comedy and horror. It skews more
towards horror, with tons of gross-out scenes thanks to Dan Aykroyd's
various grotesque characters. There are tons of bones, but not a lot of
blood. Unlike conventional horror movies, where body-counts are
generally in the double digits, only one group of ne'er-do-wells end up
slaughtered over the course of the film. Even the two annoying
ancillary characters who are along for the ride, who would be dead meat
in any real horror film, end up getting a reprieve and a happy ending.

By far the strangest part, and my personal favorite, is the musical
performance in the middle of the film. When I saw a limo pulling up in
a scene halfway through the film, I thought, okay here come some more
victims. I was surprised to say the least that the occupants of the
vehicle turned out to be the entire Digital Underground crew, including
the instantly recognizable Shock G (aka Humpty Hump)! Instead of being
murdered, they all perform a song (unfortunately not their one major
hit, the far superior "Humpty Hump"). You can even see the late-great
Tupac Shakur as one of the members of Digital Underground, before he
started his solo career. I would recommend this film to anyone just for
this surreal moment, but if you have no idea who Tupac or Digital
Underground are then you probably won't enjoy it as much.

After a few fake endings and the actual goofy cartoon ending, the movie
is over. All in all, it doesn't have that many laughs, and it's
definitely not scary, but it is rarely boring. The Digital Underground
cameo is excellent and the cast plays their roles well. This is
certainly not the best movie I've seen, but I would rank it better than
any bad comedy and most bad horror movies. In fact, I'd say this film
is just a few buckets of blood and a few crazy gross-out scenes away
from a cult classic.
<|_=00=_|>
A movie you can watch when you want lots of interesting characters,
scenery, and complete nonsense everywhere you look. This movie was
never intended to be an intellectual masterpiece...it was made to make
people laugh, and to entertain. On many levels its very similar to
movies like Scary movie, and the burbs...which have decent ratings. I
just don't understand the average person these days, and what they seem
to like about anything. Movies like traffic get 10's, and movies like
this get 3.5's...traffic was a total bore fest, and this movie kept me
entertained. Before everyone starts thinking "this guy is out to lunch"
Keep in mind that one of my favorite movies of all time is Brazil..a
movie which got amazing reviews, and in my opinion is equally as
unsettling.
<|_=00=_|>
Hi there, Monstermaster13 here with a review. This review is for
Nothing But Trouble - and underrated gem of a movie that came out into
the early 90's.

Apparently loosely based on a true story, the movie stars Dan Akyroyd
(it's also directed by him as well), Chevy Chase, Demi Moore and the
always great and (it pains me to say this) late John Candy.

Chevy Chase and Demi Moore play a couple who end up in the town of
Valkanvania after having a run in with the police, and the end up at
the judge's house where they meet the crazy J.P Valkanheiser and Bobo
and Lil Debul as well as the police cop's sister Eldona (also played by
John Candy).

The judges house is filled with all sorts of kooky mechanical devices,
and all sorts of hijinks insue in this.

A lot of critics tend to bash this one on the grounds of it's plot, but
it's supposed to be weird because it's a black comedy and it doesn't
have to make sense for you to enjoy it.

I heavily recommend watching this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm also kind of surprised by the bad reviews this movie had, i've
always considered it a good dark-adventure for teens. I'm really not
sure this is so far away of the well-respected Stand by me (7.7) and
The Goonies (7.5)...

Many good things could be said about it: 

- it has a great set, the house craziness and oppression is perfectly
transmitted through it

- Good acting here, by Dan Aykroyd and John Candy

- the Digital Underground surprising performance

- Demi Moore, with some weight overload on her legs, but still looking
great, showing us that anorexia is not always needed on screen

- Disgusting scenes all over the movie, just because that's what the
movie is about!

And above all, it entertains. It never goes down, it's fun, not in a
lol way, in a 80's movie way, which makes it nicer and more unique. We
know this kind of movies won't be done again, we know that kind of
magic is gone, and that's what makes them worth to rescue and defend
from despective reviews. If you see it around, give it a try, you'll
find something quite different of what movies are all about now
<|_=00=_|>
A very unique and underrated movie! If you like the three movies
mentioned in the summary, you will probably like this movie. This is
Dan Aykroyd's baby, written, directed, and starring. Aykroyd's
characterization of the "Shire Reeve" (origin of the word Sheriff)
totally makes the movie, as does Mr. Bonestripper, souped-up police
cars, and John Candy playing against type as the nice-but-tough Chief
Constable. Some really amazing sets here, pre-CGI. In my opinion this
movie has only two weaknesses: 1. It's a little slow getting started
with a protracted dinner party prologue, and 2. The two giant mutant
baby grandchildren that live out in the junkyard are just too
cartoonish, and not funny at all. But the rest of the movie is great,
well worth your while. I particularly enjoy anticipating what ruling
the Reeve is going to hand out with each case, and the conclusion of
the State Police raid is also a great moment!
<|_=00=_|>
I think I watched this film first on television and liked it....then I
bought the DVD years later and loved it. I find this flick amusing,
imaginative with good performances. So why was this film an ultimate
flop at the box office? I didn't watch this picture because of any
special actors who play in it. I believe a reason for this one being a
flop is that people have a certain expectation if movie stars they love
are performing...They are frustrated when they don't recognize Dan
Aykroyd in make-up, when John Candy plays entertaining but without
being overly funny and when Demi Moore is not as heart-wrenching as in
'Ghost'. That is and will be always an issue if you are a filmmaker for
instance and have stars in your picture. They pull away quite some
focus from the rest of the movie...Also, this film is a little gross at
times and maybe for a big budget comedy people where not ready for that
yet. I'd say this film was ahead of its time. One prove for that,
supposedly 'Nothing but Trouble' has achieved a little cult status over
the years.
