
This is not one of the more famous (author) John Grisham based-movies
and it's a bit talky for my normal tastes, but it was interesting. You
can thank Chris O'Donnell and Gene Hackman for two excellent acting
performances which helped make this so entertaining in spots.

O'Donnell plays young attorney "Adam Hall" (shades of Matt Damon's
character in another Grisham movie, "The Rainmaker"). Meanwhile, it's
no surprise that Hackman gives us another fascinating performance, this
time as the attorney's brutally racist grandfather, "Sam Cayhall." He's
been imprisoned for a murder and O'Donnell is trying to release him
from a death sentence. Hackman's performance elevates from a "fair" to
a "good" movie. While O'Donnell is trying to do his job, a few
revelations occur considering his Klansman grandpa. Faye Dunaway also
is in here and has a memorable scene with "Sam."

Yes, the critics were right in that this could have been better but
they were off base blasting this film. It's still an entertaining film,
and they forget the value of that.
<|_=00=_|>
For me, this is the best role of Hackman's career, and one of Oscar's
most overlooked roles. His character was as revolting, cold, and
repugnantly racist as a human being could be, but Hackman played Sam
Cayhall as a person with a surprising depth and emotion that, although
you couldn't exactly like him, you find yourself quietly hoping his
death penalty will be overturned as he plumbs the depths of his evil
deeds and confronts his past. 

The scene when Fay Dunaway's Lee Cayhall Bowen comes to see Sam in the
hours before his execution is as good as it gets. Lee asks if Sam would
have killed Joe Lincoln when she was young had she spoken up, Sam tells
her yes. You KNOW, you SEE, that he wouldn't have, but in seeing the
toll that the guilt of a lifetime of believing it was her fault had
exacted from his daughter, Sam lied. Sam redeemed her sanity in that
lie, gave her life the peace she never had and, in many ways, redeemed
himself.

Although Dunaway is only 11 years younger than Hackman, she handily
pulls off the role of Cayhall's emotional, conflicted and alcoholic
daughter Lee. She has spent her life hiding from whom she is, both from
the community and herself, the crimes of her father, and the stigma it
has brought.

Chris O'Donnell is just as good as Sam's grandson, Adam Hall, who is
now a lawyer. Hall's father had changed the family surname to also
escape the stigma of being the son of the murdering Klansman Cayhall.
Apparently by design, Hall works for the firm who handles his
grandfather's case, although he keeps his grandfather's identity a
secret until he requests to take on the final death penalty appeal.
Along the way, Hall learns the unpleasant reality of who he is, the
bitter hate and ugliness bred into his grandfather, and insight into
the truth of why his father had committed suicide when Hall was a young
boy.

This film, although unpleasant in theme, is full of stellar
performances and by far the most nuanced and conflicted character Gene
Hackman has ever played. If you haven't seen The Chamber, get it, it's
worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Chamber" is worth seeing for one reason -- a superb performance by
Gene Hackman. As a Ku Klux Klansman on death row for the murder of a
civil rights lawyer and his children, he is crusty, belligerent,
alternately fierce and thoughtful, a man whose eyes often contradict
the hate he is spewing. Unfortunately, "The Chamber" was helmed by
James Foley whose direction tends to be heavy-handed and humorless. The
result is to squeeze a lot of the style and irony from the Grisham
original -- and to make what was good storytelling in print seem
threadbare on screen. Chris O'Donnell does a workmanlike job as
Hackman's grandson, a young lawyer who is determined to save Hackman
from execution for murky reasons -- and who foolishly drops in on a
"good ol' boy" rally to get his head kicked in . Faye Dunaway
contributes boozy hysterics as Hackman's daughter who has made the jump
from "poor white trash" to southern belle. Not a great movie. But watch
it for Hackman and you'll see screen acting at its best.
<|_=00=_|>
Idealistic attorney Chris O'Donnell (as Adam Hall) goes down to
Mississippi, to take on the "death row clemency case of his onetime
Klansman grandfather" Gene Hackman (as Sam Cayhall). "With just 28 days
before the execution, Adam sets out to retrace the events leading to
the crime for which Sam was convicted. As the impending death sentence
looms closer, Adam works quickly to uncover the family's history for
any hidden clues. In a white-knuckle series of twists and turns, Adam
discovers deceptions and dark secrets that ultimately lead him to the
startling truth," according to the DVD sleeve's synopsis.

"White-knuckled"? Indeed not. "The Chamber" (as in gas chamber) starts
off very well; and, Mr. Hackman's portrayal of the yellow-teethed
racist is worth a look. Faye Dunaway (as Lee Cayhall Bowman) has a
showy supporting role. All in all, the film's personnel portends a much
better story than the one which appears on screen. Building up a
romance between blue-eyed Mr. O'Donnell and brown-skinned Lela Rochon
(as Nora Stark) seems like such an obvious way to improve the story
(whether or not it was done in the John Grisham novel), you've got to
wonder how on Earth they missed the obvious.

***** The Chamber (10/11/96) James Foley ~ Chris O'Donnell, Gene
Hackman, Faye Dunaway
<|_=00=_|>
A movie that you expect to be a courtroom drama actually turns out to
be the story of a family and its past, as young lawyer Adam Hall (Chris
O'Donnell) finds himself digging through several generations of family
skeletons after he takes on the case of his grandfather Sam Cayhall
(Gene Hackman), a racist scumbag found guilty years before of a
Mississippi bombing that killed two Jewish children and now set to die
in the gas chamber in less than a month unless Adam can find some way
of commuting the death sentence.

The clear highlight of the movie is Hackman's performance. He was
believable in a movie in which he's definitely cast against type. He
becomes the epitome of the racist scumbag he's portraying, and yet the
character's nature is also softened by the writers, who introduce
uncertainties about Cayhall's level of involvement in the bombing and
who raise the possibility that he may be feeling remorse for what
happened. Cayhall in the end even does something somewhat noble. His
daughter (played by Faye Dunaway) - who witnessed him murder a black
man in an incident years before - has been haunted with guilt,
believing that if she had let him know that she was present, he would
never have killed the man in front of her eyes. She feels guilty,
believing that she's responsible for the man's death and finally asks
her father as she visits before his execution whether he would have
killed the man if he had known she was there. He says he would have. It
sounds like a harsh and cold statement coming from Cayhall, and yet
he's really telling her that it wasn't her fault and she shouldn't feel
guilty over what happened. I found that simple scene very moving -
mainly because it seemed to be a lie. His body language seemed to
suggest that he wouldn't have killed the man with his daughter
watching, but he wanted to take away her feelings of guilt.

Perhaps, though, that also serves as the great weakness here - to me at
least. Cayhall was a bad guy, but there seemed to be attempts to excuse
him - especially with the repeated refrain that he had no choice but to
become a hateful bigot. His father had been one, his father's father,
and his father as well. How could Cayhall have turned out differently
after three generations of hate? The obvious response (which was
strangely never voiced) is that Cayhall's son (Adam's father, who had
ultimately committed suicide, apparently out of shame from the family's
past) turned out differently in spite of the four generations of hatred
in the family before him. The whole idea that Cayhall was destined to
be a racist because of his upbringing grated on me because of that.
Still, Hackman's performance was great, and Cayhall was an interesting
character.

Chris O'Donnell was overshadowed by Hackman in this. He was all right
as Adam, but perhaps lacked a bit of spark that might have brought more
life to the movie. The writers made a good decision in not developing a
romance between Adam and Nora (Lela Rochon.) An inter-racial romance
between the racist's grandson and lawyer and the governor's aide might
have been an obvious direction to take, but it frankly would have been
too obvious. The end result, though, was that Nora was a minor
character. Her place in the story seemed ill-defined to me. There's a
hint of some deep, dark secrets from the past that could come back to
haunt some of Mississippi's political elite, but that never gets
developed.

Many criticize this because it apparently strays quite liberally from
the John Grisham novel on which it's based (which I've never read I
admit.) Well, this is a movie. Movies and books are different. You
can't just take a novel and make it fit the screen, so adaptations
don't bother me as long as the end result on film is good. This was a
good movie, and I appreciated the fact that while Cayhall's character
was softened over the course of it, there was no real redemption for
the character. He played his part in the children's deaths, and he paid
the price for it. Overall, this is pretty good.
<|_=00=_|>
A few years ago, I read the novel "The Chamber" by John Grisham and I
thought it was a spectacular reading experience. Then, in 1996, they
released it in the theatres and I was hoping that the outcome would
turn out on a positive note, just like the novel. Also I was hoping
that very talented performers like Chris O'Donnell, Gene Hackman and
Faye Dunaway would grace the screen like they've done before. However,
the high expectations were sadly shattered. 

Nothing exciting happens as opposed to what's in the book, there's very
little happening here, the acting is very wooden and the actors were
woefully miscast. On a positive note, some stuff from the novel were
brought into the movie. So for those who never read the novel or seen
the movie, I won't give too much away. But those who expected an
equally riveting novel to movie adaptation, you will be disappointed. 

One thing that upset me most here is the different characteristics
between Adam Hall in the novel and Adam Hall (Chris O'Donnell) in the
movie. In the novel, Hall is a typical attorney who's a bit green and
does not know what to expect. In the movie, he's made like a big-shot
who can get by in this case like a piece of cake. 

Okay, I understand we can't cram everything from the novel, because
then it would take too long, and we're not all patient for a three hour
movie; so I respect that. I think the movie had it's mind on cutting to
the chase rather than unravelling the events that led to the scenes. In
the end it's just better that you all should just read the book and
forget about the film.
<|_=00=_|>
Most reviews on this site, neglect to mention how vividly the film
captures the racist politics of the American South at this time. The
actions of all politicians reveals how difficult it can be to seek
justice. They are always looking sideways. Also the crowd outside the
execution site shows how easy it is to stir up mob emotion. Again,
nicely laid out and captured on film. The film visually translated
Grishelm's understanding of Southern culture and politics. 

I also thought Chris O'Donnell captured the intensity of someone who is
confronting his family's past. The camera work, which holds on his
face, assists in helping us to see the quiet determination with which
he works. (The camera is a good replacement for the interior monologue
of fiction!)I also liked the flash-backs which help him to comprehend
just where his father came from and why suicide might have been a
response. 

This film is timely today in lieu of the polarization of American
politics. Scary stuff!
<|_=00=_|>
First, I should admit that I've never read any of John Grisham's
novels. I've seen many of the film adaptations (which usually seem to
be worthy, if absolutely nothing else). It seems like most critics -
and much of the public - considered "The Chamber" the worst adaptation
of a Grisham novel ever. When I saw the movie, I didn't find it
terrible, though not a great movie either. Maybe it was just that many
people - myself not included - counted "A Time to Kill" as one of the
best adaptations, and dismissed this one.

Anyway, Gene Hackman makes a pretty ugly Klansman (well duh, he gets
into any character), and I'd say that he overshadows Chris O'Donnell
(who just looks a little out of place in this sort of movie). I can't
tell whether or not Faye Dunaway is just there for show. But overall,
what I like about this movie is that it doesn't lionize Hackman's
character, but it shows why he became a Klansman - sort of like what
"Dead Man Walking" does with Sean Penn's character. Obviously, "The
Chamber" isn't in the same league as that one. But still, I think that
most people need to reassess this movie. Also starring Robert Prosky,
Raymond J. Barry, Bo Jackson and Lela Rochon.
<|_=00=_|>

Just like the book, this movie is amazing.  The story is unique in the
sense
that it is very personal. A boy's grandfather is to be executed for
murdering two small children, and as he investigates the crime further, he
discovers more terrifying secrets about his grandfather and his past. He
knows little about his roots because his father commited suicide when he
was
a kid, and this may be the only chance he has at discovering who he is,
however unpleasant it may be. Chris Odonnel is great in this and Gene
Hackman shines. I give this **** out of **** stars.
<|_=00=_|>
If the title, "The Chamber", is meant to be a pun, it's a pretty good
one. There's the judge's "chamber" where decisions are made, and, at
the other end, the gas "chamber" where those plans are executed along
with the inmate to whom those judgments were passed down.

In some ways, the title is the niftiest part of the movie. For John
Gresham, whose intentions are always benign, it's a pretty weak story.
(It shouldn't be, with William Goldman doing the adaptation.) It's
Gresham's most pedantic. Condemned are both racist violence and the
death penalty, the former more so than the latter.

That's the bothersome part of the plot. Okay, Gene Hackman does his
best with the role of the lifetime KKK bomber who takes the rap for the
real killer of the two Jewish children. But he's miscast. Hackman is
not an unreflective, defiant, redneck racist and murderer. JAMES WOODS
is that character. Hackman is absolutely first-rate (without being a
bravura actor) when he gets the right role, whether it's villainous or
heroic, but he's never been good with accents and, man, does this role
call for one.

At that, he gives the strongest performance in the film, with support
from a couple of seasoned players like Harve Presnell. Gresham's
relatively innocent young idealist, Chris O'Donnell, does not convince.
He looks the part alright but his voice and gestures suggest a weakness
that the character shouldn't have. And he's the main man. Some of the
supporting players, like Bo Jackson as Sergeant Packer, can't seem to
act at all.

The climax involves one of those detailed execution scenes I've come to
loathe. I don't understand why they're there. In a short cinematic
exercise in the early 1940s, Orson Welles used the first-person camera
to guide the viewer into a gas chamber. Then, in the mid-50s, there was
a detailed execution of Susan Hayward in "I Want to Live." Then there
was a hiatus for another twenty years or so before these tasteless
scenes came back with a vengeance. Here we get to see Gene Hackman
gassed to death, the foamy spittle dripping from his mouth as he
expires. But what does this tell us? That execution is horrifying and
painful? What else is new? So what do these scenes tell us that we
don't already know? I understand some TV channels are negotiating with
Texas to film executions for broadcast. (How long before the
opportunity to pull the switch is auctioned on eBay?) What kind of
audience do the writers and directors think they're addressing? 

The musical score is by Carter Burwell and it's fairly conventional,
full of deep and ominous chords. He's a talented composer who has done
quirkier work in better films like "Fargo" and "The Spanish Prisoner."
Judging from the movies that are based on his novels, John Gresham is
in the not-uncommon position of being at odds with the values of the
society he grew up in. A lot of other marginalized writers have also
been prompted to explain the sins of their culture's past to the rest
of us, beginning maybe with Nathaniel Hawthorne and running through the
Southern giants of American literature and playwriting -- Tennessee
Williams, Faulkner, and the rest. Gresham fits the mold and his work is
interesting, but this is a failed effort. The legal aspects are
confusing, the characters a bit muddled, and the story itself either
too simple or too complex, depending on how you look at it.
