

Deep Rising is one of the best films ever made, if not the best! That's
right, I'm making a bold statement but it's true. Clearly many of you here
will disagree, but when you've seen the evidence that I put forward I don't
think you'll be able to argue:

1)	The Godfather: The Godfather was less believable than Deep Rising and
also lacked such things as multi barrelled assault rifles, jet skis and huge
torpedoes. Deep rising however, did not.

2)	Raging Bull: No half-digested/half alive bodies, no engine room full of
bloody bones or cool looking harpoon guns. Deep Rising had all these
things.

3)	Citizen Kane: A worthy try, but in the end Orson Welles decision to omit
massive underwater squid monsters, left this film floundering. Deep Rising
came up trumps in this department.

4)	Casablanca: Fails to deliver on every account. Most notably, no one gets
pulled down a toilet. Again, Deep Rising excels.

The sad thing is that if the Colour Purple had included a raid on a sinking
cruise liner, infested with sub aqua monsters as part of the film, then it
too would have climbed to the top of my favourite movie list. But as with
most films the director took the easy way out and chose to ignore this very
overlooked area of filmmaking. 

In my aquatic monster/cruise liner catastrophe marking system, Deep Rising
gets a colossal 4 shrimps. But the rather lacking Godfather, gets only 3
angelfish and a haddock.


<|_=00=_|>
It's just a tad better than the first Mummy, and it wees on Van Helsing
like an incontinent dog.

When I first saw this movie, I had no idea what to expect. I was at the
cinema one night, I'd just come out of a movie--can't remember
which--and I saw the poster. The tagline, "Full Scream Ahead", seemed
corny enough that it might be good. Then I noticed Famke Janssen was in
it. Bonus. And it seemed like a good late-night B movie, to follow the
one I'd just seen. I was there with a mate of mine, who was kind of
indifferent. I twisted his arm, and he agreed.

Two hours later, I walked out, grinning like an idiot. It's silly,
cliché-heavy, and utterly predictable. This movie rocks.

See, Sommers, and all the actors, KNOW that it's silly, cliché-heavy
and predictable. In fact, THAT'S THE IDEA. It's also full of spot-on
one-liners and gags, and the horror bits seem more intended to
"gross-out" than to actually scare (the bit where a half-digested
member of Hanover's team bursts out of one of the monsters--still
alive, despite half his head being missing--is not for the weak of
stomach). Most thrillers and horror movies set out to keep you "on the
edge of your seat", but with this one I was too busy falling out of it
with laughter.

Treat is...well...a TREAT as Finnegan, the rugged, all-American
adventurer type. For a while I was disappointed that Bruce Campbell
wasn't cast in the role, as it would have suited him perfectly. But
I've since decided that Treat does a bang-up job, and deserves full
praise. If he did more movies like this, I might become a fan.

Kevin J. O'Connor is hilarious as the sidekick grease-monkey (and
performs all the better for not having to put on a stupid accent). He
gets most of the best lines. Famke is great as always. Sexy, funny, and
capable in the action scenes. Anthony Heald, as the villain, is hammy
and over the top (in a good way) and Wes is...well, Wes. All the goons
are fine, particularly Jason Flemyng and the late Trevor Goddard. It's
nice to see a good mix of nationalities in there, and the playful
in-fighting amongst them is a nice touch. Their assault rifles are
cool, too. Funny though, I never noticed anyone reloading...

The special effects are just bad enough to work in this context,
without appearing TOO lame. A few years before this movie was made,
they'd have actually been considered brilliant. But Sommers realises
that sometimes it's best not to actually SHOW the monsters. They swim
along under the knee-deep water, the walls of the corridors buckle and
threaten to collapse, gratings fly out of the floor directly behind the
running characters...very effective.

The climax is about as far-fetched as it's possible to get. But it's
done so well that, like all this movie's flaws, it doesn't matter.

If you're easily scared, this'll do the job. If you like
tongue-in-cheek, B-grade action flicks, this is one to see. If you like
movies that force you to think, make you change your outlook on life,
and move you to tears...yeah, you should REALLY watch this. TO SEE WHAT
YOU'RE MISSING OUT ON!
<|_=00=_|>
Deep Rising is a guilty pleasure of mine. It's one of those films I
rented on a whim and and simply fell in love with.

Is it a great film? No.

Does it have a great script? Not really, and it's downright silly in
parts.

Does it have great acting? Eh, there's been better...

But the effects are good, the characters are likable, the creature is
neat, and somehow it all comes comes together to make an enjoyable B
schlock horror/comedy that, in my case anyway, leaves me with a big
smile on my face.

Oh and as an added bonus, Famke Janssen is simply lovely in this film.
Rent it on a rainy day and you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>

If you are looking for meaning, creativity, originality, or some sort of
cosmic significance, look elsewhere.

This is a fun movie for that brainless Saturday evening in which you just
want to relax. A fast paced ride with lots of guns, explosions, bright-red
fake blood, and a big monster.

This film is for those who wish only to be entertained.  Perfect after a
long hard week and you need to relax.

Recommended.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

There are times when nothing satisfies like a good ol' B-movie
action-adventure, not meant to be deep or serious, just good excitement and
fun.  Yet truly excellent B-movies are not easily come by.  This director's
own "Scorpion King", in fact, is a textbook example of how the formula can
fail: too Hollywoodized, too predictable, too tame, and not funny enough. 
But before he Hollywoodized himself in Mummyland, this director (and
writer!) gave us the masterful "Deep Rising."  B-movie fans know who they
are and what they want, and they will not be disappointed here.  I rank
"Deep Rising" up there with the best of John Carpenter and Sam Raimi. 
9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I rented this recently and loved every bit of it from it's tongue in cheek
extra clichéd action types to it's fabulously over the top gore. You can see
here, exactly where Stephen Sommers is coming from and where he will go. The
Mummy had exactly the same style and sense of humour. Treat Williams is
fantastic in this. This is one under rated actor. Why is he not in more
great flicks? His comedy is superb and he looks the action hero. Remember
Things to do in Denver. 
Anyone who likes a good old monster movie should sit back and pamper
themselves with this cracking good yarn.  

<|_=00=_|>


Unlike a lot of monster and sci-fi movies we see these days, where
apologizes are constantly made and everything is politically-correct, Deep
Rising is an unapolagetic rollar-coaster which only asks us to suspend our
higher thinking for an hour and a half. Intelligent by no means, Stephen
Sommers' movie however definately succeeds in it's intention, which is to
be
a straight fun adventure.

Like the rest of the movie, we've seen the plot a dozen times before in
different or similar forms. A square-jawed man of the sea and his
wise-cracking sidekick give a group of mercenaries a ride in their PT boat
to an undisclosed location somewhere out over the murky ocean. Little does
the boatman know that the soldiers-for-hire are planning to knock off a
massive luxury cruise liner with an assortment of assault rifles and deadly
torpedo warheads. When they reach the ship though, they find it derelict,
and encounter a nightmarish tentacle beast.

This movie is stupid as hell, but it knows it, and just wants to take us
along on its stupid ride. As mentioned before, the movie makes no
apologizes. We don't get any little kids who know more than the adults
running around and saving the day; instead we get piles of horrid,
blood-covered skeletons and disgustingly neat scenes of half-dead victims
being regurgitated by our monster villain. Speaking of the monster, its a
fairly decent CGI creation, which is surprising considering how little
effort can be put into putting CG creatures onto the screen in movies with
anything less of a budget than Jurassic Park or The Phantom Menace.

The flick is plenty fun, but where it truly lacks is the character
development area. In Deep Rising, and most movies like it, a fair amount of
the characters are regulated to quick two or three word descriptions which
dictate everything that they do. There's "The Womanizer", "The Coward",
"The
Guy Who's Scared", etc. And man, if a guys got an Austrailian or English
accent..forget about it, that's his whole character right there. The two
most interesting characters are Treat Williams, a third rate Bruce
Willis-Mel Gibson, who nevertheless puts a likeable effort into the main
hero, and the mind-numbingly beautiful Famke Jannkson as a thief the crew
finds alive aboard the cruise liner.

Deep Rising is a movie that knows what it wants to do, and does it well,
adding some originality and excitement to a genre overflowing with
badly-executed ideas and ameatuerish directing.

I give Deep Rising a 6 out of 10, and I'd reccomend it to any fan of
grade-B
horror movies or anyone who enjoyed the 1999 remake of The
Mummy.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. 

Treat Williams and Kevin J. O'Connor in particular are very good. 

It's a low budget genre flick, but acting is excellent across the
board. O'Connor is great comic relief. The monster is clichéd, but
cool. Quality and care went into this movie across the board.

I definitely recommend this movie without reservation. 

I've seen it several times on cable as well as originally on DVD, and
my opinion of it has held up.

Wes Studi (never bad in anything), Djimon Hounsou, and Anthony Heald
(the psychologist from Silence of the Lambs) as bad guys and Anthony
Heald are very competent as well.

I just can't understand how this movie got only a 5.4 from users.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one fun, intense monster movie. They blew it with the title
(what the hell does Deep Rising actually mean? - Things From the Deep
would have at least meant what it was), but the execution was
admirable. This came out the same time as "Phantoms," which depicted a
lot of people disappearing on land; in this one, a lot of 'em disappear
at sea, on The Argonautica, the latest fancy cruise ship. As in
Phantoms, the monster is tough to kill and human beings are easy prey.
Like Phantoms, this was ignored at the box office, unlike the
director's later hits, "The Mummy" movies. But it has the same level of
entertainment. The band of mercs, along with a few other reluctant
tag-alongs, make for a darkly funny ensemble as they make their way
through the new ship of horrors. O'Connor provides a lot of the humor
with wry line delivery, but lead actor Williams is also amusing. As the
corrupt ship owner, Heald also steals a scene or two, and turns out to
be the only one knowledgeable (for some odd reason) on these monsters
infesting the ship. The creature or creatures really are horrible to
see in their work - there's some gross mass death scene stuff going on,
at odds with the humor; it's almost as if the characters need that
humor to keep from going crazy, though some of them do anyway. Janssen,
as the main femme fatale among the macho men, does some of her best
work here. There's a good, chilling atmosphere in the constant rain and
the dark, in the middle of the ocean somewhere. There are no real slow
spots and many viewers will probably want to check this out again
someday soon. You can do much worse than kick back with this pic on a
dark night.
<|_=00=_|>
I bought this DVD last week. I've watched it for the first time with
some friends. I must admit, that must be some movie.. Here, director
Stephen Sommers try to prove that if Aliens scared you.. Then this one
will do worse.. Well, it did at times.. The whole plot sounds simple to
me.. with these bunch of thieves coming on board this cruise liner, the
Argonautica.. Only to find that the passengers have vanished. It's not
'til they realise that they up against something more deadly and it
came from the bottom of the ocean.. We're not talking giant squids
here.. Something more sinister..

Treat Williams played well as Finnegan. Famke Janssen, Wes Studi and
the rest of the cast kept their end of the bargain with their
performance. A really good film, full of one liners.. A few jokes..
This, that and the other..

7 out of 10!
