
THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER is movie that has been done before. But it knows
this and is able to look past it's cliché's and have fun with the
genre. A cop(Travolta) is called to an army base to investigate the
death of a general's daughter after she has been raped and beat to
death and left naked and tied to the ground with tent stakes. It's a
ghastly sight and everyone wants him to get to the bottom of it as soon
as possible. The problem is that EVERYONE has something to hide or is
hiding someone who has something to hide. This has an all-star cast and
they are terrific. The story is well written and the cast has some fun
with it along the way. Director Simon West knows how to tell the story
with a slight tongue and cheek flavor and still maintain the very
serious nature of the subject matter. The action sequences are very
well choreographed and the climax is pretty intense. So if you are
looking for a familiar but really good, intense, and exciting action
murder mystery THE GENERAL'S DAUGHTER is well worth seeing. No matter
if the critics thumbed their elitist nose's at it. They're loss is our
average Joe's gain. ***1/2 out of 4.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an excellent drama marred only by a little too much profanity
and the normal Hollywood obsession of portraying the United States
military as corrupt. (I have a news flash for filmmakers: there are
some honest men in the military....really!!!) Feminism in the armed
forces is another "agenda" item in this film.

There are many pluses, however, with this movie that should be noted. .
The acting is excellent with a deep cast featuring John Travolta, James
Cromwell, Madeline Stowe, Timothy Hutton, James Woods, Clarence
Williams III, Leslie Stefanson and more.

I loved the dialog between Travola and Woods. It reminded me of the
film noir films of the 1940s. The general's daughter, Stephanson, is a
bit hard-edged in here but it's understandable when you find out why
she acts the way she does. The characters the actors are all
interesting and the story hooks you in right away. The cinematography
is great. This looks stunning on DVD.

There are no lulls in this film and the action isn't overdone, either.
Very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
A beautiful army officer is murdered in compromising circumstances that
the fort MacCallum officials would rather keep quite. John Travolta and
Madeleine Stowe are the investigators into the murder, and it's seems
that someone wants to keep the truth hidden.

Travolta and Stowe both capture the necessary elements of their
characters and they are well supported by James Cromwell, Timothy
Hutton, Clarence Williams II and James Woods.

This suspenseful mystery thriller delivers the disturbing truths of the
story very well, it does have its flaws, but they are largely
forgivable due to the captivating delivery and direction.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

These people below me are out of their minds, I don't think they watched
the
whole movie... I thought it was excellent, very good story, great acting,
one of the best endings in movie history. John Travolta does a good job as
usual, this is definitely worth seeing by everybody!
<|_=00=_|>
I have developed a large DVD library over the years, some 1,000 today!
There are only a few which I will see more than once or twice. And The
General's Daughter is one I keep seeing with pleasure. You will have
read many reviews, scattering ratings from 1 to 10, as usual, but with
a poor average rate. I personally like the movie for its excellent
tempo and accompanying music. Travolta, Cromwell and Stowe fit their
respective role perfectly. The global integration of filming, dialogs,
acting and plot come out exactly right. So of course I try to
understand why the rating is so poor. I have read criticism regarding
the poor adaptation from the book, the way the army is depicted so
unjustly, the average performance of Travolta and his annoying southern
accent and more. Well, we have the right to our choices and own
judgment. On a closing note, I wish people would stop repeating the
plot in their reviews: it's boring, redundant and does not provide a
bit of film analysis.
<|_=00=_|>

The General's Daughter may be flawed, but thanks to the acting, it's hardly
a matter.  John Travolta gives a good performance and James Woods gives an
even better one, showing that one scene with back and forth dialougue can
make one film pretty interesting.  Still, a good mystery, with the plot set
in good place for one of Travolta's best pics.  A-
<|_=00=_|>

I was intrigued and kept guessing who and what all the way through.  It
kept
me interested and on edge.  Entertainment at its best. John Travolta keeps
growing as an actor and Madeline Stowe is always excellent. A good story,
well told that will keep you interested all the way through.
<|_=00=_|>
The film was altogether very interesting but at the same time tragic,
especially the gang-rape scene which left me incredibly disturbed. The
storyline is amazing and is enough to draw someone into the film even
if halfway through and the direction of the film is very well done. The
characters were very convincing and the acting of both the daughter and
John Trovolta's character was unbelievable. The point at which the
daughter was told not to talk of her rape - you could actually see
every emotion through her eyes, enough to make anyone break down.
Although the whole plot of the film was based around a young, murdered
woman, it did cast a very negative view on how woman are treated in the
US forces which could be seen as unfair. Although this is true, it did
show a very valid point of how, in any job, men still value themselves
as having a 'right' to be in the job over women.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie so much, I watched it twice, once tonight just to
make sure I had the story right. There are SO MANY colonels, captains
and generals in "The General's Daughter," it's ludicrous to even name
the actors who played them. I am from a military town (2nd World War);
there were tens-of-thousands of troops from all over the world on the
base, but only one colonel ran it.....a gay one, at that. This kinda
ties-in the feature of this film about gays in the military - it's been
around forever......

One-time-pretty-boy from "Saturday Night Fever" star, John Travolta
(CID officer Paul Brenner) really did an excellent acting-job in this
movie. I was surprised to see that he had put-on a lot more weight,
hard to accept about the really hot-looking guy who played in the movie
named here. I've seen other films (look at "Blowout" for another great
movie he starred in) and was aware that he was going to be heavy. I
just can't see him that way.

Brenner and CID Sunhill(Madeleine Stowe) are investigating the nude
death of Capt. Liz Campbell (Leslie Stefanson), who just happens to be
the CO's daughter. Because it took place on a military training-base,
everyone is covering-up for everyone, and most of them are guilty in
some way for the murder. Seems the captain was at the top of her class
at West Point, and not very well-liked there - she was brutally raped
by her classmates in a war-game, stapled to the ground by tent-spikes
and abandoned. Her murder was a re-enactment of the rape, but with a
twist which shouldn't be revealed by a review. Col. Robert Moore (James
Woods in an excellent role) is the prime suspect. A military base seems
to be just like a small town - everyone knows everything about
everyone.....Capt. Campbell was a promiscuous lady, but I won't reveal
another twist, which is the main theme of the movie. Some commenters
seem to think folk in the military lead pristine lives - they
apparently have not heard of, or have forgotten, the many sexual
attacks perpetrated against female airmen at The Air Force Academy in
Colorado.

Tim Hutton (Col. William Kent) plays a good role in "The General's
Daughter", also. We won't get into that, because he also plays a major
role in the movie. Usually, I don't like too much violence in films,
but this is a good story with good acting by major stars, such as James
Cromwell (Lt. Gen. Campbell). To tell too much about the plot will
spoil the story, if you haven't seen it yet - but should.

I feel certain an alert viewer will get the point about "abandonment".
Although I realize it's necessary for the military to train under
"live-fire", I personally do not accept it is moral to do so with a
"live" mine-field. I reveal this feature of the movie, without
disclosing how it is used.

Director Simon West and scriptor Bertolini get it all together for this
film. The plot is faced-paced - maybe a little over-the-top for actual,
military life - and will keep you guessing and entertained throughout
the whole thing. I recommend it for all adult viewers. I have no idea
how it is reviewed here so negatively by so many commenters - I say
bravo !
<|_=00=_|>

In order to fully discuss everything that is wrong with this film, and
there is quite a lot, I am warning you that many spoilers are on the
horizon of this review.

John Travolta is an undercover military cop who is investigating the
rape and murder of an Army officer, who happens to be the
daughter of an Army general who is being considered as a
vice-presidential running mate. Travolta is stuck with rape expert
Madeleine Stowe, who happens to be a former lover. Trouble right
there already. Travolta is pressured by the general (James
Cromwell) and his aide (a very unmilitary looking Clarence
Williams III) to hurry the investigation along before the FBI is
brought in. Among the suspects are creepy James Woods as the
daughter's commander, the general's aide, and the local hick
sheriff's son.

The daughter, it turns out, liked her sex a little rough, and kept
video recordings of it. Travolta, who briefly met the daughter while
he was undercover as a hick sergeant, takes the case personally.
Timothy Hutton plays the military police commander who helps
Travolta and Stowe along with their investigation.

While not covering everything in this convoluted plot, it turns out
that the daughter was raped while at West Point, and general
daddy covered it up because it would ruin the idea of women in the
military, and West Point's reputation. The daughter decides to
recreate the rape for her father to let him know what she lived
through, and was murdered by someone unknown after her father
leaves the awkward confrontation.

Travolta and Stowe stumble across more suspects than a two
hour "Murder, She Wrote" reunion movie, yet find time to trade
verbal love barbs that sound like rejected lines never uttered by
Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell in "His Girl Friday." The
condescending attitude these two have toward military life is
staggering. Woods' character points this out, and is promptly
murdered for it. Finally, the climax reveals the killer, and everything
is wrapped up in a neat little package.

First, a positive: Simon West's direction is great. He finds little
things to focus his camera on, and his editing is quick without
inducing a headache. It would be interesting to see what he would
do with a script that doesn't play like it was written on a dinner
napkin.

The negatives? Here goes. This film hates women and hates the
military and really hates women in the military. All the officers are
psychopathic sexual sadists and the non-commissioned officers
are stupid hicks. Just because the film takes place in Virginia,
does not mean that all stationed military personnel there will have
a southern accent. I lived at RAF Mildenhall, England for six
months, yet did not come back to the states and call everyone
either "bloke" or "gov'ner." Travolta and Stowe, amongst their
cutesy bantering, break almost every evidence and interrogation
law known to man, just because they are the cool hero couple. A
subplot involving Travolta's run-ins with the local hick sheriff is
embarassing. After Travolta kills a gun runner with a motorboat
(don't ask), he gets uppity with the local police, who
understandably have questions. Travolta's arrogance wears thin
very quickly.

Suggesting the daughter was raped at West Point, then martyred
herself to cover up this fact is ridiculous. The film says, "women
should be in the military, but they are being stopped by these
fictional characters in this fictional situation." The three star
general, who does nothing more than sit in his office and smoke
all day, also puts the army ahead of his home life. The scene
where he finds his daughter after she has reenacted her earlier
rape is embarrassing as a viewer, and looks embarrassing to the
actors. It should have been embarrassing to the writers and
director, but apparently they decided to leave their scruples at
home that day.

In the end, the killer offs himself with a landmine, which apparently
any active duty personnel can attain. The general is
court-martialled for his role in his daughter's victimization, and
Travolta wins. God bless our armed forces.

This film came out during the eight year reign of the Clintons, who
have never been friends of the military. Maybe this is why people
saw this and thought nothing of it. I, on the other hand, was an Air
Force brat most of my life, and I still want someone to show me
the mansions the officers live in, the sexual depravity that they
must exhibit, and the civilians who do not get along with anyone
else in uniform. That's right, 99.9% of everything that happens in
this film would not happen in real life.

I am aware that this is a story, not a documentary, but some
semblance of fact would help. Incredible leaps in logic are not
dealt with, just accepted. The only two actresses here are raped,
or threatened with rape.

If anything, considering the current political and military climate,
this film should make anyone who ever had a loved one serve
overseas sick. In Hollywood, it is always popular to trash the
military, it has been since Vietnam, but I for one am not going to
take it any longer. My father defended this country for almost thirty
years, from Thailand to Okinawa to the U.S. to England, and in my
eyes he will always stand a little taller than a bunch of whiny liberal
actors all dressed up in camoflauge and thrusting their agenda on
an unsuspecting nation. I get off my soapbox and give a one finger
salute to this stupid, wretched, sleazy film.

This is rated (R) for physical violence, gun violence, strong sexual
violence, gore, profanity, female nudity, sexual content, sexual
references, and adult situations.

