

I just bought this movie on DVD and watched it for the first time in a
couple of years, and once again it amazed me. While most scripts stumble
recklessly from one hackneyed plot device to another, "Lone Star" flows like
a steady, winding river, never letting the viewer see too far downstream.
The spine of the film is Sherrif Sam Deed's investigation into a
thirty-year-old murder, yet this story is quickly absorbed by many finely
scripted subplots and an overall theme on the futility of trying to escape
history.  While most directors can't help but show off when using flashy
camera movement  and jumps in continuity, Sayles employs such a subtle
directing style that his leaps in time and location are seamless.  Sayles
fleshes out his script with subplots on racism, national pride, censorship,
generation gaps, politics, social revisionism, and on and on.  Most
directors don't tackle this many topics in a career, yet Sayles juggles them
all in one film without jamming them down the audiences' throats.  If the
subplots in Sayles' "City of Hope" were connected like a series of dominos,
here they are gently woven together like a colorful, well-worn Southwestern
quilt.  The love story between Chris Cooper and Elizabeth Pena is both
wistful and steamy.  The film's social conscience is compelling.  The
father/son conflict between Otis and Delmore Payne (Ron Canada and Joe
Morton) feels totally realistic.  The dialoge is concise and insightful.
Fate hangs over every character and every moment.  Plus "Lone Star" has one
of my favorite "final scenes", one that perfectly sums up the ironies of the
film.  It is simply one of the best movies I have ever seen.    
<|_=00=_|>

This just ran tonight on HBO. I haven't watched it in a few years now.
Lone Star has, if anything, improved with each viewing, which is really
saying something because I remember how truly riveted and fulfilled I
was on its first viewing in the theater. This is film-making at its very
best.

This must be one of the all time greatest pieces of writing for the
cinema. Period. So many characters are here and they're all richly
developed and mined to make you think even more about the film's many
themes. The story just hooks you right from the start and is utterly
absorbing, and the layers of subplots and meanings reach dizzying
heights of complexity and poignancy without sacrificing entertainment
value. You practically walk away from the film saying "yes, for once
someone has something to say and it's said so eloquently". To me, Lone
Star is one of the masterpieces of American movies.

This has one of the greatest final lines that I've ever seen in a
movie. That last line illuminates everything that has come before it in
a way that is both shattering and ironic. The performances are
uniformly superb, and you can just imagine what the cast was thinking,
with the opportunity to perform this piece. All the technical aspects
are first rate, which makes you truly wonder why movies cost so much in
Hollywood. The music is outstanding. But at the end of the day, it's
the incredible writing here that lingers. The second half of the movie
pays off in spades due to the development of the many characters and
sub plots that are so brilliantly interwoven. The movies Lone Star
reminds me of most are The Last Picture Show, Chinatown, and Nashville.
Take my word; if you like any of those pictures and haven't had the
distinct pleasure of seeing Lone Star, please give it a chance. You
will not be disappointed.

<|_=00=_|>

The discovery of a skull and a sheriff's badge on a disused military firing
range prompts Sheriff Sam Deeds to investigate.  Sam has long lived in the
shadow of his father Buddy, himself the sheriff at one time.  However clues
point to the fact that the skull may belong to Charley Wade, the corrupt
sheriff who `vanished' to Mexico when Deeds challenged him many years prior.
 However when Sam begins to ask questions that go deeper than the legends,
he finds secrets within the border town that hit very near
home.

Having just watched The Hi Lo Country (a modern day western with a sprawling
story but focused on one thing), I was put in mind to watch Lone Star again.
 Lone Star is easily the superior film and is a rich weaving of many
characters and stories all around one event.  The one event is the
uncovering of an old murder (possibly) and this central investigation holds
the attention easily.  Within this investigation and the lives that Buddy
affected we are shown a lot of subplots – some followed through, others just
giving us enough background to understand the characters.  All of these work
very well and as a result you don't feel like the film is wandering when it
moves away from the investigation by Sam.  The subplots are so well
translated that we are given a lot of back story to complex characters in a
very short time.

For the script to be able to create so many characters that feel real and
that have meaningful things going on is impressive.  That it makes them all
work is amazing and is due to Sayles both writing and editing.  As director
he is great as well, avoiding the washed out desert feel many `Mexico
related' films have and instead goes for richer colours that reflect the
rich mix of communities that are in his story.

The acting is faultless all round.  No one actor stands out regardless of
screen time simply because no one goes over the top and everyone realises
they are playing part of a story – even Cooper (realistically the nearest
thing to a lead actor) plays it down rather than taking the film over. 
Morton is good even if his character is the least connected to the
investigation, McConaughey is strong despite being little more than a cameo,
likewise with Kristofferson.  McDormand has a small role but is very
impressive as Deeds' ex-wife.  Elizabeth Peña, so often dumped with almost
token Espanic roles is given a real good part and works with it well.  I
could list them all, however if any one person stands out it can only be
Sayles himself – he takes all the strands and brings them together.  I
watched a 90 minutes comedy earlier the same day that had dragged.  At 130
minutes this simply flew – it is that engrossing.

Overall some will find it too slow, too character driven, sadly some will
just not sit through a good story if that's all there is to it (all!).  I
think this was reflected in poor box office at the time (comparatively poor
anyway).  But those who have seen it will generally love it – if only more
people would watch it!  A final word on the film – the ending is shocking
and sensationalist on paper and a lesser man would have made a big deal out
of it.  Sayles simply ends the film softly and leaves us the audience to
take what we will from it.  Low key from start to finish – I can't praise it
enough.
<|_=00=_|>

John Sayles' direction of this film reminded me of Hitchcock in that I was
always aware of the director's style and I enjoyed it every bit as much as
the acting and the story. Like "Godfather," this is a tale of families and
how the sins of the fathers cast their shadows over the generations. To
illustrate the connection, Sayles will slowly track his camera from a
conversation in one part of a room to another part of the same room where
characters who lived 25 years earlier are conversing. The years have passed,
we realize, but all the characters, even the dead ones, are in this
together. The technique may sound strange, but it works magically. And
another thing: I've always thought Kris Kristofferson was a better singer
than actor, and a better songwriter than singer. But in this film he turns
in an outstanding performance as a very very bad Texas border town sheriff
who disappeared years ago and whose bones have just turned up in the desert.
At least we think those are his bones, and to solve the puzzle, the current
sheriff, son of the man who became sheriff when Kris disappeared, must dig
further than he wants into the town's secrets. And once again, knowing how
the film ends makes subsequent viewings just as fascinating as the
first.
<|_=00=_|>
I live in San Antonio and have been to Eagle Pass (where the movie was
filmed) many times. I have watched this movie over a dozen times. It is
a wonderful piece of film-making! John Sayles captures a lot in this
film. His characters have depth and substance. His portrayals of the
role racism has played in Hispanic and African-American lives are
brilliant but not heavy-handed. The acting is incredible. The casting
was perfect. Frances McDormand as Sam's ex-wife is unforgettable. I
agree with another commenter that the camera work was exceptional when
Sayles filmed flashback scenes using a single take. I especially liked
the scene along the river with Sam and Pilar. I am sure there are some
people who don't share my opinion, but this movie is one of my top ten
favorites of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
"Lone Star" was John Sayles' first look at a state, followed by "Limbo"
(Alaska), "Sunshine State" (Florida) and "Silver City" (Colorado). This
one focuses on a border town in Texas, and the influences of and
conflicts between the white, black and Hispanic populations there. It
starts when they discover the remains of racist Sheriff Charlie Wade
(Kris Kristofferson), murdered under mysterious circumstances many
years earlier; Sheriff Sam Deeds (Chris Cooper) leads the
investigation. In the process of everything, we get to see - among
other things - the battle over education in the Lone Star State: the
school only wants to teach the white people's side of history, but
Pilar Cruz (Elizabeth Pena) wants to teach it from the Mexican point of
view. As it is, this town carries many secrets, many of which are about
to blow open. This was, in my opinion, John Sayles' greatest movie
ever. It is not to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>

Ive always admired Sayles as a writer and a filmmaker. His early films
(Secaucus 7, Brother from Another Planet) even though they were rough and
messy had wit and brilliant acting, but when he gets it right, he gets it
right: Matewan and City of Hope are two examples of multi-layered stories
with believable three-dimensional people in powerful situations. Lone Star
is an amazing film: characters that are on screen for even a few minutes
come of as real people, flesh and blood, no cardboard cut-outs here. Great
performances from Chris Cooper, Kris Kristofferson, Elizabeth Pena, Joe
Morton and many, many more. Taut, funny, thrilling and emotional. Great film
by a great talent.
<|_=00=_|>

An entrancing yarn that takes place in a small, quiet Texas border town
where the memories of two former lawmen, the crooked Charlie Wade (Kris
Kristofferson) and the legendary Buddy Deeds (Matthew McConaughey) are
slowly resurrected when the remains of Wade are found on an deserted Army
firing range by Deeds' son, Sam (Chris Cooper), who is the current town
sheriff.  Throughout the movie, Sam visits some of the locals and asks
each
one if they knew what happened to Wade and if Buddy had a role in the
murder.  Writer-director-editor John Sayles serves up an unpredictable gem
here with a great cast that includes Joe Morton, Elisabeth Pena, Frances
McDormand, etc., and to me, it seems like nearly all the characters here
make sense right up to the end.  
<|_=00=_|>

The flashbacks with Kris Kristofferson are some of the most moving and
brilliant scenes on film.  He should have got an Oscar nomination.  Chris
Cooper and Elizabeth Pena have great romantic chemistry.  There is so much
more going on just besides the mystery of who killed Charlie Wade so many
years ago.  All the actors are wonderful, in a great setting, and great
script.  The ending is my favorite part, when the biggest secret of all is
revealed.  It shows that love can overcome anything.  10/10
<|_=00=_|>

In "Lone Star", a skull is found in an isolated part of a Texas border
county which begins an investigation by the local Sheriff who must unlock a
closet full of skeletons to solve the mystery. Critically acclaimed and a
high scoring flick on this website, "Lone Star" is a film to be reckoned
with. It features solid performances without the usual blockbuster star
power, an engaging story, a real feel, and masterful editing which allows
for a seamless presentation of the numerous flashbacks required to tell the
story. You'll find little emoting or little reason to emote in this
matter-of-fact contemporary film which ends with a kicker. Worth a look for
just about anyone mature enough for the subject matter.
