

This might be a matter of taste, but "A Bronx Tale" remains Number 2 on list
of Favorite Movies of All Time.  It just happens to be one of the most
deeply moving, powerful films I've ever encountered.  Yes, some may consider
this a simple story, but that's the beauty of it.  It's a down-to-earth,
coming-of-age story that perfectly mirrors the life of a boy like C growing
up in the Bronx at such a hectic time.  Of course, this is based on Chazz
Palminteri's real life experiences, and I envy Chazz, being an aspiring
screenwriter/director.  I wish I had life experiences like that to put on
film.  And I have to commend my man Bobby D for bringing these images to
life in such a vibrant, engrossing way.

DeNiro captures every element of the 1960's Bronx, with a great opening
sequence featuring doo-wop singers sweetly singing the movie's theme.  He
captures so many elements of the period, and it was nice to see only one
goof was captured.  It was interesting to find out that most of the movie
was actually shot in Brooklyn--my hometown.  Then again, the two places are
alike in their own simple ways.  

Bobby D has a short, but memorable role (which is against type) as a
working-class bus driver.  He's desperately trying to get by and support his
son, Cologero (I think that's how to spell it...LOL), and disapproves of his
son's new "job" with gangster Sonny (Chazz, who gives a landmark
performance).  The interactions between DeNiro and his son are extraordinary
in the way they mirror the way a real father and son would argue in those
situations.  As I said, it's the whole down-to-earth quality of this movie
that I think made it tick.  It's nothing pretentious.  This is a simple
movie about humanity.  The gangster plot is merely a backdrop. 

The only other movie I've seen him in was "Crimson Tide" in a very small
role, but Lillo Brancato (who plays DeNiro's son in the later years) is a
revalation!  He gives one of the best performances I've ever seen and I'm
surprised I haven't seen him in any more recent movies.  And I have to say
DeNiro did a dynamic job of casting.  As far as I know, Brancato and Bobby
aren't related, but please tell me if I'm wrong, because they look EXACTLY
alike!  If you've seen any of DeNiro's very early films, Brancato is a
mirror image of him.  Is it coincidence or what?  I've rarely seen a film
where the son/daughter even directly resembles the parents, but Brancato has
the DeNiro nose and everything.  If you observe closely, there's a scene
where Brancato is wearing a black jacket and a black hat, and if you were to
see this in a split-screen with DeNiro in "Mean Streets" it would be
uncanny.  

There are so many people I have to commend for this film.  That also
includes the supporting cast.  Taral Hicks as C's love interest was also
impressive.  And of course, you can't have a movie directed by DeNiro and
starring DeNiro without his main amigo making an appearance.  Hopefully, you
haven't read the cast list on the IMDB.  Because I was surprised and
overjoyed when "the man" appeared in the final scene. 

There are many lessons on life to be drawn out of this film, some of which
given by Chazz's character Sonny, who plays the most likeable gangster I've
seen in cinema.  Yet at the same time, you can't consider him "too nice." 
Which was a good move.  Sonny was a nice guy in the core, yet he still has a
heart of a gangster.  In a great monologue, he explains how he'd rather be
feared than loved.  And of course there's the great monlogue that everyone
remembers:  the car door scene.  That was really an unforgettable speech. 
Plus, there's funny moments, too.  The gambling scene in the basement, for
example.  "Get in the f**king bathroom!!!"  LOL...that was hilarious. 

To add to the emotional intensity, we have an interracial relationship
between Brancato and Hicks at a time when Bronx was heavily segregated and
whites wanted absolutely nothing to do with blacks.  The scene where the
boys beat those innocent black boys down was an extremely powerful scene. 
And through DeNiro's direction, we feel the characters' every emotion.  I
like how he used the doo-wop music to contribute to the
soundtrack.

By the end, I was almost at tears.  I'm virtually tearing up just writing
this review and looking at this masterful drama in retrospect.  This is
something ONLY Bobby D and Chazz could've done!  No one could've done it
better!  For me to be this deeply moved by a motion picture is
unprecedented.  I wish I could be thanking the two guys in
person.

If anyone hasn't seen this movie, please don't hesitate to pick it up!  This
is one of those great, underrated masterpieces that you feel sad after
finding out about its poor success.  A film like this really deserves more
recognition.

And Bobby D....I think you owe a bunch of "thank yous" to your buddy
Scorcese.  He's taught you well.

My score:  A perfect 10! (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>

The fact that someone is a terrific, legendary and highly talented and
celebrated actor doesn't automatically make him a good director. That goes
without saying. Robert De Niro is - as we all naturally know - among the
best of the best when it comes to acting. I mean he is a pure
genius.

He chose to make his directorial debut (as well as the only motion picture
he has directed so far) out of the fine genre he was so familiar with (after
playing Vito Corleone in Francis Ford Coppola's "The Godfather: Part II",
David Aaronson in Sergio Leone's "Once upon a time in America", Al Capone in
Brian De Palma's "The Untouchables", Jimmy Conway in Martin Scorsese's
"Goodfellas" and so on...) that is, a gangster movie. 

Surprisingly he ended up directing a masterpiece, at least I think so.
Interesting thing is "A Bronx tale" is not exclusively for adult viewers.
It's a gangster movie all right so it's definitely violent from time to time
but intentionally not far as violent as the films of this type normally tend
to be.

This is a moving, attractive and gripping story about a young boy who has to
live between the shadow of two powerful men, his own father (De Niro) and
local gangster Sonny (Palminteri in his very greatest role). I just watched
"A Bronx tale" couple of days ago. I was quite hungry by the time I started
to watch it and practically starving by the time of the end credits but
there simply wasn't a single scene in this film for me to visit the
fridge.

I just didn't want to miss one moment - not even one second of sensational
"A Bronx tale". And people, I've seen this film before. Chazz Palminteri's
screenplay was excellent and the story was so utterly enchanting and
fascinating there's not enough words to describe it. If this turns out to be
the only movie De Niro directs he will certainly be remembered as a great
director. "A Bronx tale" is one of the best gangster films ever.
10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Oh, what a wonderfully small and intricate film this is!  How I love and
cherish the world I am pulled into every time I see this film.  Robert De
Niro's directorial debut proves strong and lively, evidenced by how he stuck
to a topic close to home; a young, impressionable Italian kid growing up
little Italy in the late 60's.  As the naive protagonist Calogero, or 'C' as
he is nicknamed, Lillo Brancato gives a great performance as a young man
torn between the working-class honesty displayed by his strict father and
the ruthless world of organized crime demonstrated by the neighborhood crime
boss Sonny (Chazz Palminteri adapted his own play and cast himself as a
burly, laid back, world weary know-it-all).

One key element that snags you in is the narration.  Like equally personal
films of its stature (Scorsese's gangster trilogy, "Taxi Driver,"
"Election," "Bringing Out The Dead", "SLC Punk!"), the voice-over guiding
brings you in even further into the already detailed landscape and story
presented.
I don't really consider this a mafia movie, it's much more of a
coming-of-age tale.  However, the background De Niro provides is so intimate
and thorough that you wish for another film chronicling the life of
Sonny.

I have to admit that, for a debut, De Niro's judicious use of music seemed
to rival that of Spike or Scorsese in turns of effectiveness.  First of all,
De Niro kept a much more grass roots approach, sticking to doo-wop, soul,
rock, "mobster pop" (Dean or Frank) and a little jazz.  Whereas Scorsese
will use anything at his disposal ("Casino" had two Devo tunes in it), De
Niro really seems to search for what really makes the scene.  My favorite is
the scoring of a street fight scene to "Nights In White Satin"... De Niro
must of knew before we did it was all in the violins.  De Niro said he knew
this type of story had been done before and didn't want to repeat anything,
so he viewed Scorsese's mobster trilogy to see what already had been done. 
It's obvious he paid attention.

Even De Niro himself knows a little Italy gangster film is not complete with
at least a surprise-ending cameo from you know who...

<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie over & over like many of the people who have reviewed
it. It's true that this is loosely based on the life of Chazz (C) Palmenteri
who wrote the screenplay. Word is that when he was looking to make the play
into a movie, he had only one condition, that he play the part of Sonny. He
was rejected several times until he found Robert DeNiro & Tribeca
productions. What luck for all of us too! Chazz was born to play the role of
Sonny & how refreshing to see DeNiro as the humble and hardworking father
figure instead of the gangster that he has so often played.

This movie has heart & a story that is actually appropriate for young
adults. Despite the language & moderate violence (such as the bar scene)
there isn't anything graphic (certainly not on the scale of Braveheart or
Saving Private Ryan!) and no nudity, just a good story. One of the gems is
that nothing is sadder than wasted talent. Thank God that Mr. Palmenteri
didn't waste his and shared this wonderful story with all of us.
Unforgettable movie, a definite 10 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
A Bronx Tale does take me back to New York City in the sixties. I grew
up in Brooklyn then which certainly has always had its own identity.
I'm glad that Chazz Palmentiri has given the Bronx an identity of its
own. There are still parts of the Bronx which have the Italian
neighborhood you see depicted here. But the Bronx is a Latino majority
borough now, ironic when you consider part of the story of A Bronx Tale
is the racial tension between the blacks and Italians.

The movie divides in two parts, the first is around 1960 with the
background of the 1960 World Series, one of the best ever played where
the Yankees of Mickey Mantle lost to the Pirates in seven games. Robert
DeNiro is your average Joe, a bus driver by profession trying with his
wife, Katherine Narducci, to raise their son who is eight years old.
Young Francis Capra who is fascinated by the gangsters hanging out at
the bar down the street, witnesses the local boss commit a murder. True
to the neighborhood code he doesn't snitch to the police and the local
boss takes him under his wing.

Chazz Palmentiri is the boss and he's an interesting character. A man
who's risen to the top of his profession, he's got a sense of himself
and what it took to get there. Life is about choices, he made his and
he's going with the flow, but he knows it isn't for everyone. He
advises young Capra to stay in school, but the more he advises the more
fascinating Palmentiri becomes to DeNiro's dismay.

The second half of the story is in 1968, the Bronx as part of America
ravaged by racial tensions, assassinations and the war in Vietnam. The
little boy is now teenager Lillo Brancato who gets interested in a
black girl, a big no-no in the crowd he comes from, but Palmentiri is
the one person who encourages the relationship. Let's just say that
everything, every element of the story comes full circle on one night
in the Bronx in 1968.

The comparison to Goodfellas for me is obvious. The two kids who grow
up to be Joe Pesci and Ray Liotta are taken under the wing of
neighborhood boss Paul Sorvino who sees them as promising gangster
material and they grow into the roles. Palmentiri keeps telling the
young kid here do what I say not what I do, but in the end it takes
some tragic events to set him on a right path.

DeNiro who you would normally expect in the gangster role is just fine
as the father, a good man, not a perfect one by any means, but just a
guy trying to do right by his family. It's Palmentiri however who
really steals the film as the local gangster boss who's as street smart
as they come, but even with all that can't anticipate all
contingencies.

Lillo Brancato who went on to several other film roles and a long
running one in The Sopranos certainly in real life didn't make the same
choices as his character Calogero Anello did. Life really imitated art
in his life story.

Nice to see the Bronx get its due.
<|_=00=_|>

The amount of brillance that Robert DeNiro puts into all of his performances
is unmatched and he proves that he can also be a fine director by debuting
in that field as well as starring in this 1993 Savoy release. DeNiro is top
billed but you actually don't see very much of him. The film's major focus
is that of a little boy named Calogero and his idol, a mobster named Sonny
(Chazz Palminteri). Sonny owns the Bronx neighborhood where Calogero and his
honest bus driver father Lorenzo (DeNiro) live. He also basically owns them.
Sonny's heavy amount of power and wealth make him an intimidating force
throughout the neighborhood but his mob gang make their fear of him look
like complete respect. Sonny knows that he's feared and it just encourages
him to keep trying to rise in power. Calogero grows up watching Sonny
cavorting on the street with his gang and secretly imitating him much to
Lorenzo's chagrin. Lorenzo wants the best life possible for Calogero and
doesn't want to see him fall into a life of crime or looking up to crime
figures. Calogero doesn't listen because he idolizes Sonny too much and his
chance to get Sonny's attention comes when he witnesses Sonny fatally shoot
a man. When Calogero is questioned by police, his loyalty comes before his
conscience and he doesn't rat out Sonny's guilt in the shooting. Sonny
strongly appreciates this and so he gives Calogero an easy money job serving
drinks for his high rollers gang. As several years pass and Calogero nears
the end of his childhood, he must learn to make the ultimate choice between
his two "father" figures. Just like in "Goodfellas", a classic soundtrack
and excellent period detail is evident here and this film stands out as yet
another classic in the modern day organized crime film genre. Palminteri
makes a strong film starring debut and DeNiro makes the very most of his
rather small seeming part. Joe Pesci also appears briefly as another
respected crime boss. An instant "new classic." 
<|_=00=_|>

Like Marty this is a masterpiece, done on less than a stellar budget. The
acting is miraculous. Chazz is a genius who can write for the theater, the
film and play the starring role.  He is the modern personification of
charisma. De Niro plays one of his most engaging and lovable roles. This, my
friends, is movie making. No blue screens, no CGI, nothing but a wonderful
story, brought to life, as movies were meant to be. Oh yes, the ending is
perfect. Being a fellow filmmaker, I can't help but be a little envious at
De Niro's first directing job.  Directing is hard work, acting is hard work,
to act in your first directing effort is...incredible. Well, I shouldn't be
surprised. Look at the kind of actor he is.  Great film, don't miss it, but
please don't wait for the special effects. This is one film that doesn't
need them to captivate you. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I first avoided this movie because I thought, a gangster movie with
Robert De Niro, it is not because I have seen that a thousand times
already. But it really took me by surprise, this movie is very
different from the usual gangster movies, and maybe that is why I liked
it so much. 

De Niro is actually a great director, and gives something completely
different then what I would have expected from him. It is really
interesting to see a gangster movie that focuses more on things like
family and love then violence and action. De Niro has really given us a
gangster classic that goes very much outside it's genre and it does it
brilliantly. 

The story is haunting, but amazing, and just beautifully put together.
The story is about a boy called Calogero, growing up right next to a
bar where the local gangsters are. After helping the boss, by not
telling the police a crime he just witnessed committed by the boss. He
slowly grows a relationship with the boss. His father (Robert De Niro)
wanting him not to live a criminal life, gets worried that his son get
involved with the gangsters, and try to stop it. But Calogero and the
gangster boss get a closer relationship, and soon Calogero is caught up
in the life of crime, even after his father attempts to stop it. 

Even though being a gangster movie, it also focuses very much on, the
father son relationship, racism, love, friendship, and many other
things. The acting is mostly amazing, with a few exceptions. Robert De
Niro gives one of my personal favorite roles as a father who just wants
the best for his son.

I am gonna finish by saying it would be a shame not watching this
movie, it is truly a one of a kind. I hope you found this review
helpful and I hope you will love the movie as much as I do. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I grew up in the Bronx during the 50s. The story, the neighborhood, the
attitude and the values are all real.  Maybe the inter-racial line was a bit
of a stretch.  Those things just didn't happen, at least not so openly.
Good story, I own the video & enjoy it with my sons from
time-to-time.
<|_=00=_|>
A father(Robert De Niro) who stresses the importance of honest work,
teaches his son values in 1960's New York as a distrusting
mobster(Chazz Palminteri) also shares his perspective and becomes some
what of a father figure to the kid. Faced with racism and a crime-based
community, learns his own morals from a strand of tough events.

This is not the first movie I have ever seen to make the gangster out
to be a some what nice guy. But this is the first one I have seen to
actually make him somewhat of a saint. Sonny(Palminteri) is the example
of a split personality with a criminal. He is very tough with a
community that he loves and basically runs but is also very protective
and guiding to many people. I found this to be quite interesting in
this type of genre.

Robert De Niro's character on the other hand, is very bold. He plays
the father who is concerned with his son's well being and is just your
normal flat character. He was unimpressive, but effective for a movie
that was by no means perfect in the first place.

The idea of this movie was what made it so intriguing. At two hours
long, it consists of a large epic story of a young man trying to make
it through a part of New York. Some important events were perhaps too
close together but it was still entertaining and quite moving. Overall,
A Bronx Tale is a fine experience of cinema with a wonderful story.

I highly recommend this movie.
