
OK, let's get this clear; Hot shots IS silly. Silly, simple, stupid and
ABSOLUTELY pointless. But hey, it IS a slapstick comedy, and a *******
GREAT ONE! MUCH better than the first movie! In EVERY SECOND of the
movie there is a gag, a joke, or someone or something that is so damn
funny that I can't help myself from falling of the chair laughing like
hell! I think I've seen this movie over 20 times, It's still the
funniest movie ever for me. I guess when it comes to movies of this
kind, I just want them to be as stupid, with as many jokes per minute,
as possible. I think Charlie Sheen is perfect for this role, he does
look serious, like some kind of a bad Rambo-wannabe, and a
serious-looking person doing stupid things is always great. It's also
great that Richard Crenna plays almost the same character as in Rambo
3, with many of his lines unchanged. If you've watched the
Rambo-movies, (most important the third one), you'll get more of the
gags and the dialogs, especially in the scenes from the Buddhist
temple. Saddam Hussein is also excellent, he looks really like the real
one! If you like stupid and crazy movies...WATCH THIS!
<|_=00=_|>
What can I say about this movie? A comic moment at every turn,
hilarious lines and a great spoof to live by. I, being a Ryan Stiles
fan, couldn't stop laughing when I first saw this. His performance was
top, and Charlie Sheen just brought it all together. My favourite
moments included when Dexter (Rowan Atkinson) mentioned his shoelaces
being tied together, and when the army wrote the sounds of the morse
code (Dah di di dah dah di dah)! Couldn't stop laughing!!! The casting
is great, with Lloyd Bridges as the President and Ryan Stiles as
Rainbowitz, this is a great movie spoof! I recommend this movie for
slapstick fans and people who just want a laugh, a lot of laughs!!
<|_=00=_|>
I guess it's quite obvious that those who didn't like the first "Hot
Shots" movie just shouldn't give this movie a try. But for the fans of
that one, and I'm one of them, this movie promised to offer a lot more
pleasure and laughter. What has always appealed to me is the fact that
they try to make fun of so many other movies. This time they have
re-used parts from movies like "Rambo", "Apocalypse Now", "Terminator",
"The Lady and the Tramp"... Trying to find all those references is
already a big part of the fun, especially when you already know most of
those movies.

In "Hot Shots! Part Deux" Topper Harley has retired again, now living
in a Buddhist monastery. But again he is asked by the CIA to lead a
special operation into Iraq. He will lead a rescue mission who has to
rescue the last rescue team, who went in to rescue the last rescue team
who were sent to rescue some prisoners left behind after Desert Storm.
While saving them, he will meet again with his beloved Ramada and will
shoot a couple millions of Iraqui soldiers...

Even though this movie wasn't as strong as the first one, I must say
that I still had a good time with it. Not every part worked very well,
but scenes like the one with the chicken shot out of a bow or the 'I
loved you in Wall Street' scene are just hilarious. But one of the best
parts must have been the one in which they said that the critics
wouldn't like it, because this was just a weak copy of the first one in
order to make more money. That was so spot on that I couldn't help
smiling about it.

About the acting I can be quite brief. It's completely over the top,
but what else can you expect from a movie like this one? This is a
parody and some normal acting would never be able to put the emphasis
on the already absurd situations. It's sometimes a bit too much, but I
know that it's necessary for the movie and that's why I still
appreciate it.

In the end this is an absurd comedy and parody on many kinds of movies.
If you like this kind of humor and know most of the other movies, then
you'll probably have a great time with it. I sure liked it and that's
why I give it a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

It's surprising how much fresher this movie looks and plays compared to
most
other spoofs of the 90's. It's a reminder (which you may need after
watching
films like "Dracula:Dead and Loving It") that ANY genre can work with the
right amount of effort put into it. Maybe it does have a few duds here
and
there, but there are far more surrealistic gems along the way
("Geronimoooo!". "Geronimoooo!". "Meeeee!"). One of the best of its kind.
(***)
<|_=00=_|>
Let it be etched on stone: Since HOT SHOTS! PART DEUX was released
American comedy cinema has been in a steep decline. Part of the reason
for this is that HOT SHOTS! PART DEUX is an Everest of film-making that
has yet to been scaled since. And once you reach the peak the only way
is down. HOT SHOTS! PART DEUX has everything. It is the most
consistently side-splittingly funny film since Chaplin and Keaton at
their peak. It is the most devastating and uplifting story of love, war
and sacrifice since CASABLANCA and it has rip-roaring action scenes
(Die! Energizer! Bunny! Die!) on par with the mighty movies it is
(lovingly) parodying. Charlie Sheen, despite his off-screen
propensities, has always been an agreeable screen presence and here he
delivers his performances for the ages. Valeria Golino is a goddess for
all the ages and also displays impeccable comedic skills. She also
kicks a considerable amount of butt without ever losing her grace and
femininity. This is quite possibly the last great American female role
with substance to it and sadly none have close since.

When people consider the great sequels of all time, usually they pick
THE GODFATHER PART II. Then I think to myself - Why pick the three-hour
plus GODFATHER PART II when a hundred times more out of the 90 minute
HOT SHOTS PART DEUX? Does THE GODFATHER PART II have Al Pacino using a
chicken as an arrow? No! So when you are looking at your shiny DVD
collection and thinking "I think I'll watch a GODFATHER movie" my
advise is to pick up HOT SHOTS PART DEUX and watch it... twice. The
only way this film could be any better is if Miguel Ferrer had more
screen time. That guy is a Plato of modern times. "War. It's
fantastic!" Even Rowan Atkinson is funny in this film. Let's see Ingmar
Bergman pull that feat off!
<|_=00=_|>
After being really happy with the first Hot Shots, I was excited to see
the next and I have to say that Part Deux was still a ton of fun.
Despite the fact that I know that this film may be a little silly and
over the top with the jokes, it still was a lot of fun to watch. I
think everyone needs an outrageous comedy here and there. Charlie Sheen
is an absolute blast to watch, this time, they are taking on Rambo,
Predator, Commando, Basic Instinct, and many other references.

Topper is asked to come back to save a bunch of American soldiers
captured by Saddam Husain, but he has been dumped by Ramada and starts
a steamy affair with a CIA agent who gives him her mole for luck. When
he sees Ramada on the mission due to sequel casting, they stick
together and the team puts in their best and saves the soldiers from
the wacky dictator.

Hot Shots Part Deux is a lot of fun for certain people, like me, who
enjoy these zany goof ball comedies. I really do prefer this kind of
comedy to many I've seen today where it's more shock than originality.
The Hot Shot movies are so much fun and I would recommend these movies
for anyone. Just sit back and have fun with these comedies, I think
you'll have a good time.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Knowing that "Hot Shots! Part Deux" is from the "Airplane!" crowd
should immediately identify that the whole thing is an excuse to be
silly. And they do just that. Mostly spoofing the "Rambo" movies - but
also various other flicks and even George H.W. Bush barfing on Japan's
PM - they play everything for all that it's worth. OK, so maybe this is
low humor, but still, there isn't a dull moment anywhere in the movie.
It's impossible not to like. Charlie Sheen, Lloyd Bridges, Valeria
Golino, and Jerry Haleva reprise their roles from the original, and
there's also Rowan Atkinson (that's right: Mr. Bean!) this time around.
So see it; you're sure to like it.
<|_=00=_|>

While the original will always be 
considered better, this film still held true 
to the Hot Shots mentality. While the 
whole concept may have been a little dragged 
out, at least they didn't try to make another 
movie to further destroy this franchise. 
Charlie Sheen was once again, Charlie 
Sheen. With yet another tongue-in-cheek 
performance, Sheen proves to us he is one of the 
most nonchalant comedy actor of our day. 
Plenty of funny things to talk about, but far too 
many to mention.
<|_=00=_|>
Alright, this is a sequel and the frame is familiar, but it's still
pretty funny and at times sidespittingly so.

I can't begin to list (or recognize) all of the allusions to other
movies that provide the springboard for this parody. That doesn't
really matter. The opening sequence in which Richard Crenna induces
Martin Sheen to come out of retirement in a Harikrishna ashram is a
little dull, but after that it's solid laughs.

Most of the jokes are silly and played in perfect deadpan. Example: an
overly bemuscled Sheen, dressed in macho commando gear, steps off a
helicopter at a remote jungle camp, accompanied by Brenda Bakke, a
gorgeous long-haired woman in tight shorts who oozes sex from every
pore. Miguel Ferrer, the camp commander, marches up to the two of them
and demands to know, in his official voice, "Which of you is Michelle
Huddleston"? Later a man is killed by a chicken shot from a bow.

There are so many gags packed into some scenes that it takes repeated
viewings to notice them. During an intense combat scene, Sheen and
Ferrer hide behind some packing crates and Ferrer begins to sob because
he's lost his taste for killing. Sheen comforts him as you might
comfort a child: "Hey, buddy boy, we're all entitled to a few
mistakes." The exchange itself is quite funny, an insertion of pop
psychology crap into a scene full of whizzing bullets and exploding
mortar shells. But behind the pair, we can notice that one of the
supply boxes is labeled "Spineless Jellyfish" and another
"Yellowbellies." I think I'll quit with one more example, worthy of
Woody Allan. Two bitchy women who used to be roommates are exchanging
insults. One says: "I'll never forget what you wrote in my yearbook.
'Remember all the fun we had in speech class? And I'll **** up your
life if it's the last thing I do'." None of the performances flop. How
COULD they? You could drag some wino in off the street and have him
stumbling around and retching these lines and he'd be funny. That said,
I must admit that I enjoyed Loyd Bridge's performance the most. He's
still the same character he was in "Hot Shots", a bionic man, but this
time around he's the president and he really gets into the part. "Looks
like this time the other hand is on the wrong foot." Well I don't want
to get into what there is of a plot, and I don't want to give away any
more of the gags. That leaves me pretty much with nothing more to say.

You'd need to be in the throes of a major affective disorder not to
laugh out loud during this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know if I've ever seen a comedy as zany or as randomly silly as
"Hot Shots! Part Deux." Then again, I'm not all that familiar with the
comedy genre, but I can say that between this movie and its
predecessor, every pratfall, every parody, every little joke has been
done. Part Deux is even crazier and more random than its nonsensically
silly prequel and it's even less intelligent, but strangely enough,
it's a lot more enjoyable. I thought the first "Hot Shots!" was a
promising hit-and-miss satire; Part Deux succeeds.

Like its predecessor, Part Deux sets its plot as a parody of one
specific film, but makes satirical parodies of dozens throughout its
running time. The first movie was a parody of "Top Gun" but made
references to dozens of other movies from "Dances With Wolves" to "Gone
with the Wind." Likewise, the sequel is a parody of "Rambo III", but
that's just the setup for all of the jokes that follow. Like Rambo,
Topper Harley (Charlie Sheen) is retired to the Far East when his
former commander (Richard Crenna) comes in and asks him to join a
rescue mission to save hostages from Iraqi captors. Sheen at first
refuses but when Crenna is captured as he was in "Rambo III", Sheen
heads in after him along with a misfit group of soldiers. And
meanwhile, Admiral Benson (Lloyd Bridges) from the first movie has been
promoted to president of the United States and continues his idiotic
and incompetent running of the country.

Now this is precisely the sort of comedy that a movie-lover like myself
enjoys. Why? Well, not only because it is so zany and buffoonish that
one can't help but laugh at it, but because it's like a big mincemeat
of movie references. The setup is a parody of "Rambo III", but I
spotted parodies of "Casablanca", "Platoon" (which also starred Charlie
Sheen), "Lady and the Tramp", "The Wizard of Oz", "Terminator 2" and so
on. And just when I thought they were going to between two movies
forget to parody "Star Wars", sure enough I got my fix for that. And
that's not even the limit of it. The movie also makes jokes and points
fingers at some of your favorite actors. A brief example is an enemy
patrol boat that comes into the shot. The boat's name is "The Behn
Gazaarah" as a tribute to actor Ben Gazzara. If you've seen lots of
movies and you love the movies, this is the comedy for you because you
can sit back, relax, have the time of your life laughing, and point
your finger at the screen whenever a parody comes up and say "Yeah,
that was from (insert movie title)!" "Hot Shots! Part Deux" opens up
with a joke and closes with a joke and at least ninety percent of these
are gut-busting in their effect. There are some jokes throughout the
film, such as a few of the Saddam Hussein jokes toward the beginning,
that were not all that funny, but around and after that were some of
the zaniest, silliest, most random pratfalls I've ever seen. But it's
also funny because it doesn't just make a simple parody and joke, but
keeps pushing it one step ahead. Instead of just simply parodying the
spaghetti-kiss scene from "Lady and the Tramp", it carries it to the
next step with Charlie Sheen pushing a meatball across the plate with
his nose and then the scene morphs in a parody of "Casablanca." It's
also not just enough for the movie to create a character like Richard
Crenna's character in the Rambo series to be Sheen's former commanding
officer. But to have Richard Crenna himself play the character and wear
the same outfit and the same makeup and speak in the same rhythm and
manner.

And if there is one other element in this movie that I loved, it was
the Lloyd Bridges character. Like the admiral he played in the first
"Hot Shots!" Bridges plays the president of the United States, Thomas
"Tug" Benson as simply a complete idiot, somebody so stupid that they
could never, in real life, get a job running a grocery store let alone
a country. And Bridges looks like he's having a good time playing the
character, which in turn makes it very funny for the audience.

In closing, "Hot Shots! Part Deux" is a tremendously enjoyable
satirical comedy and precisely the sort of parody that I find
entertaining. The key to its success is that it's so unbelievably
random and silly and nonsensical. Whereas so many comedies I know try
to do the same thing but just fail, it passes with flying colors. This
is one funny movie.
