
...A filmmaker decided to do another rendition of Cinderella; and what a
beautiful rendition it is!

Cinderella was always my favorite fairy tale, but this movie, at first,
looked like yet another poor updating.  Imagine my surprise when I watched
it on video.  It was beautiful, funny, thoughtful, smart, and wonderful.  It
brings the romance of the story fully to life and touches the heart.  Sure,
there are errors in history and anachronisms; but, it's a fairy tale.  King
Arthur wouldn't have worn plate armor, either.

Drew Barrymore delivers her best performance ever.  The accent is a bit
distracting, but she is consistent with it, unlike certain Robin Hood's I
could name.  She delivers on the promise she demonstrated as a youngster and
brings those Barrymore genes to life.  She handles the comedy as ably as the
romance.  You laugh when she first hits the Prince with an apple (pretty
good shot, too!). You ache for her as her world seems to fall apart when
Prince Henry learns the truth.  You cheer when she renders justice to her
oppressors.

Dougray Scott is a fine handsome Prince, a thinker as well as a fighter. 
His eyes are opened to the world he lives in by this passionate girl. 
Angelica Huston really adds the evil to the "evil stepmother".  The rest of
the supporting cast are uniformly great.

The addition of Da Vinci, if historically incorrect, is a nice twist on the
Fairy Godmother.  Who better to help a child of reason and
enlightenment?

This is a true romance, a rare thing in today's movies, including the
so-called "romantic comedies." It is a wonderful piece of work and a fine
update to a classic tale.

And they lived happily ever after, indeed!
<|_=00=_|>

Isn't it what most people dream of? Prospering despite the difficulties in
their lives? Finding their true love and being with him/her despite the
odds?

This movie is most definitely not a retelling of the Cinderella story. It
has aspects of that, the basic plotline, but a twist all its own. Gone is
the pumpkin and the rats into footmen. Gone are the ugly stepsisters, the
two equally horrid. No, in this one there is naturally one horrid
stepsister, but the other is quite lovable. Dougray Scott is marvelously
funny in his role as a Prince trying to find his way, and Angelica Huston
is
a brilliant evil stepmother, and Drew Barrymore makes a stunning
Danielle...
With other quirky characters thrown in along the way. Gustave, DaVinci,
even
the King and Queen are given personalities. The detail is incredible, the
costumes gorgeous, and the dialogue enrapturing. This movie is counted
among
my most favorites, and I highly recommend it to any with a passion for
romance.


<|_=00=_|>
To me this was the best remake of a fairytale ever! And I don't care if
it's because I'm a girl and this is girlie material- I still loved it!
Drew Barrymore personified this interpretation of Cinderella like no
other. Angelica Houston was a kick ass evil stepmother. The combination
of these two dynamite stars in these two classic roles created an
unequaled magic. And of course let's not forget the freakishly handsome
Dougray Scott who played Prince Henry. He graced the screen with a
hypnotic charm that challenges any prince any day. This is my all time
favourite movie. I can watch it over and over again. And I challenge
any man to watch this film and understand what romance is really all
about.
<|_=00=_|>

I am going tonight to see Ever After for the third time in three days.  This
 movie is wonderful!  Drew Barrymore does a fantastic job as Cinderella -
 and what a cinderella!  None of this 'wait for the prince to rescue you'
 nonsense!  I like the movie because Danielle (Cinderella's "real" name)
 wins the prince because she is passionate, outspoken, well-read, and won't
 take nonsense from anyone!  And the costuming!  Drool!  Why don't *I* ever
 get clothes like that?  

I really like the fact that Danielle makes her own dreams come true instead
 of hoping they will turn out right - what a wonderful role model (I know *I
* am inspired!)  I laughed and cried and bit my fingernails (I am NOT
 supposed to bite my fingernails) and crumpled the napkins for the popcorn
 into hopeless little balls.  The characterizations are wonderful.
  The scenery is gorgeous and the actors and actresses do such a wonderful
 job at making their characters come alive.  I just cannot say enough good
 things about the movie - by all means go and see it!  

Jennifer 8)
<|_=00=_|>
"Ever After" is a wonderfully imaginative romance. It's a classic
Cinderella tale set in 16th-century France and revolves around an
independent young woman named Danielle. Although she works as a servant
for her stepmother, Danielle is anything but weak and subservient. She
is passionate and strong-willed, qualities that lead her to the French
court dressed as a wealthy courtier to save a man's life. There she
meets the handsome Prince Henry, who is jaded by his suffocating royal
lifestyle. He is fascinated by Danielle and her thirst for life and
adventure, and they fall deeply in love - but her jealous stepmother
will do anything to keep them apart.

Drew Barrymore turns in a stunning performance as Danielle. Her
emotions are raw and realistic and she gives the character charm, wit,
and beauty.

Anjelica Huston brings a third dimension to her role as the "evil"
stepmother, who is usually just portrayed as a flat character. In this
movie she is an ambitious mother who would do anything to make her own
daughter a queen.

The Prince is also usually a pretty flat, cliché character, but Dougray
Scott brought a refreshingly human side to him and portrayed his
struggles and conflicts very well.

The script is strong for a romantic fairy tale and the cinematography
is gorgeous. There is one scene in which Danielle is floating on her
back in the river, a dreamy and breathtaking moment that describes her
carefree nature perfectly. The music composed by George Fenton is
lovely - I recommend the soundtrack for this movie too, especially
"Walking On Water."

A wonderful movie for all lovers of romance! 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Cinderella is a timeless classic, a fairytale for all ages. And "Ever
After" is pitch-perfect as an adaptation of the Cinderella story to
screen.

As a fairytale, this movie follows a predictable pattern and storyline.
It is sweet, light, innocent and beautiful. Stunningly beautiful. The
cinematography is one of the stars here and this is a fabulous movie to
watch - for the scenery, the costumes and the visual effects.

Anjelica Huston steals the show as the evil stepmother, but Drew
Barrymore puts in a fine performance here, and Patrick Godfrey is
wonderfully eccentric as Leonardo Da Vinci. Overall, this is not so
much a movie about the acting, but it's more about the sometimes sappy,
usually saccharine, but wonderfully heartfelt classic story. Instead of
the magic of the original fairytale, Ever After replaces it with the
"magic" of wit, humour and heart. And there's nothing wrong with that.

Funny and charming, Ever After is one of those great movies that can be
watched over and over again.
<|_=00=_|>

A modern spin on the fairy tale "Cinderella". When I first went to see this
movie in the theatre, I was very skeptical as I'm not a Drew Barrymore fan
but she absolutely shines as Danielle and has great chemistry with Dougray
Scott as the handsome and funny Prince Henry. I love the scenery and
costumes, and
all the characters are wickedly funny. The story is very endearing and
absorbing as well. Don't miss this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I remember when this movie was released, I saw it so many times in the
theater with my friends. We were 13, perfect age group for the film and
we adored everything about this movie. It's years later and I bought
the movie on DVD making me wonder if the movie did hold up as well as I
remembered. Well, it doesn't hold the same magic as I saw when I was a
kid, but Ever After still holds a certain charm that is absolutely
irresistible. I think between the writing and the characters, this was
a great update on a classic story. Every little girl has dreamed of
being Cinderella, the girl who has been dumped on her whole life and
then the man of your dreams comes to save you as you live happily ever
after. Drew Barrymore takes lead through this charming fairy tale of a
strong woman with the good faith that one day things will go as they
should and she'd live in a utopia.

Danielle de Barbarac is a young girl who lives in a manor with her
widowed father whom she adores. When Danielle is eight, her father
marries the haughty Baroness Rodmilla de Ghent, who has two daughters
about Danielle's age. Soon after, Auguste dies. Rodmilla is envious of
Danielle, and treats her like a servant after Auguste's death. The
Baroness has fallen into debt. Marguerite, her spoiled older daughter,
has grown to be cruel, arrogant, and bad-tempered; while the younger,
Jacqueline, is kindhearted, soft-spoken, and constantly overlooked. In
the orchard one day, Danielle encounters a man attempting to steal her
father's old horse. She pelts him with apples, knocking him to the
ground, and is horrified to learn that the man is Henry, the Prince of
France. Henry explains that his own horse was lamed in his attempt to
escape stifling royal life. He forgives Danielle in exchange for her
silence, and rewards her with money. Danielle resolves to use the money
to rescue Maurice, an old family servant whom Rodmilla had sold. While
her step-family is out of the house, Danielle dons a noblewoman's dress
and goes to court. She finds Maurice about to be shipped to the
Americas, and demands his release. Prince Henry sees this and is
impressed with Danielle's intellect, strength of character, and beauty.
Danielle refuses to tell Henry her name, though eventually she leaves
him with the name of her mother, Comtesse Nicole de Lancret. Leading
him to want to speak with her more only to fall in love with her not
knowing that she is a true Cinderella.

I still like this movie very much. Drew and the other actors may not
have a great accent but they still all tried their best. Angelica
Huston, what a great choice as the wicked step mother and I use that
term lightly. There is this beautiful scene between her and Danielle,
she starts to tell Danielle about her father and how Angelica barely
knew him, you see a sense of humanity in her and then she starts to
look at Danielle with love but realizes how hurt she still is that her
father cared more for Danielle than his own wife. You understand how
she could be angry and jealous, not justifying what she did to
Danielle, but her motivation is understandable and I love the
punishment she receives for what she did. There's still a scene that
gets a great reaction from me, when Marguerite just spitefully tells
Danielle how her mother is dead and Danielle just goes up to her and
gives her one hell of a punch, I think that's when I fell in love with
her! What strength was given to the character making the film more than
just a "happily ever after" film, but a wonderful fairy tale with
enjoyable characters, a wonderful romance, humor and most of all leaves
you with a smile on your face.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

I think Ever After was a great movie, and a must see for everyone. It's not
 just a "kiddie movie". Drew Barrymore plays a great and convincing
 Cinderella, or as Margerite called her, "Cinder Girl". It isn't like the
 Disney movie, way different. For example, the girl is named Danielle, not
 Cinderella. There is a nice stepsister.. and there is no Fairy Godmother,
 but Leonarod Da Vinci, a guide to Danielle and the Prince. 

The thing that really made me want to see this movie is what Drew Barrymore
 said in one of her interviews..

"It's so wonderful, because all girls love Cinderella. She is really a
 positive rolemodel. From everything to being fiercely loyal, and incredibly
 smart, and well read, to not only not waiting to be rescued, but to rescue
 other people, to take the pain that she's experienced in her life, to only
 have it strengthen her. And, also the fact that her heart and her mind is
 what is attractive and intriguing to this wonderful prince, and not the way
 she looks."

Drew Barrymore played a great Cinderella.. Angelica Houston a wonderful
 stepmother.. and D. Scott played a great prince. If you haven't seen it
 yet.. you must! It's a great movie for everyone! Just Breathe..

<|_=00=_|>

Cinderella kicks butt in this feminist retelling of the classic fairy tale. 
Orphaned as a young girl, Danielle (Cinderella) is raised by her evil
stepmother and two stepsisters in rural 16th century France. After a few
chance encounters with the crown prince (who falls in love with her),
Danielle finds herself on a collision course with her family who have royal
designs of their own. Shot on location in France, the dialogue often veers
very close to preachy, but knows when to cut the politics and return to the
story. And a good story it is, well acted by Drew Barrymore as Danielle, and
Angelica Huston as the wicked stepmother. This one is worth the
rental.

