

 I remember my cousins and I used to always watch these movies when I was a
kid. I loved how these bad-playing, poor attitude-having kids could always
be inspired to become champions, no matter how tough the odds and no matter
how many times movies like this were remade with soccer, football, baseball,
and dogs. Even though I've seen it a million times, I still get chills when
the team works as a team and goes out to try their hardest. It's enough to
make me, one of the least sporty people alive, want to join a sporting team.
Another highlight, for me at least, were the guys. I always had at least one
guy in the movie who I had a crush on and kept my undivided attention on.
Who would've known back then that young Charlie (Joshua Jackson) would grow
up to use big words and pretentious speeches on Dawson's Creek? Out of all
those inspirational sports-are-good-for-kids movies, this was and always
will be my favorite because it is the first one I can remember and the first
I've ever seen. 1...2...3...Quack! Quack! Quack! Quack! 

<|_=00=_|>

The Mighty Ducks (aka as the Champions), is one of the great Disney movies I
have seen. Not your typical fairytale, but a rugged kids adventure, which
also goes into that winning is not everything, but that being in a team and
playing as a team is the most important part of any sport and is good
measure for a person's life.

Aggressive trial lawyer Gordon Bombay has never lost a case. But when he's
sentenced to a community service assignment, he must coach a ragtag team of
peewee hockey players who can't skate, can't score and can't win. First he
teaches the hapless team everything about winning and they teach him that
winning is not everything. Watch the pucks fly as they battle their way to
the most important game of their lives!

This film is a great story for young up and coming sports ‘people' to watch
and learn that winning is not the be all and end all of sport. Sure there
are some people such as Coach Reilly, because they are not true sports
lovers. Instead they treat sport as a serious event, not something that as
Gordon Bombay says should be ‘fun'. In Australia, and my part of this
country, we have Aussie Rules football, which again is a very team
orientated sport. Although it can have some extraordinary individuals that
play, the theme is still the same, that a team has to stick together and try
as hard as it can.

This movie has a very young and funny cast, with some old heads thrown in
for good team balance. The obvious star is Emilio Estevez, who stars as
Gordon Bombay. While he is a very aggressive character in the beginning,
Gordon brings his knowledge and experience to a group of young kids that
would make any sports coach proud. Estevez has had a good movie career, with
some of his more well known movies being The Breakfast Club, St. Elmo's
Fire, and an unaccredited role in Mission Impossible . The other main star
is a very young Joshua Jackson who portrayed Charlie Conway, a good
ice-hockey player, who reminds his coach a lot of himself as a young peewee
hockey player. Jackson has made a name for himself in Hollywood starring in
films such as Cruel Intentions, the disappointing Skulls and the popular TV
drama, `Dawson's Creek'.

Other cast members also include the rival coach of the Hawks Ice-Hockey
team, Coach Reilly  played by veteran actor Lane Smith.  He also starred in
another great film I saw recently, which happened to be on another popular
sport, that of  golf, the film being `The Legend of Bagger Vance'. All the
characters that are on the Mighty ducks team are likeable people. The team
consists of a fat kid, a silent kid, a nice kid, a wiseacre kid, a
figure-skating princess, and a tough kid. The whole formula works for me
anyway. 

I thought that this film had some impressive Ice-Hockey scenes that looked
real, though I will never know if they are real or not. Ice-Hockey is a
demanding sport and this movie shows that this is the case, with heavy bumps
and unrelenting pressure on players. It was good to see that this sport has
both males and females playing together, again the movie shows how well the
two can gel. 

So, if you think that sport is not your thing, but want to give it a go,
perhaps this film is what you need to watch. Although this isn't the most
talented group of athletes to take the ice, and in the beginning the Ducks
do really ‘suck', they prove that with some good coaching guidance and team
camaraderie, anything is possible if you put your mind to it.

QUACK QUACK QUACK – Go the Ducks!

Rating: 8/10 or 4 Stars


<|_=00=_|>

C'mon, now, you know you can't resist those cute little kids with hockey
sticks! And no one can resist the charms of Emilio Estevez! Put them
together, and, damn, have you got one super cool movie! I mean, really, if
a
senior in high school still finds this flick cool, I'm pretty sure it'll
work for anyone! :)
<|_=00=_|>

Directed by Stephen Herek [BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE], THE MIGHTY
DUCKS was a surprise box office hit in 1992 and was followed by two better
sequels and a decent animated series. Although not the best in the trilogy,
THE MIGHTY DUCKS is still one of the all-time classics of 1992. Emilio
Estevez, in what is his best role to date, plays Gordon Bombay, the coach of
The Ducks in this family sports comedy. Estevez, arguably one of the coolest
actors of the 1980s and 1990s, is the glue that holds the movie together.
Without him, it would be little more than any other  cliched sports flick.
Thanks to Estevez, the movie is better than expected and worth watching.
**1/2 
<|_=00=_|>
Though perhaps unknown to the warm-weather climates of the nation,
youth hockey (and even hockey in general) is a big, big real. "Mighty
Ducks" taps into that fan base with a fun little movie set in Minnesota
that captures the fun, drama, and emotion of the experience.

For a basic plot summary, this movie tells the story of Gordon Bombay
(Emilio Estevez), a corrupt lawyer who his forced into community in the
form of coaching Minneapolis, MN youth hockey (an area in which he had
some childhood experience). While at first, Bombay is hesitant to give
even a modicum of effort towards the cause, he gains inspiration
(whether positive or negative) from old-time mentor Hans (Joss
Ackland), former coach Jack Reilly (Lane Smith), and bright-eyed
youngster Charlie Conway (Joshua Jackson).

This is a pretty straightforward kids flick. It has the requisite goofy
humor, sometimes cringe- worthy dialogue, and a heavy amount of rah-rah
drama. Even if your kids aren't necessarily into hockey, they will like
this type of movie.

The reason why this movie transcends kiddie fare, though, is because it
captures the essence of hockey. It treats the sport with a great deal
of respect and reverence, which taps into the nostalgia of adults
watching. Just like how "Little Big League" just "gets" baseball humor,
"Mighty Ducks" does the exact same thing as hockey.

Basically, you can't go wrong with this on family movie night. It has
enough of everything to not bore any member of the family tears. In
fact, it may (depending on your interest in sports/hockey) become a
sort of cult classic in your own family.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think The Mighty Ducks is a masterpiece in any shape or form,
but it is an enjoyable film. I do agree that it is predictable, the
plot is nothing particularly special and the ending especially doesn't
really hold any surprises. But it is nicely filmed, with evergreen
cinematography and pretty scenery and the music is pleasant. The script
is good on the most part, there are some humorous parts but it is also
somewhat touching, and the director Stephen Herek pitches the humour
and melodrama at the right level. And the acting is spirited, with
Emilio Estevez charming, dignified and fun as the disgraced lawyer who
has to coach the worst ice hockey team and Joss Ackland solid as Hans.
Also the ice-hockey scenes are done with just the right amount of
flair. Overall, a sweet and fun movie, even with the predictable plot
it is worth seeing. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I really like this movie out of the three Ducks movies because to me,
this is the only one that feels like a genuine movie to me. A movie
that was made from the heart. The reasons for it? There are two of them
that stick out to me.

Gordon Bombay goes through one hell of a transformation. He goes from a
drunk lawyer to reconnecting with his old love and facing a demon that
has haunted him up to now. Even the introduction scene carries an
ominous feeling. The goalie facing the young Bombay looks more like a
menacing monster; as well as it should be since it represents a
horrible memory for the man. I remember being scared of that scene as a
child, just cause the goalie looked so scary.

His character's transformation over the movie is the heart of this
film. It's a protagonist who has a REAL arc - beginning, middle, and
end. It's all carried out with such poignancy as well. Emilio Estevez
does great acting.

The child actors do a good job. I mean, they're KIDS, and this is a kid
movie...but they pull it off nicely. The kids who play Charlie, Fulton,
Jesse, and Banks especially. They make you take their characters
seriously, which is different from a normal kids movie.

The kiddy parts don't make me cringe, but make me smile. I guess
because it's not overdone.

Sorry to say, but the other two movies to me relied too much on either
hockey action or gimmicks (although I DID like D3's grittier hockey
action and more serious story with Charlie). They didn't have the
heartfelt story that this one did. It's all balanced out to entertain
the little kids, but Gordon Bombay's arc is one for the adults.

I also miss the kids that would end up not being in the future movies.
In D3, when Gordon says that the Ducks were unchanged since the
beginning, I cringed. I guess I'm the type to cling to sentimental
values like that.

This was the best movie out of the trilogy to me. That's because it
felt like a REAL movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that this was a good movie.  It was a movie that you could sit
down with the entire family, and still have a good time.  It is a typical
story line, and you pretty much know the end, but still, it is a fun
journey
from the beginning to the end of the film.  This is a movie that everyone
should see with their kids.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the great kid movie-sports-films of 
all time, this movie always has a special place 
in my heart when it comes to losers turning 
into winners. Sure, some of the action proved 
to be a little sappy, but it was all in good fun. 
Emilio Estevez provided a rather believable 
performance as a snooty lawyer turned-peewee 
hockey coach. Virtually all of the characters were 
great in this film, even the annoying Goldberg. 
A good film to say the least, one that shouldn't 
have spawned sequels.
<|_=00=_|>
The Mighty Ducks is an incredible movie, check that, f'n legendary.
They named a Pro Hockey Team (NHL or National Hockey League) after the
team from the movie. In my eyes this movie is a 10 out of 10. But I do
question the reliability of the law firm Gordon Bombay worked at,
Ducksworth, Saver & Gross. First off, the guy who runs the Law firm's
name is Mr. Ducksworth, seems slimy. Secondly, Gordon Bombay is a drunk
idiot who gets a DUI, for what I believe is the 3rd time, and still
somehow has a job. Instead of firing him, they suspend him and force
him to coach an awful pee-wee hockey team. YOU ARE A LAW FIRM, WHY
WOULD YOU NOT JUST FIRE HIM, makes you question if they know any real
laws at all. Anyway, Gordo takes over just a garbage team and slowly
turns them around with some great flopping techniques "take the fall,
act hurt, get indignant" Rolls off the tongue. So Gordo, in an attempt
to kiss up to his moronic boss, M. Ducksworth, he re-names District-5
as The Mighty Ducks. Cute at first, but troublesome in the long run.
So, this stupid Law firm, then decides to fire Gordon, after he uses
he's lawyerness (which he should be commended for) to find out the
Leagues best player Adam Banks or Banksy, was playing for the wrong
team. The awful Hawks, and should be playing for the M. Ducks. Banksy's
dad and the vindictive 60 year old pee-wee hockey coach convince
Ducksworth to fire Gord, if he doesn't allow Banksy to play for the
Hawks. Gordy obvious tells them to Quack off and loses his Job. So,
in-conclusion, DUI = Slap on the Wrist, follow the rules and guidelines
of Pee-wee hockey and act with integrity, you get fired. Also, Gordon
is somewhere around 27 years old and he's already a top Lawyer in the
firm, so he's got to be awesome. But sure, fire him b/c a pee-wee
hockey team won't have the best player. I'd hire any other law firm,
one that isn't swayed by POLITICS!

One plot hole I question. Gordon Bombay going off to play minor league
hockey at the end of the movie? That doesn't make a whole lot of sense
to me. According to Hans, he stopped playing hockey at 9 y/o after he
cost the Hawks a championship (the only one they lost in a 30 year
period, Coach Jack Reilly wishes they would take down that 2nd place
banner, and you know what he has a point!) So, no hockey from 9 to 27?
I don't care how much natural talent you have, if you don't play hockey
during that time period, you aren't going to be good enough to try out
for the minor leagues. 

Coach Reilly kind of rules, dude is like 60 years old, and to my
knowledge, his full time Job is to be a pee-wee coach of the Hawks. He
has no problem holding grudges for an insanely stupid amount of time.
When he first sees Gordy after 18 years, he makes it a point to
indirectly call him a huge failure. All b/c he missed a penalty shot
goal, shortly after the 9 y/o lost his father. That's some Bill
Belichick level stuff. 

You have to question the refs during the games, they let the Hawks get
away with some of the craziest things, those kids should be locked up
for the crimes they committed on the ice. When the Ducks were just D-5,
no ref should have allowed them on the ice without proper equipment.
Stupid Goldberg had tape instead of pads, yep, tape! That is insane,
but Goldberg is from Philly and likes the Flyers so that rules. Gerald
Gardner, age 11 141 pounds, was wearing a football helmet, like get a
grip refs! Terry & Jessie's Dad didn't give up his overtime for this!

Couple kewl surprises in this movie. One, Pete from pete and pete is in
the movie, nice add. Two, in the end credits, they play an absolute
JAM, Winning it All by The Outfield, go listen to it. A+ song. And
Lastly, Go Flyers.
