

A fast-moving and nimble comedy with witty dialogue, an intelligent
script,
well-developed characters and a credible ethnic ethos. It's unpretentious
and amiable, yet truly acerbic when it needs to be. The acting is mostly
first-rate.

Well done, Burns!

(I guess all of this will make the delayed-maturity stratum of movie fans
truly averse to this movie...)
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not sure why I've rented this film 3 times in the last couple of
years.
The characters are well developed, Tom Petty's sound track is very good
and
there are the gorgeous gals of course (Diaz, Anniston, Bahns), but there's
more to it. This is an excellent, but perhaps not classic, drama posing as
a
romantic comedy. It's about morality and responsibility in a time when
there
is no morality and responsibility..  about love and family in a time when
the definition of these words has become blurred. It cuts pretty close to
home at times..  and there are those beautiful women.
<|_=00=_|>
Edward Burns is to be admired for directing this (in places) wonderful
"slice of life", examining the intricacies of relationships, the ideas
of romantic love and sibling rivalry. The family unit (Mike McGlone,
Edward Burns, John Mahoney) is excellently conveyed. The father and
younger brother (an impressive performance from both the actors)
display (initially) a rampant misogynist, a far cry from the character
Edward Burns plays.

The cast is rounded off with a very good Jennifer Aniston as the
cheated-against wife, who has her "needs", not fulfilled sexually, a
beautiful and contained Maxine Bahns and a vulnerable and (at the same
time) brittle and almost defiant Cameron Diaz.

It's a good movie, with good acting, and good lines.As in all Romantic
Comedies, the story is quite predictable. However, it's an engaging
film, and involves the viewer.

Recommended
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie to be hilarious, I actually laughed out loud by
myself! "Come on Dorothy, it's all over"! Hahahahaha, the repartee is
fast and funny between the Fitzpatricks. Not to mention there are so
many 'hot' babes in this movie. I vaguely recall somewhere in the back
of my memory that I may have seen this movie before, but even if I had
it doesn't matter because the laughs were fresh, new and satisfying.
The almost 'infantile' banter between the brothers is genuinely
hilarious. John Mahoney plays a very convincing role as the dubious
patriarch who sees his boys as if they were perpetually 12 years old.
The funniest part of it is, the boys unconsciously and unwittingly play
right into his hands, at every twist and turn of the dialogue. Tune
into this flick for some hearty laughter, silly shenanigans and some
surprising plot twists.
<|_=00=_|>

I can't believe this movie has only a 6 rating.  I thought it was
entertaining as all hell and John Mahoney would be worth the whole movie,
but doesn't need to be as all the other characters come through vibrantly.
The relationship between the brothers is great, so textural, and Jennifer
Aniston is priceless.  But still in all, I go back to John Mahoney and the
subplot between him and his wife (who we never actually see).  That entire
scenario was priceless and hysterical.

A great film that shows Ed Burns really is a talent as a writer and
director.  I give it a much higher rating then what it ranks at as a whole
right now.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie doesn't depend on special effects, or high profile stars
(no
offense)to grab you and bring you inside the story.  It actually has a
plot!
Something which is sadly missing in some of the big, flashy, "premise"
movies today.  The dialogue is witty and down to earth.  It has a
smatterring of the great tongue in cheek comments you wish you could use
as
a retort in real life.  Burns constructs some great cut-aways from one
conversation to another.  This is a great movie that gets better every
time
you watch it.  I would recommend this to anyone who doesn't require a car
crash, gun fire, or an explosion every few minutes to hold their
attention.
Some of the subject matter limits the audience to adults, but send the
kids
to grandma's house and enjoy this one.
<|_=00=_|>

You have to see this movie. It's one of the best romantic comedies ever;
the
story is great, the performances are solid,and the dialogue is amongst the
wittiest I have ever seen on screen. What more can I say, I've already
seen
it seven (or something like that) times and each time I get as ecstatic as
the first. This is a must-see! I give it 9/10!
<|_=00=_|>
This is the kind of movie that I like. The plot is well-written and
well-directed. I like Edward Burns as an actor and writer. Even so,
there are some pretty significant flaws in this execution of this
wonderful idea.

The most substantial problem problem with the movie is the casting of
Maxine Bahns. She is a very poor actress. Since she was cast in the
earlier "The Brothers McMullen", also written and directed by Edward
Burns, I assume there is a friendship that misdirected that decision.

Some of the characters don't play out quite right. The role of the
brother, played my Mike McGlone, is well acted, but the writing made
that character a little too two dimensional. I think there was a
opportunity to create a character with a little more complexity than
the wealthy, uncaring, superficial husband.

There were some good performances by actors on their way to being
A-list players. Cameron Diaz turns in an exceptional performance.
Jennifer Aniston also shows her acting chops. Amanda Peet also turns in
a short, but well-executed performance.

In spite of some of the casting flaws and missed opportunities for some
depth in characterizations, this is a very enjoyable movie. If you like
character and plot-driven movies, this is a worthwhile way to spend
some time.
<|_=00=_|>

Ed Burns wrote, directed, stars in "She's The One." After breaking up with
his girl (Diaz) he is giving a taxi ride to a young lady (Bahns) and within
24 hours they are married. Destined to fail, right? Meanwhile his younger
brother seizes the opportunity and cheats on his wife (Aniston) to begin an
affair with Diaz, who worked her was through college as a hooker.

This film is mainly about the relationships between the two brothers and
their father. After Diaz marries a rich old guy, young brother cannot
salvage his broken relationship with Aniston, rightly so. After first being
hesitant to follow his new wife to Paris for school, Burns realizes his
error, the film ends with the three men and the young wife heading out on
the boat, going fishing, a break in the family tradition of "men only"
fishing trip. This is symbolic of the changed way the three of them look at
life and relationships, coming on the heels of dad finding out mom wasn't
going to church each morning a 8AM, but fooling around with the old hardware
store man who simply admired her and gave her attention.

This is a subtle film, speaks volumes about relationships and our obligation
to do the right thing. Not a great film, but good. In the story Bahns was
from Vermont, and she really is from Vermont. In the film she became Burns'
wife, while in real life they were dating. She was going to France, and in
real life she speaks fluent French. Jennifer Aniston, Amanda Peet, Cameron
Diaz were all still relatively unestablished in film, and that was what
allowed them to fit into the salary cap for this film. I don't think Burns
will ever become known as a great writer/director, but his films are honest
and in that he has a lot going for him.
<|_=00=_|>
This is definitely one of my favorites! Very funny, Very well done. was
laughing throughout the movie..especially the "family matter" backyard
boxing! Hilllarious! Other favorite scenes include, Jennifers family
discussion about the possibility of her husband being GAY!, " Ecxuse
me!, My husband is not Gay" she exclaimes!. "You know he does wear that
cologne" her Dad says. Great scene. Also... the Limo ride with the
butler... "its a new day my man", "Today is the first day of my new
life" "how do I look?"

And... as he exclaims to Cameron Diaz "Maybe he loves you because your
young blonde and beautiful and he's got one foot in the grave!" as he
describes "grandpa".
