

After reading most of the comments users have written about this film I'm
quite disappointed. I am an insane follower of the first Crow film and had
to see the second. I knew full well it wouldn't be as good as the first,
but
then again, what could?

The Crow 2 is a very sad and ironic story based on the first films
boundaries. Notice how Sarah in the Crow has to sacrifice herself for
another version of him in the second. Crow 2 is a film of what happened to
Eric Draven in the first and is simply a story of someone
else.

Just like in the first film a man has his loved one(s) taken from him in a
terrible way and then killed, again in a horrible way. For the second
time,
"A Crow" guides this tormented man back to the land of the living to claim
revenge on those who killed him.

Ironically, he meets up with Sarah, a now grown woman from the first who
feels for the Crow and sacrifices her life so that he can live and avenge
his and his son's death.

A very sad and apocolyptic film that depicts the grimy, evil way that
humans
are steering towards themselves to in the future to come but also keeps
the
powerful love factor from the first.

If you were an obsessive Crow fan, see this film. If not, you may find it
hard to understand and will not enjoy it as much...
<|_=00=_|>

Many people who claim to be crowfans say that this film isn't what the
Crow
is all about but they don't bother to explain why. Many of those people
only
like the first film and nothing else. While the first movie is my favorite
film, it's sequel is certainly worthy of the Crow title and upholds the
mythology set by the first film.

This movie could have been better than it was, however. 1/4 of the movie
was left on the cutting room floor. Alternate dialogue. Alternate endings.
The very good fight/death scene of Kali was actually a great scene
beforehand. She doesn't die as soon as she is thrown out the window, but
there is some additionally dialogue that expands both her character and
the
character of Ashe.

When a powerless Ashe falls from grace at the end of the film, rather
than
Danny's ghost telling his father that "if you stop now, we can never be
together", Danny tells Ashe that "it's time to go" but Ashe refuses
because
he can't leave Sarah to die. With that, Danny turns his back on his father
and we don't see him for the rest of the film. This scene solifies Ashe's
internal conflict in a very tragic, heart-breaking manor.

What internal conflict you ask? Ashe was torn on whether or not he should
complete his mission and join his son in the afterlife or stay with Sarah
in
the world of the living. You weren't aware of this in the film? It was
really only hinted at in the current version. So it all ends happily
right?
Ashe, Sarah, and Danny are cross into the land of the dead and we have one
big happy family, right? Wrong. In the original version, Ashe doesn't go
back because his crow is too...well, dead to carry his soul back to the
land
of the dead. So he is forced to walk the earth separated from those he
really loves.

COA was originally a more depressing take on the themes of the first
film.
There was less similarity in story. Saldy, many scenes were cut for no
reason and the ending was changed to make the film more hollywood. What
could have been a great film with a great story turned out to be a
visually
impressive film with vague bits and pieces of a story. It didn't have the
deep emotional story of the first because it didn't try to. It was a
rather
depressing drama of a hero who succeeds and fails at the same time. A
different take on the Crow.

But the complaints of the story being too similar does ring true here.
Mostly because the stuff that made it different was cut. The makers were
probably afraid of fan backlash. Ironic, huh? Vincent Perez was AWESOME as
Ashe. I like Brandon Lee better, but Perez manages to give a good
performance of a man who contemplates what exactly to do with the second
chance he's been given. He also has the insanity thing going well for him.
He's different from Brandon Lee/Eric Draven. Standouts from the supporting
cast are Iggy Pop and Thomas Jane. Jane's strip club scene was hilarious
and
Iggy gives a badly written role more energy than it deserved. His scenes
with Vincent were great.

There were downsides besides the ones I just mentioned. The movie lacked
the good action sequences of the first film. There were a few stand outs
but
that's it. I was displeased that they never showed Ashe's wounds heal up.
The final confrontation between Ashe and Judah should've been longer. The
CGI in the movie was terrible. Judah should have been savagely picked
apart
when he was attacked by the crows, not disappear into nothing. The girl
who
played Sarah could get extremely annoying at times and the early scenes
that
focus on her are quite boring. It takes a bit too long for Ashe to get
painted up and start on his mission. Why some of the crap scenes were left
in and some of the good parts were cut out is a mystery.

Oh and for those who complain about this movie disrespecting Brandon Lee,
how do you figure that? Really, I'd like to know. I've heard that this
movie
was done for money...all movies are done for money. Yes, even the first
Crow.

All in all, COA does have serious problems and an annoying plothole or
two,
but it is far from one of the worst movies ever. See it if you liked the
first film and you're looking for an alternative story with the same
themes.

Current Version-6
If the original footage was left intact-8.5 or 9


<|_=00=_|>
The first Crow film was a brilliant and Gothic re-visioning of a
graphic Novel. Eric Draven was played by Brandon Lee who notoriously
died during the making of the film. But even though he died, his work
as the main protagonist was very memorable and chilling, and yet
sympathetic and beautiful. It would be hard to top something like his
performance. This sequel to THE CROW, entitled THE CROW: CITY OF
ANGELS, takes place in a warped version of L.A. Death and filth litter
the streets and the whole city is cast in an ugly and disturbing color
of grotesque characters and dust. The lighting to this film is ugly and
dark, not unlike CITY OF LOST CHILDREN or NOSFORATU, only more natural
feeling. The main character of this film automatically achieves a more
personal edge to why he would murder thugs because instead of his
girlfriend being raped and murdered like in the first one, this time it
is his son. So the loss of an innocent soul feels more justified by
murder of the people who did it. Ashe is pulled out from a watery grave
as a walking corpse sent to avenge his son. Unfortunitely there is
indeed more to this than what seemed possible because the drug lord
Judah has a connection to voodoo powers that could possibly disarm Ashe
in his fight to avenge his own flesh and blood. Judah has connections
to other worldly forces via a blind woman who he has used to gain power
of the city. This film employs negative energy very well and the films
setting feels lifeless. This way, the film allows us to feel more sorry
for the people who live in it by giving us no limits of which the
depravity can go. The musical score, while it is true it is not as
effective as the first one, casts just the right amount of a somber
spirit and hopelessness. This film is excessively gross and violent but
doesn't become a distraction since the whole city is full of gross and
violent tone. Fans of the Crow hated this film and I can see why. But I
felt that this film's lifelessness worked well due to the constant
feeling of depression and hate. Vincent Perez plays Ashe with the
perfect amount of sympathy and the viewer can feel sorry for him.
However, we cannot be scared of him because all of the barely human
characters that surround him and much more frightening. When he kills
his prey, we are delighted and happy that he got his revenge. The first
film was a good combination of extremely violent content and gore mixed
with morals and feeling. Nobody in this film has much emotion and
feeling except for Ashe, who truly has more than enough. He is shown as
a victim and continues to be a victim throughout because the city is so
full of them. He cannot gain anything and he is understandably sad.
When it comes right down to it, its hard to really compare the two
films because the first film is so perfect and so beautiful and the
second film, when compared to the first, feels so flawed and ugly. It
is really all up to the viewer to decide. I thought this sequel was
great and would gladly watch it again. I'd say anyone interested in the
set design process of film making should definitely watch this along
with the first film.
<|_=00=_|>
Do not let anyone tell you this is a poor remake of the original. The
film is absolutely beautiful, but if you're one of those closed-minded
fans who only like The Crow because of Brandon Lee, you will never give
this sequel a chance to prove its self that it could be just as good as
the original.

The storyline is a good one. Revenging your son's death rather than
your girlfriend's is a lot more deep. Sarah is gorgeous and has a dark
sense of style. Vincent Perez was also a fine choice to play Ashe.

There are some very beautiful quotes in the film too.

There really is nothing wrong with this film. I don't have the
slightest clue why people hate it.

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

I could go on a more-than-1000-word rant on the underrated good elemtsn of
this movie versus the horrible ones....what misfired, and what should've
been brought to light...and I was about to a few minutes ago. However, it
was in the middle of this rant that i decided to check out the alternate
versions section of this movie's info....And apparently, we've all seen a
raped movie.

The scenes detailed there are PRECISELY what this movie required to make it
work the way it should have. Of particular interest is the alternate ending,
in which Ashe eventually chooses to stay on earth with Sarah than return to
the afterlife, and is apparently punished forhis sentiments with eternity on
earth. Even though I am one of the few who believes the ending is actually
one of the film's strong points(except for the barrage of crows
thing...unexplained in the film, but, according to the alternate versions
section, has an explanation), this ending is a much more suitable one to The
Crow's universe....so, the question raised is "Why?" 

A biggert question raised is "Where can I see this?"

I'd continue, but i dont think any more   should be said until someone sees
this print in motion.
<|_=00=_|>
Stop criticising this movie! Surly it's no match for the first Crow
movie, but in the long run it's a totally different movie to the first.
The Characters are different, The actors are different, the villains
are different and technically the story is different, for in the first
movie, It's Eric Draven's Fiancée that gets murdered and the "sequel",
It's Ashe's SON that get's murdered.

O.K. maybe i'm wrong, it more likely is a sequel. But it's not a sequel
to the first crow film, it does not follow the same story, it's about a
completely different person.

The message I'm trying to get through to you is: "Stop thinking of it
as a sequel. Think of it as it's own movie, THEN you'll enjoy it
better." Walk down to a video store near you, and rent it out. Just
give the damn movie a chance.
<|_=00=_|>

CROW – CITY OF ANGELS is the inevitable follow up to the classic 1994 gothic
thriller THE CROW. The laws that state all sequels must be inferior to their
predecessors are faithfully obeyed here and the result is a rather mundane
and disappointing motion picture that flat lines the whole franchise. Here
Vincent Perez (badly miscast) gives a weak performance as the doting single
father returning from his watery grave to wreak bloody vengeance upon the
gang who killed him and his son. He is aided, in his quest by Sarah; a
doe-eyed tattoo artist who fans of the series will note is actually the
little girl who was befriended by the central character in the original
movie. The film manages to be watchable; the apocalyptic cityscapes work
quite well, however a maker of music videos directs CROW – CITY OF ANGELS
and it shows in every frame. The film totally lacks the edge of raw emotion
and inner pain that made the original movie so effective. All you are left
with in the end is a gothic re-working of the DEATH WISH movies with nothing
to redeem it once you get tired of the garish purple, yellow and green
colour schemes. The main merit of this poor film is the raw performance of
legendary rocker Iggy Pop as a cocaine-snorting villain. My rating – 5 out
of 10.  
<|_=00=_|>
I adore the original film that starred Brandon Lee as the avenging
angel brought back from the dead. Now a sequel was probably inevitable,
and I remember being largely disappointed by it with its wearily cut-up
story, dour performances and diluted action. Well nothing has changed
the second time around. Again I can't knock that killer hard-rock /
industrial sounding soundtrack, haunting score and the dark, Gothic
embellishment creating an atmospherically catastrophe post-apocalyptic
Los Angeles. It's dirty, smoggy and jarringly bleak. Jean Yves
Escoffier's cinematography lenses it with the right free-spirited.
However there's nothing overly memorable, or even powerfully gripping
to draw any real emotion and interest form the suffocatingly drab and
unimaginative narrative. By following the same patterns of the
original's tragedy, it doesn't lay any new groundwork. It was a
tediously repetitive mess that seemed more fantasy-based and conjures
up a script that's weakly penned. Vincent Perez's avenging soul is
unconvincingly void in a tortured performance, which doesn't create
much heart-ache or grace. There's no imprint, or witty charisma that
Lee evoked. Honestly I didn't feel anything. Richard Brooks flimsily
strolls by with no impressionable stance as the head villain. Mia
Kirshner gives a sound performance and Iggy Pop delightfully chews up
the scenery to spit it out. Director Tim Pope can formulate some
flourishing visuals and lasting poses, but when it came to setting
everything in motion. Flat and unexciting comes to mind. His action
set-pieces lacked zest and seemed to plod like they're sliced up music
video clips. Never did it infuse any real sense of energy, thrills and
urgency. In the end it feels just like a cheap, quick and empty rehash.
<|_=00=_|>

i was really skeptical about how this movie would turn out in comparison
to
the GREAT original Crow--who could possibly compare to Brandon???  but
Vincent Perez totally blew me away--his acting lent such intense emotion
to
the physicality of his role as the "avenging spirit".  i've seen some of
his
other work (indochine, bride of the wind, queen of the damned) and that is
one thing he always beings to every role--very evocative displays of
emotion
that really bring you into the film.  and Mia was a perfect choice for
Sarah!  what a great little gothgirl she was!  i think the "special
effects"
weren't over the top--and the whole "lighting and smog/fog" effects worked
--for me  anyway.  the only shortcoming was the soundtrack--the first Crow
had a perfect selection of songs--especially the Cure's "burn", Nine Inch
Nail's "dead souls" and My Life with the Thrill Kill Kult's "after the
flesh".  on City of Angel's soundtrack, the only song that stood out for
me
was White Zombie's "i'm your boogieman".  so here's one positive vote in
favor of The Crow:  City of Angels....
<|_=00=_|>

this is a surprisingly great movie. in fact, i'd say the crow trilogy is
one
of the best in the horror/dark action/supernatural genre. all the films are
different enough to establish their own personality, but still similar
enough in that they follow the exploits of a wronged man trying seeking
vengeance. this film does what a sequel should do. while you can't continue
the exploits of the eric draven, it brings back sarah from the first movie
and continues the story of the crow granting a victim a chance to make
things right. the only problem is it suffered from having to follow the
legacy of the 1st crow movie. i thoroughly enjoyed the first crow movie,
but
i must say this is better in just about every aspect. it is shot so much
better. in the first one, they try to make the film dark by washing out all
the colors. this one achieves to be more twisted and sinister just by using
darker hues and washing out most of the bright colors. it also has a deeper
sense of foreboding and impending doom, and makes it villains darker and
more mysterious by adding a slight touch of mysticism and perversion.
vincent perez is fantastic as the crow, playing a more vulnerable ashe to
lee's draven. he provides a more frustrated and frantic feel to his
vengeance. he also adds more desperation, remembering his final moments
when
dispatching his enemies. mia kirshner is excellent as sarah and plays the
role with just enough emotion to purvey her pain suffering but also an
understanding of the crow mythos. the script is better written, making the
film darker without resorting to stripping the film of color. the villains
are made more sadistic and the crime to spark the crow more tragic. there
is
also a tighter feel between the characters by having it take place in what
appears to be a pretty empty city except for during the climax. i dont want
to ruin it, but the setting within the setting helps the story move along
so
much better to. tim pope does a superb job directing, adding an extra bit
of
flair to all the visuals from scene to scene while still the more gothic,
medieval feel of the film. the soundtrack is also so much better. it isn't
as all over the place as the first and maintains the intended feel of the
movie with all of its tracks. it is also masterfully peppered throughout
the
movie, picking just the right song at just the right moment to add the
little extra bit of feeling that help completes the scene. this film has
just about all the ingredients of an underrated classic.  my advice to you
is to go out and rent this movie, but when you watch it forget about the
legacy surrounding the crow and just try to enjoy it. 
