

This has to be one of the most maligned films of the past couple of years;
it's virtually shoved under the carpet every time Julia Robert's career is
mentioned and it's generally dismissed as a bore.  And in a lot of ways, it
IS boring; not a lot happens during the course of the plot and as a horror
film it utterly fails to provide a sense of urgency and fright in the
conventional sense.

It's also one of the most elaborate, mysterious and beautifully conceived
big-budget fantasies committed to film.  The fact of its plodding storyline
is, in a sense, besides the point of its true merit; that it is a dark,
intensely brooding look at a woman's damaged sexuality and psyche and the
oppressive times in which she existed.  The original Valerie Martin book
ingeniously transmogrified the Robert Louis Stevenson story into an
examination of a lost female soul who finds her redemption in a fog-shrouded
hell.  Stephen Frear's film is in every respect a successful mood piece, a
meditation on an individual's dark journey into not just a world of physical
violence but her own crippled sense of selfhood and history of abuse.  More
than most other contemporary films about the Victorian era, this film
captures in meticulous and visceral detail the horrors of the Industrial
Age---the poverty, the pollution-ridden streets filled with animal gore and
filth, and the era's preoccupation/repulsion of the human body and the
ominous glare of scientific knowledge gone awry in a society ill-prepared to
meet the consequences. The cinematography and production design  (by the
great Stuart Craig) are breathtaking.   A swinging door, partially obscuring
the surgically opened corpse  on a table...Mary making her way through the
streets of the market, surrounded by animal viscera...the shock of a roomful
of a prostitute's remains, savagely gutted by a demonic hand...rats in the
sewer, swarming into the crevices of Mary's mind...the Doctor's operating
theater, like a coliseum of depravity...Mary, lost in the
fog.

These images were indelible to me and entertained my consciousness far more
than any typical horror film could hope to.  Julia Roberts, for all her
trouble with the Irish accent and going against her image as "America's
sweetheart", is the very picture of a haunted and ravaged soul, nearly
destroyed by the abuse and poverty of her childhood and bewildered by the
mysterious machinations of her homicidal employer.  She lends a great deal
of vulnerability and conviction to her role and carries the film in ways
beyond dialogue and posturing.  Not once does she flash her trademark
million-dollar smile but what she gives to the film is far more valuable
than glitz and in her looks and inflections reveals more on-screen than most
of her other films combined.

This film won't appeal to most people.  And admittedly, it does fail in so
many ways that a lot of audiences will be turned off. A lot of people will
definitely be bored to tears by the slow pace and "what the H*ll is
happening?!?!?" quality of the narrative. But for viewers who liked
Cocteau's "Beauty and the Beast", Neil Jordan's "Comany of Wolves" Caleb
Carr's book "The Alienist" or perhaps Ken Russell's "Gothic", this is worth
a try.  It should not be written off as just another big-budget Hollywood
failure, because its aims, whether conscious or not, are quite different
from your average thriller or period film.   Approach it with an open mind,
be prepared for a dark and disconcerting vision, and you might be rewarded
because this film is unique, baroque, different and great.

<|_=00=_|>
I am glad to see a few other reviewers calling this "underrated." I
figured I was the only person who actually liked this film. All the
national critics sure hated this low-key re-telling of Jekyll and Hyde.

The muted colors with the grey overtones caught my eye and were very
interesting to observe. Julia Roberts also was interesting to watch: no
makeup, no smile, just sad, somber looks yet still appealing. Despite
critics' comments to contrary, I found this an intelligent adaption of
the famous story.

People don't care for subtly in films anymore. They want in-your-face
smash- ups, gore, violent contrasts....and a lot of it. This movie is
extremely low-key and subtle, although there are some bloody scenes.

I have to admit that I agree with one criticism, that it's hard to
believe Roberts' character "Mary Reilly" would not recognize Jekyll
from Hyde (played by John Malkovich) when he didn't change facial
appearances! And, yes, the film, generally- speaking, is a real downer,
a depressing tale. 

Yet, for some odd reason, despite the above paragraph, I recommend the
film to people who enjoy slower films and subtle suspense, even if they
have to suspend a little believability. I thought it was oddly
fascinating.
<|_=00=_|>

Not many movies can get away with keeping Julia Roberts from smiling, but
Mary Reilly does so well.  It's a movie of subtleties and moods.  Its dark
themes deal with the oppression of a strict, class-based society in
Victorian England as well as the secrets that we all hide inside our
hearts.
The familiar tale takes intriguing new turns from the viewpoint of the
house's servants.  John Malkovich, while a tad thin on his English accent,
delivers a fantastic performance as both Jekyll and Hyde as he plumbs the
depths of morality and the human soul.  Hyde is a stark contrast of
freedom
among the restrained servants of the Jekyll house, and his subtle sexual
innuendoes quietly violate the chastity of Victorian stereotypes.  Much of
the violence occurs off camera until near the climax of the film, which
may
be one of it's shortcomings.  The film is very quiet and slow and may put
some viewers to sleep.  Another issue I had was the lovely
Henson-Workshop-provided effects at the end, which are imaginative, but
don't make a bit of sense when compared to the rest of the film.  If you
can
stomach a quiet and very subtle thriller, however, this is a real
gem.
<|_=00=_|>
Initially, I stayed away from this movie as it received merciless
reviews. The fact that Julia Roberts was in it also was another
obstacle. Yet as other reviewers have mentioned, she actually gives a
good performance. John Malkovich is excellent as the tormented
Jekyll/Hyde character.

The cinematography and moods are haunting. One feels they are actually
re-living the Victorian era, where the servants woke up at 4AM to
complete their drudgery. The kitchen conjures up the stark realities of
survival, the eel that is chopped up for dinner (while alive) Mary
Reilly turns white as a sheet as she sees the animal die. I actually
began to appreciate Ms. Roberts' performances more after this film
(also in films like "Mona Lisa Smile", she projects a certain
believability; is not just a physical presence). At one point, there is
a most effective scene wherein Roberts must see to her mother's burial,
and goes to the tenement to make arrangements. The landlord has placed
her mother's body in a damp cellar closet, saying she is "most
comfortable" as he hands her one shilling, the only money Roberts will
inherit. Roberts then says; ..."ä poor wage for a lifetime of
drudgery"... We are reminded of the workhouses of Dickens, and the
rigid class structures which she must survive...

While the dialect is at times choppy, she is believable as an Irish
maid; and the supporting cast also lends credence to this story.
Malkovich varies his performance between Jekyll/Hyde, and it is
effective and visceral.

If you initially avoided this film, I would highly recommend seeing it
now. The atmosphere and music are haunting and sad. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I thought it was actually a very good film. I didnt realise when I started
watching it that it would be so graphic, I never thought of Roberts doing
a
Period Horror, and she does better than i would have thought... although
the
accent is a bit dodgy at times. John is excellent- a very scary
Hyde/Jekkel!
Glenn Close makes a scarely good whore mistress!
all in all a good film well worth watching!
<|_=00=_|>

Mary Reilly is a great film to watch on a rainy afternoon.  Often
criticized
as boring and a low point in Julia Roberts career, I found it to be a great
Gothic story.  While I can understand and see why people were put to sleep
by the film, I think it's a refreshing change of pace from the standard
popcorn flick that is only interested in being the number 1 film at the box
office Monday morning.  John Malkovich turns in a great performance of the
Jekyll/Hyde character, and Glenn Close steals the few scenes she's in as a
Madame of a brothel.  Julia Roberts plays against type as a dour
chambermaid, and I think that's what put off so many people.  Obviously,
most people like their Julia flashing her now $20 million dollar smile.  I
say, "good for you for trying something different."  If you haven't seen
Mary Reilly, watch it on the next rainy day and enjoy it.

My grade:  8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

John Malkovich was the perfect actor to play/ jekyll hyde- he personfies
the
good and evil that can coexist in a person. I was very impressed that Julie
Roberts had the demeanor of a household servant down so well.  My husbands'
family comes from a line of women who were domestics when they first came
to
America in the 1880's-- and his mother said that's how they had to act.
Even
though it was a little slow- I liked the way the story developed.  The fact
that Mary can't hate her abusive father because she came from him- helps
the
doctor understand the dilemna.  Altogether a satisfying movie that takes
a different view of the Stevenson classic. 
<|_=00=_|>
In the nineteen century, in London, the dedicated housemaid Mary Reilly
(Julia Roberts) is part of the staff under the command of the butler
Mr. Poole (George Cole) that works for Dr. Henry Jekyll (John
Malkovich). Mary is a traumatized woman that was abused by her father
when she was a child and very devoted to Dr. Jekyll. One day, he
gathers Mr. Poole and the servants in a room and tells that his
assistant Mr. Edward Hyde will be work in his laboratory with free
access to the house. Mary Reilly and her mates are unsuccessful to see
the mysterious Mr. Hyde. Dr. Jekyll trusts on Mary Reilly and she helps
him, delivering letters to the notorious Mrs. Farraday (Glenn Close)
that owns a brothel to clean the mess that Mr. Hyde does in the city.
Mary Reilly is seduced by the educated Dr. Jekyll and by the reckless
and violent Mr. Hyde.

"Mary Reilly" is a dramatic and romantic view of the classic story of
Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde through the eyes of a housemaid. The plot is
developed in slow pace and is not exactly an horror movie and maybe
this is the reason that many viewers did not like this movie. My vote
is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Segredo de Mary Reilly" ("The Secret of Mary
Reilly")
<|_=00=_|>

Performances, direction, cinematography are all first rate.  The only real
flaw is an uneconomical script.  Julia Roberts has been lambasted for this
part yet I doubt she has ever acted with more believability.  You could
say
her beauty is, perhaps, a hindrance here but... 
<|_=00=_|>
I usually don't like Julia Roberts. She focuses way too much on looking
perfect and that dominates her movies. But she plays a different kind
of role in "Mary Reilly". As Dr. Jekyll's (John Malkovich) maid getting
seduced by both him and Mr. Hyde, she gives the impression of someone
trapped in Victorian England wondering how to get out. And Mr. Hyde
knows just how to seduce. Even knowing how evil Mr. Hyde is, you really
grow to like him; he's a sort of rebel against Victorian mores and the
class system.

I think that the best line in the movie is when Mary tells Dr. Jekyll
about her father's (Michael Gambon) drinking problem; it was almost too
self-referential! As it is, I think that Malkovich's performance in
this movie might have been what made me view this movie positively,
more than Julia Roberts's performance. But either way, you'll probably
like it. It's not Stephen Frears's best movie, but still pretty
interesting. Also starring Glenn Close.
