
Lucas may have problems as a director and writer, but I've always
thought that those flaws are balanced by his great storytelling
ability. The problem with "The Phantom Menace" is that he simply has no
story to tell. The film merely adds an introductory chapter to a story
that has already been told, and stretches it out into a two-hour movie.
It is no accident that prequels of this kind are rare. They are very
difficult to make properly. And apparently he's just not a
sophisticated enough filmmaker to pull it off.

For one thing, this project is limited by the fact that anyone familiar
with the first trilogy knows the story's outcome, and it therefore
lacks some of the suspense associated with a gradually unfolding saga.
More importantly, however, this situation leaves Lucas with very little
freedom as a storyteller. It also encourages him to gloss over key
events; because their outcome is a foregone conclusion, he forgets to
bring them to life.

For example, we know there will eventually be a romance between Anakin
and Padme. So Lucas has the two characters meet here and--surprise,
surprise--they seem to like each other. Their developing friendship
isn't portrayed that clearly, and their motivations for becoming close
aren't explained. Because Lucas fails to make scenes like these
believable, we can't help being conscious of how he's manipulating the
plot in his effort to connect the two trilogies. Another good example
of this problem is Anakin's portrayal as a potential Jedi. There
doesn't appear to be anything about this kid remotely out of the
ordinary, even though the other characters keep talking like there is.
Our only reason for thinking he's special is that the plot requires it.

If the story fails to be engaging, it is because we never see the
important events. Lucas makes a fatal error in not showing what's
happening on Naboo, the small planet whose capture is the focus of the
plot. Numerous atrocities are supposedly being committed against the
planet's inhabitants, but we only know about this because the
characters on screen refer to the events, usually rather woodenly.

The deadpan performances are a problem in themselves, but they only
highlight our lack of involvement in the story. Think of Han Solo
sweating in fear, then think of the emotional vacuums passing for
characters in this film. Whenever any of the characters do express
emotion, as in the scene where Anakin and his mom part, it still seems
awfully restrained. Somehow, Lucas manages to keep the emotional
reactions of his characters to a minimum, which gives the film an
almost mechanical feel.

It's true that "A New Hope" never showed Alderaan's inhabitants, but we
still could feel the tragedy of the planet's destruction through the
horrified reactions of Princess Leia and Obi Wan. Moreover, there were
many other involving events which we witnessed directly, such as the
slaying of rebels at the beginning; the capture and torture of the
princess; and the murder of Luke's foster parents. Furthermore, the
major plot elements were intriguing in and of themselves. They weren't
there merely to show us how they were to be linked to later events,
which seems to be the case with the new film.

I suspect that Lucas was not as concerned in the first trilogy with
what had to happen later in the story and was therefore able to focus
his attention on the events at hand. The weakest segment was "Return of
the Jedi," which had the task of bringing the story to an end. Only
then did Lucas start to show signs of forcing plot points. In "The
Phantom Menace," he gets so bogged down in the task of bringing his
story from point A to point B that he ends up with only the bare bones
of a plot, and none of it comes alive.

This is especially true of the characterization. In the old trilogy,
characters like Yoda and Han reveal distinct personalities in their
first few minutes on screen. This film goes for more than two hours and
the characters, including the familiar ones, come off vague and
nondescript. We aren't given much of a chance to experience their
personalities in the way they interact. We must take Qui Gon's word for
it when he describes Obi Wan as "headstrong." What's most odd is that
the cartoons seem better developed than the humans. The scenes where
Qui Gon negotiates with the birdlike slave-owner Watto are amusing and
well-done--probably the movie's best scenes aside from the stunning
action sequences--but they can't hold a candle to the constant
interactions throughout the first trilogy.

One thing I cannot do is accuse the film of lacking creativity. The
design of the creatures, the technologies, and the planets is
impressive. Watching the film is sort of like reading a children's book
that isn't very good but abounds with beautiful illustrations. There is
certainly a "wow" factor in the movie's visuals, but the effect of it
is short-lived.

I get irked when I hear fans talk as though the "Star Wars" movies were
never about anything beyond special effects. While the inventive
visuals are part of what made the originals so revolutionary, they're
not what made the films so fun to watch. And in no way can they explain
the trilogy's continuing popularity today. After all, many of the
original effects look primitive by today's standards, and their novelty
has certainly worn off. Only an enduring and compelling storyline could
have allowed the first three films to become the classics they're
almost universally acknowledged to be.
<|_=00=_|>


Of course this movie had a ton of hype and what movie can live up to
all
of that....yada yada yada. Even allowing for that, this movie is somewhat
of
a dissapointment. This movie proves that it wasn't just special FX that
made
"Star Wars" fun to watch. It was as if George Lucas was so thrilled with
what he could do with CGI effects, he forgot what made the original
trilogy
so great, which is writing and characters. It's not a bad film but the
problems are many.

-Many people have forgiven this movie for being lackluster as they say "It
is only the first in another trilogy and it is just setting up everything
to
follow". WRONG WRONG WRONG, this film needed to be it's own movie first
and
foremost as the other three films were. It needed to have good characters
and a somewhat interesting story....it didn't.

-The conflict in this story revolves around a trade dispute and the fate
of
the planet Naboo. Was anybody really caring about this? The details of the
dispute are somewhat vague and what is revealed doesn't real generate
enough
interest for us to root for a particular side. The important conflict
regarding Darth Sideous and his rise is kept far far in the background. We
don't even know why Darth Maul hates the Jedi's so much....he just does.
Possibly Lucas wanted Darth Maul to be somewhat like Boba Fett (silent and
mysterious). It worked with Boba Fett because he was only a supporting
character, not a main villian. This film really has no clear villian. I
wish
somebody would have had the courage and just told Lucas that his basic
story
was lousy.

-Nobody looks particularly happy in this film. Qui-gon is really the only
character that can be related to and even he is rather distant. The queen
acts like a mannequin in much of her scenes (and looks like one to).
Obi-wan
Kenobi wanders through the entire movie to no avail and never says
anything
interesting. The characters never seem to talk about anything besides the
plot (unlike in the first film).  C3PO and R2-D2 were pretty pointless.
The
Jedi council comes across as extremely cold and buracratic. And I will
never
understand WHY they wrote Annakin as a grade school kid in this film. He
should have been a teenager. His scenes with the queen were awkward. We're
not even going to discuss Jar Jar.

Various other things...

-The "midochlorians" thing seems to have just been tacked on. The humor
falls flat unless you are an extremely small child. Annakin destroys the
trade ship at the end and safves everyone, basically BY MISTAKE!!! ILM and
George Lucas seem to be so happy with their new CGI toys that they spent
95%
of their time perfecting them. Quite frankly I thought the FX in "Return
of
the Jedi" were sharper, more dimensional and less cartoonish. Nothing all
that memorable seems to happen here. This movie may never have been as
good
as the hype, but it could have easily been much better than this. I waited
so long for this film, yet the first time I saw this movie I was actually
bored in the middle of it.

There are good moments. The pod race was fun, as was the light sabre
battle
at the end. There are some very nice special effects throughout.

Hopefully Lucas just had writers block when he wrote this one. Maybe he
will
remember what made the other films so good in time for "Episode II".
Though
he seems to have botched the title of it already. 
<|_=00=_|>

Well, after waiting 16 years for his next installment,  George has given us
"The Phantom Menace".  As a Star Wars fan I got what I expected - another
chance to immerse myself in the Star Wars universe - a film whose sole
purpose is essentially escapism.  But as a movie fan, and judging it as I
would any other movie, I frankly feel mildly disappointed.  Any movie that's
made can always be improved upon but I feel that this
SHOULD have been better.  Firstly the good points :

1)  The visuals are stunning - a lot of love and hard work has quite
obviously gone into the effects and the people involved can quite rightly be
proud of their work

2)  All the performances by the main cast were good.  Particularly Natalie
Portman and Pernilla August.

3)  The Pod Race was exciting and amusing.

4)  The final sabre duel was quite fantastic : Darth Maul prowling up and
down like a caged tiger was a particularly excellent touch - it added real
tension and anticipation to the scene.

5)  The music as always was magnificent.  The Star Wars saga would lose much
of its charm and intensity without Williams' scores.

And now the negatives :

1)  The pacing was too fast in parts!  The first half hour of the film just
left me cold - you weren't led into the story.  You were dumped straight
into the action.  On paper I'm sure the first half hour looked fantastic but
I found myself sitting in the theatre going - 'hey, great special effect
shot there!'  I wasn't involved in the story and the scenes lacked tension
and danger.

2)  The film only truly started for me on reaching Tatooine.  I finally got
a chance to get to know the characters.  However there still was not enough
character development in the film as a whole.  For example,  Obi Wan had
nothing to do or say throughout the movie except flash his light sabre
around from time-to-time.  Who is Obi Wan???  After seeing the film I'm none
the wiser.  And the final sabre duel (good as it was) would have been
infinitely better had the relationship between Qui-Gon and Obi Wan been
explored past the mere mentor-apprentice motif.  The final sabre duel lacked
emotional involvement as a consequence.

3)  Why did they make Jar-Jar so incomprehensible??  I found myself becoming
annoyed at having to strain to understand his nonsensical utterings!
(Having said that, he wasn't as annoying as I'd been led to expect)  Why
George used easily identifiable racial accents for his alien characters
completely puzzled me.
It just shows a lack of imagination!

4)  Not enough Darth Maul.

5)  What's with the biological exposition on the Force!  Was that necessary?
The first three films pointed to links between the Force and genetics but I
don't need tiresome cold scientific explanations as to the Force's origin,
thank you very much!  It just ruins the mystique.

6)  Can we have less of the mindless gaffes that occur in the final battle
scenes (You know the ones that save the day!)  Its an insult to the
audience's intelligence (In a full theatre I swear I didn't see a single
soul who looked under sixteen! - has George forgotten about the original
fans).  In the original trilogy there was none of this cringeful
embarrassing material
(Ewoks excepted!!)

Well I think I'll stop there.  To summarise : a good movie that could have
been a whole lot better.  Perhaps there was too much story to cover in two
hours?  In which case the plot should have been shortened on the adage that
"less is more".  I've always thought that episode one was always going to be
the lamest of the new films so I await the next installment with
anticipation and hope .....
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a perfect example of when what could have been one of the most
brilliant movies ever is made, through the incompetence of only one man,
into one of the worst.  I cannot list in detail the number of ways this
movie could have been made better, and they are all mind-bogglingly simple
and all George Lucas's fault.  Even so, I will try to condense them into a
short list.

1. Actors/Casting - I have to give all of the actors credit for this because
I know they tried their best, even Jake Lloyd.  The movie did not give me a
single reason why I should have cared for any of the characters and I can't
explain why I did anyway. 

I can't count how many times people have told me how much better Haley Joel
Osment would have been in the role, and I am almost inclined to agree with
them.  Supposedly there's something dark and ominous about the Anakin
character that all of the Jedi council can see, after all, he's gonna be
Darth Vader, right?  Osment projects that fear which leads to anger which
leads to etc., and Lloyd just looks like your run-of-the-mill blond
California Cabbage Patch kid.  I'd call Jake Lloyd a terrible actor if it
weren't for what the great sci-fi writer Orson Scott Card, who personally
knows Lloyd, observed: "Jake Lloyd's a good actor, and it's a pity you
didn't get to see that on-screen, since he had no direction or screenplay. 
In the same way, Liam Neeson is a great actor, but you didn't see that
onscreen because he had no direction or screenplay."

Which brings me to my second fault:

2. Direction - Let's face it, George Lucas has lost it.  He has gone from
the great actors' director he was when he made American Graffiti to a
special effects artist gone wildly out of control.  I do give him some
credit: It takes a lot of deliberate effort to sap all of the energy and
life out of Ewan McGregor.

3. Screenplay/Plot - This is the section that really makes me wince, and
proves that there is nobody left in Hollywood with the courage to tell
George Lucas that he can't write.  I mean, logical inconsistencies aside,
this dialogue is simply ridiculous.  If a first-grader were called in as a
script consultant, he could most likely have improved this movie. 

There are a thousand instances of questionable logic in this movie like, why
did Queen Amidala reveal herself when she did?  Why did she want to go back
to Naboo so badly if it would do no good whatsoever and she would probably
just get killed?  Are we supposed to believe that a ten year old is going to
have twins with her eventually?  Why is she called a Queen anyway, if Naboo
is supposed to be a democracy?  Do the natives of Naboo share one collective
brain cell to elect a teenager to run their planet?  And what kind of name
is Naboo anyway?

Beyond that, it doesn't even make sense in terms of the rest of the
established Star Wars universe.  For example, the shields that repelled
blaster fire, obviously added so the death count would be lower and they
could appeal to the 'family' market.  Why do we not see them in the later
episodes, when they seem to be of immeasurable tactical
value?

As for the so-called 'Phantom Menace' conspiracy, does the initiation into
the Jedi knighthood include an IQ curtailment?  Why didn't those clods
figure out at once that Palpatine was behind it all along?  In the end, I
found myself rooting for Palpatine/Sidious, simply because he was
geometrically more intelligent than any of the other characters and would
probably do a pretty good job of ruling the universe.  At least he would be
a better emperor than George Lucas is a screenwriter.

Well, it seems that I didn't do a very good job at condensing, but oh
well.

I am ashamed to say that I saw this movie three times and hated it more each
time.  That it has grossed over $400 million makes me wonder that the entire
American society doesn't grind to a halt as soon as someone sees a bright
shiny object.  Did I mention that the special effects were too amazing for
their own good?
<|_=00=_|>
I love the original films, probably ANH most of all. If you saw it on
it's original release you had a cinema experience unlike any other.
There just weren't films like this being made. Sure, it drew on films
and books of the past, but nothing had looked or sounded like this.

You have to remember the world we lived in then. Video games were very
rudimentary. Even ASTEROIDS was several years in our future. And 2001
was one of the few films to show us convincing views of space travel.

STAR WARS was something new with a capital "N". Audiences loved it. And
it changed movies.

By 1999, we'd seen numerous Science Fiction movies, lots of space
battles, lots of special effects. And video games had developed a
realism that was shocking compared to what we'd had in 1977.

Enter THE PHANTOM MENACE. Not only did this film have to live up to
memories of the originals, it also had to compete in an entertainment
world that had caught up. Lucas could never create an experience as
mind-blowing as he had in the original.

But he was going to try. And he was also going to try to do a few other
different things. The nexus of this new thought was Jar Jar Binks. A
CGI creation that was also a character. And a type of character never
before seen in the SW Universe, a comic relief character. But more than
that, a slapstick comic relief character.

In many of the movies that inspired STAR WARS there are such
characters. And Lucas wanted to try one in his films.

Well, for most, he failed. Many, or at least the most vocal, hated Jar
Jar Binks. And few of these people even credited him for trying
something new. They didn't want Lucas' STAR WARS. They wanted their
STAR WARS. A STAR WARS, it is important to note, that only exists in
their minds.

In addition, he decided to make Anakin a small boy. Another new
decision. STAR WARS had never featured a boy character. Again, the fans
whined. They didn't like it. They didn't want Lucas to try new things.

But he also gave them what they came to expect. A truly great action
set-piece: The pod race. One of the best action set-pieces in the
entire series. And he gave them a lightsaber duel unlike any they'd
ever seen. But that wasn't enough.

Sadly, had Lucas made a film that was little more than a remake of STAR
WARS with Anakin in the Luke role, fans would have been happy. And I
think that says more about the limited scope of STAR WARS fans than it
does about the talents of George Lucas.

THE PHANTOM MENACE, like all the films in the series, has it's own
unique tone and flavor. And though these flavors may not be to
everyone's taste, I think in the coming years more and more fans will
come to appreciate this film for what it is, rather than what they wish
it would be.
<|_=00=_|>

Keep in mind while reading my comments that I am - and always will be - an
avid Star Wars fan.  The first three films helped define my childhood and
have stayed with me into early adulthood.  The themes and the sheer FUN of
the trilogy are truly rare in this day and age.

That being said, "The Phantom Menace" is perhaps one of the worst films I
have ever had to sit through, and a disgrace to both Star Wars and
Lucasfilm.  A true embarrassment, I was near tears through most of the
film.
Seeing it on opening night, I was thrilled as the trademark intro script
scrolled up the screen.  Everything that followed was truly horrifying,
starting with the most ridiculously stereotypical Asian alien bad guys
this
side of Ming the Merciless.  Add to that a completely dreadful script, way
too many effects, no discernable plot line, and dreary "action" sequences,
and you have yourself a real stinker.  And I won't waste any space talking
about the apocalyptic disaster that is Jar Jar Binks.

Poor Ewan McGregor, Liam Neeson, and Natalie Portman!!  Three of the
finest
actors to grace the screen today, and they have nothing at all to work
with.
Meanwhile all the dialogue goes to Jar Jar and Anakin, played awfully by
Jake Lloyd.  Sidenote:  Am I the only one concerned with the fact that
through the whole movie everyone calls the future Darth Vader
"Annie"???

Darth Maul would be a formidable villain, assuming, of course, that he had
any lines, which he doesn't.  He is silent during his entire lightsaber
duel
with Neeson and McGregor, eliminating the verbal duel that was at the
heart
of Vader's fights with Luke in the original series.  His role seems
detached
and his presence does not seem to effect the sequence of events in the
least.

And let me say this:  there are too many effects.  They are not even that
impressive, not for a lack of technical wizardry, but because the action
they portray is either confusing or non-existent, and there is none of the
tension in any of the battle scenes which is even close to that found in
its
technologically ancient granddaddy, "A New Hope".  In fact, considering
the
technology available, the scenario of the battle scenes seems pretty
ho-hum-ish if not trite.

There is not enough room to write all the terrible things about this
movie.
They even reduce the Force to microscopic organisms that live in the
bloodstream.  This was the most disappointing movie experience I have ever
had.  Mr. Lucas, if you or any of your people read this, please take to
heart the ramblings of a disgruntled but faithful fan in order to make
Episode II much better.
<|_=00=_|>

Badly criticized by ..... critics who love to overintellectualize a
film -
you might find this worth watching if you already are a Star Wars
fan.
People say GL was saving the best for later (later prequel episodes) and
its
true that there are some juvenile sequences in the movie.
But the backstory of Sidious pulling the strings to push the current
Supreme
Chancellor out of the picture as a devious prelude to his future schemes
is
what MAKES this movie. Only Star Wars fans can think something of this -
even if you're not so keen. the story is THERE.
The pacing is bad, but there are moments in this film that prove to be
pure
eye candy. The end duel with Darth Maul vs. Obi Wan and Qui Gon Jinn is
one
of the best fight scenes ever put on film despite this movie's
imperfections. I rate this film an 8 out of 10. I certainly wish that
this
review is justified. Anyways, this could be a see and see again amongst
Star
Wars fans --- with fastforwards that is. (What I said about the pacing)

<|_=00=_|>

The main line of defence seems to be: lighten up, it's just entertainment /
just a kid's movie / just a special effects flick.  Pausing awhile to note
that people who run this line of defence have all but conceded that the film
is, in fact, bad, let's take these points one by one - shall
we?

As entertainment it's poor.  Dialogue is flat and perfunctory (don't expect
to be dazzled by repartee); the story lacks the beauty of the first Star
Wars film and the tension of the second ... and then there's the magical
`character development' everyone complains about.  We must distinguish
character development from character delineation.  The former is nice, but
the latter is absolutely essential, and it's the latter that's missing from
`The Phantom Menace'.  Jar Jar, the young Obi Wan, Darth Maul, Armidala,
Annakin - all are scarcely characters at all, and are very difficult to get
enthused about.  Jar Jar in particular is a collection of mannerisms,
nothing more.  This lack of character doesn't just prevent the film from
becoming the darling of the intellectuals - it makes it dull.  There are
hundreds more entertaining films.  Only those people who entered the cinema
carrying plastic light sabers, grimly determined to enjoy themselves, failed
to notice this.

It's a kid's movie.  Well, yes, in a sense - but not a good sense.  Good
children's movies form a proper subset of good movies - simply because
adults have access to all childhood emotions and desires, but not vice
versa.  So in one sense a `kid's movie' is just a movie that can be
understood and apperaciated by children (as well as adults).  Is this a
kid's movie in that sense?  Maybe.  But it's also a kid's movie in the bad
sense: it's deeply witless, and inexperienced children might - I say, MIGHT
- fail to notice just how witless it is.  Children may - I say, MAY - ignore
the fact that Jar Jar Binks is a deeply irritating non-character because he
is all colour and movement and he speaks funny.  Is this really all we
want?

Special effects.  These aren't so hot, either.  George Lucas has fallen in
love with computers and failed to notice that his digital animals don't move
at all in the way that real animals move - worse still, they don't move like
any kind of physical object at all.  Nor do most of the alleged physical
objects.  Compare the trundling white juggernaut at the start of `Star Wars'
- a convincingly solid model - with the insubstantial collection of pixels
that darts past us at the start of `The Phantom Menace'.  The special
effects have actually deteriorated, and to make matters worse, there are
more of them.

So the defence that `The Phantom Menace' is allowed to be a poor movie
because it really wasn't trying to be something great in the first place,
just won't wash.  Especially so, given the ludicrous claims George Lucas has
arrogantly made, again and again.  So Jar Jar Binks is the first digitally
created main character?  Rubbish - the dragon in `Dragonheart' predates it
(and, one might add, is at the very least a genuine character).  So George
Lucas is pioneering a new kind of filming-making, more like painting and
less like photography, than the old?  Absolute twaddle - Walt Disney did
THAT in the 1930s.  I'll tell you what IS new.  Never before has there been
so much sizzle, and so little sausage.
<|_=00=_|>
I know it's fashionable to scorn the "prequel" trilogy, but if one
stands back a bit, things tend to snap into perspective. Compare
"Phantom Menace" to most any other fantasy/sci-fi film, and it has to
rate very high indeed.

Plot: this is the more "adult" side of the Star Wars galaxy. The
politics are remarkably credible, with the entire plot hinging on the
result of a vote of no-confidence! How many adults even know what that
is? (Hmm... maybe this explains the low ratings.) The relationships
between the races on Naboo, the role of the Jedi... these things are
established more clearly, and depicted more credibly than in any of the
other five films.

Technical achievement: Lucas paints on a vast digital canvas, and
creates a world of wonders that have simply never been imagined by
lesser talents. This is a living, breathing, believable world, that
makes the world of the original trilogy seem cartoonish and contrived
by comparison. Naboo, from the city, to the underwater kingdom, to the
rolling green hills, is one of the great fantasy worlds, up there with
those of the Thief of Baghdad (both versions), Blade Runner, or 2001.
And our first glimpse of Coruscant has got to be one of the most
memorable "wow" moments in the history of the movies.

Characters: Liam Neeson's Qui Gon is one of the strongest characters in
the Star Wars films, and Ewan McGregor's Obi Wan a worthy, more-dashing
successor to the older version created by Alec Guinness. And Jar Jar
Binks? Annoying? Not compared to the insipid C-3PO, or the insufferably
perky R2-D2. Jar Jar is a fully formed character, with surprising
depths. His manner is odd, perhaps abrasive, but he offers far more
than the single note that Lucas used for his original comic-relief
characters. And, of course, the fact that he is one of the first fully
digital characters in film history has to be worth something. But Ian
McDiarmid's Senator Palpatine is perhaps the most under-appreciated of
all. This is an Oscar-worthy supporting performance, a character who is
both frighteningly real and perfectly ambiguous. McDiarmid balances his
performance on a knife's edge, managing to be both fatherly and deeply
unsettling.

Yes, it may be that a certain human dimension is weaker here than in
the original Star Wars. We don't have a clear "hero". There's no Luke,
no Han. That's a valid point, but it is not inevitably a criticism. Qui
Gon and Obi Wan aren't the comic-book heroes of A New Hope, but they
are likable, heroic, and rich in characterization. If I had a choice
between seeing 10 more episodes of the life of Han Solo or of Qui Gon
Jinn, I'd choose the latter without hesitation.

Story: The storyline in this film seems more real, more substantial
than in the other five. We have the perfect sense of scale, from human
drama to global (or interstellar) conflict. The one quibble might be
the pod race. It's certainly entertaining, but does it go on too long?
I think perhaps so. This is a structural weakness, but not a huge one.
(Does Luke spend WAY too long on Dagobah, listening to warmed over Zen
platitudes from that rubbery little jerk Yoda? Yes! Yet this is in the
film most viewers seem to, unaccountably, pick as the "best" of the
six. Clearly, there's some latitude for narrative digressions...)

And then there's the climactic sword fight. I'd rate the three-way duel
in Phantom Menace as the second-best sword fight in the Star Wars
series, close after the finale of Return of the Jedi. The latter has a
wonderful mythic quality, but this one is more visceral, more scary...
partly because Darth Maul is such a cold, merciless villain, and partly
because you know from the outset that the outcome is genuinely in
doubt, that one of the Good Guys really could die. And the staging,
using three master swordsmen, each with very different technique...
This is just about as good as action film gets. Only two or three other
movie duels come close: Rob Roy, again with Neeson, oddly enough;
Scaramouche; Robin Hood... I can't think of a fourth. The closing duel
ALONE should raise Phantom Menace into the front ranks of action and
fantasy films.

Bottom line: there is so much to enjoy in this film, so much to see, so
much to feel, that it is amazing how anyone can possibly rate it below
a 7 or 8. This is a scale of film making that few have ever attempted,
let alone pulled off so beautifully. Perhaps that's the film's biggest
fault: Lucas makes it all seem too easy.

But, of course, we all know the REAL reason people can't give this film
the 10 it richly deserves. That reason lies within themselves. Viewers
in 1999 (let alone 2007) just couldn't feel as young, as innocent, as
optimistic as they did when they saw the very first Star Wars.
(Especially if they saw it way back in 1977, 30 years ago). Star Wars
hasn't changed, George Lucas hasn't changed, nearly so much as the
audience has changed. Alas. Moviegoers who are truly so jaded that they
can't feel the passion and revel in the breadth of vision of The
Phantom Menace have my sincerest sympathy. Yes, you can be ever so-o
cool by putting down the prequel trilogy, but missing one of the best
movies of all time is a very high price to pay.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first rented this movie at my local DVD rental store, I didn't
have high hopes for it at first. But that's only because at the time, I
had virtually no interest in Star Wars at all. One day after watching a
review of the films, I decided to give the movies a try, and see if
they were worth all the fame they have. But little did I know that when
I first hit 'play' on that DVD menu, i had taken my first step into a
larger world.

In the first half, I thought that the CGI and effects looked great. Now
let me just say something for a second: Most people dislike the
Prequels for overuse of CGI and not enough real things. But to me, the
wonder and mystery of Episodes IV-VI works in a different way. Seeing
all of the CGI in the Podrace, the Droids, and a few of the characters,
I was stunned. I had never seen CG quality to such an extent before,
and much of it really did look real. I had wondered how much work it
must've taken to put it all together with the lighting and textures and
stuff.

Now that we've gotten that out of the way, we can move on. Personally,
I didn't really find that much to complain about. I was able to follow
the story just fine, and i thought the characters were really
interesting. Anakin as a child didn't bother me at all, and i thought
he was pretty likable. He had an interesting character, and I kind of
actually felt sorry for him since he lived on such a dusty old planet
such as Tatooine. When Jar Jar Binks first appeared, I feared the worst
based on some of the reviews I saw. But in the first minute or so, Jar
Jar actually didn't bother me at all. In fact, I thought he was quite
entertaining and funny. For example, when he got his head stuck in the
pod race electrical line, I was laughing out of control.

Now let me explain something else for a moment: Some people may argue
that that comedy doesn't belong in a Star wars movie. But to debunk
that, I'm only going to say this: In the Empire Strikes Back, remember
when Yoda first appeared?...

Near the middle of the film came the saga's first chronological
lightsaber dual, between Qui Gon Jinn and Darth maul, the movie's
secondary antagonist. his motive is to wipe out the Jedi and overthrow
the Galactic Republic as a a way of getting revenge. (Anyone who paid
attention during the Jedi Council parts would know that the Jedi wiped
out the Sith a long time ago, and Darth Maul is the apprentice of one
of the last Sith Lords who want the Sith to come back.

Now that that's out of the way, let's move on. In the second half of
the film, the effects only got better. The Naboo Starfighters near the
end looked seriously real, the trade Federation battleship looked
pretty wicked, and the battle between the gungans and the battle droids
looked spectacular, but soon after this happened, came the highlight of
the film. While the Theed palace soldiers are trying to take back the
palace, they ran into Darth Maul, who had been sent by his master to
kill the two Jedi and everyone who stood in their way to victory. 

After that came the second best lightsaber fight in the entire saga.
For one thing, Darth Maul has a double bladed (duel bladed) lightsaber.
And I thought it was nice to see an update on the lightsaber formula.
Anyway, when the fight starts, three key factors make it a great fight.
1 is the music, called Duel of Fates. no words can describe how well
this piece of John Williams Gold fits into the fight, and the film in
general. The second factor is the movements, or choreography. For the
first time, we were introduced to lightsaber duels with back flips,
jumps, several hits a second, and some seriously fast paced action,
which the Original films seriously lacked from the reviews. And the
third thing that makes the fight so great is the location its in. The
Theed Palace reactor is such a bad ass place to have a lightsaber
fight, its almost as if Darth Maul purposely waited nearby it so they
could fight there. Overall, just watch the fight on Youtube and you'll
see what I mean.

Overall, The Phantom Menace was a great entry in the Star Wars
franchise. It's got great effects, lovable characters, a great
storyline, and doesn't deserve all of the hate that it has. I highly
recommend watching this any day.

I'd give this a 15 if I could.
