
This is a loud movie which was fun for about 40 minutes but then it
just gets to be too much, too abrasive with the yelling. Do they think
kids are hard-of-hearing? Are they trying to make kids deaf?

Whatever. . I guess this is geared a lot more for young kids who are
used to the TV blasting away at them. For me, that loudness is okay for
awhile, but it gets tiresome. In fact, the simple storyline in here
goes on for too long, too. This is an 81- minute film, which is not
long, but would have been far better at no m ore than 70 minutes. An
hour would have been just right.

Still, on the plus side, there are plenty of interesting scenes, the
colors are bright and visually attractive, the sound is very good and
there are some decent subtleties as well as slapstick humor. There are
things in here adults would enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

As a big fan of the Nickelodeon television show, "The Rugrats", I was
really
itching to see this when I first heard they were making a movie, and I am
a
teenager, too.  I was there opening weekend, and lemme tell ya, you don't
have to be a toddler to love animated movies.  I thoroughly enjoyed this
movie.  There was very good animation, a good little story, upbeat and
catchy songs as well as lyrics, and the action will keep the little ones
entertained.  ***** out of *****.
<|_=00=_|>
The Rugrats Movie was enjoyable, not quite as good as Rugrats In Paris,
but it is solid and colourful. Of course the film isn't without its
flaws. The second half was rather loud for my liking, and while the
story is simple, which is fine by me, there are bits where the film
drags and it doesn't quite have the sense of fun that makes the show so
enjoyable. That said though, the film is very, VERY cute and means
well. While it is by all means a kids movie, there are a handful of
laughs and references to other films for adults. I particularly loved
Phil's "I didn't know she could fly"(in reference to Angelica) and Lil
replies "I think it's because she's a witch." The animation is
colourful and true to that of the show, and the soundtrack is great.
The voice cast is especially strong, with Tara Strong, EG Daily and
Christine Cavanaugh as standouts. Though as much as it pains me to say
this, great actors like Whoopi Goldberg and Tim Curry have very little
to do, and did disappoint. Overall, it's a decent movie, it is
colourful cute and fun, but does have a tendency to drag and a bit loud
in places. 7/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

Rugrats:  A name I had never even heard until my daughter started watching
it.  My son soon followed and joined sis on the couch when the familiar
theme song kicked in.
They are 6 and 4 now and were thrilled when they announced the movie version
of their favorite show.  Mom and I promised to take them.  As we arrived in
the theatre, there
were families all over just like ours.  Once the film started, however, I
was 6 years old again, watching my favorite cartoons.  Rugrats movie is a
joy for parents and kids
alike.  There is adult humor (referring to the sex of the new pickles baby,
one parent says "if born under venus, look for a" ...before being cut
off.
There is kid humor too, multiple diaper jokes, and just plain FUN!  Parents,
and non-parents alike owe it to themselves to see this fun movie.  If you
have kids, it is a joy to
see their faces light up when the theme song kicks in, and Tommy squirts the
screen with his bottle (just as the SDDS sound kicks in, and the title
breaks on-screen)

This is a great way to spend 85 minutes, and while my 4 year old got a
little restless during the forest scenes (about 1/3 of the movie), my 6-year
old
sat through it with nary a word.  A great time for kids of all ages, and a
good way for parents and kids to spend some time together.

<|_=00=_|>

Why do filmmakers find it necessary to try to turn cartoons into musicals?
I found the many star-studded music numbers irritating, and a poor attempt
to appear "cool" to the adult viewers.  The entire plot element of the
train-wrecked monkeys added nothing to the film, and seemed senseless.  My 7
year old son enjoyed it except for the singing.  The TV show is
better.
<|_=00=_|>
The first thing that should be clarified here in this movie is that
"The Rugrats Movie" is by far the darkiest, slimiest and moodiest point
of anything pertaining to Rugrats that was ever made. 

Seriously. At one point, Drew Pickles puts his brother Stu Pickles in a
choke-hold at one point or another in the movie, blaming him for losing
his daughter Angelica. 

There's definitely not that much humor to be have here in this movie.
If you watch the cartoon, you'll know what I mean and that is
definitely a turn off point for some and why "The Rugrats Movie" as a
whole, received a polarizing response by critics.

There are definitely some parts of the movie that drag on and on. The
part where the babies get lost and stuck in the forest and wonder
around aimlessly in hopes of getting back home, drag on WAY too long
and Dil's overall presence in the movie is more irritating than it is
pleasing to the typical viewer.

Then again if you are someone who isn't a fan of Rugrats, you shouldn't
even be watching this in the first place.

I give the movie credit for taking a different direction and doing
something it's not but, in 20/20 hindsight, it's not all perfect. 

The songs that the cast of the characters sing throughout the course of
the movie are hit and miss. The best one was probably Angelica's take
on Blondie's "One Way Or Another" hit song from the 80's.

In all, I only recommend checking this movie out if you are a part of
the Rugrats fan base. For everyone else, it's nothing special and you
can safely skip it as there's better family movies out there.
<|_=00=_|>
Taking place immediately after the "Rugrats" episode "The Family Tree"
where Didi finds out she's pregnant. "The Rugrats Movie" is when
Tommy's new sibling is finally born. The Rugrats are very excited about
Tommy's new sister, but when the baby is finally born, it's a boy. Baby
Dil practically does nothing, but cry, scream, and poop. Tommy thinks
he can take him back to the hospital in exchange for a new baby
brother, but soon they all get lost in the woods. This is their first
time in actual danger, not just their imaginations.

This is certainly not the best story for a movie, but it is okay. Baby
Dil, however is very annoying. More-so in the later episodes of the
show than this movie, because he constantly interrupts their adventures
and makes every episode about baby-sitting Dil.

While "The Rugrats Movie" is a decent film, it has flaws.

- It's starts the downfall of a once great cartoon show.

- Like in "Pokémon: The First Movie" this film tries a little bit too
hard to be darker and more dramatic than the TV show it's based on.

- There are WAY too many jokes about poop, pee and other such gross
things. I'm fine with crude humor when it's in small doses (like on
"Rocko's Modern Life"), or when it's actually made funny (like on "The
Ren & Stimpy Show"). But this movie (and the later episodes of the
show) just over-do it.

There are good things too though.

- I loved the opening sequence of the film.

- The animation is great, and perfect for the big screen.

- The voice acting is top-notch.

- Some parts were really funny. Like when they spoofed "Indiana Jones".

Overall this is a decent and mildly entertaining film. But it's
certainly not one of the greatest animated movies ever. There are
better movies of animated TV shows ("The Simpsons Movie"; "The
SpongeBob SquarePants Movie"; "Batman: Mask of the Phantasm"), but
there are also worse ones ("Aqua Teen Hunger Force: Colon Film for
Theaters"; "Pokémon: The First Movie"). Funny, nicely animated, good
voice acting, but a little bit too much potty jokes, and it added a
horrible character to a great TV show.

Rating: 6/10 "Decent"
<|_=00=_|>
Tommy and his friends are excited and looking forward to the arrival of
his new baby sister. However when young Dil arrives he turns out to be
a boy as well as not being as much fun as had been expected. With Dill
taking all his parent's attention away from Tommy, the other babies
find themselves all marginalised by this screaming and pooping
creature. Trying to return Dil to the hospital turns into a much bigger
adventure than they planned when they wind out lost deep in the woods.

Some cartoons are aimed at kids but have plenty for adults to enjoy;
some cartoons are so completely for kids that adults struggle to get
anything from them. The Rugrats Movie falls somewhere in the middle,
being engaging enough for adults without really having that much
specifically for them. Of course for kids the simple plot will provide
enough adventure to hold the attention while the baby jokes come fast
enough to amuse. Adults will not be turned off by the film because it
is professional enough to distract, but the adult references are few
and far between and certainly not as clever as the Pixar films that
adults will be used to.

The voice cast deliver the characters from the TV show well enough and
will please fans by delivering more of the same but just over a longer
running time. Guest turns from Curry, Goldberg, Spade, Clinton, Cho and
Rhymes don't add a great deal but in their defence I suppose it was
easy work for money. Overall then a professional and enjoyable film for
child fans of the series which fills the running time well. However
there isn't much for adults other than the promise that at least it
won't grate the way some kids films do.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing this movie when I was eleven years old in theaters. I
saw it the opening weekend and then again two weeks later. I have
always been a fan of the Rugrats ever since it started back in 1991
when I was four years old.

The plot of the movie evolves around the addition of Tommy's new baby
brother Dil. The part when Tommy and Dil were alone in the woods
together was so sad and cute. I also liked how there were many
different parts occurring at the same time. Plus the songs on the movie
were very catchy especially the one Angelica sang while looking for
Cynthia.

Overall this movie was really good. However this movie led to the
downfall of the "Rugrats". I give this movie 10/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

This animated film feature of the RUGRATS is a thrill of an adventurous
joyride for its fans, and has a cutest sense of humor more unique than some
in this type (like the "poopie" jokes). The familiar artwork is breathtaking
and fares far better than the recent DOUG in movie form. Angelica gets to
steal the show like she always does, and sings a sample of Blondie's "One
Way Or Another". Simply put, a great way for kids to escape the horrors of
network television. As all that can be best explained, you know exactly what
to predict here. The songs are nice, but they're nothing to brag about
except for when the end credits scroll by. 
