
This is one of those movies that can entertain you as long as you don't
get too critical. The basic premise of the story line is a good one but
as with many low budget Sci-Fi films there are flaws in the telling.

The biggest flaw is in the title itself. Being as this dog befriends
Ally Sheedy's character and basically snarls at all the men it come
across the film probably should have been called "Woman's Best Friend"
or better yet "M.A.X.".

Other than the title though the movie is basically a good film and you
have to get pretty picky to find any real problems with it. It's not a
great movie but it has some good scares, moments of comic relief, and
some cool special effects.

I don't know why this film has gotten such a low over-all rating. I
know that IMDb ratings tend to average a bit on the low side but still
this movie deserves a lot better than a 4.4. I have given the film a 7
and feel this movie is good enough to add to any one's DVD library if
found at budget prices.

Definitely worth a rental if you haven't already seen it.

EB
<|_=00=_|>

Dog that has had genetic experiments conducted on it is saved by a news
reporter investigating a sciene lab. However, the dogs genetics have been
mixed with several other animals and it kills anything or anyone that gets
in the way of him and his new owner. Fun premise with some creative
moments
goes down the path you would expect, but still is entertaining anyway. The
cast is used to little effect as this is a showcase for the
dog.

Rated R; Violence and Profanity.
<|_=00=_|>
"Man's Best Friend" is a decent enough killer dog film.

**SPOILERS**

Attempting to do a serious story, Lori Tanner, (Ally Sheedy) and her
camerawoman Annie, (Trula M. Marcus) sneak into a testing facility and
find a wealth of caged animals undergoing illegal treatments.
Discovered by Dr. Jarrett, (Lance Henriksen) they flee the scene and
inadvertently free a dog from the lab's testing area. Bonding with him
despite what her boyfriend Perry, (Fredric Lehne) says, she refuses to
part with him and decides to keep him. When he discovers what is
missing, he goes after the dog when she realizes that he's a
genetically-modified killer dog possessing the traits of several animal
species mixed together into a perfect killing machine and is out on the
loose, forcing them all to come together in a showdown to stop the
dog's rampage.

The Good News: This one wasn't that bad and actually had some decent
stuff to it. The fact that the silly premise is allowed to be so silly
and entertaining is a true plus here. It's hard to really get more
goofy than this premise, but the fact that the film never once feels
dull or boring is a huge plus and is partly due to what all it includes
within. The first issue is the attacks on display, which are really
cool and really enjoyable. Though it's to be expected, the mailman
encounter turns out incredibly well and satisfies due to the effective
conclusion, the police chase away from the house is pretty thrilling,
as it takes the place of a normal car chase complete with the crashing
cars and the escape of the target away from them, and of course the
encounter at the junkyard is great as it's a retribution murder that is
nicely, and cruelly set-up well with the treatment of the dog that
results in some admittedly-cool effects before the deadly resolution.
The main one, though, is the sequence of attacks at the end, where it
leads from a short but effective car chase to a cool crash and into a
fun and incredibly tense stalking through the lab, and with the
majority done through the dog's vision so that we're low to the ground,
it adds a little more tension to it than it already has. The blood and
gore isn't that spectacular, mostly concentrating on bites to tons of
areas around the body, including the legs, crotch, throat and more, but
there's also a decent-looking chest mauling, and a cool scene where it
urinates acid on a guy's face and it melts away in a pretty nice
effect, and it's an acceptable film in the gore department overall. The
last good plus here is the fact that the film builds up to the dog's
violent tendencies. It's going to be pretty obvious that the dog will
be a raving maniac, but the way it's built up with the home-environment
and it's different scenes showing off the dogs' abilities around the
neighborhood illustrate the great build to how the killer's abilities
come out. All of these here are what make the film enjoyable.

The Bad News: There wasn't a whole lot here that didn't work. The main
issue is that there's not a lot of time in here dealing with the dog
actually going out and killing, which is the main thing that a film
like this is built upon. The beginning to this, where he terrorizes the
neighborhoods' animals, including an admittedly cool scene where it
climbs to the top of a tree and devours a fleeing cat, are just not
that interesting or exciting and are diverts away from the shots of the
dog going after it's victims. The film also clearly has no idea of what
it is talking about when it gets to genetic engineering. It seems to
regard chameleon-like skin-changing ability and tree-climbing as
instant abilities that one can just snip from another animal and graft
onto dog genes, when it's widely known that the musculature in their
legs renders them unable to use that particular trait, and with the
relative size of the dog, becomes just plain impossible. The enhanced
intelligence and strength bits were done right, but unfortunately
genetically enhancing animals to turn them into chameleons is just
taking it too far, as it's impossible believe the fact that a dog can
blend into the background, especially when the background is a garage
full of boxes and rusty metal. It really takes the viewer right out of
the scene. The first flaw here is the love-scene on display. As a
terrible, though appropriately titled love-song blares across the
scene, the two dogs perform a pathetic people-pantomime sequence, such
as looking shy while laying back in the bed or a ludicrous chase where
she leads him into the bedroom, which is just overall atrocious. Then,
as a neighbor woman searches for her cat, we hear the sonic resonance
of her orgasm blaring through the neighborhood. It's just a totally
unnecessary scene and serves just so as to provide something that makes
the film's twist ending believable. These are what work against the
film.

The Final Verdict: Even though it's not exactly a bad film, nothing of
real importance sticks out enough for it to be anything more than
watchable. Give this a shot if it appeals to you or you find these
kinds of films interesting, otherwise this one isn't all to special and
won't be a big thing if it's skipped.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Graphic Language and a clothed sex scene
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw the previews to this movie, I didn't expect anything
like this. I mean I definitely realized that it would be something like
Cujo, certainly a killer mad dog film for the nineties. However, I
didn't know that this movie was about a highly advanced dog with the
DNA of wild animals spliced into its blood and genetics. Because of
this interesting concept in his breeding, Max, a gargantuan Tibetan
Mastiff(in place of a possessed Rottweiler or a Saint Bernard with
rabies) soon falls vulnerable to his bloodthirsty and wild instincts of
the wild creatures mixed within him. Without the special tranquilizers
to keep him level, Max fragments mentally and emotionally and becomes
susceptible and suffers a psychotic transformation from charming pet to
killer mad "mutt". If Cujo seemed too grim for your taste, you may just
want to check out this movie. Different from Cujo, there is plenty of
humor, not to mention an original and imaginative plot, and newly done
special effects. Though the effects for Cujo aren't bad for its time in
cinema. I like the part where Max is howling as he makes love to the
neighbor's collie, Heidi. There are gory and graphic scenes, however.
One being the scientist's guts discovered in a big trash roll around
dumpster at the beginning of the movie. That aside, viewers will over
all enjoy this whimsical horror/thriller. I give it a 9 out of ten!
<|_=00=_|>

I was highly disappointed to see that the dog who plays Max in this film is
not credited anywhere on the IMDB page - and he was the best actor in the
whole darn movie! The whole half-dog/half-human brain thing (at least I
think that's what it was supposed to be) was pulled off incredibly well by
this pooch. I mean, he had EXPRESSIONS! When he looked up at Ally Sheedy's
boyfriend after he tried to slip him some spiked dog chow - that LOOK!
GRRRR!!! It was great! That dog should get an Oscar! ;-)
<|_=00=_|>
"Man's Best Friend", about a genetically altered dog that kills any
perceived threat, is pretty much what you'd expect. Ally Sheedy really
chews the scenery as the reporter investigating cruelty to animals and
inadvertently releasing the bloodthirsty pooch. But no matter, the
movie still is pretty fun to watch, with the full understanding that
it's basically a totally dumb flick. Lance Henriksen, playing the
scientist who created the murderous hound, lets his face do the acting.

Like I said, it's mostly just a fun movie to watch. Definitely nothing
special about it. Although I should admit that I'd never heard of a
Tibetan mastiff until I read a description of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
this movie was better than i thought it would be.i thought it would be
good,but it exceeded my expectations.the acting was fairly decent,but
there was one standout--the dog.all the other characters were
secondary.this dog was very well trained and had a personality-to
boot.intelligent,lovable,sad and even romantic.there is a brief back
story to the dog and how it came to be where it was.this is basically a
very genetically enhanced animal,with all senses heightened,great
strength,speed and intelligence.the story flowed very well and the
dog(whose mane is Max) soon becomes endearing to the viewer the
filmmakers even added a brief touch of whimsy,which i thought was a
hint of brilliance.we feel pain when Max feels pain.Because this dog is
such a highly developed character,it becomes very easy to sympathize
with him.Even when Max slowly evolves from being a lovable "mutt" into
a vicious killing machine we still feel for him.and that' because we
are told early on that Max is not completely under his own control,and
every second he is away from the"lab"his killing instincts exert
themselves until he becomes psychotic.I was very entertained by this
film,having also recently seen"Rottweiller" which is fairly
similar,containing some-of the same subject matter but it takes a
different tact than "Man's Best Friend" I give this movie an 8*/10
<|_=00=_|>

okay horror flick but nothing special that could have been a lot better if
it wasn't for the uneven pacing and bland dog attacks the script isn't bad
and it has some decent ideas but it' just isn't that thrilling. The acting
is good Ally Sheedy is excellent here she's cute vulnerable and looks great
with tears in her eyes Lance Henriksen is his usual solid self and delivers
a good performance still i wish he would pick better projects Robert
Costanzo is a disgrace to the acting profession (in my opinion) and i just
wanted to beat him! Fredric Lehne is annoying and amusing at the same time
he has his moments but he is off and on  there SPOILERS!!!!! is a funny
moment when the dog puts the steak tar tar in the toilet and flushes it
overall nothing special what so ever only worth a watch if your really bored
** out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, the film is action-packed and keeps the viewer's interest.
It's full of suspense and kept me on-edge. The plot is in a science lab
with, Lance Henriksen, the scientist, and his E-MAX Project. An
investigation is conducted when an E-MAX employee goes missing and
local news reporters infiltrate E-MAX and steal a test subject (MAX).
The reporter and animal activist, Lori Tanner (Alley Sheedy), bites off
more than she can chew when she gets to know the real MAX. In my
opinion, this is a well written and well produced film. A friendly
warning, there are some extremely heart- wrenching scenes but still a
great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Two female reporters from a known channel break into a macabre science
lab where an obsessed psychotic scientist experiments on animals to
take a video for the news,and adopt a huge cute dog(something looking
like between a German shepherd and a rottweiler,I don't know the exact
breed) that is genetically enhanced.This dog is the scientist's own
masterpiece and pride,and in the right hands is a perfect guardian,but
in the wrong hands a killing machine because his mind is a bit
unstable.The film doesn't take itself seriously and this is enjoyable
and really funny.Especially the scientist and his audacity in order to
recover his dog together with his hilarious movie villain lines,makes
it a great laugh.The dog turns from cute to an intelligent strong
minded character and then a killer,as he tests and unfolds his powers
and appetites,but except from a cat that it swallows whole most of the
killings feel righteous from a certain comedy perspective.A bit of
blood and gore is there so its not for kids but it is presented in a
satirical comical way.All the animals in the movie deserve an
Oscar.Especially the main dog character.I'm missing such movies
today.No fake seriousness and ridiculous retarded affectation that
shows from a mile,and no retarded educational conclusions for the
viewers.The bad guys get all mauled,most of the good guys survive and
cops sneak to drink chocolate from peoples' blenders in their kitchens
while guarding the house without asking permission.Nowadays everything
has to be serious...and stupid.Well done,but still not for kids.
