

TEA WITH MUSSOLINI is Zeffirelli's tribute to his own war-time

upbringing, and while it is undeniably sentimental,  it is also a

wonderful movie.  A young, illegitimate boy who is rejected by his

father (who is married to another) is raised by his secretary (Joan

Plowright).  She is part of a group of English ex-pats living in life on

very fixed incomes in Florence on the eve of WWII.  Plowright's

other peers include Maggie Smith as the insufferably snobbish

widow of a consulate, who never  lets anyone forget her status. 

There's also Judi Dench, an artist, who is a gentle soul and an 

animal lover.  Lily Tomlin is an American who keeps a watchful eye

on the ladies at the danger comes closer to engulfing them all. 

And then there's Cher, the widow of a rich man who comes and

goes throughout Europe in search of good art and a good time.  All

these women have come to love the young boy who is now about

14 when the movie begins.  Cher, whose character is  Jewish is

damn near ruined by a scheming lover, and her life is in danger. 

The British contingent has been sent to close quarters in Sienna

where they are forced to live in close proximity to each other, as

prisoners of war.  The war is nearly over with the Americans

advancing on Sienna.  The young man helps to arrange Cher's

escape and the woman stop bickering long enough to help the

Americans liberate Sienna and all ends happily.  

Some have complained that Cher is terrible in this movie. 

Nonsense.  She's playing a head-strong, independent woman

who is in charge of her own life.  This is a variation of the same

theme she has worked as an actress, entertainer and personality

for more than 40 years.  The final parting with the young boy is

tear-inducing.  Cher looks sensational and gives a heart-felt

performance.  The ladies--Dames Joan, Maggie and Judi are

adorable and winning as expected with Lily Tomlin offering a

wonderful portrait of a tough journalist who comes to their support

when the going gets rough.  The young boy as Zeffirelli is also

terrific.  The scenery is gorgeous, and you can't see too many

stories about interesting, off-beat characters on the loose in Italy

as far as I'm concerned.


<|_=00=_|>

This film is one of the most touching and lovely films that I have seen in
many years. Its gaggle of actresses are second to none and turn out
excellant performance, Joan Plowright in particular brings an irresistable
sweetness to the role. People who have commented on the film so far seem to
have neglected to mention the soundtrack which is beautiful and inspiring
with a wonderful piano piece. Criticism that the film is too old fashioned
or that the characters are unappealing and pompous seems to miss the point,
the very charm of Hester (Maggie Smith in particular)is how she overcomes
her snobbery at the end and realises how much Elsa (Cher, who in any other
film would doubtless be misplaced but in this case fits the role like a
glove) has done for the Scorpioni. In short the film is a relic of a gentler
age and is simultaniously uplifting, upsetting and relaxing. I implore
everyone to hunt down the soundtrack on CD to the ends of the earth if
necissary.
<|_=00=_|>

This film could have been titled 'four crazy grannies' for the marvelous
portrayal of little old ladies, each more eccentric than the next.  Like
the
comedy team of Matthau and Lemon, Dench, Smith and Plowright have a
chemistry that is explosive.

Maggie Smith played a role that she has spent a lifetime perfecting.  She
captivates us as a snobbish dowager, tantalizes us with her improbable tea
party and brings us to tears when she demonstrates her capacity to
grow.

Although she may not have wowed us with her Shakespeare, Joan Plowright's
compassion for her sudden charge made me wish (that at age 32) she would
adopt me.  Her love of the classics, remind us that art, literature and
friends can help us transcend life's constant miseries.

Cher demonstrated that she could act in any time period.  While Dame Judi
Dench (not allowing herself to be typecast as a Queen) portrays a
particularly pitiful creature as an aging artist with more passion than
talent.

This film sends a clear message to Hollywood: experience and talent win
out
over T&A.

Applause at the end of this movie is to be expected.

Brava!
<|_=00=_|>
Another Judi Dench film that in no way disappoints.

This film opens the mind even more to that important chapter in history
and lets you look from various perspectives at events.

I found it a really fascinating film, absolutely beautiful
cinematography.

Excellent story telling, narrative, really well paced and put across.

And wonderfully acted across the board, from main characters to all the
supporting cast, I did not realise Cher was such a good actress.

Stories like this based on fact, are so wonderful.

And the movie captures Florence, so pleasingly, you will long to visit.

A welcome break from the mindless action flicks.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a melodrama and you should not expect anything else. But what a
melodrama! In the hands of a great director, using an eccentric story
involving some eccentric people, it conveys straight to the heart how the
great darkness descended upon Europe in the 1930's. It tells you that the
greatest evil is the work of humans, and that the potential for evil lurks
in the human soul. But, and here is the movie greatest strength, it shows
you that humans possess the capacity to be human and to act human, when
they
heed Shakespeare's advice: "Love thyself last". All the negative comments
that can be made about this or that deficiency caused me to downgrade this
movie's rating from a "10" to a mere "9". Go see it. If you have kids -
make
sure to take them along for a great and satisfying lesson about life as it
should be lived.
<|_=00=_|>

I had wanted to see this film for some time and when the opportunity
finally
materialised I was enthralled. It is probably the best performance I have
seen by Maggie Smith, who often seems to be playing the same character
actually. But this is her best since Miss Jean Brodie, and Joan Plowright,
Judi Dench, Lily Tomlin and Cher are all equally impressive.

The settings are skilfully designed to draw the viewer in, and when you
are
setting your movie in Florence and its environs you can't go wrong anyway.
The ongoing clash between two worlds i.e. Lady Hester Random (Maggie
Smith)
versus Elsa (Cher) reaches a satisfying resolution which it would be
unfair
to reveal.

There are splendid comic vignettes mixed into the overall drama. Judi
Dench
and her dog being thrown out of the cathedral, sharply contrasts with the
chilling moment when the Jewish arts professor is taken away by the
Gestapo.
Understated but none the less effective, probably more so, because of
it.

If you haven't seen this film, see it as soon as you can.
<|_=00=_|>
It's certainly not clear how fictionalized a version of Zeffirelli's
autobiography "Tea With Mussolini" is, what with the usual disclaimers
at the end. Even presuming this is just a riff off an incident in his
life, that he had some contact with memorable English ladies, it's
clearly his tribute to where his love of English literature comes from,
particularly Shakespeare. He's done several Shakespeare
interpretations-- movies, opera and play directing. The film has a
lovely scene of him being first introduced to acting out "Romeo &
Juliet" with puppets, as well as constant quotes from Shakespeare
throughout about war and his situation. 

I was surprised how good the movie was - I was in tears several times,
especially with visuals that bring up the same comparisons as "The
Train" did, with art vs. war, humanity's heights of creativity vs. its
lows of prejudice and violence.

These Oscar-winning ladies are absolutely terrific, yes including Cher.
One elderly gentleman behind me complained that Maggie Smith basically
always plays the same character but I thought her character does change
towards the end. The others were certainly not their usual on-screen
personas, Judi Dench as a free-spirited artist, Joan Plowright as a
quite warm-hearted grandmotherly type, and Lily Tomlin a hoot as a
butch archaeologist.

But why choose bland Italian actors for them to play off of? To make
the Scorpioni, as they are called, stand out more? The Italians seemed
stereotyped to me, Latin lover, ignorant peasants not appreciating
their ancient artistic heritage.

What the movie also brought to mind is how few Italian movies have
dealt with their fascist past as much as the French have been exploring
their consciences of collaboration in film. Sure "Garden of Finzi
Continis," "Two Women" and "Life Is Beautiful" show arrests, etc. but I
don't get the sense of soul searching as to how did this happen here
and could it again? Just because they didn't have Shakespeare and
appreciate the treasures of the Uffizi as this film implies?
(originally written 5/15/1999)
<|_=00=_|>
This film is directed and co-authored by Franco Zeffirelli, and I
couldn't resist speculating on how much of it was actually true, since
it is said to be based on Zeffirelli's autobiography. However, true in
part, true completely, in the end it doesn't really matter. What
matters is the amazing ensemble acting by Maggie Smith, Cher, Joan
Plowwright, Judi Dench and Lily Tomlin (listing them in the order of
significance to the story) and the stunning beauty of Florence where
the film is set. The director and photographer plainly love the city,
matching the love for it of the characters. Maggie Smith as the widow
of a former British ambassador, the character that actually has tea
with Mussolini, is the dominant figure in the film. However, Cher,
playing a wealthy American -- vulgar in the eyes of he British ladies
-- who turns out to be a complex, philanthropic Jew who must be
smuggled out of the country in the end; Joan Plowwright as a kind lady
who takes in the bastard son of an Italian businessman and teaches him
to be an English gentleman; Judi Dench as an eccentric artist whose
passion is to preserve a renaissance fresco from the Nazis during the
war, and Lily Tomlin as a lesbian American archaeologist all deliver
sterling performances. Cher's performance is the most amazing -- she
holds her own in formidable company -- but one expects, of course, to
be dazzled by Maggie Smith, Joan Plowwright, Judi Dench and even by
Lily Tomlin. It's a sentimental, even melodramatic, tale, but see it
for the ensemble acting. I can't think of another film that equals Tea
with Mussolini in that respect.
<|_=00=_|>
Tuscany, 1935, a group of ladies walk along the streets of the city
deservedly considered one of the world's art pearls, Florence. We don't
know the ladies at first but, in time, we find them intelligent women
who perfectly understand English but hardly understand orders. These
are Scorpioni, elderly English women who will play a decisive role in
the story as well as in the life of a young boy, Luca, strikingly
similar to the director himself in his youthful years, Franco
Zeffirelli...

Zeffirelli's autobiographical movie TEA WITH MUSSOLINI is a charming
sentimental piece of work the action of which takes place in the Italy
of the 1930s and 1940s: the hardest period not only in the lives of
those many who were living then but for the entire 20th century
history, when, as many readers will probably agree with me, humanity
seemed to be conquered by infernal ideologies and bestial hatred. Yet,
according to what Zeffirelli shows us in the movie, even in those
darkest days, there was also room for beauty protection, care, art
admiration and mutual help. As a Zeffirelli's fan, I consider TEA WITH
MUSSOLINI one of the director's best films. But not because it only
shows how bad war was. That is something most of us already know well.
I love the film for other reasons. I like it because...

...there are moments when you will cry, when you will think and when
you will genuinely laugh. A proper balance of emotions supplied by the
director makes the movie a very decent entertainment filled with
affection, sorrow, even nostalgia but also fun, charm and comfort. Who
can possibly skip the scene of football match, for instance? I also
laughed openly at the moment the ladies teach the soldiers saying "Good
night". Isn't that a useful way to teach good manners and a foreign
language at the same time? The moving moment in the orphanage will
leave your eyes teary and the words of Ms Wallace about our contact
with dead people may put you to nostalgia. But not for long. This fact
of the film's "heart" goes in pairs with brilliant musical score
Zeffirelli is famous for in his movies galore. What depth is there in
this music and what supply of positive emotions! 

...there are, except for variety of moments, beautiful Tuscan
landscapes which make the movie a true postcard from Florence, San
Gimignano and a true promotion of the Florentine art. This is also in
accordance with the "soul" that Zeffirelli is so deeply attached to.
The colorful hills around San Gimignano and the unique flowers under
the Tuscany's sun leave hardly anyone indifferent. Consider, for
instance, Luca's introduction of San Gimignano while he follows the bus
with the ladies.

...there are foremost genuinely flawless performances that have to be
linked to the deep development of characters. That is the aspect I'd
like to pay more attention to in my comment. The ladies who occur to be
at the focus are unforgettable. They supply the partly Italian movie
with the truly English spirit. Maggie Smith does a wonderful job as
Lady Hester: elegant, well mannered but also naive in her confidence in
Mussolini and reluctant of Americans, the lady who drinks the
spectacular but tragic tea with the duce. Judi Dench is memorable as
Arabella who has drunk the wine of Florence, warmed her hands with the
fire of Boticelli and Michelangelo and wants to share this inner
experience with other people. Joan Plowright is, as usual, genuine and
unforgettable. She fits to particular roles and although she has
carried some other brilliant roles in latest Zeffirelli movies, Ms Mary
Wallace seems to be the character for her. Joan portrays a warm hearted
lady who is not only a good cook introducing Luca to bacon with eggs
but also a great intellectual so much in love with Shakespeare. Cher
representing the American side is also very appealing as Elsa - a
luxurious woman with a flair for paintings, a Picasso connoisseur whose
cup of tea is not only modern art but also good heart. She once helped
Luca and the time will come for her to be helped in the spirit of
Shakespeare "Love thyself less"... Through these different characters,
Zeffirelli appears to present the wonder of diversity in human beings.
The two seemingly contradictory characters, Elsa and Lady Hester, seem
to be of totally opposite natures. Yet, even they turn out to have
something in common... Finally a mention must be made of Baird Wallace
who perfectly portrays Luca as a youngster and Charlie Lucas as Luca a
little boy. Great young talents! 

There is, finally, a great message of the film: that war cannot ruin
the world, that the power of spirit is endless, that real art is born
in the deep of one's heart. The final scene when Arabella says at the
remained fresco of Santa Fina Funeral "Let Her sleep" seems to
symbolize an eternal human quest for the sublime and the mysterious
presence. If the "presence" is there, we shouldn't have anything to
worry about. The horror of war is ceased and the historic sounds of San
Gimignano bells ringing out joyfully together with the director's
message proclaim the reconciliation and peace. The twin towers stand as
silent witnesses...

Franco Zeffirelli, we should indeed appreciate art since it is the art
that may bring out the genius of mankind.
<|_=00=_|>
After nearly 20 years as a top pop and television star, Cher suddenly
skyrocketed to film stardom in the mid-80's, walked off with an Academy
Award, ranked among the top ten box-office stars and just as suddenly
disappeared from the big screen in 1991 after one last hit
"Mermaids"(1990) cleaned up at cinemas. In 1999 she made a tremendous
comeback with a multimillion selling CD "Believe"(Warner Bros, 1998)
and most impressively returned to the big screen with a luminous
performance in Franco Zefferelli's "Tea With Mussolini"(MGM,1999).
Reviews were mixed but after I saw this in the movie theater, I felt
the film was rather good. Based on an autobiography by Zefferelli
recounting his early years trying to survive the Nazi-Mussolini
atrocities of WWII. During this dangerous time Zefferelli was protected
by a coterie of socialite dowagers played splendidly by Maggie Smith,
Judi Dench, Joan Plowright, Lily Tomlin and of course Cher who was
perfectly cast as a gorgeous Jewish chanteuse. The story has some holes
and the film was probably edited down too much for its US release that
cause some continuity issues but this is overall a charming, thoughtful
period piece highlighted by Cher at her latter day peak. Shame this
success did not resuscitate her dormant film career. She has made
nothing of note since.
