

This Reiner flick is a gem of the nineties. In its genre probably the best
thing to hit the screens since Capra rounded  them up over half a century
ago.

The story itself is nothing extraordinary. Set in Washington it is a
simple
tale of love between lobbyist Sidney Wade and widow President Andrew
Sheperd. Flung into love they both encounter obstacles as both opposition
and political differences tear them apart. No need to worry though, all is
well that ends well. And Reiner is not the one to slip one on
us.

What makes this film shine above most are not the development of
characters
or the underdeveloped political statements. Its the achievement of giving
audiences 90 minutes of pure bliss. Douglas is lovable as president,
Beattys
spouse makes you jealous as always, J. Fox never misses an opportunity to
display huge talent and Dreyfuss is just the kind of guy you love to hate.
Add a dose of victorious political correctness and top it of with a final
speech that raises the hair on any kinds of neck but rednecks, and you got
your evening made.

Enjoy ! 
<|_=00=_|>

Is there a genre that Rob Reiner can't work in and make successful?  He
captured comedy beautifully with The Sure Thing.  Music was brilliant with
This is Spinal Tap.  Horror?  How about Misery?  Courtroom drama was
awesome
with A Few Good Men.  And now we have a political drama/comedy.  There is
nothing this man can't do.

This movie works inspite of people's claims that it is too political.  Well
you know what, it's about the president of the United States of America,
there's going to be a bit of poiltics in it.  And guess what, guns do kill
people, so to have an issue at hand here that deals with gun control is
applaudable.

Okay, that's out of the way, let's talk about the film itself.  Because it
is wonderful.  It is funny, well acted, and it is written with a good ear.

The cast in this film is one to be envied by almost everyone except Oliver
Stone and Robert Altman who seem to get everyone to do their films.  But
here we have Douglas as the president, Sheen as his aid, Michael J. Fox,
Samantha Mathis, Annette Bening as Sydney Ellen Wade and in my favourite
performance, Richard Dreyfuss as the sniveling weasle Senator Bob
Rumsen.

As the story goes, the president's character gets questioned when he ( a
widow ) finds a girlfriend in Sydney Wade.  The issues are handled
wonderfully here.  Nothing is really tip-toed around as the script writer (
Aaron Sorkin ) writes a brave script about what is right and wrong with
being the president and having a girlfriend.

I personally liked the politics in the film.  I enjoyed how Shepherd
decides
to ignore the critisism leveled at him until the very end when he gives one
of the best written speeches I've ever seen in film.  And when he flexes
his
authoritative muscles, you feel his power, you feel that the president has
spoken.  And I was moved.  This is a great film and one that should be
checked out for sure.

****  I also found it to be interesting that the character in the film that
tries to get the issue of gun control brought to the forefront is Michael
J.
Fox.  He is Canadian and we don't have problems with guns here.  Is it a
coincidence ( probably ) that he was chosen to play this role?  Or was it
done deliberately?  Interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great feel good movie about a charismatic, essentially very
decent, fictional U.S. President, played by Michael Douglas in an
extremely likable role. It's a political story as well as a love story.
Douglas is both commanding & assured in his presidential role and
charming & endearing in his romantic role. If anyone has not yet seen
this movie, you'll discover you're in for an unexpected treat. There's
something here for everyone...romance, comedy, politics, and drama. 

Andrew Shepherd is a youngish, popular President soon up for re
election. Pressure is being put to bear on him to consolidate his
administration's high poll ratings by pushing through a moderate crime
bill which totally lacks Republican party support, yet is considered
too weak by the Democrats. Meanwhile he finds himself attracted to
Sydney Wade, an environmental lobbyist who is seeking legislation to
reduce carbon monoxide emissions. Shepherd has been widowed for three
years, and currently needs an escort for a State Dinner in honour of
the President of France. He invites Sydney to this function and during
this & subsequent encounters, the pair fall in love. Trouble ensues
when Shepherd is torn between the politically expedient crime bill and
the environmental legislation he has promised his new love interest. 

In terms of romance, there is the ongoing love story between the
widowed President and the young lobbyist, Sydney, charmingly played by
Annette Benning. This lovely and intelligent lady is quite smitten but
at first obviously a bit overwhelmed by it all, feeling awkward and
uncertain as the President's date. Sydney looks absolutely radiant at
the state ball as she is swept off her feet by this handsome leader of
the free world. Their chemistry proves to be electric, the dialogue
clever, and the potential sexual situations quite tasteful by modern
standards. Naturally the course of true love never does run smooth so
it goes without saying that additionally, this unusual fishbowl
courtship would have some unique problems as politics and public
opinion intrude upon the couple's personal life.

A certain built in comedy natural for a dating President makes this
romance all the more enchanting. For instance, when Andrew attempts to
buy his sweetheart some roses, can't you just imagine the national
crisis that all but ensues? Despite his position as Head of State,
Andrew likes to do his courting the old fashioned, personal way. During
his initial phone call to Sydney, she believes he's one of her friends
pulling a prank, which of course results in some hilarity.

Naturally this tale is ripe with politics, and some reviewers even
claim that the film is something of a precursor to TV's West Wing.
Shepherd faces the dilemma of being forced to choose between the crime
bill that his party is after him to push, versus Sydney's particular
environmental cause. Not only party politics, but there is waning
public support to consider. Needless to say, the President has no lack
of advisers around who are more than eager to state their views, giving
at times unsolicited advice. Martin Sheen plays his Chief of Staff and
Michael J. Fox is cast as his Domestic Policy adviser. Shepherd must
also contend with mud slinging by a nasty, unscrupulous rival Senator
(portrayed by Richard Dreyfuss), who calls into question both
Shepherd's family values and his girlfriend's activist past. By the
way, any liberal political bias presented in this movie proved totally
inoffensive to me. I definitely didn't sense that the producers had a
nefarious grand agenda here.

Drama wise, there's a touching, close relationship depicted between the
President and his charming young teenage daughter, Lucy, and a definite
sense of his loneliness following the death of his wife from cancer.
Also, Shepherd is confronted with the choice of keeping his promise to
Sydney versus salvaging his political career. His Oval Office moral
dilemmas are not only relevant to the Presidency but can be
extrapolated to any person in any career.

This film delivers a powerful message about both personal and
presidential integrity. At one point there's a moving speech that is
inspiring for anyone, but may give American viewers in particular cause
for reflection about the real significance of their country's
Presidency and the qualities they might want to look for in the person
elected to that office. Personally, I was practically ready to start
flying the Stars and Stripes and I'm not even American! Whatever the
nation involved, pity we don't have more Andrew Shepherds in political
life today.
<|_=00=_|>

US President Andrew Shepherd is a widower who was sweep into power on the
back of great public sympathy.  Three years into his presidency he meets and
falls for Sydney Ellen Wade, an environmental lobbyist.  Eventually they
begin to date against the counsel of his advisors, giving his rivals (most
notably Senator Rumson) and the media the ammunition they need to begin to
attack his presidency.

This is not exactely a political thriller.  In fact it is as far removed
from reality as you could imagine.  However that's the point, this film
doesn't pretend to be anything other than a romantic comedy - it has some
political wranglings but it is very far from the (still very tidy and clean)
rule of Martin Sheen's President in TV's The West Wing.  However the story
is nicely handled and Rob Reiner is natually very good at this type of
thing.  Here it occasionally is far too sickly sweet and sentimental, but
most of it works well.

Douglas is good in the lead and looks quite acceptable as the President of
the US - lets be honest, if it was him or "oil baron" Bush who would you
pick?  Bening is also good as Sydney but neither have anything outside of
the usual romantic leads to do.  The real strength here is the supporting
cast - both in terms of class and sheer enterainment value.To name a few -
Sheen, MJ Fox, Mathis, Dreyfuss - all big names, all funny
performances.

Overall this is a big sloppy romantic comedy, but it's done with so much
class that it's hard not to like it.  Not brillant, but very enjoyable all
the same.
<|_=00=_|>

This film sees the best acting from Michael Douglas (my God, he isn't a
villain), Annette Bening (power woman), Michael J Fox (finally not a teen)
and Martin Sheen (oh so amusing).  This is such a warm film.  It is innocent
yet powerful. And the humour is second to none.  Just fabulous.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't mean that as a slam. I like Pretty Woman a lot, too. But this
movie
is my "cure for all ills" movie. The one I throw in the DVD player on
rainy
Sunday afternoons and crack out my best junk food. And the political
setting
seems to give it more meat.

Michael Douglas is perfect. Annette Benning is perfect (and I would give
anything to look as beautiful as she does in that blue dress at the State
Dinner). Michael J. Fox, Martin Sheen, Anna Devoure Smith. People being
passionate about each other and about important issues and about doing the
right thing. Everything about this movie lifts me up when I'm feeling
down.

I'm not a liberal, and I'm not a conservative - I fall somewhere in the
middle. My beliefs in gun control to not include "(getting) the guns". But
this movie is so good - that I can look past the occasional differences in
political views. Those views are presented in a smart, thoughtful and
constructive manner - and I appreciate them even though they are not my
own.

I enjoy this movie for what it is - a sweet, smart, funny movie set in one
of the most "romantic" settings in the world - The White
House.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Rob Reiner and Aaron Sorkin, fresh off their success with the
film A Few Good Men, came up with this gem more then thirteen years
ago. With a top notch cast and production values The American President
is the continuation of an old Hollywood tradition of films where
nobility wins out in the game of politics. While that might seem like a
bad thing the fact is the film is all the better for it.

First off there's the cast. Michael Douglas gives one of his finest
performances as President Andrew Shepherd. The same can be said of his
love interest and co-star Annette Benning in her performance as
lobbyist Sydney Ellen Wade. Together they have a strong chemistry
whether it be the film's comedic, romantic or dramatic moments. 

Then there's the supporting cast. Martin Sheen, Anna Deavere Smith,
Samantha Mathis, David Paymer and Michael J. Fox give fantastic
performances as the White House staff with Sheen and Fox in particular
getting moments to shine. Richard Dreyfuss gives a delicious
performance as Presidential contender Bob Rumson. Even in the small
roles the actors (like Joshua Malina and John Mahoney) give good
performances.

The film's production values are just as strong as its cast. The White
House sets are excellent and give the feeling of being in the real
place. The same can be said of virtually all the sets in the film. Also
of special mention is the score by Marc Shaiman, especially in the
opening credits of the film. 

Then there is the script by Arraon Sorkin. Sorkin's effortlessly blends
together the elements of a good romantic comedy and a good political
based film to create a hybrid of the two. Unlike other attempts at
mixing comedy/satire with a political film that often end up failing to
be successful as either (such as the more recent film Man of the Year
for instance) here it works. In one scene you can have a speech about
something political and have a romantic comedy scene the next. The
result is that the styles don't clash but rather compliment each other
nicely. It's easy to see where the genesis of Sorkin's later magnum
opus The West Wing came from.

The American President is a first rate film. With its top notch
performances, excellent production values and a first rate script it's
hard to beat that. The only shame of the film is the fact it didn't any
major awards because it definitely deserved to.
<|_=00=_|>
The American President (1995)

What a smart, fast, feel-good movie about American politics and the
power of the presidency. And how unlikely (these thing don't usually go
together).

What makes it work? Everything! I know deep down that this isn't a
masterpiece, a Citizen Kane or Godfather kind of movie. But it is in
its own way perfect. It's funny as can be--endlessly witty or sarcastic
or actually cleverly funny. It's acted to a T, including of course the
two leads, Michael Douglas in his alpha male with a personable side and
Annette Bening in her utterly charming and disarmingly sharp warmth.

It's almost impossible to appreciate the huge list of side characters
who are first rate through and through, even in their very brief roles.
Richard Dreyfuss might be the least of these since he plays an obvious
stereotype. Michael J. Fox is funny and quick and Martin Sheen is
quasi-presidential as he needs to be since of course (via "West Wing")
he later becomes the president.

But not here. This is the story of Douglas and Bening. It presages the
excellent British version , in its own way, "Love Actually," with Hugh
Grant and an equally big cast of excellent extras, but that was more
purely feel-good (or feel-incredibly-good) and this one eight years
earlier actually has a political axe to grind.

In fact, I'm going to guess that one reason for the slightly deflated
ratings is the conservative audience didn't really like what the
president stands for here, and though it is just a movie, it's easier
to root for the cast when they tend to agree with you. And agree in
emphatic eloquent ways. There is a speech Douglas (as president) gives
toward the end that comes out and boldly takes a simple stand for
decent liberal values. He's confident, clear, and unwavering. And if
you agree with that kind of thing (I do) you want to say hurrah.

And you want our own darned president to say what he believes so simply
and with such firmness.

Of course, all of this is simplified and made too easy. Luckily it's
not only about politics. In fact it's a comedy or manners, you might
say, the protocol of who to behave with and near the president being
fodder for great laughs just as much as the Victorian plays and movies
had fun with the same twists of expectations. No wonder it morphed into
a hit television series--though oddly enough the humor gets minimized.
Maybe the same kinds of jokes wear themselves out.

Rob Reiner is maybe our most astute politically astute director, at
least when there is a sense of humor required. He cut his teeth in
every way with the best, working with and under Norman Lear in years of
shooting (and performing, as "Meathead") in "All in the Family." It
shows here. He has a real knack for timing, for turning absurdity to
wit, and for warmth. (He probably got some of that from the Smothers
Brothers, too.) If you like this don't stop here--Reiner has many other
good or possibly great movies, many getting better reviews than this
one.

But here we have "The American President," deceptively simple in its
title. This is above all a really cozy movie. You want to watch, and
you want to be there. At least for a couple hours.

I sound foolish liking this silly movie too much, but there you have
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, without a doubt this is one of my favorite romantic comedies.
Michael Douglas comes off as Presidential, Annette Benning is
spectacular, Martin Sheen is exceptional, and the supporting cast is
marvelous. And this is all directed by Rob Reiner, the 2nd generation
actor writer director who understands every aspect of film making and
is not afraid to let loose with all the knowledge, power and presence
required to make a first class film. 

Of particular note are David Paymer, Michael J. Fox, and Anna Deavere
Smith, all three exceptional character actors whose contributions add
so much to the texture and tone of the film. Paymer is the perfect foil
to Fox, and Anna balances them perfectly, giving a unity to the staff
presence in the film. 

Perhaps the most intriguing part of the film is the incorporation of
'normal' events in the White House during the romance. We are not
excluded or merely "clued in", but we participate in all the activities
of the President, which makes the film more realistic and visceral. The
flow of the film is exceptional, since there are no explosions or other
violence to distract us, and the cinematography is amazing. The sets
are perfect. Rated PG-13 for a scene of sexual innuendo and a few uses
of profanity, this film is far from offensive in its delivery, its
demeanor, or its presentation. A classic which will enhance any
collection.
<|_=00=_|>
I would credit the success of this movie to the great Aaron Sorkin. His
smart jokes and witty ironies are the sugar lacing on this terribly
beautiful theme: Love and Politics. I would giggle and clap even if I
play this film for the 20th time. The movie is so great that even the
lines are deep and far above colloquial level, the adequate actors
convince you that they are exactly how the conversations are like in
Whitehouse full of elites. It enchants people by revealing the charming
side of the traditional labeled "liar politics" and let the audience
touch their fresh and blood and deepest emotions. I was extremely
curious how did such extraordinary piece of art didn't win an Oscar or
a Golden Globe award back.

But it wouldn't be fun I'm just another intrigued audience clapping
quietly and leaving and pretending it only influenced me for the two
hours I took to watch it. So with that in mind, I went through the
movie one more time. Except for Andrew Shepard didn't even bring a
translator to the grand diplomacy party with the French president and
his wife, and it was a bit awkward to watch only the president and
Sydney dancing in a hall full of 200 essential political figures,
because they were supposed to be the lead, it was supposed to be a
dance ball if the president commanded a dance, but everyone was just
watching quietly, like they were tolerating Andrew's inappropriately
behavior with courtesy. I planned to watch the links and key scenes for
flaws, but instead I came back with swelling excitement and red cheeks
and hands sore from squeezing too hard. I guess I'm not a good critic.

Here comes more accolade. Aaron Sorkin is an expert on exposing four
year of Andrew's Whitehouse life with a few phases mentioning the
customs, like the crew's been there all the time. And the opening scene
is divine, I didn't thought much of this film, because I bumped into it
when going over Netflix, but the opening scene told me outright that
American President wasn't just any film. I was deeply absorbed by the
grand music and words floating on a white sculpture, and other totems
like eagle, the flag, presidents' portraits and so on. National pride
oozed out with a sense of solemnity. Then we witness the charm of the
president and Whitehouse's departments clicked like a engine made from
Germany. 

I scratch my brain and still can't find the best phrases to compliment
this masterpiece. But I definitely get something to say when I'm asked
about my favorite film.
