
I LOVED this movie. Not as great as "50 First Dates", but it's
definitely a repeater, especially on a rainy day or with a group of
girlfriends. Yes, the plot was "cute" and maybe even unbelievable, but
what's so bad about a feel good movie. Drew as Josie and her romance
with the teacher is so sweet and brother baseball wannabee adds to the
movie's good feeling. With all the junk out there, what's so bad about
a good movie the whole family can enjoy? Without being embarrassed
while watching with your kids! Drew is an awesome actress that really
seems to be unappreciated for the most part. This is definitely one of
her best roles!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a truly hilarious film and one that I have seen many times.
Drew Barrymore is brilliant as Josie Geller, as is David Arquette as
her brother. You cringe with embarrassment at the thought of her
returning to high school as the film is a reminder of what high school
was really like! Her outfits are wacky and weird, and it brings back
memories of those who dressed a bit differently! The gorgeous Michael
Vartan was adorable as the teacher (wish there had been teachers like
that when I was at high school!) and Josie's boss is fantastic. This is
a film you could watch again and again, with a fabulous sound track!
One for all those at school in the 90's to watch!
<|_=00=_|>

I think this movie more than any other shows what a great actress Drew
Barrymore is because she plays a ugly duckling in high school which is
something I never imagined her being. A great flick with lots of laughs . I
don't usually go for those feel good movies but I really enjoyed this one.

<|_=00=_|>
Very sadly, I can relate to this movie, as I'm 17, and have yet to be
kissed, so I really feel for Josie. It's been a while since seeing this
film, but to write this review I re-watched it, and remembered
everything I loved about it.

Drew Barrymore is a great actress, and this role suited her really well
at the time. The chemistry between Sam and Josie was really good, and
Michael Vartan was an excellent actor in this.

I loved the storyline too - as i said up there, I could relate, and
it's rare you find a film you can completely relate to.

All over - I loved it. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoyed this movie quite a bit.  It was charming, funny, and, at times
painful.  I, however think it was painful to watch because I had such a hard
time at high school, and I could relate to this movie.

It reminded me of "Mean Girls" a lot, although this had a softer edge to
it.

It was a bit predictable, but, sometimes a good, sweet, romance with a happy
ending is what you want in a movie.

The acting was good, and the story was believable-if a bit
far-fetched.

The sound track was awesome!  
<|_=00=_|>
I can't say that I embrace this as a Romantic Comedy, as I found little
funny about it. I did find it endearing, entertaining, heartwarming,
and terminally sweet, and while there were some witty moments, I found
them more bittersweet than outright comedic.

I liked this one. Barrymore has grown so much as an actress, and it's
always wonderful to catch her on the big screen, but this translates
well to the small screen, too. In fact, on subsequent viewings, I like
this one more and more.

If you're a fan of the Romantic Comedy, then you may be a bit put off
by lack of comedic effect with this one, but if you're in it for the
romance, it's definitely here to be found.

It rates a 7.8/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
I really tried hard to like this film. After all it has the adorable
Drew Barrymore, and the mesmerizingly beautiful Leelee Sobieski in it.
It had promise in some scenes, but all in all it's a very lack-luster
film that feels way too forced. It is chalk full of the usual overdone
Hollywood stereotypes and standard formula, and there just isn't enough
good laughs to make up for it. I must say that Leelee Sobieski who
plays the schools 'biggest nerd', is by far the hottest nerd I've ever
seen, in real life or in Hollywood film. I'd even join the math club to
get next to her. I only gave this film a 5 because it was worth a watch
based only on seeing Jessica Alba covered in dog food, and mostly for
seeing Miss.Sobieski in a one piece skin tight body suit. Leelee's body
in that skin tight suit was by far, the greatest highlight in this
overly stupid and rarely funny force fed wreck.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>

The nice thing about Drew Barrymore - or, to paraphrase the late Douglas
Adams, ONE of the nice things for there are several - is that she's willing
to try almost anything from "Guncrazy" to "Ever After" (although I suspect
she would draw the line at "Bad Girls 2"). In this appealing though
predictable teen flick, she's an eager writer for a newspaper given a chance
to prove she can do more by going undercover to see what today's teens are
up to in high school, and finds that nothing's really changed.

Drew is as engaging as ever whether appearing in class way too overdressed
or dancing on stage while on drugs (relax, the film's overall pretty
inoffensive), and it may have been prophetic that her joke about having been
named Josie after the leader of a cartoon rock band goes over the head of
her best friend at school (the film version of "Josie and the Pussycats" was
a box office flop in America). The movie isn't exactly surprising, and won't
appeal to anyone who insists on teen films having acid in their veins - but
then again, the edgier "Jawbreaker" wasn't just bad-spirited, it was BAD,
period. Call me soppy, but I like a happy ending, and this does have one
(even The Prettiest Girls In School don't turn out to be that horrid in the
end).

If only the Seekers' "Free To Be You And Me" (which Drew and her friends
sing along to in a car in one scene) and some of David Newman's sweet score
had been on the soundtrack album, but that's not a problem exclusive to this
film; what with this and "Charlie's Angels" (not to mention "Olive, the
Other Reindeer") Barrymore's record as a producer is a lot better than, say,
Michelle Pfeiffer's. And as I said in the summary, you get Drew Barrymore
and Jessica Alba in the same movie (this is a Twentieth Century Fox movie in
more ways than one).
<|_=00=_|>
Never Been Kissed gives Drew Barrymore the chance to do something that
maybe 70% of us would like to do. Go back to high school and make some
necessary corrections. Actually the first time for me was bad enough
and at my age I doubt I could pull it off the way Drew does.

Of course the reason could also be that once we leave high school it's
like leaving a cocoon and we have to deal with the great big unfriendly
world out there. I've known a few in my life who would go back and stay
if they could. In fact there is a Law and Order episode which explores
the dark side of this same situation. A girl looking young enough to
pull it off, goes through high school at least three times and kills
the person who stumbles on her secret.

With Drew though it's an assignment. She's a copy editor for the
Chicago Sun Times who yearns to be a reporter. Publisher Garry Marshall
who plays the part like Donald Trump took over the Sun Times gets this
brilliant idea and just sees in Barrymore a young enough looking person
to pull off the masquerade. 

High School the first time was bad enough. Drew was not the most
popular then and she's not doing better the second time around. That is
until brother David Arquette also goes back to school and helps her
over the rough patches.

Of course this raises a whole lot of issues for Drew, peer pressure
from two sources, job and school. What's a girl to do?

Never Been Kissed is a light and charming comedy which to its credit
skips over the opportunity to be crassly exploitive and gives us some
good entertainment. Drew is very funny and sweet and her performance in
moments of stress for her character moves nicely into pathos. Michael
Vartan as her English teacher is the kind I wish there were more of in
the education field and Leelee Sobieski and Jessica Alba play a pair of
the empty headed cool kids that Drew tries so desperately to hook up
with.

Still it doesn't inspire me to return to Midwood High School.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very predictable little story; but the finale is the most romantic
I've seen in a while. A 25 year old copy editor for a Chicago paper gets her
first assignment as an undercover reporter. She ethically blows her own
cover, ruining her story; but turns in an alternate story about her real
experiences in high school.

I did not go out of my way to see this; but since I love Drew Barrymore, I
couldn't totally pass it up. Without Barrymore this would not make the
grade. Silly plot, but interesting sub-plots. The finale brings about a big
happy sigh.

The other cast members include: David Arquette, LeeLee Sobieski, Molly
Shannon, Michael Vartan and Garry Marshall.

 
