

One of the great joys in movie watching lies in stumbling across films that,
by their very nature, should be nothing more than clichéd, hackneyed
versions of stories we have seen a thousand times before yet, somehow,
through the insightfulness of their creators, manage to illuminate those
tales in ways that are wholly new and unexpected.  Such is the case with
Neil Jordan's `The End of the Affair,' a film that in its bare boned
outlining would promise to be nothing more than a conventional,
three-handkerchief weepie centered around the hoary issue of romantic
infidelity, but which emerges, instead, as a beautiful and moving meditation
on the overwhelming force jealousy, love, commitment and passion can exert
on our lives.

Ralph Fiennes stars as Maurice Bendrix, a British writer living in 1940's
London, who has an affair with Sarah Miles (Julianne Moore), the wife of
Maurice's friend, Henry (Stephen Rea).  Based on a Graham Greene novel, the
film achieves far greater intellectual and emotional depth than this
skeletal outline would indicate.  Part of the success rests in the fact that
both the original author and the adapter, writer/director Neil Jordan, have
devised a multi-level scenario that utilizes a number of narrative
techniques as the means of revealing crucial information to the audience
regarding both the plot and the characters.  For instance, the film travels
fluidly back and forth in time, spanning the decade of the 1940's, from the
initial meeting between Bendrix and Sarah in 1939, through the horrendous
bombings of London during World War II to the `present' time of the post-war
British world.  This allows the authors to reveal the details of the affair
slowly, enhanced by the even more striking technique of having the events
viewed from the entirely different viewpoints of the two main characters
involved.  `Rashomon' – like, we first see the affair through the prism of
Bendrix's limited perspective, only to discover, after he has confiscated
Sarah's diary, that he (and consequently we) have been utterly mistaken as
to the personal attributes and moral quality of Sarah all along.  Thus, as
an added irony, Bendrix discovers that he has been obsessing over a woman he
`loves' but, in reality, knows little about.

The authors also enhance the depth of the story through their examination of
TWO men struggling with their overwhelming jealousy for the same woman and
the complex inter-relationships that are set up as a result.  In fact, the
chief distinction of this film is the way it manages to lay bare the souls
of all three of these fascinating characters, making them complex, enigmatic
and three-dimensional human beings with which, in their universality, we can
all identify.  Bendrix struggles with his raging romantic passions, his
obsessive jealousy for the woman he can't possess and his lack of belief in
God, the last of which faces its ultimate challenge at the end.  Sarah
struggles with the lack of passion she finds in the man she has married but
cannot love as more than a friend, juxtaposed to the intense love she feels
for this man she knows she can never fully have.  In addition, she finds
herself strangely faithful, if not to the two men in her life, at least to
two crucial commitments (one to her wedding vows and one to God) yet unable
to fully understand why.  Henry struggles with his inadequacies as a lover
and the strange possessiveness that nevertheless holds sway over him.  Even
the minor characters are fascinating.  Particularly intriguing is the
private investigator who becomes strangely enmeshed in the entire business
as both Bendrix and Henry set him out to record Sarah's activities and
whereabouts, a man full of compassion for the people whom he is, by the
nature of his profession, supposed to view from a position of coldhearted
objectivity.  (One plot flaw does, however, show up here:  why would this
man, whose job it is to spy on unsuspecting people for his clients, employ a
boy to help him who sports a very distinctive birthmark on one side of his
face?).

`The End of the Affair' would not be the noteworthy triumph it is without
the stellar, subtly nuanced   performances of its three main stars.  In
addition, as director, Jordan, especially in the second half, achieves a
lyricism rare in modern filmmaking.  Through a fluidly gliding camera and a
mesmerizing musical score, Jordan lifts the film almost to the level of
cinematic poetry as we sit transfixed by the emotional richness and romantic
purity of the experience.  `The End of the Affair' takes its place alongside
`Brief Encounter' and `Two For the Road' as one of the very best studies of
a romantic relationship ever put on film.


<|_=00=_|>

Love and the spiritual (i.e. inner) life have rarely been better portrayed!
Graham Greene's novel has been translated to cinematic imagery with an
almost religious devotion.  It isn't easy to make profound and meaningful
experience so immediate and felt as this film does.  Watching it on
video...a second viewing...I was even more deeply moved than the first time
around.

Julianne Moore, very much on the big screen these days (and for good
reason), gives another of her splendid performances, this time as Sarah
Miles, a middle-class English woman, married to a good, but dull man who
takes her for granted.  Her encounter with Maurice Bendrix (played to a T by
the consummate actor, Ralph Fiennes) is electric and sets in motion an
affair of deep consequence...for all three people involved.  Stephan Rea as
Henry Miles, Sarah's husband, trapped in his desire, but inability to
fulfill the emotional and sexual needs of his much-loved wife, is another
convincing and touching portrayal.

The spiritual aspects expressed in the film, reflect the life-long struggle
of Grahame between his Catholicism and his doubts.  The deep pulls of each
character toward both personal and impersonal love give the film a dimension
and an honesty
that reward the "participant" (for that's how potent the film
is)
with an indelible human experience.

To Neil Jordan, the director, my wholehearted gratitude for
his
sensitive, nuanced presentation of this beautiful film.   

<|_=00=_|>

Two years after the sudden end of his affair with Sarah, Maurice bumps
into
her husband, Henry, who confides in him about his wife's possible
infidelity.  Driven by the same jealousy that plagued him during their
affair, Maurice poses as Sarah's husband and hires a private detective to
follow her and find out what she's doing.  As his investigators probe
Sarah's personal life, Maurice remembers back to his affair.

Having seen the 1950's version of this book, I was interested to see a
version that didn't have to worry about the heavy censorship of that
period.
Funnily though, it is not the nudity, passion or sex that adds to this
version of the story; rather it is the ability of the film to show the
strong feeling and emotion between the characters.  The plot is pretty
true
to the book and follows the same turns that are ultimately quite touching
(even if their reliance on honour and promises to god seem out dated
today).
The film manages to evoke sympathy, pity and dislike for each of the
three
main characters - each is a victim here and the film allows us to see that
and feel for each of them regardless of the rights and wrongs of their
respective situations.

It is difficult to describe but the film is very much of the period; it is
very reserved and honourable considering the material, but yet it is
deeply
emotional and involving.  The only sticking point is the plot's reliance
on
Sarah's prayer; as I said, it seems difficult to accept in this age that
this would have been held to - ironically the 50's version was more
acceptable for some reason; maybe because I saw them having sex in this
film, maybe then I found it harder to accept a `sinner's prayer' as it
were.
Besides this, it still does work well and is quite tragic as a love
story -
this is not a romantic date movie sort of thing!

The main reason I was able to buy into the heart of the emotion was the
performances.  Fiennes is so perfectly English in the role; he is
restrained
yet bursting with emotion.  He does a wonderful job of having his
character
eat away at himself with jealousy without ever seeming pathetic.
Conversely
Rea does a good job of making his character pathetic but still very much
keeping the sympathy of the audience.  The fact that I get to see Moore in
the buff (again!) is not a boost to this film, however her performance is.
She is good in the role (better and freer than the 50's actress) even if I
didn't feel she was as good as Rea and Fiennes - maybe because her
character
is less expressive and, simply, a `good' person: I can only assume Greene
was unable to look down on his lover even after the end of the
affair.

Overall this film has a few sticking points but it is a wonderful version
of
Greene's book of the same name.  Much was made of the nudity and such, but
it is the rawer emotion of this telling that makes it work well.  The
script
puts them on the screen and the cast do well to bring them out as complex
as
they are in real life.
<|_=00=_|>
As so often, I haven't yet read the novel this movie was based on. So
again, you can't expect from me that I make a comparison between the
two. But even if I had read the book I don't think I would have talked
about it, because this doesn't honor the many work and inspiration that
the director has put in it. It's not because he uses an existing story,
that what he does with it, has to be completely the same...

Even though the largest part of the story is situated during the Second
World War, it doesn't start there. We first meet the novelist Maurice
Bendrix and Henry Miles, the husband of his ex-mistress Sarah, on a
rainy night in London in 1946. For a reason we don't know yet, the
affair between Bendrix and Sarah was abruptly ended by her, two years
before, and since then they hadn't seen each other. Now Bendrix's
obsession with Sarah immediately gets a new spark and out of jealousy
he arranges to have her followed. That's when we learn the reason for
their separation. During a bombing raid, Sarah made a bargain with God.
She would sacrifice their relationship in exchange for Bendrix's life.
He survived and that's why she didn't want to see him anymore. But when
he reappears, she soon realizes that it will be very difficult to keep
her promise to God...

When you hear in the trailer that Ralph Fiennes and Julianne Moore are
magic together, you might believe that this is just some nice promo
talk, only intended for making you buy the DVD. But for once they
really didn't exaggerate. Together they lifted this movie to a higher
level, although it must be said that Stephen Rea did a very fine job
too. The fact that they had a very good and well-written script to work
with, must have helped them too of course. Some were not pleased with
what they called a couple of 'soft-porn scenes' but personally I didn't
have a problem with that at all. In my opinion this only added to the
rawness of the emotions.

Some will also say that this is an incredibly boring movie. Well, if
you don't like or are not used to watching a movie without big action
scenes, than this is absolutely true. If you are such a person, than
you better leave it alone and choose something else. But when you like
to see a quality product (and no I'm not going to use the title
'art'-movie because I hate that name and this certainly isn't such a
movie), with believable emotions, a great story and some excellent
acting performances, than this might be a movie that you definitely
should give a try. I really liked what I saw and that's why I give it a
7.5/10 at least, maybe even an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

This is an engrossing tale of love, passion and betrayal invloving three
star-crossed lovers.  Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes) is a man haunted by
jealousy and pain over an affair he had with the wife of one of his friends,
Henry Miles (Stephen Rea).  The affair has been over for two years when a
chance encounter with Miles takes Bendrix to his house where he once again
encounters Sarah (Julianne Moore).  The obsession for her returns when Henry
tells him that he suspects that Sarah is having an affair. At hearing this
Maurice gets jealous, thinking that he has been replaced as her paramour. 
What follows is a complex and tangled web of suspicion, jealousy and
dolor.

This is a wonderfully complicated story that opens slowly like a flower.  It
is a first person narrative delivered by Bendrix and it gets more intriguing
as the film progresses.  The use of flashbacks is subtlety effective, where
the realizations about misinterpretations come not from the dialogue, but
from seeing the same scene from two perspectives.  The love scenes are
sensuously done and the general tone of the film is poignant and
sensitive.

The film was nicely photographed with various filters to give it an old feel
without losing the richness.  Director Neil Jordan did a fine job of giving
the film a genuine look of the period with proper English costumes from the
1940's.  

Ralph Fiennes was excellent as the jealous lover.  He played the character
as civilized and staid with molten lava just beneath the surface.  He was
masterful at conveying strong emotion with a sideways glance or hand gesture
without losing his composure.

Julianne Moore has added another fabulous dramatic performance to her resume
as Sarah.  She played the part with fatalistic passion, victimized by vortex
of events she felt powerless to control.

Stephen Rea also shined as the impassive cuckold.  Rea tends to be very
understated in his portrayals, often too much so.  But he was the perfect
choice for the hapless Miles; so intellectual, withdrawn and defenseless. 
His phlegmatic response upon being confronted by Bendrix about their affair,
showed a resigned helplessness that was both pathetic and
believable.

I enjoyed this film immensely and gave it a 9/10.  It is finespun yet
powerful.  It takes its time unfolding, so if you like pace this film might
test your patience.  But if you enjoy a good old fashioned steamy love
triangle, this film will do nicely. 
<|_=00=_|>

Look at the comments on this site.  There's pretty much a perfect split
between people who think the film is unrelentingly dull with no redeeming
features, and people who think the film is an amazing achievement. I fall
into the latter category, and can't for the life of me figure out the
former.  

This is not an action film.  There is no violence.  There are no thrills,
chills, spills, or anything along those lines.  There are three terrific
characters, there is an amazingly romantic relationship, and there are
superb performances.  There is a wonderful director who keeps everything
tightly reigned in.  There is nothing superfluous in this film.  It is
perfect.  

Maurice Bendrix (Ralph Fiennes) is a novelist who meets beautiful Sarah
Miles (Julianne Moore) at a party hosted by her husband Henry (Stephen Rea),
whom Bendrix is researching for a book.  In no time at all, Sarah and
Maurice begin a tempestuous and passionate affair which continues through
World War II, until Sarah breaks it off suddenly after an air raid which
nearly took Bendrix's life.  A chance encounter with Henry two years later
brings Bendrix and Sarah together again, and they rekindle their affair as
the truth about that air raid is revealed.  

A nice enough story on its own.  But what makes this film great is the
approach that Jordan takes (or perhaps it's not his approach... I'm not
familiar with either the novel by Graham Greene or the 1955 film).  The
opening line of the film is typed by Bendrix onto a clean sheet of paper: 
"This is a diary of hate."  It is only at the end of the film that the
viewer understands who it is that Bendrix hates, and why.  The story is a
dramatization of what Bendrix is writing.

First, he tells us about 1946, when he just happened to see Henry walking in
the rain.  It's this moment that opens the door for Bendrix, and for us,
into his own past.  Then Bendrix proceeds to interweave his recent
experiences of 1946 with events that transpired during the War.  That gives
us three distinct time frames for the film, which are introduced to the
viewer in reverse chronological order.

Also, it is useful to remember that everything we see on screen (with the
exception of several scenes of Bendrix typing away) is a depiction of what
Bendrix writes.  The entire film is told from Bendrix's point-of -view. 
This allows us two things: 1) more intimate access to the inner workings of
such a fascinating character, and 2) it allows us to enjoy the mystery
element of the story much more.  If you'll notice, all of the best mysteries
tend to have single-character POVs.  Look at Chinatown, or The Maltese
Falcon.  Splitting the POV tends to give audiences information which they
should not get before the main character does.  

Not that this film is a mystery.  There is a mystery in it, which is central
to the plot and to Bendrix's situation, but I wouldn't call the film itself
a mystery.  

What makes this film great is its understatement.  It is a very English
film, and the characters and performances are all very English.  Emotions
are fiercely felt but subtly expressed.  That makes it highly demanding of
its audience, but even more rewarding.  It also explains why so many call
the film boring.  Sarah was described as an ice queen in one review here,
and Bendrix was called shallow.  Like most reviews (including this one),
those comments say a lot more about the people who wrote them then they do
about their purported subject.  Sarah is intensely passionate, Bendrix is a
layered and complex character.  

So, not for all tastes, but a brilliant film.  Better than any and all of
the Best Picture noms of 1999.  
<|_=00=_|>
This film tells the story of a wartime love affair between Maurice, a
successful, cynical and rather callous novelist, and Sarah, the
beautiful but neglected wife of a dull senior civil servant. She tends
to believe in the supernatural, he does not, but both are spurred on by
the danger of both discovery and the bombs raining down on London.
Perversely, when her husband confides to Maurice his suspicion that
Sarah is having an affair, Maurice hires a private detective to
investigate, in effect, himself. In the end, it is God who decrees the
finale, not the characters, who accommodate as best they can to their
destinies.

Do we really care? This is not easy to answer. Maurice, the narrator,
is a prize prick, unfeeling of others, concentrated on his misery and
his work, yet obsessively jealous. Sarah provides a focus for his
substantial sex drive but he does develop an affection for her. Sarah,
on the other hand, clearly likes a good bonk as well, but she needs the
relationship to full the void left by her husband's emotional absence,
and Maurice is too self-centred to be a real soulmate. She is also
quite a nice person in comparison with nasty bitter old Maurice. So
yes, we are sorry for her. We have to admire Maurice for being honest
enough to tell the story but there is an air of self-flagellation about
it. 

As a film, this is a terrific piece of work, directed by the Irish
director Neil Jordan who was responsible for "The Crying Game". Greene
is a very cinematic novelist - at last count there were at least 40
screen versions of his works - and Jordan has very cleverly used a
present - flashback - present and then forward technique to tell the
story from both Maurice's and Sarah's viewpoint. The gloom and danger
of wartime London is effectively invoked but there was a bit of
overkill in having it rain almost continuously from 1939 to 1945
(London has less rain days than Sydney!) It struck me early on that
Ralph Fiennes was by no means inevitable in the part - I was reminded
of the early Sam Neill. His character is really rather empty - a man
whose only real commitments are to his work and sex. Julianne Moore,
delightfully bad as Mrs Cheveley in "An Ideal Husband", and
delightfully slapstick as the childish Cora in "Cookie's" Fortune", is
much more sympathetic here. Stephen Rea (a Jordan favourite) as the
cuckold is the most sympathetic of the lot or at least the most
self-aware. He gives us a wonderful portrayal of stitched up dismay and
yet it does not seem beyond the bounds of credibility that, knowing of
the affair, he should invite Maurice to come and live with them towards
the end.

Greeneland is a pretty bleak place, but a couple of apparent miracles
brighten things up. Greene clearly thought God had a sense of humour.
The novel is said to be semi-autobiographical, but the real affair
Greene had with the wife of a wealthy businessman, while no doubt
equally painful, did not end so melodramatically as the novel. Looking
at a biography of Greene by Michael Shelden I note that Catherine
Walston, whose relationship with Greene was the chief inspiration for
"The End of the Affair," died in 1978, aged 62, 13 years before Greene.
According to Shelden, Catherine refused to see Greene on her deathbed
because she didn't want him to see how sick she was. The affair itself
petered out in the early fifties, though they remained in touch. Henry
Walston, it seemed, asserted himself and demanded that Catherine cut
down on her contact with Greene. Greene went overseas to find danger
and forget, to Vietnam and elsewhere, and these trips produced at least
one more major novel, "The Quiet American." However Greene's career as
a writer peaked with "The End of the Affair." His later work is
interesting and readable, but never again did he reach the same
emotional depths and heights.

Greene is often said to be a Catholic novelist but on the basis of this
work at least he wasn't a great pitchman for the Almighty. Greene was,
however, an eloquent portrayer of spiritual suffering and this aspect
has been effectively brought to the screen by Neil Jordan. Perhaps it
takes an Irishman to understand an English Catholic.
<|_=00=_|>

Warning! This review is unabashedly sentimental.

I first saw this film in the midst of the strongest love affair of my
life
and thought it was a beautiful love story, with beautiful actors and
beautiful music. I loved it because I was in love and it reinforced all
those wonderful feelings.

Then, almost masochistically, I rented it after the break-up of that same
four year long romance and I loved it then as well for entirely opposing
reasons. I could feel the bitterness of how cruel love can be when it's
been
taken away.  Maurice Bendrix (sp?) became my sympathetic friend. I could
feel why he pulled his hand away at the table -- too painful and too
dangerous. Whereas when I saw it the first time, I just thought, "That
cold
b*stard! Why does he want to hurt her?" I felt his frustration at trying
to
slay a beast without a face. He didn't hate anyone or anything except his
own awareness of the realities of love.

The book and this successful cinematic adaptation paint the whole
picture... 360 degrees. And I think it works from all the different
perspectives.
Love is the most wonderful emotion but it can also carry as much danger
along with it as hate can. And there's no way to completely be in love,
your
guard let completely down, without risking your neck. If Bendrix could do
it
all again, would he do anything differently? Would he have stopped
himself
from falling in love with Sarah? Could he have stopped himself?

I still appreciated many of the same things as I did the first time --
the
acting of the leads and the strong supporting cast, the warm beautiful
interior shots, the way the plot untwists ... but other things came to
forefront on second viewing that slipped by the first time -- Maurice's
little flashbacks on the stairway (god, that's just how it is) and the
music! It seemed so benignly beautiful the first time I saw it, but it
became almost too painfully intrusive the second time.

Maybe I'll watch it again when I get a more neutral perspective on the
whole
matter. I wonder if we ever have that when it comes to
love.

<|_=00=_|>

"This is a diary of hate," is the opening line of this film, said by the
main character and narrator, novelist Maurice Bendrix(Ralph Fiennes).  That
opening line tells you this is, or should be, a tale of passion.  The novel
by Graham Greene the film is based on is certainly a novel of passion,
though much of it is within, and hard to dramatize in a film.  But if any
director could do it, surely it could be Neil Jordan, who makes films which
overflow with passion(with the exception of MICHAEL COLLINS, but that was a
different kind of film); even his disaster IN DREAMS was a failure of
excess.  And yet this film doesn't really come to life until maybe at the
end.

Contrary to what one comment said, it isn't because Greene isn't relevant. 
Adultery will always be with us, and therefore always ripe for stories of
any kind, and Greene told it in a way which is still fresh today.  And
Jordan makes the interesting decision to shoot the film in mostly medium
shots or close-ups, rather than in panoramic wide shots, perhaps to fit the
setting(London) or make you feel events are crowding the characters.  But if
you're going to take a microscope to your characters, you better show
something, and Jordan really doesn't.  Instead, he relies too much on
narration and conventional storytelling(contrast this with how he adapted
THE BUTCHER BOY), and until we get to hear the story from Sarah's point of
view, we don't get a sense of what drives these people.

Fiennes is one of my favorite actors, but he doesn't do anything distinctive
here.  Only at the end does he truly come alive.  Moore is also a favorite,
but she too has little to work with until the story shifts to her point of
view.  And even when we find out about Sarah's fate, it wasn't moving
enough.  The ones who really come through are Rea, who not only has a
note-perfect British accent, but is terrific as someone who, as he puts it,
is not a lover.  And Ian Hart brings some comic relief as the detective
hired to follow Sarah.  But this is definitely a disappointment; IN DREAMS I
hated as well, but that could be dismissed as an experiment which went
wrong, while this film should be the type of film Jordan excels at, but
doesn't here.
<|_=00=_|>

First, my complaint. I saw "The End of the Affair" on DVD, and although the
picture is always exquisite, the dialog in quiet scenes is sometimes
impossible to understand.  We had to resort to using the "subtitles" feature
on the DVD to understand dialog in two key scenes. Fortunately you can
easily do this on the DVD.

The story is set in London in WWII, spanning 1939 through
1946.
I did not see the 1955 movie of the same name, but one critic described it,
in part...

<quote>When I thought the film had come so far to bring so much of
human existence, with all its emotions, philosophy, belief, and religion to
the fore, the film found more fertile ground. The relationships are
complicated, and the nature of faith, God, sin, and belief become part of
the complex mix, along with the very human desire to do the right thing.
Sarah most particularly must struggle with these age old questions as she
searches from sources of different, even contradictory viewpoints. The
dilemmas and questions all of us ask at one time or another are dealt with
in a detailed manner, without passing along the answer to everything. What
could have been trite turned out to be a film much more than the premise,
and even more than the sum of its parts. <un-quote>

All I can say is "amen" to that for the 1999 version.  I found it to be a
totally absorbing film and rate it a solid "8" of "10".


