

I'm not a regular viewer of Springer's, but I do watch his show in glimpses
and I think the show is a fine guilty pleasure and a good way to kill some
time.  So naturally, I'm going to watch this movie expecting to see "Jerry
Springer Uncensored."  First of all, Jerry appears in approximately twenty
minutes of the film's running time.  The other hour and twenty minutes is
spent building up this pseudo-farce about trailer-trash, jealousy, incest
and deception.  Jaime Pressley (who looks hot as HELLLL) is a trailer-trash
slut who sleeps with her stepfather (a very unusual-looking, chain-smoking,
drunken Michael Dudikoff who finally strays from his action hero persona). 
The mom finds out about the affair, they get into a fight, they want to take
it to the "Jerry" show (that's right, no Springer).  And then we have a
parallel story with an African-American couple.  They take it to the "Jerry"
show.  The characters collide.  Blah, blah, freakin' blah!  Trash has rarely
been this BORRRINGG!!!!  I was wondering why the hell Springer has millions
of fans, yet none of them checked out his movie.  Well, now it's TOTALLY
obvious!!  Whether you love him or hate him, you will hate this movie!  How
can I explain?  It's a total mess of a motion picture (if that's what you
call it).  It's so badly edited, with scenes that just don't connect, and
after a period of time the plot virtually disappears and it's simply all
over the map!  Just imagine a predictable soap opera transformed into a
comic farce.  With seldom laughs.  

My only positive note is a hot girl-girl scene.  That's as risque as it
gets.  Don't get me wrong, the scene's pretty risque, but if you look at the
overall film comparing it to the material on Springer's program--this
disastrous farce seems extremely sanitized.

My score:  3 (out of 10)    
<|_=00=_|>
Somebody could probably make a great documentary about the Jerry
Springer Show, but this fictionalized version merely succeeds in
draining anything authentic and interesting out of the trash-TV
phenomenon. There are dozens of famously bad movies (e.g. "Manos: The
Hands of Fate") that show more creativity and spirit than this dreary,
witless waste of film.

Seriously, why not a documentary about the Jerry Springer Show, that
would begin to answer some of the real questions like: Who are these
people? What happens to their lives after they appear on this show? How
did the mayor of Cincinatti find himself here?

One good line: During an "orientation" session for guests: "People, I
can't emphasize this enough: NO WEAPONS!"
<|_=00=_|>

This wasn't the major disaster that I was expecting, but that is about as
positive as I can be in my description of the movie.  I'm not sure what was
meant to be funny about this movie, but I suppose it's all a matter of
taste.  Personally, I don't find it funny to watch morons living their
idiotic lives or making fools of themselves on television, but then again,
I'm not a fan of Jerry Springer's pathetic daytime talk show.  I didn't get
too bored watching this, but I was definitely never enjoying it, either.
If
you're in the mood to see a bad movie, but one that isn't too painful to
sit
through, this is a good choice.
<|_=00=_|>

Ringmaster, Jerry Springer's pathetic excuse for wasting film that should be
recycled as toilet paper recently destroyed my confidence in the art of
film.  First of all, it was made.  Second of all, people went to see it.
Third, some people voted it the best movie they have ever seen.  If a monkey
could make a movie, i'm 100 percent sure that it would be 1 billion times as
good.  Most crappy movies have their moments,  (even Godzilla had a few cool
special effects) this film's moment was when I left the theater nauseated.
The only thing that possibly could've made this movie any worse would be if
Jerry Springer was the star.  If I want to stare at crap for an hour and a
half, i'll take a dump in a can.  If anyone didn't utterly despise this
movie, I pity you, and your children, and your children's children's
children; however, contrary to Springer's beliefs, I clearly don't condone
children having sex.
<|_=00=_|>

The only thing that kept me from vomiting after seeing this movie was the
fact that these are just actors and not the freak show that usually
appears
on the TV show.  This is also the main reason that fans of the TV show
won't
like the movie, but not the only reason.  This movie has about as much
entertainment value as getting a root canal.  It approaches the abyssmal
depths of bad movie making, and then gets even worse.  I won't waste your
time describing this movie in further detail; suffice it to say that I
pity
the poor camera people who had to suffer through watching this c**p the
first time.
<|_=00=_|>

Jerry Farrelly runs a successful television chat show that revels in
unusual relationships – but even he is left flabbergasted by some of
the issues that come onto his show. While he tries to explain the
popularity of his show, several groups of guest arrive for his newest
show. Angel lives in a trailer with her mother and stepfather – but is
sleeping with him! When her mother Connie finds out she gives Angel's
boyfriend a blowjob in revenge. Meanwhile Starletta catches boyfriend
Demond sleeping with both Vonda and Leshawnetta. The natural step for
both groups is to appear on Jerry's show – even if it makes the
conflict greater.

I started watching this film once but didn't review it because I gave
it up as a bad job once it turned into nudity for nudity's sake,
however I decided that I'd give it another try despite my better
judgment. Of course, it is not any good but this is not to say that it
was one of the worst films ever made because it wasn't. The plot
focuses around two sets of trash that emulate the guests on Jerry's
real show and this is part of the problem. The characters here seem to
revel in ignorance and trashiness and it makes it hard to really care
about any of them. This isn't helped by the fact that they have no real
story to speak of – their bits are set up and then they all flirt/fight
in the hotel on their way to the recording of the show.

Not enough happens to justify a 'story' so called so it resorts to
'sexy' clinches, fighting and vulgarity.

It is a shame because the film does have a few interesting moments –
although you wouldn't think it from the reviewers on this site. One
interesting point is the character of Connie; she is damaged and hurt
and wants more than the vulgarity she has – but when the fighting and
swearing happens, this interesting part of the character is forgotten
aside from a few all too rare sensitive moments. The film has a few
interesting lines about the show but it doesn't throw itself open
enough, instead it uses its platform to defend itself and attack its
critics; I don't mind it doing this but there was no balanced view to
be had here – although it is hard to disagree with Jerry's speech near
the end that defends the fact that people are like this…even if we
don't like it. Parts of it are a little funny but this, and some other
qualities are just lost in a plotless film that is vulgar rather than
interesting and noisy rather than really funny.

The cast are average as you would expect from the material they are
given. Hagan manages to create a few good moments but she is betrayed
by the film for her good work. Pressly is very sexy – even as white
trailer trash! She doesn't have much to do apart from be sexy, so it is
just as well that she does it well. Robinson, Ambrose and Micheaux have
all done some good jobs in other films/shows but here they are loud,
brash black stereotypes and they embarrass themselves. Why action star
White bothered to do this is beyond me, he has nothing to do apart from
flirt around and get to kiss a couple of girls. McNamara is pretty good
and sends himself and the show up equally well. Springer is so-so and
he overdoes the 'world-weary' thing and never lets interesting moments,
where he seems bothered, go anywhere of value. Like the material
itself, the cast throw up some OK moments but these are lost in a sea
of bad stuff.

Overall this is a bad film although it has moments that show it could
have been more interesting (if not actually good per se). However,
without a decent plot the interesting ideas/moments only occasionally
float to the top by chance but the dominant qualities are ones of
vulgarity, cheap titillation, fighting and ignorance – none of which
are reason enough to watch it.

<|_=00=_|>

To preface this review, I must say that I was, I suppose, a little curious
about this movie.. However, I probably would not have seen it had I not had
my arm slightly twisted.

In my opinion, this movie shows just how depraved man can be.  In my eyes,
the worst thing about this whole Springer phenomenon is not that type of
people on the "Jerry Springer Show" act as they do (which in itself is
eminently reproachable), but that many people are so curious and excited to
watch them and hear about their lives (yes, I suppose that includes me.. to
whatever extent it is true).  If not glorifying that kind of behavior (as
some might say) at the very least we may be subtly corrupting our minds
and/or desenstizing ourselves to this type of behavior.

But enough soapbox (sort of). Here's the skinny: the movie has an R rating,
and while it may deserve only that (I did look away at some scenes, so I'm
not completely sure), I feel that an NC-17 (tip of the hat to the other
reviewer) might be a little more appropriate for the immense sexual content
(a cynic might comment that the movie was just one big excuse to show sex on
the big screen).  The plot is very bizarre, tying together the stories of an
absolutely dysfunctional family and a group of stereotypical blacks upset
who will appear on different Springer shows.  At the end, the movie leaves
one with some resolvement- and Springer rhetoric about the need for us to
see the real world (evidently as seen through his show).  I agree with him
there- it is important to know how the world really is so that we can seek
to effect positive change.  Having said that, let me just tell you- the
world's pretty bad- glance in a newpaper or the news to see that, but let's
not shell out good money to support the kind of sensationalistic and perhaps
formulaic titallition that Springer seeks to give us.

<|_=00=_|>

Ok, let me say that I didn't expect a film starring Jerry Springer to be
cinematic gold, all I asked for was it to be cinematic...and it wasn't even
that.  It looked like someone's  bad home movies.  Poorly acted, scripted,
and filled to the brim with nudity of the most unnattractive people I've ever
seen.

The film's "plot" focuses on a low-class family who decide to go on the
"Jerry Farrelly Show" to discuss multiple affairs between a mother,
daughter, stepfather and the daughter's fiancee.  From there, the movie
fizzles and develops into a unique experience: white-trash pornography.
There's redneck sex, interacial sex, even sex between Jerry and his wife?
(Yuk!) This film encouraged me to want to run out of the theater and get a
second circumcision.  At least it was mercifully short.  Disgusting and
degrading.  African-Americans and working class America should be offended.
(Howard Stern should be pleased however, he didn't squander his attempt for
film stardom.  His was smart, funny and entertaining)

MY GRADE: F+ (the daughter was hot)
<|_=00=_|>

I can't quite say that "Jerry Springer:Ringmaster" is the worst film I have
ever seen.  The film would be better off if it were, because at least the
worst film I've ever seen, (Prom Night II) interested me enough for me to
hate it. My only reaction after leaving the theatre happened when I looked
up at the clock and discovered that only 90 minutes had passed. It had
seemed much more like years.  It is an endless repetition of poor people,
(or what Jerry Springer seems to believe poor people are), screwing each
other, hitting each other, insulting each other, and then repeating the
process with the same attention to duty the rest of us use when
shampooing.
The plot, which covers how a group of stupid people mangle their lives
badly enough to provide grist for the Jerry Springer mill, advances solely
because of the idiocy of the characters.  This makes it impossible to care
what happens to them. It never mattered to me whether they got on the show,
or what they said, or who slept with whom.
Maybe I'm not supposed to care about them.  Maybe I'm supposed to look at
them as some kind of comic type-- to see their outrageous behavior as
inherently funny.  Too bad it isn't.  The humor is not outrageous.  It's
innocuous.  It's predictable. Humor has to have something behind it, some
kind of painful irony or life experience, in order to function.  Scatology
is not wit.  An example.  A mother catches her daughter and her husband in
bed.  To take revenge she marches across the trailer park and gives oral sex
to her daughter's boyfriend.  Since I was over the shock of Jerry Springer's
show a long time ago, I had the same reaction I had to Andrew Dice Clay's
obscene nursery rhymes; not laughter, just yawning.
Lastly, I found Springer's pose as a populist tiresome and unconvincing.
If he really were an advocate of the poor, he would bring on a single mom
from Bed-Sty to talk about trying to raise her kids in New York City on
$12,000 a year.  Or, failing that, he would at least give the participants
of his shows a cut of his profits.  Jerry Springer gets millions for his
shows, his movie, his book and videos.  His guests just get round trip air
fare, hotel accommodations, and a chance to humiliate themselves.  If he
liked poor people so much, he'd give them at least some of the money they
earn for him.  It appears that Springer wanted to make this movie to grab
some legitimacy for himself.
Jeez, with all his fine work, you'd think he'd have earned our respect
already.
Anyway, the film is weak and boring. It doesn't even succeed at being
offensive. If you want to have a better evening, videotape a bug zapper for
a night and then watch that.  
<|_=00=_|>

It would seem that all those people who are bashing this film so gleefully
are being less than honest, as it is in fact capably made, generally well
acted (Springer himself wisely opts for a mild, secondary role) and at times
achieves a surprising poignancy. Based on the few clips I've seen over the
years, I have nothing but contempt for the infamous talk show itself, but it
is clear that the folks behind this project had a threefold objective: 1. to
defend and explain the show's appeal 2. to probe the mentality and
motivations of a typical guest and 3. to still deliver the kind of sleaze
and silliness the show's fans have come to expect. Amazingly enough, the
movie basically connects on all three levels. 

What is most surprising about "Ringmaster" is the amount of compassion it
has for its (at heart) extremely sad, lonely characters - where a guest spot
on Springer's show will be, for most of them, the absolute pinnacle of their
abysmal lives. The movie also argues that, whatever else you might think of
them, these people have guts, they're fighters - they won't be doormats for
anyone. The best performances are given by Jaime Pressly and Wendy Robinson,
both of whom throw themselves into their roles with complete and often
hilarious abandon. Their profanity-laced tirades are, frankly, very funny
and very um, "vivid". (Especially Robinson's "Linda Blair" comment.) Sleazy
and trashy, to be sure, but smarter than you'd think and maintains a
narrative drive all the way through - unlike so many other TV shows turned
into films. With the show's popularity on the wane by now, this represents a
more lasting monument, if defaced and defiled, of the whole Springer
sensation.  
