

In the 1980s, Eddie Murphy single-handedly recreated the Black Action hero,
replacing the old murderous superstud of the 1970s with black characters who
depended on their quick wits more than their big guns.  That formula was
quickly run dry, however, both by Murphy himself and the imitators he
inspired.

So, Eddie intelligently decided that he needed to recreate a forgotten genre
of comedy, one which Peter Sellars had mastered in the 60s, and which only
Murphy could do today: he would make movies in which he played multiple
characters. The Genesis began with "Coming to America", in which Murphy
played not only the lead role, but also all the inhabitants of a Harlem
barbershop. The sequences were short, but Murphy was building the road to
becoming the most brilliant character actor of our day. Soon followed the
"Nutty Professor" movies, "Bowfinger", and his animated TV series, "The
PJ's." In all these Murphy played a multiplicity of roles, and played them
all brilliantly (the Academy's disdain for streetwise comedies, and--well,
lets just say it--their dismissal of black performers not playing slaves or
pimps, are the only explanations possible for Murphy not owning an Oscar or
two by now).

With these projects, Eddie was not only playing different characters, but
also honing a new Eddie Murphy genre: raunchy, but intelligent; gross, but
heartfelt; hilariously over the top in the particulars of plot, but firmly
rooted in emotional reality. He has created or has been involved with, some
of the arguably best comedies of the 1990's and onward--and has been
responsible for inarguably the best comic performances of the era.

So, in this era, Eddie decided to push the envelope by mixing the new Eddie
Genre with the Horror films he loved as a kid. The result, "A Vampire in
Brooklyn", is unsettling to some because the lines between Eddie's wildly
improvisational Black (or African American, if you insist) character comedy
to straight vampire horror movie are so starkly drawn. There are very few
instances where the comedy and horror overlap. This, I feel, is the
brilliance of the film. There are no horror moments broken by a punchline or
bad joke, and there are no comedy moments punctuated by some kind of sick
horror gag (that has been done to death since John Landis' "American
Werewolf in London". Now its being beated to death by "Buffy the Vampire
Slayer"). The funny parts are funny and the scary parts are truly scary.

And Murphy also gets to shine in multiple well-defined character parts as
well, as the shape-shifting African Vampire assumes the physical identity of
several of his victims.

"Vampire" failed at the box office not because it was a bad film--its
definitely is not. But because it was too unusual a film for the limited
abilities of the studio's marketing department to sell. Those going
expecting to see a comedy were disappointed it contained so much pure
horror, and those going to see it based on the publicity that painted it as
a horror film were dissapointed it contained so much hilarious Murphy style
comedy.

It dies because of false expectations. Eddie's other films contained quick
changes in tone as well--the shifts between bathroom comedy and pathos in
the Nutty Professor films is no less abrupt than those between horror and
comedy in "Vampire".

It's just that the choice of horror as the second element mixed with the
comedy is a more daring and unusual one.

Years from now, "A Vampire in Brooklyn" will be viewed as one of the
highpoints of the second phase of the Eddie Murphy Genre.


<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I was a kid, I've loved vampires. My mom had introduced me
to that part of horror movies when I was very young and I always found
the vampire to be the most interesting of all monsters. They are the
only one's that could appear human, they lure you in making it seem
normal, but then before you know it, they turn on you. They're the most
terrifying monsters if you really think about it. So Wes Craven, one of
the masters of horror, who brought us amazing scary movies like A
Nightmare on Elm Street, The Last House on the Left, The Hills have
Eyes and Scream tried to take on the vampire genre. Interestingly
enough as a mixture of horror and comedy. Not something that is brand
new as we see with Love at first Bite, Fearless Vampire Killers and
Dracula: Dead and Loving it, but he seems to do an unbalanced job with
Vampire in Brooklyn.

An abandoned ship crashes into a dockyard in Brooklyn, New York, and
the ship inspector, Silas, inspects it, finding it full of corpses.
Elsewhere, Julius Jones, has a run-in with some Italian mobsters. Just
as the two goons are about to kill Julius, Maximillian, a suave,
mysterious vampire, intervenes and kills them. Soon after, Maximillian
infects Julius with his vampiric blood, turning Julius into a decaying
ghoul; he then explains that he has come to Brooklyn in search of the
Dhampir daughter of a vampire from his native island in order to live
beyond the night of the next full moon. Now he's in search of Rita, the
woman he was meant to be with in Brooklyn, New York.

The thing is, I still like this film despite it's flaws. I remember
being obsessed with this movie when I was a kid. Growing up, I got the
DVD, does it have it's problems? Yeah. Angela Bassett who is normally a
great actress really overacts in this film to the point where her
character becomes obnoxious. Eddie Murphy does a pretty decent job, he
plays a number of characters as usual. Playing not only Maximillian,
but the preacher and the crook. He seemed to have fun with the role and
had a lot of charisma. I also thought the relationship and chemistry
between Kadeem Hardison and John Witherspoon as Julius and Silas was
not only great but absolutely hilarious. I couldn't catch my breath
from laughing so much when Silas accidentally pulls Julius' arm off and
Silas says "Look at this! Now you the fugitive!" and Julius keeps
telling him to put it back on and how he needs his arm back. There are
some genuine funny moments mainly between Julius and Silas. As for the
scary, not so much; there are some good one's here and there, between
Nikki's murder and Eddie Murphy's make up was pretty frightening. While
it's a flawed film, I think it's still worth checking out over all,
it's a good story that just needed a better cast and a little more
thought. But I think you'll get a few good chuckles out of this film.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wes Craven directs LAST HOUSE ON THE LEFT, controversy ensues. Wes
Craven directs THESE HILLS HAVE EYES and maims his audience. Wes Craven
directs A NIGHTMARE ON ELM STREET and revitalizes a genre with a
super-bad villain. Wes Craven directs THE SERPENT AND THE RAINBOW, hit.

Wes Craven directs A VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN?

I don't know what to make of this one. It does have an interesting take
on the vampire genre in a way that should have worked in the way he
would spoof the horror genre in SCREAM, but where SCREAM had loads of
in-jokes, references to other horror movies and a young cast of actors
who were playing very self-conscious people who knew what to do and
what not to do in a horror film, here the results just don't mix. Had
he gotten a much more skilled team of writers who could come up with
wicked pop-culture references to blaxploitation films (and why not make
this an ultra-hip version of BLACULA?), had he nixed the fatalistic
seriousness that comes through like leftovers from both BRAM STOKER'S
Dracula and countless vampire films and turned this into an edgy satire
a la FRIGHT NIGHT or something crazier like THE ROCKY HORROR PICTURE
SHOW, maybe it would have fared better. Actually I stand corrected: it
would have fared much better. But having Eddie Murphy play his role
totally straight, having Angela Bassett who seems like she's in a whole
other movie, and then having that totally ludicrous epilogue which
seems straight out of the Friday franchise... I don't know where to
make heads or tails from it. I just don't.
<|_=00=_|>
The only person who can give a fair commentary on this film would be a
vampire lover, such as myself. As much as I love to laugh and adore
Eddie Murphy's comedic talent, the genre of Vampires is my ultimate
favourite topic. Some may say that I'm even slightly obsessed... So
when it comes to this film I will say that I was pleasantly surprised.
Yes, it was a touch cheesy and yes it was funny, but why can't a
vampire film make you laugh too? I approached this film with a lot of
reservation because I really didn't think Eddie Murphy was vampire
material. But Eddie pulled it off. Yes- I feel that he truly did. He
had that hypnotic stare and seductive movement that would've paralyzed
me too if I was in his presence then too. So I give this movie the
thumbs up and not just for vampire lovers and not just for Eddie Murphy
fans- this is quite an entertaining film.
<|_=00=_|>
Maximillian (Eddie Murphy) is the only survivor from a race of vampires
on a Caribbean Island, and as a vampire, he must find a mate to keep
the line from ending.

Some have said this film is the worst for Murphy and for Wes Craven,
with Murphy saying the wig he had to wear was a big part of the
problem. Now, looking back almost twenty years later, the wig does not
look bad, and this was far from rock bottom for Murphy. For Craven, it
may not be his strongest film, but it may also not be his worst
("Cursed" is pretty bad).

Seriously, this is not that bad of a film, even if the humor never hits
exactly right.
<|_=00=_|>

i read through some of the negative reviews, and felt I had to add one for
the positives. I am a fan of Eddie Murphy, and have noticed that many of
his
films have pretty poor ratings here on IMDB, including this one, which has
a
shockingly low rating.

I thought the film had very funny moments, and Murphy had a good rapport
with his Ghoul. Also, the plotline was pretty interesting. I thought it
worked very well, and I hope that the IMDB rating will
improve.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this movie thinking it would be like other eddie murphy movies-
lots of humor and fun. I was wrong BUT I wasn't dissapointed. I mean, for
once I enjoyed a horror movie. Usually I shy away from horror movies because
of their incredibly stupid and repetitive plots and characters. This one was
different however. I don't really know what it was that made me like this
movie, but I have to say that Eddie Murphy makes a good vampire. His version
of a vampire is cool but SO totally evil.And his sidekick Kadeem
Hardison(also seen in the movie Drive) is funny. 
In all a good movie. I guarantee that once you start watching this movie
you'll be hooked and wont want to finish watching it until the end.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Vampire in Brooklyn (1995) 

* (out of 4) 

They say sometimes great artists must hit an ultimate low before they
can fully bounce back and that has never been more true for both
director Wes Craven and star Eddie Murphy. In the film Murphy plays
Maximillian, a Caribbean vampire who comes to Brooklyn in search of a
woman to carry on his race. He finds the beautiful Rita (Angela
Bassett) but his plan isn't going to be as simple as he thought. It's
worth noting that Craven's next film was SCREAM and Murphy followed
this up with THE NUTTY PROFESSOR so it's easy to see that both of them
were just at the bottom of their careers here. The shocking thing
revisiting this film for the first time since it was released is that
it's actually gotten much, much worse. For the life of me I can't
understand what the two were trying to do here but I'm guessing they
wanted to take both of what they were great at and put it together but
the end result is just a complete disaster. The comedy is so forced and
uneven that it's never once funny. The horror elements are just so
silly that they're never scary and when the gore does happen it just
seems out of place. The entire film has a very ugly pacing and a lot of
the blame has to go to Craven for not pulling the picture together but
I'd still place more blame on Murphy, the producers, for hiring him.
I'm not sure if Murphy and John Landis had a falling out on BEVERLY
HILLS COP III but it's clear that he would have been much better with
the (bad) material. The performances are all pretty weak with Murphy
leading the way in an embarrassing piece of work. Allen Payne is wasted
in his supporting role and Kadeem Hardison is just so in-your-face that
the entire act just falls apart. VAMPIRE IN BROOKLYN is a perfect
example of something that has talent but it just never came together
for anything.
<|_=00=_|>
Vampire in Brooklyn starts as a large boat crashes into a Brooklyn
dock, on-board the whole crew are discovered murdered. They were
murdered by Maximillian (Eddie Murphy) a Vampire from the Caribbean who
happens to be the last of his kind & needs to mate with another Vampire
& the closet thing left is half Vampire half human NYPD cop Detective
Rita Veder (Angela Bassett) who doesn't yet know she's half Vampire,
Maximillian has to convince her she is a Vampire & then to mate with
her otherwise the Vampire race will die out...

Directed by Wes Craven this is a romantic comedy horror with an almost
entirely black cast that doesn't really work in any respect. The script
by Charles Murphy (Eddie's brother), Michael Lucker & Chris Parker
quite simply is a laugh free zone, hell I didn't even crack a smile
during this. The film starts off very horror orientated then it becomes
very comedic before romance takes over, none of these genres
particularly go well together & the film feels very uneven, I suppose
it moves along at a fair pace & the basic story is alright but it's a
bit of a chore to sit through as nothing on screen works that well & a
constant stream of profanity is not funny on it's own, is a very lazy
way to write & starts to become annoying. The scene when Murphy
impersonates the preacher is just plain embarrassing & I hated the
ending as well.

Director Craven had never made a comedy before & it show's as the
comedy scenes just don't work, the horror & gore scenes are far more
effective & it's a shame there's not more of them. By the time Craven
teamed up with Murphy to make this both needed a hit after their
careers both hit slumps, Vampire in Brooklyn was a poor choice of film
although the story does have a happy ending as Craven went on to make
the mega hit teen horror slasher Scream (1996) & Murphy made the
successful children's comedy The Nutty Professor (1996) as their next
films respectively. Angela Bassett's stunt double Sonya Davis died went
a stunt went wrong where she was supposed to fall from a building onto
an airbag but she actually hit her head on the solid ground. There's
some gore here, there's a ripped out heart, various dead bodies with
slit throats, some blood drinking & a stake through the heart although
the special make-up effects on Murphy at the end look terrible.

With a supposed budget of about $14,000,000 this had a decent amount of
cash thrown at it, I don't think it flopped at the box-office but it
didn't do that well either. It's well made with decent production
values. The acting isn't that great & surprisingly Murphy is the only
one who plays it straight which is very odd, Bassett is forgettable &
Kadeem Hardison as the comedy relief ghoul is terrible.

Vampire in Brooklyn is a horror film that isn't scary, a comedy that
isn't funny & it's got a black cast directed by a white man brought in
for his name & as a whole it just doesn't work on any level. One to
avoid.
<|_=00=_|>
Released in 1995 and directed by Wes Craven, "Vampire in Brooklyn"
stars Eddie Murphy as a Caribbean vampire who travels to Brooklyn
seeking the daughter (Angela Bassett) of a vampire he once knew in
order to keep his vampire line continuing. Allen Payne plays her
detective partner and wannabe beau while Kadeem Hardison plays a
streetwise dude whom the vampire enlists in his services. John
Witherspoon and Zakes Mokae are also on hand.

I can understand why this movie bombed at the box office seeing as how
the main cast is all black and this would limit its appeal, but I can't
figure out why it has such a low rating since Murphy is commanding in
the titular role and the movie hits all the marks of an entertaining
blockbuster horror flick. Furthermore, the two main protagonists
(Bassett and Payne) are great and their characters have a compelling
romantic thread, not to mention Hardison is amusingly effective as the
vampire's ghoul; Witherspoon is also notable.

Some people complain about the mixed tone, but the mixture of serious
horror with comedy was done in 1990's "Arachnophobia" and it was a
minor hit. It's a difficult thing to pull off but "Vampire in Brooklyn"
does so absolutely convincingly. Yet the producers of "Vampire in
Brooklyn" – e.g. Eddie Murphy – decided to go the extreme R-rated route
with an overabundance of foul language. That, plus the primarily black
cast, seriously limited the film's appeal. If you can handle the foul
language, however, there's a lot to appreciate here, as noted above.
Murphy is excellent in three different roles, as usual; and Payne is
outstanding as the male protagonist, successfully engaging the viewer.

The film runs 100 minutes and was shot in Brooklyn.

GRADE: B
