

When I first saw this movie, I absolutely loved it.  With each successive
viewing, I noticed the characters' emotions as they coped with the dirty
hand that has been dealt to them and making the most of it.  I also saw the
immense bond between the men as they already shared the low-class existence
and a rather bleak future but seeing nothing but an opportunity to be rich.
And they were all willing to endure the humiliation in front of hundreds of
people to achieve it.

Like M*A*S*H, the Full Monty shows people placed in a harrowing existence
with seemingly no end in sight.  Yet the laughs are sprinkled throughout
nicely, and even though each man has their own personal fears to overcome,
they find strength in each other, which makes the experience all the more
fruitful.

The actors were absolutely top notch, particularly Robert Carlyle.  I was
already impressed with his performance from Trainspotting to know that he
is
very capable of carrying the central figure of the movie.  Peter Cattaneo's
direction was inspired, and he knew the right angles to use (check out the
scene when the lads were auditioning new members, particularly Guy) for
perfect comedic effect.

I admit that some of the sub-plots needed more fleshing out, particularly
between Gaz and Nathan as well as Gerald and his wife.  And as many times
as
I've seen the movie, I don't know much about Guy other than his love for
Singing in the Rain and his obvious natural endowment that took the breath
away from his mates!

The music was terrific as well.  I dare anyone to deny that they had to
consciously stop tapping their feet when hearing "Hot Stuff" after watching
this movie.

I have been to Sheffield recently, so the movie holds even more personal
meaning for me.  And for all those complaining about the accents being
difficult to understand, watch it again. It's in English not Chinese!  The
accents are part of the charm.  I rate this movie a solid 8.5 out of 10 and
worth seeing many times over.  
<|_=00=_|>

One thing I've always appreciated in British films is that the actors look
like Real People. I don't mean unattractive, but just normal everyday
looking, unlike Hollywood actors who are exceedingly pretty with perfect
teeth and stylish clothes, and unlimited bank accounts, no matter what their
occupation. In this film, a group of unemployed steelworkers decide to put
on an amateur strip show to make ends meet. It is presented as a comedy, but
it does have some very moving moments, as it shows the despair and
desolation of unemployment. And it subtly displays the economic conditions
of Thatcher's England, where entire industries were shut down, taking jobs
and local economies along with them. As in other British films, the
characters seem real, like people we would know if we lived in their town. I
can picture having a pint down at the local pub with Gaz and Gerald more
than, say, Tom Cruise.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw The Full Monty about a month ago on TV and as soon as I saw it was
coming up, I rushed to find a blank videotape for it. I didn't know what
to
expect but somehow I had this feeling that I HAD to tape it. And blimey,
was
it worth it! Now I watch the film every weekend and I enjoy it just as
much
as I did the first time I saw it. I love its style, its humour,
everything.
It's nice to see average people whose only goal was to get a job and in
order to achieve it, they're willing to do anything. I've purchased the
soundtrack as well, and I can clearly state that it's worth buying if you
like 70's music. I think it's become my favourite film. It's so simple and
that's why I like it, because at the same time it's greatly
enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>

No matter how many times I've seen it, and there's been lots, I laugh so
hard it hurts. The characters are so endearing, especially little Nathan,
that you just love them all. The music is great, and there are moments that
tugged at your heart as well as make you laugh out loud. And the final
stripping scene is fabulous! Glad to see Gaz finally got in time with the
music. ;)
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Carlyle and Mark Addy combine with a great support cast to bring
one of the freshest comedies in years to the big screen. Set in
Sheffield after the great 'City of Steel' Days, there are more people
in the dole queue, than out at work.

Struggling for money the pair decide that if the Chippendale's can get
the kit off and make a packet, then why can't they. They recruit some
more strippers, all desperate for some cash, and promise the city the
Full Monty. Now all they need is to learn how to dance, learn how to
overcome there fear of the Full Monty and sell some tickets.

This film is a very funny view of a struggling community in what was
once a thriving city. Great characters, slick and realistic dialogue
and great direction, this is one of the finest British comedies ever.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

When this got praised all over the place, I avoided seeing it at first
because I was afraid it would be a letdown.  But it's not, not in any way.
This continues a tradition of sorts; while back in the 50's and early 60's,
the British were known for their kitchen-sink, angry young man dramas (like
"Room at the Top" or "Look Back in Anger"), now they seem to be putting comic
spins on them, and it's working.  Not only do you laugh (especially when
Horse is at the Unemployment Office after the videotape of them dancing has
been released to the public, and when he says he hasn't been up to anything,
the clerk says, "That's not what I heard"), but the characters and where
they come from are taken seriously and are three dimensional, so you care
about them.  The humor comes from real situations, not sitcom humor.  A real
winner!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie will stand the test of time and be remembered as
one
of the funniest, most touching comedies ever made.  A small miracle of a
movie.  Could never have been made in the USA; if they do an American
remake, I'll tell you now, it won't come close to this great time at the
movies.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great black comedy.  A bunch of losers down at the job centre
have
no hopes of getting a job.  As the film progresses, it picks up momentum
as
the big date approaches.  Some great scenes of 80's Britain, the job
centre,
the clubs, the houses with paper-thin walls and low ceilings.  You know
what
the finale is going to be, but it doesn't detract at all from the
enjoyment
of the film.  It doesn't get political, as some other commenters have
complained, but why should it?  This is about the consequences of 80's
Britain, not the causes.  The characters are 100% believable, in their
appearances and their behaviour.  The fat one is the sort you see on a
Saturday night in just about every city centre pub in England (and at the
football matches too!).  A pity some viewers from across the pond couldn't
pick up the accents, that's not altogether surprising but consider that
this
film was probably not originally intended for worldwide distribution and
if
you had taken the accents away you'd have taken away also a lot of its
charm.

PS: Sheffield, where the film was based, is actually quite a nice town in
many areas.
<|_=00=_|>
What's one to do after the factory closes and you're left unemployed?
For six Brits, the answer is quite simple: go "The Full Monty" (which
means "all the way"). Led by the soft-spoken Gaz (Robert Carlyle), they
decide to become male strippers. Along the way, some unexpected things
happen, but it's a great movie from start to finish. And it had one of
the best soundtracks that I've ever heard (I'd never even heard "You
Sexy Thing" before I saw this movie). With top-notch performances by
Carlyle, Mark Addy, Tom Wilkinson, Steve Huison, Paul Barber and Hugo
Speer, this is one movie that everyone should see. It's not only funny,
but takes a look at the dying dream of eternal success.
<|_=00=_|>

The Full Monty offers a seductive, playful piece of comic gumption:  Six
unemployed steel workers become amateur male strippers, baring themselves as
an antidote to the dole.  The title is British slang for "buck naked," but
the film isn't about nudity, or lust, exactly.  It takes as its subject the
free-falling sense of desperation provoked by unemployment.  As these
flaccid bodies strive to exude "sexiness," director Peter Cattaneo turns
their struggle into a blue-collared survival reflex, which yields a thin yet
agreeable amount of emotional weight.

Robert Carlyle plays a bitter but devoted divorced father trying to meet his
support payments so his son will trust him, and Mark Addy just wants to
provide for his nurturing wife, who worries about the secret G-string buried
in her flabby husband's underwear drawer.

Suffering ritual-humiliation for the sake of loved ones, these men pawn
their dignity for economic survival.  Cattaneo allows the script to hint at
the social and fiscal conditions endured by the working-class under
Thatcher, but mostly he avoids politicizing the material.  Instead, he aims
for rowdy, laugh-out-loud passages about awkward pseudo-debauchery.  Perhaps
The Full Monty settles for rather broad, coarse humor, but it has intensely
pleasing charms and Cattaneo gives it an unexpected deadpan consistency.  He
exposes the comedy of shame, and then the comedy of shamelessness.

ERIC BELTMANN
