

This is the kind of movie that I would have ordinarily RUSHED to the movie
theaters to see. It's got all the right elements: it's dark comedy, a
great
female lead, a bizarre storyline...Yet I read reviews that the movie
disappoints so I was in no rush to see it. But I finally saw it last night
and wow was it great! What terrific performances, esp. from Genevieve
Bujold. Posey was as delightful as ever, and even Spelling was able to do
a
complete 180 in contrast to her usual Bev. Hills type. The dialogue was so
witty yet dark. It's a two night rental so for the first time I think I'll
see a movie twice in two days!
I give this movie a 9 - I would give it a 10 if it weren't for the very
predictable ending.

<|_=00=_|>

Don't listen to reviews that tag this movie with a "predictable" or "poor"
ending - they don't get it.  The House of Yes is a brilliant adaptation of
stage-to-film.  Although the entire movie takes place in a single location,
there is no claustrophobic effect - the result of magical cinematography.
Each room of the house reveals a new secret, a new mystery.  The acting is
superb, due to the amazing range of affect offered by Parker Posey, sharply
contrasted by the humorously flattened delivery of the other cast members.
The script is flawless, the directing well-hidden.  Nothing about this movie
screams "This is a cool indie film I just made" (hopefully a doomed approach
to filmmaking)  This is not Ben Affleck posing as a post-punk Dalai Lama in
a waste of celluloid, but a true work of art.  The incest issue is handled
with grace, wit, and true affection, not to mention the laugh-out-loud black
humor.
It's one of my top ten, right up there with True Romance, Naked Lunch and
Miller's Crossing.  Again, don't fret over warnings about a predictable
ending - the ending is not what it seems.  Think about
it.
<|_=00=_|>

The House of Yes is one of my personal favorites.  Is it creepy?  Yes.  Is
it funny?  No - it's hysterical, at least to those of us accustomed to
laughing at things you're not supposed to laugh about - like bizarre
social
taboo.  Younger indie fans may not care for this flick, but The House of
Yes
is not to be compared with the likes of Chasing Amy.  For Parker Posey
fans,
the film is apples to the oranges of Party Girl, Henry Fool,
Clockwatchers,
etc.

The House of Yes was adapted from Wendy McLeod's play, so it is a dialogue
film with its own language - similar to the Coens' Miller's Crossing.  As
with Miller's Crossing, the snappy dialogue never misses.  While watching
The House of Yes, I've caught myself rewinding to catch a phrase I missed
because I was still laughing a the preceding gag.

Facial closeups dominate this film, and for reason - the actors'
expressions
are more telling than the dialogue, delivered flawlessly by every member
of
the crew - looks you could spread onto a cracker, like when Mama (Bujold)
warns her son Marty about Jackie-O's mental state: "I'm going to baste the
turkey, and hide the kitchen knives."

The film's biggest surprise: Tori Spelling, as a prudish and naiive
Pennsylvanian - perhaps her most believable role to date.

If there were a Cooperstown for comedic acting, this film alone puts
Parker
Posey into the Hall of Fame.

Highly recommended for the sick-minded and perverse.

Miles Keaton Andrew

<|_=00=_|>

A wonderful Altmanesque cross between Nashville and Come back to the Five
and Dime Jimmy Dean, Jimmy Dean.  This is one obsessive, compulsive,
spread-eagled, dysfunctional play, extremely well written and very tight.
Parker Posey's best performance yet and extremely well cast all
around.

I can't recommend it highly enough.  This is the kind of movie worth
waiting
years for!

Enjoy.


<|_=00=_|>

Doing a film adaptation of a play rarely works, but when it does, as it most
assuredly does in this movie, the performances are overwhelming and
intoxicating. Parker Posey's characterization will be forever burned into my
memory. The House Of Yes is completely enjoyable, even startling, and is a
'must see' excellent piece of cinema.
<|_=00=_|>

When you have a house with 5 insane family members in it, you know it has
got to be interesting. The strange mother. The foolish dumb son. The other
son who has "some kind of past." The girlfriend who reminds me alot or
Chrissy &/or Cindy Snow from Three's Company. The daughter, who by far is
the craziest insane & jealous person you will meet...played by no other than
the incredible Parker Posey! The second this film started, I was hooked. For
sure this movie is NOT for everyone. But if you enjoy independant quirky
flims, then this is MUST-SEE! Its twisted, perverted, and in some parts mad.
In my opinion, Parker has yet to do a bad movie. But if you are not familer
with her work, this is a good one to start with. If you like this, you'll
enjoy: Clockwatchers; Party Girl; Misadventures of Margret.
1-10(10)Z.
<|_=00=_|>

Seldom does a movie manage to be at the same time this dark and this
funny.
Nearly every line of dialogue is wickedly sarcastic--as a playwright, I
spent of the time during my first viewing wishing that I could write such
biting dialogue.

Parker Posey is wonderful, as is Josh Hamilton as her
brother-with-benefits.
The mother (the actress' name escapes me right now) is also wonderful,
despite her deficient screen time. Even Tori Spelling--pariah of good
actors everywhere--does a great job as Hamilton's stupid/naive fiancee (a
bit of helpful typecasting). In fact, only Freddy Prinze jr. really didn't
do that well in this movie, but his performance was by no means bad enough
to ruin it. He seemed handily the most awkward of the
bunch.

At any rate, I wound up watching it again, two days after the first time,
and would recommend that anyone who hasn't done so follow my lead.  Not
only
doesn't it lose anything on second screening, but the whole thing gets
better (check out the Posey/Spellling "Marty's first girlfriend"
scene)...
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is about the games between twins and their incestuous
relationship.  The whole family is screwed up beyond repair.  Everyone
seems
to have a really bad hang-up on someone.  The banter among the siblings is
hilarious and they set each other up as much as possible to keep their
screwed up family ticking.  And the family keeps on ticking.  The acting
is
very good and the movie flows very quickly.  The ending stays true to the
insane qualities of the family.  The reality of this is how would someone
get away with murder without somebody asking?  Either someone got away or
they got murdered and that just makes me believe the family would be found
out and all sent to the looney bin.  Even if you don't like the subject
matter, the movie works keeping the characters nutty as all get out.  You
should watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
Very few movies based on plays can be successful, but House of Yes is
not one of those that fail. It succeeds where others have failed
because of the energy put into a film that is mostly dialog. Parker
Posey shines as Jackie-O, the mentally troubled sister of Josh Hamilton
and Freddy Prinze Jr. Tori Spelling, whose only other film I have
enjoyed was Trick, did a great job of playing Jackie-O's doormat.

The movie is at its strongest when Parker bares her sadness, always
hidden beneath sarcasm. A classic movie of family dysfunction without
playing out the same old tired roles. This family is anything but a
typical dysfunctional family and though they all appear to be nuts,
part of you wants to run out and find a family just like them, because
looking past all of the sarcasm and insults, you sense and feel the
love.

I highly recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see strong acting.
Parker Posey is on top of her game here.
<|_=00=_|>

One would think that Tori Spelling being in the cast of this movie would
immediately signal its poor quality, but The House of Yes is a rare
exception to that rule. Dark, twisted, and wickedly funny, one can't help
but be drawn into the delusional world of Jackie O. Her family can't seem
to
either, as they revolve around her, half in reality and half out. This
strange, surreal dynamic drives the film, and brings most of the comedy. A
definite must see for fans of Parker Posey, and for anyone who considers
themselves knowledgeable in the world of indie film.
