

Leave it to the ZAZ boys (Zucker, Abrahams, Zucker) to bring back the
stupidity, insanity and downright madness of Leslie Nielsen and company
while also deflating cop films, government conspiracies the movie "Ghost"
and the grace of ballroom dancing.

In "The Naked Gun 2 1/2: The Smell of Fear", Det. Frank Drebin (Nielsen) and
his fellow cop cronies (Kennedy, Simpson) discover the lovely Jane (Presley)
while protecting energy expert Professor Mainheimer (Griffiths) from evil
guy Quentin Hapsburg (Goulet!) and his nefarious plans....

But you don't care about the plot, do you?  No, and well you shouldn't; the
gags are the thing in these films and they not only come fast and furious
but wild and wooly, down and dirty and good and dumb.

Just the way I like them.

You'll lose count of the sight gags, double over at the double-entendres and
guffaw at the puns and wonder, thought it all, why it is that all sequels
can't be as good as this.  Especially sequels that contain Barabara Bush
abuse.

Another good case, Drebin!

Ten stars and a gold copy of "Unchained Melody" for "The Naked Gun 2 1/2",
where "Fear" never "Smell"ed so funny.
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw this film with a couple of friends and some beers and man we
laughed so damn hard at it..It had some gags i didn't even remembered,
The one that got us crying in laughter is at the very ending when a
bunch of people are asleep and one of them is all arched in a weird way
sleeping in a table..you gotta see it to get it...How ridiculous and
funny it was!!!!! Leslie Nielson is a great guy I'm so sorry about his
performance in Scarymovie 3 and those movies that squashed the good and
funny memories movies like these gave us fans. Priscila Presley is
Gorgeous...she looks fine...but this movie dates back to 1992..so i
guess now a days she must look very old..I guess. Anyhow the film was
great and i remember good as yesterday the time this film came out, it
came out a week before The Terminator 2 and Leslie Nielsen used to do
this television spots saying: Hasta la vista..baby...they were so damn
funny..I hope someone remembers them...Or someone gets them for a DVD.
its a definite 10 out of 10 on Comedy.

<|_=00=_|>
This one has Lt. Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) trying to stop villain
Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet) from kidnapping a solar power
advocate. That's the plot, but the movie is of course an excuse for a
series of gags, many of which just pop out from the sides. And of
course there's Frank's relationship with seductive Jane Spencer
(Priscilla Presley). One of their scenes might make you recall a
certain scene from "Ghost", and then what follows...well, all that I
can say is: HOW DO THEY COME UP WITH THESE THINGS?!!!!!!!!!!!!! I guess
that the movie's only weird aspect is seeing O.J. Simpson as Nordberg.
But if we can ignore that, the rest is a hoot, especially the opening
sequence, the outlines of people's bodies, and the zoo scene. Just
great.
<|_=00=_|>

Jim Abrahams and David and Jerry Zucker learned something from 1982. Their
sequel to Airplane!, their smash hit, was named Airplane 2: The Sequel, but
to their sequel to The Naked Gun was something that would be copied forever:
Naked Gun 2 ½: The Smell of Fear. From now on, sequels never were just had
`2' after it, it's always `2 ½' or `2.33'. And, thankfully, the title's
shorter.

Leslie Nielsen's hilarious character of Frank Drebin is back for more
adventures. He and his girlfriend Jane (Priscilla Presley) have broken up;
he hasn't gotten over it, while she's going out with Quentin Hapsburg
(Robert Goulet). What she doesn't know is that Hapsburg is in a conspiracy
to avoid solar energy by doing a whole kidnapping scheme. It's up to Drebin,
Nordberg (O.J. Simpson), and Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) to save the
day!

Amazingly enough, many of the jokes from the first one (which I admit I
don't remember much about) weren't repeated in this sequel. It would be hard
to repeat much of those jokes, which would be impossible to change in any
ways. Therefore, most of the jokes were fresh and hilarious. It did take a
little while to get started, though, for there was about a fifteen minute
stretch where there were no laughs, it was just for exposition, which I
guess was OK, but I wanted more humor to start off with.

Nielsen was perfect for the part. I'm glad that he hasn't `sold out' like
other comedians and gone on to dramatic roles. He delivers his lines almost
like he didn't know he was in a comedy, which is always funnier than any
other types. Many times, he misunderstands what is said, and other times he
says something that you wouldn't expect him to say in 100 years. One of the
funniest sequences in the film is a parody of Bond-ish films, when Drebin
and someone else are fighting in a bathroom, and seem to be having trouble
fighting when a towel is thrown on their heads, etc.

For once, a film has a formidable sequel. Amazingly enough, it's a film
that's just as funny as the first.

My rating: 8/10

Rated PG-13 for sexual humor.
<|_=00=_|>
David Zucker, the director of this spoof, shows he can give the viewer
a fun time because the way he gave the right touch to this funny movie.
"The Naked Gun 2-1/2" is a film which makes fun of other movies about
an inept police detective who does everything wrong, but in doing so,
he gives us an occasion for laughter that in most of the situations
work.

Of course, one wouldn't imagine anyone playing this Lt. Frank Drebin,
but Leslie Nielsen. This actor with the rubber face, is a natural for
this type of comedy. The opening sequence with the White House dinner
with the older Bushies is a hoot. Poor Barbara Bush is the butt of all
the visual jokes as she is seated next to Drebin. But the best moment
in the film is the rendition of "Besame Mucho" by Mr. Nielsen and
George Kennedy dressed in mariachi costumes. It is a riot!

The leading lady, Priscilla Presley, seems to be the perfect match for
Mr. Nielsen. They play well together. The others in the film, George
Kennedy, Robert Goulet, Richard Griffiths, and the rest, do an
excellent job in their clowning around to produce the laughter and good
time we experience.

This is a film to recommend to anyone suffering depression.
<|_=00=_|>

When a bomb goes off in the offices of a research body looking an
alternative energy sources, Lieutenant Frank Drebin is put on the case.
Things are made harder when he finds that his ex-girlfriend (Jane) is
one of the staff there. As unlikely as it seems, Drebin uncovers a
sinister plot involving the heavy fuel lobby to kidnap the President's
adviser and replace him with a look-alike that will say what they want.
However, with nobody believing him, Frank is forced to take action to
expose the leader of the plot – Jane's new lover, Quentin Hapsburg.

Following on from the success of the first film, Frank Drebin is given
a second outing and, as before, the humour is silly but comes in heavy
doses, creating a pretty consistent tone to the film. The plot is, of
course, nonsense and all you really need to know is that, as before,
Drebin uncovers a plot that nobody believes while at the same time
having love life problems – but surely nobody will be watching this for
the plot (and don't call me Shirley). Instead you will come to this for
the steady delivery of absurdly silly jokes, all delivered with
straight faces from all the cast. It is rather hit and miss but mostly
the jokes are amusing even if there aren't as many laugh out loud
moments as I would have liked. The addition of a lot of crude material
didn't help and I felt it sucked a bit of the sense of fun out of the
film.

That is not to say that I didn't laugh out loud (I did) but most of the
time I was just chuckling – which is good enough for my money. A big
reason the film is funny is the cast. As always, Nielsen is brilliant
at this sort of thing when he is given the material. Here he is not as
good as his best stuff (due to the material) but he is still the core
of this film and is consistently good. Presley has less to do but is
good at the straight-faced stuff. OJ and Kennedy have small roles but
they are funny with what they have. Goulet is not as good as Montalban
from the first film but he has some nice moments.

Overall this is very funny if you are in the mood and, even if you're
not, there is still much to enjoy here and it is consistently pretty
funny with a real hatful of belly laughs. Not the most high brow of
entertainment then but, if you're a fan of the genre then you should
love this.

<|_=00=_|>
Lieutenant Frank Drebin (Leslie Nielsen) is now working in Washington
D.C. with his two partners (Oscar-Winner:George Kennedy and O.J.
Simpson). Their job is see if everything goes smooth for Dr. Albert
Meinheimer (Richard Griffiths) speech for the President of the United
States (John Roarke). His speech could be highly controversial for the
whole world, since it involves the country's energy program. Quentin
Haspburg (Robert Goulet) kidnaps Dr. Albert Meinheimer before the
speech by using a look-like, which he doesn't want the world industry
of fossil and nuclear fuels instead of the environmental ones. But
Frank is still heartbroken after he left his girlfriend Jane (Priscilla
Presley), who's now working for Dr. Meinherimer.

Directed by David Zucker (Airplane!, BASEketball, Ruthless People) made
an enjoyable sequel to the original. The cast seems to be having an
great time and there's some original new gags as well. This sequel was
just as big at the box office like the original did. Although the film
critics had mixed opinions with this one. 

DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (1.78:1) transfer and an good
digitally remastered Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD includes the
teaser trailer, original theatrical trailer and an humorous commentary
track by the director, producer:Robert K. Weiss and Host:Peter Tilder.
"The Naked Gun 2 1/2:The Smell of Fear" perphas lacks some of the great
gags of the original. But if you enjoy spoof comedies, don't miss this
one. TV Version adds some additional footage. Written by the director
and Pat Proft (Bachelor Party, Hot Shots!, Police Academy).
(****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
The Naked Gun: From the files of Police Squad was a huge hit back in
1988, so three years later, everyone returns for this funny sequel.

LT. Frank Drebin is back (The legend that is Leslie Nielsen) he's now
split from Girlfriend Jane (Pricilla Presley) whose now involved
romantically with shady Businessman Quentin Hapsburg (Robert Goulet).
Drebin and his cop buddies, Capt Ed Hocken (George Kennedy) & Det.
Norberg (O.J.Simpson) investigate when a Scientist Dr Meinheimer
(Richard Griffiths) who advocates Solar Energy ahead of Oil,Coal &
Nuclear prepares to publish his report to the President, Is suddenly
kidnapped and a doppelganger (Griffiths Again) is put in his place. So
LT Drebin once again hilariously saves the day.

The Naked Gun 2 1/2: The Smell of Fear, while does have a quick cash-in
feel, is actually a really good sequel which is almost as good as the
original, With funny Gags throughout, The Zucker Brothers and Pat Proft
are on top form again.

**** out of *****

Follwed by The Naked Gun 33 1/3 : The Final Insult, while still good
and a masterpiece compared to Diasater Movie (2008) or Epic Movie
(2007) is slightly inferior to it's predecessors
<|_=00=_|>
The first "Naked Gun" movie is one of the best spoofs of all time. I'm
not a huge fan of the genre but even I think it's incredibly,
side-splittingly outrageous - this last time I saw it I laughed so hard
I cried.

The sequels of course were intended to cash in on the surprise success
of the original (which was based on the ZAZ trio's failed TV show,
"Police Squad," hence the subtitle on the film). For the most part,
both sequels were entertaining and funny. Although it's nowhere near as
good as the original, "Naked Gun 2 1/2: The Smell of Fear" is a worthy
continuation of the epic saga (just kidding about the epic bit) - all
in all it's just good fun.

Leslie Nielsen returns as Lt. Frank Drebin, this time out to foil the
plans of a mad industrialist (Robert Goulet). It seems a respected
doctor has found a new method of preserving earth's natural resources
and foregoing oils, gasoline, and other elements. Fearing financial
bankruptcy, the companies kidnap the doctor and replace him with an
identical "clone" of sorts, so the truth cannot come out.

However, the doctor's assistant is Frank's old flame (played by
Priscilla Presley). Frank looks into the case while rekindling a
relationship with the woman of his dreams.

David Zucker returned to direct this film with the help of brother
Jerry and pal Jim Abrahams. If I recall correctly, the third film was
not made by them, so it's interesting to see them tackling a sequel to
a film of theirs - something they don't usually do (they also passed on
"Airplane 2").

For the most part this film is quite funny and has some really good
gags, but it's also littered with some mediocre ones, as many spoofs of
these sorts are.

Nielsen is still hilarious as Drebin and all around him act simply to
accommodate his talents. George Kennedy and O.J. Simpson also return to
their roles.

If you enjoyed the first film, chances are you'll also enjoy this.
Basically it's in the same vein of the first film and delivers a good
range of slapstick gags, some of which will have you in a fit. But you
won't be gasping for breath like you did when you saw the first "Naked
Gun" movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Frank Debrin (Leslie Nielsen) again in this second part , this time a
politician (Richard Griffiths) is abducted and the lieutenant must
resolve the conflict when there takes place a scheme carried out by
different power centers trying to take rules for adoption a new policy
. Meanwhile , he goes on enamored his anterior girlfriend (Pricilla
Priestley) who keeps away herself from him . The film has been planned
by ZAZ : Jim Abrahams , Jerry Zucker and David Zucker (besides , as
screenwriter Pat Proft) , they are American satirists with successful
works and longtime collaborators and made their own comedy troupe ,the
¨Kentucky Fried Theather¨. As ¨Airplane¨ along with ¨Naked gun¨ series
remain as their most commercial works with the exception of Jerry
Zucker's ¨Ghost¨ . In fact , The love scene between Leslie Nielsen and
Priscilla Presley involving a pottery wheel is a send-up of a similar,
more romantic scene in Ghost (1990) starring Patrick Swayze and Demi
Moore . 

Nielsen makes another genre spoof with great loads of gags , slapdash
and slapstick . He is the dumber police officer from Peter Sellers as
Inspector Clouseau . The parody is continuous , hilarious , surrealist
, absurd and being sometimes gross-out , but some moments here and
there it is also bold and intelligent . As always , there are the
habitual cinematic references , being an amusement to find them out ;
thus , a homage by director David Zucker to his brother Jerry with
smile to roar and images of getting up a pyramid in ¨Ten commandments¨
simulating sexual style . Plus , there are incorrect politically
sketches as the jokes at a paralytic and to Barbara Bush . Usuals
cameos and invited actors are reduced ; thus , is only appeared Zsa Zsa
Gabor. The motion picture will appeal to Leslie Nielsen fans and
lunatic humor lovers . Rating : Average but entertaining and amusing .
