

With his stunning new vision of the most revered of Shakespeare's plays,
director Michael Almereyda has effectively transposed many of the enduring
themes of that classic work to our contemporary hi-tech era. Even if you
are
not very familiar with Shakespeare's plays or have always been confounded
by
his verse, one can still appreciate this film for the tremendously
inventive
ways by which Almereyda has interpreted the core scenes of Hamlet in the
context of corporate America. His visually striking translation of scenes
like Ophelia's drowning and Hamlet's famous `to be or not to be' soliloquy
are a delight and true brain candy. The cast is all around superb, with
the
classically delivered lines from actors Liev Schreiber (Laertes) and Sam
Shepard (Ghost) nicely counterbalancing the very contemporary style of
delivery from Ethan Hawk (Hamlet), Bill Murray (Polonius), and Julia
Stiles
(Ophelia).

There will no doubt be much comparison between this film and Baz
Luhrmann's
flashy modern remake of Romeo and Juliet. However, whereas Luhrmann's film
ultimately fails in going beyond the boundaries of its visually striking
presentation, Almereyda's Hamlet proves to be far more than a mere
spectacle
for the senses. In fact, this is the serious flaw that plagues most of the
films coming from young, talented independent filmmakers these days: all
style, no substance. Well, this Hamlet has both. By setting the film deep
in
the heart of a very real and very modern steel and concrete American
jungle
like New York City, which is infused with the relics of the mass media and
cold capitalistic consumerism, Almereyda powerfully enhances for the
audience the sense of the desolation of his characters that results from
urban isolation. This is a theme that Hong Kong director Wong Kar-Wai has
so
masterfully examined with his films Fallen Angels and Chungking Express.
In
Hamlet, we get a powerful dose of both Kar-Wai's visual flair and the
sensitive, crumbling heart that it sheathes.

<|_=00=_|>

Is this Hamlet? Depends on who you ask I suppose.

There are some who would require the plot and drama: a son whose
inheritance
is interrupted, so who may be imagining the murder of his father; a vapid,
doting, hedonistic mother; a loyal, by the book counselor, his earnest son
and brilliant daughter, she smitten by the prince. A scheming king --
wheels
turn and everyone dies.

Some would consider the language the essential element. This is the poet's
most convoluted, and heavily annotated metaphoric fabric. Shakespeare is
most often celebrated for his layering and interelating of mental images,
and certainly this work is his most globally elaborate
(sorry).

But just as the language rides on the drama, the ideas of the play ride on
the metaphors. These ideas are life-altering in their starkness: Reality,
thought, creation, intent, the cause and validity of unnatural action,
relationships among cocreated internal worlds. Much of this is developed
in
frightening and challenging terms. To my tastes, the ideas are what is
important. Too many Hamlets (notably Olivier's)faithfully include the
first
two and never touch the third. I'd buy a complete abandonment of the
first,
but cannot see how one could get to the third without most of the
second.

Now. This film. They have preserved the plot well enough for a film, I
suppose. And they have kept the language, about one third of it
anyway.

The bad:

Bill Murray is lost in Polonius, utterly lost. The production quality is
poor -- that fits the film school motif (see below), but there is no
excuse
for the many boom mikes sticking down. They repurposed so much to fit the
new setting, so why stick with swords at the end?

The biggest complaint is that they missed all the ideas, the big ones. The
central example is at the end of the first act, where Hamlet says: `there
are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your
philosophy.' Hamlet, and Horatio are students of Wittenburg philosophy,
which
audiences would have understood as that of the magi Giordano Bruno,
martyred
by the Pope. (His book is the one Hamlet quotes when asked `what is the
matter?,' and Bruno is also quoted in the northnorthwest and hawk from a
handsaw lines.) The play has much to do with understanding Bruno's
questions
of thought and action. When Hamlet differentiates himself from Horatio,
the
play really starts. In this film, though, the `your' becomes `our.'
Why?

The Good:

This Ophelia is wonderful. I don't know her other work yet, but it
includes
two other Shakespeare adaptations. She certainly was helped by the woman
director, who amplifies the female roles in emotion if not screentime. She
even transforms Marcello into a Marcella, Horatio's girlfriend. Rather
nice.
Also well done is the staging of the Rosenkrantz and Guilderstern
dialog.

The central device of the film is rather clever, if not original. The play
is deeply self-referential. All the rich text about introspection is what
is
usually cut in the name of modern impatience, and that is the case here.
Also gone here is the sharply self-referential scenes of Hamlet lecturing
the players. What we have in its place is self-reference about film, and
filming. Hamlet and Horatio, indeed R&G and Marcella are all film
students.
He thinks in film (actually video), and all his ruminations are cast in
visual terms, often in the context of video, even a Blockbuster store. The
final chorus is in video, and much of the action is seen through
surveillance cameras. The play-within-the-play is a homemade video, with
clear film-school effects.

This is not as clever as it could have been in the hands of a master. (Or
when the goals are exceedingly simple as in `American Beauty.') But it is
an
honest attempt to cast the reflexive depth of the play in cinematic
terms.

Sam Shepard is the best King Hamlet's ghost I have ever seen. He is a
solid
blessing.

This is a respectable effort, and deserves to be viewed if not
celebrated.
<|_=00=_|>

Nearly four hundred years after his death, Shakespeare continues to be the
best screenwriter in the English language.  This beautiful, moody, stylish
adaptation of his greatest play is no exception.  Another wonderful thing
about the Bard is how his drama seems to elevate any actor willing to take
on the challenge.  I especially enjoyed Bill Murray as Polonius: his
performance was all the more delightful because of the necessity of
restraining his comic genius here; he appears always on the edge of cracking
a joke, and of course doesn't, adding even more tension to an already
extremely taught production.

But what I loved most about this movie was how it departed from the usual
staging conventions (medieval costume, stone castles) to get at the heart of
what the play is really about: a kid coming home on a college break and
discovering that his uncle has murdered his father and is having sex with
his mother.  Ethan Hawke does a fantastic job in the role, giving us the
brooding, confused, lovesick, and ultimately self-destructive adolescent
that Shakespeare intended.  

If I were a high-school English teacher, this is the Hamlet that I would
want to show my students.  


<|_=00=_|>

First of all, this is a beautiful film. It does however, have many weak
points. It is very reminiscent of the Leonardo DiCaprio version of Romeo
and
Juliet; but somehow it is not as powerful. Ethan Hawke bursts of
adequatulence as Hamlet, but nothing more. Although he says his lines with
true emotion, it doesn't seem like he understands what he is saying. The
only true Shakespearin actor is Liev Schreiber (you'll recognize him from
Scream. His portrayal of Laertes helps the viewer understand what is going
on in the film; while the other actors manage only to confuse. It doesn't
help that a great portion of the play; including the famous graveyard
scene;
are left out.
Unlike Romeo and Juliet, modernization of Hamlet doesn't work well, at
least not in this adaptation. Switching from swords to guns changes the
plotline too much.
For someone who hasn't read Hamlet, or seen another version, it might be
hard to understand the plotline, especially becuase the audio tack is poor
and muddled by traffic and background noise. On the other hand, those that
are familiar with Hamlet may be disappointed with the performances and with
the editing of the play.
Although it may be a little long, I would recommend the Kenneth Branagh
version of Hamlet to someone who wants to see a true vision of what Hamlet
could be.
<|_=00=_|>

Ethan Hawke, Kyle MacLachlan, Sam Shepard, Diane Venora, Bill Murray,
Liev Schreiber, Julia Stiles, Karl Geary; directed by Michael
Almereyda, loosely based on the play by the Immortal William
Shakespeare This is not your father's Hamlet, and really not your
Hamlet either.

Set in modern day New York City, this adaptation by director Michael
Almereyda attempts to blend the all time classic with a modern day
lifestyle, while retaining the traditional speech and lines of the
play. Unintentionally comical for those familiar with the piece, it
actually is able to combine the two worlds of twentieth century New
York and sixteenth century Denmark quite well.

However this is also the movies downfall, as only with a working
knowledge of the classic are you able to understand the modern work,
otherwise it is completely incoherent, with vital cogs of the plot
missing.

Denmark is no longer a country but now a corporation, Cladius
(MacLachlan) not a King, but now a CEO. Computers and video are now the
norm, as this is how the movie begins. Polonius (Murray) is both the
best character and also probably miscast, as he would have done much
better in a cameo as the gravedigger, a scene that is deleted entirely!
This gem and other scenes were deleted in order to pare down the length
of the film, while attempting to preserve all major known lines. Yet,
as earlier mentioned, for those who do not have a strong background in
the classical work, you will be quickly lost. The so-called 'fluff'
that the producers thought Shakespeare used actually made the tale so
brilliant, relevant, and understandable. The modern work is none of
these, only an ancillary piece for those with a vast Hamlet knowledge.

The major scenes are also greatly adapted to fit the environment,
mostly to no effect. Most of the movie occurs in high-rise apartments
or board rooms, giving it an awkward type of feel. With Hamlet (Hawke)
and Ophelia (Stiles) being constantly watched in a city such as New
York, i thought I was observing a Mafia film, as indeed that is what
the Denmark corporation felt like, killing of Old Hamlet and all. Maybe
that adaptation could've been a better fit, for the reduced length also
makes the piece less-watchable, and much more bland with none of the
intrigue. The murder of Polonius in the laundromat, Old Hamlet being
seen on a security camera, and Ophelia committing suicide in a
Guggenheim fountain just does not have the same feel, something is
definitely missing.

In all this film likely misses both it's core audience and lacks the
mass-market appeal that it was trying for. If a full four-hour version
was released word-for-word of the original work, it would likely be a
cult classic, as it has the makings of a strong work. In all honesty,
how can such a great work like Hamlet be lacking if shown in its
entirety? In the attempt for a higher box-office, the two hour version
has no soul. If you find yourself in Blockbuster and face the same
question as Hamlet, of whether this version is 'To be or not to be'
showing on your TV that night, most likely it is not to be. However, if
you are a teenage girl and enjoy looking at Ethan Hawke, or a
Shakespeare aficionado who wishes to laugh at some unintentional humor,
this could be the ticket. A shame that more did not come out of such a
great cast, interesting premise, and mother of all base material in
Shakespeare. Either Almereyda or the Miramax really missed the boat
with this one.

<|_=00=_|>

Shakespeare has arrived in the moneyed world of New York, and I think he
likes it.  What particularly struck me about this film was some of the
imagery and devices.  Reflections are everywhere, not just in Hamlet's
soliloquies:  glass windows, mirrors, water, even the video screen.  If we
exist only in the eyes of others (J-P Sartre), then everything in this film
is granted existence, even Hamlet's madness, because we see it through so
many media and reflections.  Hamlet's "play within a play" becomes a film,
not something ephemeral, but a strip of celluloid that will last past his
death, just as this play has survived so many centuries after Shakespeare's
time.
<|_=00=_|>
any movie that attempts to bring the Shakespeare canon to a new
audience has to be allowed fairly wide latitude...so in the age of
"Clerks", only right and fitting that we get a taste of Hamlet as a
Kevin Smith-type community college slacker...filming from a severely
truncated version of the play, this "Hamlet" still manages to provide
some clever moments of originality...the "to be or not to be" monologue
set in the "action" section of Blockbuster; an Ophelia who betrays
Hamlet; the use of speakerphones and faxes to deliver dialog, in lieu
of actors on screen...yeah, it's gimmicky...but if this is what it
takes to get the Bard to the x and y-genners, then so be it...Joseph
Papp would have approved...

that said, there's some interesting takes by Julia Stiles (Ophelia),
Diana Venora (the Queen) and Bill Murray (Polonius) on their respective
characters...it ain't all style over substance...

so come on, folks...you gave Mel a shot at this, didn't ya? give it a
go...
<|_=00=_|>

Here is the first film version of Hamlet to come along in modern New York.
The director's use of New York is fun to watch for this native New Yorker,
although how a limo can quickly move
from 42nd St. between Broadway and Eighth Avenue to 48th St.
and
Sixth Avenue is beyond me.

But asisde from that, all we care about when we see Hamlet
is
how is the text handled, by both the director and the cast. The director,
Michael Almereyda, has cut into the script and most of the film runs
surprising lean for something that runs one hour, fifty-three minutes. His
use of short films in the background, speaker phones, TV's and the like run
the gambit from ingeneous to "Give me a BREAK!"

The casting however is inconsitent, for which we can certainly blame the
director. Ethan Hawke, in the title role, has
drive and energy. But if anybody remembers the TV show "The Critic", when
they had Keanu Reeves doing Hamlet, then you know what I'm thinking. The
words "Dude" and "Whoa" seems ready to break into Hawke's speeches at
anytime. The complexity is replaced by a whiny "I'm in pain, but I'm cool"
attitude for the bulk of the film and it doesn't really work. The mumbling
of at least a fourth of his lines doesn't help either. He works better in
silence, brooding.

The silence works even better for Julia Styles as Ophelia. When quiet, the
pain of abandonment and loss is heartfelt. Then she opens her mouth, and
the
lack of a developed character as well as an appalling lack of command of
Shakespeare's words is
obvious. Ophelia, never mind getting thee to a nunnery, get thee "Beverly
Hills, 90210", GO!

Bill Murray veers form earnestness to his Lounge Singer's act from "SNL"
when doing Polonius. I know the role was suppose to be for comic relief.
But
after a while, everything Murray says
is funny- intenionally or otherwise.

Kyle McLaughlin, as Claudius, doesn't fare much better. There is little
distinction in his line readings, and in the end, he just comes off as a
one-trick pony. Diane Verona is marginally
better as Gertrude. The attitude is there, as is the pain,
but
her line readings lack a freshness to them.

The standouts are Sam Sheppard as the Ghost, Steve Zahn and Dechen Thurman
as Rosencrnatz & Guildenstern, and especially
Liev Schrieber as Laertes. Schrieber in paricularly as the energy,
clearity,
and believabilty that makes you wonder what if he played Hamlet instead of
Schrieber. We probably would have had a better movie.
<|_=00=_|>
There has never yet been a Shakespeare movie that took place in the
present day which worked well artistically and aesthetically. In opera,
modern productions frequently work well, but it's harder with
Shakespeare, because he is so poetic that the surroundings need to
reflect it, lest they undermine the poetic integrity. The milieu can't
be pedestrian, and the words can't be casually and mumblingly
delivered. In Almereyda's Hamlet, everything is pedestrian. There are
great actors on hand, but they are never given the opportunity to
shine. There is no depth of either intellect or comedy here (as Stanley
Wells has remarked, Hamlet is the most comical of all the tragedies),
and as others have mentioned it is particularly ironic to cast Bill
Murray in the role of the play's comic relief character and then have
him be serious throughout. Sigh. There is occasional decent acting from
Schreiber, Styles and Venora, but I have nothing good to say about the
rest. They can do much better, but the director must have failed to
inspire them.

The movie is a mess. All right, so it is trying to make some analogous
points about a struggling film-maker, but it doesn't work well. To
replace the medium of the play with the medium of the film as the thing
in which the king's conscience will be caught is not a very interesting
point, as plays and movies are so similar anyway.

There were a couple of things I liked. I liked having the "To be or not
to be" speech in the "Action" aisle of the video store, because that
speech really is much more about action than about death. I also liked
how Julia Stiles made it very apparent that the cause of Ophelia's
madness was her powerful love for him, which he didn't requite. I don't
think this is necessarily the best interpretation of what happens, but
at least it is a clear one.

But a main reason the movie is a mess is that the text is so chopped
up. Omissions are inevitable lest the movie runs 4 hours, but it should
be done with great care. Using the text selectively, and moving it
around, always runs the risk of seriously undermining Shakespeare's
points and messages, and one therefore needs a tremendously detailed
understanding of the text (and its best interpretations) in order to
edit it sensibly. Sadly, Almereyda does not possess such understanding.

The movie is not completely awful; it is watchable, but most things
about it just aren't very good. The characters often don't speak
clearly, which debases (yes, debases!) Shakespeare's language, and the
modern surroundings tend to be dull, dull, dull. Of the twelve
different Hamlets I have seen on DVD, I'm afraid this one is nothing
less than the worst of the lot.

4 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is "Hamlet 2000"..... Yes that's what its called. This is
basically a modernization of the classic William Shakespeare play with
the same title. Sounds like a.....good....idea? Well though it can
definitely get pulled off BUT much like the modern day Romeo and Juliet
the dialogue is identical to the play from 400 years ago. So there is
old English and it doesn't fit at all with the modern day setting. It's
incredibly distracting and unfitting. "Modernizing" all the dialogue
not even a little bit just doesn't work and you better don't give me
the business as a excuse to keep this movie timeless because it's
already 15 years old and incredibly out of date. There are fax
machines, VHS tapes, and hilarious early 2000s outfits scattered out
throughout the movie, it already doesn't hold up.

Unlike the Romeo and Juliet (96) which had a ton of stylized
cinematography and pacing Hamlet 2000 is mundane, grey and not fun to
look at. The setting is in some generic apartment building witch isn't
visually stimulating. Though there is occasional creative shots here
and there, they are far and few between. But to be honest Hamlet 2000
was pretty low budget and it shows its measly 2 million dollar budget
in the lack of visuals and couldn't get close to the epic scale,
beautiful shots, from the Oscar nominated Hamlet 1996

Little skill was used in the directing as most scenes were people
sitting around barely moving. Acting for the most part is wooden and
unconvincing. Half the lines are barely audible and most people speak
in mumble. I felt like the actors had no clue what they were saying. I
barely knew what they were saying. The casting wasn't that good either,
Ethan Hawke as Hamlet; Bill Murray as Polonius? What? That doesn't
sound right and they just phoned in every scene. Julia Stiles's
character Ofelia has a scene where she screams in fear comes off as
unintentionally hilarious because it looked like she didn't care at
all. One take seems like most they ever did and it makes the movies
genre to be a "Thriller" to be underwhelming.

The respect for the source material could be taken as offensive. The
famous "To Be or Not To Be" speech is filmed in a blockbuster while
Ethan Hawke has the goofiest outfit imaginable. Nice product placement
there buddy! Then all of a sudden you see Hamlet 2000 watching the
actual Hamlet on TV? Wh-what?! How does that even work? Just imagine if
its Back to the Future 2 and in it the main characters are seen
watching Back to the Future 1 on television. It shouldn't even be in
the same universe. 

The play Hamlet puts on is changed to a pretentious "The Ring" like VHS
tape though I kind of like that scene. Sound mixing is muffled a bit
though it could've been the VHS copy I was watching. But there was
barely any music in the movie when there was it was incredibly generic.
There's a scene that takes place in a party and the characters are
still mumbling to each other while blaring music is playing. How do
they hear each other? This could be the fault of some mediocre editing
which has some flashbacks or visions that don't really add to the film
at all.

This is one of the shorter Hamlet movies to get released just running
less than 2 hours which is definitely useful if you wanted a quick
summary of the story. And its not a horrible film its definitely
watchable and its pretty innocent experiment. When it was released it
was well received surprisingly reaching a 70/100 on Metacritic it
hasn't aged well however. Hamlet 2000 is still fun to poke at with a
group of people. But still there are tons of other adaptions of Hamlet
that should be checked out like the 1948 and 1996 ones. Hamlet 2000
gets a 4/10
