

The only reason to watch this video is that one of its stars is a BRIARD,
one of the most friendly, intelligent, forceful, and hairy of dog breeds!
They are originally a French breed, but can now be found all over Europe
and
the United States. Your Briard, or other breed of dog, will enjoy watching
this movie too! 
<|_=00=_|>
Not a nail in Chuck Norris' career, as one reviewer put it. I come to
the defense of this nice little film for the strong message it carries.
Anyone who was a fan of "Walker, Texas Ranger" can certainly see the
core values of Chuck Norris in this film. Mister Norris is a man of
great integrity and strong human values. He accepts diversity and from
watching him, tolerates no bigotry at all. That's the message I
appreciated so much in watching top dog, although the vehicle used
could have been better executed. In a world where diversity should be
the rule of the day, and learning from our past a virtue, Mister
Norris, like a lot of us, sees the need to remind people of our past
and what we should strive for in the future. It's one of the reasons I
regularly watched Walker, to see the triumph of good over evil. More
films like this, with a strong message are needed. Film is a medium,
not only to entertain, but to educate us. That education could be for
good or bad. Mister Norris chose the good, and I applaud him for that,
and his integrity.
<|_=00=_|>

Never since ALADDIN (1986, Bud Spencer) has there been a movie on drugs
designed for family audiences young and old. And what makes a "family"
movie? A scrungy old mutt and a boy on a bike! There's more, too! Chuck
Norris gets to have a faithful companion who can outwit and outsmart
terrorist scum! It's got a mass overload of everything your kids would
appreciate! Fiery explosions, handguns, criminal organizations, the Pope,
and bomb threats add more to your viewer-friendly pleasure, and...... I'll
stop right there! Unless you can't handle what's in store in TOP DOG, please
don't pick this one up! The combination of violent action with family-based
material is an outrageous atrocity one will not want to believe. It suffers
miserably on originality and plot, making this your cookie-cutter actioner.
Mommy won't approve this flick to Johnny and Sally, even if it is rated
PG-13! 
<|_=00=_|>
The absolute main problem with this film is that it tries to blend two
different kinds of movies that can't really work together. It tries to
merge the typical cute and family friendly dog movie with the typical
hardcore cop movie that features terrorists, shoot outs, explosions,
and fights. It tries to be a family film and a hardcore action film at
the same time. Can you see how this clashes? This is essentially a
typical Chuck Norris project that tries to add a Beethoven element to
it, and it fails horribly. The side of me that likes action movies
can't enjoy the action because it's trying to be cute, and the side of
me that likes family films can't enjoy because of all the violence.
Sometimes you can put a lighthearted tone and a dark tone in a movie
and make it work, but not when the tones differ this much.

The movie does feature some decent fights by Chuck Norris, and there
were a couple memorable moments, but in the end it's not worth watching
unless you really want to see Chuck Norris in action.
<|_=00=_|>

Both movies, Turner and Hooch and K-9 were good films. Comedies with both a
good story and good actors in the cast. Top Dog is a recycled version of
something trying to market itself to be another K-9 or Turner and Hooch king
of movie. Top Dog lacked a strong actor such as Tom Hanks or great comedy
like in K-9. Chuck Norris, who has done a number of excellent action films
and went off to do a successful television series (Walker: Texas Ranger),
could not hold this film together. For a child's movie, maybe, this film
could be considered something decent, but it failed to find an audience
older than 13. It is obvious that the studios wanted a summer comedy with
some karate style action. What they produced was a mistake.
<|_=00=_|>
A straight-faced comedy in which Chuck Norris is partnered with a dog.
The dog continually gets credit for being a better law enforcement
officer than Chuck is. They battle a white supremacist organization who
are planning a terrorist attack on San Diego.

This is my favorite out of all the buddy-cop dog, action pictures. I
would rather watch this than Turner & Hooch, K-9, or Beethoven, because
it has some great fight scenes and plenty of action.

It also has comedy and is a fun movie to watch. OK, I have to admit
that this is not Chuck's best movie but it is still fun! I have not
been disappointed in any of the Norris movies. Some of them will be
classics in time.

Martial arts and Chuck Norris...what more do you want! 8 out of 10
stars
<|_=00=_|>
(Plot) Reno's (The Dog) partner (Carmine Caridi) gets shot and killed
when he decides to snoop around some terrorists. The duo is replaced by
a moody cop who can't keep his house clean, and doesn't like company
very much. Can Chuck get along with Reno to save everyone from the
baddies?

Lame jokes in the summary aside... This is it. The movie that
officially knocked Chuck off of his throne; he was already beginning to
show cracks with Hellbound, The Hit-man, and a couple others, but this
is the one that did him in. Chuck should have known better to go the
James Belushi route here. I dig Chuck for what he is, but he doesn't
have the funny personality to pull this off. The movie looks and feels
extremely cheap, even though it somehow managed to get a theatrical
release. There isn't a whole lot of action to speak of, other than a
few explosions here and there, and a rather lame shootout & chase scene
at the end. It also has all the antics you would expect from this
movie. The dog steals the show from under Chuck Norris, even though
he's a rather unlikable little thing. The villains have no character to
speak of, and are just there, so Chuck has someone to overcome. I love
action movies, but this just reeked of laziness. Chuck Norris was
always a bit of a risk when it came to his movies, but at least he made
a few good ones. It feels like he's not even trying here. He puts on a
phony tough guy act that I didn't buy for a minute, and effectively put
the final nail in the coffin of his career. 

Final Thoughts: if you wanna see Chuck succumb his standards to James
Belushi's K-9 series, then be my guest. Be prepared to wallow in misery
for most of the duration, though. It's pretty awful stuff. This killed
Norris's action movie career. He does some DTV films once in a while,
and most recently had a glorified cameo in The Expendables II

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Being a huge, lifelong dog fan, I wanted to see this movie when it
originally came out, but unfortunately plans to see it were dashed. 15
years later I finally was able to get a hold of a copy while I was out
shopping at Zellers, and I'm glad I did.

It was what I expected; over the top, with plenty of laughs, and better
than I expected it would be. It very much reminded me of Turner and
Hooch and K9. Even if you aren't a Chuck Norris fan, the brilliantly
trained dog or dogs (often several dogs are used for several behaviours
in shows and movies), is the star of the show and worth seeing it for
Reno alone. It's not too often you see Briards being featured!
<|_=00=_|>
Beware of Top Dog. This movie is ruff. Directed by Aaron Norris, and
starring his brother, martial artist and internet meme badass, Chuck
Norris. The movie tells a cop, Jake Wilder (Chuck Norris), whom is
force to partner with a police dog, Reno; when the dog's handler was
killed by domestic terrorists. Now, Jake and Reno must stop the
domestic terrorists from attacking a conference on unity that the Pope
is attending. Can they stop them, or will the terrorists win out in the
end? Watch the movie to find out! Without spoiling the movie, too much,
I have to say this movie is very unoriginal. It is way too similar to
other buddy cop dog films in the past, like 1989's K-9 and Turner &
Hooch. The movie pretty much used every cop clichés in the book as
well; just really badly. First off, you got the two main characters,
that the film pretty much want the audience to believe, are the odd
couple. Still, surprising, they act, way too similar to each other. In
terms of personality, they tend to follow the same pattern; which is
both, being unpredictable loose cannon that often break the laws that
they are trying to enforce, who often anger, their superior officer,
Ken Callahan (Clyde Kusatsu). Honestly, the movie would have work,
better, if one of them, were the straight-laced stickler for protocol,
the other was the cowboy cop, but no; the movie doesn't do that. First
off, you got a dog that doesn't even look like a police cop, at all. He
looks way too cute, to a tough, believable train police animal. He
looks like he's in the wrong movie. Shouldn't he be herding sheep in
some odd Warner Bros cartoon? One of the biggest problems with Reno is
how quiet, the dog is! Since, he's so inaudible, the movie felt that
the dog scenes needed a little more sound. So, they redub Reno with a
human being. The person doing sound effects for the dog was terrible at
his/her job. Its sounds more, like them, masturbating, oddly than
anything else. I also didn't like the home alone like booty traps that
the dog set up for the bad guys. It really conflict with the rest of
the film. Honestly, I don't know, who is this movie is made for! It
looks like a kid's movie, but the movie does go a little over the top
with the violent with people getting shot in the head, and car
explosions. Many people dying in a bombing at an apartment complex,
doesn't mixed well with goofy slapstick humor of the rest of the film.
Also, the movie has way too racism overtones to be a kid's film.
Anti-semitic rants doesn't match up, with the rest of the corny
childish animal humor. I really hate the whole dog fair montage scene.
It's pretty much filler, since it doesn't advance the story. Very
pointless. It's like they added that scene, because they forgot that
they were trying to make a movie that parents would bring their kids
to. It seem so out of place. Surprising, unlike the other film versions
that has the dog do messy things, the dog isn't the slob, here. It's
Chuck Norris's character. It's really hard to believe that Chuck
Norris's character would be, this lazy, and still be able to kick ass
with Chun Kuk Do. If this was real life, he would have a really hard
time, do roundhouse kicks, due to him, being overweight. The movie does
have alright, fighting scenes, but the slow motion stunts, make it a
bit implausible. The fight with the clowns was somewhat entertaining,
but as much as I love Chuck Norris as an action star; I really don't
know, if the action film's audience would find this interesting. The
movie also have the ill-timing habit of being release, a few days after
the 1995's Oklahoma City Bombing. This, pretty much, kill the movie,
since the movie had a domestic white-supremacist terrorist bombing
plot, going for it. Overall: This roundhouse movie lost its kick. This
movie has no bite to its bark. It's pretty much, didn't live up to the
woof. I don't recommended watching. I guess, I just dog-tired of films
like this.
<|_=00=_|>
I want to spend as little time writing about this as the screenplay
writer did on the movie. So, please bear with me for just a few
seconds.

What you'll find here: animal abuse in front of and behind the scenes,
an adult action trying to disguise itself off as a kiddie/doggie movie,
an incredibly unlikeable "hero," zero chemistry anywhere, poor excuses
for cliché stealing, unintentionally hilarious baddies that didn't even
make the Austin Powers cut and a dog that, after unbelievably saving a
baby from a fire, gets a severe punishment.

This was only viewed by me due to the assume How Did This Get Made?
podcast that covered it. And even if you, too, listen to that, it's
still not recommended. It's just an awful dud with no one on screen to
root for, like or show any depth. Skip it. 

* * *

Final thoughts: Incredibly, a Ron Swanson wrote this movie. Had the
fictional Ron Swanson from Parks & Rec wrote this, I'd probably give it
10/10 stars. At least in that fantasy, it would've been made with
heart.
