

The Ninth Gate is a great film and one of Roman Polanski's most underrated
films. Twenty years from now people will give this film the respect it
deserves and hail it to be the great film that it is. 

Fist of all The Ninth Gate is not an action film. It's a slow-paced
psychological thriller very similar in tone and style to Polanski's earlier
films Chinatown and Frantic. Johnny Depp and Frank Langella both give great
performances. Darius Khondji's photography is amazing and it has an even
more amazing score by Kilar. The majority of the film was shot on location
and is like a guided tour through Europe.

Ignore the negative reviews and comments from people who've been brainwashed
and blinded by the current Hollywood fast-food style of film making with the
intention of only appealing to the lowest common denominator. A review
doesn't make a good film better or a bad film worse. A superb film. Rating
10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

A SPOILER

I was inspired to write this, my first film commentary ever, when I was
reading through those already posted.  It struck me that nobody seemed to
have got who "the girl" (played by Polanski's wife Emmanuelle Seigner) is!
Everybody who mentions her -- and most do -- say she's in the film for no
reason, she keeps appearing and disappearing to no effect, she's never
explained, and that the film would've been much better if Polanski had only
left her on the cutting room floor.

I hope Polanski is getting a kick out of this: the fact that nobody has got
the secret of this, his most recent (and I think brilliant) film.  I hope
he's reached the point in his life and career where he cares more about
making the art he had in mind than he does about whether people are getting
it.

Darlings, "the girl" IS Lucifer!!  It's right out there in plain view.  And
this is the beautiful irony of this movie: that s(he) IS right out there in
plain view, to all these people who are seeking her, and doing all this
stuff to summon her, and she's right there -- which is one of the oft-told
truths about gods and deities throughout time, that they're right there,
right next door to you, and you don't even notice them.  This is the truth
(one of them) that Polanski is putting on screen here.  Witness the scene in
the St. Martin Chateau where "the girl" crosses paths with Mrs. Telfer; look
at the expression on the girl's face; it is ironic and absolutely amused.
And there are more "clues" -- many more.

The girl is the only person in the film with actual supernatural powers.
She floats.  She is always around whenever Lucifer is being discussed.
Although she repeatedly rescues Corso, she has anything but an angelic face.
Her beautiful face has a subtext of evil and corruption.  She anoints Corso
with her blood in an arcane symbol on his forehead!  And -- the giveaway --
when she finally has sex with him, didn't you notice that her eyes turn into
demon eyes? that she morphs into a devil?

This is really a love story.  It is about Lucifer finding a mate  -- the
person s(he) will accept to enter through the Ninth Gate into his/her
kingdom.  You can see how "the girl" is evaluating all the candidates
throughout the film and how s(he) decides on Corso who is, after all,
corrupt from the very beginning and therefore a likely candidate.  Witness
the scene when Corso is beating Pablo to death, pounding him repeatedly on
the face.  "The girl" says "Well, Mr. Corso, I didn't know you had it in
you."  She is obviously pleased with him; she is choosing her mate!!!!  The
reason she keeps rescuing him is because he is the one she's seriously
considering.

Watch the film again.  See if I'm not right.

Anyway, what probably has Polanski laughing is the fact that he managed to
disguise all this so brilliantly simply by making Lucifer a girl.  He's
probably a bit surprised by how completely this simple gender-switch had the
audience totally fooled! If "the girl" had been "the boy" -- an equally
beautiful young man who follows Corso throughout the film -- I'm sure half
the audience would've gotten it.  But nobody, still, can imagine that the
mythic figure of the devil could be female. But of course! The gods are
androgynous; they have to be!

And Polanski adds yet another layer of irony and humor by dressing "the
girl" as a student with different color socks: the most innocent, innocuous,
universal and asexual dress imaginable.  Put yourself in Lucifer's shoes.
Isn't this how you'd disguise yourself, if you were making a visit to earth?
Obviously it is because, if the people who saw this movie are any sample,
nobody would suspect.   
<|_=00=_|>

What I like most about this movie, is that there are new things to be
amazed by everytime one sees it. The first time I watch it, I was
captivated by the music ( and Johnny Depp, gotta love him...) I also
really liked the story and most of the actors' performances. The second
time I watched it I started to pick up on the details, like the
engravings, the real purpose of the mystery woman and the excellent
work on the scenery and lightning. Now, I think I have watched it maybe
7 or 8 times, and it keeps getting better and better. This film is
really has a life of it's on, and a life filled with passion, that is.
It really has it's dark moments as well as uplifting ones. Everyone
should see this movie. Unfortunately, I don't think everyone can't or
won't take the time to just sit down and appreciate it. This isn't an
action movie, the latest Hollywood production or one of those romantic
comedies "everybody" love. Sometimes it's kinda slow, but that's part
of it's charm. Great things doesn't have to be rushed, filled with
explosions and have naked women running around with their breast
flip-flopping all over the scene. This is, one brilliant film and those
who doesn't agree just can't understand it.

<|_=00=_|>

After watching this brilliant masterpiece I came to the conclusion that
Roman Polanski is one of the best directors in the history of the cinema.
The people, who claim that "Ninth Gate" sucks probably don't know or don't
understand his movies. You don't need tons of computer-generated special
effects to make a good movie. "Ninth Gate" is so creatively made in every
technical sense that it will stay in your mind forever. Wonderful music by
Wojciech Kilar, outstanding sets(especially the castle at the end), nice
cast, neat cinematography.  OK,just go and enjoy this treasure.
<|_=00=_|>

This is not a thriller, and that’s a good thing. Instead, this is an
intellectual film about the relationship between the viewer and the
filmmaker. Anyone who knows Polanski, and for that matter many of our best
filmmakers, knows he wonders about what it means to make a real movie, one
that works as art. Which is to say it does more than amaze and
entertain.

This movie is to Polanski as “The Name of the Rose” was to Umberto Eco.
That
was a book about what books aren’t. This is a movie about what movies
aren’t.

Caution, spoilers ahead!

The story is frail -- that’s the point, in fact a little too obvious for my
taste. The book in question has been poured over for over 300 years, with
everyone focused on the text. And that text is completely irrelevant,
disposable, just as the story of the film is. The whole point of the film
is
in its images, the story is deliberately degraded to make the point. (The
images are great: Polanksi working in partnership with
LCR?)

It’s all about abstraction. How could viewers not catch the layers of the
inferno/hosts of angels references?

--at the bottom level, you have the Frenchman who owns the book but isn't
interested except for the beauty of the binding

--then you have the Baroness who has spent her life writing about the devil
and never even considering the pictures, even though she had the best
clue--she SAW him.

--at a higher level, you have Liana Tefler, who knows there’s some power in
the artifact but is still focused on the text (and incidentally
sex)

--higher still you have Balkan who knows the text is worthless, and the
pictures the real value but thinks the magic is in the
pictures

--then you have the two brothers who have the power to tinker with the
power
of the pictures

--finally Corso who we see moving from the bottom of the list to this layer
where he knows the power is not in the pictures themselves, but in the
quest. (At the beginning, the value of the book to him is neither in its
text, nor pictures, but in its binding and rarity.)

--then we have “the girl” who IS the pictures

--and we have the viewer.

This is a cross, four people stacked, the two brothers and then three more
people stacked -- A layering actually used in early 17th century tracts on
the nature of abstraction, which in retrospect are called occult. In fact
it
is the same layering of semiotics outlined by Eco, and much earlier used in
the apprentice novels of Goethe (including Faust, which this story quotes).

That’s nine players, eight levels of consciousness created by the
filmmaker,
each layer tossing aside something. Who is the ninth player, the final
abstractionist? You.
<|_=00=_|>

I just got finished reading some of the other threads that discuss this
movie.  They ranged from the angst ridden youth spouting off about how
there
was no action, to those who truly loved this movie.  I know that this
movie
is practically 5 years old, but this is one of my favorite movies of all
time.  I am an avid horror fan.  I love everything from slasher movies to
the silent films from the 1920's.  I admit, when I saw this movie in the
theater, I was very disappointed.  I think I was expecting some whiz-bang
battle with the devil at the end, and for those of you who've seen this
flick you know that this is not how it ends.  Now, almost 5 years later,
I
own and watch this film very frequently.  Now that I have seen this movie
numerous times, I can appreciate the creepy atmosphere and the deep
storyline.  I have even said to myself "How could they have ended this
movie
differently in a way that I would be completely satisfied (other than the
way they did)?"  I couldn't answer that question.  For those who have
only
seen this once, take the time to watch it again with different
expectations.
I know that there are some who will never like this movie, To each
his/her
own, but I am very glad that I took the time to see this one again
because
as it stands now, it will have a locked spot in my top
10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not so much a movie review (those are done well elsewhere), but
a theory about the ending of the movie and who Corso really represents.

SPOILER ALERT**** I too have enjoyed reading the posts and have come up
with something that I just wanted to throw out there. Corso is a
biblical figure--he is the serpent in the ninth engraving. After all
Corso experiences each of the engravings on his quest, so logically he
would have to experience the ninth engraving as well. Since the woman
in the ninth engraving is "The Girl"--who presumably is the Whore of
Bablyon (a case will be made later on that the whore=Lucifer), the only
person that Corso could be is the beast---which is a subtle but
powerful point of the film/book.

The beast in the engraving has 7 heads which could conceivably
represent the seven deadly sins--(i) pride (ii) envy (iii) gluttony
(iv) lust (v) wrath (vi) greed (vii) sloth--throughout the film Corso
commits each one of these sins, but it is done gradually. The point
being that while everyone is on the lookout for a "beast" or other
terrible creature it could actually just be humanity falling victim to
the sins. When Corso kills the man in the cellar the girl exclaims "I
didn't think you had it in you." This is what sealed his fate as her
chosen one.

Just like "The girl" Polanski puts Corso right out there in front of
everyone to see, but we tend to ignore him and focus on the evils
committed by Boris and Liana. But those people are not who the devil is
interested in, the devil wants people who are consistent and gradual
with their sinning. Corso is perfect as this "everyman." Incidentally
this is why I think "The Girl" represents Lucifer, because she is out
there for everyone to see. All the idiots are busy trying to summon the
Devil but she is right there for everyone to see. (refer to diana 51's
post somewhere here for more on this, she does a great job as do many
others). Just like people are always looking for the sign of the beast
or his return--and tend to lose the forest from the trees (i.e. their
own sins) Incidentally the "whore of Babylon" symbolism is apt because,
just as a whore is a servant, she can become a master. just like the
girl in the movie--she "served" Corso at many points but she also made
it clear who was boss (i.e. when she twisted his arm after he grabbed
her in the hotel lobby and when she held him back from saving Liana
from Boris).

More generally Whores are there to offer immediate gratification, but
many men have fallen victim to manipulation and have ruined their lives
in pursuit of a whore. (This argument is not meant to limit whore to
just male/female, a whore presumably offers immediate gratification,
thus it is more beneficial to think of a whore as anyone who offers the
quick fix--which is the Devil for all intents and purposes). However in
order to obtain that quick fix how many of the seven deadly sins must a
person commit?Chances are that a few transgressions would normally be
in order.

The reason that "The girl"/Lucifer picks Corso out of all the other
evil people is because he doesn't commit the sins all at once for the
quick fix. He starts out his quest purely for greed, and a long the way
commits each sin as he sees fit or just for the hell of it (i.e.
sleeping with Liana even though he had no intention of giving her the
book; accepting another "zero" to the paycheck even though a friend of
his was killed; not caring about getting paid by Boris at the end--he
wants the engravings). Finally when he realizes the power that is at
stake he is willing to make the ultimate jump to wrath (first he kills
the guy in the cellar and then he kills Balkan when on fire). BUT both
times he didn't need to kill those people, he could have left Liana's
helper knocked out and he could have let Boris burn to death, but he
just wanted to kill them out of anger (contrast this to Boris who
killed for the pages in the book--and killed Liana so that she would
stop bothering him). Gradual decent into evil and darkness is what
endeared Corso to Lucifer/"The Girl" and that is why he came to Corso
in the form of a woman and helped him along his path. Ultimately you
become one with the devil when you commit all seven deadly sins because
that is the power that humans have--to choose between good and evil.
That is symbolized by the ninth engraving with the woman "riding" the
seven deadly sins--and thus unlocking the gate into the Kingdom of
Shadows.

(Because the word limit is set at a 1000 for comments, this post is not
able to discuss some other interesting points that are brought up by
others. There are some who believe that Corso is not evil at all, or
rather that he has no choice in his path (i.e. he attempted to save
Liana and he shot Boris out of compassion). I attempt to give my take
on that in a post located at
http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0142688/board/nest/41792586 (May 4, 2006 @
11:04), but it's meant to be a complement to this post). Please forgive
any repetitions. The variation in interpretations of this movie only
reinforce the fact that it is a unique cinematic gem.
<|_=00=_|>
What makes this movie rather unique in this day-and-age is to see a
horror- occult movie that has very little action. That may turn off a
lot of modern-day viewers and critics but I thought it was
refreshing.....as long as the story could still keep one's attention,
which it did. It also did it with a pretty long movie: 133 minutes. I
have played this movie several times for friends and no one has gotten
bored.

The attraction is (1) decent acting; (2) some great sets; (3) an
involving story; (4) interesting characters and (5) low profanity.

What keeps most viewers interested is simply wondering what is going to
happen next in "Dean Corso's" (Johnny Depp) quest to figure out the
hidden message. Without giving anything away, this is a classy, solid
thriller.....and more importantly, fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Johnny Depp is perfect as an acerbic, bookish, cynical, morally corrupt
book dealer. There is a great cast of occultist characters who are way
over the top and enjoyable all the way. Frank Langella as a giant,
power hungry cult leader and Lena Olin as an evil she-devil woman are
superb. The script is perfect, and every line has meaning and
resonance. The director does a good job at allowing the viewer to
experience the mystery contained in those old books first-hand. I think
the filmmaker had a vision, didn't compromise and made the exact film
he wanted to make. It is a mature, ugly, interesting film with a lot of
class but it probably won't be enjoyed by a lot of people out there.
<|_=00=_|>

Granted, I'm slightly biased since I happen to love Mr. Polanski's work, but
this film was really good. It kind of
built in a slow, very menacing way and had an intelligent
plot, only fully concluded until you're out of the cinema. As usual with the
demanding master, the performances are first class, specially Langella and
Depp. Here comes a brief summary of the highlights in my
opinion:

Brilliant cinematography by the talented Darius Khondji
(of
Se7en fame).

The most original title sequence I've seen this side of
Bond.

Also listen closely to Wojchiech Kilars (of Dracula fame) absolutely
brilliant score. So light, and yet so heavy and
menacing. Very un-Hollywood.

It definetly puts Polanski back into the game again. Now
if
they'd only let him back into the states so we could get

a new Chinatown.....
