
I cannot understand why the ratings and comments on this movie are as
mediocre to poor as they are. This was a fun movie. Sure, it's a bit
silly and it plays with history and facts but it's essentially just fun
and harmless yet fast moving and entertaining. Does every movie have to
be The English Patient? Alec Baldwin and Kim Basinger do a really good
job of lite hearted comedy about a couple that keeps finding each
other, over and over again! Baldwin's pals, Paul Reiser, Fisher
Stevens, Peter Dobson, and Steve Hytner, are great support players as
they are funny and engaging about the trials and tribulations of this
love affair.

Robert Logia is terrific as Baldwin's ex-fiancé's father, a power
broker in Hollywood hell bent on destroying Baldwin's characters life
after he jilts not once but TWICE his daughter played by Elizabeth
Shue. But in many ways it is Armand Assante who steals the movie with
his portrayal of Bugsy Siegel. Assante is so controlled and smooth, yet
so believable as a cold blooded gangster/killer. He plays the role with
a true sense of comedic timing.

The cast is first rate, the movie has some good twists and turns, and
it'll go by quickly which every good movie will do. I liked it and I'm
betting if you like lite hearted comedy you'll like it too.
<|_=00=_|>
There is love and there is hot, Charlie and Vicki had both, why is this
so amazing? A myriad of reasons, so let's attempt to make the necessary
detachment! Love is trust, mutual understanding, mutual respect and
spiritual growth. Sex is fantasy, illusion, degrading escapism and some
other kind of growth (guess what?). The film "Marrying Man" delves into
the painstaking dichotomy of what a marriage should be, and what men
really want out of it. The creative itemization to this movie is
marvelous! All of the circumstances in this movie make love and hot the
overt culprits to virtually all of Charlie's (Alek Baldwin) problems.
The genre of this film evokes a tremendous wealth of humor which is
based on the fact that a nefariously candid handful of guys are
afflicted by their relentlessly sordid human nature! The entire movie
appealed to me: Taking place in the fifties, the events of this era
accommodated an auspicious camaraderie with the cavalier demeanor of
this film! This movie was full of mildly lewd behavior which reflected
the naivety of the times! Another stellar aspect to this flick was, of
course, the given factual detail that Kim Bassinger looked utterly
gorgeous!!. Neil Simon directs this movie, and, it surprises me how Mr
Egalitarian Liberal of the Seventies, (Neil Simon) can be so flippant
about this film's insinuated sexist wiles of chicanery, kidding or
otherwise!! The music accommodated the pace of this film, and the
acting was incredibly believable. People might say, "You are suppose to
take a driver's license test four times if you have to, you are not
suppose to marry the same woman four times". To which I say, "Marrying
the same woman four times, "Can Do!!"
<|_=00=_|>
This is the movie where Alec Balwin and Kim Baisinger fall in love, FOR
REAL! Their chemistry is potent and obvious... and they were married
shortly after!

Yes, it's very funny in places, a tribute to human emotional insanity
under the influence of love... and OH so true.

Largely, to my mind, because of the REAL emotions between the main
characters (they WEREN'T acting) it was fantastic. Alec is the
quintessential male victim of love - totally illogical and totally
devoted to the female who's totally seduced him. And she comes to
believe a man willing to die for her is better than the meal ticket
she's got in the mob guy... to everyone's detriment.

Watch it again, people, appreciating it's relation to actual history...
<|_=00=_|>
'The Marrying Man' is one of the most underrated Kim Basinger-movie of
them all. I have to admit that it's one of my favorite ones. I'm not a
person of romantic comedies, but if there's a real beauty goddess in it
(like Kim) who makes the whole plot sexier it's really worth to see it.
The film is a typical classic-type Hollywood-movie with the sweaty plot
of an operetta. The acting is great, the pictures are so colorful and
Kim shines like Rita Hayworth in 'Gilda' when she sings the hit songs
of Cole Porter and co. Those people who thinks that these kinds of
movies are silly have to understand that people of this world needs
these nice tales. It's a very professional kind of entertaining with
glamorous stars. Kim is a great singer! 'Let's Do It-Let's Fall in
Love'...with her.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like Damon Runyon (obviously, Neil Simon does!), it's a probable
12 to 7 that you will LOVE this movie. Sets are fabulous depiction of
"old Las Vegas" as are costumes. Because of the period depiction, this
movie is more entertaining now than when it was released in 1991.
Almost as good as "Let it Ride" (Richard Dryfus).

If you are looking for reality, you won't find it here. But what you
will find is clever (remember, Neil Simon wrote it), good acting, and
GREAT singing by Kim Basinger (I didn't know she could do that!)and
absolutely fabulous narration by I don't even know who. The morning
line on this movie may have been 5 to 2 but it closed an odds on
favorite in my book.
<|_=00=_|>

Look I admit its not the greatest ever made but I enjoyed it alot. It does
not really do much wrong except maybe take the idea a bit far to be
believable but look it beats an action movie. I wish they had made better
charactors who were more believeable but that would have risked making it
less funny. I remember though most clearly on of the lines from the movie
which really stood out and was hilarious and is still everytime I think
about it. Alex Baldwin is getting beaten up and thrown round a room by this
hotshot rich guy who he really does not like and he gets thrown into a
cupboard totally destroying the room and he is busy of all things handing
out insults to his aggressor. The best of which is: "that suit...it looks
like the lining to a better suit"
<|_=00=_|>

I didn't know the writing credits were on Neil Simon. And me and my wife
saw
the movie enjoying every line of the text. We're great admirers of
Mr.Simon,
who created the leading style in good American comedies humour. The
Marrying
Man is an invitation to find the right person in our lives. That person
that
awakes our most passionate side, the one which worth to live. Okay, I'm
becoming a little dramatic, but my wife and I, we know (thanks God...and
us)
what true love can do with your life, for better!
It's a great movie, plenty of meanings. Watch it twice!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie purports to be based on a real couple. Probably the real couple
was more interesting and complex, but surely not as attractive. I generally
have problems with Baldwin and Basinger -- normally I find them both rather
cold. That's not true in this movie though, perhaps because they were (I've
read) having a torrid affair during the filming. In any event, there is
real
electricity between them, and I like the period atmosphere. I also like the
sort of "Disney-fied feel" the movie has; they have filtered out all of the
messy parts of reality and made everything comprehensible. It's fake, but
it's an appealing fake. 
<|_=00=_|>
It is difficult to review "movies of childhood" - on the one hand, in
the memory preserved delight from seeing it two decades ago; on the
other hand, you know that you have changed and what was once so loved,
now may be disappointing. Moreover, if you've read devastating
criticism on IMDb or Rotten Tomatoes and paid attention to the movie's
low rating and its failure at the box office, you'll seriously doubt
the wisdom of messing up your vivid impressions of childhood.

But here you have some free time, and while not expecting anything
special, except for the romantic comedy with still young Baldwin and
Basinger, you launch The Marrying Man.

Then unexpectedly in addition to the fun romantic story, you find
clever humour and excellent Neil Simon's dialogues, psychologically
credible analysis of relationships' problems, beautiful songs from the
1950s performed by Kim and perfectly conveyed elegance of the "golden
age."

Although "The Marrying Man" in its own is a fairy-tale (probably
because of this you've fell in love with this movie as a child), it is
absolutely not for children. The movie's fabulousness, imperceptibly
"catchy" to many is apparently equally repulsive to others. This
fabulousness manifested not only in the glamorous beauty of
Baldwin-Basinger pair, but also in the inescapable optimistic
narrative, desire and ability of the main protagonists to forgive and
to give each other more and more chances despite appearing would be
hopelessly damaged relationships. Of course, in real life it seems
unreal. And if it happens, it is extremely rare. But many would like to
believe in a fabulous chance to correct the irreparable: to return
passion, which was extinguished in the routine of life, to restore
marriage, ruined by husband's workaholism and negligence, to start over
and fall into another flaw when husband loses his self-esteem, when
recriminations and resentment for lost opportunities seem
insurmountable, still to forgive and to try again from the scratch,
taking into account all the experienced mistakes - with mutual respect,
love and support. And characters are giving these forgiveness and new
opportunities to each other - a fairy tale, in which you secretly want
to believe.

In this fairy tale with beautiful people, great music, stylish
atmosphere, clever dialogues, good humour and adult problems,
protagonists, despite all of life's disasters and deep resentment,
still eager to find mutual support and love, friends remain loyal, and
the story's ending, as a reward for all experienced, is optimistic. The
Marrying Man is a good movie for those who have not forgotten how to
believe in the beautiful fairy tales.

10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Whether you'd admit it or not, I don't believe that anyone watched this
movie and didn't enjoy it. It talks to our basic instincts in a very
honest way. I mean ain't we all looking for this undying passion? You
look at them (Alec and Kim) in this movie and you can believe that this
kind of passion can be found but you need to be lucky enough to be
mutual. For we all know that we sometimes meet people and have such
feelings for them and they don't exchange it back or vice versa.

The movie has so funny scenes and Baldwin is so funny as well. Kim is
so charming and the whole movie would push you towards finding this
kind of coupling.
