
A researcher at Chicago's National History Museum returns from South
America with some crates containing his findings. When the crates
arrive at the museum without the owner there appears to be very little
inside. However, police discover gruesome murders on the cargo ship
that brought the crates to the US and then another murder in the museum
itself. Investigating the murders is Lt. Vincent D'Agosta who enlists
the help of Dr. Margo Green at the museum - she has taken an interest
in the contents of her colleague's crates. Unknown to both there is a
large creature roaming the museum which is gearing itself up for a
benefit reception which the city's mayor is to attend. A horrific
monster, haunting the lower-levels of the museum, shows up uninvited.
Peter Hyam's "The relic" is a atmospheric, sinister, dark horror movie
that scared the hell out of me! I loved the book and the films just as
good. There's lots of gory decapitations and the creature effects from
Stan Winston studios are beautifully done. A dark work of art, not some
crappy "Monster-on-the-loose" film many have called it. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I am not a big fan of these types of movies, but I have to say I was
reasonably entertained for the most part(Admittedly, I watched this on TV,
which could increase my tolerance level, but then again I saw JADE on TV as
well).  It sets things up nicely before the chase, it doesn't throw in a
romantic angle just for the sake of throwing it in, the two leads, Penelope
Ann Miller(remember when she was in big movies?) and Tom Sizemore, are both
good, and once the chase starts, it's gripping.  Admittedly, there are some
flaws; having read the novel first, I knew how the creature came to be,
which robbed some suspense(and while I appreciate that they had to take a
shortcut to explain things, this was a little TOO short), while the
photography needed to be dark, it was too dark at times, and Miller's
colleague Greg(I forget the actor's name) veered uncomfortably close to
stereotype.  Still, this was an entertaining time-waster.
<|_=00=_|>

Folks complain about the fact that this movie lacks realism on the
technical
side of things.  Supercomputers and bio-jargon are all over the place in
this movie.  That's all true.

However, I do not watch movies for education.  I watch them for
entertainment.  This movie scared me silly, and *that's* why I give the
film
an 8.  It had some cheesiness - including the computer junk - so it doesn't
rate a ten, but it was certainly a pretty darn good horror
flick.

One great thing about it is that they knew where and how to end it.  They
brought the story to a close before you got bored with the monster.  Kudos
to the writers for making it fearsome all the way to the end, and also to
Tom Sizemore for doing a great job with his character.  He's a pretty
believable cop.

Find a friend with a big TV and watch this thing in the dark with a cute
girl.  You won't be disappointed if you're looking for a good story with a
good scare.  It ain't Shakespeare, but it's definitely worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>

When a shipment of artefacts returns to America from South America the
police find decapitated bodies on board the ship.  When a similar murder
occurs in the Chicago museum Lt D'Agosta suspects a psychotic killer and
shuts down the museum.  With political pressures to keep the museum open for
an `opening gala' for Chicago's rich and famous, D'Agosta is forced to give
way but sets the place up with a police presence to deal with any trouble. 
Meanwhile scientist Margo Green suspects that an empty crate of mysterious
leaves may have been more than just that and examines the potential that a
virus on the leaves caused some sort of creature to evolve.  When the same
`evolution' attacks during the gala setting off the security alarms and
locking down the museum it becomes a fight for survival and
escape.

When this came out in the cinema I felt that that was not the best place to
see a film like this and decided to wait for video or TV.  I finally saw it
on TV last night and feel that my gut feeling was right – the small screen
is the best place to see this film.  At a cinema you may have higher
expectations than you would if you watched it in the comfort of your own
home on a lazy Saturday night and that might have hurt this film because
honestly it's not that good a film.  However as a video you perhaps have a
lower expectation and then this film is a nice little surprise.

It is without it's own style or ideas but it is an effective monster movie
which, in a nutshell, is really what it is.  The film follows the
traditional formula of all these types of things – monster loose, location
sealed or remote, characters separated and picked off in the order you
expect until the hero gets the better of it.  In that sense this is without
any new ideas but and doesn't shine on the plot front but it is an effective
little movie.  Not particularly scary but more gore than I expected and the
film manages to keep the beast frightening by keeping it in the shadows for
the majority – even after we've seen it, it is still shot in darkness.  In
fact the way the film is moved into darkness adds to the tension and makes
it more exciting.  Of course it isn't fantastic but it does do what you
expect a monster movie to do, which is my point.  It's main weakness is that
it plays it very straight (although the mood made by the darkness helps
this) many monster movies have successfully gone more tongue in cheek and
done well (Deep Rising from the same period comes to mind.  However, having
gone the straight road the film does stick to it well despite a very
unlikely explanation for the beast.

The cast are par for the course with this type of film – no big stars but
support cast given bigger roles.  Sizemore is on good form and is at home in
the lead of this type of film, I doubt he could carry a blockbuster but he
is good.  Miller has done better films and she is OK, sadly she is lumbered
with all the science stuff and isn't as impacting until near the end.  To
contrast the two characters there was a 20 minute spell in the middle where
both Sizemore and Miller are absent from the action (in different areas) – I
noticed Sizemore's absent but it wasn't until Miller came back that I
noticed she was gone.  The rest of the cast are the usual monster food and
you can almost predict who will live and die without 30 seconds of them
being introduced – selfish arrogant scientist? How long do you think he'll
last!?

Despite this and other clichés the film is good enough to watch as long as
you know what you are getting – it is certainly better than a lot of the
creature feature movies you can get at your video store and the mood
produced by the director in all that darkness helps it along nicely.  Not
great but better than average for the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked this film, as much for what went unsaid as for what was.
The film gives us some odd ideas concerning characterizations.

For example, Detective Vincent D'Agosta (Tom Sizemore) is a VERY
superstitious policeman. He obviously believes that old-fashioned good
luck plays a major role in life- witness his response to the idea of
stepping over a corpse ("Don't step over it! It's bad luck!") and the
importance to which he attributes the position of a dropped penny
(Face-up or Face-down.) And indeed, luck DOES play a major role for
him: he enters the security control room just AFTER the two guards on
duty have been killed and the monster has departed; when he runs after
Brantley in the tunnels he finds the creature's lair and the
decapitated body of Brantley just AFTER the Kathoga has headed upstairs
for a snack.

I also like the characterization of the Kathoga. Unlike the Alien in
ALIEN, the Kathoga doesn't seem interested in killing anything for the
hell of it. It kills the humans for the hormones it needs to live, and
it kills the first of two dogs (we don't see it, but obviously the dog
attacked it, hence its response was quite normal.) When the other dog
whimpers and cowers against a wall, the Kathoga stops momentarily to
look at it, but since the dog doesn't possess the necessary hormones
and isn't attacking, the creature moves on.

On to special effects. I liked them, too. The attack sequence in which
the beast makes a standing leap at the SWAT man on the rappelling line,
soars in a perfect arc through the air and brings the guy down is a
great visual piece. The monster itself was very well animated.

One more thing: in most older horror films where someone ships
something, the item sent causes some sort of havoc once it reaches its
destination; in this film the item shipped provides the key to what the
creature is and how it became what it was.

I think this is worth the time of anyone who likes a good,
old-fashioned monster movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This one is my favorite of all monster movies. It has the perfect
violence and gore. As the monster itself. Before I bought this movie I
checked out some comments at IMDb, and they where pretty good. So I
spent my savings on it, and when I got home I saw it alone at night. I
jumped a few times, specially on the see where we see for the first
time the monster attacking. The story is awesome and imaginative, like
the ancient relic and the lost tribe that makes a drink with some
leaves that further in the film we see that those leaves carry a red
fungus that contain lots of different animal hormones. He drinks the
drink, and starts to feel strange, and later he transforms into a
creature that needs those leaves with the fungus to survive. If he
doesn't has the leaves he rips off peoples heads and eats its
hipotalamus(part of the brain)that contain the same hormones. Then the
monster goes to the coal tunnels and reaches the museum, and strange
murders happen in the museum. The special efx are good as so the
mechanical beast. Tom Sizemore has a good role playing detective
"Vincent D'Agosta", so as Penelope Ann Miller playing Biologist Margo
Green. Both acting and dialogue is very good. And I truly recommend
this one if you are a "monster" movie lover like me.

I give this one 9 stars. Enjoy it if you dare see this movie.

<|_=00=_|>

Overall I liked this movie until I read half the reviews--done before,
simplistic, not realistic, etc.  It is not a GREAT sci fi movie, but it is
not as ridiculous as most of the genre.  Best feature is that none of the
major characters behave idiotically to further the plot.  One never feels
compelled to yell "Turn around, stupid!" or "No. Don't go into the basement
alone!" or "Please turn on the lights!" or (to the heroine) "Don't you
remember it's invulnerable to bullets?"  The heroine is afraid throughout
the movie (shouldn't she be?), but is she irrational at any time?  The
curmudgeonly, wheelchair-bound senior researcher is trapped on an upper
floor, but does he emerge at the end from his place of hiding behind the
computer console?  The detective is disbelieving at first, but does he
obstruct and endanger in the end?  The science may be unbelievable (it's
like finding a mummy curse) and that prevents this from being a great sci
fi, but the behavior of the characters seems authentic (researchers who know
their environment) and that is this movie's major strength.

<|_=00=_|>
The reason why films with huge monsters are so worn-out nowadays is
because we have seen so many of these menaces since the 50's that we
hardly find believable that someone runs or screams if he or she knows
that a big monster is on the rampage. The Relic fixes that matter with
a clever idea; the characters don't really know what they are facing.
This was what made great all the monster movies in the past.

Peter Hyams with The Relic delivers the necessary amount of scares and
also generates some real suspense, and construct the ambient of museums
and archeology correctly.

Both Tom Sizemore and Penelope Ann Miller are great here, and it is a
real mature detail that the script doesn't force a romantic involvement
between them. This kind of details may appear to be useless but they
actually allow the scriptwriters to be more creative. In that aspect
Vincent D'Agosta (Sizemore) is really an unusual hero, plenty of flaws
he certainly is not the all-ready for action cop we'll expect, and Dr.
Margo Green (Miller) is the same case but as sidekick.

The movie doesn't let the viewer take a breath, and has some unexpected
revelation and some well achieved gory moments but not abusive. A
sample of what were monster movies before the coming of things like
Anaconda and its clones.
<|_=00=_|>

The Relic has had some harsh reviews from a number of people. But I must
say
what a good film it was. The film takes horror movies back to the way they
are best. It left film fans with a sense of what a horror film is all
about. The cast of Penelope Ann Miller and Tom Sizemore carry the film to
a
point that you are on the edge of your seat. The effects are some of the
best I have seen in a long time. When I came out of the film, I was hoping
they will do the next book but it does not look like it.
If you do like to see a horror film that makes you look over your shoulder
when you go in the basement when see this.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of these movies where you don't expect much, just another crude
horror mix. But if you watch it you will be pleasently surprised. It is not
a bad movie. In fact it's very good, and more of a thriller really than a
horror film. The story is well told (D Preston and L Child did a great job
in putting their marvellous novel on screen) and although obviously a lot
shorter than the book none of the important elements are
missing.
Especially in the beginning you might get the impression that P Hyams is
more concerned with the camera work than the actual directing but as the
movie continues these thoughts become secondary - together with an
interesting cast he achieves to make the movie as good as possible,
considering it's obvious limits.
Another thing that I was very impressed with were the special effects.
There
aren't many but the ones they have are great. Especially with FX I tend to
believe less is more. Instead of spending their money on lots of crudely
made effects the makers of this movie keep you in suspense until they
unleash their monster.
Well done - go and see it (and read the books - The Relic and
Reliquary)
