
Well, it may not be everyone's cup of tea and it certainly has it's
flaws - but for me at least, Fortress is one of the most fun B-movies
released in the nineties, and that's no surprise considering it's
helmed by the great Stuart Gordon! One of the main reasons why Fortress
works so well is because it puts its focus in one place and every
imaginative element of the film goes towards furthering the central
plot. The title refers to the impregnable privately owned prison of the
title. We are introduced to this penitentiary and its various pitfalls
right from the start and while it's not hard to see where the film is
going to go, it does at least make you wonder how it's going to get
there. The central characters are John and Karen Brennick - a couple
sent to the Fortress after she becomes pregnant with a second child,
thus breaking a futuristic population control law. However, John isn't
happy to just rot away in jail, and despite the numerous pitfalls that
makes the Fortress escape proof - along with his fellow prisoners, he
plots to escape with his wife.

The basis of Fortress is your classic prison escape movie, the only
difference being the prison at the centre of the tale. The Fortress
itself is certainly made good use of as the inventive methods in place
to stop the prisoners escaping are constantly kept at the forefront of
the audience's mind. The film really is never boring for a minute; if
there isn't something directly going on in the movie then Gordon is
using the time to build up the situation that the prisoners find
themselves in. The film features a good B-movie cast, with 'Highlander'
Christopher Lambert taking the lead role. Lambert is hardly a great
actor, but he at least looks the part and his athleticism serves him
well. Loryn Locklin isn't given much to do as the leading lady, but the
rest of the support cast includes the likes of Lincoln Kilpatrick,
Vernon Wells (who, coincidently, was also in the 1986 Australian movie
of the same title!) and Jeffrey Combs, who is just great as always.
Kurtwood Smith is probably the biggest standout, however, as the
maniacal head of the Fortress. This film really features everything you
could ever want from a B-movie - constant action, imagination and some
hilarious performances. It all boils down to a suitably over the top
climax and while this might not be the best film ever made - its one
hell of a lot of fun and I certainly recommend it!
<|_=00=_|>

I won't mince words. I love Fortress.

If technology ever produces a prison where inmates are held in line by
golfball size explosives/electro-shock units imbedded in their intestines,
it may look something like this...(how the poo gets around the device is
never discussed ; ) )

In my opinion, it is more fun than any other Christophe(r) Lambert film
when
appreciated with  the correct level of expectations. If I had paid $7.50
to
see a movie like this at theater, I'd be a bit let down, but having split
a
two dollar rental fee amongst friends, I was more than happy to watch, in
fact I believe I watched it twice that first time I rented it. Then it
began
to grow on me. I would definitely go see this at a film show now, but this
movie is an acquired taste, to be sure. I've had to show this to a lot of
people over the years and have recently acquired the latest DVD version,
and
I am waiting to get the out of print Sony issue in widescreen soon! But of
course, I have never spent more than ten bucks in my life towards this
film,
renting and owning included, if you find it for five bucks, buy
it.

Highlander fans, Kurtwood Smith Fans, Battlestar Galactica Fans, all
should
take a look at this Camp Classic.

RANDOM INTESTINATION!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
In the Grim Future on 2017... When the planet is been overpopulated and
crimes has been rising. One of the new laws states that a couple are
allowed to have one child now, even if the new born baby dies at birth.
When John Brenneck (Christopher Lambert) and his wife Karen (Loryn
Locklin) broken the law, when his wife finds himself pregnant after
losing their first child at birth. When John's wife escapes from the
U.S. Border, John finds himself sent in Prison for over 30 years. But
this "Fortress" is controlled by a cold hearted if odd Prison Warden
Poe (Kurtwood Smith). This prison is very strict, inmate's are
controlled by a small explosive devices that are blasted into the
digestive system via the throat and robotic controlled security devices
that could look into the inmates dreams. Now John and other prisoners
(Clifton Collins Jr., Jeffery Combs, Lincoln Kilpartick & Tom Towles)
tires to find other ways to escape the Fortress but John finds out that
his pregnant wife is captured and is kept in Poe's working area.

Directed by Stuart Gordon (Edmond, Re-Animator, Stuck) made an
entertaining high concept low-budget Science Fiction adventure. This is
probably the biggest budget that the independent filmmaker Gordon had
to work with at $12 Million. Which it was originally going to be a
bigger budgeted movie if Arnold Schwarzenegger was cast in the lead but
Schwarzenegger went on to do "True Lies" instead. The actors gives good
performances (especially Smith) and the feature has some fascinating
ideas. 

This is update from March 25, 2013 for the Blu-ray. Blu-ray from Echo
Bridge has an pretty good anamorphic Widescreen (1.78:1) transfer and
an fine DTS 2.0 HD Sound. There is no special features from this
Blu-ray.

"Fortress" was an box office disappointment, when it was first released
in the fall of 1993. But the feature was an international success and
the sequel was produced (It was watchable but poorly produced sequel).
This is One of Gordon's best movies and it's certainly worth seeing.
(****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>

Well, here we have another brilliant Christopher Lambert movie but once
again it's very underrated. Lambert stars as John Brennick he is an innocent
prisoner in a futuristic high-tech prison trying to escape with his wife,
there's lots of special effects and blood and guts in this fantastic film.
The acting is very good, even though I haven't heard of them apart from
Lambert. If you've seen "Lock-Up" starring Stallone, you'll love
this!

Overall a brilliant and very entertaining movie, with some surprises in it.
My advice is to see this movie, it's good!

Jonathan Horner.
<|_=00=_|>

Its about a totalitarian society where people only have one chance at
having
a kid.  They have this futuristic super max, with these ingestible
detectors, and a computer mainframe warden.  This film is great, watch for
the scene with the d day computer virus, it is a classic.  The character
development, and acting is decent.  Worth renting, I love this film.

<|_=00=_|>

Stuart Gordon began his career as a director with Re-Animator, a classic
horror comedy that has a huge cult status and deservedly so. Fortress was
his first entry to non-horror oriented field, even though Fortress still has
many horror elements, too. Christopher Lambert plays a military officer in
the near future, where it is allowed to have only one child per couple. He
and his wife broke that order and they are sentenced to high security modern
prison Fortress, set in the middle of desert. There are many inmates there
and everyone wants to get out, but if someone breaks the rules, the
punishment will be death or torture by the sadistic boss and
wardens..

This was surprisingly great film, and Gordon did fine job with the film. It
was filmed entirely in Australia and the film was first big budget movie for
Gordon. He said that he wanted to do a sci-fi action film with brains, too,
and that he wanted to discuss some topical issues with his film. These
issues are over population and alarming/scary development of technology, and
even though the film is not too deep or philosophical, it has these aspects
of commentary about society and our everyday world, and what it should not
be. This is not as satiric or intelligent as Paul Verhoeven's Robocop, for
instance, but still it is little more than just average blast 'em action
film set in the future. 

The settings are very great and technically this film is fantastic as there
are no flaws in camera use and editing. This reminded me little bit of
Robocop's future cities, and both films are marvelously staged. The action
is plenty and it is exciting and professionally done and shot. Occasionally
the film reminded me also of Paul Anderson's Soldier, the non-stop action
mayhem film starring Kurt Russell. Christopher Lambert is not as multi
leveled actor as possible, but still he has certain kind of charisma and he
is easy to watch in his films. Kurtwood Smith played the bad guy in Robocop,
and he plays bad guy in Fortress, too, but not as NEAR as bad as in
Robocop's manic performance.

Due to the film's violence and fierce moments, this is pretty close to Paul
Verhoeven's style of making action films, as couple of scenes are very
violent and almost too violent for this kind of mainstream production, and
as far as I know, this had to be trimmed by two violent scenes to get the R
rating in US, and this slightly cut version has been released also on DVD in
US and Europe. I saw the uncut version on VHS and there are couple of
over-the-top bloody shootings and two gory stomach explosions, of which the
second is VERY gory. It is easy to see the film is directed by the man
behind the hilariously ultra gory Re-Animator. The violence in Fortress
isn't funny in the tradition of Re-Animator; It is serious because the film
itself is serious, not the kind of half comedy like Re-Animator.

The film is perhaps little too slow moving in the middle part but for most
of the time, this works fine and pleased me very much, and proves the talent
of Gordon in other genres than horror, too. I give this 7/10 rating and
recommend this to anyone interested in sci-fi and action cinema. It's not a
masterpiece but still very noteworthy piece of 90's science fiction and
action cinema.
<|_=00=_|>

Fortress is a very underrated sic-fi/action movie made in the early
nineties
by Stuart Gordon (the maker of re-animator/from beyond/dagon). The story
is
your standard prison movie formula, only it's set in the future.

The best thing about this film is the suspense of the action sequences.
There were several scenes in the movie that literally had me talking to
the
TV. Nice performances by Jeffery Combs(as a very amusing computer geek
type)and Christopher Lambert are a big plus. Kurtwood smith is also great
as
the prison director.

At the time it was released I was impressed with this film and over time
my
affection for it has grown (it continues to entertain even after  seeing
it
several times). The main flaws would be the predictability of the plot
and
some cliché characters, but it's all handled so well that it doesn't
really
hurt the movie.

It's a good popcorn action movie, and one of my favorite Stuart Gordon
Films. In my opinion, this is probably Gordons Second best film, after
re-animator.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie has it all blood and gore, romance, and a lot of butt kicking
action. I like this movie because it not only has a great story line but
also stars one of my favorite  actors (Christopher Lambert). Fortress is a
must-see movie. 
<|_=00=_|>
"Fortress" is mostly routine, but enjoyable, futuristic sci-fi from
director Stuart Gordon (of "Re-Animator" and "From Beyond" fame). It
has an excellent cast of familiar faces that make the most out of what
they've got, especially Kurtwood Smith ("RoboCop", 'That 70s Show').
There are acceptable levels of violence and gore, the production design
and lighting are adequate, and Gordon does a very fine job with pacing
and energy level. The producers originally wanted Arnold Schwarzenegger
as the star, but he went on to do "True Lies" instead (it was Ah-nuld
that suggested Gordon as the director of this feature).

Some interesting ideas are present in this tale of a husband and wife,
John and Karen (Christopher Lambert and Loryn Locklin) who are
expecting their second child, despite the fact that the law now forbids
couples from having more than one kid. (They tried again because the
first child was born dead.) They're caught and sentenced to do time at
the "Fortress", a massive, multi leveled high tech prison. It's run by
your standard issue sadistic warden, a man named Poe (Mr. Smith). John,
forced into an overcrowded cell, makes plans with his cellmates to
escape, although this place is supposed to be escape-proof.

Lambert is no better or worse than he usually is. Locklin is reasonably
appealing. The supporting cast is pretty eclectic: Lincoln Kilpatrick
("Chosen Survivors", Renny Harlins' "Prison") as Abraham, Jeffrey Combs
of the "Re-Animator" series (rocking a shoulder length wig here) as
D-Day, Clifton Collins Jr. ("Tigerland", "Pacific Rim") as Gomez, Tom
Towles ("House of 1000 Corpses", "Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer")
as Stiggs, and Vernon Wells ("The Road Warrior", "Commando") as Maddox.
That's Gordons' actress wife Carolyn supplying the voice of the
computer intelligence Zed-10. Smith, whose character will have some
surprises in store, is an effective and not completely one-dimensional
antagonist.

"Fortress" hits the ground running, and offers decent entertainment for
a fairly trim 95 minute run time.

Seven out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
2017, a dystopian future, and US Army officer John Henry Brennick
(Christopher Lambert) and his wife Karen S. Brennick (Loryn Locklin)
are expecting a second child. Strict one-child policies forbid any
couples having a second child, but the Brennick's first child died at
birth so they attempt to get away with a second pregnancy. They are
caught trying to cross the border and sent to a maximum security prison
that is owned and run by the "MenTel Corporation" A place where dreams
are not your own and all thoughts of escape are dealt with severely by
futuristic methods unheard of in the civilised world.

You got Connor MacLeod, Herbert West, Clarence J. Boddicker and one of
the finest female bottoms in cinema, all crammed into one riotous,
hokey and immeasurably fun movie. It probably wont come as much of a
surprise to anyone to learn that this Christopher Lambert starrer is
not going to have you scratching the cranial matter and pondering the
future of mankind. But it does have some interesting ideas both in
terms of its prison setting and in the technological advancements used.
I mean hey, would you try to escape if you had an intestinal bomb set
to go off outside the perimeters? {think The Running Man's neck braces
but in your belly}. It can also be said of Fortress that it's not over
ambitious, where director Stuart Gordon is aware of his restraints and
keeps it simple but sparky, of which this is aided by Lambert buffing
up and throwing punches left right and off kilter. Tho nothing much as
an actor, Lambert none the less gives the likes of Sly and Arnie a run
for their money here and looks every inch and sinew an action hero.

Kurtwood Smith, Jeffrey Combs, Lincoln Kilpatrick, Clifton Collins Jr.
and of course,Loryn Locklin's bottom, all add varying degrees of fun
and frolics to the occasion. While the set design for the interiors is
really rather snazzy. It's B movie berserker time folks, a dystopian
world where Christopher Lambert can beat the crap out of blokes twice
his size, where half humanoids have flame throwers for arms, and
Kurtwood Smith is in charge of a prison. Great fun really, truly. 7/10
