

I happen to be one of the folks who really has enjoyed these films in the
prequel trilogy.  I also can see why people would not like the films and I
don't deny people the right to their opinion.  What has been bothering me
has been some of the reasons people are giving for hating these new films...
they are childish, they have too many special-effects, the acting is bad,
the writing is bad, Lucas has sold out and has lost his touch... it makes me
wonder if people are actually remembering the original trilogy correctly. 
Don't get me wrong, I love the original trilogy, but they weren't exactly
well-acted or well-written movies.  We didn't love them because they were
these great Shakespearian works of art; we loved them because we were little
kids totally enraptured by this exciting fantastical world.  It seems that
those same kids that loved the films 20 years ago have grown up into stuffy
old yuppies that have no idea how to have fun anymore.  Our generation has
grown up and it seems that we wanted Star Wars to grow up with us, to morph
into some new R-rated grown up version to satisfy our more mature needs. 
Well, we didn't like the original trilogy because it was all grown up and
serious.  We liked it because it was silly and fun and awesome to look at. 
I am personally glad that George Lucas did not make the prequels into a new
grown up version.  I like the adventure and excitement and I challenge the
one major complaint that says that they do not live up to the originals. 
Let's look at what people have complained about when comparing these to the
original trilogy.

-The new movies are too childish and geared towards kids: So, somehow we're
supposed to believe that the droids, aliens, spaceships swamp monsters, and
warriors with mystical powers from the original trilogy were of the more
mature variety.

-The new movies have too many special effects: We're forgetting that the
original movies were also special effects laden.  Lucas has always pushed
the limits of technology, even inventing new technology all the way.  He has
not sold out or changed or just now relied on special effects, he has always
concentrated on the effects.  If he had digital technology 20 years ago, he
would have done the same thing then that he has now.  That's what he does;
he makes up worlds that don't exist and then comes up with a way to put them
on film.

-The writing has been bad on the new films: Does anybody recall Lucas ever
receiving a Pulitzer Prize?

-The acting has been bad on the new films: Carrie Fisher???  Mark Hamill???
Harrison Ford???  We're not exactly talking about Academy Award winners
here.  Name me one of the original main actors who was actually a great
actor (other than Sir Alec).  Now, Harrison Ford has had a great career, but
he's no Jack Nicholson.  And where are Carrie Fisher and Mark Hamill
now?

-Anakin is just a whiny little brat: Does anybody also remember how whiny
Luke was in the first two movies?  I mean, he did nothing but whine and
complain until Jedi.  And how many times did they say that Luke was just
like his father?  Should anybody then be surprised that Anakin was a whiny
adolescent?

I think my point here is that people from my generation have taken something
they loved as a kid and put it up on a pedestal so high that they are
confused as to why they liked it.  They think the original movies were these
serious Academy Award caliber pieces of art and that's why they liked them. 
In fact, we liked them because they were cool and had monsters and space
battles and there were toys that we could play with and have fun.  The new
movies are of the same mold as the original, they are unchanged.  WE have
changed and we're having a hard time dealing with that fact.  Some would
argue that these movies are not true Star Wars movies.  I say, they are
exactly the same... that's why I love them.  If I want a serious film, I'll
go find somethings starring Daniel Day-Lewis.  I like action and science
fiction, so I'll stick to the childish, poorly acted stuff.

<|_=00=_|>
It seems as though there is no way to dispel negative atmosphere once
it has been started. George Lucas's STAR WARS trilogy was well-loved by
audiences (even though critics were split) but for some reason (and I
can't figure it out), the first entry in the prequels, THE PHANTOM
MENACE, earned a HUGE onslaught of critically divided posts just about
everywhere in the world, from the press to the internet to fans in real
life. While I do agree that the original trilogy is a tough act to
follow, I wasn't as grossly let down by this movie as some were.

The same thing has happened to the second of the STAR WARS prequels,
ATTACK OF THE CLONES, released in 2002. Many predicted that this movie
would satisfy those who disliked Episode I with a vengeance, but alas,
such was not the case. Once again, critics damned the movie for one
reason or another, and the heated debate on whether Lucas "trashed the
original trilogy" or not is still going on. I find it very sad that
Lucas would still receive unfair critical attack, even after making a
much darker, somber, and ominous movie in ATTACK OF THE CLONES. I'm
guessing that such naysayers will continue to say nay to Lucas no
matter what just like rabid fans of Anime would continue to slam-dunk
dubs... even if a lot of them have recently proved to be excellent.

This is not to say that ATTACK OF THE CLONES is a flawless film. It
actually has its share of problems that THE PHANTOM MENACE didn't have.
The dialogue, although nowhere nearly as bad as critics and some
disgruntled fans say, lacks the spark of the original trilogy. My
biggest gripe with the movie is that it moves at a leisurely pace, with
lots of weak, unsatisfying sequences that last too long. Most of these
scenes consist of a love subplot involving Anakin Skywalker and Amidala
Padme. When not interacting with each other, Hayden Christensen and
Natalie Portman are fine in their respective roles. (Christensen's
monologue about his slaughtering of not only Tusken Raiders
but--horrors!--women and children is frightening.) But there is a sense
of awkwardness when they contribute to scenes which involve schmaltzy
lines and screen kisses. I'm guessing that they both felt uncomfortable
doing these scenes, hence why the chemistry between them isn't as
interesting as, say, Han and Leia's from the original trilogy.

Only when the movie is in action does ATTACK OF THE CLONES become
worthwhile--there's a dizzying chase through Coruscant on floating
cars, maneuvering through a dangerous asteroid field near a planet, and
a half-hour long showdown that showcases a lot of amazing CG work.
Actually, what also make Episode II worth watching are the fantastic
set designs. Every location in the movie, from the metropolis
skyscrapers of Coruscant to the water planet where prototypes of
Stormtroopers are being constructed literally bursts with imagination
and eye candy.

Of the performers I liked Ewan McGregor (Obi-Wan) the best; his acting
is still a little shaky at times, but here he seems more comfortable
with the role. Christopher Lee makes a surprise appearance as the new
villain, Count Dooku, and once again he delivers first-rate evil with
this character. And it's great to see C-3PO and R2-D2 up to their usual
banter again (although sometimes some gags occur when not necessary).
Ultimately, however, the film belongs to Jedi Master Yoda, played to
perfection by Frank Oz. His appearances in THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK and
RETURN OF THE JEDI featured him as a rubber puppet (and a delightful
creation), but in this movie he really comes alive, thanks to
first-rate CG effects. His mouth is perfectly in sync with every word
he says, and the final showdown between him and Dooku is an absolute
highlight.

While ATTACK OF THE CLONES is, in some ways, a lesser entry in the STAR
WARS franchise, its assets outweigh its weaknesses; most of the
questions I had from the first episode seem to be addressed a little
bit in this chapter, and, frustratingly enough, provides more questions
for Episode III. Flawless or not, this is still a STAR WARS movie, and
for what it is, it's still worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
This episode of the Star wars saga was criticized by some when it came
out for having wooden dialogue and too much digital landscaping to be
any good. I wasn't overly impressed with it myself, but having seen all
6 films now, AOTC is actually a very important and well done section of
the overall series.

Lucas has said time and again that this movies are meant to be seen as
one long film, not to be taken as 6 individual movies. This particular
installment features so much that affects every other episode. The
discovery of the clones, the immaturity and arrogance of Annakin, the
beginning of the clone wars. All of these events happen in this one
movie, which is actually a lot more than what happens in some of the
other films. I don't consider this to be the best of all 6 by any
means, but it is certainly not nearly as bad as some people make it out
to be.
<|_=00=_|>

First off, don't blame the actors or the special effects. It's not their
fault. Whenever someone knocks a bad movie, which Episode II qualifies as,
they immediately raise the pitchforks towards the actors.
If your going to lay some blame, lay it at the feet of George Lucas. It
was
his puerile script that brought the actors to their knees, and his lack of
direction that made them stay there. It was George's unholy fascination
with
all things digital that massacred the screen with billions of wasted
pixilated images, making the flesh and blood actors seem like they stepped
into the Twilight Zone.

This movie serves one purpose and one purpose only...to manually pleasure
George Lucas' fanbase. The only things that seperate this wheelbarrow full
of fertilizer from the average sci-fi schlock are the overinflated budget
for Lucas' digital toys and the useless insertion of previous Star Wars
characters.

(SPOILERS ABOUND BELOW)

The movie flows like a frozen sewage runoff. It goes from high speed, high
altitude car chases, to boring, forced angst by the fireplace.
To say that Christensen and Portman have no chemistry is to say that the
Middle East might be facing some political problems. Their romance is
about
as believable as grass growing on the moon. Maybe they could have done
better if the script hadn't been written with crayons.

I thought these prequels were about Anakin's spiral downward from the path
of balance into the Darkside. Is that ever going to happen or are we going
to be forced to watch a third episode of video game previews for the Game
Cube? We were given a lackluster hint with the slaughter of the Sand
People
but that barely cuts it. It wasn't even shown, thereby castrating the
power
of the scene. We just have to hear Anakin whine about it for about three
seconds. Usually, when someone butchers a whole village of men, women, and
children there's a whole lot more soul searching going on afterward. Of
course, Lucas goes the pansy route and glosses over the whole thing. Most
people I've talked to didn't even remember the scene until it was brought
up
to them.

I'm probably one of the few people completely disgusted witht the Yoda
fight
at the end with the unimpressive Darth Sarumon (Lee plays the exact same
character in LOTR: former wizard turned evil lackey=former jedi turned
evil
lackey). It's almost as if instead of a hand being up Yoda's posterior
they've inserted a heroin suppository. Lucas has, in a brief half-minute,
meaningless fight scene, destroyed the mystery of Yoda. The entire fight
was
unwarranted. If Yoda can raise ships from swamps and hold big chunks of
pillar in the air, why can't he just pick up Count Poopoo and bang him
against the wall a few times, soften him up a little, so to speak. Why?
Because Lucas has toys he must abuse, that's why.

The real star of this movie is the CGI. And CGI doesn't make good film.
CGI
is a support for a movie, that's it.

There were far too many real world references, as well. Death
sticks=cigarettes. Lame. Fifties diner in a galaxy far, far away, complete
with sassy robo-waitress. Lame. This is supposed to be far removed from
our
world in the aforementioned galaxy far away. All I missed was the Fonz.
Where the Hell was he? It might have been an improvement.

In closing..Lucas needs to stop writing, directing and editing. Let a
grown
up handle these things. All that crap about these movies being for kids is
a
lark. These movies are for the nerds of the late seventies and early
eighties who can't seem to move on in the world. The charm of Star Wars
was
gone before Lucas unveiled his uber-deluxe, special treatment of the films
for the third time. And now he's doing it again. Maybe he'll go the
Spielburg route and replace all the blasters with peace symbols.

Rating 1 out of 10. I'd rate it lower, but I was never good with
fractions.
<|_=00=_|>
Before seeing Attack of the clones I had seen neither the original star
wars nor episode I and I didn't have any particularly strong ambitions
to see them, I am a big cult fan but star wars just never really
appealed to me.

I happened to come across the episode II DVD going cheap while browsing
in my local library and thought I might as well buy it. And to my
slight amazement, I really loved it. Many fans complain that the new
ones are nothing compared with the originals, having never seen the
originals to compare it with I thought it was brilliant. The action,
the adventure, the love story, the lightsabres, C-3PO. The chase
through the city near the beginning was fast and furious and had great
special effects, as did the scene when Obi-Wan first sees the clones.
The arena scene is a particular favourite of mine as it flows so well
passing from one piece of action to another with such ease. The fights
were amazing (particularly Obi-Wan's and Jango's) and very well
choreographed. The film made me laugh (which is something I almost
always look for) just little lines like 'I retransmitted it to
Coruscant, just as you'd requested, Master. Then we decided to come and
rescue you.' [Obi-Wan looks at his handcuffed hands] 'Good job'. The
whole thoroughness of it all just made me wonder about the sheer
immensity of George Lucas's imagination and it made me realize why all
those boys in my class used to make lightsabre noises. 

I admit that some of the Anakin/Padme dialogue was sickly sweet but
being a typical teenage girl when it comes to love, I'm fine with that.
Also overall the acting was slightly wooden but I admit that this did
suit the Jedi style characters. Overall, it was my ideal film, action,
adventure, romance, comedy and some nice epic not too drawn out
battles. If this is bad compared to the originals, then I really should
get round to seeing those originals.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Although I'm not a Star Wars fanatic (I certainly don't read the books or
anything), I love the old Star Wars movies.  In fact, when I was littler,
The Empire Strikes Back was my favorite film.  Now that I'm older, I
respect
them for what they are: incredibly creative, exciting and touching films.
I
have yet to see Episode 1. My friend recommended Episode 2 to me, telling
me
that it was better than its predecessor, but warning me "don't see it if
you
expect anything more than a Star Wars movie."
Maybe I just have a nostalgic love for the first trilogy, but I would never
think that they were anywhere near as poor, in any way, as this new
garbage.
I can't think of a high budget movie that I've seen that has such bad
directing, bad acting, bad casting, bad special effects (or lack thereof),
bad music, bad dialogue and bad plot, as ATTACK OF THE CLONES (bad title
too).  The reviewers on this site giving this movie positive reviews must
all be brainwashed. Maybe they're all just excited that it's better than
Episode One, which I can only assume must be the worst movie ever made,
considering this one definitely belongs in the bottom 100.

Let's begin with the directing. WHAT THE HELL DID GEORGE LUKAS TELL HIS
ACTORS? My only guess that the conversations went something like
this...
LUKAS: Hey Sam, sit in that chair and say your line.
S.JACKSON: How do you want me to deliver it?
LUKAS: Don't worry about that.  It doesn't really matter.  All the animated
creatures don't really show any emotion anyway.  In general, you should
just
say your line like you're reading it.  Oh, but if you're supposed to be
angry or upset, just screw up your face a little bit.

S.JACKSON: Okay. I guess...

I can't begin to describe how boring the non-action sequences are in this
film.  The actors aren't interacting at all.  It's astounding.

Furthermore, talk about a classic example of bad acting, Ewan McGregor
spends the entire movie doing a really bad impression of the actor who
played Obi Wan in the original series...uuuugh, yuck.
Whoever cast this movie needs to get their head examined.  I've always
learned that one of the prime objectives in film, especially a drama, like
this one, is to suspend the audience's disbelief (perhaps George Lukas was
striving to suspend belief with this one).  How could anyone accept Samuel
L. Jackson, one of the most prolific actors in Hollywood, as "Mace Windu"
and Jimmy Smits, another instantly recognizable household name, as Senator
"Bail Organa".  My God, Lukas could have at least picked actors who haven't
reached idol status yet, but no, he had to make his budget LARGER.  The
majority of people who liked this casting probably just liked seeing Sam
Jackson meditating next to a poorly animated Yoda (SHAFT AND YODA TOGETHER
IN THE SAME ROOM, MEDITATING LIKE BUDDHISTS! AWESOME!).

The digital special effects were disappointing and not convincing.  I
prefer
people in elaborate costumes to the digitally animated, and amazingly
generic looking, critters that Lukas used here.  You've seen 'em in the
fifth element, in the trailer for men in black II (before the film started)
and here they are again, a long time ago in a galaxy far far away.   Go
figure. Furthermore, juxtaposing digitally composed fantasy
settings/landscapes(as ridiculous as they are on their own), with a real,
easily recognizable, famous swiss tourist attraction was appalling.

The music as a whole sounded like a parody of the original score (in other
words, it was fitting).  The dialogue was laughably atrocious.  Probably my
favorite line *POSSIBLE SPOILER* was when Anakin (or little Ann(ie?,y?,e??)
as the Senator calls him) tells the senator, "I didn't just kill the
men...but the WOMEN...and the CHILDREN TOO!" "Ooh am I a bad guy.  I'm such
an evil dude that I use cliches to describe my horrible
deeds."
*NO MORE SPOILERS* The plot is so delightfully convoluted that thousands of
viewers at home will be able to watch this movie in less than half it's
running time when it comes out on VHS.  They can all simply fast-forward to
the action sequences and not miss anything important in the film.  In fact
they might as well fast-forward through the whole thing, given that the
ending credits are by far the movie's finest sequence.

I'm getting tired of writing, so I'll just say that there are so many
problems with this movie that this review hasn't even nearly given it
justice.
PLEASE, DON'T DISMISS THIS REVIEW JUST BECAUSE IT'S NEGATIVE.  IF YOU
HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE YET, PLEASE, WAIT TILL COMES OUT ON VIDEO.  AT LEAST
THEN YOU CAN GET THE PLEASURE OF TAKING THE TAPE OUT OF THE MACHINE AND
SMASHING IT TO BITS IN FRUSTRATION.  
<|_=00=_|>
Much like its predecessor, Star Wars - Episode II: Attack of the Clones
has gained a rather sour reputation on the internet. Fortunately, many
of the popular complaints about this film are either highly exaggerated
or downright wrong. Chapter two of the Star Wars Saga is an energized
and highly enjoyable two hours at the movies.

Attack of the Clones follows Anakin Skywalker ten years after his
exploits in The Phantom Menace. An older Anakin, played surprisingly
well by Hayden Christiansen, is now training under the watchful eye of
Ewan McGregor's Obi-Wan Kenobi. Searching the Internet, you won't find
many fans who praise Christiansen's performance, but I found him to be
very effective in the young, arrogant hotshot role he'd been given.
McGregor does similarly well in the older brother, mentor role. 

I enjoyed Episode I a lot, but the story is much more focused this
time, with major events happening for Anakin, and an actual political
conflict engulfing the Republic. The two major story lines in the film
are, one, the political underpinnings that eventually lead to the start
of the infamous Clone Wars, and two, the personal story of Anakin
Skywalker, including the romance between him and the former Queen,
Padme Amidala. The first of these story lines is wildly interesting,
following the two opposing forces of the Clone Wars, The Republic and
their clone army, and the Seperatists and their droid battalion, as
they prepare for an imminent war. After an assassination attempt on
Senetor Amidala, Obi-Wan embarks on a detective mission to a track down
the people behind the plot. The political espionage and
behind-the-scenes dealings make for a fascinating and focused story.
The other major storyline is not as focused, but still works as a
chapter in Anakin Skywalker's overall story. Anakin and Padme's love
story works as a throwback to the grand, old-fashioned film romances of
the 1930s and 40s (think Gone With the Wind), but for contemporary
audiences, the few extended scenes of corny "love speech" dialogue
might be pretty drab. However, these aren't as distracting or offensive
as some claim. In fact, a couple of them actually work well, such as
the meadow picnic, where Padme and Anakin discuss the futility of
politics in the beautiful fields of Naboo. The actors have chemistry,
and both are likable, especially Natalie Portman as Padme. Yes the love
story can be a bit forced, and sometimes drab, but it fits the feel of
the saga. It is a grand, sweeping, throwback to Hollywood's golden age.

If the love story might be hit or miss, it's the other facet of
Anakin's character arc that Lucas gets absolutely right. Plagued by
visions of his mother in pain, Anakin takes Padme to Tatooine where he
tracks down his mother, only to see her die in his arms. His response
is chilling and powerful. The scene between him and Padme in a garage
after he brings his mom's body back is perfectly executed, unveiling a
dark, angry side of Anakin, while simultaneously showing his frailty
and confusion. It truly is one of the very best scenes in the saga.

Even if you didn't find the story as interesting as I did, there is no
question that Episode II is an audio/visual feast for the senses. Lucas
and company introduce a stunning variety of sprawling landscapes, crazy
creatures, fanciful vehicles, and formidable weapons. Once again, the
sheer amount of imagination contained in this world is unbelievable.
While Attack of the Clones does tend to favor CGI backgrounds and
creatures too much, it still looks undeniably cool. The nighttime
skyline of Coruscant, the rain-drenched clone facility on Kamino, the
termite mound planet of Geonosis; They all, along with the creatures
that inhabit them, feel real, and look great. On these beautiful
planets, we are treated to tons of terrific Star Wars action. George
Lucas once again revels in directing off-the-wall fun. This film is an
adventure through and through. Set-pieces range from a one-on-one
battle between bounty hunter Jango Fett and Obi- Wan on the rainy
platforms of Kamino to a gladiator-like fight against intergalactic
monsters. The last half hour of the film particularly impresses, with a
massive battle between the two giant armies, dozens of Jedis, and a
helping of fantastic war machines. The whole thing ends with an epic
face-off that sees Yoda battle with mind and sword against Christopher
Lee's devilishly evil Count Dooku, a memorable villain with an air of
gravitas. He's a classic Hollywood archetype with a Star Wars spin; an
elegant villain who just happens to have a lightsaber (with an awesome
curved handle) and can shoot lightning from his hands.

Needless to say, Attack of the Clones is much better than its
reputation suggests. Complaints of poor story, too much politics, and
"fake" looking CGI are almost completely unfounded, and the few moments
of clichéd dialogue (the only complaint I can really understand) are
such a small part of the film, that I barely notice them. However, for
some reason that I honestly can't understand, it has become
increasingly more "uncool" to like this film. Personally, I value
energy and atmosphere in a blockbuster like this, and Episode II of the
Star Wars Saga is packed with it. Attack of the Clones is a grand,
sweeping, large-scale adventure. The story is mostly great, with only a
few stretches that drag, and as with all the Star Wars movies
(especially the prequels), the special effects and action are top
notch. That is, after all, why you watch the Star Wars movies; to visit
unknown worlds and have a ton of fun doing so. Star Wars - Episode II:
Attack of the Clones isn't a world-class lesson in dialogue, but
between the visual spectacle, first-rate action, and heavenly John
Williams score, it is entertainment of the highest degree.

86/100
<|_=00=_|>
If you listen to some fans of the original Star Wars trilogy, the new
one is crap. This is, I've found out, true only with the Phantom
Menace, which was very poorly directed and edited piece of film.

Attack of the Clones in the other hand is in comparison a superior
achievement from PM. But it does contain couple of unnecessary
segments, which drag the speed of the film down. And some of the acting
is, even in the standard of the Star Wars, pretty horrible. But happily
all those under achievers are not in any important roles and seasoned
actors like Christopher Lee (Count Dooku) do deliver what you expect of
them. others deserving nomination here are Samuel L. Jackson as Mace
Windu and Ian McDiarmid as Palpatine.

So, the plot. Obi Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor), and Anakin Skywalker
(Hayden Christensen) are told to watch over senator Padame (Natalie
Portman) because of assassination attempts towards her life. This soon
leads in Obi in discovery of secretly manufactured clone army. Who is
behind all this? Will Padame and Anakin fall in love? When does Anakin
fall in to the dark side? Will he become a Jedi before all this? Some
of these questions are partly answered in AOTC, but some are left
waiting for the third installment of the new trilogy.

But as said, this is much better film than Phantom Menace. It's not
best film in the Star Wars saga, but in my opinion it does deliver.
It's mostly fun to watch, action sequences are good, special effects
are even better and despise some bad acting and some pretty horrible
dialogs, it wasn't pain in the back side to watch.

So, my advise: don't listen to roaring Star Wars fans who claim this
movie to be one of the worst things ever and don't listen to those, who
claim this one to be best thing since sliced bread.

Attack of the Clones is above average, but not the greatest thing ever
either.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film that took three of the most beloved films of all time
and sold their souls to CGI. The original Star Wars Trilogy were not
labelled as the greatest films ever made because of Light Sabres, or
Storm Troopers, or groundbreaking motion capture special effects, but
because of the human side. The quality of the acting from Sir Alec
Guinness, the chemistry between Harrison Ford and Carrie Fisher, the
excellent dialogue that made every line a memorable quote and the
context of faith and religion are what made them so everlasting. In
this film Ewan McGregor's acting is surprisingly wooden for such a
talented actor, Hayden Christensen has less chemistry with Natalie
Portman than a 12 year old student's test tube, the dialogue is boring,
the lines are cheesy and clichéd, there does not seem to be any actual
emphasis on plot, it just being an excuse to glue one over-long action
set piece to another, so the intrigue disappears fast and the themes
and contexts are given a back seat to (admittedly impressive) CGI. It
seems that George Lucas thought that what made a good film was as much
soulless eye candy as possible.

Star wars was once a trailblazer in Science fiction and its originality
gave most of the future Blockbusters the templates for their scenes,
and what was originally Star Wars innovation became cliché at the hands
of other films. Now it is Star Wars using the same plot lines we have
seen over and over again, copying others and Episodes 1, 2 and 3 in a
lazy attempt to seem interesting.

You do not need spectacle to create a good film you need drama and
humanity both of which this film sorely lacks. In my opinion the best
Light Sabre Fight of the series was the Showdown between Darth Vader
and Obi-Wan Kenobi. The fight didn't have any flipping or flopping or
any fancy kung-fu, but it did have the enormous tension of the concept
of the final fight between Master and Pupil. That made for a great
scene, and the elements of drama are completely void from this movie.
This is a cheap CGI fest that misses the point entirely.
<|_=00=_|>

There used to be a time when Star Wars was the best thing since sliced
bread. Of course I was about 7 then but nonetheless it was the ultimate
for
many people of my generation, and then we grew up but perhaps it is that I
have grown up that I didn't enjoy this one wanting a film for
adults.
I entered the cinema expecting some good old fashioned galatic action
despite the let down of the Phantom Menace but instead what I got was two
hours of largely tedium.

At base level all the ingredients were there but there was nothing else,
this film was completely empty at heart. What the original movies had in
charm, in script and in the endearing performance of their cast (even Mark
Hamill pulled it off in the end) was largely lacking here. The two leads
of
Christensen and Portman cannot act to save their lives, sadly in this
movie
their lives were saved and we'll have to experience more of their slushy
badly scripted romance in the third. They have all the physical chemistry
onscreen of a couple of neutered dogs.

The depth of their romance which is one of the central planks of the movie
is comparable to an infants swimming pool, clearly George Lucas has been
reading too much Mills and Boon and spent way too long on his special
effects computers to remember just how humans work.

The supporting cast headed by Macgregor are patchy too though Macgregor is
head and shoulders above the two teenage leads and at times manage to act
with some gusto. Much has been said about Christopher Lee and Samuel L
Jackson but they are just playing themselves being competent enough actors
to just turn up for work and perform regardless of what he director says.
Compared to their past performances they are both underwhelming
too.

I've already mentioned the love aspect of the story, this was also
supposed
to be a dark plot with plenty of evil and of course Anakin turning to the
dark-side. For what is supposed to be the defining moment of the entire
series we get a whole three minutes of screentime where he kills people.
As
to get a PG rating the slaughter is glossed over and barely shown on
camera
it's left to the actor to communicate what happened but the evil growing
in
him is completely skirted around with a little bit of sobby stuff that
simply isn't convincing - at no time do we see someone being corrupted by
power which is really a lost opportunity.

Lost opportunities is what this film is full of though, inside is a really
good story struggling to get out but the issues are dumbed down to make
them
suitable for children to understand. The lack of invention in it is also
stunning, why introduce Jango Fett at all except to cash in on the
popularity of Boba Fett, why have Kenobi hide behind an asteroid like Han
Solo does in Empire Strikes Back with a star destroyer? Why did we get
those
terrible C3PO puns and what was it with Yoda ever having a walking stick
if
he can fight like a whirling dervish on speed? Why does a changeling keep
it's face and not get a new one then try to kill Kenobi.

The only part of the script I did appreciate was the ever annoying Jar Jar
being the cause of the rise of the Empire, ooh the irony.
Script aside Star Wars has always been something of an effects movie but
these days it's simply not impressive enough when compared to Lord of the
Rings. The saturation of the colours throughout the film make it all look
cartoony, and the CGI does look like CGI although it is much improved on
the
previous film with Yoda at last looking real. I imagine this is where the
majority of the work went on the film but it's just not good enough. I do
wish that Lucas would get back to the gritty colour tones used in the
first
two films, they certainly added to the realism but the Disney look seems
to
have infected the franchise too deeply.

Not only are many of the effects lacking any believability but Lucas can't
direct action, something that is a major flaw in a film that has perhaps
half of it as action scenes. We get lasers zapping everywhere but there is
no coherence with the editing and it all ends up a bit confusing with none
of the excitement that should be there.

The problem with editing recurs throughout the film with the love story
intercut with the discovery of the clone army badly done, why do we keep
coming back from an interesting story to one that just turns people off,
something that was obvious in the cinema as you could hear people groan
everytime the teenage lovers were on.

The sound though is superb, watching at home on my Dolby 5:1 did make it a
bit more of an experience but if you are relying on technical details to
carry a film then you really shouldn't be making it to start with. Anyone
can buy a decent sound engineer for a movie, and just be limited by budget
but not anyone can get a good performance out of an actor, then the limit
is
talent.

Let's face it that George Lucas is nothing more than a glorified
technician
being way past his limits is trading on the goodwill of fans from movies
he
did 25 years ago. He's no great director or writer and should leave that
to
others, perhaps then we can get the Star Wars movies that we all want, and
perhaps he can come to rival the grosses of the old films again but I fear
the magic will have gone by then.
score - 4/10 for sentimental reasons.
