

Do not confuse any of the archived reviews by national critics labeling
this movie as "mediocre" and merely "watchable" as accurate statements.
This movie is one of Eastwood's most interesting and controlled efforts
behind the camera. There is less blatant scenery chewing in "A Perfect
World" than contained in Eastwood's unduly praised "Mystic River." And
although "Unforgiven" brought Eastwood an Oscar, "A Perfect World" is
much more effective in its employment of Eastwood's usual methodical
pacing and his ability create empathy for men who are "bad, but not the
worst" of society.

For those that are not Costner-philes, this is one of the few movies
that viewers should be unable to find ways to deride Costner as an
actor. Costner's performance as Butch is by far the best of his career.
Actually, it would be better to note that his performance is nomination
worthy (er... was) simply for the fact that I know many people view
Costner as a flat actor that is not really on par with other actors of
his generation. The scenes between Costner and his young costar are
extremely interesting. Butch is given almost all the dialogue because
eight-year-old Phillip is more or less a pupil of Butch's (or surrogate
son if one thinks of the blatant implications); thus, this movie almost
entirely belongs to Costner and the development of his character and he
does a pitch perfect job.

The movie itself has some simplicities in its other characters, such as
Eastwood's Ranger, Dern's criminologist, and the gaggle of law
enforcement personal tracking Costner's character. John Lee Hancock's
script is not the strongest when focusing in on their additions to the
narrative. Plus there are some overly simplistic social commentaries on
the role of the penal system, but those are far outweighed by the mass
of the film. And Eastwood works around the few weaknesses of the script
much better than he did in Hancock's adaptation of "Midnight in the
Garden of Good and Evil."

Considering that Eastwood is a competent director who has created
mostly middling works or has been praised for efforts that are far
exceeded by the scripts themselves, such as "Unforgiven" and "Mystic
River," "A Perfect World" is quite a good film. Also of note is the
cinematography and framing of all the shots. Almost all of Eastwood's
films, regardless of the shot and lighting conventions of the genres in
which he has worked, are terribly sloppy and poor in their
presentation. Jack N. Green has been his longtime cinematographer of
choice; therefore, it is not as if a new voice was thrown into the mix
adding to the success of this film visually in comparison with
Eastwood's other works. Nonetheless, Eastwood succeeds in much of his
direction in this film and

Costner's performance makes this film a nice little gem that was
undervalued a decade ago.

<|_=00=_|>

And certainly one of the most underrated pictures on IMDB. Why? Beats me,
since this is one of the best performances from Costner & Eastwood. Not to
mention the others.

Maybe it's the movie a little bit slow at start, but soon we get too see a
strong character development, what leads us to the grand finale, where we
cheer for the outlaw and his little "partner" (also very good performance by
T.J. Lowther). The ending is undoubtedly one of the most touching in the
history of cinema.

All in all, Costner did great both as director and actor and he had a
winning hand picking up co-actors and screen & music writers. Plus, he made
this movie in the nineties era, one of the best, if not the best for
Hollywood movies. 

That's for it's just pure classic. Just like the Texas landscape where it
was taken.

9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Some aspects of this film work better than others, but overall A PERFECT
WORLD is a highly watchable film.  Kevin Costner delivers a fine
performance
as escaped convict Butch Haynes. The film primarily focuses on the
relationship between Haynes and an innocent 8 year old boy named Phillip
whom he kidnaps and befriends (well played by TJ Lowther). Haynes has
killed
two people thus far and gives the impression of a being a loose cannon,
but
Eastwood evokes sympathy for the character as the audience learns about
Haynes troubled childhood (raised without a father by a prostitute
mother -
killed a man by the age of 8) and observe his genuine care and concern for
the boy. Their relationship is reminiscent of Allan Ladd and the young boy
in SHANE. As he slowly feeds us more information about Hayne's history,
and
lets the audience wrestle with its ambivalent feelings towards Costner's
character, Eastwood keeps the film moving with lots of close brushes with
the law, car chases and shoot'em ups.

Where the film doesn't work quite is when Eastwood himself is in front of
the camera,  playing a minor role - Chief Red Garnett - a Texas Ranger
who's
in charge of Haynes' capture.  The primary function of his character, and
Laura Dern's (who plays Sally Gerber - a criminologist the Governor forces
upon the Chief) in the script is to supply further information about
Haynes'
past. Unfortunately, Eastwood tries to flesh out the relationship between
these characters through antagonistic chauvinist attitudes towards Gerber
and creating a power struggle between the two which (big surprise!) over
the
course of the film, gradually leads to a mutual respect between them!
Granted Eastwood and Dern have marquee value - especially Eastwood, are
fine
in their roles, and, of course,  chauvinism was alive and well in 1960's
Texas, but I mostly found these minor subplots annoying and unnecessary.
It's the scenes and issues focusing on Costner's character that are the
life
blood of this picture. This criticism aside, Eastwood does a solid job
directing, weaving action, suspense and thought provoking human drama into
a
well knit weave and Costner delivers one of the best acting performances
of
his career.

7 1/2 out of 10


<|_=00=_|>

Kevin Costner's career has been in a downward spiral (to say the least) over
recent years.  Now it seems like even people who admired him at first are
suddenly forfeiting their compliments and jumping on the bandwagon, along
with the rest of the Costner haters.  Well, I'm not gonna jump on that
bandwagon.  This movie is sheer proof that Costner is a wonderful actor
capable of playing characters of multiple dimensions.  Here, he's given the
challenge of playing a likable villain, without having us forget that he has
criminal tendencies.  I'm not condoning criminals, but do you honestly think
every criminal in the world is a cold-blooded motherf***er with not a single
scruple?  They're human beings like everyone else, only they choose to live
dishonest lives.  In other words, the easy way out--at least that's what
they think.  

Costner played a completely one-dimensional villain in "3,000 Miles to
Graceland," but it was fitting to the tone of that film, which plays out
like a comic book fantasy.  His character of Butch is much more realistic,
and his main scruple is treating children like dirt.  He himself was treated
like dirt as a child, and whenever he sees mothers or fathers do the same to
their children, he goes nuts and sometimes homicidal.  A very interesting
character, which Costner plays to absolute perfection. 

I have a theory about movies.  Whenever you have an adult story (excluding
children's and family-oriented material) involving a child in a major role,
the movie often turns out either good or great.  This one turned out great. 
Good movies come more often than you think.  Great movies don't come quite
that often.  A real motion picture experience is when you get lost in the
story to the point where you feel you're right there with the characters,
and not sitting on your couch watching these characters on a TV screen. 
This is one of those experiences.  

The film is totally character-driven, which also appeals to me.  It took me
a journey through the lives of Butch and the young boy.  I felt a deep
connection to each of them.  The ending had me pouring with tears. 

I have to give it up for Clint Eastwood, who usually scores behind and in
front of the camera.  The film runs a little over 2 hours, but when you have
solid characters like these the time flies by in a snap.  Hell, "Corky
Romano" was under 90 minutes long and I may as well as have been watching it
for 10 hours.  The most powerful scene, in my opinion, is when Butch and the
boy stay over the home of the black slave.  Butch sees the way the father
physically abuses his son, and goes to the extent of tying him down to a
couch.  He then forces the father to say "I love you" to his son, like he
really means it.  

"A Perfect World" is a film I'll never forget, and I'm so damn glad I spent
my 14.99 to purchase the DVD.  I have only one very minor complaint:  the
guy who plays Philip overacts like crazy in a cartoonish performance. 

My score:  9 (out of 10)


<|_=00=_|>
In 1952, Charles Crichton had produced a successful suspenseful movie
with a derivative premise: a man (an excellent Dirk Bogarde) compelled
to take a brat hostage with him because he was the witness of his
murder and to flee with him across Britain to escape the police. This
journey had brought the two runaways together and Bogarde eventually
felt real love and care for his young hostage. Crichton (I find it hard
to believe that it's the same man who 36 years later will cook "a Fish
Called Wanda", 1988!) had construed his topic with a lot of reserve and
sensitivity which bestowed his wonderful piece of work with pathos and
tenderness.

40 years later, Clint Eastwood, freshly showered with praise for his
dusky "Unforgiven" (1992) takes back this formula for a flick which
basically was to be directed by Steven Spielberg but the latter had a
lot to do with "Schindler's List" (1994), probably his finest moment.
The amount was "a Perfect World" (1993) and it deserves better than the
lukewarm reviews it received and stands as a winner in Eastwood's
eclectic filmography. In spite of a few installments in its second part
that one can deem as overlong, it has enough commendable stuff to grab
the audience.

First, Eastwood's vehicle is helped by the work of John Lee Hancock who
4 years later will pen the scenario for another Eastwood flick:
"Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil" (1997). Because it eschews
the formulaic ingredients of the movie genre, "a Perfect World" deals
with and it encompasses various tones: from the droll moments Kevin
Costner goes through with his young hostage to gripping scenes which
incommodes the audience (the scene when Costner holds the black family
in their living room with a song he hadn't heard for years), the script
takes the viewer by surprise. It's true that suspense takes a back seat
during most of the viewing but Eastwood's flick has other stuff in
store. In the favorable reviews, it has been said that the
relationships between Costner and his young partner were highly
interesting. From their first confrontation, Costner has an evident
interest in the little boy, a nagging curiosity that will grow
throughout his run. In this way, his attitude, at least in the outset
of the film is quite different from Bogarde's. The latter realizing
that he has no other choice to take his brat with him expresses at
first hostility and scorn before starting to get interested in him. Not
Costner who is clearly interested with his hostage from the outset and
for whom he feels affection. In the two flicks, the little boys may see
in Bogarde and Costner the father figures they never had. Their
households are characterized by an absence of father. As for Costner,
he unveils to his partner, scraps of his anterior life which might
explain one of his attitudes towards him. Maybe, he tries to play his
role of father and this way to get close to him: "we have a lot of
things in common you and me: we love Coke, we never had father". He
wants to make him discover a new life, a freer and more maverick one in
which anything goes (he asks him to write the things he craves to do).

Nature plays a momentum role in "a Perfect World": it surrounds the
characters and is of a vivacious green which symbolizes bliss and hope.
In this perfect world, the two main protagonists try to search for
support, friendship, bliss but impending danger waits around the
corner.

Eastwood's flick was also decried because the other sequences of the
film in which Eastwood and his crew appear were rather weak. I don't
think so. True the character of Laura Dern is a little formulaic but in
one sequence the most important members offer their vision of a perfect
world. And even if here he doesn't hold the main role, Clint Eastwood
has a prime secondary part. The cast is a major asset of the film. The
little boy is directed with care and respect and Eastwood gave Costner
his last great hour, given the duds in which he acted afterward: the
horrible "Waterworld" (1995), a waste of money and time and the insipid
"Postman" (1997).

Coming after a pinnacle in his career, "Unforgiven", I feel that
Eastwood wasn't hampered by this critical and commercial triumph and
broke new ground in the fugitive movie with this startling piece of
work. Give this movie a chance. It deserves it. And if you have the
chance to see "Hunted", don't think twice. Eastwood's flick compares
favorably with its 40 year old model. And after the projection, try to
ask yourself this question: what is a perfect world?
<|_=00=_|>
If you want a fast-paced philosophical drama with quite possibly the
saddest ending to a movie you've ever seen, then this is the film for
you... A Perfect World drains you emotionally and that's why this
amazing film is worth watching once, and not over and over again.

You can't go wrong with a movie directed by Clint Eastwood, who also
plays the U.S. Marshal. Kevin Costner gives the greatest performance of
his career (except for maybe JFK) and the little boy is played
impressively by 7-year-old T.J Lowther. What makes A Perfect World so
great is that it's got flaws, but still manages to hold you glued to
your TV and make you not want to miss a thing. Be ready to laugh, cry
and ponder upon what life would be if we lived in a perfect world.
<|_=00=_|>

An average story made good by quality acting. Kevin Costner turned in one of
his best performances. Just as his character would start to win you over
because of his positive interactions with the boy, he'd do something awful
and remind you that he's really a bad guy and that he'd taken the boy
hostage. So even though he's a criminal, he's got a good side and obviously
his bad upbringing took him down the wrong path in life. I though TJ Lowther
was also excellent as the boy and was very believable. On the other side is
Clint Eastwood as the tough law man who cares more about catching his
criminal than making his bosses happy. And last, but not least, Laura Dern
was also very good as Clint's cohort in catching the bad guy. While Clint
relies on his years of experience, she comes from the psychological side and
what she's read in books. They often disagree, but there is a mutual respect
between them even if they don't show it. There are enough light moments to
keep this otherwise serious movie from being a turn off.

*** (Out of 4)
<|_=00=_|>
An intelligent and resourceful prison escapee named Butch Haynes (Kevin
Costner) takes an eight-year-old boy (T.J. Lowther) hostage, as Haynes
roams across Texas in the early 1960s. Meanwhile, the authorities,
headed by a Texas Ranger (Clint Eastwood), set out to capture Haynes,
in an Airstream trailer.

Costner does a fine job as Haynes, an interesting character who happens
to like waltz music. Lowther is equally good in his role, a boy who
comes from a family whose religious beliefs are quite strict. On their
sojourn, the boy acquires, and sometimes wears, a
Casper-the-friendly-ghost mask, a symbol of childhood innocence that
contrasts nicely with the seriousness of a dangerous hostage situation.

The relationship between Haynes and the kid evolves into a kind of
father-son union, wherein Haynes does most of the talking, and the kid
reacts, usually with clever, nonverbal expressions. It's a good acting
arrangement that plays up the strengths of both actors. It's the best
element of the film.

Throughout their odyssey, a collection of oldies pop songs helps to
capture the early 1960's era, though I could have wished that the
volume had been turned up. Haynes' goal is Alaska, but he doesn't quite
get there, and the film ends much more interestingly than it began.

The main problem with the film is the plot. It gets off to a hokey,
contrived start. And, throughout the film, the law enforcement
component does not work at all. It comes across as stereotyped,
irritating, unnecessary, and it is not funny despite attempts to make
it funny. You get the feeling you're watching reruns of "The Dukes Of
Hazard", especially with that corny trailer.

Even so, the film is worth watching, for the acting accomplishments of
Costner and Lowther, and for the interesting dialogue that takes place
between their two characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent movies have everything right with them - from the scenery to
the director. This movie has it all except the plot is too idealistic
for my taste. Granted a story can have any plot the author decides, but
this one plays on false stereotypes just like other Hollywood movies,
e.g. the "noble" savage. (There is no such thing - individuals may be
noble, but not an entire nation. This is why "To Kill a Mocking Bird"
is so powerful - the main noble character is surrounded by real people
- at least as real as a movie will allow them to be.) And so it doesn't
go with "A Perfect World." The main character is surrounded by louts
brutes and ignoramuses.

However, was the movie entertaining? Was it well directed, cast, acted,
and lit? You bet. One of Mr. Eastwood's best. 10/10.

-Zafoid
<|_=00=_|>
Costner and Eastwood confront each other in A Perfect World with a very
ordinarily written cat and rat movie. We've seen the same plot many
times before and after 1993. Eastwood plays the cat, and Costner does
the rat. However, Eastwood directs it at a high emotional level; giving
its viewers much inspiration of love and joy, offering a great deal of
fun and humour, especially pointing the importance of family. To the
effect that, the title should have been "A PERFECT FAMILY" or "A
PERFECT FATHER". I'm sure though, Eastwood must have considered these
options of titling the movie. If he chose to go with "A PERFECT WORLD";
for me, it means that even a shifty criminal man can raise a child
better than a moralist bona fide housekeeper can, at some point.

The story takes place in 1960s' Texas. Butch(Costner) is an escaped
convict out of a perforce criminal. After he and his partner escape
from prison, they begin to outlaw the law. As a celebration of their
freedom, they supersede their own law of crime. They first planned to
escape to Mexico, but the plans changed when they kidnapped a 8 year
old boy. Butch's partner doesn't like the boy as he likes. So they
break with each other, and Butch stays with the boy. When the Texas
police are alerted of the kidnapping, police chief Garnett(Eastwood)
and his officers start to chase Butch to rescue the boy. Whereas, the
boy finds Butch close to him both as a hero in his dreams and as a
father in his heart. The time when Butch takes the boy to buy him new
clothes, which he chose to wear Casper costume, Butch names the kid
Buzz. Butch wants him to be happy for he has never had the chance to be
before; and Buzz turns out to be cheery as he found a daemon turning
his wishes into reality. Together they formed a legendary couple like
Bonnie&Clyde, like Thelma&Louise and the same bottom line was awaiting
for them as Bonnie&Clyde, as Thelma&Louise.

A Perfect World is truly an Eastwood classic. His style of script, his
style of action, his style of simplicity and the love of the guns for
sure loom large. Fundamentally like every Eastwood movie out of A
Perfect World we obtain an opinion. So we never regret seeing A Perfect
World for one time. This would be a good choice to watch with your
whole family together.
