

I thought City Of Angels was very good. I'm usually very critical towards
movies, but City Of Angels got to me.
Meg Ryan usually plays in Romantic Comedy's (Sleepless in seatle, You've
got
mail) but this time, City Of Angels, admittedly a Romantic film, but it
isn't a comedy. Far from it, it's a drama in all of its aspects. And Meg
Ryan converts to that change very well. She acts great in this movie. It
wasn't an easy part for her, there is a lot of crying involved, and a lot
of
dramatic moments in her characters life.

As goes for Nicolas Cage's character. Oh my god, he plays Seth with such
excellence. Really, i don't think that anyone else could play the part as
great as he did. The way he looks, the way he moves .. so
cool.

Ok the storyline is a little unbeleivable, but you musn't be held back by
that fact. Just beleive the unbeleivable. Just go with the plot, and follow
the movie closely.

I'm not suggesting that City Of Angels is the best in it's sort. It won't
win any oscars, but what i am saying, is that it's a nice movie, with great
actors, great music and a good storyline which rolls towards very emotional
ending.

You won't be dissapointed. 
<|_=00=_|>

I just watched this movie again for about the 3rd time. People say the movie
is depressing, unoriginal, and boring. I'll bend on the depressing part, but
the other 2 are completely un-true. 

Nicholas Cage and Meg Ryan give pretty good performances, nothing
oscar-worthy, but it's not the acting that makes this movie great. It's
beautiful. Pure heaven to the eyes and ears. While you see the wonderful
scenes, and backgrounds, with wonderful color and beautiful art direction,
and hear the perefectly performed and selected score in the background (with
contributions from U2, Sarah McLachlan, and the surprise hit "Iris" from the
Goo Goo Dolls) it doesn't really matter what kind of acting is happening.
The screenplay is pretty good, but somewhat lacking, which is why I give it
an 8.25 on a scale from 1-10. Its a love story, yes, and can get cheesy at
points, but none the less, it's still worth seeing once or twice.


<|_=00=_|>

Good heavens, this is by far the best lovestory I've ever seen. A
perfectly
carried out movie about this angel (Nicolas) that gives up eternity in
Heaven to be with a woman (Meg) on Earth. This movie really touches your
soul, so don't go destroy it by watching it with a bunch of friends. As a
matter of fact, It made me cry like a baby...
City of Angels actually makes you reflect about life/death and you'll know
it touches your soul.
I've never before been so affected (in a good way though =) by a
lovestory,
but this one; it's hard to describe you have to see it!
// a gracefulness
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely love this movie. I have seen it several times and it still
never ceases to bring me to tears. Nicholas Cage does a wonderful job
portraying Seth, an angel who falls in love with a workaholic doctor,
convincingly portrayed by Meg Ryan (in a definite departure from her
usual kooky, girl next door role). The movie is beautifully
photographed, and the love story, although a little far fetched, (angel
gives up being an angel to become human to be with the woman he loves)
it is still incredibly moving. Without giving away all the best parts
of the movie, you had better have plenty of Kleenex on hand...it's
definitely a tearjerker. The ending of the movie is a testament to the
power of love and life...powerful stuff. This is definitely a "chick
flick", but is just wonderful on all levels. I have always believed in
angels, but after seeing this film it gave me a different perspective
of our guardian angels. A must see!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is worth falling for ,when u really want to hold the hands
of Magi,feel her,touch her and really leave the eternity to just be
with her. The theme was so wonderful that u really want to live with
the characters and just hope to be one of them, that proves why man is
afraid to die ,because he know that he will lose all the sensations for
what human being is really crafted by the god, to live in pain leaving
the eternity,but to feel love.The characters are excellently
played,even the scores following were just letting you feel the theme
and live with the characters. I really can't understand the harsh notes
of critics and there sharp views but I can feel that this movie is
worth falling for, even if you have to loose your eternity.This is my
first comment on this site but I feel may be I delayed it only to give
my first one to this one only.(24-12-05)
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing in film upsets me more than a dumbed-down, cheesed-up remake of
a truly great work of art.

I cannot understand what would possess anyone to commit such an
atrocity, and I cannot recommend that anyone waste their time on this
piece of trash when they could instead be watching the original, "Wings
of Desire" (1987), and its sequel. The remake may employ better-known
actors, but it adds nothing of merit while stripping away most of the
original's emotional depth. 

Had I not first seen the vastly superior original, I might have enjoyed
this movie enough to sit through more than the first half and give it
4/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I expected to love this film, since my favorite actor and actress are in it,
and I was not disappointed. Meg Ryan is great as ever as the surgeon with
serious issues, and Nic Cage plays an unusual part as the sensitive angel
who falls in love with her. Since Nic is an angel and Meg a human, Nic has
to become human so he can touch, smell and love her. 

The power of this film is the chemistry between Nic and Meg , and the
atmosphere created by Brad Silberling. The romance is very sweet and
believable, played into perfection by the leads, and the atmosphere of the
'city of angels' is captivating.    
         
The only thing else a film like this needs is a suitable ending, which
simply wasn't there. The fist hour-and-a-half was mysteriously uplifting,
and the ending was downright depressing. It didn't work for me. Still, it is
much better and definitely much deeper than your usual romantic drama and it
never fails to entertain. Let's hope the DVD has an alternative ending.
(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>

I was hesitant to see this movie for the longest time.  Nicolas
Cage and Meg Ryan in a romantic drama would seem to spell a
movie filled with forlorn looks and sweet nothings whispered to
each other.  Upon seeing it, this movie proved my suspicions true.

However, I was astonished at how much more this film had.  The
sheer amount of interesting concepts, combined with the ability to
look at humanity from some distance, made this movie well worth
the watch.  If this film succeeds, and I believe it does, it is precisely
because of the mixture of Hollywood gloss and original Wenders
magic.  Something for everyone, if only you give it a little thought.

Touching date movie, nice discussion piece, and filled with
attractive people, City of Angels is wonderfully shallow and
surprisingly deep at times, making it well worth the watch.
<|_=00=_|>

A very different look at the world of angels and their interaction with
human beings.  If this were a story about the devil, IMDB would have plenty
of comments so I am not surprised to read so many negative
ones.

I don't believe that angels wear black, but I do believe in the premise of
this movie:  "sometimes things are true whether you believe in them or
not."

Meg Ryan, a very unlikely choice, was thoroughly believable as an
obsessive-compulsive doctor who never sleeps.  When she loses a patient for
the first time, she cries bitterly and cannot understand how it could have
happened--all witnessed by Nicolas Cage as Seth, an angel who was sent to
escort her patient to heaven.  Cage allows himself to be seen by Ryan in a
hospital corridor and sweetly asks, "Are you in despair?"  This entire
conversation sweeps the women in the audience into their evolving
relationship.  Yes, I guess this is definitely a woman's
movie.

Others in lesser roles were quite good.  Dennis Franz nails the part of a
former angel who has "fallen to earth."  (I do not watch his television show
so this was the first time I have seen him act--I was impressed.)  Andre
Braugher, formerly of Homicide (a show I did watch), was terrific as Seth's
closest angel friend, although he had very few lines, as usual Braugher was
effective.  His smile at the end of the movie stays with
you.


<|_=00=_|>
Overall, this is a nice love story that I enjoyed the first time I saw
it but decreasingly so with future viewings. After three, it was
enough, but that's two more than I usually watch of Meg Ryan films.

Since it's Hollywood, you know there is going to be misguided theology,
in this case the subject is angels and heaven. None of the "sermons" in
here are Biblical, believe me. it's really more of a love story than
anything else. Plus, it's an interesting story with good visuals.

Nicholas Cage plays a likable guy. There are actually a few good
messages about God and angels - mainly that they exist - and another
good message being that all of us should appreciate more what we have
here on earth, starting with our senses (smell, taste, touch, etc.) 

Anyway, if you like a good romance story, you should like this movie.
