

It is truly sad that we have to wait until a person is dead and gone to give
him or her the honor they should have received while alive.  Andy Kaufman
was a man of many talents, and I saw him only as this funny little man on a
TV show called, "Taxi" with a cute accent.  Who could not fall in love with
that person he was on "Taxi"?  He was cute, honest, kind, and funny!  Who
knew that while we were all at home laughing, he was crying on the inside
because that wasn't who he was, nor wanted to be.  I went to see this movie
about a person who was famous for his "Elvis" personation, and his little
record player, doing the "Mighty Mouse" skit on Saturday Night Live, never
to forget "Latka" on "Taxi."  He was a man of many talents, so many that the
world never knew about, so many that only Andy knew who he really was.  Jim
Carrey allowed us to come into Andy Kaufman's mind, and realize that this
grown man lived in another place, another time, an entire other world where
Andy was free, and there was peace, and where everyone never grew up, they
stayed children playing "pretend" forever.

Jim Carrey put himself into this part, he lived this role...  He was
Andy Kaufman.  Carrey was able to show me a whole new light on this man I
thought I knew.  This funny man who could make you laugh just by walking on
stage.  Jim Carrey showed us that who we saw, was not the man we thought we
knew.  And it took his death to show the world that Andy Kaufman was in fact
a human being, who just needed a hug, and a chance at what he did best.

This sadness me to realize that our joy brought this man pain, who we wanted
was not who he wanted to be, and I think everyone should be able to live the
dream they choose.
I never cry at movies, because I am able to pull myself back and remind
myself that it is just a movie, and those are just actors.  Jim was Andy,
and what I saw was too true for me to tell myself, "It's only a movie."

This is a story about a man who lived and died without being understood.  I
cry for the person Carrey brought us into, the life he showed us that was
hidden for too long.  No one could have given Andy such a life as Carrey
did.  This movie is not a normal movie, it is art in the most beautiful form
imaginable.  To sit in a theater and be at aw... for two hours is amazing! I
only wish we had known Andy Kaufman when he was truly alive.  Now it is too
late, the curtain has gone down...
<|_=00=_|>

I've been an Andy Kaufman fan for quite a while now. True, I was around
six
when Andy died. But somehow this strange man was able to affect both my
work
and outlook. So needless to say I was looking forward to this film. And I
was not disappointed.

Critics complain that while engaging, this film does not let the viewer in
on who exactly Kaufman was. It's simple: there was no real Andy Kaufman.
He
was socially inept, utterly brilliant, and a strange and distant
individual.
His sense of humor (if he even had one) was not for everyone to
understand.
THAT WAS THE POINT. So why should a film spoil the mystery? MAN ON THE
MOON
was as an homage to Andy, NOT an explanation, and far better than those
dull, lifeless documentaries on E! or comedy central in which
uninteresting
comedians try to explain why Andy was brilliant. It's common knowledge
that
explaining a joke renders it humorous (a notion that Andy toyed with in
his
Foreign Man routine, remember?)

True, some facts were altered for dramatic purposes (though the truth is
just as interesting), or maybe just necessity, but the base story is still
pretty accurate. Some of the more humorous moments in Kaufman's career
were
not mentioned (i.e. his
stints on Johnny Carson and David Letterman, his work with performance
artist Laurie Anderson, his street corner preaching). But lets face it,
everything couldn't and didn't need to be included. The film is capable of
capturing the essence of Kaufman's world. If you want to see everything
Kaufman did, find a recording of it and watch that.

Carrey is brilliant as Kaufman. Some call it an imitation, though that
seems
overly simplified and absurd. That was an imitation along the lines of
Geoffrey Rush in SHINE, or Hilary Swank in BOYS DON'T CRY, or Richard
Farnsworth in THE STRAIGHT
STORY. Sure, Carrey observes and uses the many Kaufman quirks without a
fault, but his observation goes far beyond what any other actor seems
capable of. Carrey is Andy Kaufman. So many seem unwilling to admit that
Carrey can act.

Taken on it's own, MAN ON THE MOON is a magical, funny, and wonderful
film.
Taken with the rest of the sources currently available on Andy Kaufman,
this
is just another facet to a complex career and an homage to a brilliant
man.
<|_=00=_|>

"Man on The Moon", indeed. I remember seeing Andy Kaufman's act on TV as a
teenager, and I admit, I wrote him off as another comedian, with an
incredibly expressive face and a flair for silliness. Years later, I'm
watching him on "Taxi" reruns. I admired the easiness where he could go
from
loving Latka to malicious Vic with ease, and I thought, "Wow, this guy
really loves what he does". And then I watch "Man on The Moon". Reality
check.

This picture, I believe, redeems Andy Kaufman. He endured five grueling
years in "Taxi" just so he could get some laughs out of people. He did
wrestling stints just for the heck of it. He came real close of hitting
rock
bottom just to save himself at the end. He died of cancer at the age of
35,
ridiculously young, and even then his own family didn't buy it. He lived
misunderstood, and died misunderstood. And years later, he gets a biopic.
Just what he deserves. It is sad that many people will know Andy's talent
and understand him only after watching this film. But still, let's face
it,
at the end he did get the last laugh.

The true cornerstone in this film is Jim Carrey. Yes, you've heard endless
reviews about him immersing himself into Andy, not just playing him. But
this is acting beyond your dreams, trust me. Especially when he plays
Andy's
foreign character, Carrey lived and breathed Kaufman air. This is the
movie
where his silly-putty face comes handy, as it seems to help Jim turn into
Andy. (If only we could do something about those teeth...) NEWSFLASH FOR
THE
ACADEMY: Jim Carrey can act!!! I remember Tom Hanks beginning with the
same
kind of movies that Jim did: loud, colorful, goofy and silly (films like
"Bachelor Party" come to mind). Then he did "Big", then came
"Philadelphia".
When is Carrey's "Philadelphia" coming along? I can't wait to see him at
the
Academy Awards this year.

Man on the moon, indeed.
<|_=00=_|>

Having liked the contrived Latka Gravas, but never really knowing much more
about Andy Kaufman than the Headlines, Man on the Moon offered some
incredible depictions of this one of a kind enigma.

I was never a big fan of his off-Taxi antics, but then again, Man on the
Moon made it clear that I simply did not understand them.  I'm not any more
of a Kaufman fan than I've been, but Man on the Moon has left me with an
incredible appreciation for his genius.

Jim Carrey's performance is chilling.  His normal on-screen presence has
often made it hard for me to see him as the characters he's played.  This
time, I forgot that I was watching an actor portraying Andy Kaufman.  It was
frighteningly good.  The entire supporting cast was just as stellar.

Though interesting throughout, mostly because it explained so much that I
never knew about events that were so highly publicized, Man on the Moon's
amazing insight into the "why" behind the "what" of his antics completely
left out the "why" behind the "what" of the person.  I now know a lot about
what he did, but I still know very little about who he was.

If the creators' intent was to let the world get to know Andy Kaufman the
man, then I think the film missed its mark.  However, that has nothing to do
with the fact that it was an outstanding film in every way.  It would be as
unfair to detract from the film for this as it would be to call a hammer
useless because it doesn't drill holes.  A film isn't about what I expect,
it's about what it is.  In this case, it's astounding from beginning to
end.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw a special sneak preview of "Man on the Moon" last week in Boston.
Quite simply, the film is magnificent, and truly provides the audience with
a glimpse into the genius of Andy Kaufman.  There are moments of true
hilarity, and moments that will break your heart.

Of course, this film would be nothing without the inspired performance by
Jim Carrey.  Within the first moments of the film, you completely forget
that it is Jim Carrey on screen.  Rarely have I seen an actor truly
transform into the persona that he is portraying.  Jim Carrey was Andy
Kaufman.

At the very least, Mr. Carrey is deserving of every honor that is given in
acting. No other performance this year comes even close to this.  Without
question, this is a film for the ages, and gives everyone a look into the
mind of a genius.
<|_=00=_|>

Your fondness for `Man on the Moon' may well be predicated on your feelings
for Andy Kaufman, both as comic performer and offstage human being.  And,
as
this film suggests, there was not, ultimately, a very wide gap between the
two.  Indeed, the point of the film seems to be that, with Kaufman, the
many
characters he showed to us on stage and T.V. pretty much reflected the man
who existed in real life.

This may be both the strength and the weakness of the movie itself.
Kaufman's purported genius has always eluded me.  Ostensibly, it lay, I
imagine, in his metaphorically giving the finger to his audience while
entertaining them at the same time.  That audience, ultimately discovering
that it was the butt of the joke, then was able to go a step further and
become a willing part of the act, allowing them all to feel superior to the
uninitiated masses still deluded enough to be on the outside looking in.
Kaufman's act became, then, a kind of exclusive comic club, a collective
act
of defiance against the social norms of theatrical convention and good
taste.  Thus, we see him in the film reading the entire novel `The Great
Gatsby' verbatim to a stunned and ultimately hostile college audience; we
see him wrestling women while spouting inflammatory chauvinistic rhetoric
and deliberately muffing his lines on live national television in a
brilliant blurring of the line between reality and theatricality.  The
problem, however, is that iconoclasm has never been a source of humor in
itself, and much of Kaufman's act and persona came across as heavy-handed,
smug and self-conscious, particularly in his grating Lithuanian `Taxi'
character.  In short, Kaufman always seemed too full of himself and so
dazzled by his own cleverness and cuteness to ever be truly funny.  It was
like he was always pointing his thumbs back at himself saying, `Look how
funny I am.'  Such unctiousness inspires us not to laugh.

The film itself is an uneven study of the man.   The first half is
particularly shaky.  After a clever 5-minute view of Kaufman as a
performance-obsessed child, we move to his young adulthood where we see him
bombing in a local nightclub with an act so aggressively unfunny that we
cannot even imagine that it could possibly be real.  Then, virtually in the
blink of an eye, he is discovered by his future manager, again, in a scene
of staggering incredibility, in which Kaufman somehow manages to reduce his
audience to helpless laughter with material that couldn't possibly evoke
even titters let alone room-shaking guffaws.  Before we know it, Kaufman
has
somehow landed a hosting job on `Saturday Night Live' (yet another bad
performance) and has become so much in demand that he not only secures a
role in a new sitcom, `Taxi,' but is allowed to make all sorts of demands
from the producers in exchange for his services.  The chronicle of his
meteoric rise to fame simply lacks the detail necessary to make it
credible.

The movie finds surer footing as it moves ahead in time.  If anything, the
gross lack of humor of many of his performances recreated for the film
simply underlines the overrated comic gifts of Kaufman himself.  Although
the writers, Scott Alexander and Larry Karasczewski, and director, Milos
Forman, convey an obvious attitude of affection towards Kaufman, they do
not
shy away from portraying the self-centered petulance that governed many of
his actions both in his professional and personal life.   The most poignant
moments come when he discovers he has lung cancer, yet cannot convince many
of the people who are closest to him that he is really sick, so skeptical
has his life of duplicity made them.  Though Courtney Love is very good
indeed as the woman who learns to love Kauffman, the portrayals of her
character and their relationship as a whole remain sketchy and superficial
throughout.  We never really sense much chemistry between them since they
never seem to experience much in the way of revelatory conflict.  She
simply
loves him unconditionally, and she is given little to do but beam
pleasantly
at him or look perpetually concerned for his health and well being.

`Man on the Moon's one element of undeniable brilliance lies in the
triumphant performance of Jim Carrey in the starring role.  In physical
appearance, in mannerisms, in comic stylings, he, quite literally, becomes
Andy Kaufman!  Whether on stage or behind-the-scenes, Carrey never hits a
false note, displaying his uncanny ability to bring out the humanity that
might easily have been lost in a portrayal of a very eccentric comic
artist.
Indeed, Carrey lends some much needed depth to a screenplay that, in its
bare-bone plotting, often seems undernourished and underfed.  `Man on the
Moon' becomes, ultimately then, more compelling as a steppingstone in
Carrey's development as an artist than as an elegy for the artist who once
was.


<|_=00=_|>
Biographies of strange people have always fascinated me, and this is no
exception. And "strange" doesn't really seem to adequately describe
real-life comedian Andy Kauffman. He was REALLY different, many times
very offensive, sometimes very unfunny....but always extremely
interesting and certainly unique.

Jim Carrey shows us once again how comedians can be such good dramatic
actors. Carrey is outstanding in this role, and perfect for it. The
rest of the cast is good, too, from Danny DeVito to Paul Giamatti to
Courtney Love.

Right from the beginning of this movie one sees how original it is, and
how original Kaufman was as a comedian. His routines, antics and
put-ons are so realistically done that no thinks they are just that.
Unfortunately, his "jokes" don't always go over so well, aren't
appreciated by most audiences and he is not always the most likable
entertainer you will ever see. That means - be forewarned - that there
are a number of unpleasant scenes in this film. You have to really
appreciate Kauffman's absurd humor and to appreciate Carrey's great
portrait of this man.

On multiple viewings (I've seen it four times) I liked this film even
more than the first time, even though I knew the surprises. I don't
know of any comedian - to this day - who deliberately tried to annoy
his audience or truly liked it when his audience hated him. I cannot
believe he had the nerve to do the things he did. In summary, this is a
fascinating biography, to say the least.
<|_=00=_|>

Man on the Moon is one of the most heart-felt endeavors I've ever seen on
film.  With each frame, you can feel how much the project means personally
to all involved, especially to star Jim Carrey and producer Bob Zmuda.
Although personal adoration for the subject of one's movie does not always
translate into a film that audience members will identify with, Man on the
Moon succeeds brilliantly.  Between Milos Forman's unique directing style,
the actors' performances, and Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski's
writing, the film is able to simultaneously make you a member in one of Andy
Kaufman's audiences, experiencing both joy and
frustration at his antics, and a close friend who sees, or thinks they see,
the Andy Kaufman behind the masks. Just as Karaszewski and Alexander did
with the Ed Wood or Larry Flint biopicks, they challenge our concept of what
it means to be successful by giving dignity to to the seeming misfits of our
society.  However, a biopick like Man on the Moon succeeds or fails mainly
on the grounds of the lead performance.  Jim Carrey proved his dramatic
talent last year with a performance in The Truman Show that should have
translated into an Oscar, and this year he again gives what will likely be
the best performance of the year.  Carrey approaches the role of Kaufman
with a level of professionalism and enthusiasm far greater than that
displayed by many of today's acclaimed actors.  Carrey adopts Kaufman's
mannerisms flawlessly and becomes Kaufman so convincingly that you forget
Carrey is acting.  The film's other stars, in particular Paul Giamatti,
Courtney Love, and Danny DeVito, all turn in excellent performances as well.

Man on the Moon is both inspiring and thought provoking - a must see.

<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey delivers on of the greatest acting achievements of the
nineties in this stunning biopic about the legendary comedian Andy
Kaufman (the man on the moon, according to REM). For me as a European
citizen, Andy Kaufman is a complete mystery. I've never seen any of his
performances in Saturday Night Live nor have I ever seen any of his
live shows. After seeing the movie five times, I as a Dutch not-knowing
citizen who had never heard of Kaufman before, can make an image of the
man and his brilliance. This is all thanks to Milos Forman and a
stunning Jim Carrey, who really becomes Andy Kaufman. According to me,
this movie is where Jim Carrey proves that he is just more than a funny
guy, and after seeing him in Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind
(2004) Carrey has really proved that he is in fact a character actor.
<|_=00=_|>
For all the attention he got, Andy Kaufman didn't leave much of a comic
legacy. Mostly just his part on Taxi, where his Latka character could
be amusing in small doses. So why make a movie about a secondary sitcom
actor? Unfortunately, you'll still be asking that question when the
movie is over.

What Kaufman was famous for is stunts involving feigned anger or
outright verbal abuse that were designed to entertain only himself.
People who watched him hoping to see something funny often just saw
shouting and threats. He was called a comedian but he preferred being
unfunny.

Man on the Moon carefully recreates these episodes. Makeup artists make
Jim Carrey look exactly like Kaufman, and Carrey meticulously reenacts
all of Kaufman's mannerisms. The producers even cast many of Kaufman's
actual accomplices, like wrestler Jerry Lawler. The problem is, when
you carefully, painstakingly recreate an unfunny event, you get a
careful, painstaking unfunny event. This isn't a failed movie in the
sense it doesn't achieve its goal; it's a failed movie in the sense
that the goal was never worth achieving.
