

The first "I Know What You Did..." film had a plot to go with the stalking
and the suspense. The follow-up film has no story, just your standard
slasher stalks and kills teens....as well as anybody else in the film.

However, that said, it still was fun to watch, although maybe a little too
graphic for my taste in a couple of spots. Unlike many of the other posted
comments, I found Brandy's performance to be very natural and entertaining
and of course Love Hewitt is nice too look at too.

The Mekhi Phifer character was too much of a boor and I kept hoping he
would get the "hook" sooner than later. The surprise twist at the end did
catch me off guard although others have commented that they figured it out
in advance.

The movie supposedly takes place on a Bahamian island. Having visited the
Bahamas many, many times, the first view of the so-called Bahamas in the
movie was a little bit of a shock since these previously perfectly flat
islands had now grown mountains and hills along with rock formations jutting
out of the ocean. And then when I saw the "Bahamian" resort I was further
shocked to see that Mexican architecture had been exported to the Bahamas.

It seems the film makers should either have gone to the Bahamas or made the
location in the film be Mexico, where it was actually filmed. Of course
Mexico has no remote, lightly populated islands like the Bahamas does so I
guess that wouldn't have suited the story. And the Bahamian government
probably wouldn't let them film there due to the potential bad impact on
tourism.

Despite these quibbles, the movie held my interest and had enough eye candy
to keep me watching the screen. I would rate this movie about a 7.5 on a
scale of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say teen slashers used to have some appeal, but this film
probably hit the lowest of the Hollywood lows. The only redeeming
factor of the entire film was the fact that Jennifer Love Hewitt is in
it, giving it some aesthetic appeal at least. But then the story gets
under way and it's the most predictable thing EVER. The acting was
horrendous, the plot pointless and the gore non-existent. In every one
of these dumb slasher flicks there's a scene where the murderer is down
for the count and can easily be taken advantage of, but for some reason
unknown to man, the "good guys" don't seem to realise this. But "I
Still Know what you did last summer" has possibly the worst one I have
ever seen. What it lacks in gore it definitely makes up for in
logic...oh wait no, they have NONE! Here's the situation, the murderer
has fallen through a ceiling or something and he's unconscious. One of
the girls has a great big fire axe in her hand. What would most
sensible humans do? That's right, swing that axe lots and lots of
times, making sure his head and body are separate entities, and why not
his limbs as well. BUT NO! She doesn't do anything of the sort, instead
she uses the axe to break into a greenhouse and then...THROWS IT AWAY.
Clever girl! She may be dead but at least she got the moral
high-ground. 

N.B. If you're ever stuck in a slasher situation, KILL the murderer
when you get chance, and use a bit of logic. Then again if that
happened the film would last about 15 minutes, which would definitely
have been a good thing.
<|_=00=_|>

I Still Know What You Did Last Summer surprised me. I could see from the
trailer that this second movie would have a different feel to the original
(the first being more of a psychological thriller), but still it caught me
totally off-guard. I Still Know... took a brave step away from the feel of
its predecessor, and dared to be different - which is most probably why so
many people disliked it. The opening scene displays a similar amount of
emotion and tension that was visible ten minutes into the first movie, but
then, in Love Hewitt's own words, the movie "goes crazy". In a good
way...

British-born Danny Cannon's directing is top-notch, and his build up of
atmosphere and suspense throughout the movie is well-paced. His style and
obvious knowledge of Horror movies (as with the original) is a great
benefit, and there are quite a few 'jumps' that work well.

With Williamson unwilling to return to script a sequel, my main fear was
that the script would be appalling if written by a newcomer. Thankfully,
Trey Callaway's script is both inventive and witty, and matches
Williamson's
style almost seamlessly. Although the characters are not quite as well
developed, we are given enough interesting and chilling set pieces to keep
things at an entertaining level.

The setting of the deserted tropical island is an inspired idea, and the
isolation of the central characters adds much-needed suspense. This smart
move helps to bring a new sense of unease and isolation to the film. By
now,
the overall feeling of unease apparent in the first has dissipated, but the
atmosphere of the island is overpowering and the suspense almost unbearable
as Ben creeps ever closer to conquering Julie.

Another good point - as with the first I Know... - is that all the
characters are genuine and likeable. While they are a little
under-developed, what we do see of them helps the viewer to understand and
like them. Between Karla's happy-go-lucky attitude, and bar-maid Nancy's
dark sense of humor there is something quite special here. The acting is
again of a high standard, and I was surprised at how well Brandy made the
jump from TV comedy to full-fledged movie horror! Even supporting actors
such as Matthew Settle (who played Will Benson) and Jennifer Esposito were
extremely enjoyable, giving this movie a sense of realism that isn't all
too
apparent in many movies these days. The presence of Ben Willis is one that
still sends chills down the spine, and Muse Watson's portrayal of a
cold-blooded killer is unlike any other on-screen slasher in this day and
age. Another welcome face (and one that spiced up the movie a little with
his pompous hotel manager) is Jeffrey Combs, who is brilliant as the
tight-lipped manager, and his death is a truly memorable and shocking
moment
(his subdued "Duh!" still cracks me up).

The only disappointing thing about I Still Know... is the final epilogue
scene. While the final shock worked effectively in the first movie and gave
a great final scare, here it is rather predictable. Although it is handled
well, and Love's final scream is one that is chilling to the extreme, it
simply leaves the movie feeling unfinished.

MY VERDICT:
A worthy sequel that is given way too little credit for trying to be
different. While it may not suit everybody's taste, the great performances
from all the principle cast (in particular Love Hewitt, who it was great to
see back!), an original setting and artistic directing set this one above
most teen slashers, and is one that should not be viewed alone on a dark
night.
<|_=00=_|>
"I Still Know What You Did Last Summer" follows Julie (Jennifer Love
Hewitt), who is still suffering from the memories of her friends'
murders by a vengeful fisherman who she and her friends had
accidentally hit with their car and disposed of his body, thinking him
to be dead. Her college friend, Karla (Brandy Norwood) wins tickets to
the Bahamas via a radio station contest, so she, Karla, Karla's
boyfriend, Tyrell (Mekhi Phifer), and a friend Will, head off on
vacation. Meanwhile, Ray (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Julie's ex-boyfriend,
has an encounter with the fisherman again, and heads to the island to
save Julie. But soon enough, bodies begin to pile up on the
mostly-deserted island (which is currently in it's storm season) all
around Julie and her friends, and it seems the fisherman has returned.

I considered the original "I Know What You Did Last Summer" to be a
fairly good slasher movie that evolved during the late '90s. It had a
nice revenge-laced premise about teenagers who had to pay the
consequences for their mistakes at the hands of a psychotic fisherman,
and it was very well done in comparison with most slasher movies of
that era. This sequel popped up only a year later, and while it may be
very unoriginal, it's still entertaining. In terms of story, the idea
was well put together, and the tropical, stormy Bahaman island was the
perfect setting for this film to take place, and a nice change from the
gloomy coastal town the previous film was set in. I knew a sequel was
coming, after the first film succeeded well with audiences, it was
nearly inevitable. The violence factor is much more gratuitous in this
sequel, it's gore galore for this movie, which wasn't surprising. It
seems that way for a lot of horror movie sequels.

Also, being no surprise, this film is almost beyond cliché-ridden.
Typical horror set-ups, scares, and character stupidity is present
throughout the course of the movie. It's unrealistic a lot of the time,
and there are plot holes everywhere, so in that sense, it's a bit of a
mess. But on the other hand, despite all of the unrealistic events, I
have to admit that this is an extremely entertaining movie. Jennifer
Love Hewitt and Freddie Prinze Jr. reprise their role, and Brandy
Norwood and Mekhi Phifer play her lively friends. Jennifer Esposito
(whose career hadn't quite taken off yet) also plays a worker on the
island who the gang teams up with when the fisherman begins to off the
island's population. The acting was nothing more than average at best,
but it was tolerable (nothing too bad, I have seen much worse). But
besides, what can you expect from this type of flick? The film ends
with one of those "gotcha!" jump scares quite similar to the ending of
the original, and puts a close on this series (unless you count the
2006 direct-to-video sequel that follow this) on a rather silly but
fitting note. The entire movie is a little far-fetched, but so what?

Overall, I'd advise anyone who is tired of your run-of-the-mill slasher
movies to avoid "I Still Know What You Did Last Summer" like the
plague, because I can guarantee that they will be sorely disappointed.
But for those who enjoy some cheap horror entertainment every once and
awhile, this clichéd little slasher sequel is an entertaining way to
spend a couple of hours, but don't expect to take any of it seriously.
6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Don't bother.Unless you are very easily entertained and have not seen any
decent horror movies to compare this to. I would say the
first one was OK, having seen it in the theater with a screaming audience
made it more fun, but not in my list of top
20 horror movies. This sequel makes the first one look like a masterpiece.
I
figured out who the killer was about 15
minutes into the movie. The only slightly
amusing part was Jeffrey Combs, who
starred in the classic Re-Animator and many Stuart Gordon films. He is
amusing but too good for crap like this! I
Hope they at least paid him good money, the poor guy. Also, why did she
flip
out when she was locked in the tanning
bed? The killer turns the heat up all the way...first of all, it isn't
possible to turn it up enough to "cook" someone,
especially in about 5 seconds. Oooooo, a tanning bed. I'm shaking in my
shoes! No suspense, no nothing, and the ending was OK but made no
logical sense. Of course there will be a third
movie that will start out with her waking up from a bad dream that is the
end of this one. Yeah, and I had a bad
dream that I wasted 3 bucks an 90 minutes of my life watching this crud.
No
wait, that was real! Aaaaaaiiie! 
<|_=00=_|>
Hewitt is in college and struggling to maintain her grades after the
traumatic events that occurred the previous summer. She and her friends
win an all-expenses-paid vacation to the Bahamas, but it quickly turns
into a nightmare when the menacing fisherman returns with vengeance on
his mind. The first film may not have been a classic, but surely it
could have inspired a much better sequel; this poorly-conceived slasher
film has a ridiculous setup, nonexistent plot, little suspense, and an
abundance of false scares. Even worse is a multitude of one-note
supporting characters, senseless violence, plus manipulative and
obvious plot twists that build up to a predictable finale. With the
exception of a talented cast, there isn't a single redeeming factor
here. *½
<|_=00=_|>

Ermmm, exsqueeze me? Baking powder? I would like to know exactly when and
where the usually rock solid formula for producing a simple but
entertaining
slasher flick got lost? Or is it just that Danny Cannon can't seem to suss
it out? "I know I know!... How about we have another scene where Jennifer
Love Hewitt hears a spooky noise, wanders around the house in the dark,
then
opens a door to discover that there is no one there!... yeah, that's it!
Then we can have a scene where Jennifer Love Hewitt hears a noise,
wanders..."

If you are a fan of the old school slasher flicks such as Bodycount,
Halloween, or the Friday the 13th's then you will be dissapointed with this
films lack of entertaining grisly setpieces or inovation. If you are a fan
of the hip new school of Kevin Williamson then again you will be
dissapointed by the yawnsome pace of this.

Dire! 1 out of 10, try harder!
<|_=00=_|>
Every time that there's a cool new movie, they just have to make a
sequel. "I Still Know What You Did Last Summer" pretty much repeats
everything from the original, minus and plus some cast members. I just
hope that they don't make another "know what you did" movie. Not only
is there nothing that they can add to the concept, the title is
inaccurate: it should be "two summers ago".

So, stick with the original and you won't be disappointed. At least
"Scary Movie" spoofed these sorts of movies. Starring Jennifer Love
Hewitt, Brandy Norwood, Freddy Prinze Jr., Muse Watson, Mekhi Phifer
and Jeffrey Combs.
<|_=00=_|>
Like its predecessor, 'I Still Know...' falls flat when the funny,
obnoxious character (played by Mekhi Phifer in this case) isn't on
screen. Between the young actors and the tropical setting, it's a good
looking picture, but there ain't too much more to rave about. I do like
watching the film though, for the nostalgia if nothing else.

I was going to close with a question about the silliness and plot-holes
of Julie James' (Jennifer Love Hewitt) visions/disillusions, but then I
realised that it didn't matter (at the end of the day, it's a trashy
slasher that you either go along with or you don't). Instead, I will
query the only thing more troubling in the film: what is up with Jack
Black's dreadlocks?
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was so bad, that it left you with this feeling that if there was
another sequel, that you would prefer to pay them not to make one. Every
death was predictable and the people you really want to die, live. The 1st
movie was good because it had a plot. This one is just a follow up. And for
those who think the Capitol of Brazil is Rio, this is your movie. It was
rated R for (among other things) intense violence by the creators. Intense
only if you're a snail. The movie was horrible to say the least and I'd give
it zero if I could but I'll give it 1 to be fair, tho' I still want my money
back.
