

This film took this jaded, tough-to-manipulate moviegoer and reduced him to
a blubbering mass of water. Instead of the usual over-the-top death scene,
the film finds a clever, non-contrived way to end by leaving these characters
at a magical moment of mutual understanding. It is one of the most powerful
endings I've ever seen in a film, and believe me, I've seen thousands. What
I found most remarkable about it was how the film reveals--despite the
sisters' major character differences--how similar they really are. Both
abandon one part of their family to sacrifice for another part--they each
merely take different parts, and that's why Lee's character is not as bad,
selfish or one-dimensional as she first seems. Lee's problem was
understanding love. Despite all her lovers, Lee (Streep) had to learn the
real meaning of love from her spinster sister Bessie (Keaton).

The film is full of irony. One such moment is when Lee, rather tactlessly,
says to Bessie that she finally feels as though her life has begun. To which
Bessie, who is surely about to die, can only sigh. The greatest irony, of
course, is that Lee finds herself at the same juncture she was 20 years
prior. Will she choose to sacrifice to care for her sister, just as her
sister had chosen to do with her father and aunt? Bessie, in contrast, had
come to find that she hadn't "thrown it all away" to care for sick
relatives. What first seemed a sacrifice had become transformed, through her
own experience, into another valid way of experiencing life. To Lee's
perspective, the elders where millstones, hindrances, inconveniences robbed
of their humanity--almost the antithesis of life. Yet, behind the
eccentricities of Aunt Ruth (Verdon) and other-worldly silence of her
chronically ill father Marvin (Cronyn), she had found, and reveled in, their
uniquness, their humanness.
Making Lee's two sons very different also added complexity and depth to the
film. It's obvious that Hank (DiCaprio) is his mother's son, it's just that
his mother doesn't realize it. Hank too is at a crucial moment of choice:
Will he abandon his selfishness, or will he abandon his familial and moral
obligation to help Bessie? And what accounts for the polar opposite behavior
of the younger son Charlie (Scardino)? The movie doesn't give an answer.
Genetics, environment, relationships and all the other things that make us
who we are are complex things. The scriptwriter is smart enough to realize
that.
Touches of humor keep this from becoming an oppressive Bergmanesque
angst-fest, and its patient character development steers it out of obvious
soapy (ie. "Terms of Endearment") territory.
Although the thing has a sort of TV-movie aesthetic in the staging and the
scoring, the writing and acting are everything you'd want.
Beautiful. 
<|_=00=_|>
It's such a wonderful story, not at all as dreary as one would expect.
The late Scott McPherson injected so much humor and heart into this
film, it's hard not to just go along with it. Diane Keaton got the
Oscar nomination, but Meryl Streep's character drives the film, as she
works her way back into a family she turned her back on so she could
have a life of her own. She was right to do so, as her sister (Keaton)
has become consumed with caregiving for her father and aunt, taking
absolutely no time out for herself. The film also features a nice
departure for Robert De Niro from his typically heavy roles. That alone
is worth seeing, and fans of his typical performances should be forced
to watch this.

This quiet film may not have enough action for some, but it is far
better than most films dealing with serious illness. The journey these
sisters begin is something that has been explored in countless TV
movies (think Lifetime), but what separates it is the humor and the
character development that makes the viewer wish he/she could stay and
watch the family long after the film ends. The film also benefits from
the presence of Leonardo DiCaprio, who gives an unlikely nuanced
performance as the older son who develops some character and helps his
flighty mother grow along with him. The great thing about his presence
in the film is that younger viewers (mostly female, probably) will be
more likely to see this movie and get something out of it in the
process.

Finally, a word about Gwen Verdon and Hume Cronyn. Their contributions
to this film are immeasurable. And as already mentioned, it's great
that younger viewers can watch this film and get a last look at them in
these touching roles and see how charm never fades with age. Cronyn has
little to do but lie ill in bed, yet somehow his character remains a
focal point. And Verdon's comic relief pairing with the younger son is
a real highlight. She also manages a poignant moment or two in a her
scenes with Keaton. This truly is an ensemble piece, and it wouldn't
have been without their talent. Why I don't yet own a copy of this
sweet film is a mystery.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie should be reviewed for its great performances from some of the
 best actors today. Meryl Streep does not fail to shine out as one of the
 best actresses of all time as an emotionally distraught mother in this tale
 of hopes, emotions and intense feelings. Keaton, on the other hand portrays
 her best performance ever, and Leonardo DiCaprio proves that he has talents
 besides being a heartthrob. This movie really moved me, not because of the
 story itself but the acting was very realistic....I believe that they all
 should have received an Oscar nomination. Well done!
<|_=00=_|>

Marvin's Room (1996) Dir: Jerry Zaks
Finally a movie of substance that harkens back to Keaton's earlier
successes. Keaton co-stars with drama heavyweight Meryl Streep as two
estranged sisters who reunite to deal with Keaton's recently diagnosed
leukemia.  Keaton's character is hopeful that Streep or one of her two
screen sons can be a bone marrow donor for her and thereby possibly save her
life. Meanwhile, Keaton has been caring for the sister's long suffering and
long dying father, Marvin (Hume Croyn).  Adding a little box office punch to
the flick is current heartthrob Leonardo DiCaprio as one of Streep's
"problem" boys.  Though the plot reads like melodrama, and to an extent it
is, the movie is fairly subtle and unexpected in its story line choices.  If
nothing else, one doesn't have the feeling that the writers wrote the
screenplay over beers and an episode of Married with Children.

Nominated for Best Actress, Keaton gets to present a more controlled and
quiet persona than she usually displays. Streep is typically fine as a used
to be good time girl who finally is about to graduate out of beauty school
and is having trouble dealing with her sick sister, her dying father and her
whacked-out teen son.  Definitely worth a view if for no other reason than
to fill in the missing Keaton and/or Streep movies you may have missed. And
gosh, doesn't Leo look cute!
<|_=00=_|>

 This film was on the end of Eraser that I taped off Sky Premier, it was
purely accidental that I watched it. I started to watch it thinking that it
might get me to sleep, but then I found it great. Robert De Niro had all the
best lines with his pathetic brother, Bob(Dan Hedaya). Meryl Streep also
shone in her screen time with her son, Hank(Leonardo Di Caprio in his best
role ever).

 I loved the whole dramatic sequences, and found the acting touching and
Oscar worthy. Diane Keaton provided all the tears in the film, with the
others all providing laughs.

 This film was a huge surprise. I don't usually like dramas(although I loved
Di Caprio's and De Niro's other film together, This Boy's Life), and I
recommend this to everyone who loves good dramas. Rating=4/5
<|_=00=_|>
This stage to screen adaptation about two estranged sisters attempting
a reconciliation after one is diagnosed with cancer is sentimental to
the extreme, manipulative beyond forgiveness.....and had me close to
blubbering like a baby by the time it was over.

Chalk it up to the fact that I had recently lost a grandmother to
cancer, but this film nearly devastated me even as I was mad that it
was so maudlin. The fact that it works as well as it does is due
largely to the fact that such good actors are cast in it. Meryl Streep
and Diane Keaton play the sisters (Keaton is the ill one), and while it
would never have occurred to me to put these two actresses together,
the decision was inspired. And right before he rocketed to
international fame, Leonardo DiCaprio does strong work as Keaton's
troubled nephew.

I won't even try to defend this film against those who say it's too
schmaltzy to bear, but please let the rest of us enjoy it in blubbery
peace.

Grade: A-
<|_=00=_|>
Scott McPherson adapts a beautiful screenplay from his own play.
'Marvin's Room' could have easily been just another one of those
sentimental disease-of-the-weak type TV films but McPherson stays true
to the story injecting it with a delightful dose of humour. The film
focuses on broken relationships and how it's never too late to take the
step to mend them until you're gone. The execution is simple and that
works very well. The score is in sync with the flow. The writing is
beautiful. The dialogues are cleverly written.

Diane Keaton is marvelous in a role that could have easily turned out
to be a cliché if it were played by a lesser actress. She plays her
part naturally with a quiet and yet layered restraint. Meryl Streep
does a fine job as the slightly more rebellious and estranged sister
who had escaped from having to take care of her father and is proud of
her diploma. Leonardo Dicaprio isn't bad either. Robert De Niro is
great in a more laidback role. He also reveals a flare for comedy. His
scenes with a splendid Dan Hedaya had me laughing. Gwen Verdon is a
delight and she provides excellent comic relief. Hume Cronyn doesn't
have a scene out of bed but he definitely makes the viewer take note of
his performance.

My favourite scene is towards the end when the two sisters chat in the
kitchen. Keaton's Bessie may have been 'consumed' by taking care of her
ailing father and aunt, not 'leading' her own life like the typical
American woman but the amazing thing is that she doesn't regret it
because she is proud that she has given them so much love and that she
can do the same now with her sister and nephews. Then there's the
ending which is superbly done. You're left wanting to know how these
wonderful characters are doing but at the same time one can acknowledge
that it's the best way to end.
<|_=00=_|>
Small cast, intimate dramas like MARVIN'S ROOM, NIGHT MOTHER or STEEL
MAGNOLIAS are among the hardest to adapt from the confines of the stage
where the imagination can open the plays ideas up and make what might
seem maudlin, real and life affirming to the more realistic form of
film where it is harder to see beyond the mundane "bed pan" realities
of life. In order to reinvent the best of these - like the plays
mentioned above - to the new genre, every break is needed starting with
bravura casts who, one hopes, an audience will want to see even
"reading the phone book." When a play turns around the characters
dealing literally with confrontations with death at the core of the
plot as in these three great plays, what HAD been on stage a single set
intense evening is frequently "opened up" with all sorts of other
locations and events almost as if to distract us from the very issues
which we are supposed to be attending to.

On stage and screen MARVIN'S ROOM may well be the best of these three
"death plays," all of which started and thrived Off-Broadway (only
NIGHT MOTHER made the leap to a Broadway house in its initial
production). While, somewhat amazingly (considering that one of the
standards of the award is "depiction of American life"), MARVIN'S ROOM
was not even a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1992, it
did win a number of other accolades which virtually demanded that
Hollywood attempt to bring it to the rest of the nation - and they
certainly gave it their all starting with the genuinely all star cast
which is both the movie's blessing and its curse. It enraptures with
the bouquet of bravura performances even while moving focus away from
the central "earth-mother" of the family forced to face her own
mortality while trying to care for and hold her collapsing family
together around her (Diane Keaton's Oscar nomination - the film's only
- notwithstanding).

Ultimately, the film gets where the play was going (as well it ought to
have, since Scott McPherson had the luxury of adapting his own play -
he may have written his screenplay simultaneously with, if not before
the tighter stage version, since he died in 1992, the year MARVIN'S
ROOM received its Off-Broadway production at Playwrights' Horizons,
winning the Outer Critics' Circle and Drama Desk Awards as best Play of
the Year), but the power seems to have shifted from the play's
revelations themselves to the dazzling performances. It's still well
worth taking the trip, but more to appreciate a monument to more than a
dozen brilliant stage and screen careers than a revelatory experience
on the meaning of humanity in the face of life and death that the play
had been.

Do, by all means see the movie. It works. ...but if you ever get a
chance to see the play which either suggested it or grew from it, by
all means do - it's smaller but even better.
<|_=00=_|>
I came across this movie on Netflix and thought I would give it a go!
Surely a movie with Meryl Streep and Dianne Keaton wouldn't disappoint!
It sure didn't! While the story has been done before in various formats
it's the screenplay that makes this movie a real gem. The main three
actors really do a great job. But with Streep, Keaton and DiCaprio one
would expect nothing less. For me the the late Gwen Verdon steals the
show. she really shows how comedy should be done. The scene with the
orange is one that stands out. A mixture of comedy and heart wrenching
reality showcases how underrated she has been. This for me should have
definitely gained a nod in any supporting actress awards. This movie
certainly won't change your life but it really does provide you with
food for though about love, family and the importance of life! Give it
a go. It won't disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
I happen to rank this movie as one of Leo's finest. It is definitely
not as main-stream as his others, but the content and the acting was
brilliant. I am a sucker for movies about dysfunctional families and
this one takes the cake. It was so human...there was nothing
"Hollywood" about this at all. 

Each character has their own emotional turmoil and when Lee comes down
with Hank and Charlie, the characters are forced to come to terms with
it. Leo delivered a stand-out performance in a cast of film legends.
Meryl Streep is also wonderful as Lee, the self-centered mom who left
her family behind in search of her own dreams.
