

The In Crowd is a great teen thriller. The movie is about Adrien, a strange
girl who gets a job at a posh country club, when she meets Brittany, a
pretty, rich, popular girl who is the leader of 'The In Crowd.' Brittany
invites Adrien to hang out with her and her friends and everything is going
well at first until things go bad and Brittany turns nasty. I thought most
of the cast played there parts well and even though as the movie went on
you
tend to know what is going to happen, the movie is still enjoyable to
watch.
This is definitely recommended for people who enjoy teen thrillers as this
is a really good one.
<|_=00=_|>

This beach-club teen murder mystery was pummeled by the critics and lasted
about three weeks in theaters before beating a hasty retreat to the rental
market.  Like all films that foster extreme comments and establish
preconceived expectations, this one failed to live up (or should I say down)
to them.  It wasn't great, but it wasn't anywhere near as bad as its critics
say it was.

The story was actually good, in a puerile way.  What I liked about it was
that it accurately portrayed the immature backbiting and excessive
preoccupation with superficialities that are common among teens.  In certain
ways, the story was predictable.  It was easy to foresee that Adrien (Lori
Heuring) was kidding herself if she thought there was no ulterior motive
behind Brittany's (Susan Ward) open acceptance of an outsider into the
group.  What was cleverly presented and not so obvious was Brittany's
motive.

The production was TV quality.  Director, Mary Lambert has mostly TV credits
on her resume and didn't push the envelope.  The acting was mediocre at
best.  Both Lori Heuring and Susan Ward were passable but unpolished and
they lacked subtlety.  The rest of the cast was far worse.

This film will probably find a niche with teens and twenty-something young
adults, but I don't think it is camp enough to attain cult status.  I rated
it a 5/10.  It's not terrible, but it really doesn't distinguish itself in
any meaningful way.  
<|_=00=_|>

A recently released mental patient lands a job at a posh country club with
the assitance of her doctor. She is immediately token under the wing of
rich, pampered, and extremely popular Britanny Foster (Susan Ward), but then
mysterious accidents begin to occur and people are now showing up dead. Is
Britanny responsible for the occurances and for her sister disappearing
years earlier or is the supposedly cured ex mental patient??

Extremely entertaining and sexy teen thriller that covers old and new
ground, features a perfectly casted Susan Ward who has terrific and intense
chemistry with the other lead. Besides being sexy and entertaining, the film
is stylish, very fast paced, tightly edited and is pretty well directed with
a sensational finale. The only thing that weakens this interprise is a few
poor performances in the supporting catergory and a script that doesn't
stand to close scurtney. Still well worth viewing though.

Rated PG-13; Sexual Situations, Adult Themese, Drug Use and Referneces
throughout film, Nudity, Profanity, Violence, and Attempted
Rape.
<|_=00=_|>
The In Crowd is your basic teen thriller with lots of trashy girls and
bad lines & acting and a mediocre script, but it was tolerable.
Actually, it was more than tolerable, it was actually fairly good, not
the acting, by any stretch of the imagination, but it served its
purpose. In my opinion, it's a great movie to watch on a slow/rainy
weekend evening. I went into this film with little to no expectations
and ended up being pleasantly surprised. I was sure by the reviews that
it would be terrible, instead I found myself thoroughly satisfied.
While TIC is no "Cruel Intentions", it's of the same genre. Spoiled
rich kids, doing bad things to each other and sucking in the lowly
outsider in the process.

"In Crowd" has the same atmosphere and draw as any soap opera today,
but the cheesy drama of soaps seems to translate well to a certain
niche, but it DOES have a niche. Expect nothing more than a two hour
version of "All My Children" and you won't end this film angry. I say
give it a chance. If anything it'll end up on your guilty pleasures
list.
<|_=00=_|>
That is THE IN CROWD. The film follows a released mental patient Adrien
Williams working at a country club only to be sucked in a world of sex,
drinking and murder after becoming friends with the glamorous Britnay
Foster. At first everything seems like a dream come true until Adrien
begins to see that all that glitters isn't gold. The film was extremely
entertaining and had a really great climax scene...with a traditional
fun cat fight!

Lori Heauring and Susan Ward bring great performances. Nathan Bexton
does good too. If your looking for Rippled hunks, Babes, sex and murder
than this is the film for you! Its a fun teen thriller, with some sexy
undertones.
<|_=00=_|>

The In Crowd gives us exactly what we would expect for a teen oriented
thriller...and more. We have our standard story line. Crazy girl gets
summer
job at posh country club. Crazy girl makes friends with the overly
attractive country clubbers. And then people start getting angry, then
people start dying. Is it the crazy girl? the creepy groundskeeper? the
seemingly nice gorgeous gal? It's not too hard to figure it out, but there
is just enough plot to keep us interested the whole time...And ALOT
more...
There's lesbian undertones, plenty of girl fights, the aforementioned
overly
attractive cast. (I left the theater wondering why MY friends didn't look
like the people in this movie). There's slapping, attempted drownings,
shirtless guys, the occasional shirtless gal, and plenty of campy fun for
teens, and for people who appreciate high quality camp.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie twice in the movie theaters.  Then we rented it a bunch of
times for sleep overs and the like.  Well I must tell you this movie seems a
little predictable at times, but it is still a good movie.  What do you
expect for a rated PG-13 movie?  It's not going to be super scary.  There
isn't going to be a lot of killings, but there seems to be enough in this
movie.  This movie likes to play with your mind.  Brittany Foster (Susan
Ward) is a character who I think makes this movie better.  Without Susan
Ward's portrayal of Brittany this movie would not be worth watching.  Lori
Huering does an okay job as Adrien, but it isn't the strongest acting. 
Nathan Bexton's Bobby added some much needed laughs to this movie.  Overall
it gets 1 1/2 stars out of 4 on my scale.
<|_=00=_|>
Finding to belong is always a struggle in life. After being locked up
in any institution would change the person. Some go back to their old
ways, some don't. In "The In Crowd", it goes to show that cliques
aren't worth your while. A woman named Adrien(Lori Heuring), gets out
from the psych ward, and into a country club where she can work. In the
club, she meets a clique run by Brittany(Susan Ward). Her co-worker
warns her about her. Naivity would settle in, then Adrien does catches
on about her. Tough as nails, she handled the snake joke very well.
Others would have a coronary. The lip gloss Brittany wears is the only
thing that makes her look good, everything else brought out the ugly
truth. When Adrien was set up for the murder of Dr. Henry
Thompson(Daniel Hugh Kelly), one of the in crowds makes a trap for
Brittany. It takes one person to stand out in front of the crowd, and
think for one self. The rest would look at Brittany in total disgust.
They'll be finding themselves a new leader. The point is, crowds can be
dangerous. That's why I believe in individuality. 2.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

call me crazy but i really liked this movie!  ok so it was a little
predictable but it was quite gripping.  I liked susan wards character in the
movie.  and if anyone knows where that lip gloss came from please email
me!

i loved the way that brittany seemed totally normal yet ended up being the
weird one.  although the film should have had a higher rating what with the
nudity scenes and stuff.

all in all i'd give the in crowd 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

"The In Crowd" is a mindless drama about a young woman
who,
released from a mental hospital on a work furlough program
at a resort for rich kids, becomes involved in murder and
intrigue. This unfortunate film takes off like a snail
on
Quaaludes and spends over half the run time developing
paper
thin characters amidst a quagmire of filler. Although the
production is technically nominal, acting is amateurish,
direction poor, script blah, and the story just plain
weak.
