
It may be a paradox to say that a film can sparkle slowly, yet that's
the only way I can describe this charming romantic comedy. The
star(dom)-crossed lovers don't know that they are Meant For Each Other
... yes, this is the standard RomCom setup. But the -way- they don't
know? That is put across in a most British and deliberate pace and
setting. And it makes the ending that we all know is coming gather
color and charm.

"Notting Hill" takes over a third of its running time to show William
(Hugh Grant) as he is immersed in his daily life, wanting to be
supportive of his friends, yet searching for his own inner life. The
five closest friends all show something he lacks: "happy" conformity, a
loving marriage transcending obstacles, a sister who takes bold risks
for finding love, and a roommate that sees through pretense and says so
(and, yes, is delightfully vulgar).

That very British character-in-a-wry-setting pattern borrows from "Four
Weddings and a Funeral," but the only friends there that I could
consistently believe -mattered- to Grant's character were the gay
couple, one comic, the other showing profound emotion. Here, all of the
lead character's circle deeply cares about him, as he does about them.
This makes all the difference.

Where it matters most is in giving him support when the American film
beauty (Julia Roberts) comes into his life, then out, then in, then ...
and all in ways that are believable for such dissimilar lovers. The
romantic turns are more plausible because Grant's character has such
support and a place for sharing his emotional roller-coaster ride. He
isn't crushed by the down moments, but picks up his individuality and
moves on. And his friends tell him, sometimes with only searching
looks, just when he's picked up -too much- of being on his own. (Okay,
the moment towards the end when Spike puts his exasperation into three
pointed, even vulgar, words is a refreshing change. Sometimes, when a
friend lets loose with the pithy truth, it hits the needed spot.)

All this backstory, character richness, and pointed use of the "right"
words are British qualities that we don't get with the standard
American RomCom setup.

Gina McKee's turn here as Grant's wheelchair-bound female friend is of
someone with deeply felt individuality and unique perceptiveness,
including her own tender perspective on loves past and present -
especially her husband. It's a glimpse into a woman with distinctive
qualities that -she- has chosen. This makes her both appealing to all
her friends, and forceful by quiet understatement. She also ends up
being much funnier, when you've rewound the tape and end up thinking
about the story. (Listen for her spoken turn on "standing up." No, it's
not a cheap play on her limitations. Not in context. And that's subtle
comic acting.)

Richard Curtis's inventive screenplay is one of the best in years, and
would reward a look in book form as well. He takes this backdrop of
supportive friends, puts in the sparkle of Roberts invading and shaking
up their world, and creates a skein of personal truths and imposed
celebrity nonsense.

Grant and Roberts are both passionate and bemused observers of the
absurdities of fame that end up surrounding them, but they act this out
in comic byplay and inventive responses. This isn't an American
breakneck-pace (or "screwball") comedy, and their subtle discovery of
each other's -minds- and substance wouldn't work in such a setting.

Roberts has both the easy familiarity with and the hair-trigger of
frustration from fame, both coming out to undermine her when she least
expects it. But she shows that she can grow and learn from her
mistakes. (Unlike her well-acted but overexplained realization at the
end of "Runaway Bride.") She even has one scene -sans- makeup that is a
genuine romantic turning point. I don't see many other actresses being
willing to try that.

Grant shows an astonishing inner strength and self-awareness, not being
willing to hide how -he- sees reality. (He did the same realistic turn
in "Four Weddings," but didn't try nearly as effectively to figure
himself out.)

The photography and settings show off London beautifully, and the
story's interior scenes make highly imaginative use of a narrow,
stacked-up Notting Hill mini-townhouse.

I do feel the director fails to take up some opportunities to build on
the comic or dramatic moments in the screenplay. He coasts on the
words. They're excellent words, but they need a twist at times.

My only take-off-a-point[*] quibble is with the music. It's mostly
popular tunes that underscore the action. One of these is luminous, and
frames the story perfectly - Elvis Costello's cover of "She." Others,
though, use their lyrics to overstress plot points. Some are performed
too high in volume, sometimes lapping against dialogue.

(The two original themes by Trevor Jones are beautiful, lushly written,
and quite fitting to the main characters. We should have had more of
his work, but they're less than a fourth of the film's music.)

The British often put more creativity below the narrative surface and
into the setting than Americans do, and often get beyond formula. To
discover this in a film is joyous. You'll feel this when you find
yourself compelled to see this deeply felt, yet very funny, film twice,
thrice, or more. For me, it's still delightful after nine months and
nine viewings.

[* Edited on 21 April 2011: After another decade and another ten
viewings, this love story has only become more resonant and beautiful.
The pop-song choices feel notably less obtrusive. The acting of both
Roberts and Grant has evinced more depth. And I see no reason to not
give it a full 10 rating.]
<|_=00=_|>
Notting Hill is a district of west London that was built as a
fashionable Victorian suburb, became very run down during the mid
twentieth century and is now once again fashionable, but which retains
a distinctly cosmopolitan atmosphere, with London's biggest street
market and many small specialist shops. (My wife and I sometimes go
there to shop for bargains). The hero of the film, William Thacker, is
the owner of one of these shops, a travel bookshop. The film concerns
the romance which develops between William and a young woman named Anna
Scott whom he meets when she comes into his shop.

As another reviewer has pointed out, 'Notting Hill' is based around a
theme, love between people of unequal social standing, which has
provided literature with some of its greatest works, both comic and
serious, dating back at least to the tale of King Cophetua and the
beggar-maid. Although many of these stories tell of a poor but honest
lad who aspires to the hand of a princess or titled lady, Anna is not
part of the Royal Family or the British aristocracy. She rather belongs
to an even more exclusive elite, the Hollywood starocracy. She is a
hugely popular film star who earns at least $15,000,000 per film, and
pops into William's shop during a brief stay in London to publicise her
latest movie. 

Although Anna is played by a real-life Hollywood superstar, Julia
Roberts, the film is very typically British. William is similar to an
number of other Hugh Grant characters, being a shy, diffident
middle-class Englishman, probably public-school and university
educated. (Despite this background, he is not particularly wealthy
following a divorce from his first wife and is forced to share his
lodgings with an eccentric Welsh flatmate, Spike). The humour of the
film, particularly the dinner-party banter between William and his
friends, is mostly of the typically ironic, self-deprecating variety
popular in Britain, especially in middle-class circles. Rhys Ifans's
Spike, by contrast, typifies another strand of British humour, the
eccentric zaniness found in the likes of 'Monty Python'. Spike's strong
provincial accent suggests a more working-class background; this
possibly accounts for the teasing that he has to put up with from the
other characters, although he takes it all in good part. 

William may be diffident, self-deprecating and unsuccessful, but he is
probably the stronger of the two main characters. Anna is beautiful and
successful, but underneath it all she is insecure, worried about losing
her fame and fortune and about her inability to form lasting
relationships with men. Early on in the film she has another boyfriend,
Jeff, but it is clear that he is only the latest in a long string of
unsatisfactory romances which have left her emotionally (and in some
cases physically) bruised. The scene where Anna says to William 'I'm
just a girl, standing in front of a boy, asking him to love her' is the
one where we see her at her most vulnerable. Although both characters
are in their late twenties or thirties, it is noteworthy that Anna
refers to 'girl and boy' rather than 'woman and man'. Anna's
vulnerability also comes through in her reaction in the scene where
hordes of paparazzi appear on William's doorstep; William tries to play
down the incident, and Spike finds it hugely amusing, but Anna is
horrified. (The film was made shortly after the death of Princess
Diana; this scene possibly reflects British disgust with the antics of
the paparazzi, who were regarded as being partly to blame for the
Princess's death). Like others, I found myself wondering how much
Anna's personality reflects Julia Roberts's own; she too has had a
number of unhappy relationships. 

Important roles are also played by Tim McInnerny and Gina McKee as
William's best friend Max and his disabled wife Bella; the love of this
ordinary couple for each other provides a more realistic, down-to-earth
counterpart to the fairy-tale romance of William and Anna, helping to
anchor the film more firmly in reality. The main charm, however, lies
in the relationship of the two main characters, as Anna comes to
realise that the seemingly ordinary William has a kindness and decency
which count for more than the monstrous egos of Jeff and his like. Like
'Four Weddings and a Funeral', which was also written by Richard Curtis
and starred Hugh Grant, 'Notting Hill' is one of the warmest and most
human British films of the nineties. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Notting Hill proves one thing -- jokes lie in the oddest places.  This film
is an excellent vehicle for Julia Roberts to put her own life as an actress
under the microscope.  While Roberts' "Anna Scott" character isn't an
autobiographical figure, the Scott character allows for some biting satire
at the life of Roberts herself.  Need I mention some excellent one liners in
the film like the sister of Hugh Grant... "I feel like we are sisters", an
excellent throw-back to "My Best Friend's Wedding"...  or my favourite, a
discussion about nude body doubles just before a nude Julia Roberts (or a
Julia Roberts body double) crosses the screen.

Apart from the small bit of satire, Grant's character plays on the emotions
of every guy who has ever unexplainably fell in to, threw orange juice-on,
lost out on, and fell back in to love.  Roberts character can only help us
understand how such a relationship as the one her and Grant share in the
movie, could be "Surreal, but nice."

A sweet film surely not to be missed!
<|_=00=_|>

Visually lovely, "Notting Hill" becomes an enchanting fairy tale.....a
magical and endearing love story, from the opening credits to an afternoon
of quiet sharing in a London park.  Being a romantic at heart, I was
emotionally drawn to this well produced and entertaining motion picture,
enticing me to view it a number of times more.

Some friends have indicated that the "plot" is boring and in 2 hours and 4
minutes takes too long to come to an expected conclusion.  But the lyrical
chemistry between William Thacker (Hugh Grant) and Anna Scott (Julia
Roberts) give intimate glimpses into the human heart and spirit. As in Mary
Poppins when Burt jumps into the chalk sidewalk drawing, I longed to join
this tapestry of two people falling in love, among caring friends and
relatives.  To longingly look into Anna's eyes and to see a reflection of
your very own soul of hope and humanity may seem less than exciting to some
people.....too involved in their fast paced, action world and who fail to
see the beauty of life around them....to smell the roses.

Watching the inflections of Julia Robert's face became a mesmerizing cinema
experience.  And Hugh Grant's thoughtful and honest, yet quirky presence
gave hope to what could be possible.
Then wrap all this with a humorous, loving and insightful group of friends
and family......WOW!

After watching "Notting Hill" with my wife and giving her a big hug, I saw
that she was just a girl, standing in front of a boy, wanting to be
loved!

What greater joy of meaning can be given by a film?

"Teach me the Magic of Wonder,
Give me the Spirit to Fly"
- John Denver
<|_=00=_|>
Not usually impressed with Romantic Comedies, i found this one
strangely compelling. It really was a nice movie, littered with great
characters, especially Spike played by Rhys Ifans (Hilarious).

The story demonstrates to the extreme that love can occur between the
most unlikely of people, and the humorous portrayal of this, is both
touching and realistic. And i mean realistically created, not
necessarily true realism.

Worthy of your attention, this well written romantic comedy is a must
for fans of the genre and is a good gamble if your not.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Can lightning strike twice? Well with writer Richard Curtis it has! I
understand he wrote this screenplay and completed it before he realised
just how similar it was to his previous hit, Four Weddings and a
Funeral.

Let's examine this a second: Hugh Grant is the hero; There's an elusive
and glamorous American that he falls for; He has a circle of friends,
each in their own way a success AND a failure in life, and yet Hugh's
character (William Thacker) is somehow trailing them all; there's the
kooky yet endearing sister; the character with a tragic disability; a
complete buffoon of a sidekick; and several near-misses.

Yet it's all so thoroughly entertaining, AGAIN. It's like a delicious
dish, and its recipe for success is cooked up time and again by Curtis
as Jamie Oliver's older and wiser brother.

As a single bloke in this day and age I AM William Thacker, and I AM
Charles in Four Weddings. So on the one hand you'll have parts of the
audience identifying with the hero, and parts of the audience wanting
the hero to be their real-life partner. Yet character empathy alone is
not enough to carry a film.

The path that the hero follows needs to be a roller-coaster ride.
Sometimes it's up, sometimes it's down, but it's never boring. In fact,
the pacing is assuredly steady just as, in one excellent scene, we see
the indication of time passing in an extremely effective way. I feel
that Curtis learnt from Four Weddings and tightened the strings on the
time line in this movie. Where Four Weddings very occasionally crawls,
Notting Hill paces along assuredly.

In addition, our hero's roller-coaster ride must be believable. Could
this really happen? Why not? Do movie stars ALWAYS fall for other
celebrities? 

So what of the performances? Well Hugh Grant is really Hugh Grant
(again) in this role. But isn't that why we go to see Hugh Grant
movies? He's funny yet tragic, vulnerable yet assured, and I can't
imagine anyone else playing William.

Julia Roberts is one of those stars who, love her or hate her, delivers
in every role. She's very believable as Anna Scott, showing the
resolute public charm of a movie star, whilst exposing the hidden human
frailty behind Hollywood's finest. And this despite the undoubted (and
wholly false) criticism that she's simply playing a movie star like she
in fact is. She perhaps COULD have leaned back and simply ambled
through the movie expecting it to be an easy role for her, but in a
truly professional manner, she's sought to add depth and weight to her
character.

The rest of the cast sparkle in their roles, most notably Rhys Ifans as
Spike. But even without the requisite comedy set pieces that Rhys
revels in, actors of class such as Tim McInnerny, James Dreyfus, Gina
McKee, Emma Chambers and Hugh Bonneville expertly fill in the no-less
important landscape of this joyous and warm piece of art.

Watch out, too, for memorable cameos by Alec Baldwin, Mischa Barton and
Matthew Modine.

So who is Cinderella and who is the Prince? At first glance William is
the hopeful nobody. But really, as the story develops, we'll see that
there are two character's dreams unfolding in Notting Hill.

Why then not 10 out of 10? Well, full marks would have been ME starring
as William Thacker... ;)
<|_=00=_|>
After reading the synopsis, 'Notting Hill' sounds like just another
melodramatic Julia Roberts rom com. Fortunately, that ain't the case.
'Notting Hill' is fun, sweet, intelligent and  well, simply said, very
entertaining. London's Notting Hill does seem like a street you'd like
to walk on.

While the storyline itself is larger than life, the characters are
real. There is no overt melodrama. We can see that Curtis put a lot of
heart and some Brit wit humour into the writing. After meeting William,
Anna, Spike, Max, Bella and Honey, we, as audience, really connect to
these very interesting characters and care about them. The table
discussion in Honey's birthday scene shows how all the characters
connect. While a nervous Anna, is new to the group, we see that she
eventually gets a hang of them and feels comfortable enough to talk
about herself.

Hugh Grant isn't anything different from his other rom coms. Julia
Roberts is brilliant. I never liked any of her romantic comedies (e.g.
Pretty Woman, I Love Trouble, Something to Talk About etc) but 'notting
Hill is an exception. She gives a subtle portrayal as hugely famous but
very vulnerable Anna Scott and does full justice. This indeed is one of
her finest performances. Rhys Ifans as Spike is standout! While Tim
McInnerny, Emma Chambers, Hugh Bonneville and Gina McKee (love her) are
excellent. McKee's comedy is extremely subtle and her character is one
of the most appealing. She underplays her part with tremendous grace
and maturity.

All the actors share a very warm chemistry that just keeps adding on to
its quality. The relationship and friendship between the characters is
shown in a very sensitive way. While Spike and William are roommates
who just seem to get along, we know that they like each other. Also
William is about to cancel a date with the world's most famous actress
to attend his sister's birthday party. The relationship between Max and
Bella is beautiful.

Additional credit must be given to Coulter's amazing cinematography and
the visuals. Watch the scene where Thacker is walking through the
market and we see the weather change (indicating the passing time).
There's a beautiful soundtrack that recites the moods of the scenes.
And last but not least, thanks to Roger Mitchell for putting it all
together to tell us this sweet entertaining story.
<|_=00=_|>
Notting Hill, this totally implausible, happily improbable, feel good
flick, does more to influence positive attitudes about people with
disabilities than any all day sensitivity training seminar could ever
hope to accomplish.

As significant as the two leading characters is the ever-present,
fanciful circle of friends. Wouldn't we all love to have a close group
of intimate chums like these! The collection of assorted characters
includes Bella, a woman who uses a wheelchair, a sleek Quickie
Ultralight at that. I love the easy nonchalance of her introduction to
the viewer. She is merely one of many diverse folks in the day-to-day
life of William Thacker, the film's protagonist.

In one after-dinner scene, the group sits around a big, friendly, worn
farmhouse table, consuming way too much wine and sharing what stinks
about their life. Bella reveals that she and her husband discovered
they cannot have children. I like that she also dares make a complaint
about "sitting in this damn chair". She is being honest; she is not
burdening herself with feelings that she should sugar-coat her life for
others. Nor does she feel compelled to be upbeat and cheerful no matter
the cost to her own integrity.

This character lives a typical, dare I say "normal" life. She is
married, throws parties, gets drunk on occasion, and interacts with the
able bodied world around her . . . all with unaffected naturalness. I
like the message this sends to the viewing public: people with
disabilities are a whole lot like people without disabilities.

In a scene when Anna Scott and William Thacker leave the birthday party
celebration, the very first words out of Anna's mouth are, "Why is
Bella in a wheelchair?" This is precisely, to the letter, as it would
be in real life. When folks come in contact with a person with an
obvious disability, they understandably want to know what happened.

Bella's husband tenderly lifts her out of her wheelchair to carry her
up the staircase to bed. My thermometer was on . .. testing for
feelings of excessive sympathy or sorrow in myself or in the audience.
There were none. There was only empathy, warmth, and tenderness, much
of what one would feel watching any loving couple where the man lifted
the woman over a doorstep, for instance, into their first home. Kudos
to the director and the actors for not playing the pity card here.
Thankfully no soaring violins tugged at our tear ducts.

As the culminating scene of the movie approaches, the group of friends
all impulsively jump into a small European car to race off. There was
Bella left waving goodbye from her Quickie. No, wait a minute. This was
not to be. They wanted Bella with them; she belonged with them on this
mission. There were no complicated maneuvers of how will we squeeze her
into the car, what will we do with the wheelchair, no exasperation from
the characters. They just did it. They made it happen. Before we knew
it, Bella was sitting in the front seat; a few others had rearranged
their positions and crammed into the back seat, and off they all went
charging away full speed ahead.

In a final scene, the friends are attempting to 'crash a private party'
so to speak, and having trouble getting past the hotel management. In a
boldly triumphant move, Bella comes wheeling authoritatively toward the
hotel bureaucrat, confidently announcing in a power voice: "He is with
ME. I am so-and-so from such-and-such journal writing an article on how
your hotel treats people with disabilities."

Swoosh! All doors opened to the group! Bella saved the day in her
quick-witted plot to get past the hotel magistrate. Aside from the glee
I felt at her being the savior of the day, I also applaud the embedded
message: Disability rights are expected; don't tread on disability
civil rights; disability access is what's happenin' in the Nineties.

This film has broad cross-class mass appeal, from the teenybopper to
Joe Six Pack to the intellectual, and therefore has the power to impact
the sensibilities of millions of viewers. I applaud Notting Hill for
its contribution toward influencing positive attitudes toward people
with disabilities.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not a fan of either Hugh Grant or Julia Roberts.  So why did I watch
this film in the first place?  I guess I'm always looking for the best in
everyone.  What a surprise. I was not disappointed.  

Hugh Grant's jittery, bumbling charm has never been more endearing.  The
vulnerability Grant infuses into his character is definitely his best
quality, and it's perfectly understandable that he might decline the
opportunity to date a megastar actress out of trepidation.

Julia Roberts' legions of fans will not be let down by her character.  It's
dead-on Julia.  But those who are not among her fans will be slowly but
surely won over by the honesty and directness of the character.  I don't
care what your testosterone quotient is, there won't be a dry eye in the
house when she almost whispers, nervous smile masking the hurt, that she's
"just a girl, standing in front of a boy, asking him to love
her."

The story is by the writer of Four Weddings and a Funeral and Bridget Jones'
Diary, so it's a sure bet from the start.  But Grant and Roberts take what
might have been a slightly weak treatment and make it sparkle.

I get so sick of everyone who pooh-pooh's a happy ending because it's
somehow so unbelievable that things ever work out right.  Instead we demand
tear jerker disappointment at every turn and end up with Kevin Costner
drowning like a sacrificial lamb at the end of Message in a Bottle to
satisfy our lust for tragedy.  I love it when things work out well in my
life, and sometimes I like to see films about things working out.  If a
bookstore owner in London can actually end up with the top actress in
Hollywood, then maybe I'll get that promotion, or that beautiful new
associate might actually talk to me.  Is that so bad?
<|_=00=_|>


>  After suffering a divorce, a marriage between a best friend and an
ex-lover, not to
mention living with a complete slob for a roommate, travel bookstore owner
William
(Hugh Grant) was just trying to live a peaceful existence in Notting Hill,
England with
his disastrous lovelife and a fledgling bookstore.  When American film
megastar Anna
Scott (Julia Roberts) comes in to browse for books about Turkey, the two
sense a mutual
attraction and begin a delicate love affair that threatens both their
complicated lives.  The
crux of "Notting Hill" is this : can two exact opposites in the complex
world of publicity
and disposable relationships stay together forever?
Screenwriter Richard Curtis's ("Four Weddings And A Funeral") goal this
time
around seems to be a sharp satire of the Hollywood starlets and their
psychotic
relationships with the public and themselves, and the old wacky English
humour we've
come to expect from any film with Mr. Grant.  It's a very odd mixture of
the
audience-pleasing easy comedy and something more sinister - possibly due
to
both lead's
past public lives.  He creates two compelling characters in Anna and
Garrett.  They both
have very convincing motives for the courtship, it isn't just a roll in
the
hay and then the
aftermath like most films.  Director Roger Michell keeps the flow nice and
the two leads
make good on their promise for charm and beauty.
I'm a little irritated that so many would consider this a big step for
Julia Roberts
in the acting department.  She already gave a commanding performance in
last
year's
"Stepmom".  With "Hill", Roberts continues her impressive growth spurt
into
real adult
acting and role choices.  Her work with Grant here is the most easy going
I've even seen
her do(Maybe one too many close-ups of that smile though...).  Hugh Grant
does his
stammering best to make William seem lovable.  I'm not a fan of Mr. Grant,
but I will
easily concede that this is his best performance to date.  Rhys Ifans is
disgusting (a good
thing) as Spike, William's flatmate.  He brings some very much needed
brevity to the
proceedings.  If anyone ever needs an actor to represent an English
skuzzball, they should
call this guy.
If the charming "Notting Hill" suffers from anything it might be the
"She's
All
That" syndrome.  Whenever you get the relationship ball rolling, it seems
in
everyone of
these movies we need a forced situation to break up the two leads, just so
we can cheer
when they reconcile.  That's fine, no complaints.  In "Hill", this
syndrome
is put to the
extreme test.  We follow this romance through, I believe, at least three
breakups.  That's
too many for a two hour film.  We never get sure footing on to why these
two
should be
together and that is a frustrating element.  Director Michell tries to
hold
onto the reins,
but the climax of the film is forced and seriously uncharacteristic of the
movie.
"Notting Hill" has a lot to say about fame and the effects of it on a
life.
It never
bothers to take a stand or really explain if Roberts's character embraces
her superstardom
or is oppressed by it.  Screenwriter Curtis makes compelling arguments for
both sides of
the debate but strays away from truly looking deep within the fishbowl.
When you think
about it, William was a fan of Anna before meeting her, yet that subject
seems too taboo
for the film. What we get is just puppy love, no strings.

"Notting Hill" is an extremely charming film with so much love to offer.
It's a
concoction that's hard to resist.  You'll come out of it with a warm fuzzy
feeling in the
tips of your toes.  It's nice to have a film that just wants to please, I
just wish they didn't
lay such a heavy topic wet blanket over the proceedings. --------------- 8


