

The true story of Howard Stern's "rise" from schoolboy nerd to leading DJ in
the USA.  This is adapted from his book and is a whirlwind ride through 30
years, with the main focus being on his career at small stations and his big
break at NBC.  The fact that it is from Stern himself means that the story
focuses on his good sides and tends to brush over the more difficult issues
relating to his insensitivity towards his wife etc, but that doesn't stop
this being a funny enjoyable film.

Stern plays himself with a great sense of self - most of his jokes put
himself down rather than being arrogant.  This helps endear the audience to
him with great effect and makes him more sympathetic.  The comedy is very
sharp (and rude) throughout and even if we don't get any great insights at
least we have a good laugh.

Stern is good in the lead role (admittedly if he can't play himself what can
he do!)  And his colleagues are also good as themselves.  Paul Giamatti is
great as the put upon producer at NBC and the rest of the cast is filled out
with weird characters.  One complaint would be the copious amount of nudity
in the film - I realise that it's a true story but it did seem to be put in
just to get the audience at times (well....like Stern's show itself I
guess).

Overall this plays like a rude Woody Allen film (funny narrative
voice-overs) and it has a certain charm to it that towers over the
smuttiness to make it feel a much nicer film than it is.  Even if you don't
know who Stern is (i.e. most people outside of America) this is a very funny
enjoyable film.
<|_=00=_|>

I am a big fan of Howard, and I'm sure fellow fans will also have a kick-a**
time with this hilarious biopic of Stern's road to stardom.  This is
obviously not a professional biopic.  There's even one scene, where Howard
plays himself AS A TEEN!!  He tries to patch it up in the voice-over by
saying, "For this movie ya just have to believe."  There are many hilarious
antics, and if you're a fan of Stern I'm sure you will not stop laughing! 
If not, I can't say you'll have the time of your life.  I've heard many
critics say that this movie is even suited for those who disapprove of
Stern's behavior.  I can't say I agree, and for those who want to take the
critics' word for it and give this movie a shot--enter at your own risk. 
Expect lots of Stern's typically crude, offensive, tasteless humor.  Of
course, you also get to see his sweeter side, and learn that his personality
on radio does somewhat differ from that in real life.  Just like Andrew Dice
Clay, his crude actions are exaggerated, and he really isn't exactly like
the pottymouthed jerk that the general public sees (or hears, in Howard's
case).  The open-minded moviegoer will probably come to that realization
after viewing this movie, but others will be so turned off by Howard's crude
antics that they won't feel compelled to sit through the entire running
time--approximately two hours and fifteen minutes.  

"Private Parts" is based on Howard's autobiography, so this is pretty much
the life of Howard through the eyes of...Howard.  Yet I can't say this movie
is a glorification of Stern--though he obviously boasts jokingly about his
God-like status among his many followers (And I'm one of them--GO
HOWARD!!!).  Personally, I still think there are a lot of closet Howard fans
out there who are simply opposed (better yet, act like they're opposed) to
him because they would feel humiliated to say they're not.  There are
hypocrites out there, and I know some of them.  So for those of you who
locked yourselves in that closet--get out and rent this movie!  Stop your
whining!

Many of Stern's fellow cast members on the show appear as themselves--Fred
Norris, Jackie Martling, Robin Quivers, Gary Del'Abate.  The other actors
are good as well, especially Paul Giamatti who plays the NBC manager with a
short, short fuse who springs from his seat if Howard were to utter the word
"penis."  Just his facial expressions alone crack me the hell up!  I've
never seen Howard's real wife Allison (I just found out she appears as an
NBC operator, but I have to watch it again to spot her on screen), but Mary
McCormack, who plays her, is absolutely BEE-U-TI-FUL!!  Nice casting, Betty
Thomas.  She is stunning to look at, and the chemistry between she and
Howard is electric.  I sometimes forget that she's just PORTRAYING his wife.
 

If you're in the mood for Howard's comical vulgarities, gratuitous nudity,
cool 80s music and a damn entertaining comedy that will never tire
out--"Private Parts" is DEFINITELY worth seeing!!  If you're not a Stern
fan, I'm pretty sure you'll be croaking more than a sick frog, so don't
start preaching your blasphemous thoughts on Howard.  We really don't have
the time.  

My score:  8 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>

The ratings that I see on Private Parts really do the movie an injustice. As
of now I see the ratings are at 6.5, but I have to tell you that I'd give it
a 9.

Stern is not GLORIFYING himself here. He's just telling a story as to how he
got to where he is and in many cases criticizes himself. The movie is by no
means egotistical which is what I TOTALLY expected to find. Instead it leads
you through a tale of Poverty to Success. 

Great Job Howard. I may not like you much, but you really pulled this one
off. 

9 out of 10

<|_=00=_|>

This gem of a flick is the great Rockyesque story of shock jock Howard
Stern's rise to fame and infamy.  I was thinking this film was gonna really
suck going by a lot of the movie previews prior to its release, but I was
sorely and happily mistaken.

The film is perfectly structured, perfectly written, and it's absolute
travesty that Howard wasn't nominated for an Oscar for best actor!  Here's
what the Oscar nominees shoulda been for this film: Howard Stern for Best
Actor, Best Director, and Best Adapted Screenplay.

Private Parts also manages to take a fresh approach on the old "woman
having
a noisy orgasm" comedy scene.  Yes, this flick is one of the few cases
where
the movie is actually better than the book.  Over, out, and all that
jazz.
<|_=00=_|>

Since I'm a Finn everything I know about Howard Stern I've learned from this
film which is quite a shame, actually. I still have absolutely no troubles
to understand what works and what doesn't and this movie most definitely
works. Howard Stern works. "Private parts" is pretty much a terrific film.
I've been watching it all over and over again and it's always entertaining,
witty, extremely funny and amusing and it contains some of the best music in
the world from Jimi Hendrix to The Ramones, Deep Purple to Ted Nugent and
AC/DC to Ozzy Osbourne. I highly recommend this one and I have to remind you
don't forget to watch the end credits too.
<|_=00=_|>

Private Parts went way beyond the call of duty. I went expecting only
solid
laughs. That is all I really was asking for. It delievered on all fronts:
writing, directing, and acting were all top notch. It left me dumbstruck
that a movie with such lowbrow humor could hand out a solid emotionally
driven story at the same time. I feel this has much to do with the mix of
Howard Stern's raunchy humor combined with Betty Thomas' female touch. A
terrfic film.  
<|_=00=_|>

Let me begin by saying that although I am a fan of shock radio (I've been a
regular listener of Washington DC based duo Don & Mike for over 10
years...), I rarely get a chance to hear Howard Stern. I was only vaguely
familiar with his program, and the folks on it. That being said, I
absolutely LOVED "Howard Stern's Private Parts". Wait... that didn't come
out right... anyway...

HSPP follows Stern's career from being the misunderstood son of a radio
engineer with aspirations of the big time, through his student film days at
Boston University, where he meets and marries his wife Allison, to his first
big radio gig at DC101. The humor comes from Stern's slow realization that
pushing the envelope was the way to garner HUGE ratings. His arguments with
management, and Paul Giamatti as Kenny "Pig Vomit" Rushton in specific are
at once both hilarious and sad, as management tries to crush Stern's free
spirit. 

It's also nice to see that, yes, Howard Stern is really a nice guy, a
devoted friend, and a loving father, and the image that we know as "Howard
Stern" is really just an act. Although he did make some questionable
decisions in his life, he always stood by those who stood by him, and for
that, he should be admired. 

Whether you are a fan or not, check this movie out, and see if you don't
come away from the experience with a smile on your face, and a respect for
the self-proclaimed "King of all Media"!


<|_=00=_|>
I SO enjoyed this movie.

I watched this movie without realizing until close to the end that
Howard Stern was playing himself.

I was a radio announcer myself, during the period when Stern got going.
This movie has the 'feel' of reality to it. I recognized so many of the
people I worked with in this movie. Every radio station has some of
them. The studios of the period were just like this.

Of course, this movie was severely compressed in time and space. Radio
is like warfare: lengthy periods of utter boredom punctuated by periods
of pure panic. We don't need to see the slow bits. Each hour of on-air
radio presentation requires something like three hours of preparation:
we don't see the hard work that goes into such a show.

We do see a very funny and entertaining movie. Don't forget, I was in
the industry at the time this all happened: and this one feels 'real'
to me.

Many autobiographical pieces by "stars" turn into awful sycophantic
schmaltz-fests. This one didn't. It could have been awful. Most of this
kind are. This one... is excellent.

And if you've never worked in broadcasting -- it's still very funny!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is for everyone including those who "think" that they don't like
Howard.  It shows Howard as a regular guy who can do some outrageous bits.
Some bits you like, some you don't.  The two thoughts that I was left with
leaving the theatre is 1) he is devoted to his wife and family, 2) he is a
success story despite so very many obstacles.  Love him or hate, all but the
most prudish will enjoy this. 
<|_=00=_|>

This film documents the life and times of radio talk host Howard Stern.
While his younger years are displayed in a hit and miss fashion, the years
concerning his radio heyday are nicely done. He started out as a local
d.j.,
merely spinning records and doing weather. Becoming bored with this
format,
he chooses to do a more spontaneous show which causes trouble with his
employers. When he reaches the top of the pile at NBC, his antics become
even more outrageous which catapults him to enormous fame. Vulgar, but
very
funny. Go on and watch it.
