

I think City of Joy is one of those films you either do or don't connect
with. It's a 
study of growth, of friendship, of acceptance. It's a coming-of-age film.
It's a 
study of how similar humans everywhere are in spite of vast cultural
differences. 
It's a well-shot location piece. It's a character study. It's an action
film, in its own 
way. Patrick Swayze and Om Puri put their hearts into their roles. The
supporting 
cast is interesting and effective. The script has drama and emotional depth.

Although the plot certainly can't claim absolute originality, director
Joffé's nuanced 
look at the cultural milieu and the care with which he portrays the
characters' 
relationships and internal struggles make this a worthwhile, enjoyable film.

"Roadhouse" and "Dirty Dancing" were both lots of fun, but for me this is
Patrick 
Swayze's best performance, and one of my favorite films of its
kind.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie is not bad. It is based on the book by the same name by
Dominique Lapierre, and if my understanding is right has the author's
blessings. The characters even have similar if not same names but it is
not the same story. However it is true to the spirit in which the book
was written.

Another interesting comparison with the book is that just like the
movie, the book is as controversial, especially in India and among
middle class Indians and Indians abroad. Indians do not like to speak
about their slums to foreigners and do not like foreigners to speak
about them by themselves. Rich and middle-class Indians who make about
one-fourth of the country are the most influential people in the
country and make the interlocutors with the Western world. I know
because I am one of them. If our country is our home, this is a
skeleton in our closet. And because there is a skeleton in our closet,
we try not to step into it and do not let other and hate those who do
step in when we are not looking. The controversy is an indication that
lot stuff in the movie is actually worth seeing.

Also it is not unusual for a poor man in India to choose to die with
dignity than live in shame, Indian girls do flirt even if it is
'untraditional' and there are people who try to live by exploiting the
poor, people who most others will call cruel. 

The movie could have done a better job capturing the fact that western
ideas can affect the way some people in India behave just as Indian
ideas make some westerners reformulate their ideas and concepts about
life. We can see it here, but this is better captured in the book

So those who do not like the movie try to read the book and those who
liked the movie will definitely enjoy the book. As for me, stories of
the resilience of Indian slum dwellers only make me more proud to be an
Indian.
<|_=00=_|>

Bizarre reviews of this film that fail to explain why they are against its
excellence don't stand up in the face of critics like Jim Whalley of
Cinema
Showcase who called it "the best picture of the year" and Susan Granger of
WICC who commented that Patrick Swayze gave "the performance of a
lifetime".
This is the true story of a disillusioned American doctor who, like so
many
people, (the Beatles and Alanis Morisette, for example) travelled to India
to find himself in a search for enlightenment. At first, he is unwilling
to
help the locals stand up against the oppressive 'godfather' of the area
because he feels that all he'd be doing is trying to "drill a hole in
water".

Having been to an English-speaking Third World country like India, myself,
I
found the reactions of the Swayze character extremely true to life. This
seems to be the point that many viewers of the film don't seem to
understand. I witnessed many Anglo-Americans in a Third World country
surprising themselves by blowing up in anger at seeing the locals cowering
away from injustice and later being transformed by the love and patience
of
the poor. I watched this movie while I was in Guyana and it was like an
echo
of many of the things I was going through and many of the events with
which
I had faced. Even the characters and their characteristics and reactions
in
the film matched many of the people I knew in that land!

"City of Joy" was an excellent and faithful adaption of Dominique
Lapierre's
richly written masterpiece. Om Puri's performance was deserving of an
Academy Award. Patrick Swayze's character - his reactions to his
surroundings - was extremely realistic. The conclusion of the film was
beautifully touching. The strengths of American culture and Indian culture
joined together - both races learned to accept one another's ways of life
and borrowed virtues from one another's culture to breathe new life into
the
slums of Calcutta. "City of Joy" is one of the best movies ever made (10
out
of 10).
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is so deep that it touches your heart directly, specially the
role played by om puri is inexpressible.  Even the role played by patrick
swayze was good as he plays an disillusioned doctor.  All the casts played
good role in the movie.  

This movie touches the way of poor people living in calcutta slum, I know
because I myself is a bengali and belong to calcutta.  The way the poors
were reflected in calcutta is actually the way they are
treated.

The best quote of the movie was at the end when the movie ends and when om
puri says "All that is not given is lost."


<|_=00=_|>
Although the movie might not have the best direction or not one of the
best laid picture it still has a lot of good things. If you have
visited India (where it has been primarily filmed) and especially
Kolkotta city you would see the realistic nature of movie. It depicts
the day to day life of a person below the poverty line. It also
highlights the morality of foreigners and NGO's who are trying to help
the needy. Very often they have to face resistance from local
authorities who either want to exploit the masses or think the
foreigners are trying to religiously exploit them. In nut shell I liked
the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A movie that will carry you to a new place & a new culture you will
carry your tears, anger & hope along till the end watching it. The
smell of the Indian dust, The pain of the people, The discrepancy
between even the poor, A story about a man running to provide the food
for his family beside saving money to marry his daughter. A lot of high
temper feelings & emotions, you cant stop your eyes from falling.
beside talking about the unjust of human beens in isolating a group of
innocent people who their fault is that they are not born in complete
bodies, the white man in the story who is a doctor failed in the
medicine job in his country and ran to India where he found his real
soul also show us how we sometimes see the world from one view while it
can be seen from a better view, I don't understand why it wasn't
dominated for an Oscar. excuse my English & thanks for reading my view.
<|_=00=_|>
City of Joy is the story of an American Doctor (Patrick Swayze) who
runs away from his life and unwittingly lands himself in an entirely
different place. Through various actions he ends up helping a woman
(Pauline Collins) who tries to help the very poor of Calcutta on a
day-to-day basis. City of Joy also contains a story of a farmer (Om
Puri) who has lost his farm to the "money lenders" and brings his
family to Calcutta to find work so that he can support his family. How
all these lives interact is interesting. The poverty and oppression is
devastating to see - but worth watching. The story touches your heart
and holds your interest throughout the movie.

Patrick Swayze is wonderful in this movie! He is expansive and portrays
all of his emotions - anger, frustration, love of friends and joy
poignantly! Dirty Dancing, Ghost and City of Joy should have mad
Patrick Swayze a serious leading man in the category of Harrison Ford.
In later movies you can see his emotions but it is as if the are locked
inside his handsome clenched jaws. Nevertheless, Patrick Swayze is a
handsome accomplished actor and this film is well worth the watch!
<|_=00=_|>

    A child dies on an operating table in a Texas hospital.  The surgeon,
Max Lowe (Patrick Swayze), abandons his practice after the fatality and
travels to Calcutta, leaving painful memories behind him.  At the same time,
in the Indian province of Bihar, Hasari and his family are quitting the
land.  Two years of drought have reduced them to despair, and now they are
drifting to the city, hoping to make a new life there.

    The story of the film is that of an impoverished community in Calcutta's
backstreets, and how with Max Lowe's help the poor people learn to throw off
the yoke of oppression.  Max gives of his time and talent, and in return
these simple folk teach him new perspectives, and enable him to come to
terms with his own regrets.

    This film is an example of American insensitivity at its worst.  It is
extremely patronising in its treatment of Indian society and crude in its
handling social and moral issues.  The film fails utterly to appreciate that
a social system that has existed for thousands of years might not need
'straightening out' by a young man from a 200-year-old culture.  All the
standard American cliches are trotted out.  People are urged to 'stand up
and be counted', and to 'make choices in their lives'.  Individualism and
self-reliance are trumpeted brainlessly, as if they were eternal truths. 
This is the arrogance of youth.  American exporters of films would do well
to remember that there are ways of living that happen to be distinct from
their own - and far wiser.

    The plot is brain-numbingly simplistic.  An evil Indian 'godfather' and
his (even more evil) son are terrorising the City of Joy.  Max preaches
rebellion to the local people, exhorting them to reject the feudal system by
which they have lived since time immemorial.  He has been in India for three
weeks, but he know best.  The film blithely ignores three essential
realities, because they happen to be inconvenient.  Firstly, street dwellers
such as these have to work too long and too hard, and are too worn down by
malnutrition, to stage rebellions and construct new clinics on a foreigner's
whim.  Secondly, even if an age-old feudal system could be discarded
overnight (and it can't), something has to fill the vacuum.  The film
doesn't come close to hinting what sort of social structure will supplant
the godfather's regime.  Thirdly, the film arrogantly assumes that the
people would turn against their own, with whom they have ancient bonds of
blood and custom, in order to side with an American stranger who knows
nothing of their way of life, and who is free to pack up and leave whenever
he wishes.

    Indian people have to behave like Americans, lest they lose the sympathy
of the American cinema audience.  Poor families have to be too proud to beg
for food, but this is nonsense in an Indian context.  In reality, Hasari and
his wife and children would beg without hesitation - and why shouldn't they?
 If a prostitute were to lure a foreigner into a robbery, would a local poor
man tend the foreigner's wounds?  And would the prostitute help him?  The
preparation of the new clinic is all meaningful bustle and smiling
self-help, but these are the values of the American frontier, not the
backstreets of Calcutta.  Hasari's daughter chooses her husband
western-style, via a romance, rather than the arranged marriage which would
almost certainly happen in real life.

    Everything comes about too easily.  Hasari needs to double his income,
so he does.  Max earns the undying love of Calcutta's poor in a few weeks of
grudging voluntary work.  In the same timespan, the film gives us the full
cycle of birth, death and marriage.  People are slashed with razors and make
complete (scar-free) recovery, without proper medical attention or modern
pharmaceuticals.  Max decides on the marriage, not the girl's family, and
it's Max who takes the place of honour at the wedding ceremony.  That's
about as likely as water-skiing on the Ganges.

    Ennio Morricone's score is extremely low-key, consisting of little more
than a few sitar flourishes.  It is almost as if the maestro is embarrassed
to be associated with this shallow, tactless film.  Max says he travelled to
Calcutta to find enlightenment.  He would stand a better chance if he didn't
carry Texas along in his backpack.    
<|_=00=_|>
The story and the characters in this movie are worthy and good, but in
my opinion the true merit of this film is that it highlights how
different situations and peoples of the world are in fact. To say that
we're all the same and equal is true on one level -- a moral level.
But, the real world operates on another level, and this film highlights
it well.

There is tremendous poverty on our planet. The Western World has pretty
much extinguished the degree of poverty shown in this film, and that is
wonderful. But, many in the West seem to believe that everyone thinks
and reacts as they do: with hope and confidence in the future. That is
not true in many other parts of the world, and very often that is not
due to a personal weakness, but to economic and cultural factors that
have resonated for years – for centuries. How one born and raised in a
pretty hopeless environment feels and thinks is certainly quite
different than how the same occurs in a First World country. The
extremes of poverty, the hopelessness, repeated futility of efforts,
persecutions on personal and public levels... all have combined to
create a unique pathos that outsiders find hard to understand.

Are some people in the world trapped and have they become lethargic as
a result? Yes, but it is imperative to understand that they have seen
many generations of others try to escape the ravages of poverty, only
to run into box canyons. Eventually, repeated failures affect an entire
population, and this movie reveals that fact to some degree. It should
also be noted that a great deal of abject poverty in that part of the
world is the result of too many people, too little food, and brutal
cycles of weather that destroy all in the way.

What this film makes me ponder is just how such desperate peoples can
best be helped by outsiders. Unfortunately, there is not a simple nor
single answer. Situations and individuals and opportunities are in
constant flux. Outsiders with big hearts may relieve some pain and
suffering, but in the end most of the people will have to become
determined enough to better their circumstances, and to then do
whatever it takes. Others can help the struggling to pull on their
bootstraps, but others cannot wear the boots for them or do their work
for them.

This movie depicts a single set of unique events that resulted in
people finally becoming determined to be masters of their own fate,
come what may. I think that is the important message of this movie. I
think outsiders can help some people see a new path to self
actualization.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know, if you have to have been in India to really appreciate
this movie. It has flaws, but I think it is noticeable to see that the
only person from India writing here, actually points out the up-sides
to it.

By professional movie critics, it was very well received. And in my
opinion, justifiably so. The movie brings up, many interesting
subjects. One can discuss how well it deals with them, but if you're
open towards the movie, it might bring you a very good real-life
experience.

If this movie, has got you interested in more genuine Indian films,
then movies such as Monsoon Wedding, and Lagaan, can be recommended.
