

When "The Story of Us" opened in 1999, the critical disdain was so
overwhelming, that my fiancee and I opted not to see it.  After all, the
ads
focussed on its romantic comedy aspects, directed by Rob Reiner (When Harry
Met Sally), and starred Bruce Willis (who had just undergone a public
divorce).

In retrospect, it's easy to assume why it got panned... this is NOT a
romantic comedy, although there are comedic elements.  Those expecting a
Harry/Sally II would be clearly be disappointed.  Those expecting some
insight to Bruce Willis' marriage, too, would be disappointed.  The film is
neither of those things.

Of course, had the associations not existed, and the ad campaign refocussed
its efforts, the film would be far better respected.  That's why time will
be very kind to this film.

Not everything works. Some scenes, like the language of the women, are too
profanity-laced to sound like real women (making David Mamet's writing seem
like Jane Austen by comparison).  There's a terrible scene with Willis in a
restaurant--unrealistic, unfunny.

Why then recommend the film?  Because the agony, the depth of painful
emotions, are real.  Find a better acting job by Willis or Pfieffer.  Find
one!!!  Can't be done.

Do you not see it?  Do you not recognize that this film has one foot firmly
planted in the light comedy world, and another foot firmly planted in the
incredible realism (almost too realistic) angst of a failing marriage?  Do
you not see it?  Do you not hear Reiner's concerns projected in the scene
where Willis requests to Reiser his dream of writing a book on his
grandmother--is this not Reiner saying that he WOULD go further with the
serious story here, but the audience, too set by his own past achievements,
will not let him?  Is this not exactly what happened, when _Story of Us_
was
released?

Don't be fooled.  This is one serious movie.  It should be required viewing
for all engaged couples. It's a fantastic wake-up call. The circumstances
that lead up to the arguments are simplified, but the emotions are raw.  I
repeat, time will be very kind to this movie.

<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw the trailer for "The Story of Us" I thought that this film
was going to be different from anything I had ever seen. I had been
disillusioned by all these movies coming out that are basically the same
and
it was sort of refreshing to see that finally someone was trying something
different. So I set my plans to include this movie--until I heard the
reviews. Everyone seemed to hate this film--even my movie-loving cousin
admitted she walked out in the middle because she couldn't stand it. She
told me that it's more of a "married person" film than a film for teens
like
us, so I canned my idea. BIG MISTAKE! I wish I could have seen this
marvelous film on the big screen--there's something about actors that makes
them seem so much better when their faces are as big as you are. Not that
that's necessary. After finally seeing the film (my mom bought it and
"forced" me to watch it) it just made me realize why almost every movie now
is a cliche: some people cannot appreciate truly unique art, which is why I
think this movie caught a bad rap.

I honestly cannot say I have any first-hand experience on the subject of
divorce. My parents are still married and have never really had to consider
that option. I am still at that stage where marriage is a distant pit-stop
on the road to my future. So why did I love this movie? It told me the
truth. All of my life I have seen love depicted as an all-powerful,
all-conquering thing. And I have no doubt that it is--this movie told me
that too. But it also showed me that maybe being in love isn't always a
perfect, happy thing. You've got to take the good and the bad. Ben said it
best when he told Katie "Nobody said it was going to be easy." Finally.
Finally someone tells me it's NOT going to be easy. Now some people think
that this film will make you not want to get married. I feel quite the
opposite, because it shows you that if you truly love your partner you can
get through the tough stuff.

I don't understand how people can say this movie had bad acting. Were they
watching the same movie I saw? Both Bruce Willis and Michelle Pfeiffer were
amazing in this movie. I swear that as I watched them I completely believed
they were a married couple. And the passion that went into their arguments
was not "overacting" as I have seen it dubbed. Have you seen married people
fight? It's just like that. And the good thing is the movie didn't choose
sides. It just showed the arguments and the feelings behind them and left
no
one looking the bad guy. And Michelle Pfeiffer's beautiful performance
during that closing monologue was worth watching the entire movie, even if
you didn't like it. And the cinematography was brilliant. Sometimes
flashbacks in movies can be risky, especially if they happen often as in
this film. But the movie just seemed to flow wonderfully, and Katie's
flashback in the car on the way to pick up the kids from camp is one of the
most beautiful scenes I've ever seen in a movie. It's amazing to see 15
years of marriage in 15 seconds and not feel shortchanged. That scene
captured everything brilliantly. And Eric Clapton's music adds a lot to the
movie. He is definitely talented, but it's also because the music seemed to
capture the mood of the film. All in all, this was an amazing experience
and
is definitely one of the best movies I've ever seen. It's funny,
entertaining, moving, and very well-made. I'd recommend it to anyone. Even
if you don't like it, you will take something from it.


<|_=00=_|>

Bruce Willis, Michelle Pfeiffer and a wonderful cast make this movie one of
the best experiences of recent times. The story of a married couple losing
each other and neither knows why; trying to hide it as the children grow
through their early teens must touch the heart of most parents but this
portrayal will reach right down inside you and tear you apart. I can feel
the tears coming back even as I write this. This is a film of pure emotion
so well written and beautifully directed with just the right balance of
humour and tragedy and so insightful no one contemplating /in/out of a
relationship should miss it.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a disturbing, bittersweet romantic comedy about two people who's 15
year marriage is unraveling.  Actually, it is more of a romantic tragedy
than a comedy.  Ben and Katie Jordan (Bruce Willis and Michelle Pfeiffer)
are two mismatched people in the marriage that never should have been.  He
is spontaneous, romantic and impulsive, with low frustration tolerance and
an explosive hair trigger temper.  She is pragmatic, a compulsive
perfectionist with unrealistic expectations, and a high need for control.
She takes everything personally and never forgives or forgets a slight. 
They both blame each other for their disappointments.  The pattern is clear.
 He doesn't meet her standards so she snipes, he explodes and then she
accuses him of not listening.  She then throws up every mistake he's ever
made and every fault he's ever had.  This goes on ad nauseam as their
romantic obsession with one another continues to get the best of any sense
they might have to call it quits.  Like moths to a flame, they keep
returning for another scorching.  

This film is thought provoking in that it portrays marital difficulties that
are all too familiar in our society.  The problem is that it tries to give
every problem known to man (with the exception of wife beating) to this
couple and relies on the single strand of a long forgotten romance to be the
only chance of keeping them together.

In watching the behind the scenes featurette on this film, Rob Reiner and
writers Alan Zweibel and Jessie Nelson discuss how the story evolved.  As it
turns out, it was a montage of all their own marital problems.  So the film
was, in essence cathartic dumping ground for the writers and
director.

As filmmaking, it was terrific.  Rob Reiner weaves the story together
expertly, creating a stark contrast between the joy of the romance and the
reality of the relationship.  The film was punctuated by numerous funny and
sweet moments that make the viewer smile and glow with delight.

Michelle Pfeiffer gives a splendid performance of a very emotionally complex
and neurotic character.  It took a lot of courage for her to take this part
because she was playing the least likeable character in the film, something
of a departure for her.  Bruce Willis was as good as one could have expected
considering the fact that nobody was blowing anything up.  Actually, he was
quite good as the impulsive, childlike romantic, but when it came to the
arguments and the serious displays of resentment, he played the scenes too
harshly, almost commando style.

Reiner does good camera work and puts together some good rapid fire scenes
that have impact and give great insight into the relationship.  He also took
the film on location in Venice to add a little romantic interlude, and
somehow got Eric Clapton to write a great theme song.

The problem is the story.  Reiner stated in the featurette that he intended
this to be a realistic bittersweet look at the real problems relationships
face.  But he tried to do too much and made this film a grossly exaggerated
caricature of a relationship in crisis.  It is really "The War of The Roses"
lite only it takes itself too seriously.  No one I know who saw this could
believe that this couple could possibly have stayed married for 15 weeks, no
less 15 years.  

The result is a noxious marathon of petty arguments that get under the
viewers' skin after a while.  It is about as entertaining as watching your
best friends have a niggling argument in a public restaurant.  The whole
thing leaves you very uncomfortable and you don't go home feeling like
you've had a nice evening.

So, while it succeeds as filmmaking, it fails as a film.  I gave this film a
6/10.  There were so many good elements to it that I can't see trashing it. 
But the story is one that requires a level of emotional endurance that few
viewers will be willing or able to invest to get any enjoyment out of
it.


<|_=00=_|>
I was miffed the first time I saw this film. Miffed that I had allowed
the opinions of others to steer me away from it until it came out on
DVD. What a lovely bitter sweet/sweetly bitter film. After seeing The
Story Of Us and talking to others about it, I came to the pejorative
conclusion that the folk I spoke to just didn't get the film because
they simply had not been there. I realized that no one I talked to at
first had shared his or her lives with anyone for any more than a few
years. This film deals with the daily wear and tear of ANY truly
long-term relationship. It is an accurate, albeit theatrical, portrayal
of the way high ups and devastating downs that can come to two people
who love each other … hate each other … need each other … want each
other desperately … hate each other some more and finally love each
other again. I concluded that those who had never been to the end (and
I mean the it's over and I am outta here end) of a relationship and
still been able to pull away form the precipice and put things back
together again, just didn't have a clue. So there my partner and I were
after 16 years together truly touched by all that we saw, nodded our
heads to, laughed at and balled our eyes out over and, in the end,
really uplifted by in this gem of a film. Michelle Pfeiffer's final
monologue alone would have been worth the price of a movie ticket just
to watch – All Actors should be made to watch her has she creates
brilliant comedy by bursting into tears. It is a true lesson in comic
artistry while still touching the heartstrings. I HATE THE KIRBYS
TOO!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
The Story Of Us is a wonderful movie in its own subtle way. I won't go
into specifics about the plot, as many others before me have already
done that. All I will say is that it's probably not for the younger
crowd. In all honesty, if I had seen this film in my early twenties
(and I'm now almost 40), I wouldn't have appreciated its subtlety on
long term relationships. It's aimed at those of us who have been
married, or in a long term relationship. Although I don't have
children, the rest of this movie had many "oh yeah" moments for me. The
Story of Us, is a complex, yet ultimately simple, explanation of long
term relationships...all those 'little' things about the other person
that drive you insane about them, but that if you're both willing to
work on, make the relationship all that much richer for it. Wonderfully
thought provoking. If you have ever been in a long term adult
relationship, I'd be hard pressed to see how you COULDN'T relate, at
the very least, on some small level to this film.
<|_=00=_|>

Bruce and Michelle play the part of almost everyone who has been married.
The tug and pull of everyday life separates them from each other, but mostly
from their true feelings about each other.

The truth is, based on the Hollywood mythical marriage created for oh so
many years now, everyones marriage is terrible.  What our couple are able to
sort out at the end is that no one is perfect and by looking at yourself
through your partners eyes can be a revealing and frightening thing.  If you
can face it, there is a future in your relationship.  If you can not, you
may have to move on.

This movie will be mostly lost on the younger crowd, simply because they
have not experienced the problems the forty something and above audience
have been through.  However, it is a film they may go back and see once they
have been there and down that.  When I think about it, Rob Reiner (aka
Meathead) has been expressing the
thoughts and concerns of our generation for a number of years now.  He is
very good at it.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, let's set the stage: I hate Lifetime movies for their poor
acting, cheesy scripts, lack of realism, and ridiculous soap-opera
style plots and "emotions." (And I just ain't into all that Kleenex.)
Can't stand mush and not much on tearjerkers. But I truly can't relate
with those saying this was an awful movie. I laughed my tail off!
Hilarious! So real (well, for the most part); you'll laugh, you'll cry,
you'll hold your breath, you'll just want more. The "moments" were very
real and well-done and I agree that Willis and Pfeiffer rendered
stellar performances. It WAS a romantic comedy. (Did YOU see it?!) Such
a well-written script and excellently directed. Virtually no complaints
from start to finish. (Although, admittedly, I watched an "edited"
version and missed all the language.) 

Anyone who's been married any length of time (and especially for a
number of years) will appreciate the reality and depth of emotion and
meaning in this poignant movie. Sense of humor required.

Totally worth seeing again and again!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie holds so much truth; it cannot possibly be watched by
anyone, man or woman who are or who have been in a serious relationship
without any such crying at some point during it, or at least being
strongly enough emotionally affected to do so. I cried. I cried before
the opening credits song was more than a few lines in. It spoke to me
like few movies have. It is the first movie about the subject of love
that I've watched since I became this involved, physically and
emotionally with my wife-to-be. That alone makes the movie have an
impact on me, good or not. That it dealt with a subject that has so
recently become so important to me. A successful marriage. But while I
was this into the film, while it had this impact on me... I can't claim
that it was great. The performances are. The editing is. The script is.
Most of the parts are. But somehow, the sum, it just doesn't add up to
being that... great. It might be that the ending feels flat. It might
be that the movie offers no answers, only observations. The movie goes
back and forth between present day chaos/unhappiness and fond
memories... these were particularly difficult to watch without crying.
This works to the film's advantage and creates a sense of more than a
non-linear time-line; a life-time, years upon years of memories
returning to this old married couple. The story of two people who love
each other... they do. They've just tired of each other, of the
differences, of the arguing. Comes very close to being great, but it
just doesn't quite make it, I'm afraid. Worth watching for any fans of
the genre, and has plenty of insights to offer. I recommend this to
anyone who is or has been in a serious relationship. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is a pretty film, often poignant, and a bit too close to the bone at
times for my liking. Still, it carries you along quite nicely - making it's
point that time grinds marriages down more often than affairs - and then
sort of stops.

The leads were great: Willis was really good, Pfeiffer was fantastic (hey,
i'm a fan, okay). But, the characters were tough to take. The self-pity was
intercut with nice bits of comedy, but it felt like Reiner was cutting from
a wake to a pratt-fall on occasions. 

The final scenes, with Pfeiffer's frightening display of multi-emotional
skill (at once excellent and utterly ghastly),  betrayed the characters.
Normality was implausibly resumed, and Pfeiffer came across as at fault for
taking the whole film to get real, and Willis looked much relieved that
she'd taken the sanity pill and he could quit trying to change himself.

And the end was a surprise. I thought there was going to be more: a deeper
level of story. But it ended without a sense of closure.
