

"Tomb Raider" is a harmless diversion that should please its core
audience.
I loved the performance of Angelina Jolie, who brings the computer game
heroine Lara Croft to life. I watched an interview with Jolie in which she
said that she really "became Lara Croft".

With her mock British accent, Jolie is a lot of fun as the
adventurer-archaeologist who is equal parts Bruce Wayne and Indiana Jones,
but with a much better body.

Taking its cue from the video game, the film's screenplay is more of a
puzzle than a plot. The script is a patchwork of ideas that plays like a
Greatest Hits collection of other films. It deals with end of the world
stuff, but it never feels apocalyptic. It's controlled chaos, utterly
lacking in surprise. The script jumps from one expected moment to the
next,
never apologizing for its lack of originality.

At least Jolie understands the limitations of the script. There's enough
conviction in her performance to make you want to believe in Lara Croft,
the
spunky heiress is who is equally at home in her spacious mansion or within
the catacombs of a lost tomb. She's guided by the spirit (both literally
and
figuratively) of her late adventurer father, Lord Croft (Jon Voight), and
assisted by an archaeologist Alex West (Daniel Craig) and cyber-geek
creator
Bryce (Noah Taylor).

The film opens like "Raiders of the Lost Ark," with Lara Croft deep inside
one of those musty, dusty tombs. Instead of outrunning a giant boulder,
Croft squares off against a mechanical monster, a robotic menace that
seems
to come out of nowhere. It doesn't. We learn that it's a creation of
Bryce,
used to keep Croft on her toes.

Angelina Jolie made the perfect Lara Croft; her facial expressions and sly
smirks added a personality to the flick that I can only imagine the video
game is missing. She seemed smart, brave, and composed as well as full of
emotion. Okay, maybe the parts with her father (real-life papa Jon Voight)
were a little over the top, but since the whole movie is just eye-candy
anyway they seemed to fit.

The fight scenes among ruins got me. How can you not love Lara Croft
jumping
onto a swinging obelisk to smash a glass eye that holds the key to time,
or
sledding thru an ice cave being pulled by dogs? Or the scene where the
villains jump through her castle windows as she rappels around the walls,
smashing chandeliers and pistol-whipping bad guys? What's a girl to do but
hop on her motorbike, take a guy out sideways, and race off at 100 miles
an
hour? Excellent. 
<|_=00=_|>
Angeline Jolie, gives us the female version of "Indiana Jones" in this
wild cartoon-like adventure story, which is fun to watch. Being a
mentally lightweight action film with no credibility (no villain ever
harms Jolie in this film despite firepower that would take out some
Third World countries) but our heroine is there to save the day, of
course! 

Jolie mainly is there to show off her chest in tight tee-shirts and
perform near-impossible stunts. To her credit, she went to extreme
lengths to get herself physically-fit for the role.

Audio-wise, this is a one of the better DVDs you will ever hear, with
excellent use of the surround speakers. Nice scenery, a sharp picture
and low profanity also are pluses. Yes, the action is a little much and
too loud in spots but otherwise "Tomb Raider" is a fun adventure that
is recommended to all.

p.s. Skip the sequel; it's a weak one.
<|_=00=_|>

The use of space in the bunjee-jumping-inside fight scene is masterful -
all
three dimensions are used in a clever way.  But I only worked this out
afterwards.  It was the choreographer's work that was masterful; the
idiots
who filmed and edited it did their darndest to make it choppy, incoherent,
and unexciting.  As if that weren't enough, someone - it may have been the
composer, it may have been the director - thought that the action scenes
would be best accompanied by a tuneless, relentless, jackhammer techno
beat.

"Tomb Raider" is "Raiders of the Lost Ark" emulated by people who haven't
seen it.  If they HAD seen it, they'd know that Spielberg edited his
action
sequences so as to let the audience know what was going on, to give us an
idea of where the hero stood and what obstacles he faced; also that John
Williams wrote actual MUSIC, complete with themes and chords and rhythms
and
consecutive bars that often as not differed from one another.

I'm not familiar with the computer game - if I were, I would be doubly
grateful to see Angelina Jolie in the leading role.  It must get tiring
looking at large computer-generated breasts that just SIT there, like
cast-iron balloons.  Oddly, the audience I was with tittered because
Jolie's
breasts bounced as she walked downstairs.  I don't get the joke.  That's
what breasts, by and large, DO - those of Hollywood actresses being an
unfortunate exception to the general rule.  -Anyway, all this aside, Jolie
was, as always, terrific, when the film allowed her to be.  This wasn't
often.  Usually I can at least decipher the storyline of a film
afterwards,
but this one has me baffled.  It SEEMS that the film's heroine, in order
to
Save the World, merely had to sit still and do nothing - and KNOWING this,
she Endangered the World, so that she could later save it in a more
rope-swinging, kick-boxing, ammo-expending fashion.  But surely nobody
would
spend millions of dollars on a film with this central weakness ... would
they?
<|_=00=_|>

LORA CROFT: TOMB RAIDER / (2001) *** (out of four)

By Blake French:

	At last, here is a successful screen adaptation from a video game. "Lora
Croft: Tomb Raider" takes the plot seriously, and has a lot of fun with it.
Unlike the silly "Wing Commander" and incompetent "Mortal Combat," this
movie soars with its physical potential. The movie experienced many
production complications, therefore I excepted it to symbolize the three
tedious years of filmmaking, the director who bailed out, the sexual
harassment charges filed, and the 11 screenwriters who couldn't satisfy
Paramount Pictures, the bill, and Eidos Interactive, the company that owns
the video game. "Lora Croft: Tomb Raider" manages to pull past its
problematic filmmaking process and provide audiences with what is expected
from this action packed extravaganza. 

	Academy Award winner Angelina Jolie portrays Lora Croft, who is a cross
between Indiana Jones and James Bond. The role of Croft was not an easy
accomplishment, even for Jolie. She endured great physical hardships during
the shooting, including injuries to her knee, foot, and shoulder. It's a
good thing that Jolie did the film, however, she's probably the only actress
with the capabilities and physical appearance to handle such a role.
Elizabeth Hurley, Sandra Bullock, Denise Richards, Ashley Judd, and Jennifer
Love Hewitt were also among the actresses considered for the role. Any of
those fine performers would have brought their own charm and delight to the
role, but Croft feels perfect for Jolie. 

	The disposable premise is not just a clothesline for various action
sequences. It stands alone as a needlessly complicated plot contraption
concocted out of desperation and deadlines. I am glad the actors took it so
seriously; this material begs for parody. Lora Croft discovers a key-based
clock unidentifiable even by an antique dealer. Meanwhile, a ruthless member
of a powerful society named Manfred Powell (Iain Glen) is waiting for a
planetary alignment that occurs once every 5,000 years. This event will give
the holder of two separated pieces of a magical stone the power over time
itself. Croft and Powell learn that the key will unlock the whereabouts of
those missing halves.

	The rest of the plot follows the villains and heroes on their journey
around the planet, searching for the various artifacts and precious
instruments. The film will not disappoint action fans. Suspend disbelief and
follow the film's absurd concepts, then the fast-paced action sequences,
eye-popping special effects, and convincing sets will satisfy. The outcome
of almost every single scene is as obvious as it is predictable, but that
doesn't mean we enjoy the scenes any less. There are some exciting action
sequences in "Lora Croft: Tomb Raider," although it's easy to become lost in
the action; the frequent cuts and camera tricks often interrupt the flow of
the action.

	"Lora Croft: Tomb Raider" is a fun summer thrill ride. It's not a smart,
savvy film, but compared to movies like "The Mummy Returns" it's a wake up
call in the midst of a starving summer movie season. If you don't expect
more than pointless action, you will get your money's worth.

 

<|_=00=_|>

A fun movie, indeed in the line of the Indiana Jones' features. Nice
effects, a strange and interesting plot which does make sense most of the
time, some good acting by the team around Croft. The right thing if you
want
relax and take off to the world of fantasy for a short time.

<|_=00=_|>

I don't play video games, had never heard of Tomb Raider.  I stumbled
across
this film on cable and absolutely loved it!

The person writing this usually tends to like movie classics and classical
actresses.  Rarely do I enjoy action films.  This one is an
exception.

Angelina Jolie is spectacularly fit, and in top acting form for this
physically demanding role.  I admit that I like the multi-talented Jolie.
I
found her to be a very believable Lady Lara Croft. Her acting, stunts
(which
she did most of herself), and her wonderful diction with a British accent,
were a true delight.  I watched this movie on cable at least ten times
before I did something very, very rare for me:  I purchased the DVD.
Barring this film, the ONLY pre-recorded movies I own are
classics.

The plot may be a bit on the thin side.  It is, afterall, designed *after*
a
video game. Another thing I enjoyed about the film was the fact that while
there was a great deal of violence, there was no unnecessary gore or
vulgar
language - read: buggar vs. what it could be.

I have to highly recommend this film for anyone who enjoys pure escapism
at
it's best!  My 75 year old mother liked the movie, and she has very good
taste when film is involved.
<|_=00=_|>
The hype, the merchandising, the tagline, and even the box this movie
came in, promised Angelina Jolie to be the "Ultimate Superhero."

Was Laura Croft (as portrayed here) the "ultimate superhero?" I'd have
to say, "Yes!"

The sets were all exquisite in design and architecture. The props were
top of the line, state of the art Hollywood eye candy. The wardrobe,
specifically that of Ms. Jolie, was quite well done, and while the
character development did come late in the movie, I honestly found
myself emotionally invested in her character.

Frankly, I geuninely hope they make another "Croft" movie. I was so
amused and entertained by the first one, I can't wait to see where she
goes next.

The elaborate sets and props were nearly awe-inspiring, delicately and
cohesively tying the story together with the setting, and working to
Jolie's advantage through demonstration of her talents and obvious hard
work in preparation for this movie.

If they DO make another, and I understand they already have at the time
of this writing, I do hope they at least paid a good screen writer and
kept the props manager from the last movie. As I have said so many
times before, the little details add so much to a production; not just
with this one, but any production, and they can often bridge the gap
between avid fan and casual movie-goer enjoyment.

All that having been said, the action is quite stimulating, and
extremely well choreographed and executed by Jolie, thanks no doubt to
her personal trainer Eddie Chow. The soundtrack was very "now," with
great songs as the background by Nine Inch Nails, Chemical Brothers,
Groove Armada, Oxide & Neutrino, Delerium, Basement Jaxx, and more.

Great music with the action and extremely creative set designs lend for
a very enjoyable movie.

It rates a 7.4/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

The best part in this movie was without a doubt sexy Angelina Jolie in the
title role as Lara Croft.She was very HOT!
I`m no fan of the game,but with no comparisons;the movie was
good.
Entertaining enough;no brains,no story,no heart,but full of special effects
action.Jolie is good,so are her real life father Jon Voight but rest of cast
is forgettable.This is very much like Indiana Jones,but much lesser
memorable.A better script would have helped,but that`s not the point;this is
supposed to be fun.Better than "The Mummy",but just another Indiana Jones
clone.Anyway;it`s OK.

Rating 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Lara Croft Tomb Raider may be the silliest movie to ever grace
multiplex screens, but it may well be one of the most enjoyable to. The
action is thick fast and stylish, the stunts so unbelievable you'll
love them and little pieces of Angelina Jolie thrown in for good
measure. The story is a B movie classic, Tomb Raider Lara Croft finds a
clock that contains a powerful map. The map shows the way to the pieces
of an artifact that if placed together when a planetary allignment
occurs grants the bearer the power of God. However the evil group the
Illumenati want the map for themselves and thus steal it from Lara.
Lara then goes after the group in order to stop them from using it for
evil. The acting is the campest of the year with Iain Glenn as the
stand out. Jolie is the perfect person to play Lara and looks great in
some of the action sequences. The supporting cast which includes Daniel
Craig are very much background players but they add plenty of color and
fun to the story. The Director Simon West, who is also responsible for
the excellent Con Air deserves applause for catching the essence of the
Video game perfectly. So sit back and relax because when it comes to
Lara Croft Tomb Raider only a churl won't love it.
<|_=00=_|>

I am not here to defend any plot snags this film might have.  I however
thought it would be cool to come here and say that I liked this movie.  It
was quite entertaining.  Maybe not always "riveting" but fun action cheese
nonetheless.  Jolie brought a computer woman to life well and the movie is a
good rental, maybe even an unpopular purchase. 

I gave it 7/10 stars.
