

I just saw Toy Story 2 an hour ago and I must say that, despite all the
great reviews, I was still surprised about the quality....It started
absolutely marvellous; one of the greatest and humorous opening sequences
ever. The plot is really smart, the animation is brilliant and the
humor...Oh man! The last 50 minutes must be the most fun 50 minutes I had in
years and believe me, I'm NOT exaggerating. It seems impossible to imagine
the fun the writers must have had, because this is a true film-fest whether
you do like  Disney-esque films or don't.

Having this fast-paced storyline, John Lasseter & Co. exploited it to a
maximum. Cameo's from Pixar-characters (Geri's the coolest), unexpected and
obliged references to other big films (really love the Jurrasic Park one),
great new characters (Wheezy!!), and more jokes and gags rammed in an
animated feature than you'll ever see and of course the
out takes.

The action-department is also greatly represented in some astonishing
sequences with great, original shots and angles. The music is moody and
Randy Newman is at his best with the really non-disturbing, appropriate song
about Jessie, which is definitely the message of this film.

O.K., I know I'm raving, but I really meant it when I chose the ten and
clicked the "Vote" button. This film is great and I recommend it to every
film-lover.

A few downsides (this hardly affects the overall film) are I think, first of
all the lack of originality, which is excusable and acceptable for a sequel.
Second, the still somewhat jerky animation of the humans (I know they said
it was supposed to be, but I disagree that). And third: the ratio, 1:1,85 (I
thought it was the theater, but Pixar is forgiven, seen the quality of the
film.) These are minors things and my decision is final, Toy Story 2 is
certainly included in my top 20.

O.K., now you may stand up and ring a friend to go and see it, come
on!!
<|_=00=_|>

The first Toy Story was largely confined to little Andy's room and his
dreaded neighbor's house.  When we pick up the story in "Toy Story 2,"
Buzz
Lightyear is in outer space where he meets his arch-nemesis, Emperor Zurg.
In a cheeky opening, the rules devised by Lasseter and his Pixar staff are
laid out:  There are no rules.

Buzz flies through caverns, enters Zurg's stronghold, and gets defeated
(gasp) by the evil Zurg!  Is this the end of our hero?....Nah, it's just
Rex
playing the Buzz Lightyear video game and losing.  It is Yard Sale Day and
the toys are understandably tense.  You see, Yard Sale Day means that the
old toys go out to the sale.  Woody has reason to be nervous, he's
starting
to show his age.  He's got a ripped arm thanks to Andy's dog, whom we got
introduced to at the end of the first Toy Story.  Sure enough, one of the
toy troop gets taken. Poor Weezie the Penguin was laid forgotten on Andy's
bookcase and he promptly gets put in the sale box.  It's up to Woody to
save
him, which he does.  But he gets picked up by a greedy toy-collector named
Al and taken to Al's Toy Barn.  Seems Woody is pretty valuable and Al
wants
to sell him to a toy auction.  Can Buzz and friends save him in
time?

Ho-hum, sounds like a harmless little kid's movie, doesn't it?  But
remember
Lassetter and the rules, or lack thereof?  Well, things take quite a
poignant turn.

In a magical sequence that's an homage to Howdy-Doody, Woody learns that
he
was part of an old 1950s children's puppet show along with some other toys
from the show, the salty Prospector Pete (Kelsey Grammar), Jessie the
Yodelling Cowgirl (played brilliantly by Joan Cusack), and Woody's
faithful
steed.  As Pete tells Woody, toy collecting means immortality.  Woody and
his new friends will be preserved in cases for admiring eyes to faun over.
Woody's days with Andy are numbered.  This point is further emphasized by
a
heartbreaking song sung by Sarah Maclachlan that tells the story of how
Jessie's owner abandoned her because, well, she grew up.  Pete says, "Do
you
really think Andy will take you to his high school graduation or to
college?"  Talk about a bind.  Does Woody go back to Andy and have
fleeting
fun or stay preserved in predictable permanence?

Meanwhile, Andy's gang have their own awakenings to paths not taken.  Mr.
Potato Head sees temptation incarnate in some friendly Barbies ("I'm a
married spud!  I'm a married spud!") and Buzz comes face to face with a
new
Buzz Lightyear figure....who turns out to be as self-delusional as he was.
You mean, they're all like this?!  And the knockout punch: Buzz faces his
mortal foe, Emperor Zurg and confronts a shattering secret.  Hint:  Think
"Star Wars."

Pixar has come a long way since the first "Toy Story."  The computer
animation is absolutely amazing as the toys have much more dimension and
realism in the details than the original.  Once again everyone is
terrific,
especially Cusack who injects soul in the spunky and slighted Jessie.
References abound, from "2001" to "Star Wars."  Plus some inside jokes
concerning Toy Story's lack of merchandise production also make their way.
Even a sly suggestive joke or two slips in.  Hint:  Watch Buzz's wings at
the end.

I cannot say enough about one sequence in particular with Buzz and the
gang
crossing the street.  Lasseter directs this scene with great skill and
comic
placement.  I was in tears at this point, and this was a "kid's"
movie!

But, as with the first one, what really got me engaged was the story, as
affecting a story as I have seen live or animated.  If I can make an
outlandish statement, Toy Story seems to be reaching for something akin to
the "Star Wars Trilogy" or even the "Godfather Trilogy."  Not so much for
epicness, but for how the story gets deeper and richer as it goes along.
"Star Wars" was an entertaining space opera, "Empire Strikes Back" was a
mythic, dark, operatic chapter in a saga.  "Godfather" was an exciting and
classically-influenced masterwork, "Godfather Part II" was a quiet, dark,
character study that reveals Michael's moral bankruptcy and the decline of
the Corleone empire.

Lasseter's plan intrigues me.  With "Toy Story", the plot revolved around
a
buddy picture that showed the bond between an old toy and new toy, and
that
being a toy is the best thing in the world.  This bittersweet second
chapter
addresses what happens after the toys aren't needed anymore.  What happens
now?  Where will I go?  Will I be loved again?  I wonder if with the
third,
if there is one, we'll see what makes a toy timeless.  What separates a
Woody or Buzz from Rex the Dinosaur or Slinky the Dog?  And I wonder what
the ultimate fate of our friends actually is.  I'm hoping they get passed
on
to Andy's children and his grandchildren, throughout all the generations.
I
wouldn't worry about Buzz and Woody, though.  They're already timeless.


<|_=00=_|>

This has to be by far one of the cleanest and most well-designed movie to
come from any studio for a while now. The plot is trim and concise and this
film is not just for kids, there are plenty of grown-up themes to satisfy
even critical viewers. The animation is tremendous, especially if you pay
attention to the details, and the cameo from Geri and the underlying Star
Wars spoofs are just great. All in all, one of the best films I've seen to
date. Just one disappointment, no outtakes during the credits. But still, I
don't think I'll forget this one for a while, if you get a chance to see it
in the cinemas don't miss it...
<|_=00=_|>

PIXAR has done the impossible, and significantly improved on their original
groundbreaking film Toy Story. Not only is the movie hysterically funny,
but
every time I thought I knew where the plot was headed something completely
new and original was thrown into the mix. One minute I'm laughing
hysterically at "Tour Guide" Barbie, the next I'm nearly brought to tears
watching a sequence where Emily grows up and leaves Jessie
behind.

What more can be said? If you think you're too old to enjoy something like
this then I feel sorry for you, because this film has more to say about
friendship, loss, loyalty and the value of life itself than any of the
so-called "grown up" movies I've seen this year.

I rarely do this, but I'm rating this one a "10".
<|_=00=_|>

I thought the original Toy Story was great.  I went to this movie hardly
knowing anything about it.  Toy Story 2 exceeded my
expectations; it's better than the original Toy Story.  This movie works on
two levels.  It's aimed at younger kids, who will love the wackiness of the
characters and the situations they find themselves in, though some of the
jokes might sail over their heads (but they'll laugh anyway).  It's also
aimed at adults, who, when I saw it, laughed louder than the kids at some
points.  The voice work is excellent, especially Tom Hanks and Tim Allen,
reprising their roles from the original.  The supporting toys (Mr. Potato
Head, Slinky Dog, et al.) have much bigger roles this time
around.

This movie has everything: Andy's new dog Buster; two dueling Buzz
Lightyears; partying Barbie dolls; three 3-eyed aliens from the original;
even the Evil Emperor Zurg!  I can't emphasize enough how great this movie
is and I highly recommend it for kids and adults.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

TOY STORY 2 (1999) ***1/2

With the voices of: Tom Hanks, Tim Allen, Kelsey Grammer, Joan Cusack, Jim
Varney, & Wayne Knight
Director: John Lasseter   Running time: 85 minutes   Rated
G

By Blake French: 

	In an era where audiences are given such few family movies, and in a time
where such films are seldom given decent scripts, "Toy Story 2" is a jolt of
lightening in the fast fading genre of unobjectionable entertainment. Over
the past several years we've received filmmaker's poor attempts at granting
us enjoyment with an orphaned raised by jungle apes, bouncy green slime, a
massive gorilla reeking havoc on a major city, a child fending off robbers
by himself near Christmas, a small boy's attempts to rescue a battered dog
from his cruel owner, a canine playing football, a colony of ants in
trouble, a talking mouse, and even a film version of an old cartoon about a
man filtered with countless gizmos. None of those desperate family tales
work. I think you can understand through these examples that when a great
children's film does finally open, and entertains adults equally as much as
it mesmerizes its target audience I give it the honor of being one of the
years best movies. 

	"Toy Story 2" continues the traditional lives of the characters brought to
our attention in the original movie released in 1995. What makes "Toy Story"
unique is the fact that the characters are mostly toys. The familiar faces
include everyone's favorite cowboy Woody, Buzz Lightyear, Hamm the piggy
bank, Mr. Potato Head, Rex the cowardly Tyrannosaurs Rex, the Army Sergeant,
Little Bo Peep, and the Slinky Dog. The sequel film introduces several new
characters in its presence consisting of Prospector Pete, Jessie the
Cowgirl, and antagonists, a  greedy human named Big Al and robotic video
game figure called Zurg. The plot has to do with several of the toys rescue
attempts to save Woody from a money hungry thief who intends to sell him to
a different country.

Just a few days ago I screened the somewhat similar, although unsuccessful,
family comedy "Stuart Little." That movie failed because it attempted to
blend our human world with the likes of pure fictional fantasy; a talking
mouse that acts like a human. It is hard to except something like that
without an explanation--giving the filmmakers no choice but to get into a
complicated, logical explanation that would bore the majority of an
audience. "Toy Story 2" needs none of that explication. It contains its
illusion outside of our world, creating a tale that inspires our
imagination. The filmmakers do not try to compare the likes of toys being
alive with reality. It creates its own atmosphere which seems unfamiliar and
magical. It is a place that lives within our dreams; everyone has hoped for
their toys to come alive at one time or another. "Toy Story 2" brings this
world to life to the quality of the original "Toy Story." This movie is a
landmark in the gender of animated family comedies that should be treasured
for all that its worth. 

Brought to you by Walt Disney Pictures. 

<|_=00=_|>

Well it's a sequel, and I watched with trepidation, and glad to say I
enjoyed every minute of this, it was good to see the voices of all the
characters still voiced by the original actors/actresses, as well as
welcoming new characters 'Stinky Pete the Prospector' and the Round-up gang,
as well as a nemesis for Buzz !  Some very 'tounge in cheek' movie gags
(Jurassic Park and Star Wars to name but two).  I would hope in years to
come to see more quality productions like this.

This will be a family favourite again.

<|_=00=_|>

This film is definitely a pleasure and a joy to see, a very well done
sequel.  I wouldn't be surprised if it would spawn yet another sequel,
raising the bar even more for computer animation, such as this film has
done.  Toy Story 2 looks even more lifelike and realistic than its
original,
I found myself several times 'forgetting' that it was computer animation.
Definitely a must see for all ages.

<|_=00=_|>
Here's yet one more sequel that more than lived up to its original
great start. The first Toy Story was outstanding. This is just as good,
if not better.

Very fast-paced and very entertaining, this doesn't have a lot of
laugh-out-loud parts but is definitely fun to watch with many good
lines. What I appreciated was the lack of a nasty villain and any evil
overtones, as was the case with the rotten neighborhood kid in the
first film.

I also appreciated the fantastic surround sound on the DVD, along with
the magnificent colors. Not to be forgotten is a wonderful,
tear-jerking song in here, sung by Sarah MacLaclan. It gets to me every
time.

When you factor in all the nice characters, music, colors and sounds,
this has to be one of the most beloved animated films of the modern
era.
<|_=00=_|>

"Toy Story 2" is equal to its predecessor. Some may say it is better (I am
not sure about that) but it is on par with the original. This time Woody is
stolen by a greedy toy collector and it is up to Buzz Lightyear and their
friends to rescue him. The film is great-looking, the voice
characterizations are all perfect and the film's screenplay is so
intelligent that "Toy Story 2" would have been successful under the worst of
circumstances. 5 stars out of 5.
