

Let me preface this review by saying that this is my favorite film of all
time.  I'm not saying it was the best, most artistic, original, or most
innovative...but it is my favorite.  It's a movie about a 20-something man
getting over a nasty break-up, living in Los Angeles.  Pretty simple
stuff,
but the honesty in the film is amazing.  This film boasts the most
realistic, and interesting depictions of male friendship I've ever seen.
Some might simply pawn this movie off as a buddy flick, but it goes so
much
deeper than that.  Mikey (Favreau) deals with insecurity, rejection,
depression, an overwhelming feeling of inadequacy.  Something almost
everyone can relate to.  And, as an audience member, you live and die with
the poor guy.  The supporting cast is very strong, popping in and out as
the
assortment of friends populating Mikey's social life.  Each is trying, in
his own way, to get their buddy out of his post-break up funk, which meet
with varying degrees of success.  Swingers is chock full of laugh-out-loud
moments, and oft-quoted lines ("Our baby's all grows up!") that could very
easily lead to repeated viewings of this masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw that someone commented this is the perfect guy movie. I'd like to
add
that it's not just for guys. The characters in it are just as easy to
relate
to for girls. If you think girls don't pathetically chase after guys the
same way the men of Swingers were going after girls, you need to get out
more.(Not meant to be an insult.)
My favorite character in it (though I love them all) is Rob. His
insecurity
is cute, but of course he's also a loyal friend. You can't beat that. And
I
love the goofy quote. "Hi, Mom. I'm goofy. Send more money." That's
great!
This is one of those movies that I love to watch over and over again. I
will
never get sick of it. Plus my husband (then boyfriend) introduced me to it
so of course I love it. He even picked me up from my classes once by
yelling, "Hey, do you know where all the high school girls hang out??"
from
across the street.
This movie was incredibly funny and deserves a lot more praise than it
gets.

<|_=00=_|>

I think a few of the readers who have commented on this film seem to be
missing the point. While it can be said that this movie has no plot to speak
of and no central point to it, my response is: so what? Not every movie is
made to teach you how to live your life. Some of us can watch a movie simply
for the pure enjoyment of listening to characters interact. Swingers does a
better job of achieving this than the majority of movies ever made. Anybody
can make Godzilla or Independence Day, but it takes a truly special movie to
become a "cult hit" with nothing more at it's disposal than no-name actors
(at the time) and catchy dialogue. This movie was the springboard for
virtually every actor in it, with each going on to more well known parts.

Ok, enough preaching, pure and simple this movie is great. Vince Vaughn's
character is one of the most likable characters you'll see in a movie. Even
if you have nothing in common with someone like him, you can't help but like
him. He's hilarious, smooth, and a loyal friend, and he has some of the most
quotable lines in the movie. Everyone else on this site has quoted it time
and again, so no need for me to, but let's just say it's funny stuff. John
Favreau's character, Mikey, makes you laugh while at the same time wanting
to slap him for being so stupid. There's so many funny scenes in this movie,
I can't even begin to describe them. But the best by far always involve
Vaughn, and the part where he's in the trailer describing his experience
auditioning for a pilot is classic. You know he's feeding the girls a line
the whole time, but it's so convincing and everyone is so in awe of him,
it's hysterical. And when Mikey tries to act cool in front of the waitresses
they meet, and fails to do so, only to see Trent tell them he's a producer
and watch them swoon, I can't see how people don't find that funny.

Anyways, if you haven't seen this movie yet, do yourself a favor and go rent
it. The buildup offered on this site is only a fraction of what you'll
actually get out of watching it. 10+/10
<|_=00=_|>
Money! Having lived the life of Mike, this movie hits home. No gig, no
girl...no self esteem... Hangin with the boys. Who hasn't been there? A
virtual plethora of one liners and quotes for guys (this is definitely
a guy flick) in their 20's and 30's. Who hasn't left a relationship
only to wallow in guilt and self doubt. Especially when you find out
the ex is seeing someone else. Add to this the inability to land a
decent paying gig, living alone in an unfamiliar town, and having bunch
of condescending clowns as your support group and its no wonder that
poor Mike was about to return to Queens with his tail between his legs.

The best part of this film is the self transformation of Mike from the
pitiful whiner holed up in his apartment for days after Sue tells him
what a loser he is, to the Bear spotting the Bunny (literally) from the
other side of the bar. Though Mike is constantly hearing and taking
advise from his posse...ultimately, it is himself who shows that
through his own experiences (ball room dance lessons with the ex) and
his own strengths of honesty, charm and charisma that he proves he is
indeed, money, and lands him the beautiful baby Lorraine. "It is so on"
as the hilarious Trent (scene stealer Vince Vaughn) first spots the
pensive conversation between Mike and Lorraine. (Heather Graham) The
looks on Trent's and Sue's faces are priceless as they spy Mike and his
beautiful baby working the dance floor to Big Bad Voodoo Daddy's "Go
Daddy O". I don't think I have ever seen Ms Graham look better that she
does here...

"It didn't occur to me" Mike replies to Trent in the final scene when
asked why he didn't call the ex back. Amazing what a little confidence
(and a dance with a hot blonde) can do for guy!

This is a hilarious movie about real guys (you have known somebody like
every character in this film!) set against the surreal back drop of the
then-hip LA swing scene in the mid 90's doing what they do best....10
out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Before watching "Swingers," I saw Jon Favreau and Vince Vaughn paired off in
"Made."  Now, I didn't like "Made" all that much, but that didn't lower my
expectations when watching "Swingers."  I already knew the two actors had a
great chemistry and as long as the script is well-written, they can really
go places.  "Swingers" is a thoroughly original, wonderfully written comedy
that's filled with big laughs.  

Favreau and Vaughn's characters are like polar opposites, and it's hilarious
to watch them argue.  The rest of the actors are also good (I think the
black guy is the blind character from "Becker"--I could be wrong), but Vince
Vaughn steals the show as the smooth-talking Trent.  We all have friends
like Trent.  Some of us aspire to be like Trent.  Some of us are Trent.  I
admit, I would compare myself more to Favreau's character--the more
reserved, sensitive type.  But the great thing about a film like this is
it's down to earth.  It's about everyday people in everyday situations, and
I guarantee many of us can relate to the characters in "Swingers" in one way
or another, just like how many of us relate to the characters on "Seinfeld."
 This isn't a plot-driven film, so you can call this a movie about nothing. 
It's simply about a group of studs on the prowl, hitting the clubs and
casinos, and sharing their philosophies on sex and dating.  There are
several films that tried to replicate this format and failed ("Whipped"
comes to mind).  

If you're in the mood to laugh hysterically and be wildly entertained,
"Swingers" is the movie for you.  About my only criticisms would be a few
lame attempts to be stylish.  Come on, would 5 guys really drive in their
own cars and follow each other all the way without anyone cutting them off? 

My score:  8 (out of 10) 
<|_=00=_|>

This is a hilarious film about nobodies claiming to be bigger than they ever
will be!

Doug Liman showed much promise and I'm more than sure that one day he will
continue to make bigger budget films (Bourne Identity)

Careers should also be good for the great Jon Favreau who is just a
fantastically witty writer, Vince Vaughn who should get a headlining film
and Ron Livingston who is still performing good roles.

I love the script in this film, the language is unique and the scenarios are
superb... the sad fact is that there are hundreds of guys like Trent, Mike,
Rob & Sue (played by Patrick Van Horn)

I urge everybody to watch this even though it might not be there cup of
tea!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

This film could prove that nice guys "don't" finish last. A truly great
and
funny movie. The movie is basically about getting a nightlife, friendship
and picking up girls. The movie centers on Mike (Jon Favreau). A very
brave
but not cocky young man who constantly dwells on his ex-girlfriend and
unsuccessfully attempts to rekindle his love life. Trent (Vince Vaughn)
is
always there to give him encouragement and inspiration. In someways Trent
is
the star of this movie. He has a strong screen presence and is extremely
funny.

This movie teaches us to always double down on an eleven in black jack
and
how many days to wait before you call the girl for the first time. The
greatest scene in this movie has to be when Trent and Sue are talking to
Mike in the lounge and are trying to encourage Mike to ask a girl at the
bar
for her phone number. The "big bad bear and little bunny" analogy they
use
is hilarious.

You have to feel happy for Mike when he meets Lorraine (Heather Graham)
at
the end of the movie. We see Trent and Sue watching their buddy in
amazement
but we know that they are truly proud of him. Mike really was money and
he
didn't even know it.
<|_=00=_|>
"The point is, Mike, that it all depends on how you look at it."

Swingers is the quintessential guy movie. Not to say that a woman won't
enjoy it, or that it's a stereotypical collection of all the things
that men are supposed to love in movies, like a non-stop
testosterone-fueled orgy of naked women, explosions, and violence. 

Nope, Swingers is the quintessential guy movie because almost every guy
can relate to at least part of it at some time during his life. The
uncertainty about your career, the lingering pain of losing a
girlfriend you truly loved, the camaraderie (and annoyances) of your
friends, the frustrating world of dating and the games and "rules" that
come along with it, and the feeling of that moment when you finally
realize that your life can go on without that other person it revolved
around so long.

The story focuses on Mike (Jon Favreau), an aspiring comedian in Los
Angeles who has recently gone through a break-up with his long-term
girlfriend back east, and his group of friends. Most of whom try to
help Mike get over his break-up by meeting women in and around L.A. and
Las Vegas. Especially his two best friends, ladies man Trent (Vince
Vaughn) and Rob (Ron Livingston)  Most of the movie follows the group
on their nightly romps through the city, or Mike as he struggles with
the loss of the relationship that he was very much invested in.

I enjoyed the casual conversations the guys had about women, video
games, their job efforts, and other things. Swingers really nailed the
dynamics of how guys act with each other.

It's also pretty funny, though it's not a total comedy by any means. A
lot of the humor derives from Mike's painful attempts to talk to women,
after six long years off the market. There's a really hysterical
sequence about Mike and a woman's answering machine later in the movie
that will have you howling. 

I got the sense that Swingers is the kind of movie that holds up well
after repeated viewings, and maybe even gets better. It's not amazing,
or anything like that, but it is hard to imagine anyone (especially
guys aged 20-29) not appreciating it.
<|_=00=_|>
I chanced upon Swigers one evening after reading an article on
writer/star Jon Favreau, and trying to figure out which character he
played in Friends (it's Pete Becker by the way); don't you love it when
you uncover a gem. From the opening credits, set to Dean Martin
crooning "You're Nobody Until Somebody Loves You", I knew that this
film was the very personification of cool, spawning one of the coolest
characters in any film...ever, that being Trent Walker played by Vince
Vaughn, with a swinging soundtrack and a real sense of fun which you
don't often get in mainstream Hollywood; and this film is effortless in
a way which Tarantino could only dream about.

The story centres around Favreau's loser-in-love Mikey, trying to make
a living as an actor in L.A after leaving his long-term girlfriend
behind in New York. His best buddy, Trent, tries incessantly to get
Mikey back 'into the game' so to speak; cue a trawl around L.A's
hippest night-spots, some hilarious insight into dating rituals (when
is it cool to call? 2 days?), and a trip to Las Vegas in which Trent
tries to 'pull a Fredo' (bedding cocktail waitresses two at a time).
The central duo are ably supported by a cast of lovable rogues, all
intent on getting laid.

Doug Liman directs in a laid-back manner, befitting of the film, and
Favreau's script (based on Vaughn and himself) is full of witty
insights and in-jokes, as well as enough movie references to keep
everyone happy.

Although the characters are almost impossibly cool, they never appear
obnoxious due to the over-riding sense that they are just a bunch of
lovable losers trying to con their way into the beds of L.A's female
population; sometimes succeeding, sometimes not, and there is a certain
sweetness added by Favreau's predicament. The pay-off is cool, Favreau
finally 'getting digits' and we are left with a role-reversal between
the two main protagonists as Trent makes a fool of himself with a woman
in the closing scene.

Altogether a classy, breezy, often hilarious film, a certain cult
classic, and a fine addition to the date movie genre.
<|_=00=_|>

Upon hearing about this movie from friends, I was told that it was
"money".
They were right. This is "so money and they don't even know it."
Entertaining comedy about letting go, and finding new romance and who your
real friends are. Enough one-liners to quote for years, friends still
quote
it today! Nothing but beautiful babies, and a great upbeat soundtrack to
get
you dancing!
