

As CRIMSON TIDE opens we visit various crew members of the USS Alabama as
they bid farewell to their loved ones.  For one man, Lt. Cmdr. Ron Hunter
(Denzel Washington), it will be his first time as second in command of a
nuclear submarine.  Capt. Frank Ramesy (Gene Hackman) is in charge and is
not shy about letting everyone know.  He is a seasoned veteran, as
juxtaposed with the young idealistic Hunter.  The early scenes do much to
set up the main conflict of the film.  For example when members of the
crew
discuss Carl Von Clausewitz, and his 1832 work Vom Kriege ("On War"), the
intellectual showdown occurs between Ramesy and Hunter.  This scene not
only
heightens the tension, but also reveals the different philosophies of
these
two men, what they believe in, why they are there.  This short scene goes
a
long way to setting up why each of these characters are so unbending when
the crisis presents itself.

The Crisis:  The ship has been damaged and the EAM contact that has been
received is disjointed.  The Russian force (who is never very carefully
explained) is fueling rockets for use against the US.  That's all they
know.
The captain wants to surface and fire, Hunter thinks he's wrong.
Factions
form, but the film does a good job presenting a good argument for both
desicions (although you get the sense that the film makers lean towards
the
"dove" side rather than the "hawks").  As tensions mount, there are
various
shifts in power and the crew stands divided.  Every member of the crew
watching as the minutes tick by, closer and closer to the final moment of
truth...

Hackman is at the top of his form here as the relentlessly tough Ramesy.
When given a good script with room to work, there is few better at
creating
a solid performance.  The looks he gives, the way he uses his eyes, his
speech patterns, simply wonderful to watch.  Washington is just as good as
Hunter, and the showdown between these two men, near the end, sends sparks
flying off the screen.  The rest of the cast is filled out with strong
actors: Matt Craven, George Dzundza, (pre LOTR's) Viggo Mortensen, and
(pre
'Sopranos') James Gandolfini.

As is well known, the script received various rewrites from Robert Towne
(the Clausewitz scene), Steve Zaillian, and Quentin Tarantino (the Silver
Surfer references, the scene where the crew chimes in about other
submarine
movies).  All these different contributions blends fairly well together.
The story is tough and direct, and touches on points that heighten the
tension.  The photography, by Dariusz Wolski (DARK CITY, THE CROW), is
tight
and atmospheric; Hans Zimmer's score pounding and reflective.  The VIP
vote,
however, goes to Tony Scott, who proves himself with this film.  He knows
when to hold shots and doesn't rush the action (as he did with TOP GUN);
he
paces the film well and let's his actors work for him.  CRIMSON TIDE is an
entertaining and challenging film that, along with films like THE HUNT FOR
RED OCTOBER and DAS BOOT, may set the high water mark (forgive the pun)
for
the genre.  9/10.


<|_=00=_|>
( I wrote a lot more but had to edit cause of the 1000 word limit) As a
drama Hollywood type sub flick, I gave Crimson Tide a 6. But I just
watched it on HBO tonight and have to say it is one of the most
unrealistic sub movies I've ever seen. I was in the silent service and
qualified in submarines. Of course a lot of what I'll write would not
bother the casual viewer, but the discrepancies, details and plot were
just too much to overlook. 

To start with, Gene Hackman's dog coming underway with him is a load of
Huey and really made me look down on this picture from the beginning.
The Chief of Naval Operations himself would not or could not bring a
pet on a ship with him. 

They threw in a few catchy phrases and buzz words but for the most part
the terminology used in the control room was made up. Even for an Ohio
class boat the set for the movie's submarine was entirely too spacious.
The "crawl spaces" the XO used to sneak into the control room was
ludicrous. Submarines do not have anything like that. They are tightly
packed with equipment and machinery and simply do not have that kind of
space.

I still don't understand how the reactor was scrammed and lost
propulsion from the torpedo that hit in the stern and caused all that
flooding. If anything was damaged that badly, it's not getting fixed at
sea. This isn't Star Trek. 

The radio scenario was absolute rubbish as well. There are so many
redundant comms systems on board and inside the radio shack, no way
would one receiver getting fried completely isolate the ship from
command authority. The EAMs might have looked good on the screen but
the real deal and Sealed Authentication System is so much more
complicated, it's not even funny. There is literally dozens of yellow
pages thick manuals covering nuclear command and control systems, and
without going into classified details, I cannot believe something like
this could ever happen on board a US submarine.

There is no way people would be aiming guns around like they were in
the movie either. On a real submarine which is packed with 3000 pound
hydraulics and high pressure air systems, 1 bullet could kill everyone
in a compartment in which it was discharged. The beginning of the movie
with the fire in the galley was a load too. Fires are the biggest
threat to ships safety and if they had a fire in real life, the CO
would immediately surface the ship to fight it. A fire in such an
enclosed space, would make so much smoke, within minutes you couldn't
see your hand in front of your face, and the ship would have to
emergency ventilate. Let alone the nonchalant way they dealt with that
one guy dying. And of course no real submarine CO would run a drill 2
minutes after securing from a real fire. If someone was killed in a
casualty, the CO would be sweating bullets.

Tony Soprano making that fat dude drop and do push ups on the bus. Talk
about unprofessional. People have an unrealistic view of military
discipline. That may happen in boot camp but not in the real fleet.
Also that COB was unbelievably fat. No he wouldn't fit on a submarine
and they don't even let people that big in the military. 

Also, these SSBN's are on tightly regimented patrol cycles, with 2
crews. There are always some on patrol in alert status. The XO and weps
wouldn't get paged to get underway. If they were on their off-crew
period, the other crew, blue or gold would have the ship and it would
already be at sea. If something goes down, you need subs ready to
launch already, you may not have the luxury of even the time it took
the Alabama to get underway.

The entire crew wears puppy suits, underway, officers included. Also
you don't salute underway. If the captain walks by you acknowledge him
but don't salute. The movie really made enlisted people look dumb imo.
They are the experts on the ship's systems. And officers usually are
the ones asking the dumb questions. The fight in the crew's mess over
the silver surfer was a huge stretch. They give psych tests and such to
submariners, one of the main goals to weed out people who can't handle
stress and are hot heads. Not to say people wouldn't argue but if they
were throwing punches, they'd have both been written up and in deep
****.

And the last thing was the ending. If anything remotely happened like
this in real life, you can bet the Commanding Officer who held a loaded
gun to an innocents head would be court marshaled and sent to prison.
Not just allowed to quietly retire. Also no CO has the pull to just get
their XO a command. Less than half of XOs even make the cut and get
command. You have to be the creme de la creme to get command of a
nuclear submarine and follow a strict career outline. 

It was an enjoyable movie. But I've read some of the threads about,
who's side would you be on, Hackman's or Washington's, and really the
whole scenario is just beyond anything that is remotely reasonable! 

This movie was the "Deep Impact" of sub flicks. Might as well have said
Alabama was going to drill through the bottom of the ocean floor and
disturb the earth's core to cause a magnetic flux that would stop the
Russian missiles from launching. LOL Bottom line, its a decent flick,
but don't think it is even close to accurate or realistic.
<|_=00=_|>

Crimson Tide possesses one of the most intense moments in film: two great
actors eye-to-eye, portraying characters absolutely certain of their
actions, absolutely convinced that the other's course will lead to disaster.
A submarine commander (Hackman) and his second-in-command (Washington) are
both shouting at the same time, each ordering the next ranking officer
(Dzundza) to arrest the other. Washington believes, with good reason that
Hackman is unfit to command because he is disregarding naval procedures.
Hackman believes, with good reason, that Washington is disobeying an order
and instigating a mutiny. A possible nuclear exchange and the deaths of
billions hang in the balance. Dzundza knows that he must make the correct
decision, regardless of his like or dislike of each of his
superiors.

There are traditional incidents that arise in submarine stories: fires,
floods, sinking to the bottom, torpedoes, loss of communication. (After all,
what more can you do in such a small set?) Crimson Tide has its share, but
does them well: you won't be bored just because you have seen subs in the
same situation before. The movie's major conflict arises over a very tense,
crucially significant incident, a believable situation that could arise and,
unresolved, lead to catastrophe for more than just the boat.

Hackman is always excellent portraying a character with depth. As the
captain he can command respect and obedience with a growl, a steely look, an
angry shout, or a wicked joke. In contrast, Washington's calm, strong,
logical intensity is the immovable rock to Hackman's irresistible force.
When his eyes bore into you (as in remember Glory and Philadelphia?) you
feel his sincerity and strength in your bones.

Crimson Tide has genuine, believable characters, edge-of-your-seat tension,
and crackling, intense interchanges between two of my favorite actors. I
recommend it as a thinking person's submarine movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The suspense is relentless in this believable, tense and superbly acted
war drama. One of the best modern war movies I have seen, Crimson Tide
is a story about strained loyalty, respect, command, discipline, power,
and military practice. Hackman and Washington are perfectly cast as an
older battle-hardened nuclear submarine captain and his younger, less
experienced but highly educated executive officer, caught in a crisis
of potentially world-threatening proportions. Pursued by an enemy
submarine, the USS Alabama has nuclear warheads aimed and ready to fire
as a pre-emptive strike against a Russian rebel commanding his own
nuclear arsenal. The Alabama is commanded to launch, and begins
preparations, but the enemy sub attacks, knocking out all
communications just as a second command is being received. The nature
of that second command and what to do about then becomes the key
problem that the Captain and XO have to deal with. Suffice to say, they
do not agree on how to proceed, and the remainder of the film is a
struggle between the two men and those who support each, in a crippled
but still lethal sub, with the fate of the world hanging in the
balance.

What's is amazing about Michael Schiffer's story is its plausibility.
The basic scenario upon which the script is based could happen. The
cast - all of them - are spectacular, and the directing is masterful.
Although some of the behavior of the men aboard the Alabama seems
improbable at times, given the military realities of chain of command
and discipline, the sheer performance power of this film's cast and
production team make it all seem very real and extremely compelling.
the characters are HUGE, complex, and real. More than just a cautionary
tale, this is a very human drama about who people become under extreme
conditions, and how they work out problems to reach solutions, or fail
to do so. If that final sentence sounds cryptic, then let it entice you
to see the film so you can figure out what I mean for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

Crimson Tide is awesome in the way it creates intensity and non-stop
adrenaline rushes using scenes full of action, and scenes that aren't. The
torpedo attack with the Russian sub was so fast-paced and packed with energy
that it makes you bounce in your seat. Gene Hackman and Denzel Washington
gave awesome performances, and their growing tension towards each other is
enough to keep the excitement at a consistent high through the last half of
the film. I don't appreciate how Hackman's character is regarded by most
moviegoers as a mad man. He is just simply a seasoned, tough-as-nails
military officer who must assume that the US is in danger, and he must stick
by the orders that require him to go to drastic measures to protect us. The
director did a good job at raising the tension, even though the ending was
very predictable. The message at the very start of the film set the perfect
tone. The entire film is in a way scary by making us wonder if what would
happen in a situation like this, and how could the military establish proper
operating procedures for it. However, the message at the end of the film
re-establishes some hope. 9/10, and I love the creative title.

<|_=00=_|>

Tense little action thriller on par with "The Hunt for Red October" has a
nuclear submarine commander (Gene Hackman) and his new second-in-command
(Denzel Washington) getting in a chess match of words and wits ala "Mutiny
on the Bounty". Russian rebels may be about to launch nuclear missiles at
any moment. Commands come through for Hackman to detonate the weapons from
their ship, but then another message after that one which is incomplete
splits the entire crew. Hackman thinks it is time to take control with
aggression while Washington believes that this is way too important without
knowing everything there is to know. A wide range of characters on the
submarine (which includes Viggo Mortensen, Steve Zahn, James Gandolfini,
Rick Schroeder, George Dzundza) must decide which of the all-world
performers they are going to side with. The screenplay is mediocre really,
but Hackman and Washington know how to overcome that and director Tony Scott
keeps the pulse of his audience in high over-drive. Definitely an acceptable
piece from the genre. 4 stars out of 5.  
<|_=00=_|>
I find it interesting watching movies today that are realistically not
that old, but due to the way the world stage has changed today, could
never really be made in their current form.

Crimson Tide is an action/drama movie centering around the events on an
American nuclear submarine during a fictional coup in the old Soviet
Union where a rebel faction gains control of a Soviet nuclear base.

The main conflict in the story is between the Captain (Gene Hackman)
and the Executive Officer (Denzel Washington), who both represent two
very different Naval Officer types. Hackman is the old Cold Warrior
(don't think about the order, your job is to just do it) and Washington
is the "new breed" (educated and taught to think about the actions they
are asked to undertake). Orders are received and both respond very
differently to the same order.

Overall, the story flows well and the drama is gripping. Technical
flaws abound (as is the case with most of these sort of stories), but
nothing that really detracts from the story (although, it does leave
you wondering if a situation like this would be possible....you just
hope there is procedure in place somewhere to stop it!)
<|_=00=_|>

This is the type of movie Tony Scott 
should have stuck to creating. While 
most Jerry Bruckheimer films prove 
to be bad, modern interpretations of 
old school martial arts movies, this 
was one of the better films Bruckheimer 
ever produced. While the story was 
completely plot-driven and the performances 
a little over the top, the rivalry between 
Denzel Washington and Gene Hackman 
made this film a cut above the rest of 
the trash Bruckheimer tends to produce. 
While simple and direct, it proves to be 
effective in the annals of storytelling, 
never overindulging the viewer.
<|_=00=_|>
"Crimson Tide" is one of my favorites and to me is the best submarine
movie ever made. And I don't understand why people say the "The Hunt
for Red October" is THE submarine film. Because, to me THFRO was very
long and moved at a snail's pace, and also the murky underwater action
scenes were hard to look at because you could hardly see what was going
on.

However, "Crimson Tide" is an improvement in my opinion. It's over 2
hours long, but its pace moves by so fast that you're not gonna realize
it. But if you're looking for tons of explosions and gunfire, then this
ain't your kind of movie, it happens to be more suspense-oriented.
Otherwise, you can just check out "Die Hard", "Terminator" or "Aliens",
for the action-packed extravaganza that most people want. But I guess
the scene in which the subs face off and each are firing the torpedoes
at each other could be considered action. And that scene in probably
the best part of the entire movie since there is no way anyone could
resist the suspense and especially when the sub is sinking and the
water pressure is rising and it could compress at any second.

Without going on and on too much I'll just give the basic premise of
the movie so you won't get too confused. It's been a couple years after
the Soviet Union collapsed and now a radical leader and his followers
are trying to takeover the Russian government and is threatening to
launch nuclear missiles into both the United States and Russia itself
if they interfere with him. And the USA sends a submarine with nuclear
missiles out to the Pacific Ocean in case the event of when the Russian
missiles are launched and they could instantly counter-attack. But the
two commanding officers clash on whether or not the missiles should be
fired since they are debating if Russia is attacking or not. But since
they are so far down in sea level, they can't communicate to get their
orders. At first, it may seem uninteresting, but you'll realize how
much suspense and tension is in here when you see it.

As for the acting, well what can I say? Denzel Washington has gotta be
the greatest method actor in Hollywood right now and "Crimson Tide" is
a prime example. So far in his career, he already won an Oscar for
"Glory" and "Training Day" in which he gave two outstanding
performances that will forever be remembered in Hollywood. But his work
in "Crimson Tide" is, and I dare say, tops both of his Oscar-winning
performances. He plays the lead role as Lt. Commander Ron Hunter, who
is objecting his Captain's orders to attack Russia since it would cause
a complete nuclear holocaust with billions of deaths involved.

Gene Hackman, who is another Hollywood favorite, is Captain Frank
Ramsey, the crazy old guy who will stop at nothing to ensure that World
War III between the USA and Russia happens. His character even
preferred to have a missile drill happening when the sub had a fire and
its safety was endangered, and as a result an officer lost his life.

Hackman's character represents the way the USA was before in a time of
war, and they seeked anything to get involved in that war so other
countries would fear them. Washington's character symbolizes what the
USA is like during the 1990's and they would try to stay as neutral as
possible. Also, the scene when Denzel and Gene are arguing and shouting
over each other about the nukes and before the mutiny happens has gotta
be one of the greatest acted scenes ever. And this basically provides
the tension that makes "Crimson Tide" what it is as a film. And the
bulk of the movie, the question "Will they launch or not?" goes on.
Just watch it and found out.

Also, the dialogue is among the best I've ever heard, and heck, I'll
say that it even challenges "Pulp Fiction" as having some of the best
lines ever. What's interesting is that Quentin Tarantino provided some
of it in here and that's clearly evident. The Silver Surfer reference
and the submarine movie trivia are the real punch-ups here. My favorite
line from this is "You don't put on a condom unless you're gonna
f**k!".

"Crimson Tide" is an excellent thriller movie that stands out because
of the suspense, the tension, the acting and the punchy dialogue. Do
yourself a favor and forget "The Hunt for Red October"! "Crimson Tide"
will blow you away!
<|_=00=_|>
I love this film for it's intensity,particularly the intense
relationship of the characters portrayed by Gene Hackman and Denzel
Washington.They are two men at odds in the worst of situations;the
possibility of war.It all involves an incomplete transmission.It could
mean war,it could mean nothing at all.What do you do?You could strike
your enemy before he strikes you,but would the strike be uncalled for?
It's the not knowing that creates the intensity.Hackman and Washington
are excellent actors,which goes without saying since they are both
Oscar winners,and they play off of each other extremely well in this
film. This fact alone makes it a must see,but the film's content is
equally as impressive.
