
It's hard to imagine a gay themed film where the main characters aren't
drag queens, don't have AIDS, aren't bitchy, catty, flamboyant, tragic
or shallow. As it turns out, gay people, like non-gay people, can be
all those things (and aren't we all tired of it) and so much more. In
fact, the most distinguishing characteristic of gay people is that, for
the most part, they are virtually indistinguishable from non-gay
people. Isn't it about time a movie just allowed its central gay
characters to be a couple of cute young guys whose casual meeting
teeters over the course of a hilariously frustrating evening on the
verge of becoming more than a one night stand?

Gabriel, played by Christian Campbell, Neve Campbell's older brother,
is a shy, aspiring composer with dimples to die for. Mark, J. P. Pitoc,
is an outgoing journalism student who earns money as a go-go boy and
has the body to prove it. Pitoc and Campbell, who appear together again
in the "Thank You, Good Night", gel beautifully as the put-upon
would-be lovers. In a world where meeting and having sex can be a
rather common and often all too impersonal event, they meet, and like
most people their age, they want to have sex. But the story that gently
unfolds is not at all common. It's tender, funny, and much more
romantic than it sounds.

Tori Spelling, it hurts me to even write this, is terrific as Gabriel's
oh-so theatrical friend. She maintains a drama in her life that can be
endearing, but is often times more annoying, the latter which Ms.
Spelling portrays with great comic success. 

The rest of the cast is fairly unremarkable, with two notable
exceptions. Steve Hayes is brilliant as a friend from Gabriel's theatre
class whose hilarious "Como te gusta mi pinga" is the funniest cabaret
number since Priscilla. Clinton Leupp as drag queen Coco Peru, delivers
a delightful bathroom soliloquy that will have you in stitches. Even
more amusing is the fact that Miss Coco looks distractingly like Ms.
Spelling's character, right down to the overabundance of drama.

Trick is an uplifting and life-affirming look at being young and gay
and almost in love. Surely you were at least one of these things once.
<|_=00=_|>

Did I see the same movie as some of the other folks who have posted reviews
for "Trick"?  My lover and I just watched this last night in New York City,
with a predominantly gay audience, and we found it a delightful,
unpretentious little comedy.

For starters, this is a "romantic comedy", making full use of all the
cliches and conventions of the genre (i.e., our lovers "meet cute" on the
subway and endless complications keep them apart).  None of this is new, but
when I see people complain about these plot devices I wonder just how many
movies these people have ever seen?  All this groundwork was laid down long,
long ago in the silent era and certainly in the golden age of "screwball
comedy" in the '30s.  So, the idea today is to see how well a filmmaker uses
these conventions, not to wonder why none of this isn't terribly original! 
In the case of "Trick", these rules of film comedy are applied very
well.

This film is also, obviously, a "comedy of frustration" in that our two
lovers want each other but can't have each other.  Events and people
conspire against them.  Again, none of this is terribly original, but it is
well played and diverting.  I especially enjoyed the absence of any stupid
"heart-felt", sentimental and unmotivated moments that mar so many
contemporary Hollywood movies.  For instance, the relationship between
Gabriel (Christian Campbell) and his best gal pal (Tori Spelling) was quite
realistic.  She was a difficult-to-get-along with old friend, the kind you
find hard to move on from. And the relationship (dating, we are told, from
high school days) was convincingly complicated.  Yes, she was self-centered,
neurotic, even ridiculous.  But, then some women are (as are some men). 
This is misogynistic?  What, was she supposed to be some drippy, supportive,
self-effacing female saint of a best friend offering her shoulder for
Christian to cry on?  I liked her better as played by Tori Spelling. 
Incidentally, Spelling has a marvelous scene of hysteria when she goes off
in the diner about the cheese fries!

The acting in this film was uniformly good, and quite high level for an
independent film.  Far from being a "numb skull", I thought J.P. Pitoc gave
the go-go boy character real depth and sympathy. He was beautifully subtle
in the first scene in Gabriel's apartment when you can see his interest in
Gabriel come alive beyond a casual sexual attraction.  This deepening
flicker of interest easily explains Mark's staying around through a
frustrating evening:  he sensed there is more to Gabriel and he wants to
find out what.  Made perfect sense to me. Also (duh!) if he didn't stick
around we would have no plot!

The drag queen (Clinton Leupp) has a very funny monologue, also.  His
presence in this film was perfectly logical:  they are in a gay dance club
in Manhattan for gosh sakes!  Drag queens do hang out in such places! 
Further, his entrance into the men's room is also well set-up; he sees
Gabriel dancing with Mark and follows him into the john to give him some
dirt.  Motivation:  jealousy!  I cannot understand anyone faulting the
screenplay on this note.

All-in-all, this is a slight, but very entertaining little film that tugs at
the heartstrings a bit.  And it certainly is a crowd pleaser!  To hear a
jaded NYC audience hooting and hollaring at any comedy was refreshing. 
"Trick" is a carefree delight!
<|_=00=_|>

I was a little wary of a movie about two guys trying to find a place in New
York city where they can be alone and have some sex. A comedy? I thought it
could be very boring. I'm so glad I went to see this one! It is funny and
romantic, and it ends in a smart way, and I can only say: Thank you, guys!
That was fun!
<|_=00=_|>

Gay romantic comedies seem to fall into two different categories: either
they deal with AIDS specifically, or they don't.  TRICK falls into the
latter category.  Films in the former category tend to be too heavy-handed
to be good (save JEFFREY and LOVE! VALOUR! COMPASSION!).  Here, screenwriter
Jason Schafer focuses not on AIDS whatsoever.  In fact, it is never
mentioned once.  Instead, we watch as two men (wonderfully played by
Christian Campbell and John Paul Pitoc) try to have a one-night stand.  The
only problem: they have no place to go.  As these two men desperately try to
find a room, fate interferes, allowing them to get to know each other before
consumating the relationship.  Tori Spelling is terrific in a supporting
role, but it is the two leads who must manage this film, and they do with
astonishing realism.  It's a modern-day, gay fairy tale.  It's the type of
film that makes you laugh, cry, and feel good in the end.  Hollywood could
learn something from this small independent feature.

<|_=00=_|>

As soon as you finish watching it, you'll want to rewind it and watch it
again.  The sweetest, most refreshing movie I have seen.  Something about
it
(maybe the thoroughly funny and romantic love story) leaves with the
greatest feeling in the world.  And I go around for hours after I've
watched
it singing "Enter You".  Funny, engaging, sweet, romantic, and (I know
it's
the same word the critics used, but they were absolutely right)
magical!
<|_=00=_|>

After a leisurely start, we get some great comic 
sequences. My favorites are ones I'd call "intimate 
piano," "drag queen fury," and "coffee shop 
confrontation."

Like other recent gay-themed films such as BEAUTIFUL 
THING, OBJECT OF MY AFFECTION, EDGE OF SEVENTEEN, and GET
REAL, this film is very personal and doesn't get caught up
in homophobia or AIDS. It doesn't even give us coming-out
angst. It is just a sweet, old fashioned romance but with
gay characters.

I highly recommend this film. It may become a mainstream
charmer. I certainly hope so.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this in the theater and bought it as soon as it was available for
home
purchase. Tori Spelling plays an excellent campy character and the love
interest in this story is played beautifully by John Paul Pitoc who while
in
real life is straight did one of the best acting jobs for this genre since
Nick Scotti in Kiss me Guido. If you like laughter, love and want to feel
great at the end of a film this is a must have to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best movies I've ever seen - a real life experience between two
people wanting each other and want to be alone without sex and nudity
really
being needed to tell a real life adventure. The way Gabriel and Mark
noticed
one another at a strip club and in a subway car was beautifully done.
Gabriel wanting to look at Mark sleeping in the subway car was spotted by
a
woman watching him watching Mark - Gabriel's eyes slowly looking back at
Mark was so beautiful and sad and funny one of the best scenes in the
movie.
To Christian Campbell who plays Gabriel, John Paul Pitoc who plays Mark
and
the production crew for "Trick", THANK YOU. 
<|_=00=_|>

Not having seen the film when it was originally released, I caught up with
it on IFC. The film is surprisingly light, as the director, Jim Fall, has
avoided the usual cliches when dealing with the subject
matter.

Mr. Fall was very lucky to find this cast, indeed. The three principals,
Tori Spelling, Christian Campbell and John Paul Pitoc play very well
together. It's a fun film to watch anytime at all. All types of audiences
will enjoy this tale of romance, missed opportunities, and fulfilling a
dream. 

All this, and N.Y.'s Greenwich Village in the background, who could ask for
anything more?
<|_=00=_|>
Trick is a story of a late 20 something gay kid played by Christian
Campbell who has been going through a breakup and after a bit of a
drought is not having any success. Right now he'd settle for a one
night stand of hot passion.

Especially after seeing J.P. Pitoc up on the stage of that gay bar
doing the bumps and grinds, it's the man of his dreams. Fate is
seemingly kind to him when he leaves the bar and he winds up on the
same train as the object of his affection. Pitoc gets off at the same
stop, eye contact is met and it's off to Campbell's place.

Which he shares with his straight roommate Brad Beyer and has a female
friend played by Tori Spelling who just bounces in whenever she needs
to use or borrow something. 

When they go to Pitoc's world, Campbell is a bit put off by the
partying world of the go-go boys. Will they ever get down to the slap
and tickle?

Despite the emphasis on sex and one night stands, Trick is really a
delightful romantic comedy with a gay twist. Tori Spelling by dint of
her name recognition from 90210 is top billed though she's really in a
supporting role. She's very funny in the role of the gay man's best
straight woman friend who really wants to dominate the lives of the gay
people around her. Also a bit sad.

Both Christian Campbell and J.P. Pitoc have gone on to some substantial
careers on the big screen, small screen, and on stage. Pitoc made his
film debut here in Trick. Both of them are cast well and I do love the
eternal theme of the film that people can be quite a bit deeper than
original impressions may make.
