

It angers me how overlooked this film is.  

It is not an easy film.  It is bleak and at times very off-putting. 
Actually, if you are a thinking, caring person, this is movie is overall
heart-breaking.

But it is brilliant and, for the person who truly tries to understand it, a
compelling, insightful look at the problems killing black America today. 
The only reason for the film's lack of recognition I can imagine is that its
subject matter had been examined a number of times before.  But the
inescapable fact is that this one of the best examinations of the subject
matter there has been on screen - on par with "Boyz N The
Hood".

And it is FAR from uncreative.  In fact, on one level, it is not a "hood"
movie, but a whodunit.  The mystery aspect of the plot is very interesting. 
But there are other, more important layers.  It is the story of the
confusion and crisis of a young man's life.  Most importantly, it is a
brutal look at drugs, guns, and life in the projects.  It is a movie asking
why so many young black men are dying in the streets.

The lead character Strike has a stomach problem.  It might be an ulcer or
something like that.  I believe it is a metaphor.  Just as heat represented
racial tension in Lee's masterpiece "Do The Right Thing", Strike's sickness
represents the illnesses plaguing the ghetto: drugs, guns,
liquor.

Like DTRT, this film looks at community.  The mothers, the cops, the young
people, the kids, the men trying to make a living - there is eloquent
commentary in "Clockers" on the situations of all.  In Spike's movies,
paying a little attention is rewarding.  A good essay could be written on
what I call the Spike Summarization technique.  This is when Spike
compresses a serious debate or concern in the black community into a few
expressive moments of action or dialogue.  There are better examples in
other movies, but it manifests in "Clockers" a few times.  A bunch of kids
are sitting in front of Rodney's (Delroy Lindo) shop; one of the kids is
rapping while the others pay attention.  The two sides to the coin: we feel
the artistry and skill of the moment, the continuation of a rich tradition
of oral art; we're also struck by the cruelty and coldness in the kid's
violent lyrics, and we think about where that comes from.

Stylistically, this movie is a huge success.  The cinematography is amazing,
and I wonder what must be wrong with my tastes when I'm floored by a film
like this and find visually bland a more oft-praised classic.  The projects
become blinding panoramas, landscapes which add tons of meaning to the
poignant ending (I won't reveal it here).  The sound is great; many films of
this nature use hip hop in the soundtrack to produce certain effects, but
"Clockers" does it in a more methodical way which jars some people, but
contributes to the film's meaning.

I could say more about the film, but I encourage you to just see it, along
with the rest of Spike's oeuvre.  He's not a perfect filmmaker, and some of
his best films are marred by elements that don't work, but I feel his
consistency in terms of delivering brilliance is not below most of the
cinema's most celebrated auteurs.                     

<|_=00=_|>

When Spike Lee applies his formidable talents to a genre piece like Richard
Price's best selling drug noir novel, "Clockers," you might wonder what kind
of hybrid you'll get.  Lee is justly famous for his incendiary agitprop
films of ideas which dissect race relations and urban living, sometimes at
the expense of cohesive storytelling; but working with source material as
thought provoking a novel as "Clockers," which is set in Lee's home base of
"Crooklyn," er, i mean Brooklyn, Spike finds the right mix of action, angst,
and intellectualism for his strengths to shine.  "Clockers" are petty drug
dealers who work around the clock pushing their wares. When one turns up
dead and a stand up citizen steps up to take the fall, a homicide detective
begins unraveling the complex dynamics of life and dealing in the 'hood. 
Lee gets his usual gritty street landscape to work with and Price gets a
director with a cinematic eye (thanks to standard Lee lens-er, Malik Hassan
Sayeed)and a playwright's heart. Central character brothers Isaiah
Washington and Mekhi Phifer (in his star making role) turn in complex
credible performances but are easily outshone by the astonishingly strong
acting out of Harvey Keitel, Delroy Lindo, Regina Taylor (who won awards for
her work here), Keith David, and Lee regulars John Turturro and Thomas Byrd.
 Lindo is particularly impressive.  This film may have been too gritty for
general audiences with its brutal depiction of urban violence and emotional
brutality. And it may have been a bit too stylized for the Saturday night
drive-in set wanting a brainless shoot 'em up; but for  those interested in
quality film making on a hugely important issue that also functions as an
engaging who done it, Spike Lee does it up royal in this, perhaps Lee's
most, accessible film.


<|_=00=_|>
I've just finished this film and I thought it was excellent. I've never
read the book, and based on other people's comments it sounds like it
might be a hard book to adapt for the screen, what with it (apparently)
dealing with a lot of abstract issues. However, looking at this film
from the standpoint of having never read the book I thought the story
was brilliant, it engrossed me to the end. Mekhi Phifer was great, he
played the part well, personally I thought he conveyed a wide range of
emotions and all of them very well. There was some great character
development, especially on the part of Delroy Lindo (another great
performance).

Lee did a good job in his portrayal of the drug culture in the
projects, as well as taking a look into the police's side of the story.
The story interested me from the beginning and I didn't feel my
interest waver once, in fact is grew steadily throughout the film. The
images of dead bodies shown at the beginning made a strong starting
point, and served as an immediate reminder that the themes dealt with
in the film are occurring all the time.

On a side note, I thought the resemblance of Shorty's game 'Gansta' to
today's GTA: San Andreas was pretty funny.
<|_=00=_|>

Strike (Phifer) works as a drug runner (clocker) in a NY ghetto for dealer
Rodney (Delroy Lindo). When someone kills one of Rodney's enemies Detective
Klein (Keitel) investigates. Strike's brother Victor (Washington) confesses
but suspicion points to Strike. Klein suspects that Victor is covering for
his brother and begins to put the heat on Strike for more
information.

The main plot is a form of crime thriller, with Keitel playing the cop
trying to uncover the truth behind the murder. However the plot is not what
this film is about - this is basically a film about the effects on drugs on
the NY ghettos. Strike is the "average black man", while his protégé, Tyrone
(Peewee Love) is "black youth". The film tries to show the forces placed on
them by their situation, their role models and the few options they have in
life. Rodney represents the draw of selling drugs, of quick money while
policemen Andre (Keith David) and Klein represent his conscience trying to
get him to do the right thing - Andre and Tyrone's mother (Regina Taylor)
particularly doing right by your own community.

The message is at times forced, Keitel's sequence towards the end is very
clever cinematically but feels a bit like a sermon, but at other times we're
allowed to work it out ourselves. Strike is not judged but allowed to be
pulled by the situation around him, his sickness representing the sickness
of his situation. Through him we see the pressures that are on him to act
like his peers and the bad role-models he has in his life. In Shorty we see
the same things affect the next generation and, while his aping of Strike is
clumsy, you again see how the lack of good role-models reduces the options
for an otherwise intelligent kid. The best thing about the comparison of
Lindo and Keitel is that neither is judged - both are allowed to show
themselves as appealing, Lindo appears as a parent, almost seeking the best
for all his workers and Keitel is allowed to be an honest cop with a good
moral code. However both are also seen in a bad light, Lindo brings out the
violence, pressure and treachery of his character - a man who is really out
for himself while the way Keitel pressures Strike is seen as bad as Rodney's
pressure and reveals a racist angry streak within himself. We are left
wondering how anyone can survive between the two.

Phifer is good as Strike and manages to avoid just doing a ghetto-movie type
of performance, he makes you believe that he is trapped in a no-win
situation. Isaiah Washington gives another in a string of strong
performances as the honest man trying to get by. Lindo is great as drug
dealer Rodney, mixing paternal aspirations with moments of sudden
viciousness. Keitel and John Turturro act below their station and aren't
given much to work with, Keitel especially doesn't always manage to carry
the moral core of the story without preaching. Two small roles of interest
are Tom Byrd as Errol who has plays the fallen dealer with AIDS, however not
enough is explained about his character, also Michael Imperioli (better
known as Chris in The Sopranos) plays bent cop Jo-Jo. Peewee Love stands out
as Shorty/Shorty, sucked into a world that lacks choice.

The film looks great, the whole thing has a bright colourful sheen on it
that is very attractive to look at. Combined with Lee's stylish director it
makes for a beautiful film - although some scenes are shot differently and
on different stock, to make a point, although I'm not sure what that point
is. The music is as good as most of Lee's movies, a mix of soul and hip hop,
it is better than many ghetto films that just assume that the hip hop is all
that's needed to help the mood.

This is a good example of the lack of options that exist in the ghetto and,
besides some very obvious preaching, it makes it's point without shouting it
at the audience. The only failing is that Lee bottles it near the end,
delivering a sentimental ending of hope that is unfortunately not the truth
in many cases.
<|_=00=_|>

In 1995 I considered Spike Lee's gritty CLOCKERS one of the year's best
films; recently I spotted its video in a clearance bin and picked it up.
Upon re-viewing, I am struck again by its complexity.  It is the first
urban
drama to depict inner-city race relations with the intricacy such a
pervasive cultural issue demands.  On the surface it resembles a whodunit,
but its main concern is how drugs and violence contaminate entire
communities, dramatized in the collapse of one African-American youth's
life.  (He chokes up blood the way some of us sweat.)  This process is
observed by a predominantly white police force that makes hollow attempts
to
keep order, and refuses to intervene with the community's gradual
decline.

Instead of characters with overt prejudices and plain racial
allegiances-characters that are sterile symbols of bigotry rather than
credible humans guilty of it-Lee gives us characters of casual racism.
Most
representative of this is Harvey Keitel's Rocco Klein, a white detective
who
cannot understand the culture surrounding him, which is a culture of
narcotics, violence, and black-on-black crime.  On his beat, drugs are
less
a problem than a lifestyle, murder resolves the tiniest of disagreements,
and young mothers valiantly but vainly battle the influence young dealers
have on their sons.  Klein views the inner-city with contempt, but deep
down
he knows all the whores and dealers are human beings, too.

Klein is introduced at the scene of a homicide, where the police handle
the
gruesome death with a clinical sense of detachment, cracking bad jokes and
asking the bloodied corpse questions.  Is it just a job, or is it racism?
For Klein, it's both: he needs the gallows humor to psychologically deal
with this culture of depravity.  What's fascinating about CLOCKERS is
Lee's
willingness-and guts-to present Klein, despite his prejudice, as the
film's
hero.  Lee understands that casual racism is simply endemic and
inescapable
in American culture.  What he appreciates is Klein's ability to transcend
his own prejudice and finally do the right thing.


<|_=00=_|>

Clockers refers to drug dealers who work around the clock on an organized
schedule. The movie takes place in no other city than New York, Spike
Lee's
trademark as a director. Strike (Phiefer) is a clocker who works with his
friends in the park selling high potency drugs to neighborhood people,
under the command of Rodney, the drug dealer of the area. Rodney tells
Strike if he wants to get off the benches he should kill a man named
Daryl
who is selling ounces and making lots of cash, Strike considers it, but
he
isn't a killer. That night Strike's brother Victor comes into the bar and
is
mentally upset and talks to Strike. A little later Daryl is killed by
four
gunshots, one in the leg, one in the head, one in the chest, and one
caught
between his teeth. Spike Lee shows off the gritty urban street crime life
here perfectly. Harvey Keitel and John Turturro play homicide detectives
who
take the case, and the clockers are the main suspects.

Clockers is a surreal look at the drug buisness, friendship, descision
making, and death in the city. This movie has a flawless cast, the
clockers,
the detectives, and Rodney and Harold the dealers are perfect. The script
is
great too, as it has suprises, good dialogue, action, and setting. The
direction is almost perfect, especially the last scene with the train,
Spike
Lee is one of the most underrated directors ever. This movie is made to
please, action lovers will find it interesting, and film buffs should
find
it fascinating! Keep an open mind from beginning to end and analyze ever
scene with its content. Great movie 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I tend to enjoy films like Clockers; films that open up ideas about
several things at once; films that make you think about the world in
which they're set, the people in which inhabit them and the choices
they must face – some of which are unfortunate through being mandatory.
Spike Lee is no fool and a lot of his early work on recent viewings
seem to revolve around someone stuck in a situation that is a mere
result of their emotional drive and the world they are living in: She's
Gotta Have it; Jungle Fever and Clockers are good examples of
protagonists committing an action they really shouldn't have (and
probably didn't want to but buckled under either temptation or peer
pressure) and now must face the consequences. But these consequences
will affect more than merely the hero.

Lee does not hang around in presenting or perhaps delivering his
subject matter as a whole. The thing that amazes me with Lee is that he
can write so many different types of characters: low grade
African-Americans, educated and seemingly decent African-Americans;
white cops; women of different ethnicity and a few others. In Clockers,
the opening scene which integrates with the credits is of a somewhat
crude and humiliating public autopsy during which a couple of white
cops examine a dead black man in front of a watching black crowd. Two
of these detectives are Rocco Klein (Keitel) and Larry Mazilli
(Turturro) but the scene acts as one final act of humiliation to an
already dead black man as they search his carcase for clues and bullet
holes.

But the film has more than one current flowing throughout it. Strike
(Phifer) plays a neighbourhood African-American who speaks and acts
just like all his drug dealing friends, even hanging with them when
they act out their drug selling routine to customers in a staged
manner. But Strike is different and Lee wants us to create an alternate
profile of the man by giving him milkshakes to drinks and trains to
collect, set up in his apartment, maintain and run. The others laugh at
this hobby but Strike maintains most of them too have hobbies:
collecting welfare cheques. But this is the greatness of a character
like Strike; we are led to believe he is a bad influence through the
dialogue of a police man named Andre the Giant (David) but this is
perhaps just another cop's point of view and opinion on another African
American kid.

Andre believes Strike to be a bad influence on Tyrone (Love) but what
Andre fails to notice is that there are higher, more criminal minds
badly influencing Strike and that is more of a problem than Strike
talking to Tyrone. The film is about a seemingly nice and somewhat
moral 'gangstar' who is put in a situation where murder is the only way
out, and we go through the narrative with the emphasis on this moral
gangstar that he is actually a cold blooded killer in an excellent and
very effective piece of atmosphere. But this is a slow burner and it
slowly burns away at our opinion because there is a scene in Strike's
apartment when he talks to Tyrone all about drugs and guns, apparently
Tyrone should stay away from taking drugs but selling them will bring
him a nice chunk of change; however guns are something that Tyrone
should seriously consider getting into. To top this scene off, Tyrone
is told that mathematics is also a very good thing. Already, Lee is
trying to manipulate and force us to change out minds as to weather we
like Strike. Is he a killer? Does he know drugs should be completely
avoided? Why does he suggest Tyrone get a gun one day? Or is it just a
misguided fool repeating what he once heard and saying what he thinks
is right. Interesting how later on Tyrone repeats train information to
another person after sort of adopting a 'Strike' figure.

But the film has some more strong points. Rodney Little (Lindo) thinks
that just because he has had a shotgun in the mouth and was manipulated
into murder, he can do it to others. Little himself asks Strike "How
are you so smart and so stupid?" in a scene that actually has someone
echo Strike's personality to his face. Little's background in presented
in a nasty and somewhat disturbing fashion via flashback to the days
when he was younger with Errol Barnes (Byrd), the resident 'hood
psychopath-come-criminal who seems to have some distorted views to do
with religion. With all this in the melting plot, it's no wonder the
film does a good job in maintain interest and quality delivery. Lee
does not fail to focus on his subject matter like he does in Summer of
Sam when tackling the psychological development of a serial killer and
a love triangle at the same time became messy. Instead, he does not get
sidetracked with any unnecessary sub-plots and keeps the delivery
sharp, realistic and intriguing when the final act comes to an end.
<|_=00=_|>
Spike Lee's urban drama about a drugpusher who the police become
suspicious towards after a man is found with 4 bullets in him in their
neighborhood. This is a good early film from Spike Lee, he later built
on this film's theme with much better films in He Got Game and The 25th
Hour. But this one was also solid, with some very good performances and
certain very good scenes. The screenplay was pretty good, based on
Price's own book, and i liked Phifer, Turturro and Keitel a lot in
this. Good cinematography from Malik Hassan Sayeed and editing from
Smuael D. Pollard. Terence Blanchard's score is also not bad. overall a
solid mid 90s film from Spike Lee.--- IMDb Rating: 6.8, my rating: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is very misunderstood. I've heard people call it
stereotypical, but this is only because they missed the obvious. The
stereotypical aspect people see is all part of the story. The white
police stereotypically harassing the street dealers is only
stereotypical because society so commonly commits the very same
actions. The movie is all about blame, who society blames, who society
would like to blame, and sometimes whomever can be blamed. In actuality
the movie has an extremely tense message about accepting ones own
blame, while all throughout the movie blame is wrongly placed on nearly
everyone. To avoid spoiling the movie I won't be overly specific but by
the end of the movie Spike Lee had painted Injustice onto the screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I was glad to see on the special edition DVD of Spike Lee's Do the
Right Thing to see how he answered the question asked at Cannes as to
why there weren't drugs portrayed in the film; his answer, simply, was
that there wasn't enough space dramatically, that it would be too much
to fit drugs into a story already loaded with racism in a small
neighborhood. But, as he followed, he could use what it means to have
drugs in an urban environment, and what it does to the people, and have
that as a stand-alone movie. He followed this up, in part, with the
Samuel L. Jackson storyline in Jungle Fever, and thanks to Richard
Price's novel and original script, he has here what might be his answer
to that question. It's not a very great movie, perhaps, because by this
time Spike Lee has so much invested in the style of his cinematic
theatrics, of how the nature of the camera itself related to those of
the characters, that it comes close to going over substance. But it's
is a worthy attempt at putting into context, via the conventions of
genre going back to the 40s, as to what makes or breaks the ties
between drug dealers and their workers, and how the workers (or
'Clockers' as per the title of the movie) go about their business in
the streets.

Clockers has a main plot that pushes along, as the murder by multiple
gun-shots of a Darryl, black fast-food worker, who was also apart of
the crew of Rodney (Delroy Lindo), call into question who might have
done it. At first, it seems pretty open and shut, as Victor (Isaiah
Washington) comes forth and admits he did it in self-defense. Rocco
Klein (Harvey Keitel) doesn't buy it, seems too easy, so he asks
around, digs deeper, and sees that his brother, Strike (Mekhi Pfeifer)
seems to be much more of the guilty party, by way of how he handles
himself in the streets, his repore with Rodney, and as having more
motive to kill Darryl. It's through this that Lee then branches it out
to make it as much as character as about plot, where the ties between
certain characters, like Strike and Tyrone, a pre-teen who looks up to
Strike like a surrogate father, are mostly defined by how the
neighborhood works out in the open. The clockers are bunch of would-be
gang-bangers who talk a lot of talk, but haven't walked nearly as much
as Earle, best friend of Rodney's and psychopathic murder, or Rodney
himself, who has that veneer of being like the one you can trust the
most- half surrogate father as well and half good cop/bad cop boss-
until he gets crossed.

Although Price's material, which comes through with the energy and
occasional wit, is noticeable throughout, it's really Spike Lee as
director and many of the actors who make this a consistently watchable
movie. Lee is never one to be too subtle with the camera, and he has
variations with how he deals with the material to make it very
observant but also subjective. Early on, for example, we see the
clockers making their deals in the park in long-shot, shaky, as if
Lee's filming it far away for a reality TV show. But then we also see
the 360 degree camera moves as Klein questions Strike. There's many
camera moves that are practically trademark Lee shots, especially with
the lighting, as Klein questions Tyrone, or when we see a flashback to
Victor having to deal with some clockers. It's all very flamboyant and
meant to call attention to the material, and aside from a few unneeded
music choices (it's the only time you'll hear Seal in a drug dealer
crime movie), he's on top of things. Meanwhile, the performances are
all top-notch, usually, as Keitel and particularly Lindo play their
characters so well by pretty much being how we think the actors
'really' are, even though they're not. Pfeifer has a little trickier a
time with his performance, because he usually is on a very similar
note: I didn't do nothing, is his usual beat. His character also has
the intriguing qualities that mark him as something of an outsider
however in he might be: his stomach virus, which is never resolved but
always looming over him, and his love of electric train-sets.

And all the while, Clockers succeeds in presenting a time and place
where there should be little to no hope, and it makes the cops and
criminals both pretty well-rounded when compared to other genre films.
The cops are meant to be the good guys, but there's also a steady
conflict between Klein and his partner: why should Klein care so much
as to who did it or why (Strike also asks this question towards the
end, in one of the best scenes in the film)? And Strike and Rodney are
not cut-outs from black exploitation flicks, but with more of a push
and pull tie that is always a threat, never a comfort. There are little
details that help make Lee's film interesting when it veers into being
like a television serial; the white yuppies who get entangled in the
case; the over-protective but very smart cop (Keith David, always a
pro) who also tries to play surrogate father to Tyrone, albeit without
the same care, however negative, as Strike has; the brief shots of the
drug addicts with their habits on display, as we only need to see it
for less than a minute to get the nature of the bottom of the food
chain, which is total despair. Lee's film, however, isn't really
disparaging as it has moments of hope, yet a hope meant to be in
understanding that there's no easy way out of all of this.
