

The romantic comedy, 'Sliding Doors', is a great look at how quickly a
person's life can change in a matter of moments. By taking one path
instead
of another, forming a tantalizing 'what if?' In fact this movie gives the
impression that some things are meant to be known, while some things are
not.

London publicists Helen, is effortlessly sliding between parallel
storylines
that show what happens if she does or does not catch a morning train back
to
her apartment. Love. Romantic entanglements. Deception. Trust. Friendship.
Comedy. All come into focus back and forth, overlap, then surprisingly
converge in one of the great romantic comedy films in years.

Sliding doors is one of the best films that Gwyneth Paltrow has done. It
has
it all, humour, anger, sadness, love, compassion and a lot of lying. This
movie is most special for the way the two storylines overlap, making this
a
very original movie. Paltrow's performance is grand as the 'hurt Helen' or
the very 'naïve Helen', depending on which parts of the film you are
watching. Some of her lines are priceless. Paltrow has had a very
celebrated
career in acting and of late singing and deserves all the accolades she
gets. It was also refreshing to watch her in the murder thriller 'The
perfect murder', along with screen legend Michael Douglas.

Yet there are some other great performances in this film. John Hannah was
exceptional as the sensitive and understanding 'James', who is helping the
'hurt Helen' back to being her 'old self'. Then you have the cheating boy
'Jerry' played by John Lynch, who was using the 'naïve Helen' to live out
a
very adulterous and selfish lifestyle. It was very funny to see the way he
handled the situation with Helen actually. Then to top it all off, we get
a
great performance from Jeanne Tripplehorn, who was Jerry's girlfriend on
the
side, who gives Jerry a very difficult time in both parts of the story.

This film also has an impressive soundtrack. With acts like Blair, the
Brand
New Heavies, Dodgy, Jamiroquai and the Space Monkeys. Yet there are two
very
famous parts to this soundtrack. One is Elton John, who is given a bad
mention in the movie, when Jerry is caught in a most precarious of
positions
while playing the Elton John song, 'Honky Cat'. However the best song on
the
whole soundtrack comes from the band Aqua, with the tune 'Turn Back Time',
which suited the film perfectly. The film clip to this song is also very
good.

Sliding doors is one of those feel good movies, which can also make you
feel
sad as well. It shows how difficult life can be in a relationship and how
important relationships can be as well. It also proves that relationships
are extremely hard work and you need to find someone who you trust and
love
and that you get the same feelings back in return. If you want to see the
good and bad sides of love take a look at this romantic
classic.

CMRS gives 'Sliding Doors': 4.5 (Very Good- Brilliant Film)

<|_=00=_|>
Gwyneth Paltrow plays Helen Quilley, she works in Public Relations and
is dating an idiot who is cheating on her (come on guys, would you?)
After losing her job she heads home early, and the film then follows
two Parallel realities, that cross over and intertwine in a very clever
manner, that adds a great deal to the movies quality.

One way, she gets home and finds him cheating, and the other way she is
mugged and her boyfriend gets away with it, at least for now.

In this wonderfully charming romantic comedy, great performances from,
Paltrow, Lynch, Hannah and Tripplehorn plus a good script and some good
laughs all add up to a movie i simply don't tire of. I can't quite put
my finger on what it is, i just love it.

9/10 and a must for Paltrow Fans
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a lightweight comedy/drama with a unique story. Although
Gwyneth Paltrow plays the same character in both aspects of the story, both
Helens seem completely different. The flow of the story seems quite natural
and the cast does a wonderful job going through the twists and turns of
their characters lives. It's a chick flick with none of the
sap.
<|_=00=_|>
In London, the public relation Helen (Gwyneth Paltrow) is fired from
her position in a PR company. While returning home, she does not catch
the train in the subway. But in another possibility of her life, she
catches the train in the subway. The story shows two parallel lives of
Helen: in one life, she stays with her boyfriend Gerry (John Lynch),
and in the other life, she finds that Gerry cheats her with Lydia
(Jeanne Tripplehorn) and falls in love with James Hammerton (John
Hannah). 

"Sliding Doors" is a delightful romance, with a wonderful screenplay.
There are excellent lines, and the chemistry between Gwyneth Paltrow
and John Hannah is marvelous. John Lynch is a good actor, but is
completely miscast in the role of a man disputed by two gorgeous women.
I have just watched this movie for the third time, and I still love it.
It is very interesting that in 1998, two movies presented similar
concepts of different situations depending on a minor event: "Sliding
Doors" and "Lola Rennt". This theme is fascinating, but there are many
unfair reviews of this film in IMDb, which is one of my favorite movie.
My vote is ten.

Title (Brazil): "De Caso com o Acaso" ("Having an Affair With Fortune")

Note: On 07 January 2017, I saw this film again.
<|_=00=_|>
I am so enamored with this kind of film. How many people have asked the
question after having an accident or chanced upon something, "If I had
only left a minute later, none of this would have happened." Now we get
into the who time continuum thing and parallel universes. I know this
isn't a science fiction film, although a Twilight Zone episode may have
fun with this plot. When we are dealing with the characters colliding
through the fourth dimension, a whole different set of circumstances
are put in motion. The reason we can never travel back in time (while
forward is possible) is that time would then become mutable and what we
are may no longer be and then we wouldn't travel back in time. Two
roads diverge in a woods paraphrasing Robert Frost, but what if we
could take each of those roads and see what happens. This movie is
quite magical and does the best it can to get Gwyneth Paltrow through
her parallel universes and see the things that one would see. I think
the problem is that unless we get into quantum physics, it's hard for
the average person to really reconcile these sorts of events. I thought
the acting was very good and believe things as they unfurled. I would
recommend this film if you like to think about the possibilities it
envisions. Try it on yourself sometime and extrapolate your own
existence from some fork in the road and imagine what may have been.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't remember reading a thing about this movie when it originally
appeared, and that's odd because I enjoy Gwyneth Paltrow's work. I
caught up with it on DVD, and I thought it was a superior movie with an
extremely interesting premise and splendid performances by Paltrow's
co-stars. Without giving too much away, the film deals with two
separate scenarios that evolve from Paltow's (a) catching or (b)
missing a subway train. The director manages skillfully to lay the two
stories down alongside one another without confusing either one.
Although the two Paltrows are distinguished by different hair styles,
even that isn't really necessary. She (becomes) happy in one story,
desperately unhappy in the other. She succeeds (eventually) in one
story, fails in the other. She is the same character but entirely
different. As she proved in "Shakespeare in Love," this girl can act.
There aren't many films where chance causes alternate fates that are
followed through to a rather surprising end. Worth seeing for that
reason alone. Plus Gwyneth Paltrow, of course.
<|_=00=_|>
Sliding doors is a film about fate in a woman's love life. "Fate" is
Yuan Fen in Chinese.

Arriving at work one morning, Helen found herself unjustifiably sacked
from her PR job. When she headed back down to the tube, life was spit
into two realities.Helen was about to live both of them. 

In one reality, she caught the tube train. On her way home, she came
across a guy named James who was impressed by her casual elegance at
the first sight. She got home earlier than usual, only to find her
Lothario boyfriend Gerry in bed with his ex-girlfriend, Lydia. So she
went to the bar to drink down her sorrows of being sacked and cheated.
There she met James again. Though at first, she demurred. But soon she
recognized James began to be endeared to her by his sense of humor and
being very concerted. They fell in love with each other. her boyfriend
wanted to win Helen back. She was in a dilemma. But soon she found that
Lydia and Gerry still dated each other on the sly and was over him
totally. What a disaster it was when she detected that James was a
married man. Everything got clear by the end of the film. They hugged
each other again. Helen wanted to make a call to her best friend Anna
to relieve her worry about her. Just at the moment, a trunk ran into
her. She was sent to hospital and miscarried the baby she had with
James. James was quite regretful. He whispered at Helen that he would
give happiness to her all his life. The ending is quite soothing. 

In the other reality, she missed the tube and got mugged. When arrived
home, finding his bf in a shower. And continued the relationship. She
got two part-time jobs as a food deliverer and a bar maid Things got
doubtful. Gerry seemed nervous and worried in fear of being detected
his torrid relationship with Lydia. He found Lydia was quite demanding.
And Helen began to be skeptical. He couldn't balance between them. One
day, Helen got a new offer and went there to have the interview, only
to find her boyfriend was there too with her would-be boss Lydia. She
rushed down stairs, in the struggling with her bf, she fell down and
was sent to the same hospital at the same time as the Helen did in the
first scenario. She miscarried and was over her bf completely. She went
out the ward, went into the lift. A guy named James happened to see his
mother in hospital and on the same lift. She dropped the earring. James
picked it up for her. They stared each other as if they met some time
ago when Helen said "Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition" which was
James's favorite quote on the above situation. 

It seems fate has been predetermined, especially in love matters. No
matter u miss the tube or not, u will meet James, the man who will fall
in love with u. No matter u meet James or not, U will find your bf's
affairs with Lydia.. Though life is like a sliding door, it closes one
end but opens the other. the result is much alike.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is definitely not rocket science, but it has a charm all it's
own.  It is thoughtful about what might happen in a different reality if we
make different choices or "fate" aligns just right for whatever
reason.

There were some very funny moments, especially when Hannah let loose with
his version of Pythons "Meaning of Life".  Gwenyth Paltrow brings her
character across as mousy.  I just wanted her to jet angry and throw her
boyfriend out.  You know, the stereotypical, clothing on the front steps,
changing the locks etc.  But it was good she had a pal to take her in. 

I do like this movie and consider it a "keeper".  I recommend it for some
"light and fluffy" entertainment on a night after a long
day.

And for the record: scene in boat by the bridge.  I liked Donny Osmond,
David Cassidy and Mick Jagger.  :)


<|_=00=_|>

After being fired, Helen (Gwynneth Paltrow) runs to catch a train that,
unknown to her, her future hinges on. If she catches it, she'll get home in
time to catch her boyfriend Gerry with another woman. If she doesn't, she'll
go on not knowing about his infidelity.

This has to be one of the most intriuging plots I've ever seen. Most films
would take just one or other of these plots and churn out a typical rom-com,
but Sliding Doors turns them into one excellent film. The acting is great
(even if Paltrow's accent is at times a little too British and forced) and
the plot twists every few seconds. It could have become very confusing, but
the direction is good enough that you can easily follow the two stories at
once.

There are two things that stop this film being a 10. The first is that the
two Helens sometimes seem a little too different from each other to be the
same person. Even if they have gone through to different experiences, they
don't act the same at all. The second is that the message of the film seems
that we don't control our own future-after all, it isnt Helen who decides if
she makes it to the train, it all depends on if a little girl is pulled out
of the way by her mother in time. 

Still, this is a very entertaining film, and definately worth watching.
8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie will make you think for years on end, Just that one little
thing could change your life for good.

This movie is running to stories of Helen Quilley who has just been
fired of her work place for drinking the night before has she rushes to
the train station, while go down the stairs a little girl get in the
way and she goes around girl and train door shut in face.

Then we see the movie rewind and she back on top the stairs this time
mum pulls the girl way from wall so she can get past, just about got on
to the train, in this scene we can she her on train also on outside
train.

From here we see both side of stories, we see how life would have been
if she did catch the train and we can also see what would have happened
if she missed the Train. 

The movie was well written and Gwyneth Paltrow is was outstanding in
this movie.

8/10 ending was disappointed but it better then ending i was thinking
of.
