

Corky (Gina Gershon), a lesbian ex-con hired to work in an apartment as a
plumber, meets new neighbors Caesar (Joe Pantoliano), who launders money
for
the Mafia, and his girlfriend Violet (Jennifer Tilly). The two women have
a
love affair and decide to steal $2,000,000 that Caesar has in custody
before
he gives them back to Mafia boss Gino Marzone. Caesar is soon set up in
such
a way that he's fooled into whose even setting him up. Their plan is
working
for a while, but soon spirals into blood and disaster, as things start to
go
wrong and he acts in an unexpected violent way.

I am not a fan of The Matrix. Never have, never will be. But I was of the
amazing visual effects it had to offer. And that's what drew me to seeing
the Wachowski Brother's other movie, their directorial debut, Bound. Bound
is different. Bound is bold. Bound is courageous. Bound is one of the best
movies of the year. It's not your average movie. It doesn't care who it
offends, or who it pleases. Its purpose is simple: to entertain the
viewer,
and this movie is `bound' by nothing to complete its purpose.

It starts with Corky locked in a closet, bruised and bloody, tied up. From
there, we have a good idea of what has become of their plan. The film then
shifts over to when the two women first meet, and then takes off from
there
when they plan the set-up. So for next two hours, get ready to root for
the
bad guy.

Acting was a major plus to Bound, as I tip my hat to Tilly and Gershon.
Both
female leads did well, but I just wasn't convinced that they were in love
with each other as much as they and the script claimed them to be. This
did
bother me a little, but it doesn't detract from the fun that is to be had
with this film. But the main catch of the film was Joe Pantoliano. This
movie wouldn't have been the same if he weren't cast in this. His
character
is so dangerous and so disturbing that your eyes will become magnetic
toward
his every move, gesture, and dialogue. Clearly this film is not for
everybody, but for those who can stand it, this is a rare treat.
Definitely
the most unique movie of the year, Bound receives the three and a half
star
rating.

<|_=00=_|>

Violet is a gangster's moll, living with Caesar, who launders money for
the
mob.  Corky is a ex-con who has been hired to decorate the flat next door
to
Caesar's flat.  When the two meet they slowly begin a love affair behind
Caesar's back.  After a while Violet comes up with a plan to steal mob
money
and frame Caesar for it while she and Corky make off with the cash.
However, there is no such thing as a simple plan.

I saw this when it was released in the cinema where the overall view
seemed
to be of an enjoyable noir thriller with a lesbian twist.  A few years
later, the Matrix has made the Wachowski brothers hotter than hot and
everyone is clambering all over Bound and building up it's status and
pointing to it as a hint of greatness.  Now, after two poor Matrix
sequels,
many will come back to this film as a sign of their ability before the
dollars became more important.  That's the impression I get anyway, from
the
message boards, reviews and comments from proper critics.  However, I
rewatched this and tried to meet it on it's own terms rather than be
coloured.

Of itself, it does the business quite effectively as a noir crime
thriller.
The plot is tough and, although not all that twisty, does easily engage
and
keep the audience pretty gripped.  The lesbian stuff is done a little
cynically I think - where do you draw the line between stuff that is
required for us to know that the two are lovers, and the stuff that is
titillation? I don't know, the film does it all very tastefully and it is
not the film's fault that some sections of the audience will come to this
film because it has a lesbian love scene in it.  I acknowledge that it was
done quite sexily and was part of the film, but the crime is the
focus.

The brothers direct with great style - set mainly in a couple of flats,
the
film moves slickly around the place.  Some shoot outs do reveal a style
that
was later used in the Matrix films (albeit on a sci-fi level).  The
slow-mo
stuff is pretty good here and not overly used - little tricks like the
shooting over the white paint added to the style of the film no end.
Despite being bogged down in a story I believe they took too seriously, I
don't think they need to prove themselves as directors - their films speak
for themselves in that regard, and I do hope they get back in the
saddle.

The cast is deep in talent but mostly they play it in the stereotypical
characters of the genre.  Tilly is a great moll, at first she appears to
be
the delicate flower of the film, but she is as much a femme fatale as
Corky.
Gershon is very sexy, despite being very glamorous for a supposedly butch
ex-con; she plays her role well although I would have liked to see her
become more of a fall guy towards the end, in true noir fashion - fooled
by
love!  Pantoliano is enjoyable; his character may not have a lot of meat
on
it but Joe does very well with a powerful performance.  Support from
Meloni
and Ryan is good even if they all fit the gangster clichés required by the
script.

Overall this is an enjoyable genre film - no more and no less.  The
lesbian
stuff is a nice twist on the usual formula but it isn't pushed enough to
be
classed as exploitative (although there's no doubt that the film gained
audience as a result of the love scenes).  The cast are good and the
direction is stylish, making for a slickly enjoyable noir.
<|_=00=_|>

In my personal opinion, Bound is one of the most intelligent and erotic
films ever made. It's not often that you see both of those words
describing the same work of art.

I don't feel that the relationship between Corky and Violet is
something that you should have to "get past" being that the tone of the
film is that of escape (hence the title "Bound") and the very nature of
their relationship upholds that idea. However if you are less
open-minded regarding your own sexuality or completely homophobic, the
scattered and brief exchanges between the two leading characters may
not settle well with you. One of the best things about the film is the
cinematic detail, all the little disturbing and intriguing things that
the Wachowskis chose to hone in on...If you are a fan of The Matrix
films, you'll really get to see where it all started with Bound.

I could rattle on forever about the pure genius of the film and that of
the Wachowski Brothers but I won't. Just see the film for yourself,
you'll either hate it or love it.

<|_=00=_|>

I cannot think of a film that creates a more elaborate and intelligent
sequence of events than Bound. This leads to that and that leads to
something else and that leads to this and so on. What is special about this
film, is that everything is connected. This is not Tarantino nonsense, that
has no point and simply tries to rely on gimmicks and witty dialog. This is
a clever thriller. The story centers around Corky, Violet and Caesar, who in
one way or another, are involved in a plan to scam the mob. Of course,
scamming the mob is never a good idea. Issues of trust, loyalty, love,
violence and everything else are covered. There are very arousing sex scenes
and scenes of disturbing violence, utilizing pruning shears. All of it
choreographed beautifully by two very talented brothers. However,it is Joe
Pantoliano who steals the show. He plays a wiseguy that gets caught in a
downward spiral that can only finish one way, but he does his best to delay
it. How he was omitted by the Academy is beyond me. To the pompous nitwits
that peck away at this film, I have one question. What Hollywood films in
the last ten years can you reel off that were nearly as clever as this film?
Yeah, I thought so. **** out of ****, a simply brilliant motion
picture.
<|_=00=_|>

Any way you look at it, Bound is a sex thriller. The story is very
engaging
and the direction is absolutely incredible, but the whole lesbian thing
really overshadows all of that, which severely limits the impact that this
movie could have had. Gina Gershon stars as a tough woman who falls in
love
with Jennifer Tilly, who happens to be the girlfriend of a gangster (Joe
Pantoliano). The two concoct a scheme to steal $2 million from the mob,
and
this story is presented very skillfully and interestingly.

Ironically enough, you have to look past all of the lesbian action between
Tilly and Gershon in order to really experience the skill that this movie
is
full of. Bound is Larry and Andy Wachowskis' writing and directing debut,
proving that they had the skills from the start. The style that made The
Matrix so good can be seen in nearly every shot in this film, and this
style
is probably the best part of the whole movie.

But the excellent directing wasn't the only thing that made Bound so good.
This is an great gangster film, despite a few cheesy or flawed moments.
For
example, it was a little weird that the mobsters who came to Pantoliano's
apartment - suspicious of the murder that had recently taken place which
Pantoliano was desperately trying to cover up - didn't see their own
bloody
footprints on the carpet, or at least feel the blood squishing up through
the carpet as they walked on it. But that's okay, because where else can
you
see $2 million hung up in an apartment on dozens of wires, drying after
having blood washed off of it? This is good stuff.

Gershon and Tilly work perfectly on screen, and not just in the sex
scenes.
Their unique relationship was made interesting by their skillful acting,
which was best when they were beginning to distrust each other. Hey,
that's
what happens when you put your life into the hands of someone you just
met.
Gershon, in particular, delivered an excellent performance, flawlessly
bringing out her masculine side to play the strong role in her
relationship
with Tilly. There is something to be said about a sex thriller that is as
good and as engaging as Bound, because they never really are any good, you
know? Don't be put off by this element of the film, because Bound is a
trashy movie that definitely deserves your attention.

<|_=00=_|>

Bound is a sexy, stylish and suspenseful modern visitation to the film
noir genre that emerged in the 1940s and 1950s. Right from the outset -
where the letters of the film's name cast deep dark shadows like
high-rise buildings - the viewer is inducted into a world where
duplicity is the norm and where choices made

result in prices being paid. And with over $2 million of Mob money at
stake, the risk to life and limb is very high indeed. Violet is a
latter-day gangster's moll looking for a way out of 'the business'. Her
chance comes when her boyfriend, Ceasar, brings home a fortune in cash
to be

sorted and collated before being passed on to the Chicago Mafia. She
seduces

the tough-talking ex-con who is renovating the next-door apartment (an

impressively butch Gina Gershon) and together they scheme to relieve
the Mob

of the money. But when Ceasar doesn't react according to plan, suddenly
there are dead bodies to deal with and events begin to spiral out of
control. The

women's trust in each other is stretched to breaking point as they are
drawn into a deadly battle of wits. Directors Larry and Andy Wachowski
make judicious use of the conventions of

film noir, such as extensive chiaroscuro, and some imaginative and

uncomfortable extreme close-up shots. The clever cinematography is
backed up

by a tension-laden script and an excellent cast (particularly Joe
Pantoliano as the increasingly frenzied Ceasar). Although Bound may
take some viewers out

of their comfort zone with its graphic lesbian sex scene (which I
LOVE!) and

depiction of Mob torture tactics, it is a film that will reward its
audience with a stylish and intelligent foray into the eternally murky
confluence of good and evil.

<|_=00=_|>
Bound is a film for which I have mixed feelings: it looks and feels
amazing, the cinematography, acting, directing, costumes, wardrobe,
props, colors, moods, etc. feel like a graphic novel brought to life.
Yet on the other hand there is something that smacks of "aren't we cool
for doing x?" - I guess the lesbian scenes and camera work were what
did this so as to give it a punk/hip feel (then again, this is not long
after Pulp Fiction came out so everyone was doing it).

Having seen the Matrix 1-3 I can understand and appreciate the camera
work on second viewing, but it feels like the Wachowski brothers were
pushing the lesbian eroticism for the sake of shock and males in the
audience. It definitely seems to be directed by males insofar as the
sex scenes go (the female body is both fetishist and problematized as a
threat to men throughout the film too, but that's a different subject
altogether), but these are more artsy than "Skinemax" night flicks in
that there is very little nudity, it was tastefully shown for the most
part and a lot was told with sounds and shadows. (Personally, I think
the lesbians were there for shock since a male lover would have worked
just as well, but in general I think some more subtlety could have been
used in the sex scenes myself since imagining it is sexier IMHO).

That said, the first half, which establishes character, does seem to
drag quite a bit, but once the caper gets going it never stops. You
also feel for all of the characters - surprisingly, I felt the most for
Cesar, the "villain" of the piece (perhaps because of an amazing shot
when he opens the briefcase and then the world seems out of whack as we
look up at him).

I can't really find anything "wrong" with this film per se and it is a
good film although I could have easily fast forwarded the first half
and got roughly the same effect. Still I could watch this film over and
over again for the way it was shot since it is amazing and there are a
lot of techniques and style one can learn from it, plus the story is
great too. So for this I give the film

8 out of 10 stars. Definitely worth a watch, although some of you more
conservative folks might be a little put off by the lesbian scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
Late last night I caught 'BOUND'on the Independent Film Channel, and am
still thinking about this film, shot in Red, White, and Black which
further underlined the noir nature. Gina Gerson and Joe Pantoliano were
memorable, as was everyone else- even the two policemen who come to
check things out, having received a call about gunshots having been
overheard. Clever, funny, occasionally sexy, but it hold your attention
as the story unfolds and introduces many story lines. Unfortunately I
am NOT a fan of Jennifer Tilly- her voice is like fingernails on a
blackboard to me- but she was perfect for this role.

The final scene was perfect, and I didn't see it coming, which always
pleases me. Check it out- you'll be glad you did.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's get one thing straight at the start - the Brits aren't very good
at sex. Obviously we're good enough to procreate and what have you, but
when it comes to movies, we don't have a clue. What's more, we still
have a strong streak of the Victorian puritan ethic running through us.
This accounts for the fact that, in the period running up to Bound's
cinema release, certain British newspapers hyped up the explicit
lesbian content with a kind of outraged glee.

And, of course, when someone says "Disgusting - it ought to be banned!"
then you want to see it all the more, don't you? So there I am, looking
forward to a little girl on girl action (and it's there alright, filmed
in tasteful arty stark contrast), and what do I get? A bloody good
crime thriller, that's what.

There are many comments here, so I'll just say two things.

One, this is not the outrageous lesbian free-for-all which it was made
out to be by certain elements of the British press. The relationship
between the two women is absolutely essential to the credibility of
what follows.

And, two, this is a film which you watch for the first time in a state
of almost unbearable stress. I do not recall ever seeing another film
in which extreme tension is maintained so well for such a sustained
period.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this because I'm a big fan of the Wachowskies, and after
watching their first movie(Assassins, which they only wrote) I hoped to
see another masterpiece from the makers of The Matrix that had nothing
to do with it. It's no wonder the producers let them direct
aforementioned sci-fi/action masterpiece after they did this. For such
a little amount of money, they really made the most of it. Few
characters, sets and occasionally limited camera-work is easy to look
past(hard to notice, in fact). The movie is breathtaking. For the
entirety of the last half I was literally at the edge of my seat,
extremely excited and couldn't wait to find out what happened next. The
first half is mostly a setup for the last half, but it isn't boring,
and is well worth watching, as it makes the second half near-perfect in
suspense. The lesbian subplot might throw some people off, and will
definitely offend some people, but if you're aren't one of them, then
you most likely will enjoy it, if you're into thrillers. The plot is
very well-written, and with twists and turns thrown in every so often,
it keeps you watching closely. The acting is mostly good, especially
from the three leads. The characters are great... diverse, interesting
and credible. The cinematography contains several of the same things
later made famous in The Matrix... anyone who's seen both movies can
tell that it's the same people behind the cameras. The action is really
well-done. The story-telling is just slightly experimental...
reminiscent of various heist flicks. This also contains some quite
stylish visuals, though not as many as the brothers' later works. All
in all, just works really well and keeps you entertained throughout. I
recommend this to any fan of the Wachowski brothers, thrillers and/or
the actors in it. 8/10
