

Okay, I think I've found the Sadly Underrated Movie of the Year. 

I think that, between this and "the Iron Giant", Warner Brothers Animation
has GOT to spring for a better promotion department.  Really, all they'd
have to say is something like: "We just let the creators of 'Something About
Mary' and 'Dumb and Dumber' make their own cartoon.  Brace
yourselves."

All complaints aside, and none of them are really the movie's fault, this is
one of the most inventive animated films I've seen in a very long time.  The
characters and backgrounds are allowed to look and move in ways that are
downright refreshingly bizarre.  The visuals are very imaginative.  The
humor, while funny, is still very much what you'd expect from a Farelly
Brothers movie that takes place inside a very sick man, so I wouldn't
recommend it to little kids or the weak of stomach.  If you have a little
future A+P major, however, this is going to blow their mind.  Give it a
look!
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was very good.  The people leaving bad reviews are
being too critical.  This movie was meant to be fun.  The way the inside of
the body is a city, the white blood cells are the police, fireman, etc.,
the
lymph nodes were the police stations, veins were highways, the stomach was
a
bus station/airport type place, and the germs and bacteria were, of course,
the criminals, and so on.  This movie gives a very imaginative way the body
works to fight infection, as if the body was a city of people just like in
the real world.  You may need to have some sort of knowledge about the body
to get some of the puns and jokes, maybe not very young kids will get it,
but they will like the animation...this movie is even good for adults.  I
give the movie 8/10...I thought it was a very entertaining
movie!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Osmosis Jones is a comedy of human proportions, I guess.  It works enough
and when it works well it's a good movie.  Although when you think about
it
the plot-line inside Frank's body (frank is played by Bill Murray with no
shame in great form) is rather routine and for me was the only thing
keeping
this from being really good.

Still, it might be a worthwhile movie, more for kids than adults, but it
it
watchable for all.  Various voices include Chris Rock, Brandy Norwood,
Laurence Fishburne, David Hyde Pierce and William Shatner.  Pleasant most
of
the way and sometimes cool.  B
<|_=00=_|>

OSMOSIS JONES
/ (2001) ***1/2 (out of four)

By Blake French:

Consider the Farrelly brothers. The majority of a crowd would think of
adjectives like shocking and envelope pushing, to describe them, but the
most shocking thing about "Osmosis Jones," is the PG rating. Originally
warranted a PG-13 rating, still a surprise from filmmakers whose credits
include "There's Something About Mary" and "Me, Myself, and Irene," the
film
finally earned the family friendly PG rating after it was subjected to a
re-rating. Peter and Bobby Farrelly are known for their crude, rude, and
disgusting sense of humor. Breaking free of their traditional styles, their
focus is now on something a little more entertaining than gross-out
humor-imagination.

Directing a wildly amusing script by Marc Hyman, the Farrelly bothers are
really on to something here. This is arguably their best film to date. Only
"There's Something About Mary" stands up against "Osmosis Jones," a film
that jumps between live action and cartoon animation. It calculates each
moment with the perfect timing. This is not a movie just for this kids,
although it's perfectly appropriate for everyone in the family. This is a
feast for anyone's imagination. "Osmosis Jones" creates a world we seldom
see in the movies-inside the human body.

"Osmosis Jones" is not an extremely funny movie. Only a handful of
plentiful
laughs occurs in the film. None of the gross-out humor works; the ideas are
too jumbled within other ideas to payoff. "Osmosis Jones" does play with a
lot of different humor types-from a clever "Titanic" joke that practically
winks at the audience, to a laugh out loud performance by SNL veteran Molly
Shannon. In "Superstar" Shannon proved to be a nuisance.  However, in this
film she is a very welcome screen presence.

Bill Murray needs to be in more movies these days. He still has the comic
connection with the audience that carried "Scrooged," his best film, to my
list of all time favorites. He stars as Frank Detorri, a lazy, slothful zoo
worker who would get life behind bars if hygiene was a law. His wife passed
away because of a sickness that their young, but healthy and intelligent,
daughter (Elena Franklin) believes evolved from poor eating habits.

Frank eats something that contains a deadly virus, and it's up to his
immune
system to fight back. Osmosis Jones (voiced by Chris Rock) is one of those
white blood cells who serves as a cop and must capture various villainous
germs and viruses inside Frank. Although not a popular individual among the
world of Frank, especially with the Mayor (voiced by William Shater), who
is
running for re-election very soon, he does have a crush on his assistant,
Leah (voiced by Brandy Norwood).
After the virus, named Thrax (voiced by Laurence Fishburne), accumulates
villainous help and starts on a plan to kill Frank in a record time of
forty
eight hours,  Osmosis must work with a cold pill named Drix (voiced by
David
Hyde Pierce), to stop this monstrously powerful germ before it's too late
for Frank and his daughter.

The movie has some very clever material-various parts of the body represent
neighborhoods in the City of Frank. For instance, the stomach is the
airport
with frequent departures to the colon. The Mafia relaxes in a steam room
located in the armpit. Lawyers hang out in a hemorrhoid. When a zit pops
up,
it's seemingly the party room for the entire body, complete with a dance
floor and strippers. Just simple content like that makes "Osmosis Jones"
worth a watch. Even adults will enjoy the live action humor, as well as the
film's zest, energy, and irony.

In a time when summer movies are at an all time low, "Osmosis Jones" is
here
to save they day. It's one of the most clever films of the year.


<|_=00=_|>

Frank (Bill Murray) is a widow without hygienic and bad alimentary habits.
He eats food that felt on the floor without cleaning, he does not wash his
hands before eating and he eats only junk food. His daughter keeps
unsuccessfully trying to correct his behavior. One day, Frank eats a dirty
egg and gets a disease. From this moment on, the human body functions are
showed through very funny and educational cartoons. The hero, Osmosis Jones,
is a white globule, with Chris Rock's voice. The great Farrely brothers
again surprise me. This funny (and sometimes scatological movie) is a great
class of hygienic and human body functions. Chris Rock and Laurence
Fishburne give a great performance with their voices. Bill Murry has the
role of a disgusting character. An excellent and very educational movie,
indicated also (or specially) for children. My vote is
nine.
<|_=00=_|>

How does the body work?

I've always wanted to know exactly what goes on inside my body, and I must
say I had a pretty fair idea thanks to my Biology class in
school.

Then I saw Osmosis Jones, which completely threw me off.

The way Frank's body works and the cause/effect situations in this movie are
hilarious!  Frank is seen as a huge city, such as New York or Los Angeles,
and blood cells live out their daily lives.  The creative abilities of the
creators of this movie seems endless even though it is limited to Frank's
body.

The characters are well drawn-out, and we even learn some of Jones'
background (he lived in a certain area of the body and had hardly any
education).  Drix is a product of a cold pill and assigned to help out
around the place, and we learn much about him as he explains it all to
Jones.

The music in this movie isn't bad, but some of it didn't really match with
the scenes.  Randy Edelman is the composer, and he doesn't do a bad job. 
Even the rap and R&B music fit in and didn't sound too
bad.

All in all, Osmosis Jones is a great movie if you like animation (especially
quick-action animated fighting scenes) and imaginative adventures such as
these.
<|_=00=_|>

As an aesthete, this movie goes against everything I stand for, but I
found
it nonetheless very entertaining. It was like a peculiar yet satisfying
mix
between the Incredible Journey, Toy Story, and Lethal Weapon or Rush Hour
(the whole loose-cannon, loner cop with a new partner bit).

I found the idea rather original: the human body is like a body of
government, the cop is a white blood cell, the "president" was the cell
whose will was that of the man (Bill Murray), the villain is a virus who
hangs out in seedy areas of the body with shady characters, the bladder is
a
sort of train station/airport... clever stuff.

I did have issues with the "What a zit- I mean, what is it?" part, though:
it landed on her lip! Wrong! I could have gone the rest of my life without
seeing that. Molly Shannon is quite a sport.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Whoever made this has a big imagination about what goes on inside the human
body.  It's very witty and smart.  The whole rookie cop cliche who messes up
and is THIS close to being pulled off the force and has a hunch a teams up
with an unlikely buddy and ends up being right (for example, Rush Hour) is
being given a whole new twist.  The Farrley Brothers have done it again- and
made a solid B+ stand out comedy.  
B+, 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

I wouldn't say this is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, but there
is definitely some original comedy here.  I thought it was a very inventive
story, and quite interesting.  What shocked me more than anything about this
film is the fact that it was directed by the Farrelly brothers, who also
directed "Kingpin", "Dumb and Dumber", "There's Something About Mary", "Me,
Myself and Irene", and "Shallow Hal".  So this doesn't really fit their
profile, but I'm glad to see that they are trying something
new.

Like I said, not the funniest movie in the world, but it's good some good
stuff in it.  If you're a fan of the Farrelly brothers, then you'll probably
want to see this film.  If you aren't a fan of the Farrelly brothers, then
you still may want to see this film, cause it's a little different than
their other films.  I hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for
reading.

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

I can't believe this movie made such little money it's sad cause it's a very
cute and original idea. It's fun to watch how the pill and blood cell travel
to different parts of the body. And Bill Murray is good as usual, and Chris
Rock's voice fits in with the main character rather well too. I wish the
real story could have been put in a little more and the daughter character a
little less, plus Chris Elliott is a terrible actor. But overall the movie
isn't bad and it's fun and cute, 7/10
