
10/10

Recently, I read an excerpt from a book by Dennis Lim called "David
Lynch: The Man from Another Place." In it, the author mentions how much
Lynch despises interpretation of his work. He writes:

"Writing about David Lynch, it can be hard not to hear his voice in
your head, protesting the violence being done to his work. 'As soon as
you put things in words, no one ever sees the film the same way,' he
once told me. 'And that's what I hate, you know. Talking—it's real
dangerous.' Not for nothing does "Mulholland Drive," the Lynch movie
that has invited the most fervent flurry of explication, end with a
word of caution: 'Silencio.'"

This reminded me that 11 years before this edit I had written this very
review on IMDb, which contained an interpretation of the film's plot.
I've decided to remove all of that. Whether or not you are satisfied
with a particular interpretation of the plot should be irrelevant to
your enjoyment of the film. I enjoyed it before I had that satisfying
interpretation. And I'm hoping that I can clear it from my mind the
next time I watch "Mulholland Dr."

I will leave one thing from my original post. A quote by Peter
Greenaway. "I would argue that if you want to write narratives, be an
author, be a novelist, don't be a film maker. Because I believe film
making is so much more exciting in areas which aren't primarily to do
with narrative."
<|_=00=_|>

There's a sign on The Lost Highway that says:

*MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD*

(but you already knew that, didn't you?)

Since there's a great deal of people that apparently did not get the point
of this movie, I'd like to contribute my interpretation of why the plot
makes perfect sense. As others have pointed out, one single viewing of
this
movie is not sufficient. If you have the DVD of MD, you can "cheat" by
looking at David Lynch's "Top 10 Hints to Unlocking MD" (but only upon
second or third viewing, please.) ;)

First of all, Mulholland Drive is downright brilliant. A masterpiece. This
is the kind of movie that refuse to leave your head. Not often are the
comments on the DVDs very accurate, but Vogue's "It gets inside your head
and stays there" really hit the mark.

David Lynch deserves praise for creating a movie that not only has a
beautifully stylish look to it - cinematography-wise, has great   acting
(esp. Naomi Watts), a haunting soundtrack by Badalamenti, and a very
dream-like quality to it -- but on top of it all it also manages to
involve
the viewer in such a way that few movies have before. (After all, when is
the last time you saw a movie that just wouldn't leave your mind and that
everyone felt compelled to talk and write about, regardless of whether
they
liked it or hated it?)

Allright, enough about all that, it's time to justify those
statements.

Most people that have gone through some effort to try to piece the plot
together will have come to the conclusion that the first half of the
picture
is an illusion/a dream sequence.

Of course, that's too bad for all those trying to make sense of the movie
by
expecting "traditional" methods in which the story is laid out in a
timely,
logic and linear manner for the viewer. But for those expecting that, I
urge
you to check the name of the director and come back again.
;)

MD is the story of the sad demise of Diane Selwyn, a wannabe-actor who is
hopelessly in love with another actor, Camilla Rowles. Due to Diane's lack
of talent, she is constantly struggling to advance her career, and feels
she
failed to deliver on her own and her parents' expectations. Upon realizing
that Camilla will never be hers (C. becomes engaged with Adam Kesher, the
director), she hires a hitman to get rid of her, and subsequently has to
deal with the guilt that it produces.

The movie first starts off with what may seem as a strange opening for
this
kind of thriller; which is some 50s dance/jitterbug contest, in which we
can
see the main character Betty giving a great performance. We also see an
elderly couple (which we will see twice more throughout the movie)
together
with her, and applauding her.

No, wait. This is what most people see the first time they view it.
There's
actually another very significant fact that is given before the credits -
the camera moving into an object (although blurry) and the scene quickly
fading out. If you look closely, the object is actually a pillow,
revealing
that what follows is a dream.

The main characters seen in the first half of the movie:

Betty: Diane Selwyn's imaginary self, used in the first half of the movie
that constitutes the "dream-sequence" - a positive portrayal of a
successful, aspiring young actor (the complete opposite of Diane). 'Betty'
was chosen as the name as that is the real name of the waitress at
Winkies.
Notice that in the dream version, the waitresses' name is
'Diane'.

Rita: The fantasy version of Camilla Rhodes that, through Diane's dream,
and
with the help of an imaginary car-accident, is turned into an amnesiac.
This
makes her vulnerable and dependent on Diane's love. She is then
conveniently
placed in Betty/Diane's aunt's luxurious home which Betty has been allowed
to stay in.

Coco: In real life, Adam's mother. In the dream part, the woman in charge
of
the apartment complex that Betty stays in. She's mainly a strong authority
figure, as can be witnessed in both parts of the film.

Adam: The director. We know from the second half that he gets engaged with
Camilla. His sole purpose for being in the first half of the movie is only
to serve as a punching bag for Betty/Diane, since she develops such hatred
towards him.

Aunt Ruth: Diane's real aunt, but instead of being out of town, she is
actually dead. Diane inherited the money left by her aunt and used that to
pay for Camilla's murder.

Mr. Roach: A typical Lynchian character. Not real; appears only in Diane's
dream sequence. He's a mysterious, influential person that controls the
chain of events in the dream from his wheelchair. He serves much of the
same
function as the backwards-talking dwarf (which he also plays) in Twin
Peaks.

The hitman: The person that murders Camilla. This character is basically
the
same in both parts of the movie, although rendered in a slightly more
goofy
fashion in the dream sequence (more on that below).

Now, having established the various versions of the characters in the
movie,
we can begin to delve into the plot. Of course I will not go into every
little detail (neither will I lay it out chronologically), but I will try
to
explain some of the important scenes, in relation to Lynch'
"hint-sheet".

As I mentioned above, Camilla was re-produced as an amnesiac through her
improbable survival of a car-accident in the first 10 minutes of the
movie,
which left her completely vulnerable. What I found very intriguing with
MD,
is that Lynch constantly gives hints on what is real and what isn't. I've
already mentioned the camera moving into the pillow, but notice how
there's
two cars riding in each lane approaching the limo.

Only one of the cars actually hit the limo; what about the other? Even if
they stayed clear of the accident themselves, wouldn't they try to help
the
others, or at least call for help? My theory is that, since this is a
dream,
the presence of the other car is just set aside, and forgotten about.
Since,
as Rogert Ebert so eloquently puts it "Like real dreams, it does not
explain, does not complete its sequences, lingers over what it finds
fascinating, dismisses unpromising plotlines."

Shortly after Rita crawls down from the crash site at Mulholland Dr., and
makes her way down the hillside and sneaks into Aunt Ruth's apartment,
Betty
arrives and we see this creepy old couple driving away, staring ghoulishly
at each other and grinning at themselves and the camera. This is the first
indication that what we're seeing is a nightmare.

Although the old couple seem to be unfamiliar to Betty, I think they're
actually her parents (since they were applauding her at the jitterbug
contest). Perhaps she didn't know them all that well, and didn't really
have
as good a relationship with them as she wanted, so the couple is shown as
very pleasant and helpful to her in the dream. They also represent her
feelings of guilt from the murder, and Diane's sense of unfulfillment
regarding her unachieved goals in her life.

A rather long and hilarious scene is the one involving the hitman. Diane
apparently sees him as the major force behind the campaign trying to
pressure the director to accept Camilla's part in the movie (from Adam's
party in the second half of the movie), and he therefore occupies a major
part of her dream. Because of her feelings of guilt and remorse towards
the
murder of Camilla, a part of her wants him to miss, so she turns him into
a
dumb criminal.

This scene, I think, is also Lynch's attempt at totally screwing his
audience over, since they're given a false pretence in which to view the
movie.

Gotta love that 'Something just bit me bad' line, though.
:)

The next interesting scene is the one with the two persons at Twinkies,
who
are having a conversation about how one of them keep having this recurring
nightmare involving a man which is seen by him through a wall outside of
the
diner that they're sitting in. After a little talk, they head outside and
keep walking toward the corner of a fence, accompanied of course by
excellent music matching the mood of the scene.

When reaching the corner, a bum-like character with a disfigured face
appears out from behind the corner, scaring the living crap out of the man
having the nightmare. This nightmare exists only in Diane's mind; she saw
that guy in the diner when paying for the murder. So, in short, her
obessions translate into that poor guy's nightmares. The bum also
signifies
Diane's evil side, as can be witnessed later in the movie.

The Cowboy constitutes (along with the dwarf) one of the strange
characters
that are always present in the Lynchian landscape -- Diane only saw him
for
a short while at Adam's party, but just like our own dreams can award
insignificant persons that we hardly know a major part in our dreams, so
can
he be awarded an important part in her dream. We are also given further
clues during his scenes that what we're seeing is not real (his sudden
disappearance, etc.)

The Cowboy is also used as a tool to mock the Director, when he meets up
with him at the odd location (the lights here give a clear indication that
this is part of a dream). Also notice how he says that he will appear one
more time if he (Adam) does good, or two more times if he does bad.
Throughout the movie he appears two more times, indicating to Diane that
she
did bad. He is also the one to wake her up to reality (that scene is
probably an illusion made to fit into her requirements of him appearing
twice), and shortly thereafter she commits suicide.

The espresso-scene with the Castigliane brothers (where we can see
Badalamenti, the composer, as Luigi) is probably a result of the fact that
Diane was having an espresso just before Camilla and Adam made their
announcement at Adam's party in the second half. It could at the same time
also be a statement from Lynch.

During the scene in which they enter Diane's apartment, the body lying in
the bed is Camilla, but notice how she's assumed Diane's sleeping
position;
Diane is seeing herself in her own dream, but the face is not hers,
although
it had the same wounds on the face as Diane would have after shooting
herself. This scene is also filled with some genuine Lynchian creepiness.
Since Diane did not know where (or when) the hitman would get to Camilla
and
finish her off, she just put her into her own home.

In real life, Diane's audition for the movie part was bad. In her dream,
she
delivers a perfect audition - leaving the whole crew ecstatic about her
performance.

Also interesting is the fact that the money that in real-life was used to
pay for Camilla's murder now appears in Rita/Camilla's purse. This is part
of Diane's undoing of her terrible act by effectively being given the
money
back, as the murder now hasn't taken place.

When her neighbor arrives to get her piano-shaped ashtray, another hint is
given; she takes the ashtray from her table and leaves, yet later when
Camilla and Betty have their encounter on the couch, we see the ashtray
appear again when the camera pans over the table, suggesting that Betty's
encounter with the neighbor was a fantasy.

The catch phrase of the movie Adam is auditioning actresses for is "She is
the girl"; which are the exact same words that Diane uses when giving the
hitman Camilla's photo resume.

The blue box and the key represent the major turning point in the movie,
and
is where the true identities of the characters are revealed. There's much
symbolism going on here; the box may represent Diane's future (it's
empty),
or it may be a sort of a Pandora's box (the hitman laughs when she asks
him
what the key will open). Either way, it is connected to the murder by
means
of the blue key (which is placed next to her after the murder has taken
place). The box is also seen at the end of the movie in the hands of the
disfigured bum.

Club Silencio is a neat little addition to further remind the viewer that
what s/he is viewing is not real. It also signifies that Diane is about to
wake up to her reality (her reality being a nightmare that she is unable
to
escape from, even in her dreams).

During the chilling scene at the end where the creepy old couple reappear,
Diane is tormented in such a way that she sees suicide as the only way out
in order to escape the screams and to avoid being haunted by her
fears.

Anyway, that is my $0.02. Hope this could help people from bashing out at
this movie and calling it 'the worst movie ever' or something to that
effect, without realizing the plot.

As usual, Lynch is all about creating irrational fears, and he certainly
achieves that with this picture as well.

10 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

"twin peaks" and "blue velvet" have always been two of my favourite
pieces of film-making, and even though past films by lynch have
been slightly disappointing for me they have always been worth
watching a number of times.  to be pretentious, lynch can be like a
good wine - he must be savoured and mulled over.  but in the end
you must make up your own mind about what you have seen, for
lynch never gives you the full answers.

many people will walk out of "mulholland drive" possibly wanting to
throttle themselves over the mind-bending visual jigsaw puzzle
that has just unfolded before them.  but there is a twisted logic to
this film, you just have to look for the clues.
betty (naomi watts) arrives in hollywood, doe-eyed and in search of
stardom.  she then finds an amnesiac in her bathroom who has
escaped from an attempted murder on mulholland drive. together
they try to uncover the secrets behind the amnesiac's life.  this all
leads to a club called silencio, where a blue box will reveal
all.
and that is when the film throws everything out the window.  people
we thought we knew are entirely different people altogether... is it a
dream?  a reminiscence about life's previous escapades?
you will either love this film or hate it.  david lynch always draws
such extreme reactions from his viewers.  but as his universe itself
is always about extremes, it is fitting that his films provoke such
reactions.

It is best to look at this film thematically, rather than as a
straight-forward narrative.  and appreciate the fact that lynch is a
film-maker who will still let you draw your own conclusions.  he
has had many imitators as of late, particularly in "vanilla sky",
where a mind-bending film decides to give you all the answers in
the last rushed five minutes, and you will probably forget about that
film as soon as you walk out of the cinema.
mulholland drive will haunt you.
<|_=00=_|>
After two brief scenes that at first seem unrelated to the rest of the
film, we see a dark-haired, obviously rich beauty in the back of a
limousine. Her driver stops at an odd location on Mulholland Drive,
which is a twisting, thickly wooded two-lane road full of mansions
overlooking Los Angeles. Just as her driver and another man in the
passenger seat turn around to kill her, two drag racing cars from the
opposite direction come crashing into the limo. Only the dark-haired
woman survives. She works her way down the ridge to Sunset Boulevard
and hides in a vacationing woman's apartment. Shortly after, Betty
(Naomi Watts), the vacationing woman's niece, shows up at the apartment
and runs into the dark haired woman, who now has amnesia. The bulk of
the first part of the film is Betty and the dark haired woman trying to
figure out who she is, why people were trying to kill her and why she
had thousands of dollars and a strange key in her purse. This is
interspersed with oddly surreal threads about Hollywood producers and
directors, with occasional forays into a land of hoodlums and
prostitutes.

The above may sound a bit complicated and disjointed, but that's not
the half of it. The film is constructed so that the meaning will always
be open to interpretation. It's basically guaranteed that you will not
understand this film and you will not have very much confidence
arriving at your own interpretation the first time around. Even if you
have a lot of experience with like-minded films--such as Memento
(2000), Donnie Darko (2001), The I Inside (2003) and The Butterfly
Effect (2004)--you may not understand it on a second viewing, either.
The studio was aware of this to the extent that they had director David
Lynch write "10 clues to unlocking this thriller" and they put it on
the back of the chapter listing insert in the DVD. Lynch being of a
particular disposition, these clues are almost as cryptic as the film
itself. It doesn't help when trying to figure it out in the early
stages that the structure is extremely complex. It takes a very long
time to figure out what parts are supposed to be "real" and there is a
complex nesting of flashbacks in some sections, with only contextual
clues that they're flashbacks.

But is the film worth watching, or worth trying to figure out? That
depends on your tastes, obviously. On a surface level, the film is
certainly attractive if you are a fan of surrealism, although it will
tend to seem a bit slow and overly disjointed to some viewers. But
those qualities, and many other surrealist aspects of the film, are
typical of Lynch. A prime Lynchian moment is the old couple in the
beginning bizarrely smiling almost as if they're alien pod people
trying to put on a front. If you're familiar with that style and like
it, you'll find much to love here, although in many ways, Mulholland
Drive is fairly understated for Lynch. It's also worth noting, for
viewers who'll primarily be interested in it or who enjoy it just as
much as other aspects, that Mulholland Drive has a quite steamy lesbian
scene. It's not gratuitous, although I have no problems with
gratuitousness, but is instead an important hinge in the film.

Like all of Lynch's films, it's easy to become enraptured in his unique
approach to every aspect of filmic art and his attention to detail. Any
serious student of film (including "armchair students"/"cinephiles")
should study Mulholland Drive; many will love it. Lynch doesn't let
anything pass unmanipulated. He includes brilliant color schemes (such
as the plethora of reds and pinks) with important symbolism. He makes
unusual use of sound, such as the ringing telephone carrying over into
the section of score that follows it (when Betty first arrives at the
airport). He directs his actors to deliver their lines in a plethora of
bizarre ways, such as his characteristic odd pauses. He lets his odd
and surprising sense of humor poke through, such as the name
"Winkie's", and the "Hot Dogs--made for Pinks" sign that provides a
clue to some of the color symbolism.

Lynch's attention to detail in production design provides important,
subtle clues throughout the film to help one unlock the meaning. It's
interesting to note that Lynch even apparently demands that the DVD
programming be unusual--there are no chapters on the disc; you must
either watch the film in real time or fast forward or rewind to get
back to particular points.

If the surrealism and veiled meaning of the film are attractive to you,
or if you're just fond of "puzzles", then Mulholland Drive is well
worth watching for that aspect. There is a fairly accepted
interpretation of the film, at least on a broad, generalized level. I
won't recount the standard interpretation here--it is worth
researching, but only after you've seen the film a couple times and
have reached your own conclusions. Many articles and monographs have
been written on the film and interpretations; there are even websites
dedicated to it.

For my money, however, although I generally love Lynch and find many
things about Mulholland Drive attractive, it is not quite a 10 for me,
at least not yet (I have a feeling that my score could still rise on
subsequent viewings). To me, though, the "twist" aspect of the film is
done much better in other works such as The I Inside and The Butterfly
Effect. Mulholland Drive is more attractive to me for its surface
surrealistic touches, but the plot doesn't carry them as well as some
of Lynch's other films.

Still, Mulholland Drive is certainly recommended for the right crowd.
If you're serious about film and do not mind having to think about what
you watch (as if those two would not necessarily coincide), you
shouldn't miss this one.
<|_=00=_|>

Like most, I rented this after I heard the universal praise. And despite
COUNTLESS bizarre, unexplainable moments along the way, I was very
interested and entertained through 100 minutes of the film. Then the two
women went to the "performance" late at night. The rest of movie (which is
another 40 minutes by the way) is even WEIRDER than the first part AND
completely contradict and dump on what I had already seen. Then the movie
abruptly ends.

Baffled, I wandered over to my computer to see if I could buy a clue as to
what just happened. Nothing made sense, and I'm a pretty clever guy. None of
these other user comments made sense, even when they say "SPOILERS." I still
have no idea what they're saying. Someone's dream? Not real? Then what's the
point of a 2 hour 30 minute movie if it's "not real?" Or is it real? I'm
forced to make a choice. Either:

[a] The movie is a work of genius on a MENSA level and I'm simply too stupid
to understand it.

[b] The movie is weird for weird's sake and just doesn't make sense.
Everyone who loves it is trying to save face and pretend like they "get"
it.

I choose [b]. Screw you guys, I'm going home...
<|_=00=_|>

Hitchcock would be proud of this movie.  Even when nothing happens, it is
suspenseful.  Director David Lynch overuses a few cheap thrill tricks here
and there, but he intersperses them with other cinematographic techniques
to
keep it from becoming obtuse.

Altogether surreal, this movie is like waking up and remembering most of a
dream but not enough to make it sensible.  I am still trying to figure it
all out and will probably have to see it again to catch things I missed and
which may help me understand it better.  It is a very detailed plot that
very slowly comes together, so you must be patient and pay attention.  Get
your bathroom trip out of the way before it starts.  And yet, the plot is
overshadowed by the theme, the mood, the character development, and the
filming techniques.

The dual roles of the main actress, Naomi Watts, showcase her enormous
talent.  That is, when I could get my eyes off of her co-star.  What an
acting pair.

Lynch surprises throughout the movie with unusual camera angles, the
length/timing of editing cuts, jumping back and forth between scenes.
Combined with smart use of music and sounds, it all helps to build suspense
in our minds, doubtless a major objective of the director.  Well, he kept
me
on the edge of my seat, even had me talking to the actors to be careful
here, and not be so naive there.  You know, the kind of stuff you want to
smack your kids for doing at the movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Originally filmed in 1999 as a TV pilot, "Mulholland Dr." was rejected.
The next year, David Lynch received money to film new scenes to make
the movie suitable to be shown in theaters. He did so - and created one
of the greatest, most bizarre and nightmarish films ever made.

The film really doesn't have main characters, but if there were main
characters, they would be Betty (Naomi Watts) and Rita (Laura Elena
Harring). Betty is a perky blonde who's staying in her aunt's apartment
while she auditions for parts in movies. She finds Rita in her aunt's
apartment and decides to help her. You see, Rita's lost her memory. She
has no clue who she is. She takes her name, Rita, from a "Gilda" poster
in the bathroom. So the two set out to discover who Rita really is.

David Lynch has been known for making some weird movies, but this film
is the definition of weird. It's bizarre, nightmarish, and absolute
indescribable. It's like a dream captured on film. By the 100-minute
point, the film has become extremely confusing - but if you've been
watching closely, it will make perfect sense. Having watched the movie
and then read an article on the Internet pointing out things in the
film, I now understand the movie completely.

The acting is very good. Watts is terrific. Justin Theroux is very good
as a Hollywood director facing problems with the local mob. The music
is excellent. Angelo Badalamenti delivers one of his finest scores. And
the directing - hah! David Lynch is as masterful a filmmaker as ever
there was.

Is this your type of film? Well, that depends. You should probably view
more of Lynch's work before watching this movie. You'll need to be
patient with the film, and probably watch it a second time to pick up
the many clues Lynch has left throughout the movie. For Lynch fans,
this is a dream come true.

"Mulholland Dr." is a masterpiece. It's brilliant, enigmatic, and
masterfully filmed. I love it.
<|_=00=_|>
The case history of 'Mulholland Dr.' is known: What should had been
another excursion (after 'Twin Peaks') into the rivaled field of
TV-series ended up abruptly after completing the pilot. It was too
risky and twisted for the producers to venture an investment. Lynch
used all the filmed and cut material and started new shootings to
finish a completely new feature film. The result: One of the most
impressive cinema experiences of this decade which can be ranked among
the best works of David Lynch. His earlier movies 'Eraserhead', 'Blue
Velvet' or 'Wild at Heart' kept aloof in an irritating way which
hustled the viewer into the role of a voyeur, but never involved him as
part of the plot happening such as here.

'Mulholland Dr.' is a puzzle where pieces are missing, others obviously
were taken from 'Eraserhead' and 'Lost Highway', but it never seemed to
be unfinished work. In the internet I came across with a lot of
instructions and essays to explain this film. I am aware now that it
loses its magic when you try to decipher it completely. All those
detailed solution explanations are not only waste but also the
questionable attempt to offer an answer where no such thing is
completely required. Imagine this scenario: A little child is
dissecting his teddy bear to find out where the secret and the specific
of that bear lies. Is it because it wants to destroy his toy? Does the
secret lie in the teddy bear or actually in the heart of the child?
Transferring this to 'Mulholland Dr.' it means innocence is one of the
most important conditions to watch and appreciate it.

David Lynch succeeds not only to picture the surface of human behavior
life but also to grapple with everything beneath that. Human desires,
dreams, obsessions and fears - all that what remains unspoken; emotions
that are often repressed. 'Mulholland Dr.' has the intensity calling
for a cast that completely takes issue with the substance. Actresses
and actors who are ready to follow the visions of the director
selflessly.Laura Elena Harring, Naomi Watts, Justin Theroux solve their
task in such an impressing way that you wouldn't want or couldn't
imagine another cast. While their acting at the beginning seems to be a
little superimposed you soon will realize that this stereo typing is
set in with a purpose to manipulate the viewer and to baffle him as
soon as the red thread of the film is visible.

When you claim the criterion of a well made film in being able to lose
yourself and dive into what you see on screen than Lynch succeeded in
making a masterpiece. A modern masterpiece that manifest David Lynch's
status as one of the most important, creative and courageous directors
of the present. Like every film maker who go beyond the limits he is
confronted with criticism and ignorance. This will fade as soon as you
find the individual key to Lynch's world of films. 'Mulholland Dr.' is
more than just a sleeper – it is a must see for everyone who loves
ambitious cinema. And besides, the film is a pay-off with Hollywood, in
form and content, which in that distinctness was hardly dared before.
<|_=00=_|>
*May contain spoilers*

Did I miss something? Why has everyone got such a boner for this movie? 

I feel like the director has just stolen my wallet, given me the finger
and slapped my mum in the face. Only the wallet stands for 2 and a half
hours of my life, the finger is a metaphor for the bitter
disappointment I feel at being led on to believe I would enjoy this
waste of time and as for slapping my mum in the face? Well that's just
my mind interpreting the similar shock and dissatisfaction she must
feel at sitting through the whole stupid thing with me. That's what
watching this movie is like: metaphor after metaphor, symbol after
symbol. You don't even find out that four fifths of the movie was
clumsily representing something else until you've watched so much of it
that it's too late to turn back. You grip your sweaty hands together
hoping that this mess is going to make ANY kind of sense before it
finishes and....no. It doesn't. OK, so everyone is saying you have to
watch it twice, thrice, four times a winner. WHY THE SHIZZ would I
watch it again? I've already lost 150 minutes of my time on this earth
to it! All you fans are admitting that there is no right or wrong
answer, that the film is open to anyone's interpretation. But what is
the point in a movie that doesn't mean anything? I realise to some
people it does: Diane basically dreams an idealised variation on her
relationship and life with Camilla before she caps herself because
she's actually mad and full of guilt over having her killed or
something. Why go to all that trouble in the first place? This would
have been a perfectly good film if there really were mobsters who try
to kill an actress in order to get their own star in the leading role,
she gets amnesia, becomes a lezzer with some other actress and they go
on wacky adventures around Hollywood trying to figure out who she is.
Instead Mr Lynch throws all that away with the cop out explanation that
"Ohh, it was all a dream...woooo" and instead we are left with some
crazy bint and her weird fantasy. It reminds me of From Dusk Till Dawn,
a great fugitive movie until the really poor vampire costumes come out.
In short - terrible movie. You can point out the marvellous
cinematography, the awesome use of colours and the interesting way that
dialogue is realistic/unrealistic in various places. Whatever. I don't
care how well made this film is, and I will admit that; it was well
made or I wouldn't have bothered to sit through the first 30 minutes.
Lynch might be a great director but he's a pointless story teller. He
has nothing to say in this film. What is his idea for this narrative?
"There's this crazy lady... 'Kay, and, she's crazy so she kills her
girlfriend. Then she kills herself. And there's titties." ...Please.
Spare me the boredom. This movie should come with a warning label -
Probable Waste of Time.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoiler Alert - although this is a plot almost as impossible to spoil
as it is to completely explain.

'Mulholland Drive' is by far the most successful expression of David
Lynch's cinematographic style and vision since the first season of his
'Twin Peaks' TV series. As Lynch enthusiasts know, his is a style and
vision uniquely blended from film noir, horror movies, surrealism, and
parapsychology – with a healthy dose of postmodern self-consciousness
and black humor thrown in for good measure. All these elements are
richly at work in 'Mulholland Drive,' making for a riveting,
hair-raising, and highly satisfying film experience – especially if one
does not become overly obsessed with trying to make all the plot pieces
fit into a logical, mystery-unraveling whole.

The film features wonderful performances by Naomi Watts and Laura
Harring in the lead roles of young women whose lives intersect in
various ways amid a Hollywood setting that is itself an hallucinated
blend of contemporary reality, retro '50s nostalgia, and satirical
self-aggrandizement. Their seemingly random initial meeting occurs
after the film's opening scene, in which Harring's character escapes an
attempt on her life thanks to a fortuitous, not to mention horrific,
automobile accident. Staggering down the hillside from Mulholland Drive
to Sunset Boulevard (the two most archetypal of Hollywood
thoroughfares), she finds her way to the very apartment that Betty
(Naomi Watts) is about to sublet from her 'Aunt Ruth,' a purportedly
successful actress who is off to Canada to begin a new movie. As we
later learn, Betty had herself arrived from Deep River, Ontario,
shortly after winning a jitterbug contest.

A highly energetic and stylized flashback to the contest forms one of
two pre-credit prologue sequences that frame Betty's descent from the
clichéd would-be-starlet's bright-eyed innocence to the debauched
madness of spurned lover and going nowhere bit-part actress. Unable to
remember her own name, the Harring character adopts the name 'Rita'
from a movie poster for the film noir classic 'Gilda' that adorns Aunt
Ruth's apartment. (Actually, it turns out Aunt Ruth has long since
deceased and whose apartment we're really in is a good question to be
resolved in future viewings.) Anyway, Betty determines to help Rita
find out what happened and to discover the source of the rolls of cash
and a mysterious blue key that the women find in Rita's purse. The two
women begin to piece together clues that would seem to lead to Rita's
true identity. They also, by the way, become lovers, at one point
radiating such an incendiary chemistry that I cannot recall its equal
in mainstream treatments of Lesbian lover affairs (if a Lynch movie can
ever be designated 'mainstream').

At the local Winkies restaurant (a recurring location fraught with
dream-like significance behind its grubby realistic facade), Rita's
attention is caught by a waitress's name-tag reading 'Diane.' This
leads her to a recollection of someone named 'Diane Selwyn,' whose
apartment the two women soon visit and, at Betty's insistence, break
into. I won't reveal what they find within, but suffice it to say the
scene is rendered with vintage Lynchian creepiness. Subsequently, Rita
wakes in night sweats speaking Spanish and hurrying Betty to an
all-night magic show/theater called 'Silencio,' where the arts of
illusion and lip/instrumental- syncing are practiced with manic
intensity and where the Blue- Haired Lady, as she is noted in the end
credits, reigns as the presiding Muse. Framed by the blue-lit,
red-curtained Silencio Theatre, the blue-haired lady occupies the last
shot in the film, perhaps a symbol for the controlling artistic
imagination – rather like Steven's "man with the blue guitar" as
filtered through bad- drug surrealism.

During the Silencio sequence, and as Rebekah Del Rio cameo lip-syncs
her own powerful Spanish rendition of Roy Orbison's 'Crying'), a
shattering epiphany occurs when Betty opens her own purse to discover a
blue box with a keyhole that obviously matches the key in Rita's purse.
Even if we do not delve too deeply into the Freudian sexual symbolism
of purses, the moment is a singularly Hitchcockian one in that the
matching of the key and box leads to a complete inversion of what we
thought we knew and into a whole new set of character relationships and
meanings. Not the least of these reversals is the discovery that Betty
is the sought-for Diane Selwyn and the spurned lover of Camilla Rhodes
(i.e. Rita). Camilla in turn is a Latin femme fatale movie star to whom
Diane is indebted for the few minor roles she has managed to secure
and, more significantly, to whom she is emotionally subjugated.

After these and other discoveries in the last third of the film, the
problem of accounting for the first two thirds of the movie is not so
straightforwardly resolved as in 'Vertigo.' While bits and pieces of
imagery and dialog suggest that much, if not all, of the earlier
material is projected and displaced from the fevered subconscious of
Diane herself, other bits and pieces suggest the perhaps supernatural
intervention of a cast of characters drawing direct inspiration from
'Twin Peaks,' including Michael J. Anderson reprising his unearthly
dwarfish powers and a Bob- variant who hangs out behind Winkies and is
the ultimate repository for the blue box and its id-like associations.

However one fits the pieces together, though, the whole of 'Mulholland
Drive' is much greater – and more mysterious – than the sum of its
parts. Lynch takes us on a wonderfully inventive, provocative, and
pleasurably disturbing mind trip. What's more, the film's
cinematography is stunning, the soundtrack filled with evocative
atmospherics, the acting superb, and the directing /editing masterful.
This may well have been the unacknowledged Best Picture of 2001 among
major American releases.
