

After reading this last guy's review, I'd like to stick up for this movie
and offer a BALANCED review. In my opinion, Dante's Peak does a good job of
developing the characters (Dalton, R. Wando, the volcano as a character,
even the townsfolk), giving convincing backstory as to how volcanos behave
compared to scientists' expectations, making us care about the characters,
building tension through conflict between Dreyfus and Dalton, and using
effects to ramp up the intensity of the action scenes.

Yes, there were things in the script and the story which seemed a little
contrived and strained believability. The attitudes and behavior of the USGS
team were a little too informal and "hip" to seem real. The
driving-through-the-river and driving-through-the-lava scenes were really
too far out to be believed. Ruth's selfishness and patent stubbornness were
unbelievable but understandable. The scene where the pyroclastic cloud
chases them into the mine is pure hollywood fluff but still livable, mainly
because WE CARE ABOUT THE CHARACTERS. I found the character of Dr. Paul
Dreyfuss to be right on. He explained the dilemma well during the city
council meeting scene. All of the characters are believable at least,
convincing at most.

I think the chemistry between Dalton and Wando is believable : Here you have
a scientist who is analytical and professional, but who is still in touch
with the lives of laypeople, and has a tender side. He has loved and lost
before and he senses that this new volcanic threat is akin to the last one
which "took" his love away. This re-enforces the precept that THIS TIME, HE
WON'T LET THE VOLCANO HURT THE ONES HE LOVES. Wando is the warm, slightly
ditsy mayor of Dante's Peak who displays the identifiable traits and values
of a northwesterner. She feels slightly overwhelmed by her mayoral duties,
raising her kids properly, and running her coffeeshop. She's had a previous
marriage to a deadbeat who left her at a vulnerable point. The arrival of
Dalton is very catalytic in her life. She's met the only man who has the
right answer about the volcano, likes her kids, likes her, is intriguing,
and is everything her ex wasn't. THIS IS THE MAKINGS OF A ROMANCE...DUH.

I'm really impressed that the filmmakers were able to pack this much
character development, backstory, romance, suspense, personal conflict, with
an intense end-sequence in under 1 1/2 hours! "Volcano" is a film with a
similar premise that,IMHO, doesn't even come close to Dante's Peak. While
this film is not deserving of an Oscar, IT IS A SOLID FILM, HAVING BEEN
WELL-CONCEIVED, WELL-DIRECTED, FAIRLY WELL-ACTED, AND AS SUCH IS
SUBSEQUENTLY WELL-DESERVING OF SOME CRITICAL ACCLAIM rather than getting a
baseless pummeling from reviewers who obviously expect to see a 5-star gem
everytime they go to the movies. 
<|_=00=_|>
This "disaster film" had some of the best special effects of its day
(almost 10 years ago). I have to say "of its day" because technology
has made CGI become dated quickly these days. 

This film is all about a volcano, a la Mt. St. Helen's, erupting and
killing people and destroying a small town below it. Some of the scenes
were just jaw- dropping and, at least for the first-time viewer, a lot
of suspense over whether the main characters of the story will survive
it.

Of course, there are some credibility gaps in here, things that just
could not happen such as little boy drive van up a mountain (when his
feet wouldn't reach the foot pedals!) but you just go along for the
ride and enjoy the tension and special effects even if the story gets a
little hokey.

It might not be the most intelligent film, but it's very entertaining
109 minutes, and that's the name of the business. It's good escapist
fare, and that's all. It's worth two looks.
<|_=00=_|>

OK... after seeing all the bad comments that people have written about
this, i would like to stand up for it. I have always been interested in
volcanoes and geology, and i have just finished watching the movie for
the somewhat like tenth time and also the 'making of' section on the
DVD. I would like to tell all those people that think that it was
really tacky with a weak storyline that it was incredibly true to the
facts, way more than any of the other disaster movies that were
released over 1998 and 1997(eg. Volcano (which was shocking), deep
impact (even worse) and Armageddon (i haven't seen so i won't
comment)).

Yes, i will agree with you that some of the ideas were really
outrageous (such as outrunning the pyroclastic flow into the mine), but
come on guys, give the movie a break... its Hollywood for heaven's
sake!

I'd give this movie and eight point five out of ten... anyone who wants
to see a mostly scientifically accurate disaster movie, watch this.

<|_=00=_|>
Yes, there are some cheesy, hollywoodish moments in this movie, but the
actors bring enough charisma and presence to hold the story together.
Pierce Brosnan makes a convincing scientist, whose passion and desire
to protect the townspeople plays off nicely with Mayor Linda Hamilton's
similar concerns.

But what I most want to say is that the volcano itself was both
believable and accurate. So I want to commend the filmmakers for having
enough integrity to make an entertaining film within the boundaries of
scientific accuracy. And face it, you don't go to a movie like Dante's
Peak to see insightful drama, or peer deep into the human psyche. The
people and the volcano play off each other very nicely. It's not often
you get a film with both chemistry and physics.
<|_=00=_|>
The 'old-fashioned' disaster movie scenario enjoyed a brief resurgence
in the latter half of the 90s. After the success of Twister and ID4,
films like Hard Rain, Titanic, Armageddon and Deep Impact followed in
its wake. Like the two competing asteroid movies, Dante's Peak was in
competition with the imaginatively named Volcano as THE Lava flow of
1997. Which one is better? Well, comparing the two is like comparing an
atomic blast to a popping pimple.

Pierce Brosnan is Harry Dalton, a Vulcanologist (or James Bond in
disguise if you want) who predicts a major eruption in the quaint
Pacific-Northwestern town of Dante's Peak. No one wants to listen to
him since the town has just been named the 2nd most desirable place to
live in America and is in the early stages of a thriving economy. It's
the politics from Jaws all over again. Despite being shouted down by
his superiors, Harry sticks around to keep his eye on the imposing
mountain and woo Mayor Wando (Linda Hamilton), who is the only one who
believes the 4000-year dormant volcano might blow its top.

If you've seen one disaster movie, you've seen 'em all in terms of
character importance. Yes, it's bloody obvious who is going to die,
some of these people might as well have a death clock counting down
stuck on their foreheads. And the panicking idiot mobs don't deserve
anything less firey. When will nameless extras learn that following the
crowd isn't the best way? I guess this is the weakest part of Dante's
Peak, it never really distances itself from that single, eternal cliché
of disaster films.

But the film is really nothing but a showcase for special effects and
it does them surprisingly well. Made before the extreme popularity of
CGI, Dante's Peak has a lot of real-life destruction, in-camera effects
and stunt-work. Yes, there is a fair bit of CGI and for a 10-year-old
film they still hold up really well. All Volano (Zzzz...) had to offer
was a very, very slight lava flow and an unintentionally hilarious
scene with a melting man but with Dante's Peak we get earthquakes,
boiled skinny dippers, lakes of acid, ash blizzards that create a
unique atmosphere, thunder and lightning, red hot boulders raining down
from the sky, mudslides, lava (of course), a massive pyroclastic cloud
and lots of deep, deep bass sound effects.

It's not a life-changing film by any means, but as disaster movies go
it's one of the best, has an occasionally spooky score and entertains
really well despite Brosnan taking it all so seriously. I would have
given it a higher rating if they killed the dog (more original) and
deleted the annoying Grant Heslov's utterly pointless character.
<|_=00=_|>

I love the way this film builds up tension by slowly developing the
characters and inducing drama between them. All of this makes a film much
better than VOLCANO. The list of fine actors/ actresses include Pierce
Brosnan, Linda Hamilton, Charles Hallahan, Grant Heslov, Elizabeth Hoffman,
Tzi Ma, Christopher Murray and more. This film shows how people might
actually act and think in a volcano situation. The art direction was great
as they showed the sky and ash beautifully. The scenery of the town is very
nice and the whole town seems very quiet and peaceful. I would have wanted
to live there. 

This is the best volcano movie ever. No volcano movie will ever surpass this
one. The cinematography is great also. Roger Donaldson did a great job of
direction and the score by James Newton Howard is beautiful. All of these
elements create a film that is unforgettable. DANTE'S PEAK gets
5/5.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this movie I thought it quite good, especially the
roller coaster ride of the last hour or so. I saw it again and thought
it not very good at all and now having seen it recently, I not bad, but
not great either. It's a well done disaster movie with one challenge
after another to survive being thrown at the main characters. This
roller coaster ride really pulled me in and even reminded me of the
very well done remake of The Fugitive, starring Harrison Ford. I'll
admit some of the situations are a little hard to believe, but at least
they keep the film from being boring.

The chemistry between Pierce Brosnan and Linda Hamilton, while not
incredible, is still there. Also enjoyable was how the film makes use
of its small town setting, including in the casting characters you'd
expect to find in a small town: the female gossip, the gruff, but
dedicated sheriff, and the more business-minded don't-rock-the-boat
councilman. Finally, Harry (Brosnan) and Paul Dreyfus's band of
colleagues also prevent the movie from being flat, but are a little too
reminiscent of the characters from Twister to really leave their own
mark.

Also what impressed me was some of the camera work, which I think isn't
given enough credit. There are a number of composite shots of the
erupting volcano with the reflection (probably understood to be from a
truck's window) of Rachel (Hamilton) looking back in horror that are
quite well done. And the digital editing in of the volcano is also well
done as well as some of the panoramas.

A smaller problem I had with the movie is the development of Harry and
Rachel's relationship. Initially their flirtations and the initial
"getting to know each other" are quite cute. But I can't help but think
why Rachel, who has been a small-town girl her whole life would be
interested in someone like Harry who clearly states a that his job
isn't exactly conducive to settling down. Sure Harry is everything her
ex-husband isn't and it's obvious that the both of them are lonely to a
degree, but it doesn't seem to me that a woman as sensible and who
feels as great a responsibility as Rachel (to her kids, to the town, to
her business) would find that to be enough. Also, Harry seems to get
over the touchy subject of his dear departed Marianne to start making
passes at Rachel in her kitchen quite quickly.

My biggest problem with the movie is the writing, which is so bad in
some places that it really brings down the parts in the movie where it
is good. Harry's line about sex being like riding a bicycle because
once you learn you never forget is laughable. Some of the Wando
children's lines I found to be lacking in substance too and almost
condescending to the viewer. But, as I said, not all the writing is
bad: an example is the excellent delivery of a reference to Pompei by
one of Harry and Paul's colleagues and another's excitement over
Rachel's regular coffee deliveries.

In the end, when this movie is bad, it's bad, but in general it's good.
<|_=00=_|>
Why the hell has this movie only gotten a 5.5 rating? It is one of the
best action movies to come out of the 90's. Peirce Brosnan and Linda
Hamilton are dead on in their roles. The movie has action, love,
despair and redemption. I gave this movie a 10 and I'm sticking with
it! Linda has been one of the most talented actresses around for a
while. I was very upset that she did not get a golden globe or academy
award nomination for T2:Judgement Day. She know what to bring to her
roles and how to use them. Mr. Prosnan is a excellent actor. But he is
better in this film than in most of the Bond films he has been in. The
special effects were awesome and inspiring. Can anyone outrun a
paraclastic cloud in a beat up and burned pickup that just drove over
red-hot lava? The answer is yes but just barely. Dedication means that
you stay with the truck and the NASA signal device for at least 2 or 3
days until someone can drag you out and also get the family you were
trying to save. Then you can go sea fishing after your compound
fracture heals. This is a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Decided to view this picture only because Pierce Brosnan was starring
in the film and greatly enjoyed his acting skills besides his appearing
as James Bond. Pierce Brosnan,(Harry Dalton),"The Matador",'05, has a
bad experience with the death of his wife during a volcano eruption and
stayed in his profession as a geologist. Harry discovers from his
charts that their could very well be another volcano problem effecting
a small popular town. Linda Hamilton,(Rachel Wando),"The Kid & I ",'05
is the mayor and store owner of this town, who has a boy and a girl and
is divorced. A romantic spark happens between Linda and Harry and the
story develops into a monster of a tale. There is plenty of good action
and it really keeps you on the edge of your seats. Pierce & Linda gave
outstanding performances and the photography was great through out the
entire picture. Very Entertaining
<|_=00=_|>
Dante's Peak (1997) is one of those movies that puts you at the edge of
your seat from start to finish. The movie stars Pierce Brosnan and
Linda Hamilton. Brosnan plays a volcanologist who is sent to a small
town in Washington State. He soon discovers that the dormant volcano
for which the town was named after is a ticking time bomb waiting to
explode. He then tells the town's mayor (Hamilton) that Dante's Peak is
in harm's way if the volcano erupts. It is only a matter of time before
hell beaks loose in the Cascades. The visual effects are excellent and
the acting is pretty good. This movie deserves ********* stars out of a
perfect 10!!
