

For sheer spectacle, it's tough to beat the Bible.  With "The Prince of
Egypt," DreamWorks makes good on its promise to deliver a state-of-the-art
animated film that will compete favorably with the best Disney has to
offer.
As with "Antz," released earlier this year, DreamWorks has successfully
resisted the temptation to populate this film with characters that can be
turned into further revenue through toy sales.  (I do wonder, though, if
three soundtrack albums--the film's soundtrack, an "inspirational" album,
and a "country" album--were really necessary.)  The animation team has
accomplished something truly spectacular; watching "The Prince of Egypt"
is
like seeing life breathed into a rich, luxurious tapestry.  The Biblical
story told in the books of Genesis and Exodus is followed very faithfully,
with only minor changes made for dramatic reasons.  The action sequences
are
truly exciting, overall pacing is excellent, and the miracles wrought by
God
are depicted with awed and respectful wonder.  One truly astonishing,
harrowing sequence recounts the slaughter of firstborn Hebrew children by
bringing hieroglyphic drawings to life on the walls of an Egyptian temple.
The voice work is especially good--Val Kilmer is fine as Moses, and
Pharoah,
voiced by Ralph Fiennes, positively seethes with arrogance and hubris.
The
storytellers wisely chose to end their tale at the climactic crossing of
the
Red Sea; even the delivery of the Ten Commandments is portrayed only in an
epilogue vignette.  (After all, the Israelites wander in the wilderness
for
forty years after that, and Moses ultimately is not allowed to enter the
Promised Land--perhaps not the uplifting ending the filmmakers had in
mind.)
Some of the subject matter is dark and disturbing, and there is no shying
away from the harsh realities of the original texts.  By all means, see it
with the children in your life--and be prepared to discuss it with them
afterward.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw Mulan, Anastasia and Prince of Egypt in a row. I loved Mulan, I loved
Anastasia even more, and now... Well, I must say that Prince of Egypt is
probably the best of all. I'd even say, the best animation feature ever
produced in the USA (aside from Batman : Mask of the Phantasm).

It is a real piece of art, aiming to entertain everybody, not only act as a
baby-sitter movie for kids. There aren't even any pets here. Only a great
story, moving scenes, credible characters and fantastic music and
storyboard. You will love this one.
<|_=00=_|>

Quite possibly the most astonishing achievement in animation since Beauty
and the Beast (and surpassing same), The Prince of Egypt is a lovingly
crafted, engaging piece of cinema.  The main characters are well-realized,
three-dimensional characters.  The focus of the film is the conflict between
Ramses and his adopted brother, Moses, set against the backdrop of the epic
events in the book of Exodus.  The result is a religious tale that treats
the oft-ignored human element.  Instead of merely relating the tale as it
is, the story asks "how would a person *feel* if God appeared to them and
told them to do this?  How would others react?"  The script is light-years
beyond any past biblical epic.
The animation style owes a small debt to Disney's house style, but goes
above and beyond in the details in character design (the Hebrews and
Egyptians and Midians are clearly of different ethnic backgrounds, and no
character suffers from the doe-eyed Disney Belle syndrome).   Computer
Generated Imagery blends -- for the first time in an animated film --
seamlessly with traditional cel animation.  The film also takes some fairly
audacious risks; Moses has a dream sequence in stiffly animated
hieroglyphics, completely switching animation styles for about five minutes,
which I believe is completely unprecedented in animation.  There are moments
when the visual effects made me forget to breathe.  If you blink during the
parting of the red sea, you'll regret it.  There is, I believe I can safely
say, not a second of the film that does not offer some sort of visual
delight -- from the deep symbolism of the hieroglyphics to the dizzying
chariot race in the opening sequence.
The music has been touted by some critics as the film's weak link; such is
definitely not the case.  Stephen Schwartz' songs combine elements of
Broadway-esque show tunes with native Hebrew and Egyptian music.  The songs
are powerful and moving, sometimes no more than one verse in length,
sometimes full-blown  seven-minute extravaganzas like "Let My People Go."
The one weaker song, surprisingly, is the theme "When You Believe."  Even
freed from Mariah Carey/Whitney Houston R&B cheese as it is in the movie,
it's a watery definition of faith at best.  Still, the scene in which it
takes place is powerful and the song is beautifully performed.
If the film has a weak link, it might be the voice casting,Val Kilmer and
Patrick Stewart in particular.  The two voices are distinctive of the
gentleman who possess them, and thus are distracting in this format.  But
such is a minor quibble, and should not dissuade anyone from seeing the
greatest animated story ever told.
<|_=00=_|>

For years, I have searched for a truly epic film.  I have witnessed the
genius of Lawrence of Arabia, the majesty of Star Wars, the pupil-dilating
battles of Braveheart, but after all that war, I realize that The Prince of
Egypt is a little more special than all of them.

If not the best film of the year, then the best animated film ever.  Its
visuals simply can't be described, for its images will stay in your mind
forever.  They will not be seared, like the brutal images of Saving Private
Ryan, but instead, simply stay with you.  When you remember them, you will
smile, for they are the true meaning of epic.

If you don't like the film's story, or even if you don't like the film in
general, you will still stare in awe at its visual images.  They are the
best ever.  The parting of the Red Sea is just one of the best.  The closing
shot is about 10 seconds long and is truly mind-boggling.

Animation just hit puberty, and I can't wait to see it become an adult.
Go see it.  You won't be disappointed, I guarantee you.

<|_=00=_|>
The story of Moses is done here and, although not totally Biblically
accurate, this is about as close as it gets in Hollywood. The
inaccuracies are minor.

The artwork was fabulous when it came out in 1999. It's still very
good, but animation has improved so fast in so short a time period that
this is nothing special, art-wise, these day. However, it sure was when
it was released just seven years ago. It's just beautiful in parts.
Some of the prettiest colors I've seen on film have been in animated
movies the last decade, and this is a prime example. The parting of the
Red Sea in here is awesomely-done by the artists. That scene also
sported the best sound in the 99-minute film.

The songs in here were nothing special but they didn't detract from the
story because they were all short. Regarding the story, I only wish
they had gone into detail on the plagues instead of just lumping them
all together. They could have had some jaw-dropping scenes with the
locusts, etc.

All-in-all a fine film and a rarity: a Biblical film that doesn't
offend anyone.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the best animated movie of all time. It's not every day that
they make a animated movie about a story of the bible. The writers, and
animators were very accurate about telling the story. As a Christian I like
it when they make movies about the bible. The animation, and music was truly
awesome. I like everything about this movie. I recommend this movie to
anyone and everyone. Children will love this movie. I'll tell you now you
wont be disappointed. I really wasn't.  
<|_=00=_|>
"The Prince of Egypt" is a surprisingly near perfect movie. The
beautifully animated has a great story and storytelling, beautiful
songs and a great voice cast.

Animated movies has been taken to a new level with this movie. This is
one of the very first animated movies made for an adult mainstream
audience. Still the movie has some misplaced humor and 'Disney' like
characters, to make this movie appealing for children as well but
really this is more a movie for adults than for children. The movie has
a serious undertone and some powerful moments, with the burning bush
and the splitting of the red sea as the ultimate highlights of the
movie.

The characters in the movie are well developed, which is perhaps also
thanks to the impressive voice cast that consists out of; Val Kilmer,
Ralph Fiennes, Michelle Pfeiffer, Sandra Bullock, Jeff Goldblum, Danny
Glover, Patrick Stewart, Helen Mirren, Steve Martin, Martin Short, Ofra
Haza. voices that stood out to me were Val Kilmer, Jeff Goldblum and
Patrick Stewart. But it of course is also due to the nicely done
character animation and storytelling that the characters work out
really well and are highly realistic and humane. The character's
movement and interacting is done really good and with eye for detail.

Another wonderful about his movie is the music composed by Hans Zimmer
and friends and songs and lyrics by Stephen Schwartz. It sounds weird,
songs for a serious movie but it works extremely well for the movie and
the storytelling and on top of that the songs are all from a very high
level of prestige.

With this movie DreamWorks showed for the first time that they are a
worthy competitor for Disney. 

The movie and its storytelling are really powerful and impressive and
help to make this movie an unforgettable watching experience.

It's a great movie for all ages but mainly adults.

9/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

This is very possibly the finest animation I've seen.  Before commenting on
the film as a whole, I want to make that clear, because in the inevitable
rush to pick this film apart (the plot, the voices, the religious
significance, the literary accuracy, the moral issues, the music, the
comparisons with Disney and de Mille, etc...) one might easily become
distracted from the aesthetic and technical triumphs of The Prince of Egypt,
and that would be unfortunate.  As someone who has an interest and
appreciation of animation, I can say that this is the first film I've seen
that successfully integrates computer-generated animation and traditional
animation (and I've seen many attempts).  More importantly, as someone who
has eyes, I can say that the result is a visual experience of intense style
and beauty.  In fact, the initial depiction of Egypt is so breathtaking,
that it seriously hinders the film's later efforts to vilify
it.

Comparisons with Disney are inevitable, especially because Prince of Egypt
employs tired Disney formula in an attempt, I assume, to remain economically
viable.  What a shame, since Disney hasn't made a decent film since Aladdin.
I am referring, of course, to the unnecessary musical numbers and the two
high priests, the film's comic relief, who are drawn grossly out of
proportion to the other characters.  Even worse than their unoriginality,
however, is the open mockery of ancient Egyption religion and culture, which
these two characters embody.  I found their musical number especially
appalling.  On the other hand, it's a story in which the protagonists
succeed only through a greater capacity for cruelty and destruction and the
slaughter of innocent children, so it's kind of hard to nail down any
concrete moral standard here.

In general, I thought the story was well told, with solid direction and a
good script.  The only complaint I have about the voice acting is that Jeff
Goldblum's unmistakable mannerisms seriously distract from his character.  I
suspect that I wasn't really bothered by the others only because I hadn't
seen a cast list before seeing the film.  I wish they would stop relying on
celebrity voices for animated features.  No character can be effective if
the viewer can't separate the voice from the actor supplying
it.

The bottom line is, despite any objections, complaints, or concerns I might
have about this film, despite the moral, religious, or idealogical issues it
brings up, and despite the $8 and two hours you'll spend, this film is worth
seeing.  It's worth seeing because of the animation.  I hope it sets a new
standard for feature-length animated films.  At the very least, I think it
will show the movie-going public what the medium is capable
of.
<|_=00=_|>

As the author of THE WORLD OF ANIMATION, an Eastman Kodak
book which won three international book festival awards
and as an animation writer-director, I have for many years longed for the
U.S. animation industry to remember that Walt Disney, nor any of the
pioneers of animation limited their art to children's audiences.

With THE PRINCE OF EGYPT, the DreamWorks animation team has finally
taken us full circle and helped the United States join the rest of the world
in offering us the first U.S. animated feature since, perhaps, FANTASIA,
created for mature audiences while remaining child-friendly.  If you aspire
to art in any form, and/or specifically love line art and graphics as I do,
you must not miss seeing this film on the big screen.  I applaud DreamWorks
for this triumph in graphic excellence.

Two brief critiques: First, the choice of story.  The story is based
on Exodus from the Old Testament (and other Scripture) which is scanty, to
say the least.  Although the studio made an effort to flesh out the story
with the Ramses/Moses relationship there is simply not enough meat to go
around.
This opinion is debatable, a very minor aspect and only my view as a
story teller.  At the bottom line the overall work is so extraordinary any
possible lack in literacy is more than made up for in the visual mounting
and production of the film, something which is nothing less than inspiring.

The other criticism is in the highly questionable use of "name"
voices for casting, a puzzling development since there is no meaningful box
office data supporting it.  This practice is known to conflict the viewer
psychologically as the drawn images begin to do battle with the ones in the
audience memory with the cerebral bridge of highly recognizable photo images
of known voices.
Walt Disney knew this quite well and avoided it.  Indeed, he used
the voice of a complete unknown for Snow White, Adriana Caselotti, (who
passed away in 1997).  Disney was careful to avoid the existing Hollywood
queens of song of the period, Judy Garland  and Deanna Durbin, the latter,
whose prodigious vocal talent actually saved Universal Pictures from going
belly up a short time later.

However, at the bottom line, THE PRINCE OF EGYPT will become a true
classic and has taken the art of animation up to a new threshold, a model to
which future animators will aspire.

Raul daSilva, New Haven, CT,
USA


<|_=00=_|>
I adore the Prince of Egypt. Such a stellar cast of voices, and the
names don't outweigh the movie. The music is fantastic. It has such a
diverse audience, you cannot go wrong with this film. We are all
familiar with the base story and we are provided a mild, interpretive,
inoffensive version to intrigue and open the mind. If not, it can be
enjoyed simply for the color, sound, and simple human emotions and
actions that glide over right and wrong. I'm in college, and I listen
to this movie while studying. I can't escape, humming in the shower,
and learning calculus to the goose-bump inducing tones. The sounds of
God capture all emotion and awe.
