

I'm shocked to see this movie with a rating below 7.  As a big Disney fan,
I'll go out on a limb and say this is one Disney's top 5.  There isn't a
Disney movie out there with wit as sharp as this one's with much of it
probably lost on the audience guessing by the rating given to this movie. 

"Meg" definitely emerges as my all-time favorite female Disney role. 
Breaking from tradition, her character is not all that lady-like in her
biting wit and sarcasm, but it works, serving to make the movie funny and
her character lovable despite working with questionable motives. 

The set-up and plot is typical for the movie but the script, animation, and
music are most original AND good.  IF I had to register a complaint, I would
say that it's perpetual humor kept the movie from being emotionally
wrenching.  However, this movie remains one of the most entertaining I've
seen.  8.5/10 
<|_=00=_|>

I think this film is wonderful. It is sheer entertainment for kids and
hilarious for adults.

I first watched this movie age 7, and i loved it...now i watch it again
age 14 and I'm howling with laughter. The 'You wanna buy a sundial?'
sequence renders me unable to breathe for laughter, whilst when i was
younger it got not so much as a giggle.

As with all Disney films, the jokes are for the 'big kids' and the
entertainment value is for the little ones.

This film has been criticized for not staying true to Greek Mythology.
My response is, it doesn't matter. This a witty, sarcastic and
enjoyable film. Accuracies play no purpose.

The characters are wonderful, particularly Phil and Hades. Also, Megara
provides a feisty, totally non 'princessy' female character, which is
wonderful!

Overall - 8/10

<|_=00=_|>

Although I know I have heaped praise on several other Disney
films...Hercules stands out as my favourite among them all. After this movie
the Disney features once again seemed to slip downhill. However I can watch
this movie again and again, it has a spectacular Greek chorus, gospel type
score, which will ring in your head for days (and you will like it!). The
characters are all likeable, even the villain and it is absolutely
hilarious!

I have never understood the panning this film got from Disney fans, as I
have never comprehended what there is to dislike. The animation is
beautifully done, although it is done in the style of Greek art, which may
not be to everyone's taste (very similar situation to Sleeping Beauty which
was disliked by some because it was animated in the style of a medieval
tapestry), but it works wonderfully for the film.

Take a chance and watch it...and when you're done watching it for the
sixteenth time, go out and buy the soundtrack!

<|_=00=_|>

"Hercules" is a cracking Disney film and for once it's not just for the
kids. The animation is more like the "old-school" Disney, before the cute,
big-eye syndrome and the characters are hugely entertaining. It has sly
humour and in-jokes, but what sets it apart are the songs; soul, RNB, jazz
and not a drippy sugar-song in sight. Quality entertainment!
<|_=00=_|>
Oh my gosh I can't believe that people are complaining about this
movie. It is amazing with great art, jazzy music and awesome
characters. I am 14 and first saw this movie at 5. I liked the movie
then and absolutely love it now.

I love the songs and even though it is not true to mythology, so what??
It's a movie so get over it!! Shesh!! This movie has got heaps of bad
reviews but has anybody looked at the good ones?? The characters in
this movie are great. Hercules is great and Phil adds some laughs. The
villains in this story add soo much humor. Hades, Pain and Panic add
soo many laughs and James Woods is perfect for Hades who is one of the
best villains yet!! Megara (or Meg) has to be the best heroine from all
the Disney movies. For one she is not looking for love, is independent
(she can tie her own sandals and everything) and can stand up to her
boss. She doesn't let anyone push her around. I think that Susan Egan
did Meg's voice perfectly.

Honestly I just want to say that this movie is great for both adults
and children and the songs are unforgettable.If you haven't seen go to
the video shop and rent it! You wont be sorry!!
<|_=00=_|>
This is possibly my favorite Disney movie ever. With a razor-sharp wit,
perfect comic timing and a fresh plot that transcends most other Disney
fairy tales, this one's definitely a keeper.

You'll be enchanted right from the first number, in which the five
Muses (from Greek mythology) set the stage of ancient Greece in a
powerhouse gospel number which gives a whole new meaning to a Greek
chorus. Recalling the three ladies in Little Shop of Horrors or Motown
groups like the Supremes, the Muses appear randomly throughout the
movie to narrate the story of Hercules with jazzy musical numbers that
you'll be humming for days. The songs (by Alan Menken) are certainly a
twist from the classic Disney musical, but there's enough variety to
create a great, well-rounded musical. The writing is the wittiest in
any Disney movie ever, with constant in-jokes and hilarious references
to Greek mythology to reward the amateur scholar. The lyrics, too, are
witty and full of tricky rhyme schemes that must have been a doozy to
write but play out perfectly on screen. (You'll be flat-out awed by how
many things rhyme with the phrase "gospel truth".) 

Another of the highlights is the heroine, Megara or Meg. She's in no
way a typical Disney princess. She's sassy, sexy, cynical and dangerous
- and more winning by far than any warbling Cinderella or whiny little
mermaid. The villain, Hades, is also a fun, witty character, although
plenty dangerous in his own right.

Of course liberties have been taken with Greek mythology. The
dysfunctional Olympian family has been cleaned up (No more Zeus having
affairs or Hera trying to kill people) and the story has little in it
of the original Greek legend. Instead, it's really an archetype, a
modern retelling of all the Greek legends at once. Appearances are made
by the Muses, the Hydra, satyrs, the Fates, Pegasus, the Titans,
Narcissus, and of course all of the Olympian gods. Scholars may take
offense, but since legends evolve and are to be taken with a grain of
salt anyway, I didn't have a problem with it.

Yes, it's cheesy, just like other Disneys. But when nobody else is
around, there's no resisting the corn. The third act is absolutely
heart-wrenching, and even if it's over-the-top, it never truly goes
over the top, and the constant bombarding of wit keeps things from
getting too touchy-feely. Besides, tied together with a golden Disney
score, who couldn't resist a dose of adventure, heartache, redeeming
love, and most of all, heroism? Just let yourself be carried away to
ancient Greece and you'll forget the movie's problems in a
Pelyponnesian minute. As the Muses would say, that's the gospel truth.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen many Disney movies, animated and not, and this one has more
action than most, has no cute animals and is more humorous (ala
Aladdin) than a typical Disney movie--Pixar films not included. This
one also has a male lead (no princesses). If you are looking for
typical Disney fare, then you may not appreciate this one. We enjoyed
it thoroughly--from 4 to 40 years of age, male and female.

As for all the criticism regarding the liberties Disney took with Greek
mythology, get a grip. I love Greek mythology too but hey, IT'S
FICTION! It's not historical fact. Even the ancient tales themselves
are not consistent, containing contradictions. There were many authors.
But the characters are interesting, and Disney used some of them to
create a good story for kids about an outcast looking for his place in
life. It also explores what makes a hero a true hero (perhaps the more
useful lesson of the movie). Yes, it's a shame they took so many
liberties with this picture but it still encourages interest in Greek
myth. Don't believe me? The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles were not
historically accurate either but they got kids interested in the Old
Masters!

8 / 10

<|_=00=_|>

wow! This movie was really a pleasant surprise! I went to the theater
expecting another below-par Disney film (like Pocahontas and Hunchback), but
it turned out to be the most funny and enjoyable one since Aladdin (The Lion
King was good, but there's just no contest between Timon & Pumbaa and the
Genie )! And a good laugh from a Disney cartoon is just what i needed. You
just must see this movie!  
<|_=00=_|>

I don't usually like villains, even in Disney movies, because they're too
scary, but I loved James Woods as Hades.  He was so funny.  I loved the way
he called Megara "my little nutmeg."  I also loved the way they depicted
Thebes like New York and they called it "the big olive."  I loved Meg's
cynical and sarcastic attitude.  Hercules himself was rather bland.  I
loved
the song "Go the Distance."  Paul Wylie skated to it and showed how
powerful
the song is.  I really enjoyed this movie and I don't care if it departs
from Greek mythology.  It was really about our time anyway.  I'd watch it
again in a Pelopenisian minute.
<|_=00=_|>
If Disney were trying to keep their successful streak going then
Hercules is a truly bizarre choice in trying to prolong that. On the
surface a film based on Greek mythology could be very effective and if
anybody could do an interesting take on it then it was probably Disney.
However, the choices made in telling the story and shaping it are just
so strange that I'm not sure what they were thinking. This very much
feels like they were just throwing things at the wall and seeing what
happened to stick. Almost everything clashes, from the animation to the
music to comedy. This is one messy film and I don't think its good
points are enough to redeem it.

In a similar vein to Superman, Hercules is born to the Greek God Zeus
on Mount Olympus and he happens to fall to Earth when a plan by Hades
to dispose of him goes wrong. Hercules later discovers who he really is
and sets out to earn his place back by being a hero, all while Hades
tries to find out his weakness to complete a prophecy. This story has
two big issues, the fact that we've seen this all before and that it is
incredibly predictable. From the very beginning you know how the plot
will develop, the motions that Hercules will go through and how it will
all be resolved in the end. They try to add some different touches here
and there, yet none of them really work and you're left with a tried
plot line.

The characters are pretty much cardboard cut-outs. Hercules (Tate
Donovan) is the classic naive idiot who has a heart of gold and never
gives up. Sadly he comes across as annoying instead of charming and he
simply isn't interesting, he's a hero that you can't really get behind.
His trainer Phil is the typical grumpy teacher, never satisfied and
willing to give his student a hard time. Danny DeVito is a good fit,
but he isn't given anything of note to do. Megara (Susan Egan) is
enjoyably feisty and seems independent at first, but that is traded in
so she becomes a damsel and the attempt to give her a solid backstory
feels rushed. Hades' two servants Pain and Panic are much more
irritating than they are funny too.

The only thing that really works here is Hades with most of that coming
from James Woods and his excellent delivery style. He talks like a
salesman or a lawyer would, with very fluid snappy and frequently funny
dialogue. He's enjoyably different from most Disney villains, mostly
because he is a lot more charismatic and fast- talking. Not to mention
he has a great design. On a similar point the rest of the animation,
designed by Gerald Scarfe, is not that good. It all looks a little too
soft and simplistic, with a lot of bright and rather in your face
colours. I will say that some of the monster designs are quite
creative, but I think they could have been even more imaginative. The
action scenes weren't as good as they should have been either. There
are a few moments of tension that are effective, but the fights are
usually dull and not very engaging.

I didn't enjoy the music at all. The main type of music used was Gospel
and to me it didn't fit the film whatsoever. Seeing these images with a
backdrop of Gospel was just so jarring, not to mention that the songs
themselves were not very catchy. The Oscar-nominated 'Go the Distance'
by Michael Bolton was weak too, the lyrics were rather clichéd and
again it just didn't have a good tune. The comedy really didn't work. I
found the 'muses' who interrupt from time to time to be annoying and
all they did was slow the story down. I didn't care for the characters
so the situational comedy wasn't that funny, there were very few
humorous lines and the pop culture references felt like they were
forced in. Once again Hades is the only one who is consistently
amusing.

For me Hercules is something of a failure. It feels like they were
trying to capture the tone of Aladdin, but missed the fact that that
film had engaging characters and much better jokes. Almost everything
about Hercules doesn't work as it should or badly clashes. Hercules
himself is just such a dull lead, the support he gets is equally as
dull and the story has been seen so many times that it's become too
familiar. Disney are usually great with music and animation, but both
are weak here. I'd have to say that James Woods' Hades is probably the
only shining light and does provide the best moments. Hercules is just
a confused and boring effort.
