

Being a horror movie buff, I have no idea how this little gem escaped me the
first time around. I'd heard a lot about it, read about it, etc but wrote it
off as "probably stupid" like most of the other horror movies I had so
wanted to see.  So, it wasn't until many years after the movie's release
that I finally saw it.  And boy am I glad I did!

Surprisingly, the acting is fabulous...especially for a horror movie.  Each
character portrayed fantastically so as to add to the movie, rather than
detract.  No one really went over the top or became TOO dramatic.  Overall,
each character was portrayed realistically.  

As for the plot: absolutely wonderful premise playing on the Bloody Mary
urban legend. Surprisingly, the movie delivers on aspects of believabilty. 
Of course we don't *really* expect Candyman to pop out of a mirror, but how
many of us have started the "Bloody Mary" chant only to stop at the very
last one, not daring to continue?  Our fears lie behind what COULD happen
and the possibility that maybe..just maybe it's all real.  Candyman plays on
that fear and takes us even further over the edge.

The movie rids itself of the typical cliches  (white, undefeatable stalker
chasing half naked twits) and allows itself to be an entirely enjoyable,
CEREBRAL horror movie.  At first we wonder if the Candyman is perhaps just a
person pretending to be him, then we start to question Helen's own
sanity...wondering perhaps if SHE isn't the "real Candyman".  Eventually,
the movie leads us to an ending that answers our questions but doesn't shove
those answers down our throat.  Candyman also does what very few horror
movies are capable of:  it succeeded in having a strong ending rather than
fizzling out during the last 10-15 minutes.

The setting and atmosphere are top notch.  Using Chicago and Cabrini Green
as its stage was perfect...bringing into play racial issues without going
over the top or getting "in your face" to the point of losing its focus. 
The music in Candyman adds a mysterious mood that matches the dark, dismal
atmosphere of the lone apartments in Cabrini Green.

All in all on my horror movie scale, I give Candyman a 10.  To me, it was
purely artistic and absolutely enjoyable.  I HIGHLY recommend this to anyone
even slightly interested in horror movies.
<|_=00=_|>

Deeply disturbing, intelligently made and without a screaming teen in
sight,
'Candyman' is one of the stand-out horror movies of the decade.

To just list all the elements that make this one of the classiest genre
efforts of recent years would probably take up most of the thousand words
I
am allowed here. Suffice to say, it has a genuinely uncomfortable premise,
uncompromising execution and a bone jarringly lonely score by Philip
Glass.
Tony Todd is exceptional as the hollow-voiced titular creature; a lost
soul
brought to life by the whispers of myth. At once heartbreaking and
terrifying this could be the definitive latter day horror movie monster-
if
it wasn't just that little bit too close to Hellraiser's Pinhead. But,
when
you have a winning combination of elegance and disgust in a verbose,
cultured villain, why alter it too much?

Virginia Madsen convinces totally as Helen; and you can almost see all the
cast acting their little socks off so as not to let the side down. So
good,
in fact, that I'm struggling to find one bad thing to say about it.

I read here, that in the eyes of one viewer, it "dwells on the nastier
things in life" and wasn't a "nice film". I can think of no greater
compliment for a truly adult horror movie. No dear, you won't find happy
teens in pastel t-shirts having slumber parties and discussing trendy
scary
movies, while some rap star tries to sell records on the soundtrack. This
is
a grown up film for grown up people. There is a reason horror films are
for
adults, and that reason is 'Candyman'.


<|_=00=_|>
A strong contender for the title of best horror film of the 1990's,
Bernard Rose's "Candyman" is a very faithful (and therefore truly
scary) adaptation of Clive Barker's skin crawling short story. This
film features a very rare and successful combination of both creepy
atmosphere and visual ingeniousness. Whereas most movies (especially
during the 90's) can hardly focus on any of these essential horror
elements, Bernard Rose masterfully succeeds in stuffing his film with
genuine tension as well as shocking gore-images. The plot centers on
doctoral student Helen (underrated actress Virginia Madsen in her best
role) who becomes obsessed with the urban legend of a hook-handed
killer that terrorizes the pauperized ghettos of the nearby Cabrini
Green. Needless to say that the Candyman-myth gets a little too
realistic for Helen, as everyone she comes into contact with ends up
being brutally killed with a hook. The script is intelligent and always
several steps ahead of you, the eerie musical guidance is brilliant and
the make-up effects are fantastically gruesome. Tony Todd is ideally
cast as the bogeyman, with his strong posture and – above all –
incredibly frightening voice. The legend behind his character is
staggering and it's beautiful to see how director Rose plays with the
realism and surrealism of Barker's basic idea. Not many horror films of
the 90's decade come with my highest possible recommendation, but this
one definitely does. And don't forget, the Candyman CAN…rip you to
pieces!
<|_=00=_|>
Helen Lyle (Virginia Madsen) doctoral student, and wife of a collage
professor, is doing research on urban legends and mythological folklore
for her school thesis. Though, there is one legend which gets her
attention and leads her to rundown housing block where the residents
believe that the murders that took place there were done by the
hook-handed serial killer The Candyman (Tony Todd). A mysterious figure
that can be summoned by repeating his name five times while looking in
the mirror. Which Helen does and now her life turns into horrifying
nightmare, which teeters between reality and myth, as she gets closer
to the truth about the Candyman.

Second time around and this memorable piece hasn't lost any of its
effect. It's not only a incredibly brood horror film that manages to
create an creeping/ingenious plot with such an unsettling physiological
tone, but also providing some generally horrific shocks that creep up
on you and aren't for the squeamish. So, it's far from your normal
slasher and it just doesn't concentrate on the violence for a change.
Not only does the plot build on this mystical legend constructively,
but also there's also some solid social commentary on the mindset
towards race and sex, which added more to this cleverly layered plot
(or should I say tragic love story). What is so great about the
screenplay is that you yourself feel apprehensive to what's happening
to the protagonist and to where this story is heading by playing on
what people believe and how these believes can overcome them. Plus it
makes great use of the Chicago's gloomy surroundings. Not only does the
film have substance, but also style to boot. The direction by Bernard
Rose is quite brilliant, with Rose superbly mixing visuals that gel
myth and reality superbly. Particularly the well-crafted encounters
between Helen and the Candyman - these sequences were incredibly
hair-raising. He creates such a glum and dark atmosphere within these
rundown buildings filled with vibrant artwork, the richly layered aura
goes hand-to-hand with the moody legend. The slow pacing of the film is
perfect; there are no tedious blotches because you are totally wrapped
in the story and by the delightful performances. The death toll isn't
big, but there are some real gruesome deaths, with A LOT blood. The
make-up and special effects are extremely thoughtful and inventive.
Phillip Glass' extremely effective score deserves such high praise.
Soothing, but also haunting and was incredibly effective towards
building towards such an almighty blow. Another bonus was the smooth as
silk camera-work; it captured the balanced layout of Chicago with
plenty of stunning Ariel shots (great intro). Overall, I was just
amazed by this beautifully planned production.

What a horror icon! Tony Todd totally nails down such a terrifying and
profound performance as the mythical being The Candyman. I believe this
horror character totally wipes the floor clean of the other icons of
its genre and who created him? No other than from the dark mind of
Clive Baker (Hellraiser), who brings this frightening thriller alive,
which is basically based on Baker's short story - The Forbidden. He
came up with a unique horror character that's downright unnerving,
completely authentic and has a lot of depth. But Tony Todd's towering
figure and eerie voice has a lot to owe to that and to make one tremble
in his presence! Virginia Madsen gives a stellar performance as Helen
Lyle, who we really do care for her and feel what she is feeling. Good
supporting roles from Xander Berkley as Helen's Husband, Kasi Lemmons
as her friend/student who's also working with her their thesis and
Vanessa Williams as Anne-Marie McCoy who lives in the rundown estate.
The dialogue was packed with depth, but also laced with interesting
topics and Todd's lines were pretty much poetic and smooth.

The one and only "small" negative would be the ending for me. I was
somewhat let down by the second ending and I thought maybe it could've
done without it. It just felt tact on. Anyhow it didn't stop it from
being damn right creepy and it does pack a real unsteadiness.

To get in the mood of it, I say it's definitely a film to watch late at
night… alone.

One of the clever horror films (if not the best) of that disappointing
decade they call the '90s for horror films. If you're looking for a
serious horror (before Scream's imitators made a mockery of the slasher
sub-genre), I highly recommend this provocative slasher that doesn't
cop out the audience.
<|_=00=_|>
Look into a mirror, preferably alone at night, and say "candy-man" 5
times and...uh...see what happens. Little known Bernard Rose directed
this terrifying horror/suspense/thriller set and filmed in Chicago. The
story is adapted from a novel by horror master Clive Barker. Two
attractive female graduate students research an urban "myth" only to
discover it may not be a myth, or is it? That's the premise of this
tightly written and directed film, which does for looking into mirrors
what Psycho did for taking showers. This is a thinking man's horror
film that scares the daylights out of you at times while still leading
you to think beyond what's on the screen.

It's much more than just a horror film with a creepy man goring people
to death. It exploits many of our deepest fears about society and in
ourselves, such as: what can happen in a run down public housing
complex (Chicago's notorious Cabrini-Green projects), and can our fears
remove the certainty of what we know to be untrue? Rose expertly weaves
in Hitchcockian themes of being wrongly accused, emotional
vulnerability, and psychological exploitation, while maintaining
interest and building a high level of tension throughout the film.
Philip Glass' quasi-religious score consistently provides an eerie
companion when the camera takes us into seemingly normal locations,
like a public restroom for instance. Truly one of the very best horror
films of the 90's that can disturb your thoughts, penetrate your sense
of security, and still provide disturbing gore and violence. This film
is not for the faint of heart. Virginia Madsen stars as the main
character and doesn't strike a false note. Tony Todd is the candy-man,
and he doesn't appear to deliver gumdrops. Don't look behind you! ***
of 4 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

`Candyman' is a very frightening and yet intriguing and compelling movie
that plays upon and cleverly manipulates old urban legends and myths of
folklore and brings to life some of your worst nightmares and horrors. As
far as scary movies go it falls into a category of its own in terms of its
depth and excellence

One of the main strengths of this movie is that the script and the character
performances are so powerful and credible that it doesn't feel the need to
inject unnecessary horror/graphic/violent scenes into it to sensationalize
it. Sure, there is an extensive amount of blood and gore in the movie but it
nevertheless fits in with the plot and isn't added in just to give the film
an unnecessary `horror' feel. The chilling and terrifying aspects of this
movie come from the dialogue, the sequence of events and the emotions and
personas revealed in the characters. The plot and the script is enough to
leave you mesmerized throughout the whole movie and to remain on the edge of
your seat with the anticipation of what is going to happen next. The
producers and scriptwriters must receive top marks for the wonderful way in
which they enriched the whole movie by relying on the script and the acting
instead of adding cheap gimmicks into it to make it more frightening. In
addition to that the lighting and the scenery around the whole movie makes
it even more frightening

I have always thought Virginia Madsen to be a highly talented, qualified and
excellent actress whose wonderful acting and gifted performances have been
consistently overlooked when allocating movie roles. For me `Candyman'
confirmed this thesis. Her portrayal of Helen Lyle is truly one of the most
excellent portrayals of a character I have seen recently. She gives her
character so much depth, dimension and genuine emotions. Tony Todd also
emerges from this film as a very talented and wonderful actor. The amount of
depth, dimension and persona that he gives to the character of the
`Candyman' is amazing. Although the Candyman is in many ways a truly evil
and frightening character, you also can't help but feel a great deal of
sympathy for him at times and this too is a testament to Todd's acting. The
supporting cast –particularly Vanessa Williams and even the young kid who
Helen interviews while in the neighbourhood-also deserve an honourable
mention for giving their characters such a realistic edge.

I would recommend this movie –it is chilling, frightening, intriguing,
compelling, sad and wonderful all in one. One of the best movies I have ever
seen in this genre

<|_=00=_|>

College student (Virginia Madsen) decides to write a paper on a slave (Tony
Todd) who was killed for simply being in love with a white woman. Legend has
it if you call out his name several times, he will appear and kill you to
avenge his death. Naturally Madsen is disbelieving of this, but Todd starts
butchering off all of her friends and framing her in order to make her
believe. 

This film is so intense and frightening, that when I first saw this on home
video with all of the lights on, I actually had to call my mother and get
her to come over and comfort me, because this film scared me to death. Tony
Todd is perfect in a menacing performance as the villain and Virginia Madsen
makes the perfect victim capturing the right balance between terror and
disbelief. The myths and legends behind the film are so complex and so
fascinating that this film could have gone on for at least another hour and
not be one bit overlong. There is plenty of characterization and atmosphere
and the settings for the film are very well chosen. However, working
somewhat against the film are some of the supporting actors, poor special
effects, and an ultra gimmickey ending that feels as though it belongs in
another film given the tone and subject matter of this
film.

Rated R; Graphic Violence, Profanity, and Brief Nudity.
<|_=00=_|>

Undoubtedly one of the more original and frightening horror movies of
the early 90s, Bernard Rose's "Candyman," an adaptation of famed author
Clive Barker's "The Forbidden," stands well on its own as an
effectively creepy film.

I was only about six or seven when I first heard the terrifying "Bloody
Mary" legend, which was similar to the Candyman legend. And I'm sure
others have heard stories about alligators in the sewer or the hesitant
911 operator. Indeed, the "Candyman" and "Bloody Mary" legends do share
some common ground, in that if you chant their names before a mirror
"x" number of times, they'll appear behind you and hack you to pieces.

I used to believe in these legends - when I was kid - but as I grew
older, I realized that they're just legends and therefore aren't meant
to be taken literally. But that's the central dilemma with 1992's
"Candyman": If you believe in something enough, will that belief make
fiction reality?

The Candyman (Tony Todd) has claimed responsibility for a series of
grisly slayings in a particularly rough Chicago housing project, and
Helen Lyle (Virginia Madsen) is anxious to discredit the myths. But
when she is falsely accused of several brutal murders, could the
Candyman be out for revenge, because she doubted him?

I'll admit upfront that I'm not familiar with the works of Clive
Barker, who is clearly one of the most talented writers of the last 20
years. Only this film and "Hellraiser" have been able to capture my
interest, unfortunately. "Candyman" is certainly a terrifying
experience from start to finish, as you can't really be sure if the
hook-handed spectral entity of the title actually exists in the
physical world.

10/10

<|_=00=_|>

Candyman is one of my all time favorite horror movies.  It is genuinely
scary, and it makes one have second thoughts when standing in front of a
mirror.

What I particularly enjoyed about the movie is the multidimensional
development of the plot at the sociological, psychological, and
parapsychological level.  The first scene of the movie presents in a
nutshell the experience that the viewer is going to have, an experience so
common (regarding urban legends) yet so distant.

The acting (esp. by Virginia Madsen) is superb.  The setting could not be
more perfect.  The shaggy, derelict apartment buildings at Cabrini Green
create the proper ambience for what is to follow.

Certainly the gory scenes are not very attractive, and in a way such
explicit portrayal does not seem necessary, since the psychological suspense
is the driving force of the movie.  Also the ending is rather anticlimactic
and overdrawn.  Disappointing sequel....

Fun to watch with people who scare easily!
<|_=00=_|>
As far as horror films go, this movie will scare the living daylights
out of anyone! Clive Barker's novel "The Forgotten" is the basis for
this picture that shows a lot of style under the direction of Bernard
Rose. This nightmarish tale is translated for the screen by the author
and its director.

The two principals, Helen, brilliantly played by the gorgeous Virginia
Madsen, and Tony Todd, as the Candyman, enhance the picture. Ms. Madsen
plays Helen the student finishing her thesis in urban legends. She
makes the mistake of going to the projects to do some research, only to
learn much more of what really happened at the scene of the crime.
Helen tempts the Candyman. He comes back to haunt her as we discover
that this is a story that is being replayed and must have a closure.
Tony Todd makes a smashing appearance and runs away with the movie.

The special effects are cleverly done. The brilliant costumes by
Leonard Pollack add a touch of class to the proceedings. 

This is a film to watch with someone, as it can cause nightmares for a
long, long time.
