

This movie was about a man named Darrin (Cuba Gooding Jr.) who returns
to his hometown from New York City to read the will of his aunt who
passed away. While he is there, he comes into contact with the other
characters of the town (Montecarlo, GA) and he stumbles upon his old
fling Lily (Beyoncé Knowles). Darrin's aunt leaves him in charge of
leading the local church choir to a gospel championship. This was one
of the greatest movies i've seen. I'm a huge fan of Beyoncé, so to see
Beyoncé in this movie doing her thing is a dream for me. The movie has
it's good and bad parts. The acting is great. The soundtrack is even
greater. I think that this film would be more accepted by the
African-American group. I myself am African-American and there are some
parts in this movie where I think only African-Americans will get. It's
an A+ Job. Cuba was hilarious in this movie. Not one of his best, but
definitely great.

<|_=00=_|>

Excellent gospel music and some other musical gems highlight this
otherwise
poor excuse for a film.  The music is as good as it gets.  So good I just
might buy my first gospel cd ever.  But the goods stop there, with the
possible exception of Beyonce who manages a decent acting performance to
go
with some superb vocals.  Actually, the supporting cast is likable for the
most part and do an okay job.  However, Cuba Gooding Jr. was completely
abysmal, almost as bad as the screenplay.  The story itself is
implausible,
the jokes are stale and the dialogue is boring.  Yet, the music was so
much
fun, I am glad that I saw it and would recommend it to others.  Just fast
forward through all parts where they are not singing.  Believe me you
won't
miss anything worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
To my surprise, this was not a movie about the Temptations.

This is one of those cute "black" movies that makes white people wish
they were black so they could have so much fun -- and I don't
necessarily mean that in a cynical way. Others that come to mind are
"The Preacher's Wife", "The Five Heartbeats"... I like movies like
this, if only for relief from always seeing the same white actors on
screen.

Of course, just like all Hollywood movies, it is total fantasy, and
this one even more so seeing as it it was made by MTV (just check out
the number of deleted music sequences on the DVD!).

And if you love gospel music (even some who don't), you will love this
movie, despite the fact that it looks like the songs were written first
and a script later to patch them all together, taking many shameless
cues from "Sister Act" -- both One and Two.

The script is pretty lame in many parts -- mostly with Cuba Gooding's
lines -- and the punch depends on the goings-on of mostly bit parts.
LaTanya Richards as Paulina is extremely convincing as the
self-righteous church treasurer, but there are no really strong
protagonists (the only one around dies in the first fifteen minutes) so
she pretty much controls the plot single- handedly.

The movie is all about cameos. Cameos, cameos cameos!! Even Shirley
Caeser plays (who else?) herself ! ! They might as well have called
Beyonce Beyonce and Cuba Cuba.

One other good thing I can say for the movie is the positive mixing of
races it shows, among so many movies that tend to show mainly conflict
among them. In my experience, the kind of mixing as shown in this movie
is the real world, rather than the 99.9% black "Preacher's Wife", or
for that matter 100% whiteness of so many movies. Sure, it may be
fantasy (there is absolutely no racial tension present in this movie
despite so much mingling), but I root for the positive image it
projects.

If you are a cynic, this movie is not for you, but if you need some
warm fuzzies, go for it!
<|_=00=_|>

The song and dance and high energy expressions of faith and joy were a
delight-- too bad the plot didn't have as much going for it.

Cuba Gooding is a remarkably talented guy, as in fact, were many of the
cast
members... the script just didn't give them much to work
with.
The plot is predictable and formulaic-- which isn't necessarily a terrible
thing if it never-the-less shows you a really good time anyway.  This
movie
tries to, but just falls flat whenever the music stops.

It was worth watching for the rousing good music, but certainly not
something I feel any need to add to my dvd collection and ever watch
again.


<|_=00=_|>

I can not believe I almost forgot to write about this film.  It was a rare
one that I really enjoyed.  It had some funny moments and some great
music.
Now I'm not saying this movie was perfect b/c it was far from it but it
was
very entertaining and sometimes that is what a movie is supposed to be.
The
acting was okay and Beyonce is not bad at acting and is great at singing.
The plot was nothing monumental but it dealt with something my wife was
actually going through at the time.  I will definitely own this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

High-class New York advertising executive Cuba Gooding, Jr. is fired for
lying on his resume (firing someone for that is about as dumb as firing
someone for killing a cockroach). Immediately following that he learns that
his elderly aunt has died. He decides to go back to the town of his youth, a
place he has always been ashamed of, and finds out that she wanted him to
take over the job of conducting the choir in the local Baptist Church.
Gooding does not show much interest until he learns that $150,000 is
involved. Thus he passes himself off as a musical specialist with
hit-and-miss comedic results. Beyonce Knowles sizzles, as she always seems
to do, as a cocktail bar singer who has been banned from the congregation
for having a child out of wedlock. Needless to say, the choir needs her
though and it becomes apparent that Gooding needs her as well. Wendell
Pierce is impressive as the church's minister and his annoying sister
(LaTanya Richardson) ends up being the villain here. Lots of energy from the
cast and some admittedly great vocals are not enough to endear "The Fighting
Temptations". The main problems are Gooding's uneven character (it is hard
to always like him) and a seemingly endless running time (going just over
two hours, too long for a movie like this). Knowles is the greatest reason
to watch. She downs Pepsi Colas and sings her heart out with vigor and
intensity. 2.5 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
The Fighting Temptations was mean-spirited and way too shallow for my
liking. In a way I suppose it does expose the religious hypocrisy that
goes on a lot now a days, but the way it was done was cruel and mean-
spirited. Many of the characters are hard to root for, and while Cuba
Gooding does his best with the material, his character is very hard to
relate too. I think the producers of this movie expected a big hit,
because they brought in Beyonce and figured it would be the revival
Cuba needed, but there is too much wrong with it too work. The music
itself was quite impressive at times, Beyonce can really do no wrong
with her voice, and I especially enjoyed the guys from the jail who
were doing the creative rapping, but I feel this should have been
light-hearted fun, and in the end it took itself much too seriously a
lot of the time. Cuba's charisma serves him well in this movie, but not
well enough to make this anything more than mediocre, and it's a shame
too because it had all the potential in the world to be a great
musical.

Performances. Cuba Gooding Jr's charisma makes him better than he has
any right to be here, but his character does many things I didn't like.
Beyoncé Knowles is gorgeous to look at, but her character is rather
shallow and she had her wooden moments, while her chemistry with Cuba
felt off. Golden Girl fans may recognize Rue McClanahan has a small
role here, she's pretty much wasted. Wendell Pierce had a nice comic
touch as the Reverend, I enjoyed his performance. LaTanya Richardson
plays one of the most unlikable and despicable religious woman I've
ever seen in my lifetime, she did her job well.

Bottom line. It has its moments, but not enough to make it a quality
flick. It's really mediocre when it all comes down to it, and I really
can't recommend this than anything more than if nothing else is on the
T.V.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of Cuba Gooding's best performances in years. Mr. Gooding
has been on a dry run since his Oscar win in the supporting category
for Tom Cruise's famous line-Show me the money!

This is basically a fun film. Cuba Gooding, recently fired from his
job, returns to Georgia for the funeral of his beloved Aunt Sally. That
funeral scene in the church is just memorably realized.

Gooding captures the part of the not so competent worker, with a kind
and understanding heart.

He can keep the inheritance providing that he does something is an old
Hollywood line. This time, it's the taking up of the choir.

LaTanya Richardson gives a stoic performance as the holier than thou
choir leader who looks to trip the Gooding character up so that she can
maintain her position. She is just great as one who preaches reverence
but has strayed herself.

Beyonce Knowles belts it out. Of course, her rendition of fever can't
be compared to that of the great Peggy Lee.
<|_=00=_|>

I was baffled by the title, "The Fighting Temptations".  I grew up on, among
other music, songs by "The Temptations", so naturally figured this somehow
was a movie about that group, and some comedic 'fighting' among them.
BZZZzzzzttttt! Wrong!!  There is a conversation somewhere in the middle of
the movie, regarding Beyonce's character 'fighting (off) temptation', and at
the very end when the church choir performs, they have named themselves 'The
Fighting Temptations.'  

This is not a very good movie. Very uneven dialog, silly jokes and sexual
references, characters who act strange for no reason that supports the
story, very sketchy character development. However, I surmise this movie was
made to help Beyonce, a very talented singer who really CAN sing, break into
acting. And, she does it quite well, as a single mom who makes a living
singing in dives. However, the overall movie falls somewhere in the same
quality bracket as 'Glitter' and 'Crossroads', fairly recent movies starring
other singers. Most of Beyonce, and a little of Cuba Gooding, are the
reasons to see this, if at all. My wife left it after 30 minutes, I could
not recommend it to any of my friends.

SPOILERS are contained in the rest of my comments. Gooding grew up in the
little town of Montecarlo, Ga, and left as a teen, ending up a hustler of
sorts in NYC. We see him get a promotion in an advertising company, later to
get fired because it was discovered that he faked both his high school
graduation and his attendance at Yale. Only to see him re-hired at the end
because his 'fans' were demanding him back. He was good, but not honest. 
However, in the middle when he goes home for his dear aunt's funeral, and
the will is read, he can get her fortune valued at $150,000 if he will
direct the church choir and lead them to victory in the big contest. Broke,
and owing thousands to various credit cards, he takes the challenge. But the
choir is only a shell of its former self, and very poor. So he sets about
recruiting talented Beyonce, who was in disfavor with the church for being a
single mom and lounge singer. He eventually gets her plus three inmates from
the local prison, plus three singing barbers, and an organist who looks like
he should be riding Harleys shirtless. Through unlikely developments they
win, but he finds the inheritance was now worth only $357. He took the job
in NYC, but felt guilty, he fought the temptation of New York, and returned
to his home and beautiful Beyonce.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a very sloppy one. The story is filled with some unlikely
events and characters and the directing and especially editing is
seriously flawed mostly. Still thanks to its music, this movie still
has some entertainment value and also somewhat still works as a 'feel
good movie'.

Perhaps the biggest problem with the movie is that the comedy and drama
elements of the movie are not balanced out very well. At times the
movie can't seem to decide whether it wants to be a comedy or a drama.
A result of this is that most of the comedy feels out of place and
seriously mistimed. The movie becomes never funny to watch because of
this but the warm feel good atmosphere of the movie still somewhat
compensates for this.

Cuba Gooding Jr. seriously needs to start looking for another agent. I
mean this is an Oscar winning actor but yet he appears in movies like
"Chill Factor", "Pearl Harbor" and "Boat Trip"? I mean, what's up with
that? He deserves to play better roles in better movies. This movie is
also one of those movies in which he feels out of place. I know he can
play comical roles well but in this movie he just never gets enough
opportunity to show this. As a matter of fact, none of the characters
in the movie work out or feel deep enough. The movie seems to
concentrate more (and too much) on its music than on its characters and
story in general. I seriously don't think that Beyoncé Knowles is a bad
actress but just like Cuba, her role isn't significant- and present
enough in the movie. Rue McClanahan also somehow got mixed up in this
mess.

At times it just totally feels like entire sequences in the movie are
missing. Lots of moments in the movie feel rushed and are not
satisfying enough. The movie is a real sloppy job. You can't just blame
the script for this but also the filmmakers involved. Yes, it's a real
mess of a movie at times, that too often takes the easy simple road.

But yet the movie still works good thanks to its music. It makes the
movie very pleasant to watch and therefor the movie still works good as
a simple feel good movie. But that obviously doesn't mean that the
movie itself is also a good one. The movie is too flawed in its story
and way of film-making to consider this movie a good or totally
recommendable one.

There still is enough to enjoy in this movie but the sloppy way of
film-making and storytelling don't make this movie really a
recommendable one. Perhaps this movie is a typical case of 'watch at
your own risk'...chances are you might end up loving- or totally hating
it.

5/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
