

Forget all the explosions, car chases, crazy villains, special effects...
The Thomas Crown Affair is not an action movie. It´s not even a thriller.
Instead, it´s a well-done cat-and-mouse movie that´s smart, entertaining and
very sexy. If you had to use one word to describe the film it would have to
be sophisticated. The movie might appeal more to mature audiences as both
the leading man and the leading lady are over 40 years
old.
      Pierce Brosnan can obviously do other roles beside James Bond, but the
role of Thomas Crown is at least somewhat similar to 007. Both guys "enjoy
women" and are very suave. Overall, Brosnan gives a solid performance and is
overshadowed only by Rene Russo who simply oozes sexuality and class. She is
simply perfect in her role and though she´s twice as old as I am I find her
a real knockout. Not only is she extremely hot, but also a very talented and
charismatic actress. A perfect combination! The classy dance scene between
Brosnan and Russo belongs to the most sexually-charged scenes in history and
the following love-making scene manages to be both sexy and stylish. Usually
nude scenes in Hollywood movies seem somehow "uneasy", but in this movie the
scene is done in real style and with sensual music the atmosphere is
sizzling. Who would want a disposable bimbo like Britney Spears when you
could have a real class-act woman like Rene Russo?
     I would also like to mention Bill Conti whose simple yet refined music
is simply outstanding. Just listen to the music during the scene in which
Crown and Banning go glider flying... You can just close your eyes and
listen to this wonderful music. Now I have to find the soundtrack for this
film!
      I guess I should mention that I´ve never seen the original Thomas
Crown, but now I don´t even have to bother as its updated version is a true
pleasure to watch. I have nothing negative to say about it so just go get
this film on DVD and enjoy!     
<|_=00=_|>

This DVD was an impulse buy, pure and simple.  My wife and I like Pierce
Brosnan, and I have enjoyed Renee Russo's other works, so what did I have to
lose?  Only my mind!  This film was positively one of the most enjoyable,
nail-biting, suspenseful romantic capers ever made.  

A remake of the steamy 1968 Steve McQueen flick updated to the sleek and
self-referential 90s, "Thomas Crown" features Brosnan as the title character
- a bored billionaire businessman in the business of "acquisitions".  For a
thrill, he heists an extremely valuable Monet from the New York Museum right
under the noses of security guards, cops, and about a thousand unsuspecting
museum-goers.  Renee Russo is the very sexy, very worldly Catherine Banning,
whose insurance company underwrites the painting - and she is determined to
get it back at any cost... But the cost just may be her soul as she woos,
and then falls under the spell of the enigmatic Crown.  Will Russo discover
the location of the Monet?  Will she rat out Thomas Crown? Or is Crown
manipulating her affections like Bobby Fisher manipulates the pieces on a
chess board?

What we have here is a high-speed chase film whose vehicle is clever dialog,
rich and exotic direction, and more than a little sexual tension!  Brosnan,
as Crown, is ever the cool Brit charmer whose every word and action are as
calculated as the movements of a Rolex.  Russo smoulders every time she
appears on screen.  And when the two of them get together, the chemical
reaction is pure dynamite.

Dennis Leary has a nice bit as a streetwise NYPD detective on the case, who
dispenses advice to Russo's Banning, and watches her begin to spiral out of
control.  His role here most likely resulted in the deserved attempt at a
television series on ABC ("The Job").

The action in the film moves exotically from caper to cover-up and back with
dizzying speed... All the while, we are kept guessing about the motivations
of the two lead, and find ourselves eagerly anticipating their next move. 
When the final checkmate comes, we are left totally bewildered, befuddled,
and baffled... which is most-likely the director's intention!

On all levels, "The Thomas Crown Affair" will steal the hearts of men and
women alike... but for different reasons - Men can enjoy the action and
thrill of the chase, and Crown's ability to win over the most beautiful
women and his attempt to get away with the ultimate heist... Ladies can
marvel at the suave Brosnan and his life of extreme wealth, and
all-the-while wonder if he will betray her, or if she will betray
him...

I will not betray you... I ain't saying!
<|_=00=_|>

It was wonderful - much better than the "original" The characters were more
interesting, the plot more interesting!

The entire cast gives marvellous performances, Rene Russo and Pierce Brosnan
are wonderful, sexy, intelligent and never boring!

I am tired of hearing about Rene's age being a factor, there are sexy
talented women of all ages! Her performance is what thrilled me - she gives
a multifaceted performance. And its interesting that most of the critical
people of her on this site are male. I guess they can't handle a strong- yet
vulnerable, intelligent woman.

Kudos to Pierce Brosnan for selecting a woman lead who is not only his
contemporary but equal in intelligence and moxy!!


<|_=00=_|>
Obligatory comparison to the first film: The first Thomas Crown Affair
really wasn't that great with its split screens that would make even
Brian De Palma sick. Like other films from that era of history, it's
lost some of its shock with time but unlike true classics, Thomas Crown
Affair has lost a lot of its charm. Worth a viewing, but not worth
worshipping.

Only vague concepts carry over from film to film, really. The same
basic plot curve, same basic events, same basic characters, except
everything is retold and reinterpreted from a different point of view.
And I much prefer John McTiernan's interpretation despite the more
glaring plot holes such as 'Why didn't the security tape reveal who set
the briefcase in the gallery to begin with?' Theoretically the culprit
could've been caught then and there, but then there'd be no movie. 

The caper's execution is rather spectacular, far more entertaining than
the original's, though much less likely to happen. But who cares,
really? McTiernan directed this as a film you can't take 100% seriously
anyway. This is a fun cat and mouse movie, not a documentary.

The premise-an art theft-strikes me as more interesting than the
original's robbery; besides, how many films have bank robberies? How
many films steal art? It's something different.

The characters and their portrayals are colorful and interesting,
walking a thin line of camp but never pushing it too far. This movie
isn't about 'Everyman' nor is it meant to. It's about a billionaire who
gets his kicks out of high stake gambles and wages-how do you do that
without a larger than life portrayal? 

I particularly liked the ending sequence, as goofy, perhaps corny as it
is, it's still fun. Especially the music selection, Nina Simone's
Sinnerman, a well chosen track. Bill Conti provides the underlying
score, which proves quite unique having a slightly bouncy 'piano
recital' quality to its first few themes. Very fitting for the museum
setting. It's a CD worth purchasing for the sake of variety alone. 

In the end, Thomas Crown Affair works not because of the film's
subjects or its characters . . . it works because of -how- it portrays
everything. Its tone is fun and relaxing, and it never tries to take
itself too seriously. After all, we are at the movies and not a
training seminar . ..
<|_=00=_|>

Well, what can I say after watching this film, being a fan of the
original.
To begin with, I enjoyed it as it was almost a 90's play by play remake,
and
I am always pleased to see how a 60's or 70's classic would have looked 20
something years later. The early scenes in the film were very close to the
original, with the business deal going through, and then Crown going to
observe the heist; although participating this time around, and so, with
what I saw I saw a hell of a lot of promise to shine up to the original.
The
heist seems in both are superbly conceived and very well filmed, with just
the right amount of tension about the problems arising. Good
stuff.

Enter Russo, dressed as a total Dunaway clone (Remember the headscarf?)
and
with some scenes of total over acting which could have worked well but on
the whole didn't. Where Russo seems to let go and enjoy herself is a slip
mistake that the character would never have done; Dunaway ALWAYS kept her
cool in the original.

Enter the cat and mouse thriller element of the film. I have seen a few
reviews here that say that this dragged the film along, slowing it down
considerably. However, this film, in both versions, is not about a
robbery,
it is about the chase. The point of the film is the exchanges between the
two protagonists, each trying to catch the other out; and this is the
brilliance of the film, because it isn't a visual action plot with little
in
it that so many films are today. This makes you watch, this makes you
observe and it makes you think.

Moving on to the character of Crown by Brosnan. Some people have said that
Brosnan was hollow and one dimensional, with no background to his
motivation
to the robbery. This is EXACTLY the point and this is why the ending of
the
1999 version does NOT work. Thomas Crown only has two things that he cares
about: Greed and acquisition. The scene in both versions with the business
deal at the beginning is the evidence at this, with the corporate suits
joking about "Thomas Crown actually selling something" then we find out
that
he only sold it because, unknown to them, they were offering 30 million
more
than anyone else. All Crown cares about is possessing as much as he can,
this is why he has been alone all this time. And, with this being the
point
of the character, that is why the ending of the film is so disappointing
and
unbelievable compared to the original. Crown desired to own the painting
and
he would not have given this up for the love of a woman, because, although
it is obvious he wants a woman to love him, he cannot love women, because
he
can only love what he owns, and he wants to own everything. The original
version, with McQueen deceiving Dunaway, after she betrayed him and then
leaving her on the plane is a much more convincing ending.

Another unconvincing aspect is the comparison between the McQueen/Dunaway
and Brosnan/Russo relationships. Firstly, the dance scene comes nowhere
near
comparison to the chess scene of the original; and the dance scene is very
poorly filmed as well. The chess scene showed both characters attempts at
dominance over each other, their lust to win over each other, and they
sexual tension between them as they play with the chess pieces, slowly and
seductively. The dance scene is a quick montage of unclear movement with
the
only piece of sexual tension being Brosnan laying his hands on Russo. All
the dominance that Dunaway had in the original was disposed of and Russo
caved into to sleeping with Crown very easily. Then, there is the
Brosnan/Russo sex scene; which in my opinion was HIGHLY unnecessary.
McQueen
and Dunaway never needed to do a nude scene together, as the sexual
tension
between the two was so obvious that it could be cut with a bread knife.
However, Brosnan and Russo do not have that touch, the spark was nowhere
near as big, and the inclusion of a nude scene still does not bring it
anywhere near the status of attraction that the original couple
had.

This film could have been a classic remake if it didn't try to be so
politically correct. The only reason why the remake switched from a bank
heist to art theft is because, in today's world, armed robbery cannot be
presented as an elegant theft. This is ridiculous, as the reason that the
original's heist was so smooth was because of the planning, timing and
element of no one of the criminals meeting until midway through the heist;
all goes on while McQueen watches from across the road. Where was the
planning and recruitment in this remake? Oh yes, Russo mentioned it so
quickly, it would have been dismissed faster than one of Brosnan's
butler's
lines. And the idea of a happy ending, with both of the characters, now
definitely lovers, flying off into the sunset with plans for happiness
together. Garbage. These two characters are selfish and greedy because
they
only look at for number one in a dog eats dog world. McQueen's Crown saw
this, knowing to drop Dunaway or go to jail; and this PC happy ending is
just not compatible with this film; as with a cat and mouse thriller,
someone has to lose.

<|_=00=_|>
The Thomas Crown Affair is an exception to the Hollywood rule that the
remake must be true to the original. In 1968, Steve McQueen and Faye
Dunaway served up a 1960s sexy confection of skimpy clothes and clever
heists. John McTiernan turns the flick into a sultry, almost jaded,
romance. Thomas Crown (Pierce Brosnan, slick from practicing seduction
as James Bond) is a power-lunching, billionaire robber-baron who gets
his kicks stealing art treasures from taxpayer-supported museums.
Catherine Olds Banning (played by the tough, but sexy Rene Russo) is
the insurance company detective determined to get back the painting he
steals at the beginning of the film. If she can get it, she will save
her insurance conglomerate a nice chunk of change. The billionaire and
the detective try everything to outsmart each other including a highly
charged love affair that's a heated mix of business and pleasure. Russo
looks very good with her clothes off.

The director's attention to the detail of the sumptuous, luxury sets,
provides a suitably comfy backdrop for the steamy action. McTiernan
also directs the action pieces almost as well as one might expect from
the director Die Hard.

Brosnan and Russo supply most of the heat for the developing romance.
The witty dialog by Leslie Dixon make the film move by with enough
grace to paper over the fact that it is the sex we are interested in.
Russo is beautiful, stylish, smart, self-possessed, and incredibly
sexy.

Denis Leary gets a good character role as a police detective smitten
with Russo, and Faye Dunaway (the love interest in 1968) gets a wholly
enjoyable cameo as Brosnan's therapist, who helps him try to figure out
why he is such an irresponsible business man.

One wonders now, after Enron, Tyco, and other big payoff corporate
heists, just whom Crown is robbing to pay for his high-tech robbery
crew. How many of his company's employees will have to give up their
pensions or health benefits to keep his company looking good on Wall
Street. Who cares? It's just a movie! Actually, it is a great date
movie. Pop it in. See if it works.
<|_=00=_|>
Hooray for Hollywood! The world may be falling apart so like we needed
money spent on a remake of "The Thomas Crown Affair." But then heck if
Tinseltown in all its unoriginality doesn't do a bang-up fun job of
unreality with characters who have no place in the Unreel World, from
the classy looking opening credits to Sting covering "Windmills of my
Mind" over the closing credits. 

In the opening scene I'm thinking, wait I know that woman's voice and
voila it's Faye Dunaway from the original film as Crown's shrink - I
cheered out loud (OK so I was the only one in the audience that got the
joke).

Pierce Brosnan and Renee Russo are an age-appropriate couple with
genuine fireworks and chemistry (with help from director John McTiernan
and editor John Wright in the tango and copulation scenes).

There's unconventionally good music choices - that tango is from Three
Penny Opera of all things and a terrific use of Nina Simone's "Sinner
Man" in a marvelous Magritte-inspired ironically tense heist scene.
Brosnan's trainer gets a credit, as there's plenty of skin. Russo
laughs, a gorgeous belly laugh, unlike so many frozen femmes fatale.

The credits also say that no museum was used as a locale, so gosh they
really recreated the Met amazingly accurately (and how much did that
cost?), though it didn't seem crowded enough Crown goes in at 9 when
the museum doesn't open until 11.

I would think this is a great date movie. 

(originally written 8/22/1999)
<|_=00=_|>
For a few minutes , 120 or so you will feel like you are living the
life of the protagonist.

A smile will be on your face throughout the movie. An anticipation will
build on and you will enjoy a climax every 15 minutes or so.

This movie is one of its kind, not to mention Pierce Brosnan who looks
tailor made for this role.

Every few years a movie comes that you remember throughout your life,
sometimes it may appeal to one group and detract another, but the
people to whom it appeals, it touches their heart and they are deeply
influenced by it. It is one of those movies 

After Clint Eastwood it was Pierce Brosnan who could actually play a
real, relaxed , laid back, mature man in Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, it's not a cookie-cutter remake of the original staring Mr.
McQueen and Ms. Dunaway - so no comparison required.

You might say Brosnan was typecast by Bond, and the idea of a suave
player getting one over on yet another woman might be the obvious
outcome, but not this time! Instead we're treated to a sophisticated
game of cops and robbers, played out in this stylish and seductive
entertainment. Mr. Brosnan (Thomas) is at the top of his game and may
be involved in something illegal. Ms. Russo (Catherine) is called in to
investigate, claiming an office and sharing confidences with the local
police department looking for clues. Catherine epitomises
sophistication with hair, makeup and fashions styled to perfection.
She's an understatement of success; a woman playing a man's game,
bounty-hunting life and sex on her own terms and 'enjoying the chase'. 

Once Catherine is on the trail of Thomas Crown you'll join her in a
hedonistic game of one-upmanship. She's done this kind of work before
and must stay on her toes if she's going to implicate the wealthy
Thomas Crown. The local cops and cultured community believe Mr. Crown
to be beyond reproach; an untouchable pillar of wealth and good taste.

These two characters exist in their luxurious world through strange
circumstance and have made it their own through hard work and some
bluffing. The movie provides glimpses into their lifestyles, and at the
same time, keeps them both just outside what you'd expect from a
wealthy businessman and a woman working for an insurance company.

Supporting character Mr. Leary makes a cynical, yet caring detective
attempting to save face by nabbing Thomas Crown - however it's quite
obvious in a city the size of New York that a bored millionaire looking
for thrills by staging a theft is not his priority. Mr. Leary is guilty
of a bit of cussing and jaded police behaviour, but ya 'gotta hope he's
still on the force.

The story races from one clue to the next, and we glimpse a world where
time means nothing, and money is just, well, not an issue. The film
really sets the tone for the lush life with ultra-posh, elegant sets,
millionaire-hobbies and exotic locations. The soundtrack is perfect,
giving the entire movie an upmarket, worldly feel that befits a modern
romance.

This is really a love story for anyone who imagines being whisked away
from the mundane into places that you've only read or heard about in
glossy magazines. It's a film for any person out there who'd like to
have the freedom to do what they want and damn the consequences. Well,
either that or have enough money to do anything, then disappear. 

There is some hot on-screen chemistry between Thomas and Catherine,
making the love scenes, coupled with the sexy music and breathtaking
backgrounds, erotic. They have a healthy appetite for each other so the
love scenes in his apartment and 'island retreat' are the 'stuff that
dreams are made of.'

Yes, there are little snafus, such as a painting being folded in a
manner that would permanently ruin it, and the usual gaffes that
serious film-goers will pick over - but heck, it's just a movie and a
love story - let yourself go and imagine you're a woman who's just
crashed a black tie event in a dress making every man in the room
salivate, or that you're the man she's heading for on the dance floor -
then have fun with it . . . 

In the end, for all their cunning, Thomas and Catherine must decide if
they can trust each other, just like most men and women must do in any
love story. What you may find hard to decide though, is who to root
for, and who really wins the game of cat and mouse at the end of this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught it on HBO and realized what an entertaining movie this is and
regretted not watching it on the big screen.

Pierce and Rene owned the movie and their superb acting holds the story
together. It is not about the heist nor the painting, though the
soundtrack was excellent. It's about love between 2 person who refused
to believe that they are capable of being loved.

Never a fan of Pierce but this movie certainly cemented his status as
an actor. None of his James Bond movie came close to delivering such a
superb performance. You can always count on Rene to deliver her best in
any movie.

You can say I am inlove with this movie and yes you are right indeed. I
recommend this to anyone who enjoys watching movie for what it is and
not trying to show off your intelligence by disecting the movie.

Simply, one of the best!
