
As a simple but interesting story, Strangeland is in the middle of good
and bad. It borrows too much from other flicks, like Buffalo Bill from
Silence of the Lambs. Some lines ("What a rush?") are kind of terrible.
And the Twisted Sister references that no one picks up on are
laughable: the "we're not gonna take it" sign that the angry mob is
holding and Dee's character "Capt. Howdy". Yes, it's in the Exorcist,
but it is also a Sister song. On a good note, Dee Snider is a creepy
looking character. The first time you really get a good look at him
he's intense. And there are a few gross sadist scenes, one involving
piercing an unwilling man in the most dreaded of all places. That part
made me wince. And that's fairly hard to do. Also, I loved the fact
that Robert Englund plays a character that is the exact opposite of his
role in A Nightmare on Elm Street. Instead of playing the killer, he is
the leader of the mob going to find the killer. Krueger fans will know
what I'm talking about. It's a brilliant and appropriate piece of
casting that genre fans should appreciate. Overall, the good outweighs
the bad, and I would recommend watching it (at least once). You have to
give Dee some credit, there are a lot worse movies out there.
<|_=00=_|>
"Strangeland" isn't that bad if it features fears of yours.

**SPOILERS**

Genevieve Gage, (Linda Cardellini) is just the latest in a series of
disappearances plaguing a small town. Her father Mike (Kevin Gage) just
happens to be the detective on the case, and his partner Steve
Christian, (Brett Harrelson) convinces him to check out a club that
specializes in piercing and scarification, which is also the secret
hideout for Captain Howdy, (Dee Snider) also known as Carleton
Hendricks, who is the suspected cause of the disappearances. With the
help of his cousin Angela Stravelli, (Amy Smart) Captain Howdy is
caught and brought to justice. After a couple years in an insane
asylum, he gets released back into the community, and a local militia
group led by Jackson Roth, (Robert Englund) kidnap him and leave him
for dead. When new evidence confirms that he may not be dead, Detective
Gage tries harder than before to stop him.

The Good News: As it gets more and more commonplace for people to chat
online and in instant messaging, the fact that this one was the first
out of the gate to show the potential evils and dangers of the
situation is a nice and original approach. Even though it deviates from
it towards the end, the original set-up is pretty great. The ending is
also pretty great and pretty exciting, with a great bit of action in
there as well. Most of the focus on this film is the discomfort one
gets when exposed to extreme forms of scaring and skin piercing, and it
is a subject most get uncomfortable viewing. This is mostly played out
in the psychical form of Captain Howdy, who does look pretty creepy.
His look, though, drives the film, so I won't spoil it, but it is a
really disturbing and shocking look that will definitely get you a
little crept out the first time his full appearance is shown.

The Bad News: This film basically relies on the belief that extreme
piercing, full-body tattoos and scaring are scary images for the
average person. If none of them are scary or frightening, then most of
the film's power will be lost. Besides that, there really isn't a whole
else in the film. It's not a traditional horror film in the slasher
sense, so for some it can be quite boring, as there's no real jumps,
suspense or anything similar.

The Final Verdict: If any of the acts or ideas featured in this one are
fears of yours, this could be a pretty scary film. If not, this can be
a pretty dull experience. Otherwise, it's pretty middle of he road and
pretty forgettable. Use your own judgment to determine if you will like
this one or not.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Nudity, some Language, a brief sex scene,
scenes of torture and extreme images of body modification
<|_=00=_|>
I first rented this movie on the infamous day of September 11, 2001.
Since then I've seen it a number of times. My only complaint is that
it's too short. "Strangeland" would've be a complete piece of horror
art at two hours. As it stands, the running time is only an hour and a
half.

Ex-Twisted Sister member Dee Snider wrote, produced and stars in this
1998 shockfest set in a small Colorado town. He plays Carleton
Hendricks, a crazed sadist who has psychotic ideologies on human
evolution and a love for near-death experiences. Hendricks is no
pushover, he's a pumped up six-foot "modern primitive". Someone who has
tattooed and pierced their body to the very extreme. When he makes his
first full appearance in the film, it is a truly terrifying sight.

Hendricks' main hobby in life is to share his "spiritual awakenings"
with his kidnapped victims. He visits Internet chatrooms under the name
"Capt. Howdy" and then invites people over to his house. They believe
they're going to a party. Instead, they find themselves in a house of
pain and suffering. Hendricks sows their eyes and mouths shut and
tortures them by sticking blades and hooks in numerous parts of their
body. If it sounds sick, it's because it is.

One of Hendrick's victims is Genevieve, the teenaged daughter of
detective Michael Gage. Gage not only manages to save her, but arrests
Hendricks as well. Four years later, Hendricks is released from a
mental institution completely rehabilitated to the disapproval of the
community. A group of rednecks led by Freddy Krueger himself, actor
Robert Englund, decide to kill him. They fail and Hendricks reverts
back to his old self.

The rest of the film I'll leave to you, only to say the conclusion is
satisfying and will leave you in shivers. With the exception of Snider,
the acting isn't too good, but it's serviceable. The direction is okay,
too. There are some humorous parts in "Strangeland" and they are very
funny. I also loved the soundtrack, it's awesome and worth buying if
you love rock. Overall, this is a movie worth watching. If you love
low-budget horror films with a sense of humor, check it out. You'll
probably like it.
<|_=00=_|>
That Twisted Sister's Dee Snyder wrote and produced this may have
turned some people off from even giving it a try. It's also in no small
part inspired by The Silence of the Lambs (from which it steals at
least one scene) and Se7en, and as with other movies that have taken
inspiration from those movies, such as 8mm, Feardotcom and Saw, took
some flak for that too. The title is a stumper, I don't know what it
means and it doesn't seem to suit the movie well. The shocking cover
image is well chosen, though it might surprise some that a person's
mouth sewn shut could be found in the opening scene of a movie from the
early 1930s, Murders in the Zoo.

In truth, it's not all that bad. A young woman is lured to a party
through an online chatroom and an IM from "Captain Howdy," and her
friend turns up dead with signs of body modification-inspired torture.
A large septum piercing found in the trunk of her car provides a clue
(I didn't understand how it could have been accidentally left, or why
it would have been planted). The cop learns a bit about "modern
primitives" (I think there's a shot from the RE/ Search book of that
name) and online chatrooms, still a danger to the unwary today.

Somewhat surprisingly, partway into the movie we get a "four years
later" intertitle, and the discovery of a second set of victims seems
awfully convenient. The ending confrontation is disappointing.

There are nods to other movies as well, as when a group of neighbors
tries to lynch the bad guy, led by Jack (Robert Englund). This is quite
reminiscent of the lynching of Freddie Krueger (Robert Englund again)
by his neighbors in the Nightmare on Elm Street backstory.

I saw the version on video, and am not sure how the unrated DVD might
differ.
<|_=00=_|>
Wholly wow, never thought I would see a horror movie that would have a
story that would stagger around as badly as it happened in 1987's
Grotesque. But here it is. A torture-loving maniac who seeks victims in
chat-rooms and calls himself Captain Howdy (yep, The Exorcist) torments
a detective when he takes his daughter. Then, the maniac is arrested,
rehabilitated, let loose after four years (huh?) in a nuthouse, picked
on by Robert England, hung by Freddy and his hick buddies, but then-
he's not really dead. So maniac goes back to terrorizing said detective
who arrested him in the first place, and promptly re-kidnaps his
daughter. Yow. I enjoyed this movie. The pace is all over the place,
but it never leaves you bored. Dee Snider (Twisted Sister, remember I
Wanna Rock, or We're Not Gonna Take It? Hell, he was in Pee-Wee's Big
Adventure) is the loon, who is obsessed with torture and flesh ripping,
and you don't get to see him for the first 45 minutes, but when he does
finally show his face, you say to yourself "oh yeah, Dee Snider". The
first 45 minutes plays like a freaky detective horror thriller with
main characters, then Robert England comes out of nowhere for about 20
minutes in a starring role-of-sorts. The movie is fun for the average
fan. It's an assault on the senses, blended with cheese. Two good
things at once. Features breasts punctured with torture devices, flesh
hanging by hooks, and of course the Twistedest Sister of them all.
Three stars.
<|_=00=_|>

Unbelievable. Great cast, fair acting, interesting plot.

But this movie has such graphic cruelties that are not tense or giving
thrills, just pure disturbing unruhe.

*SPOILER*

Everyone could see coming the freak returns to his habits. And that Robert
Englund was acting (was he?) like an idiot; forbidding your daughter to
sleep with a football player, but him trying to kill an idiot and liking
kiddypr0n is alright?! 

The policeman who's daughter was kidnapped - anyone felt he was a cop and
not an actor? Not me. This movie drags on and on with an ending that we see
in other horror movies: if the returns were alright a part 2 could be made.
Bad, really bad stuff. Might give creeps some inspiration...
<|_=00=_|>

Tried to contact Scott to state that this movie is dull. IMDB won't let me
though. I am way over the age of twelve. Over twice that even and I LOVE
movies. I was nervous to see this movie for a long time because I thought
the acts towards women might be too brutal and frightening. I finally
forced
myself to watch it with a friend. I had to apologize for how lame it was.
No
suspense. Nothing scary. Boring. The trailer and movie cover will kick your
ass. Go no further though. it is a waste of your time. maybe someday it
will
be a famous cult film of some the the worst, famous cult films ever made.
Either that or just watch it cause that 'Twisted Sister' guy is in it and
you're curious.
<|_=00=_|>

Next to Milo and The Killer Eye, Strangeland was the worst movie of the
year. Dee Snider wrote the script to this boring, dull horror with bad
acting and a slow pace. Nothing interesting happens here and the movie
looks
like it was actually TWO movies condensed together. The first half
could've
been shorter...waaaaay shorter. And the second half could have been more
longer and stronger. This film is utterly obscure, limited, wandering and
absolutely pointless. Whoever had to like it is probably a sadomasochistic
person who has nothing better to do than watch this junk. It's even more
insane when the filmmakers are actually planning a sequel...they are
seriously.
<|_=00=_|>

The most worthless film of the decade. The responsible parties should never
be allowed to film again.  I have no words to describe the lack of
entertainment this film provides.  You couldn't PAY me to watch this film
again. Quite honestly, I think  I would be a better person had I not seen
it. If I called it offensive, I would fall into a category of emotionally
frail extremists.  I would say this film goes so far as to damage the
industry.  There are films that I refuse to watch, now that I feel they
might be this tasteless.  I feel like an idiot that I didn't have the good
sense to walk out during any one of MANY moments I was compelled to do so.
Yes, I saw the end and am ashamed for it, as should anyone else, including
the writer. I am in awe...
<|_=00=_|>
Wow...This movie really really sucks...'Nuff said.

The Story: A psychopathic internet predator stalks and lures young men
and women into torturous traps...It goes like this, kidnaps people,
they find him, he becomes a changed man and is released on the world
yet again, reverts back to his old ways and starts the torture
again....The story is stupid, it's implausible. The characters are
stupid, they're implausible...Or at the very least way over the top.
It's got some very violent imagery, and if you have a week stomach you
might just want to stay away...But than again, even if you don't have a
week stomach, you might want to stay away...It's that stupid.

The Cast: Dee Snider, Kevin Gage...If you're a die hard fan of Twisted
Sister and Dee Snider, you might find this one interesting, since he's
the writer and star of this film. His acting is laughably bad, and you
can tell that he's the one that wrote the God-awful script. Kevin
Gage...Well they say he's been in numerous other movies that I've seen,
but I don't remember him from any of them...And you won't remember him
from this...These two sadly, make the film...They don't make it good
mind you...They just make it...

One to Five Scale: 1 It's bad...It's very very very bad...In fact it's
so bad, that this movie should come with a clip loading pistol to play
Russian Rullet with...
