

This is one of those movies that I still pull out every once in a while and
just pop in.  It's absolutely entertaining, with great performances from
pretty much everybody, but especially Andy Garcia and Lance
Henrikson.

It plays out like a good mystery/thriller should: Frustrating twists and
turns, brooding atmosphere and music, and layer after layer of clues that
you know are building to a big time climax.  I really can't find anything to
criticize about this film and I'm surprised it's IMDB rating isn't higher. 

If you haven't seen it, you'll be doing yourself a favor by bypassing the
new releases for just one night at blockbuster, and picking this one
up.
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot and will not for the life of me comprehend why people do not
like provoking and complex movies, (ya know, WHERE YOU HAVE TO BE ABLE
TO THINK).

Jennifer 8, is a great movie, it is daring, smart, witty, scary and....

a bit on the real side. There are a lot of movies which people that due
to reading their reviews should not watch movies that are beyond their
simple mind and well, IQ. This movie is well on the top of the list for
under rated serial killer flicks. Rent, Buy, Borrow but must see this
excellent movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I like a good suspense story as much as anyone else, but this
one really stands out. If it doesn't get the recognition it
deserves, maybe because it's a "quiet" thriller, without
shocking or gross-out scenes ; it relies mainly on characters
and atmosphere - very moody and autumnal. For once, the killer's
identity is logical and honest, but there is so much more to
this, especially a graceful photography. Okay : I love this one.
This is no brain candy or beer-and-popcorn, just honest,
straightforward stuff, which reminded me very much of literary
thriller writers like Ed Gorman or T. Jefferson
<|_=00=_|>

This is easily one of the most underrated Hollywood films of the
nineties
- it's got a compelling script, beautiful performances (particularly from
Andy Garcia, Uma Thurman, and John Malkovitch in a short but unforgettable
cameo.), some of the best cinematography ever set on film (director of
photography Conrad Hall later went on to shoot 'American Beauty'.), and
one
of the greatest scores ever written by underrated composer Christopher
Young. As it is, this film is heaven from a filmmaker's perspective and a
pretty damn good drama to boot. Highly recommended. 
<|_=00=_|>

"Jennifer 8" is an underrated movie of some of the greatest quality I have
seen yet. Andy Garcia, Lance Henrikson, Uma Thurman, and John Malkovich all
give extraordinary performances in a novel script that involves intriguing
and very deep characters. The music mixes with the dark directing style
perfectly to set the thriller atmosphere, and there is just enough action to
make anyone happy. Behind the murders involved and the tense atmosphere, the
movie also tells a romantic love story of a blind woman and a cop returning
from the badlands. It is a movie that draws you in - and I'd recommend it to
everyone.
<|_=00=_|>

"Jennifer 8" is a solid suspense thriller that is smart, inventive, and a
success overall.  Cops Andy Garcia and Lance Henriksen are trying to stop
a
serial killer who seems to always be one step ahead of them.  They are
positive that the next victim will be a blind woman (Uma Thurman).  She is
basically the bait, but it still appears that the killer is just a little
smarter than the cops.  In the end, an unconventional conclusion will
bring
everything together.  "Jennifer 8" has a smart screenplay, strong
direction,
and a great cast.  John Malkovich and Kathy Baker, in particular, are
strong
in short supporting roles.  4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
"Jennifer Eight" is one of those movies that flies under the radar. For
whatever reason, it never got the accolades I feel it deserves. It is a
beautifully filmed, haunting movie that showcases some very fine
performances. Uma Thurman is remarkable as the blind Helena, and one
would be hard pressed to find fault with her very realistic performance
as the would-be next victim for the serial killer. Likewise, Andy
Garcia, is excellent as the tough, big city cop who is working through
his own personal issues. One of the most compelling performances is
that of John Malkovich. Arguably one of the best actors we have today,
his commanding depiction of the hard-grilling FBI man is superb, and
worth the watch just for his few cameos alone. But don't get me wrong.
This movie is very, very good. It will leave you guessing to the end.
Overall, beautiful cinematography, beautiful score, great thriller.
Highly recommend this underrated gem. Very much worth the viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

Jennifer 8 is a great thriller up until the last 10 or so minutes when the
movie completely unravels and almost falls apart. But, the strong
performances and solid writing up until that point make up for that
weakness.

the plot is your basic cop-(Andy Garcia)-protecting-a-beautiful-blind-woman-(an
appropriately cast Uma Thurman)-who-is-being-targeted-by-a-sadistic-serial-killer.

the film does manage to add some nice twists and turns but as previously
mentioned the last 10 minutes or so are so overblown and ridiculous that
you're left shaking your head in amazement that it was the best the
filmmakers could come up with for an ending.

But, on the other hand, the acting is very well done especially by the two
leads and the film has quite a few genuinely suspenseful
moments.

SPOILER AHEAD: just thought i would correct a misconception about a scene in
this film. that IS NOT Uma Thurman nude in the bathtub scene. the neck down
shots are a body double. she was refusing to do any nudity at this time in
fear of getting typecast as a sexpot after Dangerous Liaisons and Henry and
June. so the director just used facial close ups of Uma combined with nude
shots of another woman's body.

a suspenseful film that almost holds up until the end and worth checking out
if you're in the mood for a well done thriller.

rating:8 
<|_=00=_|>
It's a long and complex movie. Complex not because there are too many
subplots. (There are only two interwoven plots: the solution of the
mystery and the mating of Andy Garcia and Uma Thurman.) It's just that
we follow events in considerable detail. That's okay, in itself, but
the climax itself -- the revelation and killing of a serial murderer --
isn't well adumbrated. The climax pivots on the finding of an
antihistamine capsule and everything falls together in the last fifteen
minutes without any previous hints.

The director follows most of the rules. Nothing fancy. He does give us
two outstanding scenes. In the first, Uma Thurman, who has been blind
since childhood and sequestered in a bleak institution is taken to a
Christmas party by Garcia, the detective investigating serial murders,
in one of which cases she is a witness. A friend dresses her up and
covers her with makeup for her debut. (I liked her better as a lean
lanky-looking Bohemian with a cello. Dressed up she looks a little
whorish.) The party begins well. But later she finds herself standing
alone in the middle of a dozen drunken guests who bump into her from
unexpected directions. The record player is blaring "Louie Louie," and
everyone ignores her. Her anxiety is manifest as she is slowly
encircled by the camera, and we are as confused and frightened as she
is. Thurman and the director do a polished job here.

Another memorable scene is the interrogation of Garcia by John
Malkovich. Malkovich hams it up as usual. He seems to be constantly
sniffing and speaks as if he had a cold. "You got mbarried but byew had
a bad mbarriage, didn't byew?" But that's okay too. It must have been a
hard scene to shoot. It's full of tight close ups of the two faces,
sometimes only inches apart. Sometimes Malkovich even whispers into
Garcia's ear. Garcia is tense, grief stricken, and angry. Malkovich is
sly and insinuating. There is no music in the scene. Aside from the
dialogue everything is perfectly quiet, except for the squeaking of
wheeled office chairs or the harsh breathing of the actors. One wrong
move, one errant jactitation, one delinquent vocal chord, and
everything goes back to Square One. Whatever troubles the scene might
have given the film makers, what we see on screen is about as good as
it gets. Two real professionals at work in front of a camera.

I'll make the rest of the points kind of quickly. Conrad Hall is a
great cinematographer, and he gets some of the scenic locations down
neatly. But -- man, is this gloomy. Okay, we don't expect it to be
otherwise when it's a howling blizzard and three in the morning. But
the interiors are almost as dark. (Enough with the symbolism!) Why is a
police laboratory so dark we can hardly make out the faces? There is no
contrast between interiors and exteriors. Somebody turn on the lights!

The director should get no more than a gentleman's C for the
introduction of the institute's janitor. An elevator door opens. We see
a man's back. The man turns around. Jump to a close up of his bald head
and gargoyle face with glasses like coke-bottle bottoms. It would have
been fine in a movie with a title like "I Dismember Mamma." There us
some gratuitous nudity too. I found it objectionable for two reasons.
One is that there wasn't enough of it. Second is that a body double is
used. Much better to have had a long long scene of gratuitous nudity
using the lissome blond herself.

Maurice Jarre evidently had his score thrown out. The replacement is
pretty good. This murky and rather solemn film is unimaginable with a
loud action-y score full of electronic percussion and unceasing in its
torture. It's nice that Thurman plays a music teacher at the institute
but I kind of wish the instrument we had seen her with had been
something other than a cello. It must be played in an undignified
position and is the second most preposterous instrument in an
orchestra, the first being the Glockenspiel.

Oh -- and by the way, Garcia tracks the murderer down by following a
trail of clues to a house many hours' drive away, in Oakland. While
he's riffing through the drawers, he's caught by the murderer and
framed. How did the murderer know that Garcia would be there?

Eureka's not a bad little town, although it's rainy all winter and
foggy all summer. It keeps the riff-raff out. My ship used to dock at
Field's Landing. I wonder if the Ranchotel is still open? Very friendly
patrons.
<|_=00=_|>
Jennifer 8 is written and directed by Bruce Robinson. It stars Andy
Garcia, Uma Thurman, John Malkovich, Lance Henriksen, Kathy Baker and
Graham Beckel. Music is by Christopher Young and cinematography by
Conrad Hall.

The small town of Eureka and John Berlin (Garcia) is the new cop in the
precinct. When a severed hand is found at the local dump it leads
Berlin to believe a serial killer is at work. One who has a penchant
for blind girls.

The problems quickly mounted up for Jennifer 8, it flopped big in
America and went straight to home format release in the UK. Problems
back stage got so bad that Bruce Robinson quit Hollywood and never made
another film for 19 years! In spite of these facts, it's not the
monstrosity it was originally painted as back on its "limited" release.

It's a frustrating film in many ways because it promises so much.
There's bags of moody atmospherics wrung out by Conrad Hall's superb
photography, where he filters most things via minimal lighting. Much of
the play unfolds in ominous surroundings, where dialogue exchanges are
either hushed or laced with harried fervour, and the writing is
actually quite smart as it blends psycho thriller staples with strong
characterisations that are in turn boosted by committed acting
performances. Yet these things can't compensate for the too long run
time, a rushed ending and some awkward tonal shifts that often take you
out of the required mood. The rushed ending is particularly galling,
after asking the audience to stay with the pic for two hours, it's not
unreasonable to expect a good long and dramatic finale, sadly that's
not the case.

Fans of neo-noir type visuals have some interest here, as does anyone
who likes the type of serial killer movies that dominated the late 80s
and early 90s before Fincher's Seven raised the bar. 6/10
