

My Rating: *** out of ****. 

I dont understand all the horrible reviews for this film. Sure not a great
film, but definitely a good, entertaining movie. I enjoyed it just as much
as the first Jurassic Park. 

The Lost World still contains impressive, eye popping effects. These are
just as flawless as the CGI as the first Jurassic Parks. There are more
dinosaurs and they all look great. The film contains more action than the
first and its all exciting. One scene that stands out is the scene with the
Raptors in the fields. I love the way Spielberg shot it.

This is not a big acting movie, but its not that bad. Jeff Goldblum is good
as Ian Malcolm, but had a little more energy in the first one. Julianne
Moore is adequate but looks a bit uncomfortable at times. Vanessa Lee
Chester is better than the other kids in the last film. The rest of the
acting is adequate. 

Many people thought this film was redundant of the first. I wouldnt call it
redundant but it is a little bit too familiar in areas.  The Lost World
takes place in a different area but it is not much different from the first
one. However, it is an entertaining movie. The action overshadows the story.

The big problem I have with The Lost World is the ending. It doesnt make
sense how The T-Rex got loose. Its also a King Kong Rip-Off. Its visually
stunning looking, the TREX doesnt look out of place at all. But it was
showing CGI instead of doing something with the story. Nevertheless, even
with its flaws The Lost World is entertaining and not worthy of its horrible
reviews. 
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this in a theater in 1997 and I thought I liked it.  I just saw it
again on DVD last night, and I now I know I do.  What I can't figure out is
why so many people think it's so horrible.   After seeing JP III a few weeks
ago, I still think The Lost World is better.  Of course the original is the
best, but The Lost World is packed with suspense, witty dialogue (especially
Goldblum's), and of course, the usual great looking dinosaurs.  There are a
few things I don't like, the gymnastics routine towards the end being at the
top of the list.  But other than that and a few silly lines, this movie is
almost as thrilling as the first.  Personally, I don't care if the plot of
this one is weak.  I've never even really given that any thought.  The first
100 minutes or so are loaded with excitement, then the finale with the T-Rex
in the city is, if you ask me, played mostly for laughs. Yes it's like
Godzilla, and The Beast from 20,000 Fathoms, but that's the point.  It's
like those movies but with 21st century (almost) special effects.  And it's
just plain fun to see this dinosaur stomping through the suburbs, drinking
from a swimming pool and, wreaking havoc at gas station minimart.  I think
if you don't take the San Diego scenes too seriously, and look at it as
Spielberg's way of paying homage to *and* poking fun at the Godzilla-type
movies, you can appreciate this portion of the movie. Then to wrap it all up
with Bernard Shaw from CNN, and an obvious open door to a sequel - what more
could you ask for?  Well, maybe a better plot as some people seem to be
saying, but I think this is a great popcorn movie and it works for
me.

<|_=00=_|>
Okay, the best Jurassic Park is obviously Jurassic Park. It was the
most faithful to the fantastic Michael Critchton books, plus it was
well done. As a sequel, The Lost World does just fine. Of course, I'm
used to seeing horrible sequels all the time. Jeff Goldblum does a good
job reprising his role as Ian Malcolm, and the newcomers of Julianne
Moore and Vince Vaughn do well too. The story is a little unbelievable,
though. After recently being replaced by his nephew as CEO of InGen,
John Hammond(Richard Attenburough) reveals to Ian Malcolm(Goldblum) a
site B: A place where dinosaurs run free. He sends him and his
girlfriend, Sarah Harding(Moore), technology expert Eddie Carr(Richard
Schiff) and photographer Nick Van Owen(Vaughn) to document the
dinosaurs, while the official InGen team, led by Roland Tembo(Pete
Postlethwaite), tries to capture the T. Rex and transport it to San
Diego. As always, there is many bone-crunching deaths, the Special FX
are excellent, but the story and plot fall a a bit short. Overall: 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Lost World: Jurassic Park, the sequel to Steven Spielberg's iconic
blockbuster is one of the most underrated movies of the past twenty
years. Four years after Jurassic Park captivated audiences around the
world, Steven Spielberg returned to the director's chair to craft a
sequel equally as thrilling as the highly praised original.

Ian Malcolm, the neurotic chaotician from the first film is the hero of
the Lost World, replacing Sam Neil's Alan Grant. Jeff Goldblum does a
wonderful job with a bigger role, playing the same brilliant
mathematician as the first movie as well as adding action chops to his
resume. Accompanying him is a cast of interesting and diverse
characters ranging from Malcolm's girlfriend, a wildlife biologist
played by Julianne Moore, Roland Tembo, a great white hunter played
brilliantly by Pete Postlethwaite, and an animal activist played by
Vince Vaughn. The supporting characters all work well. Malcolm's
daughter, the ruthless InGen CEO, and the rest all play their parts
seriously, never winking to the camera in what could have been, in the
hands of a different screenwriter and director, corny material. The
characters themselves are also realized in a tangible way. These aren't
cardboard cutouts or tired archetypes; They are living, breathing
people, with passions and personalities. Contrary to some popular views
on this film, there are no annoying, unlikable or superfluous
characters in the film at all. 

The story connecting these characters centers on an island called Isla
Sorna or Site B. This island is the site where Jurassic Park's
dinosaurs were bred and raised. After the events of Jurassic Park, the
site was abandoned and dinosaurs roam free. Julianne Moore's character
Sarah Harding and her team are sent to study the animals, While Tembo
and his team come to the island in search of a trophy. Malcolm learns
of this news and takes it upon himself to retrieve his girlfriend from
the dinosaur-infested island. Unlike the two films that would follow it
in the Jurassic franchise, The Lost World's story takes more than a few
twists and turns on its way to the conclusion. The intersecting teams
and alliances provides plenty of interesting subplots to go with the
real stars of the show, the dinosaurs.

The dinosaurs themselves are brilliantly realized, thanks in large part
to the impeccable mix of CGI and animatronics, but also because of how
they are treated as characters. The dinosaurs of the Lost World are
written and directed in a way that portrays them as living animals
rather than bloodthirsty monsters. The T-Rex parents, the main baddies
of the film don't chase and eat people just because they are T-Rexes.
When they attack, we know why. They exhibit maternal and territorial
instincts (As do the stegosauruses, in a fabulous early scene). It is a
credit to writer David Koepp that a film that could have easily delved
into mindless action maintains a certain level of intelligence, even in
its most fantastic moments. Complimenting the writing of the dinosaurs
as animals, is Spielberg's direction. Spielberg expertly walks the line
between plausibility and thrills. We aren't just told that the
dinosaurs are animals and not monsters, they actually behave that way.
The T-Rexes sniffing the air for signs of their baby, the raptors
snapping at each other during a hunt, the compys swarming a piece of
food; These moments feel like they were taken from a documentary. Of
course this is how dinosaurs would behave. They don't roar and chase
and exist just to look cool, they are fully realized animals.

Steven Spielberg is an excellent action director and he is at the top
of his game here. The set pieces, from a trailer dangling off a cliff
while two T-Rexes defend their territory to a pack of adolescent
raptors hunting in long grass, are tense, dramatic, and above all,
thrilling. Spielberg knows how to tease an action scene and have it
explode to life at just the right time. The Lost World seems to be
Steven Spielberg's way of showing off just how much he can manipulate
an audience with suspense and action. He tops himself with each scene
revealing more and more visual tricks like the cracking of glass,
shadows on tents, and a play on the famous water ripple scene of the
original. There is a satisfying richness to the way Spielberg stages
and shoots the action scenes of The Lost World. Stan Winston's
animatronics and ILM's cg creations work wonderfully to bring the
scenes to life as well.

While the story may not be as fresh as the original Jurassic Park, The
Lost World matches the first movie in nearly every other way. The
special effects, action, score, set design, cinematography, you name
it, they all carry the same mark of quality as the original Jurassic
Park. The Lost World: Jurassic Park does everything a big budget sequel
should do. It's jammed packed with jaw-dropping special effects and
pulse-pounding action, yet it stays smart enough and scary enough to
feel fresh. It's summer entertainment at its finest and without
question the best sequel to the ground-breaking original.

89/100
<|_=00=_|>

The Lost World: Jurassic Park is an above average sequel.  I just saw it
for
the third time and I will still continue to fight for it.  The script
(although containing flaws) is a billion times better than its sequel,
Jurassic Park 3.  When I look back at the three times I've seen it
(Theater,
VHS, DVD) I saw very few flaws in an overall exciting movie.  The biggest
flaw is that the "wonder and amazement" were at a low level.  This is
mainly
because we were exposed to it in the first film and it is hard to keep
things fresh.  Other than that, this film is one of the better sequels
ever.
Great action and adventure, (3 of 4 stars) 
<|_=00=_|>
The Lost World is the sequel to the 1993 classic Jurassic Park. Whilst
this film is not as good as the original it does stand up well as a
sequel. Jeff Goldblum returns as Ian Malcolm. Malcolm has been asked to
return to another Island were Dinosaurs have been allowed to live
without cages. Malcolm refuses but when he finds out his paleontolagist
girlfriend is already there he goes with a team of documentariens to
rescue her. However several accidents ensue and they are left stranded
on the Island with a second party. The film does not have the all round
strength of the first and is far more dependant on thrills and its
visual effects this time round. It does however succeed as good
entertainment and its better than the third installment in the
franchise by quite a bit. The Dino sequences are handled well with the
Raptors in the long grass being the highlight of those and quite
possibly the entire film. The T-rex features strongly again ( and this
time there's two of them) along with a new and nasty little green
dinosaur compsagnathus. The acting is'nt Oscar worthy or anything like
it but the characters do have some charm and when they are put in
danger you care what happens to them which is always a good sign. It
does suffer a little from a bloated and anti climatic ending that is
funny for about 2 minutes but I wont spoil it for you none the less. I
give the Lost World its high rating because it does exactly what it
sets out to do, entertain us. So I think its fair we overlook some of
its flaws as with any kind of blockbuster sequel they are always there.
<|_=00=_|>
Creating a worthy follow-up to a major blockbuster is no easy task. But
if all the pieces are in the right place, it is not impossible. Four
years after the enormous success of Jurassic Park, Steven Spielberg
took control of the director's chair once more in an effort to enhance
the franchise and add on to his already spectacular legacy. Did he
succeed? In the eyes of most critics, no. However, I applaud Mr.
Spielberg for an admirable effort and creating another crowd-pleaser,
even if it didn't match up to the high expectations.

On another personal note, I was very happy to see Jeff Goldblum reprise
his role as Dr. Ian Malcolm as he has always been my favorite character
in the series. Since Malcolm is now more aware of the dangers of John
Hammond's activities, his personality is less goofy and more serious
this time around compared to his previous adventure.

It took several viewings for me to appreciate this film to its fullest.
At first, it seemed weak because it sacrificed the philosophical
messages that helped make the first film great to fit in more action.
The philosophy is found in one of the key quotes by John Hammond. "Life
will find a way." There *is* a point to all the chaos because it is all
caused by the humans and their relentless desire to interfere with
nature. Every tragic event seen in the film could have been avoided
with sensibility and that is the message that is echoed throughout the
entire series. Don't attempt to control the uncontrollable.

If there's one thing that makes the film worth watching, it has to be
the special effects and the dinosaur animatronics. The infant T-Rex
featured in this film is so lifelike that I often had to remind myself
that it wasn't a real dinosaur. It was *that* convincing.

Also be on the lookout for Vince Vaughn (before he became the mega-star
that he is today) as one of Hammond's researchers and a humorous scene
involving a T-Rex in the modern world.
<|_=00=_|>
The Lost World is Steven Spielberg's follow up to the innovative
Jurassic Park, so how does it's sequel measure up by comparison? Well
it's far better than most have given it credit for. The Lost World is a
flawed film, but it's a film that set out to be different, and not just
a rehash of the previous film, something the newest film in the
franchise Jurassic World has done. Many seem to like Jurassic World for
how it "recaptures" the feel of the original film, but by comparison,
comes off as a pale soulless imitation of Jurassic Park.

The Lost World however, gets away from the theme park idea, and does
something that wasn't expected. In The Lost World it is revealed that
there was another island called Isla Sorna (Site B) that had dinosaurs
that were bred, and raised before being brought to Jurassic Park, on
Isla Nublar. The film starts with a wealthy family yachting, and
stumble upon Isla Sorna, where their daughter is severely injured by
little dinosaurs called Compsognathus that act like land Piranha.

Jeff Goldblum reprises his role as Dr. Ian Malcolm, and is summoned by
John Hammond for reasons unknown. Ian Malcolm is still a sarcastic
character, much like he was in Jurassic Park, but his character is
visibly different after the events of Jurassic park, he rarely laughs,
or smiles, and Ingen has made Ian a laughing stock, after trying to
create public awareness after what happened to him at the park. Hammond
is also losing his credibility, after the incident at Jurassic Park,
and Ingen has taken control away from Hammond, and given it to his
arrogant nephew, named Ludlow, who Malcolm has clashes with.

Hammond tells Malcolm that he has been trying to preserve Isla Sorna,
and protect it from human interference, but implies that the island is
in danger of being pillaged for it's assets. Hammond say's public
opinion could keep exploiters from removing the dinosaurs, but that in
order to gain such support, a photo record must be obtained, which
means sending people in to research, which Ian immediately disapproves
of. This is until he finds out that his girlfriend, Sarah Harding a
Paleontologists, has already gone to the island. This gives Malcolm as
reason to go to a place he would rather never revisit again, as this
dinosaur island has no fences of any kind, and the dinosaurs are free
roaming.

Ian arrives to the island with two other companions Eddie Carr, a field
equipment expert, and Nick Van Owen, a video documentarian as well as
Malcolm's daughter Kelly (a unneeded character) who sneaks aboard the
ship in one of the team's vehicles. Soon they find Sarah, and come
across a herd of Stegosaurus, where Sarah has a close encounter when
she gets to close to an infant Stegosaurus. The Lost World focuses a
great deal on the nurturing habits of dinosaurs, which expands upon the
first film, which tried to portray dinosaurs not only as movie
monsters, but as animals. This film carries that idea further, and
delves into how these animals act in a more naturalistic environment.
The T-Rex's also have an infant, that gets injured by Ingen's team.
Sarah, and Nick repair the baby's leg, but when the T-Rex's show up,
they're less than appreciative, and wreck the trailers/vehicles,
believing they have to defend their territory further. 

This forces Malcolm, and his companions to join forces with Ingen's
team headed by Ludlow, but lead by Roland Tembo, played by the late
Pete Postlethwaite. Of course since both teams have different agenda's
this leads to conflict. Regardless they come together to try and reach
a communication center to get off the island. Of course along the way
dinosaurs show up, resulting in casualties. After the group gets
separated by the T-Rex's, Roland tranquilizes the male T-Rex. Ludlow
then want's to bring it to San Diego, where a facility has been built
to house the dinosaurs, since the dinosaurs captured earlier were
released by Sarah, and Nick. This is where many people are left
divided, some liking the T-Rex running around San Diego, and some
hating it.

There's no denying that the way the T-Rex gets to the mainland isn't
well executed, and makes little sense. It also may feel tacked on
because it was, the original ending was different, but Spielberg felt
the The Lost World needed a bigger ending, just as he did with Jurassic
Park. While it may seem out of place, the entire film teases the idea
of bringing dinosaurs back to the mainland. Malcolm, and Sarah find the
infant T-Rex that was also brought back, and use it to lure the adult
T-Rex, back to the cargo hold of the ship, where they both could be
contained, and be brought back to the island. Not before the T-Rex
causes some dino-damage down the streets of San Diego, which admittedly
is neat to see. 

The Lost World isn't as good as Jurassic Park, but it isn't as bad as
critics, and "fans" alike have made it out to be. The Lost World has
it's issues, such as underwritten plot elements/characters, and
unneeded characters like Malcolm's daughter Kelly, but also has a
strong cast/performances, and the effects are even more believable
looking than in the first film. The animatronic dinosaurs looked even
more convincing in The Lost World, especially the T-Rex's that had
subtle changes made mechanically, making them much more lifelike. The
CGI is also impressive, especially during the Compsognathus sequence
that required the animation of several little dinosaurs. John Williams
provides another great score for The Lost World, adding more tribal
melodies to go with the mood, and look of the film. The Lost World may
not be Spielberg's best film, but it's hardly his worst, and it's a
decent, well made followup to a film that never really needed one.
<|_=00=_|>
It has been four years since Jurassic Park was destroyed and the island
Isla Nublar itself was drowned by a hurricane killing most of the
dinosaurs; now there is a new island (called Isla Sorna) that has been
genetically engineering the same animals, but abandoned the project
after the company InGen declared bankruptcy.

The film's short prologue introduces a rich family who are trying to
enjoy their vacation on the beach of Isla Sorna, but their little girl
wanders off into the jungles of the beach where she encounters a small
dinosaur called a Compy in which she assumes it's a friendly creature,
but turns out to have little friends of its own when they start pecking
body parts of her off screen.

Jurassic Park survivor Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblum) returns to John
Hammond (Richard Attenbrouogh) after being called upon. This time
Hammond wants Malcolm to send in a team of specialists to go in and
document the island where he wants to show the world that the dinosaurs
are safe and not dangerous animals. Malcolm finds out that his
girlfriend Sarah Harding (Julianne Moore) is already on the island and
doesn't realize what she's getting into.

With the team on the island, they track down Sarah and realize that
Malcolm has another surprise that his daughter Kelly has sneaked in one
of the trailers and disobeyed her father's orders of staying on the
mainland.

Another team is on the island not to document but to capture and
retrieve the animals to make a zoo. The team is lead by Hammond's
nephew Peter Ludlow (Arliss Howard in a bad English accent) who wants
to make a profit after the company InGen suffers a lost in profit and
damage from the original Jurassic Park. He gets a big game hunter name
Roland Tembo (Pete Postelwaite) who wants to bag a Tyrannosaurus Rex as
his trophy.

The Lost World: Jurassic Park is great entertainment; the special
effects are twice worthy than the original. Though I find this film
more frightening than the original, it reminds me of the film "Aliens"
where the suspense gets bigger and twice as scary as the original.
<|_=00=_|>
Very good sequel to Jurassic Park finds Ian Malcolm (Jeff Goldblem) in
a race against time to save his girlfriend(Julianne Moore)and stop
Ingen from taking dinosaurs off the island in order to take them state
side for their own Jurassic Park. While the wow factor is gone from the
first movie, the intensity is up considerably with some of the best
action, tension and humor of the series. Goldblem once again commands
the screen as the audience guide and it's voice of reason and the
special effects manages to even out due the first movie by leaps and
bonds. The late Richard Attenborough and Pete Postlethweite rounds out
the cast in this very worthy follow up. Its definitely The second best
entry in the Jurassic Park series and the best follow up to the
original Jurassic Park
