
In my personal opinion, and as an avid Next Generation fan, without a
doubt "Insurrection" is one of the best Star Trek films, and the third
outing for Picard, Riker, Deanna and the rest of the Next Generation
crew stays most true to their esteemed television series. This time
round, the crew are faced with a violation of the Prime Directive and
whether or not the 600 people who live on a literal planet-of-youth are
more important than the millions of other people that could benefit
from the planet's regenerative powers. Action, drama, comedy and
romance follow in true Star Trek spectacular.

As always Patrick Stewart is in top form as Captain Picard who leads
the Star Trek resistance to save the innocents from one of his own
corrupt superiors Vice Admiral Dougherty (played terrifically by
Anthony Zerbe) who are involved with some aliens (including F. Murray
Abraham's Ad'har). Along the way Picard finds a new friend in Anij
(played by the lovely Donna Murphy), one of the Ba'ku, and a little
romance follows.

Jonathan Frakes once again directs and does an outstanding job, though
it does mean his character Commander Riker gets a bit less screen time,
though he is always a pleasure to watch. Riker's relationship with
Commander / Counsellor Deanna Troi heats up in this film (and it's
about time too!) Marina Sirtis of course returns as the lovely Troi and
gets a fairly good amount of screen time this time round, and certainly
most of the comical moments. Frakes and Sirtis have great chemistry
together.

Brent Spinter's Data gets (as usual) too much screen time, again his
story consists of his quest to become more human and the like, though
he does befriend a Ba'ku child which was done quite well. As usual
Gates McFadden (Dr. Beverly Crusher), Michael Dorn (Lt. Commander Worf)
and LeVar Burton (Lt. Commander LaForge) are given very little to do in
the Star Trek films, and this one is no exception, though at least Worf
and LaForge got their own small story lines - Worf had to go through
puberty again and LaForge found himself with the ability to see.
Beverly however only gets a "storyline" involving her boobs firming up.
Terrific. Poor Gates must be the most under-appreciated actress in all
of Star Trek, but also the most gracious for returning each time.

The special effects of "Star Trek: Insurrection" are above average, and
the music score is really well done. Often its the small moments in the
Next Generation films that are the best, and this one is no different,
but at least the big moments are good too. I think the "Star Trek the
Next Generation" films are probably the only action-type films in which
the heroes are all (with the exception of Marina Sirtis) in their 50's
and people still want to watch them. Quite interesting too that a main
theme of the movie was the eternal youth. At least when the sad time
comes that the Next Generation cast are no longer alive, they will be
immortalised in history by their much loved characters and beautiful
stories, just like "Insurrection".
<|_=00=_|>

Don't let some of the bad reviews for this film put you off watching
it.
I finally got around to watching it last week and I must say that It was
no
where near as bad as what some people have said about it. In-fact I
thought
it was pretty good.
It's not the best Star Trek film but it's not the worst
either.
Some people have criticized it by saying that it looks like an extended
television episode- All the films except 'the motion picture' have -
what's
the point of changing the television look and feel when it is so good? The
one time they did try to change it from the episode feel (the motion
picture) it was crap. Come on people, this is Star Trek - what were you
expecting - this was not meant to be another Shawshank Redemption. I like
this film so I'm going to give it 8 out of 10 because I don't care what
other people say.
<|_=00=_|>

I would say that this movie rivals the skill of the first "Next Generation"
movie, First Contact. If anything, the dialogue is more refined and the
humour, of which there is a great deal, is well timed and raised smiles at
suitable points in the movie. Many have criticised the writers for either
making the humour too silly or, for not daring to take the jokes to the
belly-laugh level. Personally, I think the film is richer for the homour,
which seems natural, not forced, and generally hit its targets. After all
though, it's not a comedy.

Insurrection is a movie which displays far more humanity than the cold, but
nevertheless enthralling, First Contact. To compare the movies is difficult,
as they are very different, and opinions will inevitably clash. Both movies
have a different agenda, I think.

I would dare to say that Insurrection would do a better job at converting
people to the Star Trek "cause" than would any of the other films. Before
watching, I knew little about Star Trek, and it really stoked my interest in
the series.
In evaluating Insurrection I realised that the film has several outstanding
set-pieces, some of which are very memorable, such as the high-speed chase
between Picard and Data through the cloud layers, with The Captain trying to
coax Data into performing a scene from Gilbert and Sullivan's HMS Pinafore.
The scene is outrageous, and very surreal, and extremely well done. Another
example would be the attack of the flying miniature transporter robots,
where Worf really gets to prove how brave, and violent, he really
is.

Finally, the acting is universally good, and Stewart puts in a performance
of depth, although not as impressive as in First Contact.
The plot of Insurrection is slight, and alone doesn't manage to hold the
attention. But the other elements that go into producing a good movie,
such as the script, acting, directing, and, dare I say it, special effects,
add up to an entertaining whole.

I think that free of the limitations imposed by the "classic trek" rules,
and the campy acting that dogged the earlier Trek flicks, the Star Trek
franchise will flourish, and this movie shows how much a cast enjoying what
they are doing adds to the fun and feel-good factor of watching the film
with a cinema full of enthralled viewers.
Well done Jonathan Frakes!

<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Remember all the people who laugh at philosophers? How useless we are;
we contribute nothing to our society. Here is my contribution; the film
bombed for one reason. Even non philosophers have a God given sense of
right and wrong that tells them whether something is intrinsically
wrong. No, Anij if you possess something that would help billions of
people who are suffering you are not entitled to your own little
narcissistic paradise, sorry. The total moral revulsion at self love,
this deep, with Picard babbling about how, because these reasonings can
be difficult, it somehow follows that we are not entitled to make them.
NON SEQUITUR Sorry, chrome dome, doctors, nurses, firemen and policemen
make these decisions every day. We know you are too cowardly to allow
reality within your little, narcissistic dreamland, where you hide,
like the cowards you are, from the harsh truths of life. They were not
even indigenous to that planet, not that it would have made any
difference.

Frakes had hit a home run with First Contact, why I never know, this
took care of his career as a director. The thing about psychotic
narcissism it really does not notice that any other living beings or
their boundless suffering exists. No, just so Anij can live within the
beats of her heart; she simply never hears the screams of the suffering
around her. What little children they are happy in their safe little
playhouse. Pity the two great actors working in this pile of crap:
Zerbe and Abraham. Poor F. Murray, it is a long way from Salieri!!

The film features cringe worthy moments even for Star Trek and that is
saying something. The Gilbert and Sullivan sing a long made me see if
there were any sharp edges on the seat I could slash my wrists with.
TNG crew here is a news flash for you; you cannot act and your movies
suck as bad as your overrated TV show. Their humanism is always so
taxing; the philosophy requires a historical lobotomy all the horrors
present and past humans have and are perpetrating must be expunged.
Fear, fear of the truth always haunts them as they run into Disneyland
never to return to reality again. Imagine, you could relieve the
suffering of trillions but this handful of self loving pigs are
entitled. Gee, do you think that might reflect people in 1997?
Actually, no the film was a huge bomb; I applaud the common American
people, who while not philosophers, know disgusting selfishness when
they hear and see it. Q.E.D.
<|_=00=_|>

This is probably the best of the recent Trek films. Honestly, I don't know
why many people don't like it when production wise, it couldn't have been
any better. Each scene is nicely constructed and utilizes all the necessary
ingredients of film making.

OK, the story was simple but for what the story was, screen writer Michael
Piller, wrote a screenplay that is so polished, that every one-liner was
perfectly timed and the dialogue was very sharp. The drama and story
unfolded not too slowly and not too fast. The characterization was fantastic
particularly the conflict between Piracy and Admiral Ross. It's a story
about fighting for what you believe in, which every character in the film,
even the bad guys, does until the bitter end.

There is no rules that says a science fiction film or Star Trek must have a
complex storyline, but a storyline that tells a story and tells it well is
what Insurrection does perfectly

I don't enjoy action films and I think 'Star Trek: First Contact' is one of
the most overrated sci-fi actioneers in years. Insurrection had a very human
story and is also very audience friendly for those who have never seen Star
Trek.

I think people need to take another look at this film and ask what is wrong
with it apart from the story being too simple? Production design looks
great, the film is beautifully shot, Jerry Goldsmith's score was perfect,
and the energy from performances from the entire cast comes off in the film
like no other Star Trek movie.

'Star Trek: Insurrection' is a very underrated film, and a film that
deserves way more credit.

SCORE: 9 out of 10

<|_=00=_|>
So let's get this straight: The Federation has partnered with an alien
race to harness the power of a planet's rings, adding years of lifespan
to literally trillions of beings throughout the galaxy...the only thing
they need do is re-locate 600 squatters (who have no more legal right
to the planet as anyone else).

This seems like a good deal, right? Isn't this what Spock taught? "The
needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few"? Apparently not,
because Picard mounts an "insurrection" to stop the deal, after
calculating that a forced relocation was more of a moral outrage than
the squatter's hording of life-extending powers, denying trillions of
federation members additional years of life.

So what does he do? He leads the squatters (a bunch of pacifist hippie
beatniks who've rejected technology to embrace blissed ignorance) into
a series of collapsing mountain caves to thwart efforts by the "bad
guys" to beam the squatters to safety. Picard figures that the bad guys
won't tap this fountain of youth until the squatters are off the
surface (which will be scorched during the process).

I don't know what's worse...(a) the fact that Picard is naive enough to
use the squatters as human shields in hopes that the bad guys aren't
really bad enough to kill them, or (b) the fact that we have bad guys
who aren't really bad enough to kill the squatters. Either way, this is
easily the worst Star Trek plot ever conceived.

I haven't even discussed the nonsense with the chick that can
inexplicably slow down time when she feels like it, or the plot
demands. Or, when Whorf gets acne, or the Picard-Data duet, or the
girlish scream the bad guy releases when he's tricked, or the countless
other insults and indignities this film inflicts upon the viewer. Utter
rubbish. Rent II, III, IV and VI
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best Star Trek movies! It is exciting, funny and
supported by Jerry Goldsmith's fourth Star Trek score. In contrast to
Star Trek-First Contact very many scenes of the film do not play on the
Enterprise, but on the paradise-like planet of the Ba'ku. This film is
not only exciting, it also criticizes society. In many countries, for
example in Ireland, people of the same races fight each other. This
movie illustrates that these fights are senseless and that all people
belong to one race. Jerry Goldsmith's score is also very extraordinary
which makes the movie even more worth watching. Especially the Ba'ku
theme is so good that you have after having seen this movie a good
impression of it.
<|_=00=_|>
It was interesting to rewatch and reevaluate "Insurrection" because at
the time when I saw it in the theater I was extremely disappointed. I
even felt a little ripped off, because the whole affair felt to me like
a pretty standard Star Trek episode stretched like the skin of the
alien villains in the film well past the point of integrity. I also
felt disappointed that Berman and the other Paramount decision makers
had further abandoned any attempt at character development or
continuity between films in the series.

There just seems to be a lack of ambition and imagination surrounding
the entire project. Although I definitely enjoyed it much more this
time around – maybe it's just that an extended ST:TNG episode is more
appealing now in 2007 than it was in 1998… the show has been off the
air for a few years now and is barely syndicated at this point. But I
also noticed some positive qualities – Geordi LaForge was always my
favorite supporting character in the show and he gets his best scene in
the series here watching a sunset with Picard after gaining his vision.
F. Murray Abraham is as good as the script will let him be and the
makeup effect is pretty striking (I love how he starts bleeding from
pores in his face when he gets angry). There are some excellent set
pieces like the bit with Picard and Worf chasing down a renegade Data
and singing Gilbert and Sullivan to pacify him. The first time I saw it
I was confused by the characters departing so much from their
established personalities, but this time I realized it was due to the
sci-fi element, the effects of the planet's healing properties on the
crew. From that perspective it's very nice to see characters reverting
back to earlier behavior and I like seeing the clean-shaven Riker again
though I never bought his relationship to Troi.

But the essential reality hasn't changed. The sets and locations look
and feel exactly like a dozen episodes of the Next Generation show, and
the costumes for the aliens are downright mundane. It's impossible not
to be reminded of little Wesley Crusher (thank the gods of ST that he
and Alexander did not make film appearances) getting in trouble for
throwing a ball in the bushes, when you see these perfect and mellow
people in their "paradise." The direction by Frakes is standard TV
direction just like in "First Contact." Too much of the story revolves
around the 2 central plot twists, and you can almost feel the
commercial break coming on. Abraham's villain is fun to look at and the
concept is good, but he never really confronts Picard or the Enterprise
in such a way that the conflict feels personal. Donna Murphy is a fine
actress and it's great to see Picard "hook up", but their love affair
is too gentle to be believable, totally lacking in drama, and then it's
dispensed with at the conclusion far too easily…. Again, just like a TV
episode in which the consequences of the episode cannot intrude into
the flow of the series.

One thing I did like, however, was the central concept – the search for
immortality is universal and compelling, and tying it into the history
of "forced relocations" adds the kind of real-world resonance that
"First Contact" and the first 3 films in the original series were
lacking. The fact that members of the Federation are in a conspiracy
and that their motives remain ambiguous even after the conspiracy is
uncovered is also very much in the spirit of the best qualities of the
Next Generation show with its increased emphasis on political intrigue,
another element missing from previous Star Trek films (with the notable
exception of "The Undiscovered Country." Another interesting story
element of note – on the commentary for "1st Contact" regular series
writers Brannon Braga and Ronald Moore discuss an original draft in
which Picard remains on the planet and is involved in a love affair
while Riker fights the aliens in space as a "B plot" (btw, it's telling
how even now the screenwriters discuss plot mechanics exactly like a TV
episode). Here we have a different credited writer, but the resulting
plot is very similar to what was originally conceived for "First
Contact" but changed apparently on Patrick Stewart's request.

In the final analysis, I feel the film is actually more pleasing to me
as a fan because it's more true to the tradition of Star Trek than
"First Contact." At least this one actually utilizes science-fiction
ideas, as opposed to simply doing an action movie in space. But the
film isn't as ambitious as it should be, and I feel the central problem
is that the alien culture was made too simple and earth-bound, the
melodrama between Picard and his love interest was non-existent, and
overall there's just not enough meat on this story's bones. But what we
do get is pretty well done and pleases me as a fan of the show.
<|_=00=_|>

It's safe to assume a lot of people think that " Star Trek :
Insurrection " is more like a 2 hour episode of TNG then a film. But if
you like the Star Trek TNG series then you should see Insurrection.

Personally i loved "First Contact" so when i saw "Insurrection" i wasn't
expecting it to be better then First Contact. I wasn't expecting
anything. Whenever i see a Star Trek movie it IS like seeing another
Star Trek episode... I don't compare it to last weeks. I just want to
see what the crew has to face this time and if/how they make it out OK.
This Film is also filled with comedy which always works for me.

<|_=00=_|>

If you are a Star Trek fan( of which i am) you will not be disappointed by
Insurrection. The story is good and the acting is up to it's high standards
the only let downs are the lack of any real great special affects and the
lame enemies. I would not say this is as good as first contact but never the
less well worth watching. 7 out of 10
