

The Lion King is a great film.  Along with a great story (inspired by
William Shakespeare's Hamlet), terrific animation, and an all star cast of
voices, there are the lessons that are learned from this film (despite
being
a little rough for the younger children).  Like responsibility and honor.

I rank this animated film among the great films I have ever seen.  It was
part of my childhood and it is a film experience I will never forget.  And
hopefully, you won't either.  A++
<|_=00=_|>

This is a film that can entertain anyone young or old, I usually don't care
for animated movies but this film is the real deal, this is one of disney's
best animated movies. The animation is top notch and flawless. This film
also features superb work from the vocal cast James Earl Jones, Jeremy
Irons, Whoopi Goldberg. This is a standout.
<|_=00=_|>
The best Disney animated film ever...This film had it all, it was
funny, emotional, had family drama, and above all, great animation and
songs! My personal favorite character is Rafiki, the Baboon! I still
cant forget the line he says to Simbe, "Past can hurt, but as I see it,
you can either run from it, or learn from it!" it is so true! i loved
Zazu's weirdness, and shenzi's humor, above all, i loved Pumba's
innocence and Timon's intelligence! In short, i found the film the best
film ever... The voice cast is also great. Mathew did complete justice
to Simba, and what can I say about Mufasa, He is the best King, and dad
anyone can ever get! The movie is not meant for kids, its meant to
teach every adult a lesson...to find our place in the great "Circle Of
Life". I give this film a perfect 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously, I know that sounds stupid as this is an animated movie, but
why can't we have a favorite movie that's animated? If you ask me this
is Disney's best animated film of all time. Why do you ask? The
animation is just beautiful, the story is powerful and moving, the
characters are terrific, the villain is one of Disney's most monstrous
and the songs are out of this world incredible! Not only is it my
favorite animated movie, this is one of my favorite soundtracks, with
the strong power of Elton John The Lion King is absolutely beautiful
and a pleasure to watch still to this day. I have to say also that this
story is just so beautiful, it's still one of the movies that will
always bring a tear to my eye. When I was 17 years old, I begged my dad
to take me to the re-release of The Lion King, him and I being the only
adults besides the parents who took their children to see the movie,
Simba's father dies and I started balling! My dad looks around and said
"Krissy, stop it!" and I just said "But it's so saaaaad! Simba's
daddy!", yes I'm a sap, I can't help it, this is a powerful movie.

In the Pride Lands, Rafiki, a wise old monkey, anoints Simba, the
newborn cub of King Mufasa and Queen Sarabi, and presents him to a
gathering of animals at Pride Rock. Taking advantage of the cub's naive
nature, Simba's scheming uncle Scar, who is very angry because Simba's
birth means that he's no longer next in line to the throne tells him
about the elephant graveyard, a place where Mufasa has forbidden Simba
to go. Simba asks his mother if he can go to the water-hole with his
best friend, Nala, but they go to the graveyard instead. There, the
cubs are met by Shenzi, Banzai and Ed, 3 hyenas who try to kill them,
but they are rescued by Mufasa. But Scar doesn't give up there, he
lures Simba into a gorge for a "surprise from his father" while the
hyenas create a wildebeest stampede. Alerted by Scar, Mufasa races to
rescue Simba from the stampede. He saves his son but is left clinging
to the edge of a steep cliff. Scar flings his brother into the stampede
below. Simba sees his father fall and rushes down the cliff after him,
only to find him dead. Scar convinces Simba that he was responsible for
his father's death and recommends that he runs away from the Pride
Lands to avoid punishment. In a distant desert, Simba is found
unconscious by Timon and Pumbaa, a duo who adopt and raise the cub
under their worry-free philosophy, Hakuna Matata. When Simba has grown
into an adult he is discovered by Nala, who tells him that Scar,
through his irresponsibility, has turned the Pride Lands into a barren
wasteland. She asks Simba to return and take his place as king but
Simba refuses, still believing he caused his father's death. Rafiki
arrives and persuades Simba to return to the Pride Lands, and face Scar
once and for all.

I know that still that Beauty and the Beast is the only animated film
to get a best picture nomination, but I don't understand why The Lion
King didn't get the same treatment. I adore this film with such a
passion, I will always defend it to the high end. I still watch this
movie, ever since it's theatrical release in 1994, I still sing, dance,
and rehears the lines back and forth. How could you not at least with
Hakuna Matata? Timon is my idol, he's so care free, funny, and awesome
during his drag hula scene "Luau! If you're hungry for a hunk of fat
and juicy meat, eat my buddy Pumbaa here, 'cause he's a tasty treat
come on down and dine, on this tasty swine, all you gotta is get in
line, are you achin',? For some bacon? He's a big pig. You can be a big
pig, too. Oy! Ahhhh!", best scene ever in film history! OK, not in
history, but one of my favorites, it always has me on the floor
laughing till my stomach hurts. If you seriously haven't seen this
movie, see it! Who said that animated movies can't be true art? The
Lion King is a fantastic film and deserves all it's praise and more.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is truly one of the best Disney movies ever. I really enjoyed it
when I first seen it, about when I was 6, and since then I watched it
over and over again. I simply LOOOOVED the music. It's one of the best
soundtracks I've ever heard. And, speaking of soundtrack, I just can't
tell in words how much I love the song "Can You Feel The Love Tonight".
Is one of my favorite songs ever. I truly believe that this motion
picture could easily be nominated for The Best Picture, but The Best
Song and the Best Original Score is really enough. I wonder if they
will ever think to make a prequel of this movie in order to understand
who is Mufasa, Scar, Sarabi and the other characters. In short, this
movie will be remembered in the next 100 years. Truly.
<|_=00=_|>

Outstanding animated feature from Disney that sports outstanding songs by
Elton John, a compelling story and first-class animation. Young lion cub
Simba is to be king, but he leaves after he believes he was the reason for
his father's death (of course this is not so). As he grows up, he goes on a
journey of love, friendship and discovery which will lead him back to his
rightful place in the world. Excellent. 5 stars out of 5.

<|_=00=_|>
I watched the film today and I have come to the conclusion that this
Disney film is one classic that will keep on delivering to Disney fans
like myself...TLK is a wonderful film with great characters and songs
with a powerful message that you can always find your way back no
matter how hard the journey...

I think The Lion King is one of the best Disney animated films matching
with the power of Bambi and Brother Bear.

I love how Disney Works hard to deliver the best in Animation,Song,And
Magic

I do believe that 2006 and many years from now The Lion King will Shine
and still Roar with Success...

Thank-You Disney For The Lion King
<|_=00=_|>
I find it hard to believe that kid's movies these days will ever be
called classics in years to come (excluding Pixar movies). In my mind,
this is the last classic hand drawn film, and it upsets me that I have
to wait for another five years for it to come out on DVD. This film
deals with great issues and involves a huge conflict for the main
character, something that recent kid/family films lack. It is funny and
lighthearted when it should be, and heartfelt and serious when it needs
it. I believe that everybody should see this movie, regardless of your
age. It may just be the last good movie that Disney will ever do
without the help of Pixar.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is, quite seriously, the Citizen Kane of Disney animation. Every
animated movie from Disney ever since has been a failed attempt to recreate
the masterpiece that this film is. This movie is an anomaly in a market
usually dominated by formulaic kiddie-fare. Unlike most films from animation
studios, this movie will enthrall you, whether you're 5 years old, or 50. An
epic plot, intriguing characters, great music and hillarious moments make
this film a family classic that will endure through the ages.
10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Released Christmas Day in 2002 to IMAX and large format screens, The Lion
King makes a triumphant return to the screen after eight years. Its every
bit as majestic and great as it has been before.

The Lion King Mufasa (James Earl Jones) just had a baby cub named Simba.
All
of the animals come to the ceremony, except for Mufasa's brother Scar
(Jeremy Irons). Scar desperately wants to be King, but can't. As long as
Mufasa and Simba are there. Soon Simba is able to walk and talk and is
voiced by Jonathon Taylor Thomas. After hearing about an elephant
graveyard
from Scar, he and his friend Nala (Niketa Calame) visit it. They meet
three
bumbling hyenas: Banzai (Cheech Marin), Shenzi (Whoopi Goldberg), and Ed
(Jim Cummings), but they manage to leave unhurt. Scar is upset that the
hyenas didn't do the job, so he orders a stampede to wipe out both of
them,
but it only takes care of Mufasa. Scar convinces Simba that he killed
Mufasa, not Scar. So Simba flees into exile.

The Lion King really benefits from the larger screen. Its lavish
landscapes
will be able to capture you more, and you can really savor the animation.
Disney didn't need any humans, so they could spend all of the time on a
great story and lush landscapes. In fact, its camera movement was so
majestic that you actually felt like you were part of the pride of
lions.

The music boomed and really created the atmosphere. Although I had seen
this
picture before, I still was tense because of the way the music played
out.
Most of the time, I would just roll my eyes at the attempt to make me
nervous. But Hans Zimmer's music really bowled me over and made my heart
do
calisthenics. Unlike such new Disney pics like Lilo and Stitch, the songs
actually did some good. They took you out of a somewhat dreary mood and
put
a smile on your face and made your feet want to tap along. There were
only a
few, but they were very entertaining. And the Circle of Life song at the
beginning was beautiful, with its perfect pictures and perfect
sound.

I really like James Earl Jones (he's pretty diverse), and this time was
no
exception. He seemed to act like he didn't want to do this role, but he
couldn't contain his excitement for wanting to do voice-overs again (he
had
done some work in The Simpsons before). Matthew Broderick redeemed
himself
for me (after the atrocious Ferris Bueller's Day Off) by showing a strong
voicing as the adult Simba. Cheech Marin, Whoopi Goldberg, and Jim
Cummings
really had good chemistry together, even though they didn't have much
screen
time. Irons was really good and creepy as Scar (one of those who you
can't
help but hate), and if that is him really singing, brava!

Be warned, The Lion King isn't really for youngsters. It had intense
thematic elements that should have warranted a PG, instead of those that
don't deserve it (Lilo and Stitch, again). The mood that the music and
the
script brought out could damper your day, so be warned.

This is one movie where you can feel for the characters. You don't say
`haha, he's dead', you say `Gasp! I'm so sad!' If it weren't for the
gifted
scriptwriters, this movie would be kaput and a nothing, not the best
Disney
movie ever made.

The Lion King is a majestic movie, not without humor, that is for almost
all
to see.

My rating: 9/10

Rated G for intense thematic elements.
