

Philadelphia is a guttingly emotional and tragic story of how a lawyer fired
for having AIDS attempts to vindicate himself in court.  Tom Hanks gives
perhaps the most powerful performance of his career as Andrew Beckett, the
afflicted lawyer.  He received the Academy Award in a waltz, and you could
almost pick any of his major scenes as worthy of the award.

This movie is probably the best drama regarding gay issues ever made. 
Remember, it was made in 1993, when AIDS was still a terminal disease, and
it recalls the early days of an epidemic that may not square with the vision
afforded today, but at the time, this was the reality of AIDS. 

The entire crew is A-List.  Tak Fujimoto, who would also film Silence of the
Lambs and Sixth Sense, directed cinematography.  Jonathan Demme, also of
Silence of the Lambs fame, directs with typical honesty and grit.  Bruce
Springsteen and Neil Young contributed hauntingly touching original songs. 
Even Antonio Banderas, whom I never miss an opportunity to vilify, is moving
as Hanks' devoted and supportive partner.  Denzel Washington was well cast
as the homophobic lawyer who ultimately takes Hanks' case, and Mary
Steenburgen is surprising in an uncharacteristic villain
role.

Ron Vawter, who played one of the lawyers in the firm from which Hanks was
fired, and also appeared in Silence of the Lambs, was himself suffering from
AIDS at the time of filming, and he eventually succumbed to it a few years
later.  His appearance in the film encapsulates the reality of the AIDS
epidemic, in that it often touched our lives in unexpected
places.

Although I have literally thousands of movies in my collection, I don't own
this one.  Not because I don't love it.  I do.  It's because I can't watch
it without being overcome by emotion.  Anyone who can watch Hanks' in the
Opera scene, or hear Springsteen's or Young's eerie and melancholy ballads
and not weep is dead inside.  But in the end, Philadelphia is about life,
and making it matter.
<|_=00=_|>

Philadelphia is a truly amazing movie and a touching story.  Tom Hanks plays
a lawyer who has been stricken with a horrible disease.  He plays a
convincing role as Andrew Beckett, a man who knows the meaning of justice
and knows what exactly his rights are.  What Mr. Hanks also accomplishes
with this role is he breaks free from the stereotypes society has dictated
on the average gay man.  Andrew Beckett is not feminine in any way, he does
not have a flair for shoe shopping or hold his arms limp-wristed or talk
with a lisp.  For these reasons, it has been said that Tom Hanks was not
believable as a gay man.  I strongly disagree.  Andrew Beckett is a normal
man who enjoys smoking cigars and takes joy in the law.  Who would think he
was gay?  This is precisely the point the movie is trying to make.  A gay
man may be walking among you, every day you may see him at school, may play
raquetball with him at the gym, may work late hours with him at the
office... but yet you'd never suspect he is gay because he does not wear
loafers decorated with tassels and he has a low-pitched voice.  Men are men,
whether gay or not, and should be treated as such -- gays do not deserve
special treatment but they deserve equal treatment.  Because in most areas,
gay men are just like straight men.  I commend Tom Hanks for showing the
world that gay men can be just as manly as any other.  His Oscar was
well-deserved and the movie was amazingly ground-breaking.

<|_=00=_|>

With Hanks, who is always watchable, and Washington, who has also got a
very
good track record, this film was destined to be fantastic but not even I,
who always has an optimistic view when it comes to movies, was ready for
the
impact that this film made.
Tom Hanks excelled even himself with his performance as an AIDS striken
homosexual who is fired from his job simply because of his
condition.
It is Hanks, by himself, who makes the whole scenario in the film
believable. Although this is Hanks's best performance of his career, he is
very closely followed by Denzel Washington who gives a perfect performance
as the only lawyer who will take on the case although he is a homophobe
himself.
The emotional strain of the film on the audience is immense and in the
later
stages of the film it is almost impossible to watch because of that. The
make-up which gives the impression that Hanks really does have the terrible
disease is perfect and the simple yet striking direction from Jonathan
Demme(The Silence Of The Lambs) make this utterly compelling viewing
although at times it is very uncomfortable.
All praise to everyone in the making of this beautiful film.

Anyone who hasn't seen this film must do as soon as possible.

<|_=00=_|>
"Philadelphia" may be the movie that changed Hollywood. For so many
years, they portrayed gays as sissies, but this movie forced them to
change. Tom Hanks gives the performance of a lifetime as AIDS-afflicted
lawyer Andrew Beckett, fired from his law firm after they discover his
condition. Equally good is Denzel Washington as homophobic lawyer Joe
Miller, who is forced to ignore his own stereotypes in taking Andrew's
case. Good support also comes from Jason Robards as Andrew's vicious
ex-boss, Joanne Woodward as Andrew's ever-loving mother, and Antonio
Banderas as Andrew's companion.

Maybe this is just me, but I think that "Philadelphia" was released at
just the right time. Think back to 1993. We had just come out of the
Reagan-Bush years and we now had Clinton. Maybe he wasn't openly
pro-gay, but he did change the military's policy towards gays.
Moreover, Tom Hanks and Denzel Washington are analogous to Paul Newman
and Sidney Poitier: the embodiment of the new era under a new president
(in Newman's and Poitier's case, it was Kennedy; in fact, those two
co-starred in "Paris Blues" the year that Kennedy became president,
much like Hanks and Washington were starring in "Philadelphia" the year
that Clinton became president). But let's not get sidetracked. This is
a great movie, and I recommend it to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>

I only saw this film recently after I saw the special edition DVD for sale
at only £5.99. I bought it and watched it as soon as i took it home and I
thought it was amazing. Jonathan Demme's direction was great too. but the
two best things about it was Tom Hanks' performance as the lawyer with aids
and Bruce Springsteen's song " Streets of Philadelphia". I always thought
that Liam Neeson's performance in Schindler's List was what should've
recieved the Oscar in 1993. But when I eventually saw Philadelphia a few
weeks ago, I could see why Hanks won. Denzel Washington as the homophobic
but supportive lawyer is also great. The three, Hanks, Washington and Demme
make a good team. The film is wonderful.
<|_=00=_|>

Jonathan Demme's "Philadelphia" throws us into a world of pain and
stark truth that is few and far between in mainstream cinema. The sheer
idea that a film would so blatantly take on the difficulty of AIDS and
homosexuality, helmed by the director of "Silence of the Lambs", the
actor in "Big" and the guy who played Malcom X, is staggering. 

AIDS is a reality and homophobia is a nasty truth that permeates our
"United" States of America, as well as the rest of the world. At the
time that this film was released (about 1993), the U.S. found solace in
the idea that AIDS and homosexuality were dirty brothers in a distant
family. By placing the film in the "City of Brotherly Love", hiring
Bruce Springsteen to sing the title song and having an up-and-coming
Tom Hanks star, director Jonathan Demme wisely readied an ignorant
America for our first, uninhibited glance into the face of AIDS. 

Tom Hanks embodied his role in an Oscar-worthy performance, allowing us
to watch as his lovely and lively Andrew Beckett deteriorate before our
eyes. Tom Hanks and the writers took to task the difficult and
annoyingly controversial hurdle of playing the "gay" character and
placing the "straight" audience into that different world. Stereotypes
are mostly shied away from in the script with a few "fem" gays and drag
queens. These scenes are few, but are also a reality. Many a Christmas
party have I attended with the same crowd ("fems" and drag queens) in
the mix. The other, mildly annoying, factor in this film is that the
writers inform us that squeaky-clean gay Andrew Beckett contracts AIDS
at a porn theater from an anonymous stranger, while in a committed
relationship. This annoyed me because I wanted a righteous victim, not
a impure victim. Yet as time has gone by and I have had the opportunity
to work with many a victim of AIDS, whether be it male or female, gay
or straight, I have seen that this too is an unfortunate reality. No
one is perfect (gay or straight, male or female) and mistakes are often
made. Costly mistakes are often made. This was a painful truth, but it
is a truth nonetheless. In this, Tom Hanks as Mr. Beckett, brilliantly
gave AIDS an honest face for a distant America. 

Denzel Washington, on the other hand, allowed America to have a
relatable character, one whose shoes we've fit in before. Denzel's
views of homosexuality were (and still are) commonplace in the American
psyche and his reactions to AIDS were understandable to the average
audience. Yet all in all this dramatic film brought a message home. 

Demme's directing style is nothing amazing; he tastefully weaves a tale
without flashy shots or fancy cuts. At times the film borders on
preachy, but, as always, it is Demme's story that grasps the audience,
his mood that sets us into the tale, his actors and his direction of
them that gives the film honesty. This film is highly recommended if
not for the great acting but for lovers of a great story.

<|_=00=_|>

A touching movie, which has taken the place of "The Fugitive" (1993) as my
 favorite movie.  Tom Hanks' performance was obviously worthy of his first
 Oscar for his portrayal of Andrew Beckett, a gay, AIDS-stricken man who was
 fired from his job for what he believes to be discrimination against his
 sexual orientation and disease.  Denzel Washington, in his portrayal of Joe
 Miller, the ex-homophobic who decides to help Andrew win his case, is
 excellent, deserving of a Best Supporting Actor award.  This story of AIDS,
 homophobia and homosexualism is first-rate.  I highly recommend this to
 anybody looking for a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
To me this movie is both a relevant and compelling story, as well as a
model of overcompensation. I feel as though Philadelphia was trying
desperately to show a touching, human side to the AIDS epidemic, but at
the same time overly conscious of the lack of compassion much of middle
America has for homosexual victims of AIDS. As a result, our
protagonist Andrew Beckett is made to be a virtual superman. I would
have had more respect for the film if they'd made him more like you and
me. If he had been a bright, successful lawyer with friends, a loving
family, and a serious relationship that would have made him someone we
could really relate to. Instead, Andrew was a legal phenom, THE rising
star, future senior partner, the future leader of the law firm. And in
his personal life, he was the most popular person at his firm, beloved
by all. More than that, he was the most popular member of his whole
family, he was brilliant, affable, going straight to the top, simply
AMAZING!!! Doesn't it seem like they tried too hard to get us on his
side? To show the human story of AIDS, show us an actual person, not
superman. That is problem with Philadelphia.

Having said that, Tom Hanks was fantastic, as usual. Denzel was also
rock solid, his character basically representing all of us, the general
public, the ones who don't empathize with gays because they either
don't know any, or aren't conscious they know any, and fail to
appreciate that they are real people and not merely stereotypes. His
enlightenment with regards to this is one aspect of the movie I felt
they came through on exceptionally. 

Philadelphia was an important story to be told, for just like so many
other human tragedies, for us the unaffected to be able to see just one
example up close and personal, it carries so much more weight than all
the news reports and statistics in the world. I hope it had some
positive impact in creating compassion among the general public. I just
wish the film makers hadn't felt it would be necessary to go to
superhuman lengths to give us a character we could feel for.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the first review I've written on IMDB, but I shouldn't have to
write
one for a film of this caliber.  It succeeds in everything it attempts to
do
and it bothers me when I read comments from gay readers that absolutely
loathe this film.  After thinking about it for a little bit, I think I've
found the reason for why all the gay viewers hated this film: they're sick
of the pity and the sympathy.  I can understand that, and it is basically
impossible to make a quasi-realistic film about gay rights and
anti-homophobia without exhibiting some sympathy for the alienated gay
population.
I admit that I have little experience with gays, although I am acquainted
with a few.  They are on wonderful terms with their families (even though
one homosexual writes here that families are NOT like that).  I disagree
with people who think that because their family is displeased with their
sexual orientation, every gay person is estranged from their family.  That
is untrue.  Another wrong comment I read was that the film gives viewers
the
impression that gays are the only ones that can get AIDS (and that the
disease is always deadly).  That is false, as well, since a portion of the
movie deals with a woman who is an AIDS survivor and who contracted the
disease in a blood transfusion.  There are many other ways of getting AIDS,
but it would be impossible for the film to identify every single way in
order to be PC.
The most powerful argument against this film seems to be that it is
anti-homosexual propaganda in how it shows the relationship between Tom
Hanks and Antonio Banderas.  First of all, everyone is making a big deal
that Hanks and Banderas do not kiss.  Apparently, filmmakers cannot
possibly
show love between two people without having them kiss.  It sounds to me
that
most disappointed gay readers were hoping to see gay pornography rather
than
a film about two homosexuals and the troubles they face when one of them
contracts AIDS.  They do not kiss, fine, but they dance, they talk to one
another in such a way that I, a heterosexual man, envied the relationship
they had.  The first time we see Banderas is when he is racing to the
hospital to see if Hanks is okay.  I know if my girlfriend were in the
hospital, I would probably look and act the exact same way that he does.  I
disturbs me that so many gay readers would rather see the two of them make
out than display affection for one another in more powerful
ways.
Another argument I noticed more than once was that, aside from Hanks'
character, the film portrays all gays as "pansies."  Believe me, the
critics
here are far more stereotypical than this film is.  One scene that comes to
mind is when Denzel Washington is shopping in a grocery store and a college
athlete approaches him to praise him for his work.  Washington is gracious
and it comes off as a surprise when the athlete starts to hit on him.  I
suppose that most gay viewers saw that message as something along the lines
of "Gays are everywhere...watch out!"  If that were the case, the film
would
have glorified Washington's character, but instead we feel sorry for liking
Denzel.  Why do we like him?  Because too many of us are like him, just
average people who want to take a few steps back every time a homosexual
walks nearby.  By presenting someone that we all can associate with and
highlighting his flaws (which are, essentially, our own), maybe we can
begin
to change.
As for the film, I find it hard to believe that anyone would rent this
thinking that it is simply a courtroom drama.  It is well-written, and
well-acted.  I mostly enjoyed some fabulous direction on Jonathan Demme's
part.  I remember, in particular, that when Hanks would recall when he was
fired, his associates had the appearance of monsters.  The camera would
show
them in a darker light, up-close, at an awkward angle.  Many other viewers
found this to be "cartoony," but they're forgetting that these scenes were
not reality.  They were simply memories, and although Hanks' character is a
noble, honorable, unfortunately ill homosexual, he naturally feels angry
towards his former employers.  He's furious, even though he rarely lets out
any of that fury directly.  The only way we see these memories is through
his distorted memories.  Hanks is frustrated and furious with what happened
and he cannot look at his former employers anymore without seeing monsters.
In this way, the filmmakers build a connection between Hanks' character and
the viewers, gay or not.  This also helps the viewer sympathize for
homosexuals and see how they are essentially no different than anyone
else.
I apologize.  I am sorry that so many gays would rather remain alienated,
would rather see Hanks and Banderas act in gay porn than a meaningful film.
I am sorry that there is even one homosexual out there who are is alienated
from their families that they have no one to really turn to.  This film is
not the most accurate portrayal of homosexuals, but is far from the worst.
Do not even attempt to persuade me, that this film is nothing but worthless
drivel, that it tries to alienate gays even more.  It is as accurate as it
has to be.  If it were to go too far over the line, it would be too much
for
the average person to handle.  Viewers have to remember that controversial
topics like these have to be handled carefully, and it could not have been
done better than in "Philadelphia."  If all gay people are looking for is a
depressing, uninventive, inaccurate P.O.S. that emphasizes homosexual
kissing rather than acceptance and integration, then maybe they should
remain alienated.  Sorry.


<|_=00=_|>

This movie was fantastic.I am a huge Tom Hanks fan. This was one of those
movies that really show if an actor really knows how to act. Denzel
Washington, I think, should have won the "Supporting Actor" award for 1993
because he was exceptional in the movie. I really enjoyed watching this
movie because it made you laugh and cry and very few movies do that. Tom
Hanks is the only actor to win two consecutive "Best Actor" awards
(Philadelphia and Forrest Gump) and I think Philadelphia was the start of
his superior career in acting. In conclusion, I rate Philadelphia a 10 and I
recommend it to all Tom Hanks fans.
