

A good friend of mine suggested this film, and I really didnt know what to
expect going in, but after this film was over, I sat in stunned silence. I
knew that racism was horrible, but I found through this film that it does
not come without a terrible price..the loss of love, friends, family...and
the realization that everything that you believed to be true isnt always
the
way things are. Edward Norton's performance takes the viewer through this
journey, and its not a pretty one. He goes from an bright young man, to a
vengeful bigot, to a remorseful excon with a brothers life in jeopardy, and
you feel as though you are looking in on someones life in the course of 2
hrs. All of the acting in this film is first rate, and the ending wasnt
quite as predictable as others might have you believe...it is quite
shocking, as is much of the film. It causes quite a debate on the way
people
view others whos skin color is not the same. As Dr. King said, judge me not
on the color of my skin, but on the content of my character. I live with
racism, because I am a black man living in America...it exists, but if we
educate ourselves like the main character in AHX, it wont stay around for
much longer. Hopefully it wont be too late, as it was for him. Peace and
Love, JB33  Rating 5 stars
<|_=00=_|>

I honestly don't think I have ever seen a better movie than American History
X in my entire life! I may only be 14, but I have seen a lot of movies. I am
an avid fan of them, and this one just takes the cake. Edward Norton is just
unbelievable. He is the most talented actor I've ever laid eyes on. His
performance in the movie is phenomenal. He delves so deep into his character
that he can convince the whole audience easily of his neo-nazi role. The
look on his face as he walks back from killing one man in the first seen is
purely horrifying. The entire move was dramatic, intriguing, and powerful.
It really is moving and emotional as well as scary. It is so true to life,
and provides the viewer with such insight into the life and events that
create a monster such as Derek Vinyard. It answers many questions I have
long awaited an answer to such as what could possibly make someone act as
Derek did in this movie, yet left open-ended many others that people such as
myself may have. Almost every single scene in the movie was extremely
captivating. I can't even go on to say more about the acting, other than if
Edward Norton does not win best actor this year, I will go absolutely nuts.
It's bad enough he lost it to Cuba Gooding Jr. when he was in Primal Fear,
which was yet another incredible performance by him. Edward Furlong, the
little kid from T2 is astounding as the confused brother of Derek. I was
stunned walking out of the theater after seeing American History X, and I
don't think I will ever have the benefit of seeing another movie as good as
this one as long as I live. I recommend anyone with a good tolerance for
violent and graphic depictions go see this movie. I am bewildered as to why
director Tony Kaye would ever want out of this success. If I were to rate
this movie, as I often do for others in reviewing them for school, I would
give it an A+ with all of my heart.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting a kind of a moralistic movie with an overly present,
almost preaching like message. The movie however turned out to be
extremely powerful mainly due to the professionalism it was made with.

The movie its story is told 'beautifuly' in black & white and color.
The quite original directing from Tony Kaye gives the movie a nice
visual style and certain atmosphere. The story itself isn't that
complicated or extremely original on its own and perhaps at most points
even predictable but the way the story is told is phenomenal. This is
not a movie with an happy ending or a movie that provides a solution to
the racial discrimination problems. It shows what is NOT the solution
to the problems and that everything that is occurring is like a vicious
circle. The movie does not give a hopeful message but instead shows the
dangers and pain you're causing to yourself and your close environment
when you're thinking as a white supremacist.

As an anti Neo-Nazi movie this movie works really powerful. I think
that its a really good and important thing that this movie is often
shown in classrooms.

Edward Norton is truly fantastic in his role. He is very well
believable as a Neo-Nazi as well as the reformed person he later turns
into in the movie. It's almost like he's playing 2 different characters
and he does that so extremely well. Also really good was Edward Furlong
who we all long had not seen in a big production. Furlong and Norton
are both acting well together in their scene's are highly believable as
two brothers.

Also surprising good was the musical score by Anne Dudley who had
already won an Oscar for "The Full Monty", the year before.

This was a movie that surprisingly impressed me. As a movie its
extremely powerful and important.

10/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

Powerful portrayal of Neo-Nazi movement in America. Told in series of
flashbacks. Flawless acting by Edward Norton. Does its best to make the
point that no one is ever right aand no one is ever wrong. I have a friend
who was a Nazi and a racist. But upon walking out of the theater after this
movie he hung his head in shame. This is why the film industry
began.

<|_=00=_|>

American History X is one of the most powerful movies released in years. Not
since Schindler's List has the subject of racism been so potently presented.
The use of black and white cinematography to portray painful flashbacks is
amazing, and the settings, while not necessarily pretty, fit the story
flawlessly. 

Derek Vineyard's (Edward Norton) transition from a white supremacy leader's
protege to a gang leader himself to a changed man is shown mainly through a
series of flashbacks to the time before he was sent to prison. The character
development and story are amazingly well done, and this is largely a factor
of the high quality of the acting. Edward Norton especially, but also Edward
Furlong, Beverly D'Angelo, and all of the rest of the cast down to Avery
Brooks as Bob Sweeney, the African American high school teacher who comes up
with the term American History X, and Stacy Keach as the wonderfully
hateable Cameron Alexander. Keach, by the way, would have been the perfect
choice to play Francis Dolarhyde in Manhunter, the film the precedes The
Silence of the Lambs, but oh well. 

Unfortunately, despite the fact that American History X is one of the best
films in years, it is horribly underrated. Much like Norton's last film,
Primal Fear, which was also a great movie, this movie did not get nearly the
recognition that it deserves. 
<|_=00=_|>
I have been wanting to see this movie for a long time, since my English
teacher mentioned it in our class in grade ten. Gosh I wished I
wouldn't have waited all this time to finally watch it, although maybe
it's a good thing cause I would have probably been a little bit more
traumatized at 14... This movie is exceptional!!! Makes u think, makes
you frustrated, makes you wanna scream and even makes you cry! Edward
Norton is just phenomenal playing the role of a freak skin head and
even more so playing this skin head who finally realizes how stupid he
was and tries to protect his younger brother. Edward Furlong also does
an amazing job!!! This film is moving in so many ways...I can't even
describe how real and heartfelt it felt. I definitely think Edward
Norton should have won the Oscar for his performance, cause he was
absolutely terrific! I can't get why they didn't gave it to him... This
movie will surely stay on my mind for a while now... just thinking that
some place in the world things like that still happen...it crushes my
heart. This is a wonderful movie that every single person should see at
least once in his life... Watch American History X, it totally worth
it!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fantastic movie because no matter what side you're on in
life, this movie shows them all, good and bad, right or wrong. I also
agree with the point in the movie that proves that people can change
for the better and straighten things out in their head to do the right
things in life. Yes, things in our world have changed, some for the
good, some for the bad, but just because you might not agree with some
of it, doesn't mean you can play God and try to make things "your way"
and this shows exactly what happens when you try. This movie talks
about all walks of life and the struggles we all have in what beliefs
are right and wrong. Yes this movie is brutal and violent, but also
truthful to the past and unfortunately still sometimes the present.
This movie is about race, but not only 1 race is singled out and fed to
the dogs, they all are. So, go into this movie with an open mind and
your mind will come out full.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first heard of "American History X," I thought it was going to be
"just another movie." Man, was I wrong! The first time I watched it, I sat
there as it ended, and I was just completely in a state of shock. This
movie, more than any other movie I had seen on the subject of racism,
really
made me think twice about how I treated people of a different race. The way
that Derek Vinyard's family was almost completely split apart and destroyed
due to his racist beliefs should be a wake-up call to those people who have
any racist beliefs whatsoever. I believe that this movie was a whole lot
more than just a ground-breaking, controversial drama; it was a portrayal
of
exactly how much damage can be done to a family and a nation
simply because of the hate for a person or people of a different color, for
almost no reason at all. The Bible says that "God created man in his own
image." It also says to, "Love your neighbor as yourself," which, right
there, implies that racism is not something people should even consider. I
wouldn't recommend that anyone under the age of 16 see this movie due to
its
graphic content and language; however, I believe that everyone who is over
the age of 16, should see this movie at least once. This way, more people
will get a chance to see the true consequences of racism, and how it can
easily tear apart a family.
<|_=00=_|>
Edward Norton plays Derek Vinyard, a violent but also intelligent
neo-nazi. After brutally killing two black people who tried to break
into his car, Derek is sent down for a couple of years. Meanwhile, his
younger brother Danny (Edward Furlong) is busy following in his
brother's footsteps. After certain incidents in prison gives him time
to thing, Derek decides to reform on his way out. Once out, he realises
how quickly in number his old gang of nazi thugs has grown and wonders
if he can save his brother.

This is a brilliant film. Perhaps what disturbs me the most is the way
that Edward Norton looks so brutal, yet sounds so intellectual
throughout the film.

Although the film contains a constant strong theme of violence, it is
always justified in portraying a picture of racial tension. Neither
black nor white people are "judged" in the film, it's primary focus
being to outline that it's people's brutality that causes a racial
divide, not race itself.
<|_=00=_|>
American History X is a movie of its own. It has a little bit of
everything in the way it touches you. This of course making it a very
though provoking film. There isn't a genre you can place this film in
because it is a not a crime story, action or even a simple drama
instead it is a humanistic thriller. What it is about, is the battle
over ourselves.

Who better than to display these wild but common complexities within
people than Edward Norton. The range he shows here is astounding in
only his fifth movie. Norton plays Derek Vinyard, a skin head that
realizes through cruel yet necessary events in his life that he has
gone down the wrong path. When he comes out of jail he attempts to stop
his brother played Edward Furlong from going down the same road he had
done. Through all his efforts though some things just prove to be
inevitable. Avery Brooks also gives a great performance as Derek
Vinyard's former teacher and now principal of his former school. His
words may not be of the most inspiring but his actions and messages
sent across are subtle yet strong and to the point.

Norton's performance though wasn't just about range but exploring
different dimensions of life. Whether it proved to be psychological,
social or even political on a certain level. It is a transforming
performance revealing something mind blowing and eye opening. That we,
and this includes anyone, can take a devastating turn in life no matter
how intelligent we are or thoughtful. That the person that determines
the outcome of your life is yourself whether it is good or bad.
Norton's realizations aren't through teachings such as the ones that
got him in jail but they are through the events in the time he spent in
jail. He saw the truth for himself realizing then what is false and
what is real.

The screenplay written by David McKenna is about as versatile as the
performance Norton gives. Not only because of the Derek Vinyard
character but because of the characters involved in his life. For
example the root of his evil did not come from the murder of his father
but rather his father himself. Through just a conversation at breakfast
did his negative thoughts get really embedded eventually then leading
to them dramatically taking over his mind and way of life. Only when
his father got killed did these negative thoughts seem justified. The
way this screenplay and direction was able to display this message in
just a plethora of other underlying tones was spectacular.

What makes this movie great though is that you can truly find yourself
in the messages delivered. As much as the main character might not seem
relevant or connected to many people it his emotions and functioning of
his mind that all of us are able to connect with. Yet what makes a
movie great is not simply the message or messages sent across but how
powerfully they are delivered. American History X delivers its multiple
and intertwining messages about as powerfully as I've seen from a film.
