
Not usually a fan of this type of all-out Action movie, "Romeo Must
Die" knocked me off balance when I found it to be one of the best films
I have ever enjoyed. Producer Joel Silver (Who also produced "The
Matrix") describes the film as an "Urban rendition of Romeo and Juliet"
and although this is a very simple way of looking at the film, it's not
far off the mark. Like the great Shakespeare work, there are two
opposing families in this film, each looking to make big commercial
gains in the world of real estate development. Caught up in their lies,
greed and violence are Trish O'Day (Played by Aaliyah) and Han Sing
(Played by Jet Li). The story revolves around their quickly blooming
relationship and the opposing families around them.

The film boasts some serious eye candy with some of the best special
effects you'll see. Luckily, this is not the only good thing going for
the movie as the eye candy is wonderfully supported by some fantastic
performances from the cast. In her first feature movie, Aaliyah is
absolutely breath taking as Trish O'Day. Showing the kind of charm and
'x' factor that few will ever have, she alone makes this film a must
see. Jet Li's performance is, as always, about his skills as a martial
artist but his scripted acting continues to improve. Another stand out
performance for me was that of D.B. Woodside who plays Trish O'Days
brother - Colin. Although not such a major role, D.B. excels in this
role. High end production values mean the film has a real style and
"gloss" to it and everything fits in place and the story moves along at
just the right pace. In fact, "Romeo Must Die" is a shining example of
how good story telling does not need to be lost in a sea of special
effects and glossy American values. Jonathon Ross describes the film as
"Fast, Furious, Fun", which is definitely true, but there is more to
this film that the audience can take away with them. The reason the
film works is that it works on two levels - storyline and action. You
can enjoy both aspects and take from them what you like. This is a
brilliant film and I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

ROMEO MUST DIE is one of those rare films which, while
not
particularly good for its genre, is surprisingly good for
other
reasons. Most of the black characters, even the villians,
are
sympathetically portrayed, even though the hero is Asian.
Aaliyah is wholesomely sexy and quite beautiful.  Russell
Wong
is phenomenal is a very short role.  This guy has the looks,
style, and presence of Russell Crowe. Jet Li, however, is
very humane and appealing, though his character is underwritten.
Most of the asian characters are shortchanged dramatically.
However the white (primarily Jewish) characters are shortchanged
the most.  They receive the brunt of the ugly stereotyping.
The kung-fu sequences are nothing special.  They are too
fast
and too confusing to be completely effective.  Though neat,
the
Xray effect detracted from the "realism," sort of like
the
old split screen and slo-mo effects of the 1960s films.
Bone-crunching is far more effective; and, would someone
please
dispense with this "flying" nonsense?  I don't want to
see
anything up there or the screen that is not physically
possible.
Special note must be made of Francoise Yip, the Female bike
/
fighter.  If Ms. Yip did all her own stunts, she's not
only
stunningly beautiful, she is also awesome.
One quibble, which I feel follows a disturbing pattern in
motion pictures.  Though Jet Li and Aaliyah are quite obviously
in love at the close of the film, they never kiss.  In a
film
which shows two beautiful asian dances french kiss, and
one
bares the other's breast and kisses her erect nipple,would it have been too
much to ask to have to people of different races who are obviously in love
share a romantic kiss?
<|_=00=_|>

"Romeo Must Die" is definetely the most violent "interpretation"
of Shakespeare I`ve ever seen.  Okay, interpretation is not the right word
to use, but that is nevertheless what this movie at some point wants to
be.
I really liked Jet Li in this movie, and I`ve liked him since I first saw
him in "Lethal Weapon 4" a couple of years ago.
Fighting and betrayal is what "Romeo Must Die" is all about, and the
fighting is very entertaining, although sometimes a bit cheesy, because some
of the "Matrix-scenes", which is out of place outside the world of
science-fiction.
Still, "Romeo Must Die" is an actionflick you wouldn`t want to miss.   It
manages to be interesting enough, but the fighting is what makes it really
good.
8/10


<|_=00=_|>
jet Li rocks, and this film was great. Sure, it's silly, but it's never
boring, there are some slick fight scenes, and the soundtrack is pretty
neat. It manages to be a romantic film without being sappy and stupid,
it manages to be an action film where the action rocks but isn't too
over-the-top, and it manages to make good use of the Shakesphere story,
ROMEO AND JULIET while still respecting the themes and the humor.
Generally, the film is pretty silly. The acting isn't particularly
good, the characters are two dimensional, the plot holes are numerous,
and events are sometimes quite predictable. However, I don't regret
watching it. I was entertained and was satisfied by the film as a
whole. It worked really well. If you're looking for a good film that
doesn't require a lot of thought and investment from the viewer but is
at least entertaining and energetic, ROMERO MUST DIE is a good film to
check out.
<|_=00=_|>
I read some not-so-great reviews about "Romeo must Die" so I really
didn't have my hopes up high. I only decided to watch it because I love
Jet Li. Good thing I did watch it!! It was SO cool!! Jet Li didn't
disappoint - not only was his fighting as 'wow' as ever (and I know, a
lot of people think too much CGI was used, compromising his true
abilities. I agree with that, but you have to admit, it still looked
pretty dayam good), his dramatic acting is amazing too!! However,
living in Hong Kong, I DO have a few problems with the film. Firstly,
it REALLY exaggerates the whole Asian thing, making it seem like we
Chinese all practice Kung Fu in our backyards while drinking Oolong tea
every day...which in fact, is NOT what Hong Kong people do (yes, I'm
sorry if I'm shattering some dreams here - Hong Kong people do too
watch television and shop and do things other than learn Kung Fu. In
fact, you'd be hard-pressed to find one person in Hong Kong who knows
martial arts Jet Li style). The Chinese people in the film all have
names like "Po" and "Han" and say things like "let's show them our true
strength"...I'm surprised they didn't put some phrases like "Let's
summon our family's ancestral dragons" in. ALSO, I was really confused
when they showed Hong Kong. It was nothing like the Hong Kong and all
but one person spoke in Mandarin (most people in Hong Kong speak
cantonese). I'm not sure if that bit WAS actually Hong Kong but...if
you're going to say that he's in prison in Hong Kong, why choose a
place which does NOT give a proper image of Hong Kong? There must've
also been some confusion with Chinese and Japanese because I swear, at
times, Han's (Jet Li's character) dad seems more Jap than anything...

Still, I liked the film. There wasn't enough development between Jet
and Aaliyah but Jet Li still looked really cute. Jet Li really kicks
something serious in the movie and so I let all the other things slide
- even the idea that the Chinese guys turn out to be the bad guys and
the black guys turn out to be actually...awww...really nice people.
Lindo was good and Aaliyah was REALLY REALLY good. It's sad - she would
have made a terrific actress and I'm happy that she did leave behind at
least this movie.

Watch this movie. I just realised that my review doesn't actually sound
too positive but trust me - I really did like the film. In fact, I'm
going to watch it again now!
<|_=00=_|>
I was surprised I enjoyed much of this since martial arts movies are
okay but nothing I really get into often. Jet Li plays the only likable
character in this Asians vs. Blacks gang story.

Some of the stunts were tremendous. Some were so over-the-top, so
unbelievable that they were funny. The movie certainly isn't one to be
taken seriously. 

The wild action scenes, fairly involving story and nice colors and
interesting sound track all make this movie a cut above the normal
martial arts fare. The excellent surround sound and sharp picture make
it a good one for DVD.
<|_=00=_|>

What a movie!

This is one of those films that you simply cannot ever be bored in.  At the
beginning you are as much in the dark as the hero, Jet Li, and as such your
understanding develops as his does.  By not explaining the film the
director
keeps the intrigue up while at the same time thrilling us with the
camera.

Jet Li is incredible in his largest role to date.  He proves that not only
can he kick but has some acting ability in there as well.  Aaliyah is not
great but fills the role nicely as Li's romantic interest.  The other
characters are left beautifully in the background until the necessary time
when they spring to the limelight to steal the show, however briefly, from
Li.

Ok so it isn't his best martial arts movie (that was probably the Legend of
Fong Sai-Yuk) but his fighting is coupled with an excellent story, one that
is far more elaborate than a simple Romeo and Juliet, with less of the
soppy
love stuff too.

For any martial arts, mystery, action, thriller, even dare I say sports (a
wonderful American Football scene) film fan will love this
film.

Definitely one for any video collection! 
<|_=00=_|>
For those who like cross-culture, "Romeo Must Die", show be the one for
you! Jet Li who was fresh from "Leathal Weapon 4" really delivers in
this action-packed movie. Playing Han was a big one for him.
Aaliyah(1979-2001), the R&B sensation really got her acting chops in
gear playing the alluring Trish O'Day, who is being shadowed by the
bumbling Maurice, played by the hilarious, Anthony Anderson. Everybody
would call him MORON! Which I think is funny.

I liked the X-ray effects of the movie whenever a fight was going to
happen. I liked the part when Han refused to a fight a woman, he used
Trish to fight her with. It looked more of a swing dance to me. Since
Trish's words backed him up, the enemy was impaled through the heart.
And after the final fight, Trish's father (Delroy Lindo), wanted to
meet Han for himself, and I 'm glad he got that chance, I think it was
silly for him to demand a handshake from him, but hey, he wanted to who
the "cat" was, and make sure he did. Han never declined any offer only
to know who was the troublemaker behind the "war". Before anyone
remember seeing Aaliyah in "Queen of the Damned", check out this movie
first. Rating 4 out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

There seems to be several films in this one. A story about corruption and
property deals, a story about fathers and their children, a tentative Romeo
and Juliet romance and of course martial arts and guns. The actors acquit
themselves well. One hoped for more of Michael Wong and less of Anthony
Anderson (his constant 'Dim Sum' refrain being quite irritating) but the
actors act, the plot moves and the film is enjoyable enough.

Jet Li is as usual very watchable and apart from his skill at martial arts
(quick and effective but always graceful) he acts OK. His cab scene with
Aaliyah is charming and funny and one wanted more of that but their
relationship is underdeveloped in the script. It is a pity as Aaliyah is
luminous and sassy. Her untimely death in real life was a
tragedy.

Not as good as 'Kiss of the Dragon' but better than 'The One' and 'Cradle 2
the Grave' but inferior to Jet Li's Hong Kong movies.


<|_=00=_|>

Not trying to win Oscars here but it is kick ass fun.

Aaliyah's best acting performance by far in her short life, Washington,
Lindo and even Anthony Edwards helped Aaliyah's performance with great
support and I must say DMX is not bad for a rapper/actor!!!

Jet Li was Jet Li! Dialogue is bad often awful but the guy can really
perform his martial arts!

Romeo Must Die isn't the best Shakespeare adaptation but it is what it is
and that is a good martial arts/love/action film

7/10
