
I honestly don't understand what all the fuss is about. Why do people
hate Waterworld? Why was it instantly disregarded before it was even
released? When you really think about it, how much different IS
Waterworld from the more recent Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's
Chest? They are quite similar if you think about it. Waterworld also
cost $75 million less than DMC. But because it has Johnny Depp in
mascara the whole world loves it! Hypocrisy! With a lot of behind the
scenes trouble (Reynolds walked off the film and Costner had to finish
the final third of filming himself) and negative pre-release buzz,
everyone expected Waterworld to fail. Boasting a budget of £175 million
(the most expensive ever until Titanic 2 years later) it was sure to be
a flop, especially with the snooty public and critics blasting it
before its release. Then, the unthinkable happened. 

Upon release, Waterworld actually managed to prove critic expectation
wrong and be a good movie, receiving good (albeit ignored) reviews and
finally earning a grand total of $255 million at the Box Office. This
is before video, laserdisc, TV, DVD, HD-DVD and Blu Ray sales as well
as all of the merchandise. Does sound like a flop to you? The plot is
far-fetched. Yes, but so are the POTC plots involving fish-men, giant
squids and Orlando Bloom as anything remotely masculine. But you
accepted that quite easily. So just, for a minute, believe that if the
polar ice caps DID melt that the world WOULD be covered in water. Set
hundreds of years after this particular cataclysm, Waterworld follows
the journey of The Mariner (Kevin Costner, who is only referred to a
few times but never actually named), a man who is one step beyond human
as he has the ability to breathe underwater and has webbed feet.

Early on in the movie, The Mariner comes across an Atoll, a floating
small town complete with its own hill...er Waterbillies. When the Atoll
is seized by crazed madman baddie boss Dennis Hopper as The Duke of the
Deez (as in Exxon Valdeez), The Mariner escapes with Enola, a little
girl who may hold the secret of Dryland and her guardian Helen (the
totally gorgeous Jeanne Tripplehorn). Not happy with anyone leaving the
party The Duke sends his army of filthy smokers to catch The Mariner
and discover Dryland for himself.

Waterworld has a lot going for it. It's everything an action/sci-fi
movie should be. There is so much escapism in the stunning seascapes
and tropical feel. James Newton Howard's exotic score (replacing a
rejected score by Mark Isham) is breathtaking and I seriously recommend
you hunt down the soundtrack CD. The action is almost entirely special
effects and stunt-work and it's brilliantly done. The editing is also
quite impressive as is the amazing sound design. Waterworld is far
superior to many, more expensive action films but still carries this
burden of negative, unfair public opinion.

I have only ever seen the 136-minute cut of Waterworld that was
released into cinemas and subsequent VHS etc. But a Director's Cut of
176 minutes has been shown on TV in America several times. This version
apparently restores several scenes that tie up loose ends and answers a
lot of questions about how the this particular watery future works as
well as revealing that Dryland is actually Mount Everest. Other than TV
airings, this version has never made available to the public. Which is
quite annoying as there is a huge fanbase for it.

Don't have prejudices against this movie. Think different and see for
yourself how cool it is.
<|_=00=_|>
"Waterworld" is one of those movies that everyone would rather
passively make fun of rather than take the time to watch. This is
unfortunate, because it really is a good movie. Sure, it's borrowing a
lot from "Mad Max," but it's not like "Mad Max" was original fare to
begin with. It's an interesting take on the genre, with some nice sets
and costumes, a great soundtrack, and the coolest boat to ever appear
on a movie screen. The script has thoughtfully and intricately worked
out a new way of life in a post-apocalyptic world, and the supposed
"plot holes" aren't as big as everyone makes them out to be (OK, we
never really find out why dirt is so important in the future; so what?
Is that enough to ruin the whole movie?).

If anything brings it down, it's Kevin Costner's performance. The
brooding, gloomy hero shtick works, but he's still far too serious for
a movie like this. If he'd had the good sense to be a little more
tongue-in-cheek, it would have helped a LOT. Still, it's not a bad
movie by any means, and I really think all the negativity toward it is
unnecessary. Enough with all the complaining... just sit back and enjoy
it! 

8/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I want the Costner bashers to sit down and watch "Rebirth of the Mothra III"
on Sci-Fi Channel some time. Then they'll know that they have seen the worst
movie ever made.

"Waterworld" is an escapist fantasy/action picture, not unlike the James
Bond and Indiana Jones pictures. Costner's performance works on exactly the
same level as the Connery/Moore/Brosnan portrayals of 007 and Harrison
Ford's portrayal of Indy -- straightforward, grim, stoic, a little
mean-spirited, a little cruel, unafraid of dirt, grime, death, or salt
water.

It's not perfect by any means. I'm sure Costner hacked it to pieces in order
to accommodate the two-hour-running-time maxim imposed by the studio, so
that corporate could get their investment back. Now is the time for the
extended DVD version; maybe that will explain where all those cigarettes
came from, and how the Smokers converted raw crude into
gasoline.

7 out of 10. Costner bashers should get over themselves and start giving
Michael Bay and George Lucas what they deserve.
<|_=00=_|>

*** out of ****

Sort of like a Mad Max meets Indiana Jones set on a planet-wide ocean,
Waterworld hit theaters back in 1995 with a surprisingly decent critical
reception but unforgiving responses from the masses, resulting in a
domestic
box office tally just north of half of the movie's infamouse 175 million
dollar budget.  Ever since, there's been quite a bit of debate over
whether
the film earned money back on its huge production costs (naturally, the
movie's detractors say no, while the fans say yes, and it was a hit
overseas
and on video).

I'm actually surprised Waterworld bombed as it did in the U.S., given
that
audiences (myself included) have a predilection for big, dumb,
blockbuster
fun.  Hey, there's got to be an explanation for why Jerry Bruckheimer is
cinema's most powerful producer.  And it's not as if though word-of-mouth
after the premiere killed the movie (Waterworld actually showed very good
legs at the box office, considering its somewhat meager opening weekend).

I think part of the critical lashes stems from its budget, which led
people
to believe this movie would be a flop no matter what.  I've even heard
plenty of complaints from people that never every buck appeared to be
on-screen.  These days, you never hear such complaints because movies
almost
as expensive as Waterworld are becoming commonplace, which annoys me in
that
most blockbusters these days are packed with CGI as Waterworld was not,
thus
inevitably it had to be about as expensive as it was (filmed on the
water,
sinking sets, tough conditions, it's a miracle the movie was even
finished).

As most everyone knows, Waterworld takes place sometime in the
unspecified
future where the Earth has been covered by water from the melted icecaps.
Kevin Costner stars as the Mariner, a Mad Max-ish loner on the ocean
who's
boat boasts an impressive array of sails and devices.  An opening scene
introduces us to the deadly lifestyle of the open sea, with "pirates"
ready
to plunder and murder to get what they want.

The Mariner arrives at an atoll (a very large trading post) to trade,
encounters some trouble when he refuses to stay behind and impregnate a
young woman, and is thus imprisoned (and also discovered to be part fish,
it
turns out he's got gill slits behind his ears and he's got webbed feet).
Just as he's to be executed, he's saved when "pirates" called the Smokers
invade the atoll looking for a girl who apparently has a map tatooed on
her
back that leads the way to the mythical Dryland (whether or not such a
myth
existed before the girl is unknown).  So said girl and her foster mother
(Jeanne Tripplehorn) save the Mariner, who promises to take them with
him.
But being a loner, he doesn't appreciate their company.  Meanwhile, the
Smokers continue their hunt for the girl to continue the search for
Dryland.

Even though Waterworld has a great, if also entirely implausible, premise
and a fun story, it's not driven by its script.  Written by David Twohy
(the
genius responsible for sci-fi greats The Arrival and Pitch Black), he
shows
none of the ear for dialogue he displayed in those aformentioned
thrillers.
Inconsistency abounds in the atoller's lifestyles, as well as their
beliefs.
No one (except for the Mariner) is aware that there's ground below the
water, but they never seem to question where dirt-which is a rare
commodity-comes from. The movie's got all sorts of little problems along
those lines, but I don't think they're really worth mentioning.

What makes the movie worth watching is the adventure.  The movie's all
about
the search for Dryland, and the journey for it is an exciting and
thrilling
one.  Spectacular action sequences abound, from large-scale battle
sequences
to boat chases.  In fact, the action is the movie's highlight.  Director
Kevin Reynolds' has an eye for staging and filming fight scenes and gun
battles, delivering all this action with plenty of high-energy flair and
virtuoso stunts.  The attack on the atoll, an eleven-minute setpiece, was
1995's second most thrilling action sequence (right behind the Battle of
Stirling Bridge in Braveheart).  Also equally thrilling is the climactic
battle aboard the Smokers' tanker, which displays some of the largest
pyrotechnics I've ever seen.

To give the adventure an extra boost, the film gives a genuine attempt at
character development and actually comes off not half-bad.  Kevin
Costner's
basically aping Mel Gibson with his own rendition of Mad Max, and while
playing a part man/part fish is pretty ridiculous, I'd have to say he's
quite sincere and convincing in the role.  I'm not the world's biggest
Costner fan, but I'll be the first in line to say he's sorely underrated
as
an actor.  Tina Majorino is a bit annoying as the cute girl, and I find
it
rather baffling that her character has Chinese characters tattooed on her
back, even though she's clearly caucasian.  Dennis Hopper is a hell of a
lot
of fun as the Deacon, head of the Smokers, playing his role as both
villain
and comic relief (he even gets in a priceless scene with a fake eye).
But
faring best of all is the gorgeous Jeanne Tripplehorn as the requisite
love
interest.  I've always been a big fan of hers, and while I wouldn't call
this a great performance, she's full of energy and vitality as the tough,
strong-willed heroine who doesn't give in to demands so
easily.

One of Waterworld's biggest flaws is the generally cheesy acting from the
supporting cast.  Most everyone in this movie has a different accent
(except
for the leads, of course, who are distinctly American), which I assume
was
meant to give the flavoring of variety, but it makes the delivery of the
already silly dialogue twice as silly.

That problem aside, I found myself perfectly open to Waterworld's
invigorating action and adventure.  There was a lengthier version shown
on
network TV in the film's broadcast premiere, which I thought made
improvements on both plot and pacing (the theatrical release runs a
fast-paced 136 minutes, and I think the network version is actually
almost
forty minutes longer).  Wish I'd taped it, but hopefully it'll end up as
a
special edition release on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I just had to disagree with the first guy who thought it was simply
awful. This is a big budget movie and it looks it. There are a number
of metaphors going on in this story - maybe too many. But it really has
a MaxMax on the Water feel to it. It's actually pretty fun and like the
Mad Max movies - doesn't take itself too seriously.

This was one of those movies that just got creamed by the press because
they get very upset when movies cost a lot and in their minds - too
much.

Also - Costner was becoming a very big star - and the press loves to
buildup stars and once their huge, they love to tear them down. This
was a tear down.

Heaven's Gate wasn't awful - but just too slow. This movie isn't awful
either, and neither is it slow. And if you're a motorhead - its extra
fun. Dennis Hopper chews up the scenery like a famished dinosaur and
he's so much fun he makes Kevin's character look a little
under-written.
<|_=00=_|>
I can see this again and again. Music score- wonderful! Reminds me of
Thomas Newman's style, (Road to Perdition) but not him. He's got the
sound of happy water down! My favorite part is the ingenious mechanisms
used on the big boat/ catamaran type, the workings of the atoll-so
creative. There are many lines & terms that stand out for me...." not
for sale, not for sale?!" "This wee orchard" is a 1-lemon bush-tree in
a pot. Tina Majorino, here a small girl, is a strong, memorable
character. Her bond with the main character, the mariner, gives one a
good feeling, one of hope about what's possible for the "walking
wounded" among us. Dennis Hooper uses his voice to the max, to bring so
much interest and color into the picture. The society on the big tanker
makes me continue to wonder, to stretch - what would really happen,
what would people be like, after generations had gone by, and
overcrowding was a problem. Great actors, all. Interesting plot, cool
props. Makes one think, laugh, wonder. 

RE: All the junk I've heard about this movie, and it's lack of
promotion - I think its the non-viewers that have lost out.
<|_=00=_|>

There is no point going through this film and trying to make all the
science fit. The scientific fact has been stretched to breaking point.
I found this a very enjoyable experience with some of the best comic
strip bad guys in any movie. Costner plays a likable, although
traditional, nomadic hero taking care of no 1. Fortunately, there isn't
really a love element in the film to spoil it too much. This film has
numerous memorable scenes that verge on the hysterical including the
oars coming out of the oil tanker, the dropping of the match into the
oil tanker and Costner's bungie jump to save the girl. Great stuff. I
can't wait for the producers to make a sequel.

<|_=00=_|>

"thanks" to some false news reports about people walking out on this great
movie during prerelease screenings and about the sinking of the set, it
was
doomed before it was released
this is not a "Citizen Kane" or a "Das Boot", obviously, but it's an
extremely entertaining movie with a great story and awesome
shots
the same movie with someone other than Kevin Costner would have made 3
times
the money. to bad peoples ill feelings towards Costner, didnt let them
enjoy
this movie

<|_=00=_|>
it's a shame so many people spent their time running their mouths
rather than watching the movie. 

The story isn't new (what story is?) but its' well done, BIG color, BIG
scenes,a touch of serious, a touch of humor, clear cut good guy, clear
cut BAD guys with a few "grey guys" thrown in the middle. 

Costner is always a variable. When the right script hits, no one is
better, otherwise it's pretty much a monotone. 

FORTUNATELY, this is the kind of script where the dead pan,
monosyllabic Good Guy works just fine. 

It's a shame the "experts" (i.e. the critics who create nothing)
trashed this one. Even if it were the worst movie ever made, Costner
would have been contributing more the "creative world" than ANY critic
will in their entire lives. geoff beneze
<|_=00=_|>

This is an unpopular movie, and I don't see why it is so. Admittedly, it
is
unbelievable, but so are James Bond films. There was enough action in this
one to keep thriller buffs going all the way through. Costner did a good
job
portraying a lonely vagabond in a crazy, violent world. Dennis Hopper, as
usual, was an effective villain; he kept me laughing all the way with his
insane antics, and his stupid henchmen. I have to wonder, however, if the
full nude shot of the girl was really the actress I had been watching.
With
clothes on, she didn't look all that well endowed. Not a bad movie,
really.

