
What sets out to be a comedy movie with ghosts, (and anyone could be
forgiven for thinking this is what it would be given that Michael J Fox
has the lead) rapidly becomes a very dark supernatural thriller.

The special effects still look good even by todays standards, and the
story is solidly written, good characters and good direction, there is
not much to criticise in this movie.

The film itself is one that you should not miss, and certainly not
because you think its something that it isn't.

8/10 A surprising film, that has probably been overlooked by too many
movie lovers.
<|_=00=_|>

The Frighteners is an excellent horror-comedy-drama in which Michael J. Fox
plays ex-architect and now psychic scamster Frank Bannister. The film
revolves around the premise that Frank, after being involved in an accident
which resulted in the death of his wife, can now see disembodied spirits and
runs a scam in which the ghouls haunt houses under the order of Frank and
then he 'exorcises' them for a fee. However, a series of murders begin in
Frank's town and it becomes achingly clear that these murders have something
to do with his wife's death. The romantic involvement comes in the form of
Trini Alvarado (Little Women) who plays a doctor who's husband was killed by
the evil forces at work.
This film achieves many things, it manages to create a comic atmosphere at
times whilst being able to make us feel real sympathy for the character of
Frank and his tragic circumstances. This is a truly under-rated film and it
is well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
The Frighteners is a textbook example of how to do a horror/comedy.
Peter Jackson once again proves he can handle the genre masterfully.
With Psychic Investigator Frank Bannister, Michael J. Fox adds another
great character to his pantheon of heroes. The rest of the cast is top
notch as well. Horror icon Dee Wallace Stone is great in this. John
Astin is great in this. R. Lee Ermey is great in this. Even Jake Busey
is great in this. Everyone is great in this. The actors and actresses
do a wonderful job of handling the humor and the scares. But the actor
that really shines here is genre veteran Jeffrey Combs. His portrayal
of F.B.I. Special Agent Milton Dammers is one of his most memorable in
long career of genre roles. Only the best went into this movie: Rick
Baker was brought in to handle some of the visual effects and Danny
Elfman composed the score. I don't know that it's my favorite, but this
may be Jackson's best horror offering thus far in his career. That's a
bold statement considering he's no stranger to horror.

Note for genre buffs: Peter Jackson cameos as the pierced passerby.
<|_=00=_|>
THE FRIGHTENERS has just the right blend of comedy and horror, and will
please most audiences. Director Peter Jackson did a great job directing
this film, and Michael J. Fox gives one of his most unusual
performances as a "ghost buster" who has a rare gift that allows him to
see the dead. 

All in all, a unique film that is very different from its competition
in the horror drama and really only falls apart towards the end, when
it resorts to the typical slasher ending with plot twists. Apart from
the end, it's sure to keep you entertained throughout! 

4/5 stars 

JOHN ULMER
<|_=00=_|>
Frank Bannister (Micheal J. Fox) is been seeing Ghosts after he was in
a car accident with his wife (Angela Bloomfield), who died in the
accident. Frank for years is been conning people as a Ghostbuster with
the help of two wise cracking ghosts (Chi McBride & Jim Fyfe). When a
mysterious ghost disguise himself as the Grim Reaper is been killing
humans for pleasure. With the help of a local doctor (Trini Alvarado),
she willing to help Frank stop this menacing ghost but stopping them in
a way is a Freaked Out FBI Agent (Jeffery Combs).

Directed by Three Time Oscar-Winner:Peter Jackson (The Lord of the
Rings Trilogy, Brain Dead, King Kong-2005). Jackson made an very
entertaining film that mixes it with Supernatural, Comedy, Thriller and
Horror very well. This was a Box Office Disappointment in the Summer of
1996. The film plays better on Video and Television. But it was a must
see in the theater, for it's amazing Digital Effects. Fox gives one of
his best roles, Combs steals the show in the film. The movie's
supporting cast are:Peter Dobson, John Astin, Dee Wallace Stone, Jake
Busey, Troy Evens and R.Lee Ermey.

This Review is the Director's Cut for new DVD. Which the film is now 14
minutes longer than the theatrical cut. DVD has an sharp anamorphic
widescreen (2.35:1) transfer and an strong-Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround
Sound. DVD has an entertaining commentary track from the director from
the original 1998 Director's Cut Laserdisc. This new DVD has the same
features from the Laserdisc, including the original 4 and ½ hours
documentary. Which the documentary also has deleted scenes, outtakes,
interviews with the cast and more. The problem with this DVD is a
flip-side disc, which one side is the film and other side of the disc
is the documentary. 

The documentary is been trimmed down for the DVD but side A does have
the 45 minute long storyboard scenes with commentary by the director.
Which is not on side B on the documentary of the DVD. Although be
careful with this DVD, since it's a flip-side disc and it could get
scratches easily. This Director's Cut adds some funny moments and some
character development (especially from Combs character). This is a one
of a kind film from the increasingly talented filmmaker-Peter Jackson.
Don't miss it. Executive Produced by Robert Zemeckis (Back to the
Future Trilogy). Written by Fran Walsh and the Director. Nice music
score by Danny Elfman (Batman, Nightbreed, Red Dragon). Watch for
Jackson in a Cameo. Super 35. (**** ½/*****).
<|_=00=_|>

THE FRIGHTENERS is about as far out as any comic horror flick can be, making
great use of special effects to get its ectoplasm creatures going through
some scary capers. Michael J. Fox stars as a man who can communicate with
and see dead spirits but the plot is strictly made of comic book horror
fantasy. Everything moves so swiftly you have no chance to think about the
complete lack of logic.

Dee Wallace is frightening as a demented woman hell bent on revenge. Trini
Alvarado is a good foil for Fox's romantic interest and Jeffrey Combs makes
the most of his role as Special Agent Dammers.  

A good mixture of horror, fantasy and humor that is overwhelming in its use
of CFX effects. Creepy settings are a plus and give the whole film a
Halloween feeling--just don't expect the flashbacks to make any sense of the
proceedings. Some of the scenes are too intense for younger viewers.

<|_=00=_|>
I used to love The Frighteners and I was one of the few people who
actually saw it in cinemas back in the day. Peter Jackson used to be so
full of imagination and potential. He started off doing raw, gory
horror films (actually broad comedies) like Bad Taste, Braindead, and
Meet the Feebles. The Frighteners was his first Hollywood film, and for
better or worse, the first film in which his love affair with CGI
seized control of his vision.

Michael J. Fox (in his last live-action lead role) is Frank Bannister a
psychic investigator/con man with a tragic past who uses his ghost pals
to scare people and run a fake ghostbusting racket. His hometown of
Clearwater is in the midst of an epidemic in which seemingly healthy
people are dying of heart attacks but Frank soon discovers that there
is a much more sinister reason behind it and tackles the dark forces
before they claim the life of his new love interest.

The mystery and plot twists in The Frighteners are all well-written and
keep it alive (pun intended) for the entire running time without the
slightest lull. I honestly do mean it when I say that this will
probably remain the best film in Jackson's career. Yes, even better
than those tedious, overdone LOTR movies, better than King Kong, better
than...etc.

So why the 6/10 review? Believe me, back when I was a teenager I would
have given this 8/10 without hesitation, but I just cannot stand
Jackson as a filmmaker anymore. For a director who began making gritty,
in-your-face horror with practical make-up and special effects he come
along way/fallen far from his roots. Nothing this guy does these days
is 'real'. Nothing is genuinely there, tangible, in front of the
camera. It's all a CGI and fake, and The Frighteners was the tipping
point for that particular trajectory. Even the Lovely Bones, terrible
as it was, had CGI enhancements all over, even outside of the 'Heaven'
scenes. Nothing is REAL with this guy, not anymore! He needs to go back
to making movies with a camera, some 16mm film, and a boom mike if he
wants to get any respect from me or scrape back any shred of
credibility. The generic Danny Elfman score, which sounds like
absolutely everything else he's ever done, didn't help either.

Universal took a gamble with releasing The Frighteners in the summer
season of 1996 (it didn't reach the UK until February 1997, and even
then only for about a week) and it was a gamble that they would come to
regret. Summer 1996 was an effects filled season with movies like
Independence Day, Twister, and Eraser doing huge business. The
Frighteners (much more suited to a Halloween release) had a truly
terrible trailer, to the tune of Alan Silvestri's annoying Death
Becomes Her score, that made it look like a light-hearted comedy. The
R-rating was also joke, and a stupid decision. Jackson cut 14 minutes
from the movie to lessen the tone but the MPAA still slapped the movie
with an R despite the fact that there really, really isn't anything,
even in the 124-minute director's cut that warrants such a rating.
Plus, the fact that Jackson shot this in rainy New Zealand (doubling as
the Pacific Northwest, I assume) meant that a dreary, drizzly,
depressing-looking movie fought for box office takings against happy,
upbeat, sunny summer movies, and in a year when America was hosting the
Olympics too.

Bad move, Universal, very, very bad move.
<|_=00=_|>

 Before his name became synonymous with the Lord of the Rings trilogy, Peter
Jackson made his name directing wacky, bloodthirsty horror movies, the most
vile and notorious of which is probably Braindead. With The Frighteners,
Jackson began to move into the mainstream with such luxuries as a big
budget, big stars, and well publicised international release dates (though
he did still insist on filming the action in his native New Zealand).
Sometimes directors fail to make the transition from quirky independent
movies to glossy Hollywood productions (look at John Woo and Michaelangelo
Antonioni) but Jackson's film manages to retain some of his trademark
touches amidst all its polished trappings.

Michael J. Fox plays a psychic investigator in a small American town. Since
a car accident gave him one almighty bump on the head, he has been able to
communicate with spirits and has made a less-than-honorable living by
ridding houses of ghosts which, in actual fact, are his friends! However, he
occasionally envisages strange numbers glowing on peoples' heads, and soon
after these people seem to die violently. Slowly but surely, he realises
that the numbers represent a numerical death list and he gradually discovers
that the victims are chosen by a long-since executed serial killer who is
continuing his murderous spree from beyond the grave.

So, what's good about the film? The plot is certainly inventive, and Jackson
has limitless fun engineering amusing episodes. In one super scene, three of
Fox's deceased buddies cause havoc in a museum by fooling around with some
skeletal remains. In another, a ghost gets his face gruesomely diced in a
car engine. The pace of the film is reminiscent of a rollercoaster ride.
Jeffrey Coombs delivers one of the most outlandish and hysterical
performances ever witnessed as an unhinged secret agent.

The bad points? The climax settles for a disappointingly conventional chase
sequence, with predictable twists and plot contrivances, not to mention
three or four over-used "rescue-just-in-the-nick-of-time" moments. The best
character - John Astin as "The Judge" - gets removed from the story far too
early. And worst of all, there's a really lame moment right near the end
where the film cops out completely (I won't spoil it for you, but let's just
say that the hero dies-but-doesn't-die, if that makes sense).

All in all, The Frighteners is quite good, but the final quarter lacks
invention and costs the film a merit or two.
<|_=00=_|>

Con man (Michael J. Fox) uses the ghosts he sees and maintains friendships
with in order to rip off people in order to make a living after losing his
wife. However, there is a dead serial killer lurking about killing everyone
and Fox has to stop this ghost before it can claim another victim. This film
moves along at such fast pace you never have time to question what is going
on on-screen. The film itself, is filled with many wonderful visual effects
and proves to be a perfect vehicle for Fox's many talents. It is also
brimming with many original thoughts and idea's. It is highly under rated
and I highly recommanded this film. Just check your brain in at the door
however.

Rated R; Violence and Profanity.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember my older brother showing me this movie when it first came
out. I was younger and had a very vivid imagination so it scared the
hell out of me. Today I went back and re-watched this movie I have not
seen since then and while my imagination is still vivid, I respect the
movie now because of it.

The movie starts off I would say 80/20 Comedy/Horror. You get to see
the shenanigans that MJF and his two ghost cohorts pull off. Watching
the transformation of his character as he slowly realizes that he's up
against more then he thought. 

The story develops unbelievably well. The characters (living and
dead)are well thought out and brought to life, with such great
enthusiasm it's amazing. The story evolves slowly and dramatically,
each minute bringing more and more to the story.

The acting is amazing. MJF, awesome. Playing both the con artist, and
then the hero. Jake Busey pulls of crazy well, but then again he is his
fathers son. 

The CGI I think is pretty awesome for the time. The grim reaper shots,
still give me the creeps.

Over all I have a love for this movie that makes me want to keep
watching it again and again.
