
Heaven knows why I fall for this picture. But I do, hook, line, and
sinker. The deadpan delivery from Lundgren and Bellman makes this a
truly post ironic classic. Gina Bellman is difficult to watch, being
from the UK I'm acquainted with her later (emetic) sitcom work, and
seeing her try to hold down a serious role is very funny. She's clearly
very sensual though, so she has to be let off.

It's also pretty intriguing on an existential level to see the sniper
Waxman (Lundgren) pondering what his duty is and whether he can ever be
redeemed. But asides from all the post irony and existentialism it's
downright atmospheric. Mulcahy found some pretty extraordinary
landscapes to film. The title scene, is of a man running through some
sort of estuary set to a nice bluesy piece of jazz. What it has to do
with the plot is anybody's guess, but it was brilliant. Most of the
film is set in the penthouse of a skyscraper (the Algonquin) at night
time during heavy thunder and rain. It's a great looking piece of
architecture, and very atmospheric. The rest of the film is shown in
flashbacks of Waxman and his spotter's exfiltration following an
abortive assassination attempt. 

The Algonquin is described in this movie as 'a piece of techno-crap',
it's an unfurbished incomplete neo-Gothic skyscraper that no-one seems
to be bothered to finish. It's an uninhabited shell that makes a great
eagles nest for sniping. It's all quite amusing, quite why the powers
that be want a VIP in an armoured limo travelling at high speed to be
assassinated so publicly, so flagrantly, and so spectacularly by a
sniper using armour-piercing explosive rounds from an incredibly
difficult one-mile away shooting position, is anybody's guess. Just for
your interest my friends I have looked into why Mulcahy has named the
skyscraper 'The Algonquin'. It seems the literal translation of the
root of this word (whose definition is an Indian tribe) comes from the
Micmac meaning "at the place of spearing fish and eels". How
pretentious is that? Good though.

In true B-movie tradition we have a freak, Christopher Heyerdahl, as
the night-shift security guard in the Algonquin. His body is tattooed
with his 'buddies' a load of spiders who seem to urge him to commit
wanton acts of sexual violence, especially after he's snorted a bit of
white. He's really very creepy indeed.

The few action scenes in the movie are quite effective, but action fans
may find the longueurs in between to be unpalatable. This one is more
for the B-movie mavens.

Plot-whores don't really like this movie because it is a bit
discontinuous, for example why on earth is Waxman given a second chance
after his first failure to complete his assignment? But Silent Trigger
is perhaps the most entertaining movie I have ever watched, and I could
see it again and again. For the true connoisseurs of tripe from this
period it is an interesting debate whether or not to prefer Van Damme
or Lundgren, in my opinion this film marks Lundgren out as the top
banana. Can you imagine how excited I was at the tender age of 12 to
find out that they were appearing in the same movie (Universal
Soldier). Food for thought my friends.
<|_=00=_|>

`Silent Trigger`is the best actioner Dolph Lundgren made in years and it
looks absolutely fantastic for a B-movie.This feature owes a lot to
dynamite
direction of Aussie-shooter Russell Mulcahy who made a really significant
contribution in this one.
The whole movie relies entirely on Mulcahy`s direction that is still hip
and
vital.The script is average with lots of flaws in the middle of the movie
but the writing overall does the trick.Plotting is trashy but the ending
is
twist-oriented and it really freshens up the whole concept.The script
isn`t
witty enough but those gaps could`ve been filled by bigger budget since
the
movie has only two capital A,action set-pieces.I wonder how Mulcahy got
expelled from the Hollywood action mainstream since lots of hackers like
Hyams or Dwight H.Little get to do mainstream movies even though they
haven`t had a hit for years.
This movie is the right way for Dolph to go because such action vehicles
are
hard to find in Hollywood these days.Lundgren`s martial art scenes are
great
since he is tall and bulky so his kicks really pack a punch.His face isn`t
as pretty as Van Damme`s but he hits harder.Of course `Silent Trigger`
ain`t
no `Citizen Kane` but it sure does go way beyond anyone`s expectations
from
a movie that lays in the dust of the video-store back-shelf.
Mulcahy`s visual work is great and he still has the zeal for the
job.
No Kevin Hooks or Peter Hyams can overthrow this wet of hip visual
directing.Let me remind you that Mulcahy brought video clip aesthetics to
the Hollywood mainstream at the time when David Fincher,Simon West and
Domenic Sena used to dress in diapers.Sadly,he never had an idea of his
own
like Fincher but he still made groundbreaking videos for `Queen` and
movies
like `Highlander` or `Ricochet`.Let`s hope he finds his way back to the
maistream.  
<|_=00=_|>
He is calm, silent and deadly. His bullet can hit you from distance of
2 kilometers. This time Dolph holds in his hands a new tool of
destruction – a sniper. He works as political assassin, but he doesn't
want to kill any more. They sent him to his last mission into the great
designed building with a girl who is his assistant (Bellman). While
they make preparations, we watch many flash-backs related to their
common past and targets from many years ago. They don't know that whole
this job is just a trap to eliminate them both. Director of
"Highlander" and "Shadow", Russell Mulcahy, brought you another hit.
Claustophobic, strong and dramatic, this film really makes you think.
Dolph also provided you with fantastic action scenes that will take
your breath away. Gina Bellman – always pleasant to look at. The film
that is going to become an important part of your personal collection.
<|_=00=_|>
Paranoid assassin Waxman (Dolph Lundgren) is hired to perform a high
value hit from the top of an under construction high rise. Trouble
starts right away when he finds out his spotter, Clegg (Gina Bellman),
worked with him a few years previous on a job that went incredibly
wrong. So he thinks he is being set up. Also, there are two nosy
watchmen (Conrad Dunn and Christopher Heyerdahl) to deal with.
Revisited this Dolph action vehicle in proper widescreen and still
enjoyed it quite a bit. Widescreen seems essential due to director
Russell Mulcahy's great sense of style. The main building is a great
location with tons of atmosphere thanks to the rain drenched night. All
of the acting is good with Bellman sporting a really unique accent. It
looks they were totally trying to do the Anne Parillaud hit woman thing
with her. Heyerdahl plays a completely over-the-top druggie scumbag,
but it works and we even get a bizarre bit where he sees spider
hallucinations. He recently snagged a gig in the TWILIGHT movies. The
action is all well staged and quite bloody for the time. There is also
a unique Deep Forest-esque score. Mulcahy did a couple of more features
(TALE OF THE MUMMY, RESURRECTION) before going into TV nearly full-time
with a few features here and there. His most recent work is on MTV's
TEEN WOLF. *sad face*
<|_=00=_|>
Dolph is an assassin who takes on his last assignment. He's
experienced, mature, and filled with common sense - trying to teach the
naive and deadly wannabe, Gina, to be discriminative and aware. This
takes place in a metropolitan building,(not yet finished), overlooking
the bridge leading from the US into Canada. It's also where Dolph and
Gina go through a period of adjusting from their previous troubled time
together. There were some flashbacks, which I liked; they fit in well
at showing their past job together, and the reason for their
problematic rejoining. But during that time is when a minor flaw occurs
(concerning authenticity); it's about a security guard snorting cocaine
- (his job must pay awful well) - and he snorts it several times during
the night. But what the hell, it helps him become more of a sex-craved
maniac looking to fill-in a boring night: a romp through the penthouse
with the sexy Gina as the participant. He does a great job as a weirdo
guard, and is an excellent filler for action during the assassins set
up. But . . . Then after Gina fights off a sexual attack with the
guard, she then gets a sexual feeling for Dolph, of course. This
happens near the window that's been cutout in a circled manner for the
upcoming assassination attempt - you'll see her fine shapely hips while
laying on the floor. Although Gina doesn't have an ounce of toughness
to her, she still does all right as the female assassin. The action
scenes were good; some extreme, but not too outrageous like a lot of
other flicks. And maybe I could include that the Canadians seem to have
a higher percentage of good action movies than Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
For me, one of Lundgrens better performances as soldier and assassin
showing what it's not so easy to leave the firm. Kill or be killed. But
he gives hinds of that goes deeper. So the flashbacks which switch time
and place and shows how he became the lone, tired wolf which wants to
leave this business. Just one another job to do. The target is the
same. His last "job" failed because of the new spotter which was
connected with more unnecessarily bodies . But he sees that his target
is not the only target today. The new spotter is an old fiend. In Fact
the plot is not the work of a real genius but this film thrills. Not
least the work of Gina Bellman which gives the film a warm note in this
cold location and her character will be stronger as the viewer thinks
at the beginning of the movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Waxman ( Dolph Lundgren ) is a highly trained, expert assassin working
for a secretive undercover organization known as The Agency. After
failing to pull the trigger at his target in a previous mission in a
unnamed war-torn East European country, Waxman ( Dolph Lundgren )and
Clegg ( Gina Bellman ) his beautiful accomplice who is his "spotter"
are given one last chance to make things right.

When i saw this movie i was very surprised how creative and stylish
this movie turned out to be, the lighting, the soundtrack, locations
and characters made this movie my favourite Dolph lundgren movie. I
must say that most of the credit must go to the director of this movie
Russell Mulcahy, not only he made this movie a very entertaining action
film for action fans, he also creates a good style of suspense.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie has a good plot, great acting, interesting stuff, well scripted
bad guys, and is very beautifully shot. The flashback of the shooter and
spotter were interesting, one of the two security guards is one
messed-up-in-the-brain, coke-sniffer, the other was a very annoying
by-the-book rookie, the shooter was a "paranoid" man, and the spotter was a
beautiful woman that "got along with everybody", or so she thought, I would
dare say Russel Mulcahy did an excellent job at directing and recommend
it.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was filmed in a half-built skyscraper and throughout the movie
there is a thunderstorm. These 2 elements make an excellent backdrop for
the
movie. It looks very artistic. The movie is about an assassin (Dolph) who
was the best in the business. Then on an assignment he finds that he can't
take the shot. As time goes on he find more and more conflict between his
sense of morals and his job. If you like Dolph, he looks really good in
this
film and his acting isn't bad. He does deliver one boring monologue that
you
should just skip, and the girl in the film (Gina Bellman) has an annoying
voice. However, the action scenes are good and the film looks really
slick.
It is very well produced. It's my favourite Dolph movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Dolph Lundgren's 1996 vehicle here is a pretty unique production. A 90s
action-thriller with heavy existentialist aspirations, the feature
manages to attain most of its ambitions via the surprisingly careful
touch of director Russell Mulcahy. It's got some problems that threaten
my rating and may limit it to a niche audience, but for the most part,
this is a successful experiment the likes of which Lundgren has yet to
reproduce.

The story: A mysterious sniper (Lundgren) and his spotter (Gina
Bellman) face a series of internal and external threats as they prepare
to eliminate a target from an unfinished high-rise building.

From a thematic standpoint, this is an extremely ambitious effort for
an action movie starring a performer best known for punching people.
The first time I saw it, I thought of how easily this could have been
turned into a play. There are only four prominent cast members, all
generally inhabiting a single location, and there is an emphasis on
character scenes with few action highlights. Sergio Altieri's
screenplay mixes a typical action premise with heavy doses of noir and
a touch of absurdity, creating a micro-world wherein alien codes of
conduct are natural and the namelessness of characters is taken for
granted. Though Russell Mulcahy can be a heavy-handed director, he's
very in tune with Altieri's story and manages to create a tense,
intimate atmosphere that's oftentimes more chilling than his attempts
at horror have been. There are some lapses and excesses to this moody
atmosphere, but for the most part, the filmmakers are very successful
at striking the tone they want.

The one major qualm I personally have with the picture is its treatment
of Gina Bellman's character, which makes painfully clear that this is a
movie written by men and for men. Bellman's talent shines through even
in the most indignant of situations, but aside from the usual tropes of
turning a highly-trained female operative into a damsel and a random
sex scene, it's a challenge to find any statements or actions the
character makes that aren't in some way critiqued by her male
counterparts.

The action content is measured. It's pretty sparse, but what's there
tends to adrenalize. The worst of these scenes is the single brawl that
Lundgren had with sadistic coke-fiend Christopher Heyerdahl, but the
best scenes involve the use of Lundgren's unique sniper rifle. Two
major shootouts compose the highlights of the action, and Lundgren's
weapon of choice – with its immensely powerful bullets but agonizingly
slow rate of fire – gives these scenes a unique pace that you don't get
when both sides of a firefight are blazing away with automatic weapons.
The uneven nature of these gunfights, combined with their infrequency,
may understandably leave some action fans unfulfilled, particularly if
the story is not to their liking either. Essentially, this is an action
movie that asks you to take a chance on something other than the
strength of its action, and if you'd rather spend your time on less of
a gamble, Lundgren has an entire library of other flicks to check out.

Personally, I had a good time with this one. The fact that the star has
not attempted to make another film along these lines is a little
disappointing, since Lundgren does well with the minimalist touch.
Nevertheless, this helps make SILENT TRIGGER something of a hidden gem,
and if nothing else, the strength of its production places it on the
list of high-end offerings among Lundgren's non-theatrical features.
