
Although I really cringed a lot watching this film, it really has to do
more with the venacular, the mixture of badly expressed Chinese,
mangled English and hokkien swear words. However, I would have to
applaud the director for actually being about to touch the homeground
of the locals about the materialism of our society. To be honest, while
not everybody speaks like this, but to criticise the show based on the
language would be like trying to crit American directors for choosing
to portray ghetto societies and their language. Not really relevant.
This money was the first local movie in recent history to hit the box
office with runaway success. Although I admit most of the humour is
lost with foreigners, this movie really stands out because of the
milestone it has made in singapore film history being the first recent
film to attract locals away from big budget Hollywood movies.
<|_=00=_|>

For my own opinion, I feel that this is a very good movie which potrays
the
everyday life of an average Singaporean, a very true-blue Singaporean
movie.
The actors and actresses are quite natural too, as they're basically
acting
their own characters in true life.

I don't think this movie degrades Singaporeans in any way, instead, it
made
us realise that we are just as kiasu(scared to lose), as greedy, as
lavishing as the characters potrayed.

The theme of this movie is a good one. It's about 3 Singaporean men, an
office worker, a renovation contractor, and a coffee-shop assistant. The
office worker Keong, starred by Jack Neo, spends more on what he earned
each
month buying on luxuries and stocks. One day he resigned from his job as
he
was discriminated by his boss, and he lost alot of money from his stocks
too. In the end, he had to part with every of his luxury items and waiting
to be sued by the bank. The contractor Ong, starred by Mark Lee, borrowed
money from a loanshark to import imitation tiles from Taiwan .In the end
he
got cheated, and had to hide from the loanshark in Johor Bahru(Malaysia).
The coffeeshop assistant, starred by Henry Thia, is perhaps the most
honest
but funny character. Without him, the movie will be boring. He fancied a
girl who patronised the coffeeshop, and bought a large antique handphone
because he thought he can woo the girl with a handphone. Because of his
lusty mind, he even visited a prostitute but don't have the courage to
have
sex!

I hope that the Jack Team Productios will make more of such movies in the
near future. It's certainly a great production with a smack of true
Singaporean languages like Singlish, Hokkien, Mandarin, etc. You can't
watch
any show with these contents on TV as dialect programmes are banned from
showing on public TV channels.

Jack Neo, keep up the good works!
<|_=00=_|>
It's still considered as one of the best runaway success from local
director Jack Neo because comparing to his later works, it's still
among the tops in terms of local box office earnings for local
mainstream films.

Maybe not all can understand the rationale behind the making of this
comedy given some of the slangs used are not known to the outside
world, especially with the westerners. But at times really, I don't
know at times what those American TV shows are all about from what our
local TV are showing. Fair and square. It doesn't mean the entire world
can understand your own personal slang and kind of language because
everyone is brought up differently.

And so I can understand if there's anyone outside of Singapore who does
not really understand much of the plot, it's kind of forgivable. Though
maybe the born and bred Singaporean in me will be shaking her head that
the outside world do not get it. It's a personal thing.

Singaporeans' sort-of 'obsession' with not enough money in our pockets
is shown through an office worker, a contractor, and a coffee-shop
helper. Singaporean style of humour aside, but when reality sets in,
who likes it anyway? I remembered I had a good time watching it when it
was at the cinemas then. But then maybe at times watching some of those
so-Singaporean parodies being played out at screen is a little weird
and at times, funny. Kudos to director Jack Neo for doing all that.
<|_=00=_|>

This show is definitely one of the worst around by far. There is no plot,
no
storyline, no character development and no nothing except bad and crass
humour. I felt bored by the film and felt like sleeping throughout. I'm
amazed at how it did so well in the singapore box office compared to other
much better singaporean shows like eating air, the road less travelled
etc.
The show is a degradation of all singaporeans and portray us as
money-minded
bigots with a crude sense of humour. I left the theatre with a huge
feeling
of repugnance and indignance. Even the sound recording and filmography was
bad. Jack Neo should stay out of the burgeoning Singapore film industry
lest
he tarnishes it even more with his crude direction and monopolist
attitude.
Watch this if you're feeling really masochistic.

This is literally the worst show ever.  
