
I loved this movie. I am sure most people would disagree with me but I
would probably put it in my list of the ten best comedies I have ever
seen, all time.

This is Bill Murray's best work since Ghostbusters, at least as far as
comedy goes. I also liked him in Broken Flowers and Lost in Translation
but those were more dramatic roles.

I loved the way that Bill Murray and Richard Dreyfuss played off of
each other. I don't want to say too much or I'll give away what happens
between them through the movie but I thought they did a fantastic job
at creating comedic moments. The scenes where Bob horned in on Leo's
family moments and right into their home were incredible. I laughed out
loud through the entire movie. And it's a good family movie anyone can
enjoy.

Ten out of ten from me.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  And I've seen it MANY
times.  Still makes me laugh out loud.  I was surprised when it didn't make
AFI's top 100 funniest movies list.  I can't believe it only has a 6.4 .
It
should be much much higher.  It is simply hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
It might be a little simplistic to call this "Bill Murray's
Movie",because in truth,this film works just as well because it has a
fantastic support from Richard Dreyfuss,Julie Haggerty,Charlie
Korsmo,KAthryn Erbe and director Frank Oz. Still,you cannot watch this
film without feeling like Murray's complete abandon in this film is
what gives this film its pep,spark and life. This might be one of the
more energized performances of his long and well-padded career.

Dr.Leo Marvin(Dreyfuss,who has settled into being the 'Uptight
fuddy-dudd' roles from here,as opposed to the more restive,youthful
roles of past movies like "Jaws" and "Goodbye Girl")seems to have it
all. Loving wife,healthy,normal kids and a career that is on the verge
of taking off:a comfortable private practice in New York and a
self-help book about to be published nationwide. At the last minute,he
accepts another colleague's patient(for whom he does not wonder as to
why his peer is so breathlessly trying to pass this patient off to
him):one Bob Wiley(Murray). Bob doesn't have anything wrong with him;he
has MANY things wrong with him. Multiphobic,clingy and more than a
little under-developed in his sense of emotional attachment,Bob
misreads the good doctor's brush off(As the doctor gets ready for a
Labor Day getaway with his famille)as being a cure-all,and is
immediately smitten with the doctor's methods,approach,diagnosis and
treatment. He decides he's going to insinuate himself into Dr.Marvin's
life(in somewhat of a mixture of gratitude and need),and follows him to
the rural,New England lakeside vacation where the Marvins are staying.

Alvin Sargent and Laura Ziskin's story and script make the actors'
moves and lines so easy you'd almost think there were elements of
improvisation. But Murray and Dreyfuss are(and not to belabor a point
here but...)the key here. Murray's socially oblivious and free sense of
bonding clashes DRAMATICALLY with the button-down professionalism of
Dreyfuss' doctor,and as Muray thinks himself "Better",Dreyfuss' shrink
seems to be getting worse,confounded by his unwanted patient's
persistence and loyalty. While the unabashed enthusiasm of Murray's
character might drive away some viewers who might see this as
"annoying" or "too much", Murray fans and,I think,fans of sort of
odd,non-formula comedies will DEFINITELY appreciate the whole story and
rhythm of this film. Perhaps it's a bit too early to state this(though
this film,which I first caught in the theaters in first release sixteen
years ago,has had more than a decade to simmer in the memories of
moviegoers),I feel this is something of a modern comedy classic. I've
seen this film no less than three times and,to chime in with an IMDb
message board poster,this IS a truly re-watchable movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I personally think that this irresistible film is one of the best
comedies of the 90's, though with this one, I can safely say that
that's just my opinion. This is a movie that is so funny, that it never
loses it's ability to make you lose control of your motor functions,
even after the 15th viewing.

Bob Wiley (Bill Murray) is a lovable, but deeply troubled man who has
probably the biggest multi-phobic personality you could imagine. He
also has a habit of getting really attached to people within the first
few minutes of meeting them, and it's heavily implied that he's driven
multiple therapists out of business due to his annoying dependency. And
the successful therapist/best-selling author Dr. Leo Marvin (Richard
Dreyfuss) is about to be the next victim. After his first interview
with Dr. Marvin, Bob is immediately attached, and is worried when the
doctor leaves for a month long family vacation, preparing for a
promotional interview on Good Morning America. Bob cleverly tracks down
Dr. Marvin at his lake house, and instantly becomes good friends with
the rest of the family, while the doctor doesn't approve. Bob soon
becomes a house guest who acts like a part of the family, and is 100%
oblivious to Dr. Marvin's sinister hatred of him...

Totally brilliant premise, that is very well executed. I still do think
the ending, while still funny, could have used some work. Bill Murray
is at his absolute best here. He's such an over-the-top, yet believable
character, who you just wouldn't be able to resist how friendly he is.
Richard Dreyfuss is in my opinion the funnier of the two. His facial
expressions just scream "repressed rage," and his loss of sanity,
slowly occurring throughout the movie, is perfectly timed. You barely
notice his personality change. It just happens. One minute, he seems
like the ideal therapist, but before you even realize it, he's a
sinister maniac, who now requires more therapy than Bob. Bob on the
other hand, goes the opposite way. By driving him crazy, he unwittingly
manages to become saner, and conquer many of his fears. And has
absolutely no clue how much Dr. Marvin hates him, even when Dr. Marvin
has extreme outbursts at him right. Dr. Marvin couldn't possibly
express his annoyance more clearly, and the idea of his rage never
crosses Bob's mind once.

That is where the movie gets it's humor. Even as he unwittingly
humiliates someone on national TV, Bob never loses his charm. The
interview scene is in my opinion, one of the all time classic comedy
moments, and director Frank Oz just nails it. In the hands of any other
filmmaker, the scene could have deteriorated into mindless slapstick.
Bob humiliates the subject of the interview just by being Bob. And
believe me, he is not someone you would want to be guest interviewing
with. It's amazing how funny it can be just by watching a family grow
to love someone who the man of the house hates with a passion, and
getting mad when the dad acknowledges his annoyance. I highly recommend
this laugh-a-minute comedy, and give it 8/10.

It is rated PG for Language, and Thematic Elements. It would easily be
rated PG-13 today, even without the language.
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie the first time I saw it, laughing most
of the way. By the second look, Bill Murray's deliberately
obnoxious-pushy character now started driving me crazy, too. No longer
was it just Richard Dreyfuss being tormented. By the third viewing, I'd
had enough.

Murray, "Bob," is so annoying, so irritating, that you either laugh or
want to kill this guy yourself as he hounds his psychiatrist all over
the place. Kudos to Dreyfuss to put up with, even if it's just acting.
Murray certainly did his job well in this film. He was the perfect
actor to play "Bob."

Highly recommended for one but beware "Bob" may drive you nuts, too.
<|_=00=_|>
Bill Murray really does his best when playing outright wacky characters
like the one in "What About Bob?". In this case, he's a mentally
unstable psychiatric patient who follows his psychiatrist (Richard
Dreyfuss) on vacation and practically takes over. In a way, the whole
movie's sort of silly, but it shows how the psychiatrist is basically a
pompous dweeb and Bob is the world's most lovable person, if not quite
all there. It's really neat towards the end, how the psychiatrist
starts losing his mind in frustration. All in all, it shows that Frank
Oz is quite capable as a director, and that Murray and Dreyfuss are two
of the greatest actors of our era. Also starring Julie Hagerty, Charlie
Korsmo and Roger Bowen in his final role.
<|_=00=_|>

Comedies like this aren't made anymore, 
simply because the common movie 
watcher might deem such entertainment 
boring due to no use of semen or other 
bathroom humor archetypes. What I 
especially enjoyed about this film was 
the interaction between Bill Murray and 
Richard Dreyfus. It also brings out a 
question: Does bliss really exist within 
the confines of personal aggrandizement, 
or does it exist within the lack of societal 
pressures? A great little movie which 
should be watched by all.
<|_=00=_|>
"What About Bob?" is one of my all time favorite movies. I never tire
of watching this delightful comedy. It is Bill Murray's best
performance. The dynamic between him and Richard Dreyfuss is perfect
and makes the movie such fun to watch. Bill Murray's characterization
of the neurotic Bob is on target. And as Bob becomes more whole in
personality -- healing b/c of the interaction with Leo's family -- Leo
descends into a jealous-madness. The dichotomy is so amusing to watch.

But it is Bob's relationship with Siggy, Leo's son, that is the
sweetest unfolding - and is the main cause of friction with Leo. Bob's
ability to effortlessly charm his whole family drives Leo to
distraction. One of my favorite scenes is where Bob has Siggy teach him
how to divepriceless!
<|_=00=_|>
l wasn't sure if I wanted to give this movie 7 or 8 points till seeing
the last 20 minutes. There Richard Dreyfuss has been in full cry. I
needed to laugh so hard, that I am forced to give this movie 8 points.
As a movie itself, if I use all criteria I use on other films, this
movie would not deserve 8 points. The story is predictable (I knew
exactly how it was going to end from the very beginning), camera work,
music and characters are not actually special. All has been there
before, and was copied again and again afterward. But as a comedy, this
movie totally did what it was supposed to do. It was absolutely
hilarious!

Sometimes the humor was a bit too silly, and Bill Murray has been
overdoing it from time to time - and I still needed to laugh my butt
off. Watching the way smaller Dreyfuss beside the tall, dumb looking
Bill, screaming and shouting like an angry dwarf, was a way too funny
image.
<|_=00=_|>
"What About Bob?" is a laugh-out riot with Bill Murray playing the
title character of Bob Wiley, a somewhat neurotic nut ball who's in
need of therapy in order to calm his nerves from all the fears he has
from germs, elevators, and God knows what else. Richard Dreyfuss plays
his psychiatrist Dr. Marvin, a pompous doctor who can't value time with
his family until his book becomes a hit and has a chance to talk about
it nationwide. It's when Bob and Dr. Marvin meet face-to-face where the
barrel of laughs begin with the patient making his life upside down
while winning the hearts of his family, enemies and everybody around
him. I've been a fan of Bill Murray since his performances from
Ghostbusters to Caddyshack and he never disappoints.
