

I was dragged to this film by my girlfriend (now wife) when it first came
out in fall of 1995. I had zero interest in what seemed to me nothing
more
than a kids movie. I recall sitting in the theater before the movie
commenced, looking at my watch and estimating the time it would end, when
my
life could begin again after this rude 90 minute interruption.

Then the film began. The moment Babe said a tearful goodbye to his mother
as
she was being led off to the slaughter house ("Pig Paradise", the
narrator
says), I was hooked. What stood out to me was not the tearful "Goodbye
Mom",
but the fact that after we see Babe's mom loaded into the truck, the
camera
goes back to Babe, siting in the corner of his industrial pen, sobbing
profusely. This moment, maybe 90 seconds into the movie, is filmed so
well,
so perfect, that instead of coming off as melodramatic, it is
heartrending.
I know that word is used often to describe this film, but I do not know
how
else to describe it. This is one of many "heartrending" moments in this
beautiful film.

This is by far the best childrens film I have ever seen, but it really is
a
mistake to even call it a childrens film. It is simply a great film. A
film
that shows how wondrous things can happen as a result of common decency;
how
any individual can triumph if they believe in themselves; how vital is
the
help of family and friends in life's arduous journey.

This a film not to be missed.
It should have beaten Braveheart.
<|_=00=_|>

"Babe" is one of my favorite movies.

A lot of people laugh at me when I say that. But I know that this film is
one of the best ones ever made. It's simple, beautiful, positive and
original.

The story is about a farm pig who wants to become a sheep dog. Pretty
strange considering a pig's place is in people's plates. But Babe has
something the sheep dogs don't have: gallantry. His kindness, determination
and good intentions will make him a truly unique individual, one that stands
out from his peers, proving that no matter who you are, you can make a
difference.

I love the way the story is made. It is cut into chapters with a bit of
narration, giving us the warm "grandfather story" or "old school" feeling.
It's a very comfortable ambiance, and every animal brings its personality
into making an awesome story.

Now I am sure you've all seen talking animal movies before, with
voice-overs. Babe took it one step further with the animals' lips being in
sync with their lines! Talk about realism! The sets are very friendly to the
eyes and contribute into making this movie a classic.

Babe is one great movie for everyone to see, it's magical and
enchanting!

The Master T Score: ***** out of 5 Stars
<|_=00=_|>
When this came out -- years ago, I thought, "Wow, this is pretty
amazing" and since then movie audiences have been amazed at a number of
camera tricks, computer-enhanced people, animals, monsters, and who
knows what....so this kind of story with fun special effects is no
longer is unique.

However, it's so charming, so nice a story that it should hold up as
solid entertainment for a long, long time. It has proved to be anything
but a flash-in-the-pan. This movie will endure. It's also a beautiful
film on DVD with brilliant colors and some very rich visuals. 

Filmed in rural Australia, the scenery is magnificent and so is the
house that is featured in the film. It looks like some old-fashioned
gingerbread house. The animals are entertaining, talking to one another
like humans but not looking hokey in the process. In other words, the
dubbing is well done.

The main character, "Babe," the little pig, is the nicest, most
innocent "character" you could ever hope to find. Listening to him talk
is heart-warming most of the time and sometimes it's heart-breaking.
The best comic relief is provided by the goose who wants to be a
rooster. That may sound like it's geared toward little kids, but it
isn't. I haven't found an adult friend yet who didn't like this film.

It also was good to see James Cromwell play a nice guy, too. Most other
times he seems to play profane and corrupt cops or government
officials. Here, he's just a nice old farmer who blends in perfectly
with the surroundings. His wife is a bit annoying, but not too bad.

This is a wonderful, sweet-hearted comedy-drama with a nice ending,
too, guaranteed to leave you with a smile or a tear, or both. This is
one of the best "family" movies of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
An extremely quirky film that you won't mind watching with the kids.
Not full of sappy platitudes, this strange little tale of a pig that
wants to be a sheep dog is extremely effective in it's message without
hitting you in the head with it. No doubt because it wasn't made in
Hollywood... we Americans have never been good at telling children's
stories without being condescending and heavy-handed with the moral
message.

The story takes place in some fairy tale amalgam of all the rural
cultures of the English-speaking world - Sometimes it seems like
England, other times Kansas, Australia, New Zealand, it's really never
anywhere particular. The acting is superb, the animatronics are
unrecognizable as such, and James Cromwell is superb as the taciturn
farmer willing to give the little pig a chance.
<|_=00=_|>

I was one of the biggest detractors of this film when I initially found out
it was nominated for an academy award back in 1995.  A talking pig?  You
gotta be kiddin' me!  Then, months after Braveheart walked with the award, I
finally saw the infamous "Babe."  Wow!  Was I ever wrong.  This movie not
only deserved the nomination, but was a close, close second out of the five
nominees in my book (Braveheart rightfully won, but I would have had no
trouble had Babe won).  I love this film because it has a sweet lining, yet
tells a deep story about resolve, goodness, and the struggles of life in a
very large sense.  It makes you think, but more importantly, it makes you
WANT to think about how all our lives are interconnected and what can be
done by each seemingly insignificant individual to make the world a better
place.  That's saying a lot, when a guy who loves stuff like True Romance
digs on a piggy movie.  If you haven't seen this, buy it
immediately.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the sweetest movies I have ever seen.  Not preachy, but yet
extends a message of love and harmony.

Just loved the pig, and James Cromwell was terrific as the somewhat
befuddled but good-hearted farmer.  The climax is a wonderfully quiet and
touching scene.  It's a movie about friendship and trust, you should see it,
no matter how old you are.  
<|_=00=_|>

Babe is separated from his family and becomes friends with some of the
animals on his new farm.  He learns that each animal has a role to play and
that both he and Ferdinand the duck are fated to be lunch!  Both take new
roles to escape their fate and Babe tries to become a sheepdog.  As Farmer
Hoggett begins to notice the unusual way Babe can work with the sheep he
begins to groom him for that role – much to the worry of his wife and the
other farm animals.

Written by the guy who wrote the Mad Max films – that's what kills me.  I
know it's adapted but how can the Mad Max writer manage to deliver such a
sweet film that is unassuming and comic and heart warming.  The plot is
great as it is adapted from `The Sheeppig' but Miller's script adds so many
comic touches that it's funny throughout.  The characters are all well
written so that we care about them and get easily drawn
in.

It's directed well and again feels fresh and different – whether it's the
chapter set up or the use of the narrator or the way that the singing mice
make the links it all works well.  Because it is gentle and unassuming I
found myself involved in it so easily and the themes of finding your own
path and friendship are not rammed down your throat but just sit there if
you want to get them.  I've seen this several times and the silent,
wonderful climax to the sheepdog trials makes me choke everytime (even if it
is predictable).

All the voices are good and the use of animals is faultless.  The use of
animatronics is a little ropey at times but the sense of goodwill the film
gave me extended to overlooking these minor complaints.  James Cromwell is
just superb as the human face in this drama – everytime I see him now I can
only hear him say `that'll do pig'.  Babe is a great hero and you feel for
him from the start to the end – when he gives a little satisfied sigh it's
difficult not to feel warm inside.

Overall this is one of the best children's films I've seen – it's light and
unassuming and not a classic but it is comic, gentle and ultimately heart
warming – what more do you want?
<|_=00=_|>
This is a family film in the classic sense of the word, and it'd be
hard to find a more charming and heartfelt tale. Ideally for children,
but it can be enjoyed by adults too. It is a fantasy world where
animals speak just like humans do.....albeit not in Australian accents,
which is where the film is meant to be set.

The hero of this tale is a young pig named Babe, who is transfered from
the pig pen, to the village fête, to the hands of Farmer Hoggett who
wins the little fellow in a prize raffle(James Cromwell). It is on the
farm he meets the locals, and is taken under the wing by a kind
sheepdog named Fly, who has been characterised as the warm and motherly
type. Not so warm is Rex (voiced by Hugo Weaving of Agent Smith fame),
her growling no nonsense other half, who believes pigs do not belong
with sheepdogs.

Babe is portrayed as the personification of innocence, and his gleeful
and inquisitive nature brings him into contact with a host of farmyard
animals. Not too sure why they felt he needed a furry little toupee
between his ears, but each to his own. As Babe gets closer to Fly and
the sheepdog role, he even begins to assume this role, much to Rex's
dismay. But Babe has an awful lot of ambition for a little animal, and
his heart is set on being a "sheep-pig".

There are moments of sadness in this film, such as loss and death, but
it is mainly sweet natured and enchanting. It is one of the few
Universal rated films I enjoy watching, and that is saying something
for me!
<|_=00=_|>
A simple, likable feel-gooder. In lesser hands, 'Babe' might easily
have risked excruciating death by treacle, or by camp. It does have a
couple weak spots (those non-sequitur mouse songs, for instance, do
nothing for me, and I always wonder why they used fake American accents
for the idiomatically British dialogue). But for the most part the
inventive direction and sense of genuine whimsy (not unlike those of
'Le fabuleux destin d'Amélie Poulain') steer it away from the most
dangerous pitfalls. The blend of CGI, puppetry, and real animals is
subtle and wonderfully believable, with the 'performances' of Fly and
Rex standing out in their eloquence and realism. Much has been made, of
course, of James Cromwell's acting here, and he certainly is an
authentic, very charming presence throughout. But Magda Szubanski's
work shouldn't be overshadowed either--even her walk is rich in comic
detail. In the end, there's not a whole lot to this film, but the good
things outweigh the bad, the dark edges keep it all from getting too
sappy, and some of the more expressive moments truly achieve a kind of
magic. 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Remember the times when a parent or a grandparent would read to a child
in bed, so that the child can visualize the story and comfortably sink
into his/her dreamworld? Well, 'Babe' feels like such a story. It is a
heartwarming tale about a Pig (called Babe by her 'Mom') and her
friends at the farm. Chris Noonan executes it in such a wonderful way.
The film is broken into chapters (just like in a book) and the lovable
talking animals appear like very real and humanistic characters. the
lip-syncing is impeccable. Also, I liked that the film doesn't
completely refrain from reality as it does show that pigs are killed
for meat or that puppies are given away or sold to others. It stays
honest. The voice-acting is very well done. Christine Cavanaugh's
childlike voice remarkably fits Babe. Miriam Margolyes, Danny Mann,
Hugo Weaving and Miriam Flynn are all pleasing. James Cromwell is
wonderfully restrained. The setting is a make-belief story-book farm. I
found myself wondering, 'Is this an English farm?' and at the same time
being confused that the people were speaking with an American accent
but there's really no need to pick on that because it simply doesn't
matter. Just enjoy the beautiful farm and the lovely characters. 'Babe'
is one of the finest family films. Kids will surely love it. Heck, even
I loved it when I saw it during my late teens...and I still love it as
an adult.
