
I know I'm late as hell and I hate to break the overall 'vibe' about
this movie but this movie was great when I saw it in the theater and
gets better every time I watch it over again. And this is mainly
because of the performances by Denzel and Ethan. I don't know what you
guys expected but the movie CLEARLY suggests that Denzel is a crooked,
burnt-out, streetwise cop and Ethan is a 'wet-behind-the-ears' clueless
rookie. So knowing that, WHAT DID YOU GUYS EXPECT, Malcolm X, Remember
The Titans, The Hurricane?? If you were, then maybe you all need to be
checked out. The reason why this movie was so great is because it
wasn't the typical Denzel 'role model' movie. We KNOW that he can play
those roles well so it's a testament to his acting ability that he can
portray the other side of the spectrum. And my hat goes off to Ethan
because he bounces off Denzel flawlessly.

I hate to break the news to you guys but cops like Alonzo ARE OUT THERE
and need to be acknowledged. Acting like the problem doesn't exist does
not solve it. You don't have to go that deep to know that Alonzo was
once a good cop who just got fed up w/ 'police procedures.' If you
acknowledge that Jake's shallow-mindedness at the beginning of the film
only allows him to look at the perks of making detective and how the
progress of the day transforms him, you can really appreciate Ethan's
portrayal of him. Let's face it, a bad day at the office when you're a
narcotics detective differs greatly from that of an office executive
and the different stresses can warrant different results.

Even the street rhetoric was authentic. Maybe you guys need to get out
of the 'burbs more. You guys didn't actually expect eloquent dialogue
with little or no profanity, did you? The only part of this movie I
struggle with is Dr. Dre's terrible overacting and that isn't nearly
enough to take away from the overall result.

Next time you guys bash a movie, make sure to try to be objective and
rate what you see and not what you're used to seeing!!
<|_=00=_|>
In his Acadamy Award Winning Performance,as best Actor.The movie, as
the title suggests, follows a single day in the life of rookie cop Jake
Hoyt (Hawk) as he is subject to a single day of evaluation by a senior,
decorated police narcotics officer Alonzo Harris (Washington) to see if
he has what it takes to be a 'narc'. Almost immediately Hoyt is placed
on the back foot, constantly caught off guard by Alonzo's nature, his
ability to switch between a cold, no-nonsense street-wise player, a
genuinely caring and good intentioned leader, and occasionally jovial
companion. From their first encounters though, where Hoyt tells Harris
he will do "anything you want me to do", the situations Hoyt is taken
into become more and more morally ambiguous, from the simple use of
excessive force to outright illegal activity, forcing Hoyt to decide
which side Harris is truly on, whether to trust him, or whether Hoyt is
the unwitting centerpiece of a huge and complex web of lies and set-ups
in order for Harris to for fill his own sinister motives..This is the
movie that won Denzel the Oscar that year for Best Actor!! A must watch
<|_=00=_|>
Wow! What a superb film, Denzel Washington at his superb best. Denzel
plays a terrific part as Alonzo Harris, a cop with a dark personality.

From the moment you set eyes on him you can relies that Alonzo is a
feisty character, who will stop at nothing to get what he wants.

Ethan Hawke provides excellent backup but Denzel steals the show. I
don't want to give an plot lines away but there are only three movies
in cinema history I have given 10/10, and this one was so close to
being number four.

I sincerely hope to see Denzel put in another performance like this
one.

Plot is excellent as it leads you into false sense of securities and
even shouting at the TV set.

I loved every breathtaking moment of this film and I am sure you will
too.

Quite extraordinary.
<|_=00=_|>
Before seeing this movie, my impression of Denzil Washington as an
actor wasn't especially high. Not to say that he isn't talented, just
that ever since Crimson Tide he appeared to be slotted neatly into
every stern hero in every serious political thriller to be trotted off
the studio assembly line for years. But then came Training Day and his
role as Alonzo Harris and all that changed. Shrugging off the overly
serious good guy image once and for all, Washington here is a
revelation; a barking, ranting maelstrom of police brutality who
believes that maintaining order on the crime ridden streets of LA means
being even more ruthless than the drug dealers he faces on a day to day
basis. His performance elevates the film from standard thriller fare
into an exemplary story that has quite rightly become one of my
favourite films of all time.

Set over the course of twenty four hours, the film whisks Ethan Hawke's
naive young police officer onto an introductory day of Narcotics work
under Alonzo's tutelage. As the hours go by, Hawke is subjected to more
and more violence as the heat and paranoia of suburban Los Angeles
combined with his loose cannon superior officer play a heavy toll on
his nerves. Consequently, the film is very much a two man story with
Hawke and Washington playing off against each other expertly as polar
opposites. One young, inexperienced and a firm believer in the rule
book, the other older, more cynical and twisted by all his years on the
streets into a bull-headed monster.

The story itself is fraught with tension. Alonzo forcing his young
protégé to smoke PCP at gunpoint is just the start and from there on
the pulse pounding never stops. The execution scene where Hawke
realises just how far gone his partner is for example is one of
nail-biting pressure and shortly after, his encounter with a trio of
Mexican gang members is jaw dropping, working as the exact moment you
realise how much hot water he has found himself in.

The end result is nothing less than a brilliant thriller. Hawke and
Washington make for a phenomenal double act and the pace only
occasionally lets up to allow the characters time to breathe and
establish the depth that makes you care for them more. Highly, highly
recommended so long as you're prepared to be absolutely terrified of
Denzel Washington for years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
"Training Day" was a very good movie. I like movies that shove it in
your face and make you deal with it...movies like, "Black Hawk
Down"...no clichés, no touching moments, just brutal, bitter realism.
"Training Day" was such a movie. However, the one thing that made this
film really shine was the performance by Mr. Washington. To me, a good
actor is someone who just IS a character...if it isn't obvious that
they are acting than they are doing a good job. That was the case with
Washingon. He just was Alonzo. Every pantomime, every word, every
glance was performed masterfully. Did Mr. Washington deserve his Oscar?
Absolutely. 200%. Some people say, "not Oscar material" and I must
wonder, what film...what performance were they watching?
<|_=00=_|>
If you ask me, TRAINING DAY is an excellent film that is sure to keep
you on the edge of your seat and blow you away. Harris (Denzel
Washington) kind of gave me the creeps. You'll understand why once
you've seen this movie. In my opinion, the performances were top grade,
the direction was superior, the costumes were perfectly designed, and
the cast was perfectly chosen. Also, the soundtrack is really good,
too. Before I wrap this up, I must warn you that this movie is very
violent if you're going to see it, so viewer discretion is strongly
advised. Now, in conclusion, if you're a fan of Denzel Washington or
Ethan Hawke, I highly recommend this movie. It's sure to keep you
guessing from start to finish.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember being lent this on DVD during the summer holidays by a mate
soon after it was out. I must have watched it every day/second day for
about a month! I loved it so much I could never get enough. Denzel and
Ethan are a perfect match for this movie; I can't imagine anyone else
playing their rolls. Can you? You will either love this movie or find
it just a way to 'pass a night'. If you connect with it then you'll
never forget it. I know I haven't and I haven't watched it since 2002
because I can remember every part in detail! Training Day is one of
those movies which breaks new ground in terms of how a movie can come
across to people. It was filmed in such locations such as Imperial
Courts neighborhood which, until now, hasn't been filmed. The talk is
the talk... you get a real sense of what it's like for these guys as
narcotic officers and for what it's like for these guys as the 'bad
guys' themselves. At the end of they day they're "Just people and they
always were" (Ethan Hawk in a making of Traning day interview).

The movie isn't the fastest paced one around - there are some slow
moments but they are played out meaningfully due to some great acting
talent which gels the scenes together well. The more you watch it, the
more subtle lines and actions you will pick up which make this movie
authentic.

Overall, to each his own. I have found this to be one of my favorite
movies due to great acting, great directing, great casting (Hawk,
Washington, Scott Glen etc) and an interesting storyline.
<|_=00=_|>
Ethan Hawke, bright eyed and innocent, reports to his training officer
for his first day on the job in narcotics in the LAPD. He never could
have fathomed just how much he would learn on that very first Training
Day.

His training officer is Denzel Washington, a thirteen year veteran on
the police who's put in a few years in plainclothes in Narcotics. He
certainly has the experience, but just what kind of experience and what
he imparts to Hawke is the subject of Training Day.

A film like Training Day will rise and fall with the performances of
these two characters since one or the other and mostly both is on
screen from the beginning. Fortunately both Washington and Hawke
complement each other's performances like jigsaw puzzle fit.

It is no accident that Denzel Washington won his second Oscar, his
first as Best Actor. This performance is working on so many levels it's
astonishing. Washington is at all times, charming, capable, corrupt,
violent, street smart, and arrogant. What I liked most about it is how
the various facets of this character are revealed bit by bit to the
audience and to Hawke though not at the same time.

As for Ethan Hawke it takes him to realize just exactly what he's
dealing with in a training officer. Hawke was nominated himself as Best
Supporting Actor, but lost to Jim Broadbent for Iris. Still it remains
his career role so far.

Corruption in the Los Angeles Police Department isn't exactly a new
story. In fact one of the supporting players, Scott Glenn who plays a
drug peddler and well, did another film about LAPD corruption in
Extreme Justice. LA Confidential also dealt with this issue recently,
another fine film.

Denzel Washington is a great example in this film of the arrogance of
power. He's a guy who dispenses more street justice than going through
the traditional system. So with what happens to him here, he gets one
of the best comeuppances ever seen on the big screen.

And I won't say what it is, but you've got to see Training Day to find
out.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie impressed me by its great quality in all ways, the story,
thrilling with great police detective action and the most remarkable
aspect of the movie was the acting performances of Denzel Washington
and Ethan Hawke; they put his soul on the characters making this movie
a total delight for those who like action films with intelligent
scripts and also like for high quality films.

About the Movie: Ethan Hawke plays Jake Hoyt, a rookie police officer
with a good curriculum that is assigned to a one day trial day in order
to qualify for a narcotics division in Los Angeles. Hawke meets then
detective Alonzo Haris (Denzel Washington) who was assigned as trainer
and evaluator for this rookie. Hoyt wants fiercely to get this
assignment, but finds very orthodoxes and quaint ways to "protet and to
serve" of Alonzo. In this day Hoyt will meet a true challenge and will
face the total opposite way to proceed from the one he learned in the
academy; he will also face some of the more dangerous neighborhoods and
streets of Los Angeles.
<|_=00=_|>
Training Day is a solid action crime thriller with exceptional
performances by Ethan Hawke and especially Denzel Washington. Director
Antoine Fuqua has done an admirable job of making this movie about a
rookie cop who gets into a lot more than he bargained for while on a
day with a senior rogue detective to prove he's got what it takes to be
a narc. Denzel Washington is fantastic as twisted but charismatic
Detective Alonzo Harris who takes a big departure from his good guy
roles to play the villain in this one. Washington has show over and
over again that he's a talented actor. Well he continues to prove just
that in Traning Day and then some. Ethan Hawke is equally impressive as
rookie cop Jake Hoyt who finds himself in one increasingly dangerous
situation after another. Hawke holds his own against Washington on
screen and he may not have the flashier role but he goes a very good
job as the hero in this film. The rest of the supporting cast including
Scott Glenn, Cliff Curtis, Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, and a brief appearance
by Tom Berenger are solid in their roles but none of them are given
much to do and are merely given extended cameos. They still prove to be
effective none the less in their brief screen time. The music seemed to
sync very well with what was happening on the screen and the tone of
the film. The brutal action violence is well executed but the showdown
between Washington and Hawke near the end did get a bit unrealistic. It
was still intense though and the two actors really got to show their
off their acting chops in this movie. The vulgar language did get a bit
much at times but the good more than outweighs the bad in this one.
Despite some flaws Training Day is an entertaining action crime
thriller with great performances from Hawke and especially Washington
who make this movie definitely worth the time to watch.
