

Okay folks, this movie is what's called a spoof, send-up, parody, satire, or
all of the above.  If you were expecting a serious action movie, well
DUHHHH!! No wonder you hated it!  

I happen to think that it is real clever that Arnold was willing to spoof
the genre that he had been trapped in for most of his life.  So few actors
are willing to do that, even in a bit of fun.  Acting is a job, but it's
supposed to be fun as well.  Not every movie we see is meant to win an
oscar. They are just entertainment.  Take it for what it's
intended.

This movie is on my top five of my favorite Arnold films, because of it's
boldness, and the fact that Arnold can be really funny when he wants to be. 
It's on my top twenty favorite comedy movies, and it's also in my DVD
collection.  Don't worry Arnold.  Your true fans love this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

After a string of predictable cookie cutter script action flicks that
made
money from Arnie's muscles and persona, one studio decided to take a
chance
and try a Hollywood self-mocking film starring the big guy. It had a story
line that actually made one think and pay attention in order to appreciate
the paradoxes arising from its premise.( A fun side effect is that its
movie
within a movie allowed for some more over-the-top stunts and tough guy
scenes than even the simplest knuckle dragging mouth breathing 'action'
film
fans would normally sit for) Scenes with recognized characters drawn from
recent popular films were played tongue in cheek and while the story
proceeded on a couple of levels there were enough innuendos and amusing
elements in the background to keep the viewer's appreciative attention.
The
result of this comparatively well polished gamble was the sort of
reception
reflected by the vote results in this IMDB poll.  A surprizing number of
viewers don't like it.

Maybe the studios waited too long to try a movie like this with Arnold.
It
is possible that the market segment that would appreciate a film like this
had already dismissed Arnie as the Commando/Raw Deal lout and dismissed
the
film unseen, while the usual shoot'em punch'em fans found their brains
hurting too much from trying to follow a real story.

One thing is sure, the studios are watching and you can bet they won't
make that mistake again.  Get ready for more movies that play to the
lowest
common denominator and are written so the dullest gonk in the movie house
can still comprehend the plot. Red Sonja, Judge Dredd, The Running Man,
here
they come.
<|_=00=_|>

Highly underrated Arnie movie. 

Is it a comedy? An action movie? A spoof of the entire action movie genre?
Well, it might be all of them, and more.

This movie could be interpreted in several ways. In it, Arnold is spoofing
himself (or his on-screen persona, anyway) and the genre of action movies in
general. 

What's more, it's a story within a story, making an audience member part of
the story, giving the whole thing a post-modern twist. The movie is full of
genre in-jokes and self-references, making fun of many of the clichés -
while at the same time referring to other films, actors, and even other
genres, making this sort of a celebration of the entire film business.

On the other hand - in case you don't care about all of this - as an action
movie in itself, it's still very entertaining. If you like Schwarzenegger
action movies, you'll like this one as well.

Don't let anyone tell you this is a "bad movie". See it for yourself, and
make up your own mind. 
<|_=00=_|>

Another underrated movie, and one which few people understand, or try
to. This is a spoof of action movies, primarily those starring Arnie
and Stallone, ones which director McTiernen has made a living from.
That said, the action, stunts, effects are good, the cast, especially
Arnie, ham it up as much as possible, and the plot is pretty clever.
Tons of in-jokes make this an entertaining film, and I'll admit that's
all it is. But that's all it is trying to be. Don't whine to me about
artistic merit, character development, internal meditations on life and
all that crap-I have those movies on my list too. It's an action movie,
where the bad guys are supposed to die, cars are meant to explode when
scratched, the good guy is untouchable, and it knows it. 8 out of 10

<|_=00=_|>
We all have that one movie we absolutely love but of which no one else
seems to think very highly. My 10/10 rating for LAST ACTION HERO
signals that this is mine. But before you laugh me out of IMDb, allow
me to explain why I think this notorious bomb is in actuality an
unappreciated gem.

The central highlight of LAST ACTION HERO is the plot. I've seen this
film three times, and in each instance I've been completely drawn into
the notion that there exists a magical Movieland where we too could
travel if only we had a magic ticket. It's sort of every film buff's
fantasy, one that we get to enjoy through young Danny Madigan(Austin
O'Brien) as he meets up with clichéd action hero Jack Slater (Arnold
Schwarzenegger, of course). It's priceless to see the real-world youth
interact with the silver screen community and its cartoon cats, 555
phone numbers, and impossibly perfect women. It's equally entertaining
when Slater comes into our world, discovering that he can't
effortlessly smash his fist through a vehicle window or blow up his
enemies with ease. Love it or hate it, you have to admit the story gets
high marks for originality.

The writing is another highpoint, convincingly mixing so many great
elements. Those behind the script nicely exploited the vast potential
within the storyline. LAST ACTION HERO is on the one hand a satire of
so many action films in which the likes of Schwarzenegger have
straightfacedly starred. The oft-sequelized Slater chomps a cigar and
wields bullets like confetti at a wedding, effortlessly taking out the
bad guys and spewing witty quips. At another angle, the movie is a
lighthearted romp, with one-liners and plenty of pokes at Hollywood.
From another viewpoint, it's a dramatic piece, with Danny struggling to
make it through an awkward age and Slater coming to grips with his
unreeled existence -- and that in the real world, the bad guys can and
do win. Nowhere along the line is it Oscar-caliber stuff, but it is
entertaining.

There are other things to like about LAST ACTION HERO. The action is
well-paced and well-placed. The acting is more than up to par, with
O'Brien and Schwarzenegger great individually and as a tandem. The
humor is sharp and effective, with Arnie often hilarious in his
self-deprecating ways.

Perhaps much of the negative criticism directed LAST ACTION HERO came
from those who didn't understand what it was trying to do. This was
never meant to be another one of Arnie's shoot-'em-ups, lame attempts
at comedy or even a family film. It was just meant to be fun to watch.
And that's what matters most in any film. There are things about the
film that don't work, but there are things about THE MANCHURIAN
CANDIDATE that don't work, either. All that really matters is, Are we
entertained? On that note, LAST ACTION HERO delivers.
<|_=00=_|>

What can I say? A lot of people looked at this as a cheap Arnold action
movie, and while it's not a great film it's certainly a good one with a very
good concept.  The intentional continuity errors are funny and clever, the
movie cliche's are great.  So what if it's a little cheesy and Arnold is the
only decent actor?  Enjoy the conflict of reality and fiction, and see this
movie because it's a fun and somewhat thoughtful flick.
<|_=00=_|>

LAST ACTION HERO went down in the books as a notorious, hopeless bomb,
putting it in the same company as films like HUDSON HAWK, BATTLEFIELD EARTH,
and GIGLI.  And although it was a huge financial dissapointment back in
1993, this film stands head and shoulders above those other stinkers, and
has certainly found an appreciative audience over time. Perhaps it wouldn't
have earned such awful word-of-mouth had it not been advertised and released
as a straightforward action film. No doubt 1993 audiences were expecting a
TERMINATOR- or TRUE LIES-style adventure. Instead, LAST ACTION HERO is
fairly misleading, and it shifts tones pretty dramatically, from a
free-wheeling action adventure, to something much more dramatic, set in the
"real world", and back and forth again. This can be quite jarring upon a
first viewing, and certainly unappealing for anybody who doesn't enjoy
Hollywood satire.  Eleven years later, the American public is a little more
film-industry-savvy (its seems like every Mom and Pop follows the salary
rumors and box office races these days), and may appreciate the insider
jokes a little more. If you prepare yourself for a cheeky spoof- and DONT
expect TOTAL RECALL!- you'll definitely find LAST ACTION HERO better than
you remember.
<|_=00=_|>
I am totally amazed that most of the so-called "expert" film critics at
the time didn't seem to have a clue what this movie was doing. It is
positively one of the tightest, most brilliant, sly, wickedly satirical
action movie spoofs of all time. I am also rather amazed that Arnie
actually agreed to this one; it's almost like he's biting the hand that
fed him.

The biggest clue of this movie is in the opening shot, when the whole
picture wipes into frame in the shape of a "movie" screen (hint, hint!)
From then on, anyone with any experience at watching blockbuster action
movies at all should have picked up how the scene was taking the
standard setup-action pieces of the time, and then pushing them a
little bit further than normal; so that they become an obvious (to most
people) parody of the situation. The close-up of the feet as Jack exits
from the car is just a little closer and off-angle than normal. The
ranting chief yelling at the hero that he's gonna get fired if he
disobeys orders is just a little bit more heated that the standard
action movie would do it. Come ON people, couldn't you get the
tongue-in-cheek nature of this?

Then we fuzz out and see the "real" story - introducing Danny, our
viewer's representative (played by a very adorable and very chatty
Austin O'Brien). The one scene I dislike in this movie is the actual
"real-life" robbery scene at Danny's home, which comes across as a
little too bleak and depressing; even though it does set up the
thematic contrasts in the story very well. On the other hand, one of my
all-time favorite scenes is when Danny is in school watching the
Olivier version of "Hamlet"; and he starts to drift and re-imagines the
story in a modern action style. (Gee, if I had a penny for every time
I've done that with a pretentious old film - well, anyway...)

Of course the two outstanding highlights of this movie are the police
station/video store scenes in the Jack Slater movie; and the climactic
show-down at the big premiere, especially when the action hero
confronts the movie star: "You have caused me a lot of pain. I don't
like you very much." (Y'know, I've often felt that is movie characters
could come alive, some actors would have great reason to worry. Just a
thought.)

All I can say is, if you can't get this, you don't really deserve to be
watching movies, or even let out to the cinema. It's too complicated
for you! Just go back to your padded cell, and vegetate.

Best lines: "Mom, you're turning him into a wimp!"; "This has got to
work. I'm going to win. Wait a minute; I'm the comic relief. I'm NOT
going to win. Ahhhhh!"; "You go through all this pain and suffering,
only to find it's all the product of someone's sick imagination, for
public entertainment!" [-probably not a precise quote, but you get the
gist of it]
<|_=00=_|>

Last Action Hero may well have arrived DOA due to Dan Cortese's lame as
could be tagline for Burger King " I got my ticket, now I'm Going To See The
Movie!".

Aside from that unsuccesful cross promotion, there is little in this film
that actually is not as it was intended to be. That is, funny, over the top
and full of explosions! I am a fan of self depricating humor and a fan of
Arnold, so this movie hit the spot for me.

The cast is all good too, with the obvious exception of the homely kid who
plays opposite The Schwarz. Recomended for fans of TV action shows and for
those who appreciate Arnold's experimental comedy films. I liked this well
enough to take the time to recommend it, if that helps.

By the way, I didn't bother to summarize, because this not that kind of
movie. Just watch it and you'll realize the reason people like it, and it
has nothing to do with the plot.
<|_=00=_|>
It's sad to think that 18 years after its release Last Action Hero is
still trying to find its target audience. Audiences don't like smart
movies. Or perhaps I should say audiences don't like to be OUTSMARTED
by movies. In the summer of 1993 the world was going crazy for a
certain dinosaur movie, almost everything else didn't stand a chance.
LAH came out a week after Jurassic Park. The only people who really
went to see it were those who were too late for sold-out screenings of
Spielberg's movie. Bad word of mouth spread for many reasons.

Those lucky enough to actually see it on the big screen walked away
confused and disorientated. They thought they were in for a straight-up
action movie, not an existential, meta-fictional parody of the genre
they cherish. It was just too much and they weren't ready for it.
Arnold had been riding the wave of Total Recall and Terminator 2 before
the release of Last Action Hero, no one expected such a radical
deviation from the norm.

Danny Madigan is a lonely kid living in a tiny New York apartment with
his single MILF. His only friend is Nick, an old-time projectionist at
a run down theater (a REAL theater, no multiplex nonsense). Danny likes
to escape into the world of action movies, his biggest hero, obviously,
being Arnie himself. The latest Arnie blockbuster, the simply-titled
Jack Slater IV, is a day away from its premiere, and old Nick has been
tasked with checking the print. Before Danny sits down for his own
personal pre-premiere midnight screening Nick gives him a magical
ticket he's been saving since childhood. Five minutes after Jack Slater
IV begins Danny is warped into the cinema screen and becomes part of
the movie.

In the movie world Danny quickly learns that the laws of physics and
simple logic don't apply (how often has THAT proved to be true?). He's
partnered with Slater, a renegade L.A. cop and the absolute zenith of
action hero stereotypes, to find who killed his favorite second-cousin
Frank (BIG MISTAKE!). Danny and Slater smash their way into a hokey,
James Bond-ish plot, though it's not long before suave English henchman
Mr. Benedict discovers Danny's secret and plans to escape to the real
world. Danny and Slater follow, but Slater's movie-world abilities are
rendered useless in reality. Doubt begins seep in for the first time as
he ends up questioning his powers as a good cop.

Last Action Hero scores huge points all round. It's technically
wonderful, with gorgeous anamorphic Panavision photography full of wide
angles and lens flares. The writing is sharp is funny. Arnie is great
as an infallible hero in crisis as well as making fun of his screen
persona. And the action, both fictional and meta-fictional, is wild,
overblown, and exciting. I just love Slater's huge fall from the
elevator.

It's interesting to note that it has a lot in common with Loaded
Weapon, which came out earlier that year. Both are send-ups of the
'L.A. cop movie' genre, both star F. Murray Abraham in supporting
roles. Both feature Frank McRae as a screaming Lieutenant. Both have
obvious Die Hard references (also directed by the infamous John
McTiernan).

The bad reputation is unjustified. The financial loss was a mistake
entirely on Sony's part and their lack of foresight into the 1993
summer season. Last Action Hero and Jurassic Park went head-to-head
with their advertising but the dinosaur movie's marketing campaign was
just too groundbreaking. They also competed with each other on a
technical level. JP was the first film to feature DTS sound, while Last
Action Hero was the first to feature SDDS (Sony Dynamic Digital Sound),
an eight-channel system that delivers every decibel of Slater's big gun
and the multiple explosions of his daily life.

It may be a satire, but Last Action Hero just may be one of the last
true action films. Real stunts, real explosions, real destruction,
reality gone twisted. It's Arnold's most subversive movie, and it's
many things, but bad ain't one of them.
