

We lived through the depression and related to some of the conditions
portrayed. We have watched it perhaps a dozen times. Each time we see it
we
pick up on something we had missed because we were still laughing at, or
discussing, an earlier scene or line. The entire film was a collection of
photographically great faces. We are still asking ourselves whether the
entire cast were professionals or whether some were individuals found on
location. The film was rich with subtle tie-ins like the children tied
together with twine, as the prisoners were connected by chains. We still
think the cow may have been hit unintentionally. Fords of that era had
mechanical brakes. The driver of the car may not have been accustomed the
longer stopping distances required. The many allusions to Ulysses Odyssey
inspired us to do an inter-net search. We found a modern text version and
discovered more sly references. We appreciate blue grass and country music
as originally American and found it thoroughly enjoyable, along with the
authentic "Go To Sleep Little Baby" and "Down from the Mountain." We were
emotionally touched by this film because of our age, and find it totally
entertaining every time we view it. We are still amazed that someone not
of
our generation could have captured the essence of that period of United
States history.  
<|_=00=_|>

Thank goodness for the Coen Brothers. Their success has brought them bigger
budgets,but hasn't rid them of their creativity. I had planned on seeing
another movie, but it was sold out so I went to this one instead. By the
time it began, I had forgotten what movie I was there to see. I was
surprised in more ways than one. This movie is hilarious, but they don't
make any cheap jokes just to get the laughs. The writing is brilliant, and
delivered with great skill by George Clooney (after this, nobody can say
he's just a pretty face) and the rest of the cast. It can be appreciated on
many levels, whether you remember the Odyssey or not. I can't remember the
last time I saw a movie that was this clever. I've seen others I would
describe as beautiful, intriguing, funny and charming, all of which also
describe "Oh Brother," but this movie reminded me of older seinfeld episodes
where all the subplots came together in the end. You can feel that their
journey is building up to something, but you can't tell what. And the Coen
brothers do not fail us, the end is certainly not disappointing. It's
surprising, and ties up all the loose ends neatly, without wearing the story
out. 
<|_=00=_|>

The Coen Brothers have truly outdone themselves in this wonderful saga of
three escaped convicts. Though it is based on "The Odyssey," the ancient
work of Homer, you do not have to have read "The Odyssey" to be able to
follow the story. The brothers Coen have woven a tapestry of celluloid and
aural delights! The soundtrack is intrinsic to the film, indeed it is as
though the soundtrack is the product and the film is wrapping paper. Each
character is wonderfully exploited and harkens back to the days of old when
films were rich with character actors whose very appearance in the film adds
richness, texture and authenticity. George Clooney is magnificent as the
grease haired Everett Ulysses McGill, a honest con on the run whose pompous
linguistics and vocabulary are comical and endearing. O Brother, Where Art
Thou is easily the best Coen film to date as well as Clooney's best effort.
Clooney is good enough to warrant a best actor nomination as is Tim Blake
Nelson's portrayal of the dimwitted friend Delmar, while the film itself is
deserving of a Best film nod.
<|_=00=_|>

Not being a fan of the Coen Brothers or George Clooney, anyone can see the
skepticism I took into the theater. Once again, someone in Hollywood dares
to create something different. This time it was those zanie (for a temporary
lack of a better word) Coens doing "their thing" to one of the great works
in literary history. Who would've ever thought Homer had this in mind? I
don't know where this film is going to fit in the history books of
Hollywood, but it will be in both mine and many others DVD or VHS library.
It is one of those films that you can watch over and over. The story is
brilliantly written. Clean and entertaining, with a couple of Gumpesque
brushes with fame, great performances by Clooney, Turturro, Nelson, and a
brief but hilarious Holly Hunter. Being born in Mississippi and raised in
other parts of the south, I wish more people would poke a little fun at us
like this. They even invoke a soundtrack fitting for the rural south. You
are NOT doing anything better this weekend, go see this movie!


<|_=00=_|>
I have walked out of a Coen movie before and not quite known how to
feel. The two best examples of that are The Big Lebowski and Fargo.
Lebowski was so ridiculously original and so filled with strange humour
that I had to like it. On the other hand, there were some unnecessary
reveries with flying people and killer bowling balls that just didn't
seem to fit the mold of the film. Still, I liked the film and now own a
copy of it. Fargo made me howl with hysterics, sometimes I wasn't sure
why I was laughing so hard that it made me cry, but nonetheless I was.
There were many seemingly strange characters in Fargo, but upon further
investigation, they were really just real people talking about real
situations. That is why the man with the shovel ( or was it a broom )
was so side-splittingly funny when he was telling the police officer
about some funny looking man down at the bar the other night. And that
is also why the theater erupted in laughter when he then says that
there are some funny looking clouds coming in. (I own a copy of this
film too) The Coen's have a way of masking their film and their
characters as being somewhat eccentric and perhaps a little off the
wall. But if you look closer at some of those same characters that seem
zany, you will always find that in some strange way, they all ring
true. That is what is quite exceptional about O Brother Where Art Thou?
This is a film that is out there. I mean it is not even in the same
ballpark as a traditional film. I reviewed the film Shaft this past
summer and in it I said that Shaft was an okay film that I have seen a
thousand times before. But you can not say that about a Coen Brother's
film and you most certainly can not say that about this one.

This film has everything in it from a jail break, crooked southern
politicians, muses, references to what I can only assume are historical
figures, riverside baptisms, bank robberies, violence towards animals,
singing flocks of religious fanatics, KKK, lynch mobs and so on. There
are obviously many references to Homer's Odyssey in here as well, but I
wouldn't know that because I have never read Homer's Odyssey or even
knew one thing about it. Every other newspaper reviewer seems to know
all about it and they think that this cynicism and almost spoof-like
quality towards it makes the film that much better. Well coming from a
guy who doesn't know anything about it, I can tell you that it is still
an entertaining film. There were times when again, as is usual for a
Coen film, I wasn't sure why I was entertained or laughing, but I was.

This is a road picture where three men travel along the way to find a
hidden treasure that Clooney says he has hidden to his two other cell
mates. He has to take them along because they were also chained to him
when they had their chance to escape.

I like all the principal actors in the film and many of them are Coen
cronies. It was nice to see Goodman again. It was nice to see Hunter
and especially Turturro who seems to have a place in every Coen film.
It's too bad they didn't find a place for Steve Buscemi but that is a
different story all together. But back to Clooney. The man just has
charisma. He is a one hell of an actor as well and here he is not quite
as zany as the others but even he has his own idiosyncrasies. His work
here is quite awesome and I really hope this shows that he is capable
of playing any range of character.

Now after heaping all this praise on the film, let me just say this as
well. I didn't really enjoy the film at first. I found it to be quite
tedious and a little boring. There were too many ideas in here and not
enough care went into harnessing them for all what they were worth. But
then the film began to grow on me. It took a while but it did grow on
me. I don't think this is their best film, but it is still a good one
and I am giving it a 8.5. But the reason that I do recommend this film
is for one reason only.

Every day you can go look into the paper and look at the films that are
playing and say to yourself, seen it, seen it, oh, seen it last year,
that is the same as this film and that is the same as that film. Most
films have been recycled in some form or another. Not the Coen's films.
They have not been recycled and if they have I don't know about it.
That is reason enough to see something that they put out. Originality
counts for a lot in my books. The Coens are original and they are good.
And that is not common in todays cinema. Enjoy them while they are
allowed to make films. Because you don't get vision like this in many
films, so when you do, enjoy it!
<|_=00=_|>

Having seen most of the Coen Brothers previous films I expected something
different and slighty off centre. OBWAT is certainly those things, but it
also has a heart as big as..well..as big as Mississippi. It is one of the
most plainly enjoyable movies to have come out in recent times,
intelligent,
well-crafted, clever and superbly acted.

Characters are delivered in their myriad shades by a group of marvellous
actors. George Clooney winning me over completely with his Clark Gable-ish
looks and character. Having only ever seen him in Three Kings and his Thin
Red Line cameo, I am now a fan. More comedy please George.

John Tuturro and Tim Blake Nelson ably assist, especially Nelson. If ever
"The Simpsons" is made into a movie then he must be a natural to play
Cletus
the slack-jawed yokel.
I don't think there is a performance that falls short of excellent from
the
entire cast. My special favorite is Stephen Root as the blind Radio
Station
Man.

Great old-timey music, a jiggy type dance by Clooney that I am trying to
learn, and a feel of depression era southern US enhanced by sepia-like
photography make this the best movie I've see  so far this
century.
The only drawback to the film is that it has almost sent me broke buying
the
soundtrack, the DVD and a DVD player to play it on....it's THAT
good!


<|_=00=_|>

This was the best film I saw in the year 2000. The Cohen brothers have never
let me down before, and they certainly didn't this time either.

It's one of those rare movies these days - it's witty, intelligent and
vastly entertaining. I left the cinema with a warmth in my heart. Of course,
there's lot of Cohen stuff in there - odd characters and peculiar gadgets,
well-developed plot and magic camerawork. But no Cohen film is resembling
any other Cohen film, if you overlook the general quality of them, of
course.

The big surprise for me was that Clooney is so good. But the true master
performance in this movie comes from Tim Blake-Nelson. But the rest of the
cast is superb too.

A film that is lightweight comedy with a musical touch that evolve it's
story round rednecks and old time country music - dripping with wit and
intelligence. Thats a very unlikely combination. But it's exactly what this
picture is.

<|_=00=_|>

I was into the movie right away.  I've seen the other Coen movies, with the
exception of Raising Arizona, and I've noticed that each of their movies
has
a color.  Fargo is gray/white, Lebowski is bright orange, and this movie is
a pleasant yellow.

The bright pleasant qualities of this movie start right away.  Soon the
look
is accompanied by the great, great music.  It's the old folk sound, the
kind
of music that was written during a time when music was enjoyed as a part of
day to day life.  Enjoyed by everyone, chain-gangs, church choirs, and even
prison escapees.

Now, about the prison escapees.  I don't know what crime their characters
could have possibly committed, as they are a very very friendly group of
guys.  Clooney is fantastic, completely nailing his role.

Go see this as soon as possible.  I believe that it can be enjoyed by
anyone
at some level.  For some reason, the theater I was in was full of old
ladies
and old men, and they loved it.

You'll love it too, I promise.  I was compelled to get my hands on the
soundtrack right away.
<|_=00=_|>

The Coen Brothers have done it again. Three depression era convicts(George
Clooney, John Turturro and Tim Blake Nelson)escape a Mississippi chain gang
and head off in search of buried treasure that will fund their new lives.
Along the way, they sing on the radio and become much sought after stars as
well as escapees. Great laughs and a soundtrack that is a
lesson/introduction to bluegrass music.

Clooney is outstanding as the fast talking, quick witted Ulysses Everett
McGill. Holly Hunter plays his estranged wife. Turturro and Nelson are
flawless stumblebums. Also in the cast are John Goodman and Charles
Durning.

Dan Tyminksi provides the singing voice for George Clooney on "I Am A Man of
Constant Sorrow", the Soggy Bottom Boys song that serves as a template for
the bluegrass laden soundtrack that also features Alison Krauss, Ralph
Stanley, The Whites, John Hartford, The Cox Family and Gillian Welch. Toe
tapping, knee slapping fun for the whole family. You'll be surprised with
how relaxed and funny this movie is. 
<|_=00=_|>
My husband received DVD of OBWAT for Christmas and it was the best gift
we received! We watch it every time we need to laugh and so far we have
viewed it 12 times!The scenery in this movie is beautiful and the music
is outstanding!We also purchased the soundtrack and we play it in our
vehicles and at home when ever we need a pick me up and that too is
daily!If anyone needs a suggestion for a good gift for movie lovers
this movie is it!The characters are hilarious , charming , and their
facial expressions are too funny to describe!I have always been a fan
of George Clooney but now I am also a fan of Tim Blake Nelson(Delmar )
and John Turturro (Pete)and am now looking for them in other movies!
You gotta see this movie!!!
