

My personal opinion is that this is one of the best Christian films I have
seen on the End Times. I am a Christian so I am totally
biased.
I have heard some people that are not Christians say they did not like the
movie and I think that some of the comments are understandable.
If you are not a Christian then you are probably not going to
accept
that there will be an anti-Christ that the Holy Scriptures talk
about.
Taking the mark 666 so you can buy or sell, being totally deceived by
Satan
and supposedly peace globally. If you are not a Christian
this
is probably a real joke and nonsense, even fanatical. But to those of us
that are Christians, this movie makes total sense and how the
Bible
says in Revelation (and Daniel) that it will be.

I highly recommend this movie to everybody that is Christian. And to those
that are not, you should check it out anyway, just to see what Believers
think will happen in the End Times, based on the Scriptures.

And try to concentrate on the words, the message, not whether or not this
is
great acting like Laurence Oliver or Tom Cruise or even Leonardo DiCaprio.
Great acting is not the point, where you spend eternity
is.

Jeff Fahey, Carol Alt, Leigh Lewis and the entire cast were
superb!
<|_=00=_|>
I thought it was a great movie. The idea may have been far fetched, but
it was made to send a message. It was not made for the sole purpose of
entertainment. Jeff Fahey played the roll well, and Carol Alt was
definitely gorgeous. I have to admit that Nick Mancuso was my favorite
for the part he played towards the end of the film. The way the world
will end will be debated till the end of time. If this movie touched
even one person, then it was worth what it cost. I'm sure the creators
would agree. I know it was effective for what it was made to
accomplish. Using big name actors such as Fahey gave it the push it
needed to reach a larger segment of the population. I would like to see
more movies like this.
<|_=00=_|>
From the combined ministries of Jack and Rexella Van Impe and John
Hagee comes Revelation, the second in a trilogy of films about
somebody's conception of the end times. I say somebody's because even
fundamentalist Christians are by no means united about prophesying
things to come.

I've not seen the first of these films Apocalypse in which a united
world government is established and the rapture has taken place. A guy
who even calls himself the Messiah named Macaluso played by Nick
Mancuso has taken over the world and it's either his way or the
highway.

Christians are not even united on whether there will even be a rapture,
but I'm of the opinion that if the fundamentalists are right and whole
lots of people that you know feel that way suddenly vanish it might
give some tangible proof about the Bible being real. 

But it has happened and it's happened to Jeff Fahey's family, wife and
daughter, who just vanished without a trace. She could never quite get
him to church and he's been left behind as a result. Anyway under the
regime of Messiah Macaluso those who are not followers of his are
deemed 'haters' and are rounded up and also disappear in more
conventional ways.

Fahey finds himself questioning what's going on and when he does he's
framed for his partner's murder and forced to flee among the haters.
Who in his city include former news anchor Leigh Lewis who in the first
film had been the first to denounce Macaluso for being Satan.

Mancuso's got something called a Day of Wonders where folks will be
asked to participate in a virtual reality game en masse. Since we know
who Mancuso is, it's something not good and its up to the believer
types to throw a monkey wrench into the works. 

Carol Alt and Tony Nappo play a blind and a paraplegic people
respectively and when they play the game they are healed and become
Mancuso's disciples. That's a mighty hard thing to give up, healing
from some affliction to reject Mancuso.

David Roddis has an over the top performance as one of Mancuso's
acolytes who's playing his villain in the best Snidely Whiplash
tradition. All he needed was a handlebar mustache to twirl at both
ends.

It's impossible to evaluate these films because believer folk will hang
on every word and nonbelievers will inevitably scoff. Then it
degenerates into a theological not a cinema discussion. The cast give
it their best to inject reality in some far fetched notions.

There was a scene that really wasn't terribly germane to the plot where
a father turns in his son for 're-education' because he caught him with
a Bible. I took a look on the actor, Darrel Hicks, who played the son
and found he'd also later done work on Queer As Folks. Talk about an
eclectic resume.

The ending is positively biblical itself. Just think of Shadrach,
Meshach, and Abednego.
<|_=00=_|>

To paraphrase Comic book Guy from the Simpsons "Worst Film Ever!!!" And
this
does not even begin to tell you what you have let yourself in for by
watching this film. Timed at 551/2 mins before the incredulity of the
wooden
acting wore off! The only saving grace was a quite unique, and I suppose
vaugely interesting storyline, which somehow managed to distract from the
acting - just long enough for you to last till the dissapointing
'climax'.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is entertaining and I think that only believers were to get
the humor, since most of it was bible-based. Thorold Stone is a
non-believer that had a wife and daughter who lived God and God called
them to be with him in the air (2 Thess 4) and he has missed them
since.

Franco Macalusso has risen to power and a lot of buzz is going on about
THE DAY OF WONDERS.

A bus has been blown up with innocent children in it--everyone points
to 'haters' and will stop at nothing to see them dead.

Technology will play a part in the end times also as they don VR
helmets that will put them face to face with the Antichrist that will
'save them' but deliver them to hell once they don the mark.

Stone gradually becomes a believer and intends to take Macalusso down
by sending a virus to O.N.E headquarters after he learns the truth. He
also knows that O.N.E. blew up that bus so that Macalusso can start a
war with the Christians and wipe them from the face of the Earth. He
doesn't know that Helen Hannah's brother has received the mark and will
sabotage the endeavor, which he does. He is about to die when Helen
smashes the computer and the believers are caught, like sheep in the
mouths of wolves.

They sing Amacing Grace which is the Gospel message in a song (check 2
Cor 5:21 also a good summary of the Gospel) and escape like Shadrach,
Meshack and Abednego (forgive me for my spelling) and shows that God is
the same today, tomorrow and forever. The O.N.E. headquarters are
burned down because the heat was turned up too high and the demon
opened the door thus releasing the flames. Macalusso blames the
believers for it (as will they when the plagues are unleashed in
Revelation) and thus THE DAY OF WONDERS is postponed until they recover
and the believers are safe for now anyway
<|_=00=_|>

Good production, but cheesey plot.
This movie is based on end-times prophecy
from the Bible concerning the tribulation period.
Through the story, they show the mark of the beast
coming about by means of virtual reality (Virtual
reality sets are mailed to everyone in the world).
I found this far-fetched and completely unrealistic.
The ending was also awful.  The writers of this
movie must not have a clear connection to reality.

<|_=00=_|>
The bible becomes true basically. Through technology of course because
as we know: technology is also evil. Satan is in power of the world,
atheists get roasted and on and on. Nothing more to say. Oh yeah: it's
flavored with some freemasonry symbolism because they must be evil.

I watched the German version and the terrible voice acting perfectly
fit the lame actors acting. And whoever Jeff Fahey played here... 

Meaningless to say: I don't recommend this movie to anyone except
atheists who want to have a fun ride. Certainly not a movie for you
unless you accept Jesus as your master or whatever it is. I am not an
atheist but this goes way too far.
<|_=00=_|>
"Thoroid Stone" (Jeff Fahey) is a police officer who is totally
devastated because he has lost his wife and child to the supernatural
phenomenon known as "the Rapture" which was covered in the previous
movie "Apocalypse". While absorbed in his thoughts he gets a call that
a school bus has been bombed and he races to the scene to investigate.
Once there he is informed that the people responsible for the bombing
is a group called "the Haters" who oppose the new world dictator,
"Franco Macalousso" (Nick Mancuso). But Detective Stone is not
necessarily convinced that this group was responsible and the deeper he
probes the more evidence he uncovers that they are being framed.
Additionally, he also discovers a connection to a top-secret event
called "the Day of Wonders" which Franco Macalousso is set to unveil in
the next few days. Anyway, rather than disclose any more details and
possibly spoil the movie for those who haven't seen it I will just say
that this was a very imaginative film. It was also a bit better than
its predecessor due in large part to some notable additions which
included Tony Nappo (as "Willie Spino"), Carol Alt ("Cindy Bolton") and
the aforementioned Jeff Fahey. Likewise, Nick Nancuso replaced Sam
Bornstein in the role of Franco Macalousso. These additions, along with
retaining Leigh Lewis ("Helen Hannah"), were definite improvements. On
the flip-side though I must admit that the overall plot which involved
"virtual reality on steroids" did seem a bit far-fetched. Still, it was
an entertaining film for the most part and because of that I rate it as
slightly above average.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1999, I was considering a job with Cloud Ten, the company that
produced and distributed the movie. The company was planning on making
many mainstream Christian movies. Revelation was suppose to be their
first big screen blockbuster. They made me watch the movie as part of
the interview process. After thirty minutes of watching and another 30
minutes of fast forwarding the tape, I gave up on this movie. I liked
the casting but the story and acting was horrible. As part of my
application process, I had to write a press release for the movie. I
struggled with the content but managed to promote the movie in a
positive light in the vain of getting the job. I was offered a contract
with Cloud Ten but I rejected the offer for the job because the movie
was so bad and I didn't believe the company could achieve their goals
of marketing mainstream Christian movies to the general public.

Some trivia - the Lalondes often take character names from well known
landmarks throughout Southern Ontario close to their Cloud Ten office
in St.Catharines Ontario. In Revelations, they took Jeff Fahey's
character name (Thorold Stone) from the street name Thorold Stone Road,
in Niagara Falls. In Tribulation, they took Gary Busey's character name
(Tom Canboro) from another well know street called Canboro Road which
runs throughout the Niagara Region.
<|_=00=_|>

A different twist to the End Times, where technology will determine your
fate.  However, parts of the film's plot are flawed (blowing up a
schoolbus
won't mean much if all the children have already gone) and compared to
Left
Behind, this film lacks punch and credibility.
