

Make no mistake, Cool Runnings is not the true story of the Jamaican Bobsled
team.  It is inspired by it, but this is not a documentary.  Still, despite
that, it does capture the spirit of the team and the derision they faced. 
In a fun and entertaining way, the filmmakers displayed the true lesson of
the team:  if you have a dream, go after it, no matter what anyone else
says.

This isn't the greatest film ever and it's full of cliches; but, they work. 
If you can't get caught up in the emotion and excitement of the film, it's
because your heart is frozen.  There are plenty of laughs and general
silliness, but there is also good drama and fine performances.  John Candy
showed he could deliver an emotional performance instead of just schtick. 
During the bobsled runs, you can't help but find yourself cheering for the
team.

This film is a pleasure to watch and will bring a smile to your face.  Is it
good?  Yeah, mon! 
<|_=00=_|>

Just saw this movie again on HBO, haven't seen it in almost a decade, and
was surprised at how much slipped by me the first time. It's only sad point
is to be reminded of what a loss we movie lovers suffered with the death of
John Candy. Imagine what he could have done with a little more time on this
mortal coil. This movie is uplifting; it's about the human spirit, its
strengths and weaknesses. It explores the parent-child conflict,
superstition, ambition, love, hate, patriotism and a gamut of other themes.
The story telling is good, the camaraderie authentic, and the celebration of
life inspiring. Follow your dreams, wherever they may lead you. When things
seem impossible, just remember that there's a Jamaican bobsled
team.
<|_=00=_|>

Hands up all Jamaicans.  (There are only 2.6 million people in Jamaica - so
I know you don't account for a large percentage of the English-speaking
world.)  Hands up all those people with any interest at all in bobsledding. 
Hah!  I knew it!  No-one.

That's why `Cool Runnings' succeeds.  It depends not at all on aggressive
nationalism (it couldn't afford to, with a constituency of 2.6 million), and
people of all countries are free to participate in the Jamaicans' perfectly
reasonable patriotism.  (Probably even the Swiss, whose bobsled team comes
across as more than a trifle arrogant.)  Nor is there any of that worship of
a particular sport that makes baseball movies so unendurable for people
outside of North America, Cuba and Japan.  (Not that I have any evidence
that baseball movies are popular in Cuba or Japan.)

There isn't any power-of-positive-thinking psychobabble, either - at least,
it doesn't dominate.  The four Jamaican bobsledders are separate people with
different goals and ways of thinking.  The coach (played beautifully by John
Candy, who proves that he can act without playing the clown) doesn't ram a
particular ideology down his players' throats.  I doubt that any sports film
has a more civilised and reasonable coach.

It comes down to this: we are given a reason to care about the characters,
unrelated to nationality; and we are given a story that's worth following,
even if we would never follow the sport itself.  The clichés are fewer than
usual and never offensive.  It's a sweet film, and I doubt there's more than
a handfull of people who could resist its charm.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie at least 7 times and still get the greatest laugh
from it. It has humor, sense of competition to win the big event with all
their hearts. Just good clean overall fun and great story
line which I understand was derived from a true story.
<|_=00=_|>
It might not be historically accurate - and you know what, some of the
best films aren't - but I believe, hand on heart, that Cool Runnings is
one of greatest films ever made.

Cool Runnings is absolutely hilarious with a wonderful blend of
slapstick comedy, one liners, colourful characters and absurdity,
however its comic achievements are well documented, and for this reason
I will take them as read.

Cool Runnings is an exploration of a number of the weightiest themes a
film can deal with, such as racism, poverty, pride, passion,
forgiveness and self-belief. Cool Runnings tackles all of these themes
head-on without losing an ounce of its charm, humour, or family-fun.

A superbly played Joseph Gruel is the prime embodiment of the racism
the Jamaicans face on the hill, and his story is very moving. So too is
the voyage of self-discovery and forgiveness embarked on by disgraced
coach Erv Blitzer (John Candy). The team themselves are a wonderful
advert for teamwork and the little island of Jamaica. Each one is wise,
bold in the face of their respective adversity, and has an intriguing
story to tell.

The ending of Cool Runnings also ranks as one of the greatest. It
masterfully avoids the back-slapping, one-dimensional and predictable
ending it looks to be approaching, a trap that so many other similar
'feel-good' films fall into. Instead Cool Runnings brings together all
of the themes that have been explored, in one emotionally charged final
scene.

99% will disagree with something I have written above. But I first
watched the film 15 years ago and it has stayed with me ever since. I
have watched it around 100 times now, and I still shed a tear at the
end...no other film has ever brought me even close to that.

If you take nothing else from this review. Watch Cool Runnings. It is
so much better than the clever-arsed, blockbuster-biased critics will
have you believe. Forget the highly forgettable cheese like Remember
the Titans, The Mighty Ducks and all the rest. Pull up a chair, get the
phone on divert, and sit back and enjoy the only 'feel good' film worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this movie when I was a kid and loving it. It is
one of those feel good movies that you think is corny but somehow
avoids that label. The characters are funny and endearing. John Candy
balances the broken side of his character along with the inspirational
side of his character very believably. Doug E Doug has some hilarious
dialogs. You feel yourself rooting for the team with more feeling than
you expect. The director does well by not focusing on the racial aspect
of the movie and converting it to just another movie of black vs.
white. Obviously you cannot expect any brilliant acting or movie making
but all in all this movie is a must see for families. Four Jamaicans in
a bob sled is more entertaining than it looks.
<|_=00=_|>

'Cool Runnings' is one of those prized and rare animals - a genuinely
feel-good family movie that doesn't also make you feel
stupid.

Based (rather loosely, I suspect) on the true story of the Jamaican bobsled
team who competed in the Winter Olympics, against outrageous odds, ridicule,
complete lack of snow in Jamaica, etc, etc - 'Cool Runnings' hardly puts a
foot wrong as it moves towards its rousing ending. That ending is genuinely
inspirational, lump-in-the-throat stuff, which so many serious sports movies
have aimed at, and fallen short of.

Most miraculously, from my point of view, I actually found myself _liking_
John Candy, in this movie. 

I'm giving this one 8 out of 10. It achieves its goals splendidly. Be sure
to give it a look if you've not seen it before.
<|_=00=_|>

One of John Candy's best movies.  An excellent cast makes this a real feel
good film telling the story of the first Jamaican bobsled team and their
efforts to overcome the prejudices of a previous all white sport.  You'll
enjoy every minute of this flick and have a better understanding of what
it
takes to join the Olympic movement.  For the entire family.
<|_=00=_|>
This one of those family-oriented sports movies that I have fond
memories of from my elementary school days. Off the top of my head, I
can name The Air Up There, Iron Will, and the Mighty Ducks in this
category as well. They weren't masterpieces, per se, but they were
pleasant, fun, and sometimes inspirational. 

The thing about a sports movie is that the passion that a dedicated
athlete feels is usually something that can translate itself visually
on screen. For instance, if you were to make a movie about a passionate
chess player, it's not as exciting to watch the final climactic moment
when the hero checkmates his opponent, as it is to watch a game winning
shot. What I'm getting to is that one of the draws of a sports movie is
being exposed to that passion and desire in our hero. 

In this case, the hero is Jamaican sprinter Derice Bannock who was
accidentally tripped during the Olympic trials, but is determined to
make the Olympics anyway. Since track's no longer an option for him, he
figures why not start the nation's first bobsledding team, since a
bobsled team hasn't been fielded yet. He also is encouraged in the
sport by the fact that a friend of his dad happens to be a bobsled
coach and he might be able to help. The bobsled coach declines citing
as his reasons that there's no ice in Jamaica, that there's not enough
time to train, that Derice doesn't have 3 other people which is needed
to form a team, that he doesn't even think Derice was a good runner,
and that he doesn't even like coaching anymore.

Nevertheless, Derice manages to convince the coach, and get three
teammates consisting of his best friend, the guy who tripped him in the
trials, and another sprinter who got tripped in the trials along with
him. This is one of the better sources of entertainment in the film
because the dynamics of this team are formed under such unusual
circumstance. For instance, Yul, one of the two who got tripped during
the trials, still hasn't forgiven Junior, the tripper.

The film very cleverly finds a balance between the inspirational
element of this story and the humor. Essentially, Derice the most
determined member of the group, is a person who we come to admire for
his persistence, and maybe that's why it's a good family film, someone
kids can look up to. The humor comes from Derice's friend, Sanka, who
says a lot of funny stuff. This really is the only way the movie could
work because if Derice was funny and told jokes, you wouldn't take him
seriously, and if Sanka was more determined about winning, his jokes
would sound out of context. The two guys in the middle of the bobsled,
both metaphorically and literally, add to the film in their own ways
but on a smaller scale. The late John Candy plays the coach and fills
the part well. 

The other notable thing about the film is it's ending. Provided, this
is your first viewing, it really does a lot for the movie. I won't give
it away, but the ending is unpredictable yet equally satisfying,
something I don't often see. However, I wonder, since this was filmed
only five years after the Calgary Olympics, how familiar would viewers
have been with the actual event that inspired the film. If they knew
the story of the '88 Jamaican bobsled team in its entirety, than the
impact of that ending would have been lost.
<|_=00=_|>
It's probably a word game that has been used many times before, but
"Cool Runnings" is a very 'cool' movie that offered me a lot of fun and
laughter. And since this is a comedy and not a documentary, that's all
I'm asking of this movie.

If you hope to see a documentary on how the first Jamaican bobsled team
was created and how they got to the Olympics than you'll have to look
for something else. This movie has been inspired on the true events,
but never pretends to be faithful to the truth. Does that mean that
this movie isn't any good? No, certainly not. I loved to see how these
four guys were transfered from sprinters to bobsledders and I couldn't
help laughing all the time when seeing their reactions on, for
instance, the cold and the snow.

This isn't the greatest movie ever and yes it is full of clichés, but
they all work and it never bothered me once. However, don't expect to
see a ridiculous comedy with no content either, because it still has a
good story and plenty of emotions and excitement to offer. I reward
this movie with an 8/10.
