

If you pay too much attention to the cliches and unlikely situations the
characters are placed, you really miss the charm of this movie. I can see
how people would be put off if they were expecting a serious historical
reenactment. Still, I believe that Ron Howard fully meant for this to be a
fully romanticized account of the time. This movie works in many of the ways
Titanic does, and I think it does it more effectively. Still, with Titanic,
most people seemed more than willing to overlook the absurdities. With Far
and Away, I don't think Ron Howard was trying to trick us or dumb us down. I
don't think he was ever trying to underestimate the intelligence of his
viewers. I think he was asking us to follow him and trust him as he told a
story. I enjoyed it. Kidman and Cruise were both fun to watch. The
supporting cast, although they did seem like they came from a comic book,
were entertaining. I hope this movie has life on cable and DVD.

<|_=00=_|>
This is a fairly long movie but one that keeps your interest - at least
it did mine - all the way with an epic-type adventure tale of Irish
immigrants back in the 1880s in the U.S.

This movie is broken down into three distinct parts: 1 - Ireland (40
minutes, featuring some stunning scenery and good Irish music); 2 -
Boston (one hour, featuring many brutal scenes of tough Irish
immigrants and bare-knuckle fights); 3 - Oklahoma (the days on mining
and the famous "land rush.")

The story is very intense and involving. One well-known critic called
it "old-fashioned" and meant it as an insult. Well, I think the
opposite. I agree that it's old-fashioned, in that it's epic
storytelling and that's a good thing. It features solid acting by Tom
Cruise, Nicole Kidman and all the others, and Kidman isn't the only
attractive thing in there. The photography is magnificent. I only wish
the sound was better as there is almost nothing from the rear speakers.

Cruise is very convincing as a good man, so much so I hated to see some
of those beatings he took in the Boston segment. Then again, I'm
old-fashioned: I don't like to see the bad guys win over the good guys.

Overall, a memorable movie and one that you truly will care about the
characters and the final outcome.
<|_=00=_|>
A truly brilliant film, this is Ron Howard's masterpiece.  I never tire of
viewing Far and Away, and enjoy every moment each time I see it.  This film
is admirable in several respects:  1)it shows how a romance can develop
over time, without the typical Hollywood touches of "whirlwind" happenings
and people hopping in the sack after only a couple of days (a la "Titanic"),
2)Ron Howard captured the beauty of Ireland, the filth of a large city,
and the expanse of the open prairie by resurrecting 70mm film - the colors
in this film are absolutely incredible, 3)a simple, character-driven story
is enhanced by the historical backdrop.  In fact, there are many
similarities between the romance in "Titanic" and in "Far and Away."  I
feel that the depiction in this film works much better than the other,
mainly because of the plausibility factor (how many times would you run
into the same person on a huge ship?).  We understand why Shannon would
want to take Joseph along with her.  This is the opportunity she's been
waiting for.  Along the way, and through helping each other through tough
circumstances, they fall for each other.  This is not some momentary crush
that will pass when the next good looking person walks by, we know that
these two truly care for each other, and admire each other.  Tom Cruise and
Nicole Kidman are perfect - one would think that they're both Irish
natives.  If their marriage is anything like their relationship here, it is
bound to last for some time.  This is, hands down, Tom Cruise's best movie
ever.  Here we don't see the typical cocky young man, but instead, a man
driven by passion and destiny to do what needs to be done.  This is
probably much closer to the real Tom Cruise:  Proud, without being
arrogant.  This film remains on my list of all-time favorites, and I look
forward to seeing it on the large screen one day.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was very well done. It is an overlooked treasure.
Ron Howard is a great film maker and he deserves more credit for this
film. I'm a huge Ron Howard fan and I felt that this film was no better
than any of his work done thus far. The dialog was a bit hard to
understand, but the plot, acting and directing are what make the movie
so great. Nicole Kidman is so beautiful in the movie and she really
carries the movie with her charisma. Tom Cruise plays his part very
well. The scenery in the movie is some of the best I've ever seen. It
is easy to lose yourself in this movie. I would recommend this movie to
anyone I know.
<|_=00=_|>
While the whole rich girl falls in love with the poor boy routine is a
little over done, Far and Away is actually a very romantic and
wonderful movie starring Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman. I think because
they had such great chemistry, they made this movie into a tear jerker.
Not to mention how great the story was, a part of our history that has
always been ignored, the Irish immigrants coming over to America to
have land and settle down. At a time when America was the new world and
very exciting, where anyone could be free, Joesph and Shannon were two
very lovable characters and you just keep hoping that their dreams come
true.

Shannon is a very upper class lady in Ireland with her controlling
mother who wishes her to marry a snobbish land owner, Stephen. Joesph
is a farm boy who has just lost his father and his home has been burned
by Stephen, Shannon's father owns the land, so Joesph goes to kill him,
but fails. His punishment is a duel, but he and Shannon see each other
and have an instant connection but won't admit it of course, but
Shannon offers for him to come with her to America to claim some land
with her. He accepts her offer and goes with her. They claim to be
brother and sister to survive, but soon they can no longer resist each
other's love, but their family may be too strong to let them be
together when Shannon's family comes to get her in America.

Far and Away is a very charming film that I'm sure you will be
impressed with. It's just a very romantic film, has fun comedy to it,
good drama, and has terrific pictures and sights. Ron Howard is just a
fine director, he got the whole feel of the old days and that race for
land at the end was just shot so beautifully. Tom and Nicole did a
great job, they were so beautiful to watch and made this into a great
film. I highly recommend this movie, I think you'll love it.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Cruise may have the "worst-looking" Irish accent on the face of the
planet, but it is undeniable that he and Nicole Kidman are sizzling on the
silver screen together.  Their intensity shines as well as their artistic
ability to envelop a character and relate their thoughts to a viewer.
Besides their very well done performance, the film is absolutely
beautiful.
Kudos to the set and costume designers that spent long hours on Far and
Away.  But he real story in this film is Ron Howard.  It is simply a
asthetic masterpiece.  I spent most of my time wishing that he had just
set
his camera up on the prairie and filmed the grass growing.  It was truly
beautiful.  Incidentally, sometimes one scene just makes a film.  Brings
it
up from a good film into near 'masterpiece' status.  This is one of those
films.  The music (the best soundtrack of the year thanks to Horner)
combined with Ron Howard's vision made the "land race" scene of Far and
Away
and classic within itself.  Put this scene up there with the chariot race
in
Ben Hur and the parting of the Red Sea in The Ten Commmandments, it is
just
that good.  This is, far and away, one of the best films of the
year.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a wonderful tale of hope, failure and fulfillment. Unpopular
with critics and snobs, it captures history in a rare and rewarding way,
that recognizes the trials and travails of the Irish. The Gaels like so
many
other displaced ethnicities realized their full potential in America.

Most films never develop an audience, and even fewer develop one that
transcends generations. `Far and Away' appeals to adults and young
people,
so much so, that it has recently been re-released in DVD format. It has
also
established a niche in television rebroadcasts. These annuals
rebroadcasts
put the lie to the "wisdom" of the critics, and prove the films natural
popularity with movie-lovers.


<|_=00=_|>

Far and Away is definitely one of my favourite films. The acting and the
scenery were both superb and I absolutely loved the story. Nicole Kidman
and
Tom Cruise were both brilliant in their roles and the romance between
Shannon and Joseph was very believable (most likely due to the fact that
they were married anyway!). Nicole gave a superb performance as Shannon,
the
scenes in which she is acting the innocent, but rebellious and naive young
girl were brilliant. And Tom was superb as the poor but ambitious Joseph.
A
truly brilliant film which deserves to be on the big screen, I hope to be
able to see it at the cinemas one day!
<|_=00=_|>

This film is beautiful.  It's wonderful to see Tom Cruise and Nicole
Kidman
in a good film.  The movie has a pretty good historical point of view so
the
plot is kind of self telling.  The scenery in this is great.  And, it's
fun
to see Tom fight, and Nicole wash clothes.  Oh, for the fight scenes
nothing
gory.  For parents:  this movie shouldn't be shown to really little kids.
For teens it's cute.  And, adults well take a crack at it.  Oh by the way,
a
little bit of nudity, but nothing bad.  Just trust me.  It's a very well
done and beautiful film.  9/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in Gone With the Wind Gerald O'Hara tried to tell Katie Scarlett
the importance of the land, a lesson she took the entire film to learn.
For Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman it's the land, their own bit of land
to work as they please and answer to no one.

The story of Far and Away takes place in a very specific time period in
the history of both Ireland and America. In Ireland the home rule
movement had been dealt a stunning blow with the fall of Charles Stuart
Parnell in scandal. Independence had been set back and the landlords
were riding high, though not without opposition. 

Opposition in this case comes in the form of Tom Cruise and his family
who are Irish tenant farmers about to be tossed off their land because
they can't pay the exorbitant rents. Turns out the landlord's got a
most fetching daughter in Nicole Kidman who's got her eye on the
peasant lad. 

Far and Away is first and foremost a romance, the rich girl and the
poor boy, two beautiful young people we all wish we were. Of course the
real affair of Tom and Nicole and their eventual marriage is fairy tale
storybook stuff on its own. It sure didn't hurt the film.

They've got a rough road ahead though. In Boston they get exploited by
their own people as badly as the English are doing in the old country.
Of course their eventual salvation is the Oklahoma land rush where Tom
can get his own land to work.

Frederick Jackson Turner was a famous American historian who put forth
the thesis that the reason America escaped the class struggles and
revolutions of Europe was our frontier. It didn't work out so well for
those Indians already there, but the proletarian masses instead of
becoming a mob that agitators could stir to revolution just went west
and made opportunities. Turner's thesis is still a widely respected
paradigm in the study of American history and I think if he could have
seen Far and Away, he'd say Ron Howard proved his point.

Speaking of Ron Howard, it's pretty obvious he was influenced by both
versions of the Oklahoma land rush previously made in the two films of
Edna Ferber's classic Cimarron. He doesn't do badly in recreating
Boston of the Gay Nineties and Ireland of the same period.

And Tom and Nicole certainly look beautiful even when she's working in
a factory and Tom's getting clobbered in a bare knuckle prize fight.
Look for nice performances by Robert Prosky as Nicole's father, Thomas
Gibson as Tom's rival for Nicole and Colm Meaney as the Irish political
boss in Boston.

Maybe the world needs a frontier to solve its problems.
