

I don't have much of an opinion on this flick.  Because what's there to
analyze?  Gratuitous violence.  Gratuitous gore.  Gross-out effects strictly
for shock value.  Gratuitous nudity and close-ups of big breasts.  What we
have here is a feminist's nightmare.  What we also have is an absolute
blast!!!

I'm sure women won't enjoy this as much and will probably b*tch about the
overdose of female nudity, but for all you guys who just don't give a damn
and just want to kick back and have a good time:  You will love this movie!!
 This is like a mix of Wes Craven and Howard Stern.  A supreme guilty
pleasure!

I enjoy deep, artistically brilliant films like "American Beauty" and
"Magnolia," but there's no reason I can't enjoy a campy, shallow, sleazy
horror flick like this.  I don't ONLY enjoy these types of flicks, but I can
enjoy it as long as it's done in a fun, tongue-in-cheek, unpretentious
manner.  I just want to get that straight.  OK, I'll go on. 
:)

Dennis Miller provides great comic relief in his lead role.  Those who are
fans of his schtick should look forward to this movie.  The horror
sequences, though sometimes cheesy, are great fun to watch.  There's a
spectacular sequence at the end with excellent usage of the song "Ballroom
Blitz."  There are other great classics like "All Right Now" and
"Jailbreak."  That's why I bought the soundtrack.  It's
awesome!

So this movie fits the "guy flick" stereotype like a glove.  If you're not
in the mood for excessive violence, gore and female nudity--don't watch this
movie!  Don't say I didn't warn you.  

My score:  7 (out of 10)   
<|_=00=_|>

While I enjoyed the humor and the Crypt Keepers puns more in this than in
Demon Knight, the overall experience of this is just slightly inferior. This
one suffers mainly under not having such an entertaining villain/main
monster as the first one; Lilith does have some decent lines, but almost all
of them were sexual innuendos, which gets old a little too fast. The
Collector was more entertaining, with his cynical and sarcastic personality.
There's also less "action" in this one, though there might be slightly more
gore. In this one, the plot also moves along a little too slowly,
considering the fact that it's only meant as entertainment; with that in
mind, you have to wonder why it takes so long to tell the story and get to
the gore and blood. The ending sequence was also slightly less entertaining
and exciting than the one in Demon Knight. Like Demon Knight, the film
manages to bring in plenty of both sex and violence, often both at the same
time. Apart from Rafe(Dennis Miller), there weren't really any interesting
or entertaining characters. Miller does a really great job, portraying the
type of character he usually does; a slimy, sarcastic jerk. That is the
Miller that we fans know and love. It's nice to see him in a role that
compliments his talents so well. The film, like Demon Knight, is very gory
and violent, although apart from the Crypt Keepers puns, and some of
Miller's lines, this didn't have that much to offer. It's good enough to
watch, if you've got 90 minutes to kill, and you don't want to see Demon
Knight, don't want to re-watch it, or can't find it. The films are both
worth watching, but I'd suggest Demon Knight over this one. I recommend
it(like the first) to fans of gory horror films, and people who just want to
be entertained for 90 minutes without having to think very much.
6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, I am a female, so I really got annoyed by all the nudity in it of
women... but, besides that, I think people are being too hard on this
movie... If you rent a Tales From The Crypt movie, don't expect something
very good... but I was a little dissapointed when I saw this, because I
think Demon Knight is about one of the best horrors made, and I was
surprised that their second film was far different than Demon Knight... This
one, Bordello Of Blood, was more funny than anything (quite funny humor I
must admit at some points in the movie) with gore, that's all it was, funny
and bloody, I was shocked that this movie really didn't have a real plot to
it (none that I realized anyway) except obviously, there was vampires, and
they wanted them dead... Did I miss something? In Demon Knight, there was a
strong plot, great acting, (Especially, Billy Zane...) And funny, gory,
exciting, etc., but this was just... pretty plain. If you are expecting a
good vampire movie out of this, go watch something else... may I recommend
John Carpenter's Vampires? A more serious, believable vampire movie =), but
hey, COME ON... this movie isn't THAT bad... is it? The whole idea of it was
dumb, and I think made for men, and that isn't fair to us female fans of
Tales From The Crypt... am I missing something? Well, maybe the "boss" the
cryptkeeper IS a guy, I guess he has say-so about what is put in the
movies...
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is funny as hell and has tons of gore, why don't people like
this?  The great Chris Sarandon is also in this(Fright Night) and we get
to
see one of the Coreys play a fun vampire.  Oh yeah, there are hundreds of
hot women with breast implants running around naked and exploding.  This
movie is awesome!
<|_=00=_|>
Blood, breasts, vampires and Chris Sarandon. How can you go wrong?

"Bordello of Blood," the second "Tales From The Crypt" feature film,
supplies the viewer with ample amounts of all of the above, leaving
room for little else. What it lacks in story, it more than makes up for
in its cheap thrills, and as far as midnight guilty pleasures go, this
one is about as good as it gets.

The story revolves around a good-girl (Erika Eleniak) whose delinquent
brother (Corey Feldman) goes missing. Upon hiring a wise-cracking
private detective, it is revealed that a local morgue is housing a
brothel run by a gang of beautiful but deadly vampires. Armed with
super-soakers full of holy water and with the help of a guitar-slinging
reverend (Chris Sarandon), the two set out to put the joint out of
business once and for all.

Dennis Miller is essentially playing himself, but keeps the humor
pumping through the film's ridiculous premise. Chris Sarandon,
likewise, is in top form as the genre hero he truly is. As mentioned
before, there's plenty of bare-flesh and red-stuff to go around, and if
that sort of thing is your bag, you'll have a blast with "Bordello of
Blood." Take it for the cheap thrill ride it is.
<|_=00=_|>
BORDELLO is far inferior to FROM DUSK TIL DAWN, which came out around
the same time, but both have similar central ideas: a bordello (well,
in DAWN it was a strip bar) that's a front for vampires. This one's in
the basement of a funeral home; Corey Feldman's an early victim. Dennis
Miller (of all people -- was Jon Lovitz out sick that week?) is the PI
who's looking into Feldman's disappearance for Erika Eleniak, a
born-again type.

Pluses include tons of gratuitous nudity, tons of gratuitous gore,
Corey Feldman, who belongs in these kind of roles, Dennis Miller
wisecracking his way through everything, a midget, a creepy old guy
playing a necrophiliac, good uses of "Thirty Days in the Hole" and
"Ballroom Blitz", and Angie Everhart chewing the scenery. Minuses
include too much Chris Sarandon, too much of the spectacularly unfunny
Cryptkeeper, not nearly enough vampire sex to suit me (we're in a
bordello, c'mon), and a bit too much lazy "we know it sucks, just ride
with it" vibe for my taste.

So it's not a schlock masterpiece. But its fun, and even it's tongue in
cheek tone is preferable to the self-serious schlock one puts up with
nowadays.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I write this interview, I wanted to just explain that I have
been a Dennis Miller fan since I was 11 (1994), and he was the only
reason I saw this movie. I also think he was one of the aspects of this
movie that held redeeming value. In addition, purchased it new for less
than $10 a few years ago, and it is in my Halloween movie collection.
With that out of the way, I'll start my review.

Vampress Lilith (Angie Everhart) is brought to life again after a long
rest in one of the far corners of the world by Reverend Jimmy Current
(Chris Sarandon) and his partner Vincent. The two establish a bordello
disguised as a funeral home to attract "evil" local young men. The men
can "get stiff among the stiffs," but men start disappearing. This
disappearance of local young men hits close to home for Katherine
Verdoux(Erika Eleniak) when her rebellious younger brother Caleb (Corey
Feldman) goes missing. So, she hires a Rafe Guttman (Dennis Miller) a
wisecracking, seedy private investigator with good intentions and a
quite unusual case--all involving this mortuary with secrets. Rafe and
Katherine put themselves into a mystery that crosses the boundary of
the living and the dead--rather, the undead.

This movie, thought quite funny, is a bad movie. That's just how it is.
Going into this movie, the title itself is an indication of how trashy
or bad it really is. But man, is it a fun trip! I found myself laughing
at pretty much all the right scenes and all the right lines. Its as
though the lines are tailored for Miller himself, it is perfect shtick
for him. Most of the movies he's been in had parts written especially
for him, but this was perfect. My first impression of Rafe is that he's
a jerk, but I discovered (rather quickly) that he is rather
good-natured and good-intentioned, and that he truly wants to help
Katherine out.

There are two scenes I absolutely loathed about this movie--the scene
where Lilith encounters Rafe in his office (I turn the channel off or
fast-forward the tape), and the opening scene of the movie where Lilith
is discovered by Rev. Current and Vincent (this is only watchable
once). Otherwise, this movie is quite funny and interesting if you plan
on getting into it. My biggest beef (spoiler) is that we don't even
meet our hero until roughly 20 minutes into the movie! When you're
first billed, doesn't this mean you'll show up earlier in the film? I
guess someone missed one of the most important parts of film-making, or
at least credit order. But, its OK, really, it's not the worst thing
about the film.

This is essentially a bad movie. I read another review that says that
it seems Dennis Miller is letting the viewers know this. He sure is!
This is one of those so-bad-it's-funny kind of movies (why it used to
be in the horror section of the video store I have no idea). However,
Dennis Miller is hysterical in it!! I loved his moments--he had a lot
of good ones.

I liked when he goes to the "Cunningham wake," and watches as the men
lift the coffin out of the room, but struggle with it. Guttman,
observing the scene, says "Wow, she really was a heavyweight." He does
make some of the most classically bad facial expressions I have
witnessed in a long time (honestly, after seeing this, I want to know
what acting school I have to go to just to learn to "Act the Dennis
Miller Way"). My favorite scenes are the Super Soaker scene (I won't
divulge on this too much, not to spoil it, but it is a classic scene
not to me missed), the scene where he sneaks back into the mortuary to
investigate, and when Rafe heads into the coffin drop to visit the
Bordello.

So why 7 out of 10 stars? One point deducted for the opening scene,
which tends to be long and drawn-out. Watch this once, and you'll
understand what is going on. What redeems this film is that after this
point in the film, it becomes better, and the plot begins to move a
little. One the same point, the entire first twenty minutes of the film
is a complete drag. Skip the introduction on the next viewing. Another
point deducted for the scene where Lilith encounters Rafe in his
office--this scene is just a complete turn-off to me (2, 4, 6, 8--You
can watch me masturbate!--yuck). And a third point deducted for the
nudity. Yes, I know, it's a bordello, yes, they're supposed to be nude.
But, I 'm a female, and I don't take pleasure in watching naked women
prance around. But, I'm flexible, so I pushed past that dislike and
ignored it. The bad acting isn't even a negative--it adds to the
movie's silly nature.

This is a great Halloween movie, but non-Dennis Miller fans may be
turned off by it. Maybe not, I don't know. The acting is pretty bad,
but that's the point--it's not Oscar-caliber material. I highly
recommend this movie--it has its moments that make is memorable
(probably not for all the right reasons, but it tries). Some classic
scenes make it funny, and you just may watch it more than once (I
have!). Just try not to read too much into it. It really is quite an
enjoyable diversion.
<|_=00=_|>
"Bordello of Blood" is about a Christian woman (Erika Eleniak) who is
looking for his missing goth brother (Corey Feldman) and therefore
hires a private detective to find him (Dennis Miller). It turns out
that the women of the bordello are vampires, and the place is being run
by a Reverend (Chris Sarandon) who wants to get rid of sinners.

Lots of comments deal with the fact that this movie is gory and filled
with nudity; it's true, and I think there is a scene that captures its
spirit:

Dennis Miller and the Reverend, decide to kill Lilith (Angie Everhart),
the "leader" of the vampires. Of course, they have to deal with the
vampire women in the house first, so the decide to carry...Waterguns
filled with Holy Water!!! Then all hell breaks loose: they shoot their
water guns at the nude women, who explode into guts or get caught on
fire after being hit. This happens while "Ballroom Blitz" is being
played.

Overall "Bordello of Blood" its not as scary as it is silly. Dennis
Miller is great as the detective, and there is a cameo appearance by
Whoopi Goldberg as a patient in a hospital.
<|_=00=_|>
The dwarf Vincent Prather (Phil Fondacaro) leads an expedition to the
Tierra del Fuego following an ancient map. He arrives at a cave where
there is a coffin instead of a treasure. He opens a box with four
pieces of a heart and revives the mother of all vampires Lilith (Angie
Everhart) that kills his employees. Vincent uses a key artifact with
blood to control and protect himself from Lilith.

The punk Caleb Verdoux (Corey Feldman) has an argument with his sister
Katherine Verdoux (Erika Eleniak ) and leaves their house to go to a
bar to meet a friend. They learn that there is an amazing brothel at
325 Beaumont, a funeral home where they should ask for the Cunningham
Wake. They are received by the mortician McCutcheon (Aubrey Morris) and
soon they go to the brothel. However Lilith runs the place and the
girls are vampires. Caleb's friend is killed by Lilith that that rips
his heart out of his chest and then Caleb is attacked by her.

Katherine goes to the precinct to report that her brother is missing
but the police officer does not give much attention to her. The private
investigator Rafe Guttman (Dennis Miller) overhears her conversation
and offers his services to Katherine. The snoopy Rafe tracks Caleb's
path and he discovers that the brothel seems to be a lair of vampires.
But Katherine, who works with Reverend Current (Chris Sarandon) that
has a business connection with Lilith, does not believe in his word.
Now Rafe is seeking evidences to prove to Katherine that he is telling
the truth. 

"Bordello of Blood" is an underrated gore comedy of vampires. The plot
is funny, with beautiful and hot female vampires, and also with a great
unexpected conclusion. The comedy is a funny parody of horror and crime
genres with the sexy Angie Everhart and Erika Eleniak. But Dennis
Miller steals the movie in the role of a sleazy but efficient private
eye. Lilith's tongue reaching the heart of her victims is hilarious;
however the funniest scene is when Rafe teams up with Reverend Current
and they use squirt guns with holy water to defeat the female vampires,
exploding them. When the viewer expects a happy ending, with the good
guy and the good girl together, there is an unforeseen conclusion. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Bordel de Sangue" ("The Brothel of Blood")
<|_=00=_|>
Bordello of Blood-1996-Dennis Miller, Erika Eleniak, Chris Sarandon,
Aubrey Morris, Corey Feldman, Angie Everhart, Phil Fondacaro, John
Kassir(as the cryptkeeper) and William Sadler(as the mummy).

This is a very silly movie. After Katherine's(Eleniak) Gothic brother
Kaleb(Feldman) goes missing, she calls on an investigator Rafe
Guttman(Miller) to find him. The search ends at a whore house where he
had gone earlier in the film. Chris Sarandon is so funny and over the
top and really steals the show. He plays a crooked priest that sends
sinners to their death at a bordello that Kaleb had gone to earlier.
Angie Everhart plays the head vampire Lillith and is one of the worst
actresses ever so lucky for you, she isn't in all that much of it, but
she is in too much. The film has the minor subplot opening and closing
of the cryptkeeper at a café with his old friend the mummy talking
about how their tomb isn't big enough for the both of them.

My rating-6/10. rated R for nonstop nudity and sexual humor, strong
language, some gory violence and a scene with some crude fart jokes.
