
This movie is action packed and definitely worth watching for any fan
of action movies. I'm surprised at the low rating it's has so far on
IMDb.

Two of my favorite actors are in the movie, Sylvester Stalone and
Antonio Banderas. I just found out the movie is written by the same
people who did the Matrix and I can see how that is so. Any movie with
Banderas is usually good, and this is no exception. :) 

If anyone likes sniper movies like Enemy at the Gates or Leon the
Professional, this is definitely a movie worth checking out. You won't
regret it.
<|_=00=_|>

Sylvester Stallone and Antonio Banderas star in this great action-thriller. 
 Sylvester Stallone plays Robert Rath, who is supposed to kill this guy at a
 funeral, but someone beats him to it.  He tracks the man and has a nice
 little talk with him.  The other man is another assassin, Miguel Bain 
(Antonio Banderas).  Rath (who is the best assassin there is) gets another
 assignment worth two million dollars.  Eliminate buyers and return girl and
 disk and he can retire.  Bain wants to beat Rath and complete the task
 first.  What follows is a battle between the two assassins.  Sylvester
 Stallone looks sleepy, at one time they show a close-up of his eyes and
 Julianne Moore's eyes.  You can see the difference so easily.  Banderas is
 alive, which is good.  The best performance is probably from Julianne Moore
 who is the girl they have to get the disk from.  Special effects are good,
 as is the ending climax.  Overall, it is thrilling, with a fair amount of
 action and violence.
<|_=00=_|>

When I firast watched this film,I enjoyed it thoroughly.  Ironically
enough
in the advent of John Woo (his american popularity and his imitators) as
well as Micheal Bay, Tony Scott, and Jerry Brukhiemer, it is rephreshing
to
see an action movie, a shoot-out action movie, where the emphasis is on
efficiency and control rather than chaos.  Unlike the John Woo pilosophy
of
keeping the guns firing non stop even if they hit nothing, Assassins
works
on the exact opposite theory of every shot has a purpose and a meaning
and
no shot is taken wildly even to distract (add on to the fact that in most
John Woo movies, and especially  Michael Bay movies, the guns are super
loud, whereas in Assassins, pretty much every shot thats fired is
silenced).
I beleive there is only one instance in the film where shots are fired
wildly wnd wrecklessly, and that is during the apartment scene where
Antonio Banderas' character. Micheal Bein, shoots blindly through a wall
at
Slyvester Stallone's character, Robert Rath.  Other than that, there is
not
really anytype of panic fire or wild bullet spraying (in fact I dont
beleive
this film even features automatic rifles of any kind).  Strangely enough,
this allows for events that move extremly quick: example, the first scene
featuring the three title characters in the hotel.  We see Antonio
Banderas,
in the blink of an eye alomst, take out 3 guards, walkinto the room they
were guarding and then take out the 4 targets in that room in the same
amount of time.  In a way, it is very similar to the old Samurai films
since
their action scenes moved in a similar manner with nothingn then all of a
sudden a few quick sword strikes and the conflict is over.  That being
said,
this movie would require a certain type of taste in action movies or is a
type of movie you have to be "in the mood" to watch.

sidenote: When I first watched this film, I had no idea it featured the
would be superstar Antonio Banderas, nor that it was written by the soon
to
be Matrix creators.  In that sense it is almost a fun movie to watch
because
it kinda answers the question "what did they do before they were famous?"
and now you know.    
<|_=00=_|>

Assassins is definately one of the better written action films I've seen,
but then again, it was written by the Wachowski Brothers, who also wrote
(and directed) the equally well done Matrix.

This film was directed By Richard Donner, who also directed Lethal Weapon
1-4 and Superman, among other films. I felt the characters were all well
presented and the story was told well.

Apparently, Brian Hegleand rewrote parts of the script, but I can't imagine
what, since the whole script seems so Wachowski. Huh...


<|_=00=_|>

A great movie.

Sylvester Stallone and Antonio Banderas did a terrific job
on
the screen as they play the role of two killers.

Stallone is Robert Rath, best killer around, the Number
1.
Banderas is Miguel Bain, the one who wants to become the new Number 1, but
if he wants to do so, he has to eliminate Rath.

They meet at a funeral, where Rath's mark is killed by Bain before he does
so. From then on, it's battle between the two.

The movie is quite similar to "The Specialist"(1994) - another Sylvester
Stallone movie - only that there he had no Banderas to fight against!

A couple of words on the cast. Well, I already said that Stallone and
Banderas did well but my compliments go to Julianne Moore. She was
brilliant.

Vote : 80/100.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this was a great action flick. I'm really into this genre of
movies. I don't particularly like Sylvester Stallone but he was pretty good
in this movie. Julianne Moore was good but I think she would've been better
if her role was bigger. But I think Antonio Banderas stole the show. He was
so good as the psychopathic assassin. I loved the chase scenes. Especially
the scene in the taxi. Miguel Bain's (Banderas) evilness just oozed out of
him as this scene played. Robert Rath (Stallone) wanted to kill Bain so bad
during this scene. I loved the explosions. I just had a thought though.
Whenever Rath blew Bain out of the window and then it showed Bain in the
bathtub, shouldn't he have had more wounds than it showed? I don't know.
Maybe it was just me. Anyways. This movie had violence but not as much as
most movies in this genre does. I thought it had just enough. The ending was
pretty good. It seemed like Bain just would not die. An invincible villain!
How many times have you seen that in these kinds of movies? Well, I don't
have much more to say about this film except I really enjoyed it and thanks
for reading my review! Bye!
<|_=00=_|>

Ok fellahs and dames, I saw this movie for the first time...yesterday...6
years this movie has been out and I saw it yesterday, pathetic I know, but
I
was definately not disappointed. Not only does this movie possess comedy,
but it's thrilling. I was on the edge of my seat in some of the scenes. I
honestly didn't know who to cheer for between Miguel (Antonio Banderas)
and
Robert (Sylvester Stallone). I enjoy them both and both their characters
were hitmen. Even though Robert was trying to go through a change, he was
still a hitman, end of story. Now Miguel he was a little more cut-throat.
In
this story Robert is starting to grow a soft spot and only kills the
person
he was hired to kill...leaving innocents out of it. While Miguel was ready
to shoot a 7-year old soccer player to get what he wanted. Banderas plays
this part well. I dunno if any of you caught this but when Banderas is
handling a gun he does alot of the same things in movie. Scenes from the
movie "Desperado" started to flash in my head when I saw Banderas and
Stallone duking it out at the cemetary. Robert is then hired to hit a
mark,
which is a woman who is only known by a pair of cat eyes, to retrieve a
disc, and also kill the buyers. Miguel is also hired for the same job
causing a little game between the 2 hitmen. Ofcourse Robert can't come
around to killing Electra (Julianne Moore), so he instead protects her and
later teams up with her for some more delightfully planned out "fun". I
really enjoyed this movie because I am the crime loving type. I also loved
it because of the connection between Electra and Robert. A definate must
see
if you enjoy movies such as this. If you don't prefer them then go watch,
"Aladdin".
<|_=00=_|>
Sylvester Stallone, Antonio Banderas, and Julianne Moore star in this
action movie: a battle of hit men. Stallone has had so many bad roles
before, but this is one of the better roles I've seen him in. He would
follow it five years later with a similar role in Get Carter. However,
a real hit-man would not have hesitated to waste a woman. Antonio
Banderas seemed out of character as an assassin. He was way over the
top with emotional outbursts and impatience. These seem highly
uncharacteristic of a successful assassin on his way up. Julianne
Moore's character changed from a calm, cool bad girl into a helpless,
bumbling female after meeting Stallone. How convenient! Many Of Richard
Donner's other films have similar problems. However, there is enough
enjoyable action, development and tension to enjoy the movie, as long
as you suspend a lot of belief ...a lot of belief. *** of 4 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
In order to really enjoy this movie, you have to put your brain in a
freezer for 133 minutes and just refrain from trying analyze anything
in here. There are more holes in this story than swiss cheese, as the
cliché somewhat goes.

Having said that, however, I did enjoy the action scenes and the
by-play between the two assassins - "Robert Rath" (Sylvester Stallone)
and "Miguel Bain" (Antonio Banderas) - enough to make it a fun ride. I
might even have rated it another star higher had a few things weren't
confusing and left unanswered, or Banderas spoke clearer English.
Still, it's not bad and for fans of "Sly" and action films, worth a
look.
<|_=00=_|>
If you have watched 'The Mechanic', you will certainly see a parallel
between that movie & this movie. Both are fast-paced action movies
about two assassins in conflict with each other.

'The Mechanic' starred Charles Bronson in the lead role of a veteran
contract hit-man, Arthur Bishop. He took on a cocky but ambitious young
man, Steve McKenna, played by Jan-Michael Vincent, to be his protégé.
The latter turned the table on the master.

In this movie, 'Assassins', Sylvester Stallone played the lead role of
a veteran contract hit-man, Robert Bath, who apparently was number one
in the business. A cocky, but ambitious young hit-man, Miguel Bain,
played by Antonio Banderas, came into the scene with the fatalistic
idea of becoming the number one.

Intertwined in their personal conflict of hierarchy, appeared a woman
computer hacker, Electra, played by Julianne Moore, as well as a
mysterious employer, Nikolai Taslinkov, who seemingly was connected to
all the three key characters in the movie.

For the rest of the movie, it was an exciting cat & mouse game between
Bath & Bain, with Electra eventually teaming up with Bath to elude from
& deal with Bain. The action sequences throughout the movie, especially
the shoot-out inside a hotel in the first half & the shoot-out in an
abandoned building (in Mexico) towards the end, were really good.

It was quite fun to watch Antonio Banderas playing the hot-headed,
crazy guy. He was really good, as good as Sylvester Stallone, who, as
typical & in most of his movies of this genre (Nighthawks, Cobra, Judge
Dredd, Demolition Man...), played the cool, confident
character...maybe, a little stiff in some way. Julianne Moore, a very
accomplished British actress, unfortunately had an understated role,
although she did her best.

On the whole, 'Assassins' has been an entertaining - never a dull
moment - action movie to watch...especially when you can watch two
assassins for the price of one!
