

Barry Sonnenfeld was and maybe wasn't the right choice to make Get Shorty. 
He's a great visualist, and his films (Adams Family, Men in Black) are also
very funny, but it's hard to say whether or not another director might've
taken Elmore Leonard's sly comic novel more seriously or with less depth. 
As it is, however, Get Shorty is a cool little treat that doesn't over-stay
its welcome, and provides its cast a plethora of witty dialog.  John
Travolta brings on some sharp attitude, knowing the angles and wanting, as
his character Chili Palmer, to get into Hollywood and out of loan sharking. 
Gene Hackman's funny as a fledgling producer with his first, true big hit in
his lap.  And supporting parts from Delroy Lindo, Renne Russo, Danny De Vito
(as 'Hollywood' as you'll ever see him), and James Gandolfini, are all very
worthy.  It's a worthwhile watch, with a dead-on score from John Lurie.  But
I would reccomend Out of Sight or Jackie Brown to Leonard fans looking for a
great adaptation.  It's a very good Hollywood picture (reflective of what
it's about), though it's not a masterpiece.  A-
<|_=00=_|>
John Travolta followed up his "Pulp Fiction" comeback with "Get
Shorty", in which he plays Miami hit-man Chili Palmer. Moving to
Hollywood to collect a debt, he finds that show biz isn't much
different from the mafia, and he decides to get involved. But of
course, once there's anything mafia-related involved, things start to
get ugly. Not that they weren't already seedy.

This movie has its strengths mainly in the script, but also in the
strong performances from Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo and Danny
DeVito. I guess that any time that someone gets a chance to show
Hollywood's unseemly side, they take it. Of course, there's plenty of
reasons to do so. The sequel, "Be Cool", wasn't quite as good, but
still worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>

I am not sure whether I liked the movie or just John Travolta and his
character Chili Palmer. I had a lot of fun watching 'Get Shorty', based on
the novel by Elmore Leonard, so it doesn't really matter. The movie is about
a mobster from Miami, Chili Palmer, who ends up in Los Angeles. After
meeting a movie producer named Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) he gets interested
in the movie business. This is the main story, but this movie is based on an
Elmore Leonard story so there are a lot of sub-plots with lots of
interesting characters, all with great dialogue.

Besides Chili Palmer and Harry Zimm we meet Karen Flores (Rene Russo), an
actress known for her screaming, Martin Weir (Danny DeVito) who is the hot
actor of the moment, Ray Bones (Dennis Farina) who wants to collect some
money that Chili has, Bo Catlett (Delroy Lindo) who wants money fro Harry
Zimm, Bear (James Gandolfini) who was a stuntman but now is Bo's bodyguard,
Leo Devoe (David Paymer) who stole the money that brought Chili to Los
Angeles and Doris (Bette Midler). All characters are colorful, have great
dialogue and an interesting part in the story, but all those great things
are there together with Chili. For every nice moment Travolta is
present.

The actors play their characters very well. Again, Travolta is great and
owns the movie, but especially Farina and Hackman do a great job as well.
The movie is well directed by Barry Sonnenfeld (from 'The Addams Family'),
knowing how to avoid boring moments. The story with its dialogue would be
enough to make a nice movie out of it. Fortunately we have the actors and
direction to make it even better and definitely more entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is based on the Elmore Leonard book of the same name. This is a
hilarious satire of Hollywood. Chili Palmer (John Travolta) is a loan shark
from Miami tracking down a deadbeat who has run off. Palmer's travels take
him to Hollywood, where he meets Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman). Zimm is a
producer of major motion pictures (read B horror flicks). His lover is Karen
(Rene Russo). His meetings give Palmer the "movie bug."

Already a huge movie fan, Palmer decides to produce "Mr. Lovejoy" a script
that Zimm proclaims will be hs "Driving Miss Daisy." The plot centers around
efforts to raise the necessary money and land Martin Weir (Danny DeVito) in
the lead role. Fortunately Weir is Karen's es-husband. And Palmer has access
to $300,000 generated from Las Vegas winnings of the missing deadbeat, Leo.
As a further complication there is a drug dealer (Delroy Lindo) who has
invested in one of Zimm's pictures. But he has gotten in trouble with his
supplier for $500,000 and a missing nephew.

DeVito does a wonderful job playing the self-involved, pretentious Weir.
There are wonderful comments about screen writers. Spelling is optional, not
necessary. The role of a screenwriter is just to put the commas in where
they belong. Travolta is delightful as a "nice guy" wiseguy. In fact, the
entire cast is just great.

The plot lines never overwhelm the film, and they fit together like a jigsaw
puzzle. (Note: Thanks to Pulp Fiction, studios are willing now to use
non-linear plot lines on occasion.). The ending is terrific (watch for the
cameo by Harvey Keitel). I saw this in the theatre and have seen it several
times on video. This one is definitely a keeper.
<|_=00=_|>

Elmore Leonard's books must be loved by film screen adapters. His characters
translate very well from the written page to the moving picture. "Get
Shorty" is one of Mr. Leonard's best stories and it gets a very good
treatment in the hands of Barry Sonnenfeld, its director, with the help of
Scott Frank, who adapted it for the screen.

The casting of the movie was it's greatest asset. John Travolta is so cool
as Chilli, the mafioso who loves movies! In his scenes with Gene Hackman, he
demonstrates what a good actor he is. On the surface, he appears to do
nothing; he works with an economy that is very hard to imitate. Granted,
after Mr. Travolta's amazing appearance in Pulp Fiction, this was a
confirmation and validation of his talent.

It was surprising, since I didn't remember his appearance on the movie, to
watch actor James Gandolfini, prior to his recent fame. He plays a stuntman
turned wise guy. Mr. Gandolfini must have gone through a great dental
cosmetic transformation, unless he was made up to look very ugly, as Bear,
in the film. I have greatly admired his work before his TV series, as a fine
character actor, which he demonstrates here the potential he had and was not
discovered until much later.

Delroy Lindo is also excellent as one of the bad guys in the film. This
actor, who is as great in films as in the theater, deserves much better. He
is a man that always gives an honest performance. Not being a Danny DeVito
fan, I must confess that he was very restrained here. He can do very good
work with the right director behind him, as he shows playing the egotistical
actor, Martin Weir.

Also excellent, Dennis Farina. It's unfortunate he doesn't get better
choices because he is always very effective in whatever he plays. In this
film, he is hysterical as Ray "Bones" Barboni. Rene Russo, as the bit player
with a heart of gold, is good. 

What can be said of Gene Hackman that hasn't already been said? His Harry
Zimm is so accurate that we believe he is this sleazy Hollywood producer.
Mr. Hackman is a consummate performer who keeps getting better all the time.

If I had enjoyed the film the first time, looking at it a second time was a
revelation.


<|_=00=_|>
Anything involving something by Elmore Leonard is generally very good,
in and of itself. But when coupled with performances like those of John
Travolta and Gene Hackman in this picture, the result is a superb piece
of entertainment.

Danny De Vito, Dennis Farina and Rene Russo all deliver outstanding
performances - but all pretty much convey the types of personas,
on-screen, which you'd expect from seeing their other work.

However, of all actors today - young or older, new or veteran -- there
are no two who are more convincing, in everything they do, than
Travolta and Hackman. Serious or funny, crafty or clueless, hero or
villain - - each has been completely convincing in every role, and
seeing them together, one would like to see them teamed again.

In this movie, both are funny, and both have their roles "nailed:"
Travolta as the confident tough guy, completely in control; and Hackman
as the "B" flick producer, operating on the fringe of the Hollywood
scene and life in general.

As much as I liked this movie, I first saw it in a St. Louis hotel
suite, where we selected it from the PPV menu. I was "fried" from a
day-long business meeting, and fell asleep early into it. The next day,
my wife insisted that I catch it (she's one of those people who has
perhaps only wanted to watch one or two other movies a second time,
ever), and I was glad she did. 

It's an outstanding film, and one which entertains thoroughly from the
outset to conclusion, with not a single lapse between.
<|_=00=_|>
Smart, funny mobster comedy/satire based on the novel by Elmore
Leonard. Travolta is well-cast in one of his very best roles as a slick
Miami loan shark/enforcer who travels to Los Angeles to cash in a loan,
but instead ends up teaming with B-movie writer/producer Hackman to
fulfill his dream of being connected to the movie business. Before he
can however, he must deal with bumbling mobsters, white-collar
criminals, and the anxiety of trying to find the right leading man.
Crackling, hilarious dialogue, well-drawn characters, and clever
insight into the movie business run rampant in this snappy little
comedy. Maybe not for all tastes, but well-made and a definite must for
Travolta fans. ***
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in 1995 when first released, but never got around to
thinking about a review until I saw it again a few weeks back on late
night TV. I'd forgotten just how good it is...

From a novel by Elmore Leonard, this story is arguably the best satire
about the Hollywood dream factory yet done, for two reasons: it
savagely exposes and lampoons the behaviors of actors, writers,
producers and directors and it implicitly compares that business with
the business of small time hoodlums and loan sharks. So many times
during this story does Chili Palmer (John Travolta) announce, in a
bemused fashion: "I can't believe how youse guys do business out
here..." Chili, as we learn very early, is a loan shark from Miami who
is ordered by Bones (Dennis Farina), his new boss, to recover a $15,000
debt from Leo (David Paymer), a loser with a garrulous wife, Fay (Linda
Hart) who's helped Leo fake his own death on a plane crash and collect
$300,000 as a settlement from the airline. Fay, of course, can't keep
her mouth shut and tells Chili that Leo scammed the money and was now
living it up in Vegas. Chili, in Vegas, finds out that Leo has gone to
LA. But Chili also makes a score: a Vegas casino owner asks him to lean
on an LA movie producer, Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman) for $150,000 still
owing.

So, off to La-La Land goes Chili, and that's where the fun really
starts...

The plot then changes direction, almost completely: Chili, after
recovering most of the $300,000 from Leo (and letting him off lightly),
gets involved with Harry in two ways – first, convinces him to take on
Chili's own idea for a movie production and second, fend off two
"investors" (who just happened to be drug pushers also) who want their
money back from Harry who – you guessed it – is late in getting some
other movie off the ground, and has spent all their money.

However, those two pushy investors, Bo Catlett and Ronnie Wingate
(Delroy Lindo and John Gries), have another problem: the $500,000 drug
money that they can't retrieve from a locker box at LAX and which Chili
sees as an opportunity to make more profit. That idea, however, is
blown away when Bones – who would like nothing better than to see Chili
dead -- arrives from Miami looking to muscle in on Chili's business in
LA.

How all that threads together into a gloriously comedic and ironic
slice of Hollywood life and death is a testament to Leonard's brilliant
story, a great screenplay and cinematography and tight editing – not to
mention the almost flawless acting by actors who are continually taking
the mickey out of the whole business, right up to the final scene.

There's no doubt that this is Travolta's comeback movie. The guy just
oozes dangerous cool and --- ooops – chilling competence as he
maneuvers between the high and low life of a strange town, with some
very strange people and even stranger business practices. But, kudos
also go to Dennis Farina, Gene Hackman and Danny DeVito as the klutzes
they portray; and Renee Russo is suitably decorous as Chili's love
interest. Watch out for cameos from Bette Midler, Harvey Keitel and
other Hollywood luminaries.

And, here's the supreme self-referential irony: there really is a real
Chili Palmer in the movie; he's one of the actors who has a bit part as
one of Bones' buddies! What a gag...

Finally, note the title: Get Shorty. That's Elmore Leonard's delicious
swipe at the whole gangster genre. Remember Get Carter (1971)...?
Ho-ho-HO-ho-ho! 

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

I do not expect Hollywood to ever bowl me over; I depend on other film
communities for that. The Hollywood machine is so preoccupied with avoiding
risk via lowbrow entertainment that we usually end up without intelligence
or cleverness in our lives with them. But there are a few figures connected
to that machine that I can rely on. DePalma for an intelligent eye; Ridley
Scott for managing time; Soderbergh for framing and so on. But the influence
of these folks rarely extends to the project as a whole.

That's not the case with Danny DeVito. Forget his acting; as a director or
producer you can always count on his intellect and sometimes we also get a
coherent film out of the deal. In other words, we get something that
conforms to the Hollywood principles (fun, exploits actors in the best way,
solid production values) and at the same time has enough intellectual depth
to allow some sun to shine in through cosmic windows.

This film is one of those. It is not on my `must see' list, but it is one of
the best Hollywood productions of the last decade.

The setup is like `The Player,' a film about the writing of itself, about
how life copies film and vice versa. Along the way, it subverts gangster
pictures in a slightly different way than `Pulp Fiction' of the previous
year - also produced (and significantly influenced) by DeVito. I really
appreciate `folding' like this, and make a study of them. I already have a
database of nearly a thousand examples of folding. It is a fascinating
phenomenon, but rarely is it sheer fun.

This one is folded and fun.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching. 
<|_=00=_|>

GET SHORTY (1995) ***1/2 John Travolta, Gene Hackman, Rene Russo, Danny De
Vito, Delroy Lindo, Dennis Farina, James Gandolfini, David Paymer, Martin
Ferrero, Bette Midler, Linda Hart, Bobby Slayton,  Harvey Keitel (cameo),
Penny Marshall (cameo).  Funny and entertaining adaptation of Elmore
Leonard's crime novel about Chili Palmer (Travolta, perfectly charming) a
loan shark from Miami who heads out to LA after a pay cheat and winds up in
Hollywood teaming up with horror schlock producer Hackman and B-film
screamer Russo pitching a story and avoiding some not-so-pleasant criminal
types along the way.  Great satire and excellently keen in keeping Leonard's
dialogue intact with some dead-on spoofing of Tinsel Town in particular De
Vito as a Method actor run amok.  Look for director Barry Sonnenfeld as a
parking valet and also the real Chili Palmer as one of Farina's dinner
companions at the film's pre-credit sequence prior to Travolta punching out
Farina. 
