

I'm going out on a limb here.  I've just bombed "Joe Dirt," and now I'm
going to do an about-face on modern comedies and argue that "A Night at the
Roxbury" is brilliant.  Most critics didn't see a distinction between these
two bombs, but I do.

Comedy oftentimes depends on suffering.  Comic protagonists always take a
beating, and we either laugh with them, or at them, or maybe we laugh not at
all because we couldn't care less.  The essential question is, are the
protagonists of "A Night at the Roxbury" lovable losers or just totally
annoying dweebs who deserve all the grief they get? 

You know my answer already.  I love the Butabi brothers.  They have a strong
fraternal bond, they're obsessed with Emilio Estevez, and they can't get any
play.  What's not to love?  

Dan Hedaya is great as the brothers' disgruntled dad, and Chazz Palminteri
does a hilarious cameo as an entrepreneur obsessed with ass-grabbing. 
Richard Grieco demonstrates a remarkable sense of humor about himself by
allowing the Butabis to build him up as a big celebrity, when the joke is
obviously that he's a total has-been.  What a sport, eh?

Nice song, too.  I like this stupid movie.  Really, I do.
<|_=00=_|>
THIS MOVIE IS GREAAAAAAAAAT! i guarantee you'll be laughing throughout
the movie. I'v read some reviews about this movie and i can't help but
wonder why people say its horrible? Maybe your not the type who enjoy a
good comedy once in a while. The two brothers are absolutely
hysterical. They just keep the laughs coming. AND, what about the
music? The music just happens to fit the movie so good that i think its
a 'must see movie'. I'm a proud owner of this movie. When i'm in need
of a good laugh this is the movie i watch. The story is wonderful, and
the actors and actresses have done the greatest job on this movie. If i
could i'd give it 100 OUT OF 100 :)
<|_=00=_|>
"What's up?" - Either you love it or you hate it. Actually to me
Roxbury is one of my favourites. Of course the two guys are hilarious -
but that's what they're supposed to be. This movie is full of great
innuendos to disco chicks ("Is this your first time?"), to stupid and
bored upper class people ("Do you like my new chin? Is it better than
last years?") and to some movies ("You had me at hello!"). Even after
watching it the 3rd or 4th time you still can discover some new hints
and gags.

It's a funny movie but certainly not dumb!

Emilioooooh!
<|_=00=_|>
Yesterday, I watched "A Night at the Roxbury" for the first time and I
absolutely loved it! I think Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell did a great
job and were an awesome team. They were VERY funny and kept me laughing
and cheering for them through the whole movie. The music in this movie
was also great, it made me want to get up and dance (maybe even the
head bop! lol)This movie also had the *perfect* ending. I enjoyed all
the characters and liked the twists the movie took. I would definitely
recommend this movie for a good laugh for anyone, even critical
friends. Nomatter who you are, there is something for you to enjoy in
this awesome comedy. "A Night at the Roxbury" is a must!
<|_=00=_|>
If you think this movie sucks, well, it's really your opinion. But my
opinion is that it's one of the funniest movies ever made. For those
who disagree with me, it all depends on your taste. This movie is more
of a weird/cheap humor kind of thing, and that's what a lot of people
like. But a lot of people also like smart humor, in which this movie
doesn't offer (that much). So this movie (and all other Saturday Night
Live movies) are meant to be weird. It's funny to see how some people
could act in real life. So people who's of weird and cheap humor, this
movie is great! But for those of you smart alecs out there who like
smart movies, this one (or any other Saturday Night Live) movie really
should'nt be your pick 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
A Night at the Roxbury... I loved this movie incredibly the first time
I saw it because it seemed to be the story of my relationship with my
own sister embodied in a film. With such amazingly hilarious actors as
Will Farrell and Chris Kattan, and also Molly Shannon, how could anyone
pass up the opportunity to at least watch it once? 

The whole idea of two regular, lazy, semi-lame guys trying to fulfill a
small but radical dream while following the right paths in life is very
appealing to me. But that's not to say it's not a film for adults...
Indeed, there was some "profanity," but I'd say it was relatively minor
and only added to the hilarity of it all. I think what really got me
was the soundtrack for this film, in particular the recurring dance
song "What Is Love?" by Haddaway. By the end of the movie, it becomes
sort of an anthem. It's almost strange to find yourself watching these
two younger men and their rich but meandering lifestyle and think "Man,
I wish I could do that!" 

Overall, I'd say this movie is guaranteed to make you laugh IF your
comedy preferences are not too strict. And it's even better if you
watch it with your friends, because it makes a lot of inside jokes! I'd
suggest this movie to anyone looking for a good Will Farrell/Chris
Kattan movie, especially if you have your own brother or sister to
relate it to.
<|_=00=_|>
When this movie hit the screens in the summer of 1998 (or was it 99 in
Turkey - anyways), no one knew what it was in Turkey and a very few
people went and saw it, I was one of the more fortunate ones to have
done so, and i did this twice!!

Yes, i laughed my head off.. Once with my best pal, and the next day
with my brother.

It is one of those movies which keeps that stupid smile on your face
all through the movie. The Butabi brothers and their relationships with
the whole world and their fascination for clubs, women and EMILIOOOO!
is a must see for everyone who likes a good laugh.

I can't get the scene where the brothers are loading the flowers into
the van. Some really funny stuff.

I bought this on video and have watched it dozens of times and it never
gets old. Definitely recommend it...
<|_=00=_|>
I saw it this weekend and just could not stop Laughing!

My Moment is at the end Of the Wedding were the Beautiful Eva Mendes,
is stunned when Doug Stops the Wedding of his Brother.

I just still see it before my eyes.

Everyone just stood there stunned, and the song : "What is Love" just
kept on playing.

The Plot actually is that That Doug and Steve Butabi two very,
ambitious boys are working for there Father (Kamehl) ho owns a Flower
Shop. But The Two Brothers plan two run a Night Club. Their Father
isn't Impressed with the idea, but allows them to look around. Richard
Grieco (An Owner Of Many Night Club's in the Movie) Help's them.

The ending isn't predictable and thats what is good.

It was Hilarious and Good!

The overall Movie was excellent and very funny, it's sure to give you a
good night Of laugh's!

My Score : 8.4

Groeten Gerrit
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was better than I expected! These two are such dorks, but that is
what's funny! The outfits, the attitude, the car are all part of the comedy
too. Best part: "Is that a mirror in your pocket, because I can see myself
in your pants." Also the spoof of Jerry Maguire is great too. Watch if you
are in the mood for a good comedy with funny humor. 
<|_=00=_|>

This is my all time favorite movie ever. If you are ready to laugh your
head off then grab a bunch of friends and watch this movie together.

Doug and Steve Butabi come out with the funniest sayings that you'll be
repeating with your friends for a long time. They have got tons of
catch phrases you can use everyday. "Are you two brothers?" "No... Yes!
get em every time! yea Doug's hilarious!" I've practically memorized
the whole movie! You've got to see it! Chris Kattan and Will Ferrell
work wonderfully together and provide non-stop laughter for people of
all ages. If you haven't seen this movie then I suggest you see it and
then spread the word on how good it is!

