

The first time I saw this movie I had difficulty in understanding a lot of
the dialogue not just because of the weird accent, but because the actors
spoke so damn fast.  But despite this I became literally addicted to it.
To
begin with my wife got pretty annoyed because any other movie we rented
would be ejected after about 20 minutes of viewing and in would go LS&2SB.
Now she is hooked as well.

I have lost count of the number of times I have seen LS&2SB and still
cannot
put my finger on why I find this movie so good to watch.  I suppose the
most
obvious feature of this movie is that it is beautifully balanced between
being serious and humorous at the same time.  The characters are
two-dimensional.  The villains are menacing, and yet they are made to look
like idiots, and the good guys think they are so smart yet keep getting
the
rug pulled from under them.  They are all projected as 'cool' yet the
situation is always out of their control.  Maybe it could be called a
satire
on true life.

The style of this movie is unique, full stop.  I cannot think of any movie
that can be compared to LS&2SB.  Quite a few people say that the style is
a
mix of 'Pulp Fiction', 'Goodfellas', 'Trainspotting' and 'Reservoir Dogs',
but I think that you would make that kind of description only if you are
really desperate to match LS&2SB to something.

The best description I can think of is 'MTV does a crime comedy', and I
honestly don't think there is anything wrong with that.  Like music
videos,
it is all non-stop movement and sound.  Something is always happening but
unlike music videos, not without reason.

The humor is incredibly sharp yet 'as a matter of fact'.  No one is really
trying to be extraordinarily funny, but again it is the balance between
being menacingly serious and funny that the humor really flies at you. I
think that it is for this reason that a few people are really disappointed
with LS&2SB.  If you are expecting a 'belly laugh Leslie Nielson, Jim
Carrey, Steve Martin, typecasted' type all out comedy, or a serious 'Al
Pacino, Andy Garcia, DeNiro typecasted crime thriller, you will find this
movie a big let down.

My favorite characters are Rory Breaker (Vas Blackwood) and Big Chris
(Vinnie Jones) mainly because their two dimensional over-the-top
characters
are the most obvious.  Big Chris takes his son with him debt collecting,
and
while he beats up someone who owes chastises him for swearing in front of
his son and Rory Breaker is the most idiotic drug-lord you could come up
with.

I haven't even mentioned the excellent and unique camerawork, speaker
blowing soundtrack, beautifully threaded plot, perfect ending and the
grittiest visuals I've seen.  You wont see any reflective glass laden sky
scrapers here, or 'over head city shots', or incredible special effects.
This movie has actors I have never heard of, dialogues that you have to
rewind and replay to understand, buildings that look as though they have
been condemned for demolition, cars that wouldn't even be seen in our
scrap
yards, has probably been made with a budget that most movies in Hollywood
use for make-up alone, has no love scenes, or romance or complex
relationships, no Oscar-worthy performances, and yet is perfect
entertainment.

Where our movies normally rely on budgets, this movie works on human
talent
alone.

If any movie deserves a 10 out of 10, then this is it.

'And there's one more thing...............it's been emotional'

<|_=00=_|>

I was a total and complete sucker for this film.

If I were to write and direct a movie about gangsters or crime, this would
be it.  I wouldn't change one damn thing.  Not a thing.  Everything in this
film was, to my eye, perfect - casting, the camerawork, the excellent
dialogue ("It's been emotional.")

Now I don't have much to compare this to, and I've heard some criticism that
it basically draws quite heavily from older British crime dramas.  I've got
a bunch of these on my queue to rent, but I doubt you could make a crime
film better than this.

This film oozes with style, class, dark humor, plot twists and turns, and
doesn't drag one bit.  The casting and characterization is perfect, and
Ritchie isn't afraid to move the cameras around; no pretense is really made
here at "realism" - Ritchie doesn't mask the fact that it's a film and he
runs with it.

I really don't think of myself as easily impressed, and I have seen a hell
of a lot of films in my time, but this one instantly made my Top 10 after
only a single viewing.  Yes, I'm raving about it, and while it may not be
"spiritually enriching" or contain any deep sociological content (which I
actually do look for in films), somehow it still scores as one hell of a
film; memorable and entertaining, and stands up well to multiple
viewings.

I am a bit dismayed to see some of the marketing of this film comparing it
to other things like Quentin Tarantino films or Trainspotting.  It really
does it a disservice because this film really is its own phenomenon and
stands on its own two feet; if anything it is similar to  Trainspotting and
Tarantino films only because it actually has its own bold
style.

Can't recommend it enough.  
<|_=00=_|>

Guy Ritchie's hip, highly stylized 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels' is
a truly remarkable film, not only for its appropriately pyrotechnic camera
work, but also for its seemingly flawless, puzzle-perfect script/screenplay.
While the picture's main focus is on a group of lads who invest money in a
high-stakes, rigged card game and lose, the broader story concerns
approximately eight different groups of criminals whose paths cross (more>
than once, in some cases) during various illegal pursuits: money, guns,
drugs, even revenge. The film is quite violent, both on and off screen, but
it's also uniformly humorous throughout. It's important to note that the
four central characters (a cook, a card sharp, and a couple of guys who sell
"discounted" items) are interested only in acquiring the money to pay off
their enormous debt; they kill no one. The same applies to the laid-back
college boys who "grow copious amounts of ganja".

 The cast is comprised of mostly young, veteran, male actors. In fact, the
only female in the film doesn't even speak, though she handles a machine gun
fairly well. Sting appears briefly in several scenes as a bar-owning father
figure. While his secondary performance is solid, as usual, it is also
unmemorable. The soundtrack is first-rate, from the 60's hits of James Brown
to the contemporary beats of London's underground. The groovy, pulsating
music and lyrics are often succinctly synchronized with the action and
dialogue in the film, creating a theatrical rhythm that is fairly uncommon
in cinema (from any period).

 Critics and audiences over the years have often dismissed stylized camera
work as pretentious and unnecessary, stating that it detracts from the
story, bogs it down, or pads it; however, the film medium has the luxury of
actually "displaying" a story for its audience, unlike the written word
alone. It's what the medium is all about -- it's VISUAL. Hence, one of the
reasons a filmmaker chooses such visual displays is to "brand" his or her
work, in the same way as writers like Cummings, Hemingway or Joyce did with
their medium. It's hard to imagine a cinema without Hitchcock, Kubrick, or
Scorsese to represent it. To this end, Ritchie has taken his first step in
establishing his own brand. His energetic, ultra-contemporary camera work
incorporates (through a fresh perspective) such devices as slow motion, fast
motion, and freeze-frame coupled with narration. It is at times reminiscent
of (and actually expands upon) Martin Scorsese's patented visual stylistics
and camera movements, like those found in 'Mean Streets' and 'Goodfellas'.
But the similarities with Scorsese's work end there.

 Critics' endless comparisons of Ritchie's film with the works of Quentin
Tarantino and Danny Boyle's 'Trainspotting' stand mostly unwarranted, as
these comparisons take away from the inventiveness and originality of 'Lock,
Stock and Two Smoking Barrels'. Ritchie's film is a much more involved,
complex, layered work than the aforementioned comparisons. While Tarantino's
films are very strong on dialogue, screenplay, and editing, they often lack
creative camera work and direction. Boyle's 'Trainspotting' does have a
resembling "feel" to 'LS&TSB', but aside from its Great Britain origins,
there really is no need for comparison. 'Lock, Stock and Two Smoking
Barrels' is essential viewing.

<|_=00=_|>

Incredibly funny and entertaining story of four young "criminals" out for
big money.  This is one of the most intelligently written stories I've ever
seen.  If you like to write screenplays, let this one take you for a spin.
Very fast paced film with great editing techniques and a hilarious cast and
storyline thats sure to entertain, as long as you can handle the accents.
Great cinematography as well.  This story will send you through a cork
screw.  See it once, then see it again to see what you missed.
<|_=00=_|>

Best comedy in years, friend turned me on to this hilarious comedy of errors
and glad she did. The film is damn near flawless, forces you to pay
attention to the twists and turns through it's witty dialogue. Wonderfully
photographed with brilliant camerawork but not overdone. Worth several
sittings and we could learn alot in Hollywood from this one....
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not sure whether to call this a black comedy or a comedy-noir. The story
is about four working class lads who have each managed to save up 25,000
pounds to spot their card-shark friend for a high-stakes poker game with
"Hatchet" Harry, the local gangster.

Unfortunately, Harry's game is rigged and the four end up owing Harry half a
million pounds, with just one week to come up with the cash. What ensues is
a set of schemes, counter-schemes, rip-offs, and bad/good luck that demand
you pay attention. On several occasions I had to pause the video just
to take stock of which gang was planning what.

The final thirty minutes of the film, as the plots all collide and overlap,
turn set-piece shoot outs into comedic punchlines.  The comedy is driven by
exploding our expectations of what are otherwise pretty standard scenes from
the film-noir
genre.

The acting is strong and the script very tight. Although I am not normally a
fan of voice overs, this one informs without spoiling the action. And I
liked the use of the slow-motion to disrupt the action and keep me paying
attention.

While this film may not be for everyone, if you enjoy a darker pallette,
this may be right up your alley.

<|_=00=_|>

You all may know the story at how Tom Cruise saw this movie at a screening
in London, and afterwards said, "This movie rocks."  Whatever you may think
of Mr. Cruise, I happen to agree after watching this film.  Although I had
trouble following the story at times, it was a lot of fun, and Ritchie
managed to juggle all the characters around and keep me interested and
compelled to watch.  I also didn't have any trouble understanding what the
characters were saying, and I think those who blind themselves to films like
this by saying, "Oh, I can't understand them" lack patience.  I also liked
all the actors, particularly, of course Lenny McLean and Vinnie Jones(one of
my few complaints is I would have liked to see more of them in the film). 
And for a film which feels violent, there's surprisingly little actual
violence, which is refreshing.  Overall, not a particularly deep film, but a
lot of fun.
<|_=00=_|>

LOCK STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS ( rating, * * * * out of 5
)

Four lesser thieves from the East End of London find themselves
dangerously
in debt to a local smut peddler - the result of a fixed poker game. The
consequence being that until they repay the money owed, each one will lose
a
finger for each day the payment is late.

While trying to figure their desperate predicament, they overhear their
gangster neighbors setting up a score from some slumberous marijuana
dealers
and decide that knocking over the neighbours is their only way out.

After the triumphant thievery, they discover that the pot belongs to the
same menacing individual they want to fence it through - a black
psychopath
whose history reads like the Anti-Christ's resume. Enter a miscellany of
desperadoes and hoodlums who target our four lads.

For the first time since 'Pulp Fiction', a movie comes along that breaks
the
shackles of tedious cloning. This film is entertaining and moves along at
a
cracking pace. Guy Ritchie's script is a tapestry of well-written
characters, sharp dialogue that says what needs to be said and leaves the
unsaid as food for thought, and a mesh of sub-plots that interlace
together
with imagination and expertise.

His direction is crisp and inventive allowing the cast of eccentric
characters to move about freely while maintaining that erratic edge. In
this
slick piece of film making, Guy Ritchie denies hackneyed Hollywood trends
by
scripting no true good-guys just varying degrees of bad
ones.

This is a terrific movie. It is violent but not extreme considering the
subject matter and cast of cut-throat characters. The language is strong
and
the humor is black where you'll find yourself belly laughing at the brutal
misfortune of others. If this makes you uncomfortable, then this film is
not
for you. It is also not for those who have been trained by television
sit-coms to laugh on cue.

Broadminds are required to enjoy this fine British film where it will
definitely add some zing to your day. So stick your tongues firmly in your
cheeks and hop on the thrill a minute ride that is 'Lock, Stock and Two
Smoking Barrels'.

<|_=00=_|>

If this film had been dubbed for American viewers, (even if it would have
lost the magic of the cockney accent), not one person from the States would
have said this wasn't a really good film. I didn't even understand most of
the dialogues, but the weirdness of the characters and of what they did was
really funny.  Not hysterically funny, but Funny! The mixture of comedy and
violence was the thing that most amused me.  The story itself isn't of the
most original, but surely efficacious. The photography and the soundtrack
were also brilliant and to finish, I saw Pulp Fiction, I loved it, but after
seeing LS&2SM I was too busy thinking over and over how much I liked it for
noticing a whatsoever similarity with PF. 10 out of 10 is a bit too much
but  9/10 definitely isn't! Watch it!
<|_=00=_|>

I've avoided this movie for sometime now.  Firstly because friends told me
that it was 'Pulp Fiction'-ish (and boy do I hate that movie). Secondly,
because its British and although I'm from South East London myself and love
British television comedies, I have rarely found British humour well
translated onto the big screen.  Normally it is toned down to plain
slap-stick goofy uncomplicated Inspector Cleuseau type humour tailored for
American audiences.

But to find not just British, but straight-faced East London cockney-slang
and swear filled humour in a really stylish movie was a
revelation.

I have always believed that British humor, especially East London humor is
much more sophisicated than American humour.  Maybe the reason why American
audiences have been more forthcoming with LS&2SB is that despite the
accent,
they finally 'get it' without having to have it remade into an American
version, ala Faulty Towers and Threes company and other British comedies.
Yet, I believe Tom Cruise is remaking the movie with an American cast.  I
suppose for those who just cannot understand English unless its spoken in
an
American accent.  That is really a shame as there are so many diverse
accents all around the world and LS&2SB could not have been done in any
accent other than cockney.

Still, there are bits only the British will get, like the scene with the
three guys pouncing on the traffic warden in the back of the van.  That
scene had me clutching my sides.  Only someone living in London can feel
true loathing for a traffic warden, the most hated person in
Britain.

Cinemtography was superb.  I wont go into who's already done the slow-mo's
and stop action argument.  It is near impossible to do anything in a movie
today that has not already been done.  You can either do nothing - or do
whatever you can as long as it suits the mood and the flow of the movie,
and
Guy Ritchie just cannot be faulted.  He projects the seedy, thin laned,
miserable weathered London, yet with such style that you want to see more.
The camera work could not have been better.  Just see the projection of
Eddy's unsteady, light-headed wooziness as he gets up from the gambling
table having lost everything and owing even more.  Brilliant.

The Soundtrack was as diverse and yet brilliant as I have ever heard in a
movie.  I dont want to look like waving the Union Jack here, but this movie
shows that the British have a more diverse taste in music.  From Reggae, to
Ska, to Rock, to Mikis Theodorakis every track played just added to the
scene showed.

In short, LS&2SB is a movie that just does not stop for a second, is full
of
refreshing humour, filmed with style, has a lively soundtrack, some
violence
thrown in for good measure, and a story with more twists and turns than a
bowlfull of spaghetti.

Dont let this movie slip you by.  You'll either love it, or hate
it.

If this movie was not British, I'd give it an 8/10, but since it is, it
gets
9/10 from me.

Favourite dialogue: Rory Breaker:
If you hold back anything, I'll kill ya. If you bend the truth or I think
your bending the truth, I'll kill ya. If you forget anything I'll kill ya.
In fact, you're gonna have to work very hard to stay alive, Nick. Now do
you
understand everything I've said? Because if you don't, I'll kill
ya.


