

I rent a lot of movies.  I enjoy a lot of the Independent
and
offbeat ones.  But this one definitely was on my top 10 of hard to keep
watching because it was soooo borrrring!  Even though every other scene was
sexually "titilating"  I was disappointed.  Don't bother! 
<|_=00=_|>

The filming of this movie is beautiful and well planned, however it doesn't
make up for what, in my mind, the story lacks.  At times the peculiarity of
the events (and of Robert John Burke's failed attempt at a Creole accent)
made me cringe.  "How could anyone be so stupid?" I asked myself as Joey
tagged alongside Sissel's creepy father.  Other events that made me
borderline-nauseous: the moontanning incident, the rat in the wall, the
sex-on-the-pier fiasco.  "The sex-on-the-pier fiasco" seemed to be Peretz's
attempt to finally connect the dream sequences to something physically
occurring in the movie, though in my mind, it failed miserably and I got a
good hearty laugh out it.  Besides the picturesque setting and great camera
work, the only other redeeming qualities were Giovanni Ribisi (Joey) and
Jeanetta Arnette (Sissle's mom).  Natasha Gregson Wagner's Sissel seemed to
a bit too psychotic for my tastes.  Ribisi seems to have much talent, and
Arnette's small role helped add moments of humor and excitement.  See this
movie for the acting/cinematography, not to be blown away.
<|_=00=_|>

I rented the movie because I already had the soundtrack and loved it.  I was
thinking "How bad can this movie be with a soundtrack like this?"
Well.....it wasn't great.  It moved pretty slow for me.  It was
just....there.  It felt like I was just killing time watching the movie.
The two main actors are much better than the roles they played.  I wouldn't
mind seeing the two of them together in a different, better movie.  Guess
you can never judge a movie by its soundtrack.
<|_=00=_|>

FIRST LOVE, LAST RITES is a movie that I know people will be bored with.
It
is slow for some tastes. Life is slow. This movie is so true to life and
it's pacing seems all too real. It's amazing it's a story not of plot but
of
documenting time. The story inspired a screenplay that I just finished
Belmar. It has such a slow core to it and is so atmospheric. Bottom line
THIS IS AN ART FILM. ("A movie simple enough for a child to understand
with
images strong enought for an adult"-Roger Ebert. Different people will
react
differently to this movie. It's for the art crowd and for film students.
It's
not for the average multiplex movie goer unless they get darring and wana
try something new. I hope Jesse Perez makes another movie, the actors were
great, well I am a huge fan of Natsha Gerson Wagner. It's a very steamy
masterpeace that moves with the charactors and the atmosphere. I have no
idea why this film didn't make it big. It sure is a discovery on
video!
<|_=00=_|>

This simple little flic allows us to share the new worldly experiences of
a
traveller's love affair in Louisiana. He stumbles into a passionate woman
and her peculiar family along with an eel and a creature scratching within
the cavity of the wall. What more can a person ask for? Wonderfully paced
with some awkward mannerisms from the performers who make it a treat to
watch.
<|_=00=_|>

First Love, Last Rites may say it's directed by Jesse Peretz. And Peretz's
pedigree as a former member of the Lemonheads (since when is that something
Cool?) and as a commercial and video director may get this film its only
real notice. And Ian McEwan may get credit for having written the story the
film was based on. And Natasha Gregson Wagner and Giovani Ribisi may be the
recognizable faces that would make somebody stop when the movie comes on
TV.
But only Tom Richmond, the director of photography, really deserves to put
this film on his highlight reel. First Love, Last Rites is a slow,
contemplative film that doesn't develop into anything. It's possible this
might work better for some people than others.

Sissel (Gregson Wagner) and Joey (Ribisi) are two kids spending the summer
in a one bedroom shack up from the Bayou. They're basically drifting --
Joey
from his Brooklyn roots and Sissel from her feuding parents. Basically they
listen to records, have sex, and throw garbage around their place.
Naturally
it smells. Naturally there's a rat in the walls. And naturally they both
need outlets. When Joey begins to go into the eeling business with Sissel's
father Henry (Robert John Burke), Sissel goes to work at a sugar factory.
And things get stressed.

The story, by Ian McEwan is 14 pages long. And it's set in England. Why
Peretz thought that moving the story to Louisiana and expanding it to 100
minutes is a bit of a mystery. Thanks to the beautiful colors and images
Richmond produces, First Love, Last Rites at least feels like it's set
somewhere. The fact that the actors all seem a little adrift is something
else.

It isn't just that the writing doesn't give any character depth to anybody.
Ribisi gets to deliver a pointlessly Freudian monologue about the first
time
he was his parents having sex. Gregson Wagner gets to pout a lot. Burke, as
the Vietnam vet father, has the most colorful part and his intensity seems
both out of place and strangely pleasant. Even if he feels like he's acting
in a different movie, his appearances strengthen the film. None of the
actors effectly reproduce any kind of accents.

The film that immediately comes to mind after seeing this one is Victor
Nuñez's Ruby in Paradise. That, of course, is a better film. Nuñez produces
the thing that Peretz most fails at -- authenticity. Ruby features
authentic
emotions, authentic performances, authentic images, and a plot that grows
organically from the surroundings. Gregson Wagner, Ribisi, and Burke are
all
very sincere in their performances, but no amount of trying can make any of
it seem real.

A side note: Another review of the film made note of the preponderance of
drowning imagery involving Natasha Gregson Wagner. Now, seeing as how much
of her appeal as an actress (an actress, let me emphasize, who's beginning
to get much too old to keep playing teenagers and innocents) comes from her
similarities to her mother, Natalie Wood, isn't the director who keeps
showing her drowning a little bit sick? I think so... Neither here nor
there, I guess.

First Love, Last Rites is a film of greens and blues, of sunsets and
squirming eels. It's a film of beautiful pictures and minimal story. The
photography is very fine, but it's not enough to give this film more than a
5/10. 
<|_=00=_|>
This is a strange movie. The young stars spend a lot of time at home
being bored, then they have sex, get bored again, listen to a
phonograph, have sex, get bored again, talk, talk and talk. Natasha
Gregson Wagner looks and sounds so much like her mother sometimes it is
eerie. Slow moving, I think it was meant to be that way, perhaps to get
the feeling of swampy Louisiana. Wagner's character is very
unappealing, and it really hurts the film, but I liked her performance.
Offbeat, and it sure doesn't make you feel warm all over. There didn't
seem to be much point to the film. No one in the cast but Wagner stands
out and the direction is simply bland.
<|_=00=_|>
Why did I waste ninety minutes of my life on this piece of crap? Badly
acted, horrendously directed and utterly devoid of a coherent story
(climaxed by the brain-dead lead squashing a rat), how the hell does
this thing garner these sort of numbers in here? Anyone giving this
thing a 10 must be a masochist, desperately in need of therapy. First
love? For whom? Obviously not these two sexaholics (though none of
their sex scenes could ignite a candle). Last rites? Who for...the rat?
That's about the only thing actually dying in this film whose title
itself is a blatant lie.

My only consolation is that I found this for 2 bucks in a bargain bin,
but I WANT MY NINETY MINUTES BACK! Curse each and every talentless hack
who helped birth this hunk of garbage!!
<|_=00=_|>

The main virtue of this movie is the cinematography and the languorous mood
it creates. The plot on the other hand was nonsensical and boring. The Joey
character was good for a young man experiencing his first love, but I found
the Sissel character convoluted and hard to follow. There were a lot of
parts where Sissel's character was overacted and boring at the same time,
and this especially made me not like the movie. I don't recommend this
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this one a couple of months ago on video while I spent some time
in the USA.
I especially liked the performances by Giovanni Ribisi (who is also great
in
"The Gift") and Natasha Wagner (one of my all-times favorites).
Another positive effort is the nice soundtrack and the slick
editing.

The main problem of "First Love, Last Rites" is that first-time director
Jesse Peretz sometimes slows down the pace a bit too much so that you may
need some patience to sit this one through.
Nevertheless it´s still worth watching especially if you like Ribisi and
Wagner.

By the way: ever since I watched this movie I tried to find out
whether
or not it has been released on DVD (no matter which country or regional
encoding as long as there´s an English-language track on it). So, if anyone
who reads this knows where, when or how to get "First Love, Last Rites" on
DVD inform me about it, I´d be very pleased!!!
