

A story about an aspiring young lawyer who tries to break down an insurance
company, Matt Damon plays Rudy Baylor, a Memphis St. Law School graduate who
can't seem to find a job anywhere, until he meets "Bruiser" Stone (Mickey
Rourke). Stone is an ambulance chaser, who does whatever it takes, legal or
not, to win a case. Rudy, as most law students are when they graduate, wants
to take the high road, do everything by the book, and win. What he finds is
that sometimes you need to get down and dirty to help your client. In this
case, his client is a young boy, dying of leukemia. 

Seems the insurance company won't pay for a bone marrow transplant that
would save his life. Rudy sets out to help the young man and his family, in
what turns out to be one of the biggest cases Tennessee has ever seen. Along
with his partner Deck Shifflet (Danny DeVito), Rudy sets out to try and
prove to the world that the insurance company is nothing more than a big
time scam artist. Along the way Rudy meets (and falls in love with) a young
woman (Clare Danes) who gets beat up regularly by her husband. This part of
the story seemed somewhat strange to me. I couldn't figure out what it was
there to do. Was it to give Rudy a love interest? Was it just to give the
movie another case so the entire film wasn't centered on the insurance
trial? I feel it gave the movie some heart, and showed that Rudy would fight
for what he believed in, both in court and in life. But I think the movie
could have been done without it. 

I enjoyed the trial scenes and all the grunt work that went behind it (being
a future lawyer myself (I hope)). And the cast was wonderful. Each person
added a little more to the movie, and each gave a great performance. Danny
Glover as the (2nd) judge gave a little humor to the movie, but also made
you feel good about Rudy's chances in court. He was going to play fair, but
hew as also going to give Rudy the benefit of the doubt. Jon Voight played
the insurance company's lead lawyer, and he played his character to it's
swarmy best. He is what people think lawyers are like, out only for money;
win at all costs, no soul (I know attorneys like that). And he was
convincing. And of course DeVito and Damon carried the
film.

 I had my doubts about Damon playing a lawyer, but the more I watched, the
more I realized that he looked like people I see at work everyday. He had
the same fear in his eyes that we all do, but also that dog-eat-dog
determination to prove to the world that he could do the job. The Rainmaker
was more about the performances than the story. And the performances won me
over. Give it a shot, it's worth it.

<|_=00=_|>

Readers of John Grisham's book will find this film rather less of a thriller
and more of a courtroom drama, albeit with a curious flat feel to it. The
story is that of a legal action on behalf of a teenage boy denied coverage
for an expensive bone marrow transplant by his family's medical insurer.
Changes to the plotline to accommodate the story to the demands of film
drama have removed the unique feature of the book – a largely successful
attempt to make the details of legal civil procedure interesting. Francis
Coppola is a very innovative yet conventional director (you could credit him
with authorship of several current movie clichés) and his storylines develop
according to convention. Thus the love affair, which is completely
extraneous to the main storyline in the book, is pumped up, and the
fascinating battle of wits between the lawyers played down. As in the book,
Rudy is the tyro David up against the experienced Goliath, Drummond, but
Rudy's inexperience is played up to the point that you wonder how he got
this far. The trial judge, who in the book is extremely helpful to Rudy, is
replaced in the film by a sympathetic but much more impartial figure. In
Hollywood conventional courtroom drama, His Honor or Her Honor doesn't take
sides.

That said, there is much to enjoy. Danny de Vito, playing Deck the paralegal
(or `paralawyer' as Rudy names him) who can't seem to pass the bar exam, is
just brilliant. His Deck is a disheveled, unimpressive little guy who is
nonetheless good at what he does, `rainmaking' or finding new business. His
strengths are his intelligence, his energy and his lack of pride; he is
quite happy to chase ambulances and give cops backhanders for information.
His ethics are simple: fight for your client, don't steal and try not to
lie. While the Deck of the book verges on the grotesque, De Vito makes him
less of an oddball and hence more sympathetic. Matt Damon as Rudy is wetter
behind the ears and not such a quick learner as the Rudy of the book, but
every so often he connects and we understand how he feels. Mickey Rourke is
a bit too elegant as Bruiser, Rudy's erstwhile mentor, (who wears cufflinks
on a tropical beach?) but it's also an enjoyable performance. Although the
script tones down his role, John Voight is nastily urbane as superlawyer
Drummond.

Once again we have a courtroom drama filmed in a grand but gloomy courtroom,
in fact the lighting people seem to have been absent. We hardly get a
glimpse of the face of one important minor character, Cliff the wife-beater,
(Andrew Shue) yet there is no apparent reason for this. The way some of the
scenes were strung together, and started and finished were vaguely familiar,
and half way through it hit me - ` The Godfather', where scenes just seem to
begin and end without any particular reason.

One thing the film does almost as well as the book is send the message
(sorry Mr Goldwyn) that America needs to do something about its medical
insurance system, if the present chaotic mess can be so described. The court
system, while not perfect, comes out of it a bit better (David is able to
beat Goliath fair and square) but as for lawyers…well, let's just say things
would be a lot better if they stuck to Deck's minimal ethics. The story also
might explain why John Grisham (who has a walk-on role as a lawyer at an al
fresco deposition) gave up the law to write books, thus bringing pleasure to
millions instead of (hopefully) winning retribution for a
few.

<|_=00=_|>
All cultures have what the sociologist Arnold van Gennep called "rites
de passage," also sometimes called puberty rituals, in which the
initiate enters the ceremony as a child and emerges as an adult.
Coppola and his team show us Rudy Baylor's rite de passage as an
attorney. Matt Damon, as Rudy, is a fresh faced preppy-looking kid just
out of law school. After working for the sleazebag played by Mickey
Rourke and going into partnership with Danny DeVito (who has flunked
the bar exam six times), he can look back down the slope and pick out
the idealism he left sprinkled along the route of his ascent. He winds
up quitting practice.

But it's not a particularly gloomy story. I missed the credits when I
first saw this so I had no idea who had created it. I expected a cheap
ne plus ultra of mind-numbing commercial fluff. What else would anyone
expect with a title like that -- "John Gresham's 'The Rainmaker'"?
Shades of Sydney Sheldon! The opening didn't suggest much more than
that. There is a voice-over by Matt Damon explaining his background and
expectations to us. And we see him being guided open-mouthed through
the slimier parts of the judicial system. DeVito introduces him, for
instance, to ambulance chasing. Not too promising, really, because
professionals who operate within heavily guarded social borders -- like
lawyers, cops, doctors, and pilots -- almost always assume that the
audience is too dumb to know that collusion between a judge and a
prominent lawyer takes place. The lay audience is now cynical enough to
recognize Perry Mason for the Norman Rockwell fantasy that he is.

But it was much better than that. Half-way through I began to think,
this director, whoever he is, is pretty deft. I was surprised at an
undercurrent of humor. Sometimes it was situational. Two lawyers for
instance, dashing into a courtroom to try a case, neither of whom has a
license to practice law. ("Sworn in by a fool and vouched for by a
scoundrel," Damon muses.) Sometimes the humor requires less attention.
(In the middle of a dramatic pause, DeVito, eager to deliver a piece of
evidence to his partner, stumbles loudly over a waste basket.) And
there were smaller, delicate touches. A splatter of blood spots on a
wall as the camera cuts away just before someone is hit over the head.
Damon and Claire Danes (with whom a love bond is too quickly
established) in a prison visiting room, unable to express their
affection because they are lawyer and client, except that under the
table the tip of his shoe slips forward and brushes the tip of her
boot. (Wow. Nice touch.) And Claire Danes' wife-abusing husband is a
stereotype if there ever was one -- yet after his murder is discovered
and the blinking screaming police cars arrive and she is about to be
taken away, the wife-abuser's family can be heard in the background
shouting, "DAMN you, Kelly. What did you do? You killed my SON?"
Coppola and the writers have given this moron a previously unheard-from
family of his own, and added another surprising dimension to his
character.

And I couldn't get over the performances. There are several unexpected
small parts taken by well-known actors. And every one of them has a
life of its own. Virginia Madsen is being interviewed in a motel room
by Damon, and she spills the beans on the malignant corporate megagiant
that provides the unoriginal heavy. As she speaks, she smokes a lot and
the camera moves slowly down her arm to show her fingers trembling in
her lap. Only later do we learn she has psychiatric problems.
(Cinematic synecdoche!) Roy Scheider is extremely good too, a
disdainful presence in the witness chair. He's from Orange, New Jersey.
Why does DeVito so often seem to wind up in movies with other actors
from New Jersey? What is it about that state anyway? Does the Jersey
Devil have something to do with it? Why does hail always have to be the
size of something else? If the universe is expanding, what is it
expanding INTO? Anyway, this, for Coppola, is a pretty straightforward
story, neither the grand opera he's attracted to, nor the more quiet
"personal" films that usually come in between.

I really kind of enjoyed this one. Of the current crop of younger
actors, Matt Damon seems to me to have the most talent, as opposed to,
say, Keanu Reeves. And Claire Danes is so frangible, so beatable in
this movie; even with her leg in a cast and the rest of her limbs and
head in bandages, she's morbidly alluring and radiates a sort of
semisexual heat. Come to think of it -- well, never mind. See it if you
can. It's pretty good.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not a movie that makes you think. It's not arty, there
are no Corleones, there's really no issues to ponder long after the
credits have stopped rolling. Instead it's a human drama that uses a
courtroom battle as its backbone, but the entire body is the
honestly-told if ultimately remarkable of a greenhorn lawyer trying to
make a life for himself after law school. Like the more recent "Garden
State" the movie is far more interesting than one would initially
expect.

I recently read the Grisham novel that the screenplay was adapted from
and was impressed by the memorable cast of the characters. The
corrupt-and-loving-it Prince and Bruiser, Deck Shiflett as the skeezy
"paralawyer" who scrapes out a living with an amusing lack of
self-consciousness, the bitter-tempered first judge and his pioneering,
biased black successor, the politely patronizing and puffed-up Legal
Titan Leo Drummond, Cliff and his straight-from-Deliverance hillbilly
family, lonely and slightly bossy Miss Birdie, chain-smoking Dot and
her addled husband, all of them set a standard for memorable but
believable characters.

Yet the movie is itself a cut or two above the original material. The
extended cast does a hands-down fantastic job of bringing each
character to life. First billing has to go to Danny Devito for
transforming Deck from Rudy's unscrupulous and ugly sidekick in the
novel, into a more take-charge and casually hilarious partner. Just
take a look at the scene where he leads Rudy into the hospital or when
he's giving out his card to the kids in Dot's neighborhood. But that's
just one of about twenty stellar acting jobs. The extended cast
includes Danny Glover, Jon Voight, Claire Danes, Mickey Rourke (yes!),
Virginia Madsen, and a handful of other talented but lesser-known
actors who show their absolute best through the skillful lens of
Coppola.

Besides the stellar job by the cast, the story is tweaked to absolute
perfection. Whether it's the Coppola magic or an excellent adaptation
and editing job, I see a transformation similar to his triumph with
"The Godfather": an absorbing but complex and sometimes rambling story
is condensed into its absolute essence. Not a single shot is out of
place.

Something else struck me about this adaptation -- it reminds me of
Peter Jackson's LOTR in the way comic moments are used to balance out
the weightiness of the main plot. For example: in LOTR Merry and Pippin
set off Gandalf's dragon fireworks, or in the second movie Gimli can't
see over the parapet towards the advancing Uruk-hai, or in the third
movie Sam and Gollum have their argument over the proper preparation of
rabbits and 'taters and Gandalf instructs Pippin to keep his big mouth
shut before they enter the hall of Minas Tirith. Likewise "The
Rainmaker" has its little touches of humor as well, from the sardonic
lawyer jokes in Rudy's voice-over, to the scene where Deck
fake-helpfully hands over Drummond's lost shoe after he's been
assaulted by an angry juror, to Rudy's red-faced apology to the car
accident victim in traction whom he has accidentally jostled, to
Madsen's laconic yet particularly devoted husband Bert. ("Guess who
DIED last night?" "...Do you ever sleep?") There is anxiety during
Kelly's return to her house, the suspense of the bug showdown, the
pathos of Rudy's final speech: all these combine with the lighter
moments to balance each other like a film version of Pickapeppa sauce.

Who could have ever guessed that a Grisham novel could be so perfectly
adapted to the screen?! Just try watching the "Pelican Brief" afterward
for comparison. My hat is off to Coppola, his cast, and everyone else
who contributed to this understated masterwork.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this film. This is probably Copola's last great film. Matt Damon
was robbed, this is one of his best performances, and that's saying a
lot. I love the little nuances of his performance, like when he greets
the "old lady' at her house.

This is my 2nd favorite film of all time with deep personal meaning.
We've all had people doubting our capabilities, just as the other team
of lawyers discount Damon's competence. This film is about personal
redemption. Further, I admire Damon's strength.

Overall, a film every law student and lawyer should see for its
humanity; its brilliance; and its judgment on the American legal
system.
<|_=00=_|>
The Raimaker was a _great film, adherent to the book, even to the
deposition of Donny Ray Black being moved from his bedroom to the
backyard and his father getting into his old Ford to drink his gin.

Of course I seldom watch a movie without reading the book first as that
gives me insight into the innuendos presented,and to see how closely
the movie follows the book.

For those viewers who don't like to read I _still think the movie has
continuity and an easy to follow plot development.

Very good entertainment, especially if you like Matt Damon, Danny
Devito, John Voight and the delight of Virginia Madsen simply being on
screen.
<|_=00=_|>
It is rare that I would rate a piece of strong liberal propaganda this
high but I've always really enjoyed this film, even if it is blatantly
manipulative in its political correctness preaching. It's just great
storytelling, regardless.

The film features a deep cast and one that puts on a great displaying
acting, from the lead "good guy" Matt Damon to the lead "bad guy" Jon
Voight to all the performers somewhere in the middle, headed by
ambulance chaser Danny DeVito.

It's not a believable story at all - a rookie lawyer fresh out of
school outsmarting a team of proved veterans with big money backing
them - but it makes for a good story. Everyone likes to root for David
against Goliath, which is what this turns out to be. Just one example,
by the way, of the political correctness in here: the kid lawyer's
hopes of a fair trial only become reality after the older,
obviously-corrupt white judge suddenly dies and is replaced by Harvard-
educated black judge (Danny Glover, of all people). Now, as it's
quickly demonstrated in the film, a man of Liberal sensibilities will
be bring fairness and justice to this case!

The story is not flattering to lawyers, but it's not all-condemning
either. It's pretty balanced in that regard. It's just good
storytelling and, I might add, without much profanity. Damon does very
well in this choice role and once again demonstrates why he is
considered one of the best in the crop of today's younger actors. It
helps that he portrays an extremely likable character, who not only
sticks up for a poor, neglected family against a big, wealthy
corporation but rescues a sweet woman (Clarie Danes) from her
physically-abusive husband at the same time! Wow, he does it all:
SuperLawyer!

Danes is very appealing as the battered wife who winds up being
romanced by Damon. That part of the film is not distracting, but a nice
break from the legalese of the main story. It helps make the movie even
more involving. There is very little "action" in here but not much is
needed to keep one's attention since it is so entertaining for the full
2-plus hours.
<|_=00=_|>

Amiable yet smooth adaption of the John Grisham novel, that closely
follows an inexperienced Memphis lawyer, Rudy Baylor (Matt Damon), who
gets
the unexpected feeling of being in the profession by taking three cases
right away.  The cases vary from an old woman who is unsure about what to
do
with some money, a savagely abused domestic victim, and a lawsuit
involving
a major health insurance company.

Writer-director Francis Ford Coppola and one of his writers from
"Apocalypse Now", Michael Herr, handle the adaption fairly well in knowing
what to keep from the story in and what to leave out.  For someone who
made
himself a legend by adapting "The Godfather" and "Heart of Darkness",
Coppola sure knows how to use a novel as the main source for creating a
good
tale here.

Plus, the movie has an excellent supporting cast (Danny DeVito, Jon
Voight, Mary Kay Place, Claire Danes, Dean Stockwell, Virginia Madsen,
Mickey Rourke, Roy Scheider, and Danny Glover) to be in the movie
alongside
Damon.  Among the ones that come to mind, DeVito is great Deck, as a
crafty
(and humorous) para-lawyer who has trouble with the bar exam and helps
Rudy
in adjusting to the line of work, Voight's fine as the not-so-totally
slimey
lawyer that Rudy faces in the lawsuit, just looking at the Danes character
for a second alone, is a really sad and Rourke is amusing as Brusier, the
employer that Deck and Rudy desert when they find out that he's the target
of a federal probe.

In conclusion, "The Rainmaker" may not be as highly memorable as "The
Godfather" or "Apocalypse Now", however; it shows that Coppola still has
the
skills to be a great film-maker.  It's nice to see someone who has been on
hard times, bounce back with a good movie.  
<|_=00=_|>
It was something else, seeing The Rainmaker again, 20 years later. The
plot, the cast, the look of it, it all has that Coppola touch and that

has to be with truth, the way he, Francis Ford Coppola sees it.
Beautiful, powerful and moving but the most powerful element after 20
years turns out to be Johnny Whitworth. What a gorgeous, soulful
performance. It took me by surprise, I remember the character from my
first viewing but this time his is the character who affected me the
most. Imagine in a cast that includes Teresa Wright! Yes, Teresa
Wright, Dean Stockwell as well as Matt Damon, Mary Kay Place, Jon
Voight, Danny De Vito, Mickey Rourke, Claire Danes. Time does
extraordinary things. It reveals the center of the center of the truth.
<|_=00=_|>
Readers are usually disappointed when a favorite book is translated to
film. If you are looking for a Grisham thriller here, you will be
disappointed. But, if you are looking for a courtroom drama with a
great cast, then this is a great film.

Matt Damon shines as Rudy, recently out of law school, who sets up an
office with Deck Schifflet (Danny DeVito) who is still trying to pass
his bar exam. He also finds a place to stay with Miss Birdie (Teresa
Wright) who has hired him to handle her estate papers.

Rudy is drawn to the plight of Kelly (Claire Danes), a working-class
girl whose husband has battered her with a baseball bat. But the real
drama is centered on Great Benefit, an insurance company that has
refused to pay a claim of one of its policy holders.

Dot Black (Mary Kay Place) whose son is dying of leukemia is suing the
company for denying her claim. In the courtroom, the unpolished Rudy is
forced to square off against Leo F. Drummond (Jon Voight), a corporate
lawyer who knows all the tricks of the trade. This David versus Goliath
battle is well worth watching.

Damon, De Vito and Voight, along with Claire Danes and Danny Glover
shine in this film.

So, forget the book and enjoy a great film.
