

I really love party movies, really mindless, fun party movies w/good music,
bright, outlandish fashions and hilarious memorable characters. The entire
cast was laugh out loud funny, from Dave Chapelle as the jive talkin' disco
cabbie to Martha Plimpton's howl of a distraught party hostess. Paul Rudd
was exceptionally great as Kevin the dumpee who is all grouchy and
depressed, and so was Angela Featherstone as Caitlyn the poser. Ben Affleck
was good as the bartender, mainly because he didn't talk much. Brother Casey
was very cute as a punk/roadie who befriends the two underage partyers
played by Christina Ricci and Gaby Hoffman. Courtney Love was really good as
Lucy. I always love Jeaneane Garafalo and she didn't disappoint here as
Ellie. I really didn't get why Guillermo Diaz got more exposure, like on the
DVD cover art, than characters who were much more memorable, like Hillary
played by Catherine Kellner (hilariously ditzy), Bridget, played by the very
pretty and funny Nicole Parker, and the lousy lover Scotsman Eric, played by
Brian McCardie. Jay Mohr and Kate Hudson were also very lovable as Jack and
Cindy. Lots of good music by the Commodores, the Cars, Bow Wow Wow, Blondie,
Rick James and many more. A great film to revisit the outrageous Reagan
era!!!
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was very entertaining.  I loved every minute of it.  I
love nostalgic movies about the 1980's, and this is one of the better ones
to come out recently.  Courtney Love stood out as the best actress in the
movie; she definitely stole the show.  I only had one complaint, there were
lots of high quality stars, but not enough time devoted to each individual
one.  Go out and see this one.  It is worth the time!
:-)
<|_=00=_|>

The main reason I saw this film was because of the cast- it has a great line
up of young talent, some who are fairly new and some that have been around
for ages. The film itself is fairly incoherent in places, with many
storylines running at the one time. I thought Kate Hudson was fantastic in
her first main role, and Paul Rudd was good as always. Gaby Hoffman probably
put in the most irritating performance of her career to date, while Ben
Affleck didnt really have much to do. The story itself is pretty simplistic,
focusing on new years eve where a bunch of people are slowly making their
way to a party hosted by Martha Plimpton's character. Only a few of the
characters have any real depth to them, with many just skimming the surface,
thus remaining shallow like most of the dialogue in the film. There are some
scenes that work, others that don't - a real hit and miss - if you like the
actors in it- then watch it- if you don't, then stay well
clear.
<|_=00=_|>
this is one of my all-time favorite movies; as evidenced by my review
history, I am not a compulsive reviewer, but decided that if one more
movie deserves my shout-out it is this low-profile and vastly
underrated effort so I dredged up my registration information which I
hadn't used in years; I remember stumbling upon the movie at my local
home video rental store nine years ago; I immediately fell in love with
this star-jammed vehicle that effortlessly manages to be stridently
observant and yet retain a light and joyfully irrelevant touch; some of
the reviewers complain that its crowded story-lines don't allow for
fully-fledged characters but fail to see that it's one of the
successful wink-wink aspects of the movie: most of the protagonists ARE
fully-fledged, it's just that there just so much to their character!
They are either shallow/vapid people or one-track minds desperate to
score before the last hours of the old year ring out; both types can be
sketched with a few confident strokes! for instance, just listening in
on the bathroom conversation of Caitlin and Bridget you get all the
insight into their character that you need to know perfectly well where
they come from and what is their motivation; come on, given the
lightweight subject matter I don't see how you can expect a 162-minute
English patient-calibre backstory; you might ask then why waste time on
a movie about shallow people or people obsessed with hosting the
perfect party? because shallow plus zero self-awareness plus NYC
art-scene types equals funny; being so caught up in party dip and New
Year's decoration that it leads up to existential drama and queasiness
is also hilarious in my book; and 200 cigarettes serves up just that
sort of delightful cinematic entertainment; not to mention that it has
one of my all-time favorite one-liners: "I DARE you to f*** me!"
<|_=00=_|>

I was skeptical as I sat down to watch 200 cigarettes earlier tonite. I was
prepared for the worst. At least I knew I'd get to look at Christina Ricci.
But this movie surprised me and left me with a sense of fulfillment for
having watched it. I did not waste my time after all!

The story takes place on New Year's Eve 1981 and incorporates 3 storylines
into one. All the characters are tied together in one way or another and the
movie centralizes around the New Year's Eve party and a woman's apartment
(which no one shows up at until she's drunk and passed
out).

This tale of sex, booze, and cigarettes showed the ridiculousness of these
things and made us laugh at the same time. Despite the party being the
central theme of the movie...we do not get to see it at all. This leaves a
lot to the imagination. The movie was shot so that it alternated between
characters and storylines but intertwined them beautifully. Every member of
the star studded cast put in a great performance and this movie was truly
well done. I enjoyed it very much and give it a 9 out of 10. If you're not
offended easily...go out and rent this movie today!
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie. Plain and simple, I thought everyone in it did a
good job being a giant bunch of twenty-something city kooks, each
involved in their own various attempts to find a date, culminating in a
New Year's Eve party to ring in 1982. 

The movie has whole slew of great comedians -- Paul Rudd as Kevin, the
depressed and readily available friend of happy-go-lucky Lucy (Courtney
Love) who goes out of her way to cheer up her friend after being dumped
by long-time girlfriend, Ellie (Janeane Garafolo), the artsy fartsy
type. Caitlyn (Angela Featherstone) Bridget search out dates after
dumping Scotsman Eric following news that her lumberjack boyfriend was
suddenly discovered alive and well. Dave Chepelle plays the raddest cab
driver as he tries to get his passengers to just ease up, toke up, and
go nuts...because it's New Years.

But no one is funnier than Martha Plimpton, who plays the paranoid host
of the party, and the two party hopefuls played by Christina Ricci and
Gabby Hoffman, who wander as far as the notorious "Avenue B" to find
Val's cousin's party. 

Unfortunately, the night is accompanied by top 40s 80s music, but it
doesn't matter. The situations in the movie are so hilarious, it sure
it a funky movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm 37, so I'm about the same age of the people in this period.  I had heard
bad commentary on this movie and granted my expectations were lowered.  Yes,
the characters are shallow to a large degree, and the person I watched with
got quite bored with this dialoge driven comedy.  That being said, it has
been a great while since I enjoyed a comedy as much as this.  Like an Arthur
Hailey novel you constantly bounce around to 5 or 6 parties and their very
different issues.  I could relate in alot of ways; please remember this is a
couple years before the Aids crisis.  I never found it to be dull, indeed I
was draw in by the characters as things went along.  I think what bothered
many who've commented on the movie, is you are lead to believe everyone will
be meeting at the 'Party'.  Have patience; remember the film is about the
people, not the party.  The end of the movie was probably the best part.  If
you're intriged by what I've described here, definitly make this a Must-See"

<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

At first, I saw this picture as representing what it really was: a
collection of aspiring (but generally second-string) actresses looking to be
involved in a sleeper, intelligent independent film. The metaphor of a
buncho sex-starved girls looking for a party was especially apt. The `boys'
each represent an indie consequence: it could take a modest talent to great
heights (Ben Affleck), or be a casual hoot (the black cabbie) or various
shades in between. If they don't hook up here, they are cursed for a year, I
guess until the next possibility of an intelligent film.

I came to this because Garofalo's name was on it, but you get only the
faintest scent of her here. Musky, old but pleasant. And then it dawned on
me, this is Elvis Costello's star vehicle!

MTV has a theory of homeopathic presence: the less one appears in an
ensemble, the stronger the impact. Elvis makes NO appearance whatsoever in
the moving picture part of this project (except his name and glasses), only
seen in a coda of stills. And they are not of the party we saw (this dreary
picture), but the party we missed (the mythical film that really was a life
altering experience).
<|_=00=_|>

This movie tried to provide insightful revelations into human relations
through humor. I know humor is subjective but I found the film to be only
intermittently funny. I think the film could could've been better had they
trimmed some of the characters. There are many big names in this film but
they all receive only scant screen time. There are better offerings out
there, 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Mr. Chappelle stands out as usual.  Otherwise nothing is really that
incredible about this flick.  It is one of a couple dozen that come and go
in the same fashion every year.  I did like the line though, "you're not
ugly, you know I don't have ugly people as friends."  Mediocre and
passable.
