

'Mrs. Winterbourne' is a highly improbable take on the Cinderella "rags to
riches" story about 18 year-old Connie Doyle (Ricki Lake), who finds
herself
enceinte, unmarried, and homeless. Her criminal rat of a boyfriend, Steve
DeCunzo (Loren Dean), wants nothing to do with her or the baby. But fate
has
a better future in store for Connie, and the heavily pregnant girl finds
herself, almost miraculously, on a train bound for Boston from New York.
There she shares a compartment with a young married couple, Hugh and
Patricia Winterbourne (Susan Haskell and Brendan Fraser), who are also
expecting a little bundle of joy. But one little innocent action, followed
by one horrifying accident, lands Connie in the hospital, mistaken for
Patricia Winterbourne. She and her baby, who survived, are both whisked
off
to the massive Winterbourne estate in Boston. Connie decides to carry on
the
charade (it's almost ironic that her her name is Connie, since she's
"conning" everyone) even after coming face to face with her coddling
"mother-in-law" (Shirley MacLaine) and Hugh's twin brother, the cold and
unfriendly Bill Winterbourne (also Brendan Fraser).

For a fluff film like this, the cast is surprisingly good. Loren Dean is
convincing enough and makes you want to jump into your TV and strangle the
jerk. The Winterbourne butler, Paco (Miguel Sandoval), is a delight to
watch, especially when he's drunk. But Fraser and MacLaine really make the
film worthwhile to see. Why either talented actor would want to
participate
in a film like this is a mystery to me, but maybe it's for the best.
Fraser
especially plays twins very well, and his transition from part antagonist
to
full protagonist is believable. But I have a difficult time understanding
why Ricki Lake was cast as Connie. She has a tendency to overact in many
scenes, she doesn't make a convincing 18 year-old at all (she was 28 when
cast), and her transition from sharp-tongued teenager to polite young
socialite bride-to-be is too fast and unbelievable.

Overall, 'Mrs. Winterbourne' is a good film for a boring Friday night.
This
is definitely a chick flick. It's heartwarming and the cast is a joy to
watch. Just don't expect anymore than that.
<|_=00=_|>

This may only be good if you're expecting it to be very terrible. I

was. The beginning wasn't promising. But as soon as Ricki Lake

gets on the train, this movie starts to get watchable, and as soon

as she moves in with the Winterbournes, it starts to get honestly

funny.

Brendan Fraser is really a great actor, isn't he? He's too good

looking to be as talented as he is. Some fairly hackneyed scenes

in this film are made compelling and realistic because Fraser's so

good. 

But there are lots of genuine laugh out loud moments in this

sweet, gentle comedy. If the end is too long, too complicated and

too stupid, by that time you'll like it too much to care.
<|_=00=_|>

This was a great film.  Just because Ricki Lake stars in this movie
doesn't
automatically make it bad.  It's a sweet story about a girl who had a
rough
life and accidentally finds herself with a ton of possibilities just
unfortunately, as someone else.  Ricki Lakes character has a lot of
integrity and is truly a good mom along with all the chaos.  Brendan
Fraser
is very lovable and  Shirley Mclain was fabulous as only she could be.
This
is a definite rental if you haven't seen it and are looking for a sweet
romantic comedy.  You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>

So Ricky Lake is not the world's greatest actress, but she does well
enough.
The romance is reasonably believable. The story is friendly. And you get
to
watch Brendan Fraser for a long while - who is actually even more dishy
as
Hugh than as Bill, so do pay attention during the act in the train.

I watched it twice on television. I could easily bear watching it a third
time. Believe me- that's high praise. 
<|_=00=_|>

I've always wanted to see this movie but I have to admit it was
disappointing. It's just so completely implausible and without logic that
it's difficult to enjoy. Yeah, I know that fluffy romantic comedies aren't
supposed to be realistic, but this one just stretches credulity too much.
The worst deficiency is Brendan Frasier's chilly WASP suddenly and
inexplicably melting into a nice guy. He not only changes his opinion about
Ricki Lake but seems to completely change personality as well. One moment
he's rudely questioning her every move and investigating her and virtually
the next he's romancing her, tangoing her around the room and kissing her,
and then proposing marriage! He goes from aloof to gooey in 6 seconds flat.
It's just too much to swallow. What was it exactly that caused him to fall
in love - her charming use of the words "tits" and "ass" at the dinner
table? The haircut? (Actually, I liked her hair better long and curly).
Don't get me wrong, I love Ricki Lake, and I don't think she was bad here,
she just wasn't given anything to do, and we were never given any reason why
Frasier should experience such a dramatic sea-change. If perhaps they'd
shown that a few months had passed, or something to explain the abrupt
turnaround. Frankly, everyone in this movie goes around like their brains
are made of mush. I suppose Maclaine's alcoholic character has an excuse,
but really, the extremely simplistic and downright stereotypical
characterizations of everyone involved (rich people, poor people, gay latino
butlers) were insulting.  
Maclaine, Frasier and Sandoval are excellent comedic actors, and do the best
with what they can here, but the characters are not even close to real
people. The only real thing I got out of it was drooling over Brendan
Frasier, and frankly there are many other superior movies that can be used
for that purpose. 
<|_=00=_|>
Mrs. Winterbourne is perhaps the epitome of romantic comedies, in the
requirement that you suspend disbelief. It almost commands that you not
think about the plot too much, because if you do, the entire movie
falls apart.

The plot is simple. Connie Doyle is thrown out by her boyfriend when
she becomes pregnant, and she ends up on a train with the
Winterbournes, a wealthy young couple on their way to Boston. The train
derails, and both Winterbournes are killed. However, as Connie was
trying on Mrs. Winterbourne's ring at the time of the accident, she is
mistaken for her, and her baby for the Winterbourne grandchild. What
follows is what always happens in romantic comedies, Connie is taken in
by the Winterbourne family and falls in love with the dead
Winterbourne's twin brother, who is initially suspicious of her, but
then grows to love her. Complications arise, but everything works out
in the end.

Shirley MacLaine is quite winning at Grace Winterbourne, and Miguel
Sandoval steals most of his scenes. The problem is that neither Ricki
Lake or Brendan Fraser have much chemistry with each other, and Ricki
Lake seems miscast in general. Of course, there are also massive plot
holes here, and even in the end, no one really seems to care that the
real Mrs. Winterbourne and the real Winterbourne grandchild are off
buried somewhere under someone else's name. This is not a bad movie,
it's perfectly pleasant, but you really are required to not think about
the plot at all to really enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Connie (Ricki Lake) lost her mother at twelve in Hoboken, New Jersey.
Because she did not get along with her father, Connie left NJ at 18 and
went to NYC. Unfortunately, she immediately hooked up with a low-life
named Steve and became pregnant. Steve was less than thrilled with the
news and threw Connie out of the house. Although she works as a
waitress for awhile, when her delivery date draws near, she finds
herself broke and homeless. The next day , Connie boards a train she
thinks is the subway but which turns out to be a railway to Boston.
There, she is befriended by handsome, rich Hugh and his new and very
pregnant wife Patricia. The train derails. Hugh and Patricia are
killed. But, by a twist of fate, Connie is mistaken for Patricia and
finds herself and her new baby in a private hospital, as befitting the
wife of a member of the rich Winterbourne family. She meets her new
mother-in-law (Shirley MacLaine) and her "husband's" twin brother, Bill
(Brendan Fraser) and goes home to a posh, Boston mansion, complete with
servants. Just how long will she be able to fool everyone into thinking
she really is a part of the family? This is a nice little film for the
proverbial romcom fan. MacLaine is wonderful as the matriarch of the
wealthy family and Fraser is his usual handsome, quirky, affable self.
Lake seems a bit miscast as the girl with a big secret but fulfills her
role adequately. The sets, costumes, and production values are very
high. Do you love improbable plots and unexpected, humorous romance?
Make a date to see Mrs. W. and you will be in your element, absolutely.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this for the first time after I bought it at my video store.
I'm a
fan of Brendan Fraser and usually enjoy his films. Shirley McLaine and
Fraser shine in this movie. I loved both their characters and of course
Paco, he was just too funny. I think all the characters fit the actors
except Ricki Lake. I feel they could have cast, not necessarily a better
actress, but just one who fit into this role more properly. I just can't
seem to take Lake as a serious actress. Plus I'm used to her John Waters'
film roles. She portrays wacky weirdo characters alot better than a
single,
pregnant, pennyless outsider. This, in my opinion, is a great feel good
flick, perfect for those who crave silly romance comedies. I know my
mother
couldn't stop talking about it and loves the movie, as do I. All in
all...
the storyline was cliche - but I tend to like simple movies. Lake's
acting
could have been better - she did alright considering the films she's
appeared in in the past. Simply put, this is a must see for any fans of
Fraser or McLaine, who deliver wonderful performances. I give it an
8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought that this movie was relatively well done, but got lost in
trying to decide what kind of movie it wanted to be. First off, I
didn't buy Connie as an 18 year old. She could have been just as naive
at the age of 25 and then would have looked it as well (she was around
26/7 when it was filmed most likely). At first it's something of a
"fish-out-of-water" story that seems like it's trying to be a
semi-grittier version of "While You Were Sleeping", then about midway
through the movie she dances with Hugh's brother and suddenly he loves
her. It's like the teen movie cliché of "losing the glasses and
ponytail". When Connie's dealing with her ex, the movie tries to be
noir-ish, but the previously set mood basically destroys any sort of
suspense that could have come from this. Being a romantic comedy, it's
obvious from the beginning that there will be a happy ending, and Ricki
Lake is very charming (though most definitely not looking 18) as
Connie, but overall I felt the film could have been better.
<|_=00=_|>
Because Brendan Fraser and Shirley Maclaine make it surprisingly
bearable. Ricki Lake, God bless her, was, in a word, miscast; without
the strength of Fraser and Maclaine, this movie is a two, at best a
three. She's brings no life to the role, no reality. At best, she was
an over-actor. At worst... well, she was a bad over-actor. A really,
really bad over-actor. Still, for a movie that had so much potential
(if not for the sometimes unbelievable -yet entertaining- storyline,
then definitely for the two aforementioned lead actors) that was lost
beneath the looming shadow that is Lake, I'd watch it again. If it were
on cable TV... and if nothing else is on.
