
Firstly this is an adult movie. I remember when it was marketed on its
release. It seemed to be targeted to all ages - Robin Williams off the
back of- at that time- children's movies. It promoted the technology of
the making. Overall they marketed it completely wrong, which I daresay
has led it to being placed in the mediocrity bin.

However, nothing could be further from the truth. What Dreams May Come
would have to be one of the most intelligent, emotional, visually
beautiful, and well acted projects ever to grace the screen.

Robin Williams is masterful and Sciorra perfectly mirrors her soul mate
(Williams). Their performances encapsulate all the joy and abject
sorrow human life entails. It's a movie that wants you to find real
love, see beyond cynicism and grasp the idea of soul mate. And it's all
presented in a stunningly gorgeous montage of exquisite colour and
symmetry.

From the opening shot to the closing frame, its magnificent. The story
is enveloping encompassing nearly every asset of human emotion. It's a
roller-coaster ride but rewarding. Comedy, hope, sadness, joy, elation,
despair... all displayed perfectly.

ALL actors shine, Cuba Gooding Jr is his usual excellent self and Max
von Sydow is impeccable.

The greatest movie ever? close... most under-rated movie ever? - most
probably. Watch it, very few movies will touch you as What Dreams May
Come will.
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, This movie was overlooked. Period. Before I saw it, I was one of the
many movie going clones who decided not to see it in the theater because it
hadn't been getting the rave reviews that the trailer suggested it
should.

So, my roommate works at a video store. One night, he brings home "What
Dreams May Come." For lack of NOTHING better to do, I pop it in one night
when I'm home alone. 113 minutes later I was floored. This was a fantastic
movie. At first, I was a bit skeptical. Very little character development
creation, and death comes just as the introduction to life begins.
Then......it all hits. The absolute best computer animation I've ever seen.
A plot line that has no obvious holes. A story that has never been addressed
on the big screen. A subject that is explored in a way that is both
believable and desirable. An incredible movie that leaves you happy, sad,
curious, and most of all, drained of energy and exhilarated at the same
time. I can't explain the feeling that this movie gave me, and I bet you
can't explain the after-life any better than "What Dreams May Come," unless
your 3 letter name begins with "G" and ends with "D." If you have a mind
that will allow you to be entertained by something other than a beefy guy
blowing things up with an Uzi, see this movie. 10 out of 10
JimmyT-2
<|_=00=_|>

To hell with the critics and the cynics.  I absolutely love this movie -
it's in my top ten (or maybe even top five) list of favorite movies (I saw
it at least 3 times in the theater and own it on DVD).  I have to admit, I'm
one of those non- (almost anti-) elitist, "I don't know art, but I know what
I like" type people.  I also truly love positive, upbeat movies with happy
endings.  Not to say that "realistic" movies aren't also great, but there is
room for everything in the moviemaking genre.  Isn't there enough depressing
"realism" on the evening news to satisfy even the most jaded
cynic?

I can't say exactly what it is that strikes me about this movie.  The
incredible color-saturated visuals and special effects certainly help.  The
acting talents of Robin Williams and Max Von Sydow help.   And I loved the
story.  Emotionally manipulative it may be, but this is one of those films
where I WANTED to be manipulated, where I willingly participated. 
Apparently some people resented it, but I was sobbing through much the
movie, and glad to be doing so.  Laugh if you please, say whatever you
want... this movie touches my heart.

"Deep" it isn't, not terribly.  On a metaphysical level, it goes only
slightly beyond new-age kitsch.  Very few of the afterlife scenes and
concepts agree with the spiritual outlook of any known religion.  But I
don't care.  Again, if a movie touches my heart in just the right place, I
can forgive it almost anything.  This one did.  9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was EXCELLENT the first time I saw it about 3
years ago and I saw it twice since. I bought the DVD just a few days
ago and watched it again tonight and I cried so much. It is an amazing
movie that really has you on your seat wondering what will happen next.
It is neat to see the possible reality of one's "after-life" in heaven
or hell. It makes you want to love those whom you love more and more
every day and make sure that they know it. I was watching it tonight
with my fiancé and could not keep the tears from coming....even after
the movie I was crying because I was thinking about how I would feel if
I lost him. I am not one to cry much, especially when I'm watching a
movie. But this movie was a definite tear-jerker and an excellent
must-see film! :o)
<|_=00=_|>

It was a moving, visually stunning masterpiece unlike anything I'd ever seen
before. Even though I knew how it was going to end, I kept cheering for it
to happen. An absolutely beautiful film. 

Chris (Robin Williams) and Annie (Annabella Sciorra) are husband and wife.
They met by chance and fell in love immediately. They have two wonderful
kids and a marriage full of love and life. But tragically, one day their
kids are taken from them in a car accident. They fight to continue their
lives, but one day, four years later, Chris's life is also taken. He ends up
in Heaven, but can't accept his fate. A guide is sent to him, in the form of
his friend Albert (Cuba Gooding Jr.). Albert leads Chris on a journey
through Heaven, and the wonders it can bring. In the real world, Annie can't
handle Chris's death, and she kills herself and ends up in Hell. Chris must
go on a journey to find her, and save her from an eternity of sorrow.

This movie hits all the right chords. It makes you laugh at times, and makes
you cry at times. The love Chris has for Annie is stronger than anything you
have ever seen. He's willing to lose his mind, and spend all eternity in
Hell with her, with neither of them recognizing the other, because they are
soul mates, destined to be together for all time. This movie is hard to
explain in any other way. The journey Chris goes through is remarkable, but
the real star of this film is the visuals. 

When Chris goes to Heaven, he is told that what he sees is what his mind can
create. So what he sees is himself inside Annie's paintings. He lives in a
Heaven full of brilliant colors. Life in a painting. It was amazing to look
at. And the colors of the movie, along with the set designs were incredible.
His house, Annie's Hell, the sea of Faces. I just couldn't believe how
fantastic everything looked in this movie. The performances were wonderful.
Robin Williams was at his dramatic best, and Cuba Gooding Jr. brought energy
to the film. The story was strong, if predictable, and the manner is which
it was made (utilizing flashbacks) was powerful. You really felt the
characters emotions throughout. 

I know this review is weak, but I really don't know what else to say. I
guess you're going to have to see for yourself. It doesn't matter if you
don't believe in a Heaven or a Hell. What Dreams May Come will make you
believe in something even more powerful than that. Love, and what one man
will do because of it. 


<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie because it is truly romantic- it shows that love does
not
just happen in an instant, or at first glance, but is something that you
have to commit to and work at.  It's not just 'boys meets girl, stuff
happens, they get married and live happily ever after' - Annie and Chris
have to deal with real adversity and issues, which are shown through
numerous flashbacks throughout the film. (ie- Chris being embarrassed to
dance, teaching his daughter about death)

You're not supposed to watch this film for the visual effects.  They're
great, but they're not the point.  If you have a short attention span,
and
are expecting action thrown at you every five seconds, then go watch
something else, and don't complain that this film is boring.

This film was very simple and very human. If you want inspiration that
REAL
love exists (and not that stupid teen movie crap), then I highly
recommend
it. 
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know how some of the comments can state that it is New Age
Kitch. The concepts in this movie is 100% spot on with the new way of
thinking in just about all progressive belief systems.

A heaven which we create based on our own dreams and reality. A hell
where we place ourselves in contrast to being sent here by a despotic
God. The concept of coming back to live another life. These are not
concepts that are way out. They make the basis for the majority of the
religions in the east and therefore the majority of the world
population.

Chistianity has also moved very close to this.

This movie MOVES me every time I see it. If you are in any way
concerned about the greater plans in the universe, watch this.

Skydancer.
<|_=00=_|>
Although this movie is heart-wrenching, it is just too beautiful to
pass up. 

The creators explore possibilities of the spiritual life, and in doing
so, have created some of the most beautiful scenes that I have ever
seen. Their imaginations seem to be beyond any limitations. I
congratulate them on their genius.

Those who have experience deeply meaningful experiences beyond the
world of physical senses see these images and concepts as actual
possibilities, and rightly so. In a world where time and space lose all
definition in physical terms, incomprehensible and mystifying beauty
become the reality. But then, who is qualified to define "reality"?

I have seen this awe filled movie several times and would love to see
it again.
<|_=00=_|>

I am not that crazy about Robin Williams, though I don't dislike him. But
he was adequate in this movie, because it called for a real sensitive and
really nice guy. I feel that, from almost every one of the actors, there was
a luminous glow emanating from their faces, like there was some sort of
special lighting used. (There probably was!) As a result, the audience has
empathy toward the characters and actually cares about what is happening to
them. I've heard so many complaints about how it tries to pull at your
heartstrings. Excuse me, but if there WAS a movie out there that made people
cry without trying to, I would stay as far away from it as
possible...

.....YES, I believe there IS merit to be deserved by a movie if it creates
any kind of obvious emotion. I think that crying at a movie either scares or
annoys some people.

          I like how the movie made me feel awed during the first half, and
even more awed during the second half; all the while making me feel sad
throughout the movie at the same time. However, there is a difference
between 'sad' and 'depressing'. I think the sadness helps any audience
realize some parts of their inner-selves.

  While very memorable, curiously, the movie never intends for its audience
to be close-minded enough to think that this is, with certainty, what
happens after you die. It is more of a suggestion, an analogy, of how
precious life is, and how deep the bond of love is between some people, no
matter what happens. 

Rent this one today.

<|_=00=_|>
Excellent movie.....I laughed and cried. It was not exactly what I
expected... a journey into a supernatural realm. The special effects
were simply awesome! Robin Williams will never cease to amaze me. He
gave a wonderful performance, as did Annabella Sciora, and Cuba
Gooding, Jr. True love, the kind that puts your partner before
yourself, is clearly shown in this film. The film also makes you what
to call everyone you haven't talked to for a while and let them know
how you feel about them. It gives the viewer lots to discuss. I've seen
it 3 times. Once alone, once with my grown daughter, and once with my
boyfriend.
