

I have always been one of the, maybe, eight or nine big fans of this movie
and I have only one small question about it.

WHY CAN'T THEY MAKE MORE LIKE THIS???

If you have not seen this movie yet, you must.  It's the first Disney movie
to use fully rendered CGI backgrounds throughout and you definately get the
sense that the animators wanted to play with this new method.  What I'm
getting at is that some of you may want to down some motion sickness
medicine first.

There are *no* song and dance numbers.  Reason being that this is a
surprisingly dark, more emotionally complex story for a Disney movie.  They
went out on a limb and chose not to break the tone up too
much.

This is the number two Lost Disney Movie (number one, without a doubt, is
"the Hunchback of Notre Dame", which I also love).  It's own creators barely
acknowledge its existance.  The very best evidence of this is on the new
video release box's plot summary, where a MAJOR character's gender is
misidentified.  

On the other hand, I sort of enjoy the idea of a "cult" Disney movie. 
Instead of marketing "Down Under" to death, Disney can only be accused of
the opposite mistake.

So, anyway, here I go again running to this movie's defence.  I'll tackle
the one major critisism of it before I go.  Many critics were expecting
another "Rescuers".  In my humble opinion, these two movies are two entirely
different animals.  The original "Rescuers" is an example of where Disney
was in the sixties and seventies.  "Down Under" is a time capsule of late
eighties, early nineties Disney.  In other words, you can't really say that
one is better than the other as the only thing they have in common are three
characters (what I'm getting at is that this should be thought of more as
"Rescue Aid Society: the Next Generation").

By the way, I've got an idea that I'm just going to throw out to the
proverbial wolves here.  Why not make more "Rescuers" movies instead of
sequels to Disney movies where follow-up stories make no sence?  They are
sitting on one heck of a potential franchise here.  Just thought I'd let you
know.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Rescuers Down Under" is a wonderful tale, the rare film that surpasses
its original in many, many ways. It has more flair, better animation and the
characters are much more interesting. It is the sequel to "The Rescuers,"
which was released 13 years earlier. They took their time making this sequel
- and it paid off.  Cartoons can often be represented in a dull fashion, and
others can take your breath away - this one takes your breath
away.

The intrepid mouse explorers Bernard and Bianca (voices of Bob Newhart and
Eva Gabor) from the original film return in "The Rescuers Down Under," when
they hear word that a small boy in Australia has been kidnapped by a poacher
named McLeach (voiced by the creepy George C. Scott). McLeach has also
captured a large eagle, and the kidnapped boy, Cody, has a bond with the
large beast.

The Rescuers fly Down Under by hitching a ride on the hilarious, never
over-the-top albatross Wilbur (voiced by John Candy). Once there, they pick
up a local Aussie "kangaroo mouse" named Jake, who indeed resembles a
miniature kangaroo. There are also some other delightful new characters,
including Frank, a numbskull lizard, and Joanna the goanna lizard, the
sidekick of McLeach. The key to this film is that they know how to make
great characters - Joanna is just as fun to watch as Frank, and Jake is just
as fun to watch as Bernard and Bianca. You never feel any hate towards any
characters. My personal favorite was Wilbur, the albatross. He appears at
various points in the film, caught in a mouse hospital, caught watching over
eagle eggs, and caught hatching eagle eggs. He awaits the return of Bernard
and Bianca, and he's too good-natured to just fly away and forget about
them. And John Candy's voice talents are priceless.

A lot of the amazing animation on this film takes place in the air, on the
back of a soaring eagle. The animation in the original was raspy, dark and
creepy. It wasn't nearly as breathtaking, or even enjoyable to watch. There
also aren't any musical numbers in this film - at least not that I remember
- and that also helps it out a bit. (I hated the original and its songs.)
Maybe it's just me, but sometimes musical numbers don't fit into 'toons -
and this is one of those.

"The Rescuers Down Under" is one of the best Disney films I have ever seen.
The Disney animation of the 1970s, such as "The Rescuers," was the low-point
of Disney. The high-point was films like "Pinnochio." And in all honesty,
this film is more interesting than both combined. It's got great animation,
an intriguing and fun story, and excellent, well-developed characters. Only
one thing entered my head when the credits started to roll: Can this
possibly be a cartoon?

4.5/5 stars -

John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
The 29th animated Disney classic is, without a doubt, one of the only
Disney sequels worth something. It is also one of the only sequels
which belong to the canon list of Disney classics.

This is a sequel to the classic 'The Rescuers' from 13 years before and
it's quite different than what it was originally going to be. Instead
of a sequel about Penny living happy with her adoptive parents, this is
a brand new adventure.

With the exception of Bernard, Miss Bianca and Mr. Chairman, the
characters are all different. Almost the entire cast is different too,
except Bob Newhart, Eva Gabor and Bernard Fox.

To be fair, the original movie is far superior. That I definitely
agree. However, some people consider this to be a disgrace and honestly
it isn't that bad. Comparing to most Disney sequels, this is much
better.

Although this movie is brand new, it is naturally inspired by the
original's idea. That's why it is so equal and so different at the same
time.

This time, instead of the Devil's Bayou, our mice heroes (Bernard and
Bianca) go to Australia to save not a little girl, but a little boy
named Cody who is in more danger than Penny was.

Instead of Orville, this time who takes them to their destiny is his
humorous brother Wilbur. There are no swamp animals this time and
surprisingly no Evinrude. I'm surprised because Evinrude joins the RAS
at the end of the original movie. Jake is their guide. Instead of
Medusa, Snoops and Brutus & Nero, now the villain is an evil poacher
named McLeach and his sidekick is a goanna named Joanna.

Initially Orville was going to be in this movie, but after Jim Jordan's
death in 1988 they created Wilbur with the voice of the comedian John
Candy. That was a better and more clever solution than replacing the
original voice. At least on this nobody can say they didn't do the
right thing.

The good of this movie: the sceneries are amazing, you can appreciate
the natural beauty of Australia, that wonderful country nearly at the
end of the world; Joanna is a comic relief, she's simply hilarious;
there are some nice songs (such as the morbid "Home on the Range" by
McLeach and the very lively "Black Slacks" by Joe Bennett and the
Sparkletones); this movie is fun, has danger, action, adventure,
darkness and classic humor; it has got one of the best Disney villains
and one of my favorite Disney villains (McLeach); Wilbur is a very
amusing character; Cody is a good boy; the glorious scenes with Cody
and the magnificent & enormous golden eagle Marahute; it is one of the
only good and watchable Disney sequels.

The bad of this movie: mostly the disturbing moments with Wilbur
suffering emotionally and physically at the hospital; the fact that the
animals which are McLeach's prisoners are forgotten at the end, without
knowing what happens to them; Wilbur is forgotten too and left all
alone, but in a different way (still he is neglected); some characters
aren't that appealing (such as Frank - although with his funny moments,
he overacts and is so exaggerated that he quickly becomes tiring); the
whole restaurant sequence, which is absolutely unnecessary and has no
purpose for the rest of the film; it lacks character development
(something which the first one does better); besides, this isn't as
good as the first one, somehow lacking the charm of that one;
unfortunately, it may also have been responsible for the mess of Disney
sequels that would come in the following years.

Despite its many faults, it is still a good movie. And, together with
the original, it was an important part of my wonderful childhood. The
intense nostalgia feeling it brings to those who grew up with it (like
me) is more than enough to appreciate it better and excuse its faults.
Besides, the fact that most Disney sequels pale next to this improves
the impression on it. Nevertheless, this movie remains as one of the
least appreciated Disney classics and quite underrated.

The villain is a wanted local poacher. He drives a giant monstrous
truck. He is pure evil, sadistic, greedy and even creepy at times (such
as in one scene when his eyes glow red). He's got a morbid sense of
humor, yet his patience is short and he's prone to major anger. So,
McLeach is not the right guy to irritate. There's no denying that he is
more dangerous, more cruel and more violent than Medusa. He's a killer.
Joanna is used and abused by him (both physically and psychologically).
Besides, he was gonna feed Cody to the crocodiles! But still he is a
great villain.

This should definitely be on Top 250.
<|_=00=_|>
THE RESCUERS, in my opinion, is pure Disney entertainment. It made me
feel all warm and tingly when Bernard (voice of Bob Newhart) and Bianca
(voice of Eva Gabor) set out on their mission to rescue Cody (voice of
Adam Ryen) and the rare golden eagle. If you ask me, McLeach (voice of
George C. Scott) was absolutely nefarious. You'll have to see the movie
if you want to know why. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say that
everyone was perfectly cast, the direction was flawless, and Disney has
scored a big hit. Also, after having seen this movie, I would love to
go to Australia one day. In conclusion, I highly recommend this pure
Disney blockbuster to everyone who hasn't seen it. I guarantee you
you'll enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Whilst it's not as good as the original, The Rescuers Down Under is not
a disgrace as far as sequels go. Many theatrical sequels tend to be no
better than ones released direct-to-video. Down Under is an exception.

Plot-wise, there are a few faults. Some scenes just seemed to be there
for the sake of it and the plot is considerably weaker than the
original. But there are enough jokes and enough suspense to keep the
film going so there's never a dull moment. Some might say that the
story is a rehash of the original and that is partly true. That's the
only real major flaw I find in Down Under.

Benard and Bianca stay wonderfully in character and the new characters,
such as Jake the Kangaroo Rat are very memorable too. Penny may have
had Teddy for a friend but Cody has Marahute - a mighty Golden Eagle.
Her movements are true to that of a real bird of prey, and yet she has
a distinct humanoid quality. Whenever you look into her eyes, you know
exactly what she's thinking. Jim Jordan (the voice of Orville) is sadly
dead. (God rest his soul). But instead of replacing the voice actor, we
have a new albatross - Orville's brother Wilbur. He is a worthy
replacement. He provides plenty of comic relief, especially during his
nightmarish time in hospital. Joanna the villain's sidekick is like
Madame Medusa as a lizard. She looks like she came straight out of the
original. McLeach, the evil poacher is a very intimidating villain.
He's not as funny as Madame Medusa but he's not meant to be. He's not
the sort of person you'd like to run into in the wilderness.

If there's one aspect of this film that's superior to the first, it's
the animation. The computer generated shots are spectacular. Sure, they
might be dated today, but I think that the hand-drawn animation melds
nicely with the CGI. Whilst the jungle in Tarzan looked like plastic,
the rocks and cliffs in The Rescuers Down Under look realistic and full
of texture. We have a lot of 'high-flying in the clouds' scenes which
are a lot of fun and would be brilliant on the IMAX screen. Also,
putting a tiny mouse against a vast landscape gives the movie an epic
feel. Like the first Rescuers, the backgrounds are beautiful and pave
the way for the beautiful scenery seen in The Lion King.

However, Down Under does have its little flaws. One example is that
Cody is Australian yet he speaks with an American accent. Also, how on
earth did he climb up that huge cliff? There are other little
inconsistencies too but they are easily overlooked.

The sequel connects nicely with the original. A lot of the RAS mice
from the original are seen again. Also, a lot of character designs are
true to the first as well. Benard has hardly changed at all. Only
Bianca looks somewhat different.

In conclusion, The Rescuers Down Under is inferior to the original
Rescuers, but it's still high-flying fun. This is definitely one of the
better Disney sequels. So sit back and enjoy. Remember, you *could* be
watching Pocahontas II.
<|_=00=_|>
The first one was overall a cute film, definitely a classic, but
nothing to scream about, you know what I mean? Anyways, as a kid I
would always take characters who would look cool in some big action
powered flick with high drama and adventure. Having a real evil villain
that threatens death, and kick the pace up a notch from the original
movie.

My wish came true, The Rescuers Down Under was a high powered animated
action flick with intense drama and heart-pounding emotion. Severely
different from the original, which was about two little mice sent out
on a mission to save a little girl held captive by a vile woman in
search for a priceless diamond. This time, a young boy named Cody was
kidnapped by a poacher named McLeach, who desperately wants to enormous
eagle that was just saved from captivity. Despite the dangers, these
two little mice named Bernard and Miss Bianca head out on probably the
most daring rescue ever assigned to the R.A.S. (Rescue Aid Society).
Without a moment to lose, they hop aboard the big bird named Wilbur to
a nonstop flight to Australia. From then on its just keeps getting
better, and the filmmakers weren't afraid how far they strayed from the
kinder hearted tone of the original. That's a good thing.

This was easily put in my top animated films, behind Beauty and the
Beast and the Prince of Egypt of course. It was a little shorter than I
would have liked, which doesn't make this brilliant film absolutely
spotless. None the less I recommend this to anyone looking for menacing
fun. 

Trust me, this is a brilliant film that may be a little too intense for
the younglings, but still a family film which I think will be loved by
adults and kids alike.

****/**** stars

The Rescuers Down Under (1990): Rated PG for intense moments
<|_=00=_|>
When it comes to Disney sequels, most are usually OK or just plain bad,
The Rescuers Down Under is not only the first Disney sequel but the
best Disney sequel to this day. It surpassed the first film by far and
I have loved it since I was a little girl. When I bought it on DVD as a
grown up, I was thinking that I wouldn't have the same feelings since
you're a kid, everything seems amazing. But still rewatching it, this
is an incredible movie. The first Rescuers is such a sappy movie, it's
a good one, but it's just a tear jerker from beginning to end. This
film was epic, the animation is beyond incredible and the story was way
too excellent.

In the Australian Outback, a young boy named Cody rescues and befriends
a rare golden eagle called Marahute, who shows him her nest and eggs.
Later, the boy is captured in an animal trap set by Percival C.
McLeach, a local wanted poacher. When McLeach finds one of the eagle's
feathers in the boy's backpack he is instantly overcome with
excitement, he knew that capturing the bird would make him rich.
McLeach kidnaps the boy and attempts to force out of him the
whereabouts of the rare eagle, even going as far as offering to split
the profit with him. But the Rescuers hear of Cody's troubles from a
mouse had saved earlier in the film and they go to save him and the
magnificent eagle.

I don't even know where to begin on the excellence of this film. First
off the animation, there's this shot of the outback that just ranges to
what seems like forever and the music that plays during that scene
makes you feel like you're really there. The scenes where Cody is
flying with the bird is just epic and beautiful. The characters are
wonderful, you could feel the power of the bird and you just want
nothing but evil karma to come down upon the villain for trying to
capture something so majestic and incredible. Cody is a very likable
hero who has respect for all living creatures. And of course our famous
rescuers are back and they are better than ever in helping Cody save
the eagle. If you're ever going to see a Disney sequel, I would always
recommend The Rescuers Down Under. It's a great movie in general, I
would say it stands well on it's own. It's a terrific underrated gem
that needs more recognition.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
After nearly two decades of disappointing animated movies, the Disney
folks got back to winning ways in 1989 with The Little Mermaid. That
marked the start of a succession of five Disney cartoons in a row that
were all of a really high quality, the five being The Little Mermaid,
The Rescuers Down Under, Beauty And The Beast, Aladdin and The Lion
King. The second film on this list - The Rescuers Down Under - is a
rip-roaring adventure movie which is a sequel to an earlier Disney
movie made in 1977. In fact, the original The Rescuers was a pretty
forgettable film and it seems extremely strange that the Disney people
had that particular film in mind when they decided to make a sequel.
This second instalment is thankfully much more memorable, well-animated
ad exciting. It's not often that it can be said, but this is a case of
a sequel which is superior to the original.

In the Australian Outback, a young boy named Cody (voice of Adam Reyen)
rescues and befriends a rare golden eagle. Later, the boy is captured
in a trap by wanted local poacher McLeach (voice of George C. Scott).
When McLeach finds one of the eagle's feathers in the boy's backpack he
is instantly overcome with excitement, for he knows that to capture
such a grandiose bird would make him filthy rich! McLeach kidnaps the
boy and attempts to force out of him the whereabouts of the rare eagle.
Meanwhile, a message is sent to New York, home of the Rescue Aid
Society.... a bunch of dare-devil mice who specialise in saving the
lives of endangered children. Once again, mice agents Bernard (voice of
Bob Newhart) and Bianca (voice of Eva Gabor) find themselves up to
their neck in adventure as they try to rescue young Cody from his
abductor's lair.

The animation in this 1990 release is absolutely excellent and seems to
mark a significant step forward in terms of the technology available to
animators. The story is exciting and fast-paced, with just a sprinkling
of humour to offer a little relief from the action from time to time.
On the whole, the voice acting is very good, most notably Newhart and
Gabor as the heroes, with solid support from John Candy's comical
albatross and Scott's seriously unpleasant villain. Purists might be
surprised and disappointed by the lack of the usual catchy Disney songs
(there are none in this one, not even a theme song over the credits),
but in most departments this is a first-rate animated movie that should
enthral kids and adults alike.
<|_=00=_|>
It isn't as good as the immensely charming original, but I enjoyed this
very much. You do realise that this was released 13 years after the
original, and a lot of the characters had to be animated again. I
forgive them for that though, as the animation was surprisingly good,
especially the scenes with Marahute, who blew me away at the sight of
her. Though Bianca does look different than she was in the original
film, she had chubbier cheeks here. Bob Newhart and Eva Gabor are great
as Bernard and Bianca, although there was a significant change in both
characters. John Candy was hilarious as Wilbur. If there is one element
that is better than the original, but only marginally, it is that
Wilbur is funnier than Orville. The plot was also very good, on a
parallel with the original, but that was the intention, and the music
by Bruce Broughton was appropriately fitting. Cody is very likable, but
sometimes his dialogue is a bit unnatural, and I know that people
commented on his accent. George C. Scott, a fine actor, was suitably
menacing as McLeach, although his animation at times was a tad
frightening. I really enjoyed this movie, it's not perfect, but it is
one of the better animated sequels to come out. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I have been watching this movie since I was a kid. Its a great movie.
It shows a good background towards how to treat animals and how its not
right to poach them like McCleach did and how you should always help
them if there in terrible trouble. I cry a lot when I see this movie. I
especially cry at the scene where McCleach captures the eagle. The
ending I like because its real happy. The music goes real good with
this movie. If anyone is looking for a movie thats good with comedy and
with animal protection. Its this one definitely. Its says at the end
Special Thanks to San Diego Wild Animal Park. Those of you that haven't
watched this movie please watch it you will cry your eyes out.
