

There have been so many romantic comedies produced that it is difficult for
a film to break out due to the depth and breadth of the competition.  This
is one that does.  This wonderfully funny romantic comedy takes a fresh
approach, portraying a romance involving not one, but two men of the cloth. 
They are not even of the same cloth as one is a Catholic priest and the
other a Jewish rabbi.  The girl of their dreams is also the girl of their
youth as the three were best friends in grammar school.  Now, after many
years of separation, Anna (Jenna Elfman) returns and both men fall
immediately and madly in love with her.

The film is chock full of religious humor and sharp-witted dialogue that
keeps you grinning between guffaws.  The romance is syrupy sweet and the
actors have such great chemistry that it is easy to believe they have been
friends all their lives.  Edward Norton produced, directed and starred in
this gem and he shows himself to be adept at spinning a magical yarn with
very few flaws.  This was Norton's first directorial effort and it bodes
well for his future on the other side of the lens.  His work with the actors
was marvelous, and his pacing of the film was excellent.  The film flowed
very pleasantly from scene to scene and kept the viewer amused and
immersed.

The entire cast is terrific.  Norton plays Father Brian Finn and is funny
and affable in the role.  Rabbi Jacob Schram is played by Ben Stiller, whose
comedic star is on the rise.  In this film, he outdoes his wonderful
performance in `There's Something About Mary' with a character that is just
as amusing but more complete, with greater range.  Anne Bancroft is also
fantastic as the rabbi's mother.  She has the New York Jewish mother routine
down pat, right down to the accent.  A dynamite performance. 

The real news in this film though, is Jenna Elfman.  She lights up the
screen with her enthusiasm and her charming girl-next-door beauty.  She is
dynamic, hilarious, sensitive, sexy and lovable and pretty much steals the
show.  After her terrific performance in `Edtv, she proves once again that
she is a talented actor and comedian.  One can only hope that the popularity
of this film gives her access to more and better parts.

This fabulous romantic comedy is highly entertaining and enchanting.  I
rated it a 9/10.  It is especially funny if you happen to be Catholic or
Jewish.  I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

Only this time Norton is not only in front of, but also behind, the
camera.

Keeping the Faith is a funny, romantic and very smart romantic comedy.  The
three leads are charming and believable, the supporting cast is
outstanding,
the script is insightful and fresh, the technical credits are polished, the
musical selections are energetic, and the tone is so consistently enjoyable
that I have to say it's my favorite romantic comedy since Jerry
Maguire.

Stiller proves again what a surprisingly strong romantic lead he is and
carries the whole film, Norton is consistently one of the best actors
working and here takes a role like no other he's played before, and Elfman
is a real revelation: she's never been this beautiful, confident and
intelligent before.  She makes it very easy to see why both a priest and a
rabbi would fall head over heels in love with her.

Keeping the Faith works in every way a romantic comedy should but works on
an even higher level thanks to a refreshing incorporation of religion and
spirituality.  It is in no way heavy handed or dogmatic (or judgemental) in
its approach to the subject matter, simply believable and interesting, it's
a part of who these characters are.

If you like romantic comedies this is a must see, but anyone who can
appreciate a solid story, strong characters and two hours of movie bliss
will enjoy this film.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a pretty good film and I think it hits perfectly the things we all
want in life. Great friends and significant others. It is just a beautiful
film which I must say (for a comedy) and a Ben Stiller film is pretty
jokeless. Good acting, good directing a good story and good everything.
There was one thing that was great though. The way Edward Norton used Faith
in this film. Never have I seen so much depictions of Faith in a film and
actually enjoyed it. I don't believe in church and stuff, but these two
clergymen are way beyond cool, they ROCK!

My favorite in this one is undoubtedly Jenna Elfman. She is so cool and
cute. I mean there are so many beautiful women in Hollywood, but man one
look into those shiny, glittery eyes and I'm sold. She has just so much
natural glow about her it really is amazing. GOOD CHOICE!!! I can only beg
producers to use her more in quality productions, she's pretty, she can act
and she's very likeable too.

7 out of 10

<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed this movie. I didn't expect much from this film,
considering I didn't really know what it was about, but from the moment
it started it caught my interest. The story of a rabbi and a priest
being best friends just seemed so beautiful to me. There is no
religious cracks in this movie and it shows how we all should accept
one another's religions.

Then these friends are reunited with their 8th grade best friend, who
comes back as a beautiful grown woman. There is an obvious immediate
attraction from both guys to her. The only problem is that the rabbi
can't be with her because she is not Jewish and the priest can't
because he has taken an oath of celibacy. The good part about this
movie besides the chemistry between all actors part of this film is
that you don't know what will happen. It's not so predictable and you
really feel for the actors which is rare these days. I would recommend
this to anyone looking for a sweet romance.
<|_=00=_|>

'Keeping the Faith' is one of the funniest, smartest, warmest comedies of
the last several years, and is a terrific directorial debut for costar
Edward Norton. It works on many levels; as a loving look at relationships,
on the common ground Judaism and Catholicism shares in compassion towards
people, in embracing love, no matter what obstacles might arise...and it
does all this while respecting different faiths, which makes this a very
unique and special film!

Norton and Ben Stiller play lifelong friends, who, as children, meet a
fabulous, funny girl who they bond with. Eventually she moves away, and the
two boys grow up, becoming a priest and a rabbi...then the girl returns, as
a successful businesswoman, and the friendship is renewed...until romance
enters the picture!

Each character is unique and likeable; Norton is a sweet, funny klutz,
endearing in his awkwardness; Stiller is compassionate and quick-witted,
dealing with his Temple's matchmaking efforts with wry humor; Jenna Elfman
(who has NEVER been lovelier onscreen) is both wise and vulnerable, and
totally believable as a person both guys would fall in love
with.

Major issues are addressed in the film (a Priest's vow of celibacy,
interfaith marriages, religious discrimination), and are dealt with and
resolved in such a positive, loving manner that you wonder why these issues
ever BECOME problems! All this reflects well on Norton, who shows remarkable
sensitivity as both a cowriter and director!

The supporting cast is marvelous; Anne Bancroft is fabulous as Stiller's
mother, Eli Wallach and Ron Rifkin, as a rabbi and synagogue leader,
respectively, are equally good; director Milos Forman is terrific as Father
Havel, Norton's mentor. Two other supporting players should be singled out,
as well; Lisa Edelstein has a GREAT slapstick scene with Stiller, as the
Jewish 'Date from Hell', and Brian George is hilarious as a "Sikh/Christian
with Jewish in-laws" bartender that Norton confides in.

There are a LOT of great one-liners, inspired scenes, and a resolution that
is both believable and satisfying. This is a 'feel-good' movie that you can
enjoy, again and again! I HIGHLY recommend it! 


<|_=00=_|>

KEEPING THE FAITH (2000) *** Ben Stiller, Edward Norton, Jenna
Elfman, Eli Wallach, Anne Bancroft, Ron Rifkin, Rena Sofer, Lisa
Edelstein, Milos Forman.  (Dir: Edward Norton)

So did you hear the one about the priest and the rabbi and the
`business woman'?  Well if that sounds familiar don't let that
dissuade you from this frequently hilarious romantic comedy of the
unlikeliest of menage a trois in cinema history.

Childhood chums, Jake Schram, Brian Finn and Anna Reilly - The
Three Muskateers of the 8th Grade of Manhattan - are reunited
nearly 2 decades later with a lot of catching up to do when Anna
comes back east for a short stint as a high powered brokerage
businesswoman (portrayed in full giddy sexy appeal by Elfman of
tv's kooky couple `Dharma & Greg') who has her hands full when
she finds her best buddies, Jake (Stiller in fine leading
man/comedy mode) and Brian (Norton, equally riotous in his
directorial debut) are, respectively, a rabbi and priest.

Seems the best friends only bonded stronger when their female
compatriot moved out of the neighborhood pre-adolescently and
shared more than their uncommon friendship: their devotion to
their separate faiths.  To make matters more difficult in Anna's
sudden return into their lives is the fact that both buddies are in
love with her but it is Jake who winds up making the first move as
the frustrated young rabbi who is constantly being set up on
disastrous blind dates by his meddlesome congregation (`the
kosher-nostra').  After the initial awkwardness is overcome the two
friends become a casual sex relationship that only gets further
complicated when Jake cannot handle the fact Anna's non-Judea
background must be taken into effect if he is to become a
full-fledged rabbi at his synagogue.  Brian, meanwhile, has found
his libido at its leash when Anna begins to subsist in his dreams
leading to a comical revelation by the film's conclusion.

The threesome have chemistry to spare and banter so witty and
blunt by Stuart Blumberg's script that the pedestrian storyline (will
Jake realize just what a good thing Anna really is and will Anna
realize Brian really wants the best for her) is a no-brainer (and I
have to admit the climax of Stiller addressing his followers with a
mea culpea seemed to miss its mark since there was no real
sense of him `betraying' his people), the film chugs along merrily
and makes light of the religious overtones (one truly funny moment
is the depiction of the young Jake sorting through his Jewish rabbi
hero trading cards the way one would relish finding a Mickey
Mantle rookie card) with a contemporary spin.  Edelstein is
memorable as well as the sinfully sensual Sofer as, respectively,
date from hell and date from heaven for Jake.  Bancroft and
Wallach also lend veteran character actor shtick with all the
nourishment of a nosh at the Carnegie Deli.

Elfman has proven to be a lovely comedienne and has always
reminded me of Jamie Lee Curtis with her buoyant performances
and adds just the right bounce as the tomboy all grown up.  Stiller
continues his stance as the hardest working man in comedy with
another deft, dry turn as the befuddled rabbi and Norton display
the tricky balance of skilled actor of his generation (his choirboy
persona is perfectly advanced for his good-hearted priest and his
knack for perfect imitations - i.e. Dustin Hoffman's `Rain Man' )-
is only matched by his straight ahead approach to filmmaking;
trimming the fat but keeping the high calorie comedy quota intact.

He even gets his former director Milos Forman (who put Norton
through the paces on `The People vs. Larry Flynt') for a small
cameo as an elder clergyman to get one of the film's biggest
laughs (interrupted by a middle-of-the-night phone call for Norton
he says he was `dreaming of his mother's sausages').

Believe in love and laughter is to appreciate a wonderful romantic
comedy that has both in spades.

<|_=00=_|>

"Keeping the Faith" is just hip enough to breathe some
fresh
air into a stagnating genre without sacrificing the
requisite "feel good" moments in the process. The film's
2+
hour run time is a bit long for it's simple plot, but it
manages to stay focused and dish up enough creativity to
make it time well spent. A very enjoyable fun flick.
<|_=00=_|>

"Keeping the Faith" as an adult romantic comedy works well.  Norton's
timing, both as a director and as an actor are magnificent, and Stiller and
Elfman add to this shining cast.  The approach to religion in a mainstream
film is a new one for me at least with deference being paid to each of the
respective character's, and the jokes are basically laughing with the
religion, rather than at it.  The inner struggles that each man faces with
his own religion and the woman that threatens to tear apart their religious
selves are the most interesting aspects of the film.

The first half is a comedic gem, a laugh-barrage, that completely changes
once sex is introduced.  It loses focus, changing its story into that of a
failing friendship and blossoming love interspersed with awkward and
frankly
embarrassing moments of comedy.  For those who have seen it I refer to the
"touchy-feely confession" joke.

At over two hours, it's way too long for a comedy, and it definitely feels
it.  It's a good film, but by no means can it be considered great.  See it
to laugh for an hour if you don't mind chuckling and fidgeting in your seat
for the second hour.
<|_=00=_|>

Norton, Stiller, and Elfman are an absolute delight!  Edward Norton does a
bang-up job of a debut film, keeping things light, entertaining, and very,
very funny-- and it's great to see him lighten up after such fare as "Fight
Club."  A uniformly great cast, a witty, literate script, three
scintillating lead performances, and a talented young director add easily
up
to the best romantic comedy since Woody Allen's "Everyone Says I Love You".
Take your friends, take a date, take your grandma-- this is one everybody
will enjoy, and you'll definitely come out smiling.
<|_=00=_|>

Edward Norton's Keeping the Faith is a well meaning a good hearted comedy
about boyhood to adulthood loves and different faiths in the cross fire. 
For first time director Norton this is a good example of what one can do
when he is not shaving his head or getting into fights (j/k). 

The film stars Ben Stiller as rabbi Jake with some nice tones of comedy in
his weekly services and Norton plays priest Brian (Stiller's best friend)
that means well.  They both love their childhood friend-girl Anne, who when
she grows up (Jenna Elfman) becomes the apple of both their eyes.  It goes
around for a while, and it turns out to be funny and expectable results. 
Still, good effort by Director Norton, script-writer Stewart Blumberg, and
the cast for pulling this through.  A
