

This is one of the few movies I find seriously funny. Stiller, Leoni,
Moore,
everyone does a killer job, and humor emerges from a variety of
silly-crazy
and intellectual sources, so you can respect yourself when you laugh.
Human
neuroses give rise to a lot of sympathetic laughter. Most of it is human
frailty and absurdity. Tea Leoni is hilarious, and does a great job of
getting on your nerves, and trying to get into Stiller's pants behind his
wife's back while still being completely neurotic and self-absorbed. Her
psycho-babble is highly effective. Stiller plays the usual awkward
introspective man who lacks self confidence. His parents are magnificent,
and so are his 'real' parents. I loved it. highly recommended. What else
are
you going to watch? 
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this film at the Theatres in 1996. I didn't know much about Ben
Stiller at the time but liked Patricia Arqette. I didn't know what I was in
for. I laughed my arse off. I was rolling in the isles. Maybe no
expectations is a good way to go into a film because being pleasantly
surprised is one of my favorite emotions. Ben Stiller is hillarious here as
well as everyone in the cast. Great writing and Direction, a full laugh out
loud riot. If you like Ben Stiller playing that innocent guy in the wrong
situation "his best part" you will like this one. I highly recomend.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is truly a masterpiece. The plot, the acting, the
scenery...everything! 

It is about Mel Coplin (Stiller) who is puzzled who he really is a couple
months after his baby is born. He becomes addicted to the fact that he
indeed doesn't know who he is. Finally, he receives information of where his
birth mother is. He gets on a plane with his wife, Nancy (Patricia
Arquette), and the adoption agency associate that he is working with, Tina
(Téa Leoni). Together they all fly to San Diego only to discover that there
has been some terrible mistake--this woman in San Diego is not his birth
mother. 

Well, I won't ruin the rest of this hilarious and ongoing plot for you. I
guarantee that you will laugh sometime in this movie...whether it is at the
little old lady in the bed and breakfast, or when Tina maces the church
workman in San Diego.

<|_=00=_|>
I'm under the impression that 'Flirting With Disaster' JUST isn't
getting the respect it totally deserves. No special DVD or anything, it
just sits there, waiting to be discovered. I saw this when it first hit
the theater, and I have it on VHS (yeah yeah I know, I'm just waiting
for the special edition DVD to come out!). I love the plot of this one.
Ben Stiller travels with his perfectly cast wife, Patricia Arquette and
the adoption agency agent, played by Tia Leoni to try to discover his
parents who gave him up for adoption. He needs to have a sense of
closure, and also to give a name to his son. He probably didn't realize
that this would involve Indian wrestling, truck driving lessons, or a
married male couple of FBI agents. The story just piles one hilarious
situation after another. I've seen this film at LEAST 10 times and I
STILL laugh out loud. It's just THAT funny!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most intriguing thoughts about anyone that has been adopted,
and knowing about it, is trying to imagine what the real parents are
like. Since much of the search will not happen until the adopted
children reach a certain age nothing prepare them to accept the reality
of how they came into this world and what motivated those parents to
give them up in the first place.

Such is the dilemma that Mel Coplin faces. He has been adopted by a
Jewish couple, Ed and Pearl, who have done well in bringing him up; Mel
is a well adjusted man. After his own son is born, he decides to track
down his natural parents. With the help of a young woman of the
adoption agency, Tina, he and his wife, Nancy, embark in a trip to find
the parents he never knew.

What seemed to be an easy task, Mel who is traveling with Nancy and the
baby, plus Tina, turns out to be a complicated journey as the agency
has botched the adoption papers and this quartet has to go through two
sets of possible parents without any luck. When they finally get to the
real parents, Mel is probably thinking if trying to meet his real
family was worth all the trouble.

"Flirting with Disaster" is at times a road movie because of the many
turns the story takes Mel and his own family. David O. Russell directed
the film with great sense of style as he takes us along. Ben Stiller,
who still had not made a splash in the movies, is impressive as the
likable Mel, who gets much more than what he bargained for. Tea Leoni
who is seen as Nancy, made a terrific impression on us when we saw the
film originally. She proves here why she was destined for bigger and
better things. Her inter action with Ben Stiller is the best thing in
the film.

The rest of the cast is excellent. Mary Tyler Moore's Pearl Coplin is
one of the best things she has done in her career. She makes this woman
real. George Segal, a great comedy actor with great timing, appears as
Ed Coplin. Patricia Arquette, who is Nancy, doesn't have much to do
because she plays Nancy, the most grounded person in the film. Alan
Alda and Lily Tomlin are the real parents, who are former hippies from
New Mexico and in spite of being older, they still are young at heart
doing the same things they did when they were younger.

"Flirting with Disaster" owes a lot to David O. Russell who also wrote
the screen play and is a natural for this type of comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

FLIRTING WITH DISASTER (1996) **** Ben Stiller, Patricia Arquette, Tea
Leoni, Alan Alda, Mary Tyler Moore, George Segal, Lily Tomlin, Richard
Jenkins, Josh Brolin.  Hilarious and wickedly sharp satire about a young man
(Stiller in a memorable turn) searching for his identity by trying to locate
his biological parents while alienating his neglected and lovely wife (the
yummy Arquette) and Leoni (simply wonderful) as his adoption broker.  Fine
ensemble cast (especially Moore in an inconoclastic poke at her image) and
Alda (ditto).  Subversive good, clean fun and seriously dysfunctional family
values (thank God!) from filmmaker David O. Russell beating the Sophomore
Jinx (in this his second turn at the helm).
<|_=00=_|>
David O. Russell's 1996 flick "Flirting with Disaster" might not leave
the audience feeling dirty afterward like his prior work "Spanking the
Monkey", but what it lacks in controversy it makes up for in over the
top wackiness. This is modern-day dark edged screwball comedy that
would like make master filmmaker Howard Hawks ("His Girl Friday",
"Bringing Up Baby") proud.

Russell's film weaves the ludicrous story of a thirty year old, first
time father who can't overcome the challenges of not knowing his birth
parents enough to see his wife's sexual advances or even give his kid a
name. Who else could we expect to see in a role so heavily stacked with
Murphy's Law possibilities than that consummate lovable loser Ben
Stiller? Before we know it he, his wife, and an incompetent adoption
case worker set out to meet his birth parents.

What follows is the full range of comedic possibilities from the
standard road trip to off-the-wall characterizations, mistaken
identity, love triangles, attempted murder, and armpit fetishism.
Somehow it all flows so brilliantly that all of the craziness becomes
quite plausible in what turns out to be a film that is a bit charming
and damn funny.
<|_=00=_|>
Flirting with Disaster (1996)

This is one of those movies that's just plain stupid in such a funny
way you'll likely laugh out loud a lot. And you'll finish thinking it's
a pretty stupid movie. The ending in particular makes you wonder what
all the build up was about since it diffuses, as if the writers ran out
of conflicts (or solutions) and raised their hands in surrender.

But on the way there is one funny gag after another. And a whole slew
of excellent actors doing their zany best. Some of them have very brief
(and contained) appearances, for sure--Lily Tomlin and Alan Alda, for
example, in a hilarious section of the movie with little connection to
the rest of it. In fact, the whole movie is broken into spasmodic
sections, held together mostly by the three leading leads (there are
lots of main characters): Ben Stiller (looking for his biological
parents), Patricia Arquette (his suffering, sweet wife), and Tea Leoni
(the mentally incomplete but skinny and sexy interloper). 

Stiller isn't actually totally funny by himself, but acts like more of
a foil for all the crazy things happening around him (this is his style
on purpose, a kind of regular guy in an irregular world). Arquette is
almost too normal for this abnormal world, but that's fine, she's
likable, and is meant to be the loving wife who doesn't quite know how
zany the events around her are. At first. Leoni has a terrific way of
making nutty faces and being just slightly insane without being just
stupid (the way Will Ferrell is just stupid in a different kind of
humor). 

There are gay jokes and jokes about LSD and a general playing of an
ultra-licentious world against what seems to be a normal human desire
to connect with your genetic parents, unknown to you. The mistakes
along the way are what make it hilarious. Until the end, where it maybe
is trying to say, "Oh well, everything is okay in a world where
anything goes." Sure. Pop the big bubble, but on the way it's a gas. No
pun intended.
<|_=00=_|>

Comedies like this are a real rarerity, especially nowadays.  You almost
never see a movie thats this intelligent and funny.  Ben Stiller is
hilarious as the man who is traveling around the US to find his biological
parents.  Lily Tomlin and Alan Alda are hilarious as well as his biological
parents.  This is definately a must see comedy, and I very rarely give
comedies good reviews.  ***1/2 out of ****.
<|_=00=_|>

Maybe called "Deconstructing Mel."  Ben Stiller, his wife Patricia Arquette,
and an adoption agency representative, Tea Leoni, go on the road in search
of Stiller's "birth parents."  Ben is nervous and mostly passive.  His wife
apologizes for having put on weight during her recent pregnancy.  The
statuesque Leoni and Stiller find themselves attracted to one another,
although neither is ready for an affair.  

The search takes them to San Diego where Stiller's mother turns out to be a
materialistic nonentity with two radiantly healthy daughters, a big ranch
house, a collection of glass zodiac figures, and no brains.  It turns out to
have been a mistake.  

They next find themselves in Michigan where Stiller's father is an ex-Hell's
Angel who now drives a truck and twits Stiller for looking Jewish.  This is
also a mistake.

Next stop, Antelope Wells, New Mexico, navel of the universe, where
Stiller's parents are revealed to be a couple of aging hippies, Alda and
Tomlin, with a lunatic son who is a selfish and jealous young man who doses
the quail dinner and sends one of the visitors on an unwitting acid trip. 
Oh, the trio of investigators has picked up a male couple who are married. 
One of them is Arquette's ex-boyfriend and likes to lick her
armpit.

Stiller's parents of orientation, a nice Jewish couple, show up
unexpectedly, there is a mix up of vehicles, and Stiller's adoptive father,
George Segal, gets caught by the police with his arms full of dope. 

Despite all the travel, the movie doesn't really go anywhere in particular. 
Oddball is heaped upon oddball, gag upon gag.  Stiller stutters a good deal,
and there is a lot of overlapping nervous chatter, and people normalize all
over the place --  Alda explains that after Stiller was born, he, Alda, and
Tomlin spent some time in the slams but it was for nothing.  Less important
than a speeding ticket.  It wasn't even illegal.  Or it shouldn't have been.
 Everyone was making LSD in those days and "it's not addicting."

The question isn't really whether the movie assumes the morphology of a
Woody Allen movie, but whether it gets its job done -- and it does.  As far
as that goes, the situational and conversational gags are funnier than many
of those in Woody's recent movies.  And if the movie lacks depth, well,
that's okay.  "Deconstructing Harry" didn't have much depth either, and
neither did most of Charlie Chaplin.  

If the style is a little irritating it's because we've seen it and heard it
so often before.  But the jokes are usually funny.  The performers are up to
the task and the pace never drags.  The direction is well handled too. 
Example:  Segal and Mary Tyler Moore discover that they are driving the
wrong car, now immobilized on the highway, that it may not be theirs.  "Look
in the trunk and see if our baggage is there," says Moore.  Segal rummages
through the trunk hysterical with worry.  No luggage.  Just a lot of junk in
bags and briefcases, which Segal tears open to find that his trunk is now
loaded with illegal drugs.  The cops come and catch him.  But the director
doesn't spell out the entire ordeal for us.  Gradually, as Segal stares at
the drug factory in his hands, and as he starts shouting at Moore, we see
that blinking red lights are beginning to light up the scene and we hear a
car pull to a stop off camera.  (We see no car, no cops, and we hear no
voices.)  Segal, still holding the paraphernalia, turns towards the source
of the red light wordlessly, with an idiotic smile.  Dissolve.  A less
trusting director would have taken us through the entire encounter with the
police, the two big brutes in intimidating uniforms and their baritone
voices, Segal's and Moore's silly attempts at an explanation.  But what we
see, though truncated, is funnier because it prompts our imagination to fill
in the rest of the scene.  

Not badly done.  Amusing, really.
