

This is a wonderful experience. Never mind that the acting is poor and the
story weak --that was never the point. This film was made because DePalma
knows how to make his camera dance and wanted to make a film based on that
notion.

A central question in most art concerns the role of the viewer. This
dominated easel painting, then was the center of evolution of the novel and
now sits at the core of thought about film. Is the viewer an omniscient God,
or can the viewer be fooled like a person? Is the viewer a passive observer,
or does she `walk' with the participants as an invisible character? So many
clever questions.

DePalma thinks the camera is a whole new thing, The camera is a type of
character, part narrator, part actor, part god. It can lie, be fooled,
search curiously, document, play jokes. So this is a film about the camera's
eyes. `Snake' both because the camera can snake around following Cage, going
places that Cage cannot, but also `snake' because the camera sees with
forked tongue.

So we have one seemingly continuous shot of the key scene, which is played
first from Cage's perspective, then the fighter's, the Navy guy, the Girl,
then the cop again, and finally the `flying eye.' Along the way, every eye
trick DePalma can think of is woven in:

--The girl's glasses are crushed so she sees less than the
audience

--The whole mess is about what a satellite sees

--The casino has 1000 cameras which our own eyes coopt

--The thing is framed by the TV eye

--God-like, we scan over several hotel rooms while Cage and Sinese are stuck
in the hallway maze

--Splitscreen simultaneity

--The whole thing is in real time, as if you were living in the
action

This is masterfully intellectual. See it. Forget the story.
<|_=00=_|>

Overblown, overdirected, overacted: that's why I always enjoy DePalma's
movies.  He made the statement that the camera lies 24 times a second, and
SNAKE EYES plays on that theme.

De Palma's camera is constantly in motion, roaming through the arena, casino
, and hotel as if it had a life of its own.  At the beginning of the film we
watch Nick Santoro (Nicolas Cage) as he swims through the sewer (his words)
that is the Atlantic City casino world.  He tells us, "This isn't a beach
town.  It's a sewer.  It's my sewer, I am the king."

It's literally a dark and stormy night.  A hurricane (a tv reporter is
pressured to refer to it as a 'tropical depression' on the air) is coming
ashore, and 14,000 people are gathered at a casino complex to watch a
prizefight.

There's a shooting during the fight, and Cage orders the exits sealed; who
would go outside into a hurricane remains a mystery, but anyhow.  There are
two mysterious women involved in the incident, and as time passes he
realizes that there were lots of people involved, possibly even his
longtime friend Navy Commander Dunne (Gary Sinese) who is as straight-arrow
as Cage's character is sleazy.

By the end of the story Cage is working toward redemption- even though
during the early part of the film it's made clear that he sees everything
as having a price.

There's one point where he is offered a million dollars to reveal where one
of the women (she knows a lot- too much- about a defense contract, and was
talking to the Secretary of Defense when he was shot) is hiding.  And there
's a very real chance that he might give in, or be unable to protect her
when the danger gets intense.

Men in De Palma's films have a way of failing to come through for women in
critical situations.  An executive couldn't save his wife in OBSESSION.  A
young actor couldn't protect a mysterious, beautiful woman in BODY DOUBLE. 
The nicest guy in school couldn't keep the outcast/prom queen CARRIE from
humiliation and its awful consequences.  In the superb BLOW OUT a movie
soundman rescues a young woman from a sinking car early in the story, but
is too late to save her from a madman at the film's conclusion.

So there is no guarantee of a happy ending.  Self doubt weighs heavily in De
Palma's films, and often people's best efforts are to no avail.

Admittedly David Koepp and De Palma's script is something of a problem. 
There's a complex conspiracy underfoot, and conspiracies are low on my list
of compelling things- I got burned out on them in the seventies.

Far more compelling is the great fun that Cage has with his character.  Boy,
does he get to chew scenery here.  Constantly in motion, talking on his
cell phone (even during a hurricane; some of my friends can't use theirs
when a cloud passes over the sun), interacting with the low life characters
around the casino.

And, oh, does DePalma have fun with the whole thing.  Of course, nothing is
what it seems to be.  He retells the action from the viewpoint of this or
that character: we sometimes literally see what happened through that
character's eyes.  An important setpiece in which we finally see what
really happened in clear perspective uses split screen imagery- and in the
theatre where we saw SNAKE EYES the use of stereo sound was an integral
part of the seperation of images.

For all the bravado of his performance, I was impressed with Cage's ability
and willingness to share the screen with other actors.  In some of the
retellings he is a supporting character or featured extra, and as an actor
he's more than willing to let our attention shift to someone else.  A
lesser actor might have been afraid of that shift of focus.  Way to go,
Nicolas.  That's a real sign of maturity as an actor.

So did I buy into De Palma's bag of tricks?  Yup, 100%.  It's nice to see a
movie that isn't afraid of the old razzle-dazzle.  I do appreciate subtlety
and complex ideas- that's why I'm a voracious reader.  I really don't think
I'd enjoy De Palma directing an adaptation of a Jane Austen novel or
REMEMBRANCE OF THINGS PAST.  The Merchant- Ivory people do that sort of
thing so nicely.  But it was nice to sit back for an hour and a half and
let a master showman use illusion to fool us and let our eyes fool our
brains.

On a five scale, Pops gives it four slot machines.   
<|_=00=_|>
Most people didn't like this movie, from what I have heard and read
over the years. Some of my friends who saw it didn't like it either.
For some reason, I did, and that was despite a few things I normally
don't put up with (too much usages of the Lord's name in vain and the
usual anti-military agenda.)

However, I found this a very fast-moving, involving story with Nicholas
Cage playing an extremely interesting person: "Rick Santoro," a guy who
acts like a complete crazy man at the beginning but slowly gets it
together as the film goes on. Gary Sinise plays his normal corrupt role
(this was before his CSI: New York days) and Carla Gugino was very easy
on my eyes.

Brian DePalma directed this, so you know it's going to be stylishly
shot, too. This looks really, really good on the recently-released
Blu-Ray.

All the characters are interesting, actually. One complaint I agree
with: the ending was a bit weak and detracts from the story. It's a
rough film but edgy and interesting. Don't be discouraged reading a lot
of negative reviews about this. It's good entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
Police detective Rick Santoro (Nick Cage) attends a championship boxing
match. Also attending is Navy Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise),
Rick's best friend. During the boxing match a bullet hits and kills US
Secretary of Defense Charles Kirkland. What follows is a real-time
mystery in which Santoro and Dunne seal off the boxing arena and work
together to find the assassins. As the film progresses, Santoro
gradually comes to realise that there's a conspiracy behind the
assassination and that Dunne is involved. Santoro, an unscrupulous cop
with a history of taking bribes, is thus faced with a choice: accept a
million dollar payoff to keep his mouth shut, or arrest his buddy.

Stanley Kubrick once observed that "most films don't have any purpose
other than to mechanically figure out what people want and to construct
some artificial form of entertainment for them." People seek the
familiar. Whether it be a familiar genre, actors, or a specific kind of
emotional gratification, films have become delivery systems for the
feelings that we crave. 

But director Brian De Palma is a bit of an anomaly. Like most of his
thrillers, "Snake Eyes" has its fangs firmly in the past - in this case
the conspiracy thrillers of Hitchcock, and Orson Welles' "Touch of
Evil" - and yet annoys those looking for familiarity precisely because
De Palma is relentless in bending the film toward his own private
concerns. And so, typical of De Palma, this is a film in love with
penetrating space, with shifting points of view, with explorations of
memory, vision and the corruption (match fixing, blackmail,
assassination, political spin) festering beneath all glitz. The script,
written by David Koepp, itself serves only as a framework for De Palma
to indulge in his fetish-like obsession with seeing, subjectivity and
the fallibility of images.

Unsurprisingly, "Eyes" begins with a shot of a globe shaped statue.
It's a nod to "Touch of Evil's" introductory Universal International
logo, another trashy B movie in which a seedy tale of moral
responsibility intersects with much camera wizardry. De Palma's camera
then picks up a fumbling news reporter, her off screen director and a
bank of television monitors, one of which shows Santoro jokingly
addressing a camera. What then follows is a 13 minute single take in
which De Palma gives us a tour of a boxing arena, familiarises us with
its layout, and introduces us to the film's key players.

The film spells out its concerns with this very first shot. The
reporter's monologue serves as a precursor to the elaborate long-take
that follows. One slip and everything must be restarted/re-staged for
the eye. The film is a technical exercise, a juggling match, framed
(begining and end) by the TV image. The globe and the thunder storm
will themselves appear later during the film's finale and Cage himself
is introduced as a vessel designed to command the lens. He's a
loudmouth centre of attention who, quite literally, learns to pay
attention to things outside himself.

Much of the rest of the movie revisits this 13 minutes single-take from
the perspective of different characters and cameras, none of whose
optics can be trusted. Like most De Palma films, "Eyes" is thus
primarily concerned with the dishonesty of the image. His camera is a
snake, constantly prowling, searching, scheming and lying. One
sequence, which recalls Jack Terry's patient rewind-and-play in "Blow
Out", has Santoro watching a boxing KO from varying angles, as he tries
to come to some measure of truth. Like Antonioni's "Blow Up", the film
overwhelms us with its sheer number of lenses, points of views and
visual trickery. A person can lie. A camera can lie. But a hundred
cameras will add up to the truth more surely than a hundred fallible
eyewitness accounts.

The first 70 minutes of "Snake Eyes" are crammed with bravura set
pieces and exhilarating camera work. The real star here is De Palma,
whose camera prowls the arena with relish, dipping, ducking and
whizzing back and forth. Cage, his character torn from the pages of
pulp magazines, does his best to match De Palma's bravado. His
performance is hilarious; seedy but with heart.

During the film's final ten minutes, however, the film loses steam.
There's no climax. But this ending was never intended. Like Orson
Welles, much of De Palma's filmography has been tampered. "Obsession"
had it's paedophillic sub-story removed by composer Bernard Herrmann, a
prudish Tom Cruise had all the romance and sex scenes cut out of
"Mission Impossible", "Black Dahlia" lost over 50 minutes of footage,
"Mission to Mars" was subject to budget cuts which resulted in an
abrupt last act and "Bonfire" was so rife with confusion that a book
was written (The Devil's Candy) detailing De Palma's troubles with
studios. "Get To Know Your Rabbit" and "Redacted" would face similar
problems.

The original ending of "Eyes" tied into the first shot, and included a
massive action/CGI sequence involving the previously seen globe and a
hurricane. This sequence was similar in tone to the end of "Femme
Fatale", in which noir fate comes crashing down. But the studio's
balked at the numbers and a cheaper ending was quickly tacked on. 

Still, the current ending is interesting in the way it pushes hard and
fast past a typical happy ending. Rather than being redeemed, Santoro
becomes a hero, only to be promptly brought up on corruption charges.
In De Palma's world, past sins are never forgotten.

8.9/10 - Spielberg and Fincher would later hire screenwriter David
Koepp for "War of the Worlds" and "Panic Room", two films likewise
preoccupied with cameras and space. Alfonso Cuaron would cite "Eyes" as
an influence on "Children of Men" and De Palma's overhead "God's eye"
tracking shot would be borrowed by Spielberg in "Minority Report".
"Eyes" made the top of many lists in France, but is treated with scorn
every where else. 

Worth multiple viewings.
<|_=00=_|>

** 1/2 out of ****

For nearly 80 minutes Snake Eyes is fascinating entertainment.  Not only is
the storyline engrossing, but the camerawork is truly brilliant and the
behind-the-scenes look of a boxing match is compelling.  Add to this two of
Hollywood's most talented actors in Nicolas Cage and Gary Sinise and you'd
expect an edge-of-the-seat, fast-paced, plot-twisting thriller.  Well, for
the most part the film works, but unfortunately bogs down with quite a bad
ending.

The film takes place during a boxing match in Atlantic City, which is
currently hounded by a raging tropical storm.  Detective Rick Santoro
(Nicolas Cage) is there to place some bets and watch the game with his best
friend, Commander Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise), the same man who is also
guarding the Secretary of Defense.

However, something goes wrong, Dunne is taken off position by a red-haired
woman, and the Secretary is shot by an assailant.  Dunne, in turn, manages
to take down the assassin, but an another crisis occurs when all the
spectators try to leave.  They're locked in, thus holding 14,000
eyewitnesses inside while Santoro tries to figure out what's truly going on
with the help of a mysterious young woman (Carla Gugino).

I've always been a fan of Brian De Palma and his films.  His movies are
never truly perfect masterpieces (then again, not much is), but this
director can make anything seem interesting, even if only in a visual
sense.
With Snake Eyes, the accomplished director has created his most visually
edgy and dazzling film to date, with camerawork that would stun even the
most hardened De Palma fan.  So much goes on here, to the point where it's
exhilarating.  The split-screens, first-person POVs, long-tracking shots
(thus, the famous 12-minute non-stop opening), aerial views, etc. all make
for an enthralling experience, all the more heightened if you're not
familiar with De Palma's works.

I remember the previews and commercials to this film, and they gave the
film
the look of a terrific thriller with a dynamic script.  It doesn't quite
happen like that.  There aren't particularly any plot twists (unless you
count that whole "phantom punch" but that was given away in the previews)
and the identity of the villain is laughably obvious.  The worst thing is,
the revelation behind the reasons for the shooting don't create much of a
sense of paranoia, which was prevalent in another De Palma thriller, Blow
Out.  Here, the motive is just a standard-issue conspiracy theory.  But the
worst is saved for last: the ending, which is De Palma's most disappointing
to date.  I'd rather not say what happens, other than the fact that the
weather gets a little too involved.

By this point, I seem to hold the film mostly in negative regard, but like
I
stated, the direction is breathtaking.  In addition, the performances are
often terrific.  The standouts are, of course, Nicolas Cage and Gary
Sinise.
Cage creates an entertaining character in Rick Santoro, one who initially
starts off as a wild maverick but settles down to a more calm and composed
person.  Sinise is equally superb as his best friend, Dunne.  Though this
film did put him in danger of typecasting, he did play an entirely
different
sort of character in Brian De Palma's most recent film, Mission to Mars.
The supporting cast is solid, with Carla Gugino getting the most
substantial screentime of the other performers.  She's decent, but is given
little to work with.

Obviously, Snake Eye's best moments are when De Palma gets to strut his
stuff, and he does manage to put in some suspense, though not to the best
of
his abilities.  I mean, this is the man who crafted the train station
shootout in The Untouchables, the bullet train finale in Mission:
Impossible, the chainsaw scene and the bloody finale of Scarface, and the
spacewalk in Mission to Mars.  Here, we get a chase as Cage's character and
the villain are after Gugino without the other knowing there's actually a
pursuit.  It's a mildly clever sequence, but never seems quite as tense as
it should be.

I suppose in terms of entertainment value, Snake Eyes does get the job
done,
but it feels too shallow and superficial to be wholly satisfying.  Had the
ending matched the previous material, this would have been grand
entertainment.  What we get is still often first-rate, but is also slightly
disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie caught my attention on cable as I was flipping channels. The
mystery and the setup were great. The placement of suspicious events was
great. At one point, I even commented to myself, "this is a good f---in'
movie!" Boy was I wrong.

As the story unfolded, you wish it didn't. It's a good movie before you find
out what's going on. Then the plot holes, cheesy dialogue, outrageously
contrived situations, and just plain comical story progression spread like
wildfire. It's almost as if someone came up with a great story idea and then
left it in the hands of a high school scriptwriting hobbyist.

The investigation of the murder of the US Defense Secretary in front of
14,000 witnesses is left up to one city cop and one military security
officer who are best friends? People are running around a casino and being
able to stay hidden? I better stop there because if I start listing plot
holes and stupid scenarios, we'll never get out of here. I'm trying really
hard not to comment on the end. It's like whoever was writing the script got
tired of writing and just threw something together so he could rest his
fingers and get paid.

However, if you can not focus on the bad writing (kinda like not focusing on
a speeding train heading towards you), the style of the film is quite
interesting. I liked how the story (terrible as it was) unfolded through the
different angles and points of view of different people. The timing and
placement of action were executed well. 

It's too bad that a movie has to rely on something as minor as a script in
order to be good.

-----SPOILER-----

I like Gary Sinise. He's a good actor. But unfortunately, he's usually
typecast as a bad guy, so I kinda suspected he was involved all
along.


<|_=00=_|>
I'm a sucker for the steady-cam. Scorsese's famous
entry-to-the-nightclub scene in Goodfellas that was so perfectly aped
by Jon Favreau and co. in the wonderful Swingers is probably still the
daddy, but the shot that glides around Mark Wahlberg to the sultry
strains of 'Best of my Love' in Boogie Nights runs it pretty close. For
sheer audacity though, you need look no further than the opening
section of Brian De Palma's Snake Eyes.

I own a thesaurus and am fairly adept at the old 'Shift+F7' trick, but
this scene left me clutching thin air for superlatives. The beauty is,
it comes from nothing. The film opens up on ground that is not so much
well trodden as mercilessly stamped upon: A local news reporter
helpfully sets the scene for all her faithful viewers and of course,
for all of us too.

But from the moment she hands over to her colleague inside an Atlantic
City casino, banality is banished. What follows is a mesmerising,
one-take, directorial tour de force. It is fight night and we follow
bent copper Rick Santoro (Nicolas Cage) as he swaggers around making
shady deals and collaring nefarious snitches for bribes and pay-offs.
He checks in on heavyweight boxer Lincoln Tyler (Stan Shaw) who is
preparing for the feature bout and then goes in to the arena. There he
meets up with old chum Kevin Dunne (Gary Sinise) who is head of
security for the evening and settles down for the action. 

The fight doesn't last long. Tyler is caught by a massive haymaker in
the first round and windmills backwards. At the same time a sniper high
in the rafters takes aim and assassinates the US Defence Secretary who
is seated just behind Santoro. Chaos ensues and the curtain closes on
the first act with the camera swirling upwards at the end of its long
journey. Unbelievably fifteen minutes have passed by the time De Palma
shouts cut.

Impressive stuff. Indeed, De Palma seems so pleased with the shot that
he decides to hang the whole movie on it, revisiting events from
different perspectives using flashback and CCTV footage as Santoro
tries to piece together what has happened.

Sadly, from such high, heady beginnings, Snake Eyes has a long way to
fall. And fall it does. Spectacularly. Nose-dives would be a better
assessment.

Cage does his best, rolling out both familiar personas: the extravagant
clown and the intense, introspective everyman, but he can't fight his
way through a clunker of a plot. 

Conspiracy-wise, I don't suppose it would be an outrageous spoiler for
me to mention that Dunne is up to his neck in it. If you want to shroud
your movie in ambiguity, you are probably better off not casting Gary
Sinise as the villain of the piece. Let's face it: he's no Jimmy
Stewart. Sinise must be one of the shiftiest looking men on the planet
– the furrowed brow, those furtive eyes - the military uniform simply
tops off the caricature of a disillusioned ex-soldier with a chip on
his shoulder. I wouldn't buy a used car from him, let alone put him in
charge of security of an event attended by a major dignitary.

The acting is not bad, the cinematography remains slick and glossy
throughout – even the direction is solid and unpretentious – but the
lesson here is that nothing will work if you don't have a story. This
is insipid nonsense that meanders along pointlessly and then
confusingly and abruptly just ends. There is no steady build up of
tension and no devious twist. Instead we have a bizarre and strangely
out of place postscript which is probably an attempt to cleverly keep
the camera rolling beyond the standard good triumphing over evil,
lovers clinch, stretch out into widescreen and roll credits finale that
closes most action flicks.

It backfires spectacularly. Rather than being innovative and
bittersweet, the last scene is irritating and mildly deflating. Action
heroes are meant to be flawed, we don't want to watch them screwing up
their lives, we know they are gamblers and alcoholics. I would rather
see them save the day, kiss the girl and I'll take the rest on faith
thank you very much.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Director Brian DePalma has always been excellent at letting the visual image
 speak for itself (like Hitchcock, with whom he is often compared).  In 
"Snake Eyes",  the juxtaposed and multi-angled images are captivating for a
 while, until you realize how unsuspenseful the story quickly becomes.  Once
 all the key players and plot elements are revealed, the film seems to have
 nowhere to go and resorts to those hokey flashback devices where we see the
 events play out differently via each character's recollection.   Cage and
 Sinise do the best they can with the material, but they lack real
 motivation, mirroring the film's lack of direction.  This particularly
 hurts Sinise's characterization which starts out solid, then is set adrift
 mid-way through the film, and winds up completely contrived by the
 end.
Overall a disappointment, but maybe not a bad rental if you are a Nicholas
 Cage fan.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes, I concur, the film has the feature that dooms any movie including
Stanley Kubrick's only bomb: THE KILLING. When will directors figure
out that temporal streaming or showing the movie from each individuals
point of view then trying to tie them all together is an utter
disaster. MOMENTO, VANTAGE POINT both suffered from the same fatal
flaw. This is still a great movie. It has great moral depth like all of
the master Brian De Palma's works. I love two images in this movie.
When Rick sees the money on the floor covered in blood, he finally gets
it. He understands the price that is paid for that money. What a piece
of work, a handful of geniuses could use visuals like that: Leone,
Kubrick and Hitch. The other when bleeding from the mouth Rick flings
blood on Kevin's medals, see the anger of Kevin's face, yes that is how
you got those. What intelligence in the use of imagery to save whole
pages of boring dialogue. Also, in an amoral, decadent age it is quite
wise to be cryptic. You are not allowed to be openly moral with pagan
atavists. 

You want to know the theme of the movie? Cage recites it at the end of
the movie to Julia; he tells her hundreds of years ago pirates put
lights on those rocks to lure ships to their doom. Then they would run
out kill them and steal their goods. Rick says the only thing that has
changed is that the lights are brighter. De Palma is always attacked
for his sex and violence but his films are deeply moral. Everyone
remember the black angel of death looming over Nancy Allen's head in
BLOW OUT. She had caused another's death and had to be punished. Same
with DRESSED TO KILL, watch the innocent little girl stare at Angie
Dickinson before she is killed; her promiscuity sealed her doom. De
Palma always is deeply moral beneath all the sex and violence like his
master: Hitch. Here Kevin's patriotism will not save him from his
impending doom, we watch as his masterful planning and meticulous using
of people, including Rick, falls apart before his eyes. 

Like Hitch, immoral people are punished by the hand of God, through
deadly fate. Things just go apart on them. He was so sure Rick was
venal beyond redemption; he never understood that, like many slightly
evil people, they like the damage done to their advantage carefully
kept out of sight. Rick knows what Kevin is saying is true; he knew all
his corruption would come out and he would be destroyed but he
stammers: I NEVER KILLED ANYONE BEFORE. Kevin tries to reassure him,
just do what you do best, look the other way I will take care of it.
This is when DePalma has Rick stare at the money soaked in blood upon
the floor. What a work of art!!! Yes, I took three stars off for the
temporal juxtaposition that wrecks what could have been another BLOW
OUT. If you want to see a deeply moral, fast moving, exciting,
suspenseful film made by one of our greatest directors, Brian De Palma,
watch this movie. Hitch would have loved this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
A movie with excellent plot twists combined with outstanding
camera work.

