
I like this movie, it's not the best action movie, but is very good.
The movie doesn't have the best acting and the writing and the
beginning is so-so, but it picks up and gets a lot better as the movie
goes on. If you ever feel like watching a solid action movie, I say
pick this one up. Or if you just want to watch crazy Gary Busey act
like Gary Busey.

This movie is about a homeless man (ICE T) that loses everything twice.
Then takes a job with some business men (Rutger Hauer and Charles S.
Dutton) to help hunt in a isolated place. Ice T soon finds out that
they are hunting a deadlier game...

This movie is well worth the rental fee. You might surprise yourself
and like it.
<|_=00=_|>

Entertaining movie, especially for the fans of the short story, The Most
 Dangerous Game.  Rapper/Actor Ice-T (Richochet, New Jack City) is a
 homeless man hired by a bunch of rich people to help them in their hunt. 
 Soon he realizes that he is the prey.  The rich hunters are led by Rutger
 Hauer (Nighthawks, Mr. Stich).  The hunters are equipped with different
 types of guns and smaller vehicles, while Ice-T is forced to use his street
 smarts to beat them in the secluded wilderness.  The other hunters include
 Gary Busey (Point Break, Lost Highway), F. Murray Abraham (Amadeus, Mimic),
 Charles S. Dutton (Rudy, Alien 3), and John McGilney (The Rock, Nothing To
 Lose).  This is a fast paced movie, although the first half hour is mainly
 character development for Ice-T.  It is very entertaining, the script's
 dialogue is fairly poor, but who cares in an action movie.  Ice-T does a
 good job at making you want him to win.  Rutger Hauer, Charles S. Dutton,
 F. Murray Abraham are all good at being evil, but the best performance of
 the bad guys is John McGilney who has an extra reason to want to kill a
 homeless man.  The movie is a solid hour and a half of entertainment, but
 don't be expecting anything more.
<|_=00=_|>

There are a few effective concepts in action films which are used over and
over again. "Surviving the Game" uses one which was over 60 years old when
the movie was made and still works like a charm. Made in 1932, "The Most
Dangerous Game" is a movie about a group of people who are hunted for sport.
Over the years this concept has been successfully used in big films like
John Woo's "Hard Target" (which premiered less than a year before this film)
as well as in DTV-films like the Lorenzo Lamas-actioner "Final
Round".

The formula works. Although these films rarely offer anything new (you
pretty much know the ending before the film has even started), they are very
entertaining if the hero is someone who you want to win and the villains are
suitably evil. "Surviving the Game" fills this order and throws in some
energetic action sequences directed by Ernest R. Dickerson (I also enjoyed
his "Bulletproof" a lot).

Ice-T is the hero here. When the film starts, he has no money, no family, no
friends and is ready to kill himself. But when he receives a job as a
hunting guide from a wealthy businessman (played by Rutger Hauer), he wants
to put his life in order again. But after a good meal where Ice meets the
rest of the hunters (including Gary Busey and Charles Dutton), the hunt
begins and he suddenly realizes that he's the prey. Now, he must use all his
strength and wit to survive.

The cast is perfect. While there are no huge stars, these people know the
genre and obviously had a great time filming this movie. And there isn't any
fault in the production values either. There are beautiful sceneries, a good
score by Stewart Copeland and some neat stunts. The script by Eric Bernt
(Virtuosity, Romeo Must Die) creates some quite interesting villains and the
dialogue, while not perfect, works reasonably well. Luckily Bernt knows that
he's writing an action film and doesn't even try to include any deep
relationships or hidden meanings in his script.

At the end of the day, this is a good action film which is guaranteed to
entertain a fan of this genre for 90 minutes. It's not the best action film
ever but it's definitely above-average. This one gets an
8.
<|_=00=_|>
Now I won't go as far as saying that it is the ultimate in
survival-action (I think DELIVERANCE still ranks at number 1), but damn
this movie rocks! I personally think it kicks more ass than RAMBO:
FIRST BLOOD. As a matter of fact, wouldn't it be fun to have John Rambo
an Jack Mason test their survival skills and see who wins? I haven't
seen HARD TARGET yet (I'm not much of a Van Damme fan even though I'm
from Belgium), but it can't get much better than this, no? 

I'll spare you the plot, everybody seems to know it anyway.

I remember when going into this movie the first fifteen minutes
(regardless the intercut scenes of a man being killed in the woods) I
was thinking: "What's this? Another lame getho-drama with Ice-T playing
a homeless bum? You gotta be kiddin' me!" Then Rutger Hauer comes in,
playing it cool, doing the proposal. Interesting. Five minutes later
the seven man are in the cabin in the woods eating porc. Amusing.
Another five minutes later the hunt begins, ergo, the fun and violence
start! 

Dear people, when you watch this (type of) movie, please forget about
minor unrealistic details like "Why does a city-boy like Jack Mason
take the job as a hunting-guide in the first place?" (Heck, I'll even
give you an answer: The man's got nothing to lose!) or "This type of
shotgun is not able to cut down a tree that size" (I even asked myself
that question for a second. Maybe it's got altered bullets. Who knows
what these crazy man-hunting psycho's cooked up for the hunt?). Anyway,
my point is: you don't ask yourself these kind of questions for this
type of movie.

The fast-paced action and the violent killings are all above average
and the hunt itself is competently shot, but what makes this movie even
more pleasant to watch, are the actors and their fine performances.
Ice-t is fun to watch, delivering his lines in that well-known
nigga-slang of his. And the torment the poor man goes through makes you
really want him to win the game. Then there's Rutger Hauer. I tell you:
He's the man! He injects his role with such a cold-hearted sadistic
pleasure which I haven't seen him do since THE HITCHER. Excellent! (On
a personal note: If they can make Arnold Schwarzenegger a governor,
then Rutger Hauer should be made president. The man played a
philosophizing replica in BLADE RUNNER and a peace-bringing cyborg in
OMEGA DOOM, for Christ's sake, so eat it, Arnie). And what about Gary
Busey playing the tough talking' Doc. When he told the story about the
dog when he was a boy, I mean, you just got to love 'em: 100% Gary
Busey doing his thing. All the other actors did a good job too (I sure
had some fun watching John C. McGinley as the asthma-puffin'
over-determined hunting rich-boy on the verge of a nervous breakdown).

By giving the hunters background stories and meaningful lines to say,
the scriptwriters made the characters interesting and real. Something
you don't expect from an action-flick.

My favorite death-scene: Charles S. Dutton gets blown to pieces. Hauer
kneels down by his dying remains and puts his hands on Charles' head,
saying something along the lines of "It's time to go to sleep now...".
Harsh, man, harsh!

To wrap it all up, we have a good musical score by Stewart Copeland and
a solid & clever ending. So, if you're a fan of any of the actors
mentioned above, this film is a must see! If you're not a fan of the
actors mentioned above, then why did you read this in the first place?
<|_=00=_|>

This was New Line Cinema's 1994 response to Universal Picture's 'Hard
Target'(1993).  Though the character development and plot played out much
better and the movie reviews prove this is the better movie to watch, it is
no doubt that it is very close in story line to the Van Damme
film.

A Seattle strung out alley man, down on his last stroke of will is given an
opportunity to bring his life around in finance and come out on top for
once.  The catch is he is to be in the company of a group of poachers on a
trip away from the mainland.  The Seattle man agrees and is greeted with
mostly open arms at a private cabin somewhere in the open Pacific
wilderness.  He finds out the next day he's to run for his life or end up as
a formaldehyde trophy head.

The action is quite intense and brings into play thoughts of what a person
might try to do if they were put into the same position. 

Using an excellent cast and a decent story development this movie is
definitely one worth renting a few times or even adding to your video
collection.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an interesting film all right. The story takes it's inspiration
from the Richard Connell 1924 short story 'Suriving the Game'. It's not
a new idea, but it's one of the best takes on it.

Anyway, on to the meat of the story. The main character is the homeless
Jack Mason (Ice-T) who quickly decided that he's sick of life. However,
he's saved in the nick of time by a seemingly well-meaning man named
Cole (playerd by the incomparable Charles S. Dutton). Cole managed to
convince Mason to give life another try by offering him a job. The
stories a little slow in the beginning, but things start picking up
when Mason goes for the interview and meets the man he'll be working
for, Burns (Rutger Hauer of Ladyhawk fame.) Mason manages to land the
job and a few scenes later he's in the wilderness. This is where the
story really starts rolling- we get to meet the remaining four
characters of the story. The group includes nut-job Doc Hawkins, played
by Gary Busy. Wolfe Sr. (F. Murray Abraham) a wall street cutthroat,
and his naive son Wolfe Jr.. The last person we get to meet is Griphon
(John C. McGinley, Dr. Cox from 'Scrubs')who seems ready to flip out at
any moment.

Well, dinner commences and everyone get to know each other, and Mason
goes to bed... Only to wake up with gun in his face. We knew this would
happen, but it's just as fun to see him tossed out into the wilderness
amidst threats and jeers from everyone (save for Jr- who's freaking
out). Mason is left with little choice but to run like hell as the
hunters have breakfast.

What I like about this story is that each of the hunters aren't 2D
killers- they've all got complex back stories and both their's and
Mason's are woven into the story as it progresses... Hawkins and
Griphon argue over who'll get Mason first while Wolfe browbeats his son
into going along ("He's a homeless piece of trash. Nothing... less then
nothing!") The group sets out on ATVs and motorcycles, brandishing
everything from automatic shotguns to crossbows.

However, like the novella, the prey turns out to be a little better
than they expected. Cole and Burns smile (in their own subtext riddled
way)- declaring that Mason's doubled back to the cabin... something
that's never happened before.

Sufice to say, the group burst into the Cabin. Hawkins and Wolfe Sr.
rush inside just as Burns realizes it's a trap. The cabin explodes
(thanks to a trap set by Mason)as the hunters narrowly gets out...
There's a great moment where Hawkins tries to kill Mason. "I like my
meat rare!" Only to have things turned on him as he's thrown back into
the cabin as Mason utters "try well done!" However, as the men take
note of the situation, they discover that Hawkins has been killed.
Burns smiles and remarks "This is where it gets good." ...And it does!
The remaining men set after Mason. Jr continues to try and get the hell
out of this situation, but his father is set on making a man out of him
("You're not going to embarrass me.")They start splitting up when they
get a whiff of Mason, only to fall for another trick. This time, it's
Griphon who get's waylaid by Mason.

The hunters continue after Mason. Burns makes it clear that he's more
concerned with getting Mason then rescuing Griphon. Eventually, Griphon
returns, remarking that he was let go but has no idea where Mason went
(now armed with HIS Shotgun. Griphon want's out- he's ready to get his
act together and leave. But Burns lets Cole shoot him- who's grinning
the whole time! Jr flips out at this point and his father attempts to
calm him down- trying to pin both deaths on Mason's shoulders! A
potshot at the group tips Burns and Cole off to Mason's whereabouts.
The three of them had been trading insults (over little headsets) back
in forth amusingly, till Cole gets feat up with it and hops onto his
ATV- triggering one of the raddest deaths on screen. (Mason had jimmied
with the thing earlier)Cole's death sets off Burns, who'd been having a
ball up till that moment. He's tired of the game- he want's Mason dead.

There's a nice exchange between Sr and Jr. "...It wasn't supposed to be
like this." "How the F*ck was it supposed to be?!" The two of them
follow Burns more out of fear then any desire to hunt.

For the entire film, the music has been solid, the editing great, and
the shooting set to vivid cephia tones and arrays of greens. But the
visuals get really cool when night falls (by this point, a trap had
killed Jr and Wolfe openly remarks "after we kill Mason, I'm going to
settle things with you." Burns just grins at this and welcomes the
death challenge). Everything is set in strong blacks and dark blues as
the two men wait for Mason to come after them...

And he does! Wolfe, starts freaking out even more and throws his gun
away- challenging Mason to a fight. The bit where he turns around in
time to see Ice-T's ghostly face point blank is brilliant! ...The movie
should have ended in the woods. With it down to Burns and Mason, the
confrontation would have been more then enough. This is really the
biggest weakness of the film is the '2nd ending' aspect. Abraham has an
academy award, but overacts in a couple of scenes (one of them critical
to his character!) The "cave scene" is rather silly, but forgivable.
Still, it's a good movie for the most part and fun to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
The "manhunt" action/suspense premise may perhaps be nearly as old as
cinema itself, but it's also one that practically always guarantees a
bloody good time! I've seen several film versions of the hunting-humans
concept and loved them all; except for one (the abominable 60's bore
"Bloodlust!"). Irving Pichel and Ernest B. Schoedsack's original 30's
classic "The Most Dangerous Game" undoubtedly remains the greatest
version, but I particularly love how there exist numerous variations on
the theme, like an excessively violent one set on a futuristic prison
island ("Blood Camp Thatcher") or a super-sleazy one where they
exclusively hunt scarcely dressed girls (Eddie Romero's "The Woman
Hunt"). "Surviving the Game" is a rather rudimentary re-working of the
premise, but nonetheless a very effective one with a downright awesome
cast listing and a handful of genuine shocks. Jack Mason is an
embittered and suicidal homeless man who loses his last will to live
when both his dog and best friend in one day. The sly businessman
Thomas Burns lures Mason to the wilderness with a false job promise,
but instead he and his maniacal rich friends simply intend to hunt down
Mason like an animal and kill him for sports. Mason may be suicidal,
but he still wants to decide for himself when he dies, and so he
successfully fights back. "Surviving the Game" is quite a gruesome and
nihilistic-toned film; definitely not for people with vulnerable
stomachs. The violence is pretty gratuitous and served without any form
of morality, but what else do you expect from a B-movie. As indicated
above, the film's main trump is the cast and particularly because each
and every cool actor depicts a marvelously eccentric character. I can't
even pick a favorite performance between F. Murray Abraham (as a
sinister Wall Street big shot), Gary Busey (as an out-and-out deranged
FBI psychiatrist), the overacting John C. McGinley (as a frustrated
hunter with a vengeance) or of course Rutger Hauer as the mega-bastard.
Ernest Dickerson – formerly a skilled cinematographer – does an
admirable job directing his first long feature and he went on making
the vastly entertaining Tales from the Crypt movie "Demon Knight". The
forestry filming locations are impressive, the story doesn't contain
any dull or unnecessary padding sequences and the level of suspense is
continuously kept high. I don't know about you but that's everything I
look for in an action movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This was a movie I fell in favor of instantly, seeing a man on the run for
his life from a band of sadistic hunters whose prey are humans rather than
animals.  It was so very amazing to see Ice-T as the man on the run who gave
the hunters more than what they had all bargained for.  Even the collection
of hunters involved, headed up by Rutger Hauer and featuring the likes of an
esoteric cast such as Charles S. Dutton, John C. McGinley, William McNamara
(an actually unwilling participant in this ordeal), Gary Busey and F. Murray
Abraham make for a band of human flesh hunters enough to make anybody run
for cover.  All-in-all, the type of movie for anyone to see for an idea of
how the human mind can extend to the point of insanity with regard to whose
life is important versus whose life is not.  As the slogan of the movie
goes, Never underestimate a man--or a woman(!)--who has nothing to lose.  

<|_=00=_|>
In one of our local video store chains, if a movie was considered
morally objectionable it was emblazoned with a huge yellow sticker
which proclaimed that it was 'Strictly over 18's'. To me, as a
youngster, this was like showing a light bulb to a moth. By the time
'Surviving the Game' was released, I was already a seasoned Ice-T and
Bodycount fan and so would happily devour any of the nonsensical films
which he would associate himself with (a trait which still exists to a
certain degree, albeit somewhat diminished at this stage – thanks a lot
'Leprechaun In Da Hood'). Those yellow stickers never failed me; they
drew me to movies such as the Tom Savini remake of Night of the Living
Dead (1990), Body Melt (1993) and Bad Taste (1987). The peculiar thing
about 'Surviving the Game' was that it was only classified with a 15
certificate in the UK, but as I was growing up in Ireland and they had
just introduced their own film classification system (one which still
prohibits the release of many, many titles today*) one can only assume
that they were being extra vigilant.

Such vigilance, however, was not displayed by any staff members at any
of my frequented VHS rental outlets and so I was pretty much free to
choose whatever I wanted and on one fine day I took the afternoon off
school and retreated to my abode to wallow in some Ice-T based
goodness.

I regret none of those actions and this all came flooding back when I
re-watched STG last week. The first thing that struck me was the
plethora of character actors on show, Charles S. Dutton, Ernest R.
Dickerson, F. Murray Abraham, Gary Busey, Jack Mason, John C. 'Dr Cox'
McGinley and Rutger Hauer all come out in force as a group of hunters
in pursuit of the deadliest game of all…man.

The man in question is Jack Mason (Ice-T) a man battling his demons to
the extent that he has lost everything, his wife, his child, his home.
Now living rough on the streets of Seattle, he even loses his best
friend when his dog is run over by a careless taxi driver in the first
few minutes of the movie. The altercation with the driver brings Mason
to the attention of Walter Cole (Dutton), a man posing as a charity
worker, but who is in reality a recruitment officer for Thomas Burns
(Hauer), an entrepreneur who facilitates the immoral bloodlusts of the
rich and ethically vacuous Mason is brought to Burns' offices whereupon
he is offered a job (with very little details provided), he reluctantly
accepts and before he knows it, he's held up in a remote cabin in the
wilderness with half a dozen of the most peculiar characters you're
likely to see share a dinner together. It doesn't take long before
their motives are made clear and Mason is cast out on his own, given a
small head start before being tracked by the hunters.

Guess what? The hunters soon become the hunted and the tables get well
and truly turned. OK, so it sounds dreadful and in many ways, it is.
Yet, it is so enjoyably dreadful that you soon find yourself letting go
and immersing yourself in Mason's plight. There is an intensity and a
unique self-awareness which makes this stand out from similar movies
and eventually, this makes this a remarkably endearing viewing
experience.

It's violent without being excessively so, it has just the right amount
of humour to maintain a suspension of disbelief and by the time
comeuppance is delivered, you'll be cheering along. It was refreshing
to see a strong African-American lead actor at the time and whist one
wouldn't go as far as to call it ground-breaking in any sense of the
word, that fact is certainly notable. Ice-T is quite far removed from
his hip-hop persona and suits the crusty, dreadlocked role very well.
Hauer and Busey are typically and wonderfully bonkers and the support
of Abraham and McGinley are both worthy additions.

It was a pleasure to be reminded of a time when action movies could be
so enjoyable and when character actors would partake in the movie
without dominating it. Admittedly, the rush that I got for simply
acquiring it wasn't there this time, but I think that was due to the
lack of the yellow sticker.

Read more reviews at zombiehamster.com
<|_=00=_|>
The brilliant short story "The Most Dangerous Game" has inspired and
spawned so many movies that there ought to be an official sub-genre for
it - maybe something like "MDG movies" or "MO-DA". There must be dozens
out there: the original "The Most Dangerous Game", "The Hunted", "Mean
Guns", "Bloodlust", etc. "Among the most energetic and involving in the
genre are John Woo's update, "Hard Target", and this movie, "Surviving
The Game", which also capitalizes on the idea of "hunting homeless
people for sport". 

STG was my first introduction to Ice T as an actor, and I have to admit
that I was impressed. He plays his role with a nice mixture of
toughness, sadness, misery, and humor, and he does it with hardly a
false or unconvincing note in the entire movie. Some of the credit may
go to the screenplay, because he was pretty stiff in "Mean Guns", but
he holds center stage here like a natural.

The rest of the cast is also quite strong, with Rutger Hauer and
Charles Dutton especially giving convincing, memorable performances.
The characters they play are human monsters, but they enjoy themselves
so much, take such glee in their roles as "mighty hunters", that the
repulsiveness and ugliness of what they are doing almost takes a back
seat to the "strategy and tactics" war games they play with their prey.
Almost. But it takes a special talent to invest these yuppie scum with
energy and charisma to keep them interesting, and the director and
actors all deserve kudos for what they pull off here. 

Here's the strength of the screenplay - You come to understand that Ice
T's character is actually quite shrewd and resourceful and is a born
survivor, but he also out of his element and heavily outnumbered; while
the hunting party is complacent and smug, but they are completely
ruthless, vastly more experienced at this game. AND they have all the
guns. Ice T is no martial arts superman, (like JCVD in "Hard Target"),
and his opponents are not professional killers, so the odds are far
more even, but the stakes are just as high. It's a very nice balancing
of tension vs. hope, and determination and wits against numbers and
skill. 

Of course, if the movie looked bad, or sounded crappy, much of the
impact would be lost. I'm a big fan of Copeland's soundtracks, and he
comes through here with his usual ringing, chiming, supple and plangent
atmospheric backgrounds that are worth listening to for their own sake.
And the cinematography in the woods of Oregon is heartbreakingly
beautiful - even as the tension and danger mount, the eye is captured
by the light and the scenery and the colors. 

There are a couple weak spots in the movie, of course. John McGinty's
character is completely stupid (although he plays him well), and the
scene in the cave where T and McGinty reveal their back-stories to each
other is completely uninspired and by-the-numbers. The shifting of
momentum between the hunter and the hunted doesn't quite work - you
have to kind of suspend disbelief at a couple of points near the end
where Murray Abraham's character starts to "lose it". And I have a hard
time believing that Hauer's character, once he returns to the city,
doesn't simply go to ground and lay a clever ambush for T instead of
packing everything to flee the city and start over elsewhere. (Of
course, it could be argued that he tried setting a trap in the final
scene set in the woods, and it didn't work then.) 

But as action-adventure movies go, and as 'MGD' movies go, this is a
keeper that holds up to repeating viewings. I bought it used on DVD
several years ago after my initial rental, and I have watched it and
enjoyed it at least half-a-dozen times since then.
