
What grabbed me about this movie was the potential it had. There was
just so much that could be done with this dynamite idea. That alone
made this an essential part of my movie collection.

The movie itself is quite average and while worth seeing, isn't going
to knock your socks off. The acting is from adequate to good; the
effects were well done and quite nicely not overdone.

So it's a fantastic idea that wasn't ruined, but isn't spectacular. The
actors carry themselves well and this is a worthy addition to any
sci-fi collection (especially those who like the idea of alternate
history for mankind - See Alien vs. Predator).

I normally don't write such quick reviews, but this is what I felt
about the movie and I think that much more would give away too much for
those who haven't seen it.
<|_=00=_|>
Stargate is a terrific movie that has produced 2 hit TV shows,
conventions and fans from all over the world. This movie started it
all. I found it in my Uncle's basement and decided to watch it. It has
an interesting storyline tying in Ancient Egyptian Mythology to make it
even more interesting. It's about a struggling archaeologist with
strange ideas about the gods and rulers of Ancient Egypt. Only one
person is willing to believe him, and recruits him for a translator.
What they find is even more amazing than they expected.

It's a highly underrated movie, in my opinion it's better than most
sci-fi movies and very interesting.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't understand why this movie is so underrated. I have seen it
multiple
times, and each time I get something new from it. It is a beautiful work
of
art (The Director's Cut is also a must-see, because the added scenes
elaborate on a few confusing plot points) Now, I would just like to take a
moment and talk about the aspects of Stargate that make it an enjoyable,
exciting, riveting, and thought-provoking film.

First of all, David Arnold has to be recognized for his masterful
soundtrack. He should have won some kind of award, like Hans Zimmer won
for
Gladiator. David Arnold combines themes of romance, adventure, and wonder
the likes of which I have never heard. (And believe me, I am an avid fan
of
movie music, especially Sci-Fi) I am even brave enough to say that his
music
in Stargate rivals classic, celebrated soundtracks such as Star Wars (John
Williams) Next time you see the movie, pay as much attention to David
Arnold's music as you pay to the plot. The opening titles themselves are
reason enough to rush to the store immediately and buy the soundtrack. My
favorite sequence of the soundtrack, by the way, is (#21 Myth, Faith, and
Belief) In the movie, this is the scene where Daniel (James Spader) talks
to
Ra (Jaye Davidson) It is the scene right before the one where Daniel is
*almost* forced to kill the soldiers, including Jack O'Neill (Kurt
Russell)
that he arrived with.

Second of all, this is a VERY believable science fiction film. Most films
(like Star Wars, Star Trek, and more) don't have very many ways in which
they can actually tie-in with reality. Stargate is in itself a theory. It
asks: Where did the pyramids come from? How did the Egyptians develop
their
gods, and how were they influenced? The answer given by the film to these
questions is entirely feasible. Even though the gate itself isn't easy to
accept, the underlying theme to the movie is. (pay very very close
attention
to Daniel and the "seminar" he gives about 10 minutes into the movie in
front of other scientists)

Third, and last, I would like to tip the hat to Jaye Davidson's
performance.
His portrayal of Ra is chilling.(although some people don't seem to agree)
Just hearing him speak and seeing his eyes glow sends shivers up my spine.
He makes a perfect villain, and it is truly a shame that he hasn't been in
many other movies.

This movie receives from me an easy 9 out of 10. It would have gotten a 10
if it were not for the horrible lack of character development. Jack
O'Neill
is especially bland, although he does seem to brighten up a little bit in
the last scene.

See the movie! Buy the soundtrack! And I hope you liked my comments!


<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie. It captured my attention quickly and kept it
throughout the movie. 

It's a great ensamble cast and the special effects add to the movie's
appeal, rather than BEING the appeal. 

The premise is engaging, and gives some very plausible explainations
for mysteries that have stumped man for thousands of years. The bad
guys are just as engagine as the good guys and that makes the movie all
that much more enjoyable.

I would give this movie an 8 out of 10. It's not perfect, but good for
a very enjoyable movie night!
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw Stargate in 1996 I thought it was a great movie. It had
plenty of action, excitement and special effects but also a brilliant
story.

James Spader does a wonderful job as Daniel Jackson and ditto for Kurt
Russell as Colonel Jack O' Neill. The villains in the movie are very
interesting and were a refreshing change to those we usually encounter in
movies.

This film would probably be of great interest to those interested in
Egyptology or anything to do with the ancient world. It is a thought
provoking film for fans of ancient history.

All in all, a great movie which spawned an equally great TV series three
years later.
<|_=00=_|>

Stargate's plot, acting, and score all contribute beautifully to the
mysterious ambiance that is the essence of this enthralling and suspenseful
film.  While your disbelief definitely needs to be suspended to cover some
inconsistencies, the atmosphere and action of the movie make it worth your
while.  Not only does Stargate combine science fiction with history, but it
weaves them together in a way that remains exciting the entire film, despite
major changes of environment.  Upon hearing some major elements of the film,
one might think that aliens, ancient Egypt, and atomic bombs could only come
together in some kind of bizarre montage.  However, this film is strongly
plot-driven, and while this does make it typical in some respects, the plot
itself is remarkable.  Hardly artsy, the score is in many places
Hollywood-ish, presenting emotion in a straightforward manner, yet it too is
enjoyable.  None of the acting is spectacular, but this is made up for by
the characters' wholesome qualities and ability to change (however slightly)
over the course of the movie.  To summarize, while nothing in the film is a
complete divergence from the standard, it follows the Hollywood style in a
manner that is original enough to make a solid and enjoyable adventure. 
This is the actualization of the potential within the Hollywood film
"template": a good story told well in all respects. [9/10]
<|_=00=_|>
Stargate is one of those great movies that hasn't got the respect it
deserves. At first I thought the movie was about time travel since they
go to a place that is like Ancient Egypt, which didn't really interest
me at all. Then I caught an episode of the T.V. show and got curious.
When I saw the movie I was blown away. The special effects were ones I
had never really seen before (such as opening the Stargate for the
first time). I was getting tired of seeing sci-fi movies where every
alien race spoke perfect English and I thought I would experience that
until the team met with the villagers which I thought was better. It's
always cool to see Kurt Russel kicking ass in films. It was also
different to see James Spader play the semi-nerdy guy instead of the
asshole he mainly plays. I was also amazed when Roland Emmerich chose
one of the simplest villains for a movie, an ancient Egyptian god. I
watch this movie every week and I never get tired of it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Stargate"'s an exciting, high concept science fiction film from Roland
("Independence Day") Emmerich. With a capable cast, solid script and
excellent set design, this is a big-budget adventure for viewers
looking for pure escapist fun.

The ever reliable Kurt Russell plays the square-jawed, world weary Jack
O'Neil, who is responsible for leading the military mission to another
world. James Spader plays the brilliant archaeologist, Dr. Daniel
Jackson. At the time, this was a different type of role for Spader and
he handles the humorous content of his scenes with great success.

There's also an appearance by "The Crying Game"'s Jaye Davidson as the
evil baddie, Ra. Although Davidson's role is quite small, he brings an
other-worldly presence to his part.

The score by David Arnold is excellent.

A great idea for a movie, I can't help but think the concept would have
made a successful television series...
<|_=00=_|>
I don't quite understand why Stargate got an average point compared to
many other science fiction movies. A wild guess that, it is not a US
originated one I suppose. If after all those years it is still a
pleasure to watch it then why ? A fine story ( believe it or not ), a
fine cinematography and a beautiful soundtrack that stacks into your
mind. Roland Emmerich is perhaps one of the best directors and the
casting is superb.

The visual design, artifacts and architecture are well studied. Though
the story could be more mysterious and could leave some imagination to
the viewer, it is well told.

One of my best science fictions ever. Just watch it, you won't regret
it. Or even you may come back here and vote it to raise the
unbelievably low point which it got, much less then it deserved.

Thanks Roland, you're my man.
<|_=00=_|>
Stargate the movie :- superb atmosphreric music, great special effects,
excellent cast, intriguing story but - not surprised it launched a
successful TV series which has run and run. I cant believe there are so
called sci fi fans out there who didn't like it - must be
intellectuals!!! I still enjoy the film now 1o years later although
disappointed they never made a sequel as it was set up for one. Never
really liked the ending - should have included the return to earth. The
TV series has moved the story along nicely - even changes to the cast
have worked well and i particularly enjoy the dry humour of the TV
series.
