
Paul Thomas Anderson's first film, Sydney (titled 'Hard Eight' by the
distributors), has a story, but its more concerned about the
characters, and how these actors play them. Like its inspiration,
Jean-Pierre Melville's Bob le Flambeur, understanding who these people
are in this seedy, desperate environment, is the key. The script is
intelligent, and contains a truth that isn't found in most "off-beat"
crime films. In fact, the crimes in the film, while not without the
importance to the story, is secondary to how these people are around
one another, the courtesy, the un-said things, the mishaps, and the
truths. In tune with Melville, the film is decidedly European- the
story is quite leisurely, almost too much so, but in the characters
Anderson has created and fleshed out he has people we can care about.

Philip Baker Hall, in a towering performance of professionalism (he's
one of those great character actors who practically wears the years of
his life on his face, not to sound pretentious about it), is the title
character of Sydney. He offers Jimmy (John C. Reilly, believable in a
role seemingly more like himself than his Reed Rothchild in Anderson's
Boogie Nights) a cigarette and a cup of coffee, and then finds out
through the conversation his mother's passed on. He offers up an
intricate, but rewarding, way of making money in a casino without
laying down a card (the slots, and a different scheme). Flash ahead two
years later (awesome transition, by the way) where Jimmy is with
Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow, a good performance). Things seem to be
going alright all around, except that Jimmy has a violent (shown
off-screen, of course) run-in, and needs Sydney's help. But there's
another secret that has yet to be told.

All the little details of the story are accentuated by a directorial
style that is usually peerless, and the tracking shots that have become
paramount in Anderson's films (i.e. opening of Boogie Nights, walking
through TV studio in Magnolia) are as smooth and interesting as
anything from Scorsese. The Vegas Muzak is a touch that adds, like with
Melville, a cool kind of touch not at all un-like film-noir. It's
actually a thin line that Anderson is walking; how to make the Melville
story's elements (an aging gambler past his prime, watching over the
young people in their own messes, seeing the old turn to new) as one's
own. I think he's achieved that in the film with a sense of sincerity
with the characters dialog with each other. Perhaps Sydney has a
different agenda than just being friendly. But Anderson wisely allows
Hall to make the right choices with just certain facial expressions,
what isn't said that counts. And the scenes with Samuel L. Jackson
bring out the kind of intensity, sometimes quiet sometimes not, that
hallmark his best performances. Maybe not a masterpiece, but it
certainly isn't the work of an amateur, assured in his own script as a
director, and in the strengths of his four key players.
<|_=00=_|>
Though he is best known for two ambitious ensemble pieces such as
Boogie Nights and Magnolia, writer/director Paul Thomas Anderson was
first noticed thanks to a low-key, unpretentious character study, a gem
called Sydney.

The film takes its title from the main character, a lonely elder man
played by Philip Baker Hall. At a diner he runs into John (John C.
Reilly), a poor fella who has just lost all his money. Sydney buys him
coffee, and after a little chat he persuades him to come to Reno. Once
there, they manage to get a free room and under Sydney's tutelage John
quickly becomes a successful gambler. All's well until he falls in love
with Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow), a waitress and part-time prostitute,
and trouble ensues with a gangster named Jimmy, meaning Sydney will
have to come up with something extreme to save his protégé.

For a first-time director Anderson shows great skills and confidence:
even though he doesn't do much but follow four characters, he frames
each shot to perfection and proves he is every bit as good as Scorsese
at staging tracking shots (a thing he perfected on his next two
features). But style doesn't really matter here: the important thing is
that the audience cares for the story, and this essentially happens
courtesy of sublime dialogue and great acting.

Anderson fought really hard to keep the movie's original title (and
partially failed, which is why the film is known as Hard Eight in some
countries), and the reason is clear from the beginning: the picture
rests entirely on Hall's shoulders, and he carries it admirably. His
performance is nuanced and genuine, and he manages to ensnare the
viewer even when we are not sure what his motives are (and once they
are revealed, it is not that important). Reilly is equally good, in a
turn that opened his way to becoming one of the most reliable character
actors in Hollywood, and the same intensity emerges from Paltrow and
Jackson, the latter in particular adding extra dramatic flesh to what
could have been a rehash of his more famous roles (Pulp Fiction etc.).
Even Philip Seymour Hoffman, who has a brief but memorable role as a
cocky gambler, gets his opportunity to shine, showing beyond any doubt
that Anderson has a great eye for casting. He also knows how to write:
the dialogue flows freely and seamlessly between the players, spawning
some of the most affecting, realistic conversations ever heard in a
movie, although the director can't resist the temptation to insert a
couple of in-jokes as well (in one scene, Hall mentions two characters
he wound up playing in Boogie Nights and Magnolia).

Overall, a very good film, and a must-see for PT Anderson fans: like
many other directors who rose to fame in the '90s (Tarantino,
Rodriguez, Bryan Singer) he proved right from the start what he was
capable of, and has never disappointed the audience since that.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent movie. Excellent actors. I like the calm flow of the movie.
Dialogs are strong: very realistic, not cultivated in a predictable and

understandable main stream drama form. The hostage scene is brilliant.
In many movies the characters

react in a movie-like way, shaped in how the characters would

react if...too cultivated, mostly showcases for actors to show how

emotional and brilliant they can play their roles. In this movie the
characters many times don't know what to say or

how to react and that's brilliant in my opinion. In real life you don't
have strong and powerful one-liners at hand. But still it is a movie
and put into a form, a calm and understated,

but brilliant form.
<|_=00=_|>

Paul Thomas Anderson's first movie and wow what an entrance to
make.
Its refreshing to see a film maker making films with characters that you
care about and fine dialogue.
Why dont people talk in movies any more?  If you think the same watch
this
film.
This film is an absolute treat right from the opening scene, a true hidden
gem which didnt even get a release in the UK!!!
You will see some of the finest performances in film and be warned you
will
remember these characters for the rest of your life.
10/10 awsome!
<|_=00=_|>

Philip Baker Hall's Sidney kept me riveted from the first scene to the
last.
He play the mesmerizing, enigmatic title character with rare mastery and
grace. The supporting characters are no slouches either. John C. Reilly is
marvelous as Sidney's sweet, if somewhat slow witted protege. Samuel
Jackson
could have easily coasted on this one, simply repeating a performance from
any of a number of previous tough guy types. Instead he creates an entirely
new character, one with a reptilian quality not seen in his usual thugs.
Even Gwenyth Paltrow is unusually strong as Clem, the waitress who wants it
understood that, even if she sometimes sleeps with men for money, she is
definitely NOT a prostitute.

I've been a fan of PT Anderson for a while now, and this film gave me new
insight into why it is I like him so much. Anderson is that great rarity in
modern filmmaking, an actor's director. He gathers terrific actors and
inspires them to career-topping performances. There's no fiendishly complex
plot here, no nailbiting suspense, no big payoff at the end. Just marvelous
actors making the most of an excellent script.
<|_=00=_|>

Hard Eight (1996/Paul Thomas Anderson)
***1/2 out of ****

The camera opens to a diner called "Jack's Coffee Shop". A semi is pulling
out of the parking lot. After it pulls away, two people are revealed. A
young man sitting by the door with his face to the ground, and an older man
who is walking towards him. Even though we can't see his face, we know he is
old, just by the way he moves. He asks the young man if he would like some
coffee and cigarettes. And this is how Paul Thomas Anderson's first film
begins.

"Hard Eight" is about a down and out loser named John (John C. Reilly), who
sits outside a diner, until he is encountered by a mysterious old man named
Sydney (Philip Baker Hall). Sydney offers him $50, and a lesson in gambling.
Before to long, they are in Reno, making lots of money. Then two people get
in the way of their friendship: Clementine (Gwyneth Paltrow), a
hooker/waitress; and Jimmy (Samuel L. Jackson), a mischievous security guard
who seems to be hiding something. 

I never thought that Paul Thomas Anderson could make such a grounded film
with substance. His usual films are flashy ensembles, and they move fast.
But "Hard Eight" is a different story. It is a slow paced Film Noir, that is
both quiet and observant. The cinematography is drab, and the direction is
tranquil. Philip Baker Hall and Paltrow turn in good performances. But it is
Jackson who really shines. The twist could have been over done, but instead,
it is handled nicely and effectively. 

"Hard Eight" is by far one of the most interesting character studies of the
90's. I like this cool side of Anderson, and I wish he would use it more
often than his usual over the top formula (although I like both). This is no
classic, but I found it worth buying.

-30-
<|_=00=_|>
Caught it last night on Belgian TV. A little gem. An old guy, superbly
played by Baker Hall, trying to relive his youth by helping two young
losers (O'Reilly and Paltrow) get their lives back together. Of course
they'll never make it: once a loser, always a loser. But Sydney still
has to try. The claustrophobic, rip-off world of casinos, anonymous
'luxury' hotels, sleazy motels, is superbly portrayed. Surely, after
watching this film, nobody would ever want to visit Vegas. Paltrow is
brilliant as the whore with zero self-esteem, ready to destroy her
chance of a new start for the sake of 300 bucks; money is the only way
of validating her self-destructive promiscuity. Samuel Jackson swaggers
through the role of Satan as if born to it. The only jarring note,
preventing this one getting a 9/10, is the stuff about Sydney wanting
to atone for shooting the young guy's father. This feels like it was
written in as an afterthought, by some dumb studio exec who'd missed
the film's whole point: 'The tragedy of youth is old age' (Oscar
Wilde).
<|_=00=_|>
This is also known as "Sydney" (director Paul Thomas Anderson's
original title) after the name of the movie's central character, a
somewhat mysterious casino gambler (and murderer, by the way) played by
veteran Philip Baker Hall. The new and more commercially-viable title
comes from the game of craps in which the dice player can roll an eight
with a six and a two or with a five and a three or with two fours.
Since probabilistically the hardest way to roll an eight is with two
fours, that's called a "hard eight." Such a choice occurs twice in the
movie, and symbolically a "hard eight" may represent the gambler's
psychology.

Co-starring as Sydney's protégé is John C. Reilly as John Finnegan, a
kind of lovable schmuck who falls in love with a Reno
waitress/prostitute named Clementine, played quirkily by Gwyneth
Paltrow. Samuel L. Jackson has a modest but very convincing part as a
casino security sleaze.

Anderson's direction of these very talented actors was excellent. I
wish I could say the same for his script. Most viewers I suspect will
find this a bit dull; and, as it unfolds and we find out why Sydney is
playing guardian angel to John, viewers may even be disappointed. I
know I was. I had expected something original as Sydney's motivation,
but what we learn in the last reel is quite ordinary (as movie
motivations go).

What kept me watching was of course trying to figure out what makes
Sydney tick and why and how he can spend his time so aimlessly gambling
(and almost always losing), and where his money comes from. I also was
intrigued by the originality of Anderson's treatment as opposed to his
story per se. The stylized, slightly "off" dialogue, especially
well-suited to Reilly's studied interpretation and Philip Baker Hall's
inscrutability, reminded me of something that might have been written
by David Mamet or even Quentin Taratino. Finally I was interested in
seeing how Paltrow would play a role seemingly quite removed from her
screen persona. I thought the delicate and very winning star of
Shakespeare in Love (1998), etc., worked hard to create the sort of
lower-class, uneducated, "victim" of the Las Vegas/ Reno casino culture
that Anderson had in mind, and I thought she did it well. However, hers
was not a sympathetic role and it did not test Paltrow's range as a
actress, although playing a prostitute is something many actresses find
interesting. I am thinking of Julia Roberts in Pretty Woman (1990) and
Elizabeth Shue in Leaving Las Vegas (1995) or even Catherine Deneuve in
Belle de Jour (1967).

Bottom line here is that this is a studied, "arty" movie well worth
seeing because of the performances and as an example of Anderson's
unique style, but not something for a mass audience or for those
viewers looking for a diverting thriller.

But see this for Philip Baker Hall, one of those rare actors to
actually find his best roles and do his best work in his sixties.
Indeed, his performance here revitalized a career that had long
languished. In this regard I am reminded of the Swedish actor Victor
Sjostrom who gave perhaps his greatest performance in Ingmar Bergman's
Wild Strawberries (1957) when he was 80 years old. Although I have seen
little of Hall's work, I am willing to bet that this was one of his
greatest performances.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>

This first film from Paul Thomas Anderson shows the promise he would later
fulfill with BOOGIE NIGHTS.  The writing here is as sharp as it was in the
later film, but it must be said as a director, he sometimes lets scenes go
on too long (ironic that BOOGIE NIGHTS, which is a longer film, is also a
tighter one).  The main connection between both films is Anderson's obvious
affection for his characters.  Also the relationship between Sydney and John
doesn't turn out the way you'd expect.  And Anderson is to be commended for
avoiding melodrama.

Philip Baker Hall is one of those actors who you may not know by name, but
when you see him you instinctively feel he's right for the part, no matter
how small.  This is one of his rare leading roles, and he's perfect, showing
the character's success and also his loneliness, without sentimentalizing
it.  John C. Reilly is properly eager and naive as John.  Samuel L. Jackson
is dependable here, and Gwyneth Paltrow proves she doesn't need a British
accent to give a good performance.  She and Jackson should also be commended
for backing Anderson when he had problems with the studio.
<|_=00=_|>

Most people didn't catch this movie when it was released (in the cinema or
on video), but did discover Paul Thomas Anderson's work with the phenomenal
"Boogie Nights."  Make no mistake: this film is every bit as good, perhaps
better, than "Boogie."  It's a small film whereas "Boogie" is a huge film,
but it's packed with outstanding performances (many from actors and
actresses who would go on to appear in "Boogie"), a great script (and a
tighter story than "Boogie"), and the same fantastic  direction.  Everyone
who loved "Boogie," and even those who didn't, should go back and rent this
film.  A very stylish, moody drama/mystery.
