

After the opening scene of *Deep Blue Sea*, in which (predictably) a
shark terrorizes a quartet of partying teenagers on a boat, I decided I was
in for a crappy movie. A crappy movie that would contain basically every
movie AND horror movie cliche I could think of.  I was right. And
wrong.

I will say that the premise for this movie is great: super-intelligent
sharks. Sharks are bad enough, but...smart sharks? Immediately you have
terrifying possibilities running through your mind. The sad fact, though, is
that this is one of those movies where the screenwriters (and I can't
believe it took three people to come up with this) threw some dice and
picked which character was going to die next. That's what the plot boils
down to: things go wrong; someone dies. More things go wrong; someone else
dies. And so on. People whom you couldn't care less about die. People who
you really don't want to see die die.

The people are an interesting band of characters. The female scientist,
pleasing to the eye and the ear (I'm a sucker for accents), is utterly
consumed by her research. (And for all you testosterone-driven males, she
does strip down to her underwear in one scene.) Samuel L. Jackson goes about
saying his lines as president of a pharmaceutical company. I just love the
way Michael Rapaport talks: he's welcome in any movie. LL Cool J deftly
provides the comic relief and was clearly the audience favorite. Sure, there
are some other characters, but pretty much everyone's one-dimensional, as
expected.

I think I've bashed this movie enough. It's time to get to the crux of
the argument: this is an entertaining movie. As soon as the movie entered
the lab facility, I became completely immersed in the film. As the movie
progressed, I didn't think about how long it had gone on and mentally
calculate how much was left. Once the trouble started, the movie grabbed me
and never let go. I was not perhaps literally on the edge of my seat, but no
outside thoughts penetrated my mind. It's not that the movie is scary or
anything; it's that it's suspenseful. Predictably suspenseful, but
suspenseful nonetheless. There is one scene in the film (I cannot
conclusively tell whether it falls nearer or the beginning or the middle
because, as I said, I lost track of time) during which I sensed the ENTIRE
AUDIENCE jumping out of their seats. At the risk of getting off on a
tangent, the sharks were believable. And the speed at which they moved
unnerved me. They did succeed at their purpose: to keep a continual shudder
running through my body. Let's just say you couldn't get me within ten miles
of that facility.  Oh, look, I did get off on a tangent, just great. At
times I of course found myself wondering why some of these characters were
so unbelievably stupid in their actions, but it's all part of the fun. And
that's what I ended up deciding about this movie: it was fun. Blood-soaked,
cringe-inducing fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Deep Blue Sea is one of those films that you simply cannot take
seriously or you will go out of your mind with annoyance. It seems like
the film makers thought about having a plot, but then they found they
could have way more fun playing with the CGI Sharks (which are pretty
good actually) The conversation between the film makers probably went
something like this.

'Hey i have a great idea for a story, we can breed super sharks with
oversize brain capacity in the quest to find a cure for Altziemers
disease' 

'That sounds good, then we can have the sharks get out of control and
add some action sequences' 

'Yeah good idea, but lets show the scientific side first while we build
the characters' 

'Yeah of course we have to build the characters and set the scene, wow
what's that over there; come and take a look what the special effects
team have done it's brilliant' 

'Wow that's really cool, lets have lots of that.'

'But what about the story and character depth' 

'We could always show the sexy female lead in her underwear, i reckon
that and loads of sharks and death will distract the audience enough
and they'll never notice'

And so Deep Blue Sea was born, and guess what? It's actually a good
laugh and has wall to wall action, sharks and blood; and oh yeah! The
female lead gets down to her underwear too, SHOCKER!

Please accept my apologies for the rather corny review, but i felt it
was very fitting for this movie.

6/10 By the way Yes i did enjoy it, just in case you were wondering.
<|_=00=_|>

"Deep Blue Sea"

With "Die Hard 2", "Cliffhanger", the misunderstood "Cutthroat Island", the
underrated "Long Kiss Goodnight" and guilty pleasure (but pretty damn good)
"Adventures Of Ford Fairlane", Renny Harlin has proven himself time and
again as one of the most visually competent action directors around. I've
always stood behind his work, I sincerely love most of his movies. With
"Deep Blue Sea", Harlin is in the midst of trying to keep his career going
due to the low box office take of his previous films. The result is a movie
that's on autopilot. An attempt to reclaim the respect of the studios and
the audience with a slam-bang summer film that gets the job done easily, you
just won't respect it in the morning.

Maybe the largest problem in "Deep Blue" is the casting. Saffron Burrows and
Thomas Jane lead the cast that also includes Samuel L. Jackson, LL Cool J,
and Michael Rapaport. Both Burrows and Jane give what can only be described
as seriously lacking performances. As the members of a science and research
team in a state-of-the-art ocean facility off the coast of Baja, Mexico, the
crew is in the midst of a study on sharks. The sharks hold the key to a
possible cure for Alzheimer's disease and other brain dysfunctions(explained
more thoroughly in the trailer for the film than in the actual film). The
scientists have enlarged the brain of the beasts, making them smarter and
faster. When a corporate executive (Jackson) arrives for a tour of the
facility, the sharks begin an uprising that threatens the crew's very
existence. Out in the middle of nowhere, the team tries to survive both the
sharks and the sinking structure. 

Saffron Burrows is just the wrong choice for the lead scientist role. Her
British monotone ruined a bad film ("Wing Commander") and brought down a
good one ("The Loss Of Sexual Innocence"). I don't believe she has that much
talent besides her beauty, and her lethargic presence here directly
conflicts with the high-octane action that surrounds her. Thomas Jane on the
other hand, was good in the role of Dirk Diggler's drug-dealing friend in
"Boogie Nights". He seemed more alive in 30 minutes of screen time in that
film than all 95 minutes of "Deep Blue Sea". I'm a bit surprised that nobody
mentioned the lack of enthusiasm during filming. For the lead role, the film
needed someone who can burst off the screen with fury and charm. Jane has
neither. He leaves the film all wet.

Saying that "Deep Blue Sea" needed better acting might be stretching it a
bit. This is a action film with plenty of thrills and many explosions. You
cannot expect Shakespeare when you buy a ticket to this. Still, the script
credited to three writers is very weak(I assume large parts of the story
were cut for time) and the score by Trevor Rabin is the blandest, most
perfunctory music to hit the ears in a long time. Hopes were really high for
this, but all the bad parts add up quickly.

Harlin's specialty is the action sequence. He's one of the few directors
left who knows how to squeeze the audience just right. "Deep Blue" is filled
with wonderful suspense sequences and a genuine amount of anxiety. The
computer-generated sharks move with alarming speed and dexterity. They keep
the patrons on their toes. I cannot remember the last time I heard an
audience scream with fear. Harlin milks every moment for the most thrills. I
was very tense throughout the film. Rare for a guy as jaded as
me.

The comparison to "Jaws" is very unfortunate. Just because the film features
sharks doesn't immediately suggest a "Jaws" ripoff. We have had about 10
high school films with interchangeable plots and identical climaxes, yet
nobody bats an eye over that. "Deep Blue Sea" stands alone with it's rousing
thrills and deeply undernourished script. "Jaws" it ain't.

It's hot and the summer is about 3/4 of the way through. Escapism with "Eyes
Wide Shut" or "Blair Witch Project" is impossible. "Deep Blue Sea" feeds the
good old need of action, action, and more action. It's summer entertainment
in the highest order, and damn it, the thing works. Hopefully Harlin can
rebound in the future with better material. For now, this is the best source
of thrills for the summer. ---------- 7

<|_=00=_|>
i'm no professional, but i thought deep blue sea was an excellent shark
movie. the sharks were scary, surprising and fast. i thought the
casting was excellent ("carter" was a cutie and the cook was funny) and
i really liked the ending...no matter what anybody says. i thought the
plot was good and simple enough that you didn't have to do any deep
thinking really. and there really wasn't enough time during attacks for
my stomach to untense. the girl scientist's accent got annoying at
times, but she was a believable character. i wasn't crazy about samuel
l jackson's character, but he made it work...and did i add that the
shark attacks were scary and GOOD!! i'll admit it...i JUMPED!!
<|_=00=_|>

I saw DBS for $2.50 on the big screen (cheaper than renting it on video),
and on that day I was desiring nothing more than a dumb action flick that
would entertain me for about 100 minutes. That's what I got, so I was
satisfied. 

Still, under different circumstances (higher admission price, wanting
something more out of a movie on the day of seeing it, etc.) I probably
wouldn't have liked it. The characters were really thin - you hardly learned
a thing about them, and they were pretty much interchangable. The dialogue
was weak and cliched. The sharks - supposedly intelligent - didn't get much
of a chance to show their supposed intelligence. The sets were okay, but
still had a look to them that suggested that extra money could have polished
them up. The characters commit some really stupid actions along the way.

Wait until you are in the right frame of mind, and it's free or at a low
price. Chances are then you'll be acceptably entertained.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a lot better than people seem to think. Its a good shark movie,
but completely different then the more sedate Jaws and some of the
scenes are actually quite scary. When i first watched this i must have
been 9 years old and i WAS scared. It has humour, shocks, action what
more could you possibly ask for? Who cares about a complicated plot,
this is a popcorn blockbuster which you will enjoy for 1 1/2 hours. The
simple plot works (scientist finds cure for Alzeimers in sharks brains,
unfortunately sharks brains are too small for the drug to be widely
produced so the scientists create genetically modified sharks that are
bigger so therefore have bigger brains. Unfortunately (again) the
sharks get smarter and etc. Also this gets 5.5 out of 10 and Deathwatch
gets 5.6 out of 10, no way is that very poor excuse for a horror film
is better then this shark infested tale
<|_=00=_|>
If 'Jaws' and 'Alien' had a baby, that baby would probably look a lot
like Deep Blue Sea', a big, loud, dumb action movie that doesn't try to
pretend to be anything else. It's short on logic, the dialog is dumb,
most of the actors don't seem to be trying very hard, and the science
is dubious at best, but despite all that, 'Deep Blue Sea' manages to
entertain.

The plot of the movie is simple: a group of scientists at an undersea
research facility are on the verge of discovering a cure for
Alhzheimer's disease. How? By meddling about with the brains of live
sharks (don't ask). Things are going swimmingly, until Mother Nature
grows tired of having some of her creations tampered with. One typhoon
and several gratuitous explosions later, the scientists find themselves
cut off from the surface of the facility and at the mercy of a group of
sharks that are smarter than the average fish. It seems that those
meddling scientists made the sharks smart, and they're about to pay for
their folly. With the base flooding and sharks roaming the corridors,
the survivors find themselves in a race for survival.

For the most part, 'Deep Blue Sea' works fairly well, and there are
some good jolts and action sequences, but at the same there's nothing
here that's particularly fresh. However, there is one death that is so
unexpected and surprising, you might find yourself hitting the 'back'
button on the DVD remote to make sure you weren't seeing things.

'Deep Blue Sea' is not an actor's movie, but most of the cast acquits
itself fairly well. Rapper LL Cool J does a good job with what could be
a clichéd character (the religious man who struggles with his faith
under dire circumstances), and injects the role with humanity and
humor. He also has a very memorable encounter with a shark in a
kitchen. Thomas Jane has the 'action hero' part, and he's solid, but
unspectacular. Saffron Burrowes is okay as the lead scientist, and
she's not above stripping down to her undies if the situation calls for
it. But once again, no one will be watching 'Deep Blue Sea' for the
acting. The sharks are the stars, and everyone involved with the movie
knows that.

'Deep Blue Sea' is not a classic movie, but it delivers in its own
modest way. If you can't get enough movies about people and the sharks
that eat them, you can do much worse than this.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise of many movies can usually be crudely approximated by
saying that it is: *insert movie title here* meets *another movie
title*. Sometimes you can put in a "via *yet another movie title*" at
the end for additional detail. If that's the case, then this movie is
simply "Jaws" meets "Aliens" via "Godzilla" or "Jurassic Park." It is a
very simple premise. But this movie is all about the execution.

And the execution is very good. Nicely done elaborate sets, tense
pacing, and some truly heart-pounding moments as scientists who have
become trapped in an underwater, and slowly sinking deeper, facility
try to make it out alive. The science is perhaps a little less
fascinating that the science (or, rather, science-fiction) of "Jurassic
Park," and the science aspect of the film is kept to a minimum as this
film is all about suspense. And it knows it, and as a result, that is
just what it serves.

Directed by the quite underrated Renny Harlin who has never had too
much success after the smash sequel to "Die Hard" and the reasons are
all beyond me. He directs great action scenes that make use of a
variety of techniques and not just the quick frenetic cutting that
other action directors seem to love. He really captures the motion of
the action that is happening, and he manages to do it in a nice
graceful fashion, which is ironic in capturing utter chaos. But that is
really no matter since it works wonderfully. A scene where a helicopter
crashes resulting in a tremendous explosion is a terrific example of
this and it only gets better from there. Despite some corny story
elements (this is an action movie, remember) and some glaringly obvious
CGI (I don't think they dared use real sharks for some scenes!) it is
still entertaining since the clichés are not there to the point of
insult. In an action movie, clichés are inevitable, since the focus is
on action and not deep plot. Many films fail at this by providing an
assault on the senses for action, lame attempts at drama (that can be
side-stepped in an action film with some cliché), and unrealistically
badass characters. Sure, an action hero has got to be badass to a
point, but some are just plain old silly since it totally conflicts
with the drama they a film often tries to inject into its characters.
Harlin has a knack for realizing this and offering great
action/suspense and an acceptable level of cliché that is just part of
the genre. --- 8/10

BsCDb classification: 13+ --- violence/gore
<|_=00=_|>
Deep Blue Sea is really more of a satire than anything else, despite
the frightening image on the DVD cover. As you view this film, you will
notice the tendency of the better actors to become shark food before
the lesser ones. This actually leads to some pretty good surprises
along the way.

The plot centers around a group of scientists trying to genetically
engineer the brains of sharks to help find a cure for Alzheimer's
Disease. All they end up doing is making a trio of hungry sharks smart
enough to hunt in packs and wipe out most of the humans in the
underwater facility. The film has plenty of stomach-churning gore, but
the humor of the film makes it easier to take. The film was directed by
Renny Harlin who usually knows how to pace his films, and his skill is
on display here with this one.

The acting is not very memorable since basically all those who can act
are gone before the end of the first hour. Thomas Jane (Boogie Nights)
and LL Cool J are pretty much the heroes, and they do as well as they
can within the limitations of the script. The film could have used a
better title, in my humble opinion. "Deep Blue Sea" sounds almost like
some romance film you might find on Lifetime or some women's network.

BIG SPOILER: As far as the biggest highlight of the film is
concerned..... well, let's just say I have nothing at all against
Samuel L. Jackson. I could, however, count on one hand the number of
times I've laughed harder at something in a movie than I did after his
death scene. That was unexpected, and hilarious. Anyone who claims they
saw that coming is full of it.

Deep Blue Sea is a fun movie. It's well-paced, has some thrills, and
may keep you guessing. It's certainly no classic, and you won't
remember much the next day after seeing it, but you could do much worse
for a night of movie-watching.

6 of 10 stars.

The Hound.
<|_=00=_|>
This is true but that doesn't mean it was a great movie. The effects
were just simply great, especially for a shark movie. Definitely ahead
of the Jaws series and almost everything else in terms of effects.

The directing was not great but it was not bad. Harlin does enough to
keep you entertained the whole movie but that is about it. Don't expect
some Spielberg Jaws masterpiece. What pushed it to above average was
the one kill scene that you will never see coming. His directing
probably made it more funny than scary. That is not horrible though. I
won't say who though. The acting was average. This is not a superb cast
but that shouldn't be too shocking if you look at the storyline.
Nothing else is really worth talking about in the technical aspects.

Just watch it and you will see why it is just a CGI masterpiece.
