

Never mind `Traffic'. Forget `Gladiator'. To find 2000's finest, most
nail-on-the-head perfect film, you'll need to look a little deeper. A small
film that only enjoyed limited release in theaters and isn't getting much
attention on DVD either, is Keith Gordon's latest, `Waking the Dead'. 

Back in 1992, there was another under-appreciated independent film called `A
Midnight Clear' that had the misfortune of being released alongside the
likes of `Unforgiven' and `Last of the Mohicans'. For reasons I can't
fathom, this brilliant film seemingly did nothing to help Gordon's career.
His budgets stayed small, but he continued looking for the most daring and
fascinating material. In 1996,  he released `Mother Night', another
war-themed film, only this time set in the aftermath of WWII.

With `Waking the Dead', Gordon outdoes himself. He casts Billy Crudup as
Fielding Pierce, an ambitious Coast Guard officer who'd like to be
president--and he means it. His world is turned upside-down when he meets
Sarah Williams (Jennifer Connelly), who just wants to feel like she `lives
on the planet'. Fielding and Sarah could not be more different, yet they
cannot live without each other. Each is the antithesis of the other, which
dooms their relationship and intensifies their love at the same time. 

The film begins with the announcement of Sarah's death, and continues
pulling you back and forth in time. Employing this storytelling technique
and maintaining the momentum of the story is a difficult task. While we see
Fielding wrestle with her memory, we're shown the powerful connection these
two had during her life. 

What's more, Fielding begins to see visions of her. Some of these visions
are so real, he begins to believe she's alive. The hauntings come just as he
begins campaigning for the U.S. House. It begins to affect his life and
threatens his campaign. The question of whether Sarah is really alive is the
dramatic carrot Gordon dangles in front of us. It's then we realize that she
was his conscience in life and remains so in death.
 
Gordon pours it on right until the very last frame. He gets the best
performance of Connelly's career out of her, plus a jaw-dropping performance
out of Crudup that's worthy of an Oscar. Whoever was in charge of plugging
this film for awards nominations must have fallen asleep at the wheel
(though I see it did win an Independent Spirit award for its script).

That this film or others in the same situation get no recognition is
definitely for the best. The more popular a film becomes, the more idiots
that come out of the woodwork to second-guess it. So best to leave it to be
discovered by those willing to seek it out. It is 2000's crown jewel.

Grade: A (but only because there isn't a higher grade)
<|_=00=_|>

I cannot recommend this film strongly enough.  This story celebrates the
timelessness of love without cynicism or irony.  It portrays a relationship
in all its many forms: moments of joy, frustration, passion, tenderness,
tragedy, and even a bit of insanity.  Fielding Pierce and Sarah Williams
are
the two politically-minded lovers. While they share very similar political
goals, their means of achieving those goals are vastly different.  Fielding
is the ambitious golden boy, campaigning through the political machine in
an
effort to affect change by working within the established system.  Sarah is
the rebel outsider, who believes real change will never be accomplished
within a corrupt system, leaving political revolution as the only
alternative.  The film never passes judgement on which is the nobler or the
more effective method.  Rather, it chooses to portray Fielding and Sarah as
two people whose love for what they believe in is second only to the love
they have for each other.


<|_=00=_|>

Currently showing on cable this movie is sensational. A young want to be
politician apparently loses the love of his life, and the film centres on
that love and his grief. Rarely can such emotions have been more
compellingly and brilliantly portrayed on film.It is thought provoking and
often scary too.
There is a superb screenplay and all the performers are
excellent.
Anyone who has every loved another will know that you see that love wherever
you go; and the lead actor's portrayal of that emotion is at genius
level.The most emotionally charged scene is at the restaurant of the
election results are known, and I for one cannot recall any movie where a
particular scene is so intensely sensitive or almost uncomfortably
realistic.For quiet and justifiably restrained but wonderful adult
entertainment, this is the best film I have seen in years. 10 out of 10.  


<|_=00=_|>

Following in the big footsteps of "The Chocolate War", "A Midnight Clear"
and "Mother Night", Waking the Dead" is perhaps the most cohesive and
satisfying film by Keith Gordon to date.
This is a film composed of two parts. The first part is a love story which
takes place in America but focuses on the violent overthrow of the Salvador
Allende republic in Chile. Fielding Pierce, the protagonist, is an
idealistic naval officer from a working class family. He meets Sarah (played
by the always lovely Jennifer Connelly), a free-thinking social activist,
and they begin a whirlwind romance. Soon, though, she leaves for Chile,
where she is murdered during the coup d'etat staged by Pinochet. Fielding,
of course is devastated, and it leaves a scar on him which still hasn't
healed when the film flashes forward to the eighties, when he has gotten
into politics. Attached now to an important politico's daughter, Fielding
has to make some important decisions regarding the ideals he holds so
important while coping with a tremendous loss he never really came to grips
with.
Many critics have panned this film for being contrived and unbelievable,
mostly because of the "ghost" sequences and the chronological flashback
"vignette" structure which Gordon uses to paint the story. I found it
refreshing after so many Pulp Fiction wannabe timeline films having been
made in the last 10 years. Also, isn't it a bit wonderful to see a film that
equates personal emotional turmoil with personal idealistic/political
turmoil. In the midst of dealing with the loss/reincarnation of Sarah,
Fielding is forced into making hard choices about what kind of man he is
going to be; a member of the political machine or a true servant of the
people.
A rare treat.
<|_=00=_|>

The ability of 'Waking The Dead' to polarize critical opinion is the best
indication of how powerful this film really is.  In short, you either love
it or hate it. I LOVED IT!

Yes, the story of an up and coming politician falling in love with a
beautiful, left-wing activist is a bit trite but no more so than the 70's
in
which they shared their life together were naive, idealistic and a
necessary
part of the evolution of American social conscience.

I thought the performance by Jennifer Connelly as 'Sara' was astounding.
Her ability to convey the sentiment of her beliefs in anger and love is
nothing short of inspiring.  If you're not in love with Sara by the end of
this movie, you should check into the Emergency ward of your local
hospital
because there's no heart in your chest or warm blood flowing in your
veins.

Billy Crudup's performance as 'Fielding' could be interpreted as "flat"
only
to those who would say that life imitates art and not the other way
around.
I found Crudup's acting highly believable for the character he was
portraying.  I know lots of extremely intense people who hide behind a
facade of calm out of necessity.  Where he needed to be good, he was
exceptional.  Case in point, during his celebration dinner with family
after
winning the election, his declaration of his burgeoning insanity is
extremely convincing and frightful.

Aside of great individual performances, the overall chemistry between Sara
and Fielding was tangible, necessary and believable, as this is a story
about love and why true love is endless.  The editing, jumping between the
present and the past, helped to make the point that we all have the power
to
change the world through the people we come into contact with and in this
way we're all eternal, all powerful. To top it off, the haunting presence
that was Sara after she was presumably killed, lends an element of mystery
and hope in a metaphysical and real way, to a movie that could have been
just another, too sweet love story in the hands of lesser
director.

Though Waking The Dead has its flaws, they're too few to dwell on.  I've
watched it now three times and every time I appreciate it more than the
last. I suggest its detractors do the same before making hasty negative
assessments.


<|_=00=_|>
What made this film so hauntingly beautiful was that fact that the
ghost being chased wasn't just Sarah - it was who they both were in
their youth, and the overwhelming emotion and honesty that is first
love. Was Fielding really seeking Sarah or who he once was - what he
once stood for when he loved her? Sometimes when we grow up we let our
well-meant integrity, even our simplest dreams, die under the 'reality'
of who we end up becoming. I thought this film did an excellent job at
showing someone mourning his youth, his wild ideas - and his truest
love. I thought Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly both did amazing
jobs - the intensity of their performances is what really drove the
story. Beautiful acting, beautiful movie.
<|_=00=_|>
You'll have to choose sides in 'Waking The Dead'. Are you going to be
an obedient politician or a liberal activist? Those opposing viewpoints
cause a tug-of-war, with eternal love playing the ever-tightening knot
in the middle. Billy Crudup and Jennifer Connelly are Fielding and
Sarah; he the idealistic politician and she the faithful revolutionary.
We know from the start that she dies via car bomb while raging against
the machine. The movie's chronology is all over the place (which is
occasionally confusing) and we see them when they're blissfully happy
and otherwise. But after she's gone, the upstanding young man fears for
his marbles after he starts to see & hear his dead lover everywhere. Is
she actually alive or is he just too insane for public office?

Seeing ghosts is tricky. It can turn into unintentional humour without
the proper direction. Director Keith Gordon doesn't pull it off as well
as he should, but at least the heat between them seems real. Crudup and
Connelly make a great romantic match. She's sandpaper to his block of
wood, but she's also his conscience. The phrase "Jiminy Cricket" is
actually used, and he succeeds politically only as he's failing
emotionally. He clearly needs her whispering in his ear, even if he
wouldn't agree with what she would have to say. It's clear that she
wouldn't approve of what he's become and he knows it. So I guess that
makes her the ghost of Jiminy Cricket too.

The movie would be a turd without strong performances. While no one in
the supporting cast has lingered in my memory, the talented leads have.
They're both good in almost everything they do, so I expected them to
be an excellent duo here too. Connelly has since won an Oscar and
Crudup probably will too. Some of Gordon's directorial choices undercut
what his actors are doing. His style of editing and use of too many
arty shots don't work. When the actors are already front row centre,
the director should get out of their way.

What grabbed me about 'Waking The Dead' was that both Fielding and
Sarah are trying to make the world a better giant rock. She's
counterculture and he's as mainstream as it gets. Since the story boils
down to politics versus religion, it's no wonder the film didn't find
an audience. Most people have opinions on those matters, yet political
correctness demands you not share them. But you ARE allowed to discuss
love. The movie knows how to get that right...the ache, the irritation,
the yearning, and the loss of true love.
<|_=00=_|>
I was truly surprised to see a young actor really passing on to the
audience,his feelings as to his feebleness as a human being when
confronted with a priceless loss. Most of us that have been through
similar experiences , always expect to identify ourselves with
characters in motion pictures but in most cases, we kind of feel
frustrated that movie plots don't generally allow the performer to go
all the way, cutting their role immersions short Billy Cudrup didn't
let that happen and this time we fared better. The same can be said
about Jennifer Connelly whose acting talent can only be matched with
her beauty.It is my honest opinion that both actors should have been
given leading parts in major productions which unfortunately much to my
disappointment or lack of information, did not happen. Keep up the
excellent work, Billy and Jennifer.
<|_=00=_|>
I very much enjoyed this movie. This is one of the few movies that you
can actually see the chemistry develop between the two main characters.
They were both passionate people, even if some of their passion was a
bit different.

I kept thinking was Sarah really there at the end or was it just
Fielding's imagination. I think that she probably wasn't there, but
then he did answer the phone and it was her. Then we see Fielding
running after her in the snow. Although in the beginning we see sarah's
face as the person who was killed in the bombing. 

Does anyone know for sure if she was really dead or was alive at the
end? Jon Black
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those films that you watch and contemplate later in your
life. As far as losing someone you love, and how that effects every
major decision you will ever make for the rest of your life, this film
is the most realistic portrayal I have ever seen. Billy Crudup was
meant to play Fielding in this movie. This movie is haunting and is
just one of those little movies that falls through the cracks but is
never forgotten. A stunning movie directing by none other than the
director of A Midnight Clear, another terrific film. If you are reading
this you should seek out this movie or just buy it online. I give
Waking the Dead 9/10.
