

It's all well and good to stroll through life with a healthy air of
scepticism, but despite some peoples' views on these supposedly
'manipulative' romantic films, there are an elite few that really do have
things to say based on something more noble than ticket sales - things
that
are actually worth listening to.

Jerry Maguire is one of these rare beasts. No, it's not perfect, and no,
it
doesn't ring true for every last second of its running time, but if you
come
away from it with a sneer rather than a genuine desire to take a step back
and look at yourself, then there's no romance in your soul at all. It's a
genre that's always been particularly susceptible to the flood of
lacklustre
money-spinners, so to come across something that's had so much visible
thought and effort thrown into it from all corners is a revelation. I'm
not
naive enough to think that anything making it big in the film industry
these
days can be purely a labour of love, but Jerry Maguire at least comes
close.

It's refreshing to see Tom Cruise demonstrate that, against all odds, he
can
act his heart out when given the right role, as can Cuba Gooding Jr.
(neither of them better previously or since) - and the rest of the cast
give
it every bit as much passion. It's beautifully written, and shot with an
easy style that makes me wish there were more directors like Cameron Crowe
in this world.

And on top of that, it gets better with each viewing. Even the soundtrack
feels as if weeks have been spent fine-tuning it to perfection, and I'm no
fan of Springsteen or Tom Petty. Deride it if you like, I'm not saying
that
Jerry Maguire's totally free of sentiment... I'm just suggesting that it's
not necessarily a bad thing to have your heartstrings tugged and your
self-awareness questioned once in a while.

<|_=00=_|>
I just finished watching this movie for the third time and I still love
this movie as much as I did after the first time I watched it. Maybe
even more! As I already said in the title of my review, only Cameron
Crowe can make this kind of movies. Movies about life the way it is and
life the way it should be. What I like the most about Crowe's work, is
that everything is real. The characters, their emotions, the story,
The whole is absolutely amazing.

Tom Cruise gave an excellent performance as the sports agent with a
heart. Someone for who money isn't the most important thing. It's all
about the relationship between the sports agent and his client. What's
so great about "Jerry Maguire", is the fact that the movie isn't about
who Jerry Maguire really is, it's about who he wants to be. I loved
Cuba Gooding Jr. By far his greatest role ever. Let's not forget Renée
Zellweger and her cute son, amazingly performed by the young Jonathan
Lipnicki. Both where very good. Perfect casting for Zellweger.

I read in the trivia that the title role was written for Tom Hanks.
Don't get me wrong, Tom Hanks is an excellent actor, but to play an
ambitious and arrogant sports manager (what Jerry Maguire was at the
beginning of the movie), you need to have Tom Cruise's face. He was
just perfect for the role. I can't think of anybody who could have done
this as good as he did.

So my conclusion for Jerry Maguire: If you haven't seen it, you should
definitely see it. If you have seen it, I hope you can agree with me.
This movie is wonderful, as where are used from Cameron Crowe-movies.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

	By definition, and depending upon who you're talking to, `Success' can be
measured in a number of different ways.  It's winning the competition,
celebrating a Golden Wedding Anniversary or, to many, just making the most
money.  The first two are absolutes; you win and you make it to number 50. 
No gray areas.  If you're not dead, you're alive; you're either pregnant or
you're not.  But in regards to that third item on the list, what are the
parameters by which you measure that particular success?  Are there lines
across which you will not step to make that extra buck?  Or do you do
whatever it takes-- including selling your soul and sacrificing your very
identity-- to make as much of the green as you can.  Is that success?  Or is
that selling out.  Can there, in fact, be true success when ethics and
integrity are absent?  It's the territory writer/director Cameron Crowe
explores in `Jerry Maguire,' the hit 1996 film that landed him an Oscar
nomination for Best Original Screenplay, a Best Actor nomination for star
Tom Cruise, and captured the award for Best Supporting Actor for Cuba
Gooding Jr.

	Jerry Maguire (Cruise) is a high-powered sports agent for a huge agency,
handling a portfolio filled with high profile sports figures.  And the name
of Jerry's game is money; he gets the big bucks for those he represents, he
keeps them in the limelight and in the end pulls down some mighty big bucks
for himself and the firm.  But at what price?  Who is Jerry Maguire, really?
 Has he played the chameleon for so long as a means to an end that even he
doesn't know who he is anymore?  Does he even consider it?  If he stopped to
think about it, the answer would be a resounding `No.'  But then something
happens.  One night, he wakes up and happens to look at himself in the
mirror, and for whatever reason, it suddenly dawns on him what a selfish,
soulless, empty life he is leading.  So in the wake of this epiphany, he
seizes the moment, sits down at his keyboard and hammers out a
`mission/morality statement,' in which he reorganizes his entire approach to
his career, including reestablishing parameters and setting new priorities
making conscience, ethics and integrity his paramount concerns.  And while
still riding the high of his nocturnal enlightenment, he goes to his office,
makes copies of his statement and distributes it to the mailboxes of
everyone from his boss on down.  Then he goes home and goes to bed.

	In the cold light of morning, however, he realizes what he's done and races
to his office to avert disaster.  Too late.  He enters the room to a hail of
praise and appreciation from his peers, but his boss is less enthusiastic. 
It's no surprise to Jerry, then, when the big `M' his superiors are
interested in turns out to be `Money' and not `Morality,' as in `Money
talks, Jerry walks.'  And just like that he's out the door.  But before he
leaves, he vows to make it on his own.  He's up, he's positive, he has his
statement-- and he doesn't have a clue what to do next.  What he does know
is that the adventure of a lifetime is awaiting.  And the world is about to
meet the `real' Jerry Maguire. 

	Cameron Crowe made his debut as a writer/director with `Say Anything' in
1989, in which he first exhibited that keen insight into the human condition
that has been one of the trademarks of his success as a filmmaker.  In
`Jerry Maguire' he demonstrates again that acute sense of knowing what makes
people tick, and leaves no doubt that he knows how to convey it to his
audience.  Crowe's story, as well as the presentation, is original and
imaginative, and he fills it with real characters involved in very real
situations.  And it's the characters that really sell it, because these are
three-dimensional people, not just cardboard cut-outs, and moreover, Cameron
knows how to get the best out of his actors to really bring them to
life.

	Tom Cruise was the perfect choice to play Jerry; he has the look, the
energy and the talent to get inside this guy's skin and make him tick, and
he successfully channels his natural exuberance into his character,
tempering his performance just enough to make it really work.  An Oscar
nomination does not come cheaply, and Cruise certainly deserved the one he
received for his work here.

	Cuba Gooding Jr.'s performance is deserving of the acclaim he received for
it, as well.  As Rod Tidwell, the pro football player/client who sticks by
Jerry and insists that he `Show me the money!' Gooding equals, if not
surpasses Cruise's level of enthusiasm with a vibrant and rich portrayal
that makes Rod one of his most memorable characters.  Like Cruise, Gooding
is perfectly cast and points up, again, what an acute sense Cameron has for
who and what will work to bring his story so convincingly to the
screen.

	Not to be outdone by her co-stars, Renee Zellweger gives an endearing
performance as the vulnerable but steadfast, single mom, Dorothy Boyd. 
She's such a `giving' actor, and she endows Dorothy with a gentle, caring
manner that expresses her deepest thoughts and feelings so well.  Her
reaction, in the scene in which Jerry tells Dorothy-- with his back turned
to her-- that he has broken up with his fiancee, Avery (Kelly Preston), is
priceless, and alone makes this film worth watching (repeatedly).  Her work
here is every bit as Oscar worthy as Cruise and Gooding's, and it's hard to
understand why she was overlooked, as she is such a vital presence in this
film.  9/10.

	The supporting cast includes Jerry O'Connell (Frank), Jay Mohr (Bob Sugar),
Bonnie Hunt (terrific in her role of Laurel Boyd, Dorothy's sister), Regina
King (Marcee) and Jonathan Lipnicki, unforgettable as Dorothy's precocious
son, Ray.  A triumph for Cameron Crowe, this movie is, indeed, magic.       
   
<|_=00=_|>
I've almost always loved Crowe's style of storytelling and never tire
of rewatching 'Almost Famous' and 'Jerry McGuire' (which I consider his
best). Even though his more recent 'Elizabethtown' didn't match up the
standards of those two films, that too had its wonderful moments (and
it was better than 'Vanilla Sky', Crowe shouldn't have attempted
remakes). Like most of his films, 'Jerry McGuire' has soul. Crowe's
eloquent screenplay is rich in humour, drama and lots of energy. It
features some of the finest dialogues and one-liners like 'You had me
at hello', 'Don't cry at the beginning of a date, cry at the end like I
do'... and the actors deliver them marvelously. Another fascinating
aspect is the brilliant characters. Each and every one of them, no
matter how long the screen time, has something that contributes. Thus,
next to an engaging drama and a magnificent comedy it is a fine
character study.

'Jerry McGuire' may also be one of Cruise's career best movies. I'm
surprised to hear that the part was originally written for Tom Hanks.
Hanks is a fine actor but I can't imagine him as McGuire as I doubt
whether he has the right combination of energy and pathos that are
required to be McGuire. I can't imagine anyone but Tom who fits the
part. The same can be said of Renee Zellweger and Cuba Godding Jr as I
don't see how a Winona Ryder, Cameron Diaz or Mira Sorvino and a Jamie
Foxx (all good actresses) could respectively bring out the sweetness,
vulnerability and charisma of Dorothy Boyd or the energy, humour,
liveliness, enthusiasm and devotion (towards family) of Rod Tidwell.
One wonders why Zellweger was overlooked as her presence too is crucial
to the film.

In addition, the film has a splendid supporting cast that include a
sublime and laugh-out-loud Bonnie Hunt, a bitchy gorgeous Kelly
Preston, a sprightly Regina King and an unforgettably lovable Jonathan
Lipnicki (one of the few child actors who's cute but not in the way
that gets on your nerves)'. Child actors are very hard to direct but
Lipnicki's performance comes across as very natural and he acts like a
real child instead of those irritating oh-look-I'm-so-cute child
models.

The soundtrack too deserves mention as it features some amazing
numbers. One of the so many memorable scenes is when McGuire is driving
in his car and he listens to the radio, switching channels and singing
along. Then there's also the incredibly romantic 'Secret Garden' by
Bruce Springsteen among other great familiar tracks by the Beatles,
Rolling Stone, Marvin Gaye, Kurt Cobain etc. On the more technical
side, the wild and smooth cinematography, slick editing and effective
sound are superbly put together. The visuals are very impressive.

The last time I had watched 'Jerry McGuire' was about 10 years ago and
I vividly remember saying 'wow!' when the end credits started to roll
that my sibling wondered what the hell was going on. I feel the same
about it after having rewatched it recently. Well, actually I like it
more because I noticed more things that I overlooked before and
understand and like the characters more. McGuire's transformation from
the money-obsessed agent to the caring agent and then to the caring
human being (in the form of a father and a husband), a change that
wouldn't have happened if it weren't for the caring people in his life,
is one remarkable story.
<|_=00=_|>
I refused to see Jerry Maguire for several years, assuming it was a
cheap movie about money, sports and sex. When i finally watched it on
TV, i was blown away. This movie is about hope, redemption, love, and
finding out the meaning of life. Tom Cruise does a spectacular job
playing someone with nothing to loose, and Cuba Gooding's performance
brought tears to my eyes. Renee Zellweger fits perfectly by having
great chemistry with Jerry, and by having a normal, plain look. This
film works because it's so real and easily plausible; its a witty,
romantic drama more than a romantic comedy that proves its never too
late to start over or take a risk.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a comedy, drama, romance, sports movie, and a money movie
(e.g. Wall Street, where the main character is trying to make a lot of
money). The problem such a movie faces is maintaining a consistent
tone. Remember Prizzi's Honor? JM solves that problem by using
restraint. It doesn't go over the top, although its characters
sometimes do. It has funny moments, but it's not Animal House or
American Pie. It's a drama, but it keeps the stakes low. This isn't
Armageddon: they aren't trying to save the world. There are no life or
death decisions. The romantic stakes aren't that high either: Renee
Zellweger loves Tom Cruise, but she's been in love before and if this
doesn't work out, she will be again. The only really high stakes are
the money. By keeping the stakes low, JM let's us watch it with a bit
of detachment.

This is more of a drama than a comedy. A good test is whether the
characters change. Here, Tom Cruise starts off completely cynical,
abruptly changes to ridiculously idealistic, then spends the rest of
the movie finding the right balance. Renee Zellweger starts by loving
Tom Cruise from afar, then gets him, then has to work out her ambiguous
feelings.

JM is fun to watch. The characters, though flawed, are sympathetic. We
enjoy watching them succeed, fail (sometimes in funny ways), and try to
discover what they really care about. It's complicated, thoughtful, and
surprisingly subtle.
<|_=00=_|>

"Jerry Maguire" did something very strange in 1996: it had both critical
and
commercial success.  This was evident in the fact that the four other Best
Picture nominees for the year were all independent productions.  "Jerry
Maguire" shows the business world of America at its worst, in this case in
the sports industry.  When Jerry Maguire, a sports agent, (played by
Oscar-nominated Tom Cruise) has a breakthrough one night he realizes that
quality is more important than quantity.  Of course he is fired from his
job
and loses all of his clients except Rod Tidwell (played by Cuba Gooding,
Jr.
in his Oscar-winning performance).  Dorothy Boyd (Renee Zellweger) has left
the business with Maguire, agreeing with his views.  However, Maguire
struggles with his separation from the sports corporation (losing his
fiance
and the first pick in the NFL Draft).  However, he survives and learns that
living well and loving well are the keys to happiness.  All in all, "Jerry
Maguire" is classic Hollywood stuff made in the present-day.  Cameron
Crowe's script and direction are subtle, but extremely effective.  Tom
Cruise delivered his best performance to date.  Renee Zellweger proved to
be
the find of the year and Cuba Gooding, Jr.'s quotes and scenes he stole
were
enough to win him the Oscar in a very competitive year in the Best
Supporting Actor category.  "Jerry Maguire" is not a perfect film. In fact
it is flawed in many ways and is not very accurate in some areas.  However,
its ability to mix comedy, romance, and drama make it a very entertaining
film.  The performances are all excellent.  4.5 out of 5 stars.

<|_=00=_|>
At the 1997 Academy Awards, host Billy Crystal referred to the
characters played by the five Best Actor nominees (of which Tom Cruise
was one) as being "a burned guy, a mentally-challenged guy, a
mentally-abused guy, a paralyzed guy, and an agent. And four out of the
five are treatable." Of course Crystal was jokingly referring to the
Agent as being beyond help. Among the figures of sports and
entertainment, agents are often regarded as the necessary evil of the
industry often with reputations as being the sleaziest of VIP's,
just-above used car salesmen. Their antics which require a high-level
of tough negotiations are sometimes seen as money-gouging and
materialistic. In the film "Jerry Maguire", Tom Cruise decides to wear
the shoes of a sports agent and walk around in them for just over two
hours.

"Who am I, and what am I doing?" Jerry Maguire asks when he realizes
his sports agency, SMI, tries to cover up the darker aspects of
professional sports. His answer is inspiring, transcendent, and
detrimental. He mistakenly writes down his inspired thoughts and
submits them to his colleagues for suggesting the agency concentrate
better on fewer clients. For his inspiration, he loses his place at his
agency and many of his highest-paying clients to his rival Bob Sugar.
Subsequently, he also loses his attractive but shallow fiancé. Maguire
is forced to try and live his dream of being more caring and receptive
towards the needs of his clients rather than just being there to get a
slice of his athlete/clients' multi-million-dollar paychecks. In a
particularly poignant sequence, he retains his client Frank "Cush"
Cushman who is a leading contender in the NFL draft through a handshake
with his father, played by Beau Bridges. However, on draft day, he
learns through an unexpected phone call that his rival Bob Sugar,
through deception, convinced Cushman to sign with him instead. Now,
Maguire has retained only Tidwell, and he must create his new agency
from the ground up with only a single client as his starting point.

So the question asked of the movie is: Can a sports agent find a more
meaningful, possibly spiritual, life and still acquire the high-paying
clientèle? And maybe even more to the point, can an agent make a
difference beyond just being a high-powered money negotiator? "Jerry
Maguire" is a thoroughly entertaining riches-to-rags-to-transcendence
story of a fantasy sports agent trying to find a deeper purpose to an
otherwise materialistic existence.

The film works at almost all levels, particularly because of the
dynamism of Tom Cruise and Cuba Gooding Jr. in an Academy Award-winning
performance, playing the only client willing to stay with Maguire. Part
of the story is Maguire's journey from the purely material to a deeper
and more-satisfying existence. Rod Tidwell (Gooding), wide receiver for
the Cardinals, is a strange opposite to Cruise but has a similar
problem. Tidwell is a devoted father and husband, emotionally involved
with his family but does not quite give that same heart on the football
field. The story becomes about both characters finding something deeper
in their place in the world, Gooding giving what he gives to his family
to his team, and Cruise giving to his clients and co-worker/lover
Dorothy Boyd his love and attention. Renee Zellweger plays Dorothy Boyd
in a passionate and sensitive performance that will definitely bring
tears. Zellweger's son becomes an important character and also an
inspiration to Cruise to find the deeper and more sensitive part of
himself.

In the materialistic world of late 20th-century America, "Jerry
Maguire" is a breath of fresh air. A rare story produced by the
money-obsessed film studios about the dangers of losing oneself for the
sake of self-promotion and monetary gain. An interesting statistic has
emerged of late regarding a high number of American businessmen on
their deathbeds who begin regretting the direction and purpose of their
lives. "Jerry Maguire" offers an alternative, although probably few in
his position would find the wisdom to change course. But since you
can't take it with you, life is about what you leave behind.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Cruise had one of his best roles and earned his second Oscar
Nomination for Best Actor for his charismatic JERRY MAGUIRE, a richly
entertaining comedy drama that is a seamless blend of character study
and romantic comedy. Jerry is a driven and ambitious sports agent for
an international agency that represents professional athletes in all
sports who has a crisis of conscience that motivates him to write a
"mission statement", which turns out to be more of a defiant manifesto
blasting everything that is wrong in his business. he distributes his
"memo" throughout the office and though it gets faint praise initially,
it does end up getting him fired from the agency. We then see Jerry try
to continue his business though he only has one client who agrees to
stick with him. Director-writer Cameron Crowe (FAST TIMES AT RIDGMONT
HIGH; ALMOST FAMOUS)solidified his position as a master cinematic
storyteller with this epic story told on an intimate scale. His
extremely deft screenplay is sharply delivered by a perfect cast. This
role seems tailor-made for Cruise and he makes the most of it. Cuba
Gooding Jr. won a Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his star-making
performance as Rod Tidwell, Jerry's most loyal client; Renee Zelwegger
was the find of the year as Dorothy Boyd, the secretary from the agency
who follows Jerry when he's fired and agrees to work for him and
eventually falls for him; Bonnie Hunt scores as Dorothy's sister as
does Kelly Preston, in one of her best performances as Jerry's shark of
an ex-fiancée. Regina King should have received an Oscar nomination for
her solid performance as Tidwell's wife, Marcy; Jay Mohr is quite funny
as Bob Sugarman, a rival agent who is battling Jerry to represent
another football player (Jerry O'Connell)who is being watched over by
his protective dad (Beau Bridges). A rare gem from the 1990's that is
not only grandly entertaining, but vividly real...there's nothing false
or affected here (though some might find Gooding's Tidwell a little
over the top), this film is one of those rare treats that is long, but
you hardly feel it. A real treat and a must for Cruise fans.
<|_=00=_|>
"Jerry Maguire" has to rate as one of the most quotable movies of the
last decade and a half. It's given us the lines "Show me the money",
"Help me, Help you", "You had me at hello" and "You complete me". And
it's that last line, that really describe this movie. It's really about
the growth of an individual. We see Jerry Maguire the character, grow
from just an agent to becoming much more, it's not an easy trip but for
the most part it's an entertaining one. 

Jerry Maguire is a top sport agent. He has a decent amount of big names
as client and he's engage to a beautiful woman. Then one day while
visiting one of his client in the hospital, the client's young son
confronted him after he gives the client a shallow encouragement. The
confrontation stick in his mind and would even get him to write a
"mission statement" for the company. The "mission statement" basically
lays out a plan that the agents give their clients more personal
attention. Unfortunately his boss doesn't like it. 

The movie gives us a look at the world of the sports agents. Who are
they that gets a cut of an athlete's earning and do they really deserve
it? In the beginning they're just there to negotiate the numbers and
get the athletes as much exposure. In the end, Jerry has become more
than a guy who makes deal for an athlete. It also gives us a look at
some clients they're more demanding than the agents are prepared to
handle. But if handled right they will prove to be worth the trouble.

Jerry Maguire is played by Tom Cruise, and he gives one of his best
performance. I think it's every bit the equal of Cuba Gooding Jr's.
Oscar winning performance. Both men were on top of their game playing
off each other. It's sad that his erratic behavior of late has caused
harmed to his career because Tom Cruise is a very good actor. So too is
Mr. Gooding and Renee Zellwegger, who plays an office worker in Tom
Cruise's office and who joined him as he tries to put forth his
"mission statement" into practice. 

All in all, I think it's a good movie with a very observant script,
complimented by great acting.
