

Anywhere But Here

The mother-daughter genre of film is one that is usually laced with caustic
wit (POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE) or draining melodrama (TERMS OF ENDEARMENT).
ANYWHERE BUT HERE is the latest entry into this undernourished genre.
Falling somewhere in between the two examples above, ANYWHERE is a passable,
but strangely distant film. One that for every unsuitable move it makes, it
has Natalie Portman and Susan Sarandon to make the wrongs seem so very
right.

Abruptly leaving her husband and family behind in Wisconsin, Adele August
(Sarandon) takes her teenage daughter Ann (Portman) across the country to
live the good and free life in Los Angeles. Having freshly minted a
tumultuous relationship with this sudden move, the two find themselves in
the strange position of having to rely on themselves and each other in the
big bad city. Adele is flighty, irresponsible, and refuses to settle into
her role as the parent. Ann is lonesome, homesick, and not sure about the
love she has within for her mother. Over the years we watch as struggle
after struggle continually opposes the family, with each battle reinforcing
the love the two share. Told from Ann's perspective, ANYWHERE is essentially
a film about trying to understand the people related to us. The bonds we
share with our parents, and how those bonds always seem to work against us.

Based on a novel by Mona Simpson and a screenplay by crisis legend Alvin
Sargent (ORDINARY PEOPLE), ANYWHERE is the kind of tragic-comic filmmaking
that I usually crave. Unfortunately, ANYWHERE is far from touching. Directed
by Wayne Wang, the film isn't nearly as resonate as Wang's earlier
multigenerational epic THE JOY LUCK CLUB. Watching Adele and Ann struggle
with their growing relationship is more tiring than emotionally satisfying.
The flow of the drama fluctuates so much, by the end you're just glad the
filmmakers didn't throw in one last argument for good measure. At 120
minutes, ANYWHERE is about six crisis over the limit. 

It's the acting in ANYWHERE that takes the film to another level. We all
know Susan Sarandon can spin gold with her acting, yet each new film she's
been involved with recently (save the September vanity project ILLUMINATA)
has shown more and more how commanding an actress she truly is. In ANYWHERE,
only Sarandon could give Adele the most annoying characteristics yet ground
the performance in love and warmth. Adele really does care for her daughter,
she just desperately wants to maintain her own identity for once in her
life. Bursting out onto the screen like some kind of Southern California
Pokemon, her performance is grand and inviting. 

But where does that leave Natalie Portman? After shimmying up into films
with should-be-legend performances in THE PROFESSIONAL and the locally shot
BEAUTIFUL GIRLS, Portman is like no other teenage actress working today.
It's a testament to her sensibilities that we haven't seen her in the latest
SCREAM variation or this next wave of AMERICAN PIE type comedies. Portman
carries ANYWHERE with grace and dignity. Director Wang should be given the
Oscar alone for his choice to just linger on Portman's face for extended
times. As expressive as her acting can be, Portman can live a million lives
in one glance. With Sarandon, the two create a complex and agreeable
mother-daughter relationship for their characters. They share overwhelming
chemistry and I hope this won't be the last time the two decide to work
together.

Shot with a sparkling color palette by Roger Deakins, Wang captures both the
frail beauty of Los Angeles and it's hard realities. I also give Wang credit
for properly using dim-bulb actor Shawn Hatosy(OUTSIDE PROVIDENCE). In a
small role as Ann's beloved cousin, Hatosy finally shows some talent and
charisma. Unfortunately, the film is scored on autopilot by the self-looting
Danny Elfman and features the second most aggressive soundtrack push of the
year. The songs rarely fit in with the drama and scream "Buy me on sale at
Sam Goody!" too blatantly. 

Just like the characters in the film, it's hard to hate ANYWHERE BUT HERE as
much as it is hard to love. Had Wang left open the emotion door a little
more the film might have made a lasting impact. Too many scenes do not pay
off the way they should and not enough texture is given to the characters. I
would recommend ANYWHERE BUT HERE, only for the opportunity to bask in the
glow of two actresses on the top of their game. -----7/10

<|_=00=_|>

"Anywhere But Here" is the story of a mother who is a bit flighty and
adventurous, and her daughter who is more down to earth and
practical.

First off, I'd like to say that Natalie Portman gets better and better every
movie I see her in.  She is an enormous talent, and continues to get better
as the years go on.  She really held her own and managed to shine brightly,
even against a talent as large as Susan Sarandon.

Ms. Sarandon is still no slouch either.  She portrays Adelle August, a
mother who desires more for her daughter than small town life in Wisconsin. 
She suddenly packs up one day and leaves it all behind, dragging her
unwilling daughter (Ann) with her to Beverly Hills.  She plays this role
with a pure passion, making you believe that she is indeed, in spite of all
her flaws and errors in judgement (the electric is repeatedly turned off due
to forgotten bills) that she really is trying the best she can for her
daughter.

Natalie Portman, as I stated earlier, is phenomenal.  Her character of Ann
is believable, even though we first meet her at 14 (Ms. Portman is 17) She
plays the uprooted, resentful, but loving and loyal child to the fullest
extent, without ever feeling forced.

While there is a good supporting cast, they are overshadowed by the presence
of Susan and Natalie, and while they are all good, well crafted characters,
the focus is clearly on the two stars. Notice a role put in by Ashley
Johnson, as Ann's friend in California.  Those of you who remember the show
"Growing Pains" will remember her as the youngest Seaver child before that
show was (mercifully) cancelled.  

If I have to have one complaint about this movie, it's that it was a bit too
long.  At 113 minutes, it tends to drag a bit and has a couple scenes that
are either overlong or could have been edited out.  But those really are few
and far between.

"Anywhere But Here" is a very strong, believable look at mothers and
daughters, as well as the complexity of all family relationships.  It is a
skillful and subtile tearjerker (as evidenced by my friend and an entire
theater full of teen girls and adult women crying during two pivital
scenes).  It avoids the trap of coming off heavy handed.  To loosly quote
the old saying, you will laugh, you will cry.  Often in the same scene.

4 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>

Wayne Wang's direction may be the ingredient which made this film much more
impressive to me than "Slums of Beverly Hills", which covers remarkably
similar ground. The interplay between Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman is
riveting. Real chemistry there. This film succeeded in bringing me inside
the dysfunctional life of these two women without dragging me down into
depressed frustration. Susan Sarandon's character hammers at all the nerves
which a narcissistic parent is capable of touching in an insecure
adolescent. She amazingly manages to do this without coming across as
floridly insane or intentionally sadistic. And, Natalie Portman deflects
each attack on her character's ego with the resigned grace of an intelligent
codependent child, untainted by the smug cynicism of the Natasha Lyonne
character in "Slums of Beverly Hills". Portman's character is an adolescent
with dignity under stress, an unusual creature in modern films. The film
reaches a very satisfying resolution without trying too hard. I highly
recommend this film to the viewer who wants to be challenged and
entertained.     
<|_=00=_|>

This movie wasn't anything extraordinarily special. Although it was
something to warm people's hearts.

The story starts off with Susan Sarandon (Adele August), the kooky mom, and
Natalie Portman (Ann August) getting away from their old life in their old
town in Boringsville, USA. When you see the expression on Natalie's face
when the camera just goes on her, you know that for the rest of the movie
you will not be disappointed at any time with her performance. You can see
everything in her eyes. As for Susan, she's amazing as well, with so much
experience inside herself, she embodies wisdom, and never forgets to have
fun with her character. Anyway, they're driving off to start a new life.
That's from when they start the story. It's a story of ups and downs between
a smart girl and her... well, mom that is a bit... crazy. Mothers and
daughters everywhere should see this movie together. 

I think the best thing in this picture is the acting, but when you walk out
of that theatre after the movie, you will get that Sunday afternoon good
feel of cinematic warmness.
<|_=00=_|>

Natile Portman and Susan Sarandon play off of each other like a symphony in
this coming of age story about a young girl, who is sentenced to life as the
daughter of one of the nuttest women you will ever encounter.
Sarandon has this ability, call it talent if you will, to play some of the
most off-beat characters and bring their humanity to forefront of any film
she makes.  As the mother of this obviously brilliant and muture beyond her
years young girl, Sarandon alternates between being the mom and being the
child with the ease of a ballet dancer.  More importantly she does it with
strength and flare without stomping all over Portman's portrayal of the
daughter.  
The question is always asked when we deconstruct the film plot, who changes?
 This film is certainly about the daughter, but if you look close at the
dreams and sacrifices that Mom makes you come to understand that she changes
in step with her daughter.  I am willing to bet this makes all of us in the
audience change also.  The hallmark of fine drama
<|_=00=_|>

This film was a new direction for Natalie Portman.  A much more adult role,
though she comes to it from the traces of a child in the movie itself. 
Ann,(Portman) and Susan Sarandon, who plays her newly divorced mother,
Adele, travel from a small town in the middle of nowhere to Beverly Hills. 
There these tortured souls try to come to terms with their new life and
their new relationship as Portman's character grows up.  Unknowingly at
first to Adele, she grows up and becomes a better mother for
it.

Ann sees her mother telling her she wants to be an actress, or so she
thinks.  Adele uses that crutch every time there are problems in their
lives.  We see their struggle as mother and daughter come to terms between
themselves and with being alone, having left their old lives
behind.

The acting is top notch from both of them.  They seemingly become mother and
daughter before your eyes.  You can almost feel there is a bond there beyond
the actual movie.

Though this movie really doesn't take us to any new ground in these types of
films, the fact that the acting is well done, and the story isn't too
flawed, let's me recommend it.

I will say however, it will probably go away soon, I don't believe it can
have the staying power needed for a huge Christmas season of movies starting
in a week or so.  See it now before this happens if you like either of these
actresses.
  
<|_=00=_|>
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon.)

The mother-daughter bond, especially with an only child, is one of the
strongest human bonds there is. Some say it's stronger than husband and
wife. It tends to be intense and it almost always develops into a
situation where neither side has the clear upper hand because both are
vulnerable.

And they fight. Tooth and nail. And they love each other intensely. For
the mother it is scary because everything is in the daughter and for
the daughter, especially when the mother is divorced or single, as is
the case here. For the daughter it can be a nightmare because the
mother is the adult and has the power and is a total embarrassment.
This is especially true when the mother is delusional or dysfunctional
as is Adele August (Susan Sarandon).

The story from Mona Simpson's novel is familiar in plot and theme
although the details here are unique and especially well done. Adele's
judgment is more than suspect and she's careless with other people's
feelings, and she's shallow and dresses funny. And she isn't completely
aware of, nor has she sufficient respect for the needs and wants of her
daughter, Ann (Natalie Portman). She, the mother, wants to leave behind
the small town, Midwestern existence and embrace Hollywood and all
things glamorous. Ann would rather stay in Bay City, Wisconsin with her
friends and family. Mom buys a Mercedes and forces Ann to go with her
to make a new life in Beverly Hills.

I thought Wayne Wang's direction was excellent. He used visual clues to
introduce the scenes: shots of an still apartment, shots of part of a
person, shots of the beach or the highway, etc., and then a focus
on--almost always--Sarandon or Portman. And then at sometime, the
camera backs away and we see the larger scene: the desert sand and
scrub, the ocean and the sunrise, the other diners at the restaurant,
the mourners at the funeral, the crossway over the freeway, and so on.
The scene in which Adele is hiding under the covers from heartbreak,
and Ann pulls them off, is shot from above because such an angle so
beautifully reveals Adele's limbs pulled in close to her body as though
in catatonia or in a return to the safety of the womb. Sometimes the
sounds precede the shot as when Adele is in Bay City trying desperately
to get in touch with the dentist in California who doesn't want her,
and we hear her desperation before we see it in her face.

I also liked the way the film was cut. As soon as the point of the
scene was made, we moved on to another scene, which is again introduced
visually with just the right kind of lighting, giving us a moment or
two to imagine what transpired in-between. However the real strength of
the film is in the brilliant work by Sarandon and Portman.

Sarandon is deliberately annoying, flighty, self-delusive, and deeply
vulnerable while Portman is powerful, sensitive, and one step ahead of
us. Indeed Natalie Portman is one of the most gifted young talents in
all of cinema. She absolutely commands the camera, and, as it stays on
her face, she reveals to us a full set of emotions and responses,
layered like things very deep. If she wants to she can become one of
the great stars of the screen. She has the talent. I understand however
that she is pursuing a career as a doctor. Whatever she does, one has
the sense that she will do it very well.

A couple of irreverent questions for director Wayne Wang:

How did Ann's audition go? Did her projection of her mother's
personality win her the part?

And, what is it that the man does in bed only with a woman he feels
special about? Inquiring minds want to know (rather than make stupid
guesses).

Anywhere But Here can be compared with some other dysfunctional mom and
wise-beyond-her-years daughter films, for example, Mermaids (1990) with
Cher and Winona Ryder, Postcards from the Edge (1990) with Shirley
MacLaine and Meryl Streep, Mommie Dearest (1981) with Fay Dunaway and
Diana Scarwid, Terms of Endearment (1983) with Shirley MacLaine and
Debra Winger, and some others I have forgotten.

For the record I would rate these in this order:

Terms of Endearment, Postcards from the Edge, Anywhere But Here,
Mermaids, Mommie Dearest

Here at IMDb they are rated in the same order but with Anywhere But
Here at the bottom. Too bad, but that allows me to say that this is
very much an underrated film.

See it for both Susan Sarandon, who is as good or even better than she
ever was--and that is very good indeed--and for Natalie Portman, who is
stunning, and as an actress, mature beyond her years.
<|_=00=_|>

Being a freshman in college, this movie reminded me of my relationship with
my mom.  Of course, my situation doesn't parrallel with Natalie Portman and
Surandon's situation; but my mom and I have grown up with the typical mother
and daughter fights.  There is always the mother telling you what to do, or
not being the kind of mother you want to be.  I was balling my eyes at the
end of this movie.  Surandon's reaction of her daughter going to the East
coast, miles away, after all they've been through reminded me of how I felt,
being from a small city in the West coast, going to New York. 

The movie is meant for women who have children that are now all grown up. 
It is very touching, I was moved by the movie.  Every feeling out of the
characters in this movie was utterly real, you didn't get any phony
sentimentality.  I was sitting through the credits at the screening of this
movie, alone, wishing my mother was sitting next to me so I could hug her
and thank her for everything.  This movie is a bit corny of course, but
everything is trully momentous.  Its all about what a mom can learn from her
child; and what a child learns from her mother.       8/10

<|_=00=_|>

I picked this movie up because I was curious to see Natalie Portman in
something that was pre Star Wars. I liked this movie. Natalie and Susan
were
wonderful as mother and daughter. Susan Sarandon is such an outstanding
actor. Better and better with every movie she does. 
<|_=00=_|>


Susan Sarandon has amply shown that she is capable of turning her hand to
most kinds of rôles and is especially adept at teaming up with youngsters.
This is no less so in this film with the prodigious Natalie Portman: the two
keep the film interesting when almost everything else is a rather blasé
prêt-a-porté production, mostly due to Wayne Wang's rather uninspired
directing, as well as a music score that has very little to do with the
proceedings and did nothing to fill in any stop-gaps.

The film is saved precisely by the Sarandon-Portman tandem providing an
energetic display of a mother, divorced, skidding along frenetically almost
hysterically, and her adolescent daughter trying to keep her young head on
her shoulders and pointing in the right direction. The result is an
interesting clash of personalities, veering from the dramatic to the
humorous in a style which is not far from being a `road-movie'. Indeed,
frequently, reminiscences of `Thelma and Louis' come to mind as the film
unfurls, though `Anywhere but Here' is several rungs lower down on the
ladder. 

Even so, my vote is slightly higher than the IMDb average. Hopefully we
shall be able to enjoy a true drama with these two ladies in the future, but
with a more exiguous director – Stephen Daldry, perhaps?

