

For a comedy that got trashed in reviews and rediculed by movie-goers, I
find this movie to be incredibly funny. The first time I saw the movie was
in the theater at which time I laughed at the "obvious" laugh-parts, but
it
was not until I had seen it another two or three times before I picked up
on
the absolutely hysterical dialogue, terriffic comedy styles of the various
supporting characters, and the sheer brilliance and irony the script
presents. If you know anything about history, this movie becomes instantly
funny. If you are a fan of almost Simpsons-style "random" humor, this film
is instantly funny. Never be turned off by the first glance of this film.
If
you dismiss it as "poor comedy" you will be missing out.
<|_=00=_|>

Almost Heroes is a deliberately idiotic movie, and much of its

humor relies on the audience being aware of this. If you don't buy

that the movie is SUPPOSED to be ridiculous and nonsensical,

then you're not going to like it. Otherwise, it is a great Chris

Farley/Christopher Guest vehicle with abundant laughs, often at

the absurd crudity of its humor.  There are scenes and dialogue

that come off as cheap attempts at lowbrow humor, when in fact

the real punchline is that you, the viewer, even acknowleged the

humor when it is so utterly tasteless. I, for one, laughed my @$$

off and got overdue fees at my video store because I couldn't stop

watching it.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm from Montana and had to study Lewis and Clark. Almost Heroes is
great it makes fun of all the details from their journey. Down to
Sacajawea and the waterfall passage. My favorite quote is at the start
of the movie when Hunt says "If you wanted a tracker why didn't you
choose William Clark?" and Edwards responds "Don't you think I tried
that." If anyone likes Chris Farley they will enjoy this film. Some
people says his comedy wasn't a physical as before. Did those people
watch this movie. How about the eagle scene or at the party. Or how
about the bar scene or the dentist. At the start of the movie his is
dragged on stage to be hung. Some people on this board probably don't
like Chris Farley. Or maybe they don't like Matthew Perry. That however
shouldn't mean they should hate every movie with them.

9/10

<|_=00=_|>

ALMOST HEROES was without a doubt one of the funniest movies of 1998. It was
also one of those rare comedies that are almost perfect. After seeing it
several times now, I still feel it could have been perfect if not for two
things. The first being that despite the movie being very well edited, there
are times when it seems that there was some serious cutting down for a PG-13
rating.  

The second thing keeping this movie from being perfect is just like with OLD
SCHOOL, there are some attempts at humor in the movie that seem out of place
in a movie like this. Sadly, this was Chris Farley's last movie. Nearly
seven years after his death, it is still hard to believe he's gone. He was
in my opinion, the funniest guy ever!

<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie. I love movies with stupid humor in them, and this
movie just cracks me up. How can you not laugh? Chris Farley's one of
the greats. Him, Matthew Perry and especially the rest of the cast keep
you laughing from beginning to end. It's hard for me to pick a favorite
character. I really like Bidwell, his misadventures had me rolling on
the floor in laughter, but the comedic genius of Farley had me going
too. One of my most favorite parts had to be when they bring the boat
ashore and meet the Native Americans, and they think the really tall
one's the Chief, but it turns out he's not, his real name's Bent Twig
and he's really mentally retarded. I laughed for almost 5 minutes
straight on that part. This movie's definitely in my top 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I know that a lot of people hated this movie, but I'm commenting in defense
of it. This movie may not have been Chris Farley's nor Matthew Perry's best
work, but it is funny. I laughed a few times when I watched it the first
time, in fact overall I like the darn movie, even though it's not as good
as
Farley's other funny works like "Tommy Boy", and "Black
Sheep".

Please give this movie a chance. You might like it.
<|_=00=_|>
This one is deliciously high concept--What if famed explorers Louis and
Clark were plagued with a band of ridiculous, incompetent, bumbling
ignoramus rivals? 

Leslie Edwards (Matthew Perry) is the organizer of the alternate
expedition, and seems the brightest of the bunch. At least until you
realize that he thinks good choices for his team include Bartholomew
Hunt (Chris Farley) as their wilderness-hardened guide with experience
and Guy Fontenot (Eugene Levy) as the team's translator. Hunt is
basically Farley playing himself, which is both hilariously funny and
profoundly tragic at the same time, and Fontenot makes it clear that he
doesn't know much about other languages. At first we give Edwards kudos
for deselecting him, but when Fontenot lets it be known that he'll only
join the expedition if his hot Indian woman (she's not a spouse or
girlfriend to him, but property), Shaquinna (Lisa Barbuscia), can also
come along, Edwards figures that they probably won't need a
translator's services that badly anyway, so brings him on the journey.

Levy is great at playing an attractive dunderhead. But we already knew
that. That's what he's been doing since his early days on "Second City
TV" (SCTV) (1976). What's more surprising is that Perry can so
effectively come across as a sophisticated halfwit. Perry's performance
is so dryly funny that during his scenes it can be easy to mistake
Almost Heroes for a much more serious endeavor than the Mel
Brooks-styled farce that it is. Farley has no such subtle complexities
in his performance, but he's none the worse for that. He just acts
natural, aside from feigning idiocy, as an extremely self-indulgent,
substance-abusing boor. That may not sound funny, but in the context of
the film, it is--Farley was as good at this stuff as was his idol, John
Belushi. It's only made tragic by the knowledge that similar behavior
off-camera led to his premature death shortly after making this film.
The rest of the cast tends to be just as funny, if a bit underused. For
that matter, though, even Levy is a bit underused.

What brought my score for Almost Heroes down slightly was the fact that
it may be a bit too episodic. The episodes are all like very good to
excellent skits on "Saturday Night Live" (1975) or SCTV, but they
didn't necessarily flow together as a film. Taken separately, many of
the skits are worthy of a 10--the IMDb message boards are full of
threads with viewers citing their favorite moments. Reading through
those after watching the film, just thinking about many of them again
made me laugh out loud. But as a whole, Almost Heroes seems a bit
underdeveloped from what it might have been. This may not be
Christopher Guest's best work as a director, but it's worth watching
and definitely deserves a DVD release.
<|_=00=_|>

Farley and Perry lead a team who are racing Lewis and Clark to blaze a
trail
to the Pacific coast of the newly settled America. Historically speaking,
the setting of the film and costumes seem surprisingly accurate and I was
totally convinced that I was looking at the early 1800's.

I watched it the first time and giggle a bit, I watched it the second
time
and laughed here and there, I watched it for the third time and laughed
nearly all the way through! This film is like an acquired taste and just
gets better with watching.
<|_=00=_|>

If I saw this movie with almost anyone else cast in Chris Farley's part I
probably, well, would have never seen it in the first place, but if I did I
would have given it a lousy review. OK, the movie itself was completely
predictable and dumb (not like it was supposed to be intellectual). I think
Matthew Perry had't made it to rehab yet because during certain scenes he
looks too thin and pale. During others (did they toss both of the leads in
rehab halfway through shooting, then continue when they were out?) he looks
pretty good. In fact, if you have the hots for Perry, you should definitely
see it because he was looking pretty good to me by the end of the movie, and
I never thought he was all that hot before. I have a feeling the part of
"Edwards" was originally meant for David Spade, but he pulled
out.

We saw it opening weekend, Saturday night, and the theater had already split
up the movie (and even cut the poster in half! Jerks) with another in the
same part of the theater because no-one was showing up. The audience was us
and maybe a dozen other Farley fans who sat silently when he wasn't
onscreen, then you'd hear us all laugh at the top of our lungs scattered
from various parts of the mostly empty auditorium (the laughs were
scattered, not our lungs, sorry for the bad grammar) when he did or said
something funny. This is not his best movie (he was obviously and sadly on
his last legs, but doing his best to give his fans their money's worth)but
not his worst. If you're a Farley fan, don't be scared away by the bad
reviews, rent it or buy it! The scene where he has to go find an eagle's egg
in the wilderness to cure his sick friend is priceless, and so is his
comment when he finally brings it back and finds out which part of the egg
they needed. Every single review in the media I read said something along
the lines of "this is a sad legacy to be Farley's last movie, with this weak
performance, blah blah" but I think he could have done a lot worse.

RIP big guy, your fans miss you.
<|_=00=_|>

In 1804, President Thomas Jefferson commissioned Lewis and Clark to explore
the newly acquired Louisiana Territory and find a route to the Pacific. 
Other explorers followed Lewis and Clark but didn't become famous--if you
believe this movie.

Among these less well-known explorers was Leslie Edwards, who seemed too
much of a spoiled rich kid to spend time in the untamed wilderness--which is
why he tried at first to take all the comforts of home with him, including a
slave.  He needed an expert tracker, but for some reason he had to settle
for a man who was in the process of being hanged for drunk and disorderly
conduct that included forcing a military officer to waltz.  Supposedly,
President Jefferson had commuted that sentence, but the signature could have
been forged.

The rest of the crew was nothing to brag about.  In fact, a number of them,
after hearing they would have to travel upstream, wanted to take the easy
way out and go to New Orleans instead.  One old geezer simply wanted to see
the Pacific but got out of doing any work because he was ... well, old.  Guy
Fontenot claimed to know all the languages of the Indian tribes the group
would encounter.  But the first time he was called on to translate, he
explained that the language was one he didn't know.  He brought along the
Indian maiden Shaquinna and was insanely jealous whenever anyone would even
look at her. 

Along the way to the Pacific, our heroes encountered a number of strange
Indians and even stranger villains such as Hidalgo.  They also visited a
full-fledged community established by whites--highly unlikely, but then,
this wasn't supposed to be historically accurate. 

This was a very funny movie, but whether it was quality depends on one's
interpretation.  For me, this was quite entertaining.  Some examples: 
Bidwell loses an ear, and Pratt picks it up and speaks into it--for the rest
of the movie--believing Bidwell will be able to hear him.  And Hunt climbed
a tree to get an eagle's egg--three times.  I won't say why it had to be
three times, or why he really regretted the second and third trips.  But it
was the highlight of the whole movie. There was also a scene where an Indian
kept slapping the white men because they did not respect his customs.  Or
was that the real reason?  And the entire movie was filled with physical
comedy such as falling off cliffs.

One criticism--if Matthew Perry was supposed to have a British accent, or at
least the accent of New England aristocracy, he seemed to forget in the more
strenuous scenes.

The objective was to get to the Pacific before Lewis and Clark.  Did they? 
Of course I can't say.  I can say that from a distance in several scenes, we
could see what appeared to be two men and an Indian woman, and a dog. 
Whether they made it or not, the effort was certainly one to be
enjoyed.


