

A very winning cast, great location, superb kids' story to work with, good
production make for some campy scariness for kids with entertainment for
mom
and dad as well. Charming little movie that appeals to the kid in all of
us.The predicament of the cows really did make me laugh out loud.

The acting by one and all was excellent, especially Richard E. Grant as
the
head of the vampire family. He brought a non-threatening, yet nerve
wracking
(well, for kids, anyway) presence to the movie. His charming powers over
Mrs. Thompson were hysterical, and the entire cast did very well with this
movie.

One for the kids that mom and dad will enjoy sitting through, which is a
rarity anymore, except for the likes of Shrek.

Oh, and I can't omit Rollo Weeks, as The Little Vampire himself. He was so
charming, so perfectly nailed the role of Rudolph. As well as the role for
arguably the cutest kid in movies, Jonathan Lipnicki, as Tony Thompson.
The
crush Anna had on him was acted out adorably by Anna Popplewell, as well.
There was just great acting all around in The Little Vampire.

A job well done by all involved. This will make my list of movies to
purchase just to share with my grandkids that someday I'll have to spoil.
Campy, scary enough for the little ones and entertaining for their
parents.
What's not to like?
<|_=00=_|>

First, let me say that I was determined to dislike this film. Premise seemed
childish, obviously aimed at children (and I ceased being one of those
*MANY* years ago). Despite my best efforts, I found that I really liked this
film. It's certainly not "Gone With the Wind", but it's good entertainment
and definitely worth a viewing. At the end, I found myself feeling good
about it, which is refreshing today. Even better, it gave me an evening's
entertainment without profanity, sex or senseless violence. Lipnicky is (as
always) cute and charming. I'd like to see more of Weeks on screen, but
don't know if that's feasible as he's a British kid actor.

Don't expect a deep message - it's not there. For a delightful evening's
entertainment (with the ENTIRE family!) it's highly recommended. Just sit
back and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

The little vampire is a thrilling story as a book and it makes a magical
film. The script was full of witty jokes if you approached it with the
right
attitude. My name is Anna Popplewell and I appeared in the film as 'Anna'
so
it is no wonder I rate it well. My brother and sister (5) and (9) both
loved
it and so did an audience full of children at the test screening. It is
true
that children above 12 may find it a little babyish. There is magic the
whole way through the film, not only as the friendship is formed, but also
when it is tested. Any child who didn't enjoy this film should watch a
little more closely

<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw the movie, I thought it was the cutest thing. I'm 17
years
old and I'm not ashamed to say that I really like this movie. It had a
cool
plot that made it not so much of a kid movie. And it really shows you can
make friends in even the weirdest conditions. Movies like this, allows you
to sit back and forget about the stress of everyday and you can let the
little kid inside you take over full of imagination and amazement. Really
this is an excellent movie who need to escape without really
escaping!
<|_=00=_|>

Just a few words that come to mind when describing The Little Vampire. 

This film is beautifully shot and at times looks like a Tim Burton film with
the Blue filter over the screen.  The costumes: Simply exquisite....they
looked excellent.....nice Halloween costumes?!?!?!

Rollo Weeks, in his break through film Debut, gives and exception
performance as Rudolph, the Little Vampire...He is a clever, young boy with
excellent acting skills.

Lipnicki, of course is too cute, and shines and Tony the young boy with a
heart for Vampires.  

The Scenery in this film actually steals the show...Beautiful landscapes,
rolling hills, lush greens.....breath-taking...

As an adult, I found this film funny, dramatic, and a good time for the
whole family....

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

wow, This has to be the best kick back and enjoyed movie I have seen in a
long long time. 
 
Being a 66 year old (tough Guy), I find most kids movies not to my liking.
But this movie had me engrossed in the entire film.

It was pure enjoyment to watch the movie and I recommend it to every one
regardless of age.

The wife goes along with me in my feelings about the pleasure of watching
this movie. So people for sure rent it and if you have babies, buy it so
when they are a little older they will be able to enjoy watching it as we
did.
<|_=00=_|>

The Little Vampire is a delightful film about a little boy from America,
Tony, who is teased and picked on at his new school in Scotland by the
local
laird's obnoxiously arrogant grandsons. He meets and befriends Rudolph, the
youngest son of a family of charming vampires, who are trying to save
themselves from Rookery, a vicious and unscrupulous vampire killer.  It is
rated PG for some mild peril, to which I would add that very young children
would need to have some of the life and death issues explained.  Both my
sons, ages 11 and 6, just loved the movie -- enough that my six year old
wanted to see it again, and I didn't mind taking him.  The lessons my kids
learned were mostly about friends coming in a variety of shapes and sizes,
and the value of loyalty and dedication to a cause. There are enough plot
twists and turns to keep you on the edge of your seat (at least the first
viewing!), and although some of the dialogue is banal and predictable, some
of it is deliciously witty.  Last but not least, the costuming and special
effects are wonderfully well done, and go a long way to making even some of
the silly scenes very impressive.  All in all, I would recommend it highly
(to anyone who doesn't have trouble with the notion that vampires are not
minions of Satan) as good, clean, amusing fun.
<|_=00=_|>

Back in the 80's, making Childrens Films was eaiser. There was no need for
hypnotic techno background beats. Directors didn't include glitzy light
shows whenever good and evil fought, Pokemon-style. Some of the best
fantasy
films come from the 80s and featured bad acting, horrible continuity, and
rather icky special effects and cinamatography as a whole.

"The Little Vampire" which stars mostly Jonathan Lipnicki, but also his
little fanged friend Rollo Weeks, looks 10-20 years old but it actually a
new release by New Line Cinema. And while for many this sounds like the
ultimate rip of the dark children's fantasy based on some pretty famous
books (at least in Europe), in actuality I think it's this that gives the
film class.

I cringe every time Jonathan's character says "dude" and cringe harder when
Rollo lays out the vampric lore dribble on why they don't bite humans.
(They
dine on cows.) But it becomes harder and harder to dislike someone so
charming as either boy as the chase for the medallion continues.

The medallion is most of the time gaurded by Rookery who may be one of the
most complete characters in the film. From the moment one sees his vampire
hunting contraption looking like something from either "Mad Max" or
"Tremors," those who are not children in the audience know this isn't going
to be your typical kid's flick. The dark, creepyness continues throughout
it's length, and someone in Oscar town might want to think on giving some
nods for costume and art direction. Nothing beats the expressions on Rollo
Weeks' face when he takes Lipnicki for their flights.

Alas, the film lags and is generally one big chase. The vampires want the
amulet, the vampire hunter wants the vampires, and Jonathan's parents just
want thier son to be normal. A tricky thing a dark movie appropriate for
children is. If they had added more action, it wouldn't have worked. And in
my opinion, even with the scares present, it probably only worked half way.

But the attempt looks sooo good.

The Little Vampire: B

<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie. I'm a sucker for movies that remind me of my younger
years, and this is definitely one of them (well, seeing as it's made for
kids, that's hardly surprising).  The plot was good, the bad guy wasn't
scary enough to give younger kids nightmares, but unlikable enough for
the
slightly older children not the care that he ISN'T too frightening.
Wonderful costumes too.

Did anyone notice the last name of the Vampires? Sackville-Bagg? It's
freakishly close to that of the Sackville-Bagginses from Lord of the
Rings...


<|_=00=_|>

Since I was a child, I have had an obsession with all things vampires.
Looking back now I wonder how much influence the 80's Little Vampire
series
had on me.  I might be well over the 'suggested' age group for this movie
but I couldn't wait to see it at the cinema and I wasn't disappointed at
all!

The Little Vampire is funny, with a great plot and well acted.  Being
also
an obsessive Buffy the Vampire Slayer fan, I found the movie a refreshing
alternative to gothic vampire style horror films which are currently
plaguing the TV and movie industry at the moment.  I can't honestly say
how
much a child may enjoy this film but if you have a spare nephew, niece or
grandchild, borrow one and rent the film.  I am just about to order my
DVD
copy of the Little Vampire tonight to join my collection of other vampire
movies - Interview with the Vampire, Lost Boys, Dracula
etc!
