
This is a very entertaining blend of supernatural thriller and teen
movie. Sarah (played by Robin Tunney) is the new girl at a Catholic
shool in Los Angeles where she meets a group of girls (Fairuza Balk,
Neve Campbell and Rachel True) who dabble in witchcraft. When Sarah
joins the group they discover that they have genuine power and start
using it to sort out their personal problems, until the group's leader
Nacy (Balk) starts taking it too far.

The film is well-made and several shades darker than the average teen
movie. The cast are all very good, especially Fairuza Balk who easily
steals the film with her part.

The film's portrayal of witchcraft is a bit more interesting than the
standard Hollywood portrayal, and it certainly doesn't represent it as
essentially "evil", which makes a nice change. However, as always, this
is Hollywood so many liberties will have been taken with genuine wiccan
practices.

The film is worth a look, however. The only thing that lets it down is
the overblown climax.
<|_=00=_|>

this movie could have easily been closer to an 8 or 9 with a little more
attention to the script. the movie, while enjoyable and well made, has a
weird disjointed structure that takes away from the all around excellent
performances.

of particular note is the stunning performance by Fairuza Balk. she has to
have the most hypnotyzing eyes of any actress i've ever seen. i really hope
a femme fatalle role is in her future.
in addition to having a unique look, she has the ability to get REALLY over
the top in the evil category.
neve campbell and robin tunney, with ms. tunney being exceptionally
beautiful, each deliver solid performances as well.

the movie kicks into special effects overdrive at the end and it doesn't
completely fit with the feel and tone with the rest of the movie.

overrall, though i enjoyed it and i recommend it to anyone looking for a
above average witch flick.

rating:7
<|_=00=_|>
One of the complaints brought against this movie by practicing wiccans
is that it gives the false impression that wiccans engage in "bad"
magic -- putting curses and spells on one's enemies. I would like to
remind any peeved wiccans who might read this that the biggest lie this
movie tells about them isn't that they cast spells, but that their
spells actually work.

But that's the very lie we expect fantasy films to tell us. We demand
it, in fact. This one, at least, does a very nice job of conveying the
longing for power that motivates some to practice wicca and other forms
of "magick." It's also fun and entertaining, and lovely to look at in
places. The famous butterfly scene, in particular, will take your
breath away. Over-all, this was a much better movie than it's been
given credit for being.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was better than I expected. It's about a girl who moves and
meets three girls at her new school, who seem to be practicing
witchcraft... The movie certainly appealed to me, the acting was not
bad, certainly Robin Tunney (who plays Veronica in "Prison Break") did
a good job, but also Neve Campbell and Rachel True are acting alright.
The only person of who I didn't like the acting, was Fairuza Balk. Her
voice is (in this movie) not exactly the nicest voice to listen to. But
she dóés have some good moments in this movie. Director Andrew Fleming,
who's budget for The Craft wasn't so big, did a good job. The movie is
-at least in the first half- a good combination between a thriller and
a comedy, in the end, all the comedy disappears, the atmosphere darkens
and we get a fairly exciting thriller. Some of the special effects are
very good. The music was o.k., but (except for a few scenes) nothing
more. If you have the chance to watch this, try it! The movie will
certainly not appeal to everyone, the movie is more for teenagers and
people in their early twenties, I think. Many older people won't
appreciate this film so much. But everyone should give The Craft a try!
<|_=00=_|>

Robin Tunney, Fairuza Balk, Neve Campbell, and Rachel True all star in
this
yummy film of the mid 90's involving four hot and spicy young women at St.
Bernhards Catholic School. Robin Tunney is a major hottie in this one, as
she enters the unknown when joining a coven at her new school. With a
history of blackness behind her, the most important thing she wants, is to
have friends, what else could anyone need? That is when the bitching
starts!
One false word and you pay the price with these gals. Robin Tunney sizzles
as the naive natural witch, with a power beyond good and evil. Neve
Campbell: does not get any better than that, all in black. Rachel True is
well cast as the misplaced black girl, whom puts every one else in their
place. We all know, however, that the best actress award in this flick
goes
to Fairuza Balk, as she fries the role, and the rest of the film with an
over-the-top performance. Balk milks the film for all it is worth, when
bringing down the tone to a very black, violent,and witchy nature.
Flemming
does a magical job transforming these four beauties into guardians of the
circle. When first heard of, this would sound like an A-class "Carrie"
rip-off, but then watch it and realize, it deals with more than powers. It
deals with the rules of the wicca generation, and history of the witch.
Carrie White was an all powerful demon who stands the test of a different
time, these babes, are 100% witches, and ready to turn you upside down!
Great job Flemming, you brought us an exciting film, enjoyable over and
over
again.
<|_=00=_|>

Not a really new story about Witch Craft among girl friends but enough
twists and surprizes and effects to rise above most.  Very well done by
all
Especially Robin and Fairuza.  Very Good effects.  Good vs. Evil conflict
really kept you in the movie. Great to see in a theater or on a big
screen.

<|_=00=_|>

The Craft is one of my favorite movies of all time. I just love it so
much,
everytime I watch it I go into this fantasy world. It's about a girl named
sarah(Robin Tunney) she moves into a new town due to some bad past
experiences. In the beginning everything goes great, she becomes best
friends with these three girls that are interested in the occult and
practice witchcraft. They are known as outsiders in the school, and when
sarah becomes friends with them, they form a circle. Sarah feels
wonderful,
finally she feels like she belongs. The three girls consist of nancy, the
gothic wicked leader(fairuza balk), bonnie, the insecure one(neve
campbell),
and rochelle, the shy one(Rachel True). Suddenly Sarah realizes that their
spells and wicked fun have to come to an end. She feels like everything is
going out of control and that the gang, especially Nancy is going a little
insane and is using her power in evil ways. When Sarah tries to leave the
circle, nancy turns her back on her and tries to ruin her life in every
way
she can. This is seriously a great movie, and if you are looking for a
wicked fun time, definately see the craft. All the actresses are great,
especially Fairuza Balk, she is so hot and so damn gorgeous. I would give
The Craft 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
It's not a scary movie, it's like a weird version of "Clueless". It
brings me back to when I was in grade school and wanted to be apart of
high school. And I always wondered if this was like what my future
would hold meeting new people. Witches? 

The plot is kinda basic "Evil Dawson's Creek". :D Sarah is the new girl
in town who is trying to fit in with very rude and snobby people at her
new school. You can tell from the beginning that there is something
very special about her. There are three girls, Nancy, who is the white
trash scary goth girl, Bonnie who has severe burn marks all over her
back, and Rachelle who is constantly picked on by a racist school girl,
they notice Saraa and they happen to be witches who need a forth in
their group, guess who that is? Sarah! She is also noticed by the high
school jock jerk who uses girls and treats them like whores. She is
first frightened by the girls, mostly Nancy, and leaves. She goes to
see Chris, but when she refuses a private invite to his house, he
spreads a nasty rumor around school about her night with him. She goes
back to the girls and they discover how much more powerful they are
with Sarah. They perform simple spells at first: flying, love spells,
changing appearances. But things get more intense and serious: Bonnie's
scars "magically" disappear and becomes gorgeous, but snobby.
Rachelle's racist bully looses her hair, which seems cool, but is
eventually very cruel and immature. Nancy has her step father "killed"
in some way of a stroke, and inherits $175,000. She also goes as deep
as to invoke the spirit of their beliefs of Manoe and becomes crazy.
Sarah's love spell on Chris was to only get him to like her and
apologize, but it turns on her very badly when he becomes too obsessed
with her. Sarah knows that things are bad and decides not to
participate her magics with the group and they turn on her, badly. To
the point of threatening her life.

It's a strange movie, it's entertaining to watch and the acting is
pretty decent. You really get into the movie. I'm not sure if you could
call it scary. But like the critics said "It's Carrie meets Clueless".
It's a fun teen movie. So if you liked those movies, you might like
this. 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS

I thought this was a pretty decent teen flick - if you remember that it
is, at the end of the day, a teen flick. No one should be expecting
massive doses of striking directorial depth or stunning method-acting
here. When taken for what it is - ie. a teen jaunt about peer pressure,
teen cruelty and the hidden power-trip behind most teens' quest for
emancipation, this is a pretty decent film.

What surprised me was the fact that, given the opportunity to go ditzy,
the script went dark - and that's always good when you're bucking
convention. This ain't no "Clueless". 

I think Fairuza is one scary, scary chick and seeing her all tied up in
a mental asylum didn't quite put the fear out. Why doesn't she do more
horror movies? I think she'd be one helluva a scream queen!

6.5 out of 10!

PS check out the somewhat toneless rendition of Peter Gabriel's "I have
the Touch" in the movie. The original is way better!
<|_=00=_|>
In 1996, when this movie was released, it was very popular and I was 10
years old. I remember that ''The Craft'' was one of the very first
movies about witchcraft I watched and liked a lot, and at that time I
was all excited with Wicca and stuff like that.(But I know that this
happened with a big number of people,specially girls) I only discovered
this year that the actress who plays Nancy, Fairuza Balk , really is a
witch: Maybe that's the reason why I think her looks and role are one
of the best. It's funny to see Neve Campbell when she wasn't so famous
as she is now. (By the way, it's my impression or she is inactive?)
Sarah, played by Robin Tunney, is THE witch, the really powerful and
good one, since her late mother was a powerful white witch, and unlike
the other girls, she has the inherent gift of witchcraft herself.
