
The Prince of Tides is an exceptional movie! It is filled with emotion,
humor, adventure, and pathos. Nick Nolte is the heart of the film. He
is a broken man, covering up for the past, trying to please his family,
but unable to open up and absolve himself of the dysfunction of his
past life. He travels to New York to try to help his sister by
uncovering what he has been hiding, with the help of a psychiatrist
(Barbra Streisand). He is enchanted with her, and is therefore able to
open up and reveal the secrets deep within his heart. The emotions that
Nick is able to impart to his audience is a joy to see. I learn more
about him every time I view this movie. He is a versatile actor and is
truly underrated. He DEFINITELY deserved the Oscar for best actor for
this difficult role. Barbra Streisand was fantastic as the psychiatrist
who had her own secrets, and her son Jason was terrific as the
rebellious son who wanted to please his father, but who needed to find
himself by taking on the challenge of playing football. I never tire of
this movie, and each time I view it, I get more out of it. The "Prince
of Tides" has everything I want in a movie, and if I were to rate it, I
would give it 4 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I avoided this movie because I did not care to see a romance involving
Barbra Streisand and Nick Nolte.  When we finally rented the movie, it
turned out to be so, so much more.  An incredibly intense film.  I was
never
of fan of Nolte, but what a tremendous performance!  It moves me to tears
every time I watch this film.  I am amazed the IMD reviewers give it such a
low rating. 
<|_=00=_|>
I have seen this movie many times and it always holds me. Its rhythm,
cinematography and casting is perfect and the story never fails to
deliver.

Tom Wingo, played by Nolte in an all-time best for him, has to go to
New York to help his twin sister, Savannah Wingo, played by Melinda
Dillon who has attempted suicide for the umpteenth time. Tom is aware
there are ghosts in the family but wants to keep them submerged.
However with the love for his sister and the encouragement of her
psychiatrist, Lowenstein, played by Streisand, the truth begins to
unfold along with a love between Lowenstein and Tom who are both in
unhappy marriages.

There are no easy solutions here to the many issues that are raised,
suffice is to say that Streisand, who also directs, keeps a gentle hand
in and does not wham home any major emotional points. George Carlin is
deft in a minor role, as is Blythe Danner as Tom's wife. The film never
fails to pack a punch for me.

9 out of 10. Kudos to all, not a false note.
<|_=00=_|>

Throughout the 80s and 90s, Barbra Streisand has grown in stature (albeit
sporadically) as a formidable producer and director of social drama for both
films and TV.  The apex of her behind-the-camera career came with "The
Prince of Tides," a poignant study of a man coping with the long-term
effects of childhood trauma.  Streisand nurtures this pet project from start
to finish (co-adapted by Pat Conroy from his epic novel), finding a precise
heartbeat for the profoundly sentient piece.  Despite a rather protracted
love story and one too many climaxes, Streisand, who also co-stars, never
loses sight of the novel's primary intent.

Streisand graciously hands the spotlight over to actor Nick Nolte, who gives
the most sensitive, emotionally complex performance of his varied career. 
Tom Wingo is a walking shell of a man who quells his pain with a drink, an
easy smile, a cleverly foul remark, and a bitter, uncontrollable outpouring
of anger.  A one-time Southern-bred football coach-turned-teacher, he has
grown increasingly irresponsible and disconnected over the years.  With a
troubled marriage hovering over him, he conveniently heads off to New York
City at the urging of sister Savannah's psychiatrist, Susan Lowenstein,
following his twin's most recent wrist-slashing attempt.  His purpose is to
fill in the missing details of her tormented past (she has blotted out all
childhood memories) in order to help steer the psychiatrist in her recovery
process.  Eventually, Tom, who lacks faith in psychiatry, finds himself
facing his own demons as these initial discussions about Savannah take a
suddenly dramatic and romantic turn.

In addition to Nolte's Oscar-nominated showcase, much of the film's strength
lies in the highly concentrated flashback sequences as Tom recalls his
turbulent family life.  Kate Nelligan (also Oscar-nominated) is simply
extraordinary as Lila, Tom's brittle, often callous mother, who quite
understandably vows to remarry into money after surviving a horrific first
marriage to Tom's violent, alcoholic, dirt-poor father (played by an
absolutely terrifying Brad Sullivan).  Nelligan grabs this role literally by
the throat and allows her character no apologies for her flawed,
self-serving logic, despite the effects it would have on her children, as
her wealthy second husband starts exhibiting the same abusive traits as the
first.  Kudos must also go to the three strong young actors who play the
Wingo siblings as children for reenacting the more horrific elements of this
story. 

Some of the other present-day roles, however, are hit-and-miss in their
effectiveness.  Blythe Danner has some strained though affecting moments as
Tom's neglected wife.  Sadly, the vital role of Savannah is nearly excised
from the film.  What with the talented Melinda Dillon egregiously reduced to
such an insignificant extra, one can only rue the dramatic potential
untapped here.  As Savannah's neighbor and trusted friend, George Carlin
seems to be around merely to show off New York gay chic -- providing mild
amusement, a bit of pathos, and little else.  On a brighter note, Jason
Gould (Barbra's real-life son) acquits himself surprisingly well in the
difficult role of Lowenstein's antagonistic son who slowly bonds with Tom's
absentee father figure -- showing for once that nepotism isn't necessarily
blind or reckless.  Dutch actor Jeroen Krabbé gets brief but noticeable
exposure as Herbert Woodruff, Lowenstein's charming, smug-elegant husband, a
renown concert violinist who demonstrates more affection for his
Stradivarius than either his wife or child.  There is one telling dinner
scene at his opulent Manhattan high-rise in which the out-classed Wingo gets
to put Woodruff in his place.     

As for Streisand herself, many will invariably take her to task for casting
herself in the fundamental role of Susan Lowenstein.  A star of such
magnitude always faces the daunting task of presenting a fully- realized
character, and Streisand is only marginally successful here.  Although there
is undeniable sexual chemistry between her and Nolte, it's hard to overlook
her somewhat glossy approach to the role and the unethical intentions of her
character.  One can only imagine the ramifications of such a harmful act had
her suicidal patient ever uncovered the illicit affair between her brother
and psychiatrist.

Director Streisand, however, must be applauded for her explicit attention to
exterior details.  A visually resplendent picture, great care was taken to
get the right look and feel.  Notice particularly the lovely allegorical
scenes with the children at the beginning and end.  And with Streisand's
exceptional musicianship, it is hardly surprising that James Newton Howard's
lush score is one of the most beautifully designed ever (in fact, I borrowed
it for my own commitment ceremony in 1996).  It floods the film with an
unexpressible tenderness.  Nick Nolte's bookend narration is perfect as well
-- warm, wise, poetic and reflective.

And so, despite the flaws "The Prince of Tides" may have, Streisand
certainly shows that her heart was in the right place.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm afraid Streisand's overblown ego defeats this film. Taking what is
essentially over-ripe Tennessee William's material, this may have had
possibilities. But Streisand's character (and especially the director's
fawning to her character (no surprise, since she directed it) makes
this an ego journey of immense proportions. I don't know how Nolte
survived this and how he crafted such a magnificent performance. I
don't know how he managed to mutter the film's last lines ("Lowenstein,
Lowenstein.") without breaking into laughter. (My guess...liquor and
multiple takes.) Streisand as a performer needed someone to fetter her
(she can give good performances when restrained.) Streisand the
director needed to keep from falling in love with Lowenstein. (She did
very well with the opening...except the titles and cast lists
interfered with the story.) At the end, the only impression left is an
unsubtle argument for Streisand's greatness. An argument that fails to
persuade.
<|_=00=_|>

Streisand directed Prince Of Tides in'91, and was not honored by the Oscars
with a  nomination for Best Director;. fortunately the Directors Guild and
Golden Globes did not ignore her, and the film.  Beautifully
directed, acted, scored and phtographed, it deserved all the praise it has
received.  Some fans of the book were disappointed because so much was
deleted.. true,  maybe should have been or will someday be a mini series...
but Streisand and Conroy, caught the heart of the book,
the
dysfunctional family.. and the problems that emerged in future generations; 
Nolte was excellent as was Kate Nelligan... see it again and again,  Brava
Babs !!
<|_=00=_|>
Meet ritzy-schmitzy, Park Avenue psychiatrist, Dr. Susan Loenstein,
played by none other than "bum-note" Barbra Streisand, herself.

One day when the emotionally disturbed Tom Wingo shows up at her swank
office seeking help, what does this supposedly professional, highly
ethical and married woman do as a means of therapy for Tom? Well, this
low-down, sleazy, two-timing bitch initiates sex with him! That's
right.

And if that wasn't distasteful enough - Literally half of this film's
running time is then given over to an utterly shitty "love affair" that
immediately transpires between these two major arse-holes, Tom & Sue.

We watch Tom & Sue eating cotton-candy. We watch Tom & Sue laughing so
joyfully. We watch Tom & Sue skipping together along the beach.
(Tra-la-la-la!) We watch so much of frickin' Tom & Sue that it makes me
want to puke my guts out.

You know, it really figures that it was "America's Treasure", Barbra
Streisand, who's the one to be held responsible for directing this
detestable crap.

This movie is pure garbage! I don't believe for a minute that its story
is supposed to be a statement, protesting against the sexual abuse of
children.
<|_=00=_|>

It is next to impossible to turn a 800 page novel into a consumable movie
without losing some of what made the novel brilliant in the first place
(which this one is).  The novel is about growing up in South Carolina and
about the love of three siblings for each other.  The novel takes its name
from what the sister calls one of the brothers: The Prince Of Tides.  But,
Luke Wingo, the title character is seldom seen in this mediocre
adaptation.
Ms. Streisand decided to make it a love story about her character and
Lukes
brother Tom.  She missed the entire point, and screwed up a good story
that
would have better been left as a mini-series because of its length and
depth. (She needs to watch LONESOME DOVE or ROOTS or CENNTENIAL to see
that
you can make masterpeices on tv, especially if you have a huge text to
work
from).

However, Nolte is perfectly cast, and plays the part of a downtrodden
southern everyman very well.  The few childhood flashback scenes that they
do film are done very well.  Too bad Babs didn't realize this was the meat
of the novel.  Oh well,
at least she didn't sing.
<|_=00=_|>

Barbra Streisand's visual presentation of Pat Conroy's novel is excellent!
I
never expected a film under her direction to be this great and very
expressive. Nick Nolte's acting is excellent and I can't think of any actor
who can play his role as Tom. For those of you who never seen this film,
The
Prince of Tides is a drama that tackles family, time and emotions. The film
is indeed a great imitation of life!
<|_=00=_|>

The movie should have focused solely on the psychological make-up of the
Nick Nolte character, Tom, or of his mother. Instead we gets tons of the
usual New Yorker vs. Southerner dialogue, a silly romance between Nick and
Barbra which serves no purpose, a pointless interaction of Tom with
Lowenstein's son. The childhood events of Tom and his family were so intense
that the secondary plots were fluff. On top of that, the "yelling" school of
acting was sometimes employed. When you can't think of any good dialogue,
simple have the actor rant and rave loudly way out of proportion to the
issue discussed. Exactly what made Tom lose and gain back interest in his
loving family was really important but not really explained.


