

Why, oh, why do they try and remake Buster Keaton's movies, he was such a
master of his craft that it is near impossible to make anything near as good
as his original movies.  Saying that, even if I hadn't seen 'Seven Chances'
before seeing this I'd still have the same opinion, Chris O'Donnell had the
potential to be a star, but, he has the inability to know a good script and
this is a classic example.  None of the characters are particularly
endearing, Arte Lange is plain annoying and seeing Ed Asner and Hal
Holbrooke was saddening.  Rene Zellwegger is as usual very good, which is
about the only positive thing in this sorry excuse of a movie. 

Major plothole, how come all the brides turn up at the church in full,
perfectly fitting bridal regalia on only a few hours notice?  Are we
supposed to believe that all women have a perfect wedding outfit in their
wardrobe 'just in case'? And amazingly, the wedding dress found for Anne
fits like a dream, an amazing coincidence or what!! At least in Keaton's
version the 'brides' are in their normal clothing with just cobbled together
veils to distinguish them as brides, far more convincing.

My advice, hunt down a copy of the original 'Seven Chances', there is no
comparison.
Note to reviewer Matt Doolittle, BusterKeaton was an amazing man, but, even
he couldn't direct a film 33 years after his death.


<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS THROUGH: 

The Bachelor is a sweet, rather dull romantic comedy starring Rennee
Zelweger and Chris O'Donnell. It's a movie that almost seems to promise
hilarity yet strangely the movie isn't that funny. In fact it's not
that interesting either though certainly not unwatchable. Yet for some
reason, even though this movie contains two warm likable charismatic
leads, the movie never picks up steam.

I think there were a few things that I did not like here, one being the
playing out of a very funny premise. But the movie, even though it's
not that long, gets rather irritating. The whole thing centers on
O'Donnell proposing to various women and while it was fun at first,
none of the women are in their scenes long enough to make a strong
comedic impression and Zelwegger herself, while coming across as
charming and sweet as always, is somewhat underused. Her main point
seems to be moaning about her problems with Jimmy. In the meantime, the
viewer can't make up their mind whether Jimmy is a nice guy or a jerk,
mainly because he keeps switching back and forth and we never get to
see him one aspect of his personality for to long.

The movie becomes a bit tedious as well as Jimmy races around in search
of new ex girlfriends to propose to so he can get his inheritance. It
should be laugh out loud funny but isn't. I was moderately interested
in how it turned out but also wanted it to end. It was a given that
these two would wind up together anyway.

The movie didn't seem to contain enough truly hilarious material and
with a premise such as this, it should have, because this is a great
situation on which to build a romantic comedy. I thought there would be
unforgettable one liners and I'd be falling out of my seat....did not
happen at all. However with this cast, particularly Zelwegger I'd never
call it bad, just strongly lacking in some areas, particularly the
comedic.

And then we come to the famous scene with the hundreds(or thousands?)
of Brides chasing Jimmy. Now if any scene had the potential to be
UTTERLY HILARIOUS it was that one. But it doesn't happen. The brides
aren't funny, their annoying, and by that time one just wants them to
stop chasing the groom so he can marry Renee Zelwegger and the movie
can end. It's another scene that should be hysterical but just fell
flat.

In closing, this is watchable but a bit disappointing and not very
funny though the end is very romantic and big fans of Zelwegger may
want to check it out, that was my main reason for doing so. My rating
is 5 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

The sight of an army of brides in white chasing a man down the streets is a
very unusual and funny one. It was especially funny the first time around,
with Buster Keaton. In "Seven Chances" (1925) old stone face played a man
who had been left an inheritance of a large sum of money ($7 million)under
the condition that he get married before his next birthday...which happens
to be the following day. His efforts to find a willing bride results
in
ridicule, a car wreck, etc. He finally puts an ad in the paper, telling the
circumstances, and asking for the applying bride to meet him at the church.
At least a thousand women ranging from fat, small, young, old, beautiful,
downright misshapen arrive at the church. Well, the same exact thing
happens
in this movie "The Bachelor" (though inflation has turned $7 Million into
$100 million), only I gotta say the Keaton version is still the original
and
unsurpassed (and unsurpassable) masterpiece. I actually couldn't believe
they named it "The Bachelor", it's a very boring title.

<|_=00=_|>

If you are looking for a non intellectually stimulating romantic comedy,
and this is on TV and you arenÕt really going to pay attention, and your
main alternative to watching is staring at the wall, then you are in luck.
The Bachelor is the sort of movie that seems about eight years old as soon
as it comes out on TV.  The special effects involving various men running
with horses look about this old.

Basically the film revolves around the idea of bachelors as stallions
powerful wild and free, the idea of true love, and functions  as a frame
work for ÒcuteÓ romantic cliches about true love and what not.  Basically
the best part that lasts more than thirty seconds is the proposal with
Buckley.  This is not worth watching the movie for.

The only non paid for reference (read non advertisement) to this movie
that
I have seen is something about Mariah Carey: from singing to acting, but
this is the sort of ÒactingÓ that a fan would not want spread around.  Oh
well so much for long term artistic merit or historical value of any
kind.

What interests me most about this movie is what bystanders thought when
they saw the scenes with hundreds of wedding dress clad bride hopefuls
storming the streets, running up and down the same hill over and over again
until they got the perfect take, and generally walking around the city.
The
wedding dress scenes are very impressive and alone are almost worth
watching
the movie previews for.  It is kind of sad that some sort of candid camera
clip of bystanders staring at a bunch of actresses in wedding gowns would
probably be more exciting than the movie, but thatÕs the way it is with The
Bachelor.

I didnÕt think that this movie was worth my time, but some people just
love
happy little romantic comedies.  I realize that I am not in this group, and
consider this to be the worst movie that I have paid to see this year.  Try
as I might I will never get back my 5 dollars and the 90 minutes of my life
spent on this movie.  If you do watch this do something else, preferably
something distracting, at the same time.  Given any alternative donÕt watch
this.
<|_=00=_|>

SOME MINOR SPOILERS (REGARDING THE PLOT - NOT WHAT HAPPENS)!

"The Bachelor"

Chris O'Donnell stars with Renee Zellweger in the 1999 remake `The
Bachelor,' a film about `the true meaning of love.'

 Jimmie Shannon (O'Donnell) is your average 29-year-old bachelor: he doesn't
want to let the good times come to a stop. But after he is pushed by friends
to propose to his girlfriend Anne (Zellweger), he does so, and accidentally
says some regrettable things in the proposal line (`You
win!').

After a fuming Anne refuses to respond to any of Jimmie's calls in the days
to come, Jimmie comes to a realization that the relationship is over. And
then it happens. His grandfather passes away, leaving 100 million dollars to
Jimmie. What's the catch, you ask? 

He must find a wife in twenty-seven hours to get the money.

And so, the game is on, as Jimmie proposes to all his old girlfriends,
including Ilana (Mariah Carey), Daphne (Jennifer Esposito), Buckley (Brooke
Shields), but before all them, a re-proposal to an ever-softened Anne, who
realizes before saying `Yes' that Jimmie is not ready to get
married.

`The Bachelor' is a remake of `Personal,' `How a French Nobleman Got a Wife
Through the 'New York Herald' Personal Columns,' `Meet Me at the Fountain,'
and `Seven Chances,' all of which I have not seen. Therefore, I have nothing
to base my review on. Also, therefore, I enjoyed this film. It may be a bit
odd at times, especially the end, but overall it is just fun. It is a good
escapism film where one can sit back, relax, and forget their
worries.

Chris O'Donnell may not be a great actor, but he pulled off Jimmie Shannon
enough to not raise any eyebrows. 

I found Renee Zellweger to be quite good as Anne, providing a typical `woman
moment,' when she, after Jimmie makes an awful proposal to her, grabs some
food and hogs down.

James Cromwell is best as `The Priest,' who Jimmie carries around all day to
perform a marriage on the spot. I love the deadpan expressions Cromwell
carries throughout the whole film, until the end, where he finally speaks to
Jimmie about love.

`The Bachelor' may not have the greatest character development, and the end
was a bit more than odd (too much so to call it `original'); but I still
enjoyed the film. At its heart lies a refreshingly fun comedy with a
disclaimer: `Please detach brains before viewing.')

Dumb fun. Nothing less, nothing more.

3/5 stars –

John Ulmer

<|_=00=_|>
I got this DVD for free, with a chicken dinner, no less. The chicken
dinner was not very good but it was way better than this movie.
Actually, I don't think I've ever rated a movie a 1 before, but that's
only because IMDb does not allow a minus or a zero. The cast, I can't
believe they would even come within a mile of this horrendous bomb, but
they did, many of them, all broke, I suppose. Ed Asner, Hal Holbrook
(who has one of the most appalling jobs - a father offering his 15 year
old daughter as a bride to the most absolutely appalling cad), James
Cromwell, Renee Zelweger and on and on. There is no script, no
development of character (apart from a tiny slice of the James Cromwell
bit)so many clichés it should be shown as how NOT to make a movie. I
did not see it all the way to the end, my gag meter had maxed out and I
needed to take a breath of fresh air. Shame on all concerned. 1 out of
10 for those 1000 unfortunate bit player brides running through San
Francisco.
<|_=00=_|>
The Bachelor (1999): Dir: Gary Sinyor / Cast: Chris O'Donnell, Renee
Zellweger, Artie Lange, Hal Holbrook, James Cromwell: Mindless geek
show That gets stupider with each passing moment. Title addresses
singlehood and begins with Chris O'Donnell making two lousy proposals.
He learns that he must be married by his 30th birthday or the law firm
he works for will be up for grabs but if he is married then he will
inherit millions pending certain conditions. He proposes to every woman
within reach and getting turned down. Repetitious, predictable, boring,
and irritable right up to its stupid climax where O'Donnell flees from
a parade of brides. Uninspiring directing by Gary Sinyor. O'Donnell
renders this his worst film since Batman and Robin only this one he is
unable to conceal himself behind a mask to hide the shame. Renee
Zellweger labors through flat material. She is basically the romantic
lead who supposedly has a heart of gold. Artie Lange mugs scenes as
O'Donnell's idiotic best friend who scopes out the possibilities in
brideville. Hal Holbrook has the best lines but the role is also
standard fare. James Cromwell practically sleepwalks through this
garbage as a priest. Terrible waste of film with a commitment theme
bypassed in favor of boring romantic clichés fit to be trampled by the
bride stampede and anyone else who comes along. Score: 1 / 10
<|_=00=_|>
Chris O'Donnell has a certain appeal. For me, it's his facial
expressions. He is the master at portraying reactions by a mild
mannered "everyman" overwhelmed by immediate circumstances.

Rene Zellwegger was a mildly cute Texas girl-next-door several years
before this one. In this one, set in San Francisco, her Texas accent
and tomboyish outrage is not appealing.But she is supposed to be a
fed-up girlfriend, so I guess she does it well.

I envied the main character. How great would it be to look like him,
have a guaranteed easy job for life at a pool table manufacturer in San
Francisco, owned by his own family, and then inherit a bunch of money?
I've met guys like that, who cruise along in "auto-pilot" with their
looks, casual demeanor, and money.

The sidekick character played by Artie Lang was so over-the-top
obnoxious! I couldn't take it. That's his real life personality, so he
wasn't acting. It was also excruciating to see classic actors like Ed
Asner and Hal Holbrook play old fools in a romantic comedy for young
people. It seemed degrading.

I loved the imagery of single men being lassoed by a cowboy rope as
symbolic of being trapped by the need to marry.

I also thought the famous thousand brides scene was well done. I
particularly liked the initial part of it at the church, when Chris is
answering their questions about his preferences. 

Brooke Shields looks old and hard. Don't expect much, although she
played her role well.

I thought there was just the right amount of character development. You
don't want too much in a RomCom. If you can stand Artie Lang,give this
picture a viewing on a rainy day.
<|_=00=_|>
Jimmy Shannon has a big problem. What is he to do with an inheritance
of a hundred millions left to him by his grandfather if he doesn't
marry by a set date? Having said the wrong things to the one woman he
truly loves, has resulted in sending Anne Arden away; she wants nothing
to do with him. Unknown to Anne, Jimmy is now a rich man. Will she come
back to him, or will Jimmy marry someone else that will assure him of
the millions he inherited?

When it comes to dumb situations made by Hollywood, nothing is too
much. This formula film, directed by Gary Sinyor, doesn't go anywhere.
It tries to be too cute for its own good. It also has a gimmick going
for itself when hundreds of women dressed in wedding gowns come to
claim Jimmy for themselves.

The problem is with the pairing of a bland Chris O'Donnell, with
another bland actress, Renee Zellwegger, who is the epitome of
"cuteness" in the movies. If the viewer accepts these two can even
attract one another, then there is nothing wrong in the world. Ed Asner
and Hal Holbrook, two good actors are seen in the film, but they have
nothing to play with.

Steve Cohen's screenplay doesn't do justice to the original material
created originally for Buster Keaton, a genius in his own right, who
should probably he horrified by this take on "Seven Chances".
<|_=00=_|>

Maybe it was just the theater, or maybe the projector person didn't know
what he was doing, but in 75 percent of the scenes the boom mike was just
hanging there above people's heads! In the scene on the pond, it looked
like
the priest was being attacked by a furry bird, and you could see where the
actors were going to walk next because the mike was leading the
way.
It was so bad it was hilarious. Which is good because there wasn't that
much else that was funny in this movie. Renee Zellweger shone far above the
rest of the cast, Chris O'Donnell still needs to work on his comic timing,
and the entire plot was an insult to women. Oh sure, everyone has a wedding
dress just sitting around, just in case some stranger wants to marry you
with little notice.
Overall, a horrible experience. My girlfriend and I fought for the rest of
the day.

