

This is a great movie with amazing actors.
One suggestion for all the people who give it a bad review: Rent the DVD and
listen to the track with the directors commentary (the full length movie).
What I read so far on reviews, including the official ones from all the
Siskel and Eberts, they seem to misunderstand the movie. They are criticizing
exactly what the director did on purpose.
Watch the movie - watch the commentary version - watch the movie again. It is
a great experience.
<|_=00=_|>

The title of this movie(One Night Stand) may suggest that it's about
"Cheating" but is something else,is about an instant attraction,the things
occur spontaneously between Karen(Ms Kinski )and Max(Wesley Snipes)THEN 
just a memory of that perfect woman,then the re- encounter,the desire and
passion appears again and thensurprise!LOVE!

Max and Karen are drawn together with both of them finding something in each
other that had been lacking in their own relationships BUT is Robert Downey
jr who steals the show HE IS THE GLUE that represents human connection in
the film,believe me HE ROCKS!!!.Wonderful performances by the cool Wesley
Snipes,Ming Na Wen,Nastassja Kinski(she is so smooth!!!),OK I got to say
something about this actress,Kinski,she's a true woman.She doesn't has the
vulgarity of Jennifer Lopez(Oops!).

I also liked the two sex scenes of our protagonist with  this two  woman(the
difference of how they make love),even the film has some cameos from Ione
Skye(remember that actress of Say Anything?);His real life brother ,the
musician Donovan Leitch,OK Mike Figgis is the Director but he also is
responsible of the wonderful music in this film.

I hate to say it,but Roger Ebert was right in saying that Kinski has the
best line of the movie: "What do you do, Karen?" asks Mimi(Max's wife). And
she replies: "I'm a rocket scientist." 


<|_=00=_|>

This movie is different from others in a sense that there's no
good
guy and bad guy line here. Nobody's perfect and nobody's totally
wrong.
However, in order to show Max-Caren pair as "unfaithful" as Mimi-Vernon
pair, the
event that was taking place outside the party was too imposed
and
simplistic. Some better idea should have come there. Extra-marital
relationship is very complicated subject and deserves lot of
thought.
This movie at least provokes that kind of thought, though in a
very
simple way.

Ming-Na Wen and Wesley Snipes were over-acting on some occasions. Wesley's
ad-firm colleagues were unnecessarily shown as stupid.
However, Robert Downey Jr.'s part was superb, though his character
was
not directly related to the movie's main story. I was moved by
him
talking to Wesley about "life's like an orange". Some people
here
found Nastassja Kinski boring. I completely disagree. She was
not
blabbing, that's true, but look at her subtle facial expressions.
One
will rarely find this talent in Hollywood stars' face.

Another feature in this movie that I liked very much is the
natural
relationship between Black-White-Asian, which I can hardly find in
a
Hollywood movie unless the theme of the movie is race discrimination
or something alike.

I give it a little above average credit. With better acting and
little
modification in the script this could be an extraordinary
movie.

<|_=00=_|>

At first I had a knee jerk reaction to the fact that infidelity played a
role in the rearrangement of people's lives. However, what got me off my
high horse was Robert Downey Jr's character Charlie. Charlie was the
equalizer in this film which brought everything and everyone together. The
message became crystal clear as Charlie candle slowly burned out, but what
better way could a man ask to leave this world. Charlie truly left us all
with something to live on for, OUR HAPPINESS.... 9 out of
10


<|_=00=_|>

I can´t understand all the negative reviews of this film. The plot is
quite
amazing; one night CAN change our life.

It all starts with Snipes; and he talks to the audience (us, that is) and
explains the basic plot. Then the movie really starts. From the first
minute
to the last; this is way one of the best movies i´ve seen. Snipes does his
best role ever; Kinsski is one of the best actresses around.

My favorite actor Robert Downey jr is amazing as the AIDS infected artist
and wonderful Kyle MacLachlan is great.

This is Mike Figgis best film and way one of the best movies
ever.
<|_=00=_|>


In this excellent movie we are told an apparently very simple story where
life meets death, success crosses with failure, conjugal life redounds in
adultery and love triumphs over it all though in a somewhat strange
way.
A man's best friend is dying of AIDS. He comes to visit him and that fact
unchains a lot of coincidences and accidental events which will change some
people's lives.
This story is really made of factual coincidences but this circumstance far
from being a flaw, is its backbone since life itself is full of strange
coincidences and those shown here are not improbable.
Life is really an orange like the dying man tells his best friend in his
deathbed. What does this mean indeed? The answer is not given in the movie
so it's up to you to find it by yourself.
Another very important feature of the plot is the solid friendship between
these two men which is revealed by some very moving deeds and
circumstances.
One last word for the sound track music which is also excellent and adequate
to the atmosphere of the movie thus reinforcing it and making us feel it
more deeply.
And one last warning: prudes, abstain from seeing this movie because you
will hate it not so much for certain scenes (as a matter of fact we have
seen a lot of more explicit ones in a lot of famous movies) but because you
won't be able to lay your moral prejudice aside in order to admire the
beauty of this true love story or to understand its rather odd
end.
Is it important to say that the lovers' couple is here composed of a black
man and a white woman (Wesley Snipes and Nastassja Kinski who perform their
roles very well)? I don't think so.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie is heart warming and full of hope. Robert Downey,JR playing a
gay
man with AIDS is phenomenal and well worth seeing the  picture.
Under-rated
by critics i found it compelling and very moving. It shows a very shapley
Wesley Snipes playing a very sympathetic role, different for him, plus the
best friend of Robert Downey Jr,
<|_=00=_|>

LEAVING LAS VEGAS affected me like almost no other movie has, so I was bound
to find this film somewhat of a let-down, but even I was surprised by how
much.  In his other films, Figgis has demonstrated he's a master with mood
and atmosphere, and he's good here as well.  The scene where Max and Karen
first meet is nicely played, without too much foreshadowing thrown in.  But
this is a conventional plot, and try as he might, Figgis isn't able to make
it interesting enough.  And as much as I hate Joe Eszterhas (whose screenplay
this is re-written from), I can't imagine his ending was any worse (or maybe
this was his ending).

I'm not a big fan of Kinski to begin with, but to be fair, she has almost
nothing to work with, and she does try.  And I like Ming-Na Wen, but she's
also stuck, she with a too-unsympathetic character.  The men come off
better; Snipes and MacLachlan are good, but really, the main reason this is
worth watching is Robert Downey Jr., who avoids cliche even when his
character is dying.  Otherwise, you're left wondering, what the hell was the
purpose here?
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely love this movie. Figgis' use of music gives me chills and
I don't find some of the 'coincidences', in the movie's plot too
unbelievable. Rather than being a clichéd Hollywood film on adultery,
I've always thought it to be a joyful celebration of life in the face
of mortality. Robert Downey Jnr. milks a whole scene for comedic effect
solely with the use of his owl-like eyes. While a similar scene in your
average film would be knee-deep in pap miserabilism. There is something
subversive in the director and actors finding humour amidst such
morbidity. 

But it's the music that keeps me coming back. Figgis' enthusiasm for
jazz is well in evidence here and there's even a neat use of Nina
Simone's 'Exactly Like You'.

Natassja Kinski and Ming Na Wen don't hurt none either.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know what it is with films but some capture the mood for me and
some don't. 'Leaving Las Vegas' didn't but this did. So why? The latter
didn't receive half the aclaim of the first, but somehow despite 'Las
Vegas' being the more technically perfect film 'One Night Stand' was
more a more interesting study of Human relationships and how real life
is.

I don't think I have seen a better performance from Snipes and Robert
Downey Jnr leaves me stunned at why he hasn't been given more leading
roles. Downey Jnr is up there with the best of them when it comes to
ability and 'Chaplin' should have led to a continuous stream of top
dramatic billing, A small but again thoughtful performance from him,
never totally stealing the limelight but always there as the part
demanded. There are only a few actors that leave me wanting more
because of the insight they brought to the character, Pacino, De Niro,
Duvall, Hopkins, to name some, but also, strange as it may be, based on
the few decent roles he has had, Downey Jnr.

Figgis brings to this film a mood that captivates. The dialogue levels
are appalling in places (sound recordists when are you going to learn
its no good spending millions on a movie and people working their guts
out if we cant hear the bloody thing!) and the story a little rushed at
times. It could be compared, for those of you who are musicians, to
recording a piece of Jazz or R & B Live in a studio and then quantizing
the track so that all the notes and rhythms are absolutely in time,
they then sound too mechanical. A little rough round the edges can
often make the difference and ironically make the film perfect.

I had a problem with the ending and couldn't figure out why. Then it
struck me, when you look at the two dinner scenes it was plain that the
foursome only worked with the second arrangement and the end was
inevitable thus the attempt by Figgis to make a twist was lost on an
audience who were already half expecting that to happen at the first
dinner scene, me included.

So flaws aside I still enjoyed this film immensely and certainly give
it an above average rating.

On a a final note has anyone seen so many lowly parts played by such
reputable British actors, namely Julian Sands, Amanda Donohue, and Ione
Skye!
