

I didn't see this movie until it appeared on television because I was
doubtful about comic flicks. Ever since the "Batman" series, "Spawn,"
"Judge
Dredd," and many other pitiful p.g.-13 bombs, I dodged everything at all
cost. I would question in my mind, "why can't someone make a movie that is
rated R and stays true to the story, how difficult is that?" And finally
my
prayers have been answered with Blade. This movie pops right out of the
pages onto the screen with sheer violence, blood, martial arts, weapons,
fire, the good against evil, etc. Yeah sure a lot of action flicks contain
all these goodies, and most of them have bombed. But not Blade, the movie
was filmed just right, not going overboard, delivering a good length and
never a dull moment. Blade II is cool, but not as cool as the first. Blade
is indeed one of the best real comic flicks I've seen in a long time.

<|_=00=_|>

Now here is a movie that does something that hasn't been done in a long
time.  It take ten or so different elements that we're already familiar with
(Vampires, martial arts, a techno beat, top-o-the-line special effects,
etc.), and turns it into something that feels brand new.  In what could have
easily been merely a combination of "Mortal Kombat" and "Buffy: The Vampire
Slayer," Wesley Snipes (no favorite of mine since and mostly because of
"Passenger 57") gives a really good turn as the half human/ half
bloodsucker.  He acknowledges the internal conflict, but doesn't dwell on it
more than necessary.  He makes Blade as deep a character as Michael Keaton
made Batman.

I'll say that the only part of the movie that got me a little miffed was the
always present horror movie cliche of that one person that the hero happens
to know who happens to know exactly how to stop the evil guy.  On the other
hand, you sort of have to have that in a movie like this, so it's easily
excusable.

Well, Snipes is good.  And Steven Dorff, hyped in the previews, makes a more
than bad enough bad guy to Snipes' hero.  He's got class, presence, and
enough control in his little pinky to teach  Al Pacino how to tone it down a
bit.  Who would ever think that a comic book movie would be a launching pad
for an actor?  I sincerely hope this is.  And whoa! where the heck did Kris
Kristofferson get acting talent?  Don't get me wrong, but the prolific actor
hasn't done anything memorable since "Millennium," and how many of us watched
that just 'cause of the cool video box?  Well, here he is, folks, in a very
Obi-wanish turn, as Blade's mentor and father figure.  And good job,
too.

The quality of the acting is matched by the quality of the choreography and
special effects.  Accompanied by a pulsing techno beat, the fight scenes
brings back and quickly banish memories of Mortal Kombat.  Hey! It had a
script, too!  I was wondering what had happened to all the good writers out
there.

The two major indications to me that I saw a quality flick were these; I had
no feeling of remorse about paying full price to get in, a la any Schumacher
"Batman," "The Avengers," "MK: Annihilation," "Godzilla," or "Armageddon."
(wow, how many of those came out this year? Ugh)  Also, I look forward to
the inevitable sequel, as per the film's ending. Let's just hope they do as
good a job with it as with the first one.


<|_=00=_|>

Blade is a fantastic action/thriller that keeps you captured for the whole
duration and Wesley Snipes delivers what I would say to be his best
performance yet.

This film has everything that you would ask for in an action/thriller, it
has plenty of blood, guts and gore, a twisted, disturbed bad buy, moments
of
humour but most importantly a very good story line with plenty of
twists.

Their is constant action throughout the film with breathtaking stunts and
effects, Wesley Snipes fighting movement is fantastic.

This film is in my opinion a must see, Wesley Snipes cool, solid appearance
makes this film and I can't wait for the sequel 'BLADE 2' being released
next year.

My IMDB Rating - 9 out of 10 
<|_=00=_|>

If you like horror or action watch this film ASAP. If the opening scene
doesn't get your adrenaline pumping then someone should check your pulse.
Great Action, excellent casting and top one-liners. This is the only film
I
have seen in a cinema where the crowd applauded each chop, kick & punch
thrown. Not perfection but who cares when films can be this much fun. Its
a
pure rush of dark comic book action. 9/10   
<|_=00=_|>
Wesley Snipes is perfectly cast as Blade, a half human, half vampire
known the daywalker. He has all their strengths and his only weakness
is the thirst for blood. Since he teamed up with whistler (Kris
Kristofferson) he has hunted down vampires who have lived amongst us
unnoticed for centuries, but omnipotent overlord Deacon Frost (Stephen
Dorff) is tired of living in harmony with the humans (Food as he calls
them) and he plans to waken the blood god and take control of the
world.

This movie is well cast, written and directed; ensuring the viewer has
a thrilling ride from start to finish. Packed with great fight
sequences and slick dialogue, Blade is certainly more action than
horror, but it definitely delivers.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Blade was only a foetus when his mother was attacked by vampires and left
for dead.  When he is born he is born a half-breed.  As an adult he has
been
joined by Abraham Whistler, a vampire hunter, to fight the secret war
against the vampire culture.  He hunts the impure-blood vampire Deacon
Frost
who plans to summon La Magra - the Blood God.

Now approaching it's second sequel, this film was a dark surprise to me as
I
didn't expect too much from it.  The plot sees Blade hunting a dangerous
vampire seeing to unleash the power of La Magra and take vampires from
their
shadows into the real world; we also get a bit of back story as well.
This
plot gives all the best lines to the vampires and not enough good scenes
with Blade himself.  I like Blade for the same reason as I like Batman -
they are both messed up superheroes of a sort.  The film tells us how
Blade
was created but it doesn't delve deep enough for my tastes - only once or
twice did I really get a feel for his cruel, darker nature (`Please, I
only
work for them').  I suppose this was to be expected and it certainly
manages
the darker tone much better than the Batman films did (in the long
run).

The action is good although it never really gets to the peak of the
opening
nightclub scene but is good nonetheless.  Some of the effects in the final
fight are a bit lacking and they make the usual horror movie mistake of
showing too much and having it be less effective than the build up and
suggestion of the monster was.

Snipes doesn't exactly display a great emotional range here but he is good
in the title role nonetheless.  He is a commanding presence and physically
good at the action stuff.  Dorff is pretty good as the main vampire - he
is
slick and plays it well to be a good representation of the `new breed' as
the script requires.  Kristofferson is cool and Wright is sexy while still
being a good actress!  The support cast contains no real standouts; Lathan
is no more than a cameo and isn't really good while people like Lords only
stick in the memory due to their name and not their performance.

Overall this is an enjoyably slick vampire/action movie.  The end product
may be more style than substance but the character of Blade is darkly
interesting, even if neither Snipes nor the film really give too much away
in terms of his inner workings.  I have yet to see the sequel but I would
hope that it keeps the same dark tone that makes this film stand
out.
<|_=00=_|>
It seems to me that a lot of people don't know that Blade is actually a
superhero movie on par with X-Men, Daredevil, Punisher and the likes.
What all these heroes (and in the case of X-Men hero group) have in
common is that they were all conceived in the magical world of Marvel.
Blade was originally a normal person (in a blue outfit) who chased
vampires because of a personal grudge and eventually facing of with
Dracula himself and he was for lack of a better word boring. So boring
in fact that the character was shelved and in fact never used in the
Marvel universe. At least until he was reinvented.

David Goyer did a stroke of genius when he took the character of Blade
and turned him into a leather clad dark knight. He can't take all the
credit though and much of this must go to Stephen Norrington as well
who with his distinct visual style brings out the best of the
character. The Blade character (Wesley Snipes) is pretty amazing in
this film and mixes martial arts with Batman like darkness. Snipes is
pretty good as the title character and is successful in bringing out
the duality and inner demons of the character. He is, however, a pretty
rigid actor both in voice and in posture and is only interesting enough
for one film (which is clearly seen from the inferior sequels). Kris
Kristofferson is good as well and really brings the tormented character
of Whistler to life with energy and sense of timing. N'Bushe Wright,
however, is fairly weak as a leading lady making her character
relatively flat and lifeless. Donal Logue is pretty funny and manages
to do a lot with a minor character. German, Udo Kier, should also be
mentioned as he brings a lot of finesse and style to the vampire race,
probably born of his experiences from playing Dracula. Stephen Dorf
provides the best acting in the film and his chilling performance as
Deacon Frost stands as one of the best screen villains I have perhaps
ever seen.

The story is good and, I feel, renews the vampire genre (something that
hasn't been done since Robert Rodrigues' From Dusk Till Dawn) by adding
a lot of contemporary elements and maintaining the comic book feel. By
saying that the film has a comic book feel does not mean that the film
is unrealistic. Far from it. A lot of effort has been put in trying to
make the film seem as real as possible. Including the effects which are
pretty good for their time. I found the vampire "dustings" to be a very
nice touch. In stead of adding a lot of blood when a vampire dies
Norrington chose to let the vampires spontaneously com-bust which looks
great. The fact that the overall effects were well done adds to the
credibility of the film which would otherwise have fallen flat on its
face.

As previously stated Norrington has a very distinct visual style that
sets him apart from the directors of the following Blade movies. Del
Toro is nearly as skilled but I prefer Norrington's style. His style
gives the film a very special look and feel but most importantly it
gives the film atmosphere. A very tense dark atmosphere which works
great in tune with the main character and story. Along with the visual
style the music which also works fine and adds a lot to the atmosphere
of the movie.

All in all Blade is a very entertaining movie that should probably have
had an 8 from me but a few annoying flaws (which cannot be revealed
without spoiling the movie, suffice to say, many of them are located
near the ending of the film) does that the film must settle with a high
7.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Blade is everything Spawn wanted to be and wasn't. While Spawn was a loud,
obnoxious, incoherent mess that should have stayed in Hell with its
erstwhile hero, Blade is a relatively subdued (it's nice to actually hear
the soundtrack), stylish, well-directed movie that actually tries to build
empathy and pathos into the characters. While both are adaptations from
comic-books, only one is a page-turner.

Blade, or Eric as his mom calls him, but which superhero would command
respect with the name Eric, is half-man, half-vampire, made so by his
mother, who survived a vampire attack long enough to give birth to him. This
gives Blade a certain edge in his understandable grudge against vampires,
"all of our strengths and none of our weaknesses" as his main vampire
nemesis attests. The aforementioned nemesis is Deacon Frost (Stephen Dorff)
who wants to unleash a vampire apocalypse on the world, decrying the
Mafia-type approach that has served vampires so well up to this point -
"humans are our food, not our allies," he explains. Blade is aided by his
mentor/weapons specialist Whistler (Kris Kristofferson) and a female
hematologist he rescued, Karen. Her expertise lends her to both create
anti-vampire blood, and a possible cure for Blade that would make him fully
human again. Although one gets the sense that Blade's fate isn't entirely
tragic. He relishes kicking vampire butt.

The movie Blade succeeds for two reasons. It's technically polished, with
good acting, excellent directing and production design, and awesome special
effects - the way the vampires turn to skeletons and blow away like dried
parchment when they die is way cool. There are three accomplished action
sequences, the opening party scene which Blade inconveniently crashes, a
brush with death on a subway, and the final conflict, with some special
effects I can say, as a movie seasoned veteran, I've never seen before. The
second reason is that Blade understands the inherent pull of the vampire
myth. Vampirism represents a life given to sin, essentially. They are
sensual creatures, dependent on flesh and blood for survival, shirking the
light, and yet eternal, like evil fleshly lusts the Bible warns about.
Vampires are not tragic, like Interview with a Vampire would have you
believe, but fun, cool, and sexy. That's their power. Is not sin sexy? why
would it be tempting otherwise? Vampires are cool because they live in sin
without paying its consequences - death. But for that reason, they are the
enemy and must die. For sin is, in the final analysis, bad. This essential
good/evil conflict must be there for this type of story to work. Spawn had
neither this nor the technical excellence Blade has, which is why it sucks
so bad. Blade reminded me of another good vampire movie, Bram Stoker's
Dracula, by Francis Ford Coppola. They would make good companion pieces on
video.


<|_=00=_|>

I admit I go more for the traditional vampire tale, but this one is a real
winner. Lots of way out graphics and good story to go with them made for an
interesting 2 hours. There was  loads of gore with vicious blood suckers
attacking mortals and even each other for control of the world. A good one
for all us vampire lovers. 
<|_=00=_|>

Blade is a great movie. This film has
so much energy that even I'm ready to
go hunting vampires. For a film geek
like myself, this film has it all.
Wesley Snipes can finally have an
action franchise and Stephen
Norrington will be working in
Hollywood for awhile. The screenplay
is great, the cinematography is great,
and the editing is awesome. The
special effects are in a world of
their own. This is one of th most
thought out comic book based films you
will ever see and it has a great cast.
It's good to see Kris Kristofferson
and Udo Kier. The only weak point in
the whole film is the performance of
Stephen Dorff. Dorff's character,
Deacon Frost, seems rather weak for
Blade. Can't wait for a sequel!!!!
