
Having read the very good Nick Hornby novel of the same name I looked
forward to "High Fidelity" quite a bit, but I never expected it to be
as good as it is. This is easily one of the best comedies of all time
for its laughs alone - but what separates it from other comedies
(particularly new-age ones) is that it's a very poignant multi-layered
tale that focuses, primarily, on males - and why we are as we are.
Love, life, relationships, music, movies, hobbies, jobs, ticks, ups,
downs - everything is here.

It's to John Cusack's credit that he took a "classic" contemporary
novel set in London and transposed it to Chicago - and it works just as
well (if not better) than the British version. It shows what a
universal story this actually is, if so many people from all over the
world can appreciate it, no matter where it is set. What we lose here
are the abbreviations such as "mate," "cos" and other British
expressions - but essentially the story is exactly the same, as is the
character of Rob Gordon.

Cusack proves his worth here and there isn't a single bad performance
in this film, except perhaps for the love interest who tries to sport
an American accent and it's quite uneven at times.

Jack Black is fantastically funny and reveals once again why he's
leagues ahead of other obese comedians like Chris Farley who merely
relied on OTT acts and weight for laughs - Black, like John Candy,
actually acts and so far in his career has turned out some really good
films which is more than can be said for many of his competitors.

The script has some very funny one-liners and movie/music in-jokes (I
love the "Evil Dead" bit - "Because it's so funny, and violent, it's
got a kick-a$$ soundtrack...and it's so violent!").

But at the end of the day what really haunted me (so to speak) about
this movie long after I had seen it was the fact that it DOES stay with
you ages after the credits have stopped rolling. It's poignant and
really spot-on in many regards - add that to a film full of flawless
performances and great direction and clever ideas and one-liners and
jokes, and you've got a top-notch comedic masterpiece that places "High
Fidelity" in the top ranks of American (and British!) comedy - "with,"
as the DVD back cover says, "a bullet." Highly recommended. 5/5
<|_=00=_|>

And High Fidelity shows that this is more true for Rob Gordon (John Cusack)
than most people. Rob owns Championship Vinyl, a record store where he and
his two employees, Dick (Todd Louiso) and Barry (Jack Black), argue about
music and insult customers. This is the background for a fantastic movie
early in the year and one of the funniest movies I've seen in a while.

The movie's main plot is Rob recounting his past breakups via his favorite
organizing device, the Top 5 List. He purposely excludes his most recent
girlfriend, Laura, from it. He is trying to deal with her leaving him for a
strange, world music-listening, martial arts-doing freak named Ian (Tim
Robbins). Then he decides to look up all his old girlfriends, and in the
process finds out a lot about himself.

The best scenes, however, are those in the record store - Todd Louiso and
especially the utterly hilarious Jack Black steal every scene they're in.
They argue over music incessantly, and anyone who knows a good deal about
music will be laughing hysterically during these scenes. Dick is a quiet
music geek in the classic sense of the word, while Barry is a cruel,
ridiculous elitist.

In the end, High Fidelity is a wonderful, terribly funny movie with a lot of
great stuff in it. See it.
<|_=00=_|>

You don't need to be a John Cusack fan to enjoy High Fidelity, nor do you
need an overt appreciation of music, the film is a highly humorous, poignant
and informative look at men, relationships and love.

Cusack is at his 'Grosse Point Blank' best here, investing in his character
a realism that at times is so hilarious you will need to see the movie again
to hear the lines you missed the first time because you were laughing too
much. His emotionally strung-out breakdown is disturbing. Here is an actor
that knows his craft and knows it well.

Watch out for the air-conditioning 'alternate outcome' scene. It still makes
me laugh!

Cusack is by far a more talented performer than many on the scene and 'High
Fidelity' is a testiment to this.
<|_=00=_|>

I read the novel when it first came out because the title intrigued me, and
I found it quite good.  When I heard John Cusack was adapting it and moving
the action to Chicago(from London in the novel), I was a little worried,
because I worry about changing things during adaptations for arbitrary
reasons, but I needn't have worried; though I have a few quibbles, which
we'll get to later, Cusack and Co. have done a fine job adapting the
novel.

First off, I've read one comment which claims it stereotypes "music geeks." 
The type of people Hornby, Cusack, his co-writers(D.V. DeVincentis and Steve
Pink, who also co-wrote GROSSE POINT BLANK, and Scott Rosenberg), and
director Stephen Frears are portraying is a very particular type of "music
geek"; the type who is a snob about music.  Almost all of us, I would say,
are aggressive about our likes and dislikes when it comes to music, but not
many, I agree, compare liking Marvin Gaye and Art Garfunkel to "agreeing
with both the Israelis and the Palestinians."  And probably not many of us
would be so cut off from feelings that, when hearing about a person's death,
would find no better way of expressing their sorrow than listing their top 5
songs about death.  Yet we do like these people as characters because we see
even if they have some snotty attitudes, they do have a genuine love for
their music, and they're in a low-paying job because they love what they do.
 And who among us hasn't turned to music when we've felt sad(or happy), like
Rob does, or wished that Bruce Springsteen(and a pox on the person who, in
their comments, implied he was passe.  Bruce will NEVER be passe) would talk
to us directly like he talks to us through his music?  The novel and the
movie captures all of that.

Another strength, of course, is Cusack's performance.  Woody Allen once said
that while American actors were very good at playing virile men of action,
there weren't many who could play more "normal," regular people.  Cusack, on
the other hand, has carved out a niche for himself playing regular guys.  He
doesn't look like The Boy Next Door, and he's neither stereotypically
sensitive or hip, but comes across as a guy who feels both at ease and yet
still longs for something more.  At his best, like in movies such as THE
SURE THING, SAY ANYTHING, THE GRIFTERS, BULLETS OVER BROADWAY, GROSSE POINT
BLANK, and this, he plays people on the cusp of growing up, who are able to
if they want to, but aren't sure if they want to, and yet he's made each of
them different.  Rob's condition may be a little more conventional - he's
not sure if he wants to settle down yet - but Cusack, while unafraid to show
his unlikable qualities, makes us like Rob anyway.

The rest of the cast is also quite good.  The well-known names only get
short takes(Lisa Bonet, Joan Cusack, Tim Robbins, Lili Taylor, Catherine
Zeta-Jones), but they make the most of their time.  I've never seen Iben
Hjejle before(I haven't seen MIFUNE), but she does well as the most grown-up
person in the movie.  But the real stars, besides Cusack and the music, are
Jack Black and Todd Louiso as Rob's co-workers.  Black especially reminds me
of people I knew.

As I said, I do have some quibbles.  There are a couple of incidents in the
book which don't make it to the film which I would have liked to see(the Sid
James Experience, and the lady who wanted to sell Rob a ton of valuable
records for a ridiculously low price).  I'm getting tired of movies which
use rain as an expression of sorrow, and this is an example of overuse.  And
the character of Laura isn't developed as well in the movie as she was in
the novel.  Nevertheless, this is well worth checking out.
<|_=00=_|>
It was about time someone put together a film with a genuine
appreciation for the love/music connection that didn't end up being
something along the lines of "Singles". For music lovers who tend to
put a soundtrack to everything they experience, this film is a
blessing. I am one of those people, so I understand that if you're not,
you'll get less from the movie. All I'm trying to say is that this is
one of those films that demand you to root for the characters and the
events if you want to enjoy it. The deeper the affection you feel for
them, the more you'll enjoy the movie.

Personally, I think John Cusack's character is one of the most engaging
in the comedy genre of the last decade. This is the kind of character I
like: simple and complex at the same time, just like in real life.
Somebody likable but annoying at times. Again, I feel a deep personal
connection with him, and I understand him every time, even when he acts
stupid.

But he is not alone. The rest of the cast is terrific.

Anyway, don't forget this is a comedy. You will laugh your ass off with
some situations and dialogue. Hilarity comes from many different
sources: you've got black humor, silly humor, complex (people would say
"intelligent", but I despise the term) humor... Special mention goes to
Tim Robbins paying a visit to the record store. Genius.

On a very personal level, I think there's a magnificent scene that sums
up the heart and the brains of this movie. John Cusack talks to the
camera (something that happens often) instructing the audience on how
to make a perfect music compilation for your loved one. If you like
that concept, the movie will grab you and won't let you go. If that
idea doesn't sound seductive to you, you might just have a good time.
If you are a rock music devotee, this flick is heaven.

RATING: 9.0
<|_=00=_|>

Who says familiarity breeds contempt?  In this film of heart break,
betrayal, true friendship, and love, Cusak adapts Hornby's book perfectly,
melding self doubt, fear of death, and a search for truth with modern
cinema
and pop music.  Rob, Dick, and Barry are all struggling men in their late
twenties (thirties in the book) trying to find a way to identify
themselves,
and live at peace.  Rob has the most conflict as he flounders through one
relationship to another, never getting comfortable, and always finding a
way
to mess it up.  It's a brilliant tale of coming to terms with reality, and
having a bit of fun along the way.  The casting was pheonimal, scenes
perfectly picked, and music parallelling that of the mood set in the book.
It's just a shame so much had to be cut.  I would recommend this movie to
anyone with a calloused ear and a desire to finally relate with a
character.
<|_=00=_|>

One of my favorite movies, based on one of my favorite books. "High
Fidelity" is perfect if you already had a broken heart, and if you tried to
heal it with some pop songs.

John Cusack is not acting - he REALLY IS Rob Fleming (Rob Gordon in the
movie). If there are doubts about it, I just say that he made the soundtrack
compilation and collaborated with the screenplay.

The supporting cast is also perfect. Jack Black and Todd Louiso couldn't be
better. Tim Robbins, as the world-music-fan, is a nice surprise, and Joan
Cusack is always funny.

It looks like everyone had a lot of fun making this movie, and the result is
a nice and funny and full of emotions motion picture, to see again and again
and again to remember how music and love can help each
other.
<|_=00=_|>

HIGH FIDELITY (2000) **** John Cusack, Iben Hjejle, Jack Black,
Todd Louiso, Lisa Bonet, Catherine Zeta-Jones (unbilled), Lili
Taylor, Joan Cusack, Shannon Stillo, Tim Robbins, Joelle Carter,
Natasha Gregson Wagner.

John Cusack is my favorite contemporary actor for many reasons,
which due to time and space will not permit me to go into lavish
detail, but it's basically down to a simple formula for me, that he
continues to full tilt in his latest variation of the good hearted,
somewhat sarcastic anti-hero with a heart of gold: Fearless
Fragile Funny.

Based on the cult best selling international novel by Great
Britain's Nick Hornby the story is transplanted from modern day
London to modern day Chicago focusing all its angst and comic
philosophies in its character, Rob Gordon (Cusack in one of his
finest performances, who also co-wrote and produced the film),

the owner of a vintage LP album shop, `Championship Vinyl', who
is having a pre-mid-life crisis in his life: namely his latest
girlfriend,
Laura (the fetching Danish actress Hjejle in her first American
role), a lawyer, has just dumped him and the fact that he may have
to grow up or come to terms with his existence of being a den
mother to his yin and yang clerks, Barry (Black, riotous) and Dick
(Louiso, best known as the au pair from `Jerry Maguire', is pitch
perfect in his humorous approach), the former a loudmouth know
it all and the latter a soft-spoken lover of all music, both the book
ends to Rob's equally passionate take on pop music and how it
has somehow manifested itself to his  being ; the end all to end
all.

`What came first.the misery or the music?' Rob asks at the very
beginning of the film and it is here that Rob decides to investigate
just how he is at fault to the 5 all time greatest break ups in his
love life a la The Top 5s he and his co-horts in crime habitually
categorize all things pertinent to music.  What follows is a
laugh-filled introspection of the heart on its sleeve and its tongue
sharply in cheek as to Rob's quest of finding all his faults and
foibles in hope of wooing back his recent romantic dismissal that
includes 5 prototypes of all heterosexual men: The First
Kiss/Crush; The Adolescent Urgency/Loss of Virginity, The Woman
Out of His League; The Rebound Best Friend/Possible Soul Mate
and finally, The One True Love He Isn't Even Aware Of.

The approach may seem old hat and gimmicky (Cusack breaking
the fourth wall and speaking directly into the camera) yet it isn't
intrusive but enlightening into what the hero is really thinking and
more importantly why.  Surrounded by a truly winning cast, Cusack
shines once again as a likable average guy who is trying to remain
a guy although the inner voice of Be A Man is palpable and
reverberating inside.  His nonchalant, casual way of speaking and
his slow burns are priceless (he finally takes out his frustrations
on Laura's new beau, the unctious sensitive pony-tailed Ian played
by Cusack's best bud and former co-star of `The Sure Thing' and
the cult classic `Tapeheads', Robbins, in the film's funniest
fantasy sequence of Rob, Barry and Dick pummeling Ian to death).
Cusack's constant streak of the smart alecky good guy continues
from the quintessential portrait of Lloyd Dobler, kickboxing student
of the affairs of the heart in the classic `Say Anything.' and the
previous purveyor of romantic comedy, Walter `Gib' Gibson in the
update of `It Happened One Night', `The Sure Thing' to his hit-man
Martin Blank pondering his high school reunion with dread in the
black comedy  `Grosse Pointe Blank' (reunited here with his
screenwriters/partners in crime D.V. De Vincentis, Steve Pink and
Scott Rosenberg).

The women portraying Rob's Girlfriends of Christmas Past , so to
speak, are exemplery especially Taylor (another Cusack repertoire
player, who played his best gal pal/voice of reason in `Anything.')
as Sarah the rebound fling and Zeta-Jones as Charlie (showing
some nice moments of sublime sardonicism), the sexy babe
completely out of his element). Bonet has a few nice moments as
local singer Marie De Salle who provides some unsubtle ways of
bringing Rob to his senses.  Sister Joan provides some comic
bile as well as mutual friend to Laura and Rob. But frankly it's a
guy's flick and thanks to the boisterous Black (late of HBO's
comedy series `Tenacious D' and a score of films as diverse as
`Mars Attacks!' and last year's co-starring with Cusack in  `Cradle
Will Rock') and geeky, quiet Louiso adding some color especially
in their scenes together debating their varied choices of musical
tastes.

Directed by Stephen Frears, a fellow Englishman who appears to
know the American arcana striking a responsive chord (he put
Cusack through the paces in the neo-noir classic `The Grifters' a
decade ago) allows his characters time to pace themselves from
one setup to the next and skillfully keeps the smart patter gleaned
from the book alive on screen.

Easily one of the year's funniest films and finally  a film I whole
heartedly recommend in what seemed to be dearth of mediocrity
thus far in the new millennium.  To paraphrase the emergence of
Bruce Springsteen (who has a funny cameo) into rock's pantheon I
will allude this to comedy: I have seen the future and it is John
Cusack.  Rock On!


<|_=00=_|>

"High Fidelity" was a breath of fresh air in an otherwise very ordinary year
of cinema. Continually I have been disappointed with the quality of this
years movies from all over the world, not just the regulation Hollywood
trash.

Admittedly my hopes weren't that high, but I still left the cinema feeling
like I got what I paid for with "High Fidelity" (this is very rare these
days). John Cusack was his usual competent self, and Tim Robbins sensational
in his small but humourous part.

No masterpiece, but well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm relatively easy to please. If just one thing in a film is an ambitious
attempt and it works rather well, it is enough if most of the rest is merely
competent. But a competent simple film isn't enough for me. Good acting
alone isn't enough.

This film takes one chance and does it in my favorite area -- Cinema is
essentially a superficial medium; it cannot capture an internal dialogue as
a link with the viewer/reader like a novel can -- or at least not without
taking chances.

Cusack deserves a lot of credit for what he's done here in playing with the
link between movie and viewer.

(Caution! Some may see these as spoilers...)

--He has a dialog directly with the viewer, that dialog is often in the very
context of the action, and the matter of the dialog is substantially
different (more honest) than what he has with any character.

--One episode has three different versions. This is a part of the dialog
with the viewer. It is a point of art that the effect is only used
once.

--The dialog is essentially about the relationship between events and the
soundtack of life as if it were a movie, so when a musician (Bruce
Springsteen) comes from the soundtrack to the action, it blurs the
distinction. Very clever.

--As the film is about music as analog ("using someone else's poetry" to
annotate or even activate your life) it's rather elegant how Cusack has
created a soundtrack for us in precisely the way he creates DJ tapes, like
the one for his wife at the end.

This film takes intelligent chances with that tough boundary and makes them
work. Worth seeing.
