
Josh and Sam is actually a brilliant film. It is unfortunate that it
has been panned by so many who fail to understand it and refuse to give
the film a fair shake. History will redeem this movie; it is one of the
best I have ever seen.

The soundtrack alone would make this movie worth seeing. Thomas Newman
(Fried Green Tomatoes, Shawshank Redemption, Road to Perdition) is one
of Hollywood's best musical talents, and he scores Josh and Sam
beautifully in his trademark hypnotizing style.

Many people are too hard-hearted to appreciate films like Josh and Sam,
but that is no reason to say that it is a 'bad' film. It is a tender
film. But a good one. And it is internally consistent. Psychologically
true. The real fault of Josh and Sam is that it had incredibly bad
marketing. "Why run away from home when you can drive?" Whoever thought
that tagline up should be shot. And the box cover for the VHS was just
as ridiculous. In fact, based on the marketing, I am surprised that I
ever watched Josh and Sam, but my brother had somehow seen it at random
and after literally years of persuading he finally got the rest of us
to watch it. We were blown away.

Josh and Sam is not a children's film, it is just an old style family
friendly movie. A throwback to a time before our social entertainments
had become commodified and delineated by target demographics. In that
sense, as far as genre goes, it is the same type of presentation as J.
K. Rowling's Harry Potter novels -- it has something to offer viewers
of all ages.

I would happily pay $50 for a proper widescreen DVD of Josh and Sam.
It's sad that the movie has never been released on DVD. But,
considering how the film was sold, it's not entirely surprising. Josh
and Sam is an emotionally complex film about brothers running away from
home and getting in over their heads. More "A River Runs Through It"
than "Spy Kids", this is a movie, first and foremost, about human
relationships.

Among people who have actually seen it, Josh and SAM has a lot of fans.
In fact, it is quite a minority who actually think it is a BAD film
(check the votes). "Josh and SAM" isn't for everyone, but it is a very
good movie.
<|_=00=_|>

When i was about 14 i saw Josh and sam for the first time, it was on
showtime and i watched it because nothing else was on. Up until that day i
had no idea of the open west.  I was a city kid and of course the world
revolved around my little neighborhood. But Josh and Sam took me away from
that. show me there are places out there that aren't made of stone, and
opened my mind to the beauty of the open road and what it really means to
be
free with no boundaries. Just out there in the cool night with no phones,
no
restrictions just your 1993 Pontiac candy apple red Grand Prix and home is
toward the setting sun. This is a great adventure movie for kids and teens
15 and under especially for those with siblings and active imaginations. I
highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my favorite movies. It is about two brothers, Josh and
Sam. Their parents are divorced. Their dad is remarried and seems to
like his stepchildren more than Josh because they are athletic and Josh
isn't and he doesn't appreciate how bright Josh is. Their mother is
getting married to a man who isn't interested in the kids. Sam is the
younger brother. He is athletic but is always getting in fights and
generally has trouble adjusting socially. Josh persuades Sam that he is
a S.A.M. (Strategically Altered Mutant), designed to fight a war in
Africa. It starts out as normal sibling torture but Sam believes it
because it explains all his social problems. Josh wants to run away
because of his horrible home life and Sam wants to run away to avoid
going to war. Watching Josh's mind work as he tries to get out of the
situations he creates is hilarious and yet it always stays realistic,
suspenseful, and poignant. The acting is excellent and the story is
tightly constructed. Hopefully this movie will come out on DVD some day
but watch it on VHS now.
<|_=00=_|>
'Josh and SAM' is an interesting little film that deals with a variety
of issues in a manner that draws in the audience and endears them to
the characters.

It revolves around two young brothers, twelve-year-old Josh and
seven-year-old Sam, who live with their divorced mother. When she goes
on intends to marry her fiancé and relocate to France, the boys are
shipped to Florida to live with their father Thom. Although he doesn't
intend to, Thom can't help but favour the sporty and energetic Sam over
his quiet, geeky elder son and things turn even more sour for Josh when
he clashes with his stepbrothers and then learns of his mother's plans
to leave them. Bitter at the world, Josh tells his brother that he is a
'SAM', a robot child soldier who must escape to Canada before he is
shipped to fight in the war-torn depths of Africa. And when Josh thinks
he's accidentally killed a man, he puts his plan to runaway into
action.

The two young leads, Jacob Tierney as Josh and Noah Fleiss as Sam, give
excellent performances despite their ages and relative inexperience in
acting. Tierney portrays Josh's anger and jealousy as well as his
vulnerability while Fleiss is effective in depicting Sam's naivety and
love/hate relationship with his elder brother.

This is a film that is not only a Boys' Own adventure that takes the
two brothers across the country but it is one that looks at family
relationships (fraternal bonds as well as dysfunctional parenting and
the turmoil of step-families) and the coming-of-age of a pre-adolescent
who is very insecure in his world. Although 'Josh and SAM' is obviously
aimed at a younger demography, I imagine older teens and adults would
enjoy it too as I certainly did both when I saw it aged about thirteen
and again when I saw it again around twelve years later. It's a film
that has something for everyone and is definitely one of the better
lesser-known films of the Nineties.
<|_=00=_|>

I take a kind eye to videos hiding in the back of the store, bottom shelf,
under the guise of a faded cover and sometimes this can be very rewarding
as
was the case with 'Josh & S.A.M.'

The two titular brothers leave their family to find their family,
eachother.
After feeling ostracised by their family and school peers, they are driven
by dejection to escape, human determination and will seeing them through
all.

The film also highlights the inner psyche of all who have ever been lonely
or outcasted. This in turn offers poignant moments between the brothers as
they discuss death and other issues which are sad but real products of
today's society like dysfunctional families.

The successful portrayal of these themes relies not only on the clever
script writing, but the outstanding performances of the boys, in
particular
Noah Fleiss (S.A.M). What is frightening though is that such a young actor
could have such a mature grasp of these issues displayed by his acting
ability, but again this is a reflection on society.

A film where audience age is no boundary. It will captivate the
imaginations
of the young and coerce older viewers to examine relationships. 'Josh &
S.A.M' reveals to all that even if you have nothing, to have love is to
have
it all. A simple message for a difficult world.


<|_=00=_|>
but always will see it again. that movie might touch your heart if you
have one. while watching i had to laugh. while watching i was even near
the edge of some tears.

lovely and phantastic. i'd like to be 12 again. well we all can, if we
do not forget about the most important of our lives: this is the time
when we were children. so take whoever you love, like or find likable,
sit close together on the couch and let yourself go like the kids in
the movie: they are the real heroes!
<|_=00=_|>

"Josh and SAM" is one of those films that is strangely humorous, in the
sense that it really isn't supposed to be all that funny.

The premise-- that two pre-teens steal a car to run away from home
(because
the younger is actually a robot... or something to that effect) and then
end
up picking up Martha Plimpton, who refers to herself as "The Liberty Maid"
or something-- is just so gloriously bizarre that you find yourself
laughing
without knowing why.

But the real clincher for this film's humor is that SAM, the
technologically-enhanced younger boy, spends almost half of this film with
a
"feminine hygiene product" attached to his forehead b/c he couldn't find a
real Band-Aid. If that isn't comedy, I'm not sure what
is...

Rating: 7 out of 10. A prime example of absurdist film-making, although
I'm
not sure that was the purpose here. Regardless, it's brainless fun that
demands a great deal of analysis-- so you'll understand WHY you're
laughing
at this movie, when you know that you shouldn't be.
<|_=00=_|>
I was one of the few adults who saw Josh and S.A.M. when it first
appeared in 1993, attending with a friends 14 year old son. There were
only 2 others in the audience, as few were attracted by the awkward
marketing of the film. I worked with children in my career as a special
ed therapist, and local newspaper reviews of Josh and S.A.M. were
rather favorable, so I took a chance. Was I ever surprised! This was
one of the best movies about children I had ever seen. While it was
mildly funny here and there, it was mostly sad, but not in a bad way.
The plot has been thoroughly reviewed by many others on this site, so
I'll emphasize the merits of the film. The soundtrack was excellent,
and the dialog between Jacob Tierney and Noah Fleiss was complex, but
spoken believably throughout, often in a rather quiet manner, which
would make younger children tend to tune out. Chris Penn was terrific
in a small part playing a man who mistakenly thinks Josh may be his son
from an old affair. Martha Plimpton does well as a runaway who
resembles a picture on a juice carton that Josh called The Liberty Maid
on a flight from Florida to Dallas, trying to convince Sam that she
escorts child warriors to safety on an underground railroad. When their
road adventure ends and Sam flies back from Canada, leaving Josh
temporarily behind, the conversation between Sam and his dad, Steve
Tobolowski, is extremely poignant. I admit I tear up rather easily in
sentimental moments, but this caught me off guard, and I almost burst
into tears. If this type of story appeals to you, male or female, young
(over 10) or old or in between, do yourself a favor and buy a used VHS
copy of Josh and S.A.M. (Strategically Altered Mutant) It's not what it
sounds like. You won't be sorry. This movie really should be released
on DVD. It deserves to be seen by a much larger audience.
<|_=00=_|>

[CONTAINS SPOILERS]

           Josh and Sam Whitney live in California. Sam has
trouble
in school and Josh is a chronic liar. Their mom is dating a
man
named Jean-Pierre, whom Josh doesn't like. Josh and Sam fly to
Florida
to see their father, Thom. Thom's got two stepsons, Curtis and
Leon,
whom Sam takes sides with, because Sam doesn't like Josh anymore.

At dinner, Curtis and Leon insult Josh, Thom tells Josh to just
clean
his plate. Josh snaps and empties all his food off the plate and
asks
if it's clean enough. Thom tells Josh to go to his room, but
Josh
states he can't because Thom is in his "damn room"! Josh wants
to
get back at Sam for siding with Curtis and Leon, so he makes Sam
believe
he's a genetically engineered soldier, trained to fight in a war
in
Africa. Josh and Sam also get news that their mom will live in
Europe
with Jean-Pierre for a year, so they fly back to California to be
with
her until she leaves, but they have to land in Dallas because of
a
storm. At a hotel, Josh tries to escape but runs into a high
school
reunion party and fibs his way right into trouble. It results
in
Josh defending Sam by hitting their attacker with a pool stick.

Josh think he's a murderer. Josh then tries to tell Sam he made
up
everything about Sam being a Strategically Altered Mutant, but
Sam
wouldn't listen.
         They take the keys to their attacker's car and take off
and
get nowhere pretty quick. They go nowhere in particular, use a
credit
card copy to order a pizza, then they meet a runaway, Alison. She
joins
them on their trek to Canada. Sam doesn't believe either Alison
or
Josh, who try to convince him of the truth. Well, pretty soon,
Alison
leaves them and goes to Seattle. Josh and Sam go to Canada and
Josh
devises a plan to send Sam back to Florida where he finds out that
Josh
didn't really kill the guy. Josh soon returns and they live happily
ever
after.
         Like I said, this is a great movie. The ending leaves
an
opening for a sequel. Like it'll be called: Sam and J.O.S.H. You
think?
But you don't have to take my word for it, see this movie for
yourself.
You'll see what I mean.

--
<|_=00=_|>
This stars 2 brothers living with their single mother of which the
older brother obviously feels restless and annoyed by things and feels
what we all feel to get out and just see where life will take you to
get away from your own problems you may have.

The older brother Josh invents a story that his brother Sam is a
genetic military soldier and that they must get to Canada to avoid him
being sent to war.

So they head off and along the way and they meet both good & bad people
as you do in life and through the cleverness of Josh and good fortune
they manage to outwit the adults at every step.

I first saw this when I was 15 and for some reason its stuck with me
despite its appearance of being a simple kids film and nigh unheard off
I feel its a very deep touching story in its own right and even as an
adult now I feel I could watch it and get something from it if its ever
decided to release it on optical media of course....
