
As a thriller this is top notch; as any kind of a movie it is also top
notch. Based on Scott Turow's best-selling novel of the same name (his
first), it relies on a well-coordinated directorial effort by Alan J.
Pakula (Sophie's Choice 1982, All the President's Men 1976, Klute 1971,
etc.), a fine script by Frank Pierson (whose credits include Cool Hand
Luke 1967, Dog Day Afternoon 1975, A Star Is Born 1976, etc.), and an
experienced, talented and well-directed cast headed by Harrison Ford,
Brian Dennehy, Raul Julia, Bonnie Bedelia, Greta Scacchi and Paul
Winfield.

Ford plays Rusty Sabich, a prosecutor compromised by his sexual
obsession with a fellow prosecutor, Caroline Polhemus (Scacchi) who is
found murdered as the film opens. We see her in flashback as a
conniving mantrap who uses her wiles to further her career. Sabich is
assigned to the case by his boss, Raymond Horgan (Dennehy) who is up
for reelection. Sabich would like to recuse himself but Horgan demands
that he take the case and get the perp "yesterday" otherwise they will
all be out a job because he will lose the election. Bedelia, looking
particularly beguiling, plays Sabich's sexually frustrated and deeply
hurt wife, Barbara.

When the election is lost the new prosecutors arrest Sabich and charge
him with murder. He is defended by the very smooth Raul Julia who plays
defense attorney Sandy Stern. Paul Winfield, in a somewhat flamboyant
style, plays Judge Larren Lyttle.

Because Scott Turow knows the way the law works in practice as well as
in theory, he having been a lawyer before he became a best-selling
writer, we are treated to wood paneled intrigues and courtroom
theatrics that have the unmistakable feel of authenticity. The dialogue
is veracious and the character cross-currents vividly real. Ford gives
what I think is one of his best performances as a man tormented by his
infidelity and caught in a vise of circumstance largely stemming from
that infidelity. Dennehy is a big-mouthed and big-headed politician in
the familiar Windy City style. Raul Julia's Sandy Stern is cosmopolitan
and brilliant, cynical and slick, a kind of Latin Johnny Cochran.
Bedelia, whom I recall best as Shirley Muldowney in Heart Like a Wheel
(1983) manages a delicate (and slightly unbelievable) persona with just
the right amount of forbearance so that when the surprise ending comes
we almost believe it.

I say "almost," but you might want to judge for yourself.

See this for Harrison Ford who plays a foolish and morally compromised
man with just the sort of right stuff and disarming vulnerability we've
come to expect from one of Hollywood's most popular leading men.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>
When Carolyn Polhemus, a young prosecutor employed by the District
Attorney of an American city, is found murdered, the job of
investigating her murder is given to Rusty Sabich, one of her
colleagues and her former lover. The DA, who is shortly coming up for
re-election, wants quick results, but Sabich seems to be making slow
progress. The DA is defeated in the election, and Sabich finds himself
arrested by his successor and charged with the murder. The evidence
against him initially seems strong, but more questions emerge during
his trial. Is he really guilty? Is someone trying to frame him? If so,
who? Was the murder connected to an investigation which Carolyn was
pursuing into judicial corruption? Or was it connected to her complex
sex life? We learn, through flashbacks, the story of her affair with
Sabich and that she was promiscuous, sleeping with a number of
influential men who could help her career, including not only Sabich
but also the DA himself.

Besides being a legal thriller, "Presumed Innocent" is also a study in
contrasts in character- either contrasts between two different persons
or between the inner and outer person. Harrison Ford is often good at
playing rather stolid individuals who have difficulty in showing their
feelings but whose impassive exterior can hide powerful emotions.
Norman Spencer in "What Lies Beneath" was one such individual; Sabich
is another. Both are men whose life spins out of control after they
become involved in extramarital affairs. Fortunately for Sabich, he has
someone to take control on his behalf, his smooth and fluent defence
lawyer Sandy Stern. Ford and Raul Julia, who plays Stern, form a double
act in the second half of the film, both playing their parts very well.
Sabich and Stern are both lawyers, but with very different characters
and different approaches to the law. Sabich is determined to tell the
truth as he sees it; the wily Stern sees the law as a game to be won on
behalf of his client rather than a search for truth. If winning
involves preventing the truth from emerging, so be it.

There is also a contrast between Sabich and his former lover Carolyn.
While he is undemonstrative but inwardly emotional, she is outwardly
seductive and flirtatious but inwardly cold-hearted. Both Sabich's wife
Barbara, seemingly noble and forgiving, and the judge who tries his
case, may have hidden secrets. Raymond Horgan, the DA, initially seems
to be a friend of Sabich, but later turns against him when his
self-interest dictates.

This concentration on character pays off, raising the film above the
run-of-the-mill legal thriller. Contrasts between the various
characters, and their inner conflicts, give rise to a gripping
courtroom drama, one of the best in recent years. The pace of the film
never flagged, and it held my attention throughout. The ending (which I
will not reveal) has been criticised as either predictable or
implausible. In my view it was perhaps unlikely, but neither completely
unbelievable nor inconsistent with what has gone before. I certainly
did not predict it. This is a tense and watchable drama. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
From Scott Turow's successful novel came this tense drama about a man
accused of the rape and murder of a legal colleague with whom he had
previously had an affair.

Alan J. Pakula's direction, along with strong performances by Harrison
Ford, Raul Julia, Bonnie Bedelia, Brian Dennehy and all the other
supporting cast, contribute strongly to a film that keeps you guessing
until the very end; which by the way, will shock the sox off ya.

This is a thriller that never gets out of hand, or goes over the top.
All credit to Alan J. Pakula and Frank Pierson's adaptation. Great down
to earth stuff.

Sunday, June 16, 1991 - Video
<|_=00=_|>

Since it's Harrison Ford on trial for the murder of his coworker/mistress,
and most everyone loves Harrison Ford, you want to believe he's innocent.
But that belief is never a sure thing in "Presumed Innocent": a gripping,
suspenseful whodunit that keeps you guessing mercilessly.
All the leads here are right on target, especially Ford as the mumbling,
elusive murder defendant.  Most importantly, all the main players are
ambiguous in one way or another, and while I certainly will not give away
the ending (which is a beauty, I promise you) keep that in mind as you
watch.  Can you trust anyone??

The final scene was shocking and thought-provoking.  And I couldn't help
but
think of the title, "Presumed Innocent."  Naturally.
<|_=00=_|>

Presumed Innocent presents a stiff challenge to its principal actors. Many
of them must read their lines and convey body language that is ambiguous,
suggesting both guilt or innocence and good or evil. The talented cast
accomplishes this superbly. The story (based on a book of the same name
which I haven't read) intelligently and knowledgeably examines the
morality
of the legal system and how it is compromised because of human
fallibility.
All in all, this was a very engrossing motion picture. Strongly
recommended,
8/10.   
<|_=00=_|>
This is cracking matinée fare. The cast is a big pool of Hollywood
stalwarts as a fine supporting ensemble giving a thoughtful, adult
vehicle to a typically thoughtful, adult lead from Harrison Ford. The
drama is quite quiet and internal: don't be put off, as the cast handle
it in a way decided non-European, investing characters with credible
melodramatics and keeping everything entirely engaging. Some of the
best courtroom set pieces I can remember.

The plot is a detailed psychological thriller that one finds hard to
keep absolutely on top of, yet Pakula keeps his eye on the top layer.
The story unfolds steadily and inexorably. I watched it for a second
time on DVD this morning and even knowing the ending and the twists
that bring it about I couldn't see them flagged up at any point in
Ford's performance.

It's a film about the strengths and weaknesses of law - of civilisation
- of the pitfalls of trying to be moral (referred to as 'ideal'
throughout). Above all it tries to address humanity and love which it
does patiently, accurately and really very entertainingly 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very good film centering around a murder investigation and trial
involving a chief deputy DA and a beautiful, young attorney in his office
who is found murdered one morning.  The direction, screenplay, and acting
are all top notch and you never really know how it's going to turn out til
the very end.

Harrison Ford is the deputy DA accused of murdering one of the female
attorneys in his office.  Ford's character is that of a strident upholder of
the law who strays into marital infidelity.  Caroline Polhemus, played by
Greta Scacchi, is beautiful and manipulative, using her sexuality to get
what she wants, career advancement and power.

Ford is assigned to head the murder investigation team, however, his boss,
played by Brian Dennehy, loses his re-election bid a few weeks later and the
new district attorney charges Ford with Caroline's murder.  He knows Ford
had had an affair with the victim and has physical evidence that he was at
the murder scene and had been placing phone calls to her apartment in the
days prior to her death.

The continuing investigation by Harrison Ford's team of lawyers and his
friends in the DA's office and the trial highlight the remainder of this
film.  Events take strange twists and turns and the viewer is taken along
for the ride without really knowing where it will take him.  The ending is a
bit of a surprise and neatly ties everything together.

The direction by Alan J. Pakula is tight and suspenseful.  I thought it was
his best film since the early days when he directed "Klute" and "The
Parallax View" - certainly better than the muddled "Pelican Brief."  The
overriding theme of the movie is darkness, people hiding secrets from one
another, and the direction emphasizes that.  There are very few outdoor
daytime scenes and most of the interior shots are of dark rooms and
corridors.

Harrison Ford is good in the role of the besieged deputy DA, but I thought
the secondary actors were the ones who made this picture as good as it was. 
Raul Julia plays Ford's attorney defending him in court and he's excellent
(I thought it was his best role in any film).  He's urbane and confident,
and he steers the defense through a very difficult set of
circumstances.

Bonnie Bedelia plays Ford's wife and her character is much more complex than
that of the supportive wife standing by her man.  She also has dark secrets
of her own and she plays the part with sly understatement.  John Spencer
("L.A. Law") plays an investigator in the DA's office helping Ford, Brian
Dennehy plays Ford's boss who turns on him, and Paul Winfield plays the
judge handling the trial, and all are excellent. 

My only criticisms would come from Harrison Ford's character, who is so
emotionally detached that it makes the circumstances of the affair with
Greta Scacchi unbelievable.  He's not an easy person to identify with or
feel sympathy for, but the film is so well done that you can easily skip
over that void and just sit back and enjoy the performances. 

<|_=00=_|>

Bear with me while I set the context for my review:

One of the stunning "hooks" in the academy award winning film "The Sting"
(1973, 10 nominations, 7 awards, including Best Picture, Best Direction,
Best Adapted Screenplay) is the shift of the narrative voice from
omniscient
perspective to a closed third person perspective ... when Johnny Hooker
(Redford) and Lt. Snyder (Durning) are fooled by the "FBI agents" -- we
later find out the FBI scene was set up and scripted by Henry Gondorff
(Paul
Newman) as the critical step in making the Sting work. That one elegantly
smooth, unnoticeable shift is the crowning touch in an otherwise
excellent
film.

In "Presumed Innocent" the brilliant change in narrative is the change in
voice .. from that of Rusty Sabich (Ford) to that of his wife Barbara
(Bedelia) during the final conversation between them in the story. The
intricately subtle and carefully staged plot lets us follow Rusty's
stream
of consciousness as if he was in a trance .. a trance guiding him toward
a
full understanding of "what really happened" in the murder of his
colleague
-- and a full understanding of his part in those events.

It's a movie that you have to see twice to appreciate the excellent
acting
and direction. And if and when you read Scott Turow's book, you'll want
to
see the film at least once again .. in which case you'll be more than
impressed at how well the (extraordinary) novel was translated to the
screen.

The spare, unobtrusive score magnifies the most compellingly dense scenes
in
which Rusty's awareness of "what really happened" evolves. If you want to
know what John Williams can do with a light touch when he's not making
epics
like Jaws, Star Wars, Indiana Jones or Harry Potter, you might want to
play
the film once more, just to focus on tasting and savoring the audio
portion
of this program.

Raul Julia nailed the part of defense attorney Sandy Stern, Harrison Ford
is
phenomenal as Rusty, and Bonnie Bedelia; Brian Dennehy as District
Attorney
Raymond Horgan, Rusty's boss; Paul Winfield, the trial judge; and John
Spenser as Rusty's friend Detective Lipranzer (West Wing, Leo McGarry) --
all turn in pro performances in support. Some significant credit has to
go
to the producers for assembling a magical cast.

But be forewarned -- this is dark magic. In almost every scene, shadow
and
darkness is prominent, and the scant few bright daylight scenes only set
up
contrast with the dimmer, more murky, more obscure moments. The desolate
visualization is not bleak, though; to the contrary, it's richly
textured.
Making hopelessness and forlorn human obsession palatable in a film is no
small thing ... and this story is the journey of the soul in the small
hours
of a sleepless night. It's a story that could have inspired Hemingway to
write "A Clean, Well Lighted Place."

"Imagine a dark smoky bar,
deep grained cherry wood paneling,
where they dole out martinis
made from the best 100 proof vodka
and iced human tears
to richly burdened men and women,
each alone with grief
and mourning
and self-created pain."

*** Presumed Innocent was nominated for an Edgar (Best Movie, Edgar Allan
Poe Award) along with Goodfellas, but lost to The Grifters (Angelica
Huston,
John Cusack, Annette Bening.) The original music by John Willimas
received
a BMI Film Music award.

*** Trivia
Bradley Witford, also a featured player on West Wing (Josh Lyman) plays
Jamie Kemp, Sandy Stern's law assistant.

This is the first film I know of with a character who is a black gang
member
and "in the life, on the lowdown" as a closeted homosexual.

Exercise: When the defense team visits Caroline Polhemus's apartment,
note
the number of bar glasses present on the countertop.


<|_=00=_|>

Harrison Ford plays a district attourney who is still obsessed with a
co-worker with whom he had an affair, which she broke off.  She then is
found murdered, and all the evidence points back at Ford.  We don't want to
think he committed this brutal murder, but do we know for
sure?

There is a strong moral to this film, which should be obvious to anyone
watching.  Sometimes our actions have consequences that we never would have
believed or intended, but does that make us any less guilty?

If you liked this film, you might want to watch Tightrope.

<|_=00=_|>
Presumed Innocent is directed by Alan J. Pakula, who also co-adapts for
the screen with Frank Pierson from the Scott Turow novel. It stars
Harrison Ford, Brian Dennehy, Bonnie Bedelia, Raúl Juliá, Paul
Winfield, John Spencer and Greta Scacchi. Music is scored by John
Williams and Richard Wolf, and cinematography is by Gordon Willis.

Prosecuting attorney Rusty Sabich (Ford) suddenly finds himself a
murder suspect after his one time lover, Carolyn Polhemus (Scacchi), is
found raped and murdered in her home. As the evidence piles up against
him, and his marriage comes under further strain, Rusty hires top
lawyer Sandy Stern (Juliá) to represent him when the case goes to
trial. Battling the system that he knows inside out, Rusty finds that
there's a big can of worms about to be opened.

A tip top court room mystery drama that we could do with seeing more of
these days. Expertly strung together by the director of All the
Presidents Men and Sophie's Choice, Presumed Innocent isn't just a by
the numbers legal who done it? The makers get in deep with the
political machinations of a district attorney's office, the intricate
steps of a police investigation, and of course the legal eagle
operations of a court room. In to the mix is an horrendous crime, of
which a lawyer himself is charged with committing, he may or may not be
guilty of the crime, but wonderfully we are never sure until the
astonishing finale plays out. The air of mystery hangs heavy
throughout, nagging away like an itch you can't scratch, with Pakula
neatly unfolding the drama in a collage of flashbacks, side-plots and
present time intricacies. Mood is heightened by the photography of
Gordon Willis, who along with Pakula's looming camera work, manages to
convey a claustrophobic feel in keeping with an unstable marriage and a
court room itself.

A great cast is assembled for the picture. Ford expertly plays it low
key, brooding intently, he makes us unsure as to his guilt or
innocence, and that's a testament to how good his performance is.
Bedelia is excellent as the stoic wife, holding it together as the
marital cracks begin to appear, and Juliá dominates the second half of
the picture as we shift to the court room. Dennehy does a nice line in
morally compromised smarm, and Scacchi wonderfully exudes a femme
fatale sexuality. Winfield is a mighty presence as the judge presiding
over such a tricky case, and Spencer is as reliable as ever. Only
disappointments come with the performances of Joe Grifasi and Tom
Mardirosian, who as the prosecutors come across as wimpy and hardly
brick tight lawyers trying a high profile murder case.

An intense and intellectual adult drama, Presumed Innocent is one of
the best of its type from the modern era. 8.5/10
