

While I've been enjoying this film for years, I only recently decided to
read some reviews for it, and am shocked!  The truth is, this film is a
wonderfully comical and charming tale of three Salem witches that are
resurrected by a teenage boy, who, with the help of his little sister and
love interest, must try to stop them from stealing the souls of children.
This movie really sparkles in the representations of the witches, who are
all cast perfectly.  Bette Midler provides for a hilarious and almost
frightening Winifred (the leader), Sarah Jessica Parker shines as the
sexy,
dim-witted Sarah, and Kathy Najimy is marvelous as the funny, perky Mary.
What makes the film even better is that there are two stunning musical
numbers--Midler's delightful "I Put a Spell on You" and Parker's hypnotic
"Come, Little Children."  Ignore the critics, "Hocus Pocus" is perfect not
only for Halloween, but for any time of the year!
<|_=00=_|>

I don't what the critics were talking about, but I found Hocus Pocus to be
extreme fun, from start to finish.  The use of color and the sets is all
magical, giving the movie a strange fairy-tale feel.  I also found it to
be
very funny with great special-effects.  The movie's just plain fun.  The
three witches, thankfully, aren't flat and dull.  This movie is scary
without being profane (ala Mighty Joe Young) or super duper frightening.
A
great film that's much better than most Disney live-action films
today.
<|_=00=_|>

I prepared my self when I sat down to watch this movie, expecting a boring
Disney film not for my generation. But this movie was hilarious! Bette
Midler, Kathy Najimy and Sarah Jessica Parker were fantastic in their
roles
as the witches, especially Midler in her role as Winifred. Unfortunately
there is no soundtrack to this film, which is a shame but not a tragedy.
Overall a fantastic film that the whole family should enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
A traditional "Halloween Ghost Story" turns into a real life adventure
for 3 kids who break the spell of the Sanderson Sisters. The story is
an engaging one and will have even grown-ups pay close attention. The
Sanderson Sisters (wonderfully played by Bette Midler, Sarah Jessica
Parker and Kathy Najimy), convicted of witchcraft in Colonial Salem,
Massachusetts and put to death some 300 years ago, are brought back to
life when "a virgin lights the black candle". It's up to two teenagers
and an 8 year old to stop the wicked witches from succeeding with their
sinister plan: to lure the town's children to their witch house and
"drink" their life-force away from them.

Bette Midler steals the show when the sisters crash a Halloween party,
singing "I Put A Spell On You". There are many "time jokes" as well,
having the 17th century sisters "confused" when they experience 20th
century life: Blinded by a truck's head lights, they are convinced the
sun is rising; they frantically avoid stepping on a blacktop driveway
when they are told that it is "a black lake of death"; unable to find a
broomstick, one of the sisters heads for the sky on a Hoover vacuum
cleaner. The jokes are pretty good, and I was entertained throughout
the film. I have watched "Hocus Pocus" several times already, and will
watch it again and again. This is another example of a movie made for
kids, but enjoyed by grown-ups as well. Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, anyone watching this film has to remember that it is aimed
towards children.  You cannot have the expectations that there is some
deep
meaning connected with this film, or that it is going to be another Bette
Midler comedy with R-rated humor.  If that is what you are looking for,
watch "Ruthless People".  This film is funny and cute.  That is all.  If I
was a 10 year old child, I would love this movie.  It is a family film and
nobody should expect anything more.  Secondly, it has Bette Midler and a
wonderfully funny Kathy Najimy and dim-witted Sarah Jessica
Parker......so,
ENJOY!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is funny, scary, but warm and human all at once. It
emphasizes the value of families working together to help each other
and does not create confusing messages about good and evil. It's a
fast-paced comedy that does not trivialize the characters. Bette
Midler's rendition of "I've Put a Spell on You" shows the depth of her
talent as a singer/stage performer. The divine Ms. Bette has great
chemistry with both Kathy Naijimy (how does she get her mouth to do
that?), and Sarah Jessica Parker (amok, amok, amok). While the scary
factor with corpses and death may not be appropriate for very small
children, the movie is lots of fun for the whole family.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie came out when i was 5 years old, I had seen the trailers for
it and I couldn't wait for it to come out. Back then it was my
favourite movie of all time. I would watch it every day, sometimes
twice a day... (I know, sad, right?} Now i am 18 and it is still among
the best movies EVER!!! I wish that they would do a sequel with the
original cast! That would be so cool! Something like... They come back
to get revenge on Danny and her new boyfriend or son or something. I
don't think they will though! I would love to be in it! ! ! It is such
an amazing mix of history, drama, comedy, supernatural and playfulness.
I read that this was originally going to be a TV movie for the Disney
channel and not have Sarah, Bette and Kathy in it at all. Boy are we
lucky they were. I know that it sounds like I am babbling on a bit and
not making much sense but they won't let me post this message if it is
less than 10 lines! How ridiculous is that? It would be better if I
could just write what I want to say and not have to fill the ten lines
with nonsense just so I can post a comment!
<|_=00=_|>
This is the story of three nefarious practitioners of Darkly-aligned
Magick and the mark they left on the town which sentenced them to
death.

Disney is known to openly endorse and promote the use of the Old Ways.
Whether a good Witch (Bedknobs and Broomsticks) or a bad Witch (Snow
White and the Seven Dwarfs), Disney loves Magick and those who use it.

These Witches, however, are the worst kind of rabble, and while we
attempt to defeat them, character development occurs. This movie is
quite entertaining, however it is too dark and scary for younger
audiences, and may be considered too juvenile for adults, but the older
children and tweens seem to love it.

It rates an 8.7/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was a good movie for the whole family. There is
something for everyone in this movie.... singing,comedy,some action,very
good music and thrills (for the younger audience). The director spiced the
movie up with musical numbers by Sarah Jessica Parker and Bette Midler.
There were also some good stars in the movie; Sarah Jessica Parker, Bette
Midler, and a young Thora Birch (she was so cute in this movie).It's
terrible that the only score for this movie was a promo CD (which is very
hard to find and very expensive if you do find it)... and not a soundtrack.
I really hope that Disney or some company re-releases the DVD version of
this great movie. 
<|_=00=_|>
Hocus Pocus is one of those movies that I have enjoyed greatly for many
years, even if it is a seasonal/holiday based film. This movie is just
so fascinating to me for those fun aspects and qualities it contains
that I could enjoy it on any watch. It has the right amount of funny
that kept my eyes on the TV the whole time and my mouth wide open with
laughter, and it seems many people forget that sometimes that's all we
need from a movie to truly love and enjoy it.

With Bette Midler and Sarah Jessica Parker being some of my favorite
actresses, I decided that this was going to be a great Halloween flick
to begin with, and it certainly turned out to be, for all the three
witches put smiles on my faces, and even though this movie had some
humorous features without the main three women casted in the film, they
really were the most enjoyable and lovable of the film and most of the
reason it is as enjoyable and lovable as it is, honestly. After
watching this movie, Kathy Najimy actually turned out to be my favorite
character though, because she was just plain out hilarious as her ditsy
self, like when she flew on a vacuum. 

All the Sanderson Sisters turned out to be funny and special in their
own way, and like I said, Midler, Parker and Najimy's portrayal of them
is really what makes this film for me, even though the story and other
characters are just as entertaining and fun. Hocus Pocus is one of the
movies that people just have to see at least once if they haven't,
because after they see it they will want to watch it again and again,
because it really is one of my favorite movies in general, and I hope
more people will discover it and view it as greatly as I do. This movie
is a magnificent, entertaining, really great and laughable adventure
that will leave you in awe. I recommend it to everyone.
