
This is an excellent modern-day film noir...."excellent" in that it's
interesting, start-to-finish. There are some holes in here and some
goofy parts that make you shake your head in disbelief.....but I
haven't found anyone who didn't get caught up in this story. The movie
has the right amount of action, suspense, plot twists and interesting
characters. In addition, it sports some nice colors and cinematography
plus a good guitar-based soundtrack. 

I labeled this crime movie a "film noir" because it's gritty and the
all the characters are no good. Even the only supposed-good guy, played
by Nicholas Cage, gets himself in trouble by lying and has a quick
affair he should't have. He also does something at the end which isn't
right, but I'm not going the spoil it by saying. Suffice to say,
however, that the rest of the characters are so bad they make Cage look
good!

Speaking of "bad guys," does anyone do it better than Dennis Hopper?
Not many. At least in the "deranged" category, he's tough to beat. Lara
Flynn Boyle is fun to watch for a bunch of reasons. J.T. Walsh gives
another great supporting performance, too.

This is one of those films that never got much publicity, but it should
have. You'll have fun watching this. By the way, try saying the name of
this movie out loud three times fast without messing it up!
<|_=00=_|>
Vaguely reminiscent of great 1940's westerns, like "The Treasure Of The
Sierra Madre" (1948), "Red Rock West" is a story about conscience,
greed, and betrayal. Michael (Nicolas Cage) is a down and out, but
honest, young man from Texas who goes west in search of work and money.
He finds both, but not in the way he had expected.

The film's screenplay contains plenty of surprises and plot twists.
Excellent cinematography, adroit film editing, and moody western music
add tension and suspense. The expansiveness of the big sky country
provides a wonderful setting. And the acting ranges from good to
excellent, with great performances from Dennis Hopper and J.T. Walsh.
Dwight Yoakam's specially recorded country/western song provides the
film with a strong finale.

Correctly labeled as neo-noir, "Red Rock West" strikes me as being
something else, as well. The plot is full of amazing coincidences and
improbable timing, so much so that others may regard the screenplay as
flawed. Ordinarily, I would agree. In this case, however, when combined
with the moody atmosphere, and the fact that the small town of Red Rock
seems almost empty of normal daily life, the coincidences and unlikely
timing suggest a story that, beyond "noirish", is ... surreal. It's
almost as if fate deliberately intervenes with improbable events so as
to force Michael to come to grips with himself. From this point of
view, the coincidences are not script flaws at all. They are necessary
plot points in a nightmarish story of a young man who must confront his
own demons ... disguised as other characters.

All we need here is Rod Serling, in a postscript, explaining, in his
always clearly enunciated voice, that ... a young man, searching for
himself, stops in a small, almost deserted town a thousand miles from
nowhere. It's his final layover in a journey to ... the twilight zone.
<|_=00=_|>

In any number of films, you can find Nicholas Cage as a strong, silent
hero,
Dennis Hopper as a homicidal maniac, Lara Flynn Boyle as a vamp/tramp, and
the late, lamented J.T. Walsh as the heavy.  These are the types of roles
these four can play in their sleep, and they have done so often enough that
to see them playing them again borders on cliche.
What a relief, therefore, that John Dahl, a master at getting a lot of mood
out of a little action, directed this nuanced noirish thriller.  Hopper
manages to keep from going over the top, Cage shows a little more depth
than
his usually-superficial action heroes, Boyle is by turns sultry, innocent,
and scheming, and one gets a sense of the hard iron of the soul that is
central to his character, Wayne.  Dahl's direction gives a sense of the
emptiness of the Big Sky country where the story takes place while also
being intimate enough to show how a wrinkled brow can indicate a radical
change of plot in store.
The plot twists are top-notch, and one of the other great twists in this
movie is that some of the supporting characters actually act as if they
have
brains.  It isn't often that minor characters like deputy sheriffs have
more
brains than their headlining superiors.  But with a director as smart as
Dahl, you shouldn't be surprised by the intelligence of anything connected
with this film.  An excellent movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Red Rock West is what all films should be like. A genuinely interesting film
with enough twists and turns to satisfy any sane human, it was tragically
overlooked on its release. With Nicolas Cage (before his career went into
orbit) in fine form and Dennis Hopper stealing scene after scene, this is a
movie that withstands repeated watchings.
The rest of the cast are uniformly excellent and the quirkiness of the
setting (a small town in the middle of nowhere) never gets in the
way.
In short this is a great little film that deserves to be
seen.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like plot turns, this is your movie. It is impossible at any
moment to predict what will happen next. Nothing is as it appears or
ends as you think it will. The characters are all gritty and engaging.
Cage is at his best. Dennis Hopper again shows his delightfully
sinister side. JT Walsh is perfect in his last performance. Laura Boyle
sizzles. Dwight Yoakum makes a film debut superbly in a cameo. I
categorize this movie as "I am having a really, really, really bad day"
film. Not a slow minute in this film. A real sleeper. This movie is
underrated and, sadly, overlooked.
<|_=00=_|>

"Red Rock West" was far and away one of the best suspense thrillers of the
90's with a superb script (by John and Rick Dahl) that kept you guessing
throughout and on the edge of your seat for most of the film. It was
brilliantly directed by John Dahl and featured a marvellous cast including
Nicolas Cage, Dennis Hopper, Lara Flynn Boyle and especially J. T. Walsh (in
a memorable performance) making this a riveting and captivating thriller not
to be missed. The film never had much publicity on release (in fact I first
caught up with it on TV) and is therefore one of those special little gems
that you have to seek out but this unique film is now slowly gaining a cult
following.

Nicolas Cage is Michael Williams who is broke and out of work when he finds
himself in the small town of Red Rock. Mistaken for a contract killer named
Lyle from Dallas he is shocked to be offered $10,000 to murder the wife of
bar owner Wayne Brown (the excellent J. T. Walsh). He plays along with the
plan and decides he should go and warn Brown's wife Suzanne (Lara Flynn
Boyle) but then the plot thickens and there are so many twists, turns and
surprises - and double dealings - that Cage is thrown from one crisis to
another and finds himself trapped in a terrible situation he can't drag
himself out of! Then just to complicate matters even further the real Lyle
turns up to carry out the contract killing (played by everyone's favourite
heavy Dennis Hopper).
When Hopper discovers what has happened he goes after Cage but no one could
forsee the surprising events that follow.

Some favourite lines from the film:

Nicolas Cage (to Lara Flynn Boyle): "I hate to see an innocent woman get
hurt but it's an awful lot of money".

J. T. Walsh (to Cage): "Michael Williams. Well, Michael, you're going to be
spending some time with us till we get to the bottom of
this".

Boyle (to Cage): "You're not a killer?". Cage: "That's right, no. But the
guy I'm supposed to be just rode into town so you gotta get out of
here".

Boyle (to Cage): "O.K. How you're going to explain impersonating a hired
killer and taking $10,000 from my husband?".

An extraordinarily entertaining little thriller (just 98 minutes) with a
storyline that never lets up and powerful acting by all the principals. Any
film featuring J. T. Walsh is O.K. in my book and "Red Rock West" was one of
his best. How sad it was that this exceptional actor's career was cut
tragically short by a heart attack in 1998.
The most prolific period for "film noir" was without any doubt the forties
but "Red Rock West" is a good modern example of the genre and has jumped
right into my "Top Ten" list of all time favourite films. I look forward to
more like this from director John Dahl.  10/10.
Clive Roberts.


<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Let's address the elephant in the room first, the movie is boring and
Hopper is a dreadful actor. The movie even for its short length is
boring. The other main problem is the phoniness of the script. What is
this the Twilight Zone? He just cannot get out of town; everything
works so he is trapped there. Only one other movie tried this and it is
even worse than this: Oliver Stone's stink bomb U Turn. That film makes
his Natural Born Killers look like Citizen Kane. From the beginning,
with his arrival, his being mistaken by Wayne as Lyle the movie's sense
of reality is painful. If you were hiring a hit-man, would you want a
bit of a physical description of him? Does Cage remotely look like
Lyle? What because they both drive cars with Texas license plates? Are
you kidding me, who believes this? This and the terrible acting, with
the exception of Walsh, the only actor in the cast doomed the movie at
the box office. Everyone remember the killer Bronson in the Mechanic?
Would he have given a hitchhiker a ride? Chatted amiably with him and
been thrilled they both were in Vietnam? How dorky!

The contrivances to keep Michael in Red Rock would make Rod Serling
say,"forget it, nobody will buy that, too phony." The pacing of the
movie is like geological time, sloow. Hopper wrecks the movie with his
ham bone overacting like he destroyed Blue Velvet. From the moment they
get Wayne at jail until the crappy scene in the graveyard; Hopper shows
why you do not want him in your movie. He is doing Frank Booth light
here; it is so obvious and it destroys any remaining reality of the
film. Yes, when I am desperate and just got money to kill Wayne's wife,
I always stop at the local Holiday Inn for some quick bed action? One
ridiculous scene after another with some really bad acting by Flynn
Boyle and Hopper lay waste to the film. I love anti greed movies like
Sierra Madre but please the writing and acting here are not remotely in
the same league. Bogie, Huston and Holt versus Hopper, Flynn Boyle and
Cage, the latter shows why he is an action movie star. In drama, like
Bangkok Dangerous he is out of his genre. Do not believe me? Watch
Matchstick Men, it bombed for a reason. 

The greed message is lost among the wreckage that is this movie. When
it was released it played at small art theaters for a reason, nobody
would buy it for their big theaters. It was gone in a few weeks. Boring
and slow like molasses, badly acted and written; it was held up as some
wannabe Noir in color, no it is just crap, sorry.
<|_=00=_|>

A basically decent drifter (Nicolas Cage) lands in the tiny town of Red
Rock, Wyoming, 
looking for work. When he stops in the bar, the bar owner (J. T. Walsh) asks
why he took so 
long and asks him to step in the back office so they can discuss the job.
Cage plays along, 
then discovers the work is to kill the bar owner's wife. He takes the money,
drives out to the 
ranch to warn the wife (Laura Flynn Boyle), and starts to leave town.
Problems arise and he 
returns to town in time to witness the real hit man (Dennis Hopper) arrive.
Things go 
downhill for the Cage character after that.

This is an excellent, convoluted, well-acted and offbeat mystery. Funny,
too. Cage never 
knows what's happening, but everybody else assumes he does. Dennis Hopper
again plays a 
charming semi-psycho but he hadn't patented the style yet so it seems fresh.
J. T. Walsh was 
a great character actor who died young. He's outstanding as the bar
owner...who also 
happens to be the sheriff. He has one or two other secrets as well. And if
Boyle doesn't rev 
your engine, you may need a tune up. She's more ruthless than the lot of
them.
<|_=00=_|>
Red Rock West is directed by John Dahl who also co-wrote the screenplay
with his brother Rick. It stars Nicolas Cage, Dennis Hopper, Lara Flynn
Boyle, J. T. Walsh and Timothy Carhart. Music is by William Olvis and
cinematography by Marc Reshovsky. 

When a promised job in Wyoming fails to materialise on account of an
injury sustained in combat, Michael Williams (Cage) drifts into the
town of Red Rock and is mistaken in a bar for a hit-man hired to kill
an unfaithful wife. Tempted by the high cash on offer, Michael plays
along and promptly finds himself in a web of intrigue from which escape
is looking unlikely 

Welcome To Red Rock/You Are Now Leaving Red Rock. 

The studio didn't know what to do with it, a neo-noir flavoured with
contemporary Western spices. Put out on cable in America and thriving
on its limited release in Europe, it started to gain a cult fan-base.
More so after a theatre in the Frisco Bay area started showing it and
it made considerable coinage. Today it still remains more of a cult
piece than anything else, which while it deserves more accolades and
exposure, is still kind of nice for the fans, because it's like we have
our own little neo-noir treasure all to ourselves. 

Red Rock West is essential for the neo-noir heads and well worthy of
inspection by the average modern day crime film fan. Plot wise it's a
bit, shall we say iffy? Yet the twists, turns and characterisations are
so deftly constructed and performed, it matters not a jot. Cage's ex-
marine is an honest and decent guy who whilst down on his luck -
punished for his honesty - finds himself in a vortex of mystery and
murder that he can't escape from. His companions in this scenario are
film noir staples, the femme fatale (Boyle) with a smoulder as big as
her secret, the hit-man (Hopper) with a glint in his eye to accompany
his callous leanings, and the shifty bar owner (Walsh) trying to off
his wife whilst keeping his shady cards close to his chest. 

As the tricksy plot unfolds in a haze of bad judgements and untruths,
further pulsed by the vagaries of fate, it becomes apparent that Dahl
wants us to know it isn't taking itself too seriously. There's a
glorious scent of dark humour hanging in the air, an unpretentiousness
about the whole thing that's refreshing. The look and feel is perfect
for the narrative, the colour is stripped back to create a moody
atmospheric surround, while the score and sound-tracking immediately
brings to mind country and western tales of woe. Dahl knows his noir
onions, but this is not just a homage hat tipper to the past, he
understands what works in noir, be it the blending of the quirky with
the edgy, or scene setting in locales such as a colourless bar and a
foggy cemetery, Dahl gets the key ingredients right to deliver the
goods wholesale. 

The small cast come up trumps. Boyle as Suzanne Brown is weak if her
femme fatale is pitted against the likes of Matty Walker or Bridget
Gregory, but it's an adequate performance that doesn't hinder the
picture. She is helped enormously, though, by having to share most
scenes with Cage who brings his "A" game. Consistently inconsistent
throughout his career, Cage, when on form is a joy to watch, here he
gets to thrive as a put upon hero, shifting seamlessly between
confusion and boldness, where incredulous looks are the order of the
day with a side order of eccentric intensity. Hopper does what he does
so well, amusing villainy, while Walsh is effortlessly menacing and
suspicious. In small secondary support Carhart and country star Dwight
Yoakam leave favourable impressions. 

This is not an edge of your seat thriller, or a cranium bothering piece
of dramedy, it's neo-noir done right. Where morality is grey at best
and money is the root of all evil, it's slick, playful, cold blooded
and absorbing. Hooray! 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Red rock west" superbly ends on a train,while Dwight Yoakam's
sensational "A thousand miles from nowhere" is heard during the final
credits.One should note that the excellent soundtrack features two
songs of the late great Johnny Cash and other chestnuts.

What about the movie?It's an excellent entertaining flick.Two
tremendous leads :Nicolas Cage ,who always seems overtaken by
events,always looking stupefied and Dennis Hopper who does not take his
character seriously and deliciously overacts while displaying a lot of
humor.All the supporting cast is excellent ,and as absolutely no one
can be trusted in this money story,there are enough twists to satisfy
the action-packed movie buff.One should notice that ,towards the end
,in the graveyard ,the movie verges on horror.

An excellent entertainment for a hard day's night.
