

Selena is the true-story of Selena Quintanilla-Perez, a talented young
Mexican singer, who was discovered by her own father at the age of 10.
Selena had everything going for her, a good family, whom she was very close
with, a great husband, loads of fans and of course her music career that
kept getting stronger. Selena had even won a prestigious Grammy award for
Best Mexican/American Singer and was the most popular Latin singer at that
time. Until, all that was taken away from her, when at the age of 23 in
1995, Selena's 'friend' and fan club manager, Yolanda Saldivar murdered her,
after Selena had confronted Yolanda about money, she had stolen.

I'm one of the many people out there who only heard about Selena in the last
couple of years. I can't remember where I first heard of her. The internet,
maybe, but the things I did hear were all good and she sounded like a very
talented and popular young singer and of course I was really shocked to hear
about how she died. 

I was really interested to watch the movie Selena and when I finally got to
watch it, I thought it was really great. It tells you the whole story of
Selena's life, from when she was just a young girl, to her meeting guitarist
Chis Perez and secretly getting married to him,  we see her singing at
sold-out concerts, all the wonderful fans she had and not only that but we
find out that Selena was planning to have kids and she was just about to
release her first English language album, all until she was she was terribly
murdered. I thought the end of the movie, where there was real footage of
the real Selena, was beautifully done and it was great to see clips of the
real Selena singing at her concerts, meeting her fans and just having fun
with her family, friends and husband.

I thought the whole cast in the movie were great, Jennifer Lopez played
Selena really well and deserved any award she received or got nominated for.
The rest of the cast including, Edward James Olmos, who played Selena's
father and Jon Seda, who played Selena's husband Chris Perez did really well
too.

After watching the movie and hearing Selena, (Jennifer Lopez was
lip-synching to Selena's voice. I thought that was good too.) I am going to
get hold of some of Selena's music. I hope her memory will live on forever.
Selena, the movie is highly recommended. Whether you're fan or not, see it. 

<|_=00=_|>

IMDb's 1,000 words max. limit seemed quite generous until I was faced with
reviewing this one. For how could a mere thousand words adequately express
the thoughts and feelings generated by sitting through two hours of watching
a Lennon or McCartney, a Dion or a Jackson gradually taking hold of her
God-given talents and rising to super-stardom only to have it cut short by
what must be one of the most vile acts of murder the planet has ever
witnessed. What if the first few hit singles or the first couple of albums
of ABBA were all we ever got to hear because Agnetha or Frida was murdered
at that point? It even goes so far as to make you wonder about the Beatles,
even Bach, Mozart, or Beethoven.

I admit I was a bit nervous when I rented the movie because I was worried
that a sub-standard job may have been done to capture the short life of this
young woman. Her music was really just the outcome of her virtuous self and
the incredible qualities of courage, a genuine love for humanity, and a
deep-seated patience that she obviously clung to. For, as the film points
out, a Mexican-American singer is not easily accepted by Americans nor by
the Mexicans. Selena also had to work at brining about unity among her
family such as with her father's acceptance of her marriage. Needless to
say, the film did not disappoint me in the least, for it portrayed this
truth with class.

Fortunately, the film did not "sugar-coat" the characters, as many
biographical movies do - it confidently revealed the mistakes and some
undesirable traits in the people it portrayed. In fact, the characters were
so real, I forgot several times that I was watching a movie and thought I
was sitting with these people laughing with them and sharing in their joy
and in their pain. Jennifer Lopez was absolutely outstanding. There was so
much depth, richness, and naturalness in her acting.

I recognise also that it must have been very difficult for the actress who
played Yolanda (manager of Selena's fan club and her murderer). To play the
villain in order to help raise awareness of the life of a fabulous soul
would be very difficult indeed.

The beautiful candle-light vigils shown at the end of the film made me
regret very much having not lived in Texas and been part of them at the
time. I especially appreciated the fact that the film did not make Selena's
death its focal point. It was much more of a celebration of the contribution
she made in brining joy to the hearts of an unhappy world. This was its
focus, even though Selena's death gave me a very sharp sting and made me
cry. It is so sad but it cheers me that this film was made and that such a
superb job was done on it. Thank you to all who worked on making this
excellent film. (10 out of 10).

<|_=00=_|>

What a lovely biopic. I had barely heard of Selena when she was killed, and
I'm no fan of Tejano music. 
But this picture was a wonderful tribute to the young talent. The movie is a
celebration of her life, rather than fixating on her death, as one would
expect with her family so involved (controlling) with the film. This
approach also just felt right. I'm sure that Hollywood, if it had had its
way, would have sensationalized this aspect to the max. I don't know how
much of the film is factual, and how much is apocryphal. A local reviewer
wrote that a true biography of Selena would have to wait a few years, and be
done without a Quintanilla looking over both shoulders.

All I can do is rave about Jennifer Lopez. Her beauty, her talent, her sheer
magnetism flows right out of the screen. She was amazing. Since her
biography subject died so young, she was able to avoid the problems,
inherent in the genre, of trying to age the actress to match the aging of
the subject. Constance Marie, who I'm not familiar with, was quite good as
Selena's mother, although she did have to deal with the question of
appearing to age 15 years. Every cast member seemed right for their part,
and everyone did very well. The film seemed well-directed, in that I never
thought about the director at any time during the film.

Overall, the movie was very sweet, with obvious tragic overtones. Highly
recommended. 
<|_=00=_|>

Jennifer Lopez proved that she was a high-class actress with this true
story
of the Tejano Superstar whose life was cut short by a disgruntled employee.
Lopez shines and Edward James Olmos is super (as usual) as her tough-nosed
father.  The rest of the cast is adequate, but the show is shared between
Lopez and Olmos.  The screenplay is a little sappy, but fine overall.
Director Gregory Nava is always focused and this keeps the film interesting
throughout.  A fine film all the way.  4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
'Selena' tells the fascinating story of the late Selena Quintanilla,
the first famous female tejano singer. In her short life, with the
support of her parents and husband, the vivacious young Selena lived
the dream of every girl. Nava does a fine job of telling the story. He
shows us how happy Selena was with her life (even though there were ups
and downs) and she lived it to the fullest. In her short 23 years she
achieved what would take a lifetime for some. This was a life that
wasn't a waste because Selena knew hot to live life.

But the best thing about 'Selena' is Jennifer Lopez. Those were the
days when Lopez acted her heart out on screen as has also been apparent
in 'Out of Sight' and 'Blood and Wine'. Not only that, but Lopez looks
stunning. Many prefer the way she looks today but in 'Selena' there's
an innocence and honesty about her beauty and this coupled with her
natural and spirited performance is a delight to watch. The supporting
cast that includes Edward James Olmos, Jon Seda and Constance Marie are
all very good too.

I loved the way the soundtrack was used in the film and it brings a lot
of energy to the story. The cinematography is quite good but I did not
like the 3 split screen.

Even though we know the tragic fate of Selena, this film reminds us
that it's more important to live a big life than a long life. Make full
use of what you have and take your chance. That's what Selena did. She
was loved by her friends and family and won the hearts of millions.
Strongly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know much about the real Selena, so I don't know how much of the
movie was fact and what was fiction. But even if this movie wasn't based on
a real singing superstar, it would have been great to watch
anyway.

Jennifer Lopez is stunning in every way as Selena. She hits all the right
chords as a teenager, a woman in love, a dutiful daughter and sister, and a
singer adored by legions of fans. And she loved everyone of them right back.
The actors playing her family are all great, too (especially her father).
Ms. Lopez also has a sweet, natural chemistry with Jon Seda as Chris. Their
relationship is so real because they were friends first...friends who fell
in love.

Ms. Lopez also does a great job lip-synching Selena's songs, and the ending
will bring tears to your eyes. A must see!
<|_=00=_|>


I only sat down to watch this movie because I smelled sex appeal.
Probably
before the movie started I could not tell you which was Jennifer and which
was Selena.  But by the end of the movie I was an emotional basket
case.

The movie itself is simple and basic.  It is innocent and honest and you
kind of think to yourself that SELENA feels like a TV movie although the
acting is solid.  But unlike any TV movie something happens -- the movie
jells -- and the end hits you as sudden and hard as a lightning
strike.

SELENA and MAN IN THE MOON are the only two movies that make my eyes water
just by thinking of them.

Powerful.
<|_=00=_|>

this was the greatest movie about the life of a singer or famous person i
have ever seen. Jennifer Lopez did perfect and so did the people that
played
her family and friends throughout the movie, if you havent watched this
movie yet, u should! it's great!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Not expecting to enjoy this movie, I was very pleasantly surprised. 
Jennifer Lopez, Edward Olmos and the rest of the ensemble cast do a
marvelous job in bringing the close-knit Quintanilla family to life.  The
screenwriters and director skillfully lead the viewer from the father's
failed attempts at rock 'n roll in the early 60s through Selena's childhood
and her eventual rocket to the top of the Tejano music charts as a young
woman.  Thankfully her murder is not addressed as a major plot item, its
almost irrelevant.  And the concert scenes are fantastic.  Its Selena's
voice and Lopez does an incredible job.
Definitely worth a rental regardless of your musical tastes.    

<|_=00=_|>
The movie "Selena" was really good. The drama and humor was all good. I
liked how the movie started off with her being little and showing how
she started off in the industry. Her parents were very supportive of
her. Her father was really hard on them when they had to practice. They
never liked to rehearse. Her brother and sister were both good people
to be around. I liked all of the songs that were played in the movie.
Her and her husband Chris were a very cute couple. The way she wanted
to grow up and have a farm with lots of kids was really cute. All of
her music was great. I think that Selena was a very beautiful and
talented women. The way she died was very sad and horrible. She will be
truly missed.
