

Once again, as do all John Sayles films, this is no Hollywood fare. There
are no easy answers or solutions to the questions raised or problems
illustrated. John Sayles gives his insightful subtle approaches to another
aspect of life and living, of ordinary people tackling everyday encounters
and challenges. Nothing spectacular (yet it is quietly spectacular). It's
another multi-character study, and Sayles is very good at telling the story
and providing the different premises and details in a seemingly casual
manner. Sayles fans know it will not be a boring journey - life lessons will
be assimilated. 

In LIMBO, photography is skillfully delivered by veteran cinematographer
Haskell Wexler (the unforgettable "Medium Cool" 1969, which he also wrote
and directed; "The Thomas Crown Affair" 1968 with director Norman Jewison;
two with Sayles: "Matewan" 1987, "The Secret of Roan Inish" 1994). Here,
graphic detail shots are included on fishing, informing us of the
intricacies involved - it's Sayles ingredients to the core.

Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio, as always, a tour de force. She gets to
demonstrate what a wonderful singer she can be. She did a terrific job - she
sings so well that it sounds like Judy Collins at times! David Strathairn,
for once, is not in a supporting role. He is in the male lead role and as
expected, a quiet sensitive delivery of his character as a fisherman
incognito. There is mother and daughter tension at play here. Vanessa
Martinez played the teenage daughter and what a superb performance - hers is
no easy role. The segment by the campfire where she reads from a diary book,
her subtle expressions and poignant portrayal complete this triangle of
complex emotional cauldron a-brewingyet she held her own in capturing our
attention on her touching delivery.

This is not an easy film to consume - it provides mind probing and requires
reflective thinking. A John Sayles fan MUST-SEE, or anyone who's ready for a
different movie and a change of pace. 

Music is by Mason Daring. As usual, the film is written, directed, and
edited by John Sayles himself.

<|_=00=_|>

I don't know all of Sayles work, but I plan to. This film really impressed
me.

What I look for is a few things, that if done well will really satisfy.
Among them are:

--daring use of the cinematic medium

--transporting me to a conceptual space that I otherwise wouldn't have
experienced

--self reference

CINEMATIC: Sayles is a storyteller, who thoroughly understands what it means
to build a narrative scaffold using film. This is theater completely recast
for the unique strengths of film, and only possible when the same person
writes, directs and edits. This camera is literally introduced as a
character when noelle offers it an `hoordoov.' The camera participates, the
lights participate. We have overlapping dialog, overlapping cuts, multiple
views of the same scene. We have long panning multithreaded scenes. We have
a dramatic pacing which starts slow, sets a lot of potential threads and
convincingly fools you into relying on certain expectations.

Then narrative commitments are made before you are ready, and then come
faster and more unexpectedly until the very gutsy end. Sayles knows in real
storytelling, there's a game between teller and listener, each trying to
outwit the other. A masterful storyteller teases but plays by the rules,
allowing the reader to take risks. It takes craft to do this in the written
word, and is extremely rare using the more intimate but external and
slippery experience of cinema.

TRANSPORTING: Alaskan wilderness as theme park where stories are safely
refined for casual visitors. That would be enough given this level of craft.
But Sayles takes us into Noelle's diary world. That's the center of this
film's world, the world of the mystical Shefox. Deep imagery here --
superficially referenced in the `real' action. I do not expect to ever
forget that visit. The self-reference is in both.

Much has been made of the actors, and I think that a mistake since the
creative force here is clearly Sayles. But this girl Martinez has some
magic. Who will write parts for her?
<|_=00=_|>

After seeing this movie on DVD, I found that I admired Sayles as a director,
actress Mastrantonio as a talented singer, and David Straithern as an actor.
Earlier I was only familiar with the above-average work of Mastrantonio but
here she is remarkable. It is indeed sad that such interesting and well-made
movies never fetch an Oscar, if not major Oscars. It is indeed "Ox-bow
incident" revisited.

Every aspect of the film is well crafted and rivetting for any intelligent
viewer. 

The DVD commentary is a great one for movie enthusiasts.
<|_=00=_|>

With its leisurely pace, unusual structure, and highly ambiguous ending (not
to mention a nonexistent marketing campaign), Limbo will quite likely divide
the small audience that sees it.  This is a terrible shame, as John Sayles
is at the top of his game.  Set in Alaska, Limbo comments incisively on a
variety of complex issues concerning the vast state -- the relentless
tourism, the scarcity of meaningful employment for the working class, and
the careless abuses of irreplaceable natural resources by the wealthy, to
name a few.  All of these interesting themes, however, are discarded
half-way through in favor of a thought-provoking story of human survival
that will undoubtedly light a fire for some while irritating and alienating
others.  Sayles has not always connected with me, but I was deeply moved by
Limbo (especially the rich characterizations provided by Martinez,
Mastrantonio, and Sayles regular Strathairn) -- and I absolutely loved the
gutsy ending, which continues to occupy my thoughts.  
<|_=00=_|>
I'd suggest that viewers watch 'Limbo' on DVD with the voice-over
narrative by John Sayles, the director. A lot of insights provided
there, including a lot of little details which give you insight into
movie-making--the reason for multiple takes, visual effects, the
importance of 'continuity', and even a lot about sound, which was a big
issue in the making of this film.

I was amazed to learn that Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is such a
terrific singer--she sang all the songs and, in fact, her voice was
recorded live while shooting the scenes, not dubbed in later in
post-production. Sayles describes this in his narrative.

Sayles had less to say in the narrative about the ending, but based on
the comments he DID make it was all quite intentional--not the result
of studio politics or a screenwriter (Sayles himself) who couldn't
decide on a final ending. In fact, I would suggest that it is Sayles'
standing in the business that permitted this film to be produced &
released without answering the question of what becomes of those
characters, though it also occurs to me that it could be the reason why
this film didn't get much of a marketing push. Clearly the audience is
left hanging in--dare I say it--a state of limbo. Sayles has no
intention, based on his comments, of a sequel, though he invites anyone
else to dream one up if they wish.

But aside from all this, it was a terrific film, with interesting
characters, shot in unusual and often stunning locations ("Insomnia"
comes to mind when thinking of recent films shot in Alaska with its
scenic backdrops).

The cast was generally quite good--Mastrantonio and Strathairn were
terrific, and Kris Kristofferson was a great choice as the likable but
edgy local, Smilin' Jack Johannson. Vanessa Martinez was, for me, less
convincing as the daughter until the boat trip and beyond, but that is
when her character becomes truly important to the story and her work
was quite good when it mattered most; up to then it was all teenage
angst.

Overall, I enjoyed 'Limbo' a great deal, and the limbo in which the
audience is left with such abruptness was, for me, almost a slap in the
face--a welcome one--in striking contrast to the 'Star Wars' series in
which George Lucas took 6 movies and nearly 30 years to tell us how
Darth Vader came to be.

Note: I am NOT slamming Lucas or 'Star Wars' by that comment, only
making a point.
<|_=00=_|>
"Limbo" continues John Sayles travels around the continent to find
distinctive regionalisms and he portrays small town Alaska with a real
authentic feel. 

The audio and video were out of synch for the first 15 minutes so I
missed some of a key scene where the singer breaks up with her
boyfriend through a song, which was too bad as the cover songs are
terrific, from Tom Waits to Richard Thompson's "Dimming of the Day." 

The acting was excellent, particularly, Vanessa Martinez as a very
believable teenager. David Strathairn was both restrained and
passionate. I just wasn't completely convinced that Mary Elizabeth
Mastrantonio's character had gone through changes to be at peace with
herself. Kris Kristofferson again does a bad guy scarily convincingly.

But the surprise "limbo" conclusion ruined the film for me and
virtually everyone else in the audience also groaned.

(originally written 7/12/1999)
<|_=00=_|>

Having finally caught us with John Sayles' "Limbo", it must be said that the
king of the indie scene can still surpass any genre.

Casting his friend (and movie veteran) David Strathairn as an Alaskan
fisherman with an emotional crisis is one of the film's many pluses.
Strathairn brings an everyman quality to every role he's in. The film is
also not unlike Strathairn's own "The River Wild". At least, without the
contrivances. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is also good as a bar singer (she
sings pretty well too) hauling her teenage daughter (Vanessa Martinez, very
good in her debut) through gig after gig. The film also has some thriller
elements; but, this of course, is Sayles, who wisely pushes for character
development and dialogue ladened with truth.

As he proved with EIGHT MEN OUT, MATEWAN, CITY OF HOPE, and PASSION FISH,
Sayles is a truly gifted writer/director. Keep it coming.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this movie tremendously, and although I agree with previous
posters that the 'mother' is a monster, I thought that helped the film,
particularly since she was portrayed sensitively-ish (she's definitely
the least sympathetic of the 3 main characters). The self-absorption
and the amazingly flamboyant failed attempts at good parenting are all
part of the title: Limbo. Mastroantonio's character is in perpetual
limbo, and as a result, so is her daughter. Straithairn is simply
trying to live, in limbo due to an accident for which he feels
responsible (but isn't). The community is in limbo, as well, as
industries close and local officials try to find a way to keep the
economy afloat (and their own pockets full). Although one could argue
that the crisis - Straithairn's brother's 'situation' - is a little
manipulative, I didn't mind it, and I loved the fact that the crisis
led the trio to a 'time-out' - limbo within a limbo. It was filmed so
beautifully, acted so amazingly well and was so nice and slow that I
almost felt envious of the characters for their situation - who, in
real life, gets to put their life into a perspective while bonding with
other truly caring souls? Of course, being hunted by killers, starving
to death and worrying about dying in the Alaskan winter are no
picnic...but, there was a strong sense of togetherness and of honesty,
even painful and inappropriate honesty. As for the ending --- well, I,
too, shouted 'NO!' at the screen, but only because I ended up loving
these characters so much I wanted to see them do well - to get out of
limbo, as they all so ardently wish for (the final scene itself was so
expressive, both in the staging and the acting, that it tore me up). Of
course, I didn't want them to die, either! A perfectly formed movie. I
will watch it again, for sure.
<|_=00=_|>

[possible spoiler] Oh dear. I guess I have to be the turd in the punchbowl
again and offer a contrarian view to the encomia of praise for this
portentous exercise. What we have here appears to be a rather mundane soap
opera about troubled people with dark secrets which, halfway through,
transforms itself presto-chango into a survival-movie-cum-crime-drama.
Another flick which, forgive me, can't seem to decide what it wants to be.
And the truncated, I'm-not-going-to-tell-you-what-happened ending is to me
an egregious abuse of the filmmaker's power and an affront to the viewer.
Maltin must have been on drugs when he gave this one 3.5 stars. Hey, call me
a philistine, but save your money and rent Cool Hand Luke
again.
<|_=00=_|>


Hi, my name is Slim and I just saw a movie about how just when you think
life is going good and you got all the major stuff like food, money, and
love dialed in and it's just about time you got comfortable with a
six-pack
of some cold longnecks WHAM! that cold-ass harlot Bad Luck cold cocks you
one.  Then the next thing you know you're stuck on some wet, dank,
isolated-on-the-buttwipe-end Alaskan island with this gal you were just
getting to know real well, not to mention her teenage daughter who's into
self-mutilation and strange stories, and to top it all off some drug
running
nimrods who just got burned are looking for all your butts with their
superduper peekaboo scoped rifle.

I'm talking about Limbo, made by the one of best directors who doesn't
give
a damn about Hollywood and does it his way all the time-John Sayles, and
has
one of my favorite babe actress-Mary Elizabeth Maistrantonio.  It all
takes
place somewhere way up in Alaska where men are fisherman, women are fish
cleaners, and the tourists are stupid fat Midwesterners.  My babe Mary is
this singer who just left her 51st, or 63rd, or 102nd guy and goes right
after her 52nd or 64th or whatever, who is this guy who used to be a
fisherman but due to 'unforeseen circumstances' isn't one now.  But since
way up there in fish country winters are long and women are scarce and
fish
just don't last all winter he decides she is all right, and besides she is
Mary Elizabeth Maistrantonio.    Anyway, he and she and the teenage
daughter
decide to go for a boat ride, so off they go along with his long-lost
half-brother who decides to pull a con on his half-bro and use him as a
bodyguard for some stupid pigheaded easy money drug deal.  But of course
it
ain't easy money, and so it's a man overboard and everyone swim for their
life scene.

We got fish being cleaned, fish being shot, fish being canned, fish being
fish, we got pretty postcard pictures of somewheres up in Alaska which
looks
like they got enough trees to build all of us a 5000 square foot house, we
got losers in a bar with their own barstool, we got Robinson Crusoe only
Friday is a babe and her daughter, and finally we got an ending that just
goes to show that we don't really know what's going to happen in our
lives.

Three and a half bright north stars.  Go check it out but only if you want
to watch a movie where when it's over you want to go back for more.  Or
else
drop kick a size 12 metal toed boot to the rear of Sayles for ending the
movie the way he did.

