

I laughed so hard I spit out half the bucket-o-pop I was drinking, and
finally had to stop sipping from its fine nectar, because so many times I
was hooting and bending over in joy.

There are some slower moments to let you catch your breath and allow for
moments of sincerity, but only for a minute. The scenes in the previews
(the
ones you think will ruin the movie for you) are expounded on ten-fold, so
there are plenty of surprises.

During the movie I kept saying, "This is me and my friends when we were in
high school!" They were almost the same conversations about life, sex and
girls; just not as frequently, but it's only a two-hour film. Any guy will
appreciate American Pie full tilt, and girls will realize just what hoops
guys jump through in order to get their attention, let alone in their
pants.

What added to American Pie is that I liked every character, because the
filmmakers didn't feel the urge to give us prototypical teen characters.
Their personalities are distinctive, and their situations are all
different,
which leads to a hilarious finale where we see just how their pact plays
out
on prom night.

As I mentioned before, there are genuine moments on the screen where the
guys and gals have revelations of sincerity. It adds a needed depth to a
film like this, where it's not just raw, raunchy comedy, but important to
the lives of the characters who know more than sex is at stake. Which is
another reason to like Pie, there are several slices, and sexual conquest
is
only one of them.

<|_=00=_|>

This has got to be the best teen sex flick. Not only is it realistic so
teenagers can relate to some of the situations ,its also hilarious ,so
your
guaranteed to laugh your head off.I do every time I watch it.I would
recommend this movie to any person that enjoyed Fast Times at Ridgemont
High
which was also a great movie. Not only did I love the storyline and plot
but
the actors fit the characters so well, they made them all seem so
realistic.Go see this movie if you haven't and also rent the sequel while
your at it.

<|_=00=_|>

The director and the writer, Paul Weitz and Adam Herz respectively, will
do
anything for a laugh -- that's good, as it turns out, because this movie
has
a great many laughs in it.  There's not much of that restricting,
suffocating "logic" stuff around, but "American Pie" is immensely
enjoyable.
I mean, almost none of the things that happen in this film would ever,
ever
come to pass in real life, but it doesn't matter.

For starters, the characters aren't all one-dimensional.  Thankfully,
they're two-dimensional, so right away it has an edge on 60-70% of all the
movies ever made.

Moreover, it's heart is in the right place.  Most high school movies these
days are all about cruelty and malice, especially towards (and among) the
women.  Not the case here.  This is the first conventional high school
movie
I've ever seen that made me smile so much (I say conventional because
"Rushmore" still trumps every one of them).

Furthermore, it's very funny.  I wouldn't dare give away any of the really
great gags (we've all seen the trailer -- that's not the one I mean), but
I'll say this:  Weitz and Herz are extraordinarily skilled in audience
manipulation, which is to say that they know how and when to spring
unexpected surprises upon us.  They also know how to use foul language for
punch, rather than punctuation.

The soundtrack is another positive.  It's all about joy and high energy --
even music from Third Eye Blind and Barenaked Ladies that suffers from
radio
overplay fits the mood appropriately.
<|_=00=_|>

American Pie has all the ingredients of a good movie.  First, the plot deals
with young people in search of their first sexual experience.  What could be
more basic to the human condition?  Second, although obviously fiction, the
film has a feeling of reality capturing the awkwardness and anxiety of young
people at this point in their lives.  Third, it is well written and not
always predictable as each young man employs his own strategy, and of
course, in the real world things do not always go as planned.  Fourth, the
cast consists of very talented young actors playing characters which may
remind the audience of people they may have known.  Fifth, the film has its
poignant moments. The final ingredient is this movie is hilarious.  The film
has one liners, sight gags, and situations that very funny.  The audience,
which ranged from teenagers to middle age, laughed almost constantly and out
loud.  CAUTION: This film is rated "R" for sexual situations and the use of
alcohol by young people.  If you are easily offended or sexual humor makes
you uncomfortable, stay away.  However, if you are not in the
aforementioned, you may enjoy it.  Three stars!!!   
<|_=00=_|>

I have to say that the most fun I had at the movies this summer was when I
saw American Pie, the funniest picture I've seen since last summer's There's
Something About Mary. This movie has taken the classic teenage boy film
(Porky's, Revenge of the Nerds) and spruced it up for the 90's.  It is
hilarious from start to finish. If you like physical comedy, gross out
comedy, sexual comedy, American Pie has it all.  A great ensemble cast of
likeable young actors makes this a joy to watch.     

I think this year's breakout star has to be Chris Klein.  He was phenomenal
in Election and he is even better here as a jock who tries to soften his
image to score before prom. I have a feeling Klein is going to be
Hollywood's next big thing and I hope he has a chance to flex his acting
muscles in some different movies (I can definitely see this guy in an action
film).

Also very good is Jason Biggs who plays the sympathetic Jim character, the
guy who is least likely to lose his virginity.  His antics are very funny to
follow and he gets the lion share of the laughs. Finally a huge ovation for
Eugene Levy, who gets major laughs as the Jim's dad.  
<|_=00=_|>

I had the good fortune to see a sneak preview of this film in England, a
couple of weeks before release - and I was very impressed indeed.  Hurrah -
a comedy that is laugh-out-loud funny, enough to make you cringe at the
embarrassing bits (of which there are many), and smile at the sentiment,
which isn't corny in the slightest.  This coming-of-age tale of four boys
who make a pact to become men by losing their virginity by prom night is the
perfect movie to go the cinema with your buddies to see, but probably not
with your family.  Having said that, I saw a family (son, mother, father and
grandmother) coming out of the cinema, and they had a great time.  The
grandmother couldn't stop laughing, and saying how true it all was.  Which
is interesting, if a little embarrassing.

Part of the success of this movie is due to the fact that we've all had to
contemplate how we feel about sex, and losing your virginity is something
which (no matter how fraught with peril it is) bonds us all because it is a
very frightening experience.  It's also a topic which has so much comic
potential, and I'm glad that cast and crew don't throw any of the
opportunities away.  Here's the thing: if you're going to make a movie that
is probably going to offend a few people no matter what you do, and is a
very near-the-knuckle affair, why stop at only half-gags?  Go the whole hog,
push the boat out, thrust it in their faces.  And that's what "American Pie"
does.

The performances are all great, if a little clichéd (are all you Americans
really either:

a) jocks

b) geeks

c) sweet, loveable square-jawed heroes/long haired, intelligent
heroines?
...gosh, I hope so, that would be so funny for us Brits to watch).  There is
yet another high school prom (jealousy sets in once more - see "Never Been
Kissed"), which causes much consternation for all concerned.  There are
marvellous scenes between concerned father and embarrassed child, quite the
highlight of the movie.  I'll be interested to see how the careers of all of
the stars fare after this film.  I wish them all well, but I find it hard to
see them all thriving outside a high-school environment (which is good,
because it indicates that they all play their roles with a great deal of
endearing believability).

It'll certainly give you something to talk about with your mates, and it'll
make you think about things, too.  It'll make you check what's in your beer,
it'll make you think about apple pie, and it'll make you think more about
your relationships.  All of which is good stuff.  The soundtrack is good
(although doesn't contain any Don McLean), the lighting is also very good in
places, the direction adequate, the editing fine, the .  But at the end of
the day, this is the kid's movie, and they make an excellent job of an
excellent script and situation, so fair play to them.  This movie deserves
to succeed, and I hope it receives a good welcome from us Brits, who should
enjoy it a lot.  (Incidentally, this film got a fifteen rating, which I
think is about right for it - eighteen would be too prohibitive (after all,
isn't this film aimed at people aged fifteen?)).  Take a piece of advice,
though - if you are embarrassed easily, don't watch it with members of your
family.  But do watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
Where do you start... from flutes to pies, this pioneer teen movie has
it all. I'm pretty sure this was the first DVD I ever saw, back in
2000. I do remember owing $20 in late fees to blockbuster video for
keeping it so long after it was due back. It was worth it! This has
classic written all over it, I think it's safe to say that anyone that
was involved with this movie has a great career now because of it.
American pie has an absolute all star cast led by the Great Jason biggs
Anyone who enjoys comedy, teen comedy must see this movie! honestly you
need to watch more movies if you haven't sen this one!!!

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

If you are a person easily offended by a film dedicated primarily to the
glory of teen sex, you may well view "American Pie" as yet another in a
long
line of cinematic harbingers of the collapse of western civilization.  If,
however, you remember adolescence as essentially a period of unending
coitus
interruptus, you may well find yourself engrossed by this amusing, though
admittedly crude, series of sexual and scatalogical gags woven around a
plot
involving the desperate attempts of a quartet of last semester seniors to
lose their virginity on the fast approaching sexual armageddon known as
"prom night."

"American Pie" gleans most of its comic energy from its outrageous
examination of the crazy and innovative extremes desperately horny teens
will go to in order to experience the thrill of sex in lieu of the real
thing.  An attractive, game cast helps to mitigate the crudity of many of
their actions and the filmmakers' lighthearted tone encompasses the
characters in such a cloak of affection that the audience identifies with,
rather than condemns, their antics.

As meager compensation for the moralists among us, the film does heavily
promote the use of condoms and comes up with even more creative
prophylactics for those times when a partner is not available.

"American Pie" is certainly not for every taste and there are those who
would argue that it serves a less than salutary purpose as a guide for
already sex-obsessed teenagers.  Be that as it may, the film provides a
fair
number of hearty chuckles for those of us who can find humor in a group of
backward youngsters experiencing the frustration and desperation we have
all, at one time, experienced.

I do have one troubling question though:  why do none of these characters,
whenever they are involved in a potentially compromising position, ever
lock
a door?  The answer, I suppose, is obvious for, if they did, at least half
the film's biggest laughs would become impossible to achieve.  For this
film, at least, such a suspension of disbelief may be a
prerequisite.

Be forewarned but enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

American Pie starts right off with shock value, and while the film relies
heavily on it, there's plenty of story and exceptional performances to
hold
your interest.  I attended a sneak preview of what I was told was a rough
cut of the film, although there was only one scene that looked unfinished.
The underlying story here is that of four high school senior buddies who
have made a pact with each other to get laid before they graduate,
specifically at the prom.  The problem is, only one of them has a serious
girlfriend, and she can't decide if she's ready for sex.  But where the
film
really makes an impact is in it's numerous masturbation related scenes.
There is one scene particularly early in the film that should test your
stomach for the rest of the film's humor.  Now while the film may not
sound
like it has good morals, there is one repeated underlying message, and
that
is to do what you like and not what you feel pressured to do.
Unfortunately, this is NOT the kind of film its target audience should be
seeing.  At times it makes getting laid seem like the most important part
of
high school.  The strength of the film lies in the fact that everyone who
went to a public high school can relate to some aspect portayed here, and
in
the strong and well-timed performances of the talented cast.  If you're
mature enough to appreciate the film for its sheer comical performances,
then you should really enjoy it.  But if you don't like "toilet humor",
then
you might not find anything appealing with this one.  Definitely not a
date
movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly ,I can't really understand how a trash movie like this one
became such a 'cult classic' for some people ,a really hyped and
overrated one anyway. There's absolutely no plot nor story or any kind
of interesting characters (not mentioning there's no character
developments or any information about their background or anything...)
-what's the big hype behind this movie anyway?.... it's obviously just
a bunch of stupid teenagers who wants to get sex -so each and every
scene were dedicated for this purpose -like a collection of bad scenes
along with terrible writing. But the worst part is the fact that it's
not even funny -not even a single joke....the whole humor is just too
vulgar (mainly sex jokes) and uninspired garbage without any meaning
nor aim behind it -

In conclusion: sex comedy movies sells even more then a cheap porno for
everyone ,spreading the message of stupidity around the world faster
-grabbing more cash from the worst kind of idiotic audience that keep
funding this crap.
