

Wow, there are a lot of bad votes for this movie here. I thought it was
great. It's a Will Smith / Barry Sonnenfeld movie. You can't take it
seriously. The humor is perfectly subtle and dry at times, and over the top
at others. The storyline is only there to give opportunities for the
jokes.

If you want a serious western, try The Magnificent Seven (or the original, 7
Samurai), Hombre, or some other classic. If you want a light-hearted
evening, rent this. Probably don't buy it, but rent it.

For some reason it says that my review has to be more than 10 lines, so I'm
throwing this in to make it work. Really a review for a movie like this
doesn't need to be this long, but I guess I'll just comply.
<|_=00=_|>

`Wild Wild West' joins an increasingly long list of big bloated
blockbusters, movies made for no possible reason beyond grabbing a quick
summer buck yet which, ironically, by their very cynical and slapdash
nature, utterly fail to connect with even the least demanding of audiences.
The result is a multi-multi-million dollar debacle that leaves studios
searching for answers and audiences shell-shocked into seeking out their
entertainment along the more audacious pathway of off-Hollywood, independent
filmmaking – the single positive outcome of these dull, empty
enterprises.

`Wild Wild West,' like so many films before it, looks to the relics of
television's bygone era for inspiration – as sad a comment as any on the
dismal state of current movie creativity.  As one not familiar with the
original series, I cannot say what justice, or lack of justice, this homage
does to its source.  What is evident, judging from the results on screen, is
that `Wild Wild West' is, as with most current blockbusters, top-heavy with
special effects and as weak in the nether limbs as its legless villain.
Straight Westerns being hopelessly out of fashion, especially for a special
effects-driven summertime extravaganza, the filmmakers obviously felt that
what was needed was a tongue-in-cheek approach to the material, resulting in
a bizarre, but completely unfunny amalgam of fantasy and science-fiction
gilded onto a Western format.  The disparate styles simply fight against
each other, leaving no one in the audience - neither Western nor
science-fiction fans - satisfied.

The alleged plot involves the attempts by James West (Will Smith) and
Artemis Gordon (Kevin Kline) to foil an evil Confederate inventor's plan to
kidnap all the world's most brilliant scientists and, ultimately, terrorize
the  Union and President Grant into submission.  This he attempts to do by
creating a giant mechanized spider which is, obviously, a last ditch,
desperate attempt on the part of the filmmakers to fulfill the seemingly
insatiable demands of the modern audience to be dazzled by impressive
special effects, no matter how inappropriate they appear in context.  Here,
though, the miscalculation is fatal because even the audience is wise enough
to know when it is being had.  Kline and Smith never achieve a palpable
rapport despite the usual abundance of lame wise cracks and sarcastic asides
designed to make them `hip' and `trendy' –  two qualities incongruous to the
setting, which again shows the lack of real commitment to the spirit of the
project.  There is exactly one clever moment in the film – an astonishingly
creative homage to the old RCA logo – that hints at what might have been had
the moviemakers been willing to really let loose their anarchic imaginations
and aimed for something truly sophisticated rather than simply pasting
together a series of confused, poorly written blackout sketches.

Incidentally, even some of the expensive special effects come across as
surprisingly crude, especially many of the shots utilizing rear-screen
projection.  Hence, this film strikes out even in the one ballpark in which
it might have stood a chance of emerging victorious.


<|_=00=_|>

It's that time of year.  The time when Hollywood trots out it's worst of
the summer.  You
know the drill.  There's a "Godzilla" every year, somebody has to be it.
"Wild Wild West"
clenches the title hands down this summer, and we still have eight weeks
to
go!

The Will Smith phenomenon has now entered it's third phase: overwhelming
ego project.
Teaming with his "Men In Black" director Barry Sonnenfeld, Smith has
finally
teetered over the
edge and released an outright mess.  A film that will hang in the halls of
all time bad event flicks.
Should we blame Smith?  I think so.  "Men In Black" and "Independence Day"
were gigantic hits,
they even call the 4th of July "Big Willie Weekend" due to these
successes.
I submit that these
films were hits due to the films themselves, the writing, acting,
directing,
and not just because of
Smith.  "West" is finally the film that rests on Smith's comedic shoulders
alone.  The truth shines
through clearly.  Not everything Will Smith does is funny.

Based in the television show running from 1965-1970,  the simple plot
tells
the tale of a Civil War era
federal marshal James West (Smith), who must team up with a weapons expert
(Kevin Kline, at his
most painfully unfunny) to thwart the evil plans of the villain, and
legless, Arliss Loveless
(Kenneth Branagh).  Along for the ride is a giant mechanical tarantula,
President Grant, and
the stunning, gorgeous, lovely, and just plain old hot Salma Hayek.  The
plot is just a simple
excuse to push the characters through endless scenes that give birth to no
laughs at all.  Scenes that
make the audience gringe with fear, as if something wrong is with them.
Fear not my good
people, these are professionals up on screen, and they blew
it.

The screenplay, credited to FOUR writers, has the damnedest time to make
any of the
jokes funny.  You would not believe just how far the cast goes to make
this
limp material work.
It's embarrassing to watch, and even more embarrassing for the actors.
There
is not one funny
moment in the film, not even a courtesy laugh for the attempt.  Dead
silence. I also disapprove of
the attempt to squeeze racial jokes into the mix.  Yes, Will Smith is
African-American, but do we
need to call attention to it every five minutes?  The movie would've been
better served had it left
the race issue alone and just played up the potential fun of the concept.

Will Smith is simply miscast as the hero. He's an amiable actor who's
proven himself
with stronger material.  This film clearly shows just how paper thin the
Smith charm can be.
While Kevin Kline tries but fails as well, it's really Hayek's role that's
a
mystery.  She's barely in
the film, and when her character is explained, you come to realize that
she's not apart of the story
at all.  Hayek has always been a fun performer with winning personality.
All this movie asks of
her is to be the butt (literally) of a few jokes and keep the cleavage
coming.  A shameful waste of
talent.

Director Sonnenfeld has also been at the helm of better pictures ("Get
Shorty"), but for
some reason I have yet to see a truly great film directed by him. There
always seems to be a spark
missing from the action, like a better, funnier film was in there
somewhere
but he can't find it.
Relying in great amounts on special effects and the considerable use of
easy-to-spot green screen
shots, the typical Sonnenfeld camera work is either buried under all the
mayhem or just not
inventive when the attempt is actually made.  This is a very top-heavy
production with little
chance to breathe.  But Sonnenfeld made this choice, he must be held
accountable for it.

The movie has been through many edits, and this shows with wildly out of
tune continuity
and many unexplained plot twists.  Also grating on the brain is Elmer
Bernstein's annoying and
featherweight musical score.  While we have Warner Brothers shamefully
trotting out it's "We
pray it's as big as the 'Men In Black'" Will Smith rap tune, Bernstein
provides a flat score that
serves no purpose to enliven the film.  The cinematography is also without
color, and the catering
probably sucked too.

"Wild Wild West" is the product of zero imagination.  A lifeless summer
film
that seems
to stick out even more in this unusually good movie season.  I am always
wary of comic westerns,
and this film seals that envelope.   If this is what 160 million buys you?
I'll take the 3 million
"South Park" any day.------------ 0

<|_=00=_|>
I won't add more insults -- others here have done that well enough.
This movie is godawful. But I will point out two areas that seem to be
staples of bad movie remakes of beloved old TV shows. First, how about
getting someone to write/direct that actually liked and understood the
original? That person would understand that the West-Gordon
relationship was the core. In a sense, West and Gordon complimented
each other to make a slick, functional crime-fighting machine: West
handled the action and romance, and Gordon took care of the thinking,
deception, and humor (disguises). This was a well-used TV convention --
think the Kirk-Spock-McCoy triad in Star Trek, or the great contrasty
chemistry between Bill Cosby and Robert Culp in I Spy. Add a lovable
villain to the mix (not an offensive atrocity like the film-Loveless)
and you've got a crazy, tongue-in-cheek action classic. The filmmakers
here seemingly did not know or care about the fundamentals of the
original show. Not that this is necessarily a problem, but then why
bother resurrecting the premise in the first place? Why not just make
Will Smith a different wild west troubleshooter? The Mission Impossible
franchise has the same problem.

Second, why all the emphasis on showing the principals getting to know
each other? I know -- because it eats up 30% of the script, and creates
conflict. But the conflict should be between West and the villain. Jim
and Artie should just BE. The TV show didn't bother explaining how West
met and knew Gordon, any more than Barney Miller, Mission Impossible,
or 24 found it necessary to have all the main characters meet and learn
to work together. They were a team with a job to do. Audiences
understand this concept; having a trumped-up plot about how the heroes
meet and overcome their differences is a hackneyed device that only
exposes the script weaknesses present. See the film version of Dragnet
(a better film, though) for another example of this unfortunate trend.

Finally, a comment on the "race" issue. Inserting content that
justifies Smith-West's skin color is no more necessary than explaining
Henry V's skin color when Laurence Fishburne or Andre Braugher play him
on stage. Indeed, ignoring Smith's race in a movie like this one would
help us all look past such issues. If a blond actor had portrayed West,
nobody would have suggested a plot that explains his Norwegian
background! He just would have been West, and that would be that. But
color-blind casting requires courage, and could conceivably cut into
the film's bottom line. So, not in this spineless script.

I seldom get mad at movies I don't like. Even The Avengers didn't anger
me, though it was possibly even worse than this one. This one ticked me
off REAL good. Buy the original series on DVD instead, and see how it's
done right.
<|_=00=_|>
Lets take a cult classic and make as stupid idiotic movie as you could
possibly make and cast it with actors COMPLETELY unsuited for the
parts. Kevin Kline, Will Smith, and Kenneth Branaugh should all shoot
their agents. Sure they probably picked up a nice paycheck for this
crap but can you ever live down being associated with such a "Wanker"
project? For a television series the Wild Wild West was well done for
its time and had a lot of interesting plots and characters. What
possessed the creators of this movie vomit to trash the Wild Wild West.
Hopefully someone will come along and make a serious movie on the
television series. Sad to see these SCUM come along and try to make a
cheap buck on the creative efforts of others and destroying their
original vision. I always wondered how Robert Conrad could go alone
with this junk. Then I read that he didn't. He picked up the Razzie
Awards as a protest.
<|_=00=_|>

Back in the 60s, The Wild, Wild West, staring Robert Conrad and Russ Martin
was one of the best shows of it's time, a interesting mixture of Science
Fiction, Fantasy, Gadget Spy films, and light hearted satire.   A favorite
of mine, I've long enjoyed the show.  So naturally, I was looking forward to
the big screen adaption, even though it did star Will Smith (Sorry, Will,
but you're no Robert Conrad.)

The movie had all the ingredients needed to make a good film: An excellent
cast (Kevin Klein, Ken Branaugh, Selma Hayek, even Smith,) an excellent,
proven director in Barry Sonnefeld, and a proven genre...  Rather, it had
all the ingredients that it needed except one...  It had the worst script
possible.  

I've always been wary of any project that was written by committee, and this
film is one project that proves why.  The excellent cast, crew, and effects
of this film were wasted on one of the worst screenplays I've ever seen. 
The clever (if pulp inspired) stories of the original series are replaced by
tepid attempts at comedy which even Smith, who normally is very funny, can't
pull off.  Kenneth Branaugh succeeds at nothing other than managing to eat
the scenery, unable to do anything else, since his lines are so bad.  Klein
is saddled with the role of Smith's straight man, something that he's just
too damn funny to be.
As for the effects, like I said, they were spectacular, but the problem is
that they seem to be the 'be all and end all' of the movie, instead of
working for the story (such as there was in this case.)  The simple fact is
that they overpower the film.

I guess, if you are a die hard Will Smith fan who has never seen the
original series, you might like this one.  But for fans of the old series,
avoid it, and watch reruns, or else one of the two other shows in the genre,
'Legend' or 'The Adventures of Brisco County Junior.'

<|_=00=_|>
Buried in this god-awful disaster of a movie is a germ of an inkling of
an iota of a great idea. It is not the idea of making a big blockbuster
out of the great old 1960s TV show "The Wild Wild West," an idea which
can, at best, be described as tiresomely uninspired. Nor is there
brilliance in transforming the image of the lead character just so that
they could build the role around star-of-the-moment Will Smith. But out
of that horribly perverse example of Hollywood commercial packaging
there is an intriguing premise, which naturally seems to have slipped
past all involved without a second glance. What if the best, brightest
and most intrepid government agent working in post-Civil War America
was, indeed, a black man? Realistically, how would an African-American,
functioning in a repressive, racist society, where even the most
liberal thinker would see him as a second-class citizen, indeed, a
second class human being, be able to not only outsmart the bad guys,
but to impress even the skeptical good guys? It is an intriguing idea
because, on the one hand, such an agent would not be suspected of being
a threat and, on the other hand, he would have to overcome so many more
barriers than a white man would ever face. He would be both invisible
and yet stand out like the proverbial sore thumb just about anywhere he
went. He'd be constantly fighting two battles. Such a film could be
thrilling and funny, yet something rare: original.

"The Wild Wild West" TV show itself was all those things: it was highly
derivative of both the traditional western and the then-fresh James
Bond-style spy movie -- with more than a little bit of Batman-style
comic book campiness kicked in -- yet it was ingenious in the way it
melded those mythic genres into a one-of-a-kind series. There was never
anything quite like "The Wild Wild West" and never anything since --
including this disastrous 1997 movie.

Everything about WILD WILD WEST, the movie, is just plain bad: tacky
special effects; clumsy direction; an embarrassing screenplay; plus a
fine, bewildered cast wasted in totally unworkable roles. But as bad as
everything else is, the base rot of WWW goes directly to its reworked
premise. No matter how open minded one might be, or how much one prides
oneself on being socially color blind, there is just no way to honestly
accept replacing Robert Conrad, TV's James West, with Will Smith. The
time and the place dictate that James West be a white male -- unless,
the filmmakers acknowledge and embrace the incongruity and use it for a
real purpose.

Yet, the filmmakers want it both ways: the audience is expected to be
able to ignore Smith's skin color, while at the same time the entire
plot is based on his confrontation with a white racist trying to
reestablish Confederate power and seize control of the U.S. government.
How can you respect or believe in a film or filmmakers that get all
preachy about the evils of racism while all along dealing with the
issue with absolutely no respect for historical honesty? It is not
clear if having Smith play James West as a cocky, street smart, John
Shaft-style character was intended to be a joke, social commentary or
just absurd politically correct pandering to black audiences, but it is
clear that it does not work. The most outrageously unbelievable thing
about WILD WILD WEST is not the wildly improbable sci-fi inventions but
that the Smith character actually makes it to the end of the film
without being lynched. It's not that the anachronism of a cocksure 20th
century black man confronting 19th century bigotry isn't workable,
because that very time-warp racial comedy had already been done with
much greater success in the Mel Brooks classic, BLAZING SADDLES. Unlike
WWW, Brooks and company realized the sheer idiocy of the premise, yet
used that to mock both the black and the white stereotypes with equal
glee.

Where BLAZING SADDLES is an honest farce, WILD WILD WEST is dishonest
and cowardly. All involved probably thought they were being pretty
daring by flaunting convention and hiring Smith, but they did not hire
Will Smith the African American, they hired Will Smith the action hero
movie star. They built WILD WILD WEST around Smith's race, but only to
exploit his contemporary Hollywood image, even to the point of letting
him create and perform a totally inappropriate (and totally bad) rap
song at the end. You can sense the film exploiting both Smith's star
image and his race, while not wishing to risk challenging either. The
film tries to reinvent "The Wild Wild West" TV show, but the changes
are literally skin deep. To really explore and compare racism in
America by blending the attitudes of two different American centuries
would have been too wild wild of an idea for these timid timid
filmmakers.
<|_=00=_|>

after being subjected to about the first 15 minutes of this
hot-poker-in-the-eye of a movie, i just wanted to weep. THEY SPENT 170
MILLION DOLLARS ON THIS PIECE OF JUNK?!!!!! of all the quality unfilmed
scripts floating around in hollywood, some higher up at warner brothers
actually looked at this script and said "Hmmmm, this is fantastic, let's
make it." my faith in american studios keeps dwindling
quickly................
<|_=00=_|>

No other stinker in 1999 could compare to the witless and tasteless
experience that was WILD WILD WEST, a big-budget bomb of epic proportions
that is a total disgrace to the TV western of the same name.  Will Smith is
James West, a slick gunslinger who, along with his partner (Kline) must
prevent a political assassination and save a town from destruction. 
Unsatisfying visuals and second-rate special effects only add to the
horrible acting and the film's unclear direction.  It is so disappointing to
see such good actors wasted in such a terrible mess.

0 out of 5
<|_=00=_|>
Hollywood ruined another great story by casting the horrible one-trick
pony known as Will Smith to play James West. Smith is terrible in
EVERYTHING he does but in WWW he was unusually terrible. The
improbability starts with Smith (Black) in the 1860's as a suave (ugh),
Hip (Gag) Secret Service Agent. Now this was so out of place as to be
just plain STUPID!! Knenneth Branagh on the other hand was fabulous.
Kevin Kline was O.K. and Selma Hayak should've done what she does best-
taken off her clothes!! The special effects were kind of cool but the
story line sucked and to top it all off the ever-shiteous Fresh Prince
had to rap at the closing credits. There will never be a WWW II because
it was so lousy. Remember in "Jersey Girl" when Ben Affleck's character
torpedoed his career when he said Will Smith sucked and he would never
be heard of again? OH how I wish that in this case art imitated life
and Will Smith was a bad memory. Oh I forget; Will Smith is a bad
memory every year in about 4 lousy, stinking' rotten movies!
