
5.9!? I can't believe that. I know disaster movies are usually crap
such as The Day After Tomorrow, Armageddon, Godzilla, Independence Day,
etc. This however was not crap. It boasted a fine cast that did great
work the standout being Morgan Freeman and Robert Duvall. The rest of
the cast though also did quite well. The story was handled in a fairly
realistic manner and didn't require me to roll my eyes at the many plot
contrivances the way the others I listed did. The only major flaw for
me was the casting of tea Leoni. The usually dependable actress was
extremely bland in this film. She has done much better work in her
career. Despite that flaw this is another fine movie that for some
reason is really under rated.
<|_=00=_|>
Deep Impact is a well-done and thoughtful film that powerfully delivers
the human touch in its pondering of the age-old question: What if
extinction was just around the corner?

Deep Impact is most often compared to its death-comet partner from the
summer of '98, Armageddon. Deep Impact is a drama; Armageddon is an
action film, and delivers just what we would expect from an action
film, namely, over-the-top characters, a simplistic storyline, and an
abundance of special effects. Deep Impact presents just the opposite:
Characters that are notably human, several dovetailed story lines, and
it saves the special effects (which are very good) for the movie's
climax.

Armageddon did better at the box office primarily because it was much
more hyped, and because it featured an A-list star (Bruce Willis) while
Deep Impact did not. Its enjoyability, though, is very limited: If you
are not a fan of the action genre, you will not like Armageddon. Deep
Impact is the substantially better film and reaches out to the viewer
to a far deeper degree.

As you certainly know, the plot revolves around the fact that a
seven-mile-wide comet is on a collision course with earth, and if it
makes impact it will represent an Extinction Level Event (i.e., the
death of all life on the planet). Having about a year and a half's
notice of this, the U.S. and Russian governments send a spacecraft, the
Messiah, to destroy the comet by drilling nuclear warheads into its
core and then detonating. The movie focuses on three primary story
lines: 1. The young reporter Jenny Lerner (Tea Leoni) and her struggles
with her career and her parents; 2. The high-school couple of Leo
Biederman (who discovered the comet; Elijah Wood) and Sarah (Leelee
Sobieski); 3. The crew of the Messiah.

All three story lines are done in such a way that the viewer easily
sympathizes with the very believable characters. The best done of the
three is the spaceship's crew, although the most time is spent with
Jenny. They all suffer from the film's only notable problem: The story
lines seem somewhat rushed. Considering its broad scope, Deep Impact
clearly would benefit from an extra 30 minutes to develop, especially
with the underdone angle with Leo and Sarah, but the directors
evidently decided two hours was all they could use.

Deep Impact, as I mentioned, lacks an A-list star, but it does feature
superb performances from two of the best supporting actors of our
generation: Robert Duvall (Spurgeon Tanner, captain of the spaceship)
and Morgan Freeman (Tom Beck, the U.S. President). Duvall is definitely
the standout of the film with an A+ performance as Tanner.

As for the other actors/actresses: Tea Leoni (playing Jenny Lerner)
gets the most face time in the film and delivers a believably good
performance. Maximillian Schell as Jenny's father is the one notable
casting mistake; I'm not sure what they were going for with him, but
they could have done better. Venessa Redgrave does well as Jenny's
divorcée mother.

Elijah Wood (now a star but at the time just an up-and-comer) works
very well as the teenage Leo Biederman, and Leelee Sobieski as his
girlfriend Sarah gives us as good a performance as we can expect,
considering how woefully underdeveloped her character is. The film
arguably devotes a bit too much time to Jenny and her father and not
enough to Leo and Sarah.

If you haven't seen this movie yet, it should be at the top of your
must-see list. The film moves at a good pace (if a bit fast), grabs
your attention at the beginning and holds it throughout, and it
features a truly exceptional final 20-25 minutes. What stands out most
about this movie is its human touch and sensitivity. It manages to
probe an impressive array of human emotions in two hours' time, and it
will leave you with plenty to think about -- although it probably will
not leave you with dry eyes. There are precisely three movies I have
seen that caused the room to get dusty around me (if you get my drift),
and this is one of them.

In conclusion: See this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

  It truly saddens me to see that this film has such a low rating on IMDB! 
I've seen this film several times and EVERY TIME it gets me a little
misty-eyed at certain points in the film.

  Since the release of this film and Armageddon, I've been unsure which of
the two I liked better.  I have always been leaning towards Deep Impact, so
today I watched the film again to be sure.  I definitely believe that Deep
Impact is a better film.  Although, Armageddon is a fantastic movie in it's
own right.

  I like Deep Impact better because I feel the story is much more realistic
and slightly more interesting.  Also, the acting in this film is just
fantastic (but again, Armageddon was well-acted as well).  After viewing the
film again today, I thought "ya know, there is virtually nothing in the film
that I really disliked", whereas there are a number of things in Armageddon
that I really disliked!

  The cast in this film is absolutely superb!  You've got Robert Duvall, Tea
Leoni, Elijah Wood, Vanessa Redgrave, Morgan Freeman, Maximilian Schell,
James Cromwell, Ron Eldard, Jon Faverau, Laura Innes, Mary McCormack,
Richard Schiff, Leelee Sobieski, Blair Underwood, Dougray Scott and Kurtwood
Smith.  They all did a superb job in this film and I think they all deserve
a great deal of credit.  I really liked that all the characters in the film
were likeable.  There wasn't a single one that "rubbed me the wrong way",
they were all very well done characters.

  I have to mention the special effects as well.  They are just
mind-blowing!  All of the scenes with the astronauts on the comet are just
superb!  ...And the ship that they fly looks so cool!  Also, the scene where
the smaller comet hits the earth is just great!  The level of detail is
unbelievable in some of the scenes.  You should see this film for the
special effects alone.

  If you like science fiction films with a great story that is quite
touching at times, then by all means go see it.  This film is honestly one
of the better movies I've seen in quite some time.  I truly hope that you
enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading.

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
It seems 1998 was the year Hollywood turned to the idea of the world
being decimated by objects from outer space to fuel their disaster
films. Both 'Deep Impact' and 'Armageddon' were released in that year
but while I did enjoy the thrill and special effects of the latter
film, I find 'Deep Impact' the superior of the two.

The film begins when a teenage amateur astronomer discover a comet on a
direct collision course for the Earth. The world is then thrown into
turmoil has humanity has to accept their possible extinction. While
NASA sends a shuttle up with the intention to try to blow the comet to
bits, the US government selects people to be saved in a cave they are
building to withstand the event. Focusing on various unrelated
characters, the film shows how people react differently to the
destruction of all that they know.

The brilliant cast, including Morgan Freeman, Vanessa Redgrave, Robert
Devall, Elijah Wood, Ron Eldard and many others, all given great
depictions of their characters. It is because of their ability to bring
their respective characters to life that 'Deep Impact' stands up so
well as it is a very emotional and character driven story, as opposed
to 'Armageddon', which relied much more on humour and special effects
to sell it. Téa Leoni is the only one who doesn't shine through like
her co-stars as her performance is quite bland and doesn't capture her
character's turbulent emotions. However, as the rest of the cast give
great performances, it's easy to overlook her. And even though there is
much attention given to establishing the characters doesn't mean the
film skimps when it comes to the special effects. Both the scenes in
space and those on Earth when the comet hits the planet are
well-handled visually. It features some of the best special effects of
planetary annihilation that I've ever seen (and I'm a big fan of these
disaster flicks).

What makes 'Deep Impact' rather unique in terms of disaster films is
that it gives a very human side to tragedy and devastation by showing
how ordinary people cope in times of crisis but it avoids the trap of
being trite and overly-sentimental. It's a shame the film is so
underrated then as it is a film that would appeal to sci-fi fans and
those seeking an interesting story with strong characters.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen such films as Armageddon and The Day After Tomorrow, I
really expected this film to be basically an effects demo reel. Most
disaster films fit into this category: their plot is loosely tied
together with some major event; humanity is threatened, a group of
heroes is sent to try to save the world, and mankind prevails over
nature. The rest of the film is essentially nifty visual effects that
don't do much to enhance the plot.

So when I saw the first half of Deep Impact, I was amazed. Apart from a
brief montage of special effects in the opening sequence (a car crash
that simply screams "big budget"), the movie is one of the first
disaster movies I've seen that actually focuses more on the human side
of the drama rather than the awesome visual effects that computers can
accomplish.

Many times during the film, especially during the latter half, I felt
myself touched by the realism that the actors and actresses convey.
There are moments when you realize how fragile and precious life is,
and that's saying something for a film of this budget.

While the visual effects are indeed impressive, there are other
features that make Deep Impact a necessary film to watch. James
Horner's music is strikingly similar to his previous "Titanic" and
"Apollo 13" scores, but it is still hauntingly beautiful and fits the
tone of the movie perfectly. Tea Leoni does a good job of portraying a
newscaster attempting to cover the events surrounding her while dealing
with her own personal emotions, which is undoubtedly a hard act to pull
off. Elijah Wood shows his skill years before "Lord of the Rings" hit
theaters. The other actors and actresses are very realistic and
emotional, and the movie flows smoothly with their presence.

All in all, this movie is not one to be missed. Keep an open mind while
watching this movie: don't watch it with the misconception that it's
just going to be another one of those big-budget dull blockbuster films
that gets churned out every summer. This one dares to avoid the
seemingly standard clichés set by other films of the genre, which makes
it a truly unique film to experience.

Score: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this film again after several years. I feel that it was the
best of all the disaster films made in recent years. Not too much
cheese, a little heavy on sap but satisfying overall. It was much more
realistic than Armageddon(which I think is one of the most overrated
'blockbusters' ever)There are no comic relief characters, no cheesy
one-liners and no gorgeous movie stars(no offense to Tea Leoni). The
solution to the problem was more real in Deep Impact and the time frame
was much more believable. I like how the film focused more on what was
happening on earth rather than in the spaceship. The end was
interesting because the disaster wasn't totally averted so there was no
cheerful hugging in the end with lame Aerosmith playing over it. The
only thing that bothered me was that all of the nuclear missiles from
the US and Russia had no effect on the comet. Wouldn't several hundred
nukes do something? anything? and why wasn't the Messiah destroyed in
the blast? So overall, good flick, deserves more credit.
<|_=00=_|>

What would you do if the end of the world was near?  How would you react
if
you knew that there was no way you were going to survive what was about to
happen?  Would you want to survive what was about to happen?  Deep Impact
is
an excellent film that tells the story of a giant comet that is heading
towards earth and unless it is stopped it will destroy everything.  It
contains many inter-personal relationships, and it examines how people
would
react if the end was near.  It doesn't get as deep as "Last Night" at
examining those issues, but what it does better than Last Night and even
Armageddon ( another film that I loved ) is it shows a little more about
relationships.  It has a father and daughter trying to patch things up
before the end is upon them.  It shows young love, parental love and the
love for a country and the world we live in.  Deep Impact had a deeper
impact on me and I really admire both Hollywood summer films that came out
and dealt with this issue.  But Deep Impact has more to say than
Armageddon
does.

One of the things that I admired so much about this film was how Tea Leoni
was so hell bent on uncovering a story so that she could move up in the
ranks of reporting, and in the process she uncovers something bigger than
any political scandal could ever be.  At first she is following a tip
about
some senator that has retired from office rather urgently.  She has
transcripts with him talking about a girl named Ellie.  And she is
determined to uncover who Ellie is so she can embarrass the senator and
quicken her pursuit to greatness.  She finally confronts the senator on
the
dock where he is laoding a boat with what looks to be enough supplies to
last for a year.  She tries to bully the senator into telling her the
story
but he refuses.  She then does some research on the Internet and finds out
that Ellie wasn't the name of a woman, but an acronym for the comet.
E.L.E.
Extinction Level Event.  She is horrified.  The beginning takes up a good
half an hour of the movie and it is during that thirty mintues that I
became
hooked.  My emotions were manipulated to the point where I felt like I
should  be at home with my family.  The direness of the situation was very
well executed.  And the rest of the film is on the same level.  It does a
great job at making us ask questions about ourselves.  And we examine our
own lives and wonder if we would be prepared if something like this ever
happened.  I realize this may be getting a little sentimental and perhaps
sappy, but this film really tapped into my emotions and I think it did
that
to a lot of people.  I highly recommend htis film for all that it is.  The
acting is top notch, especially from Morgan Freeman.  He conveys the hurt,
confusion and utter regret as the president of the United States.  He
knows
that it is impossible to save everyone but he has to do what he can to
save
as many as possible.  He truly is a great and gifted actor.  The score is
also a moving orchestra and the direction by Mimi Leder is swift and
appropriatly crisp and dizzying in some ways.  I have never heard of her
before this, but I heard that Spielberg picked her himself for this
project.
And he was smart to pick her.  She really does a wonderful job
here.

Deep Impact is more than just a movie, it is an experience, and one that
should be had by all.  A wonderful, wonderful film.  
<|_=00=_|>

I found Deep Impact to be a very good "study" on how we has humans, may
react to an E.L.E. (see this movie for details on that.) The special
effects
were good, but the best thing about this movie was the focus on the
characters. This wasn't loud and stupid as "that other asteroid movie."
This
film will entertain you and mostly, touch your heart. You actually feel
the
doom that is about to reach these people, and to me, that is good film
making.

About the only thing I could pick on would be the performance of Téa
Leoni.
To me, she was never convincing. She seemed down and depressed all of the
time, even when she was doing the news. Very odd performance.

I give this film a B+

<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie. I think the people who don't like it are (1)
people expecting it to be a summer blockbuster popcorn movie with a
million special effects, or (2) people upset because they think it's
cheesy / has scientific errors. Let me address both points.

First of all, this is not a disaster movie in the style of Armageddon
or Volcano or any of them. It's a movie about humanity's struggle to
deal with an impending disaster. And in doing that, it succeeds. Most
of the film is supported by strong talent, including Robert Duvall and
Morgan Freeman. In smaller roles, Max Schell, Vanessa Redgrave, and Ron
Eldard really shine. I was disappointed by Tea Leoni's acting. And
Elijah Wood and Leelee Sobieski didn't really do much for me, although
they weren't bad.

Second, while the movie is not standard Hollywood flair, it doesn't
altogether escape the Hollywood curse. There are a few fairly
ridiculous moments and plot points. HOWEVER, compared to disaster
movies, I have to say this are extremely minor. To counter this, there
are some very touching scenes. I don't want to give anything away here,
but most of them occur near the end of the film.

This is not the best movie ever by any means, but it comes as close as
a mainstream Hollywood movie dealing with the end of the world is going
to get. Also, James Horner's score was terrific.

Definitely worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

The greatest sin a movie can commit is misrepresentation. This purports
to be a film about a comet hitting the earth. The trailer trumpets that
it is going to be so exciting. What did we get VOMIT COMET. Some kind
of soap opera featuring the worst actress of the 20th century Tea Leoni
who recites her lines like Lindsey Crouse in House of Games. She sounds
Vulcan. Her voice is expressionless, her face blank. Does Mimi know
when to say cut? She is lucky the director was not Kubrick; this
performance would have never been seen. The comet story occupies
perhaps a half hour of this AS THE COMET TURNS; we are plunged into
Jennie's coma inducing family problems about her Mommy and daddy. Pity
two great actors Redgrave and Schell who really must have needed money.
This is not enough for Leder, no when get Leo and his squeeze thrown in
just in case jenny's problems were not enough. 

It features the biggest plot hole in a film: they saved extra nukes:
WHY? They knew exactly how much to use, why use extra? Maybe they were
on sale and they do make attractive end tables. Please, they would have
used every one they brought with them they are there so the ADD
screenwriter, who is concentrating on those fascinating domestic
problems, perhaps should have devoted more time to the comet story?
Yes? What an obvious and insulting plot contrivance to give our bad
acting heroes a way to save the day. 

How about the gooey, ending where every living relative of our soon to
be extra crispy astronauts has to be paraded before the camera to wring
every possible tear from the audience? It comes with the most
nauseating score; it is so over the top and maudlin. Finally, the last
20 minutes of the movie we get to that irrelevancy; you know, the comet
hitting the earth. Also, notice, unlike Armageddon, Leder seems to
think the United States is the entire earth. Duvall does what he can
but he is the only actor in the whole cast. Redgrave and Schell have
bit parts. Tea is beyond bad; she wrecks the movie. Her delivery is so
insouciant even when there is supposed to be emotion. When it was made
she faced universal blame for the bad reception the film received. If
you wish to make Steel Magnolias fine, just do not advertise an action,
adventure picture. Look, Armageddon has plenty of flaws but it at least
delivers on what it promises; it does not pretend to be a kind of
picture and then unload a crummy soap opera.
