

The comic genius and timing of stars Sinbad and Phil Hartman take what
could
have been a run-of-the-mill dumb comedy film and turn it into a
wonderfully
likeable tour-de-force. The premise has been done time and time again,
it's
basically a "fish out of water" story. Yes, the gangsters are dumb almost
to
the point where they're annoying. Sure, we see the message coming from a
mile away.

But there are a few things that separate this film from other comedies,
and
elevate to the status of excellence. First of all, it's hilarious. There
are
few jokes that don't work and they are immediately forgotten as this
fast-paced romp wastes no time. The speed-up of scenes and the quick
editing
(several shots seem to last for no longer than a few seconds) do get a
slight bit irritating, but it serves its purpose by catering to the
fast-paced story and Sinbad's style of comedy. Take for instance, the
party
scene in which Sinbad is explaining what the "GFH" on his suit jacket
stands
for. Slow down the scene, and it loses the humor.

Since the McDonald's issue has been cited again and again in reviews with
varying degrees of criticism, let me address it briefly. First of all,
there
are a lot of people who love to eat McDonald's food. It's not healthy for
you, but you'd be lying if you say that it tastes awful. Now, Sinbad's
character is established as the lazy, unhealthy, always-eating slacker
from
the very beginning as he comes home to his apartment and enjoys his
McDonald's and 2 liter bottle of soda. The real Derek Bond is completely
contrasted with the impostor Derek Bond's lifestyle. Hence the fish out of
water comedy. Sinbad's character is put in a desperate situation where he
assumes this other man's life and the man he is pretending to be is the
complete opposite of him. He's got a successful career as a dentist and he
maintains a strict diet of vegetables and muescli cereal. So, when
Sinbad's
Kevin Franklin character, in this awkward and unfamiliar situation of
staying with a suburban family's house and pretending to be someone who
everyone expects to be a health-conscious stuffy professional, manages to
escape for a moment and sees the familiar golden arches, he's so happy
that
he feels like he's in a commercial. He knows McDonald's and in many
places,
McDonald's seems to be an unchanging, constant source of familiar greasy
food. McDonald's works in the context of the film because it's a real
fast-food place that we can relate to, because we've all eaten there at
one
time or another. To me, if there was some fictional place like "Lou's
Hamburgers", it wouldn't work. The character design might come through,
but
there could be no jingle resounding in our heads, and it'd take you out of
the reality of the story (which I discuss in next paragraph). Yes,
McDonald's is a real fast-food joint, and Kevin Franklin loves to eat
there.
Does that make "Houseguest" a McDonald's commercial? I don't think that it
does, I think it maintains an element of reality that we as viewers can
relate to. Perhaps we needn't always be so cynical as some professional
film
critics are.

Now, I mention the 'reality' of "Houseguest" and you must think I'm
absolutely crazy. Houseguest is an unrealistic film that requires you to
throw logic out the door entirely if you wish to enjoy it, right? Well,
not
necessarily. I think looking back at this film, eight years after it was
made, we can look at the family suburban life depicted, and notice the
real-ness of the characters. Phil Hartman's character Gary Young is a
hard-working businessman at a law firm. He sucks up to his boss and the
boss's wife and spends more time with his job than his family. Gary's wife
tries to be there for her family, but she's taken on a career with frozen
yogurt stores and it's turning out to be far more time-consuming than she
imagined.

Then, there are the three children. The oldest girl is distancing herself
from her family, trying to find comfort in a "Goth" phase, taking pleasure
from sad poetry and a boyfriend who seems to think that he's a tough kid
from the hood. The middle child is the only son, Jason. He tries to win
his
father's approval by playing basketball and hoping to be good. The
youngest
daughter seems not to be getting any attention, either. Her busy parents
don't have time for her, and she's been getting lessons from television
programs instead.

The dysfunctional middle-class family serves as a foil for Kevin Franklin,
pretending to be someone he is not, who will ultimately find the desire to
help these people, who have unknowingly opened up their home to him, a
complete stranger. Kevin Franklin doesn't have a job, a family, or kids,
and
yet it his interactions with the Young family that allow both them and he
to
better themselves.

Now, if you've seen the movie, you're probably reading this and thinking,
"This guy's nuts. He's completely overanalyzing some stupid comedy." Well,
perhaps I am. "Houseguest" is indeed a silly, hectic fish-out-of-water
comedy; somewhat formulaic, but very much successful. However, to dismiss
the film as 'bad' or a 'stupid comedy' is a superficial assessment of a
film
that really has a lot going for it.

Sure, the film is glossy and not without faults, but then, so is life and
the people that we interact with. "Houseguest" is a winning comedy, and
one
of my favorite films of the 1990s. It presents laughs but also provides a
realistic look at individual and family life in the '90s, even if this
comes
out of an unrealistic set-up of a man assuming another identity to avoid
the
mob.

Much-maligned and underappreciated, "Houseguest" is a gem of a family
comedy
that I certainly hope you will give a chance. Or if you initially didn't
like it, some more thought on these matters and maybe a second
chance.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought for sure I was going to run kicking and screaming from my
television... a film with Sinbad? Unwatchable! But this gem proved me
wrong, as I not only watched it but loved almost every second of it
(and Sinbad is always on the screen, so surely it must be his doing!).

The story is a common Hollywood theme: a guy (Sinbad) passes himself
off on a group or family as someone he's not: in this case, a childhood
friend of a father (Phil Hartman). A little variety exists in how to
play this out, but the same old stuff happens: stranger teaches family
a lesson and learns one himself along the way.

What made this film great was the cast. Sinbad was surprisingly
insightful and was able to make even average activities seem
far-fetched and outrageous. Phil Hartman had a relatively minor role
and didn't really get to provide us with a full performance, but his
physical facial comedy of biting into a piece of turkey was extremely
amusing (facial comedy plays a large part in this film, later coming
back when a wine taster is testing a glass).

Jeffrey Jones has too small a part (this man is so under-rated in
Hollywood), but does well with what he's been given. And most of all I
think Kim Murphy's career should have ignited from this film, but I
guess producers didn't watch it. Murphy is obviously beautiful (which
seems to be enough to make it in Hollywood), but more so she played her
Gothic character perfectly. I was amused with her delivery of the lines
concerning Edgar Allan Poe's last meal, her Smiths t-shirt (perfect
choice) and the really wacky line about evil rats. The writers did
their homework when writing in Murphy's character and she repaid them
in spades. (Can I use the word "spades" when talking about a Sinbad
movie?) The soundtrack was amusing. Best feature: the fact that some
scenes were so obviously McDonald's commercials, with one really
extended scene including a McDonald's theme song. Heck, after that
moment I would have cut off my own leg for a double quarter pounder
with cheese.

I love this movie, and would not be against displaying it proudly on my
movie shelf for all my relatives, friends and guests to see. I do not
know why this film has gone underground and has been long forgotten my
many people, but it shouldn't have been. This is comedy gold, people.
<|_=00=_|>

Kevin Frankin (Sinbad) is a guy who dreams of starting his own business.
However, getting it off the ground is another matter altogether, and soon
Kevin discovers that the two loan sharks who fronted him money want to be
paid, and paid promptly, otherwise Kevin will be spending some time in the
hospital. On the run through an airport, Kevin is trying to find a way out
when he overhears Gary Young (Phil Hartman) wondering where his friend is.
It seems that Gary has arranged a reunion with an old friend from childhood,
but since he hasn't seen him in 25 years, he has no idea what he looks like
today, beyond the fact that he's black. Kevin fits the bill that far and
claims to be Gary's long lost buddy, which Gary buys hook, line, and sinker.
Gary seems to enjoy bonding with his old friend, and Kevin likes staying at
Gary's fine home and raiding his icebox, but Kevin discovers that
impersonating a stranger is a lot more complicated than he expected after
he's forced to perform oral surgery and give a speech at a grade school
"Career Day" presentation. However, this is all small potatoes on the "oh,
no" scale when the loan sharks track Kevin back to Gary's home in the
suburbs. Houseguest was funny, it is underrated if you ask me, Phil Hartman
and Sinbad made a great team. I recommend Houseguest if you want to see some
classic Phil Hartman, he was great.
<|_=00=_|>
Most family movies seem hastily thrown together but HOUSEGUEST is an
exception. The dialogue sparkles, the direction isn't just
2-takes-and-go, the cinematography is whackily speeded up in some
places and the editing is rapid fire. And unlike most family movies, it
lasts for 110 minutes. That's about half an hour longer than is usual.
I know this hardly seems like a valid point but I reckon it proves the
movie's got more content than fart jokes etc.

My only gripe is the obvious McDonalds plugging about 40 minutes in. If
you can just turn away for these 10 seconds then it's not so bad. It's
a shame that it's there tho because it tarnishes the credibility of the
movie.

Sinbad is always good and the late, great Phil Hartman can make any
film watchable so they really add to this brilliantly entertaining
comedy. Do yourself a favour and watch it. It's not just for kids. I
watched my VHS a zillion times and I was so impatient for this DVD to
be released.

So it's barebones, but who cares? I'm just glad to have it. The 1.78:1
anamorphic picture is super and the Dolby 2.0 surround track is decent
enough. After all this is a dialogue driven comedy but some sound
effects and music are presented pretty well. My subwoofer even go a big
kick from a gunshot near the end.

Pick this one up whenever you see it. No matter what age you are, you
and your kids will enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
Houseguest. 

One of Sinbad's funniest movies and Phil Hartman's funniest movies.
Sinbad plays a 35-year old, never want go get a job, con man, who is in
to the mob for $50,000 dollars. After trying to escape from the con
man, he impersonates a dentist and that's when the fun begins.

Right off the back, Sinbad brings the laughs. All of of lines about the
great white shark biting his friends head off and the GFH off of his
suit jacket. 

This is a wonderful movie and I would recommend it to anyone, because
Sinbad is a comedian that doesn't need profanity to be funny.

Funny 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie surprisingly works and is very funny and enjoyable and it's also,
what I think to be the litmus test of a good movie, always good for repeated
viewing without losing its charm.  I pass by the film on cable and find
myself watching it again and still laughing.  I know this seems hard to
believe especially since the story is ridiculous and the script is pretty
banal.  I've come to the conclusion that it's the genuine talent of Sinbad,
an exceedingly funny man who unfortunately seems to have disappeared from
show business as of late. Phil Hartman adds a great deal to the film with
his always impeccable delivery but I can't help but think of his horrible
tragedy and kind of fall out of the movie's whimsy at times.

I always liked this movie.  It manages to rise above most Hollywood comedies
that are inevitably annoying and dispensable. This movie is fun and has
great acting which makes up for the fact that it is, by nature, just a
screwball comedy. It's a total guilty pleasure but I say go for it. 

<|_=00=_|>

What a great movie this is. Humorous, well acted, dramatic, and well
written. 

A Pittsburgh get rich-quick man, Kevin Franklin (Sinbad) is in big trouble!
He borrowed money from the bad guys, and now they want it back, or Franklin
is history! In attempt to skip town at the airport, Franklin runs into Gary
Young (poor old Phil Hartman) who is waiting for his old friend Derek Bond
who he hasn't seen in 25 years. Franklin becomes Bond, and lives with Gary
for a few days. What an adventure he has, not knowing who Derek Bond is, and
trying to be him! A lot of excitement and humor happens now! Kevin learns a
lot, but also teaches Gary's family things they needed to help them from
falling apart. Kevin really improves the Youngs, and they improve him. Now
if only the bad guys weren't still after Franklin. Can Kevin get the Youngs
to help him with the bad guys, and will they all make it?!

If you like Sinbad and poor old Phil Hartman, check this movie out. It's
also great for you if you like adventures and comedies. On a scale of 1-10,
I give this movie a nine (9), and a letter grade of A! Check it out for
yourself. You'll have a ball, and you might even learn some important
stuff!

<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this in the theatre I was 16 years old and actually liked
the movie a lot against a lot of public ratings that were low for this
one. I thought Sinbad and Phil worked well together to deliver funny
punchlines and anything these guys on to ME is GREATNESS. the plot
sucked as most comedies plots suck which I rate as 10 star effort.
Serious Comedies do not deserve plots so fine work there. The cast was
acting pretty cliché and everyone on the movie was cool and fun during
the delivery of the film. Whoever gave this low scores is someone who
does NOT like the genre much and does not like goofy or corny stuff. I
do so this 1 gets a 10 all day. 1 of the top 100 Comedies all time to
me with The 3 Amigos in my top 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin (Sinbad) is a poor single man living in Pittsburgh, with his
hamster, in a small apartment. An orphan, Kevin once bragged to his
grade school classmates that, one day, he would be "very wealthy".
Trouble is, none of his get-rich-quick schemes have panned out and
Kevin is in debt to the local mobsters. When they come to collect,
Keving speeds off to the airport to catch a flight. However, with the
mob on his heels, Kevin overhears an even better opportunity for him to
lay low for awhile, at the airport terminal. It seems that Gary (Phil
Hartman)and his children are waiting for an old camp friend that Gary
has not seen for 20 years. Kevin seizes the moment and declares himself
to be Dr. Derek Bond, a dentist, to Gary and the kids. Gary is
delighted to see him and takes him home. Once there, in heavenly
suburbia, Kevin finds out he is supposed to make a speech at the local
elementary school, on career day. Okay. Kevin also learns he is reputed
to be a strict vegetarian. Horrors. But, as the family showers him with
gifts and parties, Kevin wonders, as do we all, how soon will they
learn the truth about his identity? This is a great film, very funny
and very spirit-lifting. Sinbad's Kevin is a such a lovable character,
despite his scheming, that everyone is hoping for a happy ending.
Hartman, likewise, is dead-pan funny in his role as a much put-upon
lawyer with a family that looks perfect but which, in reality, has some
problems to overcome. The setting is lovely, the costumes are nice, and
the look of the film is quite wonderful, too. Do you want to cheer up
yourself and your family in a big fashion? This is the film for you, as
to watch it is to love it and laugh it up till the clouds overhead are
long gone.
<|_=00=_|>
For what this movie was it was perfect. I first watched this when I was
an ignorant kid but I can still appreciate it now that I'm an ignorant
college student. Phil Hartman could not have been better but that
should not be surprising if you're one of the many out there that deems
him a genius like myself. Sinbad did his part and contributed to many
laughs. The story is what you'd expect with an underachiever from the
hood hooking up with some white surburbians. Sinbad's job is to bring
us into the lilly white community of Zwickley and deconstruct the
Puritan values and customs that everyone has become accustomed to.
Sinbad makes white people let loose by passing around a wine bottle and
dance to "Brick House." Sounds great doesn't it? But if you're looking
for mind perplexing subject matter you're in the wrong place to begin
with. Sit back, laugh, and enjoy a very underrated '90's comedy. One of
the few leading role works by the late Phil Hartman.
