

This movie should be required viewing for all librarians or would-be
librarians. All of the best lines are directly related to librarianship.
The
public library vs. academic library argument is a classic argument waged
among librarians and library school students. It also breaks many
librarian
stereotypes. Librarians might even be capable of having fun -- even if
they
don't *usually* have sex in the romance languages section! (The best movie
about librarians? Desk Set, with Katherine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy, of
course.)
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a delightful, light hearted look at both sides of where
the "club kid" rave scene blends with the New York art, music and
performance art worlds (with a cameo by the omnipresent Miss Bunny).
This is "Torch Song Trilogy" for the perky-post-teen girls. "That Girl"
for our disaffected, affected millennium times.

The dialogue is fast and funny, and Parker Posey's costumer deserves -
if not an academy award, at least - a stadium "wave" of kudos.

Of course, this film rests on the very stylish platform heels of Miss
Posey, and she is perfectly cast. Like a lot of her acting work, it may
not be very deep, it is often self-referential and, well, posey... but
it all WORKS. She is a talented comedienne, an incredible entertainer,
and this film entertains, she carries it on her shoulders like a faux
leopard wrap, and never lets it drop to the floor.

Mary is a superficial party fashionista who isn't above stealing
designer clothing from a friend's closet or making out with someone
else's boyfriend. On a deeper level, this is a story of a girl and her
friends who are care-less in every sense of the word, including about
other people; and the process of learning that caring is necessary to
life. 

The script is beautifully crafted, witty, and the only performance that
disappoints is the Aunt, in a role that was much too one-dimensional
and heavy handed; a more nuanced performance from her, would have
deepened the relationship between the two... but... hey... this is
comedy. A surprisingly deep role, that gives this film some substance
and world vision, is the fallafel selling boyfriend. We should all be
so lucky... is he the one for Mary? or the one that gets away? 

I rate this as a 8 because it isn't a great moment of film history, it
is not a classic, and it is not great art (all of which get deeper and
richer on re-viewing). Like "Desperately Seeking Susan" it represents
something very true about it's time period, but may become irrelevant
with time. Still, it has everything an entertaining film needs, and is
worth viewing several times for the clothes alone!
<|_=00=_|>
"Party Girl" capitalizes on the tremendous charm of Parker Posey. In
fact, at times, the movie seems to be a vehicle in which Ms. Posey is
allow to play herself, as she normally is in real life.

The film, directed by Daisy Von Scherler Mayer, is a treat for Ms.
Posey's fans. Ms. Von Scherler Mayer takes us on a wild trip into lower
Manhattan to show us this aimless soul whose life is dedicated to have
fun in the different clubs she constantly frequents. This is an era
that still was more naive than what that area and the adjacent Meat
Market districts became. At least, there are no pretensions in the
films and we see down to earth people going about their lives in a
normal way, if we can call it that way.

Parker Posey makes an amazing Mary. It's because of Parker Posey we
enjoy the movie more than if another actress would have played Mary.
She is the whole picture. The rest of the cast is good.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay.  This has been a favourite since I was 14.  Granted, I don't watch
it
multiple times a year anymore, but...
This is not a movie for an older generation who want a deeper meaning or
some brilliant message.  This movie is FUN.  It's pretty dated, almost
passe, but Parker Posey is so brilliant that it's unbelievable.  If you
want
to be charmed by a 90's Breakfast at Tiffany's, attended 90's raves, or
love
Parker, this movie is for you.  Otherwise, don't bother.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember seeing this years ago when it first came out and I was
floored by Parker Posey's performance. And the movie was pretty good
also. For anyone who's spent a little too much time in the
nightclub/after-hours scene, this movie will have a special charm for
you. Not too serious, mostly funny, and Parker Posey definitely blazes
her talented way through this indie gem.

I especially liked the Diaz character (reminded me of every single
struggling DJ I've ever known). And many other movies could take a cue
from this movie on how to preach the virtue of responsibility without
being boring and bland about it.

Babaganoosh!

<|_=00=_|>

"Party Girl" is one of my all time favorite movies.  The movie portrayed
early 90's raving very well.  Raves became distorted in later movies and
television shows trying to depict that era of clubbing.  The only show I
can
think of at the moment is "Saved by the Bell: The College Years" where
Zack,
wearing all plaid, has an idea to have a rave on campus, decked out with
black lights, horrible music, and "whip-its."

"Party Girl" set itself apart from these stereotypical rave-umentaries by
showing how raves (true raves) were not glow-stick, lolly-sucking teenage
rebellion-fests.  Posey, showing style and attitude, portrayed an
over-the-top character who isn't necessarily perfect, but plays her part
well.  The movie isn't all about drugs, like other genre movies such as
"Playing Mona Lisa."  Posey played a girl that I know many of.

The movie epitomized the early 90's rave era.  Watch this movie at least
once just for Posey's performance.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie, and I am one of the older people who is not
supposed to enjoy it, or so it seems. No, this movie is not deep -- who
cares? These kinds of movies never are. But strangely, there is a
message in it. It's that we each have the potential to be whatever we
want to be.

Parker Posey is great in this movie. I've always thought that she bears
some resemblance facially to Katharine Hepburn. So, it's great to see
that both Hepburn and Posey made movies about librarians (Hepburn's is
The Desk Set). All librarians, especially those with a sense of humor,
should see Party Girl.

I gave this movie an 8. It is not by any means a great film by
cinematic standards, although there are some nice shots in it. But it
is incredibly charming and entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
After 20 years of only hearing about this quirky comedy, I finally
watched this on a DVD I borrowed from the, yes, library. Parker Posey
is Mary-the title character who ends up working at the place where
books are borrowed because a friend (her godmother who she calls by her
first name, Judy) of her late mom is one of the employees there. But
Mary, well, she's not always the most responsible of people. Still,
she's quite charming especially when dancing or just wearing many of
her stylish outfits either in the streets or at the dance clubs she
frequents. Ms. Posey is funny and stunning throughout the movie. And
her charms are multiplied every time she speaks. And I liked many of
the mostly unknown supporting cast that's presented here. So on that
note, I highly recommend Party Girl.
<|_=00=_|>
Parker Posey flashes her 1,000-kilowatt smile frequently in this film,
and your enjoyment of the movie will rely primarily on how smitten you
are by Posey's quirky charm.

Count me as a follower. I think Posey is a hoot in everything she's in,
incapable of giving an ordinary performance. I have a feeling that in
"Party Girl" she plays a variation of herself, but that's just fine
with me. She appears in virtually every frame of the film, but the
movie isn't much of anything without her, so I welcomed the overdose of
Posey.

The script for "Party Girl" feels half-assed, though I did appreciate
the existential crisis faced by Posey's character and the shelter she
seeks in the Dewey Decimal System as a way of bringing order to her
chaotic existence. I wish the screenwriters had taken clever hooks like
that further. And the ending had a conventional, all-loose-ends-tied-up
quality that would better suit a television sitcom than an out-there
indie film.

But none of these faults take anything away from Posey herself, so
really, how serious can they be? 

Grade: B
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie. I felt that the character of Mary was endearing, and
so
was her circle of friends. It also had some really great quotes. Well,
anyway, I am always partial to Liev films, and this is no exception. I
thought that he was outstanding. Hmmm...what else can I say? It's a
charming
little picture, and it was done before Parker did the horrid Scream 3...so
savor her indie talent while you can...looks like she's moving to the
mainstream.

