

I first wanted to see 'The Insider' because it professed to show the truth
behind the lies of the Tobacco Industry. My wife and I saw it and were
thoroughly impressed. In fact we've now seen it 5 times (I think, though I
may have lost count).

If you go to the movies to be entertained mindlessly, do NOT see this
movie,
you will bored. This movie is for people who like to think, and who like to
receive superior presentation of thought provoking material. The Insider
has
all that.

The movie gets you thinking about mankind. The obvious problem with human
nature is obvious in this movie. The Tobacco companies knowingly selling
addictive product, whilst claiming it is not. And then almost, almost but
not quite, getting away with ruining an individual's life, an individual
who's conscience was pricked by what they had seen.

But then it moves into the CBS drama, where again the hopelessness of
mankind in general shines through. The strength of two individuals though
manages to win the day, which is what makes this true story so
unusual.

I found that (contrary to those who complained of the movies length) every
scene that Mann has given us has a reason. A good reason. From the opening
scenes depicting an evil far from USA. To the hints as to why we didn't
hear
anything about the drama when it happened, because the OJ murder story and
media frenzy drowned out what should be to us all a much more serious
matter.

For me the crowning moment in the film was when Russell Crowe (as Wigand)
was about to dig into a hamburger when behind him on TV a newscaster
reported findings about him, bad (though unfounded) findings. Crowe put his
knife and fork back down in a way that told us all that he had no more
appetite, in fact all the will left in him had been violently thrust away,
thrust away by the selfish interests of the Tobacco companies.

All in all this is a complete movie that deserved its 7 nominations and
should have gotten some awards. The sound was great, as was the camera
work.
If you love an artistic movie, you will love this one. Crowe is thoroughly
believable and has cemented himself as a first rate actor, capable of
playing just about any part put his way. Pacino is very well cast, Plummer
is a class act, and a host of supporting cast did themselves
proud.

What we can't forget about this movie, for all its drama, and for the
pointed view it gives us of the nature we bear, its a TRUE STORY. Thats
what
really makes it shocking. And only those driven to the ends of despair and
loneliness such as Wigand and Bergmann were, can really truly realise
another fact pointed out in the movie, in the end of it all, we are nothing
anyway, so what does it all matter?

See it!
<|_=00=_|>

I'll make this simple for you with short attention spans: Al Pacino's best
performance of the 90s. Russell Crowe's best work on par with LA
Confidential (if not better) and a gripping shot by Christopher Plummer as
60 Minutes anchor Mike Wallace.

For those who can handle it, read on:

Jeffrey Wigand (Russell Crowe) has been fired from his job. He has to break
the news to his wife (Diane Venora, who I believe should go on to be one of
the best actresses of all time) that their beautiful home, swank cars and
health care plan (their oldest daughter is athsmatic) are about to go down
the tubes. He's been given a severance package but that's about to fall
apart as well.

Enter Lowell Bergman (Pacino), producer for CBS Television News' bastion of
journalistic integrity, 60 Minutes. Bergman's doing a report on fires that
were started by careless smokers and has been given a report so huge and
full of technical jargon he can't make heads or tales of it. Through a
friend he is put in touch with Wigand in the hopes of finding a translator.
Wigand thinks Lowell is coming after him because of what he knows about his
former employers, a major tobacco company.

It is at this moment that director Michael Mann institutes a trick, the
likes of which hasn't been seen since All The President's Men. The two
exchange a cat-and-mouse conversation via fax. Bergman finally calls
Wigand's bluff by daring him to meet him the next day. He
does.

What does Wigand know? Well, its all over the papers these days about how
the tobacco industry lied about manipulating the leaves to make them more
habit forming. We have Wigand to thank for that. But that isn't where the
story ends. This is a two-fold tale; on one hand you have the
self-destruction of a man who put everything on the line just so he could
do
the right thing. On the other, you have a television producer who so
believes in the integrity of himself, the network, and his show that he is
willing to risk everything he has to fight for the protection of his
source.
I haven't seen this much commitment outside of Woodward and Berstein's
staunch protection of "Deep Throat."

The trump card of this film though comes in the form of Christopher Plummer
playing one of the most visible news figures of the past 25 years, Mike
Wallace. Wallace teeters on the edge of looking like a foul-mouthed,
celebrity hungry, media hound who's only thought is about ratings. However,
before its over, he evokes the "integrity of Edward R. Murrow," a line that
gave me chills and made me pray for an Oscar Nomination.

Director Michael Mann is known chiefly for his Action/Thrillers. This 155
minute film is slow paced but gripping for ever second it is on the screen.
A lot of people have complained over the past 7-8 years about Pacino's
"staccato" performances, suddenly shouting at the slightest provocation.
This film returns him to his prime form, a style he hasn't walked in since
Dog Day Afternoon, ...And Justice For All and Serpico.

Anybody got a light?
<|_=00=_|>
The Insider is the only film I remember having seen where I walked out
of the theatre with a headache because of the intensity of the story.
Michael Mann is one of few directors who has such an in-depth
understanding of both the subject of his film and the nature of that
subject, that he is able to portray a realism that is nearly impossible
to match.

There is real skill displayed in the way in which the Insider weaves
through the aspects of both Bergmann and Wigand's lives. Whereas a
lesser director would have thrown the characters at each other in an
artificial collision, Mann introduces each character as being average
professionals each living in their own respective stable lives. It is
only when their chance encounter creates a subtext that could consume
them both does the real chemical reaction in the story take place.

Bringing life to these fantastically written characters are two of the
most talented 'big-name' character actors of our time, Al Pacino and
Russell Crowe. Surprisingly, it is Crowe that drives this film forward,
and his portrayal of Wigand is spot-on perfect. His is an honest
humanity, both a loving father and a flawed husband who never fully
balances his life under the pressure of circumstance. Crowe nails the
performance by not hamming-up the character, but rather by understating
his personality. This works in that it is the character that is
elevated while the actor disappears.

That is not to ignore the excellent work by the remainder of the cast.
Pacino's performance is accented and accentuated beautifully by
Christopher Plummer's portrayal of Mike Wallace. Most notably are
several standout scenes mixing Pacino, Plummer, Philip Baker Hall and
Stephen Tobolowsky that ground the underlying tensions of the film
fantastically. And the juxtaposition between the cold, hard New York
settings and the organic nature of Mississippi further press this film
beyond standard non-fiction works.

Easily one of the best dramas of 1999, the Insider is a standout member
of that elite club of great historical dramas such as All the
President's Men that are few and far between. It is for that audience
that appreciates skilled performances meeting skilled direction and
restrained, mature writing.
<|_=00=_|>

I have been a huge Michael Mann fan for years, but I do have to admit that I
approached his latest film "The Insider" with just the teensiest bit of
trepidation...after all, Mann is the godfather of the thinking man's action
flick, and I've even heard it said that his action sequences are so integral
to his movie that they are practically another character in the film...with
which I completely agree.  So I was wondering how a movie with no chase
sequence, no gunfights, basically no action whatsoever--well, how could that
possibly qualify as an authentic Michael Mann signature film?

Yes, the action, per se, is missing, but Mann still brings his signature
directorial style to life with lots of wide shots, intense close ups, and
indirect focus, all bathed in cool blue light and threaded together with an
inventive soundtrack (including a reprise of a former track that was used so
effectively in "HEAT"; sorry, I can't recall the title offhand).

And what the movie lacks in "action", Mann more than makes up for in
high-wire tension.  He pulls us into the drama of an ordinary man's life by
portraying the myriad humiliations, both large and small, that assault
Wigand from the moment he is fired from his job as an R&D VP for a major
tobacco company.  The detoriation of his life, from his finances to his
marriage to his belief in himself, is explored with the sort of atmospheric
detail that is Mann's trademark:  the play of light or lack of it; the
familiar sights and sounds of everyday life, from the patterns of rain on a
windshield to the rush of wind through the trees; and camera work that
ranges from tight, out-of-focus shots to sweeping panoramas of razor-sharp
clarity...all of this creates an environment of realism that puts you into
the film.  You can't just observe Wigand's struggle; you experience it with
him.  My movie-watching partner observed as we left the theatre that he felt
exhausted from the tension, as if he'd just been through the corporate
wringer himself.  I knew what he meant!

But atmosphere isn't all Mann delivers.  Once again, this genius director
has placed an unexpected actor in the lead role of his film, with amazing
results.  Before Daniel Day Lewis was "Nathaniel Poe" in "The Last of The
Mohicans", no one would have believed he could pull off a major hunk-o-rama
role...well, guess what?  He ended up defining the hero of the
adventure/romance genre!  In "The Insider", Mann has opted for the opposite
effect, casting  young, potential hunk material Russell Crowe as an older,
slightly-pot-bellied father of two.  Wigand doesn't look like anyone's hero,
and perhaps that's actually the message of the movie:  an ordinary man--a
nobody, really--caught up in extraordinary circumstances.  And Crowe
delivers...in a major way!  Personally, I can't remember an acting
performance that mesmerized me to this extent...unless it was the last time
I watched Crowe, in "L.A. Confidential".  He evokes his character in this
movie with the apparent ease of a magician doing card tricks:  the illusion
is complete and appears to be effortless.  Even with silver, receding hair
and twenty extra pounds which, we are shown, is not the result of costume
padding, but Crowe's own amplified flesh, he is imminently watchable...
almost hypnotically so.

There are, even as I post this, whispers and rumors about this movie being
an Oscar contender.  Best director, best actor, best supporting actor.
Again, I can only nod my head in complete and total agreement.  Russell
Crowe will blow you away, and Al Pacino gives his best performance in years.

This film is quiet, intense, and ultimately, extremely moving.  I literally
burst into tears twice, the way you do when you've recieved bad news or seen
something dreadful, so complete was my empathy for the character of Jeffrey
Wigand . The anger, helplessness, and puzzled confusion at being punished
for telling the truth felt all too familiar to me.

In summary, I was not at all disappointed in Mann's direction of this film.
Even without the phenomenal action sequences he's known for, this film had
the same visceral effect on me that I experienced when I saw Manhunter, Last
of the Mohicans, and HEAT.  I'm a born-again fan!


<|_=00=_|>
Not always, but usually a Michael Mann-directed film means good things
for movie buffs, and this is no exception. 

Tremendous acting highlights this movie about a behind-the-scenes look
at a "60 Minutes" story of a man who blows the whistle on a tobacco
company. Al Pacino, as the TV show producer "Lowell Bergman," Russell
Crowe as the whistle-blower and tobacco scientist "Dr. Jeffrey
Wiegand," and Christopher Plummer as "Mike Wallace" all are riveting in
their performances. They are intense characters, as are many of the
supporting characters in this involving film.

There is little action in here but a ton of tension in the first hour
of this long (158 min.) film. The story held my interest even when the
tension left, thanks to the acting, the great cinematography, involving
music score....well, just about everything. It's simply a well-done
movie, similar to Mann's "Heat," except without the violence.

The only negative was the obvious Liberal bias, but that's not
surprising being it's about "60 Minutes." I wasn't surprised when Ken
Starr got a cheap shot, for example. This film bias could have been a
lot more blatant so I'm not complaining. Obviously, they went a
overboard in their stand against the tobacco industry, repeating the
same damaging scenes over and over. However, I appreciated they didn't
shrink from pointing out how the network was covering its own behind
even though it was hurting its most successful program.

Photographer Dante Spinelli did an incredible job making this look
fantastic despite the fact that there was no great scenery or exotic
sets. As mentioned, this is just great film-making. What else can you
say?
<|_=00=_|>
Russell Crowe at his best as a Kentucky tobacco executive in Eric Roth
and Michael Mann's masterpiece, "The Insider," is one of the most
underrated American films ever. Not only is it important historically
for its political implications - not about tobacco, but about conflicts
of commercial interest that control freedom of speech along the
airwaves in the U.S.- it is a great story and it is true. Disney had no
idea how to market "The Insider" and essentially sold it as tobacco
movie and it is so much more. Pacino gives a grand A plus performance
as a Long Island Jewish producer and halfway through the movie I forgot
he was Al Pacino. Even better Christopher Plummer masterfully captures
the full essence of Mike Wallace. Gina Gershon could turn lust from a
stone as always. Michael Mann seems to always pull strong performances
from his actors, and Eric Roth who brilliantly adapted "Forrest Gump"
did the same here with Mann. Though long, "The Insider" is never boring
and a movie all Americans should see twice to make sure they fully
comprehend regardless of how you feel about the tobacco debate.
<|_=00=_|>

THE INSIDER / (1999) **** (out of

"The Insider" prospers in almost every way, shape, and form possible. The
production is a masterpiece of visual style, moving performances, and
penetrating dialogue. The story is captivating, even at 157 minutes. There
is more than enough unexpected plot twists to keep our attention
throughout-and at a consistent pace. Many movies will have moments of
inspiration and intrigue, but not "The Insider." This movie is one long
intriguing moment, a moment that is never boring or lacking. It is also
believable and entirely convincing. There is a realistic look into the
behavior of journalists and their desire for information. It is so
intelligent about revealing the most important information little at a time,
always at the perfect second.

Russell Crowe's character is the heart of the film, one of the most active
protagonists seen in a movie all year. He plays Jeffrey Wigand, an
ex-employee at Brown & Williamson, one of the nations largest cigarette
manufacturers. Its chairman (Michael Gambon) has fired Wigand for
questioning some of their potentially harmful research tactics and business
routines-but not before blackmailing him into signing a strict
confidentiality agreement that threatens his much needed severance package
currently providing for his wife and their two young girls. When the company
even further jeopardizes his existence, he blows his fuse and prepares to
release information on the indecisive industry of B&W.

He gets his opportunity when Lowell Bergman (Al Pacino), an ambitious and
experienced reporter from the CBS news program "60 Minutes," receives a
package regarding product safety studies at another tobacco company. Bergman
contacts Wigand, aspiring towards hiring him as a transitory consultant for
a potential "60 Minutes" show. Bergman senses some vital information
withheld in the knowledge of Wigand, therefore further investigates what he
is making the executives at B&W so concerned.

The film makes many unexpected turns; in the second half, it smartly
switches focus from Wigand to Bergman. After losing his privacy, secrets,
reputation, and family, Wigand revealing startling facts and starts a new
career teaching chemistry. But Bergman faces further complications. His TV
Network refuses to air the segment because they could be sued big time for
helping break Wigand's confidentiality agreement.

"You pay me to go get guys like Wigand, to draw him out. To get him to trust
us, to get him to go on television. I do. I deliver him. He sits. He talks.
He violates his own f*****g confidentiality agreement. And he's only the key
witness in the biggest public health reform issue, maybe the biggest,
most-expensive corporate-malfeasance case in U.S. history. And Jeffrey
Wigand, who's out on a limb, does he go on television and tell the truth?
Yes. Is it newsworthy? Yes. Are we gonna air it? Of course not. Why? Because
he's not telling the truth? No. Because he is telling the truth. That's why
we're not going to air it. And the more truth he tells, the worse it gets,"
explains Bergman.

The dialogue is one of the brightest, most thought-provoking material in the
film. All of the little quirks in typical conversation are captured, the
stuttering, the spontaneous explicit declaratives, and the sharp remarks
that add a scathing zest to the character's personalities (Agent: Do you
have a history of emotional problems, Mr. Wigand? Wigand: Yes. Yes, I do. I
get extremely emotional when *******s put bullets in my mailbox!).

The movie's dramatic premise is so clear, so precise, so uncommonly
absorbing. It expresses the true stress and nature of the traumatic emotions
of the characters. There is also an excellent introduction of both Wigand
and Bergman, giving them depth and human dimension. Despite a few members of
my cinema discussion group disagree, I extensively enjoyed the piercing
middle-eastern soundtrack consisting of awkward beats and fitting tones.

Al Pacino is cautious not to steal scenes from co-star Russell Crowe, but
when his time comes he lets out a stark and involving performance. Crowe is
worthy of his Oscar nomination for best actor; he delivers a performance of
great subbtlness, but with an intense underlying tone of innovative depth
and power. He captures all of the little tensions and stresses of his
character, making his scenes involving, subversive, and
taut.

Michael Mann is the film's director, who also directed the 1995 thriller
"Heat" starring Val Kilmer, Robert De Niro, and Al Pacino. Here, he pays
close attention to details; when a character pushes numbers on a pay phone,
the camera captures the feeling-also hitting golf ball against a backdrop,
dropping glasses on a table, and notably in an intense scene where two
people fax each other important statements and questions. Mann also injects
effective camera angles complete with slow motion photography, taking the
view of the character, and close up shots.

"The Insider" inhabits a strong social message dealing with the influence of
television, reputation, honesty, and so forth. The biggest ethic I think
Mann is trying to get across is of modern morality: always do the right
thing, follow you conscience, no matter what the cost. Then there's the
film's most provoking issue: "Fame has a fifteen-minute half-life. Infamy
lasts a little longer."


<|_=00=_|>

"The Insider" in many ways reflects the golden days of American
cinematography, where every scene serves a purpose, dialogue is sharp and
poignant, and characters and events remain true to their emotions and
nature.

The film presents certain questions throughout its duration that are
intended to invoke thought in the viewer, and at the same time explores them
to unprecedented depths which are by no means native to the film industry.
The story is of a quick-paced nature, and demands that the viewer pay the
utmost attention to every single line and image presented;  it flabbergasts
in its unparallelled structure of continuity and coherence to those sentient
enough.

After watching this film, it became apparent why Crowe was so reluctant to
play the role of Maximus in "Gladiator" after acting the part of Jeffrey
Wigand.  It appears more or less as if Crowe had been this character in
reality, and it really inspires to see that such a talented actor is finally
beginning to  enjoy the prominence that he deserves.

In the past decades, there has been a progressive decline in the number of
intelligent films making it onto the market, but the success of "The
Insider" will hopefully serve as a shout-out to all the film companies and
directors reluctant to tread on such sensitive ground.  This movie could not
receive a higher recommendation!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that I was on the fence about seeing, simply because it
seemed like just another movie about a whistle blower. It is so much
more than that, and it is a movie worth watching time and again because
of its complexity. It is about journalistic integrity, corporate greed,
good vs. evil, and standing up for what you believe in, no matter what
the cost. It pulls no punches about how far the tobacco industry would
go to hide the truth from the American public about cigarettes, but it
never seems propagandized.

Russell Crowe gives a top-notch performance of Everyman scientist
Jeffrey Wigand that meets Al Pacino and Christopher Plummer's
portrayals of 60 Minutes Hotshots Lowell Bergman and Mike Wallace frame
by frame. These three actors have the perfect blend of chemistry and
timing, and fit their characters like a glove. They completely inhabit
their roles and at times it seems more like a documentary than a
fictional story.

From beginning to end, it has the kind of edge of your seat tension
that keeps one glued to the screen. Despite being a fairly lengthy
film, it moves at a quick pace, and is absolutely riveting. The
direction is superb, the camera angles are fast and furious, and it is
a delight to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

From scene one, this film delivers a long slow burn as the tale of power and
corruption unfolds. There is little action, but the film is steeped in an
atmosphere of tension and high drama. The direction by Michael Mann is
masterful, an object lesson in how to frame shots and let silence, as well
as words - and music - work for the story. Al Pacino is once more the great
actor of early films such as 'Scarecrow', instead of the theatrical
performer of recent films.  Russell Crowe shows his solid 'ordinary
guy'character as more tortured through losing his family than any of the
macho scenes he portrayed in 'Gladiator.'  A superb film.
