
This is the ONLY movie I've ever been moved to write about. I rarely
even watch movies let alone offer opinions, but this movie is
exceptional in so many ways. The acting is powerful and believable
(duh.. it's real..), and the entire story is totally captivating. I was
watching on satellite and had to endure commercials, and it was sheer
torture waiting for the movie to resume.

This has to be one of, if not THE finest film ever made.
Congratulations to EVERYONE, especially MR. Fisher. I'm a 55 year old
guy that teaches in Cleveland and I never thought I would cry, but
there I was with tears streaming down my face, all alone in my living
room late at night. This story should be told and retold for
generations to come. Thank you Mr. Fisher, Mr. Washington, and everyone
else. This was a life-changing experience - not a movie. God bless you
all for putting this together. I just can't figure out why this movie
is not huge forever. Well, I suppose I can hazard a guess, but I truly
hope I'm wrong - I think we all know what that guess is...

Thanks again - not just for the movie, but for the most powerful
message possible. If you haven't seen this movie, SEE IT NOW! You won't
be sorry, but if you don't see it, you'll be missing the experience of
a lifetime. BJL
<|_=00=_|>

The protagonist, Antwone Fisher is played by the up and coming young
actor,
Derek Luke.  Luke is a young sailor, filled with rage, easily provoked,
and
often unable to control his emotional outbursts.  His temper soon earns
him
several mandatory sessions with a naval psychiatrist; played by Denzel
Washington (he also directed the film).  Early on, their personalities
clash, but eventually Washington unlocks the two sources of Luke's
anger-an
abusive childhood and a pervading fear of being abandoned.

The film takes us on a journey of Luke's life, one marked by periods of
intense loneliness and sadness while being driven by a constant search (an
obsession) for family.  It is through Luke's life that we learn that
perseverance can carry us through the periods of darkness and eventually
deliver some form of happiness

By counseling and befriending Luke, Washington enables him to deal with
his
lifelong sadness and move on. When the film wants to grab at your heart,
it
succeeds with good writing and convincing performances by Luke and
Washington.  In a graphic abuse scene from Luke's childhood, Washington
artistically and gutterly insures that we not only empathize with Antwone,
we personally experience his helplessness.  This scene, which showcases
Washington's directorial skill, places Luke in a full frontal position,
trembling, with the whites of his eyes looking directly at the camera (the
viewer).  Anyone watching the screen can't help but be mesmerized by the
abject fear in Luke's eyes.

As the film progresses, Washington, the director, introduces two minor
twists to the plot.  The first highlights Luke's reluctance to trust as he
begins dating for the first time.  This sub-point is purposeful and
displays
the infinite lingering effects of Luke's childhood on his adulthood.  The
second involves martial (family) problems within the psychiatrist's life
which, while ironic, is never developed.

Much like his performance as a compassionate lawyer in Philadelphia,
Denzel
Washington's screen presence in Antwone Fisher commands our attention and
emotions, leaving few dry eyes in the theater. This film's writing,
direction and acting exposes our souls and grabs our hearts.


<|_=00=_|>
An adaption of the book 'Finding Fish'. This story is about a troubled
young sailor Antwone Fisher (Derek Luke) who tells the painful story of
his past to a psychiatrist Jerome Davenport (Denzel Washington). A
brilliant debut performance by Derek Luke and an always stunning
performance by Denzel Washington.

This movie was incredible on so many levels and I was disappointed that
it didn't win an Oscar, I think it was because it was released at a bad
time that's why it was overlooked. I strongly recommend this film to
everyone, you'll be touched by his story and it really does make the
audience become empathetic with this young man that is Antwone Fisher.

If you like inspirational true stories, then watch Antwone Fisher.

Thank you
<|_=00=_|>
A stunning film of high quality.

Apparently based on true events which, as told, has the clear ring of
truth about it, this movie is highly emotional and deeply moving.

An abused and neglected child often becomes wayward in adulthood, as
one of life's failures, be it as a gangster, drug addict or burden on
society.

Antwone Fisher as a young adult in the navy, is troubled. He is on the
brink of being a loser. He is counselled in therapy by a psychiatrist
and it is that relationship which takes center stage in the play.

In flash-backs and therapy the source and remedies to Antwones angst
are revealed.

Outstanding performances from the whole cast. The story is in effect a
family tragedy with emotional and physical torment. All the actors give
full blooded performances with conviction and realism.

One message from the movie is the importance of raising children
decently.

The real Antwone deserves success. To have endured wickedness as a
child but to rise above that, shows a magnificent character.

And to all those out there who have endured such torment but to have
survived and succeeded: you are all winners. 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

ANTWONE FISHER (2002) **** Derek Luke, Denzel Washington, Joy Bryant, Salli
Richardson, Leonard Howze, Kente Scott, Kevin Connolly, Rainoldo Gooding,
Novella Nelso, Malcolm David Kelley, Cory Hodges, Stephen Snedden.  Actor
Denzel Washington makes a powerfully confident directorial debut in this
biopic about a good young sailor in the navy (Luke in a truly stunning
acting debut of award caliber excellence) – the eponymous film subject –
whose past demons have nestled into nothing but troubles for him and with
the assist of the outfit's psychiatrist (portrayed evenly by Washington)
Fisher is able to gain a foothold on his present and more importantly, his
future.  Heartbreakingly poignant and all too knowing in its depiction of
the triumph of the human spirit ; at  the same time non-condescending nor
preachy; the film unfolds like all good storytelling: naturally and
effortlessly.  Bryant also gives a remarkable debut turn as the young woman
who sees Fisher for the man he is and nothing less.  The real Fisher was a
security guard @ Sony Pictures prompting Washington to make the movie and
coincidentally Luke worked in the gift shop, an amateur actor in the making,
who knew Fisher and the rest is history.  One of the best films of the
year.
<|_=00=_|>

The violent and rebel twenty-five years old sailor Antwone Fisher
(Derek Luke) is sent to three sessions for evaluation with the navy
psychiatrist Dr. Jerome Davenport (Denzel Washington), after another
outburst and aggression against a superior ranked navy man. Reluctant
in the beginning of the treatment, he gets confidence in Dr. Davenport
and discloses his childhood, revealing painful traumas generated in his
foster house. Meanwhile, he meets Cheryl Smolley (Joy Briant), and they
fall in love for each other. Resolving his personal problems, Antwone
becomes a new man. This true familial drama is a touching and positive
story of a man who finds a friend and is sent back to a regular life.
The direction of Denzel Washington is excellent, making sensitive,
attractive and with good taste, a story about child abuse. In the hands
of another director, it might be a very heavy story. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): 'Voltando a Viver' ('Returning to Live')

<|_=00=_|>

Not having seen the film in the original theater release, I was happily
surprised when the DVD arrived, since this film did not have the wide
distribution it merited.

Denzel Washington directorial debut and the finished product have nothing to
envy other films about the same theme by more accomplished directors. The
film has a very professional look. It shows that Mr. Washington has learned
a lot being on the other side of the camera. He brings a different angle to
this film.

One of the best things the film has is, without a doubt, the fine
performance by Derek Luke. He is an actor who, with the right guidance, will
go far, no doubt. His take on the troubled young man, at this point of his
life, in turmoil and suffering for a bad hand life, up to now, has dealt
him, is very true. His Antwone is a fine portrait of a man in pain who is
basically very good and has so much to give, but no one seems to see that
side of his character.

At the worst time of his despair, Antwone is sent to Dr. Davenport, played
by Mr. Washington, in a very sober, if somehow subdued
manner.
Because of the angst within Antwone, he misses the opportunity of opening
himself to this man, who wants to help, but because of the constrains placed
on his office, just have three sessions and then has to dismiss his
patient.

Things work out, as Antwone is able to convince the doctor to keep on
working with him. Antwone's past is revealed in detail. The abuse he suffers
at the hands of Mrs. Tate, his foster mother, is brutal, to say the least.
The attempt at the hand of an older woman in the Tate's household of a
sexual molestation, gives Antwone a bitter taste that stays with him
throughout his adult life, as he has been scarred by the shame he carries
with him.

Antwone finds love at last with Cheryl, who is  patient enough to make him
see a different world by the love she and support she gives
him.

The lead performances are very good indeed. Denzel Washington's Dr.
Davenport has his own problems too. He is not a happy camper either. He can
help Antwone, but he cannot help himself, or his relationship with an
adoring wife. 

The talent in the film is incredible. Joy Bryant makes a fine Cheryl.
Novella Nelson, who is a fine actress is superb as Mrs. Tate, the abusing
foster mother.

The reunion of Antwone with his unknown family is a bit too sugary and
sentimental, but of course, if one is to believe that Fisher finds happiness
at last, one has to accept that part of the film as well.
<|_=00=_|>
Every one should see this movie because each one of us is broken in
some way and it may help us realize 1) My life isn't as bad as I
thought it was and 2) How important it is to adopt a child in need.
There are so many out there. To think that the movie was actually based
on a real person made us think deep about life and how the world has
and always will be. Corrupt, but that corruption doesn't have to reach
your home. We all have a choice! Definitely recommend this one... and
while you're at it, I'd like to throw in "The Color Purple" and "Woman,
Thou Art Loosed" by T.D. Jakes.

These are all movies that are based on life and give us a glimpse of
life.
<|_=00=_|>

I was adopted at birth and certainly did NOT have the problems Antwone
fisher had in the movie, but I still share some of the emotions and this
movie really helped to bring them out and force me to deal with them. It
even caused me to realize that I do have a "missing piece" and I am going
to
seek out my birthparents now.

I cried for almost a day after I saw this the first time. Antwone's
confrontation with his birthmother juxtaposed with his father's family's
reaction to his sudden appearance are powerful for those of us who don't
know what will happen if we find our birth parents. And his
self-confidence
and self affirmations to his mother and against the abusers of his past
were
so powerful. I could really identify with this and my need to tell people
"yeah, I was put aside by my parents when I was born. BUT another set of
parents picked me up and loved me. And now I am a success!"

It also helped my wife understand me and our adopted children, who did go
through tragic experiences before they came to our home. And it helped me
to
realize just how messed up our social system is. If you remember reading
the
story last year about the foster kid in Florida who was "lost" AND then
the
"Miranda & Ashley" story in Oregon City where SCF ignored multiple sexual
abuse complaints about the man who ultimately killed them AND the week
this
movie was released, yet another story in New Jersey of three kids who were
ignored by the system. One died. The state apparently thought the home
they
were in was ok because the guardian was employed (as a stripper) and "only
occasionally" used heroin!

There are just so many issues that are brought out in this movie - and
they
are dealt with so well by the script and by the acting that Antwone Fisher
should be a "Best Picture" nominee for sure. No matter if you are adopted
or
not, it is a heart-tugger that can't be ignored by anyone concerned about
children in our society.

<|_=00=_|>

It's Denzel Washington/s debut as a director, and his film does very well in
exploring the moral dilemmas and redemption of his principal character,
Antwone Fisher. Skirting the line between facts and fiction, he addresses
the issues of pains, rage and aspirations of the young man.  The film flows
with a vividly soulful and engaging cinematic pace that is truly
praiseworthy. There are many instances of sentimental exposes that viewers
will find difficult to forget.  The tale floats like an ordinary fare, but
Denzel, the actor, keeps the story in motion as a priceless support to his
refreshingly new protege actor, Derek Luke.  Very cool performance!  With
every step he takes in the scenes, his presence commands the screen! Also,
the heartfelt performance of the 28 year-old actor, Derek Duke, who plays
the adult Antwone ‘Fish' Fisher, is equally awesome. This film does capture
a journey that will keep the audience holding on to the belief that every
human outcast can be saved, given the right guidance. A truly inspirational
film that should be seen by all. 

The story is really formidable and the overall cast is formidably
impressive. The theme of redemption is solidly and beautifully expressed
through the interaction of the characters. The flashback reminders of the
tyrannically abusive past of young Antwoine work well to help explain the
rage, lack of confidence and misbehavior of Antwone Fisher. The on screen
chemistry between Washington's Dr. Davenport and Luke's Antwone, and between
Antwone and  Joy Bryant's Cheryl is captivating.  Novella Nelson's Mrs. Tate
is certainly a terror to meet. I was also impressed by young Cory Hodges'
terrific performance. Overall, the cast presents their characters in a very
believable manner.  I find myself associating some of the characters with
those from the writings of one of my favorite authors, James Baldwin.
Unfortunately, with the exception of the Antwone, the D. Davenport and the
Cheryl characters, many of the talented actors seem to ooze in and out of
sight without solid positioning.  I could sit and watch the melodrama of the
last Thanksgiving scene over and over again. 

The flow of events set forth the pace of behavioral and mental development
of Antwone. They may seemingly appear as events flatly thrown in as mere
excuses to show Antoine's faults, but succeeds in giving reasons and
offering solutions to the problems faced by the Antwone character. I love
the way they are presented, almost in a hurried pace as if to raise
spontaneous questions in the audience's minds as they analyze the young
sailor's attitude! The film does portray a sense of emotional parallel
between Antwone and Davenport, both waiting for the correct moments to burst
out with their hidden deep-rooted emotions. That `poem-reading' session is a
definite highlight of the film. Derek Luke has a unique charismatic charm
that will surely warm the hearts of many. 

This is great family film that expounds on the battle of a man `under a
rock' in his attempt to fight his internal demons. Yep, there are a lot of
visual moments of traumatic pains and sufferings as there are many instances
of emotional victories.  And Mychaela Danna's music scores contribute
wonderfully to the intensity of the moods of characters. Truly an
inspirational film to watch!  Thoroughly enjoyable! 

