

The Muppet franchise has mellowed a bit with age.  MUPPETS FROM SPACE
doesn't have the level of frenetic insanity that occasionally marked the
original syndicated MUPPET SHOW, and it's neither as edgy as, say, the
latest Mike Meyers movie nor as fast-paced as an Indiana Jones
yarn.

But even if it's a little on the laid-back side, its heart is very much in
the right place.  In some ways, this is a direct spiritual sequel to the
original MUPPET MOVIE, focusing this time on Gonzo's origin story rather
than Kermit's.  Where the first film spoofed the "road" comedies and
Westerns, this one spoofs CE3K and MiB (but not, as the title might suggest,
the Star Trek or Star Wars franchises).

It's lighter on the zingy one-liners than MUPPET MOVIE, and longtime Muppet
fans will probably be a bit frustrated at the soundtrack, which relies
almost entirely on borrowed and guested songs rather than musical
performances by the Muppets themselves.  (Note: if you peeked at the
soundtrack album listings first, be advised that "I'm Going to Go Back There
Someday" is NOT in the film.  Should be, darnit, but isn't.)  But there's
some inspired silliness involving lab rats and a wonderfully zany
infiltration of a Secret Government Installation.

All in all, what's here is a very warm and watchable comedy of a kind that's
increasingly hard to find in theaters these days.  And Miss Piggy's karate
is still as dangerous as ever.
I'm looking forward to the next Muppet film already.  (How about a spy
spoof, guys?  "My name is Frog, Kermit the Frog.")

<|_=00=_|>
Good special-effects, funny and likable characters and an interesting
story all made this 1999 'Muppets In Space' movie much better than I
anticipated.

This one featured more of Gonzo and Rizzo, my two favorite characters.
The movie, in fact, centers around Gonzo. Miss Piggy played a lesser
role than normal, which also pleased me. 

A tiny bit too secular-liberal in parts but overall, not offensive and
definitely entertaining. It looks great and sounds good on DVD, too.

Some have said this was the best of the Muppet films and perhaps that's
true. I wouldn't argue.
<|_=00=_|>
That noise you hear is Jim Henson turning in his grave. I agree with
the other comments that this film is nothing like you expect a Muppets
movie to be. Many more adult references than any other Muppet movie and
a lot of scary stuff that I would not take a child to see. There are a
lot more things that a child could misinterpret (including the very
beginning of the movie which shows Noah of the Bible as a cruel man who
leaves Gonzo to die because he's different. Although it's a "dream"
sequence that Gonzo may have "misinterpreted", a child would not make
that distinction but would rather associate Noah and the Bible with
cruelty to a beloved friend.

Even the soundtrack ("Brick House", etc.) are not songs that seem
appropriate for the age group for most Muppet audiences (or the
children parents would bring).

The film may bring some chuckles to some adults, but I would never
bring a child to see it.

All in all it is a very sad reminder that the original genius and charm
of the Muppets is gone.
<|_=00=_|>
There is not enough story but nevertheless the movie is enjoyable but
it simply is also far from great.

I don't know why but for some reason the movie doesn't seem so much fun
as the other Muppet movies. Maybe and probably it's because of the
empty script that focuses too much on Gonzo and not enough on the fun
feeling of the movie that all other Muppet movies do have.

Still the movie is highly enjoyable and it has some great comical
moments that will at least put a smile on you face. And how could you
not laugh at a Muppet movie with so many great, fun and weird
characters. The ones that really steal the show in this movie are Pepe
and Rentro but of course all the other Muppet characters are also more
than funny and great.

Worth watching simply and only because of the Muppet characters and if
you want to have some fun 84 minutes, otherwise you will end up only
disappointed by this lacking movie.

5/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
I love Muppets Treasure Island and Muppets Christmas Carol, mainly
because I love Tim Curry, and Michael Caine was amazing as Scrooge, and
I have always loved the Muppet Movie and Muppets Take Manhatton. In
fact the only Muppet movie I don't really like is Muppets Wizard of Oz.
Muppets From Space, while not as good as the older Muppet movies, is
certainly enjoyable. One thing I didn't particularly like though was
the soundtrack, a bit too 1970s style, and because of this, I was never
too sure what time period the film was supposed to be. The plot of the
film is very original, though you would assume the Muppets went to
space without having read the plot line, and the jokes are funny, if
less inspired than something from the Muppet Movie. It isn't quite true
to the style of the older Muppet movies, but the film does try to and
almost succeeds. The story focuses on Gonzo, and his story was very
heartwarming. Any scene with Miss Piggy who I love is priceless, and
Jeffrey Tambor makes the most of his role as Ed, the paranoid
operative. I also liked the contributions from F.Murray Abraham, Andie
McDowell, The Sweedish Chef and The Bear Sidekick.Nice also to see
Kermit, Rizzo and Fozzie, not to mention Sam the Eagle, in short all
your favourite Muppets, though the best scene is the beginning, not to
mention the sandwich scene. Overall, enjoyable, not their best, but I
do like it. 7/10 Bethany Cox.
<|_=00=_|>
Gonzo is seeing mysterious messages from his alien family. He is
kidnapped by government agents, and the gang has to rescue him.

It's a little dark for a Muppets movie. Jeffrey Tambor is overplaying
the evil agent. The whole tone of Gonzo's incarceration is too evil. It
gets way too serious no matter how much silliness is going on. The
animal testing on Rizzo has some funny moments. Like always, there are
a lot of cameos. I love Miss Piggy fighting Josh Charles. I always love
an angry Miss Piggy. Besides the serious tone, this Muppets movie
sorely misses the traditional song and dance routines. At least, they
end with Celebration, but there are no original songs. It just doesn't
feel like a Muppets movie. I love the gang, and that's all I have to
recommend about this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The best two things I can say about Muppets From Space are: it's nice
to get back to an original Muppet story and…Pepe!! Unfortunately, the
"original" story part of my praise wasn't a great story and was really
over-bloated with mostly failed attempts to give everyone, and I mean
every Muppet, their 15 minutes. It's only 87 minutes and that's a lot
of Muppet ground to cover. That said, the film did the best it could
do. You're just best off knowing the decades-old characters beforehand.

The other pleasantry was Pepe. He quickly became one of my favorites of
all time, and he was brand new. This shrimp, sorry, King Prawn,
okaaaay, stole every scene and rightfully so. He was deliciously – no
pun – funny and had immediate taglines, such as ending practically
every sentence with "okaaaay." The rest of the usual suspects were
funny, but seemed like they kept falling over each other in both
setting – a hundred or so live in the same house – and story. The other
newcomer, Bobo the Bear, didn't live in the house and thank goodness
for him. He was hilarious and a refreshing new character that didn't
get bogged down like the rest of the cast.

Gonzo's getting messages from outer space and barely anyone is free
from their enormously busy schedules to believe him. Who knew being a
Muppet was so time consuming? Not that they would've believed him
anyways; his cereal is one such portal.

The messages are from his own kind, his species that he's been
searching for his whole life, not to mention a feeling of not being one
of a kind anymore. Like most "space" movies, the government gets
involved, this time with comedic overtones – it's the Muppets, after
all.

The gang goes on the mission of saving Gonzo, from what they think is
himself and/or the big-bad government and instead gets caught up with
helping him find true family and awareness.

That's the text-book synopsis. The truth and root of the story does
involve "family" and "belonging" but what adults like me go for is the
humor and warmth we get from watching, once again, our beloved Muppets
from our childhood. You won't be let down on the humor, the slapstick
humor and Miss Piggy's karate chop.

It's recommended for fans, but not necessarily for Muppet virgins. You
should begin with the first three, skipping the Christmas Carol and
Treasure Island – two you can watch later, no rush – and then watch
this.
<|_=00=_|>

Gonzo is tired of being a "whatever." But when his breakfast cereal tells
him to "WATCH THE SKY," then asks him "R U THERE," his Muppet friends start
to worry about his mental state. Meanwhile, the message also catches the
eye
of Ed, the head of a government intelligence agency looking for aliens.
Cute
movie has an excellent beginning song (they all live in a house now?) and
goes nowhere but down in boredom. Cute parodies of CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE
THIRD KIND and INDEPENDENCE DAY can't avoid the annoying 70s sound track
that IS NOT SUNG BY THE MUPPETS!! Two thumbs up for Animal and Pepe, two
thumbs down for not making a more creative movie.
<|_=00=_|>
"Muppets From Space" is not a very good film, though at least it's not
as boring as "The Muppets Take Manhattan"! I know this isn't a glowing
endorsement...but the film is definitely among the least of the Muppet
films.

The plot is all about Gonzo and how no one, including him, knows
exactly WHAT he is or where he came from in the first place! The film
has a really cute prologue with Noah and Gonzo...but after that, it's a
rather inconsequential film about Gonzo being sought by some stupid
(and very clichéd) government agency that thinks he's an alien. It's
rather poorly written--with very few jokes and very little heart.
Additionally, many of the familiar Muppets are absent and in their
place are some very unappealing and poorly designed puppets (a few of
which look really creepy). All in all, a film ONLY for die-hard Muppet
fans--others would best see one of the GOOD Muppet films, such as "The
Muppet Movie", "The Muppets" or "The Muppet Christmas Carol". You know
it's bad when the best thing about this one is the cool 70s R&B
soundtrack!
<|_=00=_|>
To date, I think "Muppets From Space" has been the best of the Muppet
films since the first two, "The Great Muppet Caper" and "The Muppet
Movie". I believe it's the only one where they don't sing (or maybe
they sing very briefly) which is a welcome change of pace. Jeffrey
Tambor is hilarious in this movie, as is his sidekick bear. The shrimp
is kind of annoying, but he gets some good lines every once in awhile.
All the classic Muppets are used to great effect, as usual.

Although some of the magic was lost after Jim Henson died, I prefer
this film over his last theatrical Muppet feature, "Muppets Take
Manhattan". "Muppets From Space" is the only post-Henson project
they've done as yet that recaptures the zany magic of the early films
and the TV show. A must-see for the Muppet-curious of all ages.
