

TIDBIT - Bette Midler was the original choice for the lead in "Sister
Act".

That may have been cute (a Jewish nun?) but in choosing Whoopi, "Sister Act"
gives itself a shot in the arm with an incomparable comic talent and insures
every scene with Deloris/Mary Clarence is a highlight unto itself. 

After witnessing a Mob hit courtesy of her boyfriend (Keitel), casino lounge
singer Whoopi hightails it to her local police where a helpful cop (Nunn)
puts her in the Witness Protection Program and before you can say "holy,
holy, holy", sends her to the last place in the world anyone would think of
finding a second-rate lounge singer. 

Once the church, nuns and choir music with a Motown beat are all introduced,
things pick up steadily.  All the nuns are funny (especially Najimy as the
eternally sunny Sister Mary Patrick) and there are so many good scenes to be
had thereafter (the bar scene, the first choir practice, the blossoming of
Sister Mary Robert (Makkenna), etc.), that you can't help but smile, even if
you're tired of nuns as a springboard for comedy.  

And there's something about the music: the gospel-tinged soul songs like "My
God", "I Will Follow Him" and such lift your spirits and are infectious in
their own right.  The last scene in the movie is quite moving, truth be
told, and lets you in on a secret... God moves in mysterious
ways.

Amen.

Nine stars.  These "Sister"s rock!
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie when it came to video, which I think was in 1993 and
I loved it, though I didn't see it again until a few months ago when it was
on TBS. After seeing it on TBS, I went to the video store and rented it. I
rented it because I am a big Whoopi Goldberg fan and the plot seems more
interesting every time I see it. The cast is fantastic and there are great
performances by Whoopi Goldberg, Maggie Smith, Kathy Najimy, Harvey Keitel,
and Bill Nunn. The movie isn't just full of laughs, but great songs as
well.
Though this is an excellent movie, the sequel SISTER ACT 2: BACK IN THE
HABIT is not nearly as good.
<|_=00=_|>
This is, indeed, a comedy. It is mostly funny, though it won't have
anybody rolling in the aisles. This movie is terrific, but not because
of the acting or directing...what this movie does is demonstrate the
possibility of positive change. If you allow yourself to suspend
disbelief about certain aspects of the plot, you'll discover that you
can relate to and understand the struggles the sisters go through. They
are universal--every human being has been in some dysfunctional, stuck
or dying organization. Everybody knows what it feels like, and
everybody wishes that they could do something about it. 

I think every member of every church, synagogue, mosque, house of
worship, civic organization, school, committee, and/or organization of
any kind should be tied to a chair and made to watch this movie. It's a
paean to possibility, and a wonderful encouragement to those who
believe that life could be better than it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Starring: Whoopi Goldberg, Maggie Smith, Harvey Keitel The nineties
were an interesting time for movies to be made. This is hardly a
spectacular film, but it is certainly amusing, and there are far worse
things you can waste your time on. Like cable.

The plot of the movie is fairly basic. Delores VanCartier (Goldberg) is
a lounge singer with a married lover who happens to be a drug dealer
and other crime related stuff. Delores decides that she's going to
leave Vince (Keitel), but when she goes to give him back the jacket he
gave her and say goodbye, she happens to walk in right as Vince is
getting his goons to shoot his less than loyal limo driver. Oddly
enough, Delores runs like the dickens, basically straight to the police
station.

Apparently it will take about two months for a trial date, so until
that time, one of the officers hides Delores in a place that Vince
would never look for her. A convent. Delores, an off colour black woman
with a racy past, ends up pretending to be a nun. The Reverend Mother
of the convent (Smith) is slightly less than thrilled at the prospect
of having Delores stay with them, but the police do make a substantial
donation to compensate them for their kindness.

After a long period of not fitting in anywhere in the convent, the
Reverend Mother finally decides to put Delores in the choir. Delores
brings her musical talent to the table, and the once atrocious choir at
the convent starts to get a little bit better. Then a lot better.
Eventually they are ready to sing in mass, and when they do sing, the
rest of the nuns just look back and forth at each other as if they
can't believe their ears. You can almost hear the thoughts streaming
through their minds: "THIS can NOT be the same choir!" But rather than
just sing traditional hymns, Delores jazzes things up a little bit and
puts some twists into a few old favorites. This doesn't exactly thrill
the Reverend Mother, but since it does bring people from the streets
into the mass services, she can hardly object.

The convent gains popularity, the crowds start pouring in, and the once
backwards convent starts to right itself, thanks to Delores. However,
since there is a leak in the police station, Vince eventually finds out
where Delores is hiding and goes to find her.

The rest of the movie plays out in a fairly standard manner, but it
still highly amusing. Like I said before, not an Academy Award winning
flick, but a good way to kill an hour and a half without having to
think too hard.

Bottom Line: 3 out of 4 (worth a look)
<|_=00=_|>
Whoopi Goldberg is one of my favourite comediennes, and always strikes
me as the female equivalent of Eddie Murphy. She can really make a part
her own, from a charlatan psychic in Ghost, to her role in Sister Act.

Whoopi plays Delores Van Cartier, a lounge singer from Las Vegas. A
very unsuccessful one too, something that she knows all too well. Her
Mobster boyfriend Vince LaRocca (Harvey Keitel) kills one of his
cronies, and Delores has the bad luck of being a witness. Forced to go
on the run, the police put her in the last place Vince would ever think
to look for her before she can testify against him. A convent!

Now assuming the identity of a nun (Sister Mary Clarence), the only one
who knows Delores' true identity is the Mother Superior (Maggie Smith
in a terrific role). Needless to say, they don't hit it off. Delores is
miserable, and the Mother Superior considers her brash presence a
disruption to the convent.

However, Delores manages to have quite an impact on the rest of the
convent, especially the choir. She makes friends with the terminally
cheerful Sister Mary Patrick (Kathy Najimy) and the mousy Sister Mary
Robert (Wendy Makkena).

Delores manages to turn the choir from a tone deaf group into a bunch
of swinging sisters! Opening the doors of the church to the public, the
convent becomes a big hit, much to the disapproval of the Mother
Superior, who prefers the traditional ways. The new-found popularity of
the convent also exposes Delores to Vince, putting her in danger.

At first glance, Sister Act seems a little clichéd. There are a lot of
stereotyped characters. Delores as the unconventional newcomer who
shakes up the establishment, the Mother Superior who is adverse to
change, Sister Mary Robert as the shy nun who finds confidence when she
discovers she has a wonderful singing voice and so on.

Because it has a great cast, the film rises above most clichés. Whoopi
is great to watch when teaching the nuns to sing My God instead of My
Guy. Her verbal sparring with Maggie Smith is good too. Maggie Smith
manages to inject a great deal of much needed depth into her thinly
written character. Her concerns about the sisters' naiveté in the
outside world are not altogether wrong.

Kathy Najimy is wonderfully funny as the nun with a sunny disposition.
She gets a lot of memorable lines, especially my personal favourite
one:

"I guess I've always been upbeat, optimistic, perky. My mother used to
say that girl is pure sunshine. She'll either grow up to be a nun, or a
stewardess. Coffee?"

Wendy Makkena is great as Sister Mary Robert. She's actually a
surprisingly sexy screen presence. So sweet and innocent, but as her
confidence builds an edge creeps into her character and she becomes
almost irresistible. Her happiness is very infectious. She makes a good
trio with Whoopi and Kathy Najimy, and she's always a joy to watch in
the choir. Although it's not her belting out those numbers, I still get
a feeling of well-being whenever I watch those scenes.

Mary Wickes also puts in a good appearance as the stern Sister Mary
Lazarus. She gets a lot of great one liners, and her timing is spot on.
She manages to establish a fine rapport with any of the other
characters without robbing them of their screen time. Overall, Sister
Act has a fine ensemble cast.

Harvey Keitel is adequate, but his part feels inconsequential when
compared to the others. He takes centre stage towards the end, and that
damages the finale of the film a little. It becomes more daft towards
the climax with the convent scouring Las Vegas for Delores, but
fortunately recovers when they give a concert for the Pope.

The best parts of the film are the nun's musical numbers, because it
doesn't feel in any way blasphemous. It makes you want to rejoice along
with the rest of the choir, and their enthusiasm feels very infectious.
Overall, I found Sister Act to be a lot of fun and makes you feel good
in the process. 

Pity Sister Act 2 didn't make you feel the same way.
<|_=00=_|>
I think sister act is fantastic! Whoopie Goldberg does a terrific job
as playing sister Mary Clarence, but i think what makes the movie is
Wendy Makkenna in playing sister Mary Robert. She has a fantastic voice
and is entertaining, i love the way in which at the beginning she's shy
then through gaining confidence in her singing she turns into a diva
although through sister act and sister act 2 she's timid and very light
hearted and this is what makes me love her more! Also the way in which
she is easy to watch and is very pretty, so i think. Wendy Makkenna
(Mary Robert) makes me want to watch the movie over and over again.

Vicky
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great movie.  It is light, interesting, funny, and - well, just
great.  The plot is not extremely predictable, though you can tell what
could happen after a while.  All the characters were entertaining.  The
night club scene with Mary Roberts, Mary Clarence, and Kathy Najimy's
character was great... as was the scene where Delores becomes Mary
Clarence
and the nuns in church here her yell at Mother Superior because of the
wardrobe.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first watched Sister Act all those years ago (1993) I remember
thinking to myself that it wasn't a great film, at that point in time I
would have given it 4/10. However, on Sunday 13th March 2005 I noticed
that Sister Act was on TV and because I wasn't doing a lot I decided to
watch it and I'm glad I did because it was AWESOME... 

I thought that all the characters played off each other brilliantly,
which made the film more enjoyable to watch.

I believe that the best character is Sister Mary Robert (Wendy Makkena)
because of the way she starts of shy and mousy but then gains
confidant's through her AWESOME singing and blossoms into a more fun
and upbeat character. I think that Mary Robert is very entertaining and
easy to watch! I find myself watching the choir scenes over and over
because Mary Robert's performances are just AWESOME! 

The combination of the characters, the music, the storyline and Mary
Robert just make Sister Act an AWESOME smash hit comedy that should be
seen at least once! 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Referencing two movies about people on the run from gangsters, NUNS ON
THE RUN and most notable SOME LIKE IT HOT, this time SISTER ACT flips
the genders and makes its central character a lounge singer named
Delores vanCartier who has an apparent knack for getting herself into
some pretty heavy situations. As seen in the first reel, she's one of
those girls whom we know somewhere along the line they will wind up in
the wrong side of the tracks. In the next shot, our predictions are
made true when we see her performing for peanuts in a Reno lounge act
doing covers for old Motown songs. What she doesn't realize is that she
will sing those same songs, but in a totally different, more religious
context.

This is the setup that Emile Ardolino in one of his final films brings
to the screen, and it's one that is genuine entertainment if you don't
want too much analysis of a cinematic nature. Even though the story is
more or less a retread and has the look and the feel of a thousand
movies we've seen before, there is an honesty in the performances and
the handling of the material even when at times it can be seen as a
vehicle for Whoopi Goldberg. Her introduction to the sisters is a total
hoot, and much of Maggie's Smith's best lines and facial expressions
conveying her inability to handle this kind of situation are found here
as well as Kathy Najimy's ability to steal scenes as the perpetually
optimistic Sister Mary Robert. The script allows for these characters
to also grow and not just be foils to Goldberg: Ruth McKenna literally
finds her voice and Kathy Najimy just shines. Even Maggie Smith's
Mother Superior, with her cool, icy exterior, shows that she's also
human and not just a walking religious image.

A surprise hit when it was released in 1992, SISTER ACT spawned a much
less successful sequel, SISTER ACT: BACK IN THE HABIT, which proved
that if it isn't broken, why fix it. A clever movie, maybe a little too
pedestrian in its filmed images but laugh-out-loud funny as well as
surprisingly thoughtful at its conclusion.
<|_=00=_|>
Sister Act 

Deloris Van Cartier (Whoopi Goldberg) is a lounge singer at a
successful Reno casino, and is also the mistress of its manager, Vince
LaRocca (a lazy Harvey Keitel), a drugs baron. Feeling unloved, she
finally decides to quit her job at the casino and split up with Vince
when he gives her his wife's old fur coat as a present. But then
Deloris accidentally walks in on Vince dispatching one of his snitch
employees, and literally has to make a run for her life. Taking refuge
with the police, she discovers that she is required to testify in court
when Vince is charged for his dirty deeds. But until then, the police
arrange for her to hide out at a nunnery in Chicago, overseen by the
Mother Superior (Maggie Smith). As Deloris reluctantly adapts to her
new lifestyle as Sister Mary Clarence, she strikes up friendships with
the unsuspecting nuns at the monastery, and even finds a way to put her
singing skills to good use. But wherever she goes, Vince is never far
behind 

The above plot synopsis is likely to imply to the unknowing that
'Sister Act' is a "woman in jeopardy" thriller, when actually it's the
complete opposite. The creators of the film seem to have designed a
worthy fish-out-of-water comedy, and then simply used the bookends of
the film as window dressing. It's all the story you need, though, when
you have Whoopi Goldberg in the lead.

I've always had a preferment to Goldberg's shockingly underused skills
as a dramatic actress, but her funny act can make virtually any film
enjoyable. This is one of them. However, this being a family film, the
climax is slightly underwhelming, and seems to be trying to be funny
that actually letting off tension. But 'Sister Act' is a decent comedy
regardless.

~ 7/10 ~
