

Funny, absorbing and smart movie about a no-budget film and the people
trying to make it.  The movie plays around with reality and dreams without
getting too obscure or serious.  It's well-done, well-acted (one of those
rare movies where the entire cast is great), very funny and very smart.
Naturally, this bombed...it was TOO intelligent for mainstream audiences
and
how do you market a film like this.  But it plays on IFC all the time and
it's basically one of the best films of its year and one of the best on
the
art of films and filmmaking.  If you even slightly like movies, you have
to
see this.  Don't miss it!
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of my favorite movies and it aggravates me that it's the kind
of
movie that always seems to slip through the cracks. In other words, nobody
watched it. It's hilariously funny and yet the public in general don't
either get it or find it funny. I not only laughed a lot but found the
acting to be excellent.
Buscemi's performance of a Indi' film director going through the rigors of
dealing with inept film crew, egotistical actor's, in-crew relationships
and
not to mention a certain dwarf with a major chip on his shoulder. If you
are
a film buff and know a little more than most about movie's rent it. 10 out
of 9

<|_=00=_|>

For all of us who have worked on a film production before, watching Living
in Oblivion is an honor and an enjoyment. For once you have experienced what
it is like to work in that kind of atmosphere with that group of people, you
accept it even more.
A story about a director making a movie, Living in Oblivion holds many true
tidbits and crazy moments that occur regularly on a film shoot. The
relationship between the director and the D of P, the treatment of the
actors between the other actors and the crew, and most importantly, how a
director holds himself with one member of the production with
another.
Altogether, you got an amazing film that tells it like it is. A pure, a true
enjoyment.
<|_=00=_|>

Living In Oblivion is a mad-cap, zany, and often surprising film about
everything that can go wrong while making an independent film.  Superbly
acted by the entire cast, especially Buscemi, Keener, Martens, and Mulrony,
the movie is full of twists and turns that keep you longing for more.  Tom
DiCillo's wit and humor are outrageous in the best sense.  Beware, however.
The movie is full of well-used and perfectly-placed profanity.  Not for the
weak at heart where such language is concerned.  If you've got the stomach
for good, solid funny times with lots of 'off'  words, this one will do it
for you.  I give it a "10".  I've seen it more than 3 times and its humor
holds through each viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

"Living in Oblivion" is one of your video store's coolest secrets.
Writer-director Tom Dicillo takes a satiric look at independent films while
capturing the ups and downs of making a movie. For the cast and crew of the
film within this film, the downs hilariously outnumber the
ups.

Steve Buscemi shines in an all-too-rare lead role as the frustrated
director. There's also great work by James LeGros as the pompous leading
man, Catherine Keener as the insecure leading lady, and Dermot Mulroney as
the broken-hearted cinematographer.

Dicillo is especially concerned with the nightmares and daydreams of his
characters, and rightly adopts a dreamy visual style that shifts between
black and white and color.

It all adds up to an uncommonly intelligent, artistic, and funny(!) comedy
that deserves your attention.
<|_=00=_|>

This film captures the true essence of the stresses involved on a film
set. The story is about the characters involved in the process rather
than the film-within-a-film. While the film is funny it is so close to
the bone that I was initially surprised to see it appear in the comedy
section.

Steve Buscemi is right at home in this film, his influence rubs off on
the support actors, and his stress is convincing. This film makes you
squirm but laugh - unlike conventional comedies - in this film you
identify and live with the actors.

The screenplay timing is superb and taunts the audience to an almost
stressful level. Offset this with lots of comedy and you're left with a
powerful mix. You are almost relieved when it is over... but you are
left with great memories of a strange but enjoyable film.

Absolutely the highest possible recommendation, especially if you can
relate to film making, acting or directing.

<|_=00=_|>
Steve Buscemi may or may not have been the first choice by
writer/director Tom DiCillo for the lead role of Nick, the director
behind the three (err, one) film(s) being made within the film Living
in Oblivion, but it works so well it's impossible to see anyone else in
the role. Buscemi, who is one of the prime character actors of the past
fifteen years, has that range of being grounded, of being out of
control, of being funny, and of being sincere even in the strangest
circumstances. His character, as the quintessential indie film director
of the film, tries to keep some control on what goes on, but as is
seen, things don't go quite as planned.

Living in Oblivion is one of those little delights for a film buff to
see, or perhaps of a particular film buff. On a personal level I
connect with some of this as I was a production assistant on indie
films that were not far off from this. DiCillo, whether or not you've
been in situations like this (which most of us haven't) brilliantly
captures the coldness on a set, the uncomfortableness, the technical
difficulties, and just the plain old emotional toll that goes on with
the film-making process (notably, when it's under a million dollars
being made). That it's a comedy of errors helps a lot, and that you
never really know which way the story will turn at times. The film is
split up in three acts, the first (for me) being the strongest and most
affecting, as Nick tries to direct Catherine Keener's Nicole Springer
in a heartfelt talk with her mother. Multiple takes bring on more woes,
until Nick finally snaps (one of the funniest scenes perhaps in any
film from the 90's). The other two segments come closer to being as
great, one being a slick scene involving a buff man and Nicole, and the
other being a very strange dream that has some kinks to work out.

I've seen this film now several times, and the first time my enjoyment
was more in the surface comedy of it all, and of course the
performances. But with each passing view I get more and more what
film-making, and what makes 'indie films' or just films in general, so
appealing- there's drama, but there has to be some humor to get in the
seams; there's romance, but not always in the ways you'd expect; when
it's realer, more power to it. The ending also, while maybe the weaker
part of the film, is still charming, and gives an idea as to what
pleasures can come from such chaos on the set. I love it.
<|_=00=_|>
The Sundance film festival award winning comedy film depicts the
process of making an independent/student film quite cleverly. Yet
another "A movie about making a movie" sub-genre, written and directed
by Tom DiCillo, I believe it his best film yet.

Sliced into three parts, the movie features the difficulties of
film-making through the character's dreams. Yet, what is dream and what
is real, you don't realize till they wake up.

Buscemi plays Nick Reve (Reve in french means Dream), the frustrated
"trying to get it right" director, and you know by Murphy's Law that
when he shouts "ACTION!" something will go wrong. It is amusing yet
almost annoying as we get to be frustrated with Buscemi's character,
and after that, it appears that it was just a dream.

The character of the arrogant actor Chad Palamino played by James
LeGros, resembles Brat Pitt in appearance. It is said that Pitt was
cast for this role, and since he was busy with another project, LeGros
was chosen. Some say that Palamino's character might be Tom DiCillo's
way of portraying Pitt's behavior on the set of his debut film "Johnny
Suede" in 1991. Dicillo denies it. 

The pearls of this film:

* The scene where Palamino shouts "The only reason I took this part was
because someone said you were tight with Quentin Tarantino!", which is
a role model for success in the indie film industry since Tarantino is
the recent indie filmmaker that became a star director. 

* The transition from monochrome to color and vice-versa as a
difference between reality and film reality, a lovely gimmick.

* The 30 second "Room Tone" scene, where everybody is fantasizing about
their life dream. 

This film is a treat for filmmakers and in general a "fun" film. People
who are not filmmakers will enjoy this film as well. The film is only
91 minutes and I wanted more. I give this movie 10/10 and just because
it is so underrated in the majority of movie rating websites.
<|_=00=_|>

Living in Oblivion is an unusual, funny, and interesting example of the
movie-about-movies genre, focusing on the low budget, independent movie
making scene. The lead performances by Steve Buscemi and Catherine Keener
are first-rate, and the supporting cast is excellent as well. The film
veers
from satire to realism to surrealism in depicting the problems and
tensions
involved in off-off-Hollywood filmmaking. One problem with its structure,
though, is the repeated "dream trick." Its first use creates shock and
interest, but its second use creates a serious distraction in the third
act
since the viewer keeps wondering whose dream he or she may be in this
time.
Overall, an enjoyable film - highly recommended to indie film buffs.

<|_=00=_|>
"Living in Oblivion" (1995) - is a 91 minutes long low-budget
independent movie about trials and tribulations during making a low
budget independent movie called.. "Living in Oblivion". Writer-director
Tom DiCillo made in 1991 a film called "Johnny Suede" starring a young
and unknown at the time actor named Brad Pitt. "Johnny Suede" was a
failure with both critics and viewers but an artist can learn from any
experience however disappointing or devastating it is. DiCillo wrote a
short story from his frustration and turned his experience into a
smart, funny, playful, and highly enjoyable second feature "Living in
Oblivion" that takes place during one day of shooting a low budget
film. Photographed with the color-to-black-and-white transitions,
"Living in Oblivions" has surreal, strangely poetic and amusing quality
to it.

The cast is solid and consists of DiCillo's friends who are the
regulars in his films. Steve Buscemi, the king of independent movies,
in the rare starring role, plays Nick Reve, a long-haired, dedicated
but frustrated director who in the moments of creative inspiration has
to get back to earth and to deal with the tensions between his leading
lady (Catherine Keener, before her star-making turn in "Being John
Malkovich" but already a wonderfully talented beautiful and sexy
actress) with whom he is silently in love and the male star, arrogant
egotist Chad Palomino (James LeGros does an un-flattering but hilarious
and quite accurate impersonation of the real life model for Chad). If
these problems are not enough, there is eye-patch wearing sensitive
leather-clad cameraman named Wolf (Dermot Mulroney) who went through a
painful break-up right on the set. There is a great scene with an
irritated dwarf Tito (Peter Dinklage) who was hired for a dream
sequence and who hates dreams with the dwarfs in them: "Have you ever
had a dream with a dwarf in it? Do you know anyone who's had a dream
with a dwarf in it? No! I don't even have dreams with dwarfs in them.
The only place I've seen dwarfs in dreams is in stupid movies like
this!" There is also a smoke machine that explodes every time when
turned on...And to top it all, Nick's senile mother surprisingly shows
up during the shot and eventually saves the dream sequence and the
movie. That's what the mothers are for, aren't they?
