
Buffy the vampire slayer is not a terrific film. It is not the type of
cinema that leaves you breathless and reeling, nor is it the type of
cinema that idles at first creeps through your dreams with pervasive
intensity. No, this is Time Capsule Cinema, a voyage to the neon
panoply of early 90's California in the self described "Lite Age."

Kristy Swanson is lovely as the wise cracking eponymous star, nicely
alternating between clinical sarcasm and tenderness in what is,
essentially, a limited role. Donald Sutherland and Rutger Howard are
hilarious as ancient figures who just happen to be hip to the slangy
nature of late 20th century teen dialog. Luke Perry, David Arquette and
Hillary Swank (far from her best role, but my favorite film of hers!)
and a few others are fine as the assemblage of irreverent teenagers,
eye rolling to the max! A highlight of the film is Stephen Root,
playing the principal, regaling Buffy with a cautionary tale of his
experiences with LSD in the 60's..."I was at a Doobie Brothers
concert..."

Oh, and by the way, that's PEE WEE FREAKIN HERMAN as the fanged creep
Lefty. Boy he got outta jail just soon enough. Paul Ruebens is
phenomenal, of course, and it may be his presence that allows me to
shamelessly enjoy the rest of the film through my rose colored glasses
of guilty nostalgia!

Too many serious films reek of Los Angeles- you can almost taste the
soy burgers and smog- when they take place elsewhere. This makes it
difficult to differentiate the cast of actors from the characters they
are paid to represent. This film revels in LA's lack of charm and
sophistication. I half expected an In-N-Out Burger commercial to pop up
half way through. Not enough comedies are as unselfconscious as this
one, content to poke fun at themselves till the vampires come home!

7*/10 CAMPY FUN
<|_=00=_|>

First off I have to say my review of this movie may be somewhat coloured by
my adoration of the television series. Despite sharing a few superficial
elements - a character called Buffy who slays vampires and who has a watcher
- the two are quite distinctive (even if Joss Whedon penned them
both).

"Buffy" here is very much played with a tongue-in-cheek. It's Clueless meets
Dracula. Buffy and her cohorts are shallower than an evaporated puddle and
Buffy can only learn to grow up when heaped with the responsibility of being
the Chosen One, destined to slay vampires. The vampires in question are just
people with white faces played up in quite a camp manner and bare little
resemblance to the sharp, wise, smart vampires favored by both the TV series
and other movies.

There's no acting of any note and the plot is wet-paper thin. The direction
isn't memorable... so what stops the movie getting a 0 or a 1? The humour.
The movie is played for laughs, taking a bit of a dig at pop culture and
vampire lore. There's some great lines in it - particularly the "kill him A
LOT!" line. Watch the coach at the basketball game for similar humour, and
there is an unforgettable vampire staking towards the movie end that's very
amusing.

The movie looks like it was shot on a shoe-string budget (adding to the camp
tongue-in-cheek parody feel) and has none of the production values we'd see
Whedon employ later on. What it does have is a sometimes very amusing line
in black humour offset somewhat by an irritating need to follow the
"Clueless" mould of teenagers (which was, admittedly, the trend at the
time). It's not an awfully bad movie but it's not really all that good. In
the end it's a 5.5/10 from me.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't believe other reviewers called this moving "boring and
idiotic". Um...hello...what were they expecting, a serious,
contemplative piece of cinema? It's completely silly, as it's supposed
to be. If it wasn't good, would it have inspired a (far inferior, in my
opinion) television spin off? Watch it with no expectations. You'll be
impressed. Kirsty Swanson does that Alicia Silverstone in "Clueless"
thing perfectly. My friends and I have made it a ritual to watch this
movie every couple months with a bottle of wine and a big bowl of
popcorn. Nothing better on a rainy night. Don't listen to the bozos who
said this isn't worth seeing. It's hilarious, trust me.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie.  I'd seen it waaaaay before the series was a twinkle
in
anyone's eye.  This film is built for total entertainment and some of the
dialog is the best around just because it is so ridiculous.

When the series started, I couldn't believe it was soo dark and brooding.
I
figured I'd never watch it because it was not faithful to the movie.
Well,
I did start watching it and now I can say I get great satisfaction out of
both Buffy entities.
For those of you who are avid (or rabid) viewers of the series and are
thinking about watching the movie beware that it is absolutely NOTHING
like
the series.  If you are hoping for something that is like the TV series,
you
are bound for disappointment.
Just let go of your expectations and you will find lots of humor and
pleasantness in Buffy (the movie).

And remember....Pike's not a name....it's a fish.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a terribly fun movie. The acting is deliberately over the top and
does quite well. Everyone from Swanson to Perry to Reubens to Stephen Root
does an excellent job. I don't understand people who didn't like this -
it's
simply fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie back in 1992 when it was first released, and I
thought it was good campy fun, nothing more. When I began watching
Buffy the Vampire Slayer the TV series, and saw Joss Whedon's true
vision for the story, I realize he must have been furious at how the
studio basically rewrote his script. If you are a Buffy fan and you
have never seen the movie, it is worthwhile from a historical
standpoint to see all of the contrasts.

The movie's Buffy, played by Kristy Swanson, is a tall large girl as
opposed to Sarah Michelle Gellar's petite Buffy. In the movie, Buffy's
mother is a boozing socialite with little time or patience for Buffy
and their family appears affluent, as opposed to TV's all-American
middle-class mom Joyce. Also in the movie, all victims of vampires
become vampires themselves and when vampires are "staked" they do not
turn to dust as they do in the series, but leave behind a pesky corpse.
Of course, the watcher who first tells Buffy of her calling is not the
Giles of the series, but regardless of that, he does not have any of
the characteristics of a watcher as we have come to know them on the
series. Also, the lead vampire, played by Rutger Hauer, is not the
least bit scary. Instead he is more like a villain out of the equally
campy Batman TV series.

There is also no mention of vampires lacking a soul. There are a few
moments in the movie, though, that have at least the ring of Whedon's
brand of humor. What comes to my mind in that category is after Buffy
has staked a large number of teen vampires that have invaded her high
school dance, the principal is going around putting detention slips on
all of the staked teen vampires' corpses as punishment for disrupting
the event. This seems very much like something principal Snyder of
Sunnydale high school would have done.
<|_=00=_|>

I am a big fan of all movies that portray ditzy blonds as the heroes,
showing the world just how much we can do! I really enjoyed Buffy,
especially since I am not a big horror fan and this movie lightened the
scare with humor! I think that Kristy Swanson is a great heroine for
bumbling blonds! She is a modern day Jean Arthur!
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit right now that I've never seen the TV series, so I
don't know all the differences/improvements and whatever else that was
done when the film was translated from the big screen to the small
screen.

Why do I bring that up? Because I happen to like this movie as a bit of
fun popcorn fluff, but reading the posts and other reviews you'd think
some people were expecting a vampire genred "Citizen Kane". But,
whatever. 

The film is essentially a tongue in cheek vampire film with an action
and role reversal twist. There's not much else here. We've got some
marquis players in the thing starting with Donald Sutherland as the
world weary trainer, Rutger Hauer as the upper crusted monster from
Slovak nobility, to TV's then very popular Luke Perry, the guy who
plays a little role reversal with Kristy Swanson's character.

It's essentially boy meets girl meets vampires kind of film. It's a bit
of a coming of age film where the main characters either evolve and
learn to deal with the hardships of real life monsters, or wind up
being certifiable.

Beyond that it's just a fun film to watch. There's some adventure, some
romance, a few laughs, some horror, and some action. Imagine the
cheerleader you had a crush on in high school turning into Rambo for
the paranormal. That's pretty much what Buffy's all about.

Pop it in to the old DVD player and enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my favorite movies. It's full of extremely clever
one-liners that I never get tired of. "Oh, yeah? Clap!" The main
character acts like a brainless bimbo but, if you pay attention, the
movie gives you subtle hints she's a lot smarter than she lets on.
Acting brainless is a little social camouflage so she fits in with her
airhead friends.

It's fun to watch everyone playing it way over the top: Rutger Hauer is
the perfect creepy head vampire, Paul Reubens seems to relish his role
as the main vampire henchman, and Donald Sutherland delivers yet
another quirky performance in a career full of quirky performances.

Oh, and watch for a fairly obvious continuity error about, maybe,
halfway through.
<|_=00=_|>

It's a real shame that more people dont see this movie for the gem that it
is.  People see it and brand it as stupid, when they should just sit back
and enjoy it for all its touching, funny, campy greatness.  Totally
different from the TV show, but they are both great!  And this movie gets a
big plus for having Hilary Swank (Boy's Don't Cry) in it.
