

We screened this movie in a club as an example of how classic literature
can
become twisted into some of the most awful movies of all time. Just the
fact
that the back of the box proudly proclaimed the plot to be set in the
"techno-futile" future should have been enough of a hint. I think that
word
describes the movie itself, because no matter how much technology they
tried
to use to save this movie, the effort was completely futile. Not to
mention
that our club advisor told us that it allegedly couldn't get a distributor
for two years.

This cinematic failure is littered with cheesy, cliche dialogue that's
worse
than angsty teen poetry. Beowulf's character changes halfway through in a
way that is in no way credible, and whenever he's in an action scene, he's
constantly flipping like a hyper gymnast. There is even, as they say, a
"token black guy" whose attempts at humor are completely out of place.
And,
of course, the daughter of the leader of the outpost Grendel is
terrorizing
is a total vixen. A vixen whose breasts are exposed throughout the entire
movie. A vixen who wants to fight the creature, yet she never puts on
armor.
And her weapon of choice is a little carving knife. And despite their dire
situation, she still dresses up for dinner, in a dress with a see-through
skirt that exposes her short-shorts underwear. There are a couple scenes
that could pass as soft core pornography, and in the second scene they
even
reuse footage from the first. I thought the portrayal of Grendel was bad
enough, but then came the end of the film, which featured a display of CGI
that might be decent for the 80s, but is totally ridiculous for a late 90s
venture. I could go on, but you all should watch this film for the fully
laughable effect yourselves.

The other club members and I did manage to have fun watching this by
taking
a cue from MST 3K and mocking it the whole way through. I'm still reeling
from an extra's weapon: a perpetually spinning pizza cutter on a
pole.
<|_=00=_|>
Honestly, without looking at the production details, I would never have
guessed this film wasn't made in the eighties. It's so eighties I feel
it perfectly epitomizes the beloved "'80s action B-movie" genre despite
being made a full decade too late. And knowing the extremes B-movies
actually from the eighties can go to, that's saying A LOT.

It has Chris Lambert playing Billy Idol in a long black leather coat
playing Beowulf; Rhona Mitra, "The original model behind Lara Croft in
Tomb Raider!"; the kind of ingenious/insane mix of pseudo-medieval,
post-apocalyptic and modern fashion and technology I haven't seen since
Knights (and that's another one for the B-movie history books); a
rather nice, if forgettable, techno soundtrack; more somersaults than
you can shake a lever-action clockwork sword at; and Grendel's HOT
MOMMA!

I think Beowulf would have approved. It gets the attitude right, and
that's what counts - to quote the poem, Chapter IX, "Me thus often the
evil monsters/ Thronging threatened. With thrust of my sword,/ The
darling, I dealt them due return!" (The full text of Beowulf is
available at http://www.humanities.mcmaster.ca/~beowulf/ )

And, by the way, let's not forget that dirty little chuckle Lambert has
perfected. I loved it when he played Raiden in Mortal Kombat, and I
absolutely love it here.
<|_=00=_|>

I've heard many things about Beowulf, maybe because i'm from Romania and a
good part of the movie was filmed here, in my country. And i expected a lot
from this film. At the end, i was disappointed.
It is not as horrible as other users said, but it's definetely bad. It's all
about a monster killing people in a 6th century castle and Lambert the one
who comes to kill him.
Lambert is good, as he is in all his roles, but the rest of the characters
suck, and the action isn't too good either. Plus maybe the only thing that
could've saved this film, the special effects, are also very bad, the
monster looks awful (not scary, but awful).
Oh and another bad thing: the music. The movie tries, and manages to create
the 6th century atmosphere. But all the action sequences are presented on
rock music, which is very very bad. I mean action on rock works perfectly on
a movie like Charlie's Angels - where that's the perfect way to shoot your
action. But here, that was a very bad idea.

Vote: 4 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
The future of fantasy never looked so dark! Christopher Lambert gets to
fight the evil demon Grendel in this grim looking trashy fantasy-epos.
"Epos" I said? Er... there's only one location, so you can't really
call it an epic adventure, can you? The location is a
medieval/futuristic 5 inch tall castle, so how did they manage to cram
in all the actors? Oh, I get it, those where special effects. A
miniature. Silly me.

Here's some reasons why you might want or NOT want to watch this motion
picture:

- Lambert gets to do his sword-swinging tricks over again like he did
in Highlander.

- The sets and costumes are amazingly cool (if you're a 12-year-old).

- Rhona Mitra has a voluptuous pair of knockers which she likes to show
off through-out the whole movie.

- ...er, Christopher Lambert has white hair...

- Every time they start fighting, this over-the-top raving
techno-soundtrack gets going. So why are these medieval slayer-dudes
fighting while they should be dancing.

- They don't have electricity in this castle but they do have speakers
installed which seem to work fine. So where's the amplifier? I guess
they borrowed it from the techno-dj who delivered the soundtrack.

- Watch it for the climax in the end which features an outrageous
demonoïd CGI creature coming straight out of any Playstation 2
survival-horror game.

If all this got you interested, then go watch it (at your own risk),
but don't tell anyone I told you to. I strongly suspect Pinhead
visiting the set while shooting, because this movie has no soul.
Anyway, if you want to see beautiful Rohna Mitra really show some skin,
then watch Paul Verhoeven's HOLLOW MAN.
<|_=00=_|>
As an avid reader of the poem Beowulf, I was shocked to hear that so
few people liked the movie. Granted it had a few glitches and the
portrayal of Beowulf in an almost modern nature, I admit, did not make
me want to watch it at first. But I finally did sit down and watch
Beowulf. The way that Mr. Lambert and his fellow actors portrayed their
parts were superb. Grendel and Beowulf. I think, would be terribly hard
to portray. But it was well done. The setting that I was so worried
about added to the story in a way that I never could have understood
before seeing it. I was very pleased with directing, acting and stunts.
I was mostly pleased with the way that Grendel was portrayed. But as
said before, other than a few glitches and the artistic freedom that
all directors take, it was an all in all good movie.
<|_=00=_|>

When i rented this movie a couple of nights ago i expected to see just
what
i saw so i can´t blame anyone but myself. This movie is pretty weird
really.
It´s a sort of neo-fantasy movie with knights living in a castle with
steam-engines, body-bags with zippers and rotating chainsaw-weapons. A
strange mix to say the least. But i could have lived with
that.

The problem with this movie is not with the scenery which is pretty ok,
it´s
not with the special effects which are ok. It´s rather with the total lack
of a plot, the lack of good action coreography and last but definetly not
least the lack of good acting! The actors in this movie where horrible...
Of
course Christopher Lambert was his usual non-inspired boring self, but all
the other actors were also stiff and boring. The monster was actually the
most interesting character... The monster was at least pretty good with a
nice look. But that couldn´t save this movie in any way. Also a note at
the
music which wasn´t all bad, it just shouldn´t have been in this movie. In
a
fantasy movie i don´t want to hear a pumping techno-track, not even in a
neo-fantasy movie!

All things considered i think this was a cheap, not very exciting and very
forgettable movie. It may thrill a lot of 12-year olds, but for the rest
of
the people i recommend something with a bit more style, plot and acting. I
rate this a 3/10 for trying.
<|_=00=_|>

I love these b genre movies.  I won't give them a ten, since they do lack
something on the artistic side, but they're great to watch.  Sword fights,
acrobatics, bare-chested women...everything needed for a good b movie.
Add
in a semi-literary plot (the name Grendel is only mentioned once) and a
few
references to the poem.  I liked the misty halls and how the siege camp's
fires extended off into the distance--can you say dragon?  I give it a
9.
<|_=00=_|>

`Beowulf' is a theatrical release that went straight-to-video in the United
States because of some complications involving distributing. It was picked
up by Mirimax around the same time `The 13th Warrior,' the other recent
interpretation of the classic poem, went to theaters. Because that film was
a flop both critically and financially, Mirimax played it safe and skipped
the theatrical release for this, dumping it straight into a Blockbuster near
you.

Reactions from this version have varied. People have tended to either like
it a lot or hate it with passion. There is good reason for this. `Beowulf'
is one of the great works of the English language, and it has been studied
by both literary scholars and adventure lovers for centuries. It inspired
such classic fantasy works as the Lord of the Rings and Dungeons and
Dragons, and it has and will be reviewed by every English class that ever
had, does, or will exist. Because of the difficulty to convert the original
poem into a film, a lot of changes have been made, to the anger of a lot of
literary purists. For one, the location has been changed to a techno,
midievel future, and the great Hall of Herot has been converted to a
battle-outpost, where technology has taken a step backwards. Only a few
traces of a superior technology exists, such as night vision and methane-run
torches, and everything else has been reduced to a typical sword and
cross-bow environment, combined with outrageous-looking primal weapons. In
other words, we've got Mad Max meets Dragon Slayer. So now, Hrothgar is the
leader of the Outpost, and he's got a beautiful daughter named Kyra who's
got a deadly secret. Unferth has also had his name changed to Roland for no
apparent reason. Some subplots have been added which discuss Hrothgar's
relationship with Grendel and his mother, and Kyra's relationship with
Roland.

The most dynamic change, however, is in the character of Beowulf himself. No
longer is he a happy-go-lucky, adventurous fighter for good, but a dark,
depressed man who is a little more than mortal. The son of a demon and a
woman, he wanders the earth looking for evil. `The only way I can stop from
becoming evil is if I fight evil,' he says, and thus is his explanation for
coming to this outpost and fighting the evil darkness called Grendel, an
evil creature who is terrorizing the place every night by killing all of the
guards. Beowulf, sort of like an anti-Hercules, has fast healing power and
is decked out with all sorts of cool weaponry. He's got short, bleached hair
and he's dressed in Matrix-style leather, and he's a lot more dark and weary
than the Beowulf of the epic poem.

Such changes are making a lot of Beowulf fans enraged. I am a fan of the
original Beowulf poem as well and have been studying it for years, and I can
say that the changes didn't bother me. I applaud them, in fact, in their
effort to make the story more applicable to the high school/college students
who will be studying the ancient work. These changes don't improve the
story, but they don't take away from it, either. Any student who might not
be interested in studying the text might pick this up and like it, and their
interest in the original source will increase. The changes work mostly due
to the fact that it film still keeps the whole of the story intact, and it
takes it very seriously. Purists need to realize that it would be nearly
impossible to make a film about `Beowulf' and keep it 100% true to the
original poem. Changes HAVE to be made due to the complexity of the work,
and these changes work very nicely.

The film as a whole plays like an extended episode of `Xena: Warrior
Princess' with a  larger budget, meaning it is dark and brooding when it
needs to be, and campy and action-packed with its tongue stuck firmly in its
cheek in other places. This style works. While `The 13th Warrior' might have
been superior to this visually, this film far surpasses it in capturing the
essence of what the poem was all about: A battle with a supernatural foe.
The original work was made to entertain and to fill the listener with a
sense of wonder, and this film does just that, thanks to a good cast
(mostly) and some well-shot action sequences that are both over the top and
subdued, depending which is necessary. The setting was also well thought out
by the producers. While `The 13th Warrior' used with open spaces, this
`Beowulf' captures the clausterphobic feel of the poem, with mostly interior
shots of this run down outpost where most of the action takes place. The
techno music also works, giving a video-game feel to it in many spots, which
is fine because of the video game potential the whole story has (besides, if
they had video games in 900 A.D., around when the poem was written, they
would have been about Beowulf!).

The monsters also work. Grendel is a fish-like monster in the tradition of
Predator, with a mist surrounding him at all times. It's replicated straight
from the poem, and the Witchmother is also a powerhouse of special effects,
who is a combination of Grendel's Mother and the Fire Dragon from the poem
(whose scenes are missing due to plot restraints).

Christopher Lambert is surprisingly good as Beowulf, playing the part subtly
and without overacting. Like in the book, he is a man of few words, just
wanting to fight and get the job over with. Though the motives are
different: The Beowulf of the poem lives for the fight. This Beowulf simply
wants to overcome the evil within in. While I don't think Lambert would work
in a literal, literary version of  `Beowulf' (he would have to be a large,
brawling person, like Vin Deisel or Russell Crowe), he does fine here, as a
hero torn between his lust for evil and his desire to fight it. He's got
just the right tone, and his eyes speak multitudes. His understanding of
this kind of Beowulf is right on target, and he holds the film together and
plays the straight man when the fights get outrageously fun (`I've been
waiting for you. Our evil has drawn us together. I'm like you. I'm one of
the damned,' he tells an attacking Grendel in the film's best scene action
scene, which takes place in the flooded cellar.) . The rest of the cast is
effective as well, especially Gotz Otto as Roland (Unferth), who manages to
evoke both sympathy and power in a satisfactory performance.

All this said, however, there could have been a few changes made. The
actress playing the Witchmother is horrible. While the character is complex
and she's got some great and very important lines, it is clear that she was
cast in the role for her figure only (They probably told her, `You just
strut what you've got. We'll teach you how to act.'). Every line she says
she ruins, and it is only the rest of the excellent cast which manage to
keep the scenes featuring her less-than-adequate.   The ending is also a
disappointing, as many of the characters simply cop-out and the resolution
never has time to sink in after a spectacular final battle.

Nevertheless, this is an excellent version of the epic poem, both fun and
thought-provoking. Students be warned though, if you're studying the text at
school, this is not a substitute for it. It is, however, a good companion
piece for it, and whether you've read it or not, you will find it extremely
enjoyable.

*** out of ****

<|_=00=_|>
When reviewing films that rile the mind one must hearken back to the
works of Tocquesville. This film borrows from the distinctive and
urgent causes set forth by the originating story of the time
beforehand. There is a point during the movie in which Christopher
Lambert engages in battle; sword fastened and balls split apart. The
veins of Christopher Lamber pump large fluids into the internal organs
of Mr. Lambert. I was pleased to see the circulatory system work
correctly in this individual. This film is not just a masterpiece but
one so good I could not give it 10/10 stars. When viewing a work of art
with the adrenaline pumping music of the Nordic time the star
disregarded represents a large degree of appreciation for the love and
admiration professed by such amazing people of the washed up Hollywood
disaster. Set your mind free indulge the Beowulf and be fulfilled.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked the movie myself. I have read the old poem its based off of and
unlike everybody else here i still like it. I suppose all the people
flaming this movie for its futuristic add ins would also call "A
Knights Tale" crap because the villagers sang Queens "we will rock you"
(a song that didn't exist obviously when Jeoffery Chaucer wrote the
Canterbury tales that the knight was based off of.) But in situations
of that and this it just adds an interesting element to it.

The soundtrack was great, the fights were good, especially first fight
scene with Beowulf in it. The modern add-ins gave it a little extra
interest for those of us who already know the Beowulf story, without
taking away anything from the original. The makers of this movie kept
all the parts they needed to.

I give this one a 10.
