
After the "Alien Experience" and the "Remake Sequel", "Highlander"
producers decided to add two and two and get someone to write a
marvellous script. They went on with the mathematics, and got together
Christopher Lambert and Adrian Paul. The result is the long-expected
good sequel to the first "Highlander", set after "The Series" ended.

Tired of the endless fights, Connor MacLeod enters the Sanctuary, a
place where immortals can rest forever under the guard of the Watchers.
However, an old foe of Connor releases him after killing all the other
immortals in that place. Not pleased with this, this foe and his posse
pays a visit to Duncan MacLeod, who gets away and looks for his
clansman. Both MacLeods have sins to purge, and the time has come to do
that.

Christopher Lambert, though intended to have a supportive role like
Sean Connery in the original film, robs the movie. Though his Connor is
hardly the same bad ass of the other films, it's by far the best
performance in the film. Adrian Paul manages to lead the film well,
like in the TV series. Bruce Payne, playing the embittered Jacob Kell,
provides a fine interpretation that is however in the line of the other
"Highlander" villains. Lisa Barbuscia as Kate MacLeod is somewhat fine,
but I'm inclined to believe the only reason "Fishlips" got cast is her
willingness to show her breasts.

The character of the film is indeed Jin Ke, played by Donnie Yen.
However brief his presence on screen may be, he manages to give a very
good impression, as well as some action. Another two characters worth
mentioning are Rachel (the late Sheila Gish) and Heather (Beatie
Edney), who appear again in a "Highlander" film. Briefly, but it's
something.

Why don't I give it a 10? First, the first film (which indeed deserves
a 10) is superior to this one. Secondly, the editing of the film is
weak. It's not the one of "Highlander II: The Quickening" but this one
has some big flaws. In any case, "Highlander Endgame" is a great film,
with more action and entertainment than the other sequels, and it's a
great choice even for non fans.

Seven!
<|_=00=_|>

The last installment of the Highlander movie series is a brilliant blend of
the original movie and the popular television characters. The story line is
weaved through past history (as Highlander fans have come to expect) and
picks up where the television series ended. It still stands alone as a
movie
in itself, though I will admit it may be hard for a non-highlander fan to
grasp all of the concepts that are thrown at them. All in all, Davis/Panzer
have once again given credit to this wonderful science fiction series by
watching the details of the character's pasts and still creating unknown
events in their lives. This is the beauty of this series, just when you
think you know the character something pops up from their past. This will
be
an emotional movie for diehard Highlander fans, just as the "To Be/Not to
Be" t.v. finale was. In my opinion, even though this is dubbed as the final
act of this series, there is still one minor issue that still
remains....there can be only be one!
<|_=00=_|>
Fantastic End to the Game Played,

By Jakob Kell and Connor and Duncan MacLeod.

The Fierce Hatred Between the two Past Frends (Connor and Jakob)Reaches
an Epic Climax in witch Connor and Duncan must Become "One", to defeat
Jakob.

Lisa Barbuscia also had her part but wasn't that Impressive at all.

Usually i Highlight The Performance Of A Beautiful Women, But the fact
is She was Just another One Of The Cast.

She Looked Pretty but that was all.

Jakob Kell betrayed his Best Friend Connor MacLeod. And then When
Connor Tryed To Save his Mother Helped, The People ho were Trying to
Burn her.

Connor then Killed Both Jakob as his Priest Father. And an Infuriated
Jakob Swore Revenge.

Connor Knew That he was Inmortal.

But also knew that a simple Chop of His Head would take that away.

His Great Brother Duncan, fought in The Great War.

Then Connor Picked him Up and Explained him about his Immortality.

The Two Brothers Began Collecting Immortal Kills and were both about
360 Something of Confirmed Immortal Kills.

But Connor also Knew that Jakob Kell was Getting Stronger And Stronger
with a Total Over the 620 Confirmed Immortal Kills.

Kell's Ultimate Goal was to get revenge On Connor By Killing Everone Ho
meant Something to Connor, and then to complete his Revenge by Killing
Connor as They would Be Only Ones Left To Make the Humiliation even
Worse.

In the end He would Be Stopped by the Brotherhood Double Of Duncan and
Connor ho became One.

Overall the Scottish Passion was Great and The Mix in Styles When
People Fought Showed Great Strengh in Depfh.

Thats why it is a Mystery to me why this Movie is So Harshly
Underrated.

It was a Great Movie.

And Truly End Game.

My Score : 10 -

Groeten Gerrit
<|_=00=_|>

Contains spoiler
Well, frankly I have never been a fan of the Highlander franchise, but if
I
had been one, this movie would probably be one of the best Highlander
movies
around.

Actually, I have only see the second one (with Michael Ironside and Sean
Connery, if I remember correctly) and in comparation, Endgame is somewhat
better. Even though I prefer the post-apocaliptic look of H:II, Endgame
provides us with better special effect (obvius), a lot-more digestible
plot
and some good acting. Even though I don't like the (SPOILER) fact that
Connor died (END OF SPOILER) I think it was just to finally end with the
Highlander franchise.

Excellent battles, good plot, and good acting (somewhat weird cast, but
ok)
is all I need for a movie, and Chistopher Lambert's acting is superb. A
good
end to the Highlander series. B+
<|_=00=_|>

After Connor MacLeod (Christopher Lambert) witnesses his adopted
daughter being killed in a building that was blown up; the Immortal
locks himself up in a place called the Sanctuary to remove himself from
the Game (What the Immortals call their quest to be the last remaining
Immortal and receive the "Prize") However Jacob Kell (Bruce Payne) who
became an Immortal when he was stabbed by Connor after the Highlander's
mother was put to death (We see this event in a Flashback to Connor's
early life in the Highlands of Scotland) Kell lets Connor live however. 

He is being sought out by his fellow clansman Duncan MacLeod (Adrian
Paul) Kell's followers show up in Connor's old Antique Store at the
same time as Duncan is investigating. Jin-Ke (Donnie Yen) and Duncan
engage in a brilliant sword fight and following that with a high speed
Kung-Fu fight (Which puts "The Matrix" to shame I must admit. Pity the
fight didn't go on longer, or Jin and Duncan getting a rematch!) The
fight ends with Duncan being blasted out of a window and being impaled
on a series of poles, Duncan is taken by the Watchers (Watch the TV
series and find out!) He is being kept locked up to prevent Kell
finding him and taking his head (We'll get to that) Duncan is rescued
by his buddy Dawson (Jim Byrnes) and is told that Kell has more than
six-hundred heads to his name while Connor and Duncan only have only
just over three-hundred between them (The movie never explains where
all these Immortals come from, my advice is to not analyse the
continuity too much or you'll blow your head off. No pun intended!).

Duncan visits a graveyard of all the Immortals Kell has killed and he
finds Connor. Connor then attacks Kell but the psychotic Immortal is
far too powerful and Connor quickly realizes that he can no longer
carry on. Later (After the gratuitous sex scene with Duncan and his
old, old flame Kate/Faith (Lisa Barbuscia!) Duncan and Connor meet on
the roof tops Connor explains that only one of them can fight Kell, so
Connor wants Duncan to kill him. Duncan refuses and Connor attacks him,
in the end however (There can be only ONE!) Duncan tearfully takes
Connor's head and gets a massive power up. After a quick bout of
training, Duncan tracks down Kell (To an abandoned warehouse/factory of
all places!) Another big sword fight takes place (The editing of this
fight isn't so good but the fight itself kicks ass!) finally Duncan
removes Kell's head (After discovering Connor's unblockable trick isn't
all that good!) and the massive Quickening blazes from the sky and
gives Duncan even more power (This is one of those visual scenes that
didn't come off as good as it could have).

Afterwards Duncan visits the grave of Connor who has been buried
alongside his first wife Heather (Beatie Edney) He returns home to
discover that Kate/Faith is still alive and the two, probably, rekindle
their relationship. 

Good Points: There are some tremendous visuals in this movie, sadly
some of them come off as a little "Made-For-TV-Movie" at times (The
rooftop fight between Connor and Duncan being a prime example!) The
Flashbacks to the Highlands had Beatie Edney reprising her role as
Connor's wife (Even if only for a few minutes, it was nice to see her
again!) Duncan and Jin-Ke's awesome sword and Kung-Fu battle. Kell as
the best villain to date, every member of the cast gives the roles
their all. Kudos to both Christopher and Adrian for the tearful
farewell. 

Bad Points: The afore-mentioned weak CGI shots. Kell, on several
occasions, violates the "No fighting on Holy Ground" rule and receives
no form of punishment (Probably because he is evil already he doesn't
get the "Dark Quickening" as seen in the TV series!) Douglas
Aarniokoski's direction isn't the best either, hopefully the next
installment will return Russell Mulcahy to the director's chair.

<|_=00=_|>

I'm a big fan of the films and of the TV show and I think this one rates up
there with the original. It's definetly better then the 2nd and third. Now
that Connor is gone we'll see how Duncan goes it alone in the next
film.
<|_=00=_|>
Overall, this was not a bad flick. It's not quite as good as the first
one, but is much better than the second. I'd have given it a higher
rating than I did if they'd just left out the high speed kung fu stuff
- it's too much like all the cheap Bruce Li rip off movies. Anyway, the
story in this one is good and it tidies up everything rather nicely at
the end. They do leave one thread hanging but I don't think that was to
provide the backdrop for another film. I think this one's the last
Highlander film - at least I hope so. I believe that the Highlander
"thing" has gone about as far as it can. It would be difficult to come
up with anything original for another film. Again, this film isn't bad
at all and nearly makes up for the poor middle of this series. The
tie-in between the film McLeod and the TV McLeod was handled very well,
I thought. I really liked the first film and I like this one pretty
well also.
<|_=00=_|>

I love Highlander and so, was anxious to see Endgame.  It was badly
edited
and I was disappointed the first time I saw it.  But, Adrian Paul did a
magnificent job as Duncan MacLeod.  He was the best thing in the movie.
Unfortunately, Christopher Lambert is starting to look his age, and so,
as
sad as the fans find the loss of "Connor" it was time for him to pass the
flame on to Duncan.

Paul is a strong actor and plays the physical role with grace and
intensity.
After I saw the movie a second time, I started to like it!  And now, I
overlook the "hack job" on the editing of the movie and have come to
appreciate it for what it has offered...a moving "death scene" between
Duncan and Connor, and some superb action.
<|_=00=_|>

this movie was one of the better tries at a highlander sequel, which it is
not...
For those of you introduced to highlander with the series the movie may be
quite good, but if you are a fan of the original film this movie will
disappoint you.
take note that this is highlander: Endgame not Highlander IV or 4 the
numeral was cleverly omitted for obvious reasons...here all things
go...
Personally I do not think the film merrits a theatrical release I think
that
a mini-series would of been a better format providing more time and better
care of the characters...
PS I saw the so called New Cut which runs Apprx. 1hr 32 min from the time
the title is seen to when the credits start rolling...
This is not the end?
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately the "Highlander" concept has been heavily tainted by
multiple visions from a variety of people and a constant push from the
money men to milk it for all it's worth. Each individual addition thus
far, while reasonable in isolation managed to damage the overall
reputation of this franchise and directly damage the quality of the
original classic movie when the whole thing is considered together.

Now what they have done with this fourth movie is created something
that can't even stand in isolation and when put together with
everything else tears it all to pieces, spits on it and throws it in
the bin, just for the sake of giving this particular piece some feeling
of importance.

One of my biggest pet peeves with movie sequels is when the writers of
the latest piece decide to essentially re-write the whole thing and
ignore where others have taken us up until this point. For better or
worse, we have been taken to a point and it is just arrogance to assume
you can re-write it all better then those that have gone before, while
it shows limited skill to not be able to work inside that framework.
There are many ways they could have made a tie in between the TV series
and all the movies work, but they chose to make this a partial reboot
instead.

The Critical mistake they made was to belittle the original film. No
franchise should dismiss the reason that it is a franchise. Although it
would still annoy me, they could have gotten away with the partial
reboot, if they had just ignored the 2nd and 3rd movie. They even would
have gotten away with not fully following on from the series. But they
couldn't resist messing with the original to the point that they almost
totally dismissed the events of film as meaningless and so it's no
surprise that this has scored the low rating it has here on the IMDb.

I watched the whole of the series as well as all the films and this
movie fails to adequately fit in with any of it. One day I hope movie
makers will learn that you either need to do a full reboot or get
people capable of working with what they already have. Don't just let
the new guys mess up everyone that went before them.
