

Return 3 starts off very poorly. Actors are pretending to be in the
military in a very cheap looking set. As usual in many low budget
horror movies, moronic teenagers decide to break into a top secret
military facility for fun.... <sigh>, and naturally accidentally release
whatever the base is trying to contain. I was prepared at that point
for the worst and settled myself in for 90 minutes of frustration.
Return of the Living Dead 2 was one of the worst sequels I had ever
seen, so I really wasn't expecting much from Return 3. But then
something happened, and Return 3 got better and better. There was a
real story! The director actually tried for some character development!
There was suddenly plenty of extremely well done gore! There were some
moments of real horror!

The scenes where Julie starts cutting and impaling herself were
difficult to watch, that's how well done they were. The movie moves
from a cheap horror-comedy into a well put together love story with
incredibly gory effects. I actually really felt for the main couple,
even though she was slowly turning into a zombie! Normally, one of them
would get whacked which would give the remaining person a few lame
Arnold-type lines, and an excuse to obliterate whatever (or whomever)
is supposed to be the bad guy. However, this movie doesn't follow that
formulaic path. It takes a very weird turn halfway through and never
looks back. 

When Julie makes her transformed appearance in the sewer, it is truly
an awe-inspiring site! They actually managed to make her look both
incredibly repulsive and very sexy at the same time. This film reminded
me a lot of the Ginger Snaps movies in the type of character
development pursued within the confines of a horror movie. Very
pleasant surprise.

8/10

<|_=00=_|>
Return of the Living Dead III (1993) was released upon the 25th
anniversary of the release of Night of the Living Dead (1968). Instead
of making another bad spoof, Brian Yuzna wisely decided to make a
return to the basics. A creepy and dark horror film. A young military
brat and his girl are fooling around on a motorcycle and she's killed
in a fatal accident. Grief stricken and severely sprung, the kid takes
his girl to the army base where his dad works and takes her to a secret
lab and revives her. Sadly the boy doesn't know what he's unleashed and
this young "frankenstein" has to destroy his little "creation". If
you're going to watch this movie please avoid the "rated" version. As
in all of Brian Yuzna's films he likes to make his flicks over the top
and very gory. The "family" rental companies carry the "rated" version
so "look out" for the "unrated" label. If not then you'll be treated to
a bunch of freeze frames and badly cut scenes. A sad tale about true
love.

Recommended.

Let's hope this ends the series. If it does then it'll end on a high
note.
<|_=00=_|>

Usually, sequels are inferior to their original films. Fortunately, every
once in a while there comes a sequel which by far surpasses the "first one".
Brian Yuzna's "Return Of The Living dead 3" is one of those miraculous
exceptions. A simple story of love, parenthood and zombies turns out to be
one of the best horror films of all time, making the genre move forward both
in quality and in innovation.
There are some excellent performances, but the gore-effects take the lead
role in another job well done by FX wizard Screaming Mad
George.
It's hard not to be captured by the movie's unique sense of humour allied
to some ultra-violent scenes of pure horror and fantasy, that combine to
tell the tragic story of a young man, who sees his beloved girlfriend turned
into a flesh-eating creature that still loves him, but will sooner or later
have to eat him!
Brian Yuzna really got it once more, proving that he is one of the most
promising horror directors for the future. Don't miss this
one!
<|_=00=_|>
Curt, a GenXer army brat, is madly in love with Julie, a Gothy punk
girl with a fascination for the morbid. In order to impress her, Curt
swipes his dads clearance card and the two lovebirds sneak into the
high security testing facilities of the military base. Curt's dad, a
high ranking military official, is involved in some pretty sick
experiments which center around the reanimating powers of the chemical
known as 245 Trioxin. After witnessing a gruesome resurrection, Curt
and Julie flee, have sex and find out that Curt's dad is being
transferred. Rather than be torn asunder, the two run away together.
But a terrible motorcycle accident cuts their plans - and Julie's life
- short. Now it's back to the base to reanimate his beloved, but even
though the resurrected Julie seems normal, it's only a matter of time
before her dead body rots, and her human emotions are replaced with an
insatiable hunger for living human brains.

This third installment in the ROTLD series avoids the campy black
comedy of the first film, and the utter stupidity of the second. It
falls somewhere right smack between the two and ends up being halfway
decent. There's some great scenes of cutting, scarification and body
mutilation as Julie discovers that self inflicted pain can temporarily
curb her nasty appetite. Whether or not this was an intentional comment
on the habits of GenX teens to mutilate themselves to curb feelings of
depression, I don't know, but it's quite effective and, considering
that this came out in 1993, rather timely as well. Julie ends up
resembling a Cenobite rather than a zombie, decked out in leather,
chains and broken glass, but I'm not complaining. There's a LOT of
gore, most of which takes place in the military labs as zombies are
fitted with harnesses, lobotomized with power drills, held together
with metal exoskeletons and, in general, end up resembling an S&M orgy
gone horribly wrong. It's pretty nasty, graphic stuff, but the zombies
themselves are pretty cool looking, especially one who ends up looking
like a freaky, bipedal giraffe. 

The story isn't anything new, but some of the acting (especially that
of Mindy Clarke as Julie) is pretty good and the zombie effects are
impressive. The ending is a downer, but not as grim and disheartening
as it could have been.

All in all, it's fairly enjoyable. It's much better than Part 2 was,
anyway.
<|_=00=_|>

Teen army brat Curt (J. Trevor Edmond) is so in love with wild, sexy
punkette Julie (Mindy Clarke) that he decides not to let her untimely death
in a motorcylce accident keep them apart. Thankfully his father (Kent
McCord) works at a top-secret military lab experimenting on bringing the
dead back to life. Curt sneaks in and uses the "Trioxin" gas to revive
Julie, then spends the rest of the movie watching helplessly in horror at
her mental and physical deterioration and increasing hunger for human
flesh!

Having very little to do with the two previous comic RETURN titles helps
Part III overcome familiarity, while director Brian Yuzna delivers loads of
brain-munching horror without losing sight of the compelling, tragic central
romance. Excellent FX work by Steve Johnson and many others, including
Julie's amazing transformation from whimpering ghoul to multi-pierced, S&M
femme fatale zombie queen.

This film was released in R and unrated versions. Shoot for the
latter.

Score: 7 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Love and gore-what more do you need? Return of the Living Dead III is
an excellent gore flick with a love story at the core. It's also a
horror fans dream. That dream being that a great series never ruined
itself like most do in the genre. At least that's the way I feel about
it. RotLD III features a great story driven by great characters and
awesome special effects. And of course, brains. Brian Yuzna (Bride of
Re-Animator) is the mastermind behind this end to a great trilogy. J.
Trevor Edmond stars as a guy who accidentally kills his girlfriend and
uses Trioxin to bring her back. Said girlfriend, played by the awesome
Mindy Clarke, makes for an unbelievable appearance by the end of the
movie. My only problem with the movie is that it's missing the
claustrophobic elements of the first one until the very end, and what
an appropriate ending it is. Gore hounds will love this one.
Brainsssssssss! 

Note for genre buffs: Look for director Anthony Hickox and Brian "Scuz"
Peck, who is featured in the entire trilogy, in cameos.
<|_=00=_|>

Return of the Living Dead III is the type of horror film you can watch with
your friends, or your girlfriend.  It is a film with a romantic (yet tragic)
edge to it that saves it from the muck of sequel overkill.  The story
follows a young man who, after seeing his girlfriend die who he loves so
much, brings her back to life in a top secret facility with the gas that
brings back the dead from part 1 (without them being able to get
electricuted), but then strange things happen.  Clever horror with a edge,
with it's only problem not stopping too often and of course the sequel
overkill.  Still worth a look, especially for horror enthusaists who don't
believe there's life after part 2.  A-

<|_=00=_|>
The third part in a series of movies usually is nowhere near the
original; however, Brian Yuzna's take on the "Return of the Living
Dead" makes the third installment in the famous comedy/horror series, a
very different and special movie. Getting away from the slapstick
comedy aspect of the previous films, director Yuzna & writer John
Penney unfold a tale of doomed love and gory violence spiced up with
very dark humor. Quite a change from part 2; in fact, the only thing
this movie has in common with the previous chapters is the inclusion of
the re-animating gas.

Penney's script is like a bizarre twist on "Romeo & Juliet": Curt
Reynolds (J. Trevor Edmond) is an angsty teenager in love with rebel
Julie Walker (Melinda Clarke). While sneaking in the military base
where Curt's father (Kent McCord) works, they discover that the project
his father has been working involves re-animating corpses. After a
tragic accident where Julie dies, Curt decides to bring back Julie
using his father's experiments with the infamous chemical: 245 Trioxin.

Right after Julie is revived, the action starts and never stops, with
the couple running away from both the army and a gang that wants them
dead. To make things worse, Julie's increasing urge to eat human flesh
and Curt's own anxiety and family troubles collide and make the trip
harder for the lovers.

Brian Yuzna really created something special with this movie, the
characters are very rich and are the backbone of the movie. The acting
is top notch, something quite different from the typical b-movie. In
fact, the movie is so well done in those aspects that its flaws in SFx
and overall production are easily forgiven.

The movie has a lot of heart and the credit for that must go to Yuzna's
direction and Penney's script. The couple of lovers must really grow to
face the situation and to face each other's troubles. The acting is
very good for the most part, but is Clarke who gives the performance as
Julie. 

The transformation from self confident daredevil to fearful victim of
the circumstances, and then to ruthless killing machine is very
believable and one cannot avoid to feel sympathy for her character. A
really remarkable job.

Sadly, the movie is not perfect, the low budget hurts the production a
lot and the sets look a bit fake, However, it's worth to point out that
the make-up effects in the zombies and the gore are quite good for the
budget.

By far the best movie in the series, and among the best and most
creative horror movies ever done. Director Brian Yuzna has not been
able yet to come up close to this achievement, but he earned his place
in history with this movie. 8/10. A modern classic.
<|_=00=_|>

I came home last night to find my son watching Return of the Living Dead
3.
After a few glimpses of the gore I immediately shut it off and confiscated
the DVD. He was very upset with me and told me that it was his favorite
move
that he had already seen 10 times. I'll have a word with his best friend's
parents tomorrow for allowing this to happen.

After he went to bed, I had trouble sleeping and being the closet horror
film fan, ended up watching the movie...twice.

Return of the Living Dead 3 seems to fall to the shroud of a long line of
B-horror films I remember from that period of time. Warlock, Hellraisers,
Dead Alive, and Friday the 13th part...whatever and so
on.

As a "Living Dead" movie, it holds it's own by incorporating the franchise
respectably. But ROTLD3 has merits that make it stand on its own. Most
notably, the departure from standard horror formula and taking some risks.
Rather than camp it up too much the film makers attempted to bring the
Trioxon/Brain eating fair down to earth. Pitting star crossed lovers VS
the
zombies. No matter what you may think of the film, you have to admire the
risk.

This is really a love it or hate it film I suppose. Judging by the reviews
that I've read, it holds true. Yuzna, the director, is effective with his
obviously very limited budget. I was disappointed with some of the special
effects, considering the money this team DID have, probably all went in
that
direction.

The actors were unfamiliar to me yet interesting. J. Trevor Edmond, (Curt,
I
think I remember him from Beverly Hills 90210), is a believable and
charismatic lead and Julie (Mindy Clark) is a sultry and seductive
counterpart. Kent McCord and crew were a bit week but hey, it is a low
budget horror film afterall.

I felt particularly bad for Curt as the story progressed as he was
unpredictably flawed. Normally young actors try to play this type of
character cool but Edmond delivers a sensitive and frenzied performance,
stressing the `love is blind metaphor'. I really thought this brought
something extra to the movie. Clark is equally up to the task and
ultimately
steals the show with her transformation into a  pin cushion zombie nymph.
The performances are even more impressive when you equate the weaknesses
in
the script. Considering the shameful dialog and the lack of sophisticated
character development..I was impressed what these two unknowns pulled
off.

Overall it was a nice change of pace from the standard, run of the mill,
splatter fest. A Golf clap, for those responsible for making Return of the
Living Dead 3 in B-horror-movie-land.
....who knew my teenage son had good taste!

<|_=00=_|>

Lonely teenager's girlfriend is killed in a motorcycle accident. He takes
her to his father's secret lab and brings her back to life. However, she has
a hunger that can not be controlled and she starts munching on various
people's flesh that they run into. Now, she has accidently created her own
army of the undead. 

Better then you would expect with a good premise, pretty good direction an
emotional finale and some smart jabs. However most the acting is cheesy, the
effects are over the top and seem to belong in another film given the
serious tone. However, watching Sarah Douglas chew the scenery is always
fun!

Unrated; Sexual Situations, Profanity, Nudity and Graphic
Violence.
