

I can imagine the pitch for "Reindeer Games" being thrown at the execs
behind the picture...

"Okay, it's about this guy, who's not who he says he is, who everybody
thinks he is, who fools these guys who thinks he is, falls in love with
this
girl who thinks he is, even though he isn't, and they try to pull a heist
with his expertise, even though he has none."

Nick (Ben Affleck) has just been released from jail for defending his
girlfriend in a fight prior to being thrown into the slammer. Upon his
release, a long-time pen pal named Ashley (Charlize Theron) greets him
and
they immediately hit the sack. However, her brother (Gary Sinise) wants
Nick
to help them pull a heist on Christmas Eve at a local Indian casino,
which
is run by a money hungry wannabe (Dennis Farina). Her brother kidnaps
Nick,
holds a gun to his head and commands him to draw up a sketch of the
security
points in the casino, since he used to work there and knows all there is
to
know about the casino. There is one minor detail, however, that may
hinder
their plan.

Nick is not Nick.

Nick is really a car jacker who overheard his jail cellmate, Nick,
reading
his letters from a penpal named Ashley aloud. Nick was killed before his
release in the jail cafeteria, and so Nick took his identity so that he
could meet up with the infamous Ashley he kept hearing about, forming a
mental picture of her in his head.

If you stop to take the time and think through all the minor details of
the
film's plot (especially given the "twist" ending), you'll probably arive
upon the conclusion that it's all a bunch of bull. It simply doesn't make
sense if you really take the time to think it through.

If you don't put your brain to work, however, you'll find yourself having
fun watching director John Frankenheimer's last film. Frankenheimer was a
talented director, the man behind such films as "The Manchurian
Candidate,"
"Seconds" and "Ronin." His last feature was one of his most stylish and
brutal, fast-paced, funny, and often just fun to sit through.

Gary Sinise ("Forrest Gump," "Ransom") is his usual villainious self,
while
the real surprise comes from actress Charlize Theron, who switches
character
a lot through the film, especially towards the end, and is a real beauty
and
delight to watch. She's the film's high point, and though people
criticize
the plot, I found "Reindeer Games" mildly inventive with its shifting
twists
and turns, even if they aren't always so believable.

The film's downfall is its ending, which feels as if the filmmakers got
caught up in all their twists and turns and unconsciously wrote
themselves
into a wall, then suddenly slapped on a cheesy, cliched ending with a
sentimental good guy closing scene. It's rushed, silly, and doesn't fit
in
with the rest of the film.

Irregardless of its uncountable flaws, "Reindeer Games" (or "Deception"
as
it is called in the UK) is a fun film, John Frankenheimer's final movie.
"Reindeer Games" is often linked as Frankenheimer's long-time dream
picture,
much like Sergio Leone's "Once Upon a Time in America." Like a dying
man's
final words, perhaps it conveyed some hidden meaning to Frankenheimer.
Or,
maybe everyone was wrong. Maybe "Reindeer Games" is nothing but another
Frankenheimer film, this one not as good as most of his
others.

But "Rosebud" didn't mean anything to anyone except Charles Foster Kane.
Maybe "Reindeer Games" meant something to John Frankenheimer. However, as
anyone who has ever seen "Citizen Kane" probably knows, it's not likely
that
we'll ever find out what it means, even if we try.

3/5 stars. Enjoyable if you don't put your brain to work.

- John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the great actions flicks that is completely underrated
on IMDb. Great plot twists, great acting, great actors, great story.
This movie kept me enthralled the whole way. It was when Affleck still
had his charisma from Good Will Hunting. Charlize Theron dazzles us
with her smile and charm and Gary Sinise is sinister as the
intimidating "older brother". My only complaint was there were one too
many plot twists in the end. Otherwise, settle in for a smooth ride.

My favorite part of this movie are the prison sequences at the start
and the final scenes. The prison sequence was very well done and
Affleck is immediately identifiable as the likable car jacker. The
final scenes are a great touch after the explosions, a nice touch to an
enjoyable film. Sinise's fellow gang members are excellent as well,
their intimidation tactics and craziness well transmitted to the
screen.

See this movie around Christmas time. It may hold some more value.
<|_=00=_|>


After being imprisoned for six years on a grand theft auto charge, Rudy
Duncan(Ben Affleck) and his cellmate Nick (HILARY AND JACKIE's James
Frain)
are finally going to be paroled. After hearing endless stories during his
incarceration of Nick's romantic correspondence to a woman named Ashley he
has never met (CIDER HOUSE RULES's Charlize Theron), Rudy is looking
forward
to returning to his family and having a fresh cup of hot chocolate. When
Nick is killed during a prison riot, Rudy decides to assume Nick's
identity
upon release from prison and meet up with the unknown woman. Burdened with
a
base knowledge of Nick's Indian casino employment past, Rudy finds himself
in too deep with Ashley's brother Gabriel (Gary Sinise) and is violently
forced to cooperate with a casino robbery that Gabriel and his gang have
been planning with Nick in mind.

From an original screenplay by Ehren Kruger, REINDEER is very much in the
same vein as his last script ARLINGTON ROAD. While much more of an action
film than the paranoia drenched ROAD, REINDEER holds it's deceptions very
close to it's heart as well. Who can you trust, and for how long? Helmed
by
esteemed director John Frankenheimer (THE MANCHURIAN CANDIDATE, RONIN),
REINDEER seems keenly aware of it's inane story, yet he keeps pushing the
proceedings along briskly, trying to keep this casino heist plot afloat
with
good actors and a passable script. It's fun just to watch this tale
unfold.
All the professionals involved know this material isn't CITIZEN KANE, but
as
action films go nowadays, REINDEER's restraint is it's most endearing
aspect. No pop culture references, not too many exploding fireballs, and
Frankenheimer keeps the edit count down. REINDEER GAMES is a far more
classy
film than it's brethren.

It takes some time to get used to Ben Affleck as a tough ex-con. His baby
face and peanut brittle voice do little to sell him as an action hero. As
REINDEER trudges along, you get used to watching him act tough. It isn't
the
best performance that's come out of him (I'll save that honor for DOGMA),
but Affleck is a likable enough guy and makes Rudy a character you want to
see save the day. Imagine an aging lead vocalist for a Black Sabbath cover
band and you'll have an idea what Gary Sinse looks like in REINDEER. He
always makes a great passionate villain, but this time he takes his
appearance one step further and actually looks like a threat. Charlize
Theron keeps improving as an actress, but it is her new brunette look and
honey smile that one takes away from her performance. She looks lovely in
the snow, but not too much presence beyond that. The whole cast is
somewhat
stuck with Kruger's elementary script, and they all try hard to overcome
it.
It ends up being their individual charms that make REINDEER come out a
winner.

I liked REINDEER GAMES for the throwaway Christmas thriller that it is.
Taking advantage of the topical Native American casino boom and
deliberately
waltzing away from many clichés, GAMES is a pleasure to enjoy. We need
more
of these. ----- 8

<|_=00=_|>
Reindeer Games is about an ex-con who has taken over his cell mate's
identity, so he can run of with the other guy's girlfriend when he gets
out of jail. Of course not everything goes as planned. Not only does he
get the girl, he also gets a lot of trouble, because some other
criminals wanted to use his cell mate to rob a casino. He doesn't know
anything about the casino, nor about robbing one, but if he doesn't
help them, they will shoot him immediately. So he helps them robbing
the casino, wearing a Santa costume, because it is Christmas...

The concept is quite good, but of course not very original. In fact:
the whole movie is professionally done, but not that special, so don't
expect anything innovating or new. However, when you can forget that
for a moment you'll have some good fun watching it. Only at the end it
really failed, there were just too many explosions who aren't really
doing any good to the rest of the story if you ask me.

But no problem, at least it's something different than "The Sound of
Music" or "Home Alone" which you'll normally see around Christmas. It
offers decent fun, without excelling once, so that's why I give this
movie a 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

John Frankenheimer follows up his great comeback film, "Ronin," with
"Reindeer Games," a flawed but efficient thriller that recalls his earlier
"52 Pick-Up."

Freshly paroled ex-con Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck) assumes the identity of his
cellmate, Nick (who misses out on his parole when he is taken out during a
prison riot), when Rudy falls for Nick's gorgeous pen-pal, Ashley (Charlize
Theron).  The ruse goes awry when he is also mistaken for Nick by a gang of
thugs (headed by Gary Sinise) who recruit him in their planned heist of an
Indian casino at which Nick had been employed.

Like "52 Pick-Up," "Reindeer Games" has a central character whose flawed
behavior puts him at the mercy of dangerous individuals who conceive a
scheme that spins out of control.  "52 Pick-Up" was successful because the
entire cast, beginning with Roy Scheider as the trapped hero, was equal to
the task of bringing the grittiness of the material to the screen.  The one
significant problem with "Reindeer Games" is the casting of squeaky-clean
Affleck as its central character.  Through no fault of his own, Affleck
looks like a lightweight alongside a supporting cast that includes Sinise,
Clarence Williams III, Danny Trejo, and Dennis Farina -- all actors who look
like they have lived a little.  Affleck cuts a profile similar to that of
Scheider, but without the lived-in look that made him convincing as someone
who would be able to go toe to toe with his tormentors.

"Reindeer" is helped greatly by the performance of Theron, who, while also
young, always has been able to project a more adult presence like the young
Kathleen Turner.  Credited more for her on- and off-screen glamour, Theron
often is underrated as an actress.  Here she conveys equal parts sweetness,
intelligence, dismay, and ferocity.  Of course, she also livens up her
sensual scenes.  For many actresses, nudity itself is the extent of their
sexuality, but Theron generates heat simply by looking comfortable and
bringing an unforced quality to the proceedings.

The other major plus is Frankenheimer's direction, which turns an adequate
screenplay into a solid thriller.  He keeps the story moving and handles the
action scenes economically, avoiding the excesses of Michael Bay, Simon
West, and other directors of MTV-inspired fireball-fests.  As in "Ronin,"
the action actually stays within the bounds of plausibility, which makes
them more involving.
<|_=00=_|>
If you love movies with a bunch of twists, this is a wonderful movie.
Up until the very end you are wondering what/who is what/who... It is a
suspense filled movie with some well known actors and actresses, which
is why I thought I would watch it. I had never heard of the movie, but
was glad I watched it. I like Gary Sinise and he does a good job with
his role in this movie. I like seeing the scenery and the casino, not
sure if the movie was filmed on location, but it sure looked like it
was. If you like fast paced action it is a good movie. If you are
looking for something high brow, you may want to pass... It is just a
good movie for the sake of a good movie. And I like the ending, and
never saw it coming!
<|_=00=_|>

*** out of ****

Reindeer Games is a semi-guilty pleasure to be sure.  I don't feel it's one
of those so-bad-it's-good sort of movies, but the script relies quite a bit
on chance and one of the plot twists, though quite fun and unpredictable, is
a bit on the implausible side.  The likelihood of this situation panning
itself out the way it did here isn't very high, but the film works because
of John Frankenheimer's direction, the charismatic cast, and the dark humor.

Rudy Duncan (Ben Affleck), a car thief, and his cellmate and best friend
Nick Cassidy (James Frain) are two days away from being released from
prison.  Rudy just wants to return home to his family, while Nick plans on
meeting with his pen-pal girlfriend, a beautiful woman named Ashley
(Charlize Theron).  Unfortunately, a food fight breaks out in the prison
cafeteria and Nick is killed, leaving Rudy with a dilemma.  When he's
released, at the last moment, he decides to pose as Nick to Ashley.

For the first few days, this is Heaven for Rudy.  He and Ashley click
immediately, and they make love in a motel.  However, returning back to the
motel from some shopping, he's ambushed and beaten by Ashley's brother,
Gabriel (Gary Sinise) and his men.  Having read Nick's letters and
discovering he'd worked as a security guard at the Tomahawk Casino, he plans
to use Rudy (whom he thinks is Nick) to help him rob the casino.  Rudy has
to now find a way to convince everyone he's Nick and get out of this
situation alive.

From the opening scene featuring five dead Santas in the snow, Reindeer
Games had me riveted.  It's a fine way to open the film, giving the feeling
that something disastrous has just occured, and it piqued my interest.
Using the flashback method in this film is effective, which may now be
considered tiresome in films overall, but it works here.

After The Island of Dr. Moreau, it looked as if though director
Frankenheimer's career was almost over; then came Ronin, an action thriller
that featured some exciting shootouts and one of the most brilliant car
chases ever filmed.  Reindeer Games still features Frankenheimer doing a
first-rate job.  While his direction is far from flawless (he has a pesky
insistence to shoot many, many close-ups) he does an excellent job creating
suspense and believable action scenes.

Reindeer Games tries to work as both action and suspense, and for the most
part, it succeeds.  The action is refreshingly not over-the-top in the "how
do we top the next stunt" style seen in so many Jerry Bruckheimer or Joel
Silver blockbuster films.  Frankenheimer injects tension into the gunplay,
fistfights, and chases, and these scenes work better than they probably
could have in another less talented director's hands.

Ehren Kruger wrote the script, and he puts in a lot of dark humor.  There
are a lot of funny moments, due mostly to Affleck trying to ad-lib and
convince everyone he's actually Nick.  Of course, Kruger is also (in)famous
for plot twists that just about nobody can predict, but are also wildly
improbable.  Actually, Reindeer Games' final plot twist is perhaps more
likely to occur than the twists in Kruger's other scripts (Scream 3 and
Arlington Road).  Speaking of that twist, let me just say that you might or
might not figure it out almost exactly a minute before it happens.  Unlikely
or not, there's no denying that last twist is a lot of fun.

Director Frankenheimer and screenwriter Kruger also seem to know what the
audience wants from this sort of movie, and they fill it with everything
they can, including violent action, the dark humor, the twists and turns, as
well as a good dose of sex and nudity, provided mostly by Charlize Theron.
The fact that she's a lovely woman doesn't hurt matters at all.

The cast plays a major part in the film's success.  Ben Affleck has proven
he's one of cinema's most charismatic young actors.  His Rudy Duncan is
character you can root for the whole way through because Affleck molds him
into a likable and energetically funny persona.  Gary Sinise chews the
scenery big-time as the villain.  Let's face it, he's easily one of the best
actors around and it's somewhat of a shame to see him play a role like this
when he's easily suited for something more complex, but he has so much fun
in the role it's hard not to feel his enthusiasm.  Charlize Theron doesn't
really get a whole lot to work with.  She has only a few modes, mostly just
relegated to smiling or crying, or looking lost or angry.  The supporting
cast mostly consists of Gabriel's henchmen, which include Clarence William
III, Donal Logue, and Danny Trejo, all of whom deliver okay performances.
The only other cast member with signifcant screen time is Dennis Farina, who
tries to chew the scenery like Sinise, but isn't half as effective or
memorable.

Of course, not everything in the film is effective.  The film has a dark
tone and atmosphere almost the whole way through, and it creates more
unpleasant scenes than are welcome.  You also have to wonder about the
intelligence of Gabriel and his men; they simply don't have a lot of it.
They get fooled by Rudy a little too easily and after a while, it feels like
they give him too many chances.

But ultimately, those are my only true gripes with the movie.  Reindeer
Games hardly takes itself ultra-seriously, and as a result it's a fun ride
virtually the whole way through.  There's nothing truly innovative or
brilliant at work here, and the film's certainly not saying anything deep;
it's just for entertainment value, and all the elements work together well
to create an enjoyable and fast-paced thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
Absolutely ridiculous film - so many twists and turns and all so
somebody can construct a ridiculously over-complicated scam to rob a
casino when in the end all they really need for the job are enough guns
to kill absolutely EVERYBODY. Highlight of the film - Afleck's
"disguise" - so that no-one will recognize him he dons a ten gallon hat
and a mustache like the edge from U2. Works a treat. Looks just like
Afleck wearing a ten gallon hat and a moustache like the Edge. Great
for laughs though not meant to be funny I think. Most tedious feature
of the film - the gang keeps threatening to kill Afleck and each time
he escapes them they meat out some justice on him in the form of
violence. However, considering they never do actually kill him it
becomes painfully apparent just how empty their threats are - to the
point where the viewer no longer has to sit on the edge of his seat but
can sit back safe in the knowledge that these criminals will never kill
Afleck no matter what he does to them. Why, is never completely clear.
They probably just liked the mustache I guess.
<|_=00=_|>

We checked this one out on video because `the little man' in the San
Francisco Chronicle gave it top rating.  Not sure what he was smoking that
day because this one was truly bad.  Not even a pretty good (not great, mind
you) performance by Charlize Theron (Cider House Rules) could save this
flick.

The premise is bad: Gun-running bad guys decide they want in on the big
money, so they decide to turn to armed robbery – their first job an
out-of-the-way Indian casino in a remote part of Michigan in the middle of a
snowy winter that for some reason has millions of dollars in its vaults when
it has trouble attracting customers.

The acting terrible: Ben Affleck proves he can't act – and this pretty boy
can't get away with playing an ex-con.

And a new low in incredibly dumb crooks: Gary Sinise snarls through the
whole movie, playing a cold-blooded killer who could have put us all out of
our misery if he had just put a bullet through Affleck's head in an early
scene.  Does he really fall for all of the bull that Affleck feeds
him?

Don't bother.

<|_=00=_|>

The flaws in this movie are various, though for 2/3's of the movie they can
be overlooked.  One prime problem is that Afflick is just never convincing
as a joint hardened car thief.  When he is inside prison, he looks like a
nice suburban kid acting like he is in prison.  He is almost never
convincing in this role.

But ultimately, the problem with this movie is in the number of plot twists
that Frankenheimer throws at the audience.  Rather than build a plot, all
too often when interest begins to lag, Frankenheimer introduces a double
cross, a character who was already killed or some such nonsense.  Eventually
there are just too many turns to sell us on the results.
