
Of course the story told by this film (aliens land in small Mid-West
town and start taking over the humans) is very familiar but it is still
a great story and this film tells it as well as any of the others (and
better than most). There is a lot of humour, many very good action
scenes, and some really nail-biting suspense. But what really makes
this film special are the main characters: a delightful group of funny
and interesting students, who have to cope with the trials of
high-school life as well as the demands of defending the Earth against
an insidious alien invasion.

If you know the other films of Robert Rodriguez (Desperado, From Dusk
Till Dawn) you will find another film which displays the same wit and
assured lightness of touch that makes this director's work such a
pleasure.

Great Stuff!
<|_=00=_|>

Herrington High School in Ohio has the usual groups of disaffected youths –
the jock, the goth, the geek, the prom-queen, the drop out etc.  However
they are not the only ones acting out of the ordinary – the teaching staff
all seem to be acting out of the ordinary – drinking water, acting sinister.
 Geeky Casey has the idea that the staff have been infected, taken over by
aliens using their bodies as hosts.  Casey's theory spreads to a group of
students who decide to take a stand.

Oh my God – an enjoyable and quite clever teen movie!  Something must be
wrong!  The plot is basically a teen twist on The Invasion of the Body
Snatchers, but is filled with clever references and jokes related to sci-fi.
 This makes it stand out from other teen movies in that it cleverly plays
with the usual stereotypes and makes them feel fresh.  The group itself is
close to the usual group that learns to get along and accept each other (a
la Breakfast Club) – except here they get along through drugs and the battle
against aliens!

The director is better known for his big OTT action stuff but here he does a
good job with a slow build up and a real feeling of paranoia.  Of course
it's not as good as the actual Body Snatchers but it still has a real good
feeling of fear and tension.  The effects are good but Rodriguez uses them
sparingly for the most part helping the mood of uncertainty and
fear.

The cast are all good.  The teens play the stereotypes well but they are
outshone by the adults who all get to ham it up in sinister roles.  Many of
the adults are wasted in minor roles – Hayek for one is barely in it, and
MacDonald deserves more than a few minutes.  Patrick is very good
considering that it could have easily been his T2 role again – running in
that distinctive way etc, but he is suitably sinister.  Janssen is also good
– transforming from a shy flower into her usual vamp.  Cameos from Usher,
Summer Phoenix and a seemingly pointless role for Harry Knowles (he's been
bought!) don't spoil this.

Overall as a sci-fi horror it's pretty good if not great – there are better
films around.  But as a teen movie it is head and shoulders above the rest
of this rather sorry genre and has enough tension, drama and references to
be very enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>

It's a Robert Rodriguez film. It's a Kevin Williamson
screenplay. You already know that it's in the same vein
as'Bodysnatchers,' etc. Anybody who *doesn't* know this but
saw
and enjoyed the Scream flicks or the "I Know ..." movies
is
likely to enjoy this.

No, it doesn't really have the same underlying Red Scare
theme
of the original Bodysnatchers (or Arthur Miller's Crucible),
although it *is* about what every modern high school movie
seems
to be about: how much their presumed roles imposed on teens
makes their lives painful, and how great it is to unleash
those
strictures. Sure, it's not Bergman, but who really expects
haute
couture from a sci-fi horror flick? Oh, and any 'homophobia'
attributed to the movie (as opposed to some of its high
school
student characters, just as occurs in real life) is questionable
at best.

"The Faculty" is no more and no less than another entry in
'new
geek cinema,' slightly more intelligent and self-referential
than your standard SCI-FI Network fare. Appreciated on its
own
terms, or anything close to them, it's a lot of fun!
<|_=00=_|>
This is pretty much the typical slasher, with just one twist. It's also
helped by the fact that there's other things going on than just a bunch
of killings; there are conflicts between the characters from the very
beginning, before the killing starts. This is pretty unique for a
slasher, and it definitely helps the film become more interesting. The
plot is interesting, well, more interesting than slasher plots usually
are. The acting is pretty much all very good, the actors nearly all
give top-notch performances. The special effects are good, and mostly
pretty convincing. I've heard a lot of people complain that this movie
is a ripoff of the Carpenter classic "The Thing". While that film is
the better of the two, this is by no means a simple ripoff. The plot in
this is not the same, there are just a few striking similarities. I
would rather think of it as a reference, something to honor Carpenter's
abilities - Rodriguez was inspired by Carpenter, after all. I would
recommend this to pretty much anyone who enjoys slasher movies, sci-fi
flicks, or crossovers of the two genres. It's very enjoyable; the only
thing I hated was that they had casted Elijah "babyface" Wood in one of
the leads... oh well. You can't always enjoy all aspects of a film.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film fuses elements of the Breakfast Club with Invasion of the
Body Snatchers. Robert Rodrigues makes entertaining films, and does so
consistently. The Faculty is no exception, though the formula is
radically different from his standard approach. In place of large guns,
spectacular stunt choreography and a silly soundtrack, Rodrigues made
"The Faculty" with a classy ensemble cast and some awesome special
effects. The script is also very good, featuring strong
characterization and interesting dialog. All of these elements make The
Faculty a very watchable film, and make up for the completely
unoriginal and not very coherent plot.

The film begins as a paranoiac comedy about a typical high school where
the students and faculty see each other as alien species. Ho hum.
However, after about 20 minutes of set-up, the faculty really starts to
become an alien species, as they are assimilated by water-loving
parasites with very bad attitudes and a kind of group consciousness
straight out of Invasion of The Body Snatchers and Star Trek's Borg.
Six kids, very unlikely team-mates representing the archetypal teenage
personalities of the postmodern world, team up to try to save the
world, once they realize that the aliens can be driven off by, of all
things, caffeine. Especially impressive are Elijah Wood, Piper Laurie,
Robert Patrick, Josh Hartnett and Clea DuVall.

Like most of Rodrigues' films, The Faculty never loses its sense of
humor, and pulls off its own absurdity with artful visualization and a
tight, driving pace. Unlike many of Rodrigues' films, however, The
Faculty is disposable - it's not really meant to be viewed more than
once. See it if you're a Rodrigues fan, or somebody who enjoys the
obscure but growing genre of horror-comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
Is a rough way of putting it. And never mind those Scream rip-offs or
all those other cheap alien/creature-feature films from the 90's. This
is a teen horror movie that gives you everything you'd want from a teen
movie and everything you'd want from a creature feature, all in one.
But what else is to be expected when you got Robert Rodriguez behind
the lens? Any other director and this film would be tossed aside as
just a teen body snatcher movie. But Robert Rodriguez shows here that
he has the style to make it more than that.

Now, I've read the script to this movie before I even saw it and I kept
thinking to myself, there has to be another draft of this, no way this
could really work and be taken seriously... or as serious as you can
take a movie like this. Yet not only was I surprised to see how much of
the original script Rodriguez kept in, but I was even more surprised to
see how well things actually played out. Sometimes I really love being
wrong.

This film delivers, just as much as any other Rodriguez picture that
calls back to the good old days of the Grindhouse and makes us forget
that those movies weren't even close to par with these "tribute" films
that somehow manage to surpass the movies they're tributing. You get
everything you want and leave wishing you could spend more time in high
school... or at least at this high school.

This film, to me, is the second in Rodriguez's own unofficial Sci-fi
Grindhouse trilogy. Starting with From Dusk Till Dawn and ending with
Planet Terror. Want to treat yourself to some fun? Watch all three back
to back to back. You won't be disappointed.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Fun and Interesting characters and cool visual effects are the key to
this Sci-Fi Thriller, which is largely based on 'The Invasion of the
Body Snatchers' 

I won't introduce the characters here, as the movie introduces (Clea
DuVall, Laura Harris, Josh Hartnett, Shawn Hatosy, Jordana Brewster and
Elijah Wood's characters) really well as the students at Herrington
High, they each have their own individual personalities that evolve as
events in the film unfold.

The Faculty is littered with top names like Robert Patrick, Famke
Janssen, Bebe Neuwirth and Salma Hayek who all begin to behave
strangely, un-nerving the students.

A small pocket of students begin to believe in a conspiracy among the
teachers and it's up to them to save the world from invasion.

Great performances from the cast (Josh Hartnett in particular), a fun
script and a cleverly re-written story all conspire to make the Faculty
a cracking 100 minutes of all out entertainment.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Finally after the appalling "I Know what you did Last Summer"
franchise, writer Kevin Williamson comes back strong with
this
enjoyable slice of movie literate, sci-fi black comedy.

Cult director Robert Rodriguez skilfully mixes shocks with
laughs in this pseudo-remake of "Body Snatcher" movies. If
you
are willing to sit back and disconnect your brain for two
hours,
you could naturally do a lot worse than this.

Recommended! 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
On the Harrington High School in Ohio, the newcomer Marybeth Louise
Hutchinson (Laura Harris) tries to befriend the outcast Stokely
'Stokes' Mitchell (Clea DuVall). The quarterback Stan Rosado (Shawn
Hatosy) quits the football team and breaks off with his girlfriend
Delilah Profitt (Jordana Brewster), who is the editor of the school
newspaper and head cheerleader. Zeke Tyler (Josh Hartnett), who is
repeating the senior year and sells drugs to the other students, has an
argument with his teacher Elizabeth Burke (Famke Janssen). When the
bullied Casey Connor (Elijah Wood) finds a weird being on the football
field, he brings it to his Professor Edward Furlong (Jon Stewart) that
finds that the unknown specimen lives in the water and has the ability
of replicating. Later, Delilah brings Casey, who is the photographer of
the newspaper and has a crush on her, to the faculty room to snoop
around and find any evidence for a story, they need to hide in a closet
when Coach Joe Willis (Robert Patrick) and the teacher Karen Olson
(Piper Laurie) arrive. Delilah and Casey witness the coach and the
teacher attacking Nurse Rosa Harper (Salma Hayek) and they stumble with
the corpse of Mrs. Jessica Brummel (Susan Willis), who has recently
died, in the closet. They call the police but are discredited by
Principal Valerie Drake (Bebe Neuwirth). On the next morning, Casey
discloses to Delilah, Stokely and Stan that he believes that aliens are
taking over the planet through their high school. Zeke and Marybeth
overhear the conversation and join the group. Further they discover
that the aliens need water to survive and Zeke's drug is diuretic and
kills them. But the problem is who can be trusted in the group?

"The Faculty" is a great sci-fi with a tribute to the classic "Invasion
of the Body Snatchers". I saw this movie for the first time in the late
90's and yesterday I saw it again on DVD and it is impressive the cast
joined by Robert Rodriguez in this film. The plot is mysterious,
entertaining and well resolved and also supported by an excellent
soundtrack. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Prova Final" ("Final Test")
<|_=00=_|>
Originality is not The Faculty's strongest suit, the basic plot being a
reworking of Invasion of the Bodysnatchers (with a touch of Night of
the Creeps and The Thing chucked in for good measure), its characters
your typical high-school movie stereotypes (The Jock, The Nerd, The
Outcast, The Stoner, The Head Cheerleader, The Hard-ass Coach, The
Tough Principal etcetera etcetera.) and even the movie poster
displaying very little imagination.

But although this kind of thing has been done many, many times before,
the film still proves to be hugely entertaining thanks to a sharp
script by Kevin Williamson, assured direction by Robert Rodriguez,
great special effects (particularly the practical MUFX by KNB), and a
cool cast including Bebe Neuwirth (40 and fabulous), Jordana Brewster,
Salma Hayek, Elijah Wood, Robert Patrick, Clea DuVall, Famke Janssen
(hubba, hubba), Usher, Laura Harris (naked!) and Piper Laurie. Hell,
even Josh Hartnett and his bad hair didn't rankle me that much, which
is a change.

The movie opens brilliantly with an amazingly tense scene (Williamson
having had prior experience in writing such scary openings with Scream
and Scream 2), and the excitement continues unabated until the
spectacular finale which features one hell of a cool monster, a Cthulu
style alien with lots of gnarly teeth and thrashing tentacles. Along
the way, Salma, Famke, and Bebe get all sexed up, Josh gets all macho
with a makeshift machete, Elijah takes drugs, and Harry Knowles hoists
his fat ass out of his armchair for a pointless cameo. It all adds up
to a whole heap of fun.
