
Falling Down is the kind of film that has much more more happening than
many of us want to know about. It is disguised simply as a film about
an apparent nut who goes out and tries to right the wrongs that have
been done to him and in his trek across Los Angeles he becomes an
anti-hero. 

While that may be true to an extent, read more into it and you can see
a film that tries to show us that there is something terribly wrong
with how we live. I wasn't alive in the 50's, in fact, I was born in
the 70's. So I can't honestly tell you if life was easier back then.
But what I can tell you is that times were a bit more simple then. For
the most part, you had one income in the household. You had T.V and
radio as your entertainment and kids went outside to play. Now you must
have both parents working so you can have that double income. Kids are
obsessed with the internet and videogames and so on. What does all of
this have to with the film? Everything!

Falling Down is about the decay in one man's life and how it affects
not only him but those around him. There is one very powerful scene in
the film that can sum up everything.

There is a key moment in Falling Down that is sad in it's reality, but
true in it's opinion. Douglas is in a surplus store and the guy running
it is a Nazi sympathizer. When Douglass doesn't share his opinions,
they get into a confrontation. The guy snaps and tells Douglas to
spread against the wall. He obliges and then the Nazi guy wants to
handcuff him. He tells Douglas to give him his hand, he does. Then he
tells Douglas to give him his other hand. Douglas is supporting himself
on the wall in a 30 degree angle and if he gives the guy his other hand
" he'll fall down. " Which is precisely what he tells the Nazi guy.
This is a microcosm of the film and a microcosm of what may be wrong
with not only society but people in general. There is a theory in
wrestling that your arms and legs are like a table, if you take out any
two of the legs or arms, your opponent falls down and is vulnerable.
Same thing with a human being. Take away so many of his limbs ( job,
wife, dignity, credit rating, kids, etc. ) and it may be only a matter
of time before that person does snap. This movie shows us what happens
to one individual that does snap. He wasn't all that bad to begin with,
but as time went on and he was " lied " to, he can't handle it and
finally one day, he has had enough. I think this film is more important
than people realize and if you have only seen it once, see it again.
You may see something that you didn't see before. Hats off to
Schumacher and Douglas who had the guts to make this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Take the hottest day of the year, a traffic gridlock, cracked
pavements, dirty streets, unwarranted hostility and a general feeling
of being short changed. Then add the frustrations of having an
estranged wife and child, an extremely jaded and unbalanced mindset,
and the frustration of being obsolete with no marketable skills. Set
them against the decadent back drop of modern day LA where if you are
'Not economically viable,' you are of no use, and the result is Falling
Down.

The tag line 'The Adventures of an Ordinary man at War with the
Everyday World,' makes Joel Schumacher's masterpiece sound like the
benign story of a working stiff with issues. However Falling Down is a
dark and engrossing urban fable, a study into the mind of the
disenfranchised and reminder to all that the removal of comfort is a
lot closer than we care to believe.

Full of clichés, like the cop on his last day before retiring, Falling
Down bravely meets all expectations of stereotypes, rather than
challenging them, making for a realistic reflection of a failing
society. Here, a man in extremis, without the feral cunning or killer
instinct required for a life in the street, makes his way on anger and
luck alone, somehow surviving to leave a paper chase of violence and
destruction behind.

Relying heavily on symbolism, illustrating a flip side of America
running parallel to the hunky dory world occupied by the successful,
the over all message of 'No Matter, Never Mind,' is clear in this world
where children play next to vagrants dying from AIDS and Korean grocers
can legally steal from the public with their overpriced goods.

Michael Douglas displays some hitherto unseen talent as the unbalanced
D-FENS, as he casually totes gang weapons (complete with rubber bands
on the grips) in his formal shirt and tie, does battle with store
owners and comes up against fast food restaurants, homeless people,
gangsters and Nazis. Robert Duval is equally brilliant as the desk
jockey on his final day, determined to stop anyone else from being
hurt, including the perp.

There is, of course, a small amount of Hollywood sentimentality thrown
in for good measure, however the dynamics of such a strong narrative
make this completely forgivable and it's possible to overlook this as a
flaw given the film's overall strengths.

Praise surely has to go to Ebbe Roe Smith for writing one of the finest
scripts ever to grace celluloid. Known for bit parts and cameos, who
the hell knows who Ebbe really is? Look on IMDb to find out (if you're
a geek like me) or release him into the ether if you don't care. The
truth is, he's out there. The question is: Where's the next script?

On the whole, Falling Down is a powerful and dramatic indictment of
American culture, societal decadence, and the failing values of the
West. It's not for everyone and will most certainly offend some, but if
approached with an open mind, will provide plenty of fuel for thought.
<|_=00=_|>

This was one of the best movies in the 90's that all of us stress takers
can relate to. He represented us who put up with people's crap all day
long
and people who spit and walk over his face not being afraid of who he is.
Douglas has proved to the world that even the most quiet fellows can be
dangerous. I love this movie every step of the way. After watching this
movie it seemed as if Duvall and the others were the bad guys and Douglas
was the good guy.
<|_=00=_|>

"Falling Down" is a film that intends to point out the many quirks and
oddities of modern urban society.  It succeeds in doing so, but one must
look carefully.  Each situation Bill Foster (Michael Douglas) faces is one
that most people can relate to.  However, unlike most people he decides to
"fight the system" and wage war on the everyday annoyances that we all face.
 Foster is a People's Champion.  To illustrate this, most people who watch
this film naturally pull for him and see him as being a hero, mostly out of
pure sympathy.  However, at the end of the day, Foster is still "the bad
guy" for going against the societal grain.  Most viewers will find this
upsetting or even unfair, considering that he fought back against many
criminals and unjust forces.  

Where Falling Down fails at times is during the scenes where it attempts to
do too many things at once.  The bits of humor throughout the film are
mostly derived from over-the-top scenes, and at times Foster's actions seem
cheesy and unrealistic.  The fact that the film is two stories in one
(Foster and Prendergast) provides a good contrast because the viewer gets to
see both sides of the story.  On one hand, we see an ordinary family man
going bezerk (but in a way most of us can understand) and on the other hand
we see a cop who believes Foster is a complete psychopath.  Only the
audience knows the truth.  The film could have done without some of the lame
subplots such as Duvall's marriage, even though those scenes illustrate his
perception of being "weak" or "whipped".  The film sets out to do a lot at
once, which is quite necessary to create a thorough storyline, but at times
doesn't come out right on film.

One scene that I have always found moving and powerful is the scene where
Bill Foster sees the man who is "Not Economically Viable" protesting outside
of the bank that denied him a loan.  As everyone on the busy street goes
about their business and ignores this man, Foster (and the viewer) are
focused directly on him.  Foster obviously sympathizes with this poor,
hardworking man who is also being stepped on by society.  As the man is
escorted away in the police car he looks directly at Foster and says "don't
forget me".  In a gesture of sympathy and appreciation, he nods to him.  The
two characters share a connection.  It is especially important to notice the
symbolism of this scene.  Both men are wearing the exact same outfits: a
white short-sleeved dress shirt, black tie and black pants.  They are on the
opposite sides of the street.  When they look at each other, even though
they are white and black, it is as though they are looking into a mirror and
seeing the same thing: a victim of society.

Overall, a slightly sad story that tries to do a whole lot, succeeds in most
of it and provides lots of entertainment.  A good storyline and an excellent
observation of modern society.

<|_=00=_|>

Joel Schumacher's career has gone 
down the drain since this movie, for now 
he is just trying to make stupid movies with 
no sense and style. However this proved 
to be one of his best films. Michael Douglas 
portrayed William Forster perfectly, giving 
us a character who is both sensible and 
psychotic at the same time. The whole scene 
with Douglas in the fast food restaurant was 
priceless, giving a voice to the typical angry 
consumer. So many messages in the film 
really brought out the stereotypical infuriated 
American, and gave us the reactionary nature 
of such an individual. While this film will most 
likely leak in to the annals of obscurity, this one 
will always remain in my video collection.
<|_=00=_|>

 Michael Douglas and Robert Duvall star in a film that portrays life as
true, funny and aggravating as it really is. Douglas is wonderful in his
role of an average Joe Schmoe gone haywire, and Robert Duvall is vivid and
deep as the cop on the chase.

 Falling Down may have a few incredibilities (though I remember going
through a lot of situations in the film Douglas went through-though I never
was angry enough to pull a shotgun out), but it's more symbolic than
anything.

 I think the funniest part is the burger restaurant, obviously a mimic of
McDonalds, and Douglas' reaction. It's kind of like he realizes, "Hey, I'm
this far, why not complain about the burger while I'm at it? It's always
bugged me anyway!" 
 
 Falling Down represents all Americans: the aggravations, road rage we hear
about, everything. Every day situations in a new perspective.

      5/5 stars-

                  JOHN ULMER
<|_=00=_|>

Falling Down (1993)

Tagged as `the adventures of an ordinary man at war with the everyday
world,' Joel Schumacher's `Falling Down' tells the tragic tale of William
Foster aka D-FENS, a now unemployed defense worker who finds himself
trapped
on a hot summer day in bumper-to-bumper Los Angeles traffic. Having been
pushed past the brink of sanity, Foster loses it and storms out of his
car,
walking around town and trying desperately to see his little daughter for
her birthday, a daughter who is untouchable because of a court order
against
him by his estranged wife. Along the way, Foster will run across character
types we've all come across: the 'war veteran' bum who is really just a
lowlife looking to score some quick cash, an irate Korean grocery store
owner, a homophobic neo-nazi army retail store owner, a crusty elitist
country club golf player, super friendly fast food workers, young Hispanic
thugs, and so forth. And each one will chip away at what remains of his
patience and tolerance for stupidity, fueling a rampage.

Up against this anti-hero is Prendergast, a veteran cop who has felt many
of
the same pains as Foster, but who serves as sort of a foil to him. Foster
has lost everything, and while Prendergast has lost quite a bit (his wife
is
a basketcase, his little daughter died years ago under mysterious
circumstances), he still retains some optimism, calmness, and dignity. As
Prendergast, who is on his last day on the job, begins to put together the
pieces of the mysterious crime spree plaguing the city (he seems to be the
only one smart enough to figure out it's all the doing of one man!), it
pits
him in an inevitable confrontation between him and Foster.

Michael Douglas, playing Foster / D-FENS plays an incredibly complex
character. On the one hand, you know much of what he does is so wrong, but
at the same time there's immense satisfaction at seeing him lash out at
those deserving of it. And while he tries to stay calm, he finds himself
constantly provoked by those who have 'wronged society.' In fact, many of
the things he does could so easily have been avoided if the 'victims' were
not so positively despicable. You can't help but feel at the end of the
day,
when Foster gets his due, that he's, in some small way, made Los Angeles a
better place despite the carnage he's unleashed.

And this is perhaps what is so strange about the movie. There seems to be
no
clear message. Who was right? Who was wrong? It becomes a very blurry line
over the approximately 2 hours of the movie's run. I've seen it now
several
times and I still can't give any definitive answer. Perhaps this is a
strength, that different people will view this movie in different ways.
Some
will see this as the story of a noble, decent man who modern society has
beaten down and crushed, and who desperately tries to struggle against the
tyranny and betrayal. Others will see Foster as a lunatic who needed to be
put down. No one, I think, will find that Foster doesn't warrant some
sympathy.

Personally, I think Foster got the wrong end of the stick. His wife's
anger
and fear of him seems somewhat unwarranted, and though it is clear that
Foster (and not just society itself) has brought many of his problems upon
his own head, he is tired and angry and rightfully resentful at the course
his life has taken. He feels he has nothing to live for, so he takes it
out
on anyone who crosses his path. I recommend this movie because the
performances are all-around great, it delivers a solid cast, and as the
portrayal of one man's journey down the path of madness, few have done
better.

Grade: A-

<|_=00=_|>

It's just not William Foster's (Michael Douglas) day. Laid off from his
defense job, Foster gets stuck in the middle of big traffic jam. Foster on
his way to attend his daughter's birthday party at the home of his ex-wife
(Barbara Hershey), Foster leaves his vehicle and begins walking, running
into one problem after another. He also slowly loses it, finally snapping at
a fast food restaurant (a spoof of McDonald's) that refuses to serve him
breakfast because he was late. Foster also known as "D-FENS" because of his
custom license plate quickly becomes a source of terror to some, a hero to
others. It's up to hesitant cop Prendergast (Robert Duvall), on the eve of
retirement, to bring Foster down. Douglas and Duvall nail their roles within
this well written movie. If you haven't seen this movie you are in store for
a nice work.
<|_=00=_|>

Joel Schumacher's Falling Down is really an under-rated film.  Michael
Douglas gives his best performance yet as a middle aged man who is now
gone
completely insane.  I compare it to American Beauty and George Carlin
because basically that is what this is.  A regular guy who's had enough of
life (and goes around lecturing people about how life for him sucks).
Still, Schumacher, Douglas and co-star Robert Duvall try their best and
succeed with perfect precision.  One of the best films of
1993.
<|_=00=_|>
Is it just me or is this truly one of the best pictures from the last
decade? Michael Douglas delivers an astonishing performance as D-Fens
(William Foster) an ordinary guy, who has an obviously perfect job at
the department of Defense, until he gets fired and his wife breaks up
with him. The following opening credits are, according to my view, some
of the best in motion picture history : the whole scene is just so
extremely claustrophobic. D - Fens is just ''a victim of the modern
age'' just like the writer's wife in A Clockwork Orange (another
classic) who cannot stand the normal routine of living anymore, and
begins a trial of violence in the asphalt Jungle called Los Angeles.
