
I always thought the phrase, "I laughed until I cried," was just an
oxymoron. Until it happened to me. I watched Dogma: the funniest movie
I have ever seen. The movie seemed designed specifically for my warped
sense of humor. It was an incredible mesh of the high-brow and the
low-brow.

It had one character who was extremely foul-mouthed, and kept making up
hilarious obscene phrases. It also had a lot of perceptive, biting (and
very funny) theological and social commentary.

For me, it was sort of like being tickled hard in the ribs for about an
hour. When I reached the breath-taking climax of the film, the
resolution was such a shock and was so unexpectedly emotional and I was
so sore from all the laughing, I actually burst into tears. Now, dammit
I am a grown man. I never do that. Not even for anything real, much
less a movie. But it happened.
<|_=00=_|>

While both funny and frightening, this film is more than just a comedy with
gratuitous violence and (bad)-language.  It's a theological reflection...and
a call to the Church to focus on things that matter (like living life to the
fullest, helping those in need, honoring and respecting all, expecting
respect in return) rather than those that don't (like...well, dogma
[doctrines/church laws] or any belief that causes us to "draw a line in the
sand," condemning to hell or perdition any who disagree with us).  As I
watched it (the first and all subsequent times), I felt sure that the movie
was written by someone who really loves his church -- but is smart and aware
enough to recognize its shortcomings, its blindspots, even its failures and
hypocrisies.  Rather than simply leaving or ignoring or dismissing it, Smith
chooses to enter into dialogue with it, using the potent medium of film to
do so.  One can only hope that the church--not just Roman Catholic but all
branches of it-- takes him up on his call to conversation.

Not to be missed in the film, on a lighter note, are the introductory
disclaimer and the "Thank Yous" at the end.  Smith thanks Elaine Pagels, for
God's sake -- who knew anyone in Hollywood read contemporary, feminist
theology?  What a welcome revelation....
<|_=00=_|>

I have always loved Kevin Smith's style of directing and this film has
re-affirmed my belief that he is one of the top directors in the film
industry at the moment. Dogma's topic was a very sensitive one and could
have been misused but Kevin Smith has dealt with the subject perfectly.
Anyone who has critisized Dogma for being offensive has really not
understood the film. Dogma is full of excellent moments, not least Alanis
Morissette who I thought was fabulous in her small but important role as
'God'. All the performances were excellent and the actors complimented each
other superbly. Overall this film has a mixture of everything and its
underlying message is one which should reach everyone.
<|_=00=_|>

Another vote from a cradle Catholic who was not remotely offended by this
movie. Not that some of the negatives mentioned by other posters here aren't
true -- yes, a lot of the humor is gross, yes, the F-word is overused, yes,
its criticism of organized religion is less stinging that you'd expect
(though that in itself is a slightly foolish expectation, given that the
writer/director is himself an active member of an organized religion). And
yes, if you're not Catholic, much of the movie is a little foggy,
under-explained, and not very engaging. That last one I definitely agree
with; I seriously doubt whether I'd recommend the film to a non-Catholic at
all.

But, oh, God, I LOVED it, serious flaws and all!  It's a huge chaotic mess
with about sixty different trains of thought and philosophy, from the
ecstatic to the scatological, slugging it out for dominance, and in its very
sloppiness there's a sense of anarchic, exultant wonder I've never seen in a
movie before. The only two things like it that I can think of are Thornton
Wilder's play "Skin of Our Teeth" and G.K. Chesterton's amazing joyous fever
dream of a novel "The Man Who Was Thursday", both of which are works by
people who may or may not have faith but who definitely have a good idea. Or
several dozen of them, and who just run with them wherever they go. These
works are big chaotic messes, but in that way they are mirrors of Creation,
the mother of all big chaotic messes. In all these works, just as in the
real world, love and joy and beauty and filth and cruelty and despair are
constantly tumbling over and bleeding into each other; the one universal
rule is that everything is absurd, that the human race is the most absurd
thing of all, and that this absurdity can be the catalyst to either
suffocating grief or a kind of hilarious wonder.

If you go into "Dogma" expecting a trim and tidy theological comedy of
manners, you'll be sorely disappointed. If you're looking for something with
the same filthy gorgeous lunacy of existence itself, this is it.

<|_=00=_|>

Dogma is firmly rooted in Kevin Smith's View Askew world so fans of his
other films will not be disappointed. However, it also expands on the
direction he took in Chasing Amy by dealing with subject matter and
concepts
that are personal and thought provoking. Dogma goes beyond the "dick and
fart jokes", which are reassuringly present, and gives the viewer
something
to think about.

The film deals with thoughts on religion, Catholicism mainly, in a way
that
pokes fun at the institution but does not deride it. Dogma is by no
stretch
of the imagination an anti-Catholic movie. It embraces religion and points
out the potential and actual problems that can occur within any religious
institution. The film's comments and contents are definitely meant to be
taken with a grain of salt.

The cast is great and there are many instances of hilarious viewing,
usually
Jay and Silent Bob, as well as very sensitive and expressive moments from
the various actors.

In the end, Dogma is a thoroughly fun and thoughtful viewing experience
that
both old and new fans will enjoy. A movie outside the typical fare that is
worth spending your money on seeing.

<|_=00=_|>

I am a huge Kevin Smith fan and after seeing this film I can say that it
was
everything I hoped it would be, and a little bit more. It's extremely well
written and directed. The film has the same great comedy we're used to from
Kevin Smith, but he shows that he has another dimension that I don't think
many people thought was there.

Jay and Silent Bob have their biggest role so far. Jay has some of his
laugh
out loud funniest one liners yet. But what really makes this a great film
is
that it is genuinely thought provoking.

There are religious people out there who will criticize this film as being
anti religion, anti Catholicism, when it is anything but (well, a little
anti Cathlic maybe). The central theme to the film is that there is a God,
but not the God that most people know (or think they know) or believe in.
The characters in the film are trying to get the message across that people
have changed the original God, man has made God into the image they want
him/her to be, made their own religious rules, rules that God never
intended. From a strictly biblical standpoint, Smith is right on, which is
not something that can be said about many films dealing with religion. And
isn't that the entire point to Christianity, that it's based on the
bible.
<|_=00=_|>
It is not often that you get to see a group of stars that you like in a
funny movie that also makes some interesting points.

Matt Damon (The Bourne Ultimatum ), Linda Fiorentino (Unforgettable).
Severus Snape, Jay and Silent Bob, Salma Hayek (Frida), George Carlin,
and, of course, God (Alanis Morissette), all join to make this
irreverent and funny movie.

The premise is so interesting, and the fact that it is set in New
Jersey is so appropriate, whether intentional or not. As a recovering
Catholic, I remember the teaching of the church that I could basically
sin all I want, but if I repent at the end, I will be saved and go to
heaven. New Jersey is reputedly the home of many undesirable criminals
with vowels on the ends of their names - maybe some of them even
relatives of mine - and I know they are predominately Catholic. I am
sure they are counting on this "escape clause," just as Loki and
Bartleby were counting on the same thing.

Yes, while I was laughing, I was also carefully looking at the images
{the golden calf (money) we worship} and listening to the lines. There
is a wealth of material in this movie and it was thoroughly enjoyable.

One to see again and again.
<|_=00=_|>

While held back from being truly stunning by some pacing issues and some
minor script awkwardnesses, Dogma is an enjoyable trip from beginning to
end.  Smith plays textures like a cardshark - from action sequences to
philosophical debates to stoned one-liners to dramatic monologues, the
action flows remarkably smoothly for all of the twists that are thrown at
it.  I was also extremely impressed by the tasteful execution of the more
violent scenes, where the graphic aftermath may be shown, but the action
happens off-camera.  One rough point was that a great deal of dialogue came
of as expostiory - there was simply such a massive back-story (2000 years
of
religious history...go fig...) that it seemed at times that the plot had to
fight its way through the background information.  One particular shot also
irked me - in the Bethany/Metatron scene in the cafe, every time the camera
cut back to Bethany, she seemed to be in the exact same pose, and break it
in a very similar way.  I wonder if this was intentional, or if it was a
continuity issue?  The casting of God was simply inspired - her appearance
was actually one of the highlights of the film.  Towards the very end,
there
were some surprisingly touching moments (of course rendered through Smith's
unique style), and the closing scene felt like something right out of a
good
ol' 80's movie (that's a good thing!).  Issues and all, a truly enjoyable
film!
<|_=00=_|>
"Dogma" isn't the kind of comedy that most people will find themselves
holding onto their guts during. It's more the second-long "ha!" kind of
comedy.

That simply means Kevin Smith's writing is clever enough to the point
where you will be pleasantly shocked by some of the conversations and
events of the film and think it all rather amusing and humorous. It's
not hilarious, it's just clever and a bit funny.

The premise is rather interesting and surprisingly from a more
fantasy-esquire genre than Smith traditionally dabbles with. Loki (Matt
Damon) and Bartleby (Ben Affleck) are more or less fallen angels that
have found a way back into heaven. They must be stopped or the world
will come to a screeching halt, so a seemingly random protagonist named
Bethany gets charged by God to stop them. Simple, but the slick,
nonchalant approach to religion keeps the satire rampant.

The film does spend a lot of its time explaining itself, which isn't
too bad considering Smith keeps the explanations to-the-point and
allows the characters to stay interesting in the process. Chris Rock,
who plays an apostle, and Alan Rickman, who plays God's messenger/
voice are two of these characters that are both good in the film and
Smith has allowed to maintain their character's edge despite lines upon
lines of explanation.

Getting from point A to point B and so on is not the film's strength.
The physical events that take place are ultimately boring and
unexciting. It's the moments along the way, the conversations and the
philosophy that come about, that make it successful. Affleck's
character raises a lot of interesting religious questions about
humanity and his conversation with the protagonist on the train is
rather insightful. In general, Smith has used Bethany as a way to keep
the viewers skepticism of the plot active in the film. She keeps it
from getting preposterous. In general, the whole cast is very talented
and their characters well written, which keeps the film interesting.

It's not the funniest or most interesting comedy in terms of plot and
the sequence of events, but "Dogma" is a smart concept that ultimately
results in a sharp satire and some great thoughts that scrutinize
religion in a way that never seems too out of line.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of the funniest movies of all time.  Kevin Smith puts
together a movie that defines 'satire' almost perfectly.  The only flaw
that
this movie has are how long it is.  Even though the movie is almost two and
half hours, it delivers enough philosophy to keep people thinking long
after
watching it.  "Was Jesus Christ black?" and "Is there someone out in the
world that is a direct descendent of Mary and Joseph?" are very thought
provoking.

The satire elements in this movie are well done.  I thought the edition of
George Carlin as the self-centered Cardinal Glick was an especially nice
touch.  I am a George Carlin fan and I have heard his routines about taxing
the properties of the Catholic Church.  I think the issues with race and
women in the Bible were dealt with in a fine way as well. The dialogue was
smart and witty and the cast did particularly well.  Jay and Silent Bob
took
the movie with their wise-cracking, foul-mouthed wit and humor.  I am also
a
huge Kevin Smith fan and he incorporated elements from all of his other
movies.

This is the best Kevin Smith movie since Clerks.  10 out of
10.
