

Sebastian Caine and his team have worked tirelessly to develop a formula
that can not only turn animals invisible but also bring them back to normal
at will.  With Governmental pressure on them to show results, Sebastian
decides he will be the first human to try the formula.  He becomes invisible
for a short time, however efforts to bring him back fail and he finds
himself stuck.  As work continues on the formula, the others in the lab
begin to notice him becoming increasingly unhinged.

From director Verhoven the norm is to expect great special effects and
violence.  He has also been known to integrate themes and good stories into
these mainly effects driven films.  On this occasion however he fails to
really do that and is left with a fast paced and enjoyable film that makes
up in effects what it lacks in substance.  The plot is pretty basic and
never goes deeper  Sebastian's descent into madness is not really a descent
so much as a short trip that is not really built to so much as just
delivered.  In it's placed though, the effects are really impressive and
make the film worth seeing simply because, not only are they great, but they
are also used very well in the action rather than just being the film in
themselves.

The cast is OK but don't really have much to work with in terms of material.
 Bacon is much more interesting when not on screen than when he is.  His
character is too thin and he fails to portray any sort of `descent' in his
character's behaviour.  Shue is pretty good and seems to enjoy running round
with a flamethrower.  The rest of the cast are OK but basically just act as
fodder in the way that a normal slasher movie will have actors to be
disposed of as the film rolls.

Overall I really enjoyed this film as it is a very expensive special effects
movie which relies on spectacle to keep things moving.  The effects are
great and take the mind away from the lack of real substance and the action
at the end is very enjoyable.  A really good special effects movie as long
as you don't expect anything more.
<|_=00=_|>

Ever since the original Halloween was released in 1978, there have been
countless imitation films that desperately, although primarily
unsuccessfully, attempt to feed off of the success of that film by copying
its premise of a faceless and unstoppable killer. In the late 90s, there
have been a resurgence of these films, such as the Scream movies, which
started off good and then went sharply downhill with each additional sequel,
Urban Legend, and I Know What You Did Last Summer (as well as, God willing,
it's only sequel, I Still Know What You Did Two Summers Ago). Hollow Man is
a film that takes a fantastic premise and reduces it to yet another of these
cheap imitation slasher films. 

Sure, the whole invisible man thing has been done before. Done to death, if
you include literary examples. But let's face it, the possibility of human
invisibility is one of the most fascinating premises that you can possibly
tell a story about. The unfortunate thing about Hollow Man was that no one
involved with the making of the movie seemed to realize that. What you have
here is the development of an invisibility serum (as well as a reversing
visibility serum) by a brilliant scientist, who successfully uses it on a
gorilla in some of the best special effects scenes to date, and then uses it
on himself. Well, of course he uses it on himself, what scientist could
possibly resist? And why would any scientist WANT to resist? Well, the
reason may be that, evidently, invisibility serum turns even the most
intelligent scientists into raving madmen. 

The absolutely infinite amount of possibilities for an invisible character
are completely ignored here in favor of turning him into yet another bland
faceless killer. This time, we may know who it is that's trying to kill
people, but what we don't know is why he completely ignores the outside
world. This is the greatest scientific discovery of mankind, and this
bonehead decides to use it to become a peeping tom and to spy on his
girlfriend. This vast and hugely unfortunate simplification of the potential
for the story of an invisible man is both bitterly disappointing and more
than a little insulting. As Roger Ebert mentions in his review of Hollow
Man, it seems that director Paul Verhoeven, who directed such great films as
RoboCop and Total Recall, seems to think that his audience is so
intellectually dim that they prefer a mindless killer to the incredibly
imaginative villain (or protagonist) that Dr. Sebastian Caine could have
become. 

Hollow Man is an absolutely fascinating display of brilliant special
effects, which seem to map out internal anatomy just as good as any medical
textbook, and is also a great deal of fun as the visible characters
desperately try to make Dr. Caine visible again, but it is a dismal failure
on the story level. The film starts out with a gigantic amount of
intelligence, both that required for the development of an invisibility
serum and that involved in the brilliant premise of the story, but winds up
in the end as nothing more than yet another mindless thriller, completely
lacking in thought and intrigue.
<|_=00=_|>

This could, and should, have been an interesting look on the idea of
invisibility. Unfortunately, somewhere along the line, they ran out of ideas
and decided to just kill everyone off and have it end in huge explosions,
demonstrating a total lack of creativity. Too bad. It could have been great,
were it not for the total lack of good acting, the one-dimensional
characters, the corny lines and the general lack of anything worthwhile in
the movie at all, other than good special effects. I feel bad for Paul
Verhoeven; he used to make great movies; RoboCop, Basic Instinct & Starship
Troopers were all way better than this mainstream garbage. The only good
thing about this movie is the special effects, and, believe me, they are
good. They are just not good enough to distract the viewer from all the
negative points about the movie. It's really too bad that they couldn't make
a better movie about invisibility; we've never had a truly good movie
dealing with the rush of power it would be to be invisible. This movie
tries, but it just falls short. All those great special effects, and no good
movie to back them up. I'd only recommend this to special effect nerds,
people who'll watch a movie regardless of quality just to see good special
effects. I can't imagine anyone else actually enjoying this movie. I gave it
a 6/10, but only because of the special effects.
<|_=00=_|>
A Pentagon science team seem to have perfected a serum which causes
invisibility but when the lead boffin tries it out on himself he can't
reverse the process. Frustrated and drunk with power, he turns
psychotic in the classic H.G. Wells tradition.

This is a gleefully horrible Invisible Man story, delivered with relish
by the ever-tasteful Verhoeven and Bacon as the
genius-turned-loonytoon-maniac. As with much of Verhoeven's work it has
a terrific unrestrained sense of Boy's-Own comic-book adventure (the
secret underground lab where the scientists work is just wonderful)
combined with the most horrific and depraved visuals (women in their
underwear being groped and attacked by an invisible fiend, animals
beaten to death, literally gallons of blood and wholesale slaughter in
the last two reels). Whilst the story doesn't ring any new twists on an
old idea, the CG special effects by Scott E. Anderson are eye-poppingly
brilliant as we see veins and arteries, cardiovascular systems,
muscles, tissue, bones and flesh all literally appear out of nowhere.
In particular, a sequence where the team bring a gorilla back from the
invisible state and the scene where Bacon drowns Devane in a swimming
pool, are absolutely breathtaking in the detail and artistic invention
of the effects. The film also has a great soundtrack by Jerry Goldsmith
and classic horror-movie photography by Jost Vacano. The young cast are
pretty much overshadowed by the movie's technical pedigree, but both
Shue and Dickens are impressively out of their depth. This is a great
fun nasty movie.
<|_=00=_|>

It seems a lot of IMDB comments on this film are biased, in the sense that
they try to compare it to an older version. True, "HOLLOW MAN" is a remake
of sorts of "THE INVISIBLE MAN", but that's where the similarities end.
"HOLLOW MAN" is an entertaining movie,period. If you watch a movie with the
intention of finding as many flaws as possible, then you shouldn't watch
movies in the first place. True, some movies are plain horrendous and
unbearable, but "HOLLOW MAN" manages to entertain and make you think what
YOU would do if you were invisible and if you had your ex getting laid with
one of your friends. Kevin Bacon stars as a eccentric scientist who, along
with a team of collaborators, discover the way to make animals invisible.
Now his mission is to make them visible again. When this team of young
scientists (working, as you might guess, for the Pentagon)think they have
the formula for making animals visible again, Kevin bacon volunteers to be
the first to try the new experimental drug. After that, of course, things go
wrong, as Kevin Bacon remains invisible for the rest of the movie and is
obliged to wear a latex mask, so his collaborators know where he is.
Feelings of paranoia and desperation begin to take over Kevin's character,
and when he finds out that his ex girlfriend AND collaborator (Elisabeth
Shue) is having a torrid affair with another of the young scientists in the
team, he finally snaps. The movie then turns into a hybrid of "ALIEN" and a
slasher flick, but that's not saying it's a bad turn. There are scares and
chills and the movie moves at a nice pace. The special effects are top notch
(a quality always prevalent in ALL of Paul Verhoeven's films)as we get to
see some "body reconstitution" sequences never seen on a movie before. If
there's anything to complain about, perhaps, is the predictability of the
situations herein; by the first hour of the movie you KNOW Kevin bacon will
make the jump from being weird and eccentric to being a homicidal lunatic in
the end. And the ending is a bit abrupt, but despite this, HOLLOW MAN is
still worth watching. If you want to know what a TRULY bad movie is, then
waste your money on "FEAR DOT COM" (With Stephen Dorf) or the even worse THE
UNTOLD (or "Sasquatsh", with Land Henriksen). Now THAT is
"hollow"!
8* out of 10*!
<|_=00=_|>
Hollow Man has the most basic of plots, a team of scientists are
working on a formula to make living beings invisible, the leader of the
team decide to try it out on himself, he goes mad and people die; it's
as simple as that.

OK this movie is lacking in plot, but it still entertains with its
action, suspense, thrills and superb special effects; not to mention
that the cast are pretty good in their ultimately shallow roles.

For some easy on the eye and uncomplicated fun, Hollow man is not the
worst choice you could make, it delivers most of what you need for an
enjoyable action thriller, and the lack of depth doesn't take away from
the fun all that much.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Hollow Man" has enough strong performances, nice moments, and
interesting plot turns to make for an mildly enjoyable film, as long as
you don't think too hard about the plot. Visually, it is quite
appealing and effective, and the soundtrack (especially the opening
themes played over some effective and atmospheric opening credits) does
a great job of adding some "oomph" to the action of screen. Keven Bacon
is his usual on-screen self, and carries the film effectively, which is
no small feat when consider that half the time he is either invisible
or covered up in latex, which deprives him of most of an actor's most
effective tools (his eyes and his mouth).In the scenes where he is
covered in bandages, he has to get the character's emotions and
presence out with body language and vocal cues, and even this is
filtered through SFX. So I give him kudos for a professional, effective
job in a difficult environment. 

So why only a score of 5 out of 10? Having admitted that the film is
enjoyable if you don't think too critically about it, I am now going to
think critically about it for a minute. 

Problem number one is Elizabeth Shue. Don't get me wrong, I think she
is a very attractive woman, and she can hold her own as an actress in
most movies. But she is horribly miscast here as a "top level research
scientist" (just as she was in "The Saint"). She may come across as
more than a typical "dumb blonde", but she's a clothes-horse, pure and
simple, and I can't believe for a moment that she could get a PhD in
the physical sciences. She's far more believable fending off Bacon's
advances than she is playing "Pentagon Barbie". (The other two
supporting actresses, who are by no means ugly or haggard, but still
have considerably less "Vogue" cover potential, are quite believable in
their roles). 

Problem number two is a certain weakness in the script regarding how
and why Bacon's character goes around the bend. The movie implies and
foreshadows all kinds of reasons: Bacon is already a creep with a
God-complex; the serum which turns him invisible is affecting his
brain's neurochemistry; being invisible confers addictive power and
opportunity he doesn't want to give up; invisibility creates an
alienation and isolation from society...etc. But the script doesn't
really drive any of these points home, and just flits from idea to idea
without doing real justice to any of them. A line of dialog or two is
meant to imply a whole series of attitudes and moral values changing,
("It's easier to sin when you don't have to look at yourself in the
mirror", etc.), and even a pro like Bacon can't manage it in the space
he is given. 

Problem number three is (are) the escalating misogyny and graphic
completeness of the voyeurism, molestation, and finally rape scenes
included in the movie to convince the viewer that the Hollow Man is
becoming a human monster. The first two scenes were bad enough
(especially the CGI of a sleeping woman's bare breast being fondled),
but perhaps necessary, but the final full blown rape scene was way too
mean and misogynistic for my sensibilities. That scene didn't need to
be there, and its inclusion makes it hard for me to recommend it to my
more conservative friends...they would be angry at me if they watched
this on my say-so and came upon these scenes unprepared, and they
wouldn't buy or rent this movie if they knew these scenes were in it. 

Problem number four is that the movie producers overreached themselves
a bit with the invisible SFX...some of them, especially the
transformation scenes, don't quite work. The figure struggling on the
table is very plastic and inorganic-looking and doesn't convince.
(Ironically, the first transformation scene, with the gorilla, works
much better, possibly because our human eyes aren't as familiar with
the textures and shapes of the simian physique). And here and there the
articulation of the shoulders isn't quite right, or the swing of the
hips. These deficiencies seem to be a common problem for 3D computer
graphics of the human form, and they dog the animators here. Sometimes
the animators get it, but sometimes they don't. I know it wasn't easy,
but if they couldn't pull it off, they shouldn't have used it. 

The last major problem was that the movie should have ended when Shue
does her wonderful "base-stealing" slide into the elevator and hoses
Bacon's character down with her home made flame thrower. That was a
great moment, and should have been the climactic payoff for the film.
Instead the movie staggered on for another 10-15 minutes in "Friday the
13th" territory with the Hollow Man popping back up from what should be
mortal injuries again and again - who knew that naked invisible men
could be so resilient? 

So that's why only 5 out of 10. Too many problems and weakness to score
this as a classic. But I do own this movie (bought it used) on VHS, and
will buy it (used) on DVD if I find it cheap enough. Enjoy the eye
candy and strong supporting performances and the many nice little
touches here and there...if you are into that sort of thing.
<|_=00=_|>

Hollow Man boasts some pretty impressive visual effects and does have an
intriguing story.  
Kevin Bacon plays Sebastion Caine, an arrogant scientist who develops a
serum for invisibility.  
Withholding information from his superiors, Caine tests his serum on himself
and undergoes a 
transformation that is quite visually arresting.  It's like an anatomy book
come to life.   But 
while Caine's transformation and subsequent experiments with his new found
power prove 
interesting, the movie fails to capture what it feels like to truly be
invisible.  Caine says to his 
colleagues, "You have know idea how much fun this is."   In truth, we don't.
 We see Caine slowly 
going mad and trapping his fellow scientists in the lab when they threaten
to go public.  But, we 
don't get any sense of power from Caine.  True he does venture out into
public and enters the 
apartment of his very fetching neighbor, but that's about all the real world
we see with Caine.  
It would've been interesting to see Caine in the real world, and what
would've been done to 
capture him.  Instead, we have Bacon, Elisabeth Shue and Josh Brolin and a
few others mixing it 
up in a hidden lab somewhere in D.C.  While the actors try to make the best
with what they 
have, Paul Verhoeven tries to goose us a little.  He succeeds in a few
instances, and he does 
manage to hold your attention for a while, but the ending is the weakest
link in the movie.  Had 
there been a stronger ending, the movie would've been a little better.  As
it is now, it's a good 
exercise in visual effects territory, but there are so many other
possibilities that lay with the 
story of an invisible human being.           
<|_=00=_|>

** out of ****

I've seen Hollow Man twice now, the first time in theaters, where I had the
distinct impression that I'd seen a fast-paced thriller that was nonetheless
entirely disposable and unfulfilling.  Seeing the film again, I had the
exact same feeling.  Hollow Man is a film of great potential, packed with
terrific special effects and a surprisingly engaging cast (the exceptions
being Josh Brolin and Elisabeth Shue).  So when the movie goes to cliche
hell in its final 1/3, you'll be very disappointed even though the action is
still entertaining.

Kevin Bacon stars as Sebastian Caine, a scientist working with a diverse
crew in an underground laboratory on a military project.  The goal: to
achieve the power of invisibility, as well as the ability to return to a
visible state.  Caine, being the egotistical hothead that he is, performs
the procedure on himself, but finds he is unable to return to his human
state.  With Caine growing further and further mad, the rest of the crew try
to find a way to revert him back to his normal state, not knowing Caine is
beginning to prefer his invisibility and will do anything to keep
it.

The first half-hour of Hollow Man is the best, when we're introduced to
these wow-inducing, eye-popping visual effects.  This is also the point
where the story holds the most potential, before devolving into B-grade
land.  Now, most people seem to agree that the film would have worked a lot
better if it had focused on Bacon brandishing his invisibility on the
outside world, and there is a ten-minute segment where he does do this, but
it's also arguably the film's worst part.

The reason?  That's easy, it's because he rapes Rhona Mitra.  Apparently,
director Paul Verhoeven seemed very satisfied with just presenting this
rape, as if though to make a statement about man's human nature and what
we'd do if we didn't have to face up to the consequences.  That's fine and
all, I'm for a little depth here and there, but it disturbs me that he
doesn't address Mitra's character further.  Here's a woman who's been raped
by an invisible man, and we're simply supposed to accept this scene and not
wonder about the effect this will have on her psychological state (think
about it this way, unless the military goes public with all the invisibility
stuff, there's no way she wouldn't know if she'd be attacked again).  This
is where the movie truly goes awry.

The last half-hour is essentially Caine going around, knocking off all the
lab workers, and while it's uninspired material, it's still rather exciting
to watch, if only because Verhoeven is a skilled action director who really
knows how to make us squirm and cringe at the sight of blood and guts.  But
by the time it's all over, though I found myself mildly entertained, there
was still a bad taste in my mouth from the filmmakers' poor decision-making
and routine route they chose for the film.

<|_=00=_|>
"Hollow Man" seems to improve on second viewing. Yes, it is formulaic.
Yes, it is cheesy but for all that it is unabashedly entertaining. On
its release it was quite a disappointment considering the talent
involved. On reappraisal this film is far better than any action movie
delivered by Hollywood since September 11th 2001.

Kevin Bacon is a huge talent and his performance is excellent given the
limitations of the script and SFX process. Elisabeth Shue is also
extremely engaging. The problem lies in the script. What needed to be
explored more fully is the use of such an extreme talent. The guy is
invisible. So what can he get up too? All he achieves is the
molestation of the beautiful Rhonda Mitra. Kevin Bacon is portraying an
eccentric genius. Can he not think of something more inventive than
rape? 

The direction is pretty pedestrian for Paul Verhoven considering his
remarkable talent in this field. "Hollow Man" is a continuation of Paul
Verhoven's love affair with Special Effects. Unfortunately the SFX
appear stagy and unsubtle. Some effects are very well done but not all
of them.

The best effect is a simple one and proves Verhoven as a master of the
medium. Kevin Bacon leaves a celebratory dinner but we do not see him
leave. Elisabeth Shue turns and is confronted with an empty chair. This
simple device works remarkably well because it is rather creepy and
unexpected. More moments of such simple imagination and ingenuity
needed to be introduced into the proceedings rather that the complete
reliance on computer effects. Less is more, as they say.
