
After the box-office failure of "Memoirs of an Invisible Man" in 1992
forced him to work in TV (with the movie "Body Bags"), director John
Carpenter returned to his roots in the horror genre and began working
in what would be his return to the big screen with the 1995 horror
film, "In the Mouth of Madness", a movie that would become the third
and final part of his Apocalypse Trilogy (an unrelated series of horror
films started with "The Thing" and followed by "Prince of Darkness").
Together with writer Michael De Luca, Carpenter crafted a film that
pays honest tribute to the genre's original root: the written word.

In the film, Sam Neill plays John Trent, a freelance insurance
investigator hired to find out if the disappearance of horror writer
Sutter Cane (Jürgen Prochnow) is part of a complicated marketing plan,
as he is the most popular writer at the moment. However, it seems that
Cane has really disappeared, as not even his publishers know where he
is. Together with Cane's editor, Linda Styles (Julie Carmen), Trent
will attempt to find out where Cane is, but will discover that the
famed horror writer has a deep dark secret hidden in the apparently not
so fictional town of "Hobb's End".

Inspired by legendary horror writer H.P. Lovecraft, De Luca's story is
a powerful ride to the dark side where the line of fiction and reality
disappear. Themes such as the duality of reality and fantasy and the
concepts of God and free will are carried through the film's remarkably
well-done script, becoming one of the most interesting, intelligent and
insightful horror stories ever put on film. As a tribute to Lovecraft,
De Luca captures that atmosphere of dread and madness that was so
characteristic of Lovecraft's works and that no film adaptation of his
works has managed to capture.

A fitting return to form, "In the Mouth of Madness" is again John
Carpenter at his best, giving form to De Luca's imaginative script with
amazing talent and an effective care for the story not seen since "The
Thing". While the plot is clearly inspired on the work of H.P.
Lovecraft, Carpenter completed the "tribute" by adding countless of
references to Stephen King and Nigel Kneale (his own favorite writer),
making "In the Mouth of Madness" a homage to writers of horror fiction.
With great skill, Carpenter crafts a film that is never boring nor
tiresome, and that even manages to transmit the feeling one would get
by reading a book.

Sam Neill delivers an excellent performance as John Trent, who
incredulous of Cane's talent, enters the unknown and discovers the
source of Cane's popularity. It is a very natural and believable
performance that can give the chills as Neill makes his character to be
so easy to be identified with. Jürgen Prochnow and Julie Carmen deliver
both excellent performances too, although their characters receive few
screen time (even for important supporting roles) as it is truly Neill
who carries the film becoming the focus of the story.

"In the Mouth of Madness" is a haunting horror film that is both
intelligent and effective thanks to Carpenter's expertise as director,
and more than 10 years after is release it's hard to see why it failed
at the box-office. While it's not a perfect film, it's a lot better
than the average, and while it's true that it seems to lose some steam
in the last third, the ending is really one of the best in horror
history. Despite some quibbles with the special effects (as I think
that Carpenter shows a lot more than what was needed), the film is
overall a very well-done film that deserved a better reception in its
day.

With an excellent cast and a superb story, "In the Mouth of Madness"
ends up as a really inventive story that proves that horror in film can
deliver the same creative as it has in literature. An intelligent and
twisted tale of horror, this homage to horror fiction makes a really
great film. To most people, the name John Carpenter is (and will always
be) related to the "Halloween" franchise, but personally, I find "The
Thing" and this film as the best works of his career. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Insurance claims expert John Trent (Sam Neill) Goes off on a search for
missing horror author Sutter Cane (Jürgen Prochnow), convinced his
disappearance is a hoax. Once Trent goes looking for the missing
author, he's lead to Hobb's End, a supposedly fictional New England
town, to discover that something very wrong is going onand Sutter Cane
is responsible. "In the Mouth of Madness" came as a delightful surprise
to me.

I rented the DVD solely because I'd been wandering the video store
shelves for close to 45 minutes (I have a little too much free time)
and figured I'd be kicked out so I grabbed a handful of movies. This
was one of them, and let me tell you I'm sure glad I did, because this
is a damn fine flick!

To start, Sam Neill is excellent, as is Mr. Prochnow. The only bad
performer here is Julie Carmen (Regina from Fright Night 2), who gives
a wooden and thoroughly unconvincing
"when-the-hell-do-I-get-my-paycheck?" performance. 

Michael De Luca's script is sharp enough to never takes itself too
seriously, while at the same time it can be very scary and dark. John
Carpenter's direction was top-notch. Some of the guy's recent films
have beendisappointing, to say the least, but here he delivers the
gore, suspense and action like a pro.

The special effects are great. The boys over at KNB effects studios
cook up lots of monsters, gore and slime, delivering the goods as
usual. The creatures here are indeed reminiscent of Carpenter's "The
Thing", their creative and all look very lovecraftian in design. 

At times the film can be extremely scary. The old trick of using
darkness and shadows to convey creepiness that Carpenter's so good at
are present and good as ever. 

"In the mouth of madness" pulled all the right strings and I thoroughly
enjoyed it. Highly recommended.

8/10.

Oh, and great ending.
<|_=00=_|>

What a treat of a film this was.  It is witty, intelligent, and scary.  The
basic plot premise is anything but basic as the line between reality and
fantasy is almost indistinguishable through most of the film.  What is going
on?  Who really knows...I'm not sure even director John Carpenter knows. 
But what we do get is a guessing game of what is real and un-real in a very
stylish, sophisticated, almost bizarre fashion.  The film opens in a mental
asylum with protagonist Sam Neill being put in a padded cell whilst in a
straight-jacket.  The setting is larger than life.  The characters around
Neill are caricatures for the most part.  John Glover plays a doctor(Doctor
Saperstein...a possible homage to Rosemary's Baby) with complete camp. 
David Warner, another doctor, begins talking to Neill and asking him about
what happened.  The rest of the film then details what Neill did working
with regards to a lost author named Sutter Cane.  The plot is much more
complicated than that and may take subsequent viewings to fully understand
WHAT can be understood.  The end result is at the very least a very
gratifying one as Carpenter constructs a dream-like story that has obvious
roots in both the fiction of H. P. Lovecraft and Stephen King.  The acting
is good all around...Neill is excellent as John Trent.  He makes a very
believable presence in a sea of un-reality.  Julie Carmen is also very good
in her role.  Look for Charlton Heston as a publisher and Bernie Casey in a
cameo as well.  Kudos to Mr. Carpenter for bringing his visions of horror to
the silver screen once again.  This may be his best film...certainly his
most thought-provoking and sophisticated.
<|_=00=_|>
I gotta say that when I first saw this movie, it blew me away. It's not
as good as The Thing, but it's a great horror movie. It has everything
that makes John Carpenter the master of horror. He is one man that can
still scare the crap out of me.

In The Mouth Of Madness is about Sutter Cane (Jurgen Prochnow), this
century's most widely-read author. When Cane disappears, his publishing
company Arcane, run by the very gruff-looking Jackson Harglow
(Charleton Heston), enlists John Trent (Sam Neill), an insurance
investigator, to find him. Trent agrees after he is almost killed by an
axe-wielding maniac that turns out to be Cane's agent. He and Arcane
editor Linda Styles (Julie Carmen) find Cane's fictional town of Hobb's
End and then all hell breaks loose.

First things first. I loved the opening score. It starts off very
simplistic and then goes into full hard rock mode. Excellent music
throughout, too.

Onto the characters. Before I say anything, I have to say the Sam Neill
is one of my favorite actors. He can truly act, expressing a full range
of emotions: angry, annoyed, happy, cocky, flabbergasted, etc. You name
it, he can pull it off. Anyway, Sam Neill plays John Trent perfectly.
This is a guy who's good at his job and he likes it. He can see right
through you; see what you're capable of. It's fun to watch him try to
make sense out of all the madness around him, especially once he
arrives in Hobb's End. Julie Carmen, unfortunately, looks as if she's
about to fall asleep or that she's stoned (I don't know which, probably
both) throughout the whole movie. She serves her purpose though. Let's
talk about the real star of this movie. As with Sam Neill, Jurgen
Prochnow is perfect as Sutter Cane. I can't think of anyone who could
have played the part better. This man's got the look, the voice, and
the attitude to make Cane extremely believable. If anyone can play the
bringer of the apocalypse, it's this guy. Charleton Heston looks like
he's got something stuck up his butt, but plays Harglow just fine (I
think this actually helps his character!). I personally think he could
beat the crap out of Sutter Cane if it really came down to it. The
other characters are all minor, but one deserves an honorable mention.
David Warner as Dr. Wrenn is great. This man can handle himself and can
give Sam Neill a run for his money (even though he doesn't try to
here).

The gore and special effects are fantastic. It's nice to see a movie in
the 90's where CGI is non-existent. (The only two movies where CGI has
tricked me into thinking what I was watching was real (or at least
animatronic) are Jurassic Park and Starship Troopers. Most of the time,
I (or anyone else for that matter) can spot CGI easily. Not so in those
two movies.) Anyway, (I go off on tangents a lot, so get used to it)
everything from the dead/undead cop, the axe-maniac's eyes, the
creature that's part of Cane's back, and the vile abominations, was
superb. Nice work guys at KNB! No complaints here.

I will admit that Carpenter got me with almost every "boo" scare in the
movie, particularly the one at the end (used to a far better effect
here than at the end of Resident Evil). But those scares are only
temporary. When someone says a movie was "really scary", I want to see
something that will stick with me and always be in the back of my mind.
These are the best kind of scares which define "true" horror. We don't
get very many of these types of scares anymore, which really makes me
mad. But just as I had hoped, Carpenter pulls it off here (and in a few
of his other movies, too) perfectly.

Finally, I loved the ending! Apocalyptic endings always so much more
satisfying than happy endings. Carpenter is always known for his "hook"
endings and this was one of his best.

I've said it before and I'll say it again, John Carpenter was, is, and
always will be the master of horror. 'Nuff said.
<|_=00=_|>
This review contains some slight spoilers. Many people say that John
Carpenter does either GREAT or VERY BAD films. I think his only two
duds were Escape from LA and Village of the Damned. But he is one of my
two fave directors (David Lynch is the other) and this is one of his
best movies.

It may seem confusing at first but trust meit does make sense. The
premise of this film fascinates me. What happens when the line between
fantasy and reality disappears and creatures from fiction can exist in
the real world? Wow! This makes the basis of a totally cool movie.

John Carpenter always used 2.35:1 photography and in this film we get a
screen filled with creepy imagery and cool locations. The film was shot
entirely in Canada in 1993 and was released in 1995. It is set
basically in the city and in the fictional town of Hobbs End. When I
say that Hobbs End is fictional I really mean it. In the film the town
does not exist but Sam Neill ends up there. Some dark magick/logic at
work methinks.

This is definitely a horror film for the thinking audience. If you like
your horror deep, intriguing and downbeat without being
depressingyou'll LOVE this one.
<|_=00=_|>
In The Mouth Of Madness is a scary and terrifying film and one of the
best Horror films of the 90s. Filled with great direction,wonderful
performances and great special effects In The Mouth Of Madness is John
Carpenter at his best.

In The Mouth Of Madness tells the story of private investigator John
Trent(Sam Neill),an investigator who investigates phony insurance
claims. Now,Trent is asked to investigate the disappearance of best
selling Horror novelist Sutter Cane(Jurgen Prochnow). Unfornately for
John Trent this not going to be a typical investigation and for John
Trent will be an journey he will never forget and it will blur the
lines of fiction and reality and will be a battle for John's sanity.

During the time from the early to mid 1990s the Horror genre was seen
by critics and most Horror fans as dead. I don't think the Horror genre
was dead I think the Horror genre was in a coma and was waiting to wake
up. During the time the Horror genre was seen as dead there was a few
great Horror films that came out during the early to mid 1990s and one
of those Horror films was John Carpenter's In The Mouth Of Madness. In
the Mouth Of Madness is the final film in Carpenter's Apocalypse
Trilogy which also includes The Thing and Prince Of Darkness and when
it was released in 1995 In The Mouth Of Madness flopped at the box
office like most of Carpenter's films. But In The Mouth Of Madness has
gain a cult following among Carpenter fans and Horror fans over the
years be the film is great and unique. If The Thing was about an Alien
Invasion and Prince Of Darkness was about a dark religious theme then
In The Mouth Of Madness is about Horror literature coming to life and
drawing the line between fiction and reality. That is what so brilliant
and scary about this film is the story and concept of the film:what if
the stories of authors such Stephen King,H.P Lovecraft or Clive Barker
came to life and you are not sure what is reality or what is fiction?
In The Mouth Of Madness answers this question in a scary way. ITMOM is
a Psychological Horror film in the truest since of the words because
it's a Horror film that not only scares you physically but also
mentally because when you watch ITMOM you are not sure if the events in
the film are really happening or is it all in John Trent's mind or
Sutter Cane's mind and you are put into a frightening and bizarre
journey into darkness. With Carpenter's Apocalypse Trilogy was about
the end of the world and possibly for this film the end of the world
doesn't come from human beings explosions or diseases but books. The
film was greatly influence by the works of H.P Lovecraft whether it's
the title of the film or the scenes with monsters and supernatural
things hiding in the dark and visuals that are haunting and disturbing.
The screenplay by Michael De Luca is well-written and original with the
dialog being cynical but at the same time very scary and creepy. John
Trent is a classic Carpenter Antihero is a private detective in the
spirit of Film-Noir like classic detective characters like Sam Spade
and Phillip Marlow and like those characters Trent is cynical and a
loner. While Trent is cynical at the same time we relate to Trent
because his character represents the audience and like the audience
Trent doesn't understand what is going on or why. There is danger all
around the film and Trent can't do anything to stop it or prevent it
and you are scared for Trent. Sutter Cane is a scary character not
because of the things he does but because of his thinking and his
books. Cane thinks that his books are real and that they are more than
just literature and not just reality but his reality. The fans of
Sutter Cane's books read his novels like reading the Bible and Cane is
influencing and affecting his readers to do horrific things. Sutter
Cane is more dangerous with his words then his fists or eyes. ITMOM
moves at a great pace and when the terror starts it never stops until
the end. The violence and gore in the film is shocking and frightening
because at times the violence and gore is shown or implied with
visuals. The ending of the film is one of the best endings in Horror
film history and is a classic Carpenter ending because it is so
hopeless,sad and at the same time very funny. It's a great ending that
you will never forget.

The cast does great jobs in their roles. Sam Neill is excellent as John
Trent,with Neill bringing intensity and cynicism to the performance.
Julie Carmen does a wonderful job as Linda Styles,Cane's editor who
helps John look for Sutter Cane. Jurgen Prochnow is brilliant and
frightening as Sutter Cane,with Prochnow bringing believability to
role. Charlton Heston(Jackson Harglow),David Warner(Dr. Wrenn),John
Glover(Saperstein),Bernie Casey(Robinson),Francis Bay(Mrs. Pickman)and
Willeim Von Homburg(Simon)give good performances as well. Also lookout
for a cameo by a young Hayden Christensen as a paper boy.

The direction by John Carpenter is excellent,with Carpenter giving the
film a dark and frightening atmosphere and always moving the camera.
Great direction by Carpenter.

The score by John Carpenter and Jim Lang is great,dark and effective
and goes with the scary tone of the film. Another great score from
Carpenter.

The special make-up effects by K.N.B is amazing,disturbing and
realistic. Another great effects work from K.N.B.

In final word,if you love John Carpenter,Horror films or H.P
Lovecraft,I highly suggest you see In The Mouth Of Madness,an effective
underrated Horror film that is one of John Carpenter's best films.
Highly Recommended. 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

"In The Mouth of Madness" is one of John Carpenter's better flicks. It
features the usually bland Sam Neill in a surprisingly good and likable
performance, and is packed with oodles of intriguing concepts and spiffy
details. The music is good (it was cowritten by Carpenter) and the movie has
a great look. There are also lots and lots of ginchy make-up effects, and
while some are better than others (the kid who turns into an old man looks
like a kid wearing a Spencer's Gifts Old Man mask and fright wig), but the
sheer abundance of them make this unique.

Neill plays John Trent, a no-nonsense insurance investigator who loves his
job and has disdain for most of humanity- but with a sense of humor. He's
sent to find a missing mega-selling author Sutter Caine (Jurgen Prochnow, in
a role that would have been kick-ass if played by Stephen King), whose books
are a nation-wide craze. Trent ends up in Hobb's End, a town right out of
Caine's books (literally) where the morbid tales of fiction are becoming
reality.

The movie, although muddled in places, too repetitive (on purpose), and too
reliant on flash forwards, has lots of things to say about the perception of
reality and it interesting and entertaining.

The supporting cast is good: John Glover and David Warner are psychiatrists,
a subdued Charleton Heston is a publisher, and Bernie "Revenge of the Nerds"
Casey is Trent's boss, but the highlight is Frances Bay as the sweet Mrs.
Pickman. She provides the film's high points and ends up looking like
something from the director's "The Thing". The weak link in the cast is the
leading lady, Julie Carmen, who delivers every line like she just chugged a
case of Nyquil. In addition to her lousy acting, she's dressed in ugly
outfits and has a kind of "in-your-face" ugliness. In one scene there is a
special effects dummy head in place of Carmen's and the dummy head out-acts
her.

This is not as great as "The Thing" but better than "They Live" as far as
John Carpenter's paranoid, reality-bending flicks go, and is worth checking
out.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to go deeply into the story of In the Mouth of Madness
without spoiling it. It's best to know absolutely nothing at all. That
was my experience with this film and I was completely blown away. The
story is very original and inventive and also has a good critique about
the influences of the horror franchise.

The first 2/3 of the film are masterful, the old John Carpenter seems
to have returned at full force. Effortlessly creating a creepy
atmosphere, astounding visuals, some gross-out horror combined with a
Chandleresque detective mystery, In the Mouth of Madness seems to be
competing for the title of Carpenter's best ever film. But the final
third is a letdown, the conclusion not satisfactory and the terribly
slow pacing kills the momentum so memorably established before.

Still, overall this is one effective horror film made by a master
filmmaker. Although it misses the bull's eye, it ranks as the best of
Carpenter's later works. He has a good cast to work with here; Sam
Neill is terrific in the lead, Jurgen Prochnow is creepy and it's fun
to see Charlton Heston in a small role.

For horror fans and Carpenter disciples this film is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't want to spoil anything so i'll keep this short. It's about an
insurance investigator (Sam Neill) who seeks out to find a famous
horror writer after his books seems to have a very odd effect on his
readers, only to actually find the village in his novels. Suddenly it
seems like his books are coming true. Now I'll stop there and leave the
rest for you to see. This movie is both a tribute to the genre (and
maybe a slight parody) and literally an existentialism story(you know
what I mean when you finish the movie). This movie is scary,
horrifying, intelligent, well written, well acted, and also somehow a
bit funny. (Warning, this is not for the light hearted, freakiest thing
I've ever seen, but still made me laugh somehow)

I can only say in conclusion Watch it!
<|_=00=_|>
I think In the Mouth of Madness falls into that column of John
Carpenter films that fans of his will either like a lot or wont, and I
could understand the points made for the latter. It is a little hard to
get into, at first, as being a very strong film based on the sharply
timed shocks and paranoia of Carpenter's horror as a director as well
as the ideas presented by the writer, and it does veer into going into
the same wild level of deliriousness that soon enough becomes the lead
character. But it's a work as well where Carpenter is testing himself,
and succeeding in a carefree but controlled way, where he goes for
having his cake and eating it too. He gets to throw up on the screen
some grisly (and, as a possible tip of the hat to the groundbreaking
effects from the Thing, a sometimes funny knock-off) special creature
effects and with some masterful displays in editing through the images
of abstractions into the character's subconscious, while questioning
what he's doing all the time, or at least the genre he and others
(notably Stephen King) make their bread and butter.

It's a sort of slightly smarter pulp sci-fi/horror piece, not quite at
the insane brilliance of They Live though perhaps in its more
deliberate fashion a little creepier, as investigator John Trent (Sam
Neill) is investigating the disappearance of a severely popular horror
novelist, who's books sometimes make people go a little nuts. Trent
sees this first-hand from novelist Sutter Cane's agent, who comes at
him wielding an axe (it's one of those pure points in the film that
mixed the macabre and satire, something Craven didn't quite get at with
New Nightmare). He thinks it's a hoax, and soon discovers that he may
be in a (fictional?) town called Hobbs End in New Hampshire. What he
finds, in typical Carpenter fashion, is describable as being a
psychological flip-flopper, where Trent goes from thinking it's all a
gag with it being very elaborate, to it suddenly not being, at all.
Creatures (supplied wonderfully by KNB) start popping out, disgusting
ones that aren't much human, and it even gets to Trett's female
companion/literary liaison on the trip. Soon Cane is found in some dank
cellar (Jurgen Purchnow, one of Carpenter's most chilling villains in
how subtle he is), and he has a new book ready for Trett to bring to
the world...

This isn't quite where the film gets weird, though it's probably a
little before or a little after this point, and the kind of weirdness I
had been hoping to build up. Although it does get close for writer De
Luca to being shaky with balancing really dark humor- however in small
doses, and depending on how seriously one takes the more overt horror
elements- and at the plight of Trent's mind-set in the midst of total
Armageddon, Carpenter levels the playing field without missing too many
beats. I kept having my mouth hang open either in a 'what the hell'
mode or just in sort of plain shock. But it's an entertaining mix and
match all the way for a genre fan, and Sam Neill is definitely up for
the challenge of playing as well level-headed and rational Trett for
the first half, then slowly but surely descending into his own
subconscious state of peril- or, perhaps, Trent losing sight on what is
perceived as reality or not. Only Neill could go between serious
dramatic roles to films like this and Jurassic Park, where his
characters' confidence as the practical pragmatist starts to waver as a
descent into disaster goes further and further.

What Carpenter ends on in the last section of his "apocalypse" trilogy
isn't necessarily a closed-and-shut ending either; I sense that he
wants things to be a little closer to the Thing's end, where it's all
doom and gloom but there's a wink to the protagonist's state of mind.
Trett's last minutes wandering the streets and going into the movie
theater watching himself doesn't really spell anything conclusive, I
think, which adds all the more to the fun and intrigue. He could just
be still in his hospital room, still in the world that dismisses Cane
as pulp-sensationalist trash, albeit successful pulp-sensationalist
trash (a little relevant today, eg Dan Brown), and not among the total
bat-s*** mess that the world has become while locked in his padded
room. It's a question left to the viewer, and a smart one to put up in
a film that has by this point thrived mostly on its own sensationalism
as well, tongue-in-cheek in the guise of crazy small-town break-out
scenario. As a Carpenter fan, I say, bring it on.
