

The only reason we have a film called "U.S. Marshals" is the cold fact that
somebody was simply dying to see Tommy Lee Jones returning into his
Oscar-awarded role as a tough, bold and unhesitating Deputy Marshal Samuel
Gerard. At first I was thinking "just another foolish sequel" and I have to
admit that at one point it more or less even looked like "U.S. Marshals" is
basically the same film than "The Fugitive" but only with Wesley Snipes in
the shoes of Harrison Ford. But this is the real and the final truth:  from
what I remember "The Fugitive" was like I never considered it as all that
great but since I was definitely on the edge of my seat with "U.S. Marshals"
only logical thing would be to assume that this was naturally a better
movie.

I tried to avoid "U.S. Marshals" for many years (I've no idea why) but now
when I finally saw it I was stunned by it. Interesting detail about this
film as well as "The Fugitive" too is the peculiar fact that during the
movie audience can't never really decide who's side their sympathies
actually are and which one do they want to succeed: the innocent fugitive or
Tommy Lee Jones' eminent marshal because clearly they're both equally
heroes. "U.S. Marshals" is not a special thriller but it works splendidly as
what it is and it doesn't try to be anything it isn't. Tommy Lee Jones is
the ultimate star of the movie but Snipes is also pretty excellent as
Sheridan. When you think of "U.S. Marshals" the impressive scene where
Sheridan jumps onto the roof of a moving subway is already a classic. Still
I'm sure that's not necessarily the only scene audience remembers. I don't
know what you think but "U.S. Marshals" was a fine experience for
me.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an outstanding sequel to an outstanding movie The Fugitive
(1993). In this film, the focus is on the team that was searching for
Dr. Richard Kimble in the first movie. That team was led by Tommy Lee
Jones, who won an Oscar for his performance, which probably helped spur
this sequel. It worked, as Jones and company (Joe Pantoliano and
others) are just as much fun to watch as they were in The Fugitive.

There are many similarities to the latter, especially in the first
third of the film, featuring some tremendous action scenes. Instead of
a train crash, we have a plane crash. Instead of Harrison Ford on the
run, we have Wesley Snipes. In both films, you have such an involving
story that the two hours fly by.

U.S Marshals, being the newer film of the two, has better sound and
even better special effects for the action scenes. As spectacular as
was the train crash in The Fugitive, the plane disaster in here is even
better. The same goes for a few other scenes. There is more action in
this film. Normally, I don't need that but it's so well-done here, it's
fine....fun to watch.

The Fugitive is still one of my all-time favorite movies. If you were
entertained by it as well but are wary of sequels, you needn't be here:
this is excellent.
<|_=00=_|>
The flick talks about US Marshall Gerard ( Tommy Lee Jones ) and his
detectives group ( Joe Pantoliano, La Tanya Richardson, Daniel Roebuck
, Tom Wood ) who set out in pursuit an assassin and thief convict (
Wesley Snipes ) after a plane crash and he gets away . A Security Agent
( Robert Downey Jr . ) is assigned to help them but the story behind
his accusation is converted more and more rare . The fugitive is only
helped by his sweetheart ( Irene Jacob ).

The picture is the following to ¨The fugitive¨ ( by Andrew Davis )
that's an adaptation based on famous television series . Movie blends
frenetic action, suspense, intrigue, violence and is pretty
entertaining . It's a run-of-the-mill action film because since the
start until the finishing the action-packed and thriller is continued
.The movie is fast moving and the action pace is accurately narrated
and for that reason is amusing. The release has spectacular scenes as
when the plane crashing or the breathtaking pursuits in bounds and
leaps and interminable runs . The numerous duels and confronting
between duo protagonist are exciting and impressive . Although the
first part featured by Harrison Ford obtained much more box office ,
this second part also achieved success in spite of the storyline was
basically a rehash of the previous film that was it equally of
television episodes scripted by Roy Huggins and starred by David Jansen
. Magnificent and sensational musical score by the veteran Jerry
Goldsmith . Awesome cinematography by Andrzej Bartkowiak ( sometimes
filmmaker ) . The film is finely directed by Stuart Baird ( an usual
and famed film editor ) . The motion picture will appeal to triller
enthusiasts and starring duo fans . Rating : Above average . It's
essential and indispensable watching .
<|_=00=_|>
I avoided this for years because it looked like a useless remake.
However, I had forgotten that I thought The Fugitive was a useless
remake of the TV series until I was dragged to it and found…a fine,
suspenseful feature filled with a plethora of colorful characters. So,
I should have been tuned in more to my own personal history, but so it
goes….I now have watched U.S. Marshalls a number of times, and I have
to say the two companion films match each other in quality.

The pacing is fast without being frenetic. The use of repetition, i.e.,
recurring motifs such as Kimball diving off a dam to safety & Sheridan
swinging down to hop a commuter train, work well – though they could
have been disastrous. The large cast is compelling down to the smallest
roles (similar to The Fugitive in that regard). Jones, Snipes, and
Downey all show range in their parts…Downey, as always, illustrates why
he is one of the best of his generation. And some of the secondary
roles shine, in particular Tom Wood as Deputy Marshall Noah Newman. He
receives more screen time than in the predecessor; and he makes use of
it well. He has one of "those acting moments" in a confrontation with
Downey's character: his intense expression of simultaneous fear & anger
is a plum bit of acting chops. Like other IMDb readers, I wonder what
has happened with this good actor. No screen credits since 2000. Stage
work? Left the biz? If the former, and he's in NYC, then we'll probably
see him on a Law & Order episode one of these days! 

I recently found a DVD with tons of extras on it – but I have not as
yet delved into them. I look forward to doing that, as I do another
viewing of the film.
<|_=00=_|>

U.S. Marshals has Tommy Lee Jones as Sam Gerard, his Oscar winning role from
The Fugitive, chasing after Wesley Snipes.  After a quite spectacular plane
crash, the hunt is on.  Snipes trying to prove he's innocent of crimes he
didn't commit and Jones and his team of bloodhounds relentlessly searching
for him.  There is no skimping on the action and the leap from a building to
a moving train is one nifty stunt.  The only trouble I have is that you
don't care enough about Wesley Snipes' character as you do for Harrison Ford
in The Fugitive.  Wesley Snipes is a former spy in the film, and he uses his
skills to evade the cops.  Ford was just a doctor, with no special training
at all.  Still, for an action film, this one delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
"We got ourselves a fugitive." Go git him Tommy Lee. Only this time the 
fugitive (Snipes as Sheridan) ) is a cross between Rambo, Houdini, and 
Superman (he actually flies). Unless you've got the I.Q. of a pigeon, 
you should be able to work out where this one is going. There's a lot 
of action, as expected, with the good guys dodging bullets, and the 
special effects are great. The team are still full of great one-liners, 
but the plot is complicated by Robert Downey Jr.(Royce), and the F.B.I. You've 
probably seen it anyway, so maybe you just need to decide if it's worth 
a second viewing. It probably is, if you're a Tommy Lee fan. The French 
bird is gorgeous in this.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, so "U.S.Marshalls" is basically just a remake of "The Fugitive". As
such, it received lukewarm to cool reviews when it was in the theaters,
unjustifiedly so, I think. Although the plot line is a ripoff of the
earlier
movie, this one does well in keeping us in suspense as to the story behind
the central character, and the action is exciting and well-paced. Tommy
Lee
Jones of course "makes" the film, accompanied by the same cast of deputies
as in the earlier movie. There are even "toppers" for the bus crash/train
wreck and famous swan dive from the earlier movie. This is a very good
escapist action flick.

<|_=00=_|>

U.S. Marshals is the sequel to The Fugitive, but feels more like a remake.
Again a victim of injustice is improperly imprisoned, this time Wesley
Snipes in the Harrison Ford role. He's not a surgeon, but a deep undercover
spy, the victim of a frame-up of an undisclosed nature. A catastrophic
accident frees him (this time a plane crash) and again Tommy Lee Jones is
sent to hunt him down. Big-budget, good special effects, A-list actors doing
their jobs well; still U.S. Marshals fails to make a big impact. The first
quarter starts out great, but by the end of the movie the plot devices are
becoming very routine. Not a rip-off, but only C+ to me.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never seen The Fugitive which is the predecessor to this film,
but what I saw in U.S. Marshals, I don't think The Fugitive could be
any better. U.S. Marshals is the action/ thriller film and fan of the
genre would drool over. 

The now Chief Deputy Marshal Samuel Gerard is once again after an
escaped fugitive. Mark Sheridan has escaped from a plane wreck and is
on the run for a crime he did not commit and Gerard, with his team, is
close behind. Sheridan must find a way to avoid the Marshals and find
out who really committed the crime he has been framed for. The action
is well placed coming in short spurts (except for maybe the plane
wreck) and works exceptionally well with the story.

The acting is exceptionally well done with Jones and Snipes giving some
of there best performers in a long time. Tommy Lee Jones is quick
thinking and likable in his role as Gerard and eventually works into be
your favorite character. Snipes is only seen in short spirits until
about the last 20 minutes which adds to the effect of him being evasive
to the Marshalls. However, in his short scenes, he is able to fit into
the role with relative ease.

The action sequences, as I said, is very well done and never over done.
They are fast-paced and well acted. The special effects are also quite
believable. With the excellent acting, gripping plot, and fast paced
action sequences, the two hours fly by and make for a very enjoyable
film.

3 1/2/5 Stars
<|_=00=_|>

People say sequels never work-but devotees of Sam Gerard and his team would
disagree with this almost immediately. I've seen this movie several times
and for those who like action this movie is for them! Sure the plot is a
little familiar for those that have seen the previous movie-'The Fugitive'
with Tommy Lee Jones in the role as Marshal Sam Gerard, but that doesn't get
in the way. The only bit that irked myself and other hard core fans of 'the
team' in this film is the fact that they killed off the always lovable baby
faced Newman (played by Tom Wood who is gaining a foothold in the acting
business) His death sparked a great deal of conversation, FanFiction writing
and an online 'funeral' held by the fans, believe it or not!

So if you are a great lover of the work that Tommy Lee Jones produces, or
you just like a cool action movie, U.S. Marshals is a good step away from
reality. Sit Back and relax with your coffee and chocolate doughnut with the
sprinkles on top! 
