

A hilarious movie, full of sexual themes and innuendo. The movie is
centered
around a community of African-Americans in LA, one of whom has been
arrested
for felonies twice, one away from a long jail term.  Unfortunately, he
gets
picked up from jail by his "friend" in a stolen car.  The strikes keep
piling up!  It's nothing that you wouldn't expect from a film of this
kind.
Just something to see on a Friday night.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is hilarious! Every time I see it playing on television, I
have to watch it till the end. Its packed with an all-star line up of
black comedians.

I just read the comment posted before mine, and I strongly disagree. It
is an unfair assessment of this movie. Now you do have your occasional
flops of 'hip-hop' movies, but this isn't one of them.

I think Brian Hooks could have been the next Martin Lawerence. I
compare his comedy in this movie to him, David Alan Grier, Tommy
Davidson. It has a lot of one liner humor, "Gotta have that Yac before
I break yo' back"...and especially coming out of Rob's (the main
character) father. Referring to Rob to 'having a dream' like Martin
Luther King and telling him not to come back home and join the
Salvation Army just cracked me up.

If you liked this I recommend the movie Trippin', which was also real
funny.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was a lot of fun.  However, if you are one of the tight assed
people who think you should take this movie serious like you are about to
watch "Gone with the Wind" you are sadly mistaken. Faizon Love and David
Alan Grier are great. Particularly David Alan Grier's "look out he's got
a
gun" line. It is a very low budget comedy by a first time director. Also
the
great newscaster Jerry Dunphy has a cameo.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie was off the hook hilarious! I don't know how I am just
seeing it now but wow! Great line up of comedians, especially, David
Allen Grier and Faizon Love! Faizon makes me laugh by just opening his
mouth and David Allen Grier has some funny ass lines! Definitely will
watch this again when it comes on TV. Not to mention old school Monique
and E40 are in it too! Awesome seeing some of their early work! Great
one liners! My favorite and it gets me every time " I can slap my balls
against his old ass face he still wouldn't wake up!'' so damn funny!
Definitely reminded me of my all time favorite comedy, Friday! Which
makes sense because it is written and directed by the same writer and
director, the man, DJPooh! If this movie comes on TV, watch it! If you
haven't seen it yet rent it!Totally recommend for anyone who needs a
good laugh or anyone who just likes this style of comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie. It was fun and enjoyable. I have watched it several
times, and so have my kids. The soundtrack has some good beats &
rhythm. I like it when movies show you some of the neighborhoods and
surrounding areas while filming. It was amusing to watch and listen to
the character Mike (played by rapper E-40). I had a "helluva" time just
trying to understand what he was saying. The News Anchor with the thick
glasses was funny to watch, as well as David Alan Grier.

Now don't get me wrong, the whole movie wasn't hilarious, but I did not
find it unpleasant as some of the others described. 

As for those who criticize, let's keep it in perspective - "different
strokes for different folks". Remember, some of you think the Olsen
Twins and Lindsay Lohan are entertaining! But maybe it's a cultural
thing.
<|_=00=_|>
I would never have gone to see this movie, but the multiplex I was in
got their films mixed up and started showing "3 Strikes" instead of the
film I'd come to see, "Topsy Turvy" (which, BTW, I saw a few years
later and found pretty boring). I lasted through about 20 minutes of
this film before I walked out in disgust.

First of all, it simply isn't funny. But more importantly, I'll bet if
this had been produced, written and direct by *white* men, there would
have been massive protests against "3 Strikes" as representative of the
worst kind of stereotyping of African-Americans. The Af-Am characters
in this film are comprised of drug dealers, ex-cons, hookers and
morons. I mean, I'm *white* and *I* was offended by the portrayals. Why
the Al Sharptons and Jessie Jacksons of America didn't denounce this
piece of cr*p is beyond me.
<|_=00=_|>
3 Strikes focuses on a man who gets out of jail, and after a run in
with bad luck, he goes on the run as he attempts to avoid getting a
third strike.

I don't really know why I watched this, I probably had way too much
free time on my hands. However, I will say this, this movie was awful.
Yes, I'm sorry if this offends anybody, but this movie was awful,
totally and completely awful. 3 Strikes struck out big time, all three
chances that I gave it, it struck out. This movie is painful, sloppy,
unfunny, predictable, and absolutely horribly written. Before anybody
begins giving me a hard time for this review, I'll say this. I did
actually try to like this movie, I did what I usually do whenever I
watch a movie, I threw out all of the preconceived notions that I had
previously heard and decided to keep an open mind about it. But this
movie proves that doing that does not always help, as I still ended up
disliking the movie intensely. In fact, if I had been a film critic
back during the year 2000, I would have probably ranked this movie as
one of the worst movies of the year, as yes, it really is that awful,
and in just a little bit, I'll tell you what it's awful.

The acting is lowbrow and unfunny. Brian Hooks stars as Rob Douglas,
the man who is trying to avoid getting his third strike. Okay, we know
that it wasn't his fault, but get over it already. Faizon Love was
awful in his role as Tone, a friend of Rob. The only one who seemed
like he was trying to act was David Alan Grier, who plays Detective
Jenkins. I wonder how far they got into filming before he realized what
a major bomb he was in. The script was repulsive. Normally, I have no
problem with a lot of excessive swearing and cursing in movies, but I
do have a problem with it if there is absolutely no reason for it. I
swear that in the first 5-10 minutes of the movie, I heard nothing but
countless uses of the F-Word and the N-Word. What was writer and
director DJ Pooh thinking when he directed this movie, and wrote its
script. The movie was also filled with a lot of other gags and jokes,
but none of them were funny.

All in all, this is one of the worst movies of 2000, and if you would
even say that it's one of the worst movies ever made, that probably
would not be an overstatement. Basically, this movie actually could
have been funny, but DJ Pooh poorly executed it, and in fact, he gets
most of the blame, as he not only directed the movie, but he also wrote
the script. I doubt that he could have done a job that was any worse
than the one that he did right here. I bet that Ed Wood probably could
have done a better job had he directed this movie. Wait a minute, what
am I saying? DJ Pooh isn't even worthy enough to shine Ed Wood's shoes.
This movie could make any of Ed Wood's movies look like Oscar Worthy
material. If you do decide to watch this movie, then be prepared to see
something terrible, something terrible indeed.

BOMB/10
<|_=00=_|>
I first watched this movie after it was released. I thought it was
hilarious from the start & well thought out. If you enjoyed Friday,
Next Friday or Friday After Next, you will love this movie. You have to
have an open mind to watch this movie, as it is full of coarse
language, drug use & sexual innuendos. Heaps of good r&b music to add
to the overall feel of the movie. Brian Hooks stars as the hapless
ex-con who is trying to make a clean break & avoid going to jail for
life if he gets another strike, i.e. 3 strikes. He doesn't try too hard
to stay out of trouble as it seems to find him at every turn & with the
so-called friends he has, they will surely help him back to jail
quickly. A few cameo appearances by famous actors such as Monique,
hilarious as usual,George Wallace & Antonio Fargas. Overall the movie
is a riot & the out-takes at the end are as funny as the movie. It was
made to poke fun at the '3 strikes' ruling, so sit back & enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>
3 Strikes is a flick that had potential in terms of its main theme. But
it sank into very low humor very quickly. There were aspects of 3
Strikes that merited further exploration...how the law affects
families, and how many Blacks and other people of color are sent
upstream disproportionately and unfairly. It was an opportunity to make
a serious statement...and the opportunity was wasted. The trials and
tribulations of one potential victim cannot speak for the whole.
And...there is nothing funny about getting a third strike. It's the
gateway to a life of hell...endless incarceration. This was a chance to
"scare straight" some younger folks who might have been headed to the
prison farm. Instead, the movie delivers a strictly ghetto-ish and
highly comedic message that falls flat. Nothing is wrong with ghetto
humor, but in this instance it was not used to full effect. The acting
and the script could have been much tighter. I really wanted to like
this movie...but around halfway through I was wishing it was over, and
was somewhat ashamed to see some fine black talent nearly reduced to
Minstrel show status...and there was no clear IN YOUR FACE message to
stay out of jail and to stay away from the situations that can result
in one...two...or three strikes. I hope someone picks up on the subject
again and puts it in a somewhat more focused perspective.
<|_=00=_|>

Luckilly this one was viewed for free because man did it ever strike
out.

There is nothing new here, the movie is poorly written and has nobody to
root for.  

There are some funny parts, but they are very few and far between and are
all done better in Friday.

The acting is mediocre and does not make the movie a must
see.
Acting is done much better in Love & Basketball.

In all, one the worst of 2000.  While the movie was profitable, the budget
was relatively miniscle.

Stay away from the strikes unless absolutely necessary, it almost asurredly
will disappoint.

Rating: 2

Viewed: in theatre (Scope)
