
I had been aware of the gem, yes, gem, that is Small Soldiers ever
since I was quite little. I had also always owned it, and had watched
it on numerous occasions. Time went by without a watch for many, many
years, as I lost interest in it for a awhile, and then later on, when I
became more indulged in the film life, I saw it in my collection and
decided it was time to freshen up on it. I popped it in and was ready
to be overwhelmed with the memories of how great this film truly
manages to hold up being over time.

I thought this movie was overall just a really great and enjoyable
little film that even though it was just meant for entertainment, ended
up being so lovable and cherished, much more than I thought I would
love and cherish it. What was really that bad about it, folks? I have
heard a lot of negativity directed at this film for being a weak
Dreamworks animation with practically no depth or originality. Depth?
Originality? You were honestly looking for those qualities with Small
Soldiers? Maybe if you would lighten up on it, you'd enjoy it for the
truly fun and enticing film it is. Some I bet were already even
doubting it from the start, which that's no way to enter with a film as
lighthearted and good-willed as Small Soldiers.

Most of the comedic antics were quite laughable, and that's laughable
in the tasteful kind of way, especially the renovated Barbies and
cowardliness of the Gorgonites. It completely entertains you, and it
certainly keeps you interested through the whole movie with the fun
characters and non-stop deliverance of toy warfare and excellent
voice-overs. The fighting scenes were cool and amusing, and the script
was pretty different and new, even though many think Dreamworks tries
to silently and sneakily follow in the footsteps of previous
Disney/Pixar films that are big hits, in this case, Toy Story.

I don't see why this movie has the rating it does, for I thought a lot
more people would've liked it better than this, but I guess not
everybody can spot a great film when they see one. If you haven't seen
this movie yet, I completely recommend it, because it is a nice little
movie that I am honored to own. It is getting too much harsh treatment.
I had loads of fun watching it, always have, and I'm sure you will too,
in the right mood. Plus, I love the usage of the song "Wannabe" at the
right time in this film; forever a Spice Girl fan.
<|_=00=_|>

Who would have thought? A "family film" that doesn't suck! Small Soldiers,
while not perfect, is still great fun. It's success is completely down to
Joe Dante, a guy with an obvious love of classic b-grade, sf, horror and
exploitation movies. It's no suprise he started his career with Roger
Corman. Small Soldiers is basically a variation on his previous Gremlins (
cute, seemingly harmless, kiddie-friendly objects run amok) but I enjoyed it
more. 

You can always tell how smart a movie is by its supporting cast, and the
presence of the legendary Dick Miller ( a Dante mascot), Phil Hartman,
Dennis Leary, and Mr Show's David Cross, not to mention the terrific voice
talent, emphasize just how cluey Small Soldiers is. And any movie with Bride
Of Frankenstein references gets my thumbs up!

I hope Dante brings Dick Miller back to the big screen SOON! We need
him!
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie in my attic recently. When I was looking at the VHS,
nostalgia instantly flew back into me. I remember the toys, I remember
seeing this is theaters opening day, and I remember me and my friends
playing our own version of "Small Soldiers" at our local park. Great
memories...

I was SO baffled to see a 5.9 rating on IMDb. Why? This is a great
family\action film. After seeing the rating and many negative reviews,
I decided to watch it again on VHS. 

Well, I liked it then, and I liked it now! Still, it was a good film.
What I liked the most was the music and the special effects. The
musical score was outstanding and so was the "War" remix. The CGI in
the film amazes me on so many levels...I thought they were real!

Overall, if you like edgy family films, watch 'Small Solders'. I think
you will enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>

Small Soldiers is good old fashioned, Tongue-in-cheek fun.

Regular movie watchers will see many of their favorite characters, all
caricatured here together as either a Commando-Elite or a Gorgonite
warrior.

The names of the characters, particularly the Commando-Elite, are extremely
good, and worthy of an award of their own.

Although some of the animation is a little wooden, that just seemed to add
to the whole flavour of the film.

As long as you don't have any pre-conceptions about this film, and ignore
the hype, you are in for some highly entertaining fun.  After all, who can
watch a room full of bikini-clad barbie-dolls-with-attitude, "playing with
their owner for a change", without breaking into a grin...

Favorite quote: "Lets see how you like being played with"

<|_=00=_|>
Let's be honest, the concept of Small Soldiers(toys coming to life)
came from Toy Story. However, DreamWorks came up with a MUCH different
plot and the result is a great-and grossly underrated-family
movie/action flick with top notch CGI. 

I'm sure many say DreamWorks is a poor man's Disney/Pixar, and I agree,
but this one movie in which DreamWorks shines. One might argue that the
Commandos are glorified G.I. Joes, but I will gladly look past that
because, c'mon, they're awesome. 

Small Soldiers is a fine piece of entertainment and some of DreamWorks'
best work to boot. I am begging you, don't pass it up. You won't regret
giving it your time.
<|_=00=_|>

Ah yes a Hollywood family film in the same vein as TOY STORY , so expect
some highly patronizing , derivative drivel , or rather don`t because I
found SMALL SOLDIERS to be a far better film than I expected . Much of this
was down to the fact that the movie doesn`t talk down to its audience and
the fact I didn`t have to put up with a myriad of scenes featuring bad CGI.
Okay fair enough , it`s very obvious that`s a GI Joe doll trailing along on
a bicycle but in the context of the story that`s exactly what it`s supposed
to be . SMALL SOLDIERS also makes witty references to the likes of PATTON
and THE TERMINATOR , ( See if you can spot them ) and what a charming
creature Archer of the Gorgonites is . Gorgonites ! You`ve gotta love that
name

 I enjoyed this movie and despite it not being an all time classic I do
recommend it as an entertaining family film  
<|_=00=_|>
When "Small Soldiers" came out, it was right after back-to-back school
shootings (plus the murder of Phil Hartman), so there was some
controversy about having a movie where toys get violent. But this movie
is actually quite good. You see, it's not some ridiculous, rah-rah
military movie; it sides with the Gorgonites (the soldiers'
adversaries), showing how - whether or not they win or lose - they
always remain supportive of each other.

As for the cast members, this is a Joe Dante movie, so Dick Miller and
Robert Picardo get supporting roles. In this case, they play a delivery
man and clean room technician, respectively. Phil Hartman is probably
the funniest cast member, playing the ultimate suburban consumer (he
wants to remove his neighbor's tree to make room for a satellite dish).
All in all, this is definitely a movie worth seeing. As far as I
remember, Joe Dante always does a good job.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not really sure who this film is aimed at.  At times it seems to be a
child's movie and at other times it seems to be for adults.  But
nonetheless, I loved the film.  I thought it was a fun
story.

The special effects alone are worth watching the film.  It's truly amazing
how fluidly the toys move and life-like the little toys are.  Also, I really
liked the various Gorgonite characters, they all looked quite
unique.

The cast is quite good too.  Phil Hartman is quite funny in the film, as
usual.  Kirsten Dunst pulls off a great performance.  The rest of the cast
is quite good as well: Gregory Smith, Jay Mohr, David Cross, Denis Leary,
and Kevin Dunn, to name a few.  I really feel that actors in films like this
don't get the credit they deserve, because they are acting against small
little harmless platic or metal animatronic toys, or, in some cases, against
nothing at all.  So just keep that in mind when you're watching this film. 
The voice talents in this film are also quite good, with plenty of big names
to go around including Tommy Lee Jones, Frank Langella, Ernest Borgnine, Jim
Brown, Bruce Dern, George Kennedy, Clint Walker, Sarah Michelle Gellar,
Christopher Guest, Michael McKean, Harry Shearer, and Christina
Ricci.

This film is just a fun film, there's nothing terribly deep or mind-boggling
about this film, just enjoy it for what it is.  I wouldn't recommend this to
everyone, but if you read the plot description and it sounds interesting,
then by all means, check it out.  If you do end up seeing the film, I hope
you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
I know the summary doesn't have anything to do with this comment, but I
thought it would be funny to start this review. "Small Soldiers",
believe it or not, it's more valuable that it appears to be. Yes, it
may be a flawed movie, but considering that it is a movie born in the
heart of Hollywood studios and intended for small audiences (and not so
small), "Small Soldiers" takes his chances to create successfully a
political satire, a very dark one.

Joe Dante (a very underrated director) is a specialist in filtrating
that kind of political message. And that's no wonder why decided to
direct this movie. The best of all is that also works as a family
flick, where the characters are likable enough to care about and it's
really entertaining.

Anyway, I really like it.
<|_=00=_|>
When Joe Dante first started directing, he made two above average B
movies, Piranha and The Howling. Run through with Dante's enthusiasm
for the horror/SF genre, they make numerous references and in-jokes to
other films of the genre. Then in 1984, he had a huge hit with
Gremlins, one of the finest comedies of the 80s.

But sadly, every other film he's made since has performed poorly at the
box office. That's not to say he's a terrible director. I think he's
one of the world's most underrated filmmakers, having produced gems
like Matinée, The burbs, Explorers. And the marvellous TV series Eerie
Indiana.

With Small Soldiers, Dante has sort of remade Gremlins, where another
small all-American town comes under attack. But not from little
monsters. From toys fitted with military microchips that go berserk.
Small Soldiers never feels as satisfying as Gremlins. There was
something tremendously entertaining in watching a sleepy, sugary
wholesome town get torn to shreds by malicious monsters. But Small
Soldiers is still entertaining, and just as subversive as you'd expect
from Joe Dante.

Gil Mars (the fast-talking Denis Leary) is the conglomerate of
Globotech Industries. Having just recently bought Hartland Play
Systems, a toy company, he is looking to market toys that actually do
what they do in the adverts. Toys that can walk, talk and even think
for themselves. He gets his chance when two of his employees come up
with the Commando Elite, soldier toys programmed to crush their
enemies, the Gorgonites.

The leader of the Commando Elite, Major Chip Hazard (perfectly voiced
by Tommy Lee Jones) is fitted with a special microchip that came from
the Department of Defence. Along with the rest of his troops, they
actually believe they're in a real war, and when they're shipped to the
town of Winslow Corners with the Gorgonites, led by the passive Archer
(a dignified performance by Frank Langella) all hell breaks loose!

The Gorgonites end up in the care of Alan Abernathy, a delinquent with
a reputation for being a troublemaker. With the help of his next door
neighbour Christy (Kirsten Dunst), they get caught up in the war
between the Commando Elite and the Gorgonites, which leads to
full-scale warfare within Alan's home.

Small Soldiers was criticised for being too violent for a kids film.
I'm not sure if such a thing is possible in this day and age of
desensitisation. And while it is violent on a comic level, the humour
is never as dark as Gremlins. That film was occasionally disturbing,
but Small Soldiers never crosses the line into outright bloodshed.

There is quite an eclectic list of actors providing the voice-work.
Tommy Lee Jones has the perfect voice for Major Chip Hazard, who has
down pat what it takes to be a drill instructor. The rest of the
Commando Elite are provided by the Dirty Dozen, and make a motley crew
of hardasses.

Frank Langella makes Archer into a very likable character, and his
friendship with Alan is handled well without being too mawkish. An
added treat is the Gorgonites are voiced by Spinal Tap, making Small
Soldiers one of the best voiced animated films ever made.

But as entertaining as the film is, it never reaches the anarchic
heights of Gremlins. It seems too watered down. Except for one scene
that is inspired in its subversiveness. Christy is held hostage by a
group of Barbie-like dolls that have been malformed, twisted and
altered beyond recognition until they become insane freaks drafted into
the Commando Elite. Voiced wonderfully by Sarah Michelle Gellar and
Christina Ricci, that scene will stay with you long after the film is
over.

Dante also makes some very funny satirical observations over the toy
industry and corporate politics, from the Stepford-like receptionists
who work for Globotech, to the way they frown upon educational toys.

But in some ways, although Small Soldiers never gets as chaotic as
Gremlins, it borrows a little too heavily from it. There are scenes
lifted right from it. Like a kitchen scene where Archer is nearly put
in a disposal, bursting through garage doors, even the soldiers being
wiped out leaving only Major Chip Hazard alive. Dante puts a new spin
on the events, but it does show a slight lack of imagination on his
part.

The human cast are capably played by some good actors, including some
from Dante's stock company, like Dick Miller and Robert Picardo, and a
final performance from the late Phil Hartman. There are also numerous
references to other war movies. So look out for affectionate nods to
Patton, Platoon, Full Metal Jacket and Apocalypse Now.

It's doubtful Small Soldiers will be remembered in 20 years like
Gremlins. But it's still above average entertainment, the special
effects work is superb, and it's interesting to watch films like Toy
Story with their gentle ideals be subverted in whole new directions to
create a film like Small Soldiers.
