
Usually I'm the first person to label this sort of movie. Look at it,
you'd think it was bad. It's got the usual assortment of action movie
clichés and conventions. The John Woo directed action scenes stretch
over the top at times, there's the mentally unstable talkative nemesis
and yes even one of those bombs that graces us with a digital readout.
All prerequisites for movies of this type and saying all that I'd
usually be complaining by now. Yet for one reason I can't. This movie
entertained me. It finds a way to come together in a really enjoyably
manner and I'm happy with what I got. I can't bad mouth it.

Nothing got in my way of everlasting enjoyment of seeing people die,
bombs going off and the baritone guitar instrumental. It just all
clicks from the get-go. If your reading this you don't need me to
recycle the plot summary. It's of a trivial nature. Good action, decent
cast and a fun atmosphere go a long way with Travolta ultimately
holding it all together. He plays his role over-the-top and delivers
some fantastic lines. It doesn't hurt that him and Slater tango well
neither. If Travolta attempted this movie now instead of when he did -
it wouldn't work. He's done too many goody-goody roles to come back
down to this. Laws of nature will not allow him to make another good
movie where he plays a bad guy. Chances are anyone else than Travolta
in Broken Arrow and you'd be reading a completely different review
right now too. A guilty pleasure if there ever was one.
<|_=00=_|>

John Travolta stars in this mindless thriller in which he steals a nuclear
weapon and its up to Christian Slater and Samantha Mathis to save the
world..
Overall a good action flick with a leave your brain at home plot..Travolta
goes slightly over the top with his character but is still good..Slater is
ok and Mathis does what she can with what little the script gives
her..
on a scale of one to ten... 6
<|_=00=_|>
There are so many stupid action movies out there -- mind-numbing,
explosion-filled, cartoonish, slow-motion-bodies-falling, gore, ugly
guns, special f/x, mismatched heroic couple of mixed sex, wisecracking
villain -- and I've SEEN so many that I'm beginning to be able to tell
the difference between them.

This is one of the better ones. The plot has John Travolta as the
smiling treacherous heavy, and Christian Slater as the true-blue
captain in the USAF out to spoil Travolta's plot to blow up Denver with
a kidnapped nuclear device. There is a cute red head thrown
fortuitously together with Slater. She has nice plump lips, big blue
eyes, and the tightly tailored slacks of a Park Ranger. Very nice. We
watch her from below as she climbs the ladder on the side of a boxcar.
There's no reason for her to be IN the movie except to have her climb
boxcars, roll down sandy hills, and so on.

But then there's no particular reason for ANYTHING to be in the movie.
What I mean is that if you found it necessary to leave the room for a
minute or two -- a knock on the door, a tug on the trigonal, whatever
-- you would find that you hand't missed much when you returned. None
of the characters changes in any way. There is no dialogue worth
remembering. There are some unusual special effects but if you've
missed one example it's okay because another is right around the
corner. I particularly enjoy the scene in which the exploding bomb
takes out the helicopter.

I've sat through this thing three times and I am now convinced it has
turned the higher reasoning centers of my brain into tofu. That's why I
genuinely like it. I like it for Travolta's toothy reptilian grin, for
Slater's imitation of Jack Nicholson, for the ripoffs from "Indiana
Jones," for the gorgeous Utah scenery, for the rocketing diesel train,
Lake Powell, the redhead climbing the ladder, the fist fights, the
bouncing Humvees, the civilian who proudly announces he used to be a
lieutenant in the ROTC at Yale, the redhead climbing the ladder, the
bodies of people who tumble in slow motion towards the camera as a
fireball explodes behind them (three times), the redhead climbing the
ladder.

I just like it, that's all. Anybody up for some sesame oil?
<|_=00=_|>

In his "TV Movies and Video Guide," Leonard Maltin asks, "Why was this
movie
made?"  The answer is simple:  To entertain the people.  I was certainly
entertained by this far-fetched action thriller, due in no small part to
John Woo's imaginative direction of the action sequences.  John Travolta
overdoes the psycho routine, hamming it up when some restraint would have
made for a more believable performance, but his considerable charm sees
him
through.  Christian Slater, an actor who hasn't impressed me as anything
more than a Jack Nicholson wannabe, makes a surprisingly commendable hero.
This movie is junk food, of course, but it's very tasty
indeed.
<|_=00=_|>


If you want an action film in which the hero has a personality, and the
bad
guy has an even better personality, take a look at Broken Arrow.  John
Woo's
choreographed action is not as dramatic as the Matrix-clone films that are
so common today.  He is great at creating interesting relationships
between
heroes and villains, and this film is a good example.

John Travolta is terrific.  Christian Slater breaks typecast by playing a
nice, sane soldier doing his duty.  The love interest isn't an idiotic
supermodel playing a nuclear scientist or something, but a park ranger,
also
doing her duty.  She is cute, earthy, and actually believable.

If you want a film that will repeat every aspect of every other military
adventure film you have ever seen, you will be disappointed.  If dialog
bores you, skip this film.  If you like action movies filmed entirely in
parking garages and spooky allies, then you will not appreciate the
settings
in this film in America's majestic West.
<|_=00=_|>

"Broken Arrow" is a good action film about a Stealth pilot (John Travolta)
who steals nuclear weapons one night during a practice mission.  His goal is
to sell the weapons back to the United States government by blackmailing
them.  Old partner Christian Slater is willing to stop Travolta at all costs
with the help of ranger Samantha Mathis.  Howie Long makes an impressive
film debut as Travolta's evil henchman.  The screenplay is smart enough to
work and the direction is fast and furious.  A film that is about as good as
it can be.  4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

John Woo, after his many Hong Kong efforts, came to America and made Hard
Target (1993), which due to studio interference and bad taking of direction
by Jean Claude Van Damme, wasn't as good as it could have been. Woo got a
bad reputation due to his conflicts with both the MPAA and Universal, and it
took him awhile to get this one off of the ground. Woo had never worked with
special effects, so he was treading into new territory. Luckily, he got two
great leads, Christian Slater (soon to be in Windtalkers), and John Travolta
(Face/Off). They take his direction well, and each gives a good performance.
As the traditional villain's henchman, which I like to call Indestructable
Villain Sidekick, Howie Long gives a good performance, and dies a good death
too. I never appreciated this movie that much until watching it tonight, and
I realized, this is probably the most action-packed movie in a long time. It
takes only about 6 minutes to get going, and then, boom! boom! boom! Action
sequence after the other, no let-down in between. This movie has plently of
shootouts, explosions, and great innovative twists (kicking the rear blade
of a helicopter to knock a gun out of one's hand) to make a action movie
good. John Woo's cinematography, the great shared moments (the 20 dollar
bill and whatnot) are what makes this one a great action movie. Another
thing that makes this flick great is that it gave Woo the power to get
Face/Off, his best Hollywood outing, the greenlight. I'm looking forward to
Windtalkers and love all of Woo's movies.

9 outta 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Broken Arrow is not an original movie, it's an action movie that's made to
thrill audiences, not to leave them deep in thought. It manages to rise to
the head of the pack thanks to great acting, directing and an excellent
score.

2 U.S. army officers, Major Vic Deakins(John Travolta) and Captain Riley
Hale(Christian Slater) are assigned to fly a jet plane carrying 2 live nukes
to conduct a test.
During the flight Deakins reveals his true intent, ejects the stunned Hale
out of the plane, and releases the nukes before crashing
it.

This comes to the alert of park ranger Terry Charmical(Samantha Mathis) who
immediatly sets out to find what is going on.
Once the nukes are dropped Col. Max Wilkins(Delroy Lindo) is faced with
bringing down Deakins and right hand man turncoat soldier Arvid Kelly(Howie
Long) with the help of pencil pusher Giles Prentice(Frank
Whaley).

Travolta is great in an over the top but very entertaining role, and Slater
does a good job as an action hero. Mathis is slightly miscast though, and
should probably stick to her other hit films. Howie Long effectively plays
Kelly with very little skill and no expierence, but his size helps give him
on screen presence. Delroy Lindo is effective as the confident military
officer, although Frank Whaley, despite being a good actor, is rather
annoying in his role

All in all if your looking for a great way to spend almost two hours, then
sit down and watch this movie. It's definately a movie worth watching
several times over
**** 1/2 out of *****

<|_=00=_|>
Like nearly every other in this genre BROKEN ARROW is dumb with a
capital DUM . It suffers from a myriad of plot holes and factual errors
that anyone who has surfed the net looking through sites dedicated to
the military will be able to spot at once . One early example is when
the pilots eject and control have no idea to their fate . It's a well
known fact that pilot suits contain a homing beacon so pilots who eject
on missions can be instantly traced 

We as an audience are supposed to forgive this ignorance and this
audience member found it very easy to . Yeah it's a Hollywood movie
from the 1990s so we're treated to very unlikely plot twists in a movie
where the good guy and an innocent woman just doing her job have to
stop bad guys so get ready for firefights , explosions and the
obligatory scene of a countdown 

BROKEN ARROW might not be a classic action adventure movie ( It's a
little too formuliac ) but it's better than most from the 1990s .
Travolta purposely does an impression of Tom Cruise except he's a bad
ass and Christian Slater may seem an unlikely action hero but he's far
more convincing than Steven Seagal or even Keanu Reeves . John Woo
directs in a workman like manner and though it's not his best movie Woo
does treat us to some spectacular and grisly deaths
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Mindless, balls-to-the-wall action thriller. Grab on to that
chair.

BROKEN ARROW may be required to take a deep long breath, because when
it starts, it's a ripping action-packed joy ride complete with guns,
explosions, action heroes, great baddies, helicopters, jeeps, chases
and all under the great helm of Hong Kong action god John Woo, here
having a filed day with special effects, stunts and style. It may be
off on implausibility, but you won't need much to think about once the
theater gets dark. And when the theater does get dark, and the film
starts, the action just keeps pouring in. Woo delivers style over
substance (there's more action here than plot), but what style! This is
one of the finest piece of action escapism in years, it's also one of
the most stylish ones.

John Travolta and Christian Slater star as two military pilots who
volunteers to transport two nuclear warheads via Stealth Bomber jet.
Turns out, the true reason is Maj. Deakins (Travolta), who is still in
a grudge after being passed from promotion for a long time, is out to
steal the two bombs and hold the for ransom. When he ejects his partner
Capt. Riley Hale (Slater) and crashes the jet in the middle of the
desert, Hale is out to stop his old partner from detonating the nuclear
bombs if his demands of a large amount of cash is met. Samantha Mathis
co-stars as a local sheriff Terry Carmichael who gets caught up in the
entire mess, and ends up helping Hale out to stop Deakins from going
ballistic (there are very few romantic in-turns between the two, just
for the good of it).

The film runs at 108 minutes, and Woo doesn't let things up. There's
action here and action there. It's wall-to-wall full of action and less
plot in comparison. The film's plot resembles that of the previous
year's hit SPEED, which may due to the writer being Graham Yost, who
also wrote that recent blockbuster hit. But who cares, both films take
liberty from the DIE HARD films, and they both turned up well. In the
matter of execution, this derivative affair is brought with style and
pure wall-to-wall action and thrills. And, under Woo's hands, the
action is done with style and freshness.

Although with a large amount of violence, Woo is the kind of action who
treats them like paint in his canvas. Action fans will be pleased by
how who treats the heart-pounding excitement and pure action as his
ballet . It's action filmdom as a form of art. Highly recommended!

Rating: **** out of 5.
