
I rented this a few days ago having discovered it was a Harrison Ford
movie I somehow missed. Even though I'm a big fan of his, I really
didn't expect much based on the jacket description. But, Eureka! I was
completely charmed by this movie. Ford has a very low key way of
delivering comedy and when you see a manly man like him being funny, it
is all the more hilarious. Anne Heche is captivating as the gamin New
York fashion sophisticate who happens to be very smart & sassy but
grounded. She also has a tremendous flair for comedy and she plays off
Ford in a grand way that Melanie Griffith couldn't even dream about
doing in Working Girl. Griffith sleepwalked through that script whereas
Heche embraces her character fully.

There is a very unique thing that happens in this film that we don't
see very often and that is how the romantic chemistry builds between
the lead characters. It is as natural as the flora and fauna of the
island they are trapped on - rather randomly and sometimes awkwardly
taking root - and I give a lot of credit to Reitman for capturing this
feeling between Ford & Heche. With most films like this, the leads
either hop into bed right away and then sort out their differences, or
there is no indication of increasing mutual affection until the last 10
minutes when someone slaps their forehead and a light goes on. In this
movie, you see so many small moments when one character is creeping
into the heart of the other. Despite this, it never gets sappy.

I'd rate this movie as a 7 but am giving it an 8 to try to raise its
overall score. It's a very, very good romantic comedy with a funny
script, witty direction, great tropical locales, and an eclectic but
engaging supporting cast.
<|_=00=_|>

A crusty pilot-for-hire is trapped on a tropical island with a fashion
magazine executive.  I might have avoided this had it been anywhere else
but
the "action" part of the video rental store.  There was enough action in
it
so as not to disappoint the action fan too much, but there is a certain
amount of romance too.  The executive has left behind a brand new husband
on
the vacation island she has been called away from.  And the pilot-for-hire
has a girlfriend left behind there too.

And so it goes.  There are some suprises, but not too many.  The grand old
DeHavilland Beaver upstages everyone and so if you like airplanes, you
will
like this one.

Harrison Ford + Airplanes = Great Movie every time.
<|_=00=_|>
This film probably wasn't made to make you laugh nonstop, but when they
turn on the humor, the writers and those involved with the final cut
have very nice timing and awesome lines! This movie is one of my
favorites, because if i'm having a bad day...they (Heche and Harrison)
are having a much worse one and manage to pick up my mood with the
delivery of lines that make me laugh, so, yeah the humor. But also the
style, pacing, and emotional involvement they make me feel as a viewer. 

I'm invested. And though I may think that Schwimmer's character is a
shmuck, I can understand his POV, so, he's okay. 

David and the cast did an outstanding job, and while the filmed script
may not have been the original one (I'd love to see it sometime) the
end result is fabulous. If you haven't seen it, you should, and I hope
you too laugh, and smile, and chuckle, and enjoy a rather grand movie.
Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
I don't write many reviews, unless I really feel close to the movie or
believe it was unfairly rated, like this one. This movie has found it's
way back to my DVD player several times since it's first release to DVD
about 10 years ago. It whisks you up from your easy chair to a sunny
vacation spot in the Polynesian Islands and never slows up or misses a
beat. One scene moves to the next in a seamless manner often
foreshadowed by a soundtrack that is very good and quite catchy.

The film was well cast with Harrison Ford as the crusty cargo pilot -
Ann Heche as the assistant editor of a fashion magazine - David Swimmer
as her pasty but very nice fiancé and Jacqueline Obradors as the
beautiful but dingbat club dancer. This romantic comedy and action
adventure film pits two people together from different backgrounds and
age groups. Normally the two would never get along long enough to get
to know the other. But, forced to spend time together and under
challenging conditions, a small attraction begins to develop and grow
stronger. The character development of the cast moves forward with the
same speed as the rest of this cute story.

While the film is certainly not for everyone, judging from IMDb ratings
and rotten tomatoes, I really believe it was the message and not the
movie that failed to impress. This story expresses a throwback to
traditional values in the relationship of Ford and Heche and their
experiences on the Island. This may explain the reaction to the film by
many of the younger viewers. Some of the more mature viewers may have
been turned off by news of Ann Heche and Ellen Degeneres in real life.
This may explain why some seem to love the movie, while others have
curiously rated it rather poorly.

In any case, if you need a quick escape and love flying to beautiful
Polynesian Islands loaded with beautiful scenery and good-looking
people, then his film may be your ticket!
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Ford does a great job in the movie. He demonstrates his underrated
comic talents that were hidden in the Star Wars movies. Also, the
scenery is breathtaking as is the photography. These two factors are
why I give it four stars. Remember the snake in her pants scene? Now,
listen to his delivery compared to hers; imagine a better actress was
doing the scene reading those lines correctly. The writing in romantic
comedies is always awful. Yes, the pirates were silly; please, The Blue
Lagoon did not even have a script; the two characters were so endearing
nobody noticed. Heche goes through this movie like a piece of heavy
machinery. That shrill, screeching, misandrist act gets old very, very
fast. Yes, just because she is a career woman does not mean she has to
be that shrill and pushy. Also, by the way, she has always been a
terrible actress. Did you find her overacting and hyper gesticulations
to distract you from her lack of talent convincing? When all is said
and done, imagine Ford's hot girlfriend in the role instead of Heche?
The movie would have been so much better. The woman is always annoying;
always lecturing, correcting then yelling and overacting badly. 

It is worth watching once for Ford's performance in a very difficult
role. No supporting cast, out there all alone with bad acting Anne
Heche, trying to hold the movie up. Also, the scenery is worth seeing;
it has some of the best photography I had seen in a long time. You just
need to be honest with yourself about how much of Anne Heche you can
take; I watch it occasionally but I would never buy it. She just is too
annoying; yes, she had to land the plane, guess whose idea that was?
Yes, superwoman saves the day; you can always tell which parts of the
script were her ideas. Ford will surprise you in the movie; the writing
is not the problem. I love when Ford says,"It's an Island, if you
didn't bring it with you, you won't find it here." When you watch the
movie listen to her delivery, her lines would have worked with another,
less strident, talented actress. She is the anchor that sank this
movie. She also did considerable damage to The Juror. True, it was DOA
when released but she really helped wreck it. 

If you can stomach her, I can recommend the movie. Ford evokes such
sympathy when you watch it. You can see on his face, his worry that he
made a terrible mistake. Poor guy, a great performance destroyed and
rarely seen all due to dreadful casting. A mediocre movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was intended to be about romance and adventure, but I really
wasn't feeling the romance.  In the end, I really couldn't care less if Anne
Heche and Harrison Ford ended up together.  Especially since David
Schwimmer's character was so likeable.  I did however want to see him end up
happy (in fact, I wanted him to end up with Angelica), but they didn't
follow through with his character, so we really don't know what happened to
him.

It may sound like I didn't like the movie, but on the contrary, I liked it a
great deal, I just don't think I got out of the film what the
director/writers wanted me to get out of it.  I thought the film was fun and
entertaining but not superb.

The cast in this film was pretty good.  Harrison Ford was excellent as
always, playing a very interesting character.  David Schwimmer was superb in
his role, I REALLY liked his character.  Anne Heche is pretty much the only
player in the film that I'm not sure that I liked.  Don't get me wrong, she
looks fantastic in the film and does a good job acting, but I'm just not
sure if she was the right choice for the job.  Well, I guess there's nothing
I can do about it now, so I better just shut up and deal with it. 
Jacqueline Obradors looked absolutely stunning in this film!  She is reason
enough to watch this film!!!  Her acting is quite good too.  Temuera
Morrison (who would later go on to become Jango Fett in Star Wars Attack of
the Clones...and Harrison Ford played Han Solo in the original
trilogy...kind of interesting) does a fine job in his role.  Cliff Curtis
plays a VERY small role in this film, but does a good job and has a very
cool look to him.  I'm always amazed by this guy because he looks so
different in each of his films.  Danny Trejo also plays a small role, but
does a fine job.  Allison Janney kind of bugs me as an actress on the whole,
but her role is minimal and has very little screen time, so I can
deal.

All in all, this is a fun movie, with a lot of cool stuff in it, but nothing
spectacular.  If you end up seeing the film, I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks
for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

Do you know Francis Veber? He's one of the most popular French film-maker.
He owes his success thanks to a comic method which he knows the secret. It's
the confrontation of two people who have got a different disposition but are
compelled to cohabit together in an unfriendly environment. This situation
is told in a comedy tone 

By telling Harrison Ford and Anne Heche's adventures, Ivan Reitman must have
been influenced by Francis Veber' method. Here, a confident and bold
Harrison Ford mixes with a coward Anne Heche. After a dragging beginning,
the movie becomes lively and rhythmic when our two heroes are stranded on
the island. It contains good and funny moments, especially when the
characters are having an argument. But, it follows a predictable advance: at
first, Ford and Heche can't stand each other but little by little, they
learn to know each other better. It's all the more as they'll have to go
through a hard time so as to leave the island. Finally, it's love that will
shine them.

At the end, you get a nice but colorless comedy. Nevertheless, Reitman can
sustain the interest during all the movie and skilfully avoids boredom.

<|_=00=_|>
When a hard-working career woman by the name of Robin Monroe (Anne
Heche) works for a popular woman magazine. When her nice boyfriend
Frank Martin (David Schwimmer) purposed to her to married him. Also to
come with him for a week at a tropical island. Once they get there...
they meet a gruff, rough cargo pilot Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford). Once
the pilot brings them to the island, Robin and Frank start enjoying
their vacation. But the trouble starts when her boss (Allison Janney)
calls her from their trip to take a photo shoot. Robin asks Quinn to
bring her to the location, where she has to go. But once they left the
ground to fly, they ended being hit by lighting and crashing to a
deserted island and trying to find a way to get back to the tropical
island. While Robin and Quinn dislike each other with plenty of
problems and troubles. They find themselves chased by pirates (Temuera
Morrison, Cliff Curtis and Danny Trejo). Slowly Robin and Quinn start
falling for each other.

Directed by Ivan Reitman (Ghostbusters 1 & 2, Junior, Twins) made this
amusing, nicely filmed romantic/comedy/adventure with fun performances
by Ford and Heche. This wasn't a huge hit at the box office but it
should play well on video. Although involving pirate in the subplot
seems out of place with the story. It's entertaining enough to overcome
certain flaws in the movie. Probably the best thing of the picture is
Ford, which he's especially loose and funny. Certainly worth viewing.
Panavision. (****/*****).
<|_=00=_|>
This romantic comedy and adventure story had a bunch of good and bad
things going for or against it., but overall was an enjoying story that
was a pleasant diversion. I don't know if I'd own it, but it's worth
watching once or twice.

THE GOOD - Some tremendous South Seas island scenery; a good mix of
comedy and adventure with attractive leads in Anne Heshe and Harrison
Ford; and fast-moving story meaning good entertainment.

THE BAD - Poor messages about fidelity and marriages; an annoying,
whining character played by David Schwimmer; too heavy - for family
viewing - on the profanity and cleavage.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a cute very cute Action/Romance film, with a cool story however
it's the chemistry between Harrison Ford and Anne Heche that really
make it work!. All the characters are great, and the film has plenty of
laughs!, plus Harrison Ford is simply amazing in this! and Anne Heche
is fantastic. Sure it may get a bit silly in the 2nd half, but it's
still quite fun, and it's quite underrated as well!, plus i found the
ending to be really cool!. Thankfully David Schwimmer, is at least
bearable, and it has some cool action scenes as well!, plus it's quite
creative at times as well!. The scenery is really beautiful, and the
finale is quite exciting!, however the villains(Pirates), had barely
anything to do, and therefore, didn't find them menacing, it's
basically a Romance Comedy, but it's quite a good one at that!. This
wasn't too popular with critics, however i really enjoyed it, it had
likable characters and 2 very charismatic leads with Ford and Heche,
and there chemistry is what really makes it work, i highly recommend
this one!. The Direction is great. Ivan Reitman does a great job here,
with awesome camera work, great angles, and keeping the film at a very
fast pace!. The Acting is wonderful!. Harrison Ford is amazing as
always, and is amazing here, he is extremely likable, hilarious, had
fantastic chemistry with Anne Heche, was extremely charismatic, had
some great lines, and didn't take it seriously, and had fun with it!
(Ford Rules!!!!!!!). Anne Heche is beautiful, and is fantastic here,
she is very charming, likable, seemed comfortable with Ford, had a cool
character, and seemed to be enjoying herself!, i loved her (heche
rules). David Schwimmer is thankfully bearable, but still managed to
annoy me, and basically played his Friends character, he didn't impress
me. Jacqueline Obradors is hot, and did okay, in he role but wasn't
required to do much but act sexy, she did a good job at that though.
Rest of the cast do fine. Overall i highly recommend this one!. ***1/2
out of 5
