

   Wow! What a fun movie!  I love "Cats Don't Dance" with a passion. I found
it so refreshing to see animation like this after such a long string of
Disney films so bent on realism.  Here, the animation is cartooney,
way-overblown, and UNBELIEVABLY manic!  The story is wonderfully carried out
with anthropomorphic animal characters (something you don't often see in
features), and the uplifting message is catching.  It's very entertaining
and very funny!  I recommend you view "Cats Don't Dance" while feeling very
energetic. Otherwise, it'll just make you tired. Probably not everybody's
cup of tea, but it sure is MINE!  An enthusiastic 10/10 stars!

P.S. Did you know that Scott Bakula can sing? He sure can!
<|_=00=_|>

Hollywood-it either makes or breaks you, sends some dreamers to the top, and
others home.  Can a little ambition go a long way?

Set in the late 1930s, "Cats Don't Dance" is about Danny (voice of Scott
Bakula), a singing and dancing cat from Kokomo, who heads to Hollywood in
search of a big break, complete with dreams, ambitions, and a song in his
heart.  He is immediately hired to play a part in "Lil Arc Angel," a picture
starring Hollywood's most celebrated actress, Darla Dimple (Ashley
Peldon/Lindsay Ridgeway), whom, beneath her sweetie-pie personality, is
really a spoiled brat who hates animals and will do anythig to destroy their
dreams.  Danny decides to steal the show from Darla, who shows her true
colors.  When he approaches Darla for help in getting the animals a big
break, Darla conjures up a plan to get them all blacklisted from movies. 
Can Danny prove that ambition can get them their dreams?

As a 19 year old, its not very common to like cutesy cartoons.  However,
this was something that would entertain anyone.  Sure, the songs are corny,
but the dance numbers are fun, and the singers really know their stuff. 
Scott Bakula, providing both the vocal and singing tracks for Danny, is
energetic and fun, and he sings really well.  Jasmine Guy and Natalie Cole,
as Sawyer, is seductive and ambitious, just not willing to show it.  The
supporting animal cast, including Don Knotts as T.W. and Kathy Najimy as
Tilly Hippo, are funny and smart.  Kudos to Ashley Peldon and Lindsay
Ridgeway, as Darla Dimple, who make her EXTREMELY evil, which I
love.

Fave parts: The dancing scene in the alley, the "Lil Arc Angel" scene in the
beginning, the part where Darla has Danny at her house, eating animal
crackers and being sweetly evil, and the ending, which I won't give away.  I
liked the song "Nothing's Gonna Stop Us Now".  As for fave lines, I had a
few.  Max: What sound does the kitty cat make? Danny: (big fake grin)Meow???
 Max: Gooood.  This was also funny when the tables were turned.  Scott
Bakula doing all sorts of variations of Meow was classic too.  Max cracked
me up, hulking around scaring the animals.  He even started to dance (one of
the funniest moments).

This was a wonderful film, and I highly recommend it to anyone who wants a
good laugh, likes cartoons, or Scott Bakula.  This is a charming film that
encourages chasing your dreams, no matter how big they are.  As T.W. said,
"They can break your cookie, but you'll always have your fortune."  Isn't
that the stuff dreams are made of?


<|_=00=_|>
I remembered seeing Cats Don't Dance when I was 10, and really liking
it. To this day, I still find it a mystery as to why I didn't see it
again since, and I can't think of a convincing enough reason why other
than I forgot about it. Then, I was reading some reviews by chance that
were praising this film, and I decided I must give it another chance.
Thank goodness for YouTube. And you know what, I am glad I did that,
and now I am kicking myself for only seeing this film once in my
childhood. Seriously I loved it, why it is so underrated I don't know.

I am also scratching my head on some of the aspects of the film
critical reviews have picked up. Critics complained of dull characters,
and others of forgettable songs. Now I will admit that Cats Don't Dance
is surprisingly ambitious, but I cannot disagree more with the
criticism that it has forgettable music. I thought it was wonderful,
the incidental music itself was beautiful, but the songs were amazing
and definitely memorable, from the wonderfully energetic end number, to
the poignant one sung by Sawyer in the rain. Though special mention has
to go to Big and Loud, where Lindsay Ridgeway did a spectacular job
with the singing voice of the antagonist Darla Dimple.

And the characters certainly weren't dull. Danny is a very likable Gene
Kelly-like protagonist, and Sawyer is lovely. And if you're looking for
a character for comic relief, look to Flannigan especially. But the
most memorable character is easily Darla, wonderfully voiced by Ashley
Peldon. You could say Darla is like Shirley Temple's evil twin, she is
very cute yet she is mighty mean too. Her bodyguard Max for some reason
frightened me at the end when he was chasing Danny when I first saw
Cats Don't Dance. The animation is colourful and detailed, and the
voice cast is excellent. Other definite pros are in the surprisingly
consistent and mature scripting, the inspired story, its constant sense
of fun and the glamorous and irresistible choreography. All in all,
despite the decent enough rating on IMDb(though I personally think it
should be in the 7s) this is a very underrated and almost forgotten
film. 10/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

Having grown slightly weary of Disney's modern formula, I was pleasantly
surprised to find an animated movie that didn't try to be something BIG. The
formula was fresh and original, despite the fact that the premise is as old
as time, and the songs were jazzy and finger snapping. All in all, this was
a fun movie. Fun and high energy. There was also not one single weak
character. No stupid sidekicks here. Everybody makes the experience
enjoyable. And the humor is priceless. They also managed to make the story
thoughtful and even touching while still keeping the movie light and fun.
Great direction. Great music. Great animation. Overall, just a great movie.
Surprising for a WB movie. This movie came out the same year as Disney's own
Hercules, but this is many times better.
<|_=00=_|>

"Cats Don't Dance" is an excellent animated film, and if you asked my
three
kids, they'd tell you it's one of their favorite movies ever!  "Cats Don't
Dance" can be enjoyed whether you're age 4 (close to my youngest child) or
age 40 (close to me).  The movie uses bright and crisp colors which make
you
pay attention---and you'll have to!  "Cats" moves at a rapid pace.  I'm
always apprehensive when I hear about animated musicals because the songs
usually stink.  However, I think the songs and musical sequences in "Cats"
are better than those in most Disney hit movies.  [Darla Dimples's
performance singing "Big And Loud" is an animated classic.]  My kids sing
"Cats" songs just for fun.  They've seen the movie (by their own request)
almost 20 times.  By the way, I knew Natalie Cole was a good singer, but
who
knew that Scott Bakula was too?  "Cats Don't Dance" has great dialogue
(Danny and Sawyer at her job, the same two cats arguing while a disaster
ensues, and Danny meeting with Darla Dimple at her home are among my
favorite scenes.  If characters are going to achieve a good and noble goal
in a movie, there MUST be worthy foils trying to stop them.  "Cats Don't
Dance" has two of the best villians ever in Darla Dimple and her behemoth
of
a butler Max.  Darla takes being two-faced to a whole new level.  (Notice
at
least twice in the movie when the red bow on her head looks more like two
horns)  Max is so huge that he actually blocks out light!  His laugh is
chillingly amazing and Max the the BEST line of dialogue in the movie:
"How
does the kitty cat gooooooooooooooo? [Danny: 'Meow?']  "Very
goooooooooood."
Every character in this movie (most of whom are animals) are drawn
exaggeratedly and that fits perfectly for the theme and tone of this
movie.
"Cats" is a funny, wild ride for children and adults.  If you like
animation
and/or musicals and/or clever comedy, you'll love "Cats Don't Dance".
It's
a shame this great movie isn't more popular.  Hopefully good word-of-mouth
(and word-of-internet) will change that.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a great movie for both kids and adults! I have 3 boys, ages 4,  9
and 14, and they ALL like the film, especially the songs. The strange
thing
is that my boys generally think musical numbers are girl-stuff. Well,
girl-stuff or not, they get into this flic, and I sometimes catch them
singing along with the catchy tunes.

Scott Bakula is a real surprise as Danny, the talented singing and dancing
cat from Kokomo, Indiana, who comes to Hollywood with stars in his eyes,
and
ignites the fading dreams of the jaded animals who work as extras while
humans get all the good scenes.

The principal characters are well cast and easy to like, except for Darla
and Max, whom you'll love to hate!  BTW - I don't know the name of the
young
woman who did the singing voice for Darla, but she has a set of pipes that
will absolutely knock you on your seat. Big And Loud!

Take a look at this movie with an open mind and a young heart. You'll be
glad you gave it a chance!
<|_=00=_|>
this movie is great-- i watched it when i was small, and i've loved it
ever since! my favorite characters are Danny and sawyer... i just
thought Danny was so cute and the sparks between Danny and sawyer were
adorable!!! well, i guess my real favorite character would have to be
sawyer, she's a great dancer and has some really good songs. my
ultimate favorite scene was in the last number "nothing's going to stop
us now" when they were in the "venice" scene...i thought it was the
cutest, even if it was only a few seconds long! but it definitely was a
cute movie, and my favorite of all time. this was a great movie.
everyone, of all ages, should watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Cats Don't Dance" is a delightful animated feature in the style of a
1930's musical comedy. The main character, Danny (voiced by Scott
Bakula), is a high-spirited cat from Kokomo, Indiana who goes to
Hollywood with dreams of becoming a movie star. But there he finds
limited roles available for animals. The story is a sly message about
discrimination. The imagery is bright and the music is catchy. The
villainess is a wonderful Darla Dimple, a Shirley Temple parody of a
child star with a dark side. Together with her monstrous manservant
Max, they provide many laughs. Other funny animals include Tilly the
Hippo (voiced by Kathy Najimy) and T.W. the Turtle (voiced by Don
Knotts). So "Cats Don't Dance" is an enjoyable movie for everyone!
<|_=00=_|>

I'll always be a hardcore Disney fan, but I can't help but have a real
soft
spot for movies which prove that dreams can come true. This movie about
anthropomorphic characters (animals that are like people) is simply
incredible- animation stylized, cute, and fun... with an incredible plot,
great music (I bought the soundtrack), amazing voice talent (that includes
singing!), and believable characters.  This is a real keeper...and I'm
surprised that it didn't get as much attention as it deserved.  I'd
reccomend it to anyone who's had a dream, or who has one... and those who
just love cartoons. 
<|_=00=_|>
In the nineties, there were several attempts made by different studios
in order to emulate the style from the animated films that the Disney
company were producing at those years (Such as "Aladdin", "Beauty and
the Beast" and "The Lion King") Some of those attempts were corny and
lame, but fortunately, this nice animated film (Which was also the
first animated movie directed by Mark Dindal, the same director "The
Emperor's New Groove") instead of trying to imitate the Disney formula,
prefers to be a light-hearted homage to all the classic musicals from
the Golden Age of Hollywood, worked incredibly well in that aspect. 

The plot is fast-paced, but easy to follow, with very likable
characters, and many funny situations and clever dialogues, not to
mention the incredibly catchy songs, that were the best part of the
movie.

From my very personal point of view, I think that the combination of
all those elements worked much better than in "The Emperor's New
Groove" (Which is also a good movie, but I like this more) This is a
nice movie for the whole family, and I highly recommend it to anyone.
