

Geez, after reading all the thumbs-down reviews, I feel almost embarrassed. 
 I _liked_ Wishmaster.  No, the idea of wishes-gone-awry isn't particularly
 original, but there are still some interesting elements done with it:  a
 guard says he'd like to see the Djinn go through him and...it does (heh). 
 Tammy Lauren is adequate as the spunky heroine, and Andrew Divoff (mostly
 consigned to minor B-villain roles - check him out in the Highlander TV
 series) makes a chilling threat.  Jenny O'Hara makes the most of her role
 as resident supernatural expert.  Yes, the gore is excessive, but I'm not
 sure if that's a concession to the 90's audience, or a directorial conceit 
- I'm willing to assume its the former.  For a supernatural thriller/horror 
(as opposed to a Scream-type slasher/thriller), Wishmaster strikes me as one
 of the better efforts to come along since the last Nightmare and the first
 Candyman.
<|_=00=_|>

Wishmaster marks a huge return for theatrical gore.  What a splatterfest! 
That opening scene, are you kidding me?  The KNB crew have blown me away
again.  From chest exploding skeletons to lizard men, it's well done and I
applaud them.  It's not just the prologue, it's the whole movie.  There's
one bit in particular where a guy gets his jaw ripped off.  It's
jaw-dropping (no pun intended).  There is someone from nearly every
important horror franchise, and some that aren't so important, in this
flick.  Cast and cameos include Robert Englund, Kane Hodder, Tony Todd,
Angus Scrimm and Reggie Bannister, Ted Raimi and Dan Hicks, Tom Savini,
Ricco Ross, Peter Liapis, Joseph Pilato, and Buck Flower.  Not to mention
KNB effects group, Harry Manfredini did the score, Peter Atkins wrote the
screenplay, Robert (K of KNB) Kurtzman directed, and Wes Craven is
producing.  This is an unreal cast and crew, a who's who of horror.  Let's
not forget who's leading this cast: Andrew Divoff.  He has the one of the
scariest, harshest voices of all time.  He is the Djinn and he's cool as
hell.  I just can't understand why this wasn't as well received by the
horror community as it should have been.  As for the sequels, what sequels? 
Stick to the original and you can't go wrong.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw Wishmaster at a midnight screening at the London Trocadero
in summer 1998. I had been awake for nearly 24 hours but needed to kill
some time. I was only 17, not old enough to get into the 18-rated
movie, and it scared the hell out of me.

As we get older, fewer and fewer movies have the ability to scare us as
we all get more savvy and jaded to the formulaic nature of most horror
films. I don't know what it was about Wishmaster that spooked me so
bad, but I've been a fan of the film ever since.

On a technical level, Wishmaster suffers from shoddy production design
and direction that is barely above that of a cheap daytime soap opera.
The acting is mostly appalling (with the exception of Andrew Divoff,
who ravages the role of the Djinn/Demerest), and some of the dialogue
is clunky. But, as a whole, the movie excels on pure energy alone. I
mean, not only do you have more in-jokes than you can possibly count
but even Jack the Ripper himself turns up before Lemmy sings hard rock
over the closing credits.

There's so much potential, imagination, and over-the-top carnage that
the film just whizzes by. A lot of the potential isn't taken full
advantage of (the 90 minute runtime keeps things to the bare minimum)
but it sets up enough mythology to justify three sequels, the first
sequel being the only decent one, however.

The plot focuses on the Djinn, that's Wishmaster to you, and his
efforts to take over the world. As you can see...it's pure hokum but
it's the gory bits in between and the Djinn's wisecracking that make
this movie worth the money. The Djinn will never be as infamous or as
iconic as Freddy, Jason, Michael Myers etc, but that's not to say that
he's not an utterly brilliant character. Divoff is absolutely perfect
in the role. Even if all he did was real aloud from phone book he'd be
mesmerizing.

If you like gore, ghoulish make-up effects, and don't mind horror humor
that feels like it was conjured up by a bunch of drunken frat boys,
then you'll find plenty to like about Wishmaster.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me begin by saying this film is not as bad as it's been made out to
be sure it's a gore-fest at points and yes the dialogue is cheesy but
surely that is what a B-movie is meant to be? The film has more
substance than sequels that seem to spawn in the realm of horror
movies. The film concerns a Djinn, Arabic for genie, who escapes from a
statue to wreak havoc onto the world. He can sustain a human form if he
can give someone 3 wishes. Andrew Divoff is delightfully malicious as
the evil Djinn. The main cast give fair performances which can only be
expected in a,remember, B-Movie. At times the film tries a bit to hard
to please horror fans with various winks to other horror icons,
Candyman and Freddy Kruger to name a few (Tony Todd and Robert Englund,
respectively). But if you want a half decent horror movie to watch and
don't care too much about substance then this film will not disappoint.

Conclusion.

A fun B-movie and a must for all horror fans. Though it does nothing to
forward the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
'Wishmaster' puts a new spin on most people's perception of genies.
Most people think of a genie that fulfills your greatest wishes. But
asking the Djinn to do so could have horrible consequences, as he
twists your wishes in order to steal your soul.

It begins in the 12th century when a Persian king is locked into a pact
with the Djinn, who unleashes unholy suffering on the King's people. A
man is frozen into a wall; a woman turns into a tree; another man's
skeleton bursts through his skin and walks around; and another man
turns into a crocodile. It is only through a magician's work that this
suffering ends, as the Djinn is imprisoned in a fire opal that is then
buried inside a statue.

Fast-forward to the present day, when the statue is being unloaded at a
Los Angeles dock for a collector, Robert Beaumont (Englund). An
accident, however, kills Beaumont's assistant and breaks the statue
open, revealing the opal. One of the dock workers steals it and turns
it over to a gemologist, Alexandra Amberson (Lauren) for appraisal.
During her examination, she unwittingly wakes the Djinn inside, and
soon he is on the loose. First, he starts collecting souls by granting
a single wish to certain people. One of the first is a homeless man,
who sees a nasty pharmacist (Reggie Bannister of 'Phantasm') die a
violent death from cancer after wishing for it. The Djinn then takes on
a human appearance, sneaking into an anatomy lab and peeling the face
of a cadaver off then plastering it onto his own face. Now he is
Nathaniel Demarest (Divoff, who also plays the Djinn), a classy
man-about-town. As Demarest, he continues his mission of misery by
collecting souls - including that of a young sales girl by turning her
into a mannequin. 

Eventually, he tracks down Alexandra to her place of work, and after
taunting & killing the guard ('Friday the 13th's Kane Hodder) after the
guard challenges Demarest to "go through" him, he confronts Alex's
boss. He eventually obtains Alex's home address after granting her
boss's wishes, and shows up menacingly in her apartment. Alex,
meanwhile, has found out through a friend of Beaumont's that the Djinn
are truly evil creatures who are devious & not to be trusted. When
Demarest reveals his true identity, Alex is horrified when the Djinn
starts asking her to make her wishes. When she wishes him to destroy
himself, the Djinn fires a pistol into his head - which instantly
regenerates! He taunts Alexandra by warning, 'That which is eternal
cannot die. But if it's any consolation at all, sweet Alex - THAT HURT
LIKE HELL!!' Alex is then taken by the Djinn into his hideous red
world, where she learns about his origins. When she returns to her
apartment, she heads immediately for Beaumont's party where her sister
is. 

Demarest arrives just behind Alex, where he is confronted by Johnny
Valentine (Tony Todd, star of 'Candyman' & 'Night of the Living Dead'
[1990]). Valentine warns Demarest to leave, but Demarest tricks him -
'would you like to "escape"?'. When Valentine says yes, he finds
himself chained in a steel-and-glass box filled with water! 'Houdini
did it in 2.5 minutes,' Demarest says as he walks in.

The party soon becomes a horror show, starting when one woman turns
into a glass statue and then explodes. Demarest reveals his real
identity to Beaumont, who backs up against a wall then flees. As Alex
makes her way through the halls of the museum she is attacked by
statues of historical warriors, including a Roman Centurion & Genghis
Khan. The Djinn then tries to extort Alex's third wish from her - after
which he will be able to rule the world. To give Alex some incentive,
he shows her sister trapped in a fire, the flames licking at her back.
Through some creative thinking, Alex words her wish to suck the Djinn
back into the fire opal - the same way he had 8 centuries earlier. 

While the Djinn had some particularly bizarre ways of dispatching his
victims, he also showed a demented sense of humor in doing so.
Wishmaster also brought together several prominent horror film actors
(Angus Scrimm & Reggie Bannister of 'Phantasm', Robert Englund of
'Nightmare on Elm Street', Tony Todd of 'Candyman' and 'Night of the
Living Dead', and Kane Hodder of 'Friday the 13th') together. 

This is an original take on horror since most of us don't consider
genies to be evil. It offers more than the standard slasher fare the
dominated 1980's horror. 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wishmaster is a movie that promises the world and only delivers a
continent. It's not a bad movie, in fact, it's a very good horror
movie. It's just that the premise was great, but the payoff wasn't.

Andrew Divoff played the title role of the djinn very well, and hammed
it up as the human host, Nathaniel Demerest. Good IL' Freddy K, also
known as Robert Englund, had a small role, but played it well. I
actually don't recall much else of the cast (sorry people, it's been a
couple of months since I saw the movie). The make up on the djinn was
neato-keen and the special effects are better then average.

If ever a movie was made for the villain to win, it was this movie. I
suppose the ending was fine, but oh how I wanted the evil djinn to win.
I know I'm human and I should root for the human but I was hoping to
see the djinns take over the world.

Why won't film makers, if the main character is a villain/monster let
the guy win?
<|_=00=_|>
In the beginning of the times, God created life into universe: light
gave birth to angels, earth to men and fire to djin, creatures
condemned to dwell in the void between the worlds. One who wakes a djin
shall be given three wishes. Upon granting the third, an unholy legion
of djins are freed through a doorway between the worlds upon the Earth.
In 1127 A.D., in Persia, a sorcerer lures and traps a powerful Djinn
(Andrew Divoff) in the stone of secret fire. In the present days, a
drunken crane operator drops the valuable statue of Ahura Mazda over
the assistant of Raymond Beaumont (Robert Englund) on the harbor, and
one worker finds the huge and priceless opal red stone where Djin is
seized. Alexandra Amberson (Tammy Lauren), who works in an auction
house, receives the stone for evaluation and accidentally awakes Djin.
The evil creature is released later, charges the stone with people
souls and feeds with their fears, while chasing Alexandra to force to
make three wishes and unleash the demoniac fiends upon Earth.

The gore and funny "Wishmaster" is good horror movie, with original
deaths, great special effects (1997) and a refreshing story. Andrew
Divoff, presently working in "Lost", is great in the role of the evil,
witty and cynical Djin; the blonde Tammy Lauren performs a smart and
clever character, following the Djin's advice ("- Make a wish, but
think first") and luring and tricking the demon with her intelligence;
and there is homage to horrors movie, with the participation of Robert
"Freddy Krueger" Englund and Tony "Candyman" Todd. I have watched this
film at least four times along ten years and it is still one of my
favorites in the genre. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O Mestre dos Desejos" ("The Master of the Wishes")
<|_=00=_|>
There are two distinct kinds of horror movies; the serious ones, and
the not-so-serious ones. Occasionally, a horror film tries to be
serious but winds up being... less than serious. Then there are the
ones that set out to be cheesy from the start... this is one of those
movies. From the very beginning you can tell that this movie was merely
made to entertain horror movie fans who like their shocks with a side
of humor. There's more gore and deaths in this in just the first five
and last twenty minutes(and quite a few in-between, as well) than
several other huge gore-fests of horror movies put together. Even
better, you get to see no less than three major horror icons in the
film. I'm honestly not a huge fan of this kind of movie, but I have to
say I found it highly entertaining... if you're in the right mood for
it, it may "work" for you(it definitely never strives to be something
more or different than what it reveals that it is from the very
beginning). The plot is pretty tame, but it allows for plenty of gore
and death(and includes one well-known possible consequence of wishing
for stuff from a genie). The acting is decidedly poor, either over- or
underdone. The dialog ranges, but mostly it's very bad. That works to
the film's advantage, so it's no big deal. The pacing really doesn't
leave much room for complaining, the film doesn't really let up for a
second(it is, of course, quite uneven... Kurtzman is clearly not a
director). The film has a short running time and I found it to possess
surprisingly high entertainment value, as well. The special effects are
great. No way around it. The deaths and gore effects are original and
interesting, not to mention amazingly pulled off. Fairly low budget,
but it was spent right... mostly on effects, I'd wager. I recommend
this to any fan of horror, particularly cheesy horror. If you're into
it, you'll love this. Trust me. And be careful what you wish for. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Right from the opening lines by Angus Scrimm, I knew that I was going
to love this movie. It doesn't bother to waste any time, gets right to
the good stuff within the first few minutes of the film. The gore,
which is quite plentiful, reminded me of a mix of Hellraiser and In the
Mouth of Madness, which is certainly a good thing. I had a lot of fun
playing "spot the horror star" throughout the film; in case you didn't
already know, this is loaded with cameos! It also has it's share of
references to The Exorcist...the homeless man's line about being an old
alter boy, the Pazuzu statues, etc. I thought that was a nice touch, to
be honest. Divoff created a classic horror villain, his voice and
mannerisms were spot-on. Creepy and beyond cool, he fits right in among
Freddy, Jason, Myers or Pinhead. My one problem with the film was the
psychic girl. Why oh why did they need to cheapen this film by making
her "psychic"? Oh well, it didn't detract too much, I guess. Overall,
this is a great film if you like a nice, gory, somewhat original
slasher flick.

8.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wishmaster is a clever horror film, with a different storyline from the
others. The movie is about a evil Djinn that grants Wishes and leaves
an evil impact. Who ever makes a wish, the Djinn takes their soul. The
movie has cameos from many Famous Horror legends. Some include Robert
Englund of Freddy Krueger, Kane Hodder of Jason series, Tony Todd of
Candyman etc. Andrew Divoff gives a Great performance as the
Wishmaster. If you have seen all 4 Wishmasters, you will know in part 3
and 4, There is a different actor playing the Djinn. Andrew proves he
is quite talented. Part One is the Best of the Lot. Part Two was pretty
good. The others were a complete nonsense. One weakness with the film
is the final wish, I'm sure they could think of a better and clever
ending then that. The lead actress should of just wished for him to go
to Planet Neptune and never return to Earth. She could of tried saying,
I wish for you not to grant me this wish. I wish for more wishes.
Anyway enough with that, i can go on for ages. The movie was
entertaining and worth the watch.
