

"Leprechaun" is Jennifer Aniston's only big screen appearance before she
became a star on "Friends", and WOW! she looks hot!  I'm not a fan of hers,
and I've never watched "Friends", but she is drop-dead gorgeous in this
film, 23 or 24 years old and just beautiful!  Oh yeah, there's a leprechaun
in this movie too...

I really liked this cheap, low-budget B horror flick.  It's bad, but I'll be
darned if it's not engaging and compulsively watchable.  Much of the credit
has to go to Warwick Davis, the evil leprechaun.  It's not that he's
particularly clever or funny, but he's very engaging, and in spite of
myself, I kept wanting to see where he'd pop up next, even when it was
predictable.  I want more Leprechaun, luckily(?) there's another 5 movies to
watch in the series.  This film is the truest definition of "It's so bad
it's good" that I've come across in recent memory.  A lot of
fun!
<|_=00=_|>
this is one of those movies that is meant to be scary, but really is
not. i just happen to love that kind of movie. it's great for sitting
down and watching with a group of friends for a good laugh. they
figured this out later when making more leprechaun movies and not even
trying to make them scary. i love the leprechaun series. warwick davis
is my hero. if you're up for a good laugh, i suggest getting a group of
your friends together and watching this. you must have a good sense of
humor and an open mind. if you enjoy this, watch the rest of them. they
get more outrageous as they go. i don't recommend this to people who do
not find joy in watching silly movies.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the most popular Horror flicks from the 90's. It's as bad as you
have heard but accomplishes on the entertaining factor for B-movie
lovers. If you're a Horror fan you might have not seen this one, but
for sure you have at least heard of it. It's cheesy, yes but it's
entertaining. At least there's some gore, and a likable villain in the
style of Freedy Krueger. The plot is cheesy but easy to follow. You
have the ingredients to spend 90 minutes of popcorn fun.

Now, this one could work as an actual regular PG-13 low budget Horror
movie. The Slasher genre was dead by then but Leprechan remains as one
of the efforts to generate life to the genre. 

Watch out for a young and very, very cute Jenifer Aniston and a
devilish performance by Warwick Davies.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is not very good, but it is not entirely bad either.  It has
its
moments, though overall it is rather stupid.  What we get here is a killer
leprechaun so what does one expect?  A leprechaun who constantly says "I
want mi gold".  Not an unreasonable request for the most part, though he
does tend to go a little overboard with the killings to get what was
stolen
from him.  Then again he proves to be quite civil if you return his
property, unless you short change him.  This made me almost pull for the
leprechaun to chop open the moron who just had to swallow a piece of the
leprechaun's gold.  This is not a great or even a good movie, but there is
enough in here to at least be entertained for an hour and a half.  Plus,
Jennifer Aniston is in it too.
<|_=00=_|>
Other members of the IMDb may have rated this "1", and that's up to
them, but I thought Leprechaun was a real fun horror movie.

I have seen the other films in this series but the first was
entertaining.

Low on budget yes, but never boring and always whimsical. Warwick
Davis, the small actor who plays the leprechaun, is very good in this
role, as he is in all his movies. 

He may be lacking in height but not talent.

A brilliant performance by him, and even Jennifer Aniston isn't that
bad, and I usually find her a turn off in movies.

Humour, horror, and lots of pace. I gave it 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is not scary in the slightest, unrealistic in the extreme,
frequently embarrassing (watch the scene where all the characters take
turns
hitting the poor leprechaun over the head with whatever they are holding),
and, above all, very entertaining! The acting and dialogue are
above-average
for the genre (a policeman pulls the leprechaun over - in his toy car:
"Hey,
aren't you a bit too young to be driving around at this time of day. The
leprechaun responds: "Well, I AM 600 years old!"), and the action never
lets
up.   (**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>
I wont ever get anything worthwhile as far as true scares with
Leprechaun. Maybe if I were younger the effect would be with a
stronger, stranger response, because the make-up- which is extremely
well-crafted- and the un-hinged demented brilliance of Warwick Davis
could be creepy for a kid. As an adult, however, a LOT of this is quite
silly, the kind of flick that might've been presented as the St.
Patrick's Day special on the grind-house circuit back in the 70s. Which
means that what it lacks in any sort of quality and carries with idiot
characters, it does a good enough job of making up for it as a comedy.
There's next to no real character development at all, but who needs
with then with a little green man running around...excuse me, riding
around (on a variety of little goofy vehicles). The writer's make a
self-conscious effort to make it in a predictable style, at least at
first (they also waste no time getting to the Leprechaun at the start).
The director Mark Jones makes shallow attempts for 'different' angles
at times (lets do a quick tilt here, a little extra grand-guignol
there), but it's really the Warwick Davis show at the end of the day,
and the crazy situations that come out of his dogged attempt at one
thing- his pot of gold! 

A funnier side too is just suddenly seeing the name Jennifer Ansiton in
the opening credits- a first time acting job that feels very much like
one. She and the rest of the main human characters are pretty standard
as somehow able enough to stay on their toes with such a wretched
little s.o.b., but it goes without saying you'll come across the very
inane dialog exchange or just tepid moment of "acting" (Mark Holton as
Ozzie is an example of this). Meanwhile, the Leprechaun rides his
tricycles and scooters, and sometimes runs like hell (in truly
over-the-top action sequences), and its usually a gas if not entirely
workable as horror. Whatever cheap thrills do come around, its never
anything totally exciting. But I wouldn't trade some of the
Leprechaun's classically mad turns of phrasing ("This old Lep, he
played one. He played pogo on his lung"). That little near 4 foot ball
of comedic bravado makes the picture somewhat memorable, and I'm sure
I'd have fun again watching it again some time soon. Cleverest bit of
old-time cliché logic: the Leprechaun's ability to talk in other voices
ala the Terminator as a trick on those around the corner. 6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Leprechaun is actually, in my opinion, a fun horror movie with great
comedy and some spooky scares. I know that this movie is beyond silly,
but I think sometimes you need a villain that doesn't take himself too
seriously, this movie made fun of leprechauns along with making it into
an interesting horror movie. Come on, you have got to admit that that
little leprechaun was one scary looking creature! Warwick Davis is just
so awesome, I don't get how you could not love him, or be scared of him
as the Leprechaun.

Leprechaun is about a daughter and a father move into an old house
where the previous owner has gone insane and trapped a leprechaun in
the house they moved into. The one thing that is keeping the leprechaun
in the box is a four leaf clover. Jennifer Anniston in one of her
earliest roles is a prissy Beverly Hills girl who meets Nathan, a hunky
carpenter who is helping them out with the house, and his two friends
Ozzie, a mentally challenged man and his little brother, Alex. When
Ozzie goes down to the basement, he accidentally knocks the clover off
the create, the leprechaun escapes! He also wants his pot of gold that
Ozzie and Alex found and will kill to get it! 

I know there are some major cheesy scenes, but they are just so
laughable, you know, like the so bad it's good type of thing? I think
that's why Leprechaun is a cult classic and a guilty pleasure for most.
You just need to have fun and not take it so seriously as a horror
movie. Warwick Davis is just a great leprechaun and he made it into a
fun franchise! 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

I found the original Leprechaun the best and its not even that great which
should tell you about the multiple sequels. I see Leprechaun 6 is coming out
which doesn't amaze me one bit, 10 years 6 sequels and one bad series of
films. I would watch this one the original, but I wouldn't waste time
watching those sequels unless you really want too. Robert Gorman a very
underrated child actor does a great job along with Mark Holton another actor
who has flown under the radar. Leprechaun has a lot of stupid, crude, and
silly things, but I think you would like this original.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is rather ridiculous and predictable.  First of all, understand,
that there are absolutely no scary scenes in this movie.  I don't think this
movie would even scare me as a kid.

I love horror movies, and heard a lot about leprechaun, so I thought I'd
give it a look.  If you are looking for a scare, I'd recommend that you pass
this movie up.  However, it may be worth while to watch for a couple of
reasosn.

Pure curiousity may be worth it as it is kind of funny.  It can be boring to
you if you don't appreciate this genre.  Jennifer Aniston is awfully cute in
this movie.  I personally thought it was worth while just for
that.

If you have fast internet access, I recommend you check out
www.cinemanow.com

You can view Leprechaun for free as it is one of their free movie
offerings.


