

This film may be a very run-of-the-mill, everyday Romantic Comedy but
thanks to the performances of Michael J. Fox and Gabrielle Anwar, apart from
the singing, it ends up as a deeply entertaining and enjoyable movie to sit
back and relax with a loved one over at the end of a tiring
week.

This movie never actually got a video release in the U.K. which has
greatly disappointed me and means I have to wait for its repeat appearance
on TV in order to add it to my collection.

Nevertheless, Fox excels yet again and shows why he is one of the few
American sitcom stars to make a prolonged impact in the movies in roles
unlike his character from Family Ties. Anwar also gives another performance
which leaves me increasingly baffled as to why she has not been used more in
Hollywood.

See this movie, it may not have been a hit but it will surprise you with
its quality just the same.


<|_=00=_|>

No, this movie is actually pretty good. It's quick and efficient, it does
its job well, but it's not something you're going to think much about ten
minutes after you see it (now, now, don't get greedy).

Why do I like it? Fox. And I don't consider myself a big Michael J. Fox
fan,
I mean, he was good in Family Ties, but that was a long time ago and he's
done some stinkers between then and now. Maybe because the smooth talker
consierge he plays in this reminds me a little of Alex P. Keating back in
the day. This guy is super-slick, his mind is always going at incredible
speeds. One part that will always stand out is the 'ticket trade' scene
(How'd this Donahue get in here?). Funny stuff. There are a few good laughs
in here.

Oops, can't forget Gabrielle Anwar. She is just cute as a button in this
movie, I want to see more of her (the only other movie of hers I can think
of off hand is Body Snatchers). Heck, you can almost forgive her for
basically playing a prostitute in this one. If you don't agree,ask yourself
this: Would she have taken any of this guys crap if he was a married
garbage
man from New Jersey and not a married european millionaire fashion mogul?
Of
coarse not, she's in it for the money. Hell, i'd wear a skirt and put out
for that kind of scratch.

The director Barry Sonnenfeld has an interesting resume of hits (Men in
Black) and misses (Wild Wild West) and just entertaining films (Get
Shorty).
This one is entertaining fluff. It's an hour and a half of your time that
you won't regret spending. 7/10 stars. G'night!

<|_=00=_|>

For Love or Money can best be described as a happy-go-lucky movie that is
sure to make you smile.

Fox plays Doug, a concierge who has a dream of owning his own hotel - all
he
needs is the start up capital.
He meets a guy who is keen to help but things get complicated when Doug
discovers that his new found friend and financial helper is going out with
the girl who he has been after for months (Anwar).

The outcome of this movie is no surprise and the love/hate relationship
and
chemistry between Fox and Anwar is very entertaining.

Overall an enjoyable film for all ages.
<|_=00=_|>

I quite liked this movie ...
it wasn't particularly special, basically a rather traditional love story...
but it hit in the right places.
And Michael J. Fox's character Doug, a concierge being the center of a
romance is fresh and appealing.
One of the scenes I liked was when he showed Gabrielle Anwar's character,
Andy, his dreams ... literally. Everything seemed to come in together ...
you really understood then how much it meant to him, and his sharing it with
Andy was a wonderful gesture of his love for her. The moment was magical,
the best in the whole movie for me.
Watch this if you like a conventionally exceptional love
story.


<|_=00=_|>

I must say, this is one of my all time favorite movies.  I don't know
why, but I sincerely love this film.  Michael J. Fox's character is really
likeable, and I find myself praying that he'll make the right moves all
thru
the movie.  I must add to this comment my love for the score of For Love
Or
Money.  The music, written by Bruce Broughton is just awesome, and it
completely sets the perfect tone for the many different scenes.  I
especially love the music when Fox's character is walking down the subway
steps after leaving work.  This is a great movie to watch with someone you
love.  I would definitely recommend it. 
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this movie over the weekend as a refreshment from seeing it as a
late movie one Saturday and I still enjoy it. It is quite a charming little
romance comedy about Doug Ireland, a concierge who is absorbed in his work,
but can take time out for the attractive but difficult Andy(Gabrielle
Anwar). He has big plans for himself, and calls on the help of a corrupt
businessman for support. Fox is wonderful in this film, playing his most
proficient kind of character- the hopeless romantic. The supporting cast is
very funny and enjoyable, especially Udo Kier, the uptight manager with a
slight hatred for overdoers. This is a very good romantic movie, the kind
that is best for a date or an evening out.
<|_=00=_|>

Michael J. Fox is the concierge Doug Ireland and Gabrielle Anwar plays the
woman he loves in Barry Sonnenfeld film For Love or Money (1993).The acting
work is superb.The chemistry really works between the main stars.Fyvush
Finkel is also great playing Milton Glickman.This is a nice comedy.It's not
perfect but it's nice.Michael J. Fox is great in the lead.This isn't his
best movie but he does a great job.This brilliant actor just received a star
on Hollywood Walk of Fame.It was just about time.Fox retired from acting in
2000 because of Parkinson's disease but I surely hope he will recover
someday and return to acting.
But before that enjoy his working in movies like For Love or
Money.
<|_=00=_|>

Some people have suggested that Fox's character in this movie is

just Alex P. Keaton all over again.  I think they missed the point. 

Alex was in love with money.  Doug is not as materialistic; he

doesn't desire money for its own sake, but views it as a tool that

will help him realize his dream.  Alex was self-centered.  Doug

cares about other people.  He is successful because he can

empathize with people and give them what they need.  He is very

inspiring.               
    This movie is described as a comedy, but I didn't find it very

funny; I cared about the characters too much to laugh at
them.
<|_=00=_|>
I can't understand why this film gets such a low rating on IMDb. It's
got everything - love, romance, dream, struggle, deception, insecurity,
fear and hope. Its happy ending comes from the heart, not from the
formula. Part of the reason the movie works so well is the screenplay
which has got it right at all the right points. Some people say it's
not "funny" enough, well, as far as I am concerned, for the genre of
romantic comedy, it's very humorous (my personal favorite line is "how
did my secretary get here?" - priceless!!).

Second, the sincere and very endearing performances of the cast. The
WHOLE cast. As for the lead, "Concierge" happens to be my favorite
MJF's film. He is so natural in this, it doesn't even feel like he is
acting. Gabrielle Anwar gives a pretty solid performance as well, and
the chemistry between Andy and Doug is overwhelming. Well, pretty much
every character is well written and acted and stands out on his/her own
- Mr. Drinkwater, Milton, Mr. Himmelman, Julian Russel, Mr. Wegman... I
find the Doug-Wegman plot line particularly dear and I shed a couple of
tears every time Mr. Wegman tells Doug he is going to invest the money
and make Doug's dream come true.

I also think this movie has one of the best turning points (or one hour
crisis points) ever. Again, my heart starts beating faster every time
when Doug tells Andy about the hotel of his dreams as he narrates the
unfortunate story of his father. "I am not going to be a 59 year old
bellhop", says Doug. "Concierge"... - corrects him Andy. The roles are
reversed here, before Doug had insisted to be called "concierge"
instead of "bellhop" and now Andy calls him that. We see how, for the
first time, Andy realizes that Doug is not her lover's "puppet", but an
individual, a person with a great hope and a great dream.

Overall, it's a wonderful family film to watch on a rainy day, right
between "The Apartment" and "Sideways". Well, you can enjoy it even it
you haven't got a family. It still works.
<|_=00=_|>
I was on tour with my friend in Budapest. The Concierge was on one of
the only two English speaking channels in the hotel. We watched it 5
times in a row. We then went out to eat at a vegetarian restaurant that
was also a college. We then played a concert, returned to the hotel and
watched it 5 more times! I am not kidding. This movie is terrific and
very comforting and nice. See it over and over again like Breaking
Away, War Games, Alien or Contempt. MJF is very sincere in this film. I
have never forgotten it. Not in the same way I have never forgotten
Don't BE AFRAID OF THE DARK! Beware of that movie. This is the perfect
MJK film it is like the first BTTF movie or the Frighteners in that it
has a sincere cohesion. This is a small unsung film but will be
celebrated in the future as a classic.
