

I wasn't going to comment, but after reading some of the negative comments,
I felt I must. I "waited for the video" for this movie because a movie about
boxing didn't seem interesting. But that's just the thing. It's not about
boxing. So if you're thinking you're going to see Raging Bull, you're not.
There are a few boxing scenes, but they only serve to move the story along.

I have seen this movie more than once. The first time I was touched by the
underlying theme of the movie, which was in my opinion, love conquering hate
and injustice. Then I watched it again. I realized Denzel did a superb job.
It WAS NOT a "typical Denzel role." He convincingly played Rubin "Hurricane"
Carter, raised full of hate for and distrust of white people. When he goes
to prison for the murder, he does an excellent performance showing the
different personalities in his head, as well as showing how his inner
spiritual journey transformed him. Any good movie shows the hero growing and
changing. And Denzel again does this well towards the end of the movie,
after befriending Lazarus and the Canadians. My favorite line which to me
sums up the entire movie is when they're waiting to hear the judge's verdict
and Rubin tells Lazarus, "Hate got me in here. But love's gonna bust me
out."

I don't know much about the real Rubin Carter or the details of the case.
What I found compelling about the movie was the fact that some people - be
they white or black - can harbor such hatred for another person (I'm
referring to Della Pesca's hatred toward Rubin). Another thing that got me
was the friendship and love between Rubin and Lesra and the whole message
of examining the higher principle of truth for which the law was meant to
serve. It's just one of those movies that makes you think. Yeah, some of the
writing is "just OK" in places, but the theme of the movie is wonderful and
I think Denzel gave an Oscar worthy performance.

I gave this a 9 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

Jewison's film is an old-fashioned biopic, complete with pivotal backstory,
voiceover narration, and a character who enters the protagonist's life and
changes it immeasurably.  It's one of
those stand-up-and-cheer movies where everyone seems to be against the
hero,
but above all odds (and with more than a little help from some of his
friends), he rises above The System and gets his belated due.  It's an
oft-used scenario, with many scenes that could easily have been taken from
Jewison's other films A SOLDIER'S STORY or IN THE HEAT OF THE NIGHT.  Yet
despite the familiarity of the storyline, I'll be damned if I wasn't
choking
back tears of elation at the movie's triumphant
conclusion.  It's a masterful piece of filmmaking that proves Norman
Jewison's skill as a director, as he transcends the cliche-bound script
and,
with the help of Washington and company, makes it a powerful entity all its
own.

As the Hurricane, Denzel Washington proves he is one of the best actors (if
not THE best) in the business today.  He can run the gamut from cold hatred
to hearty laughter like few others can.
He brings dignity and class to every one of his pictures (he was the only
thing worth watching in THE BONE COLLECTOR).  Here, he makes you FEEL every
single thing he's feeling.  In times of righteous indignation, you feel
morally outraged alongside him.  When he's at his most vulnerable, you can
feel your throat constricting and your eyes watering.  He has an uncanny
knack for reaching into your soul and making you part of the picture
itself;
it's almost as if he's channelling the viewer while acting.  Other actors
delight in wowing the audience with grand theatrics and histrionics, but
neglect to make the audience care; Denzel is usually soft-spoken and
low-key, but always holds your attention.

In summary, THE HURRICANE was one of the most exhilarating motion picture
experiences I've had all year.  Norman Jewison directs with a deft
surehandedness reminiscent of his late
1960s/early 1970s glory years, Denzel Washington delivers perhaps the most
awe-inspiring performance of the year, and the audience goes home happy and
feeling good about themselves and
the world.  What more could be asked for?
<|_=00=_|>

Denzel Washington is so convincing as Rubin Carter that one forgets that he
is, indeed, an actor playing a role.  From the beginning to the end, Denzel
is perfect. The film made me think about how poverty and prejudice can ruin
a person's life when misfortune, such as being in the wrong place at the
wrong time, visits.  I didn't think that I could possibly like a movie that
I already knew so much about.  With boxing in it, yet!  But when Denzel
received the Golden Globe Award, I felt I had to see it.  What a moving
experience!  Anyone who enjoys superb acting and a story with a rewarding,
emotional ending should not miss this film.
<|_=00=_|>
If this movie was about a fictional character, the movie could stand on
its own and be judged objectively. Unfortunately for the viewer, the
movie is based on "facts" that are shaded very unfairly toward Ruben
Carter. Many of the smaller facts were disregarded (Carter was NOT
number one contender at the time of the murders, there is no proof at
all that he saved a friend from a child molester in his youth), but
some of the larger facts, like apparently being robbed of a decision to
Joey Giardello because of "racist" judges, is inexcusable to those of
us who have seen the fight on tape, and completely disrespectful to
Giardello. Why Hollywood feels the need to make a hero out of someone
who, at best, was in trouble and around trouble much more than any
normal person should be (was arrested multiple times for beating women)
is strange to me. Ruben Carter was never, by viewing his actions in the
60's and even now, when he refuses to speak to his son, a person that
people can look up to. Everyone knows that Jewison can direct, and
Washington can act, but why they chose this story as their vehicle is
beyond me. Is Hollywood so much in need of a black hero that they need
to bend the truth in all of their bio pics to make them believable?
(Heres a suggestion How about Denzel playing a movie about himself? Now
thats inspirational) Based on all of the inaccuracies in the movie, I
would suggest passing on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not going to get into details regarding how true an account this
is or not. I have read a lot that seems to indicate he was guilty and
others that he was innocent, both accounts seeing to contradict
themselves. I guess we may never really know, but as someone who
believes that racism infects a lot of society including organisations
like Sporting bodies and the police I can well believe that being black
would not guarantee a fair trial. However I also find it hard to
believe that Mr Carter was as peaceful a person as depicted in this
film. But this is down to the way the film was written and directed and
in no way detracts from a truly remarkable piece of acting by Mr Denzel
Washington. It seems in every part he plays, you believe that he IS
that character and this film was no exception. In the boxing scenes or
the prison scenes and in every scene you believe that you are watching
Rubin 'The Hurricane' Carter. A truly outstanding performance.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't really know why people cannot talk without putting terms as "he
did it" while thinking about this movie. How racially charged or
challenged were those times has been clearly talked about, filmed and
factually corrected. Literature, personalities and even a simple man
can confirm to those facts and we can really put an end to who did
it...or he did it!!! The movie marks the most stellar performance from
Denzel Washington as he portrays the character "Hurricane". What
surprised and confirmed my earlier thoughts about people rating this
movie are that an awful lot of movies in here have better rating than
this movie....and the confirmation is that ratings do not matter This
movie stands out and lets you feel the passion and focus of a man...not
born under normal circumstances but freed under great conditions. I
think I am confident enough to say about this movie....if you haven't
seen this movie then it doesn't really matter to you what cinema can be
and what cinema possibly can create.

Forget the ratings....I think when you're done seeing it, you would
decide for yourself what I am trying to say here. Where is the
Oscar....ohh did we miss it??? Gladly so.
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw this movie I heard all the hype, and I heard how people said
that
Denzel deserved the Oscar alongside his Golden Globe and I believed he
must
have done an outstanding job considering Kevin Spacey was excellent.  I
was
wrong.  I realize that people say this not to anger the African American
community (if they are not African Americans themselves).  I always hear
complaints on how African Americans are never nominated and how they
should
have won.  Sometimes this is true (not as much nowadays) because Whoppi
Goldberg should have won best actress for The Color Purple and the movie
should have won best picture.  The only reason this movie was so blown up
the way it was, is because people see a movie about the (*SEMI-SPOILER*)
hardships of an African American during a very racist time period and they
automatically label it as a masterpiece.

Denzel Washington is an outstanding actor, but his role in this movie did
not affect me whatsoever.  I was bored with him in the movie, and his
acting
here was quite similar to his role in Malcolm X but not as good. The
audience is supposed to leave believing this man, Rubin Carter, is a
saint.
People left the movies worshipping this man, this hero, and they went out
and bought his book, making this hero of a man rich.

*SPOILERS*
This movie tells the tale of a man who spent the majority of his life in
prison mainly for crimes he did not commit.  Of course the crimes he did
commit (stealing mostly) was only to survive, nothing more.  People felt
sorry for him, even though the drug dealers and thieves probably amounted
to
as much for the same reasons but are looked down upon in society.
Everything in this movie tries to portray this man as a saint (except for
the obvious infidelity he had towards his wife and the aggression he
showed
the other man when he met his wife) but why wouldn't it-after all, it is
his
point of view.  I do not like movies (especially Hollywood
interpretations)
that are based on "true" stories because they usually distort the "true"
parts into something else, something not so true.  This was his point of
view and a Hollywood construction, yet everyone believed it was the truth
unquestionably.  Well I researched his past a bit before making any
assumptions, and he was a very violent man.  Not only that, there is still
a
possibility that he did murder those people.  If you do not believe me,
search for him on the internet, and read the articles some people have of
him.  The boxing match he claimed to have won so easily, was actually won
by
his opponent Joey Giardello and there are tapes to prove it.  Besides
that,
there are many twisted and purposely left out facts in this movie.  The
supporting cast were the nicest people I have ever seen on the face of the
Earth and their "nice and perfect" persona looked difficult to keep up.

This movie was a Hollywood version of yet another unfortunate true story
that is still left to be told truthfully.  Denzel's acting is stale, and
the
supporting cast's Mickey Mouse attitudes are annoying.  The movie also
begins very slow paced and is boring.    
<|_=00=_|>

There might be *SPOILERS* ahead...

The movie itself is a solid Hollywood picture, but after reading some
comments and checking out info about the case, I felt confused. First of
all, I'm still not sure if Carter and Artis committed these murders, but
there seems to be a lot of documents and articles which proves they did. I'm
not going to go to details here, but check out for starters
www.graphicwitness.com/carter if you are interested. One example: In movie
Carter is sent to jail as a boy for stabbing a man implied to be a
pedophile. In reality, he stabbed somebody in the face with a beer bottle
while robbing them.

One thing I don't understand is why they changed the facts so much in this
movie and still this was marketed as based on true story. This might have
been a good movie if they'd just make it completely fictional, but probably
it wouldn't have sold as much. The championship fight scene seems also to be
completely wrong, (from the Herald Sun) The Hurricane typically claims
racist boxing judges robbed him, but every sportswriter who covered the
fight agreed he was beaten by a better man. On the other hand, if they'd
make this movie true to the facts, imo this movie would have been much more
interesting.

I think it's a shame that Hollywood takes out a tragedy where 4 people were
murdered and makes a disgrace towards them and their grieving friends and
families by twisting the truth to make this movie better selling and getting
more profit. 

All in all, if ignoring this, the movie was pretty ok, although a bit too
long (there was many scenes that could have been cut out) and some
characters were just plain ridiculous, Canadians and of course Lt. Vincent
Della Pesca, who was almost the opposite of the real detective). Denzel was
good, maybe not Oscar nominee-good, but isn't the Oscars usually awarded to
those who make most money, not those who have the most talent
:)

One more quote from Herald Sun By ANDREW BOLT:

Of course, it's quite possible Carter is innocent. But is he still the right
man to preach to us about reconciliation? While on bail for his second
trial, he beat Carolyn Kelley, the (black) head of his Carter Defence Fund,
so badly that she took a month to recover.
``He's Satan, and Satan can fool a lot of people,'' she
says.


<|_=00=_|>

Fairly good movie, but not a true story.

Rubin "Hurricane" Carter was a notorius liar, a murder and was never found
not guilty. New Jersey State just didn't go for it a third time as 20 years
had gone. Carter got an offer in 1976: "Pass a lie test and go free". He
didn't take it. This film should never have been made, but money talks. A
lot of people have unjustly spend their lives in prison and undoubtedly
more
blacks than white. Why choose a fake story?

Jens
<|_=00=_|>
This is the greatest true story I've ever seen. I love the emotion in
this movie. I really think that the delivery of the performances are
what makes it great along with the direction. It's beautiful. I
recommend it to any and everyone. The struggle that Ruben Carter
endured just puts light on the way things used to be, and makes really
grateful that things have improved. Denzel's great!

I completely felt in love with this movie, in which you can find
extreme endurance, strong courage, ultimate love and a very realistic
character starred by Washington. The character not only shows how
powerful spirit a human being can be to survive in harsh situations,
how persistent should a man in desperate circumstances, but also bring
strong feeling to watchers, who wanna do something better, something
higher than what he is currently doing. 

The Hurricane is simply one of my best top10 movies of all time.

for Entertainment: 10/10

Overall Score: 10/10
