
Most on this site pick the Godfather, or the Shawshank Redemption, but
this is it, this is the best film ever made. People will complain, will
argue that I am wrong, but I will say it again...Braveheart is as close
to perfection as a movie can be. The acting is superb, the man who
played Lonshanks, the actor who portrayed Robert the Bruce, both should
have been nominated for Oscars due to their powerful rendering of evil
and a man who is saved from losing his humanity (from becoming evil) by
meeting William Wallace. And let us not forget the direction, the
cinematography. Braveheart is glorious, beautiful to look at. The slow
motion pictures of horses preparing to charge armed combatants, the
entire landscape of Scotland that Mel Gibson captures with the camera.
Braveheart is artwork, it is as good as any picture. That the film is
number 93 on the list of the top 250 movies ever is a shame. Yes there
is violence in this film but that violence does serve a point...that
freedom isn't free and sometimes it takes death, gruesome and horrible,
to let ones people taste what it is like to be free. Braveheart is a
great movie and it deserves to at least be in the top ten of IMDb's
list of greatest films.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing this movie for the first time in late 2003, and I was
impressed. I saw it again last night, and I was even more impressed.
The acting is amazing, and the ending was brilliant. For me, all my
guesses were incorrect. Everything that happens in this movie in
unpredicted. The last half hour itself was highly unpredictable, and it
had a powerful message. When a scene was meant to be dramatic, they did
a great job at it. I don't know about everybody else, but the ending
did make me cry. The message the movie sent kept me thinking for a
while. The amount of courage and bravery was inconceivable, there was
barely any faults or anything wrong with the movie. For a movie of
1995, they did a great job.

I absolutely guarantee this movie to anybody who enjoys action and war
with a bit of drama mixed in. One of the best, or maybe even the best
movie of the 20th century.
<|_=00=_|>

On my list of the greatest movies of all time, BraveHeart ranks as number
3.
It is by far one of the most epic stories ever told.  Mel Gibson deserved
all the credit he recieved and more. His portrayal of William Wallace, one
of Scotlands most mightiest warriors, was spot on.  The only part that
lacked was the romantic affair of Princess Isabella and Wallace.  It
historically never happened.  This movie also has other historical errors
but WHO CARES!

The Battle of Stirling has to be the second most graphic piece of footage
ever shot next to Omaha Beach in Saving Private Ryan. I love the part where
the English Commander gives the order to charge and Wallace sees this and
raises his broadsword into the air and starts yelling.  He charges the
field
with the Scots and I'll let you see the movie to see what happens
next.

Wallace's emotional speech at the battle of Stirling still is inspirational
and I think that the REAL William Wallace would be proud of the way Mel
Gibson portrayed him.

My hat goes off to Mel Gibson.  I hope he makes a few more movies like this
one.

Out of ten............10/10!

<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately, I wasn't able to watch Braveheart till 2003 when it was
on TV. However, the lack of theatrical effects never stopped me from
being mesmerized by this epic for one moment. So mesmerized, I
literally sat motionlessly on the couch for two minutes after the
movie. Any normal audience would likely to cast his/her sense of
reality away and be captivated by this distant Celtic saga. 

Beside proving himself as a brilliant director, Mel Gibson more
importantly gave life to a historical hero whose superb gallantry,
vivid character and magnificent spirit shall never be history. Along
with the unforgettable 'Alba gu bragh!' and the unprecedentedly
heart-stopping 'Freeeeedom', Braveheart unquestionably is one of the
greatest movies ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film for the first time on cable, and, fortunately, it was
an "uncut" version. I was greatly impacted, but, as bad luck would have
it, I would not see it again for two years.

Mel Gibson is an accomplished actor, with films like "Mad Max" and
"Lethal Weapon" under his belt. "Ransom" showed he was more than just a
quirky role actor, but it was "Braveheart" that proved to everyone that
he was a great actor... and director.

What he has envisioned and ensnared on camera is one of the great
cinematic achievements of all time, and at an awkward time, too.
Looking back at previous years at the Oscars, and you have "Schindler's
List," "Dances with Wolves," and "Unforgiven." Looking ahead, you have
"Titanic," "Shakespeare in Love," and "Gladiator." These are all period
pieces. Right smack dab in the middle is "Braveheart." It is the most
simple of the films above, yet it is arguably the best. None will argue
its impact is greater than "Schindler's List" nor its power greater
than "Unforgiven," but what it has, more than any of those other films,
is heart. Much like his "Passion of the Christ," Mel Gibson brings a
passion to this film, and that is what sustains it.

Mel Gibson plays William Wallace, a well-educated Scottish peasant who
is determined to lead a peaceful life. Well, if you've seen the poster
for this film, you probably already know that he doesn't succeed. When
a law is put into place that says English noblemen have first right to
lay with Scottish brides, Wallace marries in secret. But, when it is
found out, a local noble attempts to take Murron, Wallace's wife, she
resists, leading to a gruesome execution. With little choice, Wallace
opts for vengeance, and thus begins the journey of Scotland's greatest
warrior.

This is a wonderfully acted, directed, photographed, and designed film
with great performances, particularly from a breathtakingly beautiful
Sophie Marceau, and I recommend it wholeheartedly.
<|_=00=_|>
This is simply the best movie ever made, containing all the elements a
perfect movie should, even considering that every person has a right to
his/her opinion. The soundtrack is amazing, the scenes are ingenious
and the story is simply excellent! This is a story about a Scotsman
named William Wallace (Mel Gibson) and his fight for the freedom of the
Scottish people, from the oppression of the English ruler-ship. After
seeing the death of his wife at the hands of an English nobleman,
William Wallace (Mel Gibson) sets out on a quest for vengeance that
quickly turns into a crusade for freedom for the entire "country". The
extreme violence as well as the human compassion in this movie are
overwhelming in its brilliancy.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be one of the best movies I have ever seen. I recently
purchased it and have watched it at least five times since then, and
each time i pick up on things I did not see the other times. The fight
scenes are great, the plot is both interesting and thought provoking,
there is romance and comedy. This is a movie that any person can
appreciate at some level. 

True, the historical content may have been distorted, but even though,
this movie is meant for entertainment. It is not a history lesson
caught on video.

The acting is absolutely superb, this movie is guaranteed to have you
on the edge of your seat for the entire three hours.
<|_=00=_|>
Unfortunately, I have yet to find a film of quite this caliber again.
Braveheart contains elements of Romance (several heart- wrenching and
warming instances), Epic/Action (spectacular scenes), Mystery (can take
a few viewings to put it all together), History (albeit romanticised)
and of course Drama (perfectly unravelled). This level of uncompromised
multi-tasking allows the film to move you to laugh and cry, love and
hate or even to think and be taught. I'm trying to avoid the clichés of
glowing reviews (almost as bad as entirely negative ones) - but this is
one of the few movies that I feel deserves one.

The witty banter between friends/foes/lovers/relatives is, in my
opinion, flawless and aids the film's claim as a true classic. The
soundtrack is similarly top-notch and encapsulates and refracts the
patriotic theme during several key moments. The political sub-plot and
gorgeous scenery also serve as refreshers during otherwise heavy areas
of the story. Perhaps Braveheart's only flaw (but if you share my
sentiments it's actually a bonus) is its length so you'll want to
prepare a comfy seat and maybe even two pots of tea (complete with
cosies!).

I suppose it's also relevant to touch on the historic inaccuracies as I
expect this is what people might dislike most about this film. However,
"History is written by those who have hanged heroes"; also, the overall
sketchiness of such periods coupled with the right of artistic license
are enough for me to personally dismiss such thoughts. On that note, I
hope you also enjoy what, to me, is the greatest film created (so far).
<|_=00=_|>
This enthralling movie Braveheart takes a viewer's breath away. The
invigorating battle scenes, the incredible acting, and the fierce power
of love all captivated me when I first saw this movie. James Horner's
music is a masterpiece--it adds elegance and dimension to the
magnificent film. Mel Gibson's zealous passion as his character William
Wallace is truly an inspiration. Scots are very dignified, highly
revered people, and this movie really presented Scotland's pride.

Everything in this film was done tastefully. Even the ending, which by
the way is heart-wrenching, was done artistically, as Wallace sees his
wife during such a traumatizing event. Of course, nothing was better
than the rich satisfaction of watching Wallace scream for freedom,
freedom and not mercy. This epic film must be watched again and again.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in the late 13th century, 'Braveheart' is the story of one of
Scotland's greatest national heroes Sir William Wallace. leader of the
Scottish resistance forces during the first years of the long,
ultimately successful struggle to free Scotland from English rule...

Crucially charismatic in the title role, Gibson plays the heroic figure
and emerges as a remarkable hero with wit and romantic soul, determined
to rid his country of its English oppressors...

Wallace's revolution was set in motion, with great obstacles from his
countrymen... Many Scottish nobles lent him only grudging support as
most of them were more concerned with wealth and titles than the
freedom of the country... In fact, the Scottish leaders are in favor of
revolt-or not-depending on English bribes... Wallace, by comparison, is
a man of honor, incorruptible and righteous... He was knighted and
proclaimed 'guardian and high protector of Scotland,' but as much as he
railed against the Scottish nobles, submitted to Edward I, King of
England, he was astonished and in shock to discover the treachery of
the leading Scot contender for the throne—Robert, the Earl of Bruce—to
whom he confided , 'The people would follow you, if you would only lead
them.' Sophie Marceau is exquisite as the distressed princess Isabella
of France who ends up falling in love with Wallace, warning him out of
several traps...

Catherine McCormack is a stunning beauty who ignites Wallace's
revolution...

Patrick McGoohan is chilling, brutal, and vicious as the ruthless
Edward I, known by the nickname 'Longshanks.' This king remains simply
the embodiment of evil...

While Angus McFadyen moves as a nobleman torn between his conscience
and political aspiration, and Brendan Gleeson brings strength and humor
to his role as the robust Hamish, David O'Hara is very effective as the
crazy Irishman who provides much of the film's comic relief from even
the most tensed moments...

Mel Gibson has reason to be proud of 'Braveheart.' It is a motion
picture that dares to be excessive... Gibson presents passionately the
most spaciously impressive battles (yet staged for films) even
excessively, and it is his passion and excess that make the motion
picture great... The horror and futility of massed hand-to-hand combats
are exciting rather repulsive... It is epic film-making at its glorious
best...

Gibson's 'Braveheart' focuses on the human side of Wallace, a character
so immense, so intelligent, and so passionate, exploring the
definitions of honor and nobility, pushing us to follow the hero into
his struggle against injustice and oppression...

There is a great shot of the lovely mountains of Scotland covered in
mist with beautiful bagpipe music... James Horner's beautiful score,
calls up memories of his work for 'Titanic.'
