
No this doesn't match the Sellers films, but it does have Roberto
Benigni which is reason enough to watch.

Okay, yes, when Benigni is not on screen this film is bad, and some of
the performances are patently bizarre (Edwards' daughter as one of the
villains for example) but it has some very clever silliness by the mad
man of Italian comedy which is fine by me.

I know this isn't much of a review but it isn't much of a movie with
only one thing, or rather one man to recommend it. If you don't like
Benigni in full on silly mode then don't watch this. If you do like him
you must see this.
<|_=00=_|>

O.K. is the only possible way of analyzing this movie. It does what it set
out to do. But if you have seen this movie and were disapointed, did you
really think it was going to be as funny or enjoyable as earlier entries in
the Pink Panther series?
The movie's comedy is very lukewarm. Whether this is the fault of Blake
Edwards, or maybe he intended it to be that way is unknown. Roberto Benigni
is the Son. O.K, he is now an academy award winner, but in 1993 a complete
unknown. If anyone on the movie wanted it to be a success then a bigger name
should have been chosen, a David Jason, Dudley Moore or Rowan Atkinson.
Benigni, does quite a good impersonation of Peter Sellers throughout the
movie, but this aside isn't very funny or charming.
The return of cast members like Herbert Lom, Graham Starke, Burt Kwouk and
Liz Smith is good. But overall the movie seems forced and is something of a
hit and miss. Lets hope the upcoming Mike Myers remake breathes new life
into this series.

<|_=00=_|>
This following to Closeau series is a new attempt to maintain the
slapstick franchise in spite of Peter Sellers death by means the
substituting in Italian actor Roberto Benigni . This eight installment
is a passable and average comedy because the formula is run out ; it
stars Robert Benigni replacing Peter Sellers as one man show
accompanied by an excessive Herbert Lom . After making life intolerable
for clumsy Inspector Closeau , previous Chief Inspector Charles
Dreifuss (Herbert Lom) encounters Jacques Gambrelli (Robert Benigni),
who reminds him painfully to Inspector Clouseau , the man who drove him
nutty and got insane . With good reason: Gambrelli is Clouseau's son .
While a princess (Debrah Farentino) is in France to accompany her daddy
(Oliver Cotton), a king from far Orient on a diplomatic mission . She
is abducted by some delinquents (Robert Davi , Jennifer Edwards )who
obligate her father to abdicate , which he will not do even for her.
And since her nation has such close ties to France the Police Prefect
instructs commissioner Dreyfuss to go where the princess was abducted
and directing the investigation. On the way he runs into the kidnappers
and were to be shot when a Gendarme stumbles into them and saves
Dreyfuss. Dreyfuss oversees that there is something familiar about this
patrolman. When he goes to the local police chief and says him that he
will be handling the investigation and asks for his best man, he
assigns him Gambrelli, who just happens to be the Gendarme he met
earlier . And having another meeting with Gambrelli, he goes to his
home to encounter his mummy Maria (Claudia Cardinale), and is shocked
to discover that results to be Closeau's son .

¨The revenge of the Pink Panther ¨ release was the fifth part of series
of Inspector Clouseau from French Surete and the last entry by the late
Peter Sellers though he would follow playing but with outtakes in films
as ¨Trail of the Pink Panther¨. After that , it was continued by ¨The
curse of the Pinnk Panther¨ that turned to be another flop and starred
by Ted Wass . ¨The son of the Pink Panther ¨ is the eight part of
Closeau series and a light comedy starred by the great Roberto Benigni
as the inept and bungler Inspector of the French Surete . The movie
gets entertaining and hilarious moments here and there. This slapstick
picture contains amusing , funny scenes , fresh and diverting moments
but also flaws and gaps . Herbert Lom steals the show parodying his
classic character including his ordinary faces , grimaces and gestures
. Appears as secondaries the usual series as Burt Kwouk , Grahame Stark
and of course a mature Claudia Cardinale . The actors seem to enjoy
themselves immensely but they are supposedly amusing holidays . Lively
and atmospheric music by habitual Henry Mancini with songs arranged by
Bobby MacFerrin ; furthermore ,magnificent opening and ending cartoon
titles by Chris Hummel . Colorful and glimmer cinematography by Dick
Bush . The film is regularly penned and directed,as always,by Blake
Edwards. Several chuckles and gags , the result of which is one
acceptable entry from series but inferior to precedent outings as the
original ¨The Pink Panther¨, ¨A shot in dark¨, ¨Return of pink
panther,¨Revenge of pink panther¨. Director Blake Edwards although gets
some inspired bits penned by him however he attempts to alive his
classic personage with no much success . The flick will appeal to Pink
Panther series buffs and Roberto Benigni fans. This is arguably one of
most mediocre of the series about the botcher and bungling Inspector .
<|_=00=_|>

The visual wit and warm wrap-up that Blake Edwards' brings to one of the
finest comedic series of film history (and, apart from the couple produced
in the eighties, they were consistently original and inventive - and changed
with each one) is sadly misunderstood and no longer appreciated by our
audiences.  The manner in which Edwards' uses the entire screen instead of
just cutting for quick effects requires a little more patience, and can
result in quite a payoff - witness the side-splitting scene with Dreyfus and
colleague in hospital beds (but, of course, you need a widescreen version to
see it).  This movie made me laugh, and laugh, and laugh, but, as I said
before, if Edwards' "The Pink Panther Strikes Again" (probably the best in
the series) were released today, it wouldn't have gotten the time of day
either.  It's too bad, because this film, which displays a tenderness to
these characters and Edwards' creation as a whole, was never allowed a
chance to really be seen without generally jaded eyes.  
<|_=00=_|>

I was more than willing to accept a new actor to take over
the
Pink Panther franchise as Clouseau's inept son, and I feel
that
he would have made a decent enough Clouseau.  The problem
lies
with the script of this movie.  Many of the gags are simply
re-hashed from previous Panther movies, and not very effectively
at that.

<|_=00=_|>

Blake Edwards, the man who was certainly the most visually inventive and
provocative comedic filmmaker of his time, naturally has a hard time being
understood by the historically myopic.  This film is no exception, and
it's
too bad: it's rather tender and vibrant in its humor, colorful and
gracefully paced in its framing and editing.  However, today is the age of
team MTV and nudgenudgewinkwink teencomedies, and woe to Blake.  Too bad -
the anger that folks seem to hold for directors as they work into their
later years is rather frightening and rabid, it seems to me.  This film is
fresh, funny, and, actually, rather youthful.  I, for one, am quite glad
that Blake made it.  Thanks to all of you.

<|_=00=_|>
No this movie is not as good as the earliest Pink Panter movies and no,
Roberto Benigni ain't no Peter Sellers but fair is fair, this is an
entertaining and fun enough comedy, that showed some potential for a
new fresh start of the Pink Panther series.

Everything in this movie indicated that they intended this movie as a
new and fresh start of the Pink Panther series. The movie was more of
its time and modern and looked more like a James Bond movie done comedy
style than an old fashioned made slapstick, like all of the other
previous Pink Panther movies were done in.

Too bad that people never really gave this movie a fair change. People
just thought that the Pink Panther series should had stopped with the
death of Peter Sellers in 1980 and director Blake Edwards should had
never went on making more Pink Panther movies, as he did. This was the
third Pink Panther movie without Peter Sellers, so people were already
mostly fed up with it and after the previous too disappointing Pink
Panther entries, the expectations for this movie naturally weren't
really high. But I for one however wouldn't had mind seeing more Pink
Panther movies with the son of Clouseau in it.

No, I never really have been a Roberto Benigni fan, since he mostly
only plays naive, smiling, jumping and screaming comical characters but
he simply was well cast in this movie and did a good job with his role.
I think it was a good move that they didn't let hem try to impersonate
Peter Seller's performance as the famous 'brilliant' inspector but
instead letting him be a total different character with Benigni his own
interpretation.

Nevertheless it's not a movie that totally abandons the style or spirit
of the previous Pink Panther movies. It still let some old character
re-appear in this movie such as Police Commissioner Charles Dreyfus
(finally he got his promotion), Professor Auguste Balls, Cato and
Sergeant Francois Duval. It however also becomes painfully obviously
that by now the actors who are portraying the characters got terribly
old and it became time for some fresh blood. As much as I loved Herbert
Lom in all of the previous Pink Panther movies as Dreyfus, he really
was too old for his role in this movie to be still believable and good
in it. Same goes for Burt Kwouk as Cato, who at the time of this movie
already was well in his 60's. 

The fact that this is a more comical approach of James Bond also means
that there is some more story present this time, with a real villain
and a love interested, action, shooting as well as most other typical
genre clichés. The feeling that this is a more comical version of James
Bond is being strengthened by the presence of Robert Davi, who
previously played the main villain in the James Bond movie "Licence to
Kill". Basically he plays the same role as he always does; a ruthless
criminal boss who always is looking for more power and money. But if
you're so great at playing these sort of roles, why wouldn't you take
it? A only complaint could be that he doesn't play his role comically
enough. He is serious as always, though I'm not to sure if this was
what the film-makers originally had in mind. The different approach of
the entire movie might also be a reason why some people have
difficulties accepting this as a Pink Panther movie but I in fact think
that all of the Pink Panther movies are somewhat- and always wanted to
be like James Bond movies, only done in a complete different comical
style.

Director Blake Edwards with this movie shows that old fashioned
slapstick can still be incorporated properly into 'modern' movies, if
done and handled correctly. Blake Edwards with this movie shows that he
still had it in him, which also makes it sort of a shame that his
career pretty much died right after this movie.

Give this movie a fair change and you might end up liking it for what
it is.

6/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

The "Pink Panther" franchise has spawned a number of movies.  The last one
in the series is "Son of the Pink Panther."  It stars Roberto Benigni as the
original Inspector Jacques Clouseau's son.  He does a good job stumbling and
bumbling his way through the story.  It's easy to picture Benigni as a
Clouseau-type stumblebum.  And a number of characters appear that, although
they did not appear in "The Pink Panther," have become familiar in other
"Panther" movies.  But the last in the line differs somewhat from the
original.  Its tone isn't quite as lighthearted as the first.  It has a lot
of violence that seems to taint the movie.  Although there are a few good
scenes, this movie reminds us all how sorely Peter Sellers is
missed.
<|_=00=_|>

A few spoilers throughout. 

Yes it was a rehash. Yes, Blake Edwards recycled a lot of the jokes from the
original. But I still feel that SOPP manages to do succeed. Benigni Is a
nice choice for Sellers' illegitimate (Did I spell that right?) son. Not
only does he kind of look like Sellers, but he has the gift of completely
falling on his face and making it look like an accident. Burt Kwouk is
entertaining as always as Kato. As is Graham Stark as Auguste Balls. It is
nice to see them both in this movie. I also liked seeing Claudia Cardinale
back in this one. But, I have to give special kudos to Herbert Lom. The
first film I saw him in was "A Shot in the Dark", and it made him my
favorite actor. I often found myself watching the other films in the series
mainly because of him. He does an impressive job for being as old as he was
(I think he was about 75.) When the bomb blew up in Maria's house and he was
standing there in his smoldering suit with the poodle humping his leg, I
almost died laughing. Also, Edwards gives more focus to his character of
Charles Dreyfus. Instead of ending up in an insane asylum like he usually
does in the other Pink Panther films, He manages to solve the mystery, AND
get the girl. He giggles, he twitches, he goes a little nuts, but he
wouldn't be Dreyfus if he didn't. What's really great is that he makes peace
with his enemy (Jacques Clouseau), and he becomes a father to his son, and
it's hard not to wish him well. God bless you Mr. Lom. Long may you
twitch.

P.S. I have heard rumors that a new Pink Panther series is in the works with
Mike Myers as the lead. It will never work. I'm not saying that Myers is a
bad actor. I don't think he is. He just can't play stupid. When Peter
Sellers did something stupid, you didn't think it was acting. When he fell
off a couch, you were completely convinced that his character WAS that dumb.
It honestly didn't look like acting. I just don't think that Myers will be
able to do that. He's to confident. Maybe he will prove me wrong. I hope
that the movie's creators bring back Lom, Kwouk, and Stark
though!
<|_=00=_|>

What do you say about a movie that proudly proclaims THREE (no more!) stars
from the lone critic quoted from the box - and it's from a CANADIAN PAPER?
One word - AWFUL! Roberto Benigni is a funny and talented actor, so he's not
to blame for this mess - blame Edwards. 
Did Edwards actually used to be funny? I thought he used to be,
but you'd never know from this movie. It's shocking to see Burt Kwouk
looking so aged, but he and Lom, Cardinale, and Stark provide the movie's
only pleasure, because they are kind of old friends by
now.

With the abysmal grosses of this SOP (Son Of Pink), you'd think that the
series is finally at an end. However, I read recently that United Artists is
planning to revive (!) the series!!! They are going to replace Edwards, and
bring a new lead in - but I don't trust Hollywood for remakes and
resurrecting old franchises anymore.
