
Steven Seagal is one of those actors with a totally winning
personality He is simply an authority figure, a killing machine with a
heart of purest gold I can't help it; I like the guy.

In 'Fire Down Below,' he is an outsider posing as a church sponsored
carpenter while he works for the Environmental Protection Agency to
stop a greedy coal baron from dumping extremely large quantities of
toxic wastes in abandoned coal mines Those dangerous chemicals could
destroy the drinking water for thousands of miles and kill a bunch of
people around the hills Seagal gallantly promised not to leave the
small town until the poison from the air, the streams and the earth is
taken out

Many thugs (with snakes, sticks, guns, and big trucks) are hired by the
uncaring mining magnate to get rid of our action hero but Seagal
remains virtually untouched 

'Fire Down Below' highlights new environmental message but fails to
come up with the expectations First, Seagal's amorous interest with
the sad country woman seems artificial, used in the film to grant the
'new visitor' easy access to statements he might need Second, the
motion picture lacks the best villain whose prowess could equals
Seagal's... Steven's character never really faces much of a challenge
In fact, the fight scenes are too short and extremely fast and easy

If you are a fan of country music and you want to see Seagal playing
guitar and singing, and you like to explore sweeping vistas with
glorious sunsets, don't miss this movie!
<|_=00=_|>

All of the fun from a Steven Seagal film comes from watching the man.  You
know that when the bad guys are circling him, taunting him, telling him what
they're about to do, you know that within less than a minute, everyone
around him is going to be lying on the ground, moaning in pain, while he
stands there smirking.  Literally everything in his reach becomes a weapon
and he NEVER kicks.  Also, he ALWAYS comes out scratch free. His character
will almost always be clad in leather, even when everyone else is walking
around in Summer wear.  Yep, he's a regular "Jack of all trades" in this one
as he's an Enviornmental Protection Agent, a pilot, a carpenter, a martial
artist, and a guitar player as well.  It's so absurd, but yet SO satisfying,
it's just the way action movies should be. No one else could pull it off and
do it so well. Lotsa fun. 

Steven Seagal plays basically the same character in every movie, and while
they're always panned by the critics, his movies always please the audience
that they were intended for.  Fire Down Below is, in my opinion, the last of
his really good movies.  Everything else kinda went downhill from there. 
With Fire Down Below, he took his preachiness from On Deadly Ground, and
toned it down a little.  Also, he wasn't directing this time.  But one thing
I have to say is that I could've done without the sped up action sequences. 
There were a few times, throughout the movie, where I thought that I may
have accidentally hit the fast forward button on my remote.  But other than
that, this movie does what action movies are supposed to do and doesn't pull
any punches.  I also enjoyed the Kentucky backdrop and it was kinda cool to
see so many country musicians make cameos.  Marty Stuart, Travis Tritt, Mark
Collie, Kris Kristofferson, Levon Helm...they're all here, not too mention
several others.  My favorite character was "Cotton" played to perfection by
one of my all time favorite character actors Harry Dean Stanton.  His
mountain-boy simplicity put a big ole smile on my face everytime he showed
up and I love the guy in everything he's in.  

Everyone in the movie seems to be having a great time and it's so hard to
take anything seriously.  All you can really do is sit back and have a good
time.  I hope that for his next film, that he ditches all the glossiness of
"Exit Wounds" and goes back to the movies that made his audiences love him
in the first place.  
<|_=00=_|>

I have watched this several times and always find it enjoyable. There is a
gallery of good actors in support like Harry Dean Stanton and Kris
Kristofferson. Special mention should be made of Stephen Lang who although
playing a murderous character does make one feel sorry for him. Also Marg
Helgenberger gives a touching portrayal of Sarah Kellogg, ready to bloom
after years of repression. 

The photography of the landscape is beautiful and contrasts with the story
about its despoliation by illegal dumping of chemicals. This film is more
about character and story. The fight scenes themselves are quite brief.

Which brings us to Steven Seagal. His bland acting style works strangely
enough in complement with the other stronger actors.He does the combat OK.
He does preach (like in his more recent films) but hey, what's wrong with
looking after the environment? This film is under rated and deserves another
look.
<|_=00=_|>
While I do not agree with some of the reviews posted here, others are
fair and objective and they are appreciated. 

I have visited those places in Eastern Kentucky shown in the movie. I
know that there are places in the mountains of Kentucky where outsiders
are distrusted due to a tradition started by Revenue Officers many
years ago. My grandfather was one of them for many years! I also know
their traditions and customs and very much of this movie shows people
as they really and truly are today. However, as in most places, the
diversity is also notable. For every person hooked on country music,
for example, you will find another, or others, who are not.

As a person with one year of karate and one year of jujitsu, I can also
agree with another reviewer that Steven Seagal's expertise in Aikido is
demonstrated, as was stated, by not merely breaking bones although it
can be done. The axiom in martial arts is to protect yourself and this
does not always mean putting the opponent in the hospital. Therefore,
the fight scenes were believably adequate and enjoyable. Those with
only a moviegoer's experience in martial arts would see it otherwise.

Snake handling? In Texas and Florida there are experts who would think
that Taggart's grabbing the rattlesnakes tossed through his bedroom
window was driven by what he had to do at that moment. Many of those
snake experts can tell you that they have known others who had to grab
a snake to avoid being bitten. No big deal but still exciting to see. 

The country music entertainers were actually excellent actors. I was
impressed by them. None of them fell down in their roles and they came
across as entirely believable. The story may be seen and appreciated
without finding the actor-musicians to be bumbling idiots but real
people.

One reviewer commented on the marijuana patch in the hills. This also
is not an imaginary or unbelievable situation. Many small planes do not
dare fly low in those hills or they come back with bullet holes from
those who think they are being overflown by ATF people looking for
their weed plots. Bodies have been found in marijuana patches so this
also was realistic.

I like Seagal and have seen him in several movies. He is an expert in
his field. However, a man who practices martial arts can get hurt more
by accident than by intention. However, he is considered great at his
art by those who are experienced in that field! Most people in martial
arts would love to be as good as he is. Anyone who would denigrate his
abilities would not be capable of standing off a pickpocket on a
crowded bus and going beyond this would just tax their imagination.

The story was good because it happens... Toxic waste is being stored
and hidden not only in Appalachia but in other parts of the USA. The
story holds together well. Also, the scenery is very well chosen and
this is a plus.

People from that region do not make comments about the movie being
untrue to life there. This is because apparently the
producers/directors were careful to adhere to authenticity and they did
well.

Anywone who likes martial arts and a good story linked to beautiful
scenery mixed with reality will like this movie. Others would be better
off to stick with their video games to avoid boredom.

I enjoyed the movie -- several times. Overall, I give it a big 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Since I haven't seen this since the turn of the 21st century, it would
be interesting to see again just to see Marg Helgenberger. I really
wasn't that familiar with her when I saw this movie a couple of times
in the late '90s, although I had seen her before. However, now she's a
very familiar face thanks to the hit CSI television show.

Anyway, the movie was a typical Steven Seagal film in that he's the
likable hero, you had despicable villains that were easy to hate, and
every action scene is Rambo-like in which Seagal never misses injuring
his foes. 

One big difference in this film from his earlier efforts: an emphasis
an aesthetic cinematography. This had some beautiful rural scenes of
Kentucky and in particular, a church on a top of a hill, in which a
number of scenes take place. Not only is the country scenery nice but
there are some good country songs in here and better yet - blues guitar
music in the background throughout the movie. All of this was different
for a Seagal film. Of course, the nice scenery was probably due to the
fact Seagal played an Environmental Protection Agent ("Jack Taggart").

Also different was the fact that Helgenberger ("Sarah Kellogg") was not
the typical gorgeous young sexpot normally paraded out in these martial
arts films, but was rather plain with no makeup. She wore conservative
clothing and showed no skin. (Contrast that to her CSI roles the past
six years) Then again, Appalachia being the setting for this story, her
dress and manner was appropriate and realistic.

Language-wise, most of the hard profanity comes from Kris
Kristofferson's villain character, "Orrin Hammer, Sr.," in the first
hour. 

How they treated "religion" in this film was bizarre. Good, bad, good,
bad - like watching a tennis match. The country reverend was the
typical Hollywood wishy-washy minister: the kind would NOT see in this
area in real life. The screenwriters are so clueless Seagal called him
- a Protestant minister - "father" - as if he was a Catholic. Anyway,
the wimpy reverend does "come around" at the end. 

More examples: good-guy Seagal bows his head in prayer at church but
also tells Helgenberger that "I don't hand out bibles." He also
mentions UFOs and Zen to a sick little boy but also mentions "God's
work" other times. He covers all the bases, I guess, from occult to the
real thing. The bad guys attend church, but then they burn it down!
Harry Dean Stanton tells someone that "church people talk down the
others," but the next scene something positive is shown. I'm telling
you: the theology in here would make your head swim. 

Seagal plays a smug kind of guy but his smugness doesn't translate into
an offensive jerk, perhaps because his character is so soft-spoken and
he is, after all, the good guy. Every action scene in here is a Rambo
imitation in which Segal beats up his opponents no matter how many of
them are against him. It's ludicrous. Yet, most of the time it's
enjoyable enough to watch and the sound-effects on those fights are
actually entertaining, almost humorous. 

About the film, I still like the blues guitar and the Kentucky scenery
the best. The rest of it is pure Seagal nonsense....but entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was pretty good. It is a lot better than Steven Seagal's more
recent films, like Exit Wounds and Half Past Dead. I do not know why it had
such a low user-rating, for it is excellent. Seagal plays EPA agent Jack
Taggart, who moves to a small southern town to investigate allegations that
a major business figure (Kristofferson) is dumping tons of toxic waste into
a supposedly safe area. Seagal faces much hostility while he is there from
Kristofferson's thugs, but he meets and falls in love with a young woman who
was falsely accused of murdering her father. The murder was really done by
her brother, who ends up in a dangerous confrontation with Seagal. This
movie had expert action scenes and great filming of a southern/midwestern
town. Kris Kristofferson had a very good role and he played it very well.
This is probably Steven Seagal's best movie and I would recommend it to
anyone who enjoys action films. SEE THIS FILM. Feel free to email me with
any questions or comments.
<|_=00=_|>

unlike most of seagal's earlier films with almost too much action,fire down
below takes its time to weave another true to life tale of the abuse done to
our earth by corporate americia. folks,this kind of stuff goes on everyday
and it's films like these sneak a message into you without beating you over
the head with it.those who are expecting plenty of guns and bodies flying
all over the place every 5 seconds will be disappointed,but those who have a
better view of the movie genre can enjoy this film better.
<|_=00=_|>

It's been a few years coming, but not since 'Under Siege' has Steven Seagal
easily fitted into his role.
'Fire Down Below' marks the beginning of a successful change of  focus for
Mr Seagal.
Gone are the bone breaking fatal blows that really are not what Aikido is
about anyway. The martial art scenes
are done with speed and precision as always but are not over the top. After
all, Mr. Seagal is a 7th Dan Black Belt Aikidoist. [Martial Art freaks who
want blood and guts can go and watch 'Mortal Combat'.]  The Mine Scene was a
bit disappointing, a little unbelievable, but I did say this was the
beginning of a change of focus.
Gone is the basic Seagal signature type 'here comes the hero' music. Sound
track is great - and yes he writes his own music and yes he can play the
guitar.
The scenery was great and cast, well it's as if they radiated Kentucky - I
could feel it and I'm from Australia.
I would have liked a little more passion at the end.  Mr. Seagal seems a
little ill at ease, but it may be a reflection of his own uneasiness with
commitment, who wouldn't be after three marriages.
All in all I liked it very much. I look forward to 'The Patriot' and 'Blood
on the Moon'.

<|_=00=_|>

I was pleasantly surprised by "Fire Down Below". I am sure that locals
 played a large part in this film shot in Eastern Kentucky. It was well done
 and Seagal did just what he had to do in an action film. 

The scenery was magnificent. The acting up to par. The special effects were
 much better than average.

And ugly men can appeal to young women. Marg Helgenberger certainly is a
 beautiful young woman. And as an actress she gave an adequate performance
 and I am sure will continue to improve.

I enjoyed the film.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the only Steven Seagal movie I actually like. It doesn't have a
whole lot of action but a few interesting fight scenes. Randy Travis has a
bit part as well. Steven goes into a small southern town where he believes
some illegal activity is going on and finds out that tons of sewage is
being
dumped in the mines so of course he saves the day and also falls in love
with that blonde lol, but it's sweet and this is a very enjoyable movie
see
it
