
Well said, Rothman. Whatever this movie is supposed to be, it fails on
every level. It's not scary, it's not disturbing, it's not
entertaining, it's only funny periodically when you can't believe how
stupid it is, and it essentially killed the Texas Chainsaw Massacre
franchise until it was rebooted a decade later. 

The only reason anyone would have any inclination to watch this is
because of its leads - Renee Zellweger and Matthew McConaughey - who
were young and naive back then, but they did they best they could with
the material they had. Renee played a fine damsel in distress and
McConaughey was perfect as an insane cannibalistic psychopath. You can
tell he was having fun with the part, and the fun he has is contagious
sometimes especially knowing how huge he has become since. 

The movie itself is downright horrendous. It starts off as a typical
slasher: a few teens leaving prom get stranded in the woods, then they
encounter strange characters, and from then it devolves into a
nonsensical screaming battle between everyone. Literally there are
scenes in this movie where the only lines are "AHHHH!" Leatherface has
gone full transvestite for this installment. They also end the movie
with some sort of conspiracy that these cannibals have been around for
thousands of years and there are men in suits that check up on them or
something. It makes absolutely no sense and trying to piece it together
will ensure a loss of brain cells.

This is the worst of the pre-millennial TCMs by a long shot. Only watch
if you're a die-hard TCM completist or you want to watch McConaughey
yell like crazy for a while. Either way, you're bound to be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
I decided to watch the original "Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE", TCM 2,
LEATHERFACE TCM 3 and TCM 4 in a row. I already seen the two first and
I think they're great. But Leatherface and TCM 4 were new to me.
Leatherface was extremely flat and boring but TCM 4 was, well, INSANELY
BAD. I simply could not believe what I was watching. My jaw was on the
floor. Is this a movie? It's a joke, right? I never laughed so much in
a very long time. There are simply no words to describe how bizarre,
SURREAL, and bad this movie is. Nothing makes sense so there's no point
of trying to make sense of it. It's insane. Insanely bad. Insanely
funny. Insanely directed. Insanely insulting to the whole series.
Insanely watchable AND unwatchable. Yes, it's INSANELY entertaining to
the masochist in me, who likes to witness the worst of the worst in
movies, and TCM 4 is WRETCHED to the nth degree! It feels like the
Hitchhiker from the original TCM directed this "movie". I have to admit
that as bad as TCM 4 is, at least it's looks and feels more like the
TCM world created by Tobe Hooper than the ultra boring and flat looking
LEATHERFACE TCM 3.

There are so many moments in TCM 4 that have to be seen to be believed.
The funniest being the moment when Renee and Matthew are battling over
remotes that controls Matthew's piston powered leg (got that?). Or the
funny scene of Leatherface (a cross-dresser here) standing behind
clueless Heather and playing with her hair. Heather has to be one of
the funniest characters I've ever seen. She's played by Lisa Marie
Newmyer, who's a bimbo but with a lot of insight. In this "movie",
Heather is attacked by Leatherface, placed in a freezer. Then she's
hung on a hook, and for some unexplained reason, she got off the hook
and tried to crawl away from the house only to be brought back to the
house, where she lies on the floor, too bored or lazy to runaway.
LOL!!! The whole thing is played as a comedy. But the comedy is often
so bizarre that it's not really funny. What's also remarkable is that
Renee and Matthew do have "star quality" and watching these "stars" in
this insane movie just adds a lot more bizarre, wonky quality to the
movie than it really deserved. The whole cast is game but I wonder,
what did the director or producers do to have the cast go all out like
that? Was it drugs? Was the whole crew and cast on drugs or drunk?!?!
Matthew is very good in his role as, well, I don't know, a buff psycho?
And Renee goes all out in her role as "survivor", running across the
forest like an athlete trying to win a medal.

After I watched TCM4 for a second time, I've finally realized that it's
all flippant parody of the first movie. I've noticed bizarre details,
like the sound of crickets during the opening scene inside Jenny's
house. The director, who co-wrote the original TCM, didn't take this
new foray into the TCM universe seriously for one second. In the end,
TCM 4 looked like an amalgamation of 'THE Texas CHAINSAW MASSACRE' and
TWIN PEAKS. The director was obviously influenced by the David Lynch TV
series. When you look at the movie in this light, it's not the total
disaster that everyone says it is BUT the movie still ends up looking
pretty bad because of one major weak aspect about it: it's TOTALLY
POINTLESS. If there's was a movie that was totally pointless, it's this
one. Why basically remake the first movie a la David Lynch? What's
next? The Quentin Tarantino version of TCM?

Anyway, personally, I prefer TCM 4 over LEATHERFACE TCM 3, which is
just plain bad and is the worst movie of this bizarre so-called series.
At least TCM 4 is so consciously bad that, even if it's an almost total
embarrassment to the two first films, it's actually fun to watch if
you're looking for something to laugh at or with, something that's
insanely wacky, full of energy and 100% OVER-THE-TOP! 

As a straightforward film, TCM 4 rates at a big fat ZERO. But as a
"it's so bad it's good movie," TCM 4 rates a perfect 10. It's ranks up
there along with GLEN OR GLENDA, PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE, TERROR IN THE
JUNGLE, and THE LEGEND OF LYLAH CLARE as the very best of the worst.
<|_=00=_|>

The latest Texas Chainsaw Massacre, is absolutely no rest from the bizarre
first three horror films. Leatherface here is performed just like Gunnar
Hansen's take in the 1974 granddaddy of all horror films, " The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre." The actors seem to overact sometimes, it's pretty
corny...still the humor and craziness of the flick are entertaining, as
well
as the music and atmosphere. Definitely the best film of the two leading
stars, who would go on to become Hollywood heartthrobs.
You'll have a lot of fun if you're a horror fan who likes to see some
weird
B-ish stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
I liked this movie. I liked it in whole and in parts - meaning I
enjoyed the film as a whole (and have watched it several times,
inflicting it on various friends...), but there were touches in it that
really creeped me, and that isn't something that happens every day. 

The film is your basic teenagers on the way home from the prom get lost
and stuck and run into spooky family in the middle of nowhere - mayhem
ensues. Actually, this is the movie I thought of (fondly) when I first
heard about "House of 1000 Corpses". I like this movie much better, and
not just because I REALLY want to bring it to a "Matthew McConaghy Fan
Club" movie night.

(SPOILERS)

It's the details that make this movie. The wall of drivers' licenses
that you can see in the background in one room of the creepy family's
house, which implies they've been at this for a while. The filthy
bathroom where you can't see the human skin hanging on the back of the
door until you're already inside with the door closed.

I've always found it hard to imagine a female villain character who
actually "works" in a movie like this, unless she's either essentially
browbeaten and incapable of individual action, or is utterly,
irredeemably psychotic. This movie has a creepy female character who
both casually flashes passersby from her office window (explaining only
that she just got implants and everyone seems to want to see them) and
flirts with cops while she has a girl tied up in her trunk. She also
gives a variety of weird "conspiracy theory"ish explanations for why
she goes along with what the spooky family does.

Most unusual of all is the weird guy in the limousine who shows up for
no particular reason and implies that he put these people here for some
reason - presumably to generate exactly the type of urban legends they
are generating - and who might be.... Satan? Some underling, anyway.
Maybe Ranger Asmodeus (from Equinox) has a cousin. ..

The movie left me wondering - in the best possible way. Not the usual
"why did they make this?" or "how could they have thought this was
good?" But instead "who is that guy? Does he have other enclaves of
evil out there just waiting for his visits?" and "that woman - was she
a victim at one point who talked her way into joining them as a
survival mechanism, and then convinced herself that it was OK?" 

Ya know?
<|_=00=_|>

I can't believe this is rated as a bad film by so many. It is one of my
favorites. It's pretty twisted and sick in a realistic way. Indeed it's
not
like the other TCMs but it's the same plot line , but completely different
in a way. Mr. McConaughey has a great role and is acting like never
before.
Try seeing the movie and finding the good qualities instead of searching
for
whats bad about it like everyone else does. The psycholigy is brilliant. A
must see for all !
<|_=00=_|>

At one point, a terrorized Jenny screams "I don't understand!"  And
Vilmer
replies "Welcome to the real world."  For me, this sums up everything I
like
about this movie.

The TCM series has -- at the best of times -- been about random
violence...usually for the sake of sensationalism.  But underneath it all
is
the creepy realization that not everybody thinks like you do.  Some of
them
do things which make no sense to you.  When you step into their reality,
you're at their mercy, and you'll never understand exactly
why.

This installment plays the "why?" theme to the hilt, eventually copping
out
somewhat near the end when they should have just left us wondering.
Darla
is wonderful as Vilmer's girlfriend, alternately getting hung up about
seemingly trivial things -- having a quiet dinner for a change -- and
goading Vilmer into continuing their twisted, mutually abusive
relationship.
Vilmer himself has fantastic moments, though none of the actors quite
live
up to Perensky & Zellweger's standards of convincing nuttiness and
terror,
respectively.  Though Newmyer is also great in a role which is too
small.

Outside of the mayhem, there's some wonderful dialogue, especially the
first
few lines in the movie: the teacher who simpers around the students and
then
gripes, "f*** I hate kids."  Heather's friend with the absolutely bizarre
mannerisms explaining that the gossip-monger is just trying to cause
trouble.  Heather saying that they might end up slaughtered and hidden
away
in somebody's basement, with Sean retorting, "that's stupid, the houses
around here don't have basements."  And finally, my favourite line: "Too
bad
about her face, Leather, but you can have her shoes!"

Despite all the bad press this movie's received, I hope Kim Henkel enjoys
what she created as much as I enjoy watching it.  Goofy, funny, real,
unreal, terrifying and witty: good job.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie to me, was totally entertaining for what it is; the what,
7th movie in a string of horror movie sequels? Come on! Give these
people some credit. Once they make about 3 or 4 movies, you're a moron
if you're expecting an Oscar worthy film. Matthew McConaughey is
INCREDIBLE AS A PSYCHO! His lines are delivered so INSANELY (mind the
pun!) PERFECT that you wonder if he really is a bit nutty in real life.
The things he says cracks me up. When he runs over the character Sean
with his tow truck saying "Yep, that shoulda done' it... that shoulda
done it riiiight there." I just laugh so incredibly hard at how crazy
he is throughout the entire movie. You have to let go of your cirtical,
Siskel & Ebert serious side & just have some fun with this movie! The
Next Generation isn't much for blood and guts like the original, it
more so focuses on demented psychopaths who live amongst body parts and
filth and who torture for fun. They try to give you the meaning of
"HORROR" even that crazy-skin-flesh-nipple-ring guy admits that the
whole "psycho killer" set-up is, & I quote: "appalling" as far as
horror goes. So there, they admit it but the characters are still great
in my opinion. But the scene with the prom kids in Darla's office is a
load of laughs because Tonie Perensky portrays the hot psycho chick to
a "T". She's completely cool and collected about her lifestyle and just
pulls off the greatest pin-up type homicidal bimbo character ever. And
she manages to still look hot despite almost getting choked to death
(by a TV remote controlled leg) and smacked around a few times by
Vilmer. Renee is EXCELLENT as the virginal victim who, unlike most
innocent horror movie victims who do the stereotypical "running up the
stairs when they should be running out of the front door," Renee gets
some courage to climb a 3 story roof, swing from a cable line, jump out
of a window, & is even brave enough to point in Leather's face and tell
him to "SIT THE F*CK DOWN!" GO JENNY! Jenny's friend Heather is a
little annoying with her little girl voice and airhead paranoia but she
acknowledges the error of her ways and ultimately gets the grossest
punishments. So we can pardon her! The only one I can say that really
didn't impress me was Leather himself. This if the first Texas CM movie
I've seen where Leather runs around pulling at his hair and screaming
endlessly like a little girl instead of getting down to some real deal
chainsaw business. After a few minutes of them introducing Leather
(continuously screaming like a sissy) you're looking for the MUTE
button on your remote. This movie doesn't lose the original concept of
the Ed Gein theme by showing briefly the woman-skin suit hanging behind
a bathroom door, however in this TCM movie we get to see Leather decked
out for dinner in a fancy gown, red lipstick and a black wig he must
have stolen from Tina Turner.

All in all, I really find this movie entertaining and think that
Matthew and Renee got off to a GREAT start with these characters. I
give it 1½ thumbs up! =]
<|_=00=_|>
The third sequel in the Texas Chainsaw series is now more famous for
starring Matthew McConaughey and Renée Zellweger, neither of whom, at
the time the film was made, knew better than to accept such trashy
roles. The film begins by asking us to care about a group of teens who
leave their prom due to a couple having a fight and end up lost in the
woods. This mere minutes after having driven away from their high
school, which presumably resides in their hometown. Clearly they have
not learned their way around much, but no matter. Before too long, they
very soon find themselves running for their lives away from the famous
freaky family, not only lost in their home town but, before long, also
without their car. 

One of the biggest gripes that people have with this film (which is
saying a lot, because there is nothing but stuff to gripe about) is
that Leatherface seems to have become a transvestite. You can almost
watch the transformation in the film, which seems to me to be sort of
the result of trying to make Leatherface too complex. There is a point
in the film where the trapped Jenny (Zellweger) tries to get
Leatherface to help her escape, talking to him exactly like a
psychiatrist would talk to a disturbed child.

Come on, we know Leatherface is disturbed; I just don't understand why
cross-dressing had to be added to his impressive list of deviations
from the pattern of behaviors generally associated with reasonably
well-adjusted people. On the other hand, Kim Henkel did co-write the
original Texas Chainsaw Massacre with Tobe Hooper, and has thus been
granted at least some right to tamper with the character. What you see
in the movie, however, is a lot of tampering gone horribly, horribly
wrong. If it ain't broken, as they say, don't fix it. You may end up
making it worse.

What is amazing to me is how far McConaughey and Zellweger have both
come in spite of this film. As I was watching the film, I couldn't
believe I was watching the same actor who had turned in such wonderful
performances in movies like Bridget Jones' Diary and Cold Mountain, as
well as another actor who displayed strong acting presence in movies
like EdTV and U-571. Why the focus on Leatherface being a transvestite?
Leatherface is a side character anyway, it is Vilmer (McConaughey) who
is the star, which is sad because he plays such a belligerent,
disgusting character. If you don't believe me that he's more the star
than Leatherface, count how many people Leatherface, or anyone else,
kills with a chainsaw in the movie (hint: none).

Vilmer is the new head of household in the backwoods family, working as
a tow-truck driver/reckless murderer and who has the fascinating
addition of an electric leg that is operated by remote control. At one
point, a high school kid pleads for help, then when he realizes
Vilmer's one of the bad guys, he runs away from the truck (running
straight down the street rather than into the woods to relative safety,
of course), Vilmer gleefully chases him down, laughing and hooting and
hollering all the while, and then runs him over five or six times
before stashing his body on the back of the truck to later taunt one of
his little friends with.

As is to be expected, there is never any motive given behind any of the
random killings, this is all just the sickening actions of an insane
family in the woods, evidently comfortably separate from any sort of
law enforcement or even the most tenuous interaction with greater
civilization, waiting for unsuspecting teenagers to stumble into their
midst. Interesting that the movie starts out as such a gigantic horror
movie cliché, and still manages to go downhill from there.

Horror movie sequels are first faced with the usually daunting task of
justifying themselves. A horror movie sequel has to have a premise that
gives it a reason for having been made, otherwise it is clearly a cash
cow made to cash in on the success of the original film. Texas Chainsaw
4, instead, simply passes itself off as something of a remake of the
original, rather than another sequel, and turns from the more plodding
and slow-moving original to the mindless, completely over-the-top
belligerence that you see here. 

The scenes at the house are peppered with stupid violence, at one point
Vilmer throws Darla to the ground and steps on her neck with his
powerful leg, nearly killing her by suffocation or by breaking her
neck, clearly not caring which. Naturally, she gets up and complains
that she could easily leave him and go back to her husband. Charming.
Add cannibalism to the mix and you have a hilariously bad movie. 

Jenny spends much of the latter half of the movie trying to escape from
the hungry hungry hicks, as we are constantly bombarded with the
stupid, stupid characters and plot twists that the movie makes as it
ineptly tries to combine the horror and comedy that even the most
mildly competent horror film can display. This is exactly the kind of
thing that really makes me wonder why, every time a new movie comes out
in a certain series, I always go back and watch the whole series before
watching it. I'm still working on The Friday the 13th movies, the
Nightmares on Elm Street, and the Child's Play films, which are
decidedly more fun than the Texas Chainsaws. And to make matters worse,
I have heard nothing but bad things about the 2003 Texas Chainsaw. 

And given how right all the bad reviews of this movie are, that is
certainly a sinking feeling.
<|_=00=_|>
This TCM;Next Generation is an accidental cult classic.I wasn't scared
watching this movie,but finally figured out i'm not supposed to be
horrified.It is subtly funny,and it is obvious Renee and Mathew and the
others were trying not to burst out laughing half the time.It was a
load of fun to watch.The actors were having too much fun to try to give
Oscar performances and for that their performances are brilliant.This
is Renee's best role.Not that she isn't a great actress in general...i
just love her so much in this role.She is a young actress who seems
like she is just having fun.Mathew is amazing..how on earth this movie
gets such low scores is beyond me.Watch it...you'll love it.
<|_=00=_|>
Just because I don't like as much as the other ones doesn't mean I hate
it. The things that pi** me off. 1) Leatherface dressed like a woman.
2) Vilmer always shouting Vilmer. 3)W.E. always saying those stupid
quotes. 4)This is the one main thing that really pi**ed me off no one
got chainsawed to death. Somethings that I like about the film is. Its
entertaining. It's a Texas Chainsaw Massacre film. I think the reason I
like this film better than most people is because the original film is
my favorite movie. Other than that the film isn't that bad so I don't
why people thrash it so much. the film makers had the balls to make it
way different than the other ones. Like I said this is weakest one in
the series but it's a good film.
