

After the success of "Die Hard" there have been many movie clones of that
great action film. There was "Die Hard on a Ship" ("Under Siege"), "Die Hard
on a Train" ("Under Siege 2"), and "Die Hard on a Bus" ("Speed"), just to
name a few. "Sudden Death" can be described as either "Die Hard on the Ice",
"Die Hard at a Hockey Game" or "Die Hard in an Arena". You pick. Technically
you could put all three titles into this movie and it'll still be pretty
much the same thing. However, "Sudden Death" is one of the better "Die Hard"
clones. It's an exciting movie about terrorists taking over the Pittsburgh
Civic Arena where the decisive seventh game of the Stanley Cup Finals
between the Pittsburgh Penguins and the Chicago Blackhawks is being played.
However there's a little difference here. The only people who know that
hostages have taken over are the people in the VIP box (which includes the
Vice President), the Secret Service men outside the arena, and an arena fire
marshall who's two little kids are attending the game. The 17,000-plus fans
attending the game have no idea whats really going on. That fire marshall is
played by Belgian action star Jean-Claude Van Damme. I've not been a big fan
of Van Damme's films, but "Sudden Death" is easily his best movie to date.
Van Damme plays Darren McCord, the fire marshall who finds out something's
wrong when his little daughter is taken to the VIP box as a hostage after
witnessing a killing. When McCord finds out what's going on, he does
precisely what Bruce Willis did in "Die Hard", takes on the terrorists all
by himself. The lead bad guy is portrayed by Powers Boothe in a frightening
performance. He may not be quite as effective as Alan Rickman's villain in
"Die Hard", but Boothe does a good job at being mean. Van Damme is also very
good too (especially in one scene where he poses as the Penguins goalie to
hide out from the bad guys who were chasing him). He's much better here than
he was in "Timecop", teaming again with "Timecop" director Peter Hyams. The
action scenes are splendid (both the gunplay and the action during the
game), and the suspense has you on the edge. "Sudden Death" has a few silly
moments here and there, but since this movie is such a good thrill ride, you
won't care. This movie deserved to be a big hit at the box office and
wasn't. I'll never understand why.

***1/2 (out of four)

<|_=00=_|>
I found this to be a very interesting action with with Powers Boothe
fun to watch as the main villain, thanks to his dialog and no-nonsense
approach. At least he wasn't one of those talk-first, shoot-maybe-later
clichés from the world of film. The hockey scenes in here are
realistic, too. However, the rest of the film doesn't exactly exhibit
realism: lots of hokey stuff in here, too. At the end, the action
really gets carried away and brings the rating down on this to a
manageable "7." Otherwise, it would be a minimum of "8" just for the
entertainment value alone.

After a slow start, it picks up when Boothe enters the movie. Then it
never lets up. If you want a pure hour of action, this is it. There is
no female lead in this movie, so you get no romance nor gratuitous sex
scenes, which is a bit unusual. It's a straight crime story.

One note: unless things have been changed, I was disappointed my DVD
did not offer a widescreen version.
<|_=00=_|>

I may be one of those movie buffs who's at least willing to confess
that
they're not a huge admirer or fan of a certain actor or director.
Jean-Claude Van Damme would be near the top of my list of actors that I
only
admire although I've seen a few films where he has his name is on the
poster.

"Sudden Death" is the second film that Van Damme has starred in with
photographer/director Peter Hyams ("End of Days", "Timecop") is at the
helm.

This film was based on an actual story by Karen Baldwin and is adapted
into the story by Gene Quintano.

The movie takes place at the Pittsburgh Civic Arena in Pittsburgh where
the Chicago Blackhawks and the Pittsburgh Penquins are about to take the
ice
for the last game of the Stanley Cup finals.  Van Damme's character,
Darren
McCord, takes his son and daughter to the game.  As usual, the arena is
packed with fans and the Vice President of the U.S. has come to see the
game
as well.  Unfortunately, Joshua Foss (Powers Boothe), a demented terrorist
and a small band of terrorists take control of the Owner's box where the
V.P. and several people.  Foss demands that he wants a billion dollars and
how he wants to use it puzzles me.  However, at the end of each period, if
his demand isn't met, Foss shoots someone and if the deal isn't done at
the
end of the game.  The arena is blown sky high with several explosives that
are set all over the arena.

Boothe is good here and he makes the threat very real, which is key to
making any thriller.  He also shows some wit and in one particular scene,
the Vice President curiously asks Foss "What kind of lunatic are you?"
Foss
responds - "The best kind."

What draws McCord into the situation is when his daughter is taken up
to
the Owner's box.  From there on, the movie manages to make the excitement
to
be interesting.  One example would be the fight scenes that McCord has
with
a couple of thugs in the kitchen at two seperate times.  Just about every
prop is used from the meat slicer to the bone, which goes through one of
the
neck of a terrorist.  Fun and yucky isn't it?

The last half of the film is just about entertaining as the first half
is.  I'm undecided if "Sudden Death" would make the best thriller that
involves a sports event and terrorists since John Frankenheimer's "Black
Sunday".  Van Damme and Boothe are both good here.    
<|_=00=_|>

Sudden Death is a well made movie,it has great action sequences,pretty good
acting and a very high level of entertainment.The movie starts out really
well,and ends really well.Van Damme gives a great action performance,and
his
co-stars do as well.Great action sequences,and a high level of
entertainment
makes Sudden Death a must see.
<|_=00=_|>

Van-Damme is known for acting in two film genres: Action and Martial-Arts.
His best martial arts film is BloodSport, also thought to be one of the
best
movies of all time in it's genre. This movie - Sudden Death - is his best
action film.

Great action scenes, some very hilarious scenes, and great overall action
and suspense make this a great action movie overall.

If you like action movies, you'll love this one.
If you are a Van-Damme fan, this is a must-see.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Sudden Death was a good action film. The plot was simple and easy to
understand..It didnt try to become something it isnt and end up confusing
you. Jean-Claude Van Damme gave a strong performance and so did Powers
Boothe. He was extremely convincing as "the bad guy". The movie at times
is
a little far fetched..but most movies are.  I also thought it was very
cool
how Jean-Claude's character used lots of odd objects to create
weapons(Fire
extinguisher, tube and darts)..anyway if your looking for a good action
movie to watch, Sudden Death should be your choice.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, let's be straight forward. This is not Oscar material. It's a
typical hostage movie similar to the Die Hard series. There are some
pretty decent action sequences and some that just don't plain make any
sense and, after you see them, you will be left kinda confused. Having
said that, this is a good movie. The best part about this movie is,
surprisingly, the bad guy. Powers Boothe plays the lead terrorist and
he plays it well. At times you root for him because he plays the part
so well. Unfortunately, it's hard to root against this guy because of
his wise-ass attitude, but some of his quotes are memorable and quite
amusing. (Example: To the vice president "I voted for you. I really
did. It's your sincerity and compassion. However there may be a need to
kill someone else. Now we're gonna make this work or we're gonna die
trying!") This is a typical Van Damme film except in this one he plays
a little hockey. This movie, albeit a bit done-before, is surrounded by
an entertaining cast that propels this from a 5 to a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
Darren McCord, a fire safety officer at a hockey stadium, takes his two
kids to a major Pittsburgh Penguins game. It just so happens to be the
day that extortionist/thieves kidnap the vice president and hold him
hostage at the stadium, thus putting himself and his children in mortal
danger.

Lets cut to the chase here, Sudden Death is a clone rip off of Die
Hard, the action template movie that shines as bright as a newly formed
bruise, but as copycats go {and there have been reams}, Peter Hyams'
beefcake blunderbuss movie is an action junkie's delight. Jean Claude
Van Damme {McCord obviously} flexes his muscles and not only beats
seven bells of tar out of Powers Booth's criminal minions, he also
proves to be a hero and loving father to his oblivious children. It's
contrived for sure, I mean we get Jean sneaking on to the ice and
taking up net minding duties, and it's certainly a script devoid of
imagination. But it's got Van Damme fighting a hot kick ass babe in a
penguin suit and a last fifteen minutes of high
roof/dangling/swinging/exploding mayhem that does the action genre
proud.

It's no Die Hard, but what genre films are? Sudden Death in spite of
its contrivances, is a film that is impossible not to enjoy if you are
a like minded adult. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Sudden Death just might be Jean-Claude Van Damme's best movie to date
along
with Hard Target,Bloodsport,Lionheart,and Cyborg!Powers Boothe is great
and
there is always action,great fights and interesting moments in the
film!The
film is very satisfying and entertaining and recommend for big time action
fans! 
<|_=00=_|>
Jean Claude Van-Damme is Darren McCord, a former Pittsburg firefighter
who takes his two children to the seventh and final game of the Stanley
Cup Finals being held at the city's civic arena. What they don't know
is a group of terrorists have taken over the arena, wired the entire
building with explosives, and captured the Vice-President who was
attending the game. Only until McCords' daughter is taken hostage does
McCord realize what is going on. Now the lives of thousands of people
depend on a man with everything to lose and only his wits to save the
day.

This movie was made back in the day when action movies were not afraid
to still be action movies. It definitely earns its "R" rating and is
not shy of depicting the violence that occurs. Everyone from old men to
several women are killed in violent ways as the terrorists put their
plan in to action. Setting the action around a hockey game that depends
on the outcome of who scores a goal and when they do it is crucial to
the story and the audience is always reminded of whats going on. This
was one of two movies Van-Damme would star in that was directed by
Peter Hyams and like Carpenter & Russell, they prove they are a good
match for some awesome action. It's sad that action films don't take
any risks any more and have to be toned down as not to offend the
easily offended audience today. 

If you want a classic action flick back when Van-Damme was at his peak
then check out "Sudden Death", if you want something else well there
are those Transformers movies.
