

"Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas" is a wonderful animated feature by
Dreamworks.  This under-rated movie was very well done with eye-catching
visuals and an intriguing story.  The scenes of the battle against the sea
monster, and the visit to Eris' realm in Tartarus are particularly artistic.
 Granted, the legend of Sinbad may have been taken far from its "Arabian
Nights" roots to go more towards Greek mythology.  But all the mythic
elements make the story a thing of wonder.  Personally, I think every
mythology and folklore canon in the world has some connections with each
other, so who's to say that Middle Eastern folklore doesn't share any
similarities with Greek mythology?  Anyway, "Sinbad" truly deserves to be
seen and enjoyed!
<|_=00=_|>
The movie concerns on Simbad , 1001 nights' hero . The sailor of legend
is framed by the goddess Eris for the theft of the Book of Peace , as
an object with extraordinary power has been stolen and Simbad must
retrieve it but if he doesn't obtain it , his friend prince will be
beheaded . Simbad goes out with his ship and the pirates henchmen and
as stowaway the prince's girlfriend . They will ought to face off
several dangers : storms , ominous mermaids , deep chasms , giant
animals and must travel to a realm at the end of the world to retrieve
it and save the life of his childhood friend Prince . 

In the picture there are mythology , humor , rip-roaring , adventures ,
swashbuckling and it's pretty bemusing . It's a combo of computer
generator and hand-drawn animation by Patrick Gilmore and Tim Johnson
with voices from Brad Pitt and Catherine Zeta Jones . The movie mingles
spectacular cartoon with FX computer generator as when the heroes are
taking on monsters because these are made by computer . The
confrontation amongst the starring and the giant bird named Roc (also
appears in ¨The seventh voyage of Simbad¨ directed by Nathan Juran) is
mesmerizing and fascinating , it's the best part of the film . In the
movie there is a homage to Ray Harryhausen because the monsters are
similar , though here are made by computer and on Ray's films are by
means of Dynamation and stop-motion . Film obtained much success
likeness to previous motion picture ¨Treasure planet¨ , both of them
achieved quite money at the box office. 

Good production by Jerry Katzemberg , David Geffen who along with
Steven Spielberg constituted Dreamworks . Harry Gregson Williams'
musical score is atmospheric and enjoyable . The fable will appeal to
fantasy fans and adventure cartoon buffs . Rating : Very nice , well
catching .
<|_=00=_|>

This mostly traditionally animated motion picture demonstrates that computer
special effects hasn't completely dominated the cartoon genre.  The solid
storyline and only the briefest of dummy moments inserted mostly for the
kids, makes Sinbad an excellent offering for summer entertainment.  Instead
of fluff, we get creative animation with great computer effects as
highlights, characters we can care about, and a storyline based on the most
basic, fundamental moral premises - the nature of friendship and sacrifice,
along with a strong female character.  With few outlandish, quips except for
marginal characters that provide a backdrop of comic relief, the use of
humor with tact, and a delightful adventure and a moral tale that brings
both sadness and hope, Sinbad brings back and more the classic animation
motion pictures with vivid, bright, and glorious expression.  Eight out of
ten stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I know and love all the movies with the famous "Sinbad" (from the Ray
Harryhausen time). But I find the recent remakes (TV production) are always
boring because off the lack of imagination from the directors.

So I hesitated a long time before watching this one. (above all with a
"DISNEY" movie ! I feared to fall asleep.)

But I love this one ! The story is absolutely new, surprising and
imaginative. The runtime's movie is short, so no time to bore. The
charactere way of talking is really fun and modern, with hilarious quotes.
My favourite one is when the Sinbad's ship arrives at the end of the sea,
and someone says : "Well, at least, that proves earth is flat !" (LOL
!)

Not a masterpiece, but a really good entertainment !

9/10
<|_=00=_|>


Sinbad the Sailor, probably the greatest anti-hero of the Arabian
Knights,
has seen many incarnations over the years. This time a new animated film
from DreamWorks delves into the myth with some celebrity voices in
tow.

Sinbad (Brad Pitt) is a happy pirate bent on retiring to Fiji after
stealing
the legendary Book of Peace. The only problem is that his childhood
friend
Proteus (Joseph Fiennes) stands in his way. Sinbad finds himself in a
conundrum when he fails to obtain the book and ends up following his
friend
back to his palace where he is introduced to Proteus's future wife Marina
(Catherine Zeta-Jones).

When Sinbad is eventually framed by Eris (Michelle Pfeiffer), the Goddess
of
Chaos for stealing the Book of Peace, Proteus defends his friend for the
crime. Proteus puts his life on the line so that Sinbad can sail into
uncharted territory and retrieve the book. Unbeknownst to Sinbad, Marina
tags along. Can Sinbad wrestle with a goddess and get through uncharted
territory in time to save his friend?

Sinbad has always been an epic character and one of my favorites from
classic literature and myth. He has inspired so many other multi-layered
adventure characters over the years. I was first exposed to his
adventures
when I was a child and obsessed with seeing more movies from legendary
creature creator, Ray Harryhausen. The Sinbad trilogy from Harryhausen
still
has a soft spot in my plethora of movie favorites. I loved the magic and
vastness of worlds that inhabited Sinbad as a character.

It was that knowledge and foundation that made me so excited about seeing
a
new incarnation of a classic character. I had the same reaction when
Disney
re-invented `Tarzan' in their animated film. I was half-hoping that there
would be a great musical score like that of Disney's `Tarzan' or
`Aladdin'
but what I did end up seeing wasn't your typical animated cartoon. That
was
a whole new blessing unto itself.

DreamWorks's Sinbad was definitely a whole re-envisioning of the
character
but also quite a bold project on its own. I loved how the film seamlessly
melded standard animation and computer graphics. There hasn't been an
animated film yet that has been able to make such a successful fusion.
The
backgrounds were utter eye-candy. I also really enjoyed how smart and
delectable the dialogue was between these characters. The humor and drama
were very involving and extremely enjoyable. As with every Sinbad movie,
you
always want to see more far off lands and more creatures. That allure and
mystery is alive and well in this version.

What was probably the most interesting was that this was the first time
an
animated film had a character fall in love with his best friend's future
wife or that an executioner is ready with a giant axe to slice off a
character's head. Even some of the tongue-in-cheek humor was more aimed
at
adults than children. I liked that because it acknowledged that you don't
have to be under 12 years old to enjoy animated films.

My only wish for Sinbad would be that it had a grander score or a
memorable
song. I wanted some epic music for such a grand character. A bolder score
would have made the animated film feel big enough to encompass what
Sinbad
is. I liked how DreamWorks used music in both `Spirit' and `Road to El
Dorado' but seemed to have dropped the ball for this one.

Sinbad is a charming animated film with the DreamWorks edge but it needed
to
be bolder and bigger to do justice to such a legendary character. I just
wanted more. (4 out of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.

<|_=00=_|>

I was surprised that Sinbad was seen as a failure.  I loved the animation
and the storyline.  It was a PG rated animated movie, what should be
expected? The drawing was on time, the voices were great and the adventure
was mesmerizing.  I would take my grandchildren to see it again just as an
excuse to view this cinematic treasure again.
<|_=00=_|>

Took the kids to see Sinbad.  We all enjoyed it.  I thought the animation
was great.  Just because it isn't Toy Story 3 doesn't mean it isn't good.
In fact the shapeshifter was just amazing.

There are a couple points in the movie where the dialogue seems to take
longer than necessary, but overall it's action packed.

My kids are 3 and 6.  They loved Nemo, they loved this.
<|_=00=_|>

The animation graphics were brilliant, nice and big monsters for the
family
to enjoy. A bit of comedy thrown in there for the adults. A great one to
see
if you are a animation fan. This movie is definately a
keeper.
<|_=00=_|>
this was one of the coolest animated movies i have ever seen!!!! it's
absolutely great!!!! it's got humor, tones of adventure, great plot,
really interesting stuff going on, lots of well-known "voices" and it's
extremely exciting. it's unlike anything until now. and it surely beats
the crap out of Popeye!!!! really cool, the producers did a great job,
i really loved it! i especially loved that book and the fact that there
isn't anything ordinary in this world. you except to be another silly
little story about a little pirate and wow, but the whole story is
enchanted and fantastic. it's absolutely great! i haven't seen such a
great movie in years!!!
<|_=00=_|>
"Sinbad: Legend Of The Seven Seas" is a beautifully animated adventure
film from the folks at Dreamworks. It might not be as good from the
story point-of-view as some of the other films released by the studio
("Shrek 1 and 2" and "The Road To El Dorado" are better), but it makes
up for its lack of narrative ingenuity in other departments.

Infamous pirate Sinbad (voice of Brad Pitt) and his crew attack another
ship in the Mediterranean Sea. They are trying to steal enough riches
to retire to a life of luxury in Fiji, but their plans are interrupted
when Sinbad discovers that the boat he's just boarded belongs to an old
childhood friend, Prince Proteus (voice of Joseph Fiennes). Proteus is
delivering a valuable, magical book – The Book Of Peace – to Syracuse,
and is determined to protect his priceless cargo whatever the cost.
After being knocked overboard Sinbad is saved from drowning by Eris,
the Goddess of Discord (voice of Michelle Pfeiffer). She persuades him
to steal the Book Of Peace for her, promising him wealth and power
beyond his wildest dreams. But later Eris herself steals the Book,
framing Sinbad for the crime and leaving him to face execution in the
city of Syracuse. Proteus is the only person who believes that Sinbad
is innocent of the crime so he does a deal. Proteus offers himself for
execution and lets Sinbad go free – the arrangement being that Sinbad
must return within ten days with the Book. If he returns in time, he
will be pardoned. If he returns late or not at all, Proteus will die.
Initially, Sinbad plans to sail away as soon as his ship is over the
horizon, but when Proteus's fiancée Marina (voice of Catherine
Zeta-Jones) turns up as a stowaway on his ship he has to change his
plans. Sinbad and his crew endure an action-packed adventure as they
head towards Eris's kingdom of Tartarus – a land from which no-one has
ever returned alive. Along the way, Sinbad learns a few important
life-lessons, such as commitment, honesty, friendship and loyalty. But
he also finds himself falling in love with Marina, even though she is
betrothed to his friend. Worse still, he learns that getting the book
back from Eris will require sacrifices and a change of character that
might just be beyond his ability…..

"Sinbad: Legend Of The Seven Seas" consists of good and not-so-good
elements. As mentioned, the animation is consistently excellent
throughout. Harry Gregson-Williams gives the film a memorable and
exciting score, and John Logan's screenplay provides a sufficient
variety of adventures in adventurous realms. The vocal acting is OK
too, with some of the stars enjoying better roles than others. Pfeiffer
and Zeta-Jones in particular get fully into the spirit of the film.
Indeed, one of the most refreshing things about the entire movie is the
strong female presence in it – both Eris and Marina are powerful
characters whose involvement in the story is central to everything
going on. The not-so-good elements include a rather bland,
by-the-numbers plot (anyone who's ever seen a Ray Harryhausen film will
knows what's coming well before it happens). Similarly, the film has an
annoying habit of either Americanising or modernising everything… most
notably the dialogue and the banter. Then there's the fact that Sinbad
dreams of retiring to Fiji a good millennium or two before Fiji had
even been discovered – another lack of attention to detail that grates
on the viewer. On the whole, however, I found "Sinbad: Legend Of The
Seven Seas" to be an enjoyable and somewhat overlooked animated
fantasy. Aside from its periodic flaws it's definitely fun for the
family.
