
Summer 1996 really was NOT the right moment to bring back Snake
Plissken. America was caught up in Olympic fever and was riding the
mad, patriotic wave extremely high with the release of ID4 and other
huge action hits such as Twister and Mission: Impossible. A sobering
reality check of the grim, forthcoming future instigated by a
hypocritical government with a cynical, outcast anti-hero was NOT what
anyone wanted.

I remember sitting in the foyer at the now-demolished ABC cinema in
Edinburgh on September 21st 1996 (we had to wait a month after the US
release) waiting for the screen to open. A couple of young women exited
the previous screening loudly proclaiming "That was the worst film I
have ever seen." 

Bad Boys II had not been made at this point.

I don't think that Escape from LA is a bad film, but it is a failure on
many levels, not the least of which are the shoddy CGI effects which
look like they came from a mid-90s CD-ROM.

Since the massive spike in crime in America in the late 1980s, and the
subsequent transformation of Manhattan into a prison colony, the United
States Police Force and their religious lunatic Head of State has
slowly but surely erased all liberty from the American people, denying
them the rights to swear, have sex, eat red meat, smoke, or drink
alcohol (all for their own safety of course), while at the same time
expanding their empire by pushing into foreign territories.

Any of this sound familiar? 

In 2000 a massive earthquake strikes Los Angeles and the city is
transformed into an island, declared no longer part of the United
States, and becomes the new, west-coast prison colony. Whether you're a
murderer or an atheist, you lose your citizenship and are dumped on LA
Island. Unless you opt for a quick electrocution before deportation.

It had been 15 years since his famous escape from the Big Apple, but
Snake had remained a strong cult character and had a big following.
This time he's dropped into the Big Orange in 2013 with the promise
that if he retrieves a doomsday device he will be able to walk free.

"Freedom? In America?" asks Snake. "It died a long time ago." 

This was 1996!

Carpenter and Russell could clearly see the dark path their country was
heading down. If only they conveyed their ideas and satire in a more
cohesive, intelligent fashion. Escape from LA has big ideas, huge ideas
even, but a cheap 101 minutes is not the best way to fully explore and
develop such satire. As with his previous movies, Carpenter's vision is
epic, but the execution is implied. This may work with horror movies
like Prince of Darkness but it fails here. It really, really fails.

When Snake shuts down the Earth at the end of the movie do we see the
effects of such devastation on the planet? Do we see highways and
cities go dark, do we watch mankind revert to the stone age as the
juice he has relied on to keep him warm runs dry? No. Instead we see a
couple of lights go out in a drab police compound. Wow! That's so not
freakin' exciting, Carpenter! So much potential, so much
disappointment. 

At the very, very least it works as a trashy action movie but it should
have been so much more.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't think there's a better movie describing today's atmosphere in
America and you can easily forget Escape From New York cause its
political themes are pretty much restrained. Also Escape From L.A. is
kind of timeless in a way that it satirizes all what America is known
for, from motorcycle gangs, hookers, Hollywood agents, face-lifts,
politics, freedom, violence TO implied peculiar American (created) all
movie genres (sci-fi, action, comedy, western) to movie characters
(typical US movies bad guys/good guys), music (typical western score,
typical US orchestrated score), dialogues, typical US action movie
scenes and especially parodying Hollywood stupid copycat sequels. You
can find so much about America through this film, you just have to know
how to watch it.

Also i think the fact that the story of this film is only borrowed from
EFNY is done partially on purpose because Russell & Carpenter wanted to
do it with familiar story and highlight especially those aspects only
characteristic to contemporary America and make fun of them. Carpenter
did surely one of his best films ever that already no doubt surpassed
his inferior classic Escape From New York. Gee what amazing piece of
work Carpenter created do you even realize that? And personally i think
Escape From L.A. over time will definitely gain well-deserved status as
one of the greatest master-pieces in American movie history!
<|_=00=_|>

Escape from LA follows almost exactly the same plotline as Escape from New
York; A city has become a colony for criminals, something gets lost in the
city, the government don't have anyone but Snake Plissken that is able to
get it back, so he goes in, has a few misadventures with the locals and
eventually brings it back. 

This film very much lacks in originality, mostly due to it completely
ripping off its predecessor. In fact; it could be said that this film is a
remake of the first. However, what it lacks in originality is made up for
with a great cast of support characters, which includes Steve Buscemi, Pam
Grier, Peter Fonda and a great little turn from the god of B-Movie, Bruce
Campbell himself. Kurt Russell returns of course, as the film's anti-hero;
Snake Plissken, complete with a very cool new look; courtesy of a long black
leather coat and leather trousers. Kurt Russell's performance in this film
is pretty much the same as in the first movie, whereby he is only required
to look cool for the duration; and that is something he does well. The
support characters, however, are this film's main asset. Obviously Kurt
Russell is the star of the show, but it's the colourful characters around
that really make the film interesting. 

The effects in Escape From LA, considering it was made in 1996, are awful.
Whether or not the effects are bad on purpose as a tribute Escape From New
York, I don't know; but I really felt that they could have done more
regarding the effects. Escape from LA is a very silly film that many people
will find hard to take seriously, however if all you want is to enjoy
yourself for 100 minutes or so, and not use your brain too much; Escape From
LA is your movie. Originality aside, I would say that this film is on par
with Escape From New York.
<|_=00=_|>

Sure, Snake Plissken is a relic from the ultra-macho 80s action craze.
Sure,
Carpenter's use of effects is often obvious (though occasionally
brilliant).
Sure, the film is nothing but a slab of highly fragrant cheese, but it's
FUN
cheese. It's unapologetic cheese. It's the extra $1.50 of gooey, greasy,
slimey mozza that you throw onto your 16" meat-lover's... sure, it's
excessive--maybe even unhealthy--but it makes the pizza.

Escape From L.A. is pure, unabashed, old-fashioned fun. It's one of those
movies that everyone claims they hate, but they really love in that deep
place, way down in their mind, where belching contests are still fun. It
doesn't pretend to be anything more than entertainment--and it's good
entertainment at that. When I first saw the trailers for this film, I
groaned. Kurt Russell's faux-Eastwood-does-pirate routine rubbed me the
wrong way, and I was unfamiliar with John Carpenter's work. After having
seen the original Escape, Halloween, The Fog, Vampires, The Thing and
especially Big Trouble In Little China I know that Carpenter is interested
in one thing: giving his audience an escape from reality, and this film is
perfect for that. It doesn't make a lot of sense, and it takes a lot of
suspension of disbelief, but in to paraphrase Roger Ebert: Who can hate a
film where Kurt Russell and a transsexual Pam Grier swoop from the sky in
hang-gliders firing automatic weapons at an amusement park
compound?

Add to the mix a delightful turn by Steve Buscemi and an amusing (albeit
unrecognizable) cameo by Bruce "Don't Call Me Ash" Campbell, and you have
a
really fun, really dumb, really cool MOVIE!

Recommended for the 10 year old boy in all of us.
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw escape from New York starring Kurt Russel I thought that
they could never begin to make a better movie than what i had just
seen. The amazing special effects were exhilarating and got my heart
racing. When a friend told me about Escape From LA i was going crazy. I
must have watched it 10 times in that one day and every time it got
better. When Snake hits the three pointer hook shot from half court my
jaw dropped. When he got shot in the leg, stood up, got on a surf
board, road the tsunami, and jumped off the tsunami to catch someone,
it was as if my life was complete. WELCOME TO THE HUMAN RACE was the
perfect end to a perfect movie. Thank you Kurt, and everyone who was a
part of insanely incredible movie.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is what would've happened if Carpenter had just left Escape
from New York as a stand alone. It would've been remade into a hyped-up
overkill Hollywood remake.

But instead, he did it himself. I love this movie, it doesn't take
itself seriously like Escape from New York did. People who loved
Snake's camp in New York will love this. People who loved Snake for his
bad-ass charm and the creepy moments in New York wont be as pleased.

Snake's a regular action-here in LA. One-Liner's and angry sneers all
the way. And the creepiness has been replaced with campiness... this is
essentially a polished B-movie.

Gotta love the villains. With a main baddie who looks like Che
Gueverra, where can you go wrong? Okay, so the rest of the characters
are extremely ridiculous (Map to the Stars Eddie, Hershey Carmichael,
Bruce Campbell as the Surgeon General) but who cares? This movie isn't
meant to be serious. It's meant to be a ridiculous laugh-out loud film.

This film was just the tip of Carpenter's sarcastic action movies.
Vampires and Ghosts of Mars followed.
<|_=00=_|>
That sums up one of the most undeniable aspects about this flick: It is
enormously reminiscent of the first. Whether or not that's a negative
thing is up to the individual. It still holds great surprises, and is
definitely a fun ride. There is more satire in this than the first. The
tone of this is often overdone and campy, in stark contrast to how
serious that of "New York" was, and there are those that will miss
that. This is humorous, if a few gags and jokes fall flat. Everyone but
Russell(who nails the part again) is newly cast, and the choices are
all fitting. This has some rather memorable occurrences(a couple of
them for sheer weirdness and imagination), and certainly puts several
breathtaking visuals up on the screen. The effects vary, though there
are excellent ones herein. Dialog has quotable lines, and is
well-delivered. The music is cool. Cinematography and editing are
marvelous. The acting holds good performances. While it does bear a
striking resemblance to that of the original movie, the script of this
is interesting, creative and well-done. It has a nice pace, and you
gotta admit that it's packed with action. Each sequence is exciting and
intense, and differs from the rest in some way. There is strong
violence and language in this, as well as disturbing content. This is
bigger than the '81 film. Unfortunately, it also cost a larger amount
of money, and only made about half back. It's too bad that Carpenter's
work has a tendency to not be appreciated by the masses(only the fans
and/or cult following) when it is initially released. I recommend this
to anyone who wishes to watch it, the two aforementioned groups in
particular. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Snake is back, and they shouldn't have tried to f*** with
him.
This movie is one of the best sci-fi movies these years, because first it's
not serious at all, we see that John Carpenter is one of the most creative
directors in the world in general and in USA in particular, that's why this
movie didn't work, he doesn't have limits to his purpose, to the characters,
he dose what he wants, and that's why he's not appreciated as he ought to
be. That's also why he's appreciated here in France, we appreciated the
character, Snake Plissken, very independent, not like those fake heroes as
in ID4 or "Armageddon", Snake Plissken is a kind of anarchist, nobody can
make him do what he doesn't want to except if his life depends on it. He's
called to save the world, he says f*** off. The end of the movie is one of
the best ends of a movie in these last years.
The cast is really good, with of course Kurt Russell, Steve Buscemi and Pam
Grier (wow!) in a different role than "Jackie Brown" but the end is why I
loved this movie, I didn't know that there were still free men as Carpenter
in art creation in the USA.
<|_=00=_|>

SNAKE'S BACK!!!!! in the real world, its been almost a generation since
snake got out of new york... but some things just don't change...
snake's still the meanest baddest dude out there.

i don't know why this film was received as poorly as it was... because
it is- quite simply- the greatest movie ever... there has never been
any movie ever with so much attitude!

!!!SPOILERS!!!

firstly... if you've seen escape from new york, then you know what's
going to happen in this movie... almost. ... but that's not the
point... this movie is neither a rip-off nor a remake of the original
movie... its just that snake's been updated for the 90's. the ending of
the movie is a comment on the dependency on electronics that we are
faced with. this movie is intelligence disguised in pure testosterone.

the most amazing thing about this movie is its attitude.... just watch
the scene where snake has a gunfight with the bad guy's goons and see
what i mean.

<|_=00=_|>
Both Escape from New York and Escape from L.A. are decidedly
anti-establishment films. They both have this cynical view of the
government; in these films, the government is not to be trusted. There
are terrorist attacks aimed at the government on both films. ESCAPE
FROM L.A This second one is tongue in cheek every step of the way.
Watching Escape from L.A. feels like watching a cheap Italian Rip Off
like 2019: After the Fall of New York (1983), but with a bigger budget.
Actually, Escape from L.A. has a lot of similarities with 2019: After
the Fall of New York, so in a way, this is Carpenter's pay back for all
those cheap Escape from New York rip offs that the Italians made.
Ultimately, I love both Escape from New York and Escape from L.A. for
different reasons. And for all the tonal differences between both
films, they still have many similarities. No matter where, Snake
Plissken will always be Snake Plissken, you can tell Russell has lots
of love for this character. Plissken is what kept me watching. The
opening and closing segments of the films are extremely similar as
well. And here's where we get to the best part of the film, the ending.
Not gonna spoil it don't worry, but I will tell you that it is the best
thing about the movie. Russell himself came up with it and I applaud
him for it, it encapsulates everything Snake Plissken is in terms of
attitude. That idea that maybe the world would be better off if we
simply started again, from scratch, screw the way things are, let's try
something new! Welcome to the human race my friends, welcome to the
human race.t does criticize fascist forms of government, it also
criticizes rebellious leaders who instigate their followers towards
committing violent acts. So it doesn't side with anyone. On this film,
both sides are wrong. The film pleads for a new beginning, it's asking
governments to forget their old grudges and start from scratch. Snake
himself says it in one scene: "I shut down the third world, you win,
they loose. I shut down America, they win, you loose. The more things
change, the more they stay the same" This is one of the ideas presented
in the film that I truly liked. The idea that both sides should just
call it quits and bring on the peace, bring on the freedom. Again, this
last bit demonstrates how much of Kurt Russell's Libertarian views are
on this film. After all, he wrote a lot of it himself along with John
Carpenter and Debra Hill. These are three life long buddies writing a
movie they would find amusing, which makes this film a labor of love.
This is probably why the film has a more laid back, 'were having fun
here' vibe to it.
