
The First Nightmare on Elm Street was scary and original. It had the
great idea of a killer killing people in their dreams. All of its
sequels (except for part 2, which went in a horrible direction) just
built on to that idea, and the idea wasn't scary anymore as the series
progressed. Now with New Nightmare, Wes Craven came up with another
original idea. It turns out that Freddy is in fact real, some kind of
ancient evil that took the form of Freddy Krueger and could only be
contained through storytelling, IE: the Nightmare On Elm Street movies.
But since the series has ended, the genie is out of the bottle, and
this ingenious film unravels.

I wouldn't say this movie is that scary, it's more creepy than it is
scary, but I love its imagination. It plays mind little mind games and
you wonder what is real and what is not. Freddy Krueger is even
credited as "himself". It's a must-see for any Freddy fan and in many
ways it stands on its own...but only if you've seen the other movies.
If that makes any sense.

This is one of the best sequels in the Nightmare series and it's
nothing short of brilliant. It's nice to see that Freddy is back in the
bottle where he belongs, and hopefully will be for a long time...

My Rating: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wes Craven's New Nightmare features Heather Lengankamp, who played
Nancy in the first and third films, living a normal life with her
husband and son. Lately, strange things have been happening, and her
son isn't acting like himself. She is called in for an interview with
New Line Cinemas, where she finds out that Wes Craven is making a new
Nightmare film. The events of this film are beginning to unfold in the
real world, because Freddy Krueger is angry at being killed off in the
last film, so he steps out of fantasy and into reality to go after the
makers of the original film. Now Heather Lengankamp must protect her
son and defeat Freddy one last time...Only this time, it's real.

I love this movie. I personally think it's just as good as the first
movie. This is one of the most original and ingenious plots for a
horror movie I've ever seen. All of the people involved with the
original films appear as themselves, including Heather Lengenkamp, John
Saxon, Robert Englund, and Wes Craven. Freddy is amazing in this movie.
He appears with his trademark brown hat, but now he's in a much darker
red and green sweater along with a brown tattered trench coat, and his
burns are more severe. Also, his trademark knives are actually coming
from his fingers. The best part about it is that in this film, Freddy
isn't a wise cracking killer...He's an all business violent and brutal
killer.

This movie features the best acting for a slasher movie I've ever seen,
but then again, almost every actor in the movie plays themselves, so it
would be pretty hard to screw that up.

Overall, this movie is on a par with the original, and I'd recommend it
to any horror fan.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

I love horror movies.  I love being scared and I love the fact that a
movie
(something make believe that I, as an intelligent person,knows is just
images projected from a screen ) can manipulate my emotions and make me
nervous.  This is one of those movies.  And in the 90's, there have only
been two movies that have actually made me nervous in some scenes.  And
those two movies are by Craven himself---Scream and this
one.

When this film first came out, it was ten years and six films after the
original.  I have seen all the Freddy movies more out of morbid curiosity
than out of interest.  And maybe a part of me was hoping to catch a
glimpse
of what made the first so damn scary.  And time and time again I was
disappointed.  But when I read in Fangoria magazine that this new one was
going to be directed by Craven, I got very excited.  Could it possibly be
that this film would go back to it's roots?

Yes, it did.

There is no two ways about it, Craven cares about Freddy.  He cares about
how he was supposed to be, not what he has turned into in the last decade.
Freddy was not even remotely funny in the first one.  He was a brutal,
maniacal, sadistic, bent on revenge murderer.  He wanted to slice Nancy in
two and he did that to Tina ( actually sliceher into many pieces ).  But
in
the mindless sequels to come, he became Eddie Murphy.  And there was
nothing
frightening about the sequels.  They made money but they weren't true
horror
films.  But this one, well this one goes back to it's roots and is almost
as
scary as the first one.

This story is about the film character of Freddy becoming real somehow.
He
has been a part of Lagenkamp, Saxon, Craven and Englund's life for so long
that he has somehow become real.  And now what was once a simple film
character actually haunts the cast of the original.  We even get to see
Rod
( Tina's boyfriend from the original ) at one of the funerals.  And what
makes the story scary is that now Freddy has decided to come after
Heather's
kid.

This film goes back to all the techniques that made the first a classic.
There is excellent direction to make us fear what is under the bed.  The
lighting is classic horror film lighting and the music is perfect.  There
is
however one complaint that I have and that is when Freddy is chasing the
kid
across the road.  He has become larger than life.  He is like the Stay
Puft
marshmallow man from Ghostbusters.  And that it seems is much more like
the
other Nightmares, not Craven's version.  And that takes away the delight
in
watching what was otherwise a perfect horror film.

I said in one of my reviews of a horror film that there are no films in
the
90's that are truly scary.  However this one is as close to an 80's horror
flick as you will get now a days.  It is very frightening and it is almost
a
prequel to Scream.  This is one film that should not be missed.  It is a
tribute to what scary films are supposed to be.  If I want to laugh I'll
see
Chris Rock, but if I want to be scared, Craven is the man!
<|_=00=_|>

Freddy Krueger began as a very scary character who scared the hell out of
everyone. As the movies went on, Freddy lost his edge and looked liked a bad
stand up comic with horrible one liners.

Freddy seemed dead with the sixth film of the series, but Wes Craven brought
him back from his rut and made him someone to fear again. This of course
helps prove my theory that a good Nightmare on Elm Street movie cannot be
made without Craven.

Two things make this film so good. One, the story is original. The Nightmare
movies just kept repeating themselves, with Freddy coming back and going
after the people who stopped him before. This rime around, we see Freddy
trying to break into the real world, outside the movies. Very original. Two,
the movie is not filled with constant gore. This shows how good the movie
because any movie filled with gore obviously has a pathetic story and is not
worth watching. This movie is and is one of Freddy's best
yet.
<|_=00=_|>
New Nightmare, the seventh and final installment in the Nightmare on
Elm Street series. I was lucky enough to get the Nightmare on Elm
Street series in the box DVD set and I finished all the sequels. I
would say that without a doubt that this was the best sequel in the
series. I was amazed at how clever the story was and I think the reason
why is because of the fact that Wes Craven is back with this story. I
was a little depressed that at least Johnny Depp wasn't really in it,
that would've been a cool experience, but that doesn't kill the story.
Instead the film has taken on a new and hip twist onto the series. Wes
has taken the story and turned it around on the characters, instead of
having Heather as Nancy, she's playing herself, just as is the rest of
the cast, only now they're in trouble with Freddy.

Heather Langenkamp is a huge star in the horror movie world, but she's
now a happily married woman with her son, Dillain. But she's receiving
death threats from a fan who strangely sounds a lot like Freddy. Soon
strange things start happening, her husband is killed tragically in a
car accident that seems like the act of Freddy, and her son is now not
sleeping. She wonders if it's because of her movies or is it possible
that Freddy is real and he wants her? She may have to go back to her
roots to save her son.

New Nightmare is incredibly clever and was just all in all a great
idea. I really enjoyed this sequel, it's a definite keeper and a watch
for the Nightmare on Elm Street fans. Freddy is back and he's more mean
than ever; it was so cool that the took Heather Langenkamp and put her
in the same situation as her character, Nancy. It just shows that Wes
hasn't lost his touch with the Nightmare on Elm Street series. If you
love horror films in general, I highly recommend New Nightmare, this is
an awesome film.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I've said it before, and I will say it again: Heather Langenkamp is the
Princess of Horror, and once again she proves why. Whereas other horror
heroines are blonde, sometimes ditsy, and needing frequent help,
Langenkamp (either as herself or as Nancy) is resourceful, intelligent
and you feel yourself really caring for her.

Wes Craven and Heather Langenkamp return alongside Robert Englund's
Freddy Krueger in what Craven himself calls "The Definitive Nightmare",
and indeed, it is. So much goes on in the 7th Nightmare on Elm Street
entry that it could be expected one might find it confusing and
trivial, but the film is smart, eerie and outstandingly well done by
all those involved.

"New Nightmare" essentially takes place in the real world, sometime
after the Elm Street films have all ended. While the film only really
references parts 1 and 3 (due to Langenkamp and Craven's involvement),
it does nothing to contradict or negate what happened in parts 2 and
4-6, which is a very good thing. It just shows how much the people at
New Line Cinema and the cast and crew involved in the Nightmare
franchise care about and have respect for the films (and fans), and of
the three major slasher franchises, would have to be the one that looks
after the films the best.

Playing herself, Heather Langenkamp is married to Chase (David Newsom)
and together they have a son, Dylan (Miko Hughes), yet she is plagued
by a strange caller. The film is so complex that I don't want to give
away what happens, but Langenkamp ends up finding the evil entity that
took the form of Freddy crossing over into reality now that the films
are no longer being made. While this may sound complicated, it isn't,
and the "film within a film" concept doesn't really apply here. The
evil entity tries to get to Dylan, so Heather has to get to the source
of what is going on, and Wes Craven (appearing as himself) explains
about the entity to her, and suggests that she may have to "play" Nancy
one last time. In an terrific finale, Heather / "Nancy" defeats Freddy
and is able to rescue her son.

"New Nightmare" somewhat strays from the typical slasher-horror of the
earlier films into a stylish new breed of horror that has yet to be
matched. (The "Scream" franchise is another sub genre all together).
While the film is incredibly long, it needs to be, as there is a lot to
get through, and all the while Langenkamp doesn't miss a beat. It
really is a shame she doesn't act much, though there is a reference to
this in the film. (Watch out for the part where Englund is signing
autographs to adoring fans by Langenkamp keeps her distance). The film
also addresses the affects of horror on children, though only briefly,
it would have been nice to delve into this further.

There are few killings in the film also, another reason why it deviates
from the typical slasher sub-genre, although two of the killings seem
to pay homage to deaths in the earlier films - (Amanda Wyss in #1 and
Danny Hassle in #5). Tracy Middendorf is a great example of what a
supporting character should do - support as she plays Dylan's baby
sitter. Fran Bennet is very good as Doctor Heffner.

John Saxxon appears playing himself (he was Nancy's father in #1),
Robert Englund plays both himself and Freddy, and as already mentioned,
Wes appears also. Other important people at New Line Cinema also make
brief but terrific performances: Robert Shaye, Sara Risher and Marianne
Maddalena. Tuesday Knight (Kristen in #4) and Nick Corri also make very
brief unspeaking cameos at a funeral. Lin Shaye (Robert's wife) appears
once more (she has appeared in previous films) in a small role, and
Craven's daughter Jessica has a role as a nurse - in fact, all the
nurses are terrific.

So, set aside some quality time to watch "New Nightmare" and watch
Langenkamp prove why she is worthy of being called The Princess of
Horror. This film is unmatched by all the Nightmare films - and that is
saying a lot, as the Nightmare on Elm Street films are quality horror
with an outstanding group of people overseeing them. Well done to all
involved.
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting very little in the way of this sequel. The others grew
tired and lifeless, with on again, off again, decent performances
turned in by Robert Englund as Freddy, and some decent, not so decent
script writing. Frankly, you just never know what TO expect with
long-running franchises such as this. But what I got was NOT what I
expected. Nothing close.

I had to view this three times. At my first viewing, I was so
surprised, I immediately said, "I need to watch this again." Upon my
third viewing, I realized that what I was watching was the resurrection
of one of my favorite franchises! I was (if only momentarily) struck
speechless. 

I'm trying not to "gush" here, or exaggerate, so do not take it lightly
when I say that I believe this is possibly the most creative work
Craven has ever directed. Don't get me wrong, aside from "Last House on
the Left," I've enjoyed everything Craven's put out, including those
annoyingly clichéd "Scream" movies. (Just for your info though, I only
didn't like Last House on the Left because I do not find entertainment
in exploitation, it IS a fine low budget, independent exploitation
film, just not my cup of tea.) But "New Nightmare" is just not a
recycling of the same tired old story with a new kick. It's a new take
on a long-standing favorite BY the creator. 

For what more could you ask?

It rates an easy 8.5/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't watch a Freddy Krueger film in a longer time (over 10 years)
and decided to watch this one. Not only have I never seen it before but
on multiple websites it states it is one of the best of the series. If
this is the best I don't think I would be able to see the worst this
movie was good premise awful. The first ten minutes of the movie were
great with a great premise. The actors from the other movies are shown
making the movies and it's a movie within a movie. It started off great
and then it just gets really boring with the female lead and you barely
get to see Freddy throughout the movie and there's not much character
to him at all. I guess they wanted to try something different but it
was just an awful film.
<|_=00=_|>
'A Nightmare on Elm Street' was a scary, gory 80s horror movie. Its
sequels were awful. Only two of them were watchable, the third and
forth. But still, they never even came close to the original. This is
when that changes. 'New Nightmare' introduces a new Freddy. One which
is darker, scarier and not the joke that the old one was. This is the
only sequel that should have been done in the first place. In my
opinion, its even better than the original because it's much darker and
special effects are way better.

It's a bit rare to find good acting in a horror movie, but here's not
the case. Acting was amazing. Heather Langenkamp and Robert Englund
gave an awesome performance. The kid was surprisingly believable and
the rest of the cast was great too.

Watch this movie straight after watching the first. If you have to
watch a sequel, see the third and forth, but this is the one you should
immediately go for. I give it a strong 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing about "New Nightmare" is it's plot because it's a 180ª
change in the Nightmare series. Putting Freddy Krueger on the real
world was an idea that most Horror fans accepted because the genre
seemed to be dead in the mid 90's.

Other thing that fans of the genre and especially fans of the series
praised was the inclusion of favorite characters. Nancy and her father
Lt. Thompson return to put an end to Freddy for once and all. Heather
L. delivers a great performance and seemed to really love her character
and the series in general. John Saxon is great as always. Both
characters add a nostalgic touch to the series. The rest of the cast is
okay. Heather's son delivers a good performance and became quickly a
favorite.

Although Krueger has minimal on-screen time, it's justified by the plot
and it surely works. Freddy Krueger used to be scary and menacing and
in this final movie he returns to his roots. Great performance by
Robert Englund.

The ending is decent and is somehow a good way to end Freddy's reign of
terror. He goes through the same fatal fate as when he was alive.

I recommend this movie if you like to watch something different; the
plot is something you haven't seen in any other slasher flick because
it's taken seriously. If you give the movie a try you will be pleased.
