

In November of 1999, a very strange thing happened.  An intelligent action
film filled with well-drawn characters, an unconventional plot structure,
and a storyline that required you to pay attention.  Stranger still, it
was
a James Bond film, a series widely regarded by the mass public as `fluff'
when Bond films have actually been among the prime example of properly
done
plot-motivated action pieces.  The highly underrated `The Living
Daylights'
comes to mind.

But the strangest thing is the critical thrashing `The World Is Not
Enough'
received.  From Entertainment Weekly singling it out as a reason to
overhaul
the Bond franchise, to Internet critics (cough Harry Knowles cough)
soundly
trashing it in long, diatribe-filled electronic pieces.  The fact that
Harry
praised the previous entry `Tomorrow Never Dies' (or as a friend described
it, 12 pages of script and 90 pages of storyboards) as the best entry
since
`The Spy Who Loved Me' only leads to my conclusion that the critics and
movie-goers of today have firmly and finally `checked their brains at the
door' so to speak.

The range of critiques for TWINE is stunning.  I have read dismissals of
the
first fifteen minutes as nothing more than one action sequence after
another, despite the fact that the opening teaser has direct relevance to
the storyline and contains more complex plot structure than the
aforementioned previous entry, TND.  Claims of it being `boring' and
`dull'
were often tossed about.  Even the fact that Bond actually expresses
discomfort was singled out as a major flaw.  See my above `brain-checking'
comment.  But I am not here to make TWINE look good exclusively in
comparison to TND, so here goes.

TWINE had me from the start, from Bond's instant realization of the money
bomb.  I knew I was in good hands from that point on.  Indeed, in an era
of
clumsily handled twists and blindingly obvious revelations, the Electra
King
twist completely threw me.  I had my suspicions, just as James himself
wisely did, but I didn't want to believe it.  Again, just like James.  I
could go on for a good half-hour about M's shock when she sees exactly
what
she and MI6 have created in 007.  His cold-bloodedness has never been on
bigger display in recent ventures, save a few select moments. (`For
England
James?  No.  For Me.')  Make no mistake about it.  Bond is first and
foremost a trained killer in this outing, firmly focused on carrying out
the
will of MI6, even at the cost of.

The action sequences serve the story for a change, and each carry
emotional
weight, resulting from character's needs beyond that of eliminating Mister
Bond.  Two of the primary sequences are ploys by the main villain, blatant
attempts to misdirect rather than outright kill for the sake of killing.
Indeed, misdirection and misreading motivations are the primary plot
movers.
By the end, everything believed by our antagonist neatly shifts into
reverse.  And thankfully, the `one-man army' Bond of late is greatly
reduced
here, pitting Bond against more realistic odds.

The small moments count too.  The high-backed chairs at the MI6 briefing.
Zukofsky's small moment of delight upon seeing Bond's new Beemer sliced in
half.  The expertly placed shot toward Renard's head, blocked by safety
glass.  Elektra's emotional breakdown when trapped inside the avalanche
(but
faked or not?)  And Zukofsy's silent communication to Bond to take care of
business for him.  Reverence and respect is held for the series' past,
even
Bond's marriage is referenced as he dodges Electra's query as to whether
he's ever lost someone that he loves.   Heck, these days even a lone
`Universal Exports' reference would be considered gold, but the writers of
TWINE have obviously done their studying.

If TWINE has any weaknesses, the action sequences are not always staged at
the series' prime.  Although the raid on Zukovsky's factory is executed
beautifully and is a superb set piece for Bond, some clumsy editing and
lensing weakens the ski sequence and the climactic fight on board the
Victor
II sub.  David Arnold's score is under-mixed; giving the movie a bit too
much subtlety in moments the grandness should be spilling into the theater
(commercial or home).  And of course, Denise Richards is just plainly
miscast for the part of Christmas Jones, which screams for someone of
greater maturity.  As someone on the Internet said `Bond girls should have
class, not be late for it.'  Can't argue much there.

In closing, I hope the producers choose to ignore the gnashing of
hypocritical teeth and continue on a similar path for the next Bond film.
Do not return to a one-set-piece-after-another film.  Have faith (however
small) that the audience will wake up.  I know I for one will be there,
hoping that the next film will live up to the lofty (if unappreciated)
standards of 'The World Is Not Enough'.

<|_=00=_|>
The film opens with a formidable assassin who had recently posed as a
banker's secretary… She had given Bond a cigar, before killing her boss
in the Swiss banker's office in Bilbao, Spain… 

Now, when a bomb blew a hole in MI6's London headquarters, the super
spy sped off in the Q boat, ignoring Q's plaintive cry, "Stop" Stop! It
isn't finished!" It was Q's fishing boat for his retirement… There's a
splendid boat chase along the River Thames between 007 and the stunning
Maria Grazia Cucinotta, the "Cigar Girl" – who worked as a barmaid at
the village inn in "Il Postino." Bond was eager to capture her for
questioning…

When a bomb planted in a briefcase of money killing British oil tycoon
Robert King, M was determined to bring the perpetrators to justice… The
prime suspect was Renard who had once kidnapped King's daughter,
Elektra… M (Judi Dench) believed Elektra was next on Renard's list and
007 was assigned to act as her "shadow" while she supervised the
building of an oil pipeline in Azerbaijan… Yet despite his powerful
urge to protect her, there was something about this beautiful, cunning,
willful woman that aroused his suspicions… 

Bond flew to Azerbaijan, where King Industries was building an oil
pipeline… Elektra gave 007 a 'cold' reception, taking him up into the
snowy peaks to the pass where the two ends of the pipeline would soon
meet... It was then that unsocial 'visitors' struck… 

Sophie Marceau plays the magnate's daughter Elecktra who had once
escaped Renard's clutches all by herself… Her favorite motto: "There's
no point in living if you can't feel alive."

Robert Carlyle plays Renard, the former KGB hit-man who had set up his
own organization and demanded fanatical loyalty… He was a murderer, a
terrorist, and a kidnapper… His only goal was chaos… Subordinated who
failed him killed themselves rather than face his wrath… After Robert
King came to see M, she sent 009 to kill Renard… 009 caught up with him
and put a bullet in his head…The bullet was now killing off all his
senses and was impervious to pain… Renard was determined to pull off
one last coup against the West… But his motivations were motivated by
blind hatred, or blind love? 

Goldie plays Bull, Zukovsky's shifty, gold-toothed bodyguard… He was a
menace to his boss and an important Renard spy…

Denise Richards plays Christmas Jones, the sexy atomic scientist
overseeing the dismantling of the Kazakhstan nuclear test site… Dr.
Jones became an invaluable ally of 007's following Renard's theft of a
nuclear bomb… 

For "The World Is Not Enough," Q equipped Bond with the faster car 007
had ever been entrusted with: the MBW Z8, armed with a radar-guided
missile system... 

Robbie Coltrane returns as the duplicitous Russian black marketeer
Valentin Zukovsky whose ebony walking gun stick seemed a typically
showy affection - but it had its uses... 

A final sad note: "The World Is Not Enough," marked the final
appearance of the beloved Desmond Llewelyn, who acted from 1964 to
1995, except for "Live and Let Die." A perfect foil to 007's
lighthearted nature… Q has been one of the series' most enduring
character...
<|_=00=_|>

Top casting and exciting action make this one of the most entertaining Bond
films for a while.

Some may disagree, but I think Brosnan has the edge over Connery now. Sophie
Marceau is fantastic as Electra, one of the most interesting characters to
grace the series for a while. Carlyle, although shortlived, is a very
believable and even sympathetic villain and Robbie Coltrane makes a meal of
his second appearance as Valentin Zukovsky.

The opening scene of TWINE is probably the best action scene ever in a Bond
film and while the ones that follow cannot quite match up to it, they are
still top class. Director Michael Apted shows that he has a real talent for
dealing with these parts of the movie, and the excellent soundtrack can only
improve them.

I went to see this movie on consecutive days and bought the soundtrack
(Garbage&David Arnold) the second time, this is the best recommendation that
I can possibly give it.
<|_=00=_|>
Has there ever been a more beautiful baddie in a Bond film than Sophie
Marceau? (maybe Luciana Paluzzi in 'Thunderball' to answer my own
question) This woman is GORGEOUS and one of the series best characters.
Pierce Brosnan gets better with each movie and out of his four this is
probably the best. The pre-credit sequence, the longest in the films
history is worth the entrance fee alone, an amazing chase along the
river Thames it is simply stunning and should really only be viewed on
a big screen. This sequence is what Bond is all about, outrageously
over the top excitement that kicks the film off to a cracking start, in
fact I'd go as far as saying this is the best pre-credit beginning of
all the Bond films. The story actually makes sense as well for once -
no real plot twists (except Electra) and all the action is there for a
reason, not just as spectacle. Judi Dench gets her best outing in this,
proving herself capable of getting out of tight situations and it's
nice to see Robbie Coltrane again (the caviar factory scene being
another highlight). The humour is kept in check and doesn't descend
into parody like some in the series ('Diamonds Are Forever' for
example) but when Bond says 'Q isn't going to like this' when his car
gets sliced in half is one of the funniest moments in any of the films.
Speaking of Q this is Desmond LLewelyns last Bond movie, he died
shortly after and the film is dedicated to him. All in all this is as
good as any of Connerys films and the best since 'The Spy Who Loved Me'
with good all round performances from all involved although Denise
Richards was obviously picked more for her looks than acting ability. A
worthy addition to the series this is my 6th favourite 007 film.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw this in the cinema in '99, I remember actively
disliking it - the first time I'd had that reaction to a new Bond
release. I
saw it a second time at the cinema, and disliked it less - but still
wasn't
keen. Now, in the dying days of 2002, and quaking with hatred for - and
disappointment at - 'Die Another Day', I re-evaluated TWINE for a second
time. And I have to say, compared to this year's farce, TWINE is bathed
in a
golden glow. In terms of character development, plausibility (always
tenuous
in Bond films, but still), acting, and script, TWINE is far and away and
without a shadow of doubt superior to 'Die Another Day'. Above all, this
is
a Bond film that does occasionally treat its audience like they have
brain
cells, rather than a ghastly exercise in sci-fi pretensions with MTV
production values.

The opening sequence reveals itself to be one of the very best in the
series, taut and exciting, flawlessly directed and perfectly executed.
There's nothing else in the film that can quite top it, but some inspired
casting helps immeasurably. Sophie Marceau is superb, and it's great to
see
Robbie Coltrane reprise Valentin Zukovsky, who bags many of the best
lines.
Judy Dench as 'M' is given a high profile in this entry, which is all to
the
good as she's clearly the best thing to happen to the Bond films in the
Brosnan era. Alas, Desmond Llwelyn makes his final appearance as 'Q' - it
would be thus even had he not died the following year - and his exit is
well-handled.touching, even. On the downside, Robert Carlyle is not quite
convincing as Renard, but it barely matters as Marceau is so firmly in
control. Denise Richards isn't as bad as she's been made out to be -
indeed,
she actually seems smarter and less bland than Halle Berry in
DAD.

Plot and action sequences throughout the film are deftly handled, but
there
are some areas where TWINE seems a little derivative, cheerfully looting
the
Bond back catalogue, for example in the Caucasus skiing sequence which
fuses
together action setpieces from YOLT and OHMSS. There are also moments of
alarming silliness more redolent of the 1970s and '80s, such as the scene
with John Cleese making his debut as future-'Q' and all scenes with
Goldie
in as Bullion. And for those of us who aren't fans of Pierce Brosnan,
there's plenty to annoy - excessive jaw-clenching, lots of posing,
inherent
charmlessness. I'm sure he's lovely in real life, mind.

Generally, though this is a competent entry in the series, and its
attempts
at depth just about succeed. It is also the most `how'-and-`why'-proof
Bond
film since the 1960s, a refreshing change from those Bond films that
arrogantly command the audience to suspend their beliefs and do all the
maths themselves. Quite why it all went wrong three years later is
anyone's
guess, but I blame 'XXX' and a continuing adoration of 'The Matrix'.


<|_=00=_|>

I am a great Bond-fan so I was very intruiged to
see the new Bond-film 'The World is not Enough.'

I went to see it and I liked it very much.
The story this time is interesting,especcially the 
character Electra King,wonderfully played by French 
actress Sophie Marceau, is very well written.

But off course you are not going to see a Bond-movie 
for the story,you expect to see great action scenes,
stunts,evil villains,beautiful locations and great humour.

And all the things I mentioned above were presented very
well in this Bond-film.

The action scenes in the oil-pipes,
on the mountains of Kazachstan 
and especially on the Thames in London were
very spectacular.

Robert Carlyle is convincing as a villain who don't feel
any pain.

The locations were very exotic and the scenes in Istanbul
gave me a nostalgic feeling to 'From Russia with Love.'

But the most important thing in a Bond-movie is the
actor who plays it.And Brosnan did it very well.
He's agressive,he has got a sense of humour and he
really looks like the gentleman Bond is supposed to be.
But in some scenes we see Brosnan also in a more vulnerable
position. So I think Brosnan is after Connery the
best Bond-actor.

My conclusion is that 'The World is not Enough' is a
great Bond-movie with all the elements that make this
series,after almost 38 years,still one of the greatest
movie experiences of the year.
<|_=00=_|>

Well it's Bond! He's back again for a 19th instalment of the same usual set
of gags, gadgets, girls and guns! Can the world not get enough of this
already?

Not that anyone really needs to know the story for a Bond film as it's
usually just an excuse for lots of action! But you might end up enjoying it
more if you knew what was going on. So for all it's worth, here you go.
Bond
races out to protect Elektra King (Marceau, playing a very different kind
of
Bond girl!), the daughter of a recently assassinated oil tycoon. She's
under
threat as she tries to complete a set of pipelines, so she's obviously
going
to need some protection (NO, not that type of protection!). The threat
comes
from Renard (Carlyle) who plays a unique villain who can't feel any pain
after having a bullet lodged in his brain. As Bond gets closer to catching
him a few truths are revealed! We quickly discover that things aren't going
to be as easy as they look! But then again it's a Bond film so they never
are!

Along the way Bond teams up with nuclear physicist Christmas (Richards)
Jones (what a name!) who manages to help him diffuse bombs! Very handy as
together they end up having to stop Renard from blowing half the world
up!

The film starts off with one of the longest opening pre-credits sequences
for a Bond film! It's also one of the best which begins with an out of the
ordinary escape from a building, includes a thrilling boat chase around
London and ends with an obvious explosion!

It's nice to see the return of some characters. Judi Dench as 'M',
Desmond
Llewelyn as gadget master 'Q' and especially Robbie Coltrane reprising his
same role from 'Goldeneye' as ex-KGB agent 'Valentin'. John Cleese as 'R'
(Q's replacement in the gadget department!) tries his best by adding some
extra humour to Bond but doesn't quite get there.

The film shows Bond at his best! Brosnan really is on top form as one of
the best Bonds! There's also enough action, stunts and big bangs that light
up the screen! Also lighting up the screen are the Bond girls who are now
strong, sexy and intelligent rather then silly and stupid. It's a better
change, as we now don't always have bimbos who are always in danger and in
need of help!

The only downside about the film would have to be that it's just the same
old formula all over again. Something's wrong, bring in Bond, add in nasty
villain, mix a few explosions here and there and in the end Bond saves the
day and gets the girl! So you can see that the film is quite predictable
from start to finish but nevertheless it's a formula that works! 'The World
Is Not Enough' does have all the usuals that you'd expect (right down to
the
Martini's, cars and bad one liners!) but just about everything has been
cranked up to churn out something good from the old formula!

It's smart and stylish just as James Bond should be and in the end it's
really very good!

Rating - 8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
THE WORLD IS NOT ENOUGH has to be my favorite James Bond film. It seems
that Pierce Brosnan's Bond films have the longest teasers (pre-credits
sequences) in the series and the River Thames chase was a brilliant
start, not to mention well-filmed with the London background. The
action scene that stands out from them all in the film is the
helicopter attack on the Caspian Sea. The plot is very interesting with
twists and turns with all the oil involvement, and Pierce perhaps gives
his finest Bond performance in his four outings.

Robert Carlyle makes a chilling villain as Renard (he's already dead
and can't feel pain), but the biggest highlight of TWINE is the two
leading women: Sophie Marceau and Denise Richards. Marceau is very
well-cast as villainess Elektra King and is perhaps the best Bond
villainess since THUNDERBALL's Fiona Volpe. Richards is a gorgeous
actress and she's very charming and fun as heroine Dr. Christmas Jones.
These are two of the most beautiful and sexiest Bond girls in the
series; you are going to love both of them.

With its well-staged action, epic plot, Pierce's wonderful performance,
and two brilliant Bond girls, TWINE is a Bond adventure both Bond fans
and non-Bond fans will treasure. ****
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Apted is probably the closest thing to a marquee director a
Bond film has ever had. He's the biggest reason this one bucks so many
of the bad trends set by most of its predecessors while simultaneously
maximizing the clichés that have made the series so beloved. 

WORLD is worlds above any other Pierce Brosnan entry, stronger than all
Roger Moore efforts but THE SPY WHO LOVED ME; it surely surpasses the
unfortunately mishandled Timothy Dalton vehicles, and dare I say it
defeats most - not all - of the Sean Connery attempts? I dare. (I leave
out George Lazenby because I think ON HER MAJESTY'S SECRET SERVICE is
one of the best; also David Niven because his isn't a Bond movie, not
really; also Daniel Craig, because his one version to date sucked,
through no fault of his own.) 

WORLD has what many Bond movies and most Bond books lack: a giddy,
relentless pace. From the thrill-a-second pre-credit boat chase, Bond
doesn't stop having sex, playing with dangerous toys, and disarming
hydrogen bombs... except of course to ski. What's more, WORLD's James
Bond has what nearly every movie 007 fails to inherit from the pulp
character that spawned him: brutality. Shooting the woman he loves in
the heart is maybe my favorite example of why this man has a license to
kill. The reason is that he will.

Bizarrely, the movie's strongest actor is its weakest link : Robert
Carlyle, so terrifying as Begbie, is less impressive as Renard, the
only Bond villain advertised as already dead. Unfortunately, Carlyle
plays him that way. He's a little flat, a little pat, certainly no Gert
Frobe; but then neither was Gert Frobe. At least Renard gets one great
line: "A man tires of being executed." 

To compensate for a lack of villainous flair, we are offered an
exploding MI6, a fat Russian drowning in caviar, a 70 mph no-helmet
bailout from an exploding pipeline luge, a rapacious Swiss banker
complete with Holocaust remittance jokes, flying BMW-splitting hedge
trimmers, a VMF-surplus nuclear submarine, a Bond beauty who acts as
well as she fills an evening gown, a Bond ten times more likely to
shoot you than to tell a joke, and glory of hoked-up glories, Denise
Richards as a nuclear physicist in hot pants. It just doesn't get any
more Bond than that.
<|_=00=_|>

TWINE is without doubt the 007 adventure of the 90's. I would consider it to
be one of the best Bond movies ever, but for sure the best of the Brosnan
era so far, because it perfectly combines Bond's universe with the real
world. The movie has a terrific look, crystal clear colours and benefits
from the great craft of Clark and Biddle who both did a fantastic job. In
addition Pierce Brosnan gives one of the best performances in years, taking
his character both seriously and on the other hand not too seriously. Sophie
Marceau offers a fantastic villainess and puts herself in one line with
Chris Walken, Robert Davi and Klaus Maria Brandauer.

The writers Michael France, Neal Purvis, Robert Wade, Dana Stevens and Bruce
Feirstein have outdone themselves by creating some of the best characters in
the series and by far the best punchlines and dialogues in years. Every
dialogue contains funny and suggestive lines and this really makes fun to
sit there and enjoy two hours of perfect entertainment.
