

My mission as of late has been to watch every single film on the list of
100
worst movies ever made. Right now I have
scratched off around 20, with this steaming pile of rotting filth being
one
of them. Make no mistake, Car 54 is one of the single worst movies to come
out of Hollywood, or as I like to call it, Evil Town (creative name, no?).
I
violently protest any of the other posters who claimed that some parts of
this movie were either "average" or (shudder) "funnny." Nothing in this
movie works, from start to finish, and to save the sanity of others I will
try and express who bad things get. The opening scene features a truly
horrible song and dance number which is badly filmed with a soft glow
technique and features a cartoon canary that at one point dresses up like
a
rapper (oh yeah, no racial stereotypes here, no sir). Then we discover
that
this was the dream of our main character, a goofy cop played by the single
most irritating man on the planet. Seriously, his voice and silly putty
face
made me want to shoot someone when he started talking. We then get the
opening credits as a crappy rap song is played, one where a single verse
is
repeated 3 TIMES. God, was that excruciating, considering that during this
song I got supposedly "wacky" footage of the cops acting silly. The rest
of
the movie is populated with characters NO ONE could love, a barely
existing
plot that has no chance of being stretched over 90 minutes, and who knows
what else. Honestly I couldn't stomach much of this trash, since most of
the
humor is either obvious or downright nasty. Obvious example: the policemen
keep going to donut stores when they're supposed to be working. OH, HAR
HAR
HAR. Is that supposed to be funny in 1994, much less 2003? Plus the fact
that the entire thing is horribly outdated by its fashion, soundtrack, and
slang. This was back when rappers wearing giant clock necklaces was
considered "hip," so you can imagine the amount of bad fashion choices
spattered throughout this film. Rosie O' Donnel makes her film debut here,
and she crashes and burns I'm happy to say. Nasty example: the main
character actually has sex with Rosie O' Donnel while screaming, "Oooh!
OOOOH! OOOOOOOH!" You can't know it by reading that, but he says it in a
"comical" way. Trust me, it's just plain nauseating. AVOID CAR 54, WHERE
ARE
YOU IF YOU VALUE THE PURITY OF YOUR SOUL. 0/4 stars
<|_=00=_|>

I bought Car 54 on a midnight boredom run to K-mart.  It was four dollars,
so I bought it.  In retrospect, four dollars is far too high a price to pay
for this.. this... crap (for lack of a better term suitable for small
children.)  I'd never seen it before, and John C. McGinley was in it, so I
said 'what the hey.'
It took me FOUR sittings to watch this movie!  And I think I figured out
the
problem...  it's not like Plan 9 From Outer Space where it's so bad it's
funny.. this movie's just plain bad.  if there's one funny line in the
movie
it's a lot.  And I swear.. David Johansen's voice is possibly the most
annoying thing on the face of the earth.
Well, I guess this movie is halfway decent in its crappyness in the sense
that when you're done watching it you feel really good about yourself
because you had the selfrestraint to not knock over your TV or stick your
head in the microwave.

i hope at least part of what I said made sense.  and if you take only one
thing away from this review take this:  only watch this movie if you want
to
see how NOT to make a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I've sat through some dreadful films in my time, but this one may well
be the all-time winner. I watched the whole thing with my mouth hanging
open in stunned disbelief that it could be as bad as it was.

I was extremely interested in seeing the film around the time it came
out. This was back when Nick@Nite was showing reruns of the old Car 54
TV show, and I was one of the many who was first exposed to it there
and fell in love with it. My understanding was that it was this
renaissance of cult interest in the show that motivated the making of a
movie. So I was looking forward to seeing said movie.

The thing about this movie was, it seemed extremely evident that NOBODY
associated with the making of this movie HAD EVER actually *seen* the
original TV show upon which it is (supposedly) based. That the main
characters are named Toody and Mulldoon seems almost a coincidence;
they aren't even *remotely* like the original characters, except in so
far as being cops. The original Car 54 TV show had a delightful, wacky
sense of humor. This abomination of a film has NO sense of humor. I
didn't not laugh once, not one single time. The original TV show had an
amusing, catchy theme song. This thing had some monstrosity of a rap.
What I will never, ever fathom is how *anybody* ever signed off on this
thing at any stage in its development. I want to know who looked at the
script for this and say "Yeah! That's great!" and what drugs they were
on.

I remain in everlasting awe that they were able to propose, write,
film, edit, and release a Car 54 film that had absolutely NOTHING to do
with the great old TV show, Car 54, Where Are You. When you factor in
the disappointment factor over what it could have been, I think this
could well be the worst ever. There was just *no good reason* for it to
have been this bad.
<|_=00=_|>

I rented this movie as part of a local video stores "five films for five
nights" deal and I needed a fifth film to get the deal. It took me five
nights to watch it because I could literally only stand fifteen minutes of
it at a time. I tortured myself on the last night and endured eighteen
minutes of it. I truly admire anyone who was able to sit through this in a
theater without leaving. 
<|_=00=_|>

Oh my god! This has to be the worst f-----ing movie I've ever seen! I saw
this when I was 10 years old and this gave me a stomache ache....
honestly!
I'm not kidding. That's how bad it is. Serious. I'm a fan of John C.
McGinley, but what the hell was he thinking?! Aaaah! This movie forever
tarnished my image of Rosie O Donnell. I mean, she's obnoxious enough
without watching this movie! Ech! AAh! I think this is the worst movie
ever
made!
<|_=00=_|>
Everyone grows up with some cherished memories. One of mine was the
T.V. series "Car 54, Where Are You?". It had a simple charm and the
main characters Toody (Joe E. Ross) and Muldoon (Fred Gwynne) were
gentle and the humour was good clean fun. Although they would mess
things up at the beginning of each episode they would somehow get
everything alright in the end without anyone getting into harm. Fred
Gwynne's character (Muldoon) evoked sympathy and love from his viewers
- especially children. With this in mind I got out the video of the
movie remake of this series. What an absolute disgrace of a movie it
turned out to be! The makers of this movie completely turned around the
series two morally decent characters and made them into immoral fools.
The key point of the T.V. series was that Muldoon was an innocent,
naive policeman who did his job with a genuine love for those he
served. The Muldoon in this movie remake is a repulsive character. The
clean fun is also out in this remake. No wonder that this movie is
listed by IMDb in its worst 100 movies of all time. It deserves it! The
makers of this movie lost its main market (the nostalgics) by ignoring
the behaviour standards of the original series. Not recommended!
<|_=00=_|>

Officer Toody gets assigned a new partner in technology freak Officer
Muldoon.  They spend much of the film getting to know each other before
being assigned to protect federal witness Hebert Hortz from mobster Don
Motti's hitmen.  When they lose the witness both Toody and Muldoon must work
together to save him.

The story here isn't really important as their isn't really one to speak of.
 The majority of the film is a whole pile of set pieces where Toody and
Muldoon don't get on etc.  Then with 30 minutes left they get assigned to
protect Hortz, lose him and then have to get him back - it's as if the film
suddenly realised that it has to do something while being onscreen.  It all
relies on the comedy rather than the plot, however there's barely a funny
line in it - I half-laughed once when the two hitmen were talking ("I often
considered plumbing as a vocation", "nah - I take the kids down to
Florida"), and that was it for me, not another laugh in the whole damn
thing.  Even the scenes that play out over the credits are rubbish - I
assume that they thought no one would be left by then.

The main problem with the film is the performances - especially Johansen. 
It's impossible to enjoy any scene that he's in because of his horrible
voice and irritating OTT facial expressions.  In this he really does have a
face that you want to just keep kicking!  McGinley is not as bad but when
he's on screen you can't help but feel disappointed - he's had so many good
support roles in good films but yet this is his reward.  Likewise with
Jeremy Piven - not a big star but always does good work in support.  Here
his gay witness is terrible - witness his rapping with black prisoners to
see the depths he has sank.  He did a gay character in Rush Hour 2 which was
very funny and not totally OTT as it is here.  Daniel Baldwin is hampered by
a terrible character and at times you can almost see him thinking that he
should have put a few more years in on "Homicide: LOTS".  Rosie O'Donnell is
awful and is almost as annoying as Johansen.  One clever bit of casting is
Barbara Hamilton as Toody's first partner - clever because of the Munster's
connection with the original series, but he's not a great actor (his most
recent work being novelty walk-ons in porn).  Nipsey Russell really should
have known better and should never have agreed to spoil the film's tag line
by adding the f-word to it.  Gore magicians Penn and Teller just add to the
tacky novelty feel of the whole thing.

This should have treated the source material with more respect and it might
have been better.  However it's a real shambles.  No plot, roundly terrible
performances and not a laugh in the place.  Many of the "jokes" are
embarrassing - don't miss the opening scene where Johansen "sings" with a
rapping cartoon bird.  In fact the rapping thing bothers me because this is
full of ethnic stereotypes and constantly uses black culture for comedy
effect (like Piven rapping - to general applause!).

Overall it's not the worst thing I've ever seen but it is certainly one big
unfunny embarrassment from start to finish.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the worst, if not THE worst, big screen incarnations of a classic 60s
TV show ever!  This neutron bomb of a movie should have been a
direct-to-video release, like the third and mercifully last "Honey, I Shrunk
The Kids" fiasco, but no:  the producers gamely went ahead and released -
the cynic would say that films like this aren't released, they escape - this
horror theatrically, apparently hoping that moviegoers would ignore the
pre-release buzz and flock to the theater.  They didn't.  In fact, the only
thing that moviegoers did do was to avoid this film as if not only their
lives but the lives of their children as well hung in the balance.  This
misbegotten twelve
ton turkey has none of the originality or comic timing that highlighted the
TV series.  What it does have, besides Nipsy Russell, who spends most of the
film looking like he's ready to ask the producers if he can buy his way out
of the script, and formaldehyde-soaked Al Lewis, are lame jokes, forced
accents, crummy acting, and
Rosie O'Donnell, who's even more irritating and grating here than she was on
television.  Guess she didn't learn from that other brilliant career move
"The Flintstones".  It's almost as if the producers set out to make a lousy
movie; in this they entirely succeeded.  The film is virtually unwatchable,
and to those of us who fondly remember the
TV show, a crushing disappointment.  Avoid this loser at all
costs.
<|_=00=_|>
That's right, a Comic Genius created "Car 54, Where Are You?" His name
was Nat Hiken and he created the BRILLIANTLY FUNNY TV series. It deeply
saddens me that this film was ever made as it serves only to detract
from how incredibly wonderful the original TV show was. That said,
PLEASE don't judge the TV show by this moronic movie. If you have a
chance to see the show, do so! DON'T think to yourself "Well if the
film was that bad, then the TV series must be even worse!" Quite the
contrary. The TV version is one of the funniest half hours of
entertainment ever created. Every episode is a comic gem. Every
character is terrifically hilarious and memorable. So in closing, I'll
simply urge you yo go out and hunt down VHS copies and hold a marathon
with all of your closest friends. The original "Car 54, Where Are You?"
deserves to be discovered by a new generation of fans. Enjoy! You won't
be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the worst movies I've ever seen..kept flipping back and forth to
another show. I watched it because I love Fran Drescher. I thought she
was funny as 'let me feel you badge Velma' and Rosie O'Donnell was
okay..but David Johanson was soooooo annoying with his voice. John C
McGuinley cracks me up on Scrubs but not in this movie. Horrible
horrible horrible. A rated R movie that ends with a mob guy yelling 'I
want my mommy' is just the worst of the worst because thats a clichéd
line from most PG movies. It provides no laughs for adults. Fran
Drescher mustve done this before The Nanny got on the air because TN
debuted the year before and anyone with their own sitcom wouldn't offer
to do this piece of garbage. Anyone who glances at the script can tell
its a bad movie..no one could've thought it would be a hit.
