
The Piano is a beautiful film in many different respects. In terms of
cinematography, I've seen few like it. It is dark and beautiful and
compelling. The story seems, on paper, as a torrid love story without
much originality. But the sensuous portrayal of Harvey Keitel and Holly
Hunter and the complex acting of a young Anna Paquin allow this story
to ring true. I was skeptical upon viewing a film so lauded by critics
and film snobs, but found myself both moved and connected to the film
that holds strangely relevant themes for modern times. It is rare that
I love both a film's visual beauty and it's script as well. This is
that rare occasion.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of my all-time favorite films.  It combines masterful
scripting,
cinematography, performances, and musical score into a disturbing, erotic,
and ultimately uplifting piece.  The movie's heroine, wonderfully portrayed
by Holly Hunter, is mute (symbolic of the fact that she has no say in her
own life), with her daughter (the astonishing Anna Paquin) and her piano as
her personal obsessions.  Her conscripted husband, coldly played by Sam
Neill, is trying to win her heart and her desire in all the wrong ways,
while his crude tribal neighbor, sensually played by Harvey Keitel,
understands her needs and ultimately captures her ... physically,
intellectually, and romantically.  The film's message and its delivery are
extraordinarily  powerful, the cinematic technique is rich ... the sequence
shot with Hunt, Pacquin, Keitel and the piano on the beach is one of the
best pieces of work I've ever seen.  Lasting impact.
<|_=00=_|>

There are very few female directors in the film industry that have been
given proper acknowledgment or had their works introduced to mainstream
filmgoers. Jane Campion is one of these precious few, a director who
carefully paces and sculpts her works so that they magnificently flow like
a
musical interlude. "The Piano" is her ultimate masterpiece, a film of such
simplicity, described with calm and tense complexity. Holly Hunter
received
an Oscar for her fascinating performance as Ada, a mute woman who is
forced
into an arranged marriage with a New Zealand landowner, played
convincingly
by Sam Neill, a native Australian actor himself. Ada journeys to New
Zealand
with her young daughter (Anna Paquin, also an Oscar-winner that year), few
other possessions, and her treasured piano, a part of her that amplifies
her
voice that she cannot express through vocal communication.

I believe it would be wrong to assume that any of the characters are
martyrs in this tragic story, nor would it be right to think Sam Neill's
character a villain. You may think this is crazy, but I think the piano
itself serves as both a good and bad omen for all that are involved. I
would
relate it to a "Pandora's box" of sorts, a treasure that exposes all the
evil and sin in the world, but which also provides hope as well. The piano
is Ada's sounding box, a tool that allows her to escape from a world that
does not understand her, but that also threatens her moral compass,
removing
her from marital conventions and forces her to lose herself.

The performances in "The Piano" are particularly good, especially
Holly
Hunter's. It is interesting to note that all of Hunter's piano playing in
the film is actually Hunter herself performing in front of us. You can
visually and aurally feel the mood of Hunter's character through the music
she plays. We the audience lose ourselves right along with her, lost upon
a
sea of music. We see why Keitel becomes enamored by her, and why Neill
becomes overcome with jealousy and betrayal. Not many films would allow us
to enter the emotions of all three main characters, but this film is truly
an exception.

Rarely do we witness real beauty captured on film. "The Piano" is such
a
visually stunning film, it's almost intoxicating how its atmosphere sweeps
across the screen. This landscape is equaled by the performances, bringing
understanding and mystery to this wonder. Sometimes symbolism of this
nature
can be distracting to an audience. "The Piano" dares to follow this
symbolic
path, and hits a bullseye with full emotional force.
Rating: Four stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Director-screenwriter Jane Campion started at the movies in the early
1980s at the Australian School of Film and Television... She clearly
emerged from her cultural heritage to become one of the world's
premiere female directors...

Campion's films typically have a treacherous terrain of searing
emotional intensity... We recognize ourselves in the ways her
characters think and behave... Her work signifies a break with the
tragic, the Gothic and the sentimental... 

Her exquisite film which won three Academy Awards including one for
Campion's screenplay, is not about sex, but about passion...

Jane challenges the viewer on many levels... Her film (literary
inspired from 'Wuthering Heights') explores new territory in the
delicious handling of female sexuality and pleasure with the ecstasy of
a loving relationship... 

In one scene Ada, with tears of anger, hits Baines hard across the
face, as if she has spoken words of love... With each new breath, with
every moment that their eyes remain locked together, the promise of
intimacy is confirmed and reconfirmed and detailed... Only their
feelings and emotions guide their instincts... 

No woman artist had approached sex in such a direct and liberating
manner... Campion's scenes shows Baines' face crumpling with the
exquisite pain of his pleasure... Ada moving his head to her chest, and
Baines struggling through her dress anxious to touch her skin... 

Nominated for eight Academy Awards, the film tells the story of Ada, a
strong willful 19th-century Scotswoman who hasn't spoken, since she was
six years old... Ada has been set up in an arranged marriage to a
British emigrant in New Zealand...

The film opens with Ada who is carried to shore on the shoulders of
five seamen to meet her husband Stewart, a landowner who is without
much emotion or real love... Her large Victorian skirt spreads across
the men's arms and backs... On her head a black bonnet... Around her
neck her pad and pen... 

Campion manages to chose a cast to suit her purpose and style... Ada is
not any easy role and Holly Hunter plays her without vanity... Her face
is alight with facial expression, sometimes tender, sometimes sad,
sometimes humorous, sometimes soft, while her hands and fingers are
quick and neat...

Ada speaks through sign-language translated by her young daughter
Flora, and through her beloved piano which happens to be the prime
source of her expression... She takes great delight in feeling her
fingers on her piano's keys... But in the way she eyes the illiterate,
uncultured Baines, there is an insolence and lack of respect... We
watch her stopping abruptly, indignantly, as he touches her neck... 

Harvey Kietel plays the lonely neighbor George Baines, a depressive man
who is everything Stewart is not... He has never seen a graceful woman
behave with so much abandon... Ada moves to the piano... She wants to
touch it, but she is torn by her feelings, wanting it, but not owning
it... Baines views Ada totally absorbed in her piano music... He seems
satisfied to watch... He finds himself edging irresistibly closer,
magnetically drawn to the spectacle...

Baines enjoys her fingers moving on the keys and the small details of
motion on her face... Twice he closes his eyes and breathes deeply...
He is experiencing a strange sense of appreciation and lust... He feels
powerless... He is desperate and romantic... He no longer admires her
absorption with the piano... He is jealous of it... His attention
finally focuses on her neck as it bends further or closer to the
piano... Ada's long white neck proves irresistible... Baines comes
across the room, kisses her, and asks: 'Do you know how to bargain, nod
if you do. There's a way you can have your piano back.' 

Anna Paquin has been proclaimed one of the best child acting roles
ever... She gives a subtle and complex performance as the very cute
little girl torn between her mother and stepfather... She looks over at
the house suddenly aware that the piano playing has stopped suddenly...
She investigates the mystery peeping through the various cracks and
holes in the loosely built hut... Her venture is one of challenge and
curiosity... Her complex portrayal of Flora won her the Best Supporting
Actress...

Sam Neill plays the intense, moralistic and very-Victorian husband
Alistair Stewart, who never understands his woman's nature... He
surveys Baines' hut suspiciously... There are sounds inside which are
worrying him... By wondering around the hut, he finds a hole where he
can see the two lovers kissing, and undressing... He reels back angry,
but just as we might expect him to burst through, he steps up to look
again...

Jane Campion creates an unusual film, poetic and lyrical, complimented
by a beautiful cinematography of the haunting woods, which by many
critics has been named as a masterpiece... She is the first female
director to win the Palme d'Or at Cannes...
<|_=00=_|>
Jane Campion's Oscar-winning movie follows Ada (played by Holly 
Hunter), an immigrant to the New Zealand outback and an arranged 
marriage, who has not spoken for years and lives her life through the 
sound of her piano. Her husband (played by Sam Neill) is a man without 
much understanding, who tries to break the connection between his new 
wife and her piano; in contrast to him is the wild illiterate Baines 
(played by Harvey Keitel), a tattooed loner, who reaches into Ada's 
soul and helps her to regain contact with her emotions and ultimately, 
her voice too.

The film is visually compelling, with its muted colours and wide open 
spaces, and uses the soundtrack by Michael Nyman in such a way so all 
the elements fit together. Keitel and Hunter give excellent 
performances within a sensitive and sensual screenplay, while Anna 
Paquin is impressive as Ada's wise daughter, always watching and always 
aware. Campion managed to make the story touching, involving, and sexy, 
and it well deserved the plaudits heaped on it.
<|_=00=_|>
If one wants to see true acting, just watch Hollie Hunter in this film.
She does more with her facial expressions than twenty actors can with a
thousand words. Her stature, her presence, her determination are so
intense. One could feel sorry for her in places. She has been ripped
from her world for reasons we cannot fathom. She has been deemed
expendable. When she arrives she expects to be treated properly. Anna
Paquin as her daughter settles into the new environment and begins to
prosper. But it is not without sacrifice. The piano is the symbol of
what was left behind. Her affair with the Maori is partly passion,
partly payment. We never know how much of each. The performances are
stunning across the board and, this time, worthy of Academy Awards. 

There are some very sensual scenes and scenes of great danger. There is
pain inflicted and selfishness and power. Hollie Hunter rises above it
all and makes her way through this quagmire (the rainy muddy jungle in
this case), and arises, victorious in her own fashion.
<|_=00=_|>

The Piano is an amazing movie- the cinematography stunning- like the piano
on the beach and the sinking piano at the end. There is no praise high
enough for Holly Hunter's depiction of Ada. Ana Pacquin and Sam O'Neill also
shine.  And Harvey Keitel- having gone native- by marking his body in the
native style- gives a truly sympathetic and daring performance. This movie
stays with the viewer long after it is over.  At times I actually felt the
dampness of the scenery... most of all it explores the regions of the heart-
through the innovative music and the body language of Hunter.  A film not to
be missed by those who appreciate good story and good filmaking.  Thanks
Jane Campion for this classic. 
<|_=00=_|>
Can someone explain to me why "The Piano" ain't in the IMDb top 250
and, for example, movies like "Sin City" or "Crash" (!!!!!!!!!!)
are????????????? This movie,is,by far, one of the most delicate and
intelligent ever; it softly touches you, emotionally AND physically,
for the filming and the photography are exceptional. Actors in it are
troubling, beautiful and so... beautiful(again,i know)! Holly Hunter,
who plays a mute piano goddess and manages with her not enough known
acting skills to express more with her eyes,her grace and her tiny
hands than 100 Gwyneth paltrows put together!!!(no offense,i much
enjoyed Shakespeare in love,but,come on...)Harvey Keitel in this
broken-hearted warrior/peasant role is more than touching;love embraces
him as it embraces us,viewers. Still, Jane Campion avoids the
unfortunately fashionable arrogant and tutorial directors touch (oscar
for best movie, Crash?????? where the hell are we??????) and lets the
viewer flow on his own in this huge ocean of naked and oh so true
feelings and respects the pain and/or the anger (Sam Neil,probably the
only role in his carrier that shows his great talent) of her clearly
beloved characters.Landscapes,seashores,humid forests,mud,rain: nature,
as well as human nature, are captured by Campion's eyes and heart in
the most sensitive and unartificial way. And, of course, Michael
Nyman's score,which, once heard, becomes a part of you. Yes,
definitely, the heart asks pleasure first. So treat your hearts and
eyes with this unique and sensual Chef d'oeuvre.
<|_=00=_|>
Ada, A woman chosen to be mute, travels with her daughter and baby
grand piano across the seas from England to an exotic land in New
Zealand during the Victorian Era. This woman has been oppressed in her
homeland and denied her womanhood. She has been arranged a marriage
with a Landowner who is afraid of fleshly desire. She meets an exotic
Caucasian male who seduces her into a world she can be herself in. She
is able to release her oppression through their passion.

A film of intrigue. Why make such a story? It has a touch of magical
realism. Jane Campion creates a mythical world and fills it with the
human condition. Holly Hunter plays Ada with a fierce and graceful
flowing note and deservedly won her awards. She plays woman's
independence.

The Piano is a strange film and very effecting on it's story. The
screen emits the mystery of the forest that surrounds and engulfs Ada's
spirit.

Haunting and lyrical.
<|_=00=_|>

***SPOILERS BELOW***

Wow.  To think that The Piano was nominated for 8 Oscars in '94 and won 3 (2
of them big ones) I expected so much more from this movie.  Quite frankly,
this is one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  Holly Hunter won a Best
Actress Oscar for this role?  WHY??  She didn't say a word throughout the
entire film (except for voice overs at the beginning and end), and does
nothing but look sad and withdrawn the whole time.  The first thing I did
after seeing this was look at the list of nominees/winners in '94, and saw
who SHOULD HAVE won the Best Actress Oscar that year….Angela Bassett!!  Anna
Paquin won Best Supporting Actress.... why?  She was good but not THAT good.
 Campion winning for Best Screenplay?  The ‘script' was horrible!  It
must've been a pretty bad year in Hollywood for this trash to be nominated
for so many awards and win 2 big ones.  In no way do I live & swear by
‘popcorn movies', but this was just dreadful.  Anyway, onto the
‘film'.

I now know Jane Campion's M.O.  After seeing the AWFUL ‘In The Cut' last
year, The Piano surprisingly has the same inadequacies & fetishes as 'In The
Cut' did.  It gives NOTHING of a story; nothing is developed...we're just
thrown into these weird occurrences and frankly don't give a damn about
anyone.  A mute girl is arranged to marry some guy who lives in the woods
somewhere, wants nothing to do with him, is forced to teach his friend,
George Baines the piano, who is a perverted sicko (Keitel).... after
numerous crude passes and sexual harassment by George, suddenly the feeling
is mutual for her, her ‘husband' (Sam Neill) finds out about the affair,
cuts off one of her fingers, then finally allows her to leave with George
his former friend, who takes care of her.  This is the ‘plot'.  From here,
now we're supposed to read into the ‘oh-so-subtle' images that the piano is
her ‘voice' (pretty obvious) and, from reading other people's reviews, she's
exploring; taking control of, if you will, her sexual qualities due to the
suppression of them by society at this time (19th century).  Well, I'm
sorry, but I did not get that from the movie.  Tell me:  how was she in
control?  She's forced to teach George piano lessons, who only uses these
‘sessions' as an opportunity to fondle, flirt and grope her every chance he
gets.  From the looks of things, she's not at all happy with what's
happening.  But she does them only to ‘buy' her piano back, which she loves
so dearly and is ‘her voice' (I got that).  But it's George that's in
control there.  The husband?  I don't know what his story was, because he
was the most neglectful spouse he could've possibly been.  What was he
supposed to do, rape her?  It was obvious she didn't want him.  So, she
doesn't like her husband, wants nothing to do with him, and then suddenly
falls for George, who was only degrading & offensive to her the whole time? 
How did that happen?  WHEN did that happen?  He shows her a little guilt and
she switches her feelings?  Was it that easy???  There was NO evidence of
her EVER enjoying what he was doing....but then all of a sudden she's in
love with him??  SPARE ME!!  Meanwhile the husband sees her committing
adultery when it first happens, but doesn't do/say anything until Flora, her
DAUGHTER of all people (Anna Paquin) rats on her to him (when Ada goes back
to George after being told to stay away).  WHY did Flora do this?  See, this
is where we needed to see previous evidence of animosity by the daughter
towards her mother (enough at least to warrant this)...but there's nothing
of the sort.  I guess Campion wants us to just write this off as pure
ignorance/innocence by Flora, always wanting to do right even if it means
getting her own mother in trouble.  Give me a break....that act definitely
looked malicious to me.  But again, why was this the case when she was truly
Ada's only real companion...her DAUGHTER for crying out loud!?!?!  Anyway he
finally grows some 'cojones' and punishes her by cutting off one of her
fingers with an axe...he must be really good with an axe to only cut off one
finger!  LOL please!  It's here in which we get a really bad acting job by
Holly Hunter.  I understand she can't scream but come on!  Simply kneeling
down on the ground just didn't convince me...I thought she was Supergirl for
a second there, she didn't even wince!  Her whole performance was
emotionless and dry....I felt NOTHING for her.  The only time I sat up in my
seat was when she apparently tries to drown herself; I was practically
laughing thinking to myself, ‘yea, kill yourself so this trash could end'. 
At NO POINT in the film did I feel she was in control of things, except her
lame & minimal attempts at showing affection to her husband by rubbing his
body, in which he then trusted her again not to see George and remove the
barricades from the windows.  Some control she had with her hand was on the
chopping block!  

I've seen a pattern with Jane Campion.  She just throws things together and
puts you in a place with no background or character/story development (we
hardly know where they are!!!), tries to make it artsy and throws a woman in
there to try and make a point about her sexuality and sexual
self-realization…..that's probably her own stance on the issue.  If that's
what The Piano was about, I shouldn't have to ASSUME it.  That's the main
problem with this movie; it doesn't give the audience anything to take in
and appreciate.  It doesn't present anything…..it only throws them into a
situation, a weird & somewhat illogical one at that, and expects them to buy
into it.  I'm sorry, but I have to know where she's from, WHERE SHE IS,
why/how she became, either by choice or not, mute (its very hard to believe
the daughter's story), what her past relationships with men were like, why
she didn't like her assigned husband, why/how/when she falls in love with
the sadistic George, why her daughter (her only confidant) rats on her to
her ‘husband', etc etc.  The story is extremely weak and fails to explain
anything.  One would probably say a film like Memento was ‘artsy' too, but
at least Christopher Nolan gave us something of a STORY there.  The fact
that this was praised and rewarded as much as it was is a travesty in my
opinion.  This was one big waste of time that I will only remember as one of
the worst movies I've ever seen….it offers absolutely NOTHING!  And that's
the grade I give it...

ZERO out of **** stars.

