

This refreshingly intelligent film delivers raw intellectual power by
retaining the look and feel of the play from which it was adapted.  The use
of a single set and just three actors throws the emphasis entirely upon the
in-depth character studies, the incisive dialogue and the actors'
outstanding performances.  It draws us into the lives of three seemingly
ordinary guys at a convention whose interaction broaches questions that are
nothing short of an examination of the meaning of life.  The dialogue
unabashedly strips the characters naked to show the ironies and hypocrisies
inherent in their strategies for establishing meaning in the machinations of
mundane lives.  The laser sharp exchanges slash relentlessly at the souls of
each, leaving none of the characters intact by the end of the film.  And
with each thrust, they drive another introspective probe deep into the
psyche of the viewer.

The presentation reminded me a little of `Glengarry Glen Ross' with its
theatrical feel and deep reflective tone, although this film was more
confronting and less darkly despondent.  Roger Roeff's penetrating script
approaches the meaninglessness of life from three unique perspectives.  We
have Larry (Kevin Spacey) the seemingly superficial cynic who has far
greater depth than he lets on and who uses his sardonic persona as a defense
mechanism to hide his own fears.  Phil (Danny DeVito) is the pragmatic but
jaded salesman who is great at putting things in perspective for everyone
but himself.  Bob is the naïve young Christian zealot whose antidote for the
futility of life is a strong dose of Jesus.

The juxtaposition of Larry the cynic and Bob the idealist makes for numerous
thought provoking exchanges, especially when we learn that Phil (our
mediator and voice of reason) is drowning in his own soul-searching quest
for meaning.  The story poses more questions than it does answers, and
sputters a bit at the end, but overall it accomplishes its purpose of making
the viewer ponder profundities easily ignored while in the pursuit of
everyday priorities.

The acting was brilliant.  Kevin Spacey gave what I thought was the best
performance of his career.  This was so much more interesting and meaty a
character than he played in `American Beauty' that Spacey easily eclipsed
even that outstanding performance.  Larry was such a dynamic and complex
character, that Spacey was able to open up the throttle and show us the full
measure of his considerable talents.  Likewise, Danny DeVito delivered a
personal best in a serious dramatic role.  His portrayal of the mediator who
was trying to keep the peace while he was disintegrating inside was subtle
and powerful.  Peter Facinelli was also near perfect with an utterly
believable and sincere performance as the pure hearted whelp whose heart was
suffused with the Lord.

I rated this film a 9/10, but it requires a certain type of viewer to enjoy
it.  It is a very intellectual film, which precludes it from having much
mass appeal.  Action junkies will be bored to tears.  However, for those who
have a philosophical bent, this film will be highly satisfying.  


<|_=00=_|>

	"The Big Kahuna" proved to be one of the finest offerings that I was privy
to at the Toronto International Film Festival this year. The expression
"saving the best for last" applies strongly to this film. We were fortunate
to have a Q&A after the film with Roger Rueff, the screenwriter of this
eloquently written piece, John Swanbeck, the director enjoying all that a
first timer could hope for from his debut, and the gifted actor Kevin
Spacey, who starred in and produced the film.

	This marvellous examination of three men of different age groups at a
convention in Wichita also features the talents of Danny DeVito who
apparently came to the production in the proverbial last minute. This film
was shot in a very short sixteen days which comes as a surprise, despite
it's one central location, as the dialogue is so strong. The best way to
describe it is as almost poetic. 

The script was adapted from the play "Hospitality Suite", also written by
Rueff, who revealed in the Q&A that the story was based upon his own
experiences at a sales convention long ago. But he assured us that his
character of the young, impressionable, bible thumping "Bob" was not based
on himself. Rueff also noted that with this being his first screenplay, he
had worried about the horror stories he heard where scripts are butchered
and transformed into things the writer never intended in many Hollywood
productions. But in this case, he trusted the director and cast implicitly
and was not disappointed in any way.

	Kevin Spacey shines in this sneak peak behind the scenes of a sales
convention where the future of a company lies squarely on the shoulders of
three men in the pursuit of a big client. The president of another company
represents the biggest potential account they will ever have. They exchange
stories, accounts and personal philosophies and find how different they are
from one another based on what they've been through.

	The interaction between the three actors is mesmerizing. They take the
audience into what feels like a true life account documented verbatim. To
say more would spoil the outcome for those who've not yet had a chance to
enjoy this film. It is my strong recommendation that all of those who have
not, do so at their first available opportunity.

<|_=00=_|>

Some movies are little more than photographed stage plays. 'The Big Kahuna'
is like that. Most of the scenes are set in one hotel room and only 4 people
have any lines. It could be said that all they do is talk, philosophize, and
soul-search in this film. So if what they talk about is interesting and
moves you, then the movie works. With subject matter such as religion,
friendship, finding a meaning in life, and even the art of salesmanship, the
characters definitely have a lot to say. And they're pretty funny, even if
the film is too tragic to be called a comedy. Bottom line is, I'll long
remember Danny DeVito's touching, understated performance.

He and Kevin Spacey (Phil and Larry, respectively) play experienced
industrial lubricant salesman who've been sent to a convention in Wichita.
Accompanying the two longtime friends and colleagues is a young co-worker,
Bob (Peter Facinelli). They're hosting a small party in their hospitality
suite for the elusive Dick Fuller. This is a client who could conceivably
make or break their careers, but might not even show up to talk biz. Fuller
represents the title character, although you could also say the kahuna is
God. The final third of the picture delves deeply into spiritual belief and
the search for the man above. Facinelli is devout, Spacey is not, DeVito
rides in the middle lane and tries to keep the peace.

Whether or not they actually make the big deal plays second fiddle to the
give-and-take relationship of the 3 very different men. Spacey is as witty
and smart as usual, but DeVito is the soul of 'The Big Kahuna'. He's been
good before, but he's generally a comic actor. Here, he's the straight man.
The writer and director (Roger Rueff and John Swanbeck, who've never made
another film) know how to give Spacey his big scenes and they REALLY know
how to let DeVito play everything in expressions and tone. The filmmakers
aren't breaking new turf, but they let their excellent actors act. Even if
this is just another verse in the 'Death Of A Salesman' song, DeVito's got
the goods on Willy Loman.
<|_=00=_|>

An extremely well done, contained movie.  Unlike so much of the standard
over the top excesses of much of current Hollywood movies this movie
depends
on the depth of the characters, particularly Danny De Vito.  Rarely have I
ever seen an actor change on screen from the inside out like De Vito does.
Kevin Spacey gives his normal excellent work, and Peter Facinelli is quite
good as an easily recognizable "true believer".  But, this movie belongs to
Danny De Vito who gives the best performance of his career.  Moving
exploration of men struggling with meaninglessness.
<|_=00=_|>

Would you sell your soul to sell industrial lubricants?  Based on a stage
play called 'Hospitality suite', The Big Kahuna contains only 3 main actors
in this movie who all give powerful performances.

Spacey as the no nonsense take no prisoners step on em when he's down
salesman, DeVito as his colleague who's had enough and thinks he's wasted
his life going from nameless towns, and boring hotel rooms, and the young up
and coming Peter Facinelli as the 6 month newcomer who is like a babe in the
woods, but has a strong spiritual side and stronger convictions than anyone
else.

Spacey is great as always, and Facinelli is very believable as the devout
Baptist.  But it is DeVito who steals this movie in what has to be the best
role I have ever seen him portray.  A funny expose and what it means to be
truly successful and happy in career and life.  Kahuna scores
high!

This movie has just great dialogue, and some incredibly memorable lines most
of it coming from Spacey who keeps hitting Facinelli over his head with his
sharp brute and dirty yet smart mouth.  

A definite must see for 2000.

Rating 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Though essentially little more than a stage bound version of the play,
`Hospitality Suite,' the film entitled `The Big Kahuna' earns distinction
for its sharply delineated characters and the finely wrought performances of
its three main actors.  In fact, the stage origins of the film are evident
in the fact that the action rarely extends beyond a single set – a hotel
suite in Wichita, Kansas in which three salesman are gathered for a
convention – and the fact that only four people are even assigned speaking
parts (and even the fourth is a mere walk-on bellboy).  All the other people
we see serve as a kind of silent backdrop before which the three principal
players enact their complex personal drama.

Kevin Spacey, in a truly brilliant performance, plays Larry, a middle-aged,
sardonic salesman who sees life strictly from the perspective of a hardcore
cynic and who, consequently, runs roughshod over his two business associates
with his acerbic wit and hardnosed bluntness.  In total contrast is Bob
(Peter Facinelli), a 20-something neophyte to the selling business, a
sincere, well-intentioned, but hopelessly naïve born-again Christian, who
has trouble separating his career as a salesman from his felt need to
fulfill the Biblical edict to go out among men and spread the Good News. 
Caught between the two is Phil (Danny DeVito), a 52-year old man who, after
years of devoting his life to the cause of selling, has begun to seriously
question the validity of his life's work and has, therefore, recently found
himself contemplating such weighty matters as suicide, the existence of God
and the meaning of love and friendship.  Obviously, such cleanly delineated
characters could well have slid over into two-dimensional stereotypes, yet
the author, Roger Rueff, in adapting his play to the screen, has built into
each of the three principal figures a dimension of multifaceted human
complexity.  Larry, for instance, despite all of his facile cynicism, shows
a far deeper side to his character when, in a quiet moment in which Phil
pours his heart out to him, he offers his buddy the hand of genuine
compassion and friendship.  We discover that the often-bitter tone Larry
displays to the world is just a façade, a cover-up for the void that lies
deep within his own troubled psyche.  Similarly, Rueff avoids the common
trap of reducing the devout Christian character to the customary level of a
mindless buffoon.  Although we sense that Bob too uses his Christianity as a
way of ordering his life - thereby avoiding the messy ugliness that a more
freethinking life often requires - yet, Rueff merely implies that Bob has
some growing up to do, not that his belief system must itself be jettisoned.
 And Phil, caught between these two worldviews, provides, out of his own
confused weakness, the voice of reasoned sanity that helps Larry and Bob
come to a final understanding and mutual appreciation of each other.  He
sees Larry plainly for who he is, yet Phil knows that this is the person who
means more to him than anyone else in the world.  Similarly, though he
somewhat admires and respects Bob's sincere devotion to his Christian
principles, Phil knows that Bob has a long way to go before he becomes a
true `man of character.'

`The Big Kahuna' does not provide big laughs, though the sardonic wit often
strikes a deep chord in the audience.  The film may also seem claustrophobic
to those who demand more movement from their movies.  The dialogue, however,
is consistently sharp and incisive, even though Phil's final speech borders
a bit on the pedantic.  (At this point, Phil's function as the author's
mouthpiece becomes a bit heavy-handed to say the least).  Nevertheless, for
those in search of a fine character study, driven by strong performances and
insightful observations about human nature, `The Big Kahuna' is definitely
worth checking out.

<|_=00=_|>

The Big Kahuna

This three-character movie, based on the play by Roger Rueff, deals with
salesmen who are somewhat impatiently waiting for a very important business
client - a.k.a. The Big Kahuna - on whom the fortunes of their company
rests. Should they land the contract with this mysterious bigwig, their
company will prosper. If they don't land the contract, of course, then
they're all sunk.

Larry (Kevin Spacey) and Phil (Danny DeVito) are the salesmen, and Bob
(Peter Facinelli) is the marketing guy. Bob's a rookie, and Larry and Phil
try to prep him for handling himself with potential customers. They've
rented the hospitality suite in the hotel to entertain their clients and are
planning on having a small party, hoping that the Big Kahuna will show up.
No, it's not Waiting for Godot, but it's along those lines.

This is basically a character study. There's a lot of dialog - virtually the
entire movie takes place in the suite, with only a few very minor scenes
outside it - and each word is absolutely dripping with meaning. There aren't
any throwaway lines in this movie, folks. Most movies contain generic lines
that would fit in any similar movie. Not this one. If you're a fan of
well-written movies, this is a prime example of how one should be
constructed.

But with such an emphasis on the dialog, there's naturally little action.
This is always a problem with movies based on plays. They come off
restrained, stagey, and claustrophobic. But the lack of action actually
gives the viewer the opportunity to watch two decidedly different acting
styles. Spacey is bombastic, punctuating each syllable with a sneer or a
rant. DeVito, on the other hand, is more reserved and appears wizened as a
result. Each actor turns in a stunning performance, with Spacey basically
reprising the role he played in Glengarry Glen Ross. The only one who seems
out of place is Facinelli, who is ineffective as Bob the marketing
guy.

The Big Kahuna is compelling, as long as you don't mind talky
comedy-dramas.


<|_=00=_|>
For some, this movie might seem quite boring. What's the point in
watching three men talking in one room for almost two hours?! But tell
you what?.. this movie is not boring at all! There's almost no
storyline to speak of, but the script is more than beautiful. It will
turn you into one big attentive ear. In addition, Kevin Spacey with his
wonderful performance and entertaining sense of humor and wit made this
movie a must-see. The movie doesn't want you to side with any of the
three characters; it simply displays three different samples of human
nature, and their views on the world (especially the concept of
appearance vs reality).
<|_=00=_|>
The Big Kahuna starts promising but falls into a didactic tailspin from
which it never recovers. The setup - three business men, all in a
different life stage, is elegant and sparse, and allows the three
characters to develop fully. By the end of the movie, we are fed a
desperate moral theory that "regret builds character" along with (I kid
you not) several minutes of voice-over aphorisms. What happened?
Instead of sending the movie into where it should have gone, namely
ambiguity as to a) what matters to the characters, b) what is at stake,
c) what wisdom can possibly be recovered from the mess that the
characters get themselves into, we are instead led to a basement of
philosophical knickknacks. Failing a reasonable ending, it would at
least have been nice to see the characters grow... or perhaps engage in
some entertaining pyrotechnics. On the plus side we get to hear grown
men say they love each other, so not all is lost...the dream recounting
is also well planned & executed.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

It is truly interesting to see what films successful actors craft for
themselves. If it doesn't define the true character, it surely reflects on
the core of how they see their art. This is Spacey's creation, and it speaks
highly of what he is about.

Spacey and DeVito are not multidimensional actors. That is, they don't
present simultaneous views (like say Hoffman and Penn). No, they aren't
modern in this sense, instead find a single center and use it to manipulate
a thread, instead shifting that thread up into introspection, down into
`action,' up again into that space where art meets life. For such actors,
the writing is central - everything centers on conversation and
focus.

So here, we have a film about conversation; about whether conversations have
their own fate; whether directed conversations can be honest, which is the
same as exploring the nature of whether acting can be honest. The dialog is
in one world at a time, but shifts among acting as being human, acting as
being `marketeers,' acting as being actors.

This shift is managed by toggling the focus: the Big Kahuna flips among a
key sales target (Fuller, Dick), God, a disembodied Godot called Murdock,
and all of three actors.

DeVito is one of the most intelligent film people in Hollywood, going so far
as making a comedy from Nabokov (`Momma'). Spacey has focus, and cares to
fabricate something that manipulates and tells us so and why.

`If you know what you are doing, you don't have to look like you know what
you are doing.'

Put this on the shelf with Andre and Vanya. It is worth
experiencing.

