

If you haven't seen Casino yet, stop whatever it is you're doing, rush to
the nearest video store, rent it, and watch it.  Along with Mean Streets
Casino is probably Scorsese's most underrated and unheralded picture.  I
would also venture to say that this is probably his most ambitious film.
The film deals with a particular time period and a particular atmosphere
and
accomplishes an overwhelming achievement by creating and accurately
portraying both.  The art direction is splendid, most likely the best of
any
film Scorsese has ever done.  The acting is superb.  I never thought Pesci
would be able to top his dynamic performance in Raging Bull until I saw
Casino.  Every time I watch this picture I fall in love with it all over
again.  This is the most honest depiction of Las Vegas, especially of the
time period it was portrayed in.  Scorsese's direction is flawless.
Perhaps
it is because I watch alot of Scorsese and Kubrick films, but I am becoming
less satisfied with plot driven films and more enamored by films that
possess the freedom that typical stories just don't seem to hold.  Sharon
Stone gives the best performance of her career, and as far as the editing
is
concerned, well if you believe like Kubrick and Pudovkin that a film is not
shot, but built who better to have on your team than long time cohort,
collaborator, and editor Thelma Schoonmaker.  Ultimately, the genius of
Scorsese is not just in the mastery of the medium, but in the understanding
and appreciation for the necessity of great collaborators on all levels
that
Scorsese has consistently utilized throughout his career.  Casino
exemplifies not only the best of a Scorsese film, but transcends it.  This
film is truly a gem.  
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best films of the 90's hands down. Without a doubt
this has become one of my favorite movies. I'm not sure why really, I
just love it. I think because I read the book and a lot of what
happened in real life happened in my little town in Chicago. No names,
and my old boss who runs our town grocery store actually knew "Ace".
Again, no names. That was always pretty cool to me, since my town
really didn't have much excitement. I guess also because I'm a huge fan
of Martin, Robert, and Joe's. When they work together, they create
masterpieces. 

I've read a lot of comments on IMDb, and more than 50% of the comments
are calling this "Goodfells Part 2". Is it "Goodfellas Part 2", in my
opinion, no. Yes, it's very similar situations, but it's not the same
plot. It's a little more gory and more bright. "Casino" is mainly about
the rise and fall of Las Vegas. When Robert DeNiro's character says
"It's more like Disney Land now". Actually that's true, it's not like
it used to be. I'm only 20, but my mom and dad told me how different
the times were in the 60's and 70's. Everyone was more close and wanted
to know who you were and how everything was going. Everything is more
corporate greed now-a-days. But back onto the movie, it does have
gangsta's in it, and with that comes some pretty gruesome violence.

Robert DeNiro. No words can describe how wonderful of an actor he is.
If you read in most of my comments, you can tell I'm a fan. This movie
is actually what made me into a huge fan of his. He's dialog and image
is very powerful and you understand his position. You want to love him,
even though technically he's a bad guy too, you still think he is so
cool. A lot of people I talked too: the guys wanted to be him and the
girls wanted to be with him. What a performance, it deserved more
praise.

Joe does it again being the A$$hole who thinks with his gun and not
with his head. Joe as an actor is very remarkable. He's only 5' 6'',
but he is so intimidating. His speech in the desert with Ace and the
big confrontation. "You want me to get out of my own town?! Don't
*bleep* with me, Ace!" Does he swear in this movie? Oh, yeah. A lot,
we're talking 400+ f-words, guys. But you get past the vulgar language
and just enjoy what Joe says and does. The head vice scene and the
metal bat scene with Joe is two of the most disturbing scenes in
cinematic history.

Sharon Stone, what can I say? What a remarkable performance! She was
very much robbed of her deserved Oscar. I was reading in my "Rober
DeNiro: A history of his films" that Sharon over shined both Joe's and
Robert's performance. In some ways that is very true. She plays a
gold-digging, druggie, drunk, hustling, whore. She is very glamorous in
the film though, she is covered in beautiful gowns and jewelery that no
guy could ever resist. Her first scene where Robert first sees her and
she is stealing chips from a guy who has "hired" her for a night was
extremely effective. You can see why Ace fell so hard for her. What a
terrific performance in the end. When she screams at Ace "I will go to
the FBI! I will go to the police! I'm not protecting you anymore!", you
get scarred and can't help but watch more even though you are sitting
on your butt for more than 2 1/2 hours. You hate her character so much,
you want her to get what's coming to her, that's what makes a terrific
performance. When you actually want to make sure that this character
gets the justice he or she deserves. Sharon, I apologize, you deserved
more praise as well.

Martin Scorcesse. One of the greatest living directors of our time.
This film was very wonderfully made with great visuals. The soundtrack
really adds a lot, I'm telling you, and the theatrical trailer with the
song "Gimme Shelter" by the Rolling Stones, what a great feel. Martin
has been nominated several times for an Oscar, but they snub him. I
think because his films are so violent and typical. But they remain
classics. I'm disappointed with the Oscars, this man deserves more. 

Whew. "Casino" is an excellent movie that I highly recommend for mob
movie lovers. Don't compare this to "Goodfellas", let it stand on it's
own. But please, this is not a movie for children in any manor. For the
parents, this is a movie that should be on the wait until the later
teens. It's very violent, we're talking a head in a vice, a beating
with a metal bat(just to name a few violent scenes, there's more)drugs,
sex, and very vulgar language. This is for adults only!It's a great
movie that deserves very much to be on the top 250. I'd like to see it
in the top 100, but we'll see. 

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

A complex, multilayered, beautifully directed film, Martin Scorsese's
Casino
is a masterpiece of destruction and betrayal. Few films take so many
chances
and succeed so wonderfully. It takes some of the basic formulas that were
found in Goodfellas and applies them to another type of story - while
Goodfellas' view was ground-level, telling the story of the "blue collar"
gangsters of NYC, this film tells the story of the guys who controlled
those
guys. And it's fascinating to watch these people run Las Vegas, control the
flow of money, and then fall from the heights of power due to lust, hubris,
and greed. An amazing film that will hopefully get the recognition it
deserves in the years to come.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit my bias, because I believe that Scorcese cannot do wrong -
ever.  Even his lesser-known or critically panned films are above the "great
film" line, and Casino is certainly no exception. 

Casino spans three decades and chronicles the true story of a faction of the
mob who ran Las Vegas casinos.  Robert DeNiro plays Ace Rothstein, a
fantastic bookie who is chosen to run the Tangiers hotel and casino.  Along
the way, he marries a drug-addicted con-artist trophy wife (Sharon Stone)
and struggles with his friendship with loose-cannon Nicky Santoro (Joe
Pesci).  Rothstein is a complicated figure in that he is not a heavy, yet he
wields a lot of power due to the respect he has gained from his mob bosses
back home.  

Robert DeNiro and Joe Pesci are both fantastic in their roles, and Sharon
Stone actually turned out a non-irritating performance.  As the viewer, you
can't stand her, but that is the point.  Scorcese's normal supporting cast
are also involved in this film, including his great mother - even though she
usually has incredibly minimal roles, they are always memorable.

Scorcese seems to have several different directing styles, and Casino
follows in the tradition of Goodfellas as a pseudo-documentary.  A lot of
the exposition is revealed by the characters themselves in the form of
voice-overs, and several scenes are filmed in documentarian fashion.  The
entire production however, is sleek and very quick.  The use of music bears
mentioning as well: Most Martin Scorcese films have an amazing soundtrack
that adds to and enhances the scene.  Being a child of the MTV age, I'm a
sucker for good uses of music in films and Scorcese is a master.  Scorcese
doesn't just utilize the soundtrack, he makes it part of the storytelling -
by the music, we chronologically know what time period we are witnessing,
since one cannot rely on other factors, such as fashion alone.  One of my
favorite scenes in film which effectively involves music is actually from
Casino - the very intense scene when the relationship between DeNiro, Stone
and Pesci come to a head in the climax of the film. The pounding music cut
throughout this scene is a cover of "Satisfaction" by Devo and the result is
absolutely brilliant.  

Being a complete film geek, I generally don't go to films that feature
certain stars, I go to films by certain directors and Scorcese is one of
them.  While this was probably the tenth time I'd seen this film there were
more things I noticed, and I'm sure I'll notice more upon my eleventh
viewing.  The man is a complete genius, and a gift to film - my suggestion
is to watch some of his films, then check out his unbelievable series, "A
Personal Journey with Martin Scorcese Through American Movies" which was
done the same year as Casino.  The series is essentially a primer on the
history of film, sectioned off by film genres.  You not only will experience
his amazing intellect and massive knowledge of film history, but his
incredible humility as well.

--Shelly
<|_=00=_|>
As a lifelong gambler who has crossed paths with a few fringe types
portrayed in the film, I'm well aware of the story, the culture, and
the ambiance of the Tangiers, the fictional casino placed in the
control of Sam "Ace" Rothstein (Robert Deniro). Rothstein is not a mob
member, but a "moneymaker" for them because he's the nation's best
sports handicapper. It was refreshing for a movie to finally show that
not all gamblers are stupid, but instead one of those who takes
advantage of the many who are.

Rothstein's partner in crime is Nicky Santoro (Joe Pesci), who is far
less convincing as a mobster than he would seem to like to believe.
Sharon Stone plays the psychotic Ginger, a once-in-a-lifetime role in
that it was the only time in my life I could bear to watch her on film.
The supporting cast is strong, led by James Woods and Don Rickles
(excellent in his dramatic capacity), and the movie is generally
well-acted.

If you are a gambler or know the "wiseguy" culture, the movie doesn't
have to be explained, while if you aren't, you'll feel like you've
stumbled upon the secret meeting place of the mafia and made privy to
what is said, without anyone knowing you were there. This film is based
on the true story of what happened when the mob tried to put its men in
suits and have them heading a casino, and why it has never been tried
since. The homage paid to the incestuous nature of Nevada politics was
an excellent touch.

Most of us wouldn't like a guy like Sam Rothstein, nor would we like to
be him, but if we go to Vegas for a weekend and stay at a casino/hotel,
we'll have a better experience if his watchful eye is ensuring that our
stay is a pleasant one. The film's nod to how Vegas has been sanitized
since those days is also accurate, and reflects sadness at a lost era,
where the baby (the "old school" types who made Vegas great) was thrown
out with the bathwater (the organized crime influences).
<|_=00=_|>

Casino has to be one of the most underrated films that Martin Scorsese
directed in the nineties. The acting by the leads is good and the script
is
excellent. Robert Deniro gave an Oscar worthy performance and Joes Pesci
is
chilling yet funny again. Even Sharon Stone is good in this brilliant
film
<|_=00=_|>

Casino is by far my favourite film. I enjoyed good fellas, thought
Raging Bull was great and enjoyed Taxi driver but this is a cut above
the rest imo

I have seen this film to many times to count and i am yet to become
even remotely sick of it. The acting is flawless, story flows at a
great pace for the full all but 3 hours, great narration and a great
soundtrack

Pesci and De Niro play their parts so well as does Stone. When watching
this film I started to wonder what PEsci is really like in real life.
Is he a crazed man like he so often plays? After seeing Casino you are
likely to wonder, he is that good

I also think the characters in Casino are far more believable then
those in good fellas.

Must see for any gangster film fan

<|_=00=_|>

What a fantastic movie, thanks to its cast, top heavy with stars and fine
direction of the "Oscar begging" Martin Scorsese.
Robert de Niro and Joe Pesci are great, as always, together. But,
surprisingly, it's Sharon Stone that comes of with all the acting credit,
she simply effervesces as the gold digging casino hustler. After witnessing
her performance myself I couldn't agree more, and think she deserves a
place above Susan Sarandon who "stole" the Academy Award from under Sharon's
nose.  The photography is phenomenal and combined with great acting is a
recipe for a classy film.  However occasional brilliant sequences, are often
marred by the continuous commentary, which prevents any real, deep, emotional
involvement with any of the characters.  Great stuff, just slightly
flawed.9/10.


<|_=00=_|>
Based on a true story, Martin Scorsese "Casino" is a motion picture
about two characters and their chance to rule the desert paradise of
Las Vegas We are introduced in with all the lights, the noise, the
flashing and the colors of the town that doesn't sleep day or night 

De Niro's character, Sam 'Ace' Rothstein, is based on Frank "Lefty"
Rosenthal, who was a hell of a handicapper He was so good that
whenever he bets, he could change the odds for every bookmaker in the
country Genius at what he was doing with numbers, he proved to a lot
of guys in the Chicago Mob that he was a tremendous earner that he
could make a lot of money for them As a result, he was able to
accomplish whatever bookmaking, handicapping, he wanted to do, with the
umbrella of protection from those guys 'Ace' runs the casino with an
iron fist refusing any outside people cheating at his tables

But he had a fatal flaw 'Ace' always felt that he could logically and
intelligently deal with things, even to deal with emotions So he
decides on making a life with a woman who, he knows, does not
necessarily love him Anyway with such a sexy wife and money to burn,
'Ace' was the epitome of opulence, confidence and power 

Ginger McKenna (Sharon Stone) was fascinating Great woman, truly
beautiful, one of the best-known hustlers in town For her, a guy like
'Ace' was the ultimate score So the way to Ginger's heart was clearly
money 'Ace' knew that but he didn't careWhat he wanted was to marry
her 

Sharon Stone really stood up to the challenge in her role as a casino
hustler who is so wild She was young, fresh, confident, looking
absolutely fantastic as the independent woman whom everybody desires

Joe Pesci succeeds in his scary tough role as the strong man who has
nerve, and isn't afraid of the cops He was reportedly a mob hit man
reputed to be a sadistic killer (In one scene, his character is shown
torturing someone by putting his head in a vise.) 

To protect his friend and adviser, Nicky (Pesci) would beat to a pulp
any street guys who messed with 'Ace' or didn't give him the proper
respect Over the course of their friendship Nicky delivered a number
of these messages always making sure that 'Ace' didn't get his hands
dirty 'Ace' witnessed several beatings on his behalf Nicky's mission
was to show his worth to the family as an enforcer

The clothes on De Niro looked very straight, more dangerous and very
threatening They were very important cues to his character, and again,
to the progression of the story 'Ace' was an extremely fastidious guy
And, of course, as you follow the story he starts out in more
conservative colors and as things become more chaotic, the colors
become more chaotic
<|_=00=_|>
Martin Scorcese's harsh and yet delicately balanced masterpiece rises
above anything petty meaning that if one wishes and has the ability and
means to create a Sicilian mafia movie he should do so with grandeur
and put into it as much effort as possible for people remember those
who take advantage of their talent and circumstances and are diligent
in their undertakings. Casino is in my opinion an epic, but it's much
more than that. This film speaks even to those who dislike the subject
of organized crime. You have to be objective when judging this movie
and those of us who criticize everything that stands out amongst the
grey background of that which is mediocre are fools who envy others'
accomplishments and view them as insults to their own personal
uselessness. Casino is one of the best movies of the 90's. In fact, in
my opinion, it's one of the best organized crime movies of all time.
Its moral is that no matter how tough you think you are there's always
someone you answer to and that you ultimately will, indeed, if you
screw things up.
