

I liked this movie.    The directing was excellent and he used shades of
red to produce enchantment around that cute little girl Julie Devin.
Moira
Kelley looked like a motherly angel and her husband was somewhat corny,
but
attractive and very fatherlike.    Hannah sure has changed from Splash
where
she looks much more older yet she still shows a style and insecurity in
her
character.   Hannah's character is presented as someone that is not
completely evil,  yet her muscular rowdy husband appears to be the real
headmaster of their brutal plans.    The violence in the movie isn't
graphic
and the love between Moira and Julie is wonderfully established. Hannah is
silky smooth and appears to really fit the role of a dirty,   insecure
woman.   I liked the way the movie made many connections of the theme like
mother like daughter(also father)
and the scenes when Julie used violence was quite surprising,  humorus,
and
actually thrilling.   The movie wasn't the greatest thriller,  yet the
characters,  performances,  and scenes showed talent and I was satisfied
with the rental.    
<|_=00=_|>
After robbing a house, the criminals Leann Netherwood (Daryl Hannah)
and John Netherwood (Keith Carradine) stumble with the police and they
need to flee, leaving their six year-old daughter Janie (Julia Devin)
behind. Janie is sent for adoption and the photographer Dana Clifton
(Moira Kelly) and husband, the architect Russell Clifton (Vincent
Spano), adopt her and give love to the traumatized girl. Meanwhile
Leann and John begin a crime spree trying to find their daughter to
take her back. 

"The Tie that Binds" is an effective low-budget thriller with a good
story. The screenplay is well developed and builds tension, but
unfortunately the conclusion is very poor. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Laços Diabólicos" ("Diabolic Ties")
<|_=00=_|>

A good film, well acted with a good storyline - until the end that is!  In
the final 20 minutes or so, the scriptwriters obviously suspended logical
actions of the characters in favour of a more dramatic and visual finale. 
Too bad, because this would have been an otherwise excellent film.  Also,
the inclusion of a real version of "Mr. Flip Flop" leading the little girl
to the villain was unnecessarily cruel.
<|_=00=_|>

The Tie That Binds started out as a slow-moving drama, primarily because it
was caught up with moments of parental bonding since the story involves a
young girl, her new foster parents, and the deadly pursuit of the girl's
natural parents for their child. But, as the dangerous team of natural
parents begin to close in on the unsuspecting foster parents, the suspense
element begins to rear it's head, and the movie starts to become
interesting.

The story begins with two nomadic hoods, Leann and John Netherwood (Daryl
Hannah and Kieth Caradine being exceptionally weird), are in the middle of
one of their weird home invasions (you have to see the introduction to know
what I mean by this description) when their young girl, Janie goes wondering
around outside. A suspicious neighbor calls the cops who show up on the
scene to investigate and are met with the Netherwoods, disturbed from their
routines, to save their child from being taken by the police.

Meanwhile, Janie's in a foster home. She's a strange and pretty violent kid
(the scene with her at the police headquarters is really something to shout
at) which aren't qualities so much given to her by her parents, but just a
natural reaction to her alienating environment. We assume that Janie just
has been isolated, with the exception of the company of her parents, for her
whole life. And the adjustment is about to be a difficult one for her
annoyingly loving foster parents, the Cliftons (Vincent Spano and Moira
Kelly). They don't really seem like the type who can handle a fragile kid
like Janie, but they make the best efforts. And it starts to work for all of
them.

But, always lurking two steps behind are the begrudging parents, the
Netherwoods, who vow to stop at nothing to get their daughter back. And it
truly turns into a tense and deadly game for all (well...not really that
many people) who know of Janie's whereabouts. And they really prove how
serious they are about it, too. Although, by this point, you wonder if it is
really Janie they care about. You sense it from the lady Netherwood, since
she's always staring at this picture of Mother and Child, trying to emulate
what she sees, and at the same time, being totally weird about it. She seems
very protective of Janie, while her husband, John, just seems to be after
some property. 

The finale is a bit overblown and seems rather out of line. The movie
doesn't quite keep you on your toes as say, some of the moments where
adversary and protagonist almost meet or meet for the first, threatening
time as they did in 'The Hand That Rocks The Cradle' (same producers) or
'Pacific Heights.' The ending makes the final reckoning seem all too casual.
And most of the screen time used for those awkward paternal bonding moments
with the Cliftons and Janie seems too slow and boring, while the real action
lies in the mounting pursuit of them by the Netherwoods. They should've kept
that up throughout because that's where all the interest is generated, all
the suspense. 
<|_=00=_|>

Awfully familiar thriller stuff that takes longer to play out than it should
and ends with a particularly overdone, overextended climax. The performances
are generally good and there are a few bits of imaginative camerawork, but
the familiarity of the material proves to be overwhelming. The film has no
personality, and most of the scenes seem to be just copies of similar events
in other thrillers.   (*1/2)
<|_=00=_|>
Slightly obscured today in amid many of its kind, The Tie That Binds
found writer Wesley Strick taking up directing (though he's not
credited for this script) what is a mash-up of two pop-culture tropes:
the trashy, Lifetime-movie-of-the-week kind of thriller and the
Killers-On-The-Run-but-also-lovers movies. This doesn't always have to
mean that the former is about a psychotic woman stalking another woman;
many Lifetime movies concern melodramas involving children who are
really f***ed up, and not all killer/lovers movies (True Romance,
Natural Born Killers, Kalifornia, Freeway, maybe Doom Generation to an
extent pop to mind, there are probably others) are only just the
couple. Strick is able to find some wildly trashy entertainment out of
both, even as he tends to over-direct things. What I mean by that I'll
get to shortly.

In this case the premise has a couple of degenerate criminals
(Carradine and Hannah, having the time of their lives in these parts,
with Carradine being sleazy as all get out, while Hannah has that
Juliette Lewis fluttery-crazy butterfly thing going on, like she could
kill something in a moment but seems calmer than what Lewis did in NBK)
with a daughter, and after a bad break-in the daughter is left behind
and the cops take her. She's turned over to child protective services
and, instead of going to some bad foster home, she's discovered by Nice
TV Movie Couple Moira Kelly and Vincent Spano. While she is a
photographer (conveniently tying in to how Carradine's character also
took photos at the scenes of his crimes), he is trying to build a house
from scratch as a contractor. Neither seem to fully grasp that their
newly adopted little girl is traumatized completely, having lived a
life that is kind of like a wild child, only with manic
criminal-killer-thief people. Drama ensues, and meanwhile her real
parents go on the long road to hell to track her down.

It's got a lot of elements of the 90's and I think that it's not as
strong as a lot of examples I could think of. But I think Strick
recognizes fully both the potential and the weaknesses in this
material; we know the good couple are going to be good and the bad
couple are going to be completely tasteless freaks. Where Strick goes
wrong is mostly near the end, and midway through, where he tries to go
for some planting and paying off by suddenly going into the girl's
point of view; it's a pretentious move (and also an odd thing to see,
say, children in a play with fairy tales being done up with... adults
acting with the kids, i.e. the Big Bad Wolf is an adult woman and the
kids are kids, but... huh, and then later this pays off or is supposed
to with the daughter in a scene in the woods). Strick also is addicted
to grandiose over-head shots, but without much purpose; this was his
first feature and in this, the big technical maneuvers - perhaps he was
taking a cue from Scorsese in some part, being the writer on Cape Fear
91 - he shows he's still trying to learn on the job and falling flat in
this area.

But with actors he's much stronger. If you like Carradine and like all
the more to see him being an unapologetic scumbag, then this is a movie
for you and then some (watch when he kicks the vending machine after
the other guy next to him won't kick it, as the first guy says, "Yeah,
I can't, I'm a prosecutor," to then Carradine's response after kicking
it hard, "It's alright, I'm a felon - see ya, counselor"), and Hannah
too has a lot of great scenes where she doesn't have to do much to get
under your skin while at the same time having a small piece of
vulnerability to her. She's like the more messed-up, grotty cousin of
Nicole Kidman here or something, and a moment where she tries to get
her daughter back, as coolly as she can, from a school recess, is
amazing.

Kelly and Spano may not have as entertaining roles, but they do a
commendable job and actually make this Good-Parent-Couple have
personality. Strick lets them be real people for a moment or two, like
an awkward sex scene (yeah, for some reason the door's open so if the
little girl wanted she could totally look in) where the main concern is
the squealing bed-springs. And all the while there's the little girl
Janie (Julia Devin); I wasn't sure at times how the filmmakers intended
her to be presented as a screwed-up and victim of abuse and trauma; she
cuts herself at times and then at others lashes out at people. I
would've liked to see just another piece, or more than one to give some
more context outside of the opening of the film for how Janie got this
way. The writing for her gets a little better near the end - planting
and payoffs, yey - but I also wondered if her placid expression for
much of the film was a way to make it easier on directing her. Who
knows! The Ties That Bind is really dumb for much of its run-time, and
I think it knows it. It gets by on throwing together the trashiest
parts of its genres, of familial dyfunctions on both ends, and while
Carradine and Hannah may be acting at times in another movie than Kelly
and Spano, the results don't feel too uneven to me. Not art, but a
guilty pleasure about what it means to be a parent, a child, and a
member of society.
<|_=00=_|>
To fully savor this movie, you have to realize that it attempts to
compete with iconic early-90s thrillers like "The Hand that Rocks the
Cradle" (1992), "Sleeping with the Enemy" (1991), "Cape Fear" (1991)
and the 80s flick that jump started the whole
family-centered-crime-thriller genre, "Fatal Attraction" (1987).

Released in 1995, "The Tie That Binds", is a bit late to the party, and
for that reason sometimes it feels like a contrived rehash of what
we've already seen, but it still delivers an entertaining ride. The
plot centers around a young girl who gets in the middle of a sort of
custody battle between two couples. But this custody battle is not
fought with legalities, it's fought with sharp metal objects and things
that tend to make people bleed through the head. It's a clearcut battle
of good vs. evil, so there's no moral ambiguity. Unless King Solomon
was drunk on mevushal, he wouldn't need to debate more than 2 seconds
on who deserves the kid. So the movie is more like a "run from the bad
guys" sort of thing, linear, sometimes predictable, but fun.

Daryl Hannah and Keith Carradine play a psychotic Bonnie & Clyde while
Moira Kelly and Vincent Spano play the most ideal yuppie parents anyone
could ever dream up. Thus the stage is set. Good performances all
around make this entertaining, although more cynical audiences may not
buy how extremely stereotypical each character is. But hey, we're on
the heels of the 80s where everything was clearcut black & white. Like
I said above, don't expect any heavy issues of morality or any question
of who is right and wrong. Just expect a straightforward game of "keep
away" but with a bunch of blood. As others have mentioned, the ending
chain of events is a little over the top, but heck. "Over the top" is
what this movie delivers.
<|_=00=_|>
The Tie That Binds tells a story of a couple who are suffering and
struggling after their adopted daughter is being reclaimed by her
biological parents that happens to be a murderous couple and would go
to any means necessary - legal or illegal - in doing so.It stars Daryl
Hannah and Keith Carradine as the violent couple,who are also tries to
harass the policeman that took their daughter away from them and the
social worker who took care of her at foster home.Meanwhile Vincent
Spano and Moira Kelly star as the adoptive couple who are in danger. It
was directed by Wesley Strick.

The producers tried to recapture the spirit of their successful movie
The Hand That Rocks The Cradle in this particular film.Despite of its
complexities and sophistication in the story,it does not manage to do
so as it came out mediocre in its genre.Too bad that the conclusion did
not serve well with many of the viewers including myself as it was
simply too implausible particularly when the young daughter was called
upon to do something weird at the conclusion for the safety of her
adoptive parents.Added to that,there was no depth into the characters
and the story lacks background on them particularly the murderous
couple.Some would also feel that this is one the worst films ever made
during the 90's.
<|_=00=_|>
Thoroughly repugnant and wretched melodrama has the foster couple to a
little girl terrorized by the child's psychopathic biological parents,
who are on the lam from the police. Warped, irresponsible picture with
thriller aspirations is more stupid than suspenseful. Director Wesley
Strick seems to have fallen asleep at the wheel, how else to explain
the piling up of one ludicrous situation atop another? Stars Daryl
Hannah and Keith Carradine can't even scrape together the semblance of
believability within this context, and both are at a loss (as the
"innocents", Moira Kelly and Vincent Spano don't have it quite as bad,
but their general lack of charisma puts them at a disadvantage
regardless). Tiresome, unsubtle junk. NO STARS from ****
<|_=00=_|>

Vincent Spano is timid as Russell in this ambitious suspense farce. The
following cast is pious. The costumes are casual. One of the fair movies
in
the genre, The Tie That Binds gives less suspenses. 6 out of
10.
