

You heard me.  Even if you prefer, say, Kevin Spacey's performance in `The
Usual Suspects' to Campbell Scott's here (to each his own), at least this is
a film that plays fair with us.  We begin at what is, from the protagonist's
point of view, the beginning of the tale; things happen that are interesting
in their own right and not simply because we know that there's meant to be a
mystery lurking somewhere; we are given information as we go along; and
later revelations actually explain earlier puzzles.  Mamet doesn't force us
through a maze.  Rather, he lets us watch someone else walk through the
maze, and it's a pleasure.

I'm determined not to spoil this pleasure, so I'm unable to say anything at
all, really, about what the movie's about.  I can't even tell you to what
the title refers.  I can't even tell you whether it refers to something
peripheral or central.  I'd better watch my mouth.  As the slogan of a
poster in the film says, in letters screaming above a drawing of a torpedoed
battleship, `Somebody talked.'  Not me.

All of the cast turn in good performances - that's right, all of them.  I'm
tired of remarks about how Rebecca Pidgeon got her role because she's the
director's wife.  It could well be true, and it could also be true (for all
I know) that she's an actress of minor abilities, but her abilities are more
than sufficient to make us believe in the character she plays here.  How,
exactly, is she so very different from Campbell Scott, or from Steve Martin,
who, everyone will surely concede, gave the performance of his life?  This
just isn't the kind of story suited to emoting-while-pretending-not-to
acting.  All of the characters must dissemble in front of at least one other
of the characters (THAT gives nothing away, trust me), and all of them are
just a little bit unsettling.

I'll close by putting in a word for Carter Burwell's score.  The music
consists of a single labyrinthine tune, which twists about until we THINK
we've caught it, and then stops: it provides a perfect thumb-nail sketch of
the film as a whole.  Also like the film as a whole, it's simply fun. 
Unlike so many directors Mamet doesn't act as if he's working in a
disreputable genre, in which it's somehow bad form to allow the audience to
have too good a time.
<|_=00=_|>

What is so clever about this movie?

First:  The dialogue is so wonderfully quirky and packed full of nuances. It
was a delight to wait for the next round of words in each scene. The
character played by Rebecca Pidgeon offered the best delivery of all the
actors.  Her vocal cadences were sheer fun to experience.

Second: It perfectly paced right down to the wonderfully offbeat and
unexpected ending.  It is NOT a slow moving film.  Even if the drama unfolds
methodically: 

**WHAT is wrong with audiences today?  WHY must every movie go faster than
the Can-Can scene in "Moulin Rouge"?  I get ill when I read yet another
review which reveals the impatience and lack of concentration skills of the
viewer.  You want slow pace?  Try Theo Angelopoulos!

Third:  The cast is perfect for every role.  Campbell Scott, Steve Martin,
Rebecca Pidgeon, Felicity Huffman, Ben Gazzara and Ricky Jay.  Each of them
bring a special character to each performance.

Fourth:  Movies like this, that don't feed you every morsel of the plot
expectation in the first 15 minutes are a welcome breath of fresh air every
time they are released.

Congratulations on a most memorable movie to Mamet and company.


<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this film in 1998 at the theater and it became one
of my favorites ever since. I have since watched every Mamet film I ran
into, they were very good, but I believe this one's his best film yet.
The story follows Joseph Ross (Campbell Scott), a salaried
mathematician who's invented some truly valuable system that will make
a fortune for his company. We meet him as he goes on vacation and
befriends with a seemingly multi-millionaire who calls himself Julian
"Jimmy" Dell (Steve Martin). Ross is then drawn into a big conspiracy
surrounds his valuable "system". I won't go into the details so that i
won't spoil the surprises and there are many. All the actors involved
gives their best, most notable are Rebecca Pigeon as Susan, Joseph's
pretty and sophisticated secretary and for Steve Martin, who was very
refreshing to see in a serious role. The film has some unique and
intelligent dialogs often appear in David Mamet's works. The twists are
very surprising but MAKE SENSE, something that a lot of film makers
have to learn these days. Overall an intelligent gem of a film you will
not forget easily. Thumbs up and 10/10. Highly Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Joseph Ross is a researcher for a major corporation.  He is in the
Caribbean
for a business trip to discuss his invention with the heads of the firm -
a
formula that stands to make the company very, very rich.  While on the
trip
he meets the charismatic Jimmy Dell who he does a favour for and gradually
befriends.  As Joe starts to realise that his employers are trying to
squeeze him out for his just deserves, Jimmy starts to offer him
understanding and legal help to secure his end.

I first discovered this film on late night sky about 5 years ago now and
was
very taken by it.  Later I got to see it again when I had a free weekend
of
FilmFour (this weekend in fact!) and I was happy to see it again.  The
film
is a con, from start to finish it is what the tagline claims - never what
it
seems.  The whole audience know this and therefore are ready for twists
and
turns and it is to the film's credit that the twists are still gripping
and
enjoyable even if we expect it.  The film has a very slow pace and is
quite
unshowy all the way.

In one regard this is to it's detriment but it does create a film that is
unassuming and all the more surprising for it.  However the lack of fire
works also meant that it never got the audience it deserved.  I believe
that, if it had gone more dramatic and tense that it would have played
better in multiplexes and drawn in less patient audiences.

In a rare (at the time) serious role, Martin is actually very good.  He
may
not have a great character but he does a really good job with the two
sides
of his performance - even if the darker side is more revealed through
Joe's
fate than it is through his performance.  Scott is good but is forced to
play a rather bland simple man - meaning that his performance was rather
bland at times.  The support cast is good and features several Mamet
regulars including the charismatic and distinctive Ricky Jay.  Talking of
Mamet, he is great as writer and director and this is yet another film
that
justifies his reputation in my mind.

Overall this is a great film that will engage you and entertain you with
it's twisty and enjoyable plot.  It may lack the fireworks or heavy slick
style of other films of the genre but it is all the better for it.
Criminally under seen and deserves to be discovered.
<|_=00=_|>

Steve Martin in a serious role in a Mamet film is reason enough to see "The
Spanish Prisoner", which I believe gets its name from a type of sucker scam
of the same name. And that's what this film is about. A young professional
invents "the process" which is very valuable to his company but he is
worried he will not get compensated well enough. This seed of doubt, which
others around him recognize, sets into motion a whole series of secrets and
deceptions.  The dialog is snappy as in all Mamet writing, and you either
really like the style a lot, or you don't.  I really like it.  The various
twists get a bit hard to follow, and it is the kind of movie you have to see
at least twice for full benefit.  It is not a great film, but a worthy
one.

Beside Steve martin in his serious role, which he pulls off very well, the
film also has Ben Gazzara and Mamet's wife, Rebecca Pidgeon who is very good
in one of the key roles in this film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is definitely a "thinking man's" suspense film that references
thrillers of yore. I was reminded of two old films in particular:
"North by Northwest" and "Charade". Both of these movies concern a
mysterious goal and questions about identity.

The high stakes involved are established in the first scene of the
movie with the introduction of "The Process", a vaguely defined
procedure or product that will make the company funding it very rich.
Joe Ross, the inventor of "The Process", is soon marked for an
elaborate con game and finds his world tipped upside down with no one
being exactly who they seem.

A brief consideration of the plot will quickly reveal holes but plot
really isn't the point of the film. It's the ideas presented here that
make the film fascinating. Even the title "The Spanish Prisoner" that
supposedly references an ancient confidence game doesn't make much
sense. The actual confidence game that plays out on the screen bears
little resemblance to the Spanish Prisoner as described. In fact, the
Spanish Prisoner confidence sounds more like the basic structure of the
cinematic thriller (the guy gets the money and the princess). It is
this basic structure that Mamet twists just a little. A good example of
this is the use of the "innocent remark" that triggers a memory of
something essential. A mother berating her child become the example of
this in the film but rather than making her remark once (as is usually
done in such films) she repeats it over and over again. In doing this,
Mamet is hitting us over the head with the comment's significance and
calling attention to it as a cinematic convention.

Ultimately, what are interesting are the ideas being presented: the
effects of deception, the slipperiness of identity and the ambiguity
present in all our lives. All of these ideas are communicated via
characters' comments and various objects with some kind of metaphoric
meaning. For example, the film creates an interesting metaphor with
Joe's glasses. At one point, Susan, his secretary, asks him to take
them off as if asking him to stop looking at the world through
"rose-colored glasses" and see her (and the world for who and what they
really are). I wonder if Susan was truly drawn to him at this point and
offering him a real relationship if he will only see it. However, he
puts his glasses back on and gently rebuffs her. Susan, rejected,
becomes committed to a course that will find her ultimately betraying
him. Later, when Joe goes to the only person who appears to be his ally
and finds him dead, his glasses (with a bloody fingerprint) are left on
the table next to the body. He does not wear the glasses for the rest
of the film, symbolic of his finally seeing world around him for what
it is: untrustworthy and duplicitous.

Joe is referred to, somewhat disparagingly throughout the film, as a
"boy scout." In fact, the film initially seems to be somewhat
contemptuous of "nice guys" in general as it is this characteristic of
Joe's that the grifters use to their advantage. Whereas most cons
appeal to victims' baser instincts, this one appeals to higher ones.
While this appears to be Joe's weakness, cleverly, it is also presented
as one of his strengths. There are two times when the con goes awry and
both times it is because of Joe's "boy scout" nature. The first is when
Joe thoughtfully substitutes the worn-out book given him by Jimmy (to
deliver to Jimmy's "sister") with a better copy and keeps the tattered
book. The second time is towards the end of the film when Joe helps a
woman struggling with her young child through airport security. The
mother's comments (as mentioned earlier) spark Joe's memory. In
addition, as Joe and the security guard help the woman through, the
security guard misses the bag containing the gun handed to Joe by
Susan. Unknowing, Joe leaves it behind in his hurry to get back to New
York; narrowly avoiding an arrest that surely would have ended all his
efforts to free himself from his nightmare. The screen with the x-rayed
image of the gun is the only image in the move that we see and Joe
doesn't. While it broadcasts an interesting twist, I think the scene
was included to also punctuate the idea that "maybe nice guys don't
always finish last".

However, even Joe's good behavior can't protect him from everything
and, to save him, Mamet employs the "deus ex machina" a tried and true
method of rescuing the protagonist in suspense films of this ilk. Many
a hero has appeared doomed only to have help from some totally
unexpected and obscure corner. But even this convention is twisted a
bit as the Japanese US Marshall who ultimately saves Joe actually
appears in previous scenes.

In conclusion, The Spanish Prisoner is a film that entertains you while
it's on and leaves you pondering a bit after it's done.
<|_=00=_|>


This movie wasn't filled with sex, violence, filthy language or anything
like that. It relied on solid characters, an awesome story and excellent
directing, something totally unheard of in Hollywood today. It makes me cry
to think that no one has heard of this great thriller, but Crap-fests like
"Armageddon" make trillions of dollars at the box office. If you haven't
seen it yet, don't listen to anyone's opinion, don't read any summaries of
the plot. The less you know, the better it will be. The Spanish Prisoner was
the first movie in a while to make me THINK. Go see it if you like thought
provoking mysteries. This show is awesome.
<|_=00=_|>

	It's hard to say that 'The Spanish Prisoner' is the best film of the year,
because it quite obviously isn't. It's more like a filmed play in that many
of it's locations, especially those in the Carribean, look positively fake.
What can be said, is that the film is the year's most complex and
interesting film, and one of the best.

	The script by acclaimed playwright David Mamet (Who also wrote 1997's The
Edge) is stunning, excellent with a perfect, credible plot. It's a wonder
how anyone could even come up with such a great story.

	The acting is also very good. Campbell Scott, who we have never and likely
never will see much of is well cast and delivers the flick's best
performance. A-List star Steve Martin skips the big bucks for a good script,
and it's a wonder he ended up with this project in the first place, an
unlikely but excellent career move. The rest of the cast is unremarkable
when put up against Scott and Martin, but still good on their own
right.

	If you have a liking for complicated, though-provoking puzzle-like films
'The Spanish Prisoner' is highly, highly recommended, as is the similar,
more accessible 'The Game'. Very intriguing and absorbing 'The Spanish
Prisoner' is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
David Mamet's "The Spanish Prisoner" has been described by the
writer-director as being "a light, romantic, Hitchcockian thriller."
The film lacks the visual strengths of Hitch, of course, but it makes
up for this with a clever script and a series of neat twists toward its
end. 

The plot? Campbell Scott plays Joe Ross, an unassuming guy who has
invented a mysterious process worth a lot of money. Joe's boss promises
to compensate him richly for the process, but Joe is sceptical. Will he
really be paid for his work? Joe's growing nervousness is subtly stoked
by Jimmy Dell (played by Steve Martin), a charming and apparently
wealthy new friend who...well, to say anything more about the film
would be to spoil the fun. Suffice to say that "Prisoner" delights in
subverting expectations, and continues Mamet's trend of casting
comedians (Steve Martin, Danny Devito, Tim Allen, Ed O'Neil) in
serious, tough guy rolls; Mamet's all about scrambling preconceptions.

"The Spanish Prisoner" lacks the big set-pieces "necessary" to draw in
the blockbuster crowd, but it's nevertheless well written. Of course
the key word here is "written". Mamet's films are oft exercises in
style, but unlike most of cinema's stylists, he sculpts entirely with
the pen. He's playing with words, with syntax and rhythm, his
characters often even pausing to discuss linguistics and the "nature"
of words themselves. They argue over the meaning of words, of
literature, and often stop to question the motivation of another
character's use of a certain word. For Mamet, language and prose are
merely tools for persuasion, and cinema is itself the ultimate card
trick, language the ultimate con.

8/10 - The joy of Mamet is in recognising how carefully he straddles
the line between cliché and genius, taking the conventional beats of
the thriller/con/heist genre and using them to sing his own tune.
<|_=00=_|>
I finally got to see this film again. I love this film. But I realized
after another viewing with a savvy partner that there are just too many
holes in the plot and Mamet isn't quite as clever as we first think or
would like to believe. Too many plot twists just don't make sense on
second viewing. I'd always recommend this movie.. it's fascinating and
has great performances but I think the audience is easily tricked into
finding it brilliant. Maybe someone can explain why Martin's character
is so easily found in the car showroom. Did I miss something there? And
what if Campbell Scott's person had actually tried to deliver the
tennis book directly to Martin's sister. That would have been the end
of the story, period.
