

You will have to chalk me up as belonging to that camp of viewers who
actually *wanted* to see a truly horrid film (as based on all the negative
reviews) only to discover to our delight that there was a gem of a movie
hiding there all along.

For me, watching the film was a *great* escapist experience. I felt
exactly
what the character played by David Thewlis would have felt, had I been in
a
similar "lost in the middle of the ocean, end up on a strange island" sort
of predicament. The movie did a superb job of instantly whisking me away
to
a strange and beautiful and ominous place - the Island of Dr. Moreau - and
I
found myself staying with the fantasy the whole way through.

The cinematography was just beautiful, and if you have ever been in or
near
the tropics, the filming and the movie setting did an awesome job of
conveying that hot, thick, humid, teeming-with-life feel that can only be
found in the tropics.

I really enjoyed the eery background music, it really added to the overall
creepiness of the whole weird "mad-science-gone-amok" theme of the story.
Plus that scene where David Thewlis first encounters Faruiza Balk, and she
starts to dance to that utterly hypnotic and awesome Balinese music, was
just too spine-tingling for words. I only regret that I haven't been able
to
locate any soundtrack information yet on the movie, so I don't know who
played that song, but the whole scene was absolutely and truly memorable.
I'd watch it again just for that song and dance scene alone.

I noticed that many people didn't like the acting or the
characterizations.
I, on the other hand, felt that the four main characters (Brando, Kilmer,
Thewlis, and Balk) were flawless in their depiction of a familiar tale.
Brando was admittedly "weird" - but hey, give the guy his due, he was
SUPPOSED to be a weird, crazed scientist. What were you expecting, the
Maytag Repairman? Kilmer was deliciously evil, can't say enough good about
Val Kilmer, he's always been one of my very favorite actors, and he DID
NOT
disappoint in this film, either. Balk, as mentioned above, was just
awesome
(and I REALLY liked the scene where she and "father" Brando had their
moment
of emotional bonding). Thewlis was right spot-on with his interpretation
of
an innocent "sane" observer who barely made it off this mad-house of an
island without totally losing his own sanity. I think I would have done
exactly as he had done, in his circumstances. Well Acted!
Bravo!

One scene that didn't work for me was early on when the man-beasts were
shown to be delivering a hideous-looking baby from a hideous-looking
beast-woman. I don't know, but somehow I felt that it should have been Dr.
Moreau and Montgomery (Brando and Kilmer) who should have been the doctors
doing the delivery. Nevertheless, it was a truly creepy
scene.

Finally, I thought the movie was well-stocked with thought-provoking
comments on the morality of scientific experimentation. The scene at the
dinner table, where Brando expounds on his personal views, comes to mind,
as
does the final parting comments, voiced by Thewlis. I had to watch the
movie
several times just to hear those words. They will REALLY make you think. I
truly believe this movie should be seen and actively discussed by students
at high school or college level - not just in science prep classes, but
philosophy and social science courses as well. I don't care what the
naysayers have to say, this was by no means an empty or shallow
movie.

So, go take a trip to the Island of Dr. Moreau. You won't come back
unchanged.... 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie gets a bad rap -- viewers say Brando plain sucks and that it
butchers a good Wells story. Perhaps the latter is true, but I consider
Brando, as the mad doctor, a fine choice and, while he is rather subdued,
he
is still the candid, self-conscious actor we all know and love. He
practically mumbles his lines as his mouth is lined with cotton and
(probably) cheeseburgers. And, the scene where Brando plays piano along
with
his "pre Mini-Me" sidekick is a classic. Now, I know Brando refused to
learn
his lines for this movie and Kilmer is known for being a real ass to work
with, but the in-production feuds add to the aura of this film. These
characters aren't supposed to like each other and the tension fills the
air.
The special effects are top notch, albeit gruesome and a bit overdone. It
all adds to the feel of the movie. I have this movie on tape and watch it
again and again, alongside "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas," "Taxi
Driver,"
"Rear Window" and "Dr. Strangelove." If you thought you shouldn't see this
based on other user's comments, put your expectations aside and just
enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

David Thewlis, looking like he's wandered in from another film, is totally
miscast in this much-troubled version of the HG Wells classic.

After being rescued by toothy vet Val Kilmer and taken to the eponymous
location, our Mancunian UN hero comes across cat girl Fairuza Balk and the
balloon-like doc (Marlon Brando), all pasty-faced and with an Ealing comedy
accent. 

Marlon hasn't just been doing beached whale impressions on this exotic isle.
You see, mad old Moreau has been messing around with gene-splicing and has
created a race of humanoid beasts - courtesy of effects whiz Stan Winston.

He controls them with electric shock implants and is so taken with his work,
has little other defence when the beasts inevitably start running wild. In
essence, it all goes a bit Jurassic Park. 

There are a few good points in this mish mash. A stunning opening titles
scene - very necessary considering the lack of any adventure for the first
10 minutes; Thewlis' extraordinary presence; and an okay finale. In fact,
any scenes without Brando and Kilmer are quite fascinating. This is partly
down to the Richard Stanley screenplay which boasts some flashes of
brilliance amid much re-worked studio editing and re-jigging.

 This is one of those films where the making of the movie is perhaps more
intriguing than the final product. Stanley, the film's original director,
was fired and banned from the set. He actually went back, dressed up as a
dog man extra, and watched the rest of the production unfold. Had he been
allowed to finish his directing chores and had final cut, the result would
probably have been a thousand times better. 

However, John Frankenheimer does a fair job under the circumstances.
<|_=00=_|>
Most people seem to dismiss it, if not hate it. Certainly the critics.
But. really - we get a Brando performance that again displays his
long-held dismissal of Hollywood-ism, we get Val Kilmer hamming it up
joyously (even to the point of repeatedly doing Brando impressions), we
get David Thewliss (a damn fine actor) actually playing the most
important character with admirable commitment, we get cat-eyed Fairuza
Balk (yum!), we get the great Ron Perlman, playing a beast yet again,
pretty much stealing the movie, we get something that is Dr. Moreau's
constant companion, becoming a pop-culture icon thanks to South Park -
as Chef puts it "what the hell are you supposed to be? You don't look
like anything". Outstanding photography, effective tropical
suggestibility (you can almost feel the humidity), excellent animal
make-up, some truly memorable scenes (the birthing scene, the
Hyena-Moreau confrontation) and even a sense of philosophical
examination. And though the story of this insane scientist attempting
to humanize animals has been done several times, only this one goes to
the extreme of showing us that he's even created a bunch of tiny rat
people! What a loon. Too much enjoyment for a movie so slammed.
<|_=00=_|>

This wasn't as bad as I had been led to believe and was often nightmarish
as
well as gripping. I understand it was a troubled production and that may
explain the uneven lurches in action. This film was saved by the excellent
and committed performances by the actors who played the animals, who were
really heartbreaking. Wells himself had an ambivalent attitude to the human
race and was said to have had certain facist sympathies. However, Any
philisophical points tended to be drowned by the rather garish direction.
Brando's accent seemed wrong for the modern day setting of the film as
well.
A sad and distressing film that is well worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not sure if that is the exact quote from the movie, but I think
altogether too many reviewers of this film go on four. I really enjoyed
this move for its story, the acting and the way it conveyed its many
messages. One guy even had the gall to describe it as a bad Jurassic
Park. Now that was a bad movie. Great special effects for the time
perhaps but a paper thin story that failed to explore its subject and
the implications thereof. This movie makes no such mistake. It explores
themes of what it means to be human, whether ends justify means, and
what is moral or immoral from different perspectives. It even explores
the nature of good and evil to some degree. There are far too few
movies, especially these days, that have this kind of depth and leave
you, ultimately, to be the judge. Yes, it is disturbing; its meant to
be. Yes, it is dark; its meant to be. It makes you think and leaves and
indelible impression. It certainly has its flaws but if you can see
past them, then perhaps you go on two legs, even though its hard.
<|_=00=_|>
David Thewlis is very good as air-crash survivor who is taken to
mysterious island in the South Pacific where recluse Marlon Brando
mutates various animals with human genes; Fairuza Balk is Brando's
daughter, Val Kilmer (in arguably his weakest performance ever) plays
Brando's assistant. Uncontrolled version of H.G. Wells' horror story is
crippled by behind-the-scenes strife and ego clashes. It opens well,
sustains itself for about forty-five minutes, but then goes completely
to hell afterward. John Frankenheimer is credited with the scrappy
direction, though he stepped in mid-production and finished the picture
after Kilmer had the original director canned. Too bad, with more focus
this could've been incredible. Story previously filmed in 1933 (as
"Island of Lost Souls") and with Michael York and Burt Lancaster in
1977. ** from ****
<|_=00=_|>

I still don't understand why this film generates such negative reviews.
What
is it people were expecting? Maybe people still don't get Brando. Brando
doesn't "act," he just IS and he's never been one for memorizing lines;
it's
never been about the words he says anyway, so why shouldn't he have the
lines taped to the table, to the foreheads of other actors, etc. It's all
about how he gestures and becomes the part and maybe just says whatever
comes into his head as the character anyway.

I will admit it took me two viewings before I got into the film myself,
but
I've seen it more than 10 times by now and it still holds up. It's
beautifully photographed for one thing and the tension on the set between
the actors -- especially Val Kilmer and Brando adds to the tension of the
film itself. If for no other reason than to see the original "Minnie Me"
in
action, rent this and try to keep an open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
It's an excitingly produced remake of ¨Island of the lost souls¨ with
Marlon Brando heading a solid casting as a nutty doctor who develops a
process of transforming animals into half-humans at an desolated
tropical island . Through DNA experimentation Brando has upset the
balance of nature. By turning animals into humans, he's turned heaven
into hell . It starts when David Thewlis is rescued at sea by Val
Kilmer and brought to a strange island where he's terrified to discover
the terrible genetic experiments realized by Dr. Moreau , a former
prize Nobel winner .

Passable horror-fantasy chiller that is developed up and down with some
lousy moments and in other side contains eerie and thrilling scenes. It
results to be a strong rendition of H.G. Wells' novel about an isolated
scientific who has spent several years creating half-animals turning
beasts into half-human . Good secondary cast as Fauriza Balk , William
Hootkins and Temuera Morrison . Ron Perlman's sturdy acting ,
displaying a magnificent portrayal of one of the beasts . Watchable by
excellent makeup by the late Stan Winston . Colorful cinematography
filmed in Queensland , Australia , by the classic cameraman William A.
Fraker and atmospheric musical score by Gary Chang . The motion picture
is middlingly directed by John Frankenheimer and the director's cut
version runs several minutes more . The movie will appeal to Brando
devotees and Val Kilmer fans who will want to check out their excessive
performances . Other adaptation based on H.G. Wells' known novel are
the following : The classic of 1933 titled ¨The island of lost souls¨
by Erle C. Kenton with Charles Laughton , Kathleen Burke , Bela Lugosi
and Richard Arlen ; and 1977 retelling by Don Taylor with Burt
Lancaster , Michael York , Barbara Carrera and Nigel Davenport .
<|_=00=_|>
This is a something different when it was released, yet not so in the
film world as it was first made into a movie in the 1930s and was
called "Te Island Of Lost Souls." This re-make produced some
fascinating and gruesome human- monsters. You can thank Hollywood FX
wizard Stan Winston for these creatures.

Meanwhile, Marlon Brando and Val Kilmer "play God" attempting to create
perfect human beings. What is created instead are "people" you almost
don't want to look at. It took me two viewings to be okay with it. The
first viewing left a bad taste in my mouth, but I gave it a second (and
a third) look because the story is so different and intriguing. I liked
Brando's dialog, too. His role, as "Dr. Moreau," was easily the best in
the film.

What else is a bit unusual is that almost all the main characters in
this are killed off by the end, some with sudden surprise.

Back in the '90s, this was one of the best-looking DVDs I had seen up
to that point.
