

This is one of those movies where you feel "all is right with the world"
when it's over. It is inspirational - in the midst of the violence and
profanity that occurs in life, it reminds you that there are still good,
honest and decent people. I admire the fact that a wonderful movie was
created without nudity, very little violence or excess profanity (were
there
4-letter words in the movie?). I admit, it's somewhat of a fantasy that
good
things happen only to good people and bad things to bad people - but it
makes you feel good about the outcome all the same.
<|_=00=_|>

It is not that a movie such as "Where The Heart Is" comes along and
makes an impression so huge that you don't want to see it end. This is
exactly what happened to me when I sat down to watch "Where The Heart
Is."

Within the first few moments of the film, I knew it would be special;
this reason is Natalie Portman. Portman has a unique look of innocence
that cannot be pulled off by many actresses as she does with her
character, Novalee Nation. I couldn't wait for the next scene she would
be in because of the physical beauty she possesses and the beauty in
the performance she gives.

Complimenting the performance of Portman is that of Ashley Judd. As I
was watching Judd and Portman, I could tell that these are two
actresses who knew exactly what the other would say and do the moment
before it was actually done. Ashley Judd lights up the screen every
SINGLE time she arrives in a scene. It is a no wonder she is the best
at what she does.

Another reason I liked "Where The Heart Is" relates to the double
story lines of Portman's character determined to raise her daughter by
herself while trying to make a career in photography. The other
storyline revolved around the ex-boyfriend trying to make a name for
himself in country music.

The cool thing is that these are hobbies of mine and whenever I saw a
camera or heard country music it brought a smile to my face. Not only
are these hobbies of mine but they are both testaments to what can be
done if one works hard enough to attain a specific goal. 

The story is one that will take you on a journey through the depths of
your heart, soul, and end up in your head relaying the message that
"Where The Heart Is" is a phenomenal movie.

"Where The Heart Is" is not only my favorite film but the best film of
2000. GO SEE THIS WONDERFUL WORK OF ART.

<|_=00=_|>

     Where the Heart Is is a special kind of movie.  City of Angels, Message
in a Bottle, and Where the Heart Is all have that special ingredient that
just grabs the viewer and holds him or her until the very last tear flows
from their eye.  
Natalie Portman is very well cast in her role as Novalee Nation, a 20 year
old pregnant woman who decides to move to California with her boyfriend. 
The sad thing is, when her and her boyfriend stop at a Wal-Mart in the
middle of Oklahoma, he leaves her behind, and moves on without her. 

     The movie follows her life after she realizes that her boyfriend has
left her stranded, and is not coming back.  A very unique screenplay allows
this movie to radiate a love for Novalee, and allows the viewers to develop
a friendship with her.  
     Lexie Coop (Ashley Judd) becomes Novalee's best friend when they meet
in the hospital after Novalee has her baby.
Where the Heart Is has everything it takes to be a great movie.  The choice
of actors is superb, and the direction is wonderful.  Of course with every
movie made, at least all that I have viewed, there was a few things wrong
with the movie.  For instance, Novalee's mother abandoned her when she was
about 8 years old.  Right after she gives birth to her baby, her mother
shows up by her side, and quite frankly, nothing ever becomes of that scene.
 It's completely irrelevant.  Also, there is the whole living in Wal-Mart
for six weeks thing to consider.  I mean can that really happen? 

     At any rate, by no means should these `mistakes' thwart your intention
of watching this movie, it a real tearjerker, and I believe the best date
movie since For Love of the Game.

<|_=00=_|>
A young pregnant girl (Natalie Portman) gets left in a small Oklahoma
town by her loser boyfriend (Dylan Bruno) on their way to California
from Tennessee. Portman is literally stranded at the local Wal-Mart and
then becomes a national celebrity when she gives birth late one night
at the store. Local gardener Stockard Channing and her live-in lover
(Richard Jones) take the youngster and her child in as Portman gets the
opportunity to work for Wal-Mart. Immediately we are introduced to a
whole host of vivid characters. There is nurse Ashley Judd who is
rearing five young children of her own, department store photographer
Keith David and shy librarian James Frain who is taking care of his
alcoholic older sister (Margaret Ann Hoard). And we even get a short
glimpse of Portman's trashy, money-hungry mother (an
electrically-charged cameo for Sally Field). Time passes, and Portman
experiences life, love, triumph, tragedy and everything in between as
she makes the small Oklahoma town her own. Smart drama that never loses
its way and stays interesting due to Portman's show-stopping
performance. The rest of the cast is right on key as well as fellow
"Heat" alum Judd does a deceptively deep and heartfelt job. The movie
works due to a steady pace, strong direction and a totally
under-appreciated script. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit having a bias towards sci-fi, action adventure,
mystery, conspiracy films, etc. I have sat through "Steel Magnolias"
and "Fried Green Tomatoes" with my wife, and while I can admit they are
well-made movies, I have never been too keen on movies with an
all-female or predominantly female cast. I have also never cared much
for Sally Fields' movies. (Perhaps I always think of her from the
"Bandit" movies...) My first impression from all the trailers was that
"Where the Heart Is" was nothing more than another "chick-flick" that I
would, no doubt, find well-produced, but forgettable. I was wrong.

Natalie Portman registers a great performance as a meek and downtrodden
pregnant teen who learns early in life that "our lives can change with
every breath." Ashley Judd puts in an Oscar worthy performance in her
supporting role as the older, married friend who has trouble finding
the right man to be the father of her children. Stockard Channing plays
the unforgettable "Sister Husband" who takes the young girl and her
newborn child in, and Sally Fields makes a momentary appearance as the
young girl's absentee mother, one of the highlights of the film. Fields
has deepened my respect for her as an actress with her five minutes of
film time like no other actor/actress ever has. Joan Cusack appears as
a talent manager in the film's sub-plot and is phenomenal in her brief
on-screen time as well. Yes, there are men in the film, veteran David
Keith and James Frain among them, but for the most part, this film
relies on the vision of the world through the eyes of its female leads.
I loved this film- the comedy, the drama, the love story... I laughed,
and although I hate to admit it, being a tough guy and all, I cried -
several times - during this wonderful film about learning to be content
with what we have and learning to appreciate how unique and special
everyone and everything is.
<|_=00=_|>
A harmless little "chick flick"? Nothing more than an attempt by
Natalie Portman to try anything before she's pigeon-holed in her Star
Wars persona and can't get other roles because of it (a la Mark
Hamill)? No, on both counts. Where the Heart Is will surely be labeled
as a "chick flick", but the truth is that a good movie is a good movie,
and a bad one a bad one, regardless of what its target demographic is.
Where the Heart Is is nothing short of a very, very good film. The
story is original and the acting and dialogue are outstanding. Natlie
Portman may best be known as Queen Amidala, but she should be known as
one of the best young actresses in the business. She simply shines in
this movie. I recommend this film to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>

i love this movie so much. I thought it was gonna be a funny but stupid
film. but it was totally opposite of it. The movie was very sweet and
touching. people say that it's a fantasy movie or it's a really fake movie.
but forget whole walmart and #5 thing. this movie is about relationship
between people and people get what they deserve!
<|_=00=_|>

What can really be said about a movie that can alter your world in just a
few short hours?  I went into this movie not exactly expecting much, mainly
there because the amazing and beautiful Natalie Portman was starring in it.
What I soon saw was a harmonious blend of love, sadness, hardship, and
every
human emotion I can even imagine.  The only thing that eclipses the intense
emotions you feel in this movie are the performances turned out by a
perfectly assembled group of some of the finest actors out there.  Natalie
Portman, Ashley Judd, Stockard Channing, Joan Cusack, just to name a few.
The only thing that should be keeping you from seeing this movie is...well,
I can't even think of an excuse that should be keeping you from seeing this
heart-warming and enchanting story.  This movie has changed my life, as I
am
sure it will any others who are fortunate enough to view
it.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a bittersweet human-interest story with a side order of
romance.  The story has a country flavor, plenty of country music and a
story that could serve as the film version of the typical lyrics of any
country music CD.  It is replete with bad decisions, bad luck and tragedies
at every turn.  It is sappy, corny, stereotypical, and unfortunately full of
the types of things that really happen in rural America.  Despite this
seething despondency, it has an upbeat fatalism that suggests that at least
for some of the people, the struggle against bad breaks and hard times pays
off.

The story follows the life of Novalee Nation (Natalie Portman), poor young
girl setting out to start a new life with her no account boyfriend.  When
Novalee makes a rest stop at a Wal-Mart in Oklahoma, he ditches her,
literally leaving her there barefoot and pregnant.  Having only five dollars
to her name, she takes up residence in the Wal-Mart and ultimately has the
baby there.  She becomes a minor celebrity and she is adopted by the Welcome
Wagon lady.  The remainder of the film examines the various relationships
and experiences she has in this small town over the next seven or eight
years.

The story is charming and steeped in sentiment.  The character development
of Novalee is excellent, although Director Matt Williams could have spent
more time on some of the supporting characters, especially Sister Husband
(Stockard Channing).  To his credit, the film was nicely shot, and the
tornado scene was fabulous.

Natalie Portman's performance was her best to date.  She played the part
with a near helpless determination that made her a very attractive and
lovable character.  Her southern accent was terrible, but her portrayal of
the rural southern attitude was on target.  Though the part didn't have a
lot of range, she was extremely effective with the emotional element, and
elicited great sympathy and admiration for her response to her desperate
situation.

Stockard Channing was wonderful as the eccentric Welcome Wagon lady.  I
would have liked to see this part expanded, just to see more of Channing. 
She was enchantingly warm and peculiar.  James Frain was also very good as
Forney.  He made the character very interesting and affable.  He continues
to be a solid supporting actor who has shown himself to be extremely
versatile (Hilary and Jackie, Reindeer Games, Titus).  Ashley Judd added
another fine performance to her resume, with a free spirited portrayal of
Lexie.

This was a nice story with an agreeable and upbeat ending.  I rated it a
7/10.  Add a point if you are a woman or if you have ever lived in a mobile
home.  It will find its most enthusiastic audience with women due to its
extreme sentimentality, but it is not so `female' that it can't be enjoyed
by men, making it a good date movie.  
<|_=00=_|>

For the first 1:15 or so, I was really enjoying this sweet and funny movie
about a young girl (Novalee, played by Natalie Portman) dealing with being
pregnant and unmarried, who is abandoned by her boyfriend (Dylan Bruno) and
takes up residence (unknown to anyone) in a local Wal-Mart. After giving
birth to the baby in the store, she is swindled and abandoned by her mother
(Sally Field) but survives and flourishes thanks to the kindness of some
rather eccentric strangers.

So far, so good. Very enjoyable. But the last 45 minutes or so really
unravelled rather quickly. I questioned the need to continually bring us
back to Willie Jack's (the baby's father) attempts to get a singing career
going. None of his scenes really served to advance the plot in any way, and
quite frankly, the guy was a loser who abandoned his pregnant girlfriend. I
didn't care what happened to him - even though some of what happened was
poetic justice - and the movie could have been shortened by 20 or 30 minutes
- without losing a thing - if all his scenes had been simply cut. I also
felt that it was totally unnecessary to include (albeit - thankfully - only
for a few minutes) a theme about child molestation. Where did that come from
and why? It made a relatively enjoyable movie very heavy, and it was a
heaviness that - for me at least - never really disappeared. The end of the
movie (revolving around the relationship between Novalee and Forney (James
Frain) was also telegraphed quite early on. 

Having made those criticisms, the real highlight of the movie for me was
Natalie Portman as Novalee. I wasn't familiar with this young actress until
now, but she was marvellously cast as the sweet, innocent, naive young
Novalee, and then showed a wonderful capacity to show her character evolve
into a mature and independent young woman. (I have to say that, while the
movie seemed to be trying to say she was a great mother, she seemed to spend
a lot of time away from little Americus, but that's a minor point.) Portman
was excellent, and I will look forward to seeing her again.

This rates a 6/10. Would have been higher, except for the weak second
half.


