

	It's cold in the small hamlet of Mystery, Alaska, but there's plenty of
warmth in `Mystery, Alaska,' the film, directed by Jay Roach, about the town
and the sport that is ingrained in the collective consciousness of the
community.  Hockey is the game, and when a former resident, now a
journalist, writes a story about Mystery's home-town team and their
`Saturday Game,' and it ends up as a three page spread complete with
pictures in Sports Illustrated, it has far reaching effects on the populace
of this small dot on the map.  Soon the town is turned upside down,
embroiled in an event, the proportions of which, to them, are huge. 
Needless to say, it involves hockey and an encounter with a high-profile
professional team.  Yes, there is a lot of hockey in this movie, but be
advised, this film is not `about' hockey; this is a movie about people– real
people– and what makes them tick.  
	Roach has crafted a thoroughly entertaining and emotional story of want and
need, dignity and desire, obsession and love, and he's captured it all
through the winning performances of a stellar ensemble cast, the most
prominent of which is Russell Crowe.  The charismatic Crowe, finally on his
way to superstardom thanks to his turn in `Gladiator' plays John Biebe,
Mystery's sheriff and captain of the hockey team.  His rugged good looks and
persona fit the character perfectly, and he puts all of his myriad personal
resources to work to put it across, and that he does.  Also notable is the
personable Mary McCormack as John's wife, Donna, who does a great job of
fleshing out the character of this woman who made what she deems to be the
right choices in her life, without regrets or apologies to herself or anyone
else.  It's a refreshing portrayal, and the chemistry between her and Crowe
is unmistakable.  Also adding to the overall texture of this film are Hank
Azaria, as Charles Danner, the journalist who gets the whole thing rolling;
Burt Reynolds, as Judge Walter Burns, a man forced to deal with his own
personal issues, which include a son, Birdie (Scott Grimes), a member of the
hockey team; Colm Meany, as Scott Pitcher, Mayor of Mystery, and Lolita
Davidovich as his wife, Mary Jane; Maury Chaykin, as Bailey Pruitt, the man
who seems to personify the very essence of Mystery's spirit; and Ron Eldard
as `Skank,' another member of the team who's good for two things–suffice to
say that hockey is one of them.
	Mercifully, `Mystery, Alaska' never pursues the beat-the-dead-horse cliched
mentality that sports `teaches one to be a team player and builds
character.'  Instead, Roach has given us a worthwhile, memorable movie with
a human touch, and because of that, in the end these are people you care
about, as individuals as well as a community.  The climactic game is
exciting and far from predictable, beginning with the celebrity they bring
in to sing the National Anthem.  This may not be one of Russell Crowe's
biggest or highest profile movies, but this is one he's going to be able to
look back upon with pride, because it's right up there with his best. 
Remember, you don't have to be a sports fan to enjoy this movie; all that's
required is that you have a membership in the club know as Mankind.  I rate
this one 9/10.      
<|_=00=_|>

Mystery Alaska was one of the best comedies to come along in 1999. In
the best ensemble film fashion a truly eclectic cast forms the very
core of the story that is Mystery, Alaska. Hank Azaria turns in a
spectacular performance as "the ugly duckling" – a character not too
popular who escaped the town for fame and fortune in television sports.
He garners the small town some big time noteriety when the announces
that the New York Rangers will challenge a game against the locals pond
hockey team. Typical small town chaos ensues as all prepare for the big
event.

Russell Crowe, Burt Reynolds, Lolita Davidovich, Ron Eldard, Colm
Meaney, Mary McCormack all turn in fine performances contributing
nicely to the oddities inherent in any small town. 

While the story can seem a bit forced formulaic, David Kelly's script
and Jay Roach's directing bring a freshness and satisfaction that made
this one of 1999's best sleepers. 

A most watchable feel good movie.

<|_=00=_|>

The preview for this movie does not give the audience enough of an idea of
how well this movie actually plays out.  Russell Crowe is not just an
ill-mannered detective from Los Angeles, or a Gladiator from ancient Rome;
no, in Mystery, Alaska, he showed that he indeed has a nurturing, almost
lovable side to him.  
Mystery is a small, quiet town located smack dab in the middle of Alaska. 
It is a town where hockey is the most important thing in their lives.  There
are special "Saturday Games" where the town's Mayor, and two other board
members select a few townsfolk to play against each other for the enjoyment
of the other townspeople.  
When an article about this town and their hockey playing is published in
Sports Illustrated, The NHL decides that the N.Y. Rangers would play an
exhibition game in Mystery, Alaska for a little publicity. 

Throughout this movie, the people of Mystery band together and eventually
play their game against the Rangers....
This movie is well worth the $3.79 to rent, if you weren't one of the lucky
ones to see it in the theater.  As much as I enjoyed this movie, there was
one scene which was a little reminiscent of Varsity Blues.  The acting is
wonderful, and I think that everyone that gives this movie a chance will
appreciate the great story.

<|_=00=_|>
... That a film so seemingly inconsequential pays such care and
attention to its characters is to its utmost credit. Before viewing I
mistakenly assumed this was a gig Crowe took only because he needed the
career-boost. How wrong I was!

We've all essentially seen this before in one form or another;
underdogs band together to reaffirm pride for their history and
heritage, all thanks to the great leveller we've come to know as
'sports'. Sure, all the expected clichés are present, and I did get a
little annoyed at just how MUCH hockey was in the last segment,
considering I'd previously been enjoying the character details too much
to really care about the event that unifies them - but it's the rich
characterisation that prompts many a smile, delighted laugh and one or
two moments of poignancy. It's 'fuzzy' - and I guess perhaps
manipulative - without being sickening, and that must come down to
Kelley's background in the world of populist TV. There are enough sharp
lines to offset the sentiment, so you don't tend to bristle when it's
there!

Jay Roach really impressed me with this one, as it proves that he's
more than 'adept' enough to handle a little pathos, too; a branch of
comedy I somehow don't see the Austin Powers franchise extending
toward... ! Although the final game is a bit 'dull' from my
perspective, the hockey training scenes are inventively shot; keeping
the speed and fluency of a viscerally exciting spectacle. Burt Reynolds
again excels after "Boogie Nights", with a completely different
performance this time - 'quiet dignity' instead of brash smarm.

Really it's unfair to single out, though, from such a fantastic
ensemble. It's the sense of togetherness and perfect encapsulation of
small-town spirit that makes this work, and if you're searching for a
movie to lift your gloom then it's no 'Mystery' where you should look:
Alaska... ! 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
There are now over 100 reviews of this movie. And I guess my little
blog won't matter much. But I love this movie. Anyone who is into
hockey will surely fall in love with this movie.

Watch out for some of the language if you're going to have younger kids
watching.

The first time I saw this I was maybe 13 or 14 and I remember my buddy
(our goalie no less) telling me to relax. I guess I had my fists
clinched all during the game hoping the Rangers would lose.

Sorry if I sound biased. But I AM! Anything smelling of hockey grabs my
interest. (Pun intended. As anyone who has been in a locker room knows
that hockey players REEK) But, seriously, this movie was a lot better
than most hockey movies. I actually like this movie more than "Miracle"
which is another of my favourites.

So my thoughts are, if you like hockey even a little bit you better
check this one out if you haven't already.
<|_=00=_|>

I was drawn to this movie because I love hockey and Russell Crowe.  Both
are
seen to good advantage in this sweet movie. I thought it dragged in parts
and some of the drama is forced, but overall it was a enjoyable movie and
I
had a good time watching it.  It has a terrific cast - any movie with
Chaykin, Meaney, Ivey and Davidovitch as your supporting cast has a lot
going for it right there.
<|_=00=_|>
I had no idea at the time that I would enjoy a movie about hockey, and
I was right, because this movie had nothing really to do with
hockey.It's a great character based movie about a small town that makes
it big and the reason the town makes it big is because of it's people.
It's a great rocky type movie that makes you root for a small town and
it's wonderful characters. Russell Crowe is excellent as well as the
entire cast and a great turn by Burt Reynolds as the town judge and
coach. This is a very well crafted, witty , warm and realistic and just
a charming movie overall. Don't let the hockey fool you, this is a
movie about people and a quite enjoyable movie I may add.
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoyed this film.  It, as others have said, had great heart. The many
important subplots of the film were played out very convincingly by a fine
group of actors.  But the issues and how they came to be were only skimmed
over leaving you wanting to delve further - know more. The fairly realistic
ending would have had a much bigger impact if we could have felt closer to
the characters.  This great little story could have really hit the spot with
a closer look via a good long book.  
<|_=00=_|>

In a place where the sheriff is captain, the grocer is the marquee
player, a high school senior who is the rising star of the team, and
the town judge is the coach comes a hockey team from a small town on
the outskirts of greatness. 

Russell Crowe leads all-star cast that included Hank Azaria, Mary
McCormack, Lolita Davidovich, Ron Eldard, Colm Meaney, Maury Chaykin
and Burt Reynolds in "Mystery, Alaska." Full of hope, pride and
determination, "Mystery, Alaska" will capture the hearts of the
audience. A 13-year tradition in Mystery where everybody comes together
to participate in the Saturday game, a hockey game played every
Saturday, draws the interest of the National Hockey League and the New
York Rangers.

Azaria comes to propose this challenge to the townspeople of Mystery.
After some debate at a town meeting, the mayor accepts the challenge to
play the New York Rangers; the players must put their personal feelings
aside to win the game. This game between the team from Mystery and the
Rangers becomes a David and Goliath match-up, which ultimately comes
down to which team can outduel the other first. Can the team from
Mystery rise to the challenge given by the New York Rangers? 

Crowe is an actor that has brought integrity to his roles such as
Officer Bud White in "L.A. Confidential." Crowe, who received critical
praise as Bud White, brought the same amount of integrity to "Mystery,
Alaska," as soft-spoken Sheriff John Biebe. Burt Reynolds, who has
starred in Boogie Nights and received an Oscar nomination for his role
as Jack Horner, portrayed hard-nosed Judge Walter Burns in "Mystery
Alaska." Reynolds role as Judge Burns turned out to be very impressive
since it seemed that he took his time and enjoyed portraying the small
town judge/coach from Mystery.

Co-writers David E. Kelley and Sean O'Byrne as well as director Jay
Roach work in conjunction to make one of the best films in 1999.
Kelley, who has enjoyed success as producer of "The Practice," "Ally
McBeal", "Chicago Hope," "L.A. Law" and "Picket Fences," has brought
originality to the film. This film allows the audience to sit back,
relax and focus on putting themselves in the movie. 

"Mystery, Alaska" is a highly recommended film that should be seen by
everybody because it was performed by a talented cast, well-put
together by the writers and director, has a great plot, and noteworthy
performances by the actors.

<|_=00=_|>
In Mystery, Alaska, hockey is the pride and joy of the residents of the
small town. Their hockey game every Saturday is the greatest
entertainment of the locals that are proud of their amateur team. When
the reporter Charles Danner (Hank Azaria), who moved to New York many
years ago, returns to Mystery by helicopter, he meets Mayor Scott
Pitcher (Colm Meaney) and proposes a game against the powerful New York
Rangers to be broadcast live. The captain of the team and sheriff John
Biebe (Russell Crowe) is cautious and warns that the other team is
professional and their team might become a national joke and destroy
the proud of the locals. But Mystery challenges the Rangers and the
Mayor invests money building a facility around the pond for the game.
Meanwhile Charles rekindles the feelings of his former high- school
sweetheart Donna Biebe (Mary McCormack), who is married with John with
three children. While the hockey players live their daily problems and
dramas, the Rangers call off the event bringing frustration to the
population of Mystery. But the lawyer Bailey Pruitt (Maury Chaykin)
travels to New York to defend the game in court and the challenge is
scheduled. Who will win the game?

"Mystery, Alaska" is a surprisingly great film and certainly better
than any viewer can expect. The storyline has many subplots, some of
them funny but others dramatic. The cast is excellent and the hockey
game is engaging. In the end, the hockey game is only the motive to see
pleasant subplots. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Esquentando o Alasca" ("Heating the Alaska")
