
A decade ago, this Arnold Schwarzenegger action flick was fairly hot
stuff but I wonder if it would have the impact today since special
effects are so much better and we've seen so many of these type of
action stories in the past 10 years.

One of Arnold's keys to his successful career in films was simply that
his movies were entertaining, and that's why people come to the
theaters. High-brow critics often forget that. "Eraser" is a prime
example. Entertainment alone is how this particular movie survives
since common logic doesn't exist while violence and profanity are
overdone. But, despite it's low-brow tastes and stupidity, it's still
generally fun to watch if you can put your brain on hold for two hours.
It's also fun to hear if you have a nice surround system.

This movie has one of the most outrageous action scenes I've ever seen
on film, even to this day: one in which Arnold hangs from the outside
of a jet airplane, finally lets go, free-falls to catch his parachute
that had been ripped off, and then has to worry about the jet plane
which had circled around and was going to smash him!!

The audio came into play nicely each time the super rifle that was
featured in the movie was shot. Vanessa Williams plays the female lead
satisfactorily and James Caan is very effective as the villain. Robert
Pastorelli and James Coburn also add to the fun. A few laughs along the
way help this no-brainer to become even more entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>
Eraser is a film typical of its genre. What genre, you ask? Why, the
"the terrorists-are-coming-and-it's
one-man-against-the-world-so-shoot-em-up, blow-em-up, and
save-the-girl-and-the-day" genre, of course. Too complicated for you?
Don't worry, because the movie isn't. As a matter of fact, it's readily
accessible to anyone over the age of 7 - not that this movie is
age-appropriate for everyone over the age of 7 (Note: This was my
favorite movie when I was 10) - but rather that the concepts, and thus
the plot, are simple. This isn't a movie you go see if you're seeking a
two hour thinking experience.

Casting Schwarzenegger for the lead instantly gives the main character,
John Kruger, a personality of his own. Though nothing is ever known of
his background (even by the end credits), that doesn't matter. Dialogue
is used mainly for two purposes: to explain the unfolding saga of the
federal scandal in the movie, and for the ever-composed and ever-cool
Schwarzenegger to calm Dr. Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams), a key witness
in the scandal saga. Instead, what drives the movie is the action
sequences and Schwarzenegger's resourcefulness in a myriad of combat
situations where he always finds himself outmanned, outgunned, and
beaten to the first punch, yet always manages to gain the upper hand.

Williams does an excellent job, and in many ways, is forced to be more
of an "actor," per se, than Schwarzenegger. She has to display a wide
array of emotions, from sadness, to fear, to regret, to resolve, and
even anger, while Schwarzenegger is only called on to mainly display
the final two. James Caan is legitimately a scumbag in his role as
Robert DeGuerin, and James Coburn, in a smaller role, is fatherly to
Kruger as Chief Beller. Solid, unspectacular performances all
around...save that of Caan, who borders on something more.

The action in this movie is incredible for its time. The rail guns are
visually impressive if not scientifically plausible (but who cares
about that anyway?), and Schwarzenegger's combat ingenuity gives flavor
and style to the action sequences. Director Russell seems to show a
bizarre fixation with bloody puncture wounds (objects protruding
entirely through the skin) throughout, but does show some creativity of
his own in placing Schwarzenegger in clever combat situations where he
can use his mind to outsmart his many more-heavily-armed enemies.
Russell also plays with the moviegoer in several situations, making it
unclear whether or not Kruger is alive after several close calls. This
keeps moviegoers on the edge of their seats for the nonstop thrill ride
that rarely pauses to take a breath. From the first scene to the last,
explosions, shooting, and violence are the norm, and it is not meant to
be any other way.
<|_=00=_|>

For the most part, I'm a Schwarzenegger fan, although I may never forgive
him for his role in BATMAN AND ROBIN. ERASER is one of my favorites of his
movies. I think it ranks right up there with the TERMINATOR movies and TRUE
LIES. The plot, I think, is better in this movie than in most of
Schwarzenegger's movies, and of course the action does not
disappoint.

Dr. Lee Cullen, (Vanessa Williams) a dedicated worker for the Cyrez
Corporation, learns that there is a conspiracy going on within her business.
Guns that were supposed to have been being made for the military are finding
themselves in the hands of terrorists. Lee does an undercover job for the
FBI and barely escapes alive. U.S. Marshal John Kruger (Arnold
Schwarzenegger) of the Witness Protection Program is assigned to protect
Lee. Kruger will "erase" Lee's identity to keep her safe. But when he finds
out that his mentor and teacher Robert Deguerin (James Caan) is also in on
the conspiracy, both Lee and Kruger are in danger.

Much credit goes out to the main actors of this movie. Arnold Schwarzeneger
does a fine job, although this character is the same type of character her
normally plays. James Kaan is excellent in this film, as is the beautiful
Vanessa Williams did an excellent job. Robert Pastorelli also does a great
job playing the comic relief of this movie.

The plot is very good and it usually keeps the views interested and on the
edge of his seat. There are also some great special effects that are used
for the weapons in this movie. It's another great case of Arnold kicking
some enemy *** and saving the day, as well as the girl. Check it
out!
<|_=00=_|>

Chuck Russel's Eraser is exploding and intense action film starring Arnold
Scwarzenegger as secret government officer, who "erases" people i.e.
destroys their past in order to save their future. He gets to erase an
important witness (Vanessa Williams) who knows about her company's illegal
activities as it sells guns to foreigners. The film is full of action and
mayhem, which is great since hardboiled action films are not made too often
in Hollywood anymore.

There are hardly any stops throughout the movie and the viewer should not be
bored, at least I wasn't now that I watched the movie for the second time.
It looks fantastic in its original widescreen format, and this is definitely
among Arnold's more noteworthy performances and proves the talent of
director Chuck (Scorpion King, Elm Street 3) Russell. 

There are many effects that look pretty realistic and the crocodile shoot
out is one memorable scene, and maybe that is the screenwriters' comment on
zoos' that don't feed their animals sufficiently as the crocodiles are VERY
hungry and fierce for food! Also, there is one over the top airplane scene,
that really grabs an attention. The actors are great throughout the film and
James Caan doesn't make an exception. The finale is perhaps little too
familiar and relies on gun fights and explosions, but still, as a whole, I
found this film very pleasant experience in its own genre. It is not the
greatest action film ever made in Hollywood, but it is one of the most
interesting US action films of the 90's.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
As one of the later Arnold movies and a suspicious title, there are
initially serious worries about how good this film will be. Fortunately
it turned out to be a great movie in the end. The only nitpick would be
those obviously fake CGI crocodiles used in one scene but otherwise,
the movie has consistency in quality. This movie also introduced the
famous rail gun which became an instant hit when videogames copied it.
The rail gun in the movie itself is more like a super fast rocket
launcher than a sniping weapon. The story itself, surrounds the
marketing of that weapon. The acting is very good as is the screenplay
and cinematography. This film isn't anything new, isn't a groundbreaker
in any way but is still highly enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
After Arnold Schwarzenegger's 1997 heart surgery, his box office
popularity faded. 1996's "Kindergarten Cop" is a comedy, and he did not
play the lead role in "Batman and Robin," even though his name grabbed
him top billing. That makes "Eraser" his last great action film until
"Terminator 3" became his last hurrah, for now anyway. Schwarzenegger
plays John Kruger, "The Eraser." He puts the protection in the Witness
Protection Program.

I cannot imagine a better beginning. Two thugs have invaded the home of
a Federal witness (Robert Pastorelli). His wife writhes on the floor as
the duo prepare to burn the house. Hearing gagged screams of a visibly
bound woman having gasoline poured on her is not a pleasant experience
for most people, nor is the sight of an innocent man about to have his
tongue removed. The sounds and images ramp up audience hate towards the
two, then greatly increases the euphoria when Kruger comes in and kills
them in a most unpleasant fashion. His timely rough justice spurs us to
root even for him even harder later on, even if the effect is on a
subconscious level.

His next assignment is Lee Cullen (Vanessa Williams) who works Cyrez, a
weapons manufacturer. Company President William Donahue (the always
dependable James Cromwell) is selling high tech weapons on the open
market, weapons that are supposed to be for the United States only. As
Kruger points out, the men who recruit Cullen fail to inform her that
she will need to be placed under Witness Protection. She refuses the
program and returns home. An encounter with hi-tech hit men forces her
to reconsider, and Kruger places her in a secret location and gives her
a new identity.

The new weapon is the rail gun. It uses magnetic fields to propel
aluminum rounds close to the speed of light. Of course, that means it
can shoot through walls, and its scope can see through them, though not
in great detail. There is a side shot of one being fired later, and the
rounds are obviously not moving as quickly as advertised. They leave a
visible trail, but it takes two of three frames for them to move the
length of the shot, when it should be all the way through in one, but I
don't care. The graphic looks cool and such a small detail is hardly a
deal breaker.

Any list of the positives must start with Vanessa Williams. Cullen is
hardly a part with Oscar caliber demands, but Williams plays her about
as perfectly as possible. She is firm and disdainful when speaking to
Donahue, then firm and surprised during her later meeting with FBI
agents. She is often required to act fearfully, and in a state of
controlled panic. Selling those emotions is not easy. I have acting
experience, I should know. The former Miss America is more known as a
singer than an actress, but her performance here illustrates why she
received a musical theater scholarship to Syracuse. The aftermath of
the first attack on her provides her best moment.

Similar praise goes to James Caan, playing Kruger's mentor. Caan is
also a talented actor. The same can also be said of James Coburn as the
Witness Protection agency's highest officer. Both had spent over thirty
years in movie acting by 1996, and there abilities are evident in how
well they convey their authority. There are too many action films with
weak acting, but people like Williams, Caan, Coburn and Pastorelli
ensure that "Eraser" is the opposite. Melora Walters provides arguably
the best acting in her small but animated part as the Pastorelli
character's wife.

The action, of course, must be well done, and for the most part it
lives up to the Schwarzenegger standards. The opening scene is set up
so well it does not have to be good, but it is, and the precedent is
set. The action is not Arnold's best, but still more than adequate. I
was disappointed at how little the rail gun is used, and I probably
would have voted an eight if it made more appearances. When it does
come, the action is not disappointing. Watching Arnold wield them
brought a big smile to my face. Their lack of screen time a detriment,
but with good acting and clever plot, there are still more than enough
qualities to earn a full recommendation for yet another good effort
from Mr. Schwarzenegger.
<|_=00=_|>

When this movie came out, it had been two years since Arnold had been on
the
big screen.  Well, it was worth the wait as ERASER was a great
action/thriller.  Really cool special effects, a great plot.  Arnold shows
he is still the top star of action movies.  
<|_=00=_|>
the story goes as follows Lee Cullen a worker for Cyrez Corporation
which develops top secret weapons stumbles upon illegal arms deals and
acquires the information and barley escapes with help from the F.B.I
and is then placed under the protection of U.S Marshell John Kruger who
erases the past of witnesses under Witness Protection to give them a
future Lee however has been targeted by terrorists to cover up the scam
and John Kruger is being targeted by some of his fellow US Marshells
and is framed for murder now he has to protect Lee prove his innocence
and exposes the illegal arms deal before it happens. I give Eraser
seven out of ten because its one of Arnolds best movies of the late
1990's just see it for yourself to believe it.
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw "Eraser" again, and I am suprised to find that I enjoyed it
more
than when I saw it before. It Delivers thrills, laughs and lot of action.
Schwarzenegger is not Robert DeNiro, but he is likeable in his role here.
The story is intriguing: A U.S. Marshall that erases peoples identities.
This is not Schwarzengger's best movie but it is definitly worth a
look.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the kind of film that Arnie should stick to.  He plays the Eraser to
perfection, having just the right amount of over the top macho humour to balance
with the all action heroics.  If you like Arnie and you like action films,
then you'll love Eraser.
