

This movie is just so bad it's good!
The acting may look a bit "forced" at times (ok, perhaps "painfully
horrible" would be a better expression)
but really folks... did you honestly expect an award winning performance
from Van Damme or Goldberg?
I don't know about you all, but I rented this movie to see Van Damme
trade
punches with the 290 pound Goldberg and Michael Jai White while uttering
dozens of slightly pathetic/slightly amusing one liners at every
conceivable
opportunity, and I got just what I asked for =)

If you don't like it... tough.

Go rent "The Piano" or "Lawn Dogs" if you want real movies, but if you
just
want Van Damme brawling with big guys plus some shots of pretty girls,
this
is just what the doctor ordered.

One of my favourites.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a shocking 'B' grade action movie with lots of bad acting and
dialogue. Van Damme does his usual best which aint much, Jai White is good
as Seth but the scene stealer is the cheesy but lovable Bill Goldberg. This
film is so ridiculously bad that it ends up being funny and quite
enjoyable.

If you like cheesy low budget action flicks that doesn't take itself too
seriously then this is worth a laugh or two! As a fan of the genre and the
fact that i realise this isn't meant to be taken seriously, *** out of
*****! 
<|_=00=_|>
The mind boggles at exactly what about Universal Soldier merited a
sequel. Since the real star, Dolph Lundgren, would not be able to
reprise his role from the original, there is already scant reason to
indulge oneself in this obvious tax write-off. Bold attempts are made
to fill the gap with professional wrestler Bill Goldberg and martial
arts expert Michael Jai White. To their credit, they give their action
sequences a good sense of excitement. Bill Goldberg looks like he is
having the time of his life on this film, and he makes a fair stab at
filling the requisite comedic villain role. For once, his role is the
kind that involves repeating the same line a few times, and it does not
get irritating. The problem from the audience's point of view is that
neither of these gentlemen really have the sense of comic timing or
minor humility that makes Lundgren such a pleasure to watch in almost
all of his films. And therein lies the problem. You do not go to see a
Van Damme film because you want serious action. You go because you want
comedy, however unintentional.

Unbeknownst to many people, Universal Soldier was followed by two
direct-to-video sequels. I have only seen the first, which had
production values so bad one can only wonder if it was meant to be some
kind of elaborate joke. Matt Battaglia was so terrible in the role of
Luc Deveraux that for once in his career, the sight of Jean-Claude Van
Damme comes as a welcome relief. The film more or less completely
disregards the stories of the aforementioned direct-to-video sequels,
and instead begins a whole new story set an indeterminate time after
the events of the original. After years of investigation and
explanation, the Unisol project is still going ahead, with some minor
modifications. For one, the new Unisols are stronger and more
damage-resistant than their earlier cousins. For another, all of the
Unisols are now under the direction of a supercomputer called SETH. In
the early parts of the film, SETH exists primarily as a series of
abstract graphics within a glass dome.

Being that the film barely lasts more than eighty minutes, we are
quickly told that funding to the military is being cut. The Unisol
project is on the chopping block, which essentially means that SETH
will be turned off. SETH, somehow overhearing this conversation through
means that are never really explained, decides to mobilise the Unisols
as an army against those seeking to shut him down. His only problem is
that every so often, a code is required to be put into his system in
order to prevent automatic shutdown. Two individuals possess the code
in question. SETH kills the first in short order, and those who are
familiar with the plot kit that Van Damme's films are constructed out
of will guess within five seconds who the second happens to be. The
rest of the film revolves around the Unisols' attempts to get the code
out of Van Damme without injuring him too badly. A subplot with a
daughter and a reporter is woven into the film, but it adds about as
much to the story as Van Damme does to the profession of acting.

The film is loaded to the brim with ridiculous lines and clichés. When
SETH transplants his command module into the body of Michael Jai White,
we get a speech about how the time of the humans is over. He goes on to
tell his foot soldiers how fear and mortality will be humanity's
weakness(es). Gee, SETH, you mean they will not be our strong points?
All kidding aside, the short length of the film is both the film's
weakness and its strength. It leaves the action without adequate setup.
In the original, we are given a very thorough explanation of the
Unisols, how they work, and how they are brought to the state that is
seen in the majority of the film. Here, the writer seems to take it for
granted that the viewer knows what a Unisol is and how they operate. At
least in the original, a moment of curiosity and wonder was created by
leaving the explanation for later in the film when the hero lies in a
tub of ice. Here, one of the villains is shot with a gun that leaves
massive holes in his uniform (and presumably his body), getting up
every time without stopping for breath.

I tend to reserve the score of one for films that are so bad that they
become entertaining in a completely unintentional manner. If you can
see it on the cheap, knock yourself out. This is the kind of film that
makes me mourn the loss of Mystery Science Theatre.
<|_=00=_|>

Van Damme returns to one of his best action roles, with
a
very weak storyline, and very irritating, stereo-typed
characters.

When the action is going, IT'S GOING.  Van Damme's aging,
but, still has the moves.  He's also a widower with a
young daughter.

First plot problem, his daughter has access to the
"Top Secret Project" building for the Universal Soldier
program, and uses it like a daycare center.  No other
workers had their kids there, so what made her so special,
except to put her closer to the action.

Second plot problem, the female reporter.  She arrives
for
and interview, is excorted inside the factility, and when
all hell breaks loose, she and her cameraman remain instead
of being escorted out.  Another excuss to put a character
close to the danger.

Third plot problem, the irritating and unreal attitude
the reporter has.  Instead of showing the least amount
of
fear over the killing and mayhem going on around her, she's
doing her "I-a-reporter-with-a-scoop" dialogue.  I was
hoping that Romeo or another soldier would take her out.

Fourth plot problem, Kiana Tom, Van Damme's butt-kicking
sidekick at the beginning of the movie, is left on the
sidelines for most of the movie.  Her character replacing
the reporter would have enhanced the whole story and added
to the action.

If you can overlook the plot problems, the show is at
least bearable.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow what pure garbage! Well At least I knew it was going be bad before I saw
it. I mean first of all it's a Jean Claude Van Damme movie. Secondly,
without Dolph Lundgren the first one would have been a bore. I guess you can
sum this one up by saying that it was so bad that it was funny. Yes, this
movie was hilarious. It made absolutely no sense, had no plot, just a bunch
of stuff that happens and a bunch of people get blown up. For example this
girl in the movie whom Luc just met like 3 hours ago at the most is telling
him at the end of the movie that she can't live without him. PLEASE!!! I
have never watched  more predictable movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I like Van Dammes movies and Universal soldier was one of my
favorites(along with Blood sport and Hard target). I looked forward to
a sequel, but when I saw the reviews, "The worst film I've seen" it
also earned it self a average of 3.0(29th of Feb 2000) on this sight.
But I had to hire it out, and I was honestly surprised. DON'T watch it
unless youv'e seen the first or it will make no sense. It doesn't
explain the first story, it only says that Luc(Van Damme) was one of
the first uni sols. It then doesn't tell you about the new project, and
how Luc became involved, also it says about the main female characture
in the first, who is now his wife and is dead, how did she die? 

Although it doesn't make much sense it is a good action film with some
great fight scenes especially ones with Goldburg, and the final
showdown. So make your own decision and watch. entertaining 4/10
<|_=00=_|>

whoa - lots of spoilers here.
this has got to be one of the most unappreciated cult movies in history.
around every corner are clever and interesting twists that leave me, and
other hungry van dammage fans, panting for more.
the main source of this shining light is lord of the jews: goldberg.
goldberg's character romeo is written with the flair and panache of a
1920's
vaudeville showman. his classic one-liners like, "i hate that guy" and "i
really hate that guy" are pure gold.
so here's the problem. people went into seeing this flick with the
expectation of a solid action movie like the first universal soldier. no,
no, no. instead of another horribly doomed sequel (aka universal soldier
2)
that stays in the same vein and is thus fated to crap-tastic status, uni:
return jumps right out of the mold and goes x-games style. who could hate
this movie? this movie is so bad it's brilliant. i understand if it was
the
first time some 12 year old saw an action movie, they might be
disappointed
at the ridiculous plot and train-wreck acting, and they might become
physically ill upon hearing lines like "miniaturization of seth brain
complete."
but for people with a well-developed sense of knowing how to separate the
crappy b-movies (uni 2, etc) from the all-time flaming flops that you have
to love, like this fine work.
uni: return has grown on me in a way that i never thought possible. the
scene where goldberg rips off his shirt and wrestles the hospital security
guards? how could anyone try and take that seriously? the people who hate
on
this movie are the same people who hate on hudson hawk. and for these poor
saps who are stuck in a hollywood blockbusters are the only good movies
mindset, i truly pity them. for if they simply opened their eyes a little
wider, they would see a more beautiful world, a world in which films like
uni: return shine with the inner light of radiance that i see in
them.
<|_=00=_|>

Well... it's not that bad as you might think when you see the votes. Okay,
there is not much of a story but it is a tough action movie with very nice
action sequences and man-to-man fights. But who the hell did that
soundtrack??! Uh, let's see...


<|_=00=_|>

Jean-Claude Van Damme has been in about a film a year for 15 years now, and
has been the star performer in those films since 1985's No Retreat, No
Surrender.

	That's no mean achievement and shows that this action movie star has a
market for his skills, as limited as they might be. The formula isn't Van
Damme's alone but he's certainly the most prolific of the action movie
stars.

	Silvester Stallone, Arnold Schwarzennegger, Steven Segal, Bruce Lee and
Jackie Chan are the best known of the action stars but with the exception of
Chan, Van Damme is the one who seems to be still most actively in the
business. And these sorts of films are much less popular than they used to
be.

	Jean-Claude is a terrible actor and his film world is simplistic. One can
only assume that his fans wish that the real world was like
his.

The scenario almost invariably includes lots of hand to hand fighting, silly
women and often children who need defending. The plots are stupid and
concocted only to allow Jean-Claude to fight a lot and to show his sensitive
side as he protects the women and/or children.

	The mushy bits, accompanied by appropriate music, aren't ever romantic,
Jean Claude could never manage that, but they serve to depict this action
man as being a reluctant hero. He only beats people up, firstly because he
can, but secondly because he has to.

	His best film so far, of the ones I've seen, was the John Woo directed Hard
Target (1993) which had many stylish touches, often in slow motion, which
accentuated the admirable Van Damme gracefulness. 

	I think the worst was Double Impact which unfortunately doubled the torture
- there were two characters in the film played by the Muscles From
Brussels.

	And the famous, universal, Van Damme bum shot, the scene where we get to
see Jean-Claude's tastefully lit posterior, happens early on in Universal
Soldier 2. So if you like you can leave early.

	Universal Soldier follows the formula. Actually I think that his fans will
like this one. There's plenty of kick boxing.


<|_=00=_|>
Well,

At the time, people were expecting a "proper", classic-looking
Universal Soldier sequel movie, closer to the original (which is a
supreme masterpiece of the nineties. Period). Maybe the TV movies are
way closer to the original than this one. Which is not necessarely a
bad thing. RETURN is just a different take. It has been revealed that
Universal Soldier 3 ('Universal Soldiers: The Next Generation', coming
out in 2009) will ignore the events and the continuity of this movie.
That makes it an "alternative story" of the Universal Soldier
mythology. Sort of "What If" parallel dimension or so.

Anyway: Van Damme delivers the best as a more human-like Luc Deveraux
(he still retains some UniSol abilities here, contrary to popular
belief). Terrific fight scenes. The UniSols 2005 look much more
nihilistic, all black'n'mean. When S.E.T.H. manages to implant itself
in a organic body, the "Super UniSol", that is a refreshing update.
Marvellous final fight. The story is good, not outstanding, but good
nonetheless.

This is a nice movie. Just a different take. With the upcoming
Universal Soldier movie, you're getting a more classic sequel. Rejoice.

UniSols UNITED: http://universalsoldier.proboards.com
