

I'm not going to waste space with a synopsis, as every second or third
review provides one. A good indication of a challenging and original film
is
the number of 1/10 and 10/10 reviews, where the 1/10 reviews consist of
just
a few lines.  A pretty sure sign that those folks weren't able or willing
to
watch with an open mind.  Which is a good sign for casual viewers to give
this film a wide berth.

I wish everyone I care about would see Requiem for a Dream.  Not because
they will like it, or that it will teach them something they did not
already
know, but that it's a rare piece of work that will challenge and probably
change them.  It's a film that has never been made before, with nothing
to
compare to it - a rarity these days.  I often find myself recommending
films
to people that I am unable to briefly describe.  These are usually the
most
involving and affecting ones. I'd like my family to see this, but can't
*recommend* it to them.  I've recommended it to two friends, and they
both
had the same reaction:  I am glad I watched it, but I doubt I'll be in
the
frame of mind to watch it again, knowing what you feel.

As I sat watching the credits roll, I began crying, but I'm still not
sure
why.  Partly in reaction to the devastatingly tragic ending, partly the
beauty (yes) of the film, partly my gratitude for good things in my life.
I
watched it again the same night with my girlfriend, not because I wanted
to
upset her, but I felt that I had to share it. After the credits rolled,
we
both were silent for a good ten minutes.  I found that I had thoughts I
wanted to express, but could find no words.  This is one of the few films
that are painful to experience, but I feel compelled to share with people
I
care about.  Some others in that short list include The Thin Red Line,
Happiness, River's Edge,and The Deer Hunter.

These films all share a quality that's difficult to name.  No one likes
feeling disturbed or shattered by a film, a work of art, a piece of
music,
but I feel experiencing these emotions and being asked to think, not just
be
entertained, is important now and then.

"Favorite" does not apply to this for me - this isn't about
entertainment.
One of the most devastating and beautiful experiences I've had watching a
film.  One of the top five films I've ever seen.


<|_=00=_|>

You will not so much as want to take a sip of wine after watching this
mesmerizing film about the horrors of drug addiction.  I was not a fan of
director Darren Aronofsky's debut film "Pi," but with this movie he proves
to be a filmmaker of unlimited vision and style.  Four characters in
Brighton Beach, Brooklyn are all driven to despair due to their drug abuse,
the saddest being Ellen Burstyn as a nice Jewish widow who unwittingly
becomes addicted to prescription diet pills that help her lose weight but
drag her into a world of hallucinations and paranoia.  Burstyn is superb.
It is so refreshing to see such a great veteran like her in such a
challenging leading role, one in which she goes through a hell worse than
that in "The Exorcist."

But this is a director's film if there ever was one.  Aronofsky knows how
to
tell a story in a way that is dazzling in its use of sound, editing, and
cinematography.  The score by the Kronos Quartet and Clint Mansell is the
most striking movie music I have heard in a very long time.

"Requiem for a Dream" is not a movie for everyone.  It is the essence of
independent filmmaking, a daring, engrossing, artful film that stays with
you long after you leave the theater.  Hollywood bubblegum this
ain't.


<|_=00=_|>

This ranks up there as one of the three most powerful movies I have ever
seen in my lifetime (Full Metal Jacket and Grave of The Fireflies being
the
other two).  This movie shows the brutal honest side of addiction and
over-indulgence.  Not just drugs, although it heavily shows drug
addiction.
Also shows how one addiction can lead to another and how damaging it can
be
for you.  I watched this alone, and felt so stunned afterwards, I had to
call a friend just to calm my nerves.  Seriously, this is a brutal (one
more
time)  BRUTAL film.  The acting is wonderful - Ellyn Burnstyn and
Jenniffer
Connely are just wonderful in this movie, and Marlon Wayons was such a
shocker in a serious role.  Everyone must watch it, for it's entertainment
value, and more importantly, it's educational value.  But it leaves chills
down your spine for it's honesty and unforgiving lessons.
<|_=00=_|>

Often hype about films lead to disappointment and after waiting 14 months
after release for my local cinema to show this film, I was done thinking
about it. Thank goodness too, rather than challenge my brain (not hard to do
unfortunately) this film went straight for the heart, ripped it out and
kicked it around the floor for 90 minutes.
As the addictions plunged further into the depths of Hell, I felt myself
more and more arrested by the film. I've never left a film shaking or
feeling physically ill- not including Pearl Harbour, of course :)  You want
to look away, but cannot.

This movie is by no means flawless, but then again I would like to hope that
the flaws add to the gritty reality of the film. The ending was truly the
most frightening thing I have ever seen in film- forget the cheap scares of
The Exorcist, Psycho and the endless bile of the 'slasher flick', this stuff
is REAL.

In a country amid a 'war against drugs' this is a powerful film which could
do more to turn kids away from drugs than any measly government "task-force"
or classroom lecture. 
<|_=00=_|>

I just saw Requiem For A Dream and I have to say, I was blown away. Not
since 1995's The Basketball Diaries, has a film so accurately portrayed
the
craving and depravity of a person dealing with(or succumbing to)
addiction.
It is a beautifully articulated piece of artwork, intricately presented
on a
silver platter. Director Darren Aronofsky shines in his brilliant
direction
and style, in this depiction of the downward spiral of the lives of four
people, living with their respective addictions.

Jared Leto, gives an excellent, solid performance as Harry Goldfarb, a
man
living an inch from his life, always in search of a fix. In an emotional
powerhouse of a performance, he proves to audiences that he can shine
through in a major role as opposed to previous smaller roles in Fight
Club
and American Psycho. However, it appears to be a Hollywood in-joke of
sorts
in that it seems he has a penchant for mutilation or at least the roles
he
seems to take on seem to have for him. In Fight Club, he had his face
rearranged and in American Psycho, his head cut off. In Requiem however,
it
is the mutilation of his life, his whole character, that takes
centerstage,
ending in a satisfying climax of gargantuan proportions in which he gives
the audience more than their money's worth in his power-packed
performance.

However, the real star of the film lies in the talent of Ellen Burstyn.
Audiences will wonder at her appearance at the beginning of the film, not
really knowing if it is, in fact, her. Her performance as a television,
sugar and eventually, diet pill-addicted mother of Harry shows that she's
still got it after all these years. If you want to make a comparison of
her
thespian skills throughout the years, watch the revived version of The
Exorcist. She can only get better. She takes on the role of Sarah
Goldfarb
with gusto, never backing down for a second. Totally throwing herself
into
the role, you tend to forget how she really looks like, given only
fleeting
moments in the film which suggest her real appearance. I have to say,
she's
got guts. How many female actresses her age would dare to have a camera
strapped to her person(as Aronofsky so creatively did), an inch away from
her face with a wide angle lens? She definately deserves her Oscar
nomination, if not, the Oscar itself, for her tour-de-force
performance.

The other characters themselves hold their own with the two
abovementioned
powerhouses. Jennifer Connelly and Marlon Wayans both realistically
portray
their respective roles as Marion Silver, Harry's girlfriend and
rebellious
suburbanite chick, who degenerates to prostitution for her fix and Tyrone
C.
Love, Harry's best friend and fellow pusher. Here, Wayans shows that he
can
lose his comic edge if needed, to portray a boy trapped in a man's body,
just yearning for his mother's approval but seeking it instead, in drugs.
Connelly as well, who has been taking on smaller roles and projects over
the
last few years, is finally given enough room to play with her character
and
gives a winning performance in Requiem.

The cinematography of Matthew Libatique gives total light on the
chracterizations of the people in habiting Aronofsky's sick world, from
the
sliently flickering sick-green flourescents to the exaggerated wide angle
shots and the beautifully sad and haunting Coney Island picturesque of
the
pier which suggests a certain beauty amidst all the sadness and
depravity. A
Downer Picturesque, as portrayed by the photographs of Robert Frank and
the
Frank influenced cinematography of Darius Khondji in Seven. In my books,
Matthew Libatique has just joined those ranks.

Jay Rabinowitz' editing stands out as well, with in-your-face smash title
cards(emphasising the downward crash of the character's lives through the
seasons), as well as the close-up constructions of the drug taking
process.
The latter sequences, edited so tightly and seamlessly, make the moment
so
beautiful but so fleeting, as is the case with drugs. The sequences are
almost like a drug, making you crave for more of them, a fix which you
get,
whenever the characters get their own fix in the film. Lots of people
might
misinterpret this as glamourising the drug culture but these moments are
so
fleeting that they're over before you even know it, and then it's back to
Harry, Marion, Sarah and Tyrone's sick and depraved search for the next
fix,
which very accurately portrays the twisted quest of a true and sincere
addiction.

The film is also superbly scored by Clint Mansell and hauntingly
performed
by the Kronos Quartet. A series of hauntingly shocking, yet
mind-numbingly
beautiful pieces which linger in your head long after you've left the
cinema.

Lastly, the direction of Aronofsky, brilliant, beautiful, empathic. There
are not enough words to describe his direction or this film and I think
the
best way to say it is that I am speechless. Aronofsky has shown me that,
jaded by so many films, something can still prompt me to sit up and take
notice. To see something that I have never seen before or learn something
I
don't already know. The ending, is sheer power. A masterpiece of all the
elements of what filmmaking is about, mixed together in some sick souffle
and thrown into your face, burning hot and scalding. The film leaves a
deep
impression, in fact, a huge scar. And it is a scar I am proud to
wear.

<|_=00=_|>

It's difficult to know what to say about Requiem For A Dream. I first saw
it
in the cinema when it was released in England and I have never seen an
audience react to a film like this one. The climactic sequence, where the
protagonists are effectively destroyed by their addictions, seemed to
trigger a bout of heavy breathing in the audience. As it was ending I
heard
a few people crying. My girlfriend and I didn't say a single word to each
other on the bus home.

I bought the film on DVD the day it came out, but it took me around six
months to watch it again. And only then because a friend of mine was
curious. If anything, the impact was heavier than the first time I watched
it and I've vowed never to watch it ever again.

Yet I have still awarded a rating of 10 on imdb and would definitely
assert
that it's one of the three greatest films I have ever seen. Why? The
acting
is just amazing. Jennifer Connolly gives the best performance of her
career
(not too tricky considering the movies she's been in) and remains
stunningly
beautiful (in a haggard sort of a way) and noble even when she's roped
into
a gang bang to fund her heroin habit. Jared Leto annoyed me intensely in
Fight Club but he's perfect as hapless junky Harry - forever exuding an
air
of kindly incompetence that endears him to the audience but that will
ultimately destroy him. Marlon Wayans is equally brilliant - wearing a
beaming smile for the first half of the film and a compelling look of
confusion and betrayal for the rest of it.

As for Ellen Burstyn... never has an actress been so unfairly cheated out
of
an Oscar (and I've seen the atrocity that won Marcia Gay Harden that Oscar
for). She is just the picture of sadness the whole film through - a
heartbreaking example of what loneliness can do to vulnerable people. The
scene where she complains to Harry about being old is honestly one of the
most tragic things I've ever seen and it makes me want to break down just
thinking about it.

As such, I can only recommend this incredibly important movie with certain
reservations. If your favourite film is 'You've Got Mail' steer well
clear.
If 'Snow Dogs' has been your most thrilling cinematic experience of this
year then put this film back on the shelf. Trust me, it'll save the costs
incurred by those expensive therapy sessions.

However, if you believe that cinema is an important tool in helping us
understand ourselves and that we will only achieve self awareness by
plumbing the absolute depths of despair and self-destruction then you must
watch Requiem For a Dream.      
<|_=00=_|>

being someone who had a history with drugs, i found this movie to be
slightly more than ground-breaking. i saw this film in the midst of a
downward spiral, and it turned me right around! having friends with the
same plans, such as sell drugs to buy more drugs..it made me look at my
life and theirs and see exactly what the future had in store. 

now, every time i see this movie since escaping that life, i cry. i cry
for my past and those who still live in it. this movie has more to say
to people my age than any drug education movie we were afforded in
school. honestly, i wonder when the school systems will wisen up to
what is really going to get kid's attention; movies that show that pros
as well as the cons of drugs, or a movie that shows the complete and
utter devastation drugs will bring to your life, and the lives of those
around you. honestly, had i seen this film before my sophomore year of
high school, i would have never even dreamed of taking more than the
prescribed dose of advil. 

granted, my little summary or comment of this movie does not entail
anything informative about the movie itself, i must say, i feel this is
the best way i know to express my views.

<|_=00=_|>

I went to this movie hearing plenty of buzz about how graphic the content
was. Over the course of the movie you see just how Aronofsky wants to send
his message to the audience. The characters start off with somewhat mild
addictions and then next thing you know the four main characters are living
in hell. I couldn't believe how low they all fell. This movie may be the
greatest anti-drug message of all time. I dare anybody to watch this and to
not be touched and frightened by these characters. Before the movie started
I noticed the audience was quite loud and garrulous, but as it ended and
the
credits rolled the whole place was stone cold silent. It was
amazing.

As a whole I felt the movie was excellent. The visuals were well done and
the editing was outstanding. The actors really put themselves into their
roles. Jared Leto and Jennifer Connelly had very good chemistry, while
Marlon Wayans showed he is a talented actor and not just a talented comic.
Ellen Burstyn. Wow! She was amazing. I can't believe an older woman would
allow herself to be filmed like that. She has some serious guts. Hands down
the best female performance I've watched this year, not even close.  I was
totally amazed by her.

All in all, I would say Requiem For a Dream is a great movie. It had a
profound impact on me and I haven't been able to stop thinking about it
since I watched it on opening night. I definitely recommend this movie to
anyone. This is a movie everyone should see, but unfortunately not enough
will.
<|_=00=_|>

I had been looking forward to Aronofsky's follow-up to his critically
acclaimed art-house film, Pi, of a few years back and when it did finally
open in 1 theatre in Toronto, I gathered a bunch of friends to go down and
see it.  Some have never even heard of Pi before.  For others, this would
be
their first Independent film experience.  However, coming out of the
movie,
we all agreed that it was one of most powerful piece of contemporary
cinema
that anyone has seen.

"Requiem for a Dream" tells the story of 4 people, connected either
through
blood or some kind of personal relationship, whether it be family,
girlfriend, or business partner.  Although the characters lived far from
what you and I would consider to be normal lifestyles, they shared
something
in common with each and every member of the audience; hopes, aspirations,
dreams.  Sara Goldfarb (played so wonderfully by Ellen Burstyn) dreams of
one day being on a TV show, and one day, gets her chance.  She fantasizes
about how she could wear her favourite red dress, that she wore to her
sun's
graduation, on television.  However, upon trying to wear the red dress,
Sara
discovers that she has gained some weight over the years and tries
desperately to lose her weight, eventually resorting to medication.  All
of
the characters have drugs (the bad kind) affect their lives, which
eventually take over their lives.  The movie documents how for each of the
4
people are effected and eroded by drugs.

The look of the film is extremely  stylized, but justifiably so.
Aronofsky
uses surreal imagery as a vehicle for realism, something that really works
when done well, and done well it was.  By using a combination of slow and
fast motion shots, extreme close-ups and more edits than you can shake a
stick at, Aronofsky successfully brings the audience into the world and
mind
of someone with a drug problem.  The audience visually experiences
first-hand what it is like to be 'scared' or 'high' - all this in 3rd
person; all this in the comfort of the theatre chair.

Of course, all of this effort would be in vain if it didn't mean anything
at
the end.  The film leads the audience down a spiral of addiction until the
grand finale, which features a montage of graphically intense scenes and
images with more edits per second than any film.  The pacing at the end,
when compared to earlier parts of the movie, was so fast I started to find
it hard to keep up, and literally took my breath away as the credits came
up.  All in all, the effect was amazing, and something that I have not
personally experienced when watching any film before.

As the title indicates, "Requiem for a Dream" does not contain a happy
ending.  It is in no way optimistic, and only gives the audience faint
pieces of hope and happiness.  However, It does show what desperate people
are willing to do, and how desperation will change someone's life to its
entirety.  It is in the recognition of desperation where hope
lies.

<|_=00=_|>
Oh my, where shall I begin? Experimental film making bursts into
mainstream in this dramatic tail of 4 people who find themselves
spiraling down the abyss, after experiencing a rendez-vous with the
inevitable consequences attributed to drug use and the ill effect it
has on its addicts. This one has no happy ending. There's no sugar
coating here. Albeit this film packs a harsh, blunt, and sometimes
overwhelmingly genuine depiction of the havoc drug addiction can reap
on its victims. Despite the disturbing message of the film, I never the
less couldn't help but remain fascinated with it's
experimental/avant-guard visual style: A smooth, elaborate and languid
progression of cinematic eye candy orchestrated to almost resemble a
shockumentary, complemented by an impressive and well composed
soundtrack. Some of the visual techniques were similar to the ones
Aronofsky used in his directorial debut "Pi", such as split-screen
shots and the use of body cameras filmed at varying speeds. At times,
the film seemed more like an acid trip than a feature film. A cry for
help is clearly felt throughout the film, from its innocent and
promising start, to its hauntingly chilling conclusion. The one scene
that really blew me away was the scene where Marion (played by Jennifer
Connelley) had just sold her body off for a bag of heroin...As she
walks out the door of the apartment, along the corridor, into the
elevator, down to the street: one can't help but feel the characters
disgust with herself, filthy to the core, what it must feel like
at..."ZERO". The acting performances, especially by both Ellyn Burstyn
and Marlon Wayans are simply breakthrough performances that earned
critical acclaim across the board. Enough said. If this review alone
does not compel you to experience the Film, I will just have to spell
it out: PLEASE EXPERIENCE THIS FILM - it may cause an uneasy stomach,
but is well worth it - YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPPOINTED!!! 11 out of 10.
