

Many people were disappointed with 'Jackie Brown' when it was first released
as it didn't live up to their expectations created by the more flamboyant
'Reservoir Dogs' and 'Pulp Fiction'. I admit that I was one of those
disappointed fans. But as the years have gone by I have come to appreciate
this movie more and more, and if you deal with what it IS and not what you
thought it was going to be, you'll see that it is an underrated gem of a
movie. 'Jackie Brown' is much more character driven and leisurely plotted
than Tarantino's previous two movies. I haven't read the Elmore Leonard
novel on which it was based so I can't tell whether this was a conscious
decision by Tarantino himself, or it's because of the source material, but
it might be a stumbling block for those with MTV-style attention spans.
1970s crime movie buffs will find it much easier going. The big names in the
cast like De Niro, Jackson and Fonda are all very good, but the real
standout performances in this movie are by 70s blaxploitation icon Pam Grier
('Coffy', 'Foxy Brown', 'Black Mama White Mama',etc.etc.) and a revelatory
one from Robert Forster. Forster back in the day showed plenty of promise in
movies like 'Medium Cool' but quickly found himself stuck in b-grade
exploitation movies like 'Vigilante' and 'Alligator'. Fun stuff, but hardly
Oscar material. Max Cherry is the best role he has ever been given, and he
is superb in it. The fascinating thing about 'Jackie Brown' for me is that
Tarantino's critics accuse him of making shallow and violent
self-consciously hip crime films, but the central story of this movie
concerns an inter-racial Middle Aged romance, something I haven't seen done
in a believable or realistic fashion by Hollywood before. By doing this so
well Tarantino shows he has much more depth, and is a much more interesting
and braver film maker than his more acclaimed contemporaries. 'Jackie Brown'
is a fine movie that hopefully one day will get the kudos it deserves. Don't
overlook this one just because it isn't 'Pulp Fiction The Next
Generation'!
<|_=00=_|>

Contrary to Pulp Fiction which had a very unusual editing and flashy
 situations, Jackie Brown focuses more on characters that are basically
 humans with very focused problems, for instance getting older which is an
 eminent theme tackled in the film. No one's evil in all this. They all have
 interestingly real personalities and I felt strangely comfortable watching
 them talk, eat, kill and argue with each other. Tarantino is an excellent
 storyteller and I wish I could write dialogues as interesting as his. The
 film flows with a slower pace than Pulp, with all it's many streched takes
 and lenghty scenes, but by doing so leaves us more time to grasp the
 characters with all their differences. A more mature Tarantino. Still
 loving what he does. And he said it himself before the film came out: "This
 one is at a lower volume then 'Pulp.' It's not an epic, it's not an opera.
 It's a character study."
<|_=00=_|>

Jackie Brown is a 44 year old air hostess who also acts as a money carrier
for her boss, gun dealer Ordell Robbie.  When one of Ordell's other
employee's is caught he is forced to kill him, however, before he can get
to
him the employee tells the police about Jackie and they pick her up.  With
Jackie facing jail or being killed by Ordell she strikes a deal with both
the police and him to bring in a large stash of money.  However to help
her
retirement she plans to play the game to her own ends.

Coming as a follow up to both Dogs and Pulp, this film was going to be the
`greatest movie ever made' or it was going to be met with a critical
response that seems to be a bit negative.  It was the hype and hyperbole
around anything baring the name Tarantino that perhaps was giving every
film
he did higher and higher standards to meet, it is wasn't Jackie Brown that
was met in this way it would have been the next film, or the next one.
However the reviews were mostly good, but it did get some unfair reviews
from critics who expected this to continue the upward trend.  In a way I
believe that this film did show Tarantino's growth as a
director.

Where Pulp Fiction was dizzying in it's style and pace, Jackie Brown is
much
more of a mature, balanced film that is satisfying in a more traditional
sense that the design of Pulp.  Developed from a Leonard novel, the plot
is
a solid crime thriller with a good plot that still gives room for
Tarantino
to do some time shifting as he reveals some key scenes from different
perspectives to allow us to see the bigger picture.  As a story it fills
the
rather generous running time pretty well and is enjoyable
throughout.

The film is still full of Tarantinoisms for the fans - the heavy
soundtrack,
the pop culture references, the witty, slick dialogue.  However where the
film stands out is that the characters are actually better than in his
previous films where they never really went beyond the story and dialogue.
Here not only are they better but they also include well-written female
parts!  While some of the characters are as good as they need to be within
the confines of the basic crime story, it is in Jackie and Max where
Tarantino has grown up a bit - although in fairness this was an adaptation
rather than his own script, but he still manages them better than some of
his own thin characters.

Following the praise for Pulp and Tarantino's ability to rejuvenate
careers,
he must have had no problem cherry picking for this role.  Grier gives a
great performance and should be grateful for the role in an industry that
generally ignores middle-aged women (not to mention black women!).  The
only
thing surprising about her is how poorly she has taken this big lead role
and used it to take her career on.  Her performance embraces her age and
uses it well, but it is Forster who gives the standout performance here.
Not an actor many will be aware of apart from this film, he got an Oscar
nomination for this and I think he deserved it.  His performance is very
low-key and quite moving - I think I will appreciate his work here more as
I
get older.  Jackson does what is expected of him and has no real
character,
but his energy and skill are there to see.  De Niro plays a little against
type and is an interesting, but underused character.  Fonda is really,
really sexy and has some good lines while the rest of the cast do good
work
in small roles with people like Keaton, Tucker and Bowen in
there.

Overall I enjoy this film and can understand why it will never be loved to
the extent that Pulp was and is.  However to me this is a more satisfying
film with an enjoyable plot and a more traditional delivery.  The
development of actual good characters beyond snappy dialogue is what
impressed me the most and it sadden me to see him regress about a decade
into style without substance with Kill Bill Vol. One.
<|_=00=_|>
Where does a director go after making two colossal worldwide hits?

"Reservoir Dogs" (1992) and "Pulp Fiction" (1994) were two of the
greatest movies ever made, and they launched director Quentin Tarantino
into the realm of Mainstream Hollywood Director. Most of the time, a
director faced with this reality will sink into a slew of really bad
movies, but so far Tarantino has been either extremely lucky or
extremely talented - his third feature film, although lacking in the
brutality of its predecessors, contains just as much wit. Based upon
the Elmore Leonard novel "Rum Punch," it's packed with the clever
dialogue that Leonard is known for in his writing. It's also got a good
amount of style, too. It's not a typical Tarantino movie, but is that
necessarily a bad thing? In this particular instance, no.

Jackie Brown (Pam Grier) is a flight stewardess forced into running
jobs for Ordell (Samuel L. Jackson), a ruthless criminal who has no
respect for life - or death, for that matter. However, during one of
her smuggling efforts, a couple of FBI Agents (including Michael
Keaton) nab her and offer her a deal: If she helps them get Ordell, she
will be let free from custody. The Feds do not know who Ordell is, but
they know he exists, and that is where Jackie comes in. She reluctantly
agrees to participate in their sting operation, but all is not what it
seems. And when $500,000 dollars disappears from his retirement fund,
Ordell stops, thinks, and arrives upon the conclusion that we all
anticipate with glee: Jackie Brown did it.

His partner in crime, Louis (the wonderful Robert De Niro), also
decides to double-cross Ordell, with the help of a sexy blonde ditz
named Melanie (Bridget Fonda), The movie's twisting plot line and
intersecting story lines is very reminiscent of "Pulp Fiction," and De
Niro's underrated performance is a real stand-out. The movie's quite
well made and enjoyable.

Don't misinterpret what I'm saying. This is no "Reservoir Dogs," nor
does it want to be. It's not in the same vein as Tarantino's other
movies, at least not at a superficial level. However, it is extremely
entertaining, helped along by a great cast and a terrific script. The
only difference here is that Tarantino did not come up with everything
by himself. He adapted the screenplay from another source, something he
usually doesn't do. But there's also a little-known fact that Roger
Avary co-wrote some of "Dogs" and "Fiction" with Tarantino, as well as
sparked the idea for some of his films. Here, Quentin adapts Leonard's
novel and does justice. People who say it isn't as good as his other
movies because it's recycled obviously don't know what they're talking
about.

Tarantino started out as a video store clerk, and is the movie buff's
filmmaker. Not only does Tarantino share a deep passion for films, but
he also knows what most of the real movie enthusiasts want. He has yet
to disappoint me with any of his directorial efforts. His own life
story would make an interesting movie, and indeed it did with "True
Romance," partially based on Tarantino's own self-image of himself. (A
geek working at a comic book store falls in love and goes off of an
adventure into a new realm -- in Tarantino's own case, it was
film-making. For Clarence, from "True Romance," it was drugs and
murder.)

Tarantino has a flair for raw energy in all of his films, and "Jackie
Brown" is no exception. The movie is bursting at its edges, packed with
wild antics and the occasional fierce brutality. The movie was
criticized by Tarantino's die-hard fans for being too different from
his other films. However, the mistake of many directors is to repeat
the same formulas over and over again. One must at least give Tarantino
credit for trying new things in each of his films. If anything, the
only thing that Tarantino likes to insert into all his films is a large
source of energy. And is that a bad thing?

4.5/5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>


Although different than some of Tarantino's more violent precursors,  such
as "Reservoir Dogs", "Pulp Fiction" and "True Romance" this is an excellent
film. Where it lacks in violence however, the film makes up for in language
earning it an "R" rating in the US. In certain scenes, I thought it
Tarantino went to far with the explicit language and it seemed awkward and
artificial, but that does not cast a shadow of over what I thought was an
otherwise fantastic film. The editing and directing is excellent. There is
good character development of the main characters, yet there is not one
scene where the movie drags throughout its entire 150 minutes. I couldn't
tear myself away from this movie until the very end.

Especially enjoyable is the performance by Robert Forster whose character I
thought was outstanding. Max Cherry, played by Forster, is a tempered bail
bondsman who cautiously handles his unscrupulous clients. One day he is
approached by Ordell Robbie, played by Samuel L. Jackson, to post a bond
for
Jackie Brown, a middle aged flight attendant for a low cost airline who
gets
caught smuggling Ordell's fortune in Mexico into the US. The initial
meeting
between Jackie and Max sets up a relationship between these two characters
on both professional and personal level and that changes Max from a
methodical and business man to almost an innocent young boy with a crush.
The last scene in the movie between these two characters is absolutely
brilliant.

I highly recommend this film and it's fun to watch Tarantino mature as a
director. The little extras littered throughout the film such as "Chick
with
Guns", the fabulous locations such as the Cockatoo Inn, and the excellent
characters make this film well worth a view.

<|_=00=_|>
Being a huge fan of Tarantinos earlier efforts Reservoir Dogs and Pulp
Fiction expectations were of course high. Especially since Jackie Brown
is based on the Elmore Leonard novel "Rum Punch". And Elmore Leonards
stories usually fit the big screen very well, they are actually one of
the rare occasions where i usually prefer the film to the novel.

Tarantino sets a different mood here compared to the more frantic and
violent Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction. This is more of a slow crime
story that focuses more on being cool than being shocking. I think this
movie works very well despite the slow pace which seems to put a lot of
people off. Mainly i think it works because the actors are all giving
it their best (the casting is also excellent) while Tarantino seems to
handle the whole story more gently than in Pulp Fiction. He doesn't
stress it, he doesn't run the risk of over-doing the "cool" parts. The
end result is enjoyable but a lot more somber than what you're used to
from Tarantino.

All in all i feel this movie is underrated. It's enjoyable, well made
and stylish. Recommended to those not demanding all movies to head on
at breakneck speed. I rate it 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first heard the name of Q's next movie, Jackie Brown, I figured
this would be a remake of a 70's Pam Grier blaxploitation flick (i.e-
Foxy Brown). I quickly learned that this was actually an ode to the
legendary Pam Grier! Loaded with possibly the best and deepest cast
since True Romance, and very similar in many ways, this movie delivers
on all levels. Like T.R., a combination of road trip movie (this time
airborne), gangsters, comedy, druggy/pimp story, and love story molds
itself into a great story. A fantastic revival for Robert Forster-
who'd never been awarded the shot he deserved, as Max Cherry, our star
and hero of this film. Robert's been historically type cast as a
gumshoe cop in numerous roles- Mulholland Drive, South Beach, Rear
Window, Me, Myself Irene, but really breaks out in this opportunity to
portray a character with actual personality,integrity, wit, and
passions. Hail to Robert! Fantastic deliveries from Michael Keaton who
revives the Ray Nicolette character seen in Out of Sight, Bridget
Fonda's transformation as the stoner surfer girl, DeNiro as the shifty
ex-con, Samuel J as the untrustworthy Ordell, and most impressively the
one scene delivery of Chris Tucker- with the famous improvised line
'You sneak up on a Nigga with this sh#t!'... The screen translation of
Elmore Leonard's Florida based Rum Punch is very interesting- from the
blonde bimboish Jackie Burke, to the sexy 40ish black Jackie Brown,
worked very nicely. Q hits another home run, as expected!
<|_=00=_|>

Quentin Tarantino is clearly finding it difficult to follow the phenomenal
success of "Reservoir Dogs" and "Pulp Fiction", which made him the hottest
writer-director of his generation.  In the six years since then this is the
only time that he has returned to the directors chair.  "Jackie Brown" -
his "difficult third film" - seems to be his response to criticism of his first
two films that he could only make movies about other movies, but not real
life.  He cleverly anticipates the backlash by adapting a tightly plotted,
character driven Elmore Leonard novel, still set in his familiar world of
LA low-lives, but keeping to a minimum his trademark comic-book violence and
pop-culture references, while emphasising the novels more mature themes -
such as ageing and the feeling of time running out for the middle-aged
characters.  The result is a slick, interesting, if slightly draggy
thriller, which ultimately lacks the freshness and audaciousness of those
earlier films.

Tarantino still has his maverick streak though, as displayed in his
trusting of Pam Grier to carry the entire movie.  The casting of a middle-aged black actress with no box-office clout in the lead role can't have been easy in
an industry notorious for it's scant regard for actresses after they reach 30.
You can bet that the studios would have at least insisted on the safety of
a Sharon Stone or a Demi Moore.  But Tarantino, as he did when casting
Travolta, stuck to his gut-instinct, and once again it proved an inspired
choice.  Grier, bringing with her the memories of her 70's blackploitation
movies, gives a convincingly tough, wise and sympathetic performance.

Actors love to work with Tarantino because the roles he gives them will be
invariably jucier than usual.  That is once again the case here, although
the casting isn't quite as inspired as it was in "Dogs" or "Pulp" (or "True
Romance").  Samuel L. Jackson is reliably good - if hardly stretched - as
an unscrupulous hustler who is not as smart as he thinks he is, and Bridget
Fonda has fun as his conniving beach babe girlfriend.  Robert Forster jumps
at the chance to play a role with depth after years in made-for-tv hell.
Robert De Niro though, despite providing some amusing moments, is
disappointingly wasted as Jackson's dim-witted partner.

At times this feels like just another thriller, but every now and then
Tarantino reminds you what all the fuss was about.  Jackson's brutal
(off-screen) dispatching of Chris Tucker in the boot of a car, as the camera
slowly cranes up into the sky, is masterfully conceived and a scene, which
is subtly built up to, involving a teasing Fonda and a p*****-off De Niro
is as unexpected and as shocking as anything Tarantino has done before.  By
refusing to make a Pulp Fiction 2, Tarantino may have missed out on some
easy money, but this film has enough to suggest that he will be more than
just a flash in the pan.

<|_=00=_|>
Quentin Tarantino follow up to the hysterical response generated by his
suitably hysterical first two movies was 'Jackie Brown', an altogether
more restrained film that garnered a somewhat more restrained set of
reviews. Perhaps the relative lack of impact made by this film explains
his subsequent return to extremes with 'Kill Bill'. But in some ways
this is a shame, as there's a lot to enjoy in 'Jackie Brown',
particularly in the universally first rate performances the director
manages to get out of his distinguished cast. Robert Forster is wise
and weary as a middle-aged bail bondsman, Samuel L. Jackson plays a
criminal with all of the menace and none of the charm of his character
in 'Pulp Fiction', while Bridget Fonda and a (cast against type) Robert
de Niro are entertaining as a pair of useless crack-heads. Best of all
is former blaxploitation star Pam Grier in the title role, combining
human warmth and coolness under fire with considerable charm. The
generic Ellmore Leanard plot is ultimately not quite as clever as it
promises to be, and as as ever with Tarantino, both tone and taste are
sometimes questionable: the early sequence 'Women Who Love Guns' is
very funny, but it's quite unclear whether it's intended as satire or
celebration. Nonetheless, once one adds in a typically splendid
soundtrack, everything adds up to a movie far above the average crime
thriller, and for all the breathtaking invention of his other movies,
it's enough to make one wish that Tarantino didn't usually feel the
need to try so very hard.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes a movie requires more than one viewing. The first time I sat
down to watch Jackie Brown, I wasn't so impressed. I didn't hate the
movie, but I didn't love it either. I thought it was decent. The second
time I watched it, I knew the plot already so I really got to indulge
in the characters of the film. And thats exactly what the film is, it's
a character piece.

Those of you who expect an energetic, stylized, violent, comic
book-esque film like Pulp Fiction will not get that from this movie.
Its a lot more tamed, and to say the least realistic. I love Pulp
Fiction, its one of my all time favorite movies. But I doubt in the
real world there would be two hit men in matching black and white
suits. The scenarios of that movie, while fun and totally entertaining,
aren't too realistic. Jackie Brown on the other hand has totally real
characters that don't come off as too over the top.

All the actors in the movie are superb.The lead is played by actress
Pam Grier who nails the role. Tarantino again shows you don't need an
a-list actor to carry a movie. Grier plays Jackie Brown, an airline
stuartess in her 40s. Samuel L. Jackson plays Ordell Robbie, a gun
dealer who uses Jackie to bring him in money from Mexico. Robert DeNiro
(in a smaller role for such a big actor) plays Louis, Ordell's friend
who recent got out of jail. Bridget Fonda plays Melanie, a "blonde
haired surfer girl" who lives with Ordell. Michael Keaton (my all time
favorite actor)plays ATF agent Ray Nicollette who wants to take down
Ordell. And Robert Forster plays Max Cherry, a bail bonds man. Without
giving too much away, all of these characters in one way or another are
all after $500,000 of Ordell's money. Every character in this movie is
great and unique in their own way. But for me, Robert Forster steals
the show. Max Cherry is without a doubt my favorite character in all of
Quentin Tarantino's movies.

To some people, this movie is just a crime/heist movie. But to me there
is something quite beautiful to this movie. After a few viewings of the
film, you will notice that underneath it all, this movie is really
about two people. Jackie Brown and Max Cherry. Two people who are
middle aged, lonely, and tired of their dead end jobs. Two people that
meet in a very unlikely way. Two people that together figure out a way
to steal $500,000 and get away with it. Take this movie however you
want it. But to me, thats the heart of the movie, and thats why the
movie works so well.

In conclusion, Jackie Brown is not a graphic crime story like Reservoir
Dogs or Pulp Fiction that preceded it. Nor is it a stylized revenge
saga like Kill Bill vol. 1 & 2 that followed it. Instead it is a stand
alone film. A wonderfully acted character study. And for me, an
absolute gem of a film. It's Quentin Tarantino's underrated
MASTERPIECE.
