

A high school cheerleading squad robs a bank in order to support the
burgeoning family of one of their own. They get the idea watching the Keanu
Reeves movie Point Break and then watch movies like Reservoir Dogs and Dog
Day Afternoon to figure out how exactly to pull the caper
off.

Now, I know what you're thinking. Sounds like a cutesy family movie, right?
The kind that warms the cockles, wherever they are. Well, almost. It's a
dead-on, surprisingly hilarious comedy, with perfect off-center
performances
and a crisp, honest script.

The last cheerleading movie I saw (and quick, can you name more than a
couple anyway? Didn't think so) was the Kirsten Dunst comedy Bring It On.
This one blows that out of the water, out of the atmosphere, and out of the
solar system. There's no moralizing. There's no good-girls-are-right,
bad-girls-are-wrong lesson. Heck, we're talking about teenage girls pulling
off a robbery! And one thing that could have sunk this movie early on was a
character change. You've seen movies in which a character, faced with a new
set of circumstances, does a 180-degree turnaround on how they've behaved
up
to that point. In this movie, you'd expect the girls to suddenly become
flawless professional robbers. Not so. And while their plan has its faults,
it's still a plan, buoyed by the vacant aphorisms of their leader, the
pregnant and chipper Diane (Marley Shelton). Sing-songy and ebullient, the
kids squabble among themselves but, in the true spirit of cheerleading and
gosh-darn Girl Scout-like togetherness, they pull together as a team. Hip!
Hip! Hooray!

Decent cheerleading movies are hard to come by. Come to think of it, so are
any cheerleading movies. Oh, not that I'm looking, but I can name only two
off the top of my head: Bring It On and the legendary, overlooked (okay,
just kidding) 1977 opus Satan's Cheerleaders. But the latter's pep squad
was
in college, so it's different. But I digress.

Truth be told, there's not a dull moment in the movie. Diane's knocked up
before the prom by her dimwit football-hero boyfriend. This guy's so stupid
he gets himself fired from such seemingly unfireable jobs as fast-food
employee and other glamorous retail employment opportunities. See, in the
real world, he'd be upset that the luster had worn off his diamond of an
image, having to work with geeks at the video store. But he's a dope,
blissfully ignorant. He knows but one thing - that he loves Diane - and
being such a dullard is supremely helpful to the film (and isn't easy to
do;
kudos goes to James Marsden in the role).

In short, a real hoot. We've seen many bank robbery movies with their own
twists and idiosyncrasies; this one's one of the better ones to come down
the pike. Go team go!
<|_=00=_|>

This chick flick had lot to offer, especially the fact that desperate
times lead to desperate measures. I loved this movie- to me it was like
Clueless meets Point Break. It was amazing, and i thought all
performances were great.

This new line cinema film, may have been a low budget one, but it was
brilliant. Marley Shelton's character of Diane Weston, may not have
been the perfect protagonist for this kind of movie,but she was sweet
and funny- what i found good was Rachel Blanchard's portrayal as
Hannah. We saw her before playing Cher is the unsuccesfull 'clueless'
TV series, and in Road Trip as Tiffany- well though those were just
inconsiderable, this performance was something different. Mena Suvari
made a really good Kansas. Her partial sweet/tough looks, made her seem
the perfect casting decision.

All in all- this mix of comedy and drama, makes this movie a great film
for all teenagers. The famous pose of the 6 girls at the police
station, is certainly unforgettable.

<|_=00=_|>

Sugar And Spice wasn't released at any cinemas over here in the UK. I have
no idea why. I mean, if bigger flop movies like Say It Isn't So
and
Josie And The Pussycats (-Was only released in a couple of cinemas though.)
were released here than why not Sugar And Spice. Anyway, it was out to buy
on DVD over here on Monday, so I brought it straight away. (The DVD contains
no extras, just the movie trailer.)

Sugar And Spice a was comedy movie mixed with crime. It was NOTHING like
cheerleading flick, Bring It On though. Yes, Sugar And Spice was about
cheerleaders and there was the odd cheer at the high-school but that's
it.

Now, Sugar And Spice, is about a group of high school cheerleaders, who are
all the best of friends, and they would do anything for each-other. When one
of them becomes pregnant with the star quarterback's child, she finds
herself in need of some desperate cash, so with the help of her friends,
they coy up a plan, to rob a bank, so she can get the money she needs.

The cast which includes the likes of, Marla Sokoloff, Marley Shelton, Mena
Suvari and James Marsden are all quite good here.

The movie itself was interesting, but it could of been a little better. And,
at only 78 minutes long, the movie definitely could of been a bit longer.
Sugar And Spice was still a good movie, and if you're into teen movies, then
I'm sure you'll enjoy this one. I give Sugar And Spice a 7/10.

<|_=00=_|>

An entertaining comedy with Marley Shelton as the head cheerleader who gets
pregnant with the star quarterback's child. Then, while watching that
classic of modern cinema, "Point Break," on tv she hatches a plan that
wouldn't it be great fun if her and her cheerleader buddies (including Mena
Suvari) robbed a bank? Wouldn't that just help her with her financial
problems?  This is all very silly and the filmmakers wisely don't take any
of this seriously, producing a very funny comedic take on cheerleading, high
school and bad movies. GRADE: B+

<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw this movie in theaters, I didn't think too highly of it.  I
didn't think it was terrible, yet I came out feeling dissatisfied.  Maybe I
was in a bad mood.  Who knows?  Well, it was Free Preview Weekend on Starz,
so I checked this movie out again.  And I watched it all three times they
showed it.  This time I had a lot more fun!  

"Sugar and Spice" is far from great, and is certainly no gem, but it's
enjoyable teen fluff with some good laughs.  And let's face it, it centers
on five sexy, scantily clad cheerleaders.  If you're a guy...how much more
can you ask for?  This is the type of film that is made to satisfy both male
and female viewers alike, kind of like "Coyote Ugly."  The girls enjoy the
dynamics of the female characters, the guys enjoy the beauty of the female
characters.  This is not as sexy as "Bring It On," but I'm still satisfied. 

The humor is sometimes lame and heavy-handed, and the characters are all
caricatures, but I never reached the point where I wanted to croak.  The
movie is overall pretty harmless.  And there are some funny moments,
including one where Mena Suvari goes to visit her mother (Sean Young) in
prison.  She asks her Mom for advice on robbing a bank.  Her Mom blushes and
says, "This is like asking me for help on your homework."  And I have to
give this movie credit:  the teen characters aren't as dumb as they are in
most of these movies.  

"Sugar and Spice" is cute, lightweight entertainment and enables you to see
five hot babes in short skirts.  Sweet!  

My score:  7 (out of 10)  


<|_=00=_|>

This is a smart movie about dumb people – but don't let that get in the way
of your enjoying it.

There are a lot of laugh-out-loud situations in this short (less than 90
minutes by my watch) film.  The whole situation is laughable when the team
captain of the `A-Squad' cheerleaders at Lincoln High School is pregnant and
what she does to make the situation more livable.

James Marsden (Scott Summers/Cyclops in `X-Men') is the too-good-to-be-true
boyfriend of Marley Shelton (Diane Weston in the film) whose innocence,
sweetness and naivety makes you want to believe that there really are people
like that in the real world.

Mena Suvari (late of both `American Beauty' and `American `Pie') is a study
in contrasts as the girl that `was born in prison.'  

There has been a spate of cheerleader movies this last year – but this one
owes much more to `But I'm A Cheerleader' than it does to `Bring It On.' 
There is a tension and sense of surrealism that isn't in `Bring It On.' 

When all the cheer leaders don their `Betty' masks it becomes very
surrealistic – almost spooky.

There is no big opening to this film:  just an introduction to the
characters; but there is a nice end to the film – explaining what happens to
the major characters after the end of the film.

I enjoyed this film much more than I thought I would – give it a chance –
you may enjoy it too.

<|_=00=_|>
... and you got no movie, here.  But wait!!  Don't leave, yet.  What the
hell's wrong with cheese...  -Albeit, once in a while.  Stay with me here. 
I love fries with cheese.  Hot dogs with cheese.  Pizza... you guessed it. 
Hamburgers.  Mac-n-Cheez.  'Nuff said, there, I think.  The point:  cheese
is good, though overindulgence could cause health problems.  But, everyone
should watch this film, at least once.

What worked:  In a word:  CUTE!  I don't think I've seen a cuter movie out
there.  Definately, never more lovable, laughable and NICE!! bank robbers;
not even in the movie 'Bandits'.  Again, you owe it to yourself to see this
movie; if just once, since you don't want to over do it on your cheese
intake.  Even if it is so yummy.

What didn't work:  Well, nothing that wasn't planned to be lame.  Though, it
might have used more of an element of suspense or danger.  The minor plot
twist was a bit -blah-.

8/10 - I kept going between 6 and 8 out of 10.  The plot didn't have a lot
of depth, but I stuck with 8 because I enjoyed it, in spite of myself and I
don't think the writer really intended for you to be on the edge of your
seat.  Key word here:  FUN!!

thank you
<|_=00=_|>

This movie doesn't do much, but what it does, it does good. It just tells an
amusing little story with no background except to entertain.

I don't know why it gets such a bad rating, its just pretty harmless, but
not bad. Maybe those people don't like the modern, black humor in it ?! Or
they want movies to be serious ? Or they think having stupid characters in a
movie makes the movie itself stupid ? Or they want it to be realistic ? Or
what ?

I believed through the whole movie that Marley Shelton is Heather Graham,
they really look very much the same. I fact, I liked it far more than Austin
Powers, because it has the right joke timing. I think its the best movie
with Mena Survari since American Beauty, far better, far funnier and far
more natural than American Pie.

This is a funny little movie and I think its worth your time. Just don't
take it serious, and enjoy its black unrealistic humor
!

<|_=00=_|>
Sugar & Spice is almost a caricature of a teen movie. It is not,
because it's not making fun of teens or teen movies, but has that
slightly over the top smiley attitude that pushes you to that laughing
place where you don't take things too seriously. Those who didn't like
that movie didn't get that vibe. It is quite fun.

Now, it's not a perfect movie, the subject matter is treated very
lightly, but the story, the dialogs, and the characters are all very
entertaining. It doesn't bring anything new, per se, to the table, but
it does it with flair, and laughs. The girls are beautiful, but not
plastic perfect. The acting is simple, but sincere and adorable in
certain cases.

One of the scene, when they announce they're getting married, is the
perfect example of the quality and tone of the film. It and its
followup scene in the car are hilarious.

If you want to see a good little known teen flick with an adult mask,
that would to it.
<|_=00=_|>
Coming into Sugar and Spice, I have to admit I wasn't exactly expecting
much- if anything. I was guilty of wanting to see it (hey any movie
about cheerleaders that go on a crime spree has my vote of wanting to
see it), but mostly because it seemed like it would be nevertheless
enjoyable. Well, when sitting down to watch it I won't lie in saying
that expecting it to JUST be enjoyable wasn't enough for me. I wanted
to have the mind to like it (I love dark comedies, and especially ones
they aren't afraid to poke fun at themselves), and you know what? I
loved this movie.

I will say the moment "Sugar and Spice" opened I leaned back in my
seat, preparing myself to be disappointed. The movie has a very simple
(yet perhaps appropriate) opening, and they immediately were jumping
into story. Usually I don't fly with that, and even in this movie case
I didn't immediately. Then when they started to crank up the cheer
leading routines I thought: "Great, they have this great premise, but
they're going to focus more on the cheer leading than the plot."
Thankfully- they didn't. What made it start to click for me was the
realization that all the characters were going to stay in character.
I'm so glad they didn't do the typical cheerleader mean girl, but
instead did poke fun at the dim witted head cheerleader (and football
star), but keep them on that level where they don't become annoying,
too over-the-top, but instead make them likable. This film was
hilarious, and you love these girls so much that you want to see them
prevail in their life of crime. You feel sympathy for these girls (in
particular Marley Shelton's lead character, whom you want to see
achieve the all American dream), and they're enjoyable to watch as they
are to laugh with.

Sure this movie has it's cutesy, almost implausible moments. Plus like
I said this movie opened (and perhaps ended) very simple, and for that
I wish this movie has been slightly longer. I'll admit that they sort
of milked this story as far as it would go without starting to become
annoying or TOO over-the-top where it becomes annoying, tiresome, or
even embarrassing. The film is very funny, extremely enjoyable, and is
a very dark treat.
