

Priestley tries to bring that handsome charm from the small screen to the
big screen in this dull fantasy about three
high school grads who fulfill their dream date with Marilyn Monroe in 1962
Hollywood. Priestley is a capable young actor, but he needs better scripts
than this. 
<|_=00=_|>
A pleasant and amusing story about three senior high school students
(although all look way older than that) who are infatuated with Marilyn
Monroe. (so am I am and who isn't or wasn't?) It is a nice movie about
the importance of the value of good friends. There are various sub
plots here. Jason Priestley's character learns to reconnect with his
estranged father and all three young men learn and grow by the end of
the movie. It is funny and amusing and really rather sweet. I enjoyed
it and I recommend it. Jason Priestly does a good job, but he is so
much shorter, he is 5'6 or 5'7, than the other two boys who are 6 ft,
and he is always looking so short--they even hold him up to see an
event in the movie. Anyway, it is an enjoyable movie and one especially
suited to teenagers, and, of course, all us Marilyn Monroe fans. There
are various clips from Marilyn's movies. Lest we forget.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie, although of its year of made, is quite close of any
teenager-light-stupid-vacation movie made in the 50's. That was the idea?
I
guess so. Three youngsters deeply in love with Marilyn Monroe travel to
Hollywood to meet her. That's all. Jason Priestley is the leader of them
(he
is the protagonist, by the way), playing the role of the typical
unbearable
& arrogant American High school popular kid, who thinks that can deal with
any chick round there. Jerry O'Connel plays again as the poor little fool
dominated by his friends (do you remember "Stand by me"?) & the other guy,
Gabriel Olds (sorry but, who is he? Never heard of him) is the peacemaker
of
the group. It's a very light comedy, & that's all. Nothing too hard to
understand.
<|_=00=_|>

Calendar Girl takes time in 1962.There are these three young
men
Roy(Jason Priestley), Ned(Gabriel Olds) and Scott
(Jerry O'Connell).They become big fans of Marilyn Monroe
after
quitting their interest for Howdy Doody.Roy decides that they all should go
to Hollywood to meet miss Marilyn Monroe.
And soon they're off their way to Hollywood, California.But
they
find out that it's not that easy to meet such a big star.And they have lots
of other problems.But they just keep trying without giving up.They follow
Marilyn where ever she goes.Finally they get a little closer to Marilyn.One
of them 
even gets to have a date with miss Monroe.Then these three buddies have to
go home.From there Roy is off his way to army.
So these three friends are going their own ways.Soon they
tell
on the news that miss Marilyn Monroe is dead.
Calendar Girl is a very entertaining movie.

<|_=00=_|>
I must wonder to tell you the truth because when it comes to a night
out with the great (Marilyn Monroe), and a chance to kiss her too
..HHHHOOO this is wild man..Very wild.. So when they made it as
something which's less enjoyable than the ordinary life.. I've got to
veto and in a hard way too ! 

But come to think of it, as the movie's point of view is so interesting
: the friendship with humans lives longer than the other with the
stars, as reality is more honest and amusing than movies.. Hmmm... Try
to imagine that !.

The boy here discovered that the cinematic dream, even if it was as
incredibly fantastic as (Marilyn) herself, is just a dream. So all the
rest of our silly, foolish, and risky actual life is more fantastic
because we actually lived it. Even if it contained some nightmares
already ! Hence the jam in the phone booth with a girl you want becomes
eventually more important than a lively fantasy you may live –like the
movie fulfills indeed - with your own calendar girl.

This movie made too many regards which are truly full of love and
longing to a lot of things : the adolescence's folly, the friendship's
coolest memories, the pure fondness of a movie star, the fiery sexy yet
innocent days of the late 1950s and the early 1960s, the good old
Hollywood, and lastly the utmost sex icon ..The shiniest star yet..
(Marilyn Monroe). She was portrayed here as sad lonely woman, missing
what these young men already have : the friendship, who dies with the
beauty of that era and the end of those guys' minority too; as if this
time was the adolescence's climax of America itself before Vietnam, the
series of assassinations, the hippie revelation.. etc.

I loved the whole deal : the nice comedy, the good characterization,
the performance from all the young bunch, the bright cinematography,
and the atmosphere which was in low budget but so solid, look at the
details to know how it's a sincere adorer movie for what it speaks
about (the clever wicked opening credits, the bits of Marilyn's movies
or photos, the soundtrack's songs.. etc). It got a "real" sentimental
script and directing.

Although the face of (Stéphanie Anderson) as (Marilyn) didn't appear on
screen like a high too glaring to watch phantasm, but truly she
delivered by her voice and body a fine performance. Still the part of
the kiss is such a magical cinematic moment and one of the most
immortal kisses I've ever seen as well, not only because its
achievement of what any fan of (Marilyn) dreamed of (getting a special
kiss from her) but also because it was one unforgettable hot kiss in so
colorfully sensual close up. In brief it was as madly sexy as any of
Marilyn's kisses yet more emotional and a bit lamentably moving. 

It's one comic so passionate movie which has no shame in presenting
this obligatory phase of life when you've got to know your dream so
consequently your fact !, and what a lessen the movie gives softly
through its gentle manifesto : viva the 1950s, (Marilyn), the boyhood,
the fictional world, and the most of all : viva the genius experiment
of factual LIFE.
<|_=00=_|>

Three friends grow up worshipping Marilyn Monroe.  When they are in their
late teens they decide to drive out to Hollywood to meet her.  Roy, Ned and
Scott head off a week before Roy is due to join the army.  They stay with
Roy's uncle Harvey and begin their quest, however Roy has borrowed mobster
money and his fathers car for the trip and before long the Gallo brothers
come looking for their cash.

As I sat to watch this, it did cross my mind that I didn't really need to
watch another coming of age movie set in the 50's and 60's.  However I
thought the premise was interesting enough to justify the time.  However the
film fails to use the idea of the quest to meet Monroe to raise anything
more than a few laughs.  We also have to deal with the usual subplots of
teenage angst, girls, sex, anger at father etc, these take even more of the
comedy away leaving a so-so comedy with bits of drama forced
in.

The characters are standard – Priestly plays the cocky one, Olds plays the
thoughtful one and O'Connell plays the shy, cowardly one.  The only interest
is provided by the support cast - Pantoliano is good as Roy's uncle with a
typically Hollywood obsession with looks and Tobolowsky and Fuller provide
the only quirky characters as the Gallo's.  The idea of Monroe as the holy
grail would have worked better if the film didn't try to have her as a
shadow but also use her – her memory is badly used here.

Overall this has some funny scenes but not enough to justify the film.  The
coming of age drama doesn't really work and I think we've all got the `seize
the day' message by now.  Average.
<|_=00=_|>

Almost nobody's seen this movie, but it's secretly a great film.  Funny
all
the way through.  One of Jason Priestly's early films and he's great as in
everything he does.  (No not all of his films are good, but he's good in
all
of them).  It's a movie you don't think you'll want to watch and 15
minutes
in, you want to watch the whole thing.  Enjoyable, very quotable, and
about
what every man dreams of-meeting Marilyn Monroe.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1962 UCLA, Ned Bleuer (Gabriel Olds) is alone as he recalls his
adolescent with his best friends. Their dream girl Marilyn Monroe has
just been fired from 'Something's Got to Give'. Roy Darpinian (Jason
Priestley) is a hustler working with the Gallo brothers (Kurt Fuller,
Stephen Tobolowsky) and about to go to Army boot camp. One-legged Scott
Foreman (Jerry O'Connell) is getting married. Ned is wasting his life
in a toy store. Roy convinces the guys to go on a road trip to meet
Marilyn.

The guys lack chemistry. It feels like the characters are slam together
while the narration drones on. It needs more scenes of the group
together before they go on the mission. Priestley is seriously
annoying. Olds is bland. O'Connell has little to do. This is a
superficial group with little to offer. Their mission is boring. It
takes a long time before the movie shows any heart. It's not funny. It
has little charm.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite this film getting its title from Neil Sedaka's hit song from
the early Sixties, Calendar Girl which does take place at that time is
about three teen males with raging hormones wanting to meet that
ultimate of Calendar Girls, Marilyn Monroe. If you remember Marilyn did
the ultimate calendar photos back before these kids reached puberty,
but they do discover here and she kind of brings the male out in all
three of them.

Anyway our three teens are Jason Priestley, Jerry O'Connell, and
Gabriel Olds who decide to take a trip to Hollywood to meet the girl of
their wet dreams. Interesting they chose Marilyn, back then which was
when I was that age, your typical heterosexual budding teen male
fantasized more about Annette Funnicello than Marilyn Monroe. But these
kids certainly had mature tastes.

Olds narrates the film which is seen through his character eyes and
frankly when you come right down to it, it's about stalking. Of course
the term hadn't been invented yet. But now a film star of the magnitude
of Marilyn Monroe would not be so accommodating. We've heard real
stories about people like Brad Pitt and David Letterman dealing with
stalking fans.

Still it's a harmless teenage comedy and will no doubt please the fans
of the leads.
<|_=00=_|>

It's not violent, funny, great, dramatic, nor lame.  It's plain and
simple,
just an ordinary movie with a good plot, but not great either.  It was a
clash between fun and boring as well.

When I was younger, during my so-called "Teenie-bopper" days (which are
now
long gone now that I'm older), I loved Jason Priestley!  I would tune into
Beverly Hills 90210 everyday to see his face!  I had posters of him
plastered on my wall and one on the ceiling above my bed!  Plus I had
stickers, book covers, notebooks, you name it!  Those were the days!  I
think I was like eleven years old or so.  Now that I'm an eighteen year
old
girl, I look back at those days and say, "What was I thinking?"
But I guess all girls (and sometimes boys) go through that "Teenie-bopper"
phase in their early teens, but it always fades away eventually.
(**grin**)

Anyhow, back in those days, I thought that this was the best movie I ever
saw in my life, but now, I look at it and see just a simple and plain
movie.
It could be better in so many ways, but simplicity usually makes
something
turn out to be good.  That's all this movie is...it's just good.  It's not
great, but it's not terrible either.  It's just good.

Jason Priestley (who played smooth talking Roy) was good in this movie.  I
mean, it was a far cry from his (former) 90210 character, Brandon Walsh
(who
could forget Mr. Clean-Cut Brandon Walsh?).  Now, Jason's no longer on
90210
and is married.

And Jerry O'Connell had the perfect face to play the dorky Scott, who had
the wooden leg and was engaged to Becky.  Of course, Jerry went on to star
in other roles like in "Joe's Apartment" and "Scream 2".

By the way, what ever happened to Gabriel Olds (who played Ned, the peace
maker of the group)?????
