
After the Scream phenomenon, it was only natural that a sequel was in
the works. While most slasher sequels tend to be a let down and not
live up to their first by having a ridiculous premise or not having the
needed characters, Scream 2 is entirely different. This sequel was
excellent, and lived up to the first Scream perfectly, when I did not
think it would on first viewing. I mean, I was expecting it to be good,
but not as good as it was. It's premise was wonderful, and the
characters are amazing, because it has all the characters, that aren't
already victims, from the first and more that are just as fun. All in
all, it was a joyous outcome.

Scream 2 is not afraid to kill off whoever it wants to, like the one
before and after it, even though that one does not have as many fans as
the first two. It has some new twists, and the execution style is just
as professional and cunning as the first. It keeps you totally
entertained and the performances are just as fun. While of course it is
not as good as the original, it is pretty close, I must say, and that
of course is an accomplishment in itself. 

After the events of Woodsboro, California, Sidney and Randy soon
realize that a killer is on the loose again, this time at the college
they are attending in Ohio. Dewey arrives on the campus to once again
protect Sidney, and she and Dewey have an unwelcome reunion with Gale.
How pleasant, we have all our old friends back, and the cast pulls out
all the stops with their characters like they did in the first. It's
still gritty and bloody, and it's also loaded with lots of nice
material matter. I do not understand why it is not as appreciated as it
is, regarding the rating mostly. Scream fans and horror lovers were all
pleased with this movie when it came out, so I have heard, and I was as
well.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm just not buying into the bad rating for this film, in 1996 Wes
Craven's Scream reinvigorated an ailing genre and got fans back into
the horror groove. The love for that film, I feel, tends to skew
opinions of the second instalment in what became the Scream trilogy,
Scream 2 seams perfectly from its starting point to up the daring ante,
and plonk tongue even further into its cheek.

Sidney Prescott has moved on from the horrendous murders in Woodsboro
and is at college getting on with her life, but the peace and hope for
a bright future is quickly shattered because the Scream killer is back
for more carnage...

The films opening perfectly sets out the tone for the entire picture,
we see a cinema full of fake knife wielding youths dressed as the
Scream killer, the film they are watching is Stab, the story of the
Woodsboro murders. It's a wry commentary moment from Wes Craven, but in
truth it's just one of many he makes in the film, the in joke about
sequels never gets tired, and the boo jump scare moments are all there
to enjoy. Red Herrings come and go, and all the great characters who
survived the first film are back again. Dewey & Gale get fleshed out a
bit more, and one time caged innocent {and chief suspect} Cotton Weary
is now a major character just begging us to find out if he's hero or
villain.

This is a sharply scripted piece of work, it knows its aims and
delivers what it sets out to do, it benefits from a brilliant sound mix
to emphasise the mayhem, and Craven is something of a master in racking
up the tension. To laugh and be scared is the order of the day, so sit
back and enjoy a film that to me proves that not all sequels suck. Oh
the ending does not disappoint at all either I have to say.

Scream 2 is a very worthy and enjoyable companion piece to the first
film, very much so. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
In addition to becoming the first major box office hit for Dimension
Films, 1996's SCREAM also became the horror film that would set the
tone for the other horror films of the late 1990s. It was a phenomenal
achievement in the horror genre so of coarse a sequel was just around
the corner. The most common rule with movies is that sequels are
terrible and while that is normally always true, that isn't the case
with SCREAM 2. It should be noted that SCREAM 2 came out just a year
after the original SCREAM. Most often when sequels come out a year
after their predecessor, they turn out to be pretty bad (CHILD'S PLAY 3
for example). SCREAM 2, while not as good as SCREAM, manages to be an
effective and well made sequel that surprisingly is just as clever as
the first one and it contains the same kind of great dialogue the first
one had as well. It helps that SCREAM 2 has most of the same cast
members as the first one too. I think it's safe to say that SCREAM 2
was one of the better sequels of the 1990s. I'm giving it 7/10.
Recommended for fans of horror.
<|_=00=_|>

The funny thing with 'Scream 2' is that it's not as entertaining and good as
'Scream' but with bad movies like 'I Know What You Did Last Summer' and
'Urban Legend' it's kind of a relieve. Probably the difference here is that
Wes Craven is  a director who knows what he is doing.

Neve Campbell as Sidney, Courteney Cox as Gale Weathers, David Arquette as
Deputy Dewey and Jamie Kennedy as Randy return for this sequel. New possible
subjects or suspects are Cici (Sarah Michelle Gellar), Hallie (Elise Neal),
Sidney's new boyfriend Derek (Jerry O'Connell), former suspect Cotton Weary
(Liev Schreiber) who was in prison for a year, Mickey (Timothy Olyphant) and
reporter Debbie Salt (Laurie Metcalf) who is a big fan of
Gale.

The movie opens in a theater. The movie 'Stab' is showing for the first time
and this movie is based on the book 'The Woodsboro Murders' by Gale
Weathers. In 'Scream' Sidney predicted that Tori Spelling would probably
play her if they would ever make a movie about those events and in 'Scream
2' we learn she was right. It is one of the many funny little things. Jada
Pinkett Smith and Omar Epps are killed during the showing and of course the
movie is blamed.

From here it is like 'Scream'. The guessing can begin. Again it is a lot of
fun, again the movie knows that it must not get too serious, again I was
entertained by what I saw. 'Scream' was original and therefore better, more
entertaining and more surprising in the way the subject was handled. Still,
with all the inside jokes and references this is a lot of fun and a lot
better than almost every other movie in the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Dare me to say it? ...THIS MOVIE WAS BETTER THAN THE ORIGINAL! 

Ha! There goes my "useful comment" rating!

Not many movies beat their originals, especially in the horror genre.
However, Scream 2 proved them wrong.

Sidney has gone to college and moved on with her life after the events
of Scream. However, the murders and famous "ghostface killer" have
followed too. 

Sidney, Dewey, Gale, Randy, and Cotton all return from the first film.
But we also get an interesting new group of people: Hallie, Derek,
Mickey, Cici, and Debbie the reporter, who is actually more annoying
than Gale.

We also have a higher body count, more gore, more interesting kills,
and a much better ending (in my opinion).

I recommend this to fans of the original movie. 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
In 1996 the slasher film had been given a shot of life in the arm with
Wes Craven's 'Scream.' It was a monster hit at the box office and with
critics and moviegoers. Less than a year later the inevitable sequel
was released and instead of being just another inferior sequel it too
was a big success and got much praise. Some sequels just take what made
the first one work and give lesser results, but this one delivers and
some people, including me, find it even better than the first one.

Pros: Like the original, this sequel has an exciting and terrifying
opening sequence. Good performances from the cast. Writing and dialogue
just as sharp as in the first one. The pace is fast as lightening. Lots
of brutal kills and bloodshed. Plenty good, wicked humor. Many twists
and turns. A good score and soundtrack. More cool references and
in-jokes.

Cons: You really have to suspend your disbelief at times.

Final thoughts: It's now become a tradition, so to speak, to sequelize
a popular movie. 'Scream,' the 1996 blockbuster hit and re-invention of
the slasher genre, is such a film and unlike some other horror films, a
sequel was very much a good move. In fact, this sequel is even better
than the first; a rarity.

My rating: 5/5
<|_=00=_|>

Well, i did prefer the first Scream BUT that's not to say Scream 2  wasn't
good.  Yet again it had good performances and the killers in the film turned
out to be quite suprising. It was a good sequel anyway. 10/10 Might i just
add that Wes Craven is a BRILLIANT director and Kevin Williamson is indeed a
great writer.
<|_=00=_|>

THE PLOT: It's been a few years since the bloodbath in Woodsboro and Sidney
Prescott is attending school at Windsor College. But just when it seems like
she is getting her life back the murders start again and it seems like the
killer has Sidney in their sights. 

However, the killers following a specific pattern and it's up to Gale
Weathers and former Deputy Dewey to figure out what it is or they're
next!

THE ACTING: Great acting like in the original "Scream". Neve Campbell
continues her emotional role as the victim, "Sidney Prescott", with perfect
stride. Courtney Cox and David Arquette stand out once again as "Gale" and
"Dwight Riley". Credit should also be given to Sarah Michelle Gellar for her
small role.

THE BLOOD: Not as much as the first but it's certainly used to the fullest
advantage.

THE BODY COUNT: 10

THE RATING: This was a good horror movie. It was definitely scarier than the
first but there were some things I didn't like about it. Sidneys boyfriend
(played by Jerry O'Connel) was incredibly annoying so I was glad to see him
die. Also they should have put more character development into the
supporting cast. 

Overall a great slasher flick...8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Scream (1996) was a wittily postmodern recasting of slasher films of the
early 1980s like Halloween (1978) and Friday the 13th (1980) and their
endless horde of imitators. On one level Scream was filled with all the
shocks and thrills expected of it. Yet there was another whole level to it
which at the same time was consciously crafting a film that was slyly
mocking and parodying its own genre and cliches. Characters stopped in the
middle of the flight from the slasher to hold discussions about what
characters in slasher films did in the situation and which type of
character
was supposed to survive according to the slasher movie formula. And
following Scream's success, what more natural to follow it up with than a
Scream 2, which gleefully launches into satirizing the pandemic of sequels
that followed most slasher films in the mid-1980s.

The plot follows on from the first; Sidney Prescott and fellow survivor
Randy Meeks are attending a film and theatre school, while Gale Weathers
is
releasing a film based on the events of the first film (which hilariously
parodies the first films opening) called Stab. However, at Stab's opening,
two people are found dead, after being killed by a man in a Munch mask.
Now
Sidney is caught up in her very own sequel.

The film has a fabulous opening that perfectly encapsulates the joyful
sense
of meta-fictional play that screenwriter Kevin Williamson delights in -
while watching a film based on the events of the first film (wherein the
opening of the first film is replayed but amusingly satirized - one scene
rather funnily digs at directors that like to quote the Psycho (1960)
shower
sequence) a copycat killing takes place in the theatre where the victim's
death throes are just taken to be part of the promotional gimmick for the
film. Here the constant blurring of the lines between what is happening
and
`the artificial' is dazzling. And this naturally segues into a typically
Williamson-esque debate on whether someone is trying to 'create' a sequel
to
the events of the first film, whether some sequels are better than their
originals - you know it's a real genre fan writing when someone argues the
merits of House II: The Second Story (1987) over House (1986) - and
whether
the media influences violence.

But unfortunately for Scream 2 the film that ends up on screen sadly fails
to meet the criteria it itself establishes for worthwhile sequels.
Williamson's script is far too burdened down and overweighed by the
necessity of trying to turn the survivors from the first film and most of
the cast members into potential suspects and as a result the jokey genre
interplay that essentially made the first film gets lost. There is the odd
moment - the script even parodies its own catchphrase from the first film:
`What's your favourite scary movie?' the stalker asks Jamie Kennedy.
`Showgirls - now that was a truly scary movie.' And the ending wherein the
slasher explains their motivation - that they want to be caught so they
can
demonstrate the case for movies influencing violence in real life - is
positively ingenious. But such an ending is ruined by Williamson placing
so
many successive twist revelations on top of that that the moment topples
over into the farcically absurd.

Indeed, the film contains genuine tension; the vague reconstruction of
Casey
Becker's demise is very scary, and a scene where Sidney and her friend are
trapped in a police car with an unconscious killer is exceptional.

However, Scream 2 tries too hard to be clever and witty, instead of just
getting on with it.

Verdict - While Scream 2 is quite scary, and has some hugely inventive
sequences, it gets too caught up with parody and clever-clever remarks.
***

<|_=00=_|>
How do you make a sequel to a horror film whose whole plot was made of
in-jokes and film references? Easy: make the follow-up even more
in-jokey and self-referential than its predecessor. This formula
actually seems to work for Scream 2, at least in the first two acts.

The prologue is arguably a masterclass in self-irony: an
African-American couple (Omar Epps and Jada Pinkett Smith) go to a
movie theater where a new horror film, called Stab, is screening. This
flick is based on Gale Weathers' (Courtney Cox) book The Woodsboro
Murders, which recounts the events of the first Scream. As the movie
begins, Smith's character complains about Stab being a film "with no
black people in it" (just like Scream was), and, predictably, this
leads to the two African-Americans being brutally murdered as the
film-within-a-film's prologue (with Heather Graham replacing Drew
Barrymore) is shown on the screen, so that the fictional and real
deaths occur almost simultaneously. From there on, things take the
usual turn: the media go crazy about the killings and once again Sidney
Prescott (Neve Campbell) is in the spotlight, as she and her friend
Randy (Jamie Kennedy) must protect themselves from the new foe, who is
apparently mimicking what happened in the past (an obvious reference to
the first film's "Movies don't create psychos" line).

The main charm of the original Scream was its ability to almost
seamlessly combine clever in-jokes and a believable plot. This time
around, the in-jokes are the best thing in the movie, while the story,
particularly in the overblown conclusion, suffers from merely repeating
key scenes from the first film. Now, this might be a satire on the lack
of originality in most horror sequels, and it would work if the
characters were developed correctly. Sadly, such a thing doesn't
happen, with Sidney being reduced to the usual girl who keeps running
and screaming (fitting, huh?) and everyone else (including Liev
Schreiber, who gets more screen-time in the sequel) playing
stereotypes, with the exception of David Arquette, very likable as the
nice cop again trying to solve the case, and Kennedy, who has a great
time stating the rules to follow in a sequel.

Ironically, the movie's funniest scene has a bunch of film students
discussing follow-ups that are better than the originals. And while few
could have anything bad to say about Aliens, Terminator 2 or The
Godfather: Part II, it must be said that Scream 2, while fun and
watchable, most certainly doesn't have the same sharpness that made its
predecessor an above-average horror film.
