

How much one likes `The Nutty Professor II: The Klumps' depends on how much
Eddie Murphy you can stand.  After grossing more than $125 million at the
box office, I would have to conclude that moviegoers couldn't get enough. 
This sequel is a one-man show built around a character skit from the first
movie.  Murphy plays eight different roles and gives a tour de force
performance without the benefit of any story whatever.  I got the impression
that the writers were superfluous anyway, since Murphy was obviously ad
libbing about 90% of the time.

The humor is lowbrow and delivers a good deal of physical comedy laced with
sexual innuendo.  Though Murphy's caricatures are consistently droll, they
rely too much on unflattering stereotypes of blacks.  The first dinner scene
is a rehash of the dinner scene from the first film.  After that scene, most
of the film is a repetition of the same tired sight gags.  Though Murphy's
amusing electricity runs through every character, once the novelty wears off
the film's appeal wears thin.

Kudos to the makeup department for an outstanding job on Murphy's various
alter egos.  Otherwise, the production of this film was nothing out of the
ordinary.  Larry Miller also gets a very honorable mention as the obnoxious
Dean Richmond, getting his just deserts at the hands of a giant
hamster.

This film has some laughs but not enough substance for a feature length
movie.  I rated it a 6/10.  Add two or three points if you are an Eddie
Murphy fan.
<|_=00=_|>

I expected to see lots of variations of the humor that The Nutty Professor
(the Murphy version) used in the classic scene of the Klumps at the dinner
table. Instead, what little humor this sequel had split time with disgust as
the movie went mostly for sexy granny jokes.

The sad thing is, more fart humor would have been an *improvement.* This
movie was boring. It was uninteresting. It missed numerous opportunities to
have some fun. And it spent too much time showing off make-up and not enough
time being entertaining.

Perhaps most painful to watch was Eddie Murphy just being Eddie Murphy (as
Buddy Love). I never understand why some actors/directors think that if a
character screams real loud and makes a face, it's funny. It is especially
not funny when it happens 2-3 times. In the first movie, Buddy Love was
funny (if cruel), and his observations were right on target. In The Klumps,
Love is like a grown version of that Home Alone kid, when he grabs his face
and just yells at the camera. Uh, if you are done shouting now, can we move
on?

Janet Jackson was fluff. And I don't know what she has done with her chest,
but it seems unusually huge here.

I suppose it would be appropriate to say how well done the make up is as
Murphy plays his half-dozen or so characters. Yes, he makes them seem like
different people, at least superficially. But none of the characters are
really there, you know? They each have little tag lines, and maybe a quirk,
and those lines and that quirk are used to death. Take the granny. Yep, she
likes sex. She is a sex machine. She wants every man. OK, uh, so? We've seen
that 20 times. Can we get to something new?

Overall, I feel sad to see the level Murphy's wit has been reduced to. He
used to be more biting, more insightful and more, well, funny. Now he is a
human cartoon. I gave this movie a 4.
<|_=00=_|>

Eddie Murphy once again slaps on the fat suit to play Sherman Klump. And
Mama Klump, and Big Daddy Klump, and Grandma Klump, and Brother Klump, and
Buddy Love (although without the fat suit on that one). Since the Klump
dinner scene was easily the best scene in the original film, they decided to
focus on the entire family in the sequel. And somehow got Janet Jackson to
fall in love with Sherman. I wish I knew how that happened. Anyway, while
the movie still focuses on Sherman and his quest for love and scientific
goals (this time making people younger), the rest of the family gets
involved in the story lines. And I thought that took away from the heart of
the film. While it was fun to see all the Murphy characters, there needed to
be a better story line for them, rather than a bad marriage. Although I will
admit the horny Grandmother Klump story line was very funny. They should
make a movie just about her next time. But I regress. The story line with
Sherman and Buddy, about how Buddy was still inside Sherman, and Sherman
managed to get him out, only to have Buddy come to life, and then Sherman is
becoming more stupid by the minute and will go into a vegetable state unless
he eats Buddy. It's all very cheesy. I mean come on, one tear from Janet
near the end manages to bring Sherman back to life? It was all very corny.

This is not to say that there aren't funny scenes in the movie. Again, I
thought the best scene was the entire Klump family going out to dinner and
all the hi-jinks that ensue. And there were other funny moments scattered
throughout the film, but not enough for me to really get into the movie and
enjoy it. Basically it was a moment to moment film, not an overall enjoyment
film. Eddie Murphy is amazing, and Martin Lawrence has got nothing on
dressing up as a fat woman, but it's just not enough. The Klumps is
something you can rent for a quiet evening at home. 


<|_=00=_|>

If you think a fart is the appropriate punchline for most jokes, this movie
might be for you.  It makes Animal House look like upscale, sophisticated
comedy.  But the worst thing about this movie is not its non-stop, juvenile,
toilet-oriented attempts at humor, but that fact that it is NOT FUNNY.  It
is just long and dumb.  I finally got so bored that 3/4 of the way through
it I rewound it and took it back to Blockbuster.  This movie is not fit for
adults or kids.
<|_=00=_|>
This is hard to watch, hard to finish, and hard to remember. 

Too far is a word this movie capably embodies. Review the number of
characters Eddie Murphy plays : Sherman Klump, Buddy Love, Granny
Klump, Mama Klump, Papa Klump, Young Papa Klump, Ernie Klump, and Lance
Perkinscan. WAW, yet needless to worn you that too far can be too wrong
sometimes. In this manner, they went so far with the filthy material to
an extent turns the movie into a docudrama about the human body's
middle, and its various secretions, or simply one of the most emetic
movies ever made ! 

Mainly the idea is good "The Fountain of Youth", however the script
just wanted to play dirty, with nothing but nauseating sex and endless
farts in its mind. 

Movies such as (John Waters)'s, since the start of the 1970s, used to
be described as transgressing with historically awful scenes, frankly
nasty elements, done in mostly independent production. Mainstream
Hollywood comedies, since the end of the 1990s, seem to be feeding on
none other than (Waters)'s inspirations. For instance the sexual humor,
that this movie savors excessively, is beyond horrible. Just remember
an anal sex between a man and a huge hamster, and an oral sex between
80 year old granny and her grandson's alter ego. So the historically
awful scenes, the frankly nasty elements,.. are now being done with big
budgets, famous stars, and sold as lovable time. See how we live an age
where the major studios transgress us !

This movie is actually a milestone in the fart comedy (the Hollywood
comedy once !). Among the many similar comedies nowadays this one is a
godfather and a record. Makes you think deeply; had decency become so
old-fashioned? Or had Hollywood become really bankrupt and incredibly
dirty in the same time?

Look how many family movies Murphy had to make right after it : Shrek
(2001), Dr. Dolittle 2 (2001), Daddy Day Care (2003), The Haunted
Mansion (2003), Shrek 2 (2004), and Imagine That (2009). I can't
precisely decide; was that a purgation? Or was it a way to woo his
raising kids, trying to persuade them that he's a good movie star or
nice person? The thing that I know for sure is that – unfortunately –
old habits die hard, because in no time he went, or went back, to make
Norbit (2007) !!

Still there is a rare angle in it. Remember the scene in which the
hamster excretes, rather explodes with excrements, in the face of many
dressy people at the press conference? While being one of the top
nightmarish moments I have experienced with movies, not believing till
now that it had been verily made, I see that it seduces brilliantly a
dark place in every one of us, and even satisfies it. Sometimes we hate
our world so much; hypocrisy, stupidity, corruption.. whatever the
reason why, at that point we want to do what the hamster did, everyone
with their hated persons who deserve such a fate best (a machine gun
full of… you know what !). Ahhh, how fair am I to admit that this movie
had something that could sound like "good" after all !

At any rate I detest (Nutty Professor II: The Klumps). It's poor,
unfunny, and too smelly to stand. It has a talent only in bringing up a
shockingly ugly thing every minute, to top it by yet another one in the
next minute; which is not my thing at all ! My theory is that you have
to be hating the world so much to love this movie altogether.
Otherwise, you might hate its makers, wishing them the fate of the
dressy people in the press conference moment ! 

P.S : I loved Hollywood's sneering at this piece of work in Tropic
Thunder (2008). Parodying it as "The Fatties: Fart Two" made me feel
that lastly I'm not alone in this universe, and that Hollywood does
have a conscience, well.. some sort of it anyway !
<|_=00=_|>
This cannot measure up to the first film - the first with Eddie Murphy,
that is, not the Jerry Lewis film from 1963. (Actually, this doesn't
measure up to the Lewis film, either.)

For me, the biggest disappointment was the "family" scenes in which
Murphy plays almost all the roles including old ladies. In the first
film, some of that was absolutely hilarious, the highlight of the
movie. Here, that isn't the case. Also, some of the dialog is almost
impossible to decipher. It's also too raunchy and this film should have
been rated "R." A PG-13 rating is ridiculous with all the emphasis on
sex. I hate to see kids watch movies like this.

Still, this had a decent share of funny moments. Also, to its credit,
it is not as mean-spirited as the first film turned out to be. Still,
the bad outweighs the good. It needed to be funnier, and less raunchy.
<|_=00=_|>


Plot - dreadful
Script - dire
The film in general is of course terrible.

But.... Im sorry, I laughed, and laughed alot. I probably need councilling
or something, maybe ECT ? Possibly, but Klumps is funny.
Eddie Murphy is an exceptionally talented man - no doubts. If for no other
reason, see this one just to watch him go to work.

Maybe one day he'll land a role like Alec Guiness in 'Kind Hearts and
Coronets' (Barry Norman's favourite film btw)....which I probably need to go
out and rent asap - by way of an antedote....


<|_=00=_|>
Frustrated by erratic and uncontrollable behavior at the hands of his
troublesome alter ego, Professor Sherman Klump undergoes an experiment
that separates his personality and allows the suave Buddy Love to
become his own person. This time around they're battling each other for
possession of invaluable scientific research which only further
complicates matters in Sherman's personal life with colleague Jackson.
Murphy, who's clearly having fun in his pull-out-all-the-stops
portrayal of a horny grandmother, is as likable and energetic as he's
ever been, but the script is awfully slim and throws out only a few
genuinely funny ideas. A disappointment considering the impact of its
predecessor. **
<|_=00=_|>

This film has to be the worst, if not one of, films ever made!  Not once
did
I laugh at this attempt to be trash.  Sure, critics say that "Eddie Murphy
gives a rousing performance", but what about the film as a whole?  Do they
ever actually get into its core and speak on it?  Peter Segal hasn't yet
grasped the gist of comedic timing.  After 'Tommy Boy', which I laughed my
butt off on, this is a dissapointment to say the least.  Quoting from the
intelligent character that Bruce Willis played in 'The Kid', Russ Duritz,
if
you like this movie, you're STOOOPID.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Klumps" is just as funny as the first Nutty Professor. One aspect
of the movie I enjoyed was that Eddie Murphy broadened his portrayal of
the Klump family (Which, if you're not aware, every family member
except the boy are Murphy. His talent is unbelievable.) and gave them
larger roles in the sequel. It's a lot dirtier than the first film. We
learn a heck of a lot more about Granny. The nudity scene was
hilarious. The plot is about the professor, who is about to get married
but his bad self, Buddy Love, is acting up. When Buddy escapes, there
are two professors running lose and the professor's got himself a
problem. It has many hilarious moments, but is different than the
original as it's unrated and has some naughty but absolutely hilarious
moments.

However, the movie isn't 100% perfect. Where it faulters is in terms of
a decent story-line. It felt like a bit of a re-trip to the first movie
with a similar plot. The film, though, is hilarious and will have you
repeating lines for days after it, but my only recommendation is that
you see it twice. The first time round, you are getting to grips with
the story-line, and I have to admit, because I didn't catch all the
jokes, I didn't find it that funny. But when you go back a second time,
as you know the basic story-line (which is there - despite what I said
earlier), you can listen in for the jokes, as they are quite hard to
catch sometimes. Altogether, "Nutty Professor 2: The Klumps" is very
good - in fact it is one of the best sequels that I have seen.

Overall rating: 7 out of 10.
