

How much is $70,000 worth to you? I'm sure that right now 70 grand would
come in real handy. But is it worth numerous beatings, getting shot, being
run over and having your toes mashed by a hammer? It is to
Porter.

I'm sure you're aware of the plot to this film (vengence, old flames and
mucho violence) but that barely scratches the surface of this brilliant
little noir. Whilst the story is basic the nuts and bolts used to make it
are complex, twisting and not quite what you expect. For a start there are
the characters. No good guys. Not one. Porter is a criminal. He's not even
a
particularly nice one. He's a killer, a thief, a thug, a gambler, a
cheater,
a liar and I bet he doesn't even pay his taxes. Likewise everybody else.
Sadists, murderers, corrupt cops, drug dealers, gang members, mobsters,
hookers. They're all here in their various shades of bad.

The success of this film relies on two people: Gibson and
screenwriter/director Brian Helgeland. With the lead gleefully playing
against his nice guy image Porter is as nasty as they come but still
retains
such charm and Gibsons trademark grin that not for one moment do you
dislike
him. He's cool in a way that Bruce Willis' Jackal never was. He quietly
slipped across continents with hi-tech equipment in various guises waiting
for his moment. Porter just walks into the hoods house with nothing but a
revolver and asks for his money back. A lot of the comments I've read say
that Porter is mean. He isn't. He'll just do what it takes to get his
money
back. He has nothing to loose so why not do it anyway. Porter is who Riggs
would be if he'd never met Murtaugh. Out of control, against massive odds
but just crazy enough not to give a damn.

Helgeland shows real talent as a director in his first time outing. As a
scriptwriter he's always been in the upper classes with a talent for
mixing
unrepentant violence with uneasy humour. Here he shows he can tell a damn
good story along with writing it. Nothing happens the way it's supposed
to.
We're used to good guys threatening to kill but always really bluffing.
Porter isn't. He'll ask for what he wants, he doesn't get it, BANG, you're
dead. People die at the wrong time too. Characters that are supposed to
last
until the end die in the middle while minors that only just arrive survive
only to get whacked by the finish anyway. The motivation is all wrong as
well. 70,000 is chump change to these people. The mobsters are wearing
suits
worth more than that. But Porter wants that and nothing more. He spends
most
of the film correcting people who think he's after more.

While based on the same source material as Point Blank, Payback is nothing
like it stylistically. The first used understated violence. Payback goes
for
the jugular and rips it out with copious amounts of rheseus negative. It's
hard to see this film working without this combo of star and director. If
you had, say Sylvester Stallone or Nicolas Cage and Richard Donner or Joel
Schumacher in charge you'd just have a bunch of nasty people doing nasty
things with none of the ghoulishly comic touches that make Porter cool. Be
thankful it's the combination it is and then go and see it. If you like
thrillers you'll love this.
<|_=00=_|>
If you don't like violence, then don't watch this movie. If you are
open to great storytelling and gritty dialogue, this is the movie for
you. In some ways superior to the remake and just as gripping. Some
have hated this film just because of what it was, and that's a shame
for them that they can't enjoy a film that neither glorifies nor
trashes the underside of life. In a weird way, the main character
Porter (who was Walker in the Lee Marvin film, played this time by Mel
Gibson who is almost as good as Lee Marvin. Nobody could be better than
Marvin in this kind of role) has a kind of decency code of his own even
though it is more than a bit twisted. After all, in a world inhabited
by criminals, the rules change significantly and so once has to either
adapt or find a way out. Porter does both in both versions.

No sense in rehashing the plot. Suffice it to say that it is about a
crook who got burned and wants what is coming to him and gets even
along the way. Besides, the plot has been recounted by so many better
reviewers than myself. I can only say that in "Point Blank" the ending
is a bit more ambiguous. A precursor to the films of the 1970s.

It's always hard for me to rate one film version over another. It is
almost impossible to not want to (in my mind at least) mix and match
actors in roles. James Coburn played the same part as did Carroll
O'Connor in the original and they are both perfect while being so
different. After all, they were both accomplished actors. And maybe I
could have done without a lot of the S&M and B&D scenes in the newer
version but I chalk that up to the changes in the world since the
1960s.

Long before there was a Quentin Tarrantino, there were great directors
like Don Siegel, Sam Peckinpah and Sam Fuller who were as tough as
nails and not just some fan who knew how to use the best of all of
these guys brilliant touches, and add some sick jokes. But
director/writer Brain Helgeland does spectacularly well with the
material, while the new cast shines in their roles almost as though
they weren't acting, but living the parts. And that goes right down to
the underrated David Paymer as a pathetic hustler (who could easily
have been played in earlier times by an Elisha Cook Jr. as he did with
the Wilmer role from "The Maltese Falcon" yet Paymer does so with more
humor.) It is hard to make one root for people so lacking in morals but
director, writer and actors manage amazingly well.

Both "Payback" and "Point Blank" are instant classics that should be
considered as such. And God bless the memories of Lee Marvin and John
Vernon (both in the original "Point Blank" version.) Such fine
thespians will be sorely missed. Fortunately, their memories are on
celluloid and other mediums to be enjoyed by many more audiences.

You might have guessed I really love these two movies.
<|_=00=_|>

Payback, while admittedly one of the more violent movies out this year, was
definitely an entertaining flick.

Like the promo catch phrase says, this time you'll root for the bad guy.  If
Gibson's character has any redeeming qualities, they are on a very short
list.  Porter (Gibson) is violent, at times even cruel and the other
characters aren't much better; some are worse.  Every character is from the
wrong side of the tracks, even the cops are on the take and there are no
punches pulled.  The only character you can really feel is a "good guy" is
Rose, the stereotypical Callgirl with a heart of gold (although it's maybe
only 10 karat, not a real 24 karat heart).

Nevertheless, you will root for Porter.  Frankly, I don't think anyone else
could have pulled off this role and still kept the support of the audience
like Gibson did, but then he generally always plays the good guy with a
twist.  This time, the twist is a little more savage than usual.

All in all, if you enjoy the occasional violent romp on the big screen and
you're a fan of Mel Gibson; Payback is worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Easily one of Gibson's best, and one of the best of it's kind you will
ever see. Homage to film noir, combined with usual Gibson
tongue-in-cheekness, and some fabulous supporting roles from the likes
of Coburn, Kristofferson, Liu, and Devane. Henry does a stirling job
here opposite Gibson. Liu is simply wonderful in a role that -
worryingly perhaps - looks like it was made for her! 

Porter's single-minded, no-nonsense determination to get what he sees
as justice for himself strikes a chord, and has you rooting for him
right to the end. This film rarely lets up on the intensity, and gets
better as it goes along. It will make you laugh and cringe at the same
time, but you won't want to take your eyes off the screen for a second.
It looks good, feels good, and oozes class. Definitely a must-see.
<|_=00=_|>
Payback directed by Brian Helgeland is a classic "film noir" following
the tradition of urban "gangster movies" and Mel Gibson is giving an
outstanding performance as Porter - the bad guy who is only slightly
better than the rest of the gangsters, hoodlums, crooks and scoundrels
to be met in the film.

"Payback" is a great movie in this genre. Donald E. Westlake, who has
written the novel on which the film is based, has picked up the thread
of Raymond Chandler and Dashiel Hammett to create an authentic universe
with "real" characters, and Brian Helgeland has succeeded to bring this
universe to the screen.

Everything about this movie is great - the storyboard, the cast, the
direction and the soundtrack. This film bears resemblance to Sergio
Leone's "The Good, the Bad & the Ugly" and if you have seen "the
Maltese Falcon" starring Bogart, you should definitely see "Payback".
<|_=00=_|>
"Payback" is one of those highly entertaining movies that make you
forget your sorrows for a moment and entertains you right till the end.
Difference with most other entertaining movies is that this movie also
has a great story!

The movie is completely driven by the main character played by Mel
Gibson. He plays a great and fun criminal who is an anti-hero and a
total bad guy but still someone for who you can feel and cheer about.
The movie also features lot's of other great actors including James
Coburn in a very fun role, Kris Kristofferson, Lucy Liu, Bill Duke and
David Paymer. The movie is filled with great and entertaining
characters.

The story is just great and has quite some nice twists and moments. The
movie is comedy like but it also has a wonderful film-noir feeling with
a typical atmosphere. There are also some nice action sequences in
which Mel Gibson's character might be featured a bit too much as an
hero.

Nothing about this movie indicates that there were troubles on the set
during filming with the director Brian Helgeland, on the contrary!
Everything about the movie feels very fun like.

Solid entertainment!

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

Yes - Payback & Point Blank (1967) are very similar. But there is a
very good reason for that. Both films are based on the novel 'The
Hunter' by Richard Stark, a pseudonym for Donald E Westlake.

The films share several character names such as Brewster, Carter,
Stegman and Fairfax and similar plots. In both cases the anti-hero
Porter (or Walker) is trying to recover a sum of money after being
double-crossed.

Now, I am a huge fan of Point Blank. It takes a relatively simple plot
and makes a bit of cinematic poetry out of it. And if I was forced to
compare Lee Marvin and Mel Gibson's performances, then I'm sorry but
Gibson would lose big time. However, Payback is a much better film than
I thought it would be. There are sufficient differences to make the
story interesting and though it is told in a much more straightforward
and, dare I say, 'safe' way than Point Blank, it is a very well made
film and tells a compelling story well. And it's nice to see Gibson
return to a somewhat morally ambiguous character a la Mad Max.

<|_=00=_|>
A modern-day film noir, this is about as tough as it gets. Rough
characters, rough violence and rough language all comprise this re-make
of the 1967 film "Point Blank," which starred Lee Marvin.

Mel Gibson is the "good guy" here, taking Marvin's role, but I put that
in quotes because he's not really "good," just a thief attempting to
get his $70,000 back which was stolen from him by his partner and
ex-wife in a former heist. He goes up the ladder, little guy to the top
boss, to finally get his money.

Gibson gets beaten up several times and even gets tortured in one toes-
crunching scene. The women are tough-looking, coarse and unappealing. I
did like the metallic-blue hues in here, making this an interesting
visual film. However, the city scenes are bleak, a la Batman.

Despite the above, I still found the movie good enough to watch several
times. Most people like a simple, revenge story which this really is,
and there is dark humor in here, too. The other characters are
interesting, particularly the one played by William Devane. I also
liked the narration by Gibson, done in 1940s film noir style. The worst
person in here was the sadistic "Val Resnick" (Gregg Henry). He was so
bad, he was cartoon-ish, someone so bad he belonged in one of those
Batman or Hellboy or Spiderman flicks.
<|_=00=_|>

I'ts not often a film comes along that has a great script , great acting and
good soundtrack but Payback has all these.Mel Gibson plays a guy who has
been ripped of by the tune of $70,000 and this is the violent story of how
he get round to getting it back.The film takes you on a journey where you
ride many twists and turns and you meet lots of great personalities  on the
way , most of which end up dead. Mel Gibson try's his best to be nasty but
you cant help but like him. He could play Jack the ripper and you would
still end up liking him! Anyway catch this movie asap. 9 out of 10

<|_=00=_|>
Mel (as Parker aka Porter) is a bad guy who comes across as a good guy
because everyone else in this flic is even more nasty than he is. It's
a simple play on perspective not often utilized in the movies. Usually,
the hero is A HERO, white hat and all, even with a few quirks or
deficiencies to his character. Not so, here. And the key to the whole
picture is buying into Mel as a bad man, all despite his many years in
heroic roles beforehand. It works very well, especially in the
beginning, where it really needed to. There's an early scene during the
credits where Mel forces himself to smile in a mirror, as preparation
for putting forth his 'best face' to a teller at a bank. One gets the
impression this really is a man unaccustomed to smiling, a sour, angry
man. The early scenes also recall the beginning of "Miami Blues," that
being a criminal swooping into town and wasting no time in bringing a
little terror & hardship on certain select bystanders. There's a
danger, in a film sense, of satirizing such moments too much, to the
point of slapstick comedy - rather than dark comedy, which it really
is. But Mel doesn't mess around here: he means business, bashing scum
left & right, and blowing 'em away as he moves up the ladder of an
organized crime organization. The rest of the cast is top-notch, by the
way. The casting directors must have had a field day on this one. Then
Mel himself is beaten; the whole theme of the movie seems to be about
pain: how much one can stand; how much one can dish out. It ends up
being very cathartic. The cinematography also helps this picture: the
photography is quite stark,ultra-crisp, adding to the 'punch' of the
whole show. The lines on Mel's face are deeper than ever; he seems to
carry years of pain there. And years of guilt, maybe.
