

If you're not a fan of Eddie Murphy's humor, then skip this
one.

The movie begins in modern times, 1997, with the main characters' funerals.
The movie then flashes back to 1932 to begin telling their story, and
continues as they age in prison in Mississippi.

They were "petty criminals" but were sentenced to life in prison for a
murder they did not commit.  However, being black in 1930s Mississippi did
them no favors.  The story that unfolds is irreverent and funny and has
enough twists along the way to keep things very interesting.

I can't understand why the average rating of this movie is below "6".  I
give it "8" of "10" for its overall entertainment value, plus a few "life's
little lessons" thrown in. I think it is one of Eddie Murphy's best
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure,Eddie Murphy has gotten credit over the years for being the comic
genius that he is,but he does not always get proper credit for his
movie work.1999's Life is a good example of Murphy getting
overlooked.He does great work here,along with Martin Lawrence(whom I am
not a huge fan of, but I must give him due credit here)as two men
wrongly sentenced to life imprisonment.This is an excellent story,and
casting Murphy and Lawrence in the lead roles is nothing short of a
perfect idea.I never would have thought of them as a great team,but I
was pleasantly surprised here.A must see for any die hard Eddie Murphy
fan.
<|_=00=_|>

I found this film funny and inventive. Two adjectives that I have not been
able to use for an Eddie Murphy film for a long time.

With a story line as good as this one, it was up to Eddie to see how he
could develop it. If this film had a flaw, I think this was it. I believe
had Mr Murphy decided to look really deeply into the role of Rayford
Gibson,
it could have been a possible "Oscar" role for him.

There are no doubts regarding Eddie Murphy's acting ability, yet sometimes
I
think he sacrifices the script and his role for a cheap laugh when it's
not
really necessary. It is possible that he is caught up in his own 'identity
creation' of "Eddie Murphy: Comedy first, drama...maybe
not!"

That said, Eddie Murphy and his worthy partner, Martin Lawrence
successfully
produce a comedy worth watching. I just hope that Eddie Murphy continues
in
this same vein. Please no more films like Beverly Hills Flop 3 and Holy
Man!

Finally, a general point, which needs to be addressed, is that it is so
strange how comedy films with far more substance, fail to do well
financially. Moreover, there are films which fall short in quality, that
can
generate $100M+ for substandard,
regurgitated, "comedy". "Life" which is struggling to reach the $65M mark
falls into the former category. "Austin Powers: The Spy who Shagged Me"
and
"Big Daddy" definitely fall in the latter. The mind boggles!

Anyway, for those who have not seen "Life", go and see, you won't regret
watching it.

<|_=00=_|>

After reading the user comments on this movie, it appears that the main
complaint is that it is not the rollicking laugh-a-minute comedy that fans
of the two leads expected.  Once you let that expectation go, this is a
great movie!  It succeeds as a drama with comic tone.  There have been some
great ones that do this, and we mistakenly classify them as comedies.  For
example, M*A*S*H, Mr. Roberts, It's a Wonderful Life.  These are pictures
that provide comic overtones to people struggling to get through a very
serious and overwhelming event: war, contemplated suicide, and in the case
of Life, life imprisonment.

I was surprised at how good Murphy is in this flick.Not one of my favorites,
he convinces as he ages and grows under the burden his character carries,
that of an entire life stolen from him.  And he survives with a certain
dignity.  Lawrence is almost as good, but he does labor a bit with the
dramatic parts, seeming a bit uncomfortable shedding his comic bent.  Note
that when these characters are shown as old men, Murphy actually becomes an
old man, Lawrence is still a young man in oldster's make-up. 

Let's not overlook an interesting small role expertly understated by Ned
Beatty, and the charm of Bokeem Woodbine as Can't Get Right. Life is
well-mounted and the sets are as convincing as any I've seen. Comedies are
rarely as dirty and sweaty as this movie. 

I thoroughly enjoyed this picture, realizing early on that it was a very
serious movie wrongly hyped as a comedy.  


<|_=00=_|>


I cannot even begin to count how many `comedies' I have
sat through that try to reach for the `timeless' formula
by
interjecting some lame dramatics to engage the audience
even
more than the comedy ever could.  It's a practice as old
as
time in Hollywood.  Most of these movies fail miserably.

You leave the theater thinking `It was funny enough, why
couldn't it just stay silly?'  My friends, I'm with you
on
every page. It's a slippery slope to juggle the two genres.

`Life' is the millionth attempt at warm-hearted comedy.
It
tries to make you pee your pants with its jokes, and yet
slap your emotions around with the drama.  And damn the
odds, it fits like a glove.
`Life' is also a film that defies much criticism.  You
either love stars Eddie Murphy and Martin Lawrence, or
you
don't.  I'm in the first category.  As the main characters,
the two comedians prove just how valuable they are.  Murphy
is coming off a uniquely horrific year. `Dr. Dolittle' was
a
smash, but a career setback to say the least. `Holy Man'
was
an unmitigated disaster, but one that didn't effect Murphy
with any real damage. The greatest gift `Life' gives to
Murphy is a chance to show off range.  Murphy is a very
talented actor, and this movie makes you wish he would try
a
straight drama for once. Murphy can be devastatingly funny.
But he can also be very dramatically convincing.  With
each
new movie, Murphy grows as an actor. I really think he's
set
for brighter things.
Martin Lawrence shares many of the same attributes as
Murphy.  He's terribly funny, and yet able to win your
heart
with a depth most comedians don't have. `Life' has Lawrence
with the quieter role.  He uses that chance to provide
the
film with a backbone. He eventually comes out the best
rounded character in the fractured storytelling.  It's
a
good performance, but even better, it's a brilliant pairing
with Eddie Murphy.  The two are seamlessly funny.  Squeezing
every moment for comic and emotional juice.  It's refreshing
to watch a movie with two actors who seem to be trying
something different, all the while living up to previous
expectations.
Ted Demme is a solid director, a thought that
immediately puts me in the minority.  His `Who's The Man?'
was a strictly silly romp, but was actually funny. `The
Ref'
was the critically lauded and sharp black comedy. `Beautiful
Girls' is a film that every time I sit down to watch, feels
as comfortable as an old cardigan. He's yet to falter in
my
eyes.  I like his attention to detail, and his gift for
trusting his actors. `Life' wouldn't work as well as it
does
without a specific amount of direction and free will. Demme
manages to keep the film on track without ever succumbing
to
an over-reliance on improv.  The best scenes in `Life'
are
the quiet ones: the gay inmate who's release from prison
provides a dilemma, the passage of time montage, and
Lawrence's moment with the freshly baked pies(which is
actually comical, but who's counting?).  The film seems
like
it was longer at one point, but the film on display here
really pleased me. I would recommend this film to anybody
that has lost faith in Eddie Murphy.------------- 9


<|_=00=_|>

Martin Lawrence finally sheds his "Whats UUUUUUUUUUP!" image with a
stellar
performance in Life.  Eddie Murphy returned to greatness with his first
good
movie in awhile.  Hopefully this is the start of something good by having
these two amazing actors working together.  "Are you gonna eat that
cornbread?" I couldn't stop laughing the whole time I was there.  I give
Life a 10 and recommend it to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent, simply brilliant. 

One of the most funniest films I have seen. 

I have seen this so many times and I don't understand why it has only
scored a 6/10!

I always think that story lines that cover a large chunk of the
characters' lives are always very interesting as the audience gets to
see how they evolve and change with age. All of the characters pull
this off - over the years we see Ray (Eddie Murphy) change from a young
confident individual who never gives up hope to a tired old grouchy man
who is hard of hearing; but its never sad. Even when the characters are
riddled with old age the humour is still fantastic.
<|_=00=_|>
I usually am not a fan of Eddie Murphy, but I thoroughly enjoyed the
interweaving of comedy and drama in "Life." At first glance the title
seems to refer to the life sentence wrongly given to the two men. As
the story unfolds, the viewer sees the "life" they must make for
themselves in the spartan setting of a prison in Mississippi. The end
of the film should bring the viewer to question what he has done with
his life and how much he has depended on "props" for a meaning to his
own life.

Many who submitted comments compared "Life" with "The Shawshank
Redemption," but a more likely comparison is "Cool Hand Luke," which
starred Paul Newman in a similar story also set in a Mississippi
prison. The comic gags, such as the warden's curvaceous daughter, were
taken from "Cool Hand Luke." Overall, the film is rich in meaning as it
shows how life in general is an interweaving of comedy and tragedy.
Another comparison story is "Death Comes for the Archbishop" by Willa
Cather, in which Ms. Cather shows how two priests, also in a spartan
situation (a desert pastorate in New Mexico) and without the usual
trappings of success, make meaningful lives for themselves while living
sacrificially for others.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie "Life" is funny, warm and a bit sad.  Because Eddie and Martin
are
innocent of the crime, you actually feel sorry for their situation.  I
kept
hoping for them to escape much sooner, so that we could have seen some
funny
situations they would have been doing to avoid being re-captured.  Two
nuts
on the run.
<|_=00=_|>

Finally! Eddie Murphy is back. This is one of his funniest movies in years.
And that wasn't hard to do.  This movie is enough to make you forgive him
for "The Nutty Professor" and "Holy Man". But, I'm not sure that it's going
to be enough to make me forgive him for doing "The Nutty Professor II".
Anyhow, he gets it right this time. This movie is one laugh riot from
beginning to end. Murphy and Lawrence have good chemistry throughout the
movie. It's a lot likes the chemistry between Lawrence and Tim Robbins in
"Nothing To Lose". So, rush out to your nearest theater and slap down your
$8.50. It's well worth it.
