

I love Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh, but, what are they doing
here?
A shameless rip off of a much better movie "Apartment Zero" with Colin Firth
and Hart Bochner.
As the journey had already been taken, the trip becomes an irritating
one.
I didn't care about it for a minute.
The two actresses are always worth watching, they have the power to attract
their audience whatever they're doing. That's partly why, I was so put off
by the nonsense they were involved with in Single White
Female.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie in theater in 1992 and remember it being very
entertaining and somewhat racy. Fourteen years later the film holds up
well to the test of time. A major difference is in the level of nudity
between this film and the thrillers of today. Bridget Fonda and
Jennifer Jason Leigh are hot! lets see them naked and often. Barbet
schroeder understands this, and we see them both naked from the onset
of the film. The story and acting develop well, the dialog is well
written and the camera work is adequate. 

Jennifer Jason Leigh steals the show in this film, she does a superb
job handling the transition in the character of Heddy with her body
language and shyness into the transition of a sexually charged woman,
who is assertive and obviously losing her grip on reality. She takes
more risks and becomes bold and violent. Overall much better and more
entertaining than any of the crap you will find being made today in
Hollywood. Don't expect Shakespeare and just enjoy the ride.
<|_=00=_|>

I have never seen such trite in my life! The film, has no solid
storyline and is amazingly awful. Bridget Fonda is gorgeous but i think
this film totally undermined her, her acting performances were not
projected as like a true actors would and god! It is just RUBBISH! The
way the brunette woman killed Bridget Fonda's fiancée, by accidentally
throwing the heel of a silver stiletto shoe in his eye, just cracked me
up. This film cannot be of the thriller genre more of the comedy genre.
The emotions that were meant to have been portrayed were not such as
when Fonda found out her fiancée had died, what did she do? Just
whimper! Show some emotion, please! The ending, oh my god! What an
awful ending, the ending could have either been explained in a lot more
detail or just shot differently, it would have made all the more
difference, trust me. If they could just go back to the storyboards and
elaborate on the shot angles, this film would be a little better.

<|_=00=_|>

A fairly engaging psychological thriller. Of course, there must be some
suspension of disbelief, as in Hedy(Jennifer Jason Leigh) wielding a shoe.
Also, there really are no truly sympathetic characters here. Hedy, of
course, is what she is. And, Allie(Bridget Fonda), the supposed heroine,
does kind of screw over Hedy. And Sam (Steven Webber) is basically a snake
anyway. As for the actors, I thought Miss Leigh was by far the best, though
she had the meatiest part, so it may be hard to compare. And what an amazing
apartment for a young software designer in Manhattan. OK, they mentioned it
was rent-controlled. What an insane economic policy. Grade:
B-
<|_=00=_|>
I finally seen this with my own eyes. What a missed opportunity. If
their intention was to remake "Apartment Zero" with two females in the
lead, they failed miserably. They missed the point of the
original,totally. Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason Leigh are very good
but the movie isn't. I lost patience with the convoluted phony attempt
to capture my attention within the first 15 minutes of the film.. I'd
seen it all before. I felt treated like an idiot. There is no
psychological road to follow because the characters are replicates from
better movies, they don't have a life of their own and as a
consequence, I didn't care. By the way, where are Bridget Fonda and
Jennifer Jason Leigh? I haven't seen them in a long time and I think
they are wonderful - in other movies that is.
<|_=00=_|>
Single White Female is directed by Barbet Schroeder and adapted to
screenplay by Don Roos from the novel "SWF Seeks Same" written by John
Lutz. It stars Bridget Fonda, Jennifer Jason Leigh, Steven Weber, Peter
Friedman and Stephen Tobolowsky. Music is by Howard Shore and
cinematography by Luciano Tovoli.

When it's revealed that her partner Sam (Weber) has been cheating on
her with his ex-wife, Allie Jones (Fonda) kicks him out of the
apartment and advertises for a female roommate. She chooses Hedra
Carlson (Leigh), who on the surface seems to be the perfect roommate.
Smoothly helping Allie through her crisis, a real friendship is formed,
but it's not long before Hedra starts to exhibit some dark behaviour
patterns..

The early 90s saw the "Woman from Hell" back in vogue in mainstream
cinema. After the success and publicity of Fatal Attraction (1987),
there was a period where you feel that sensible film makers wisely
chose to let that particular film disappear from the film lovers memory
banks. As it happens, they must have collectively chose 5 years as the
cooling off period. For 1992 saw a wave of mad female on the loose
pictures released. Led by the publicity gobbling Basic Instinct, films
such as The Hand That Rocks the Cradle and Single White Female put bums
on cinema seats and reopened the "Mad Bitch" sub-genre. Of the three,
Single White Female grossed the least, which is strange since it's a
better movie than the other two.

Schroeder's (Barfly/Reversal of Fortune) movie isn't a complete
success, there's not enough development of the main characters and
there's some unintentionally funny moments. But when it's good it's
real good. Reeling off a number of memorable and often chilling scenes,
film is further boosted by the psychological smarts in Roos' (Boys on
the Side) screenplay. It helps that Schroeder has a knack for pacing,
too, where he neatly simmers the plot until the spill over for the big
finale. No disappointment there either, a good combination of genre
staples is enhanced in impact by some unexpected character
developments, and there's moments of genuine suspense to lure the
viewer to the edge of their seat. 

It's also stylishly shot by Schroeder and Tovoli (Suspiria/Tenebrae).
Allie's Upper West Side apartment is imposing and expansive, with high
ceilings, old time plumbing, a clunky lift and a dingy laundry in the
basement. It's a different set-up for such a thriller, no picket fence
harmony house or beach side residence, this is bustling New York, big
spaces, but as it turns out, that means no hiding place. The boys
behind the cameras get the maximum they can from the locale by blending
imposing and ominous with grainy veneer and filtered light. On the
acting front, the girls put great effort into making their thinly
developed characters work, with Leigh doing a good line in progressive
instability. While Friedman, Weber and a wonderfully naughty
Tobolowsky, make the most of their secondary roles. 

One or two obvious flaws aside, this still rounds out as a thoroughly
enjoyable thriller. 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

Possible Spoilers:

The idea of a female at the terrorist psycho in a movie is fun, and
certainly refreshing for fans of slasher films; however, living with the
characters for two hours is like living with your least favorite room-mate
for two months; Brigit Fonda plays a confused city girl who wants to make
ends meet by illegally subletting her apartment; she even takes pictures of
her candidates.  Naturally, an endless line of women submit to this without
question.  Jennifer Leigh shows up as Fonda is in the middle of a boyfriend
breakdown and Fonda decides she's her room-mate.   The boyfriend is
presented as clueless clod, Jennifer Leigh does a good job playing a
depressed woman with a flat affect and a penchant for threats, Brigit is
practically helpless, and everyone else in the movie, especially her boss,
are jerks.  There is really no-one to like in this movie.  In addition,
everyone's actions are off-putting and mean-spirited; Brigit's boss decides
he doesn't want to pay her the over-time she's earned unless she puts out;
Brigit has installed software on her computer to automatically wipe out her
work if he doesn't.  The boyfriend thinks at one-quarter speed and can't
make up his mind, and Brigit can't walk away from him.  The slasher scenes
almost seem like a further irritation than a scare by the time they come. 
The movie really doesn't provide suspense and terror; instead it substitutes
manipulation (and heavy-handed manipulation at that), meanness and ugliness.
 Why this received high ratings as a suspense movie is a mystery...but there
are far better ones at Blockbuster.  
Three out of ten stars.  
<|_=00=_|>
This film was such a wasted few hours of my life. The plot was
absolutely terrible. An obsessive lesbian-esquire stalker girl who
destroys her flatmates life? To begin with, the whole my fiancé cheated
with his ex-wife beginning was terrible. You pray and pray for her to
just dump him, because honestly, why would you take such scum back? and
then she does? Well, I honestly had no sympathy for her after that. The
back story for Leighs character was weak, and why she would choose weak
and pathetic Fonda's character to obsess over, I really don't know. I
cheered when Fonda's fiancé was killed, and ended up hating both Leigh
and Fonda's pitiful characters. The film was far too focused on sex,
and it was far too male orientated erotica. To sum up, the film was
poorly executed, think made for TV movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Nothing new in this thriller which finds disturbed, possessive 'Hedra'
(Jennifer Jason Leigh) moving in with career girl 'Alison' (Bridget
Fonda), who has recently separated from her boyfriend.

Barbet Schroeder creates his own style in a film which (with two
effective lead performances) manages to elicit tension, even if it is
not full of surprises. The plot line is not unlike that of the recent
"Poison Ivy", and the style is a little akin to "Basic Instinct".
However, "Single White Female" is a definite improvement on both of
these films, though it is not as good as some other thrillers of late.
Unnerving, but never outstanding.

Saturday, October 10, 1992 - Knox District Centre
<|_=00=_|>
Formulaic, formulaic yeah it's routine Hollywood psycho-thriller
territory, but too visually well made by director Barbet Schroeder and
comfortably performed in the shape of Bridget Fonda and Jennifer Jason
Leigh to not get something out of it. The story (adapted off John
Lutz's novel "SWF Seeks Same") plays its cards quite early, and goes
about the subject in a too convenient manner to make it entirely
effective. Quite a slow build-up and many sub-plots stem off the
central plot, as we watch Leigh's character's twitchy transformation
suddenly grow and form the basis of the early groundwork that would
eventually unsettle Fonda's fragile character. A resourceful Schroeder
sure does a brilliant job with many artistic flourishes, and inspired
gimmick set-pieces where you just can't help but admire Luciano
Tovoli's lyrically smooth cinematography. However trying to register
the suspense, became hard due to leading us down the same old path of
cheap clichéd jolts and shinny techniques. Although the potent climax
goes over-board, it's particularly heart-pounding and downright
exciting. There's nothing overtly tame about it, with its seamless
nudity and tantalizing sex, and a wicked death here and there. But it's
all tastefully done. Howard Shore's sumptuously airy musical score
feeds off the well used location and compact sets (especially that of
the stark Victorian apartment building) that are very ideal to the
film's progression. In the two leads, a gorgeous Fonda is terrific and
Leigh's needly attachable turn is one of confidence. The chemistry
works, and when it comes to it they sure do look like each other. Talk
about eerie. There's also solid support by Steven Weber, Peter Friedman
and Stephen Tobolowsky.
