
I couldn't disagree more with the other comment posted for this
(unavailable..any body know of a release date for a DVD?) clever adult
satire on the American dream and the life that accompanies it.
Cockroaches are seen as one of the dirtiest bugs around, and what
better metaphor exists than for them to be literally lurking right
under the skin of a family that is awarded the 'Family of the Year
Award'? The irony here is that slowly, the Applegates -the cockroaches
we view as so beneath us- become corrupted by the vices of OUR urban
culture: sex, drugs, greed, and selfishness, rather than the urban
culture being infected by them. Yes, this film makes it's point lewdly,
however, there is a gleeful self mocking absurdity that had me, even at
10 years old when I saw this movie, in stitches. If you are fortunate
enough to encounter a copy of this film, I highly suggest you check it
out. That is, if you can understand and appreciate clever satire.
<|_=00=_|>

Angered by a logging company encroaching deep into their natural forest, a
family of large insects camouflage themselves as humans and blend themselves
into a small American town.  Dick gets a job with the nuclear power plant in
order to sabotage it and wage war on the human population.  However the
family finds that their attempts to blend in are working a little too easy
and they endanger their own mission.

Despite being a little too gory for my tastes, this comedy is actually quite
sharp in it's main satire on American life.  The main joke for me was the
way the family of bugs are sucked into the lifestyle of American mores – the
mother gives in to commercialism, the son to drugs, the daughter to teenage
sex and the father to adultery.  It's comical to watch their descent and
works pretty well.  Where's it's all going is less clear and the message is
not so clear in regards whether becoming `normal' is for the best or not. 
What is clear is the eco message which pokes fun at those who would make war
on nature (whether bug or human) without respect for other life
forms.

For a 90 minute film it all works pretty well and is actually quite
imaginative.  The gore put me off a little, in the gore of the eggs and bugs
generally and I would have preferred if they had just had the bugs without
all the slime and stuff.  The cast do a good job carrying the material –
their performances generally help keep up the mood of weirdness!  Begley Jnr
and Channing are both good in the leads – each giving in to their human
environment.  The kids are OK but the best performance is an outrageous
performance from Coleman as the queen of the species – complete with full
drag and moustache!

Overall this never quite delivers as many laughs as it's clever and funny
pitch but it is still worth a watch.  It has a surreal picture book image of
`normal' America that it slowly explodes.  For me, you could take or leave
the eco message and still enjoy the film.  Not great but different enough to
be worth a try.
<|_=00=_|>

I highly recommend this film to all.  For some unexplainable reason I'd
call
this film a mixture of Tim Burton and John Waters (although neither of them
have any association with it) For instance, if you are a fan of Beetlejuice
& Mars Attacks (Burton) or Cry-Baby & Serial Mom (Waters) this film is
definitely up your alley.  This film has the subtle strangeness of Burton
and the sick humor of Waters.  That's all I can really say.  The movie is
hilarious (as are the 4 films mentioned above) in its own twisted little
way.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Applegates" can easily be considered a cult classic for three
obvious reasons; a strong cast, a powerful story, and moments that will
remain in the chambers of your brain. To begin, the cast is amazing.
Director Michael Lehmann,, who also directed a personal favorite film
called "Heathers", knows how to make a socially viable comedy that
doesn't feel dated or tired. Watch "Heathers" again after watching
"Fight Club", and you will see the possible similarities between two
films made two decades apart. He made this film using strong actors
that typically would never be paired together at all. Who would have
imaged I would be sitting here, typing on the computer, indicating to
you that I deeply enjoyed a film starring Ed Begley Jr. and Stockard
Channing – or even the fact that Dabney Coleman was mixed in there as
well?!? This is a first for me. "The Applegates" worked because the
cast wasn't fighting from within. They were working together to create
comedy (yet again another concept that seems to escape modern cinematic
farces), they played off of each other, building their small character
into something believable and witty for the greater good – the movie!
It was impressive to watch them implode together, but it was equally as
fun to see them outside of their element on their own. Begley was dry
and perfect for his role as the master-in-command bug, while Channing
went through this amazing transformation from modest housewife to
spending madman. The same can be said for the two children, which go
from bright and sunny to dark and sadistic midway through the film. The
human elements that invade these bugs' lives are over-developed for
this film, but they work impressively well. These Applegates, as well
as the actors that portray them, prove to humans that even if they come
to us, we will still destroy their sense of what is right or wrong.

"The Applegates" used a powerful technique for keeping this film easy
on the eyes. It used the K.I.S.S. method that I believe helps comedies
reach a higher level of repeated viewings. The "Keep It Simple Stupid"
was applied to this film by merely saying that these bugs were going to
nuke a small town in the United States. There wasn't a fear of
technology, over-analyzing, or future consequences – and with a film
like this, we didn't need it. I wanted to laugh, bring in thoughts of
what is destroying our world, and see a film that was fresh and
genuine; and I was able to see it with "The Applegates". The story was
superb. It was funny and poignant all at the same time. The cast, which
I have already applauded, makes this story come to life and seem more
emotional than your typical big-budget cast with over-hyped budget.
This was a simple story, and due to the simplicity of the tale, my
attention was focused and this film was enjoyed. Where else could you
not question Dabney Coleman dressed as "Aunt Bea"? 

Finally, the message that Lehmann was trying to release was clear.
There are problems in the United States whether we would want to blame
them on outside influences or not, we have issues with underage
pregnancies, drug use, over-spending, and adultery (perhaps every
country does – but we seem to engulf it further). This film exploits
them on a group of bugs that gain our sympathies and force us to root
for them when they are down. Comedy is the tool used to show us our
flaws, but our laughter is not "HA HA HA", but more of a "ha" as we
consider our own lives within these bugs. Metaphors abound, we feel sad
for these Applegates as they begin to falter in their mission because
we are causing the failure. Our obese lifestyles are killing these
bugs, and Lehmann isn't afraid to show us that to our face.

Overall, I thought "The Applegates" was yet another strong film
released by Michael Lehmann. It was sharp, witty, intelligent, and
hysterical as this group of bugs learns what it is like to truly be
human. It is a sad story of our human lives, wondering if others would
ever watch this film and see us in such a light, one can only wonder.
It is a passionate story, with a cast that will truly surprise you and
make you question your own choices in life. While it was released
during a time where there was heightened fear of the destruction of the
Amazon forests, while we battle today with the issue of Global Warming
– the two seem to pair well – like a glass of white wine with a chicken
salad. "The Applegates" remains a poignant film, and I hope that it
will one day see the light of DVD. It needs to be seen by more, as we
laugh, these issues need to be addressed. HA. Dabney Coleman dressed as
"Aunt Bea". HA! I can't seem to get that out of my mind! 

Grade: ***** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
Meet the Applegates, there's the head of the family Richard Applegate
(Ed Begley Jr.) also known as Dick, his wife Jane (Stockard Channing) &
their two teenage children Johnny (Robert Jayne as Bobby Jacoby) &
Sally (Camile Cooper as Cami Cooper). The Applegates at first glance
appear to be a normal middle class American family when they move into
a quiet suburban town somewhere in Ohio to all their new neighbours &
friends. But in reality the Applegates are in fact giant cockroach type
insects from the Amazonian rain forests disguised as humans. These
giant insects are fed up of us humans chopping down their home,
polluting the planet & having no respect or regard for the Earth & it's
other inhabitants, fair enough... Dick talks himself into a job at the
local nuclear power plant & plans to cause a meltdown, the Applegates &
their species then hope the resulting radiation leak will wipe out the
entire human race & leave the insect kingdom to live in peace. At first
things go extremely well & their plan works perfectly but soon enough
the pleasures & peril's of everyday American life begin to have an
effect on their family unit & their plans. First Sally has sex with
Vincent Sampson (Adam Biesk) whom finds out that she is a giant
cockroach so Sally cocoons him & takes him home which causes problems
as Vincent is the son of one of the Applegates neighbours, Greg Sampson
(Glenn Shadix) who is a bug exterminator. Johnny gets involved with two
dope smoking twins, Kevin (Philip Arthur Ross) & Kenny (Steven Robert
Ross) & becomes addicted to dope himself. Jane can't stop buying things
on credit, Dick has an affair with his secretary Dottie (Savannah Smith
Boucher) & gets himself fired from the nuclear plant. Their carefully
thought out plans & the very existence of their species lay in tatters
as living an everyday American life has all but destroyed them, but
others of their kind are on the way...

Co-written & directed by Micheal Lehmann I thought Meet the Applegates
was a highly original & very enjoyable comic horror. The script by
Lehmann & Redbeard Simmons really hits the nail on the head with it's
witty & satirical look on middle class American life. I loved the scene
where Jane wouldn't have sex with Dick so he finds a picture of two
insects having sex & masturbates, or the scene when Johnny questions if
smoking dope is safe & his two spaced out friends say "we do it all the
time" "and look at us", in fact Meet the Applegates is full of great
individual scenes. The Applegates descent from the perfect American
family into the emotional wrecks they ended up as was just spot on for
me & although obviously the story is pure fantasy it seemed almost
believable. It has considerable charm, the themes & issues that it
raises & tackles are handled well & it manages to both tell a story
which at the same time has a strong message & manages to entertain.
Meet the Applegates is rather silly when all said & done but if you
want something a little different & you are able to just go with the
bizarre notion of giant cockroaches disguised as humans then you should
be rewarded with a great viewing experience, the ending was a bit of a
cop out though. The creature effects by Kevin Yagher are generally
impressive & the bugs looked both quite cute & creepy at the same time.
The transformation scenes are pretty good as well. The acting is pretty
much spot on from everyone & all the characters are likable except
Johnny Applegate & Aunt Bea (Dabney Coleman) who both irritated me.
Meet the Applegates is generally very well made with nice production
values & nothing really to complain about. Overall I really liked Meet
the Applegates, it's a very original piece of storytelling that
definitely stands out as being just that bit different which makes a
nice change. I wholeheartedly recommend Meet the Applegates & urge
anyone to at least give it a go if you get the opportunity.
<|_=00=_|>

I would give this film a 7.0.

This is the kind of film you watch with a big bowl of popcorn.

Stockard Channing is always great and the role of Sally Applegate is played
extremely well.

This film should be required viewing for Ed Bundy.

I love the surreal and outrageous humour.

We all seem to be afraid of being invaded by aliens but I do believe that
not many of us considered cockroaches even though they may among the few
species that survive.
<|_=00=_|>
This flick is not available on Netflix nor on Amazon streaming, and I
don't know why, because it is truly hilarious. The negative comments
here are incomprehensible to me. The comic premise of giant bugs
disguising themselves as humans is no more difficult to accept here
than it was in "Men in Black," except this is a much better movie. The
predictable left wing environmental theme is here, but is by no means
overpowering enough to detract from the riotously funny look at middle
class suburban life, with all its pretensions, facades, commercialism,
and sexual foibles that this movie supplies. All the cast do their jobs
wonderfully, Stockard Channing and Ed Begley Jr. in particular. Dabney
Coleman does a great job in what could be called a cameo role. The
script is just wonderful. I was able to catch this on one of the cable
channels and I'm glad I was able to do so. It provided a wonderful hour
and a half of comedic entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
In the wilds of Brazil, as yet more rainforests are being cut down to
make way for burger bars and other such makers of food which doesn't
taste as nice as the little cardboard boxes it comes in, an unknown
species of giant bug finds a children's 'Learn to Read' book which
contains pictures of the 'ordinary' family. In no time, the outsized
mantids are disguised as a human family and are on a mission to cause a
nuclear disaster which will wipe out humanity.

Though this film does have serious things to say about ecology, it is
also a black comedy about the seedier side of families and married
life. It captures hilariously such subjects as teenage rebellion,
credit card shop-a-holics, sexless marriages and even political topics
like the paranoia surrounding 'reds under the beds'. Alright, so some
of the subjects tend to verge on the tasteless (and I don't think date
rape is really something to laugh about), it's still a very
entertaining sci-fi/comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

There isn't much I could add to Tom's comment, except that for an European
it is so refreshing to see an American director really make fun of America
and Michael Lehmann definitely is always doing an excellent job at just that.
That's probably why he still hasn't made any box office-hit, despite the fact
that, in my humble opinion he still has to make a bad movie. Yes, I and many
of my friends even loved Hudson Hawk ("Sssh, You're embarrassing your
country!"). And Meet the Applegates is one of our all time
Party-Favorites.
<|_=00=_|>

"Meet the Applegates" is more of a social commentary than an ecology lesson.
The movie shows what can happen to total aliens who immerse themselves in
our culture.  Even the best of families can go bad if they lack substance to
keep their values and goals intact.

This film is one of the lightest dark comedies made, and one of the best. I
would give an 8 out of ten.
