
Admittedly, I am a sucker for films about Hollywood. From "Sunset
Boulevard" to "The Bad and the Beautiful" and even "The Carpetbaggers,"
watching a film about movies is always a pleasure, guilty or otherwise.
"Gods and Monsters" can be added to that short list. The
semi-fictionalized story of director James Whale's last days is a
melancholy tale of an intelligent, creative mind that is beginning to
fail and Whale's desperate fear of that mental failure. He sees in the
handsome hulking form of his gardener an individual that reminds him of
his most famous film creation, Frankenstein's monster, and he tries to
reach out to him and offer the friendship that his film creation was
denied. However, his mind is swimming in and out of fantasy, memory,
and reality, and his gesture initially confuses the gardener, who sees
it only as a sexual advance. In one of the Motion Picture Academy's
most bewildering choices, the Best Actor Oscar for 1998 went to an
Italian comic who has not been heard from since instead of to the
brilliant Ian McKellan in what is arguably his finest film role as
James Whale. Lynn Redgrave is funny and touching as his housekeeper,
and Brendan Fraser, an adventurous actor who does not shy away from
stretching his abilities, has yet to find a better role than that of
Clayton Boone, the gardener. Beautifully written and directed by Bill
Condon, the film is more than just an homage to old Hollywood. "Gods
and Monsters" echoes some of the themes of "Sunset Boulevard" in its
portrayal of a Hollywood veteran, who has been banished and forgotten
by the industry and has retreated into a private world of his own
making where he still directs the scenes.
<|_=00=_|>

Truth be told, it's not easy to write a film review as disconnected as I am
from the underlying inspirations and principals of the movie in tow: Gods
and Monsters. I knew little about James Whale and the Frankenstein
franchise, possessed virtually zilch experience with Bill Condon (aside
from
the trivial baggage that his previous _and first_ feature film was the
Direct-To-Oblivion sequel to the
Scariest-Movie-Of-All-Time-When-I-Was-Fourteen,
Candyman.), and unceremoniously avoided anything to do with Brendan Fraser.
So, there's not much I can say about historical accuracy, era
juxtapositions, or tour-de-force performances. All I know comes from the
ninety-eight or so minutes I had with the film.

Which were pretty splendid, to say the least. What more, I was pleased by
how little the film seemed to hit me over the head. Not with a lengthy
diatribe over the political progressions of societal acceptance of diverse
sexual orientations, not with any sort of disgusted expose of Hollywood's
miscreants. Instead, I found a minimal but simplistically acceptable plot
moved along by wonderful acting, vivid portrayals of what it's really like,
beneath the typical distractions, gimmicks, and veils, to be a human being.
Ian McKellan astounded me. Fact or fiction, he wasn't necessarily James
Whale, but a complicated, reserved, and often misunderstood director who
found a glimmer of intrigue and desire for his new gardener, Clayton Boone,
played impeccably by Brendan Fraser. From their initial meeting with Whale
indulging in staring at Boone hard-driving an edger, I was struck by a
remarkable sense of kinship between the two, which only got better as the
film unfolded. And, with Hanna--the third vertice of the bizarre love
triangle--the edgy buffer between the men, I felt incredibly comfortable
just watching three very different people open up to each other and to me.
The irony of the title, Gods and Monsters, is that whether someone or
something is considered a 'God' or 'Monster' is largely due to
perception...human perception. We invent our gods and our monsters daily,
and they are usually people we know, love, hate, or admire. I spent a very
good ninety-eight minutes, mostly from being in the company of those three
fellow humans.
<|_=00=_|>

**(SPOILERS within)**

I read through all the comments and feel that a significant element of
the movie was mostly overlooked -- the relationship that formed between
Whale and Boone was not as one-sided as many have chosen to view it.
While the movie appears to focus on James Whale's transformation into a
human being at peace with his mortality, the more powerful dramatic
transformation takes place with Clay Boone's character.

Clayton Boone inadvertently provided James Whale a means for revisiting
and perhaps coming to terms with his past. More importantly, Boone's
unexpected pity in the face of Whale's intentionally uncomfortable
verbal and physical sexual assaults in effect provided Whale with the
strength to end his life on his terms. 

But what did Clayton Boone receive from this relationship? Boone is the
son of an alcoholic father, emotionally confused and unable to connect
with others (re: Frankenstein). His burgeoning friendship with Whale
was a means for him to try yet again to understand and come to terms
with his roiled emotions stemming from childhood. Boone failed to
please his alcoholic tyrant Father (indeed, a Sisyphean task since
children of alcoholics are doomed to fail in meeting the perceived
emotional needs of the abusive parent), and thus Whale represents
another Father figure for Boone, seemingly as impenetrable and
emotionally unavailable as Boone's own father.

This film is actually more about a young man growing up and coming to
terms with himself. However the notion that all Boone needed was to
confront his homosexual fears and overcome his rigid concept of manhood
is off target. Boone is still trapped in adolescence because he is
desperately trying to please his father; this makes the willing
commitment to befriend Whale despite his sporadically abusive behavior
all the more realistic. And the removing of the towel near the end is a
watershed moment in which victim opens up once more to the abuser in a
moment of complete vulnerability and trust. That his trust is betrayed
(as it must have been so many times before by the alcoholic parent in
his life) is heartbreaking, and yet both men recover and acknowledge
friendship, platonic love and mutual respect in the aftermath. In the
process of reliving his childhood torment through a Father-Son
relationship with James Whale it is Clayton Boone who transforms
himself and is fulfilled through Whale's friendship and shared wounds
from an over demanding father. Whale's suicide at the end was not a
reaction to failed lust for Boone -- far from it. His suicide was borne
from the strength and clarity he derived from Boone's compassion,
allowing Whale to face his mortality and willingly make peace with his
past.

I understand that many feel the ending scene with Boone stomping about
in the rain like Frankenstein was unnecessary and over the top. But
showing a contented Boone who had obviously progressed from
one-dimensional relationships to become a caring father and husband
himself was the most important story element in the movie. The James
Whale character in the movie may have thought himself a monster, a
sexual predator with few redeeming qualities, but before dying he made
a connection with another wounded soul, enabling both to heal. Whale's
own redemption may have been the A plot of the movie, but Clayton Boone
learning to sort out his confusion and pain was the B plot and the
exclamation point in the film's final scene. Watching him playfully
'Frankenstein-about' in the rain in recognition and celebration of the
relationship that helped him achieve fulfillment was a celebratory
moment, and not an unfortunate throw-in to appeal to typical Hollywood
standards.

<|_=00=_|>
A historical drama about famed director James Whale (Ian McKellen),
Gods and Monsters finds Whale primarily in his last years, living
relatively modestly in 1950s Hollywood. A heavy emphasis is placed on
his homosexuality and his complex relationship with his young male
gardener, Clayton Boone (Brendan Fraser).

Gods and Monsters is an unusual film in that although it's not very
plot heavy, there is little feeling of a lack of substance. It's really
a personality study, but a very deep, multifaceted look at Whale, Boone
and to a lesser extent, Whale's domestic helper, Hanna (Lynn Redgrave).
As such, the film largely hinges on its performances, which couldn't be
better.

Fraser is perhaps the most impressive, as the tenor of his role is very
different than most of the material he's tackled over the years. He
never fails to sell his nuanced character, who is something of a
lower-class enigma with a clearly troubled past and a desire for a
simpler future, but who hardly knows how to express or achieve what he
desires. The description is almost a perfect reflection of Whale, as
well, as we come to realize. Of course McKellen and Redgrave are good,
too, but their roles are more along the lines of some of their past
fine work.

Echoing the parallel between Boone and Whale's histories and
dispositions, Whale's life is shown as being deeply mired in the themes
of his two Frankenstein films, even though he is shown as publicly
wanting to play them down. Whale is something of a cross between Colin
Clive's Dr. Frankenstein, Ernest Thesiger's campy Dr. Pretorius and
Boris Karloff's sympathetic monster, enjoying the role of creator as
much as the simple pleasures of food and a smoke, and ultimately
desiring friendship rather than forlorn loneliness in his twilight
years. Whale's loss of his creation on The Road Back (1937), from which
he temporarily recovered his composure, and the perceived "monstrosity"
of his sexual orientation and eccentricities began a slow process of
alienation from the milieu he loved at one time. Like the Monster
seeking emotional recompense, especially in the face of imminent
destruction in the wake of a stroke, Whale attempts to latch on to
whatever intimacy he can find from others, and ultimately expresses an
embrace of death over living.

Although the historicity of the film may be questionable on some
accounts, it's important to remember that the film, although a
historical drama, is still fiction, and many changes are by way of
normal "literary license", designed to underscore more abstract points
about Whale's life and character.

Director Bill Condon nicely inserts select scenes from Whale's past,
including his experience in World War I, which informed his films such
as Journey's End (1930), and a wonderful recreation of Whale filming a
scene from Bride of Frankenstein (1935). We also see an almost
amusingly truncated version of the latter and some typical peanut
gallery remarks showing how Whale's work was apt to be misunderstood.
Carter Burwell's beautiful, understated music is also worth noting. My
only small complaint about the film is that I would have like the music
to appear more frequently than it did.
<|_=00=_|>
Among the most intriguing characters I've seen is Hanna (Redgrave). I
knew she was in the film, there she was in the opening seen & I still
kept looking for her! That's how terrific her characterization is of
the Hungarian Catholic widowed maid to the flaming gay famed director,
James Whale (Sir Ian McKellen).

Is there 'any' character that Sir McKellen can't play to perfection
today? In "God's & Monster's", McKellen mastered Whale & gave Fraser an
acting lesson ::winking::. 

To watch the two real life friends, Lynn Redgrave & Ian McKellen, play
purrfect foils--Hanna praying for her beloved "Mr. Jimmy's"
'unspeakable' sinful soul because he's gay was hysterical. McKellen
pretending to flirt with Fraser, the epitome of a t-totally straight
guy that any gay guy could clock in a heartbeat, was also
side-splitting. Hanna believing they were having a romantic
relationship was just too much fun as she threw serving trays at them &
gave Whale scorned looks as if to kill whenever he'd have Fraser in for
lunch or tea. These subtleties made the movie an absolute delight.

Thus, while heavy drama was going on, there was a comedy line-in-cheek
throughout the motion picture. Of course, the plot proves why "Mr.
Jimmy" was provoking his hunk of a gardener (Fraser) . . . but I'm not
telling. That's the best part of the picture.

Whoever claims this movie is 'gay-bashing' doesn't know the meaning of
it. The movie was about the director of "Frankenstein & Bride of
Frankenstein." He just so happened to be gay, & thus, part of his life
story as a gay man had to be featured in the film. Hanna playing a
religious foil was right on time for the moment of the release of the
film when the major church denominations are factionalizing over gays
being equal in the churches! That's a great film--one that conveys a
social struggle in the character of one great actor, Lynn Redgrave. She
got the attitude of the church exactly right.

Doing a queer critique of "God's & Monsters," I rate it a 20 out of 10!
This was not the silly, slapstick, "To Wong Foo," bizarre, "Stonewall,"
that was all out of context from the reality of the characters, or
there ever so unreal (but cute), "Priscilla Queen of the Desert." This
story is very true to life then & now. It came out right on time, as
well.

Lynn Regrave delivered the performance of her lifetime! In my mind she
won the Oscar. McKellen gave another of his stellar characterizations &
also won my Oscar. I also feel the picture should have been best
picture of the year. Fortunately, many other notable awards were given
that the blindered Film Academy was too dense to do itself. Redgrave
was most robbed of her Oscar because she was anyone but herself! She
wasn't even recognizable as Lynn Redgrave, for heaven's sake. 

So if anything or anyone was gay bashing, it was the Film Academy
itself, for overlooking the Oscar winning performances of Redgrave &
McKellen & the Best Picture of the Year.

. . . & I'm still watching it in late August 2007.
<|_=00=_|>
Ian McKellen is superb as James Whale, the man behind the celluloid
Frankenstein. Departing from that point, everything works. We're taken
by the hand of this elderly celebrity in a world - and a town -that
worships celebrity. The town also worships youth and box office
grosses. For Whale, youth and box office grosses are way back in his
distant pass. That's why, I imagine, the arrival of the gardener with
Brendan Fraser's body, awakens in the old man some kind of spark. Their
relationship is filled with a sort of emotional suspense that makes the
entire movie, riveting. The story is told with a sort of personal
melancholy that Bill Condon, the young writer/director, seems to
understand fully. Compassion is in his eye and in his soul. The scene
in which Ian McKellen remembers his swimming pool crowded with naked
young men is one of the most beautifully reminders of how the aging
heart remains alive within his memories. Very moving, very sad and
very, very good.
<|_=00=_|>

Gee, where should I begin?  It's a character study -- but on what subject?
About a man who came to gay awareness far too late to benefit from the gay
lib movement?  About an artist whose greatest achievements depended on
extinguishing all connections between the personal and the political?  All
of the above and so much more!

Personally, I'd give the Oscar to Brendan Fraser, who has a much more
challenging role as the understated, naturalistic yard man, though Ian
McKellan gives such a commanding performance that he's bound to play a
prominent role at every award ceremony.  If he's dissed because the love
interest is gay, it's only the proof gay activists have long sought --
namely, that peronal respect is sexually conditioned.

All in all a wonderful film for anyone who loves great acting and a director
willing to push the envelope.  It's a terrific look at the ways life has
shaped all of our beliefs.

Harry


<|_=00=_|>

Originally, I thought this would be a film of gay man versus straight man.
It is. But much more than that, it is a film that speaks of human strengths
and weaknesses, one that studies with quirky charm and quiet strength the
scenario of man versus man.

Without getting maudlin or preachy, "Gods and Monsters" goes about telling
its story about ignorance, frailty, and unconditional love, the very themes
that ran throughout most of James Whale's life and films.

Bill Condon has created a poetic masterpiece, a wonderful answer to the
question "Can't we all just get along?". Ian McKellen as James Whale is
fascinating and absorbing, his facial expressions and body movements
mesmerizing. He does not give a stereotypical "queen" performance. Rather,
his James Whale is a dignified, yet tortured man. Lynn Redgrave is comical
for the most part as Whale's maid, though she does lend a certain down to
earth quality. It is Brendan Fraser, though, who steals this film. As Clay
Boone, Fraser holds his own in McKellen's formidibal shadow. He does not
provide a stereotypical performance either. Boone prooves to be as dignified
and monstrous as Whale.

The few problems I had with the film where two gimmicky scenes, one showing
Boone's surrender to a request of Whale's that he pose "like a statue", the
other a dream sequence that has Whale walking among his fallen comrades in
the trenches of World War one, and one flashback on the set of "Bride of
Frankenstein", a scene tainted by Arthur Dignam's awful portrayal of Ernest
Thesiger.

Eventually, "Gods and Monsters' proves two things: that we are all at once
superhuman and sub-human, and that Hollywood can still show this in a
beautiful way.
<|_=00=_|>

From the opening credits to the (mostly) predictable climax, Bill Condon's
film is a technical masterpiece and an excellent bit of arthouse fodder to
boot.

The title, which comes from James Whale's classic film Bride Of
Frankenstein, refers to the gods and monsters living in our lives and
vicariously in our close associates' lives.

Condon has done a remarkable job editing in flashbacks, and the sketchy
oblique, often contrasted shots pay great homage to Whale's early Universal
pictures.

The story is a simple one: James Whale (Ian MacKellan), famed director, has
had a stroke and is slowly dying. He is a lonely man in need of
companionship and inner peace. He tries to find this solace in Clay Boone
(Brendan Fraser, in a rare serious role), his yardman. The blossoming
relationship between the two is the plot focus of the film.

Carter Burwell's score is wonderful as always, and Lynn Redgrave's role as
Whale's housemaid is superbly put on. A great movie for any fans of the late
Whale, or anyone looking for a true human drama.
<|_=00=_|>

Gods and Monsters is an invigorating look into the spirit and the
meaning to be found at the end of one's life. The film is based on the novel
Father of Frankenstein by Christopher Bram and explores the final days of
James Whale, the director of the original Frankenstein and Bride of
Frankenstein movies.  It was written and directed by Bill Condon (Candyman
II:  Farewell to the Flesh) and features a highly talented cast, led by Ian
McKellen, Brendan Fraser, and Lynn Redgrave.  Though not every scene is
right on target, Gods is perhaps one of the most moving and emotionally
complex films to hit the theatres in a long while.
The story takes place in 1957 and is based on the relationship between the
retired director and his gardener.  Whale (McKellen), long forgotten by the
Hollywood studios, has withdrawn to a secluded life of painting.  However,
following the latest in a series of disabling strokes, Whale becomes more
and more reliant upon the care of his live-in maid Hannah, and more and more
distraught at what seems to have been a lonely and meaningless life.  Then
he meets Clayton Boone (Fraser), the burly young gardener that Hannah has
recently hired.  Whale becomes fascinated with Boone, and right away asks to
paint him.  Boone, though somewhat flattered, is reluctant to accept the
offer of the intimidatingly flamboyant Whale because he is unsure of the old
man's motives.  Boone does finally accept, however (if only to please the
lonely old man), and what results between the two is of the most beautiful
of friendships.
McKellen and Fraser thrive during these scenes, in which their true acting
talent shines through delightfully.  The film is at its best here too, for
it is here where we learn about the fears and inhibitions of the two
characters.  We learn that Boone and Whale, at opposite ends of life but
equally as afraid of what lies ahead, really need each other.  Whale needs
someone to validate his existence and to bury the monsters of his past, and
Boone needs someone to fill the void that was created by the lack of a
father figure in his life.
There are times, however, when Gods and Monsters can run a little slow.  I
particularly felt this way during Whale's dream sequences in which Fraser
played Dr. Frankenstein and McKellen appears as the monster himself.  These
scenes serve to reinforce Whale's view of himself as a perverted monster,
but they don't seem fit with the tone of the film and feel confused.  For
the most part, however, the imagery that Condon loads his film with is
wholly positive.  One such instance takes place in a scene between Boone and
his former girlfriend, Betty (Lolita Davidovich).  Betty, the older of the
two, gets through telling Clayton that he is too immature and drives away,
leaving him standing all alone on a hopscotch course in the middle of a
playground.  Boone, upset by what Betty has just told her, kicks a nearby
can in disgust.  The unmistakable impression that Condon conveys to the
audience is that Boone, playing kick the can on top of a hopscotch course,
is indeed a child.
There is no doubt, however, that the acting is what makes Gods and Monster
shine.  Both McKellen (Actor) and Redgrave (Supporting Actress) were
nominated for Oscars, and deservedly so.  McKellen (Apt Pupil, Richard III),
in pulling off beautifully such a complex role, once again proves that he is
one of the top four or five actors around. And Redgrave, who won a Best
Supporting Actress Golden Globe Award for this role, brings energy and wit
to Hannah, whose wry humor and old-fashioned religious morality helps to
pump life into Gods while at the same time further antagonizing the
beleaguered Whale.  It is refreshing to see her character written in this
way, as all-too often this type of supporting character acts merely as a
go-between and mediator for the two major characters.
Brendan Fraser is another plus, too.  Audiences who are used to seeing
Fraser in one-dimensional roles for such movies as Blast from the Past and
Encino Man may be pleasantly surprised as to the amount of depth he is able
to bring to Clayton Boone.
There are very few films that come out nowadays that have a combination of
good acting, scriptwriting, and directing.  Gods and Monsters is one of
those few.  It is certainly a film that is driven by the acting, but
Condon's direction, as well as his script (which earned Condon a Best
Screenplay Adaptation Oscar) provides a workable stage for the acting to
take place.  The result is one extraordinary film that any true movie-lover
must see. 

