

In anything. But man was he great in this movie. I mean it was such a good
performance. This movie is director Wes Anderson's (Rushmore, The Royal
Tenenbaums, The Life Aquatic) feature directorial debut. It's about a group
of misfit friends that decide to take up a life of crime. The group includes
Anthony (Luke Wilson) just got out of the nut house and is searching for
himself. Dignan (Owen Wilson, co-wrote the movie with Anderson) is the
confident but bumbling ringleader who wants to be notorious but doesn't know
how to execute a plan to save his life. And Bob (Robert Musgrave) the
driver/look out who just wants a little recognition. The movie follows their
misadventures of them robbing a bookstore, going on the lamb, Anthony
falling in love with a Motel maid who instills joy back in his life, and
Dignan's 'big score' that involves his former employer. The subtle humor and
deliveries by the actors make the movie stand out in it's own little version
comedy. The characters are losers, but lovable. You can't help but cheer
them on even though what they do is illegal. I highly recommend this cool
little film. It's an excellent introduction into the wonderful films of Wes
Anderson.

RATING: **** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
While "Bottle Rocket" is certainly best categorised as comedy this
might mislead those expecting the typical composition of one-liners,
facetious mocking and exaggerated situational comic of mainstream
Hollywood productions.

Instead the humour derives from the quirky, yet lovable characters,
their perspective on life and approach in dealing with the challenges
of society.

The quiet matter-of-fact absurdity present throughout the film will
evoke a constant smile rather than burst-out-laughter. This is typical
of all Wilson/Anderson collaborations (Rushmore, The Royal Tenebaums)
where strong characterisation enables the viewer to develop
understanding and affection for the protagonists as the story slowly
unravels. In "Bottle Rocket" this is supported by strong performances,
especially that of Owen Wilson, who proves his actor potential in an
atypical role.

Though not flawless, (there is a lack of narrative urgency at times),
this movie leaves the viewer ultimately entertained and charmed.
<|_=00=_|>

   A brilliant comedy, and yet cleverly subdued. This portrait of small-time
 criminal is made masterful by the performances of Owen C. Wilson and Luke
 Wilson. Owen's Dignan dreams of glory as an outlaw are almost noble. He may
 have his inadequacies, but at least he is determined. While Luke's Anthony
 lacks that kind of determination, what he has is at least a sense of his
 inadequacies that Dignan lacks. But, while these two are never meant for
 great things, they can still achieve all their dreams if they just keep
 them small. Dignan is content with a life of small robberies. What he
 maintains is great pride for that. And Anthony find happiness in love from
 an unlikely woman. To find romance with the woman he does is much too
 quirky to have ever happened in a Hollywood movie. Yet this film plays it
 perfectly. And so, what makes this film so unique is that it is not so self
-involved and moody like most independent films can be. And while it has a
 bright appeal, it is more eccentric than campy like most mainstream
 comedies can be. This is truly a unique comedy and I get the feeling that
 one day, the lines of hipness will be drawn between who has seen this movie
 and who hasn't.
<|_=00=_|>

In the off-the-wall comedy "Bottle Rocket", Owen Wilson makes a
scintillating debut as the creative force behind this tale of one man's
struggle to realize his dream of becoming a crook in spite of his many
shortcomings: sensitivity, compassion, empathy, and just plain niceness.
Luke Wilson plays straight man to real life brother Owen in this camp,
light-hearted, and easy to watch little film about the "gang who couldn't
think straight". A fun watch for just about anyone into droll humorous
subtleties.
<|_=00=_|>

I was watching the Roger Ebert movie show when he was giving his best films
of the decade of the 1990's with movie director Martin Scorsese.  Scorsese
picked Bottle Rocket as his seventh favorite movie of the decade.  From that
point forward, I had to search out and find this movie.  Boy, am I glad that
I did.

The movie Bottle Rocket is a joy.  It is a caper comedy in one respect, but
also an interesting look at how the bad brother can talk the good brother
into doing the wrong thing.  The second idea sets up some great comedy bits.
Owen Wilson as the bad brother, Dignan, is absolutely hilarious.  From this
point forward, I will always be interested in seeing him in a movie.  His
brother Luke Wilson as the good, yet naive brother, is also very charming. 
James Caan shows up in the second half of the movie and is fantastic.  The
writer/director, Wes Anderson (Rushmore), does a great job of telling an
off-beat story and gives his characters great lines to say. 

All in all, Bottle Rocket was a pleasant surprise that I had never heard of.
Thank you Martin Scorsese.  
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie.  It makes me smile and just feel good. 

It's about, primarily, a guy named Dignan, played by Owen Wilson, who has a
75 year plan of crime for himself and his friend, Anthony, played by Luke
Wilson, and reaping the fruits of crime.  He wants to employ such
interesting things as explosives, hot-air balloons, and pole-vaulting (!) in
his outlandish plans for robbing bookstores and cold-storage facilities. 
He's happy to fill small baggies with money stolen from a bookstore after
closing and takes pride in getting "the best room in the house" and some
road-side Motel-6 type motel to reward themselves for a successful
heist.

If you like quirky, subtle humor, this one's for you.  I give it
9/10!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a true gem.

The Brothers Wilson have created a timeless masterpiece of friendship,
loyalty and vision.
Nevermind that their vision might not be what you'd do. The redeeming
values
Dignan and Anthony and Bob display far outweigh their faults.

I taped this movie off of IFC years ago, and it's been watched to death...
almost literally (it's getting kinda worn... I should find a *new* copy).
Anyone I've ever shown this movie to loved it.

James Caan gives his best performance since 'Misery', only this time it's
funny.

Watch for the scene where: Bob's driving, they just left Anthony's sister's
school (when he returned his mom's earrings)... Bob is going on about his
miserable life, and if you watch Anthony in the rear seat, suddenly he
straightens up in his seat and says "...ahh that was a stop
sign..."

Very Very Very VEWWY good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The first and weakest of Wes Anderson's films, Bottle Rocket, is by no
means a weak film. Co-written by then credited Owen C. Wilson, the
screenplay is very intelligent and shows how the screen writing duo
(Wes Anderson and Owen Wilson) has evolved. Starring the Wilson
brothers, Owen and Luke Wilson, this small-budget comedy has what most
large budget comedies lack, a perfect mix of drama and comedy. The
film, about two friends that both were patients at a mental ward,
portrays how innocent fun can sometimes hurt people. Rocket never
becomes over-dramatic or slapstick in its comedy. It is clear that
Anderson was experimenting with his style, and would not perfect it
until his next film, Rushmore. The characters are clearly dysfunctional
and like to take unnecessary risks at their own expense to make the
script move along. This is not a fault in the script, but a blessing as
this keeps the comedy and serious moments perfectly balanced. The
cinematography is sometimes amateur with its unnecessary close-ups and
wide angle panning. The soundtrack, done by Mark Mothersbaugh is
excellent and just proves why he has worked an all of the subsequent
films with Anderson. It seems Anderson and Wilson have an enormous
talent when writing dialog for unusual, anomalous characters. This film
is a testament to the fact that a good script, and a working knowledge
of film work can create an original and enjoyable film.
<|_=00=_|>
I find it really hard to explain to people why I think Wes Anderson
movies are so great. There's an air about them that's so wonderful and
I always feel really great after I've watched them. When I tried to
explain my friend said, "a bit like the Big Lebowski?" and I think
that's the closest you can come to describing Bottle Rocket and Wes
Anderson movies as a whole they're that sort of brand of movie.

Bottle Rocket is the story of three guys who live in the suburbs who
are trying to become criminals and not making a very good job of it.
The film starts with Anthony (Luke Wilson) coming out of a voluntary
rehab type place and instantly joining his friend Dignan in his very
poor attempts to become some sort of criminal. They are joined by their
friend Bob, because he has a car, and start by robbing a library. The
film really emerges from that moment and takes you on this up beat,
weird (but wonderful) adventure.

Owen and Luke Wilson are really good together, with Owen Wilson
probably stealing the show as the completely useless but very endearing
Dignan. Bob, played by Robert Musgrave, is also excellent in his role
as the lovable loser. The soundtrack is perfect, everything comes and
goes at exactly the right moment. 

This was probably one of the funniest films i've seen in a while too.
If you like the Big Lebowski you will love this film (my favourite is
probably "Anthony wake up, Bob's stolen his car"). It also feels a lot
longer than it is and whilst that's usually bad, in this case it was
fantastic. At 30 minutes I looked to see how long I'd been watching it
for and was amazed at how engrossed I was but also how much happens but
yet the film manages to feel really slow and relaxed.

Though I've said Dignan was endearing I guess the movie as a whole is
endearing, its such a lovely film, I really don't see how you couldn't
like it. Some how this just misses out on being a real classic on a
level with Big Lebowski, maybe its because not as many people have seen
it or something, either way its definitely in my top ten or top five or
something. A must see, go and watch it!
<|_=00=_|>

A love it or leave it movie, I think. Most people I know either absolutely
love it, or don't really care for it. The jokes are funny, but sometimes on
the subtle side, and usually of the dead-pan flavor. I for one, fall on the
"absolutely love it" side of the fence. It's a movie I can watch over and
over again and still laugh like it's the first time. I agree with some that
the overall "fun-factor" drops off a little during the romance portion in
the middle, but I don't think James L. Brooks and the rest of the production
staff would've given a bunch of first-timers that big of a shot without a
little romance for those who aren't into the humor.

I gotta tell ya, I love Kumar. From his role as the inept safecracker in
this one, to Mr. Littlejeans ("Best play ever, man") to Pagoda, he does it
for me every time. And for all the Wes Anderson fanatics it's always fun to
try and spot his old buddies in his movies (i.e. Dignan & Tenenbaum). For
whatever reason, the Anderson/Wilson Bros humor does it for me. And what's
best about it is that it never really seems to get old. They make their
movies in such a way, that there really isn't a year or exact date or place
that their movies take place in. They all have that whimsical, fable type
feeling that makes them, for me at least, timeless.

*minor spoiler* - Futureman saying, "Bob, you were told to thoroughly clean
the pool this morning" gets me every time.
