
When I asked the reviewer sitting next to me to sum up Revenge of the
Sith, he simply said "great!" That seemed to basically be the consensus
of virtually everyone in attendance at an advance press screening of
the final chapter in the Star Wars saga.

There was an exuberant mood leaving the theater, as if everyone was in
collective agreement that Lucas had finally done it. That he had gone
out on top, with a stunning, rock-solid coup de grace. And from all the
feedback I've heard from that screening, my sense of that collective
mood was right.

There are no real spoilers in ROTS. Everyone basically knows what
happens in Episode 4: A New Hope. We all know Anakin becomes Vader. We
know Obi Wan lives and we know Luke and Leia are born. What we don't
know is how Lucas weaves those story lines into the large, six-part
opus and better yet, why?

No, it's not a perfect movie. There are those moments that make us
cringe. Bad dialog and High School drama class acting make for a few
awkward moments where you can hear audible moans and giggles in the
audience, but we have come to expect this from modern Star Wars films.
The upside is that these moments are rare in Episode III. 

OK, get ready. Take a deep breath. No Jar Jar! Yes, you read that
right. You can let out that deep breath now.

Fortunately, we have one savior to rely on for stellar acting. Mr. Ian
McDiarmid as Supreme Chancellor Palpatine. McDiarmid brings the
elegance of an Alec Guiness back to the franchise in a knockout
performance that leaves the audience riveted and exhausted. He is the
lifeblood of the film.

As someone who saw the original 30 times in it's first month of release
at the age of 13, I currently consider myself a Star Wars moderate. I
don't have volumes of SW merchandise, nor can I debate whether or not
carbonite contains enough oxygen to make it float. All I know is that
magical feeling Star Wars gave me in the original 1977 release and that
I'm happy to say, after a disappointing pair of prequels, has been
finally restored and reinvigorated.

Here's to Mr. Lucas for giving us all something spectacular to remember
for our entire lives that embodies the whole point of going to the
movies in the first place, to escape and lose ourselves in another
world.
<|_=00=_|>
For several years now, it's been a rather uneasy proposition to be
known as a STAR WARS fan. First, we had to put up with the great
embarrassment of the clownish Jar Jar and the gut wrenching "acting"
from the muppet known as Jake Lloyd in PHANTOM MENACE. Then came the
laughably stilted dialog and the clumsily told love story from ATTACK
OF THE CLONES. Fans far and wide were wondering what George Lucas had
done to their beloved STAR WARS franchise! Something that once was so
rollicking and without peer was being transformed into
kiddie-pandering, muppet populated, CGI over-loaded dreck!

Mr. Lucas, all is forgiven. Welcome back. REVENGE OF THE SITH is the
prequel installment we've been hoping for all along. Gone is the overly
wooden acting and the ridiculously petrified dialog. In there place is
a logical and believable storyline. Anakin's transformation is
inexorably sensible. It is natural and not forced into shape by wooden
dialog. Scenes between Anakin and Padme, are heartfelt and honest- a
far cry from their nearly unwatchable scenes in ATTACK OF THE CLONES. 

The same can be said of scenes between Anakin and Obi Wan Kenobi (Ewan
McGregor is legitimately great in this film. He gives Kenobi real depth
and the viewer thoroughly believes that he grows up to become Alec
Guiness). There exists a real bond of deep feeling the viewer can feel
between master and apprentice thus making Anakin's fate all the more
tragic, as he slowly becomes more and more entangled in Palpatine's
(Ian McDiarmid, in a joyfully malevolent turn) web of deception and
evil.

Visuals have never been an issue in the prequel films and this is most
certainly the case with REVENGE OF THE SITH. The opening sequence is a
jaw-dropping collage of ships in movement, dazzling colors, and
frenetic combat. Additionally, the technology used to create Yoda seems
to have grown exponentially over the already impressive wizardry used
to animate Yoda in CLONES. Front to back, the vistas Lucas shows us are
entirely believable and staggering joys to behold. 

George Lucas goes right for the jugular in this film (the PG-13 rating
is well earned! Parents be advised!!). This is a very well-told story
of a fall from grace told in an unflinching manner. And yet, the hope
for the future is so firmly in place as this film rolls to an end, a
tear will roll down your cheek if you've lived with this series of
films as long as I have. STAR WARS is back. It's cool to be a fan
again.
<|_=00=_|>
(No Spoilers!) Excitedly submitting my comments two weeks prior to the
opening of the film (after a preview screening at the Ziegfeld
Theater), I am thrilled to add to what appears to be a growing wave of
positive reaction to Lucas's effort in Episode III. As a life-long fan
deeply caught in a love hate relationship with Episodes I and II, I
cautiously awaited this final installment. I felt in my heart that this
would be a great film, but feared that somehow I would again be
disappointed. Maybe I was starting to succumb to the notion that I no
longer had the spirit of that six year old boy who was mesmerized by
the original Star Wars, long ago in 1977 at that far away NJ theater.
Maybe.

From the opening 20th Century Fox logo, the movie hits the ground
running, proving once again the CGI capabilities of ILM and the thrills
they inspire. However, unlike the first two films, where spectacular
effects were layered upon complicated, contrived and sometimes
dramatically vacant scenes executed with some of the worst performances
in memory, there is solid story telling here. And that's the
difference.

The drama builds steadily in the first act before hitting light speed
with a combination of excitement, dread, intrigue and pain. This strong
dramatic spark ignites the entire cast, helping them turn in what are
easily their best performances of the three films. When you have a
script with this kind of thump and talented actors, the result is fun
to watch. And for once, perhaps most importantly, the special effects
serve the script, not the other way around.

Anakin's internal struggle, present from frame one, quickly consumes
him, catapulting the film towards its inevitable conclusion. While its
no surprise that the film ends on a desperate note, there does remain a
glimmer of possibility as the story segues into the aptly titled
classic "Star Wars Episode IV: A New Hope". It's thought provoking and
inspiring.

It's also worth noting that as advertised the film is dark, makes no
apologies, and is much less child friendly then the others. All pluses
in my opinion.

The final result with "Revenge" is a complete film that I will never
forget, a somewhat renewed perspective on what Lucas was going for with
Episodes I and II, and assurances that that little boy inside me is
still there, popcorn in hand, ready for a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I personally am more of a fan of the original trilogy than what I have
been of the prequels. Although I did enjoy TPM, and AOTC, they
definitely were not as well done as A New Hope or Empire. I think the
general criticisms of the first two prequels was lack of good story,
and poor acting. First I would like to say that the acting is much
better in Revenge of the Sith than the first two prequels, but what
truly stood out in this movie was the story. It was delivered
perfectly, for the first time since Empire, Lucas connected emotionally
with his audience. The last hour of the movie was especially powerful.
Although probably not planned, I think this movie will be the bridge
that brings the old star wars sheep back into the fold. Just as Anakin
eventually brings balance to the force, Revenge of the Sith will bring
balance back to the Star Wars Universe. And judging by the reaction of
the test audience I was part of, everyone I was with feels the same
way, no one left their seat for at least a couple minutes after the
movie ended.
<|_=00=_|>
i loved star wars as a kid. i grew disenchanted with the new trilogy. i
was prepared for another letdown.

i was surprised to see that things really come together. 'sith' has a
coherent story, well told, well paced. the movie is full of fireworks,
but they always support the progression of the story, nothing felt
unnecessary like some stuff in the earlier episodes. the characters
were all solid. some were even great. there were quiet, slow paced
moments that made sense, felt right. the transformation of the
characters came across well. the conflicts are complex, personalities
are multifaceted. this movie carries a lot more weight than episodes 1
and 2.

not everyone will be happy. there are weak moments, there is wooden
dialog, there's cheesy romance. nevertheless, for most of the audience,
even non hard-core star wars believers, this movie works. it's great
entertainment, and it ties in very well with episodes 4-6. the sense of
disconnect that people felt with episodes 1 and 2 is gone. you will
want to go home and watch 'a new hope' right after seeing 'revenge of
the sith'.
<|_=00=_|>
MINOR SPOILERS AHEAD!

Yep, I got to catch an advanced screening of the long awaited final
episode of the Star Wars saga, up here in Nothern California.

All I can say is, WOW! This has the best action sequences of any of the
six Star Wars films! The battle sequences at the beginning with Jedi
star fighters and separatist forces is by far the most spectacular
special effects sequence ever put to film.

Anakin's downfall towards the dark side begins after an opponent of his
is killed, which lures him more and more towards the dark side of the
Force.

Anakin and Obi-Wan spend the first half of the film trying to end the
Clone Wars between the Republic and the Separtist forces.

Acting wise, Heyden Christensen does a much better job this time around
portraying the darker Anakin Skywalker as he heads towards his destiny,
all of the wooden Anakin from The Phantom Menace and Attack of the
Clones is finally free from his shackles this time around. 

Ewan McGregor, excellent as always does a great job portraying Obi-Wan
Kenobi as a jedi master who knows his pupil is headed for the dark
side.

Natalie Portman does a great job portraying Padme Amidala as the tragic
wife of Anakin who knows that the Republic and her husband are slowly
drifting away from her. Padme's final scene is heartbreaking to say the
least and adds some serious emotional impact towards the ending of the
film. 

But, the real scene stealer is Ian McDiarmand who does an excellent job
portraying the kindly Supreme Chancellor Palpatine as well as another
major character in this film.

The new villain, General Grievous, is cool, but I liked Jango Fett and
Darth Maul a little more. Grievous isn't in the movie too much but when
he and Obi-Wan are fighting on the planet Utapau, it's war on a large
scale, with Obi-Wan riding this large lizard and Grivous riding this
wheeled vehicle. While this is going on, Anakin grows even more closer
towards the dark side, with fits of rage and jealousy towards his
fellow jedi and towards the Republic.

In this film you see how all of the jedi are exterminated, what finally
happens to Padme, the mother of Luke and Leia, how Anakin becomes Darth
Vader, and how the crumbling Republic becomes the first Galactic
Empire. Warning though, Anakin's change to Darth Vader is quite scary
and will definitely upset the little ones! Wow, Lucas has done it, and
made a successful connection to the original Star Wars film, A New
Hope! One of the coolest bits is seeing the Tantive IV, Bail Organa's
rebel blockade runner, from A New Hope in action towards the end of
Revenge of the Sith.

We finally get to see Alderaan, and the wookie Chewbacca for the first
time since the classic films, and the best bet, only a short glimpse of
Jar Jar Binks towards the end of the film during a highly important
funeral.

The final confrontation between Obi-Wan and Anakin on the planet
Mustafar, a lava planet, as well as the final duel between Yoda and
Darth Sidious are far the best lightsaber battles of any of the films
so far, and their tragic endings will only highlight the impact of the
events that unfold in the film!

While I'm sorry to see the cinematic portion of Star Wars come to an
end, Lucas has ended the Star Wars saga on a grand fashion. All of John
Williams music has pieces of the earlier prequels and some elements
from the classic films to tie Revenge of the Sith with the other five
films of the saga.

Now, I'm more excited than ever for the upcoming television series,
which takes place right after the events of Revenge of the Sith! Here's
hoping that Revenge of the Sith, knocks off Titanic as the highest
grossing film of all time!

Buy your tickets now, because Sith doesn't just happen, it rules! 

By far the best of the three Star Wars prequels. Thank you George for
thirty years of great entertainment! Get in line now!
<|_=00=_|>
***Spoilers!****

Lucas finally leaves behind the childish stupidity of the first two
episodes and delivers a much grimmer movie. Too bad he does it so
poorly. The first problem with the movie is the acting. The forced,
pitiful dialogue is enough to make a person cringe. It is glaringly
obvious during the exchanges between Padme and Anakin. But rather than
leave a movie to be destroyed by bad dialogue and acting, Lucas decides
to take it a step further and brilliantly adds a pointless robot
villain named General Grievous. This robot's special power was that he
had reptilian organs and suffered from a bad cough yet could somehow
mysteriously breathe in space. But the hardest thing to stomach about
this movie is Anakin's sudden and whimsical switch to the dark side.
Lucas tries to create all of these different factors for Anakin's
change to darkness, yet none are convincing enough. First Anakin
struggles with visions of Padme's death, then he gets placed on the
Jedi Council and is asked to spy on his dear friend Palpatine, and to
top it all off, those stingy Jedi have the gall to not award Anakin
with "Master" status. Then Palpatine reveals himself as the Sith Lord
to Anakin and tells him they may be able to save Padme from death. One
thing leads to another, and Anakin lops off Mace Windu's hand and
decides to become a Sith. It is truly unbelievable. Out of 6 or so
hours of movie-time between Episodes I, II, and III, 10 minutes are
dedicated to the Dark side's "seduction" of Anakin Skywalker. It takes
Palpatine 3 whole scenes to convince Anakin to switch sides. But the
fun doesn't stop there, oh no! After walking the path of good(except
that Sandperson incident in episode II) for all these years, Anakin has
little problem slaughtering all of the Jedi younglings and hating all
of the Jedi, especially Obi-Wan. The truly glorious thing is that this
movie all takes place in maybe a week's time, and Anakin's complete
switch to darkness takes about 1 minute. I suppose it is possible that
the events in this movie were supposed to span a few months, but that
is not made clear, due to the story-telling genius of Mr. Lucas. Lucas
had two movies before this in which he could have shown a gradual
change to darkness. That would have been believable. But Lucas is such
an idiot and has no idea how to develop characters, and this is the
result. Yes, it is understandable that Anakin is troubled and
frustrated and supposedly loves his wife very much, but that just isn't
enough to make his sudden change to the dark side believable. Lucas has
had 28 years to figure out how Anakin became Darth Vader. You'd really
think he could have come up with a more convincing story than this. But
then something truly wonderful and realistic happens that nearly
redeems the film. Padme simply "loses the will to live" and kicks the
bucket. This is really great coming from a formerly strong and
independent character, who now has children to concern herself with.
But I guess that's not a good enough reason to live. It's a good thing
that this trait isn't passed down to Luke, otherwise he may have
dropped dead from depression in that Death Star trash compactor. I
would also like to point out the stunning use of the drawn-out soap
opera-esquire "NOOOOOooooooo!!!" that Darth Vader bellows forth upon
discovering that Padme has perished.
<|_=00=_|>
...like Frank Miller did for Batman.

It would be impossible to truly spoil this movie. It's outcome is
already determined and the movie spoils itself.

You might hope the PG-13 indicates that Mr. Lucas saw the light and/or
heard his audience and raised the story from the Telly-tubbie schlock
that was Ep1. You'd be wrong. It's still written at (perhaps) a 3rd
grade level, but this time with flashes of gore -- guess who gets the
full body burn -- that make the movie unacceptable to children for whom
the only hope of enjoyment is turned into a nightmare.

War is bad is a primary theme, but in Lucas-world, devoid of
interesting characters or credible violence, the endless assault of
epic fight scenes is sterile and boring.

Like Ep2, the dialog is laughable - literally. I saw the movie on
opening night, in the San Francisco Bay Area (Lucas Films back yard)
and the audience was laughing, embarrassed for the otherwise strong
acting cast. Any other writer + director could have sneezed a classic
from this cast. What a waste. Ewin MacGregor sneaks through as the only
actor to somehow sneak by Lucas and deliver a credible performance.

The special effects are strong of course, but the scenes move and
switch so quickly, you'll probably miss a lot being too busy popping
pills to prevent epileptic seizure.

You'd think the 27 year climax of a six movie series would be one of
the most carefully delivered in history. You'd be wrong. While Obi-wan
is sent specifically to kill Annakin and save the universe, he casually
walks away. What's worse, he'd have every motivation to put Annikin out
of his firey misery, he casually walks away. "Sorry old chap, you were
supposed to be the chosen one, and we were like brothers, but yet I'm
compelled to deliver this odd soliloquy while watching your legs burn
off. Then, I think I'll casually walk away."

Almost any other possible scene could have been written to deliver the
necessary result. Lucas blew it once again. This is the worst episode
of all. Don't be fooled by the rating, or the inexplicable ratings of
the sycophantic 'professional' reviewers out there. Save your money and
gain a couple hours of life that I and too many others have lost.

HTH.
<|_=00=_|>
Upon seeing Star Wars: Revenge Of The Sith early this morning, I let it
sink in all day to form my opinion. After all that thought, I concluded
that this was a damn good movie... and probably my favorite of all 6
episodes (definitely of the episodes 1-3)! 

One of the things I liked about this movie is the way it presents
Anakin Skywalker (Hayden Christensen). George Lucas made you believe
that, although we know Anakin was evil, he did not believe himself to
be evil. In fact, he thought he was doing the right thing, even though
some of those things were undeniably wrong.

Also, many of the mysteries were finally answered. We all knew Anakin
was Darth Vader, and that Vader was the father of Luke Skywalker and
Leia, but now we know how and why they were separated. We also know how
Darth Vader came about and why the need for the costume. All this and
more! 

A review of this movie would not be complete without mention of the
spectacular special effects. Every shot in the movie is stunning and
hard to look away from. The action starts from the very beginning and
does not let up, except for some minor love scenes. The light saber
battles between Anakin, Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor), Yoda, Mace
Windu (Samuel L. Jackson) and General Grievous were all done extremely
well. Even R2-D2 got to kick some butt! 

Overall, as you can probably tell, I loved this installment of the
series. All of the questions were answered and was more action packed
than I could have hoped for. Definitely recommended. 9.5/10
