
For some reason or another, certain movies achieve a reputation as
being worse than they actually are. Rocky V is one such film that is
affected by the – as I call it – Phantom Menace syndrome. This refers
to Movies that are interesting in their own way but fail to live up to
the hype or expectation of previous instalments, or simply do not
follow the formula that everyone derided for being too predictable
anyway. For me, Rocky V is the best of the sequels to the 1976
original, as it does not follow in the Rocky tradition of simply having
a bigger guy to fight than in the previous film. Rocky IV was a great
spectacle but it was more comical than anything to think that an entire
Russian government could be funding one over-sized boxer who could kill
a man with one flurry of punches, not to mention turn a blind eye to
illegal doping. The fifth instalment in the anthology goes back to the
more personal story of the character, and deals much more realistically
with the aftermath of loss and the twisted nature of professional prize
fighting.

Stallone recruited his own son for the role of Robert (Rocky's son) and
the result is one of the best father son relationships ever committed
to celluloid. The scene where Rocky realises that he has been a
negligent father and must make his peace with the boy is affectionate
and heartfelt and could never been as realistic without the real life
history behind these two people.

OK, there are some flaws and I am not too naive to suggest this movie
is worthy of an Oscar. The casting of Tommy 'The Machine' Gunn could
have been better as real life boxer Tommy Morrison sometimes appears
wooden and is never really threatening enough to Rocky for the final
fight to have any tangible tension. Similarly, aside from the final
tune of Elton John's 'The measure of a man' the music does not measure
up to the awesome and inspirational anthems that have accompanied
previous instalments. Any Flick in the early nineties that used rap
music as its primary soundtrack has ultimately dated for a modern
audience.

My advice would be to watch this movie in full before you judge it.
There are some sad moments in this fall from grace story as well as few
goofs in terms of weak acting. But it's not as bad as people say and as
the sixth instalment nears completion it's about time everyone got back
into the Rocky spirit for one more round.

A good film. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I have rated this movie as a 10 which will make most readers think I
don't have a clue what I'm talking about. To be honest, I don't believe
this movie is a 10, but I feel I need to give it that bit extra due to
the very low rating this movie has polled on this site. Even though it
will make next to no difference to the overall rating of the movie, it
will at least make me feel a little better. I have watched the rocky
series probably 100 times each and if I had anything to do with making
them, I would feel offended that Rocky V is rated lower than Rockys III
and IV. I feel that, going on best to worst, the order should be The
original on top, followed by the second, then the fifth, then the
third, with number 4 coming in last. The original Rocky is one of the
best movies ever made, no question. By the second film, Stallone took
over directing duties and done a decent job with it, apart from one or
two corny things thrown in to it. By the third one however, all common
sense in the series went out the window right from the opening montage.
The fourth Rocky should have been titled Rocky 80's. If anyone over the
age of 12 truly loves that movie, you should be ashamed of yourself.
The first movie wasn't a sports movie, it was a drama which happened to
be about a journeyman boxer getting to live his dream by fighting for a
heavyweight championship. Rocky IV is just a big stupid fight scene,
with the rest of the movie just filling in time. Why would Rocky turn
down his prize money for this fight? Yes, he was doing it to avenge his
friends death, but why not avenge Apollo, and make 10 million at the
same time which he could at least give to a charity? The training
sequence is stupid, why would there be any gyms at all if running up a
mountain was better than all the best equipment available, mixed with
steroids. The fight scene itself, which was really all they had, was
obscenely ridiculous. There isn't a referee in the world that wouldn't
have stopped the contest 3 rounds in. Rocky gets dropped a good 10
times that fight but keeps getting up, yet when he drops Drago once,
the show is over. He somehow gets an entire nation to change from
spitting on him at the start, to loving him, all in under 30 minutes,
and all by punching there national hero in the head. And don't get me
started on the speech he gives in the middle of the ring at the end,
I'm cringing just thinking about it. The reason Rocky 5 is not so
popular, is that people were looking for a sequel to Rocky 4, not
another sequel to Rocky 1. Number 5 breaks away from the 80's crap
brought to us by the previous 2 sequels. It goes back to its roots of a
real story, and they brought the original director back for it. This
again has made a drama set in the world of boxing, rather than just a
'boxing movie'. And for people who are just after the action, it
actually has more boxing scenes than the other movies, its just Tommy
Gunn for most of it instead of the title character, who by the way, was
played by Tommy Morrison, who went on to win the World Heavyweight
title in real life. The script is solid, the characters have depth and
it underlines the corruption that is ruining the sport of boxing. If
you really are a fan of either film or boxing, rent the movie again and
tell me i'm wrong
<|_=00=_|>

Sometimes it gets annoying to me how critical people are of the Rocky
series.  It's like they feel like they have to say terrible things about it,
probably because people can be so negative that they can't find it in
themselves to believe that a 'less than intelligent' person with heart,
drive and passion can move mountains and achieve success. 

I personally thought this, and every other Rocky movie, was fabulous.  I
thought Sage Stallone was amazing in his debut as Rocky's son.  Also, this
movie showed a more real side of boxing, the business side, with
exploitative agents and corrupt business tactics.  

Some may think the Rocky series is an unrealistic saga, but Rocky IV proves
it isn't.  The person we saw struggle, fight, and grow rich is now back to
square one...minus all the money but still with the heart.

I saw this movie and it brought tears to my eyes.  It shows how wrapped up
we can become when trying to achieve our goals through others and how it
affects people around us.  

I thought it was an interesting storyline and was a lot better than people
give it credit for.
<|_=00=_|>

I would like to start by saying that I am SICK of people's saying that
"Rocky V" is crap. Not since "Rocky II" has Stallone been as spectacular
as
he is here. "Rocky V" brings back the heart, soul, and grittiness which
were
missing in action in "Rocky III" and "Rocky IV". "Rocky IV", which was an
almost instant success, following in the wake of, an also
emotionally-void,
"Rocky III", offered a lot of hard-hitting blows, most quite unrealistic,
and had no emotion of which to speak. "Rocky V" dares to keep Rocky from
re-entering the ring. I cannot emphasize strongly enough how upsetting it
would have been to see him go back for "just one last fight". Seeing as
how
it is a "Rocky" film though, we do get to see the Italian Stallion kick
some
ass, and do so in a far more visceral, entertaining manner, than he did in
"Rocky III" and "Rocky IV". After seeing him battle Mr. T and Dolph
Lundgren, I didn't think that the Rock had another movie in him, but part
5
makes me think that there might be a possible 6th to squeeze
out.
<|_=00=_|>
I think this was the only Rocky film I never saw at the theater. I
guess I'd had enough by then. However, I did catch this on VHS and,
despite all the negative opinions I had read concerning it, I was glad
I saw it. It was typical Rocky entertainment: hokey but satisfying and
generally enjoyable.

Richard Gant did a nice job impersonating Don King and Tommy Morrison,
a real-life fighter, turned out to be a pretty good actor. Again, we
see the familiar characters of Rocky, still sounding stupid; wife
Adrian, older-looking but still faithful to her husband, and Paulie,
still a slob and a low-life.

The final scene provides the usual over-done fight with.....well, if
you've seen the others and enjoyed them - the fights and the stories -
you should like this, too.
<|_=00=_|>

When a doctor or a family member tells you that the only life you have ever
know is over, that can be a pretty bitter pill too swallow. In Rocky V,
Rocky Balboa is faced with such a scenario. This movie proves to me that you
need to have more than one string to your arrow, as you never know when it
might come in handy one day. Rocky V also points out that money and
possession are not the important things in life, but family and (true)
friends are!

Losing it all does not mean a thing unless you've got something to lose… And
Rocky Balboa had it all. Times have changed, though, for former Heavyweight
champion of the world. A lifetime of fighting has taken its toll, mentally
and physically, and the maneuverings of an scrupulous accountant have left
him financially strapped. But resiliency and the ability to come back have
been trademarks of the Rocky legend. Just when it looks like the champ is
down for the count, he discovers the raw talent of a young fighter named
Tommy Gunn, who just might be Rocky's last chance for glory. In a world
where achievement is marked by dollars and cents, and in a profession where
success is measured in wins and losses, Rocky Balboa knows that, whatever
the struggle, your only hope is to give it your best shot.

This film is probably the weakest of the five films in the Rocky series. Yet
there are some very good parts to it. The way we see Rocky get over
bankruptcy was very good, as is the way he eventually makes his family the
most important thing in his life. Again I found this story to be good,
though I guess it lacked that real Rocky feel to it, mainly because the
champ was unwilling or unable to get into the ring. Stallone has done a
grand job in being the writer of all the Rocky films. 

The cast make a final appearance, that is reasonably good. Stallone is good
as Rocky once again. His character is still trying to make a contribution to
fighting, after being told that he can no longer professionally fight in the
ring. So he helps out fresh talent, Tommy ‘Machine' Gunn, who is acted by
real life boxer Tommy Morrison. I found this character to be just far to
arrogant and stubborn, which in a way did not suit being a part of the
Balboa corner. Tommy has had an interesting life, not only fighting wise,
but in a personal way. He has been caught in drug rackets, drink driving and
admitted to the world that he has contracted the fatal HIV virus. I am not
so sure he is the greatest of actors though.

The normal cast members were good. Talia Shire's character Adrian, lets the
world know that her husband is finished boxing and has nothing else to prove
in the boxing ring. Making a special appearance was star from the first
three films, that of Burgess Meredith. Just seeing him onscreen was really
satisfying. Mickey was a favourite character of mine. I must mention that I
liked seeing Stallone's very own son Sage, in Rocky as Rocky's son, Rocky
Jnr. He was pretty good as the son that felt left out in the cold. He also
has a mean punch like the old man as well. 

I found that all the Rocky films had terrific soundtracks. This is due to
the great work by composer, Bill Conti. Bill has done a wonderful job in
organising the music to go with all the fighting scenes and the poignant
scenes which require that tune to set them off just nicely. Rocky five had
probably the best song on any of the soundtracks, that being the Elton John
hit ‘Measure of a man'. I think it is a wonderful song, with some terrific
lyrics. I have loved most of the music that the Rocky movies have given
us.

Rocky V might not be the best movie ever made, but it certainly had some
sort of impact on me. I believe if a movie only makes a slight impression on
you, then it has achieved in a small way what it was meant to do. I heard
that plans for Rocky VI were being made, with a script finished by Stallone
just a few years ago. Personally, I feel that if it was to be made it would
not be that great a film, because Balboa can no longer make a comeback in
the ring, and if he does, he could well become  as his wife said ‘disabled'.
All things being said, these films are a terrific avenue of motivation and
can help any person get the spark back to turn their luck around in any
venture they pursue.

Rating 3 Stars or 6.5/10

<|_=00=_|>
When I was little I loved this movie. I later started to get negative
though and hate it. I've changed now. I still think it is a good movie.
So Rocky V wasn't the best. So Rocky doesn't fight in the ring. None of
these things make Rocky V a bad movie. It has a great story, a great
beginning and a great climactic fight. I wish other films can have as
great a fight scene as the one in this one. The cool part is Tommy Gun
is Tommy Morrison a real life boxer. I only wish I can see Rocky slug
it out with another fighter like Mike Tyson or even fight The Rock.

This isn't the best Rocky, but it's a very good movie. I still
recognize it as being part of the series. All of the true Rocky fans
should. My only problems are that the movie is too contemporary, Rocky
has brain damage and how it keeps showing flash backs of the Drago
fight. Rocky proved in Rocky IV that Drago was just a man and in this
they take it back. It's like Drago is haunting him. Also how everyone
looks too old, especially Talia Shire. And how the hell did the son
grow so fast. I'm sure Rocky wasn't in Russia for years and why was
Duke out of the movie so fast. He's a great character. In the end it
shows photos from the previous Rocky movies to I guess say it's over.
Please Sly. Make another Rocky. End the series with another great Rocky
movie. Don't end the series yet.
<|_=00=_|>

Often slated as the worst of the bunch, "Rocky V" is actually superior to
the two films that preceded it.  Unlike the glossy third and fourth entries,
this one tries to be down-to-earth.  Rocky loses his money, and is forced to
go back to his old neighborhood.  Back in the grime of his past.  That's
where he belongs, not in a mansion!

Granted, there is some cheese on display here.  The music is dated and some
of the dialogue is just too obvious - the reporters at the press conference
pressure Rocky in all kinds of ridiculous ways.  I also don't understand the
patriotic references; why is the villain "George Washington" Duke and why
does he say "only in America" at the end? (only in America can Rocky prove
his superiority in a street brawl?)  It's also silly that the film is set
right after "Rocky IV," since all of the actors have visibly aged. 

Nevertheless, there's good stuff here.  Paulie finally redeems himself, and
Tommy's corruption is an interesting counterpoint to how Rocky's career
developed.  The final battle is very satisfying, particularly the visions of
Mickey which inspire Rocky to get up for "one more round!!!"  Ah, how I love
the moment when he rises to kick Tommy's butt.  Dah-dah-dum-dum-dum-dee-dah-dah-dah!
 (etc.)

I also love the last line - a great summary of what Rocky's character is all
about.  

  
<|_=00=_|>
I thought Rocky V was supposed to be bad?! No no no! It is certainly
different from the other 4 in that this time Rocky is retired and is
working at Mickey's gym which he now owns...and looking after his son.
Great, right? A father-son movie. But the wonderful thing is, it isn't
drawn out with boring scenes of bonding and what not. This movie made
me more angry than Rocky IV even. I won't say why for that would just
ruin the fun part. This movie stays realistic to the character of
Rocky, but this time it is more about his relationship not with himself
but with the people around him. This movie is fun.

8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Average sequel about Rocky getting back from Russia after fighting Ivan
Drago. He now finds out that he has brain damage from the fight. He also
finds out that he has lost all the money. So, he moves back into his old
house from 'Rocky II' with Adrian, Rocky Jr., and Paulie. Rocky meets Tommy
Gunn, a young fighter, on the street and offers to help him out with some
boxing. While at school, Rocky Jr. is being bullied and asks his father how
to help him. 

About average sequel that I didn't expect too much from since I got a bunch
of negative reviews from. Better than what most people say, 'Rocky V' had a
good father-son story. John G. Avildsen returns to direct this since he
directed the original. Burgess Meredith is also back for a cameo, sadly to
say that he passed away a few years ago and is still missed by me after his
performance in the first 'Rocky'. Overall, 'Rocky V' is worth viewing if you
liked the others. If you didn't, just stick with the original.

2.5 out of 5.
