

One of the top horror-story anthology movies out there (albeit that isn't
saying much).  Will scare the pants off you if watched late at night by your
lonesome.  Stories are cleverly placed from least terrifying first to most
terrifying at the end.  Acting leaves much to be desired, however, with the
first story containing the most watchable cast (Steve Buscemi, Christian
Slater).  Wraparound story is cliched and predictable, but it doesn't really
matter.

First story is one of the more interesting mummy tales out there, with
Buscemi playing an outsider in a yuppie university who discovers "Lot 249."
Lot turns out to be ancient preserved mummy who, of course, wrecks havoc.
Twists at the end are good but not exceptional in any way.

Second story is a fantastical tale regarding a vicious cat that never seems
to go away.  Old man hires hitman to kill cat.  Tale is entertaining and
unnerving but altogether ridiculous as well.  Only for fans of horror,
really.

Third story is gem of anthology.  Concerns a young man who witnesses a
gargoyle savagely kill a man in a dark alley.  Man makes vow to never speak
of gargoyle to anyone in exchange for his life.  Romantic tale ends in shock
and horror.  Likely to give nightmares.

Overall, this movie is laughable and boring in daytime but can be terrifying
at night.  Personally I have a tough time choosing favorite tale; each one
brings something different to the table.  Horror buffs be sure to check this
one out if you haven't already.


<|_=00=_|>
Tales from the Darkside: The Movie is a delightful collection of three
horror stories. While the first two in the film are good, the third and
last story in the collection, Lover's Vow, is nothing less than superb.
Lover's Vow would have, quite appropriately, been made into a
full-length film. It would have been wonderful to have seen this as one
installment in a series of Tales from the Darkside films.

Lover's Vow is a love story borne out of the womb of darkness itself.
Carola (Rae Dawn Chong) is beautiful and seductive, and her
overwhelming maternal energy and beauty nicely compliments the persona
exuded by Preston (James Remar), with his obvious yearning for security
and stability.

The build-up to the quite tragic ending is lovely. Penniless New York
artist Preston is confronted with a living horror. He witnesses the
death of a friend at the hands of a gargoyle. The gargoyle spares
Preston's life in exchange for keeping his knowledge of its existence a
secret. He can tell no one what he saw and heard. On the way home, he
meets beautiful Carola, and he beckons her to come with him, fearing
that the creature may be lingering about.

But, unknown to Preston, he has just taken the monster with him. This
fact is in no way made apparent to the viewer; Preston exudes his
compassion and blankets a seemingly innocent woman. Immediately
attracted to one other, they consummate their blossoming passion in a
truly wonderful love scene. A bluish light engulfing them, coupled with
lovely music, they kiss and caress. Knowing how tragically the story
ends, the scene becomes all the more beautiful.

Toward the end, Carola and Preston are engaged in discussion about
their future. Preston suggests a myriad of possibilities; he,
ultimately, just wants the one woman that he loves to be happy. "There
is nothing you can give me that I don't already have..." she says. His
answer: "Yes, there is." He then divulges his secret to her, while
handing her a handmade statue of the gargoyle he'd seen. Carola slowly
grasps it and begins to pace away. Clutching the statue and weeping,
she turns and says, in anger and pain, "You promised you'd never tell!"

Carola's humanity is lost; the broken vow becomes the key to death's
door, for both him and their love. In a macabre scene, Carola begins to
transmogrify into a gargoyle; their children do like wise.

Preston beckons her to change back, and, mid-stride between humanity
and nonhuman monstrosity, Carola states: "I can't." Hearing the
heart-wrenching sounds of his children in pain from the change, he asks
her to halt this horrifying procession. The gargoyle states: "It's too
late, you betrayed your vow." The gargoyle embraces Preston, and when
she does so, he says: "Carola, I loved you," his voice seeming to hiss
the word "love." Uttering that she had loved him, too, she kills him.
Resting his body gently on the floor, she weeps in pain.

With her children in tow, Carola flies into the night. She becomes a
frozen statue atop an old building, clutching her children, to wait for
the moment when the cycle of love and death must reiterate itself.

I cannot stress enough what a wonderful job the filmmakers did with
this particular story. If you are a horror fan and would like to see
some fine horror stories not laden with cheap, low-budget CGI (I'd
rather see low-budget puppetry), then at least rent it if only to watch
Lover's Vow. Horror and romance are entwined in a very delicate story
about simple humanity, the yearning for love, and love's sometimes
all-consuming pain.
<|_=00=_|>
In director John Harrison's adaptation from the 80s TV series, four
horror stories are told (one of them as a wraparound story) with
different results, although the movie leaves the audience with a
feeling of pure worthy entertainment.

The wraparound story stars ex-Blondie singer Deborah Harry as Betty,
the typical next door woman, the only difference is that she hides her
cannibalistic habits a a secret. Matthew Lawrence is Timmy, a kid who
was kidnapped by Betty in order to be her dinner tonight. Timmy begins
to tell her stories from the "Tales from the Darkside" book in order to
gain time while he plans his escape. The stories Timmy tells are the
other three stories in the movie.

First one, "Lot 249", stars Steve Buscemi as Bellingham, a misfit in a
yuppie university. Bullied by Andy (Christian Slater), Lee (Robert
Sedgwick) and Susan (Julianne Moore), he works as assistant in the
Museum. When he receives Lot 249, troubles will begin as he revives an
ancient mummy to do his will.

Second one stars William Hickey and David Johansen in a tale of a
devilish cat that seems to haunt Hickey's character. Johansen plays a
professional assassin hired to kill the feline.

In last one, writer Michael McDowell develops a love story loosely
based on a Japanese tale. James Remar stars as Preston, a failed artist
who is having the worst day of his life, as he watches his best friend
being brutally killed by a mysterious beast who makes him promise that
he won't tell anyone about it; everything looks worse until he meets
Carola (Rae Dawn Chong), and his life changes for good. What would
happen if he reveal the secret of the monster? 

The four stories have very good performances, particularly those of
Buscemi and Hickey. The downside is that while the three main stories
present a very adult horror style with very gory scenes, brief nudity
and foul language, the wraparound story looks tame and more similar to
kid's horror like "Goosebumps". That doesn't mean that it's a bad tale,
is just that it seems out of place in the film, but still the movie is
good enough to keep the attention of the viewer.

Very good movie that it's almost forgotten today. The very good acting
and the good SFX (although outdated for today's standards) create a
very rewarding movie that surely will give entertainment. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Tales From the Darkside:  the Movie was a very entertaining film.  It has
four stories in it.  The first is a wrap-around story about a woman going to
cook a ten year old boy for dinner, yet the child reads stories to her to
try and delay his death.  In a way, this is related to tales of the Arabian
Nights.  The three other stories are the ones told by the young boy.  All of
them are actually very interesting, have elements of fright, are generally
well-acted, and have some kind of message.  One deals with an ancient mummy
out to avenge a smart yet socially outcast student at a college. Another
story deals with a malevolent cat out to duel with a hitman paid $100,000 to
kill a cat.  Gruesome but great story with some real good acting, especially
by William Hickey.  Love that voice!  The final story deals with a
relationship between a gargoyle and an artist.  An intriguing tale and has
Rae Dawn Chong in it(a nice asset).  All the stories are well-made and
well-written, the wrap-around story being the weakest due to its resolution.
 Nonetheless, Tales From the Darkside is a fun horror film in the vein of
Tales From the Crypt and Creepshow.
<|_=00=_|>

If your a fan of Tales From The Crypt or Creepshow then Tales From The
Darkside: The Movie is a must see! All three stories are highly enjoyable
the last story Lovers Vow is great a honor to the now late Michael
McDowell.
Lot 249 also features great performances from Christian Slater,Steve
Buscemi,and Julianne Moore. The second story Cat from Hell is enjoyable
and
is one of William Hickey's last roles.A great horror movie to watch over
and
over one of the best ever made.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, not officially, but basically this Romero/King joint effort is a
successor to their Creepshow movies as much as a movie-length version of the
TV series Tales from the Darkside.  Maybe they avoided calling it Creepshow
3 due to the poor take from the second movie?  Regardless, while the framing
device is merely adequate, all three of the stories are chilling enough.
The first two stories are in the fine old EC Comics/Creepshow tradition of
bad people getting their comeuppance in memorable style.  The third is a
rather touching romance, all things considered.  The best segment is
probably the first, with performances from Christian Slater doing his best
Jack Nicolson impression, and cult-fave Steve Buscemi as a murderous grad
student.  But it's all pretty enjoyable if you like that kind of
thing.
<|_=00=_|>
Little Timmy (Matthew Lawrence) is arrested in the kitchen of Betty
(Deborah Harry) that is preparing a dinner party for eight guests where
Timmy is the main dish. Timmy tells three horror stories to buy time
and try to escape:

"Lot 249" – The riches Andy (Christian Slater) and his best friend Lee
(Robert Sedgwick) use Andy's sister Susan (Julianne Moore) to trick the
nerd Bellingham (Steve Buscemi) and get his place in the university.
Bellingham brings a Mummy (Michael Deak) to his room and uses a scroll
to revive him and to take revenge against Lee and Susan and later
against Andy. 

"Cat from Hell" – The millionaire Drogan (William Hickey) hires the
hit- man Halston (David Johansen) to kill a cat that has murdered the
three other people that lived with him in his mansion. But soon Halston
learns that the cat is from hell.

"Lover's Vow" – The washed up artist Preston (James Remar) goes to the
bar of his friend Jer to meet his agent Wyatt (Robert Klein) that tells
him that does not want to be his agent anymore. Preston drinks booze
until Jer closes the bar and they walk through a dark alley. Out of the
blue, Jer is attacked and decapitated by a gargoyle and when Preston is
going to be attacked, he promises to the gargoyle that he will never
tell what has happened that night in the alley. The gargoyle flies away
and when Preston is walking back home, he sees a woman, Carola (Rae
Dawn Chong), near to the place where Jer was murdered. Preston invites
Carola to go to his flat to call a cab and they begin a romance. Ten
years later, they are happily married with two children and Preston
decides to disclose his secret to his wife with tragic consequences for
his family and him.

"Tales from the Darkside: The Movie" follows the format of "Creepshow",
with a wraparound story and three segments. The wraparound story is
funny with the fate of Timmy. "Lot 249" and "Cat from Hell" are good
segments with the debut of Julianne Moore in a feature. But the
unforgettable and heartbreaking "Lover's Vow" is among the best horror
stories that I have ever seen with the surprising conclusion. My vote
is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Contos da Escuridão" ("Tales from the Darkside")
<|_=00=_|>
I've watched this movie mainly because Deborah Harry was in it. I've
seen some other her films like Hairspray or Videodrome and I must say
that yet this is the best her role of those movies i've seen. Althau it
is quite obvious that she is a better singer than an actress but still
I liked her character very much. The only bad thing about it was that
she appeared for only ten minutes (or maybe less) of the film. Anyway
there were a lot of other good actors like Steve Buscemi or Christian
Slater. All three stories were great, especially the third one. Steven
Kings fans should also see it because the second one was based on King
(actualy not one of the best his stories but still OK). I was kinda
surprised because I expected that this movie will be dumb and childish
but it appeared to be really creepy.
<|_=00=_|>

This is really three shorter movies, bound together by a fourth tale in
which the other three stories are read. The first segment features an
animated mummy stalking selected student victims; the second tale tells the
story of a "cat from hell" who cannot be killed and leaves a trail of
victims behind it; the third story is about a man who witnesses a bizarre
killing and promises never to tell what he saw and the "in-between" bit is
the story of a woman preparing to cook her newspaper boy for supper. Not the
best king adaption, but hey, it ain't bad either. A good cast and some nice
special effects. The Gargoyle was nasty! Plenty of gore here, but used in
just enough moderation to be effective. A couple of tense moments, some god
scares (Especially in the story about involving an elusive, seemingly
immortal cat.) and pretty good music. Pretty good movie, just nothing really
spectacular or life-changing.
My rating for "Tales from the Darkside: The Movie"--6/10.

<|_=00=_|>
******SPOILERS****** Betty, Debbie Harry, a local witch has the
newspaper delivery boy Timmy, Matthew Lawrence, locked up in her house
and after giving him all the cookies that he can eat to fatten him up
for her and her fellow witches, who are coming over later that evening,
to have him as the main course for dinner. 

Giving Timmy a book "Tales From The Darkside" to read as Betty makes
the preparations for him to be cooked Timmy tells her if he can read
her some stories from the book so it would take his mind off of whats
going to happen to him. Betty agrees to listen to Timmy reading the
stories from "Tales From The Darkside" because it's also her favorite
book and would make the mundane task of getting everything ready for
the meal go a lot faster.

Timmy starts with the story about a group of collage students entitled
"Lot 249". Edward, Steve Buscemi, gets a parcel, Lot 249, delivered to
his collage dorm room that has a 3,000 year old mummy in it. Edward's
fellow students once tried to get him expelled from school by planting
a rumor that he stole an Aztec artifact and he knows who they are
Susan, Julianne Moore, and her boyfriend Lee, Robert Sedgwick, and
Edward is planing to use the mummy to get more then even with them for
what they did to him. 

Finding a secret scroll hidden inside the mummy Edward interprets and
recites whats on that scroll to bring the mummy back to life who ends
up killing both students. Susan's brother Andy, Christian Slater, finds
out about Edward's actions and after he knocks out and ties up Edward
to a chair he dismembers the mummy with an electric carving knife. But
instead of killing Edward for what he did to his sister and his best
friend Andy runs Edward out of the campus. Andy feeling that he took
care of Edward and his mummy for good didn't realize that the mummy
wasn't the only thing that Edward brought back to life. 

The next story "Cat From Hell" that Timmy reads is about a rich old man
Drogan, William Hickey, who hires a top Mafia hit-man Halston, David
Johansen. Drogan gives him $50,000.00 up front and will give him
another $50,000.00 after he can prove that he killed a black cat that
has been terrorizing the old man and that killed his two sisters and
butler and is now targeting him for elimination. Halston at first
thinks that Drogan is nuts but soon sees that this seemingly harmless
kitty cat is an indestructible and ferocious monster that's far more
dangerous then any of the scores of gangsters that he "hit" during his
long and successful criminal career. 

The cat came to avenge what Drogan's Pharmaceutical empire did to
develop a very expensive and successful drug called
Tri-Dorma-Phenobarbin-Compound G. The drug is for people with heart
trouble like Drogan as well as a legal stimulant like the drugs sold on
the street by the mob for whom Halston works for. Drogan took the lives
of 5,000 cat's over four years to perfect that drug. This mysterious
cat was somehow sent to make Drogan and his family pay for what they
did in regard to all those cat's that were experimented and killed to
make Drogan and Co. very rich because of it. In the end the little
kitty not only took care of hit-man Halston but the scared and
guilt-ridden employer Drogan as well in a really gut wrenching and
stomach churning final. 

The last story that Timmy reads "Lover's Vow" is about a struggling
artiest Preston, James Remar, who one night in a dark alley sees his
friend Gage, Mark Margolis, savagely killed by some demon. The demon
makes Preston promise never to tell about what happened and anything
that he saw that night for the rest of his life of else. 

Later that evening Preston meets a strange and mysterious woman Carola,
Rea Dawn Chong, who he falls in love with and marries. Later Preston's
artistic luck begins to change with his art work starts to get noticed
by the public with him becoming a rich and very successful artiest. 

On the tenth anniversary of him meeting Carola Preston feels that he
has to tell her this secret that he kept from her all these years and
that by him not telling her that he thinks that he was somehow not
being truthful with her. It turns out by him doing that Preston finds
out that sometimes the truth is not the wises and healthiest thing to
tell; even to someone that you love and feel should know about it. 

With that Timmy both out of time and stories and everything ready for
him to become the main course for dinner for Betty and her witches
friends there's suddenly and unsuspectingly a slip in the plot and
what's for dinner that evening turns out not to be what Betty was
preparing. 

Very good anthology of the TV show "Tales From The Darkside" that turns
out to be much better the you would have expected on the big screen.
