
There's something enormously touching about this film and the way it
deals with losses -- Pullman's wife and Casper's mother, in particular.
And what's so clever about it is how it uses them as a tool of audience
manipulation AND has the evil ghosts use Pullman in exactly the same
way that we're being used. This is a smartly written screenplay. The
story itself is pretty conventional and predictable: the loner girl
gets teased by a popular girl (that nobody really likes) who's out to
destroy her; the popular girl has a cute boyfriend that the loner girl
has the hots for, etc. etc., story will resolve itself with everyone
falling in love with loner girl.

I can't quite understand why this movie has such a low rating. The only
explanation I can think of is that people prefer emotionally "safe"
movies like "Toy Story" (of the same year) that are equally brilliant
technically (and have as many references), but don't sacrifice coolness
by showing sentimental, sad emotion. It's possible that the movie got
marketed incorrectly. The film isn't about spooks; like one of those
early, wonderful Tim Burton fantasies (this film also shares with them
an outstanding score), the film deals -- quite movingly, I think --
with regaining that lost sense of childhood: that moment where Casper
tries to remember being alive is just wrenching. And the scene relates
just as profoundly to us: just as he can't remember being alive, we
can't, really, remember being kids. I was ten when I first saw this,
and it had an effect on me then (Ricci's description of sunny side-up
eggs making her gag subconsciously made me avoid anything less than
hard boiled for ten years); this is something that I really cherish as
being part of my young emotional and visual education, and it stands up
today. 

I haven't seen the director's other films, so I have no idea whether
this whole thing was a fluke or whether everything just settled in to
my particular sensibility, but even outside of the emotion I think the
technical aspects, the giant basement set, are enough to keep interest.
And even outside of that, the acting is terrific. Cathy Moriarty is an
absolute riot. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since i was six years of age, I've enjoyed this movie. It makes me
laugh, cry, and excited! i am disappointed that so many people don't
like this movie. it is an all-time favorite of mine. It is sad yes, but
it has comic relief from the three uncles that try to be humanlike,
Casper, the friendly ghost that knows what it is like to be lonely, for
instance me, and same with Kat. I am very touched with this film, for
it makes me think about me, lonely and depressed, but it has a positive
ending which I really adored! i also liked the amazing effects, that
were famous at its, time. Of course now, effects from movies are like
The Matrix films and LOTR, but i mainly like this film, because it
tocuhes my heart in a both sad and sometimes happy, knowing, someone
else is out there for you, even if you are a bit...dead. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

After reading the comments, I see most people enjoy this movie with a few
picking it over nothing (e.g. not an accurate portrait of ghost?).  I first
saw the movie in my preteen.  It was a fun & 'cute' movie, highly
entertaining with the trio & treasure hunting & stuff.

As I grew older & revisit this movie, I see more 'layers' of the movie
other
than a 'kiddie ghost story'.  Dr. Harvey (Bill Pullman, excellent as usual)
is having a hard time dealing with the death of his wife, & Kat (Ricci, a
great break from the cool-headed Wednesday Adams) is having a hard time
adjusting her father's constant move as well as grieving her mother on her
own.  Then, there is Casper grieving his own death as well as his father's
death.  And then there is Carrigan's mourning her father... not leaving her
all the riches.  Then there is Casper's heroic act (go see the movie, it's
one of the most touching moment), Dr. Harvey's reunion, etc.
etc.

From a child's point of view, it's pure entertainment.  From an art
lover's
point of view, you have to awe at the special effect & sets.  From an
audience seeking emotional outlet, well, bring in an extra box of kleenex.
It's a very touching, warm-hearted, humorous, sweet little movie about a
friendly ghost named Casper.

Just a side note, it is quite interesting to watch Addams' Family & Casper
&
Sleepy Hollow & see Christina Ricci grow from the eccentric Wednesday
Addams
to a regular teenager Kat Harvey to a beautiful young lady Katrina Van
Tessel.
<|_=00=_|>

Who says there are no such things as ghosts? Not if there is the ghostly
inhabitants of Whipstaff Manor in Friendship, Maine!
This desolate mansion is then, in the words of one of the members of the
Ghostly Trio of Whipstaff, 'intruded' by Kat Harvey (Christina Ricci) and
her eccentric father Dr. James Harvey (Bill Pullman), a ghost therapist.
Carrigan Crittenden (Cathy Moriarty) had hired Dr. Harvey to exorcise the
ghosts, including Casper the friendly ghost and his three obnoxious
uncles,
Stretch, Fatso and Stinkie, aspiring to gain Whipstaff's 'buried gold'.

Intertwining humour, all-time fun and a modern Cinderella story, 'Casper'
promises to please as a movie which is compelling, hilarious, captivating,
heart-warming, witty and above all, truly 'fleshtastic'.

'Casper' is recommended for any audience, regardless of age. At the time I
am submitting this review I am currently 17, turning 18, but 'Casper'
still
manages to appear endearing and ultimately special. The magic of Bill
Pullman, Christina Ricci as well as that of director Brad Silberling,
executive producer Steven Spielberg, and other producers weaves between
each
and every scene to eventually lift us off our feet. Above all, I LOVE THIS
MOVIE! Casper is my all time favourite character. Truly fantastic. You
won't
BOOlieve it until you see it. 
<|_=00=_|>

Being 'middle-aged', I suppose I was not the target audience for this
movie,
but I love it very much anyway.  Kiddies aside, this movie is hysterical,
well-acted, and touching too. The effects are great and, to be honest, I
can't find a lot to critcize here, which for me is all I can ask of a
movie.

<|_=00=_|>

I don't view films as if I'm watching them as the intended audience; I watch
them for myself.  And that's why I found it odd at how engrossed I was when
I watched this film for the first time at the age of eighteen.  Aside from
the great gothic flair of the mansion, two superbly placed cameos, and nice
laughable black humour from the "trio," the film took off because of its
emotional core.  It's something that a youngster can really get into, but
also anyone who finds it sad that a child can die.  When Casper plays with
his toys, I just wanted to start crying.  This eternal child--lost and stuck
in an age of mystery and wonder.  And yet, he's smitten with a girl--he's
starting to go through puberty.  And it's just so sad . . . and beautiful. 

And then there's the father, and his sway into the afterlife, his daughter's
plight, her struggle with her wish to help Casper.  It's all so simple and
written for kids, but I was so engrossed by the romanticism of it all. 

The villains mostly butt into the greatness of all of it, but you just have
to grant that in a kid's picture.
And now comes my but . . . in the end, when the mother does appear, she's
supposed to be this amazing, angelic, deux es machinal, she floats through
the stain glass window, her long hair flows around her, her gown flows all
around her but--what the hell!  why is her dress such a deep red!?  she
looks like satan!  
Oh well.  Bad costume choice made a really bad moment.  But mostly, I loved
this film for it's good parts, despite the childishness of much of
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Casper is a beautifully made movie. It has great humor, excellent cast, an
enchanting music score, spectacular special effects and a very touching
story. This movie is a perfect family movie and certainly not targeted
only
for children.

Look out for some very amusing cameos (including Clint Eastwood and Mel
Gibson).

Full marks on this one!
<|_=00=_|>

I've owned this movie for 7 years now, but I was having a "kid" moment last
night and after I watched SNL I put this on.  Wow, it all came back to me
how much I loved this movie.

Casper himself is played as a lot little boy, very real and unsure of
himself at the age of 12.  He falls in love with Kat in such an innocent way
that it's touching.  And when he says as she falls asleep, "Can I keep you?"
I start to cry. His speech about his death would make a great short acting
monolouge.

Kat is a smartass and highly intelligent, showing Christina Ricci as the
funny, witty, and all-around cool actress she is.  Her portrayal of Kat is
reminisent of a similar movie that came earlier...Winona Rider as Lydia in
"Beetlejuice" without the fascination with death.

Of course, Bill Pullman is great in whatever he does, but here you just
wanna wrap the poor guy up in a hug.  And his dynamic with the FANTASTIC
Ghostly Trio pretty much makes most of the movie sparkle.

What could've been a sappy ending is done with such magic.  A 17-year-old
Devon Sawa in one of his first roles walks down the stairs and extends his
hand to Kat with such perfect love and tenderness.  And I cheer when the
FINALLY kiss.  He looks like such an angel.

All around, a great movie.  Funny, romantic, the perfect blend of sappyness
and sentimentality that MAKES for a tear-jerker ending.  Great
job!
<|_=00=_|>
I remember seeing this movie as a kid, and I loved it even then. I was
a fan to the Casper cartoons, and to me, this was a great movie. As a
kid, it was just entertaining. Looking at it again as I am older, I now
love this movie more than just because it's about my favorite friendly
ghost. This movie does a good job clenching the issue of death and
either letting it go and hang onto it as a ghost with unfinished
business. The atmosphere, although often times comical (which is how it
is with the cartoons too XD), has a really deep and emotional air to
it, as we look at Dr. Harvey and Kat's loss at the wife/mother's death,
as well as Casper's mourning for his life and loneliness as a ghost.
The music itself is very beautiful, and the set gives a perfect
background for both spooky and sentimental moments. If you're one who
is looking for a good emotional ghost story, this is a great example,
even though it was based on a cartoon. If you're looking for something
comical, well, the three ghosts Stretch, Fatso, and Stinky are there to
provide laughs, as they really do seem to be having a ball being
floating ethereal beings capable of shifting themselves into horrific
(and hilarious) shapes.

I don't remember much from the Casper cartoons, but it's not like you
can totally base an entire movie on just those. The plots for the
cartoons vary, and this movie could be counted as some sort of canon, I
suppose. Either way, it does a good job capturing the lonely, friendly
ghost that is Casper on the big screen (and TV set).

Go ahead and rent the movie; I'm looking forward to searching for a DVD
for it so I can watch it again and again. I love it. I totally
recommend this for everyone, kids and grownups alike.
<|_=00=_|>
After you get through the stresses of your day... your job, the hassles
of daily life, all the stressers that are out there daily, it seems
great to sit back and enjoy something that will take you out of that
for a little while. If you watch the news and read the papers every day
like I do, it gets to you after a while...the young soldiers being
killed in Iraq, all the election BS that we are being bombarded with
right now...all or most of the news is downright depressing. That
creates an important place for a movie like this...one that can make
your life a little less serious for a while. I've always been a
Christina Ricci fan, going back to the Addams Family when she was only
11 years old. She was a great actress even at that young age. You could
tell that she would go far as an actress. The personality was
there...it set her apart from her peers. At the age of 15, she
continues to do a great job in Casper...she is very believable. 

Sometimes, in this troubled world where violence and negative things
seem to be the norm, a nice little movie like this can go a long way
toward making your day a little brighter. Some of my other "feel good"
movies are Patch Adams, all the Superman movies, the Robocop series,
and good old Babe. Thanks for reading this. Feel free to reply with an
email.
