

Although I was aware of the original plan to renew the Fantasia concept
every so often, and that it was visualised as an ongoing project, I felt
that going back after 60 years was too much, and that the original classic
should be left alone. However, my initial scepticism was dispelled within
seconds of the opening sequence. What we have here is a lush, vibrant fusion
of animation and music, each fully complimenting the other to perfection.
It's hard to pick a favorite sequence, but if really pressed, for personal
taste alone, it would be the awesome sequence with the whales. Mickey's
Sorcerer's Apprentice sequence is the only carry over from the original, and
a worthy match for it in the 2000 lineup is the Donald "Noah".

The only criticism I have of the film is the bridging sequences, featuring
Steve Martin, Penn & Teller, Bette Midler and others. I would have preferred
that they stuck to one presenter, preferably James Earl Jones or Angela
Landsbury. They seemed to take the material and the project far more
seriously than Martin and Penn & Teller who's humor detracted from the
dignity of the movie as a whole. 
<|_=00=_|>

Fantasia 2000 has really been screwed over since it was released in
January
of the year 2000. I was lucky enough to see it on the IMAX screen. I liked
it quite a bit then, but never thought about it much. but for some reason,
when it was announced that it would be released on DVD, my interest
sparked
again, and I got it. now, watching it for the second time, i realize just
how amazing it was. it is by far one of the most interesting disney
projects
ever, probably the best and most unique since the original Fantasia. i
will
go over and rate and criticize each segment now:

1. "Symphony #5" - the battle between good and evil with colorful abstract
triangles, unmistakably based on butterflies, being attacked by black
triangles in an ethereal setting. this segment did not impress me at all
when i originally saw the film, but seeing it again, i am able to
appreciate
the pastel artistry (the DVD provides a lot of insight on to how difficult
it was to create this segment). the segment as a whole may be one of the
weakest, but it is very beautiful. possibly the greatness and familiarity
of
the music diminishes the segment's overall power. it is possibly the
single
most famous piece of music ever written. 8/10

2. "Pines of Rome" - a family of whales fly around in the air. i actually
disliked this segment when i first saw the film last january. personally,
computer animation used in an animated film always made me cringe.
watching
it again, i now love the way the cgi whales move and look against the cell
animated backgrounds. now i feel that this is maybe the best segment of
the
film. the music is the best of all. i had never heard it before. the story
is also probably the best of them all. it turns out to be one of the most
beautiful and miraculous pieces of animation ever created.
10/10

3. "Rhapsody in Blue" - several stories of unhappy people are told and
intersect in New York City. First off, this is a great piece of music and
one of the most unique pieces of animation i have seen. Disney here forgot
its attempts at realism and just went for charicatures. it is incredible
to
see animators create a microcosm of a Robert Altman film as a silent film.
This was one of my favorites the first time i saw the film, and it remains
so now. 10/10

4. "Piano Concerto #2, Allegro, Opus 102" (The Steadfast Tin Soldier) -
again, when i first saw the film, I was annoyed at their use of computer
animation. now, i see how wonderful this segment really is and how the
computer animation works within the beautiful cell animation. the
characters
in this segment are beautifully made. the tin soldier himself isn't all
that
impressive, but the ballerina and the jack-in-the-box are amazing
creations,
among the most effective characters disney has ever created. I love the
music in this one, too. i had never heard it before. the only thing i can
fault this film for is that the animators changed the ending from a sad or
bittersweet ending to a happy one. they claim that the music made them
change it, because the music was more upbeat when it ended. this is true,
but i also think that they would never have been allowed to end it sadly
even if the music had ended so. Disney does not want to depress anyone,
and
they would slap a happy ending on it no matter what. but, with the music
as
an excuse, i can accept the ending of the film. 10/10

5. "Carnival of the Animals, Finale" - my least favorite segment, when i
first saw it and now. it is only about 3 minutes long, and i'm glad for
that. i do like it a bit more now, the art, watercolor, anyway. the story
is
very formulaic, and it follows the annoying tradition of silly disney
animal
characters like Timon and Pumbaa and Sebastion the crab and so many
others.
The segment is merely okay, and its shortness provides those children who
are bored (the movie wasn't made for them in the first place) to be
entertained a little more. 7/10

6. "The Sorcerer's Apprentice" - Who can argue? it is a classic. maybe it
shows a little laziness in the filmmakers, to just slap this onto a 65
minute film to pad it to 70 minutes, but who cares. it is wonderful. If
you
get the DVD, make sure to listen to Mickey Mouse's commetary about this
segment. it is awesome. 10/10

7. "Pomp and Circumstance" - this may be the most famous of the pieces of
music, only competing with Symphony #5, because of its association with
graduation. It works surprisingly well with the story of Donald as Noah's
assistant who can never find his wife Daisy on the arc and thinks she was
left out. Even though they don't acknowledge it anywhere on the DVD, this
is
obviously based on Buster Keaton's The Naviagator, a silent comedy. This
segment ends up being very funny, almost as good as The Sorcerer's
Apprentice, and even touching. It is very worthy, even though i know most
people blew it off. 10/10

8. "Firebird Suite - 1919" - probably the best of the bunch, and the best
film to end on. the order of the segments is actually quite well planned
out, spacing them out interspersing beauty and whimsy quite well so as to
never cross over emotions between two segments. each starts afresh. The
Firebird Suite is the story of death and rebirth in nature, with a sprite
helping nature to bloom after the winter. she awakes the firebird, a
volcano, which destroys all that she has created. at the end, after being
destroyed, a majestic elk revives the sprite and she revives nature. the
only fault i could think of, and it does harm the film for a few people,
is
the tremendous similarities between it and Mononoke Hime, Princess
Mononoke,
which disney distributed last year. I have heard this segment called a
rip-off of that film, but, with the tremendously long amount of time it
takes to produce an animated piece, i will guarantee that The Firebird
Suite
was in developement over a year before Mononoke was released. Death and
rebirth is such a common theme, it is universal. It is done as well here
as
it is in Mononoke Hime. 10/10

The interstitials - this is surely the worst part of the film, and it
completely diminishes the film's value. We do not need famous people
telling
us that it is okay to listen to classical music. This is an insult to our
intelligence. buy the DVD, and fast-forward over these chapters.
5/10.

Overall, 9/10, one of the best films of 2000, one of the most miraculous
animated films ever made. It was not well received by critics or
audiences,
and i think this was a huge mistake. remember, the first fantasia bombed,
too. maybe someday in the future, when the minds of Americans become more
intelligent and complex again, Fantasia 2000 will get its due.

<|_=00=_|>
"Fantasia 2000" is a beautiful sequel of the classic animation
"Fantasia" (1940). The conductor is James Levine and each segment is
introduced by the actor Steve Martin, the violinist Itzhak Perlman, the
actress Bette Midler, the entertainer Penn & Teller, the actor James
Earl Jones, the conductor Quincy Jones and the actress Angela Lansbury.
The audio is in DTS and THX and the program is the following: 

(1) Symphony No. 5 in C minor-I. Allegro con brio, by Ludwig van
Beethoven.

(2) Pines of Rome, by Ottorino Respighi.

(3) Rhapsody in Blue, by George Gershwin.

(4) Piano Concerto No. 2 in F Major-I. Allegro, by Dmitri Shostakovich.

(5) The Carnival of the Animals, Finale, by Camille Saint-Saëns.

(6) The Sorcerer's Apprentice, by Paul Dukas.

(7) Pomp and Circumstance – Marches 1, 2, 3 and 4, by Edward Elgar.

(8) Firebird Suite – 1919 Version, by Igor Stravinsky.

My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Fantasia 2000"
<|_=00=_|>

I can't stop watching it!!!
Four of the seven new segments in this film are alone well worth the
admission.  Roy Disney Jr. sets the stage for a remarkable departure from
the usual animated dreck that Disney has been bogged down by for the last
half-decade (Toy Story aside).  Disney have hereby restored my faith in them
as leading the pack in animated cinema.  I want more!!

"Pines of Rome", a marvelous piece set to the "story" of whales leaving the
water and eventually the planet, is worth viewing several times for it's
symbolism and exquisite look.  
"Rhapsody in Blue", by Gershwin, is given perfect treatment by a day in the
life of New York City.  The pace is quick and manages to give each character
studied enough depth to make a very satisfying and touching
ending.
"Pomp and Circumstance", the graduation standard, is humorous and sweet. 
Creating a love story involving Donald and Daisy Duck into the story of
Noah's Ark worked surprisingly well.
"Firebird Suite"-  WOW.  This is the most incredible segment of the film. 
It's a PERFECT marriage of music and animation and MUST be played loud. 
Very emotional and powerful indeed.

I had to post another comment because I can't stress enough that it's a
worthy successor to the original Fantasia, and Walt would be proud. 

<|_=00=_|>

Probably the best animation film I have ever seen. There are no dialogues
and it is not really a feature film. It is an assimilation of 8 short
stories. The stories are all beautiful, my favorite ones being the one on
New York City, "Rhapsody in Blue", and the one on life, death and renewal,
"Firebird Suite". The film is about everything beautiful in life; amazingly
entertaining. Each score is given a brilliant visual concept. And the
animation speaks so much more than 'real life' films or any dialogues could
for that matter. Animation, though usually aimed at kids is probably much
more necessary for us adults as we lose that sense of imagination, beauty
and observation. Kids are so wonderfully innocent, imaginative and
creative;
everything that does matter to them has an animated feel to it anyway.

<|_=00=_|>

Having already seen Fantasia and understanding the painstaking work
done on the movie, one would have to begin reviewing Fantasia 2000
relatively to the original. There is no question that Walt Disney
Animation Studios have a solid tradition of innovation and
entertainment. But was it that good?

I would start with rating the first segment, the weakest. When I recall
the first segment on the original's Tocata and Fugue in D-minor, I was
amazed with the intricacy and imagination that went into it. I'm sorry
folks, I was not impressed with the beginning of Fantasia 2000. I've
listened to the entire first movement of the 5th Symphony before so I
was rather disappointed that they shortened the tune a bit. Sorry
folks, it just didn't measure up. I was quite disappointed with this
piece. It seemed too commercial to my liking.

However, I have to say that the animators did a great job in the
adaptation of the Pines of Rome. I could not have possibly been any
more original myself.

The three strongest segments followed. Rhapsody in Blue was a
masterpiece. Disney's use of the Steadfast Tin Soldier to the tune of
Shostakovich's second Piano Concerto was masterful. And the Carnival of
the Animals was funny and brilliant, especially James Earl Jones'
introduction.

A blast from the past was introduced by Penn and Teller in the form of
the Sorcerer's Apprentice. Why? I guess they ran out of ideas at that
time.

The processions featuring Daisy and Donald Duck was wonderful, along
with the Firebird.

All in all, it was a good film and it did follow the pattern of the
original. I just wish they had a better beginning.

<|_=00=_|>

We had two kids at home and I went to rent to one thinking it was a typical
Disney movie. I was wrong, but the kids still liked it.

I was surprise by the musical choice in this one. Great classical pieces.
And the animation is very well done. Some segments better than
others.

I got to see this one on a regular tv-set, but I guess you should try to see
it on an IMAX screen, or at least a cinema screen.

Out of 100, I gave it 81. That's good for *** out of ****.

Seen at home, in Toronto, on June 15th, 2002.
<|_=00=_|>
Top quality animation and a sense of humour make this sequel/add-on a
formidable animated movie in its own right. The running time of 74
minutes is a bit of a let-down. I would have liked to have seen more
pieces and more imagination. And be warned, The Sorcerer's Apprentice
remains. As this was the original's ONLY real selling point they
decided to stick it back in there, so you're really only get just over
an hours worth of new footage. Which feels like a bit of a rip-off.

But my favorite segment is the one with Donald Duck, in fact they were
all cool, especially the one with the volcano. The music matches the
story perfectly and it has some truly beautiful animation. Far superior
to those ugly CGI crap we get these days. And the TV show style
introductions were more watchable than the dubbed Deems Taylor segments
in the original.

This was the first animated movie to be made for IMAX screens and the
digital picture is amazing. See this preferably on an IMAX screen or on
DVD. Watching it on VHS would only insult the brilliant animation. It's
sad that Disney has abandoned traditional hand-drawn animation for
theatrical projects. It's what the studio was built on after all. But
Disney is shadow of its former self, we all know that.

Just as good as the original Fantasia, but loses points for not being
longer and more ambitious.
<|_=00=_|>

Fantasia 2000 presents us with a visual voyage into music that, in my
opinion, excels that of the original Fantasia.  Not only is the animation
itself extremely fluid, colorful, and highly diverse from segment to
segment, but the representation of the music is, in itself, sheer genius.
As I have come to expect from Disney, at least some research has been done
into the texture of the music as well as thematical studies and tonal
structure.  This much, I believe, is made in evidence of both blatant and
subtle use of contrast on screen to highlight the contrast of the
music.

In all, this film is of extremely high value and is of an excellent nature.
I highly recommend seeing it on the IMAX screen for full effect of sound
and
light and to be ready for a sonic experience that will have you whistling
tunes all week long.
<|_=00=_|>
Back in 2000 when the sequel to Fantasia was released, I have to admit
that I didn't see the film just because I thought why would they try to
upstage the ultimate Disney classic? Fantasia was what truly introduced
me to classical music, I think for any child it's the same way. What
beauty, what magic it brought and made you close your eyes afterwards
whenever you listened to classical music. But it seems like my
generation always feels the need to up the bar a bit and try to compete
with the original. I bought Fantasia and Fantasia 2000 on the double
disc when Disney re-released it. Fantasia brought back so many
wonderful memories I had a child and still brings the same charm that I
felt as if I watched it for the first time. I was scared that Fantasia
2000 was going to destroy it, but to my surprise, with its small flaws,
this was actually a great update. 

60 years after the original Fantasia, Fantasia 2000 was meant to
revitalize Walt Disney's goal of a constantly evolving film, with new
segments. They decide to keep The Sorcerer's Apprentice, with seven new
shorts. Angular, abstracted butterfly-like shapes fly through the air
in Beethoven's Symphony; computer-animated whales take flight in
Respighi's Pines of Rome; Al Hirschfeld's caricatures of New York life
come alive in George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue; Hans Christian
Andersen's The Steadfast Tin Soldier is retold with computer animation
against Dmitri Shostakovich's Piano Concerto, Allegro, Opus 102;
frantic flamingos try to stop their yo-young comrade in Camille
Saint-Saëns' Carnival of the Animals, Finale; Donald and Daisy Duck
play Noah and his wife trying to manage the ark to Sir Edward Elgar's
Pomp and Circumstance; and the cycle of life, death, and rebirth are
celebrated in Stravinsky's Firebird Suite.

While some of the drawings were a little pedestrian and I felt that
some of the stories they decided not to go with were completely awesome
and that they should have gone with those, the animators still did a
great job. Was I upset with The Sorcerer's Apprentice being left in?
Not really; I thought it was fun to see it on the screen again and I
think if it's not broken, don't fix it. It must have been fun nostalgia
to see it on the big screen and makes me regret not seeing this film in
the theater. But still, I'm glad that I gave the movie a fair chance.
But I think it could have done without the celebrity cameos. I
understand what influence the original film had on Hollywood, but it
doesn't mean that we need the celebrities to introduce the segments. I
preferred seeing the musicians, it also showed their true love for the
film that they are creating. 

My favorite segment is a tie between the whales and the cycle of life
and death. The whales were so astonishing, the way the animation was
created around them, it felt like I was flying with them, it was
incredible. I kept a smile on my face the whole time I was watching it.
Life and Death again was flowing so eloquently, it was impossible not
to feel the tension and relief during this segment. The animators
worked very hard and created another masterpiece, while it's not as
strong as the original I still highly recommend Fantasia 2000.

8/10
