
First off.... I absolutely love this movie. It's such a treat to a fan
with a good imagination.

Secondly, why would anyone in their right mind take this kind of movie
seriously, to the point of bashing it for things like "being to fake"
and "not sticking to the Mario bro's storyline." People, in the games
all Mario did was jump around, bop things on the head, throw fireballs
around, and fly. If they would have made movies about that people would
be asleep before the first 5 minutes. This movie was meant to entertain
and captivate, and it certainly does the trick.

They took the classic game and adapted it to a fantasy reality that
parallels our own and for that, it was simply brilliant. The rendition
of koopa-manhattan was great and is not something that people should
criticize. The city adds life the the movie, it makes it real in it's
own fantastic way. It makes the city so crazy it works. And boy oh boy
did those goomba's make me laugh.

I love this movie for everything it relates to the game and everything
it added to make it a more fun-filled ride. If you love the games and
have an open minded imagination, this is a must watch movie
<|_=00=_|>

This is a cheesy movie for people who play video games.  I don't understand
why some people adamantly insist this movie should never have been made. 
It's cute and entertaining.  It doesn't stay completely loyal to the game
storyline, but Bob Hoskins and John Leguizamo are perfect for these two
roles.  Worth watching if you see it on TV.
<|_=00=_|>

I made the mistake of watching this movie the day i had knee surgery.  So i
was doped up on all kinds of pain killers and thought the movie was great. 
However a few years later i remembered how much i enjoyed the movie so i
watched on tv when it was run agian.  I was blown away with how horribly bad
it was.  I was also amazed on how much i remembered being in the movie that
wasnt.  so as the title says be careful how you watch.  As a side note this
is not an endorsement to do drugs just to make bad movies
better.
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, this no classic, but it's not that bad. And yes it bears no
resemblance
to the video games that inspired it except for the jumpsuits that look
like
the heroes overalls, but it's not bad.

Mario & Luigi (Bob Hoskins & John Leguizamo) are the two down on their
luck
brother plumbers who get involved with a college student named Daisy
(Samantha Mathis) who turns out to be a princess from an alternate
dimension. Once transported there themselves, they must fight the evil
King
Koopa (Dennis Hopper) and save their world from being merged with Koopa's
and the human race from being turned into monkeys.

It may be hard to believe that John Leguizamo is Bob Hoskins brother, but
the two have good chemistry and John has a convincing Brooklyn accent
(although Tom Selleck would have been a more convincing Luigi in some
respects). Bob reprises his gruff detective persona from "Who Framed Roger
Rabbit" to great effect. Samantha Mathis is cute as the princess and
manages
to feel less shallow than most heroines in these situations. Dennis Hopper
hams it up as the film's villain. Lots of gags and good natured humor, and
a
beautiful song from Roxette, "Almost Unreal". Worth a rental.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start off by saying that this is a great movie. Many people were
expecting this movie to be piece for piece off of the video game which
is pretty stupid considering that the Mario bros. games don't really
have too much of a storyline besides just saving the princess from
Koopa. The fact that they kept the basic ideas of the Mario games and
added on their own take of it was great in my opinion. The actors were
good and were perfect for their parts (especially Bob Hoskins). If
people want to see a "perfect" Mario bros. movie where all there is too
watch is a person jumping on monsters and going down pipes just because
its true to the video game than please by all means go make one and see
how many people don't fall asleep while watching it. I believe people
should see it with an open mind instead of watching it hoping to see an
exact replication of the game.
<|_=00=_|>
It is clear that this film has been unfairly dismissed. OK, so it
doesn't fit the criteria of a 'good film', but, it's a great kids film.
It's dark and strange, things generally uncommon of kids films, and, if
it wasn't for watching this film as a child, I wouldn't be into people
like cronenberg, lynch and, in particular, Gilliam, whose sinister
darkness I enjoy so greatly.

It is self-evident that there is a lack of imagination, especially
recently, in the kids film genre, and this is where Super Mario
Brothers earns the 7 out of 10 that I have given it. My film collection
would be much less exciting without having watched this film as a
child. This is why I urge those of you who have given it a poor rating
to re-evaluate, considering what I have said.
<|_=00=_|>

The plot:Two plumbers who are known as the Marios, meet a strange young girl
that has a rock on her neck. Two idiots from another world kidnap the
strange girl known as Daisy, after kidnaping other girls from Brooklyn. The
two Marios decide to rescue her from the Two Idiots that have taken her to
another world ruled by an evil king known as Koopa.

The View:Performances aren't the major thing here, but the special effects
and creations are to be noticed more. The movie itself isn't bad and as a
comedy, will have a few(just a few)giggles. It's all really just a fun
fantasy movie that just doesn't shine through and doesn't make any effort to
make an historical movie, but the film is fun and you will enjoy it as a
complete no-brainer. ***
<|_=00=_|>
Nintendo, my favorite company, has betrayed me. Be then again, they
didn't know that the creators of this movie would defile the game that
made Nintendo an extremely successful video game company. But enough of
that, let me tell you what is wrong with this movie: everything.

First off, Super Mario Bros. (the game) takes place in the Mushroom
Kingdom, a happy place that has been taken over by King Koopa (aka
Bowser) and its people forced to mindlessly obey his will. Mario has
to, of course, defeat Bowser to bring peace back to the Mushroom
Kingdom. We all know that. The game DID NOT have cars, skyscrapers, or
any obvious technology we enjoy today. Mario was a natural high jumper,
and he worked alone.

The movie, however, is just a lame action movie with a few Mario
allusions thrown in to attract Nintendo fans. The Mario allusion
consist solely of: Mario, Luigi, and Daisy's names, enemy names, and a
bomb-omb. Yay. Oh, and Yoshi, in a 5-second cameo as a dinosaur too
small to even consider riding on. But Mario can't jump, no, he's a
Brooklyn plumber with a Columbian brother! (How'd that happen?). Their
personalities aren't even right. In the games, Mario is a determined
hero with a heart of gold, willing to do anything to save the day.
Luigi is his shy brother, who helps Mario in any way he can, but in a
minimal sort of way. In the movie, they act more like best friends than
brothers, Mario is annoyed by everything, and Luigi has a temper.

If you like plots quickly written up on napkins before the check comes,
and complete destruction of all that Mario stands for, then see this
movie. If you are under the age of 12 and have never played a Mario
game in your life, then proceed with caution. If you have EVER played a
Mario game in your life, take all measures NOT to see this movie.
Remember, you cannot sue if this movie totally makes you cry
uncontrollably for many hours, trust me, I've tried.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is much hated practically everywhere and of course I can
understand why. Basically everyone from the '70's , 80's and 90's
generation grew up with playing Nintendo games and the Super Mario
games in particular. However when one sees this movie, it becomes
pretty obvious early on that this movie has almost nothing to do with
the Super Mario video games. The atmosphere, settings and characters
are totally different, which is probably the main and also only reason
why this movie was and still is hated among so many all over the world.

However, when one has to look at this movie with a fair and unbiased
view, one has to come to the conclusion that this movie is good decent
entertainment. No, it's not a GREAT movie but it does serve its purpose
and that is to provide the viewer with 104 minutes of mindless, simple
entertainment.

Kids will most likely like this movie best. The story is wonderfully
adventurous and it all is very childishly simple constructed. I mean,
the story and setting all basically have very little to do with the
games but when you just have to judge the story, it's a pretty good and
well thought out one. If the main characters were, let's say, some
average Manhattan plumbers named the William's brothers and the entire
movie wasn't based on a series of video games, than perhaps the movie
would had received a far better reception and would had entertained and
reached a wider audience.

All of the characters are pretty entertaining and work out well in the
movie. This is probably mainly due to the well known cast. Bob Hoskins
and John Leguizamo are the Mario brothers and they form a pretty good
main duo. Dennis Hopper also is in his element as the ruthless,
over-the-top, stereotyped villain King Koopa. He gives the movie a
certain extra fun and flair. Other well known actors in the movie are
Fiona Shaw, Gianni Russo (Carlo Rizzi from the first two The Godfather
movies) and Lance Henriksen in a very small cameo role.

Unlike the games, the movie is a dark one. All of the sets are dark
which was perhaps not the greatest atmospheric mood for the story and
the entire movie in general. All of the sets are disappointing, small
and unimaginative looking. Same goes for the costumes and most of the
make-up effects. The movie however has some good and convincing looking
early special effects. Remember folks, that it was 1993 when this movie
was released.

The movie however is most of the time a bit too childishly told and the
dialogs are below par and too simple.

The pace and editing is good but the movie severely lacks some action
and real interesting moments. At moments it takes too long before
something good or interesting happens again, which makes this movie
perhaps a bit boring and uninteresting to watch at certain points.

All in all it's a not very successful- but still yet entertaining first
attempt at making a movie based on a video game. Certainly better than
some of those movies based on video games, released this present day!

6/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
I am from eastern Europe. I am 44 years old. i don't know much about
video games. I just found out, here, that there was a video game with
the same name as this film. So, for me, there was NOTHING before seeing
this film on television a few years ago. is this something bad? is,
with any film we see, a bad thing that we haven't read the book or
played the game, BEFORE we see the film? don't you think that this
gives me a freedom to appreciate and enjoy a film just for what it is,
a film? a freedom that otherwise would be hard to get? Super Mario
Bros. was, as they say, a blast! for me... All made sense, it was fun
to watch, the script is very good and with very good dialogues. it has
good editing and good directing. it has very good costumes and set
designs. it has very good visual effects. Acting is superb, especially
with support characters. in fact, what is not to like? characters are
not like in video game? what video game? monsters are still humans, not
like in video game? what video game? jumping shoes are not like in
video game? what video game? i repeat, i am 100% video game ignorant.
oh, lucky me!
