
Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan, the best comedic duo since Lethal Weapon
bring us Rush Hour. A classic action movie that brings great action as
well as awesome comedy that makes you laugh every minute. Chris Tucker
has always been one of my favorite comedians, even before I saw Rush
Hour, so it was great to see him in Rush Hour. I know a lot of people
find him annoying, but I thought he was just so funny. He showed off
his talents in Rush Hour. Not only him, but this is the film that is
making Jackie Chan into a world wide super star. His stunts are simply
incredible. Rush Hour is one of those very fun action/comedy movies
that I'm sure you'll enjoy if you love movies like Lethal Weapon or 48
Hours. The story was just pure entertainment and really kept me on the
edge.

Lee is a body guard to the Chinese ambassador and is also a close
friend, he also is a teacher to his daughter, Soo Yong. The ambassador
goes to the United States with his daughter, but she is kidnapped by an
evil man of the Chinese Consol. They want 50 million dollars in return,
but the ambassador thinks that Lee should be involved, so he sends for
him, but the F.B.I. doesn't want him near the case. So they hire
L.A.P.D. screw up, James Carter, to babysit him. But together, the
fastest hands in the east meets the fastest mouth in the west, they
must learn to work together despite their complete opposite
personalities and get the girl back.

Rush Hour is a guaranteed classic down the lines somewhere, I'm sure.
It's already spawned a sequel and it's been a success. Chris and Jackie
are such a great team, I was really impressed with their chemistry. My
favorite scene is where Lee plays "War" by Edwin Starr in Carter's car,
and he doesn't know how to say the lyrics correctly, and Carter shows
him some moves, it was such a classic scene that brought me down to the
floor laughing. I highly recommend Rush Hour, it's all in good fun and
it'll give you more than a few good laughs.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Rush Hour is fast, funny and Fantastic. It is 2 hours of non stop
entertainment. I have seen the sequel, No where near the Classic.
Jackie Chan is amazing as the martial arts expert cop from Hong Kong.
Chris Tucker is Hilarious as the fast talking cop from America. What
happens when two people like this meet, Excitement and entertainment.
This is Jackie's Best Hollywood Movie. I have seen a few Chris Tucker
movie, this is his Best performance. I hope the third in the series
will entertain as the First. If you have not seen this movie, then i
recommend this movie. A great action comedy movie for all type of
audience to enjoy. One of the best cop buddy movies since Lethal
Weapon.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is pure comedy from the beginning to the end. You will have
a good laugh thanks to Chris Tucker in his role of Carter, a clumsy LA
cop. The city of Los Angeles is spectacular and is a great scenario for
this entertaining movie. Jackie Chan at its best kicking asses
everywhere with an outstanding humble attitude. I think Americans love
Jackie Chan because he's so nice and great person.

The main reason why I like this movie is the wonderful duo they play,
constantly arguing, while walking around exciting California, USA,
about everything, but in the meantime they are loyal partners. The
great diversity there is in America singles out in a city like Los
Angeles when we go through Chinatown. And fortunately, the movie brings
us out there. Interesting cultures melt into a huge variety of
ethnicities that make anything possible to happen. This is why America
is so interesting and wonderful and we from abroad love her as a
beautiful land.

All in all, this is a worth-seeing Hollywood movie and probably you
would like to watch it several times!
<|_=00=_|>

Detective James Carter (Chris Tucker) is a wisecracking, plays by his own
rules type policeman who gets a little bit carried away with his job.  When
a drug bust goes haywire and two cops caught in the crossfire are shot, the
LAPD Supervisor knows it's all Carter's fault!  Not looking very highly
towards Carter, the LAPD Supervisor gives him two options: Either be
suspended without his badge for two months, or help the FBI chase after a
gang of ruthless criminals who have kidnapped a Chinese Diplomat's daughter
(Julie Hsu). The choices for this egotistic, self-centered cop will not be
simple...

Enter Detective Inspector Lee (Jackie Chan), a police officer who wrote the
book on fighting crime. Back in LA, Carter immediately gets his feet wet
before shortly experiencing a chagrin moment. Detective Carter has learned
that his assignment is to baby-sit Inspector Lee.    Carter must make sure
that Lee does not interfere with the FBI's business.   Carter is not happy
with the workload he is responsible for, but he must fulfill his duty
nonetheless...

Carter usually works alone...this time, he has company. Reluctantly, the Lee
and Carter align together and a culture clash becomes obvious. The wonderful
pair is drawn to a series of mishaps, conspiracies, and plenty of high
kicking action and adventure! Carter shows Lee a tour or two around the city
of Los Angeles; and the pair quickly become best buddies. However, Lee and
Carter can't help but to interfere with the FBI's affairs. Lee cares only so
much about the kidnapped child.  He feels that he must help track her down
before the nefarious villains murder her... Meanwhile, Carter ticks off a
few of the locals before he faces absolute terror. Can Lee convince Carter
to focus on this mission to rescue the Diplomat's daughter held for ransom?
Or will it be too late?

RUSH HOUR is one of the most jamming action/comedy mixtures ever.  This film
is one awesome venture with the presence of both Jackie Chan and Chris
Tucker helping to create a winner for the action genre. RUSH HOUR is
entertaining, a fast-paced
cop-buddy flick. Part of this film's success owes to the eccentric chemistry
between the two leading stars. For example, Jackie Chan's athletic
capabilities are strikingly in contrast to Chris Tucker's overzealous,
fidgety reactions. Chan's ability to maneuver high risk jumps, leaps, and
other assorted dangerous stunts definitely keeps the energy going while
Tucker's jittery silliness always creates a warm smile on the viewer's face.
Tucker's motor-mouth is surprisingly compatible to Chan's martial arts
prowess. Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker are a definite revelation!

The cast in RUSH HOUR prove themselves worthy of their roles. Besides the
two main characters, the supporting cast is terrific. Elizabeth Pena adds a
touch of sentimentality as Tucker's unappreciated sidekick who turns out to
be an asset to the police department after all. Mark Rolston (ALIENS) and
Tzi Ma (CHAIN REACTION, RAPID FIRE) as a strategic FBI agent and Consul Han
respectively all add credibility to their parts. Newcomer Julie Hsu is also
fabulous as a hostage who proves to be more difficult for the bad guys than
they can handle...

RUSH HOUR has top notch stunts mixed with one-of-a-kind comical moments
which help make this film an enlightening combination of action and comedy,
with a dash of Chan's fantastic skill work.

The Chan-Tucker collaboration is the best on-screen duo since Abbott &
Costello! The duo has showed all their right moves and have proven
themselves a spectacular heroic pair for moviegoers to cheer on everywhere.
Again, the action in RUSH HOUR is no short of exhilarating with outrageous
sequences such as Chan trying to protect a valuable vase from the wrath of
the bad guys.

Great dance moves by Tucker, but nobody impresses the audience like Jackie
Chan leaping from place to place, mowing down the bad guys! RUSH HOUR is
fantastic fun! A must-see for die hard action enthusiasts. This film is
Jackie Chan's and Chris Tucker's finest hour.  Watch for the requisite funny
outtakes by the film's end credits. 

RATING: *** out of ****.  
<|_=00=_|>
Obviously, "Rush Hour" is mostly just another buddy comedy, but there's
so much hilarious dialogue between Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker, that
it's all worthwhile. When a consul's daughter gets kidnapped, Tucker
gets hired to take the case, but Chan gets brought in from Hong Kong to
assist. Naturally, they have a very hard time cooperating.

I guess that a major aspect of these movies is that you shouldn't try
to take them seriously; just accept them as completely crazy. With Chan
doing his martial arts and Tucker being a loudmouth, it's a great time
from start to finish. Also starring Elizabeth Pena, Chris Penn, and Tom
Wilkinson. I liked the sequel equally.
<|_=00=_|>
The Chinese Consul's daughter is kidnapped and the FBI steps in to
investigate the case. The Consul doesn't trust them however, so he
calls in an old friend and police inspector from Hong Kong to aid in
the rescue of his daughter. Not wanting to work with outsiders, the FBI
pairs him with a cocky, loudmouthed street cop who dreams of becoming a
federal agent but doesn't work well with partners. The formula is tired
and predictable, but it's redeemed to a surprising extent by the
effective pairing of Chan and Tucker who are an ideal action-comedy
duo. Lots of gimmicky action scenes and big time laughs, with the added
bonus of a script that doesn't require a lot of thinking. ***
<|_=00=_|>

Wonderful film! Lots of laughs and action. These two have the best
chemistry
I have seen in a long time. Chris Tucker is hilarious, and Jackie Chan
always entertains. This film delivers in every way!! Rent
today...
<|_=00=_|>

Even though this movie might be a bit conventional, it's thoroughly
entertaining, with nice action scenes, cool martial arts fighting & a good
sense of humor. I didn't find any of it boring. It's a good concept, to
combine the humor of Chris Tucker with the martial arts of Jackie Chan.
This
movie is for anyone who's into action, martial arts & humor.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

When a diplomat's daughter is kidnapped in the US, a Chinese policeman Lee
is sent to help the FBI with the investigation.  Not wishing his help the
FBI arrange a LAPD officer Carter to keep him out of trouble.  However with
both Lee and Carter keen to be involved in the investigation, they set out
on their own to find the girl overcoming both bad guys and cultural
differences.

This is yet another buddy cop movie where different partners must overcome
their differences to solve a crime.  Here the difference is the black
culture and the Chinese culture.  The story is very unlikely but it makes
enough sense to get by, all it needs is to hang in and create lots of set
pieces.  Which it does - there's not as much action for Jackie Chan as I
would have liked and his fight scenes feel toned down in favour of Tucker's
manic comedy (this was partially reversed in RH2).  This is a shame because
Tucker is funny but his manic antics can get a bit irritating in large doses
- it needed more of Chan.

However it is funny and Chan does hold his own and get to show how fast he
is.  His fight scenes don't feel as inventive as in other films but he has a
good chemistry with Tucker.  The bad guys are quite characterless but it
doesn't really matter as the lead duo manage to carry the
film.

Overall a good buddy cop movie that is a good vehicle for both Chan and
Tucker and plays on both their strengths to good effect.  However as with
RH2 most of the funniest moments come in the closing outtakes, which can't
be a good thing.
<|_=00=_|>

I recently saw this movie, and I was surprised at how good it was despite
some of the *obnoxious* loudmouth phrases by Chris Tucker. I think he got a
little too mouthy at some scenes. But other than that the movie is pretty
good. 

 The plot is after consul Han Solon's daughter is kidnapped, a close friend
of Han's, Detective Inspector Lee(Jackie Chan) is sent in to help because
Han does not fully rely on the work of the FBI alone. So an LAPD officer
James Carter(Chris Tucker) is  sent in to help keep Lee out of trouble. It
had some very good lines passed between the actors, and you could tell they
were having a fun time together acting. Some of the martial arts/karate that
Chan does in the film is impressive, just like in all his films, and Tucker
does a good job playing the loud mouth(even if he did get out of hand
sometimes). I'm going to definately see the sequel, Rush Hour 2. I would
give this film 3/5 stars. It's a good movie to just rent out, or watch on tv
some night.
