
In the same vein as Natural Born Killers, another movie that was not so
popular with critics because of its excessive violence but that I also
loved, Kalifornia is a movie that clearly glamorizes violence, but I
like to think that it turns that around in the final act. Kind of like
how The Basketball Diaries glamorizes drugs at first, but shows the bad
side by the end of the movie, which is far worse than the good side is
good. David Duchovny plays Brian Kessler, an artistic yuppie with an
even more artistically yuppie girlfriend, who is into that violent sexy
black and white photography generally reserved for, I don't know where,
places where nudity passes for art. Maybe it really does and I just
don't understand it. At any rate, Brian and Carrie (Duchovny and
Michelle Forbes, who fits the role flawlessly), make the perfect couple
to go on a documentary tour of famous murder sites. Brian, the writer,
will write the book, Carrie can take the pictures.

Being artistic types, Brian and Carrie are not quite financially
prepared for such a trip, so they put out an ad for someone to share
gas and travel expenses, and are contacted by Early Grace and Adele
Corners (Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis). Early is on parole and assigned
to janitorial work at the local university by his parole officer, sees
the ad on a bulletin board, and decides to leave the state for a while,
violating his parole but also leaving the scene of his landlord's
murder so he won't have to deal with a pesky murder investigation. Two
birds with one stone, you know.

The movie has a curious ability to portray two stereotypes, the artsy
yuppies and the greasy trailer trash, without resorting to clichés or
even ending up with caricatures of either type. Brian and Carrie are
artsy liberals, but while Carrie catches on to Early and Adele, Brian
is fascinated with Early's status as an outlaw, as seen in the scene
where Brian shoots Early's gun. Never having fired a gun before, he's
as fascinated as a little kid. While Adele and Carrie are back at a
hotel and Adele reveals such things in her childlike way as the fact
that Early "broke her" of smoking and that she's not allowed to drink
(Early doesn't think women should), Early and Brian are out at the
local bar. Brian reacts nervously to a drunk trying to start a fight
with him, and Early first gives advice to Brian on what to do and then
steps in and dishes out a quick lesson for the guy. "Hit him, Bri, it's
comin'." This is one of my favorite scenes in the movie, partly because
it's so funny what Early gleefully says as the guy's friends drag him
away, bloodied and battered, but also because as it is intercut with
the girls back at the hotel, we learn so much all at once about the two
couples, their differences, and the conflicts that are likely to come
up because of them. And besides that, because Brian benefited from
Early's actions and Carrie is appalled by what she hears from Adele, it
also illustrates the different way that Carrie and Brian react to Early
and Adele.

Clearly, by now, you can tell that this is not your typical odd couple
type of thriller, where the city folk run into the country folk and all
sorts of stereotypical mayhem ensues. On one hand it seems a little too
convenient that Brian and Carrie go on a tour of murder sites and just
happen to be accompanied by a real life murderer, but on the other hand
it's a great way to counteract the glorifying of murder that is
inherent within a cross-country trip designed to bring fame to
murderers and their crimes. While studying the actions of past
murderers, Brian and Carrie ultimately find themselves face to face
with the very material that they are studying, and realize that murder
is not as pretty or morbidly fascinating when it's in your face as it
is through disconnected studies of murders past.

I am constantly amazed at Brad Pitt's versatility as an actor.
Consider, for example, his roles in movies like Kalifornia, 12 Monkeys,
Fight Club, and Ocean's 11 and 12. Pitt is like Tom Hanks in that he
can change his appearance drastically or just enough to fit a given
character, and is completely believable. Incidentally, I tried in vain
to be Early Grace for Halloween this year, but just couldn't get the
hair and beard right. I even got the hat right, which initially I
thought would be the hardest part.

It's easy to understand why a lot of people disliked Kalifornia or why
they think that it glorifies violence and murder, but I think that
whatever glorifying it does is done with the intention of clarifying
the audience's understanding of its subject matter. A film that didn't
glorify violence, at least initially, could never be as effective as
Kalifornia, but the movie structures it perfectly. The glorification is
all embodied in Brian's and Carrie's fascination with the idea of
murder and the auras of the places in which is happened, but their
realization, and ours, is embodied in the real thing, which they
encounter with Early and Adele. The movie's very purpose is to describe
that difference between idealizing violence and seeing the horror of it
up close and for real.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a road movie, with a killer on-board. Brian Kessler (David
Duchovny), a sophisticated, urbane writer, wants to conduct field
research on American serial killers. But, neither he, nor his
girlfriend, Carrie (Michelle Forbes), has the money for a cross-country
tour of murder sites, so they advertise for someone to share travel
expenses. Who they end up with is a young couple, Early Grayce (Brad
Pitt) and his girlfriend, Adele (Juliette Lewis), two better examples
of "poor white trash" you will never find in all of cinema.

Indeed, Early and Adele are what make this film so entertaining, as
they babble, cackle, confide, muse, speculate, drool, and otherwise
behave in ways I haven't seen since reruns of "The Beverly
Hillbillies". Early's idea of California: "People think faster out
there, on account of all that warm weather; cold weather makes people
stupid". That's enough to convince Adele: "I guess that explains why
there are so many stupid people around here". To which Early responds
proudly: "It sure does". Early continues to instruct Adele about
California: "You never have to buy no fruit, on account it's all on the
trees ... and they ain't got no speed limits, and I hear your first
month's rent is free, state law".

But poor Early has some, well, mental problems, which become ever more
obvious to Brian and Carrie as the four travelers proceed west across
the U.S. As they enter the desert Southwest, with its beautifully stark
landscape, "Kalifornia" starts to look more and more like "The Hitcher"
(1986), and Early starts to act more and more like John Ryder,
everyone's maniacal hitchhiker, whose terror seemed so unstoppable.

In "Kalifornia", the acting is uneven. Duchovny's performance is flat.
Brad Pitt is surprisingly effective, despite his overacting at times.
Michelle Forbes is great as the avant-garde, photographic artist. But
my choice for best performance goes to Juliette Lewis. With her nasal
voice and heavy-duty Southern accent, she is stunning, as the naive,
highly animated, child-like Adele.

Toward the end, the film takes on a Twilight Zone feel to it, as our
travelers enter a Nevada nuclear test site with a dilapidated old house
full of test mannequins. The plot dissolves rather messily into
unnecessary and preposterous violence, an ending that was somewhat
disappointing.

Overall, however, "Kalifornia" is an entertaining film, thanks to a
clever concept, great scenery, especially in the second half, good
cinematography, great dialogue, and that wonderful performance by
Juliette Lewis.
<|_=00=_|>

"Kalifornia" is one of my all-time favourite movies, and it easily could
be
labeled as one of the best psychological thrillers of the 90`s. The film
has
a very stylish surface to it, but behind that are a lot of disturbing and
honest depictions of homicidal maniacs and the terrifyng violence they
inflict upon others. One of the film`s strongest aspects is it`s
performances, Brad Pitt is startlingly great as a trailer-trash psycho
named
Early. Pitt potrays his frightening character almost flawlessly. Juliette
Lewis is equally as good playing his naive girlfriend, her innocence is
almost heart-breaking. "Kalifornia" has a very simple plot to it, that
goes
steadily and slowly forward for about an hour, but it suddenly plunges
into
a harrowing spree of murder, as Pitt unleashes his psychotic personality.
There are alot of shocking scenes, and it all mounts to a power-house
climax
that will haunt you for days. "Kalifonia" is a film that should really be
watched for it`s intense look at how monstrous a human being can be, and
not
only for it`s violence and gore.
<|_=00=_|>

Nicely done! (pardon my Arnold Schwarzenegger)...

This movie was completely ignored when released back in '93, and that's a
shame.  It's a great, suspenseful two hour road-trip that certainly opened
my eyes to see that Brad Pitt was indeed an actor.  He looks like he took
took the 'method-acting' thing seriously, as with his appearance in TRUE
ROMANCE, I doubt he took even one shower in 1992.

Duchovny & Forbes were also fine as the normal half of this "ride share from
hell", but I'm guessing Juliette Lewis' naive "jailbait" turned off a few
people (see NBK or CAPE FEAR for further proof).  Just ignore her grating &
whiny delivery, and go along for the wild ride all the way to KALIFORNIA.

<|_=00=_|>

it's amazing that so many people that i know haven't seen this little gem.
everybody i have turned on to it have come back with the same reaction: WHAT
A GREAT MOVIE!!

i've never much cared for Brad Pitt (though his turns in 12 monkeys and
Fight Club show improvement) but his performance in this film as a psycho is
unnerving, dark and right on target.

everyone else in the film gives excellent performances and the movie's slow
and deliberate pacing greatly enhance the proceedings. the sense of dread
for the characters keeps increasing as they come to realize what has been
really happening.

the only thing that keeps this from a 10 in my book, is that compared to
what came before it, the ending is a bit too long and overblown. but that's
the only flaw i could find in this cult classic.

if you check this film out, try to get the letterboxed unrated director's
cut for the best viewing option.

rating:9
<|_=00=_|>
I had seen 'Kalifornia' before (must be about 10 years ago) and I still
remember to be very impressed by it. That's why I wanted to see it
again and all I can say is that it still hasn't lost its power, even
though I'm used to a lot more when it comes to movies than that I was
ten years ago.

'Kalifornia' tells the tale of the writer Brian Kessler and his
girlfriend Carrie Laughlin, a photographer, who want to move to
California. But instead of stepping on a plain and flying right to the
state where they say it never rains, they choose to make a trip by car.
He wants to write a book about America's most famous serial killers and
she will make the matching pictures. But because their car uses an
enormous amount of petrol, they decide to take another couple with
them, so they can spread the costs of the trip. Only one couple has
answered the add, so they will automatically be the lucky ones. But
they haven't met each other yet and when seeing the other couple for
the first time, when their trip has already started, Carrie is shocked.
Without wanting to be prejudiced, she can only conclude that Early
Grayce and Adele Corners are poor white trailer park trash. She
definitely doesn't want them in her car, but Brian doesn't really mind
to take them with them and decides to stop and pick them up anyway. At
first the couple doesn't seem to be that bad after all, but gradually
Early Grayce changes from a trashy hillbilly into a remorseless
murderer...

Not only is the story very impressive, so is the acting from our four
leads. Brad Pitt is incredible as Early Grayce. His performance in this
movie may well be his best ever. The same for Juliette Lewis. She plays
the childish and naive girlfriend that doesn't want to hear a bad word
about her Early and does that really very well. But David Duchovny and
Michelle Forbes are a surprise as well. They both did a very good job
and I really wonder why we never heard anything from Forbes again since
this movie, because she really proves to have a lot of talent.

Overall this is a very good and impressive psychological thriller with
a very powerful story, but because of the graphic violence, I can
imagine that it may not be to everybody's taste (although I don't
really see another way how to portray a serial killer in a believable
way). Personally I really liked this movie a lot and the violence never
bothered me (it's a part of the story that's too important to be left
out). I reward this movie with an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Kalifornia came out in 1993, just as 3 of the 4 lead characters were up
and coming to the levels of fame they now possess in 2006. This is a
nice psycho-thriller that should appeal to all David Duchovny fans
because of his dry and intelligent narratives that find their ways into
his work, like with most of his episodes of the X-Files, Playing God,
and Red Shoe Diaries.

People who were put off by the heavy southern accent from Brad Pitt and
Juliette Lewis' characters obviously have never spent much time in the
south. For every "Brian and Carrie" in the south, there is an "Adele
and Early" and in 2006, that's the real horror of this flick.

Aside from that, I think the film was written with a cult film
intention - like with Carrie's photography, it's not suitable for mass
consumption. But if you have a copy of this in your personal library, I
think it says something positive about your tastes for freaky movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Kalifornia (1993)

Juliet Lewis rules on this one, and Brad Pitt is right behind. The two
of them make one of the most memorable outlaw couples ever, believe it
or not. Lewis is the clueless girlfriend, willingly abused by Pitt, the
knee-jerk killer. The two have to leave the state and they get a ride
in a big old convertible with another couple, smart and styling and at
first disdainful of this hick pair they are suddenly driving cross
country with.

This could have been a great movie, a classic. Lewis and Pitt are so
convincing, and so original, really, playing with humor and without
grandiose notions, which inflate so many other films. Individually they
carve out chilling, and yet also warm, pictures of who they are, real
people, and unexpected ones. The mannerisms that Lewis pulls out in
every scene, her dumb looks, her surprise, this is all virtuosic. 

What drags them down is the other couple. David Duchovny is especially
wooden. You can feel him wanting us to think he's a likable,
even-keeled, handsome hunk. But he's just plain dull, and he is
ostensibly the main character. It's his voice that comes in like a bad
bad film noir narrator now and then, giving some perspective to the
events. It's unnecessary monologue, to boot, and straight out of screen
writing 101. For some reason Duchovny's character, a struggling writer
working on a book about psycho killers, is given the most mundane and
overused lines. His girlfriend, a slightly touch looking photographer
played by Michelle Forbes, has to work through her part at first, but
eventually comes into her own, with knowing glances and a growing sense
of fear.

The other true star, beyond Pitt and Lewis, is the cameraman, Bojan
Bazelli, working with some great sets and with a director who sets him
free. In some scenes, the arrangement of characters just talking, is
filled with such space and layer and light, or with such audacious
rain, you want them to hold it longer so you can get it all. For all
the ugly things that happen, this is a beautiful movie. The director?
Dominic Sena, a music video shooter. That's probably why it looked so
good and had some stumbles in the bigger vision.

If you go into this expecting something profound, forget about it. But
the two performances are worth the admission alone, and even though it
gets increasingly violent, which I'm not into, it gets increasingly
interesting and gripping as it goes. The set up in the first half hour
is groaningly bad at times, but once the four of them hit the road,
look out.
<|_=00=_|>

Kalifornia is the story of a writer and his girlfriend photographer who are
looking for someone to help pay gas money and take turns at the wheel for a
cross country road trip to famous murder sights.  Ironically a serial
killer
and his girlfriend answer the post.  Kalifornia is a diamond in the rough
and a very intriguing journey with a serial killer.  Great performances all
around by the leads with Pitt in particular being exceptional.  Check it
out!!
<|_=00=_|>

it's amazing that so many people that i know haven't seen this little gem.
everybody i have turned on to it have come back with the same reaction: WHAT
A GREAT MOVIE!!

i've never much cared for Brad Pitt (though his turns in 12 monkeys and
Fight Club show improvement) but his performance in this film as a psycho is
unnerving, dark and right on target.

everyone else in the film gives excellent performances and the movie's slow
and deliberate pacing greatly enhance the proceedings. the sense of dread
for the characters keeps increasing as they come to realize what has been
really happening.

the only thing that keeps this from a 10 in my book, is that compared to
what came before it, the ending is a bit too long and overblown. but that's
the only flaw i could find in this cult classic.

if you check this film out, try to get the letterboxed unrated director's
cut for the best viewing option.

rating:9
