

I don't know why I loved this movie so much.  Maybe it was the utter
amazement when I first saw the Brachiosaurus eat from a tree.  Or maybe it
was my adrenaline rushing when two 12 year old were attacked by
velociraptors.  It might possibly be the chills that went down my spine when
the T-Rex first made his terrifying roar.  Whatever it was, it made me write
this review.

Allan Grant (Sam Neil) and Ellie (Laura Dern) are two successful
paleontologists who are asked by a rich man John Hammond to come at his park
for a major tour.  They agree and are taken to an island where "Jurassic
Park" logos are everywhere.  The two paleontologists have no idea what they
are getting themselves into.  The first dinosaur to make an apearance is the
Brachiosaurus, which both of them are extrememly amazed by its giant
apearance, and so is the audience.  What the two of them don't know is that
there are much more terrifying and carnivorous dinosaurs who are about to
escape and run loose....

Directed by the mighty Steven Speilberg, Jurassic Park relied on more
character development than any other creature-feature.  Usually you get
second-rate actors who can't act, getting terrified by monsters that don't
really exist.  Jurassic Park was the opposite.  It changed the way we looked
at the world, and it will forever.  Based on the novel by Micheal Crichton,
Jurassic Park was an amazing movie.

From beginning to end, Jurassic Park bedazzled us with dinosaurs.  Dinosaurs
that are EXTINCT.  There are a lot of cool cameos and the stars give great
performances.  The whole family should watch this movie.  Not for the glossy
title, but because of the dinosaurs.  I remember being a kid when I first
watched it, and I remember loving this movie so bad.  The climax was
excellent, and I am not saying what happens, unlike the sequel to this film
(Jurassic Park 3).  A climax-less bad film, that was.  But this....this was
magic.  And yes, it was a masterpiece.

The magic of this film is what brought me into dinosaurs, too.  I had a
"Jurassic Park" marathon today and I watched this movie, and I can still
feel the magic.  You will feel the magic too once you see it.  I just have
absolutely nothing to say except that Steven Speilberg will put a spell on
you.  Even if you don't like creature-features, this movie will entertain
you.  Steven Speilberg will take you to places that no one else ever will. 
And the "life will find a way" speech is here, ready to make someone feel
that creating dinosaurs that have been extinct for millions of years is a
good thing.

Absolutely needless to say, Jurassic Park was a golden
diamond.

10/10 (One of the greatest films ever made)
<|_=00=_|>
In the year 1993, Hollywood saw something unlike anything else, the
film Jurassic Park. Never before 1993 had dinosaurs been so
breathtaking and realistic on the silver screen.

The plot is very original. A group of scientists cloned dinosaurs, and
are about to open an amusement park where people can see the dinosaurs.
The creator John Hammond(Richard Attenborough) invites a group of
people, along with his grandchildren, to see the dinos and enjoy a
relaxing time at the park. Could anything go wrong, at the time it
doesn't seem like it, but something else is going on. Employee Dennis
Nedry is planning to steal dinosaur embryos. In order to do this, he
causes a security breakdown so he can get the embryos and escape. He
isn't the only one that can escape, as hungry dinos also escape. After
this, everyone on the island is in danger, and loose dinosaurs are
everywhere. That is where the fun in Jurassic Park comes in.

This is an underrated movie according to the IMDb ratings. It isn't
even in the top 250. Today, people don't appreciate it as much, mainly
due to the fact that other movies like it have been made. Growing up in
the 90's, this was one of my favorite movies. As a kid, I only watched
it to see the dinosaurs, as I didn't understand a whole lot of it.
Today, I realize how great the plotting and suspense are.

This spawned two sequels. The second one wasn't bad, but the third
wasn't very good. I would recommend seeing the second after this, but
the third is passable.

The story is great, how at first we see how the magic was created, and
then later we see the magic turn into a disaster, in which everyone's
life is at stake.

The special effects are still good today, but they were revolutionary
for back in 1993. The acting is good, and the ensemble cast is great.
All of the action sequences are perfectly executed, creating plenty of
suspense and tension.

Younger kids may get scared by this, as I remember a lot of young kids
being scared by it in 1993. If kids aren't scared by dinosaurs, they
will probably enjoy the movie.

I highly recommend Jurassic Park. It is quite underrated in my opinion,
it deserves more credit than it gets.

Watch this at all costs if you have somehow missed it and see what
everyone was amazed about back in 1993.

Enjoy
<|_=00=_|>

What can I say? Jurassic Park is one of the most underrated movies ever.
Yes, I did say underrated. True, it is the fourth highest grossing movie
ever (for the time being) and was a motion picture bible for
eight-year-olds
across the country, but it has never been regarded as artistically
superior.
When, in reality, it is one of the most artistically inventive movies
ever.
It contains all of Spielberg's magical strokes of genius from fantastic
art
direction and wonderful camera techniques to astounding technical quality
(
which comes from his well known control over technology). The minor flaws
of
a theme park are masterfully embedded into the art direction, script etc.
and the acting is superb. This is one of the only movies I've seen with
great acting by children. Spielberg's camera usage ranges from
foreshadowing
the appearance of dinosaurs with extreme up-angles to exquisitely composed
scenes of the dinosaurs' "interaction" with the characters. Aside from
technical quality, Jurassic Park bears powerful social messages of human
intrusion and destruction of natural environment and the self-revering
nature of man. Also, it had an undeniable effect on cinema being one of
the
first movies to use CGI at such a large scale. However, the most ingenious
aspect of the film is the portrayal of the dinosaurs as animals rather
than
ruthless monsters. At many times throughout the movie, the humans are
portrayed as antagonists and the respect and appreciation of the dinosaurs
is wonderfully developed. And, best of all, like star wars you can analyze
the movie all you want or just sit back and enjoy the ride.

<|_=00=_|>
What can be said about this movie that hasn't already been said? Who
knows. We all know that this has some of the greatest special effects,
even today. Also, if there's anything that can match the awesome T-Rex,
it's the movie's musical score. I swear, listen to it more than once,
and you're bound to see the movie yet again, if for that sole reason.
It's that powerful. Oh sure, acting isn't this movie's strong suit, but
who looks for acting in a Dinosaur thriller? Who?!

Anyway, I think I've made my point. Jurassic Park: One of America's
greatest classics. Steven Spielberg created magic with this movie. If
you haven't seen it once, you haven't seen it at all.
<|_=00=_|>

This was obviously the most sophisticated portrayal of dinosaurs at the
time, and it doesn't age a bit.  Sam Neill plays Dr Alan Grant, a
paleontologist who is persuaded to check out Richard Attenborough's new
theme park, only to find that he has managed to clone dinosaurs.  There is
plenty of action, and the dinos look so real as to be positively scary!  Sam
Neill puts in his usual incredibly brilliant performance, and you can really
believe he is acting with the creatures!  Jeff Goldblum as usual seems to
play himself, as Professor Ian Malcolm, an expert in chaos theory who is
convinced the park is a bad idea.  The cast are amazing, the effects are
amazing, this whole movie is amazing.  It doesn't get any better than
this!
<|_=00=_|>
Even though it was adapted from a book, this unique story was destined
to become an incredible film. Great casting, decent acting, great
special effects, beautiful and perfect score by John Williams,
incredible directing. I believe this movie has to be one of the
greatest science fiction films ever made. Although not entirely true to
the book, (though someone should never say a movie is not good because
it is not exactly like the book because that really doesn't matter)
Steven Spielberg made this story a landmark in special effects and a
standard for thriller films to be compared to. It also contains some
scenes that are instant classics, such as the first time they see the
dinosaurs, the kitchen scene with the raptors, the end scene with the
raptors and the T-Rex, the scene with the T-Rex and the kids in the
jeep, and of course the scene where the T-Rex chases the jeep. I will
keep this movie in my list of favorites and classics till the day i
die.
<|_=00=_|>

JURASSIC PARK was the film that ignited my interest in filmmaking and drove
me to get a degree in it, so I will always have a soft spot for it. I was
eleven when I read the book, but all the technical stuff lost me and I never
finished it. A couple years later when I heard the movie was coming out, I
decided I would just see it instead. With advance tickets selling out fast,
my mom was lucky enough to get some a few days before it's premiere. We
stood in line for roughly thirty minutes before we finally got in. Even as
the lights were dimming, I still had no idea what to expect. Within moments
I was glued to my seat. The opening sequences remains one of my favorite
scenes in any film and continues to give me goosebumps to this day. For the
next two hours, I sat in my seat just staring at the screen as these
marvelous, life-like creatures that were unlike anything I had ever seen
before. The film was full of awe and scares. I walked out of the theater
virtually trying to catch my breath. What a thrill ride the film had been,
and I eventually went back and saw it a few more times. The film was a
turning point in my life, as I said, because I walked out saying to myself,
"That's what I want to do." Sure the characters aren't deep and the dialogue
isn't great, but who cares when the film is this entertaining? The actors
are good in their parts, especially the always great Sam Neill, and the
dinosaurs are incredibly life-like. The action is great, and the pacing
(after a slow start) is relentless. The film has a few continuity flaws, but
none of them matter. This film is great entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow! That's about all one can say about this movie. The first time that I
saw it I was mesmerized. The movie looked so cool and hey, it actually had a
good plot. If you haven't seen this movie yet, get out from your cave and
see it right away. I have seen this movie umpteen times and it still shocks
and suprises me. If you have a DVD player I suggest that you buy the
Jurassic Park 2 pack as soon as possible. The movie sounds and looks great,
and the extras are cool too. So to summarize go see this. Spielberg is a
true genius. Almost all of his movies were great. 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this back when I was little. If I remember correctly, it
was also a big thing when it came out. I even had a backpack with a
Velociraptor head sticking out of it for school. It was such an amazing
achievement as a movie itself and the film is so wonderfully done that
there's no doubt of why it has held up as long as it has and will
remain the best dinosaur film ever created.

The dinosaurs in this film look more realistic than any other
prehistoric film, or even most movies today that try to pass off crappy
CGI has reality. The acting was spectacular, and aside from how
wonderful the creatures look and how vicious and exciting they were
like no other dinosaur film had had them before, the plot and
characters were solid and incredibly entertaining where you didn't
think they would be so amusing. 

I will have to say again that one really huge reason why most people
loved this movie was because of the special effects, but here again,
isn't that an accomplishment in itself? Having your audience enjoy the
film because of how realistic and fresh you are able to make it feel
and look? I have never seen another movie with better effects than this
one, ever. I am sure none of these horrible effects dinosaur movies
that have been coming out lately could ever live up to the greatness of
Jurassic Park.

I am always going to love Jurassic Park for it's witty, unbelievable
maneuvers and incredible screenplay though, as well. It was so properly
thought out and executed, where most might have been expecting it to be
nothing but high levels of adrenaline rushes with brainless action,
which there was pulsating action, it just certainly wasn't as mindless.
Many who dislike Jurassic Park really just have all the same reasons
the average movie-goer would have for disliking a film, yet I haven't
heard anyone fully describe and explain, well, what they truly thought
were faults with this film, which gives me reason to believe that
Jurassic Park is a masterpiece, for I, myself, have no faults with this
film, except that I have seen other films that I enjoyed more. . . just
a little more.
<|_=00=_|>

It's hard to believe that it's 6 years since this film appeared at the
cinemas. At the time it was a truly ground-breaking film, managing for the
first time to portray dinosaurs in an extremely realistic manner, unlike
those plasticine monsters that we were forced to watch in previous monster
movies. Jurassic Park will also be remembered as the movie that finally
made
George Lucas sit up and realise that it was possible for him to make his
prequels.

In hindsight, while it is still an extremely well directed and tension
filled movie, the script did seemed dumbed down in order to appeal to as
many people as possible - but that's really irrelevant since this film is
all about dinosaurs. One of Spielberg's brilliantly directed films, it
even
managed to make me forget Spielberg's previous disaster of a movie - do
you
recall HOOK?

8/10.
