

Growing up in the 50's gave me the privilege of being one the last
generations of filmgoers to enjoy the Saturday afternoon double-feature
matinee experience at the neighborhood theatre. These double-features were
primarily low budget sci-fi/horror epics with slender threads of plot,
lovely damsels in distress (Beverly Garland, Barbara Rush), square-jawed
heroes (Peter Graves, Richard Carlson) and budget monsters from Mars, the
grave, melted icebergs, mad scientist's labs or atomic fallout. Well not
really. The monsters were usually guys in rubber suits (Creature From The
Black Lagoon, This Island Earth), or cheap trick photography (Tarantula,
Attack of the 50 Ft Woman), or  `Mask and Glove' illusions (I Was A Teenage
Werewolf/Frankenstein, Monster On The Campus), or, if we were really lucky,
a Ray Harryhausen stop motion creation.

Needless to say this wasn't great cinema, but what it WAS, was great fun.
Were you scared? Not really. Did you have the need for everything to be
fact-based and believable? Of course not! You went to be entertained, to
let
your imagination merge with the sounds and images and have a good time,
laughing or screaming. Could anyone really take the monster from `It
Conquered The World' seriously, or wonder whether `The Creature From The
Black Lagoon' was biologically possible or if it could anatomically
deflower
Julie Adams? Didn't matter. Instead, you let yourself meld into the film's
world and travel along for the ride.

Thus whether you were on the obviously and badly animated `Angry Red
Planet', or trapped with James Best on the island of dogs in make-up which
were trying to pass for `The Killer Shrews', you surrendered to the
magic.

My heart weeps for the post `Star Wars' filmgoers, these people weaned on
special effects, the MTVers and video viewers who've had their imaginations
and attention spans kidnapped and are told what to see and how to interpret
it. I truly am sorry. You people missed a modern day, Grade B double
feature, sci-fi/horror classic called `Anaconda'. And we hadn't seen one
this good since `Alien'.

Being an intelligent man, I realize the futility of convincing the
non-believers who can't draw from the needed background reservoir to
understand, so I won't bother preaching this film's virtues or try to win
you over by fact and argument. This, however, is what I will
say

This is a brilliant re-creation of the lost art of the 1950's
double-feature
horror genre; not really a homage to, more the real thing. It's `Creature
From The Black Lagoon', with a really cheesy computer animated snake in
place of a guy in a really cheesy rubber suit. It's a Saturday afternoon
classic for people who remember and understand them. Story is great, script
is great, cinematography is great, direction is great, acting is great, the
women beautiful and endangered, the heroes machismo and handsome, the
monster phantasmagorical, and we get a bonus surprise by one of the
greatest
American actors, Jon Voight, doing a magnificent over-the-top, slimy,
nasty,
reprehensibly heartless villain, complete with a sly wink to the audience.
His performance is the key to the film. He understood the film's intent and
translated it to the screen for you. If it's in your realm of understanding
and experience, you get it and are able to partake in this little slice of
cinema heaven.

In 20 years, they'll be calling this a classic. I'm calling it one
now.

<|_=00=_|>

There are two ways to see this film and rate it.

1: As a movie that turned out to be much worse than it intended to be. In
which case it's obvious that an actor like Jon Voight would overact to try
and make it look like it was intended to be "bad". The special f/x,
intended
or not, are done with computer animation and are, in that category, the
worst i've seen yet. A snake that moves like a cartoon. If it was the
movieproducers' intention to make a "bad" movie, they would have done
better
to use the old fashioned special f/x, with a rubber prop.

2:As a movie that was, indeed, intended to be a b-movie. However, since the
director Luis Llosa previously only made "serious" action movies like "the
Specialist" and "Sniper", i have to seriously doubt it was his intension to
make a "tongue-in-cheek" movie. If it WAS his intention, he nearly
succeeded
in making a fun "bad" movie.

Personally, there were only two things in this movie i
enjoyed:
The voluptuous Jennifer Lopez, and the magnificently "bad" performance of
Jon Voight, who with just the facial expressions brings a smile to your
face.
<|_=00=_|>
It's a stupid B-Movie with enough quality to fly by, and enough camp
charm to get away with such cinematic crimes. The cast play it
straight, apart from Voight. I'm pretty sure he was drunk during the
shooting, coming out with an inexplicable accent and a look reminiscent
of Hannibal Lecter. It's ridiculous fun, with hokey CGI and
animatronics. The animatronics are great and make me miss the 90s. It's
a big snake shaped tube and goes from slow robotic motions, to super
fast CGI. Cube and Hyde manage some, at times, adorable dialogue.
Voight's presence also unites the rest of the cast, and each character
gets their own heroic captain moment. Fun filled and just plain bad. I
loved it.
<|_=00=_|>

An excellent movie. That's all to say about this movie. Excellent. It
contains some of the biggest names in entertainment(Jennifer 'J-Lo' Lopez,
Ice Cube, Jon Voight, and Eric Stoltz) and some actors and actresses going
from good to great, just good, or not good at all(Jonathan Hyde, Kari
Wuhrer, Owen Wilson, and Vincent Castellenatos). Plus there was the
appearence of Danny Trejo as the poacher. Even though the cast for this
movie isn't really big, it's good enough to make a good movie. Other
things
I found great with this movie are it's special effects and the characters
themselves. Jon Voight's character says funny things, even when he doesn't
mean to be funny, Ice Cube's character is just plain funny, and Jonathan
Hyde's character is hilarious. As I said, this movie is excellent, no
doubt
about it.

One more thing: Anybody who's anybody should see this movie. IT'S A GREAT
MOVIE!!!!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is not as bad as some people say it is. Generally, it's pretty
formulaic, but there are a few alterations on the monster movie
format.

A crew making a documentary set sail down a tropical river, on their
way
losing their fuel and, you guessed it, bumping into a big snake. There
are
all the usual characters here: beautiful girl, villain, posh English
bloke
(there's always one!), working-class hero, etc. They gradually get picked
off one-by-one - although guessing the next "victim" is so easy, it takes
the fun out of it all.

There are a few oddities in the consistency of the plot. Most of the
killing happen in the second half of the film with the first half devoted
to
boring sub-plots. Curiously, the customary "introduction shock" is not a
snake death, but a suicide. We never really find out why this has
happened -
after all, there is still a lot of Jennifer Lopez to be shown - and this,
I
think, is one of the main problems with the film. Story lines are
attempted
but never completed and so the audience will never gain true satisfaction
from the film.

Another interesting factor is Terri's boyfriend and his contribution to
the story line. During a dive, he gets bitten and the crew manage to
recover
him. They save his life but he is still unconscious and remains so
throughout most of the movie.

However, the weakest character of all is the snake. Sure, it's pretty
ugly, but it will never be truly terrifying as the director doesn't play
on
our sense of fear. We may be surprised when the snake attacks but never
truly shocked.

As I said before, this isn't too bad a movie (I've seen worse) - there
are
some moments of tension, the actors do their jobs and the special effects
are far from laughable. You might want to watch this if it's shown of TV,
but I wouldn't pay money to see it.

<|_=00=_|>
Heading into the Amazon, a documentary team studying a long-lost tribe
runs afoul of a hunter searching for a legendary anaconda and are
forced to help him track the deadly creature.

This was a decent and quite enjoyable creature feature. One of the
better features here is the rather impressive pace that runs throughout
here, as this one runs along pretty quickly with the introduction
getting started immediately, picking up the hunter is right after that
and the snake attacks carry the action throughout the rest of the film.
Those action scenes are all quite fun, from the opening poacher attack,
the search on the abandoned boat and the first battle with the creature
as they try to wrangle the water-bound snake from their boat only for
the resulting chaos it it's escape to set the stage for its' later
scenes. That is the film's best part which is the final half hour as
there's a large amount of ambushes and attacks here, from the trap at
the waterfall where there's the fun water-chase with the creature
coming after the swimmers in the water trying to dislodge the boat
before finally getting to the spectacular waterfall confrontation
catching the fleeing victim in mid-air before crashing into the boat
below to the greater fun of the big chase through the abandoned
warehouse. From the hunter's trap and eventual escape to running
through the different levels with the creature continually crashing
through the surroundings and finally getting rid of the massive snake
in a fiery blast, this packs a large amount of action, suspense and
rather impressive moments into it. Along with the enjoyable animatronic
special effects for the snake, these are more than enough to hold off
the few flaws in here. One of the bigger flaws is the fact that the
first half here plays off as more of an adventure film about the
exploration of the Amazon who stumbles upon a suspicious snake-hunter
who alters their course for his own needs. None of this is handled with
the sense of urgency in getting the snake out in a film about a giant
killer snake as it moves the film along the needles detours simply to
get the point across aren't all that tied into the exploits of a
creature feature. There's also the films' tendency to go a little
overboard with the special effects here as the use of the CGI snake
isn't nearly as convincing as the puppets, act way too slick and have
very little depth to it as the performed actions during these scenes
give away its' origins. It's not enough to hold this one down, but the
other problems here is where the flaws are.

Rated PG-13: Violence, Graphic Language and some mild animal deaths.
<|_=00=_|>
Before there was "Snakes on a Plane," there was "Anaconda," a Hollywood
B-movie from the late 90's that is as notorious for its mixed bag of
actors as it is for the gruesome snakes that populate its plot. In the
film, a group of documentary film-makers traveling through the Amazon
jungle picks up a mysterious man who inadvertently becomes their
tour-guide on an unexpected detour. It seems the man is totally crazy
and intends to capture one of the Amazon's most notorious and deadliest
inhabitants: The Anaconda.

Despite some bad looking CGI-snakes (not bad in a good way) and a
horribly mis-matched cast (J-Lo and Eric Stolz? Really?) "Anaconda" is
simply a good, dumb time. Without a doubt, it's an utterly ridiculous
film that can be insulting to your intelligence, but thankfully it
knows not to overstay its welcome and the 90 minutes it takes up makes
for a harmless and amusing ride. Ice Cube plays Ice Cube as he always
does, while J-Lo turns in one of her more likable roles. You'll also
catch Owen Wilson in one of his earliest roles, and John Voight is a
pleasure to watch as he eats up the scenery. But face it, this movie is
about snakes, and the titular character is the true star here. Surely,
the actors on hand have done much worse, and as far as horror/b-movies
about snakes, you could pick up much worse yourself. If you enjoy
watching giant snakes (who inexplicably scream) stalk rappers,
pop-stars and Angelina Jolie's dad, this is the flick for you. Those
seeking genuine thrills, however, may find the film coming up a bit
short.
<|_=00=_|>
Llosa's 'Anaconda' is one of the most artistically crafted films of
recent times (NOT!). The story is beautifully subtle. Basically, it's
about a group of filmmakers or whatever trying to make a film in the
fake rainforest but they encounter an unexpected visitor who takes them
towards danger (how shocking!). Of course it's nice to see a snake
movie that's carried by a heroine and a villainess (played by a snake).
Moreover it's the voluptuous Jennifer Lopez! It's obvious that she's
very happy to play the heroine and very excited to battle a snake. The
'hero' played by Eric Stoltz, spends most of his screen time sleeping.
He only takes a momentary break from his REM sleep when the heroine is
in trouble for one minute, otherwise she can handle herself. Ice Cube
plays the cool black guy which seems to be a necessary ingredient in
such movies. Of course he doesn't die because he's too cool. Thankfully
Owen Wilson does not get decapitated like what happened in 'The
Haunting'. Instead, he ends up getting gobbled up. Kari Wuhrer is the
potential lonely hot chick who allows the camera to focus on her
endowments (which, to one's disappointment, she doesn't fully show) and
of course she's killed off. Then there's John Voight as typical greedy
villain, the unexpected visitor. While all the actors give almost Oscar
worthy performance, it is Suzie (I hope I got the name correct) the
digital snake that steals the show. This actress (assuming that it's a
female since she so lustfully gobbled up Owen Wilson and throws up John
Voight because he's comparatively old and unattractive) gives one of
the most nuanced performances. She downplays her part so well that one
really has to look hard to find a registered expression on her face and
the talented Suzie just gets it all right by hissing, slithering,
showing off her tongue, throwing up and lustfully swallowing just on
time. Lopez could have learned a thing or two about method acting and
staying in character from her mega-talented co-star. It's sad that
Suzie dies in the movie because I actually wanted her to win (sorry
JLo). It's also a pity that Oscars don't award digital actresses
because Suzie truly gave one of the finest performances. Shame on the
Oscars for not noticing this gem! People should have spoken up for her.
Anyway, to sum it up, 'Anaconda' is a cheeesy (unintentional comedic)
horror/thriller wannabe. Yeah, it's a crappy movie.
<|_=00=_|>
No lie, I actually went on a vacation to Costa Rica almost solely
because this movie made the rain forest seem so kick ass. This could
possibly be my favorite movie for many reasons. Let's talk about the
characters.

Paul Sarone: He could possibly be my favorite character in any movie.
This guy speaks with the sweetest accent. He catches fish "river
style." He kills people with his legs WHILE TIED UP! He gets with J LO
besides being about 30 years older. And, he gets eaten by and anaconda,
spit up, and lives. I have no doubt Paul Sarone is still out there in
the Anaconda universe waiting for A3! Terri Flores: Absoletuly my
favorite one of J LO's roles. She's the world's hottest director out to
film the Shirashama while making sure not to upset "the ecological
balance of the river" by letting Sarone use his dynamite. In my
opinion, only her Sarone and Ice Cube should have been left alive in
the end (though it would have been a hoot trying to see the Anaconda
swallow that ass).

Ice Cube: I think Ice Cube is freaking sweet in this movie. He gets
stabbed in the leg but keeps on trucking and makes sure to make a witty
comment while killing snakes. "Bitch"--priceless.

Hole In Neck Man: "Anaconda"'s only lowlight is that this idiot lives.
I think he should have been stabbed in the neck with his own dart in
that one scene and then suffocated painfully in front of all.

Baby Bird: I must thank her for giving me one of the best moments in
cinematic history, her death while being strangled by Sarone's legs.
Brilliant! Owen Wilson: I'm so glad that hippie gets it good.

Westridge: I'm so glad that dude gets killed so uselessly and
painfully. He earned it.

Mateo: Was he even in this movie. Oh yeah, he gets eaten after about 15
minutes, almost as useless a character as the poacher.

Anaconda: He is one bad ass monster. He gets shot, and lives. He gets
blown up, and lives. He gets light on fire, and lives. How does he die?
Only one way. By hearing the word "Bitch" obviously. But of course he's
back in the sequel.

Overall, this movie rocks. It is unmissable and one of the best movies
ever made. Come quickly A3 and bring Sarone with you.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't truly start enjoying Anaconda until the final forty minutes of
the film. Then once I saw those minutes, I began to enjoy most of the
film. It's difficult to do a creature feature well, and I think the
film is being unintentionally funny a lot of the time. Especially when
the actors it's boasting are Jennifer Lopez and Ice Cube. There's
almost more to laugh at than be scared of.

I have no problem at all with Lopez and Ice Cube. I haven't seen a lot
of Jennifer Lopez's work, and I adore Ice Cube in pretty much
everything he's in. He's one of those actors where if he's in a bad
movie he himself isn't bad the movie, the directing, the screenplay, or
whatever setback is bad. I'm just saying that when you see those two
playing a couple in a horror film it's hard to take it seriously.
Thankfully - they're not the reason this film isn't perfect.

The story revolves around a documentary crew, Terri (Lopez), Danny
(Cube), Denise (Kari), Gary (Wilson), Warren (Hyde), and Steven
(Stoltz), that venture out into the jungle hoping to garner footage of
a rare tribe called "Shirishama." While traveling on the Amazon River,
the crew finds a stranded boater named Sarone (Voight) who knows about
the tribe, but acts very unsettling throughout most of the first half.

Turns out that Sarone is searching for an anaconda, and is hoping to
catch one alive in order to obtain a very large sum of money. He gets
the whole crew involved, and doesn't really care who lives or who dies.
The thought of being out in the middle of the jungle is creepy - yet it
proposes a good campy quality Anaconda hits a high note with.

Background scenery is pushed to the foreground here. We get beautiful
shots of swamps (yes, swamps), incredible angles of trees, and even
some very eerie and suspenseful underwater shots. Director Luis Llosa
explores every possible angle of the setting so that not only is this a
creepy B movie, but a stylish one as well.

When it comes to the snake - the film begins to lose some of its
redeeming qualities. There is a scene where very many snakes flood the
boat. Unable to distinguish real from fake due to the small stature of
the beasts, my only guess is that they were in fact real. When the
anaconda makes his first appearance, it looks undeniably animatronic
and the CGI used when the beast swallows its first prey is pathetic.
Anaconda was made with a budget over $40 million, so this snake's
execution is one of two things (1) maybe the hefty budget didn't get
them very far after all, or (2, the much plausible explanation) it was
supposed to look cheap and fake to give a nod to old creature-features
we would've seen Saturday at 10:30pm on Svengoolie.

Jon Voight is probably the highest point in the film. His unsettling
approach to the crew rubs off on the audience almost making them a
little scared as well. His face alone reminds me of Gary Busey on a bad
day, or Nick Nolte after one too many. The other members of the
documentary crew, like Ice Cube and Owen Wilson, are severely
underused, and but their presence is enough for personal satisfaction.

The final scene where its two on one with the anaconda is great popcorn
fun, and after the film you feel you've spent an hour and a half back
in time. Unfortunately, Anaconda was blown out of proportion once the
sequel came. After the first two theatrical films were released, the
name and story became a Syfy franchise. Currently, in 2011, we have
four Anaconda films including this one. I'm sure in five years we'll
have two more to go along with it. The bad thing about a good B movie
idea is it can be abused with a single sequel.

Starring: Jennifer Lopez, Ice Cube, Jon Voight, Eric Stoltz, Owen
Wilson, Jonathan Hyde, and Kari Wuhrer. Directed by: Luis Llosa.
