
I believe that this movie was panned when it first came out, and I
don't know why. It is truly an underrated comedic gem that deserves
more recognition. The performances are perfect (with the exception of
Campbell) and the dialogue is hysterical.

William Fichtner steals the show as the sleazy "battered husband." His
performance is tops in a stellar cast. Marcus Thomas is excellent as
his son and lazy landscaping partner to Affleck, who is marvelous as
the nervous and long-suffering lead. Will Ferrell puts in a great cameo
as a creepy mortician.

Are there flaws? Of course. As another comment mentioned, Tracy
Walter's character, Clarence, could have been developed more. Also,
some the other characters' run-ins with Mona probably could've been
better detailed as well, and the resolution isn't the most satisfying.
But this movie is less about the plot and more great characterizations
and riotous dialogue.

I own the DVD and I roll with laughter every time I see it, even though
I practically have it memorized. This movie should be remembered as
<|_=00=_|>

Why are people so hard on Drowning Mona? I just saw it and
enjoyed it a lot.  In years to come I believe it will be seen as the
same genre as The Good Girl - an attempt to bring very ordinary
people to life without apologizing for their ordinariness.  In A Good
Girl, Jennifer Aniston works very hard to portray an ordinary,
poorly-educated young woman in a dead-end job. She has to
really work hard to suppress the natural intelligence of a very bright
mind and make her ordinary girl sufficiently dumb. But she does it
beautifully. In Drowning Mona - portraying Bobby Calzone, Casey
`Affleck has a similar challenge. I think he creates his character
brilliantly. I am so shocked to find higher up this page that Casey
is ashamed of his work on this movie. Can this be true? It seems
quite possible - on my DVD package he is the only major
cast-member who doesn't give an interview. Casey is handsome
and delightful but he manages to leave an impression of terminal
dumbness. All the guy wants is to make a reasonable living fixing
gardens, but his problems seem insurmountable and it's getting
to him. I get the feeling that none of the cast were stirred or excited
with Drowning Mona - you need to see the on-set interviews to
judge this. Nevertheless it is a successful little film in its own
terms and has a lot of gentle humor in it. Affleck, deVito, Midler,
Lee Curtis do a very professional ensemble piece as you would
expect. As a former copywriter I find the landscaping company
slogan hysterically funny: J & B Landscaping - `Yeah, we can do
that'. I get the impression the whole cast read through a rather
'thin' script and said exactly that.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a different kind of comedy -- maybe too subtle for some people's
tastes -- but
anyone who appreciates the dark humor in "Raising Arizona" or "Fargo"
should
give this
movie a viewing.

Casey Affleck portrays a perfectly bewildered, hopeless, helpless suspect
in
the murder
of The Worst Woman (Formerly) Alive, Mona Dearly.  There are dozens of
hilarious,
subtle, and easily missed lines and facial expressions throughout the
movie
which define
the many characters inhabiting a small town in upstate New York where Yugo
once
tested its cars.  The town itself, and most of its denizens, are like the
Yugo:  simple, no-
frills, unassuming, more than a little deficient in many ways, but unique
and endearing
in an odd, pitifully likable way.

If seeing a Yugo on the road today brings a smile to your face, see this
movie.  If seeing
a Yugo on the road today makes you angry, see something
else.
<|_=00=_|>

I did not expect much from this one, considering the lukewarm reviews it had
gotten, and its brief time in the theaters. I was attracted by the cast -
Dannny deVito, Bette Midler, Jamie Lee Curtis. I found it quite hilarious,
as the earnest sheriff, DeVito, of Verplanck, N.Y., a down-at-the-heels
upstate burg where everyone drives a Yugo due to a long-ago promotion scheme
(an offbeat touch), attempts to solve the murder of the town's most hated
woman, played by Middler. The script is very funny, and it is played well by
all concerned. The collective i.q. of this God-forsaken hamlet does not
appear to rise above room temperature. The frightening thing is that the
tawdry machinations of all involved probably reflect pretty closely what
life is really like in many trailer-park backwaters. My son & I found it a
laugh riot. (As an aside, the movie accomplishes the seemingly impossible
task of making Jamie Lee Curtis look positively wretched.)
<|_=00=_|>
Drowning Mona is now a cult favorite of mine. The script is unusual yet
amazingly funny. Every time I watch this movie, my understanding of its
comedic genius grows. Especially for English language buffs, this
film's edgy and blatant use of word order and delivery are what make it
so hilarious. No line is extraneous or meaningless--they all add up to
one hell of a funny film. I'd recommend this to serious movie goers who
enjoy an intellectual thrill, a script that puts faith in the
audience's ability to understand and not be told outright. If you crave
a change from the typical Hollywood Blockbuster formula of drugs, sex,
violence, and sentimental life lessons, watch this film. It still
manages to deliver action and comedy--but are you smart enough to watch
it?
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe Danny DeVito and Bette Midler should collaborate more often. The
two times they did it was comedy gold. While this movie is not as flat
out hilarious as "Ruthless People," it should still be enjoyed by the
same people who love that movie. It starts with a prologue stating how
Verplanck, New York was the location where they decided to launch the
Yugo line of cars in America. As a result, everyone in town, including
the police, drives a Yugo car, and they all have catchy license plates
like UGOMONA, ELLEEE, and OH RONE.

As the title suggests, this black little whodunit concerns who opted to
rid the small town of Verplanck of its nastiest inhabitant, the
matriarchal hag Mona Dearly (Midler, who chews up every inch of the
screen in her "Rashomon"-esque flashback scenes). Police Chief Wyatt
Rash (Danny DeVito, playing against type as the straight man), is
determined to find out, even if nobody else cares to help. It's come at
a bad time, because he's trying to help his daughter Ellie (Neve
Campbell) plan her big wedding to mild-mannered land-scaper Bobby
Calzone (Casey Affleck), who has just ended up short-handed after his
beer-guzzling partner Jeff Dearly (Marcus Thomas, the epitome of
slackerdom) takes a leave of absence. Bobby also seems unnaturally
concerned with the the death of a woman who meant only bad things for
him.

The characters, while bordering on cartoons, are played
tongue-in-cheek, and you know the actors had fun doing it. There's the
chain-smoking waitress Rhona Mace (Jamie Lee Curtis), who's having an
affair with the deceased's husband Phil (William Fichtner, who walks
away with the movie as a complete scumbag), and Bobby's overbearing
brother Murph (Mark Pellegrino). The cops are just as zany, with Peter
Coyote as the do-gooder lieutenant, and Paul Ben-Victor and Paul
Schulze (Ryan Chapelle from "24") as a couple of bumbling idiots who
seem to be good for one thing, looking out for Numbers One. There's
Katherine Wilhoite as Lucinda, the lesbian folk-singer mechanic, and
the great Tracey Walter is on board as the local fisherman who nobody
really knows much about. Add in a foul-mouthed, alcoholic priest, and a
funeral director who's also an amateur pornographer (Will Ferrell
before he became huge), and it's a feast for those with a twisted sense
of humor.
<|_=00=_|>

This off-beat comedy is definitely one of the better movies I've seen
recently. The plot is engaging and fast-paced; the movies doesn't even
come
close to the two-hour mark. The conclusion is satisfying and unexpected.

Every actor is perfectly cast. Casey Affleck gives an excellent
performance
as put-upon Bobby Calzone, Neve Campbell is terrific as Ellen, Bobby's
fiancee, and Danny DeVito is loveable and sweet as police chief Wyatt
Rash,
Ellen's father. All in all, this is a very good movie, perfect for a lazy
day.
<|_=00=_|>

Drowning Mona is a hard movie to describe. On the one hand, I liked it
because, the cast seemed to be doing the best with what the script they had
to work with. On the other hand, the plot seemed choppy and the dialogue was
for the most part pretty stale. Will Ferrell absolutely steals the movie
with his part as the creepy funeral director who laughs inappropiately, has
trouble with the right way to make eye contact, and is constantly having
sexual trysts during the viewing. If you're looking for an offbeat comedy,
give this a try. But don't rush out and kill yourself to see
it.
<|_=00=_|>
... even the police.

Bette Midler, even though she is the title character, gets second billing
to
Danny DeVito.

In the recently released "Isn't She Great" she gets to play both sides of
the ugly/beautiful coin and she does it here again brilliantly.

Sherriff Wyatt Rash (DeVito) has too many suspects in the death of Mona.
Everyone would like to see her dead.

Neve Campbell as his daughter (Ellen) turns in a fine performance.  Her
breakdown and ultimate (short-lived) lesbian experience with the town's
mechanic is either over-the-top -- or just short of being brilliant; hard
to
tell.

Casey Affleck (Ben's little brother) is very one-note -- I want to believe
that it was written that way and that Bobby is not as shallow as the
script
would have us believe.

This is not a film that will appeal to everyone -- but hang in -- it only
gets better as it goes along.

I enjoyed it -- and as I reflect on it -- it only gets
better.
<|_=00=_|>

     Everybody hates Mona Dearly, and who could blame them.
Mona (Bette Midler) is rude, loud, cruel, and another word
for "female dog."  Then something happens, Mona dies in a
car
accident, and town sheriff Wyatt Rash (Danny DeVito) found
out
that Mona was murdered, and who would kill her.  The problem
is
that there is a long list of suspects.
    DROWNING MONA is a film that is a good example of the
term
"black comedy" a film where the viewer would laugh at something
that they wouldn't normally laugh at.  But unlike some other black comedies
(i.e. the most recent IDLE HANDS) this film isn't
as cruel and does work.  
    The small town where DROWNING MONA takes place is a intresting town.  In
the late 1980's, the entire town received 
test cars from the Yugo car company.  And what's funny is
that
everyone in the town drives a Yugo.  Town sheriff Wyatt goes around his town
looking for the person who would tamper with
the Yugo that Mona was driving, and send her to her watery death.  There's
Mona's husband, Phil (William Fichtner) who
is having a affair with Rona (Jamie Lee Curtis), who is
also
a suspect.  There's Bobby Calzone (Casey Affleck) a young
and
ambitious young man who is engaged to the sheriff's daughter,
Ellen (Neve Campbell).  Then there is Bobby's partner in
their
business, Mona's son, Jeff (Marcus Thomas) who is very dim,
and
mean.
     This is a enjoyable film, but it's not the best black comedy of all
time.  It does work at times, and at other times
it fall flat on it's face.  There are some very funny scenes involved with
Mona's son, Jeff, on how he might have lost his right hand.  And the town's
loony mortician (Will Ferrel) does
have some good scenes, but not enough.  The acting from the cast is good
though.  Danny DeVito is good as the man who is investigating the crime of
Mona's death.  Jamie Lee Curtis is also good as the woman who could care
less about Mona, and move
on with her life.  Neve Campbell does o.k. with what little role that she
has.  William Fichtner, Casey Affleck, and Marcus
Thomas are all also good, but nothing outstanding.  It seems that the person
who gets to steal all of the scenes belong to
Bette.  She does another role that she is good at, a role
that
is similar to her role in RUTHLESS PEOPLE.
     But overall, DROWNING MONA isn't as funny or as witty
as
RUTHLESS, since both films have characters that are rather ruthless.  But
director Nick Gomez (HBO's THE SOPRANO'S & OZ)
does a respectable first time job for a big feature film. 
MONA
isn't great, but it's worth watching at least once.  But if you want to see
DeVito and Midler act more funnier and vicious,
watch RUTHLESS PEOPLE.  ***1/2 (out of five)
