

I saw this movie on TV and I have to admit.. I loved it! I was planning to
go to sleep but once this movie came on I watched it all the way through!
Although not exactly an Oscar winner, it had a charm all it's own. I think
the cast was what made it, I loved Betty Lou and especially Eric Thal as
Alex! They had great chemistry and were really cute together! This is a fun
cute movie definitely NOT to be taken seriously, but just to sit back and
enjoy! It still has a little bit of 80's fun to it.. I think in the 80's a
lot of movies were made that would NEVER be made now, but now they are so
fun to watch! This had a little bit of that. I dunno, I just loved
it!
<|_=00=_|>
Betty Lou (Penelope Ann Miller) is a librarian who suffers from the
doormat syndrome - people walk all over her. At home, it is not much
better, as policeman husband Alex works late. When he fails to come
home for their anniversary dinner, Betty Lou snaps out of her
complacency. Finding a gun connected to a homicide, she devices a
scheme to make herself visible....she'll confess to the murder of a
mafioso. It works. She is the most talked about person in town, with
one problem. The mafia may be chasing her now.

Penelope Ann Miller is one of those actresses you like to look & listen
to, no matter what the part. She does a fine job as the long suffering
wife and librarian. Eric Thal displays charm as Alex and Julianne Moore
as Betty Lou's sister, in a role that obviously came before her leap
into stardom, is a welcome addition. The plot is fun at first but
things get deadly serious and violent near the ending. Do you like
silly romantic plots, even when a little nastiness is thrown in? This
movie will satisfy your basic requirements.
<|_=00=_|>

I beg to differ with the previous reviewer.  On the contrary, this film
does
have a plot and is funny, with a rewarding ending.  It is a light comedy,
true.  What I liked about it is that it is not just another cookie-cutter
formula Hollywood movie.  The plot is unique and believable, the writing
is
intelligent, the acting is adequate, the conclusion is appropriate to the
plot.  The two main characters, Betty Lou and Alex, grow and mature from
their initial portrayal.

It is not a major film, but it is rewarding in its own way, an enjoyable
way
to spend 89 minutes.  Lots of fun.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was going to be light and funny--and it WAS in some
parts. Alfree Woodard and Faye Grant give especially good performances.
Faye
Grant's character is a scream! And Julianne Moore is great as Betty Lou's
sister. But when it got to the suspenseful parts, it went beyond light
and
funny. It was surprisingly good. I enjoyed every minute of it.

<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed The Gun in Betty Lou's Handbag. Though it's a far from great
romantic comedy, it does have its funny (and quirky) moments, and a
charming performance by Golden Globe Nominee Penelope Ann Miller. It's
also a chance to see handsome sexy Eric Thal in a leading role (a shame
he didn't become a bigger name!). But what sets Betty Lou apart from
other "pretty good" romantic comedies is the fact that it features not
one, not two, not three, but four Oscar nominated actresses: Alfre
Woodard, Julianne Moore, and Cathy Moriarty, and Catherine Keener, each
of whom is delightful in her role. I'll bet the producers had no idea
what a goldmine supporting cast they'd assembled. The 89 minute running
time suggests a film with many scenes left on the cutting room floor.
Too bad there won't be a Special Edition of this one, as I'd love to
see those deleted scenes!
<|_=00=_|>

A bit too violent to be a comedy, but come on folks, it wasn't that bad.
The
story is that behind every person is someone to know, and that every
person
needs to risk and live.

OK, granted Beaudeen didn't have to use the knife in such graphic manners,
but overall, good dialogue and decent acting.


<|_=00=_|>
I get a big kick out of this film, partly because I know a librarian
named Betty Lou! Needless to say she is nothing like the
semi-stereotypical librarian of the movie...

In the film, Betty Lou is a mousy librarian and frustrated wife.
Although innocent, she allows herself to be implicated in a crime of
passion in order to challenge her husband's (all too accurate)
preconceptions. With the aid of a prostitute with a heart of gold and
an ambitious freshman lawyer, Betty Lou transforms herself into an
assertive and confidant woman. Unfortunately there are some unforeseen
consequences that could cost her her life!

Other reviewers have pointed out that this film is very uneven in tone.
It isn't really a romantic comedy, more of a light thriller like "Get
Shorty." The real problem is that the plot isn't clever enough for a
thriller, the humor isn't sufficient for a comedy, and it certainly
isn't dark enough for noir. However it has a naive symbolism I find
appealing, and the actors appear to be having a good time with their
roles. I'd call it stereotypical rather than sexist - I can easily
imagine some women I've known going to such extremes for attention! 

I wouldn't go out of my way to look this one up. But if it's on the
tube and there's nothing else to see give it a try!
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie on Christmas Day, 2005, having never seen it before.
The Gun in Betty Lou's Handbag really captures the mood of the early
1990s (has some of that '80s vibe present). Penelope Ann Miller is fun
as Betty Lou, and Eric Thal and Cathy Moriarty also give fine
performances.

The movie is about a repressed, but zany woman who works in a library
and is married to a police detective in small-town Missouri. When she
happens about a gun one day, one thing leads to another and she ends up
firing it, by accident, and later she confesses to killing someone all
because she wants a more exciting life and for people to notice her.

This movie has the same vibe as some others released in 1992 (Mo'
Money, Buffy The Vampire Slayer, Jersey Girl)--I do not know how to
describe it--I guess it has a sort of innocence that seems to have all
but vanished these days. I recommend The Gun In Betty Lou's Handbag for
a rainy day.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS THRGHOUOUT: Gun in Betty Lou's handbag is definitely one of
the stranger movies I've seen. Contrary to many other views however, I
don't think this was a bad movie, merely strange. It actually had an
intriguing story but the way it went about the unraveling of it was a
bit off.

This movie was at times nourish, at other times almost a parody. It was
quite odd in that parts of this movie were actually spooky and dramatic
yet other times almost blatantly comical. It kept switching back and
forth in tone, not just once or twice but a constant switching between
the two atmospheres one moment genuinely suspenseful, and the next over
the top comedic which at first was actually kind of refreshing in that
it certainly was different but after awhile it stopped being refreshing
and just became a bit odd. It was definitely better in the beginning
then toward the end.

I really think this movie would have been very very good had it just
been mostly serious throughout and concentrated on the nourish elements
instead of going a bit over the top with the comedic. The story just
didn't wear comedy well, it wasn't suited for it. Yet there were
certain things I liked. I liked the photography, the way this was
filmed. I liked the rich array of interesting characters and even some
of the comedy was good particularly Betty's scene in jail, when she
first meets her cell mate. I also loved the musical score used, it went
perfectly with the atmosphere of the movie (and was definitely not a
comedic musical score at all.) Betty Loe's Handbag was one of the
oddest movie's I've ever seen, so odd that it's even difficult to do a
review. It's not as bad as many have said, I liked it at times, and it
sure was different but it was definitely not for everybody and OK but
not great though it maybe could have been. My vote is 6 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
If you're a fan of 80s movies & TV, you'll have a blast watching "The
Gun in Betty Lou's Handbag". Released in 1992, I consider this one of
the last "80s movies" with an allstar cast (though sadly underrated
today).

For starters we've got the amazing Faye Grant (remember "V" & "The
Greatest American Hero"?) in a role like you've never seen: a
frustrated southern belle housewife who's just 1 Gucci away from being
trailer park trash. She steals the show in every scene.

Then there's William Forsythe (Al Capone in "The Untouchables" TV
series, the bad guy in "Out for Justice", etc) who plays such a creepy
villain you almost forget you're watching a comedy.

It gets better... how about Meatloaf, yes, MEATLOAF in a cameo as
"Larry".

There's my personal fave, Cathy Moriarty ...or as I like to think of
her, the closest thing to Lauren Bacall since Lauren Bacall... as the
tough street walker who changes Betty Lou's life. Cathy has played
almost every mobster wife in every mobster movie ever made. Absolutely
perfect.

There's the incomparable Julianne Moore (who's been in everything, but
my fave would have to be her recent appearances on 30 Rock) as Betty
Lou's nutty slutty sister.

How about Alfre Woodard (Betty Applewhite on "Desperate Housewives") as
the rookie lawyer who's "defending" Betty Lou against murder charges
even though she got her attorney's license through the mail.

And that brings us to Betty Lou herself, played by Penelope Ann Miller
whom I'll always remember as Winnie, Pee-wee Herman's girlfriend in
"Big Top Pee-Wee". She does such a great job as the repressed,
oppressed & distressed housewife who decides to go on an adventure for
the first time in her mousey life.

The director, Allan Moyle, may not be as famous as Spielberg, but he's
done some great comedies such as "Pump Up the Volume" and "New
Waterford Girl" (two films I highly recommend).

There are more actors I didn't recognize until I saw the credits:
Catherine Keener (the hot chick in "Being John Malkovich"), Stanley
Tucci ("Miami Vice" TV series), and did I mention MEATLOAF? The result
of this great lineup is a film which was obviously a lot of fun to
make, and it's certainly a lot of fun to watch. Even if you're not
familiar with all these people I've mentioned, their colorful
characterizations will be very memorable.

The story itself is an interesting blend. It's a badass chick flick
like "Thelma & Louise" crossed with a small town crime caper like "My
Cousin Vinny" and a light thriller like "Get Shorty" wrapped up into
one. The presentation, though at times intense, remains breezy
throughout, and although there are several murders on screen, it
doesn't get too disturbing. They don't make em like this anymore. Like
I said earlier, don't miss the chance to see one of the last of the
"80s" crime-comedy classics.
