

When Ezekiel `Easy' Rawlins loses his job he begins to worry how he'll make
ends meet when DeWitt Albright offers him cash to help find Daphne Monet,
the fiancée of politician Todd Carter.  He takes the job as she is known to
like Afro-Americans and will be easier for him to find. He gets information
from a friend but is then framed for her murder.  Stuck between the police
and Albright's men, Easy has to uncover why Monet is so important to so many
people and save himself from jail.

Franklin's greatest achievement here is the way he brings the period to
life, albeit with a certain amount of nostalgic love for the idea.  The film
has a great jazz soundtrack and a real sense of place and atmosphere to it. 
This supports the plot well and makes the film feel stronger and richer for
it.  The plot is a solid mystery that sees Easy pulled into a wider plot
with the inevitable twists and turns.  It is layered well without being too
complex or difficult to follow, but neither does it allow itself to become
too simplistic or easy.  The film doesn't really play on racism or the race
of Easy but it does make race an equal influence (with money, power and
influence) on the plot and the characters.

Washington plays Easy well, reacting well to things and being a good
character.  I don't know if it was ever planned that Easy would be a
character than would allow for further adaptations, but I know I would like
to have seen Washington take Easy further into his PI role.  Sizemore is
good in support, as are Kinney, Carson, Beals and Chaykin.  The strongest
support is given by Cheadle.  His character may be extreme but he brings an
energy to the film that it benefits from (although it didn't need it).  The
cast all ad to the rich feel of the plot and direction.

Overall this is a solidly enjoyable detective story with all the twists and
turns that you could expect from that genre.  However it also benefits from
a great sense of place and time that is all though the film – not merely
painted on with sets or soundtrack.  A class act from Washington and others
just adds to the feeling of quality.
<|_=00=_|>

To call this one of the most underrated films of the last ten years, is an
understatement. This film is up there with ‘Chinatown' and ‘L.A
Confidential. .  

Denzel Washington is cool, and smart. Don Cheadle is stand out as the cold
killer with a smile, mouse.

But the real praise must go to Carl Franklin, who proves that ‘One false
move' was not just a fluke 

As much as I liked the film 'L.A. Confidential' my problem with it was that
a lot of black characters where being brutalised, without any chance to
fight back. In this film they fight back. We have a black hero, someone who
is as smart anyone else and in some cases smarter.

I hope that one day someone will film the rest of the Easy' Rawlins
books.


<|_=00=_|>

Denzel Washington plays Easy Rawlins, a down-on-his-luck sometime machinist,
sometime detective in late-1940's L.A. Seems someone wants him to find a
mysterious white lady in a blue dress (Jennifer Beals)who's thought to have
been seen in a blacks-only club. Enter Easy, who with his connections can
get into the club and find the girl. But, of course, there's more to this
plot than just that, or else it'd be a mighty short film.

The atmosphere is a major asset here; director Carl Franklin has done a
magnificent job not only of recreating the Los Angeles of the late forties
but also of showing the story from the black perspective, a rarity in film.
All the sights and sounds are there, and if you concentrate real hard you
can even detect the smells, too. Washington's aces, of course, as usual;
makes you wonder if he'll do any more adaptations of Walter Mosley books
starring Easy Rawlins. He's aided by a very good supporting cast, including
Beals and Tom Sizemore (playing a heavy, surprise surprise!). Fans of
Washington should watch this, but really anyone who likes film noir will
approve.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the kind of film that can stay with you for awhile after you
watch it: a haunting kind of film that isn't always pleasant or easy to
understand but you remember it. It also helps to have a fondness for
the 1940 film noir movies.

It doesn't help that it appears racist in nature with people of one
color all being the bad guys while people with another color all the
good guys. I won't say which is which, but if the colors were reversed,
there would have been an outcry about the obvious bias here by
screenwriter-director Carl Franklin. Despite this, it's still a
fascinating movie that just oozes with the 1940s atmosphere. Great
narration in there, a la film noir, great automobiles and great sets.
It puts you right into the late 40s in Los Angeles, a little bit like
the film Chinatown.

Denzel Washington does a nice job with the narration and the lead role,
the character of "Easy Rawlins," off the book by Walter Moseley (which
I read and recommend). Tom Sizemore and Don Cheadle play very intense
characters in supporting roles, particularly Cheadle as the
trigger-happy "Mouse." Jennifer Beals is alluring as the mysterious
"Daphne Monet."

The film is a bit confusing in parts and was especially so for me since
the book was not exactly the same and had a totally different ending.
Nonetheless, the film has always fascinated me and drawn me back for
multiple viewings. It's good storytelling and it would be fun to see
more of Moseley's books translated to the big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
I am glad I caught this film on TV; it was great entertainment and
executed well.

I don't want to ramble on too much, so here goes. The acting is great -
Washington giving another good performance. His narration was suitably
dry too. Cheadle just chewed on the scenery. He was hardly in the film,
but when he was, his impact as Mouse was powerful. Elsewhere, Beals was
good as the titular devil in the blue dress. Sizemore was good as the
sleaze ball who hires Washington - yet he seems to good at playing
these types in all his films.

The aesthetic of the film was enticing. The smooth camera-work was
mesmerising. The first shot that tracks through the busy streets and
then cranes up through the window to Easy is so Hitchcock - or any
director of film noir for that matter. The colours are beautiful too,
from the orange skies in the day, to the hazy blues at night.

The story is gripping, if a tad predictable. If you like your Sam Spade
and your Marlowes this film will be fine for you. The ending where
Washington closes in on a house in the hills is very 'Big Sleep'. 

Devil In A Blue Dress is unique in terms of perspective. The story is
told from a black males view point and this makes the film very
interesting to watch. No more all-white worlds of the 40's generation.
This film shows both sides of the coin, and doesn't end up with a chip
on both shoulders.

The film may be a tad predictable, but this should not deter you. This
film is underrated and deserves your attention. Very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>

Murder, politics, sex and scandal; and it is all about a girl in a blue
dress. An out of work WWII vet(Denzel Washington)is trapped in a web of
lies, backstabbing and flying lead when he agrees to look for a
politician's
girlfriend(Jennifer Beals). Some real good movie music by the likes of
Memphis Slim, Duke Ellington, Roy Brown and Jimmy Witherspoon. Very apt
support from:Tom Sizemore, Don Cheadle and Lisa Nicole Carson. One steamy
sex scene scorches and redeems.
<|_=00=_|>

Carl Franklin's adaptation of Walter Mosley's classic detective novel is a
dark and funny tale of a detective with bad luck.  Denzel Washington
handles
the material well.  However, the star in the film is Don Cheadle as Mouse.
This cold blooded killer steals several scenes away from Washington.  The
film also creates an accurate depiction of the racial climate in the late
40's.  Issues of race and identity are displayed in the entire film.  And
Franklin does an incredible job of controlling the characters and
narrative.

An incredible film.
<|_=00=_|>

Because Walter Mosley's stories are great and I was surprised that none of
the other Easy Rawlins books have been filmed.  A rich lode of ore , waiting
to be mined.

AND, Don Cheadle.  His acting as "Mouse" is stunning.  In the 3 or 4 Easy
Rawlins books that I've read, the character constructions of Easy, Mouse,
and their relationship, is fascinating.  I read Devil in a Blue Dress before
I saw the movie and when I saw Mouse brought to life, I could barely wait
for the credits to roll--"Who WAS that guy?"

Washington brings Easy to life too, and the recreation of Watts and L.A. in
the late 40's/ early 50's is excellent (I was there).

The movie wasn't great, but way above ordinary, and I'd love to see a
reprise with Washington and Cheadle.
  
<|_=00=_|>

If you are looking for a great crime film...this is the movie for you.  It
doesn't have all the complicated twists and turns of other movies such as
"The Usual Suspects" but it still serves a movie that keeps your attention
the old fashioned way, reveal a piece of information but don't tell all of
it.  Denzel does a good job and Don Cheadle gives a great performance as
Mouse.  I hope the rest of Walter Mosley's books become films because if
this is any indication of how the rest will be made.

<|_=00=_|>
Devil in a Blue Dress (1995)

I wanted to like this movie. A good friend pressed it forward as a
belated view of the black noir experience, and there was such truth
that the urban black world hadn't seen any attention in the classic
noir days (post-War) I had to watch it.

But this is more belated than anything. It's loaded with clichés
without really moving them anywhere new (and a stale cliché is really
deadening). The director AND screenwriter, Carl Franklin, is relatively
untested—he's done a bunch of t.v. stuff, an African-American with
talent as an a actor but a little stretched here, I think. The star
does his best to hold it together, none other than Denzel Washington,
but in fact even he is following old patterns a bit listlessly. This is
really clear when a truly brilliant actor arrives on the scene—Don
Cheadle—and in his moments there is finally a rising up and synthesis
of intentions.

The plot is almost a given—a detective on the outs faces a terrible
crime, and a mysterious woman (call her a femme fatale if you want, but
she's too plastic to work for me). He is hounded by a white man (or
two) with truly dubious or evil intentions that he can't quite
decipher. Until it really gets out of his control. 

The book is here is by the much lauded author Walter Mosley, and I only
discovered this today (I saw them movie innocently). And I've read one
or two things by Mosley and actually found the same problem as the
movie: lots of tropes and worn out problems approached in the same old
way. Except with black characters.

Now this may be naive, but I think in fact the world of urban Blacks
and their crime worlds in mid-Century America is really really ripe for
some serious fictional writing. Something without myth making. There
must be a black Bogart or Mitchum type out there for those inclined.
There's another problem, though, looking back and wishing we had better
movies about certain things than we did. Maybe that's just the way it
was, and we need new movies about new things, not re-hashed themes that
only half make up for what might have been. Or not. We weren't there,
and we never can be.

So all good intentions aside, give this movie a skeptical look. It's
well enough made and has some tightly made moments, but as a whole it
flounders and lacks one of the basics—originality.
