
I had just gotten done seeing the movie Fight Club when a relative of
mine said " If you like that movie, you'll like Primal Fear." I didn't
believe him, because I had believed that Fight Club was the best movie
on the face of the planet. Well, he just so happened to have a copy of
Primal Fear with him. I watched it and was amazed. I was speechless.The
movie has so many twists! I was convinced that it was one of the best
movies I had ever seen. Gere's performance is average. I say this
because it seems that in many movies he plays the same cocky character.
Linney's monologue in the courtroom is mesmerizing . It was just great.
And Norton? Well this may be one of his best performances ever. The
fact that this was made during the starting of his acting career was
unbelievable. It was a great film and Edward norton does an excellent
job
<|_=00=_|>

Outstanding thriller on par with "The Usual Suspects", "Primal Fear" is an
impressive film about one lawyer's (Richard Gere) yearning for the
spotlight.  He gets his wish after an archbishop is brutally murdered in
Chicago.  It appears that choir boy Edward Norton (in his first film,
Oscar-nominated) is the killer, but there is more to this case than meets
the eye.  In the end, Gere is going to learn that what he thinks he wants
(fame and fortune) is not all that great because of what he has had to go
through to get there.  "Primal Fear" was one of the more interesting films
of 1996, but was ignored by almost everyone.  Richard Gere does some of his
best work ever.  Laura Linney, John Mahoney, Alfre Woodard, and Frances
McDormand are all good in supporting roles.  However, it is Edward Norton
who proved to be the discovery of the 1990s.  He keeps the audience on their
toes and he adds depth and emotion to a film that would have looked much
different if he had not been in it.  4.5 out of 5 stars. 

<|_=00=_|>

It's not often that viewers get a chance to watch a star being born - that
a
talented
unknown actor's performance that is so spectacular it leads to the A-list
in
one role
is rare: Julia Roberts in Pretty Woman, Brad Pitt in Thelma & Louise to
name
a recent
few. But Edward Norton's turn as the "defendant/victim" in Primal Fear is
one of
those "Wow" moments that leaves the audience salivating for his next
performance.
In this feature debut, Norton outdistances his role, as does Richard Gere,
in a
resurrection no less impressive than Norton's star-making turn.
Heretofore,
Gere has
specialized in assorted intelligent professional cad roles. Here, he gets
a
chance to
inhabit one that not only wears his dubious character on his sleeve, but
wears it,
drives it, drinks it... revels in it. Yeah, sure somewhere there's a heart
of gold, but like
his client, the layers on top serve him better, and the heart of gold is
tarnished. Gere
is at his peak, comfortably, cheerfully inhabiting the role.

Laura Linney deserves extra credit for often being the ice-queen foil
which
propels
the two male characters' development; her own character is rather
one-
dimensional, but she herself squeezes as much dazzle as she can from it.
Even
though everyone else obviously falls for whatever Gere's Vail purrs into
their ears,
it's merely enough time for Linney's Janet to get a drag on her ubiquitous
cigarette;
another step in what will (hopefully) someday be film's love affair with
her. Wasted,
sadly, are fine character actors like John Mahoney, Steven Bauer, Maura
Tierney &
Andre Braugher who could have lit up the screen had they not been handed
scripts
with generic character stereotypes.

See it to watch the ascension of Norton and Gere.
<|_=00=_|>
I was convinced that "Primal Fear" would be the type of courtroom drama
that Hollywood seems to use to pave the streets with. You know what I
mean: Someone gets wrongly accused of some mischief, he can't pay a
lawyer, but of course there is one who is really interested in the case
and he is prepared to defend the poor guy anyway. The defender finds
some wholes in the police investigation or in the statement of the
other party and knows to prove the innocence of his client and even get
a big indemnity. Well, I was wrong, for once this was a courtroom drama
that had a bit more to offer than the usual story line and twists. In
fact, this was even a very enjoyable movie.

Even though I'm not really a fan of Richard Gere (I'm not a woman, so
no I don't like him because the way he looks, I only look at his
acting), I have to admit that this time he really did a very good job
as the slick, media-friendly, arrogant lawyer Martin Vail. Still, in my
opinion the real star in this movie is Edward Norton. He's really
excellent as the altar boy who is accused of murdering a Catholic
bishop. 

For once the story isn't as predictable as usual. At first the case
seems rather clear: an altar boy is running away from the home of the
bishop, with blood all over his clothes. No doubt about it you think,
he did it, case closed, next movie! But than the first interesting
twist in the movie appears: Yes, he was at the murder scene, but he
can't remember anything about the grisly murder, because at that exact
moment he got a blackout. He's convinced that there was a third person
in the room. That third person must have killed the bishop, he's
innocent. His lawyer tries to prove the third man theory in the court
room, but as the process comes nearer to the end, some new evidence
will make everything a lot clearer and more interesting...

As I already said, this movie is more than just worth a watch, thanks
to the rather innovative story line and characters. For once, this
movie didn't annoy me more than I could ever like it. That's already
worth a lot, so I give it a well deserved 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
In this strong, twisting court room crime drama thriller, a young
Edward Norton shines with this performance that makes the movie a
strong, unsettling movie. The dynamic tension between Richard Gere and
Laura Linney lends to the underlying swirling dance of political and
emotional turmoil that lies beneath the surface of District Attorney
and high-profile attorney Gere. While by today's standards (2006) the
storyline is now pretty typical, it retains a resonance because of the
plot and storyline as well as the acting. Still, the edges of the movie
are almost too polished. Some of the technical matters overlooked.
Alfre Woodard has a credible role as the courtroom judge and Frances
McDormand provides a decent hand as a psychologist (though this key
role was a bit weak in comparison to the rest of the movie in terms of
the crucial nature that it plays). Gere's tangled relationship with his
own team is also fascinating to watch though again a bit torn and
tattled with a few lose ends but the supporting cast does well.
Overall, this is a solid courtroom crime drama with a nice ripping
ending. Eight out of Ten Stars.
<|_=00=_|>
Although Richard Gere has one of his juiciest roles in Primal Fear, the
best performance by far is that of Edward Norton who got the film's
only Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor in a stunning debut
picture. It's the kind of debut that any player would like to make and
the trick is to keep up a high standard you've already set for
yourself. Which Norton to his credit certainly has in his career.

But as to Gere he plays Martin Vail, a top criminal defense attorney
who will let everyone know it if they haven't figured it out. It's a
tricky part because a guy this arrogant has to maintain some kind of
surface likability or else you'd never believe he'd ever win a case in
front of a jury. As for movie viewers they must have a rooting interest
for him as well. But Gere's definitely a guy who they make lawyer jokes
about.

A young altar boy has murdered the archbishop of Chicago, a mush mouth
kid with a Kentucky twang played by Edward Norton. He's part of a choir
of street kids that the Chicago archdiocese shows off on many an
occasion. It was a particularly brutal murder, multiple stabbings and
the carving of a cryptic message in the chest of the deceased.

Gere makes no bones about it, he's wanting this case because of the
headlines it will bring him. But when F. Lee Bailey or Johnnie Cochran
offers to defend you for nothing, you don't ask questions. 

Which brings us to Norton who has you might have gathered is not all he
seems. He's a street kid and he's used to getting over on people
himself. It's one of the darkest characters ever done on screen, maybe
a bit too dark for Academy tastes. That might have been the reason that
Cuba Gooding beat out Norton for Best Supporting Actor with his much
lighter role in Jerry Maguire.

One in this film you will notice are Laura Linney as the Assistant
District Attorney who Gere was once involved with and is getting a lot
of pressure to bring in a guilty verdict for understandable political
reasons. I also liked Alfre Woodard as the very patient judge at
Norton's trial and Frances McDormand as the psychiatrist who examines
Norton.

If you think you've figured out what's behind Primal Fear, rest assured
you haven't from this description. Let's just say everyone gets good
and played here.

Which brings to mind the dedication for this review. Gere's attorney
character is likable, but arrogant. Back in the day I knew an attorney
who was arrogant without any real reason for the arrogance. He'd love
to have been Richard Gere, I'm sure he saw himself that way. So to you
Ron D'Angelo this review is dedicated to.
<|_=00=_|>
Primal Fear is how Ed Norton left is mark to show that he is an acting
force to go up ahead. Not only did he prove that he can run with the
big dogs like Richard Gere but have the ability to play the audience
like a piano. Primal Fear is a solid, courtroom drama that involves a
hot shot defence lawyer who loves being the centre of attention and
Richard Gere does a good job of being cool, cocky, suave and letting us
know he can't lose. However he has his work cut out for him when he
meets a young, geeky alter boy who has been involved of the murder of
the priest and the game unfolds as he is up against a lot of big-wigs
including his ex-girlfriend who happens to be the prosecution lawyer.
Although by this time , the film would appear to be dated but the
performances from the cast still make this well worth viewing. For
those who enjoy court room drama's and thrillers.

PRIMAL FEAR - 8.1 OUT 10 

FOR NOW THIS IS THE SHADOWMAN, WISHING YOU GOOD LUCK AND GOODNIGHT !
<|_=00=_|>
My fiancée suggested I watch this, and when we found it for sale at a
good price, we bought it right away. I must say, this is a marvelous
and quite well-crafted film. The acting is top-notch all the way. Gere
manages to make us care about a type of person that few like. O'Quinn
is somewhat underused, as he is a magnificent actor, but apart from
that, everyone gets a good chance to perform well, and they all live up
to it. I would have to say that I now have a completely new-found
respect for Norton... and I had a great deal of respect for him before
even knowing of this movie. The plot is well-written and has good
layers to it, especially for a movie of two hours(running time does put
quite a limitation on the level of detail and intricacy of the plot).
The pacing is really good, the movie never moves neither too fast nor
too slowly. This is the second film I've seen that was directed by
Gregory Hoblit... and the second that I've really, really liked(both
have received 8's by yours truly, and very deservedly so), so I will
most definitely keep an eye out for any future works by the man. I
haven't read the book of the same title that this is based on, so I
can't comment on how accurate and true to the tone this film is. I urge
anyone intending to watch this to steer clear of any spoilers on it,
because the plot is too good to ruin. I won't detail it here, I'll just
say that the film has many court-room scenes, and deals with a very
violent crime(and it's not the only occurrence in the film of a violent
nature). For that same reason, since it is depicted graphically in the
film(but not too much... there was nothing gratuitous about it), I urge
anyone who believes they may not be able to handle seeing such to
consider if they should watch it or not. There is also quite a bit of
language, as well as a brief scene of sexual nature, so if such bother
you, you may want to watch a censored version, if you are interested in
seeing it. I recommend this very warmly to any fan of court-room dramas
and thrillers. If you enjoy an engaging and involving thriller with
surprises, this is the movie for you. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
*****SPOILER ALERT***** I was surprised looking at the IMDb top 250
movies that "Primal Fear" isn't among them while the more elaborately
made and overrated thriller "The Usual Subjects" is listed as #17 among
the all time best in motion picture history. Both movies have
narratives that build up to a shocking and surprising ending but the
movie "Primal Fear's" ending fits right in with the story that it's
presenting and doesn't take anything away from it. While at the same
time when you see the movie again for any clues for the surprise ending
as hard as you try you can't find them because the ending was, in the
true sense of the word, a total surprise.

"Primal Fear" is really one of those movies that has a good story that
builds up the suspense level with acting and directing and delivers a
shocking ending. The film climax not only stuns the audience but makes
total sense and doesn't take away anything from the story that you saw
up to that point when it hits you. Where as "The Usual Suspects"
surprise ending seems totally contrived and completely negates the
story that you were seeing up to the part that you were hit by it that
the movie plot that you were watching becomes utterly senseless.

Marty Vail, Richard Gere, is one of Chicago's top defense attorneys who
likes to take on high-profile cases for a hefty fee or Pro-Bono as long
as it gets him publicity and embellishes his already envious
reputation. Marty also believes that everybody no matter how repulsive
their crime, which there accused of deserves to be defended to the
utmost of his ability. One morning in a bar watching the TV Vail sees a
live news report of the police chasing down a young man who is reported
to have murdered a very powerful and popular man from the Catholic
Church Archbishop Richard Rushman, Stanley Anderson. 

Smelling publicity in defending that person, if he's not killed by the
police or ends up killing himself, Vail uses his connections to get on
the case defending him. At the jail-house talking to the young man
Aaron Stampler, Edward Norton, he finds out that he's a 19 year-old
altar boy at the church that the Archbishop was in charge of. Stampler
tells him that he blacked out, lost time as he puts it, when he came
into the Archbishops office when he heard that there was someone else
there. Stampler blacked out but when he woke up from his unconscious
state he found himself covered with blood and the Archbishop was dead!
Seeing that he just panicked and ran. 

The state wants the death penalty for Stampler and assigned to
prosecute the case Janet Venable, Laura Linney, who once had an affair
with Marty Vail and is very surprised that Vail is handling the case
for Stampler's defense. Before he's to go on trial when Stampler is
examined by a defense paid psychiatrist Dr. Molly Arrington, Frances
McDormand. It's then discovered that he has a split personality and is
not in control of himself when his other self takes over his mind and
he becomes "Roy", a completely different and violent person! Marty Vail
later also finds this out the hard and brutal way about Stampler's
condition by being banged around by "Roy". 

It's determined by Dr. Arrington that Sampler is a very sick person and
should get help in a mental hospital not in a prison but since the
trial is already on Vail can't change the plea from not guilty to
innocent by reason of insanity. Vail later finds out that Stampler was
sexually abused by the Archbishop by tracking down a video tape with
the Archbishop having Stampler and other altar boys and girls engage in
sexual activities while he watched. The tape would not only be very
embarrassing to the church but to a lot of high powerful people in the
city and state government if it were released.

Vail sends a copy of the tape to the prosecutor, Miss. Venable, so it
would force her to use it at the trial. At the trial State Prosecutor
Venable has the tape played,to the total shock of those in the
courtroom, to show that Stampler had cause and reason to murder the
Archbishop. Just as Vail expected, by releasing the tape to Venable,
the case starts to backfire against her. It's then when Vail puts Aaron
Stampler on the stand to be cross-examined by Miss. Venable who
aggressive and belligerently questions him on the archbishops murder he
goes completely berserk. "Roy" takes over Aaron's mind and attacks
Miss. Venable and almost ends up breaking her neck. Everybody decides,
the Judge as well as the prosecution, that Stampler is insane and not
responsible for his actions and drops the murder case against him. I's
agreed that he needs to be in a mental hospital and not in a state
prison ;but the story is not over for the movies shocking and
surprising ending is just about to happen. 

One of the best crime/court dramas ever made with outstanding
performances by, of course, Edward Norton, Richard Gere, Laura Linney
and everyone else involved with the acting in the movie. Don't miss
seeing it you won't be disappointed, you'll be rewarded with one of the
best crime/court dramas and surprise ending movies of all time.
<|_=00=_|>
PRIMAL FEAR is a good old-fashioned thriller with a modern twist. The
plot concerns an altar boy accused of killing a clergyman who molested
him and a sleazy lawyer who sees a chance to make tabloid news by
taking the case. What he doesn't know is that his client can be just as
cunning as he is.

RICHARD GERE seemed to specialize in playing these kind of low-down
heels (typecasting does have its perils), and LAURA LINNEY as the
prosecuting lawyer has her hands full trying to play a game of
one-upmanship against him during an intense courtroom trial.

The story ends on a chilling note, thanks largely to the clever,
intense and totally convincing performance ED NORTON gives in his film
debut. As the guy who seems to have a devious split personality driving
him to do bad things, he's the kind of actor who makes the audience sit
up and take notice of his abrupt mood changes. It's no wonder he pulls
the wool over so many eyes.

Having said that, it's the climax of the film that is most stunning and
brings the story to a totally unexpected conclusion. It's the kind of
chilling twist that only the most clever scriptwriters can devise and
make seem probable--but it succeeds here.

Summing up: The kind of film you'll want to revisit once you know the
whole score. Gere, Linney and Norton deserve high praise.
