

We all know how legendary The Doors were and still are, and sooner or later
someone was going to make a film about them. Might as well be Oliver Stone.
Given the subject matter, Stone was able to go off the deep end with his
imagery here to the point of making one have an epileptic seizure OR think
they just dropped some acid. Either way, it's great to watch in my
book.

The film is flawed in that it's not titled correctly. It's not about The
Doors, it's about Jim Morrison and basically just the wild and crazy side of
him. That's ok I guess, Morrison was The Doors. Many have criticized Stone
for not depicting Jim in the proper light, but given how many people knew
him it had to be an almost impossible task to please everyone as everyone
knew him differently. I think we all can attest to this through the
friendships we have with our friends. Some know us as one way, and some know
us as another. I respect Stone for trying and feel sorry for him about the
flak people have given him as I know he is a very talented director. I think
his intentions were spawned out of true admiration and that he made this
film for himself and to pay tribute, and not to win any awards. More of this
can be found on the Special Edition DVD from Stone himself.

Even if one does not enjoy the trippy qualities of the film such as I do, or
any part for that matter, one could not avoid admitting how well Val Kilmer
portrays Morrison. It's simply amazing and is one of the best performances
that I can bring to mind, and is the best example of how to literally become
someone else, bar none. He doesn't act like he's Jim Morrison, he becomes
Jim Morrison. He is Jim Morrison. This is no doubt helped by the uncanny
facial similarities the two have. Not only that, most of the singing that's
in the film was done by Kilmer himself and even a few of the original band
members admitted that they honestly could not tell the difference between
their two voices. Even if you hate Val Kilmer, this performance jumps in
your face and screams for respect while trying to strangle
you.

As mentioned earlier, some do not like the film for several reasons. One is
that it makes Jim look like a monster and that it only glorifies his wild
and uninhibited behavior. Two is that it's basically just one big acid trip
into bits of history about the band. For one, Oliver Stone said it
best....when you have to condense a person's life, a legend at that, into
two measly hours you must take the highlights. Everyone lives longer than
two hours, even Jim. We all know Jim was crazy, and with so many of the
insane stories Stone heard while trying to piece together the script for
this, a lot of what he heard was simply what you see. The wild and crazy
side. As a result, what we're left with is not an accurate depiction of The
Doors or of Jim Morrison. It is entertaining, yes, but it is not accurate. I
think it could have been done perfectly, but it would have been
excruciatingly difficult...and still not everyone would like it. And as far
as the trippiness of the film, well that's Oliver Stone for you. We saw the
same thing in Natural Born Killers a few years later. I personally like the
style of it and felt that it was in place here but that's just my opinion.
The '60's, drugs, and rock and roll equals trippy.

Overall a decent attempt at one of the most difficult subjects to cover,
legends. And even though it's not entirely accurate and even though Morrison
is one of my idols and he deserved a little better, I do enjoy the film
greatly. The film should have been named Pandora's Box.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is truly a gem.  The Doors is easily the best film of the rock
n'
roll genre and at least one of the most important films of its era.
Though
I am not an Oliver Stone fan I must give credit where it is due.  Stone
really does a terrific job with this film, and shows what he is capable of
when he actually knows about the subject he is attempting to comment on.
A
few of the scenes in the film are almost exact recreations of actual
events.
However, the magnificent thing about this film is that it manages to
recreate a certain amount of reality while simultaneously realizing that
for
a film to possess its own vitality it must transcend the preexisting
reality, move beyond the surface, beyond everything that is obvious, and
express and explore something deeper.  Val Kilmer delivers a powerful
performance in which he almost seems to be channeling the energy of Jim
Morrison, and though I've seen many of Meg Ryan's films this is the only
one
I can recollect where she does such a good job that she makes you really
forget about her and focus on the character.  The cinematography of the
film
by Robert Richardson (Platoon, Wall Street, Born on The Fourth of July,
Natural Born Killers, Casino, Bringing out the Dead, and many more) is
bold
and unique making the film one of the most distinct visual films I've ever
seen.  This film is truly one of a kind, and breaks through into new
cinematic territory, giving priority to the visual aspects of the film in
an
era where there are so few films that even give much consideration to the
single most important aspect of the motion picture.  The genius of this
film
is that it is visual-audio as opposed to audio-visual and is more
concerned
with expressing something than simply impressing the audience.  The Doors
is
a refreshing cinematic breakthrough in an era in which cinema seems all
but
forgotten.
<|_=00=_|>
My eyes were closed until autumn 1995, when channel 5 in Sweden showed
The Doors. I taped it and didn't think too much of it in the beginning.
The only thing I knew about The Doors was their song "Light my fire".

A friend of mine, who borrowed the film from me, told me he liked the
"cave" scene and the music in it. I myself liked the scene where Jim
climbs up to Pam's balcony. That was pretty much it. But then I noticed
the song "love street" which is played in the beginning, and then I
realized that the guitar intro to "The end" wasn't that bad. After that
I bought the soundtrack and now I was pretty much hooked. I put my
eurodisco records on a shelf and became a "rock'n roller", and Jim was
my role model. My relationship to Jim Morrison is actually the closest
to being a gay that I will ever be.

The best part of the film are the opening thirty minutes, where Jim
"quits" his film class on UCLA, follows Pam home from the beach and
takes her out on a night walk, rehearses with the band and "Light my
fire" is introduced. Too bad we never get to see the band being formed.
I love that story, when Jim meets Ray on the beach and that
conversation leads up to Jim singing "Moonlight drive". This scene is
also one of few which shows the real Jim Morrison, but I will get back
to that later. Around this time, Jim meets his girlfriend with whom he
stayed until he died. 

After half an hour, the movie takes on in a different direction. It is
from now on, a very dark movie. This is for a reason, and the reason is
that Oliver wants the audience to see everything through Jim's eyes.
The result is that some scenes are very surreal and after a while you
may think that Oliver Stone himself took some acid before shooting
them.

The negative side of the film, which have made many people upset, is
the way Jim Morrison is presented. Jim is high or/and drunk in nearly
every scene he appears in, and since the movie is shown through his
angle the result is the surrealism and spaced-out scenes. "Jimbo" has
unfortunately a bigger part than Jim. (See the movie and you'll know
what I mean.)

I have read practically every book there is to read about The Doors,
including the one named "light my fire", written by the organist Ray
Manzarek. This guy isn't too happy with the movie. I see his point but
at the same time, he confirms in the book that most of the things in
the movie has actually happened; the back against the audience, the Ed
Sullivan sequence where Jim sings the word "higher" on national
television, the TV-throwing in the studio. Other things could never
happen or are just simply wrong; the Andy Warhole-party where Jim is
abandoned by the rest of the band (something that true friends would
never do to one another), Jim's student project (his movie didn't look
like that at all), Jim's red mustang (Jim had a blue mustang which he
actually called "the blue lady").

Oliver Stone focuses the movie on the wrong things. Sure, Jim Morrison
was a pothead, but he was also a very intelligent, sensitive, friendly
and funny person. This is far from the picture most people have of him
after seeing the movie. But if you know this, and just want some Rock'n
roll in your life you will like the movie anyway. Another strange thing
is that Oliver Stone has said that he loved Jim and wanted the movie to
be a sort of homage to him!? Some homage. So the film is great, however
it is not the real story of Jim Morrison. The only time we see the
sensitive side of Jim is when he turns down an early offer from a
record company man who tells him to "drop those guys". 

The music numbers are the scenes that impresses me the most. The
choreography, the lighting of the stage, and, above all, the fact that
Val Kilmer actually sings all the songs by himself. Look at the "Not to
touch the earth" sequence and you'll know what I mean.

And now we come to the best thing with this movie. The ONE thing that
made me buy it and watch it about 30 times after that. That thing is
Val Kilmer. An actor who hadn't made anything spectacular before this
and haven't really done anything after it. He was born to do this part.
It isn't the real Jim, but an alternative Jim who you kind of love to
hate. But now I'm only talking about the personality. Kilmer walks
like, talks like, sings like, and above all looks like Jim. And some
looks. What wouldn't I give to have that hair or that wardrobe. 

Besides Kilmer, there are many more great and well-known actors in this
movie; Mimi Rogers, Michael Wincott, Josie Bissett, Crispin Glover,
Kathleen Quinlan (who plays the very true character Patricia Keneally),
and one of the few actors that I can't stand; Michael Madsen. Also,
some artists gone acting; Billy Idol, Swedens own Eagle-Eye Cherry
(whose scene were cut out from the final film), and if my eyes aren't
lying to me; Billy Vera. And oh yeah, I almost forgot: MEG RYAN (arrr).

Also, do not forget to check out the cool end credits, with fast
speeding pictures of night time L.A, being played to "L.A woman".

I now see that channel four is showing "Wall Street". Very appropriate
way to spend the rest of this evening, don't you think? Of course, it
can't be compared to The Doors but nevertheless!
<|_=00=_|>
Watching Oliver Stone's The Doors can be at times a frustrating
experience. Considering the central figure in the film is pretty much
always drunk or stoned or both the entire plot seems to unfold in a bit
of a haze. Those watching the film may come away feeling a little
stoned themselves. Yet through the drug and alcohol-fueled haze this
film does have a lot to recommend it. Most notably it has one of the
most stunningly brilliant acting performances you could ever hope to
see. Val Kilmer, playing Jim Morrison, is simply perfect in the role.
It sounds clichéd but Kilmer really seems to become Morrison. The
physical resemblance is eerie and their voices are so similar it is
fairly impossible when listening to the film's soundtrack to figure out
when exactly you're hearing Morrison and when you're hearing Kilmer.
Tracing Morrison's journey from shy, reserved youth to manic,
drugged-out rock god the performance by Kilmer is mesmerizing
throughout.

As good as Kilmer is you can't help but feel that his performance
deserved to be surrounded by a better film. The film might as well have
been titled "Morrison" because it is much more the story of one man
than it is the story of his band. And therein lies much of the problem
because while Kilmer is undeniably terrific, Morrison, at least as he
is portrayed in this film, is not a very sympathetic character. That
shy, quiet guy we see on the beach at the film's beginning becomes a
bit of a monster, at times almost completely unlikable. And since the
film revolves entirely around Morrison it makes the film often hard to
embrace. Many would argue that Morrison was unfairly portrayed here,
not nearly as mean-spirited and hot-tempered as we are led to believe.
The truth probably lies somewhere in between but the fact remains that
in this film it is very hard to embrace Jim Morrison and as such it is
very hard to completely embrace the film.

With the focus almost completely on Kilmer's Morrison the rest of the
cast comes off as little more than bit players. Kyle MacLachlan as
keyboardist Ray Manzarek has the most to do amongst the remaining band
members and his performance is fine but it really gets swallowed up by
the ever-present and always center stage Morrison. Meg Ryan, playing
Morrison's longtime companion Pamela Courson, is allowed only to react
to Morrison's antics and never establishes a character and identity of
her own. Even when stoned out of her mind, as everybody in this film
always seems to be, Pamela comes across as the wholesome girl next door
who is, well, rather dull. Kathleen Quinlan has a more memorable turn
as another woman in Morrison's life, Patricia Kennealy, who is anything
but dull. But again her character is there only to serve Jim. It's
always about Jim. Nobody could deny that Jim Morrison was the most
captivating figure in The Doors. But as the film unfolds and you watch
Morrison stumble from one stupor to the next you'll probably wish we
could have spent a little more time with some of the other characters.
This film version of Jim Morrison is a hard guy to love.

So in the end what are we left with? You get one awe-inspiring,
magnificent performance but that performance overshadows everything
else going on in the film. You get a fascinating life story but one
that unfortunately proceeds mostly in a frustrating drug-induced haze.
You certainly get a tremendous soundtrack with all of The Doors' most
notable songs. Well, most of them anyway. There seems to be a real yin
and yang with this movie. There is plenty that is very good about it,
but all that is good seems to be balanced out by something which
frustrates. Jim Morrison led an extraordinary life but this film which
tells his tale ends up being rather ordinary.
<|_=00=_|>
This is just a sampling of the lyrics that singer/writer Jim Morrison
contributed to his group The Doors, and just this, as part of his epic
piece "The Celebration of the Lizard" shows his skill as a master of
the written word. He is shown in Oliver Stone's The Doors as a shy,
though often obnoxious and crude, persona who self describes himself in
one scene: "I think of myself as a sensitive, intelligent human being,
but with the soul of a clown that forces me to blow it at the most
crucial of moments." He may have blown it in the end, but it makes for
a fascinating story.

As being a Doors fan, the music and words are the best character of the
movie- the songs represent feelings and emotions, desires and hatreds,
and other facets of life in the late 60's, are indispensable gems of
rock and blues. While the Doors recorded only six albums together (not
counting American Prayer, Morrison's awesome feat of an album) each one
is still transfixed into the minds of people all over the world. It's
thirty-two years since the king died, but in another thirty-two he will
still be remembered. And that is a fact that Stone plays with like
Travis Bickle in front of the mirror with his guns in Taxi Driver. He
reveals only Morrison's known persona, and not the quiet moments. The
concert recreations are grand, but there isn't more of the sweet Jim
(one glimpse of such a Jim is seen at a birthday party when he gives
out gifts as "Chief Mojo Risin)

What is shown is splendid enough for his abilities- he paints a vivid
picture of Los Angeles 1965 onward, with Val Kilmer in the second best
acting job of 1991 (deserved of an Oscar nomination), and puts Jim in
the middle. He is a man who is fascinated with death, with man's wills
to power, and how life gets painful without the chemicals top open the
mind. Kilmer gets so much into your head in this film that by the end
you'll love him, hate him, or feel wonder about him. I felt wonder
about him, wonder why he looked to heroes who gave him such ideas about
the love of death, wonder why he felt the need to take it to the
limits. 

But his desires are Stone's as well, and while this isn't a perfect
film, it's one that isn't easily forgotten. A+
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Morrison wrote many of the Doors songs and was a complete drunk by
the time he died in 1971. This film depicts Morrison in a very one
sided view. Yes he was an alcoholic with a disregard for authority, yes
he was on self destruct mode and burnt out quickly reaffirming the
James Dean "Live fast Die young" motif. But what is missing from
Stone's depiction of him was his great intellect,his absurd humour and
his natural talent as a composer and vocalist. However it is a
wonderfully visual film that takes the viewers on a hallucinogenic ride
through drug hazed Los Angeles in the late 60's. It was the first of
many films that Stone created in the 90's using an almost dream like
quality to evoke the feeling of the turbulent times.

Although this picture is not a 100% accurate account of who or what Jim
Morrison was it is still very engaging and enjoyable. A good place for
someone who is new to the Doors to start.
<|_=00=_|>

Utterly absorbing bio-pic of Jim Morrison. The name Val Kilmer is, or should
be, synonymous with incredible acting that is not merely natural or
convincing, but immensely fun and commanding. You may have noticed while
watching his recent Wonderland - Val has the ability to make a picture.
Here, he IS The Doors: The Movie. There, he WAS Wonderland. I am
exaggerating, i suppose. For Oliver Stone has crafted a marvellous film
which makes you feel like you've experienced what the sixties were like.
Through using The Doors actual music (what was missing from the recent
Sylvia, the art of the subject itself - her poetry) to help tell its story
and colour its scenes, and filmic techniques to create the drug-induced
world vision of Jim Morrison, Stone really takes you into the world of his
movie, and the world of the sixties.

This movie made me appreciate what an exciting experience The Doors were,
and has actually cultivated love in me for their music. I didn't realise
they had more than one classic: Light my Fire, The End, People are Strange,
Love her Madly, Break on Through to the Other Side, Riders on the Storm,
Touch Me, Roadhouse Blues (Let it roll, baby roll) and probably more i'm yet
to discover.

For a better recreation of what Andy Warhol's factory actually felt like,
see I Shot Andy Warhol. Crispin Glover actually looks more like Andy than
the guy who plays him in "I Shot," but the guy in I Shot much better
captured Andy's vagueness and almost unconsciousness while in conversation.
This, however, is but three minutes in the movie and has no effect on it as
a whole.

Oliver Stone has an amusing cameo: a young film student, Jim Morrison, shows
his short film to his class, who are uncouth and disparaging about it, after
which camera pans to reveal Oliver Stone standing at the lecturn,
(obviously, playing the film professor), who says: "Why don't we ask the
author what he thinks?"
<|_=00=_|>
Although less popular now, Jim Morrison was an American pop culture
icon during the late 1960s. He liked to refer to himself as "Mr. Mojo
Risin", an anagram of his name. Oliver Stone's film "The Doors" is
mostly about Morrison ... his rise to stardom in the 1960s, his
personality, and his mysterious death in 1971.

Influenced in childhood by American Indians, Morrison grew up
fascinated with Indian Shamanism, elements of which he would later
infuse into his poetry and music while hanging out in the mid 60s in
the hip areas of Los Angeles. Here he would meet musician Ray Manzarek
(Kyle MacLachlan). Along with two other band members, the group would
form "The Doors", a name Morrison borrowed from the title of Aldous
Huxley's book on drug use and enlightenment, called "The Doors Of
Perception". During this time Morrison comes across as sensitive, shy,
poetic, and an idealistic dreamer. The film's first hour is quite good.
We get some insights into Jim's early years, and we get to hear some of
that great music, like "Riders On The Storm", and "Light My Fire".

The film's second half is less interesting. Morrison himself has
changed, as a result of his celebrity status. His narcissism, his
boozing and drug use, have turned his world into chaos, which is
evident in a couple of staged concert events, one in New Haven, the
other in Miami. The amount of time that Oliver Stone spends on these
noisy, chaotic events is excessive. Some of that could have been edited
out.

As with most Stone films, the cinematography in "The Doors" is
excellent, and includes some early CGI. Val Kilmer is a great choice to
play the part of Morrison. And Kathleen Quinlan is good as Patricia,
the seductive witch. The film's images at the cemetery in Paris,
together with Gothic background music, make for a haunting finale.

Stone's movie is not to be taken in a literal sense. Rather, it is
suggestive of the complex mix of personal and cultural forces that
interacted to create a pop culture legend. As a byproduct of this
cinematic tribute, the viewer gets to see how the late 1960s really
were, with the art deco, the hippie lingo, and all that hostility that
existed in society. The film thus counters the political revisionism
that later decades have assigned to that period. As such, "The Doors"
complements and reinforces other films of that era which also "tell it
like it really was": "Medium Cool", "Easy Rider", "Alice's Restaurant",
and "Zabriskie Point", to name a few.

Despite a noisy, irksome second half, "The Doors" is an intriguing film
about an intriguing historical figure. Mr. Mojo Risin's "style" may
have died with the times. But Jim Morrison, himself, lives on ... as
legend.
<|_=00=_|>
Val Kilmer did a great job portraying Jim Morrison. He brings you into
the spiraling life of Jim Morrison and back to the days of sex, drugs,
and rock and roll.

Throughout the movie you see what made Jim Morrison tick, and get to
hear some great music along the way. The cinematography during his drug
induced hallucinations is well done and helps pull you into Morrison;s
life. Definitely a movie you can sit and watch more than once and one
you can enjoy whatever age you are.

Whether you were a dedicated Mossison fan or have never followed him,
this movie is entertaining on it's face. The fact that the movie
portrays the real life of a rock and roll legend, makes the movie that
much more interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
The Doors is unapologetically a film about sex, drugs, and rock n'
roll. For 140 minutes we follow Doors singer Jim Morrison from his days
as an aspiring film student at UCLA to his death in Paris in 1970 at
the age of 27. Writer-director Oliver Stone based the story of the film
on some 150 transcripts detailing the life and character of Morrison.
The result is far from flattering. The Doors paints a picture of a man
enamored with death, his own inevitable demise more a relief than an
agony.

Death stalks Morrison wherever he goes from a young age. As a child
driving through the New Mexico desert with his family, Morrison happens
across the site of a car accident littered with dead and dying Navahos.
We watch the young Morrison endure what seems to be a sort of
possession rite by spirits of the dead natives. Years later he'll
profess to be a shaman and from what we see on screen, he might well
have believed it to be true. Native American spirits dance alongside
Morrison as he sings on stage. Whether these were real or simply an
acid fueled hallucination is left deliberately unclear by Stone.
Likewise, a death-like character (Richard Rutowski) shadows Morrison
throughout his life as a rock singer. Whether this indicates Morrison
saw death as a friend, was actually accompanied by Rutowski (who was a
real life friend of Morrison), or was simply hallucinating remains
ambiguous. What is clear is the following: in his great desire to self
destruct, Morrison drank whiskey like water and spent an inordinate
amount of time on precarious ledges outside Hotel windows thirty
stories up.

Kilmer's performance as Morrison is easily the finest of his career.
Raw, nervy, deliberately off putting and confrontational, moments of
sobriety are few are far between for this insecure egomaniac. At times
I didn't feel as though I was watching a portrayal of a character long
deceased so much as a documentary. From threatening suicide repeatedly
to quarreling constantly with police at concerts, scenes of bad
behavior are many but moments of insight are few and far between. This
doesn't seem a shortcoming on behalf of director Stone so much as an
accurate depiction of the highly acidic Morrison as he truly was; this
was a man who didn't want to be understood. This was an artist on the
constant edge of oblivion; an iconoclast who refused to be loved and
was close to intolerable whenever possible. Of course it's less than a
pleasant experience following the venomous creature that Morrison
became for the film's final hour as he goes from alcohol induced
nervous breakdown to drug fueled indecent exposure, but I for one
appreciate Stone's refusal to Hollywoodize the life and death of
Morrison. Kilmer abandons completely all instinct for self preservation
on screen, submerging himself in a performance that can only be
described as his magnum opus.

Meg Ryan leads the supporting cast as Pamela "Morrison" Courson,
Morrison's longtime lover and common-law wife. Ryan seems lost in the
role but thankfully spends a minimal amount of time on screen as
Morrison was a firm supporter of the "free love" social movement.
Indeed, he spends more time with journalist and witchcraft enthusiast
Patricia Kennealy (Kathleen Quinlan), an amalgam of several Morrison
lovers who suffered through his frequent alcohol and drug induced
impotence. A very fine Michael Madsen is wasted as actor Tom Baker, a
friend of Morrison's whose relationship is grossly underdeveloped. The
only performance among the supporting cast worthy of praise is that of
quirky character actor Crispin Glover in a cameo as Andy Warhol, a
scene that is absolutely spellbinding.

Some may criticize The Doors for glamorizing a life of excess; this
film gives younger viewers the idea that drugs and promiscuous sex are
fun, critics may charge. Those who would are missing the point
entirely. As are those who would interpret this film as the cautionary
tale of a life wasted. Little about the character we view on screen is
glamorous. It seems no accident that Morrison died as he did. This was
a man obsessed with death; his demise seems more a moment of wish
fulfillment than tragedy. My only significant criticism of the film is
that the title is certainly a misnomer; this could have easily been
titled "The Jim Morrison Story" as there is not a single scene on
screen without the eccentric singer while the remaining members of the
band are relegated to obscurity. Call it art imitating life once more.
