
Metro appears to be a low-budget action affair, which whilst it has
nothing new to offer, shows us a different side to Eddie Murphy as an
actor that we hadn't seen before in his previous films. People have in
the past often compared this to Beverly Hills Cop 1, in terms of the
fact that they are both your typical, run- of- the- mill cop movies,
but the comparisons seem to come to an end when you compare that film
to Metro, in terms of plot, character types and the fact that Eddie
Murphy doesn't joke about as negotiator/cop Scott Roaper that often.
Not like his predecessor, Axel Foley. Here, as Roaper he is much more
serious and not as laid back in contrast to his most famous movie
character. Metro plays out as a straight out action movie that isn't
reliant on laughs, which in itself is no bad thing. One of the main
problems that some of the audiences had, in regards to their
expectations of Metro, was by assuming that it would be something
similar on the lines of Beverly Hills Cop. It has its funny moments,
but these are few and far between throughout the film, as the narrative
in Metro is very much serious and the standard cop thriller we'd come
to expect.

Overall, Metro is not a bad effort and the action sequences are well
executed. Murphy gives a surprising turn and performance as Roaper and
thus it makes a change to see him in an almost completely non-comedic
role, which he does well in.

Not bad indeed.
<|_=00=_|>

Metro, starring Eddie Murphy, may well be worth your viewing time. Yes it
got a fair amount of negative reviews from people who wanted to see another
"Nutty Professor" or thought of "Metro" as Murphy trying to play Axel Foley
again. Others had problems with the script, the plot, the pace of the film,
but nobody cared to mention how good Murphy actually is in this. His
character is a San Francisco hostage negotiator, named Scott Roper, who one
day meets his worst enemy in a jewel thief (played wonderfully by Michael
Wincott) who makes his job a nightmare. From that point on a cat & mouse
chase between Murphy & Wincott develops, & plays it's part in a rather
amusing way. I don't want to give a lecture here on this subject, because
movies like "Metro" are just made to entertain the viewer. "Metro" is a
solid action film, with some suspense, some great stunts, and very good
performances from the whole cast. Murphy, in what I think is one of his
better roles, gives us his comedic touch, but this is more of a dramatic,
serious role for him. I saw not Murphy, but Scott Roper, throughout the
whole movie. A sure sign that an actor is doing his job quite well! - Murphy
is superb.
<|_=00=_|>

Perhaps the biggest problem in Eddie Murphy's career always was, that people
expected him to be a fast talking guy whose mouth gets him in and out of
trouble. As soon as he tried to escape that formula, viewers were in for a
disappointment and found his movies below than average.

If you leave that behind, "Metro" is a solid action movie with a couple of
remarkable stunt scenes. It's also very delightful to see that it tries to
leave some of the usual "veteran cop gets rookie partner" routine behind and
playfully mocks some standard suspense elements: you see a young girl in
front of her opened bathroom mirror searching for something. The music
swells. She starts to close it and what does the viewer expect? To see the
face of the killer when the mirror closes. But nada. Those are really
refreshing bits.

Murphy's performance is quite solid, the story is what to expect from an
action movie and refreshed, as I said, by the bits above.

<|_=00=_|>

Eddie Murphy plays a hostage negotiator in San Francisco, he lives a
dangerous life, but he still thinks it´s pretty okay. One thing he doesn´t
think is okay is when his friends gets killed. But that is just what
happens, his best friend is murdered by an evil jewel-thief, and now Murphy
wants revenge. 

The plot in "Metro" did not really impress me when I heard about it. Eddie
Murphy as a comical hostage negotiator... It sounds pretty corny to me, but
it was actually not as bad as it first seemed. The action scenes are well
made, especially the breath taking car chases down the steep streets of San
Francisco. 

But I can´t really say the movie was good. The plot is not very original,
this could actually have been titled "Beverly Hills Cop 4" and no one would
have noticed. Between the action scenes there aren´t very much to write home
about. Murphy is occasionally funny, but he can be really annoying too.

The best thing in "Metro" is definitely the villain, played by the
underrated Michael Wincott. He is truly the perfect bad guy. That rasping
voice, that glance in his eyes, wow! He can make even the simplest villain
into a terrifying monster, which he should be highly praised for. And I
wonder if not this guy holds the record in movie-deaths? I´ve seen Wincott
in about ten movies, and he gets to meet his maker in all of them! I almost
feel sorry for him, but I don´t think he´s complaining too much. If he dies
in "Metro" or not, I´ll let you figure out for yourself.

Back to "Metro" now. If you don´t expect any clever ideas, just some good
action sequences with a silly plot, it´s not that bad. But on the other
hand, not that good either.

* * ½ out of * * * * *

<|_=00=_|>

If you rent this movie thinking it is another Eddie Murphy action-comedy,
you better think again!!!! This movie is STRICTLY an action flick. Of
course, that's not a complaint, it's just a statement. Murphy still is
enjoyable as the hero. He's not playing Axel Foley from the BEVERLY HILLS
COP movies, but he sure seems a lot like him. It also steals elements from
some of his earlier films. In my opinion, this is a guy movie. The women
will probally be bored by the non-stop action and the fact that the only
woman in the movie is Eddie Murphy's girlfriend, but action fans will LOVE
this movie!!!      
<|_=00=_|>
* Brief Spoiler *

It's a breath of fresh air when an action movie these days simply
resorts to the typical clichés and doesn't try to impress the viewer
too much. Twenty years ago this would have been bad. Now, with each and
every movie trying to surpass the last entry into the genre and, for
the most part, ending up as an overblown bore, the standard action
flicks are wanted more than anything.

"Metro" (1997) is just that. It's got some of the oldest tricks in the
books while adding lots of neat stunts and action pieces. Towards the
end, the female love interest of the hero is tied to a metal mechanism
that will slice the girl's head off if the red safety button is not
pressed. The villain lets go, the hero presses the button as quickly as
he can, and moments later the villain returns with a sports car,
driving right towards the hero. If he lets go of the button, the girl's
head comes off. If he doesn't move, though, the villain will run him
over with the car and the girl will die anyway. What's he do?

It's the classic action ideas such as this that help the movie. It
reminded me of those old silent movies where the dastardly villain
would tie a helpless girl to a railroad track, then climb into his
stolen steam train and surge down the track towards her. But "Metro"
also leaves room for car chases and shoot-outs - in one scene, a San
Francisco trolley is hijacked by the bad guy, and the hero pulls up
alongside the trolley in a Cadillac, jumps aboard, fights the villain,
ends up pushing the full speed lever, and ramming the trolley into cars
and right off of its line. It proceeds to scrape along the sloping
road, off its tracks, scraping metal, ramming into everything in its
path.

It reminded me of the car chase in "The Rock," another good action
movie with a visibly larger budget but the same fun quotient as
"Metro," which is "Beverly Hills Cop" meets "The Negotiator," for the
most part.

Action movies always have setups that pay nothing to the movie other
than a character introduction. "Metro" has a great one. We are
introduced to the hero, Roper (Eddie Murphy), who is *not* the film
critic on Ebert & Roeper, the latter of whom I could not get out of my
head every time the name Roper was said on-screen.

Roper is a hostage negotiator. He talks down the bad guys from what
they're doing, and when things get really bad he has to take drastic
action - such as shooting the bad guy in cold blood. Roper does this in
the beginning after a funny and original setup scene, in which he walks
into a building with a bag of donuts. The hostage taker doesn't believe
they're just donuts. "Open the bag!" he says. His hostage takes the
bag, opens it, and shows him donuts. "They're just donuts!" he says.

In another type of action movie, perhaps Roper would have concealed a
gun in the donut bag. Not in "Metro," which pays its respects to the
other action movies such as "Beverly Hills Cop" that helped make Eddie
Murphy what he is today. I read a short review on "Metro" that said
Roper, Eddie Murphy's character, is another loud-mouthed, unlikable
character of the sort that Eddie spoofed with Buddy Love in "The Nutty
Professor." I beg to differ. Sure, he's loud-mouthed, but what Eddie
Murphy character isn't? He's much more likable than some Murphy
characters I can think of off-hand.

I could go into the plot of "Metro," but I'm not sure it really
matters. For the most part, I've got to say it's routine but it has its
little twists and surprising moments along the way. Roper is training a
new kid to take his place some day. The kid is played by Michael
Rapaport, who succeeds in making his character smart and equally
likable. I knew what was going to happen to him. As soon as I saw him I
said, "At the end he'll get shot but he'll survive." Well, it happens.
But for what it's worth, "Metro" is a lot better than I thought it
would be, with some great action sequences, sly humor, likable
characters, and plentiful nods towards the standard action films out
there, some (such as the decapitating machine) dating back to the
adventure films of the silent era.

"Metro" is, in its entirety, a fun movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Scott Roper is a wise cracking hostage negotiator, he is however
exceptionally good at his job. After bringing down a particularly nasty
bank robber called Michael Korda, he sets about winning his old
girlfriend back whilst breaking in a new partner, Kevin McCall. When
Korda escapes from prison there is only one thing on his mind, revenge,
can Roper outwit Korda once again? And if so, at what cost?

There has always seemed to me to be something of a negative bias
towards post 1980s Eddie Murphy (Roper) films, it appears that no
matter what, nothing that comes close to his best 80s efforts will ever
be deemed worthy. Now I'm not saying that Metro is a world beater, or
even close to Beverly Hills Cop and Trading Places, but it's an
accomplished thriller with classy bits of Murphy humour thrown in. It
also boasts splendid support from Michael Rapaport as Roper's
intelligent partner McCall, both men playing off each other to good
effect, while Michael Wincott with his gravel voice used to full
effect, is impressively devilish as the bad guy of the piece. Let down
by a weak female lead in Carmen Ejogo, and certainly the familiarity of
the genre loses the film any real sense of impending dread, but for a
quick fix of nonsense entertainment on a blustery cold night, it's a
more than OK viewing. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Fast talking police negotiator Scott Roper foils a bank robbery and catches
the head thief.  When the thief, Korda, escapes from jail, he comes after
Roper.  Roper meanwhile is trying to juggle his job, his girlfriend and
train a sniper to become a negotiator like him.

This film was made before Nutty Porfessor but was held back because the
makers realesed it was a bit of a dog by itself and decided to wait till
Nutty Professor had made Murphy hot again before riding on that wave.  Sadly
I was one of those fooled into thinking that the hot new Murphy had made a
cool cop thriller.  Rather this is a by the numbers affair that has plenty
of cliches and very little spark to it.

What spark there is, is added by Murphy's motor mouth performance – he is
funny and lively even when the film isn't.  Rapaport is also good despite
everything else and British born Ejogo is good as Murphy's girlfriend. 
Wincott's villain is right out of a catalogue and is typical of the film's
lack of initiative or spark.

Overall, like most average cop thrillers it's worth a watch once because it
is just about entertaining.  The problem is it is plain – average.  It never
rises above the norm and there are much better cop thrillers out there than
this.  The producers and studio knew it – who am I to argue.
<|_=00=_|>
For the first hour of this film all I could think of was how average it
was, I even had an average review written in my head for it. However,
there are certain scenes, thrills and aspects - e.g. the ending
predicament that are actually pretty good and will throw you.

Eddie Murphy plays a 'wisecracking' hostage negotiator, although tbh
he's very much the 'serious' Eddie Murphy for most of the film. I
prefer the fun Beverly Hills Cop guy, but there we go. There is a scene
where he's talking about being in a thong and being seen by his
mother's friends that is hilarious though. Plot-wise he basically gets
on the wrong side of some nutter and his cousin and they conspire to
make life hell for him and his English girlfriend. The female lead is a
tad weak in this, and I must admit I've never ever heard of her
(although I was 7 when this film came out - maybe she was big then) but
she looked good - Carmen Ejogo she is.

Michael Rapaport is in this as well, as an intelligent sniper who is
paired up with Murphy. Now I thought, judging by the cover etc, this
was gonna be a buddy cop movie but Rapaport (an actor I like) is
underused really. Don't get me wrong he's in the film a fair bit but
his character has next to no personality. All I learnt was he's polite,
sharp, from the Swat team and is a sniper. That's it. The film could
have been done without his character if they wanted to save whatever
fee he commanded.

Whoever plays Eddie Murphy and Carme Ejogo's dog is good in this
though. Stellar, powerhouse performance reminded me of Hanks in The
Green Mile or Orson Welles in Citizen Kane.

So yeah, mixed bag really - there's hate for post-80s Murphy films
sure, but this is one of the better ones. It's a solid watch (on
netflix atm) and there's some good action and the bad guy is easy to
hate, so there's a lot worse out there. I won't strongly recommend but
I'll say it's worth a shot - you know what you're going to get.
<|_=00=_|>

I was very surprised once I saw this movie. The action was very cool,
Eddie
was very funny and good. This is the type of movie that a father and his
son
should see and both enjoy. This is a true guilty pleasure. Even though the
movie makes Eddie seem like the only capable character at talking someone
out of commiting a crime. But thats what made it fun and goofy! The movie
didn't take itself seriously, I like that. See it but don't expect THE
GODFATHER just expect a goofy action flick. 8
