
If you're actually reading this review, I give you a lot of credit. You
care enough to actually look up this movie, which most people have
forgotten about and then cared to read beyond the first review! So for
your reading pleasure...

I'm assuming you know the plot line already so I won't waste time
typing that out. I will mention that Sandra Bullock did an amazing job
with this movie. She really brought a lot of sympathy to the role of a
computer programmer, often difficult to do. I can say this because I
happen to be a computer programmer.

Anyway, I thought the basic plot was a very good one. You can easily
build sub-plots upon its mainframe and turn it into a very enjoyable
movie. The premise is also scarily realistic in that this can all
really happen if the right precauctions aren't taken.

To make a long review short...oops! Too late! If you enjoy Sandra
Bullock bringing a role to life and want to see a very well made movie
for the time, take a look at this little gem. You won't be
disappointed. :-)
<|_=00=_|>

Odd the way technology works. Less than a decade ago, there was this
completely different technological world, a world of pagers, floppy disks,
dial-up modems (which are as obsolete as typewriters), and gigantic
brick-like cell phones. I remember being amazed at that little tiny flap at
the bottom of the phone, as thin as a credit card and yet able to pick up
your voice and transmit it through the air. Now it's a feature so obsolete
that it may as well never have been there. Sandra Bullock plays Angela
Bennett, a lonely computer analyst who is so connected to her computer that
she sits on the beach in Mexico, on her first vacation in six years, with
her laptop on her lap. It's not only like a source of nourishment but her
connection to the world and the establishment and maintenance of her
identity.

This is where her problems begin. Like The Manchurian Candidate back in the
1960s (and again in less than a week from this writing), The Net plays on
the popular fears of the society in which it is released. The Manchurian
Candidate originally played off the fears instilled in people by the
recently ended Cold War, while The Net, a much less potent thriller,
suggests the scary possibilities of a world in which we are so inextricably
connected to computers. Probably the most interesting thing in the movie now
is the computers, such as the massive laptops with the tiny screens, the
indispensable floppy disks which are now almost nonexistent, the graphics,
etc.

Angela Bennett has had her digital identity stolen and replaced with that of
Ruth Marx, who has a lengthy police record and who thus takes over Angela's
identity. It's pretty clever, I suppose, the way the movie presents Angela
as though she hasn't left her apartment in six years and with a mother
suffering from Alzheimer's (and thus not able to help identify the real
Angela later), but it's pretty hard to believe that not a single person in
the office where she worked noticed that Angela started being a completely
different person. She had no significant other, was not dating, and no
parents who could identify her, but was she such a recluse that even the
people in the office she worked in didn't even know what she looked
like?

At any rate, the plot of the movie is pretty smartly created, although it is
created as though it were an excuse for a lot of chase scenes, one of which
takes place on a merry-go-round in a great homage to Hitchcock's Strangers
On A Train, one of the many classic films to which the movie alludes,
several of them other Hitchcock films. Bennett has been given a disk which
contains a website, I suppose, which turns out to contain a weakness in a
security system about to be set up to protect everything from banks to Wall
Street to the CIA. By holding down Control and Shift and clicking on the
little Pi icon in the corner of the screen, you are transported from a
ludicrous page about Mozart's Ghost, apparently a god-awful metal band, and
into highly classified government documents. The disk provides the bad guys
with a reason to want to capture Bennett, and thus you have a movie.

Angela goes from a comfortable but bored computer analyst, doing a lot of
her work from home and ordering pizza on the Internet at the end of the day
(presumably one of the future possibilities of the internet which never came
to exist), to a wanted fugitive, ultimately caught and put into a jail cell
for someone else's crimes. She has lost her home, her job, her identity, her
life. Bullock actually puts in a pretty good performance in the movie. I'm
not a huge fan, but I appreciated the realness that her character had, since
she is not an over the top actor, her characters are generally very real
because she is as well. 

Where the movie trips up is that it tries to suggest that such identity
theft could happen to anyone in our technological age, but given the effort
put into presenting Angela as someone with no personal contacts with just
about anyone, really it could only happen to someone like Angela, and are
there really that many people that no one can identify by looks? Even the
guy at the local video store might recognize her as the lady who rents under
her account. Oh well. There's also a glitch in the end of the movie that
Mick LaSalle points out and that only people familiar with San Francisco,
where the climax of the film takes place, will notice. As Angela rushes
through a Macintosh exhibition at the real Moscone Center, she desperately
tries to copy all the computer files before the bad guys get her. Pretty
tense, but if she had been smart, she could have gone to The San Francisco
Chronicle office, which is a block down the street from the Moscone
Center.

But hey, maybe the Chronicle doesn't have high enough walkways out
back.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a typical Sandra Bullock movie in which she plays a mousy (but
profane) woman who is in trouble but finds a way to survive and be the
hero. Sound familiar? 

There are plenty of holes in this story. Things just don't add up and
some of the suspense is a little corny. But - that suspense is very
good. There is a lot of tension in this story which has strong paranoia
running through it. The story starts off slow but kicks in pretty soon
and stays that way, making it an involving movie for the viewer. That's
why I give it a pretty good rating - the movie gets you involved in it.
Bullock is more cute than annoying, which she normally is to me, so
this is my highest-rated movie with her in it.
<|_=00=_|>
The net is an excellent movie! It's about Angela Bennett(in a great
performance of Sandra Bullock) who is a computer expert who works for
the Cathedral Company, cleaning virus and testing games for the
clients. Angela is a typical nerd who doesn't have friends outside of
the cyberspace,almost doesn't take vacations and go out, and stays
almost all the time connected. One day her friend Dale Hessman(Ray
McKinnon) asks her to help him,sending Angela a disk with a strange
program that has many confidential informations. At the same night,
when Dale was going to meet her, he is suddenly killed in a plane
crash.Going to Mexico in her vacation,Angela meets a beautiful guy
called Jack Devlin (Jeremy Northam)who shows to be a cold blood killer
bastard and one of the guys behind all the secret of the Diskette.

Her life then turns into a nightmare: All her records are erased and
she is given the new identity of Ruth Marx, a woman with serious
problems with the police.

This movie is great because it shows how we, humans,depend a lot of the
computers and machines(sometimes more that we should) and how
vulnerable we are if someday ,someone decides to control and change our
personal records,without letting us the chance to prove the error.
<|_=00=_|>

This isn't a bad movie thriller to keep you off the Internet for two hours,
but can you take the risk? THE NET sounds unconvincing since our love of
computers and cyber-sputting expresses what the story is all about, and a
possible fad to recognize. Thankfully, it does attempt to bring some raw
suspense that is head-and-shoulders above other lame films that contend to
"artificial communication". Once again, Sandra Bullock knows how to keep her
fans happy, and even though it's no "chick-flick", she's still the likeable
character inside. This time, she's stalked in a game of cat-and-mouse and
becomes ruined by an identity crisis. Even with the brand new concept of
cyberware, that's just normal for a suspense thriller. An old, traditional
"chase" plot gives the movie a blip on the screen, but the story is greatly
paced and exciting enough to increase your pulse rate to rapid highs. The
computer mess is the biggest fuss some viewers will have in common,
including all those not used to this new style. A good shot at a
modernization of mystery-suspense films, but you know exactly what to
predict here. Why the new TV series? 
<|_=00=_|>
THE NET 

I certainly didn't expect this movie to be classic when I put it in
last night. I was thinking it would be a "no-brainer" stupid little
thriller starring Sandra Bullock. Essentially... I was right.

THE NET had the potential to be a better film. The storyline actually
creates situations of immense suspense and is paced rather well. The
whole computer virus storyline is so confusing to someone not too
familiar with computers... and I'm sure there are plot holes in there,
but I didn't notice.

What keeps THE NET from being truly good is terrible direction. Lately,
I've started to notice how easily a bad director can destroy a film and
this was a good example... certain moments in this film are just
comically bad.

The scene of Sandra Bullock's boat get away and her impending crash
looks terrible. And normally I can forgive obvious special effects...
but I'm sorry, the obviously fake rocks, the poorly edited stunt woman,
the ridiculous close ups on Bullock's face. This moment is so terrible
and just acts like a giant speed bump in the growing action.

Aside from this, Jeremy Northam is god awful in his role. He goes so
far over the top trying to be this seductive threat in Bullock's life
that I was laughing many times when I wasn't supposed to be. The more
threatening, angry, and sexual he tries to get... the less frightening
he becomes. Not an ounce of nuance or subtlety. Where was a director
telling him to hold back? Or just to tell him... get off my set... you
suck! Otherwise, the director, Irwin Winkler, takes far too long at
times when he doesn't need to. I liked the Dennis Miller/Sandra Bullock
love story that started to develop. But in the end, the scenes are
pointless and they come to an abrupt end. And anytime Sandra Bullock
was on the run, Irwin Winkler just keeps the camera rolling. There is
no example of tightly constructed... suspenseful editing.

On the plus side, despite the flaws, the movie still can be exciting at
points... and Bullock has some good moments that show some deeper
potential. Had this film been done by a director with a keener eye,
perhaps both Bullock and the film could have been much better.

As is, it's the kind of film that's easy to sit through... but that's
partially b/c it's so bad it's good. It's not the worst film that ever
was, but it could have been far better.

... C/C- ...
<|_=00=_|>
Sandra Bullock is very appealing as an unloved independent systems
analyst who unknowingly gets hold of a disk that could bring worldwide
chaos; pretty soon, she's dodging bad guys, running from the cops and
putting her allies in danger (including Dennis Miller, who is
surprisingly good). Despite a penchant for filming mouths in close-up,
Irwin Winkler has directed a very fast, fun technical-thriller in which
charming Bullock is bounced from one nightmare to another. I loved the
way she gets out of a building swarming with security: she dons a
fireman's outfit and escapes, but then the bad guys see a nicely piled
fireman's outfit (and helmet!) sitting on the sidewalk and yell, "She's
getting away!" Just one example of how this movie is so completely
brainless, but yet entertaining enough on a non-think level that you
tell yourself not to notice. You'll hate yourself in the morning,
though. **1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
Nostalgia may play a large part of my positive feelings towards this
film as I watched it repeatedly on video with my younger sister as a
teen. Back then "the net" was a new and largely undiscovered frontier,
and this film romanticized hackers and the seemingly mysterious world
wide web.

I would liken this to a less ambitious version of 'The Fugitive', a
film that released two years prior (and by most accounts a superior
thriller). Much of what happens in the course of this film is standard
fare, but it is presented with a semblance of realism and never seems
to hit any lulls or real snags in rhythm despite the frenetic pacing.
The plot isn't entirely plausible or devoid of clichés, but it remains
interesting from start to finish, and Bullock carries the role well.

There are scattered scenes that show astute directing on the part of
Irwin Winkler, though some of the secondary characters give uneven
performances. However, Bullock does an admirable service at depicting a
frumpy insular woman uncomfortable with her own sexuality and outer
beauty. Her character is both resourceful and vulnerable at once, and
it's a fresh pace to see a female lead with some layers to peel back in
a genre dominated by men. Dennis Miller is very likable in his role,
and ably acts the part with a more downplayed version of his real life
persona. He was my favorite character by far and brought a lot of
warmth to the role.

I'm usually very critical of any movies I see, and am generally turned
off by standard Hollywood fodder, but there is a certain charm to 'The
Net' that I can't deny. I liked it in '95, and I like it again almost
twenty years later. Like visiting an old friend, there's a familiarity
to it that is so hopelessly 90's and so reminiscent of a bygone
era--the inception of the internet age--that it carries a certain
weight to me unmatched by the multitude of forgettable popcorn
thrillers of the decade.
<|_=00=_|>

*SPOILERS*

There is an early scene where someone decides to shoot himself in a
deserted
park. The camera pans to the green and tracks a flock of birds as they are
startled and fly off into the sky. Do you know what? I think this was
planned. An idea! Later a lone pilot crashes his plane and we cut to some
red roses. The camera pans up and they are not on a coffin but we get the
inference. TWO directorial ideas! In ONE film! You Americans are getting a
bit ahead of yourselves, aren't you? But wait, the director wants us to
know
that the bad guy is a bit of a fibber. Cue lots of swift cuts of various
close ups of his twitching face. Also, this is a cyber thriller which
means
machines, right? Lets have that Terminator music then,
*bish-bob-bosh-bish-bob-bosh*. Guys, I knew you wouldn't let me down. I
feel
safe and secure again in the hands of mediocrity.

This is an episodic and occasionally engaging thriller with a curious
heroine. I'm not sure she actually has a pulse. Anxiety seems to be an
alien
concept to her as she reacts to every situation with the deference of a
twelve year old cat. You're an isolated nerd whose whisked away by a
dashing
Don Juan on a boat and he makes love to you. Ho-hum, no big deal. About as
exciting and wonderous as the post arriving. Suddenly you find he has a
silencer in his jacket. Nervous? Not a bit of it. You're only alone with a
hitman in the middle of no where, don't be silly. Later on our heroine is
in
a car with one of the bad guys and finally tells him and the world that
she's mad as hell and she's not going to take it anymore. Well, not really
MAD as such, that would mean getting excited. So she gives us the
impression
that she's only left her mascara behind kind of upset. Not even being an
international fugitive un-settles our sterling gal. Seeing her face on an
all points bulletin makes her take extra special precautions. Donning a
disguise, like a wig or doing up her hair, perhaps? A hat or a scarf,
maybe?
At the very least dark glasses? No, our heroine has outsmarted police
officers, professional hitmen and a ruthless and sinister cyber crime
syndicate so what does she do? She goes out on the streets in broad
daylight
as  herself. They'd never see that one coming. Will nothing phase our
heroine? I guess the only chance of a genuine reaction of anxiety and deep
distress from our intrepid geek would come only if the part of her mother
had been given to actress Rita Tushingham.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay... she's on the boat with this guy, realizes he's out to  kill her,
knocks him out, and then finds the reason he's out to off her is this
disk that got her coworker killed.   So what would any rational
person do?  Maybe conk him over the head again to make sure
he's  really out??  Tie him up??  Look, Sandra honey, you've got
the chance to escape while the guy is out for only so  long.  Until
you know how long it will take you take you to escape, make sure
he's not able to come after you.  I HATE these stupid female victim
roles.  The rest of the movie was just a series of twists and turns
that were completely convoluted and too unbelievable to remain
interesting.
