
I know why people hate this film. They are wrong, but I know why they
hate it. They take it too seriously. They are too easily offended. They
fail to pick up on the subtle little reminders that Peter Berg includes
every once in awhile to let you know, "hey, this is a comedy." The
story revolves around a main character, who is soon to be wed to a
dominating fiancé, who seems to love the idea of having a big wedding
more than she loves her her future husband. Well, our main character
and his four closest buddies are off to Vegas for one last night of
freedom and fun. In the group you have a pair of Jewish brothers that
hate each other, a confused mechanic, and a real estate agent that is a
cross between Anthony Robbins and Charles Manson. Well, not to give
anything away, but let's just say that some very bad things happen in
Vegas, very bad things, and how it will play out after that, well, it
is just too entertaining to watch. The acting in this movie is superb,
I mean great. The story is fantastic, with tons of hooks and switches.
Yes, there is violence and somethings happen, that if they occurred in
real life, well, you might be disturbed. HOWEVER, this is a movie! And
it is one of my favorite films of all-time. I give it a 10, without
hesitation.
<|_=00=_|>
One thing that's great about actors turned directors, like Peter Berg,
is that they can be great at eliciting performances from the cast.

Acting is everything in this movie - as the plot spirals out of
control, the acting has to maintain the necessary suspension of
disbelief. Here it does.

Daniel Stern gives an eyeball-popping tour de force among a cast with
some excellent character actors.

A gory and grotesque comedy nightmare masterpiece!
<|_=00=_|>

I guess this is a movie you either love or hate; I belong in the first
category.

This movie shows what happens when people shed the moral constraints which
normally control their conduct and give free rein to their vicious urges. 
It is a morality lesson and reason(if you need one) never to kill - or at
least if you do not to burden yourselves with accomplices.

The reactions of those involved range from complete horror and remorse
(Stern) to pure psychopathy (Slater) - who is able to dehumanise the first
victim immediately, demeaning her to the mere status of an inconvenience to
be disposed of  (this is how many serial killers think)

This film gives lots of other valuable insights - and if you only come away
from it certain that morality is not a democratic process but a matter of
absolute right and wrong, then this movie has done what few achieve; it has
educated you morally - following the majority blindly is one of mankinds
greatest follies.

Slater is brilliant in his runaway amorality, as is Stern in his bouts of
tortured guilt (the scene in the gas station when his kids demand 'Whizzers'
is excruciatingly funny and at the same time so poignant that you may
experience guilt yourself at finding the mental collapse of the most decent
character in the film so hilarious)

Cameron Diaz plays the bride from hell with assuredness and gusto - if this
movie puts you off murder it may well also put you off marriage.  Her
eventual fate, revealed in the closing scenes - is one of the most
satisfying payoffs of a loathsome character in the history of
film.

Comedy at its darkest - movie making at its best  9 out of
10
<|_=00=_|>

VBT, at it's very least is a polarising movie: the views expressed on IMDB
tend to be love it/hate it rather than lukewarm, so it should be credited
for animating its audience in that way.

Now, in my view, the haters would probably have been comfortable renting
something like 'Independence Day' for sentiment and performances, or 'My Big
Fat Greek Crowdpleasing Wedding' if they want an occasional satirical but
ultimately life-affirming comedy about love and marriage.

VBT is neither. It's pretty much unpleasant from beginning to end, from
prostitution to fratricide, and not in the least life-affirming. Everyone,
from the psychopathic realtor played by Slater, to the morally vacuous and
weak-willed groom-to-be is grotesque. However, I venture to add: it IS
funny, and it IS clever.

Not merely, as Americans like to say, 'gross out' funny, but morally
satirical. One of the darkest moments of the film is where the practising
Jew character, the most morally developed of all in the movie has an attack
of conscience as the group are preparing to dispose of the bodies of a
prostitute and a security guard out in the desert.

He says they must observe the Jewish practice that requires the bodies to be
interred as complete, which provies impossible as both have been hacked up,
wrapped up in plastic and distributed amongst four suitcases. What follows
is a gruesome jigsaw puzzle of body parts, culminating a great sight gag of
them lying out neatly arranged.

There is a more serious premise behind the story of how five apparently
ordinary guys who start out on a bachelor weekend are drawn progressively
into more and more despicable acts. One of the great moral questions, from
the time of the Greek moral philosophers to our own experience of the
holocaust is how men come to do evil.

Are there just some evil men, waiting for their potential to be awakened, or
is there the potential in all of us, if we are given the excuse and the
opportunity? Or is all that is required for evil, as the axiom states, that
good men do nothing? Certainly, in the early part of the movie when the
first death is down to an accident resulting from a series of misdemeanours,
the more moral and sympathetic members of the groups are crucially
transfixed by the possible damage to themselves from coming clean at that
point.

It's at that point that Slater's character, the charming, functioning
psychopath (he does them so well) is able to seize the initiative, provide
what appears to be a practical and just about morally palatable solution to
their problem and a path back to normality.

This is the true moral junction of the film; everything beyond that is a
satirical commentary on their inability to do the one good thing required of
them - come clean at the outset. Trying to read the film as totally
naturalistic beyond that point doesn't work - it becomes increasingly absurd
and unpredictable for comic purposes.

This is a very wordy movie. The script is subtle and complex, and a large
part of that is given over to Slater and his persuasive speeches on why a
particular course of action should be taken at a particular
time.

In the beginning, he exhorts the group that they should cover up the
prostitute's death and provides practical arguments to support this, seizing
on the upcoming wedding as a moral defence for the actions they are going to
commit. The movie's absurdity lies in the ever more extreme and
disproportionate acts the group are prepared to commit simply for a wedding
to take place.

But there is a serious point underlying this. One common facet of 'organised
evil' by apparently normal, moral individuals is the belief that unpleasant
acts are necessary for a greater good. This becomes a device to obscure the
badness of the bad things because the intent remains good. Should we judge
acts by themselves or their intent?

The film suggests, in contemporary society, we've descended even lower. We
are obsessed by the appearance of morality rather than the actual practice
of it. A society obsessed by symbols, ceremony and rituals rather than the
truths they are supposed to represent. And Cameron Diaz is a wonderful
exemplar of that ideal as the ruthless bride who steals the last 10 minutes
of the movie.


<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was going to suck.  But I was wrong.  This film ranks
among the great dramedies (Dr. Strangelove, Little Shop of Horrors, American
Beauty, The Cable Guy) by adding sharp comedy with horrific themes that in
the wrong circumstances would make this a hard core porno/horror film.  Plot
involves a couple (Jon Favreu and Cameron Diaz) who are about to get
married, but not before the bachelor party with friends Christian Slater,
Daniel Slater and others with stripper (and actual porn star) Kobe Tai.  It
gets juicy after the party when the stripper gets killed, and body count
(and laughter) come up in high dosage.  Peter Berg makes a great debut as
writer/director by making the characters all bad in equal ways, but also
throughout the film trying to redeem they're problems (except for Slater who
gives his best performance in a while).  Fun all around, even if it's
Charles Manson fun.  One of the better films of the decade. 
A+
<|_=00=_|>

VERY BAD THINGS / (1998) *** (out of four)

By Blake French:

"Allow me to be the first to say that what we have done here is not a good
thing. It's definitely not a good thing. But it was, given the
circumstances, the smart play."
--Robert Boyd

If anything, Peter Berg's "Very Bad Things" triggers a response,
regardless
of the nature. My initial reaction to the dark, disturbing parody was bleak
and unpleasant. The movie displays sick, demented behavior and despicable,
annoying characters. It's not humanly possible to like anyone in the movie.
Christian Slater's character is cruel and selfish. Cameron Diaz displays a
whiny, obsessive portrayal. I needed an aspirin during this unfunny mess.

I viewed the film a second time; surprisingly, my opinion differed
greatly.
I liked all the same parts, but this time, my attitude changed. I watched
with more of an open mind-the film is advertised as a dark comedy,
but-although a few explosively funny moments occur-the film seldom provokes
laughs. It's important to watch abstractly, with no remorse or guilt for
enjoying the unholy revelation of events. Everything that happens here
makes
perfect sense under the circumstances. If you don't expect a light hearted,
laugh a minute comedy, then "Very Bad Things" fulfills a long-needed niche
in Hollywood.

"Very Bad Things" is, like the tagline notes, a very savage comedy. It
does not paint a happy portrait of our society-it's a scathing satire on
American values. It's needlessly racist, sexist, and vulgar. It depicts a
gross portrayal of modern families, the delicate but perverse male mindset,
disgusting bachelor parties, and even the "happiest day" of many lives-the
wedding day.

Cameron Diaz plays Laura Garrety, a selfish, whiny bride-to-be. She's
getting married in three days to a handsome fellow named Kyle Fisher (Jon
Faveau from "Swingers"). She isn't happy with his decision to travel to
Vegas with his friends for a bachelor party. They include two bickering
brothers, Adam (Daniel Stern), and Michael (Jeremy Piven, who stepped into
the role after Adam Sandler stepped out to make "The Waterboy."), as well
as
an organized but cruel real estate agent named Robert Boyd (Christian
Slater), and a quiet mechanic named Charles Moore (Leland Orser).

Once they arrive in Vegas, a stylistic montage sequence shows the five
friends gambling, snorting cocaine, and drinking lots of alcohol. They
settle in for the night at a fancy hotel, where a stripper (Carla Scott)
arrives and lap dances the guys into a frenzy. Michael takes her into the
bathroom for sex, but accidentally drives the stripper's head into a towel
hook, instantly killing her. The rest of the men panic and want to call for
help, but Boyd has a better idea. He wants to bury the body in the nearby
desert. The intrusion of a hotel security guard complicates the issue. Boyd
kills him with a corkscrew during a particularly unpleasant scene. The rest
decide to use a chain saw to cut up the bodies and carry them to the desert
in suitcases, where they do indeed put the unfortunate souls underground.

Although not for the easily offended, "Very Bad Things" takes us on a
roller coaster ride through immorality and its consequences. It's fun
watching the sequences of events, the bodies piling up, and the
exaggeration
of our most improper impulses.  A great cast demonstrates their fine acting
abilities. The script, also by Peter Berg, features very smart, witty
dialogue. Berg directs the chaos with an engaging style-especially during
the scenes in Vegas, and keeps the momentum throughout the movie. If the
filmmakers played the material as straight drama, it might have worked even
better, but as it is, "Very Bad Things" is a joy ride through harsh satire.


<|_=00=_|>

If you're expecting a pleasant Howard Hawks-ian comedy, you rented the wrong
damn movie!  So don't say I didn't warn you.  Besides, the video/DVD cover
shows Christian Slater holding a chainsaw.  How much warning do you need? 
First of all, "Very Bad Things" works out better if you don't treat it as a
straightforward comedy.  It's basically a mix of suspense and comedy. 
Almost like "Fargo."  Now before you jump on me, "VBT" is nowhere near as
great as "Fargo," but the two films are practically equal in tone. 

At least the film contains one element that some comedies lack:  the
characters AREN'T acting as if they're in a comedy!  When the characters
panic and do foolish things, they're not contrived comic moments.  People do
the most absurd things when they panic.  

It's hard to explain what exactly it is that makes the film funny.  You just
have to watch the film.  But people really, really mean it when they label
this as a dark comedy.  Writer/director Peter Berg tries to keep a somewhat
quirky tone, though.  There are some slanty camera angles and the soundtrack
conflicts with the tone of each scene.  Don't worry, it's done
intentionally.  Berg, who's known mostly as an actor in films like "Cop
Land" and "The Great White Hype," makes a fine directorial debut, though
there is some improper pacing.  

Finally, the actors are what make this film most worth seeing.  I've always
been a fan of Christian Slater, and believe him to be an underrated talent. 
He seems passionate about every character he plays, and spouts out every
line of dialogue like it's poetry.  His character is very interesting, as he
seems to keep his cool in every situation, no matter how tragic or violent. 
Daniel Stern's another underrated talent, since he mostly does lightweight
family comedies like the "Home Alone" flicks, and does a great job at
playing his constantly paranoid character, who's the complete opposite of
Slater's.  Cameron Diaz gives a fine comic performance as the tightly-wound,
hot-tempered wife of Jon Favreau.  I think this is one of her most unique
performances up-to-date.  I think this was before she became such a sex
symbol.  Now fame has gone a little bit more to her head, starring in such
throwaway flicks as the "Charlie's Angels" films and "The Sweetest Thing." 
She is in fact a very talented actress, but this movie most proves that
she's more than just a pretty face.  Speaking of pretty faces, Jeanne
Tripplehorn also gives a fine comic performance as Stern's tightly-wound
wife.  

I consider myself an admirer of dark comedies, but any type of film can
fail.  This one doesn't.  It made me laugh and kept me in suspense.  And it
has a great share of profanity, violence and nudity (that Asian stripper was
deliciously hot!!!).  "Very Bad Things" is not for the straitlaced, or faint
of heart, but for the rest of us--have fun!!!

My score:  7 (out of 10)          
<|_=00=_|>
I am positive that at least 50% of the people seeing "Very Bad Things"
for the first time are going to hate it outright. They are going to be
offended by the sensationalistic violence, by the sociopathic behavior
of the principals, and by the portrayal of women as harpies and of men
as buffoons and clowns. They will hate the way the movie portrays
marriage and family and children. They will hate the vulgar language
and the drunken maundering and the utter charmlessness of almost every
character in the film. 

And they will especially hate the excruciating progression of the plot.
In the tradition of Hitchcockian films like "Shallow Grave", "A Simple
Plan", and "Dead In the Water", the events in the plot start out with a
of a bad mistake, compounded by the worst aspects of human nature...
and then motives of greed and fear cause more mistakes, things start to
spiral out of control, and finally one mistake piles onto another until
things are so awful that suicide seems like an easy way out...and in
fact, an amazingly large number of people end up dead. That can be hard
to watch, and it isn't every body's cup of tea. 

I fall into the other 50%, the group who enjoy this kind of savage,
mean-spirited humor. I am of the opinion that Berg made exactly the
film he wanted to make, and that he left it up to the audience to take
it or leave it. I think that Berg wanted to hit a top note of wicked
glee right away, and to sustain it for as long as he possibly could.
And I think that the actors - Favreau, Slater, and Stern especially -
came through with hysteric, overblown performances that make the movie
exhausting and hard to watch in spots. But there is JUST enough
believability to their performances that you feel as if that could be
you, stuck in their place. 

Special kudos also go to Cameron Diaz for being willing to play such a
narcissistic twit, somewhat of a stretch from the sunny, happy All
American Girl types she has done so well over the last few years, And
to Jeanne Tripplehorn, as the baffled and angry wife of one of the
brothers, who knows something is wrong and can't be deflected until she
learns the truth.

The final shot, as Diaz's character runs screaming out the dream
home-turned-nightmare to collapse gibbering in the street, is
priceless, and serves as kind of a cosmic punchline to all the mayhem,
murder, and malice of the presetting 90 minutes, and leaves me with a
guilty grin on my face and a huge sense of relief - my life looks so
good compared to what just went on in the movie that I want to dance
like a white guy! 

The proper reaction to "Very Bad Things" probably ranges somewhere
between a horrified giggles and the drunken bray of startled laughter
you would make after hearing a really good "dead baby joke" for the
first time.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie three times and each time I am amazed, humored,
frightened and relieved with the poetic justice at the end.  And it's
about
time that I watch it again.  The only problem I have with this movie is
the
title.  Every time I try and remember the name I can't think of it.
Maybe
it should have been called Bachelor Party or Stag Party.  I guarantee
once
you've seen it, you'll never forget it.  Especially when your sons are
planning marriage.  The plot is great...fun time in Vegas. Girls,
gambling,
maybe sex.  Then the plot thickens and from the bathroom scene on, you
will
not be able to leave the movie.  Have your pacemaker checked, your box of
tissue nearby, to wipe away tears of laughter, and enjoy.  If there were
higher than a "10" rating for a movie, Very Bad Things would achieve it
hands down.  It's not for children though, so view it after the little
ones
are in bed.  Teenagers are fine, they know more about life then we want
to
believe.  This movie has the comedy, the macabre and a justified ending.
Rent it, buy it, watch it!


<|_=00=_|>

Very Bad Perhaps. Very Good Yes. But definitely nothing in the  middle. Very
Bad Things will antagonise most. It's certainly not the comedy it's touted
to be. It's uncomfortable and it's fascinating.

Very Bad Things is a cautionary tale about the war of the sexes, the battle
of consumerism. It's about collateral damage: Friendly fire is liable to
take out just about anyone in the suburbs if a wedding is at stake! It's
about people who have lost heart, who have forgotten what's really
important.

Five male friends are off to Las Vegas for a stag party. The bride stays
home to continue the wedding preparations; to plan her day of days.
Accidentally the boys kill a prostitute in their hotel room and decide to
hush it up, bury her in the desert to avoid the unpleasantness of an
investigation. And then the body count mounts.

The boys, and later, just as viciously the bride, take the pragmatic road.
That same "let's get on with business, people don't matter" sort of morality
that will allow a President to lie to Congress and get away with it, cricket
champions to cheat and then be made Captain, politicians to sacrifice their
citizens for the sake of overseas companies, and murder to be acceptable as
long as no one finds out about it. It's not how you play the game, but you
must win.

The boys are pretty average types really except for Robert Boyd (Christian
Slater, who was let out of prison to do the shoot!!!). Robert Boyd is a
Men's Support Group graduate. He's into self fulfilment and asserting
himself but is also the catalyst that tips these average men into horror.
The other dominant personality is the bride Laura played by Cameron Diaz
(There's Something About Mary). Her single mindedness is astounding.
(Cameron Diaz is an astounding actress! Watch her eyes.)

But what is " average" in these suburbs. And what about the pressures that
go with paying the mortgage and keeping the wife happy? Very Bad Things
finishes with a slow overhead shot of the suburb that has become hell for
this lot. The tones are dirty grey. The mood is bleak and hopeless. The
residents have sold their souls for a white minivan and a posh wedding.  The
pressures of keeping up with the Jones have had casualties.

There are continual references to being 'a loser' in the film. Even Kyle's
Dad in the Toast To The Groom at the wedding refers vividly to his son's
dismal failure as a school football player. The men are liable to
crack.

Very Bad Things is about the pressure cooker male bread winners are living
in.  The fear of failure is lurking menacingly near by. The men in the film
appear to be doing reasonably well from a fiscal point of view but when the
pressure rises, the girl in the hotel room dies, horrible things happen with
Boyd egging them on.

The editing is ferocious, the characters are vivid and the mood is very wry
indeed. Don't expect to laugh much but hell, paying the mortgage isn't much
fun either.

Men have been reacting to the mess they are in in the 90's but I would say
that writer/director Peter Berg doesn't think much of Men's self help
groups. Slater's Robert Boyd has twisted self assertiveness to his own ends.
These suburbanites commit horrendous crimes, but still, we should all
consider what the men in Very Bad Things are up against.

The phrase "you do love me don't you" from the women in their lives has
never sounded more manipulative. 

