


Director: Justin Kerrigan.

Justin Kerrigan - this time you've really done it. Human Traffic is going
to
upset the majority of film critics who will view the lack of plot, the
drug
induced dialogue and the futile outlook on Nineties Youth culture as a
miserable and desperate view of how weekends are spent by ravers and
clubheads across the UK. Moreover, they will spot camera work borrowed
from
Boogie Nights and even try and associate the whole film with
'Trainspotting'
theme (because, lets face it, a Scottish Heroin addict trying to clean up
his act and a Welsh clubber looking for a good time with his mates is
pretty
much the same thing, right?)

Well wrong. Human Traffic has landed - along with one and a half quality
hours of clubs, drugs, pubs and parties - and its time to leave behind
your
preconceptions of what a film should be like (where's the plot? I want a
plot!) and instead delve into the lives of Jip (John Simm) and his mates,
Nina (Nicola Reynolds), Koop (Shaun Parkes), Lulu (Lorraine Pilkington)
and
Moff (Danny Dyer). There's nothing special about these five friends;
they're
just hanging out together and showing you the way they lead their lives.
They are not Burger King. They certainly don't do it your way. And you
don't
like it - well, tough.

Because essentially this period piece has captured everything that
Nineties
youth culture is revolving around. There are no clear solutions, in fact
very few problems in the first place. At the end of the day, what Jip and
his friends are doing is living and who are we to know or comment on
anything different? They drink, smoke dope, pop pills and party; they know
the risks and they're prepared to take them and moralists will just have
to
sit back and (try to) enjoy the ride.

The sound track is terrific and accompanies the highs and lows of the 48
hour weekend and the events that take place in it. But within this, what
first appears to be social unity, we see traces of individual isolation
that
are easy to bypass in a culture of hedonism. Jips paranoia of sex, Koops
jealous possession of Nina and Moff as his drug habit digs him deeper into
his own hole and further away from his family, asks the question 'are
things
really this good?' However they will not be exaggerated to the extent that
they are conspicuous, giving the film a controversial stance on drugs and
the role in social integration. Kerrigan is pulling no punches. And why
should he? This isn't GO! or any other such American rave film with clear
cut margins and please-the-crowd conclusions - it is one that forces us to
question whilst at the same time enjoy the at times hilarious, touching
and
other times exciting events of 48 hours with a group of five
'friends'.

And for the die-hard British youth among you, this might not be reality -
but it's a bloody brave effort at depicting it.


<|_=00=_|>

This film was hilarious.  It provided a somewhat comical view of the British
club scene, which, if you really look at it, is a funny thing.  The
characters in this flick were so realistic to those of us who watched here
at my place that it was like watching a movie about ourselves.

There were a few pivotal scenes which really made this movie work: the
getting ready scenes; the "Get me a real doctor" scene; the white background
scene showing each character in a total state of being wrecked, ending with
the infamous line "what was i saying?" and the comedown-sunup scenes.  I
have lived these moments myself and found myself laughing hysterically at my
own ridiculous behaviour.

I can't give this movie a 10 because it doesn't measure up to Groove, which
I thought was out of this world, but it certainly has its moments.  The
mise-en-scene and the camera work is superb, the special effects are well
worth mentioning, and the acting is fantastic.

After waiting a long time to see this film, I am glad to say that I was not
disappointed.  I hope to see more from the writer/director in the
future.
<|_=00=_|>
Making a film about the 'chemical generation', those who live for the
weekend, must have been a very hard enterprise. It would have to
accurately reflect the lives and experiences of 'clubbers' and also
appeal to a wider audience. Human Traffic just about achieves that.

It is certainly spot on in with it's observations and in it's accuracy.
It's obvious the filmmakers have 'been there and done it'. If you are
or were once like the people in this film, than there is so much to
relate it. It's all there, often depicted humorously but not
condescendingly. The fake euphoria of being on 'E'["in the end ,I just
want to be happy, yeah ,that's it.....hang on, what the **** was I
talking about?"]. The monged conversation at 4 am which seems deep and
meaningful but is basically rubbish [ Star Wars being about drugs!]and
gets more and more incoherent. Exchanging pleasantries with someone you
only see in pubs and clubs and really can't stand. 'Coming up' suddenly
at the same time as someone else and mumbling to each other what you're
'on' at the speed of light. Reminiscing how it was better in the 'old
days' and is now too commercial and widespread. Doing it all for the
first time and going off with a bunch of dodgy geezers who are suddenly
your best mates. The thrill of finding the after party. The depressing,
inexorable sense of returning to the reality.

The film's attitude to drugs is commendable, drug taking is simply
something the characters do, and that's all. Nobody dies or is
seriously ill ,and yet there is a sense that it doesn't really lead
anywhere. "After all ,we'll not going to be doing this for ever, are
we" says one character at the end.

The film falters a little when depicting the lives of it's
protagonists. For many scenes, director Justin Kerrigan uses a kind of
'heightened reality', for instance in a scene when a character comments
on how the workers in a fast food place are like robots and for a
moment they 'become' actual robots. This approach does not always work,
and it's a shame since the characters are all the sort you could expect
to run into on a Friday night. We do care a bit about their respective
lives and problems, but we don't really get to know the female
characters properly, and what is really the main thrust of the plot,
the blossoming romance between two of the main protagonists, is dwelled
on too much and is somehow unconvincing,if sometimes quite sweet. The
acting is generally OK if not great.

Human Traffic is not as important a film as, say, Trainspotting, which
despite being about heroin addicts seemed to speak to a generation.
Nonetheless, it's a truthful depiction of an element of society which
films and TV either ignore or condescend to. Incidentally ,there are
two versions, the director's edit and the later producer's edit. The
latter, which cuts some footage, changes some music and adds some silly
CGI, is inferior to the former.
<|_=00=_|>

Every time I watch this film, it just really makes me wanna go out and have
a good night! My mate uses "the weekend has landed" speech to psyche himself
up before going out! and so do I...sometimes. 

This film is a great debut for the writer/director - well done
mate!

The acting is great, all the characters are believable and are larger than
life! The 'weird' scenes are a joy to watch, Jip's running Mr floppy
flashbacks/explanations/visualizations are all great! The scene in the
huuuuuuuge pub when everyone stands up and starts singing the mock national
anthem is a laugh too. There's loads of comedy here - Howard Marks' 'spliff
politics' speech is hilarious!

Oh god, you just need to see this. Mind you, I felt the film did somewhat
glorify the use of ecstacy, but hey, that's the truth of the matter eh? At
least the film doesn't shy away from this fact. I suppose the film does
carry a decent message to it as well - don't take life TOO seriously, you
have to let you hair down sometime. And of course the chat in the pub when
Moff tries to explain to his mates that he's coming off the drugs is a sure
reminder that when the come down's out-way the good times, you know the
party's over!

This is at times a very clever film in it's use of the camera, lighting,
etc. It was a realised piece of cinema, and a great feel-good tale of mates,
love, clubs, and drugs.

Get outta the 'rat race' people!!!

8/10

Enjoy! 
<|_=00=_|>
I have a completely biased point of view mainly because I live and
enjoy the club culture lifestyle. Being a DJ and frequent club goer I
see the honesty within this movie and I love it. If you don't know the
club/rave culture then it will be a great foray into that culture for
anyone that doesn't know it first hand. The honest portrayal of human
emotion and issues in the part of Jip I loved. The characters were well
constructed and I thoroughly enjoyed this film. I really don't enjoy
the fact that you have to write ten lines on this web site. I will
write at least 6 or 7 but i feel that i can portray my point with fewer
than ten. Here are some extra lines to make the IMDb gods happy.
<|_=00=_|>

As the weekend approaches, the working days come to a close and the
weekend
of partying and forgetting everything else approaches.  We follow a group
of
friends from their jobs to their Friday night highs.  Jip is having
erection
problems, Koop mistrusts his girlfriend, Lu has just split from her most
recent boyfriend and Nina is preparing to let her brother take E for the
first time.  They all hate their jobs, but the weekend gives them an
opportunity to get away.

When this came out it got both horrible reviews and good reviews, so I
didn't know totally what to expect, but I expected to hate it because it
marked itself out from the very start as one of those very self-aware
'youf'
movies.  However, although that's exactly what it is, I did actually enjoy
it nonetheless.  There is not a plot so much as a weekend experience and
it
does struggle at times without a frame of any sort.  However while it is
hitting the spot and being energetic and funny it doesn't matter.  The odd
time it tries to give the characters specific issues or lives it tends to
hurt itself but for the majority it works.

The script is funny with nice imaginative touches blended with real life
club/drug culture/pub culture references and settings to make it
identifiable and interesting.  I suppose it very much depends on who you
are. If you are not part of that scene or have no knowledge of it then it
may just seem like a big pointless waste of time.  For me, much of it was
recognisable regardless of what I have done or have not done.  While some
of
it was unknown to me, I still found it funny and was able to relate to
much
of it.  It is very clear about it's stance on drugs (with a not-so-subtle
clip of Bill Hicks just to ram the point home) but at least it shows the
immediate bad side if not the longer lasting effects; the
comedown/hangover
scenes are pretty much fair and balanced, as are the scenes of enjoyment
and
fun brought by drugs.  However to compare this film to Trainspotting is a
joke! The latter was very clearly showing a balanced view of drugs,
whereas
this film is less balanced, and is more about the pleasure, being aimed at
the user market.

The cast are young and lively and deal well with the material without ever
impressing.  Parkes seems the most comfortable with his role, although
Davies convinces in a speeded up dealer performance.  Simm is lumbered
with
the narration but does OK but there are no really good female characters
compared to the men.

Overall this is worth seeing if you can relate to it and get laughs from
seeing people you recognise in the characters.  However if, after 10
minutes
you can't see what the point of the whole thing is and it just seems noisy
and stupid then it's likely not aimed at you and you're better off without
it.  Either way it isn't great but if you get it, it is energetic and
funny
enough to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

I recently watched this flick twice on a trip back from Ireland on Virgin
Atlantic (a nine hour flight). It reminded me of a UK version of Cameron
Crowe's "Singles" but a hell of a lot more fun. I loved the scene where the
main character makes up a new national anthem (one he identifies with). This
movie is worth watching for that scene alone. 
"Human Traffic" doesn't provide much insight into the human condition, but
that's not what it's trying to do. It's just about a group of young people
trying to figure out their lives at that point in time. It's definitely a
great film if you want to watch characters who lead even more pointless
lives than you. The place was different, but in my early twenties I saw some
of my own traits (namely the pursuit of "fun" and women) in the male
characters.

<|_=00=_|>

This movies is obviously the most realistic movie about clubbing ever
made,
but this is true for us in Europe becuase in America, they have a Chopped up
version of Human Traffic, Yes, I just sent this movie to my brother who
lives in America, he's seen it already the U.S, and this is want he wrote
me, after seeing the british tape I send him:
"There's basically new stuff throughout the whole movie. Every 2-3 minutes
there's something new. Very little things.  All the English slang was
translated to American like Blagging, Class A's.
 
There's also big scenes like a whole bunch of  new Felix scenes, including
him talking about the old times and him speeding at the bar. The new version
also shows the scene that explains that Muff is a dealer and The crazy dad
talks at the hospital.
 
The editing was also different, almost every scene was longer with a couple
minutes extra. It was like watching it for the first time again. Nice one
bruv,
 "
<|_=00=_|>

I absolutely love this film.  Everything about it.  It almost felt like
watching me and my friends on screen.  The way this movie was filmed was a
pure masterpiece, very original and creative.  I related to these
characters
and even had the same thoughts as some.  I'm really glad I ran across this
movie.  If only there were more genius' like justin out there!

<|_=00=_|>
"Human Traffic" was good, but I don't see how people class it as their
favourite film.

This is a great directing debut and being a Welsh person myself (so you
can't criticize me for what I say!) I found it to be a clumsy film, I
mean the relationship between the two friends who fall in love was
stupid, I mean he had never liked her before and for the films sake
fell madly in love with her other the spam off 4 and a half minutes,
the writer should'v done it differently.

All in all, I think the director could go on to better things, an over
rated film, great dialog, clumsily written film though.

5 out of 10 (Average)
