
This is one of my favorite Oliver Stone films. It has everything
(cheating incestuous sex, chopping off digits, a dumb hick mechanic, a
blind native American who wants Dr. Pepper all the time, etc etc etc)
that a well-rounded movie needs, plus it was completely done in a comic
fashion. It is closest to Stone's other film "Natural Born Killers" by
way of stylish camera shots and the addition of comedy into a dramatic
setting.

Sean Penn brilliantly plays the lead character, whose car blows a
radiator hose out in the middle of the Arizona desert, and the closest
town is that of Superior, AZ, a dirt-road town with barely 1,000 people
living there, if that. Penn goes through hell from the beginning when
random characters in the city want something from him and in return, it
drives him to try his best to get the hell out of Superior. Everything
during his days in Superior is centered around money and the fact that
he has hardly any. So he gets schemed into murders, and he gets
whatever little he has taken away from him (his train ticket gets
ripped up by the local hoodlum, TNT, again brilliantly played by
Joaquin Phoenix, and he has several full bottles of beverages broken
for different reasons). Therefore, he's constantly running in circles
to get out of this town.

There is an all-star cast (back then, and now) of actors: Jennifer
Lopez (a better singer than actress), Nick Nolte, Joaquin Phoenix,
Billy Bob Thornton (the best among the bunch as the hick mechanic),
Sean Penn, Claire Danes, Liv Tyler (only for a second in the train
station), and Jon Voight...all packed into a nice DVD. The music had
that comic, light-hearted side to it (with the country sound of a
jew's-harp played over violin or whatever, etc) which helped you to see
the irony that is driving him to madness in this town. Again the camera
shots were awesome, and they had that Oliver Stone quality of the 90's
where he would switch frames with the villain of the movie with an
animal skull and switch the point-of-view to see what the actors are
seeing, and so on.

I didn't like the ending so much. I kind of wanted things to resolve
themselves, but instead, things just keep on falling into the
bad-luck-category of his life. I also hated Jennifer Lopez's delivery
of lines (just like in any other movie with her...The Cell, etc)
because they feel so fake and put on that you know the director was
just looking for T&A for the film. Also she doesn't play a native
American very well. She has a thick accent straying too much towards
Latino that you don't pick up on any cultural change until you get the
story.

Overall, though, (bad point aside) it is a brilliant movie that is easy
to watch if you like the other Stone films. I had to give it a 9/10 for
great performances, great music, awesome story, and everything in
between. Go out and buy it if your a fan of any of the actors listed
above, or if you are trying to find a great weekend film with friends.
<|_=00=_|>
"U Turn" seems to be a movie that not many people have enjoyed and I
really wonder why that is. I'm not saying that it was the best movie
ever, but it sure deserves better than what most people over here say
about it.

The story starts with Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn), driving somewhere in
the middle of the desert in Arizona, on his way to pay the bookies that
have already taken two of his fingers because he was too late to pay
them. His car breaks down and the only option that he has is to leave
the main road and to go to a small, dusty town called Superior. In this
town live all kind of weird people. A blind Indian who doesn't do much
else but drinking Dr. Pepper on a bench, next to his dead dog; a dumb
garage owner; a young macho, called T.N.T, who seems to come straight
from the fifties and his nymphomaniac girlfriend... Bobby Cooper wants
to get out of there as quickly as possible. But he has one problem.
He's got no money because he was robbed and the mechanic charges him an
enormous price for the repairs. He can't do anything else but to stay
in the village, to try to live with these weird people and to stay out
of the hands of the bookies until he has found some money...

I must say that I was quite surprised by this movie. The way everything
was shot is really well done and the music (composed and selected by
Ennio Morricone) gives it all an extra touch. Even all the acting was
very convincing. With people like Sean Penn, Billy Bob Thornton,
Joaquin Phoenix and Nick Nolte I don't expect anything less than a good
performance. But it has to be said: Jennifer Lopez, who certainly isn't
a great actress, was actually pretty good in this movie.

All in all this is a very good movie, plenty of dark humor, good acting
and some very nice shots. Personally I think this is one of Oliver
Stone's finer movies and that's why I give it a 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

In "U-Turn," Oliver Stone narrows his focus from the broad-canvass
projects
he typically produces.  Those seeking the
knowing profundities of "JFK" or "Nixon" will be disappointed.
This is a genre picture of the desert southwestern potboiler
variety, a much-updated "Painted Desert" kind of film.
Lots
of bad luck, scorpions, whiskey, sexual perversity, bullying, greed, lots
of
sweat and very little shaving.  The basic questions begged by a movie like
this one are these:  Who will
have sex?  Who will live?  Who will die?  And who will end
up
with the money?  By the final reel, all these questions
are
very satisfactorily answered.  For a picture of this type, "U-Turn" is
very
good indeed.

Sean Penn is smashing, Nolte has never been creepier, and Jennifer Lopez
is,
er, extremely effective in this film's only
real female role.  John Voight, buried in the role a mystic Indian, is
most
entertaining.  And we get another patented
oddball performance by Billy Bob Thornton that is absolutely
worth the price of admission.  For good measure, Juaquin Phoenix and
Claire
Danes deliver a too-brief but electrifying turn as a young couple adept at
creating trouble.  As if Sean
Penn, in this picture, didn't have enough already.

Sure, the predictable desert atmospherics are a bit overdone.
But the solid script by John Ridley, the letter-perfect performances, and
Stone's sure directorial hand make this one
of his better films.

This movie is out of the theatres, so one word to you parents
about "U-Turn."  This is not one to watch in the presence of the kiddies.
It contains very graphic and violence and sexual material clearly
unsuitable
for young folk or the sensitive
soul of any age.

But if you like your film noir with sand and scorpions
thrown
in for good measure, this is a sure-fire rental that will
leave
you fully satisfied.


<|_=00=_|>

Brilliant & hallucinatory cinematography, impeccable use of music, and a
handful of dark, edgy character sketches all work together very nicely to
make this bleak, dark-humoured desert noir an overlooked highlight of
Oliver
Stone's career.  The highly evocative atmosphere plays out against the
Arizona desert in a way that (in addition to foreshadowing some of the
work
done in Terry Gilliam's own twisted little masterpiece 'Fear & Loathing in
Las Vegas') seems to mirror, in a more subtle and tasteful manner,  much
of
Stone's work in 'Natural Born Killers'.  However, rather than hitting us
over the head with whatever socially charged 'message' he may have been
attempting to convey in that film, here he is simply content to let it
build
up a thick and steamy ambience that moves our hapless comrades on towards
their own impending personal apocalypse. Nick Nolte, Sean Penn, and
Jennifer
Lopez all turn in great performances and Billy Bob Thornton's eccentric
character sketch elevates what may be defined as a bit part to a far more
relevant status.  Modern noir with a few dark twists and a taste all it's
own that's well worth digging into...for those who have a taste for this
kind of thing, if you know what I mean.  
<|_=00=_|>

U Turn is a great film. Of course it borrows from other films, so what? Sean
Penn turns in a great performance as does Nick Nolte, Billy Bob Thornton and
Jon Voight.Jennifer Lopez does her best to keep up with the seasoned
professionals and by and large succeeds. As the story unfolds we get some
great cameo performances from Voight and Thornton, whilst Penn pulls out all
the stops. The twisting noir-ish plot succeeds in keeping us enthralled for
the duration. None of the characters are particularly likeable which could
be a problem in certain circumstances but in this film it just serves to
make us enjoy their various fates. If Stone were to make smaller scale films
like this instead of overblown rubbish like Any Given Sunday, Natural Born
Killers and The Doors he might just find a more willing
audience.
<|_=00=_|>
As usual before adding my two ha'porth-worth of comment, I looked at
other comments (including Roger Ebert). And, although I didn't read all
of them (there are very many), I was surprised that none I read seemed
to pick up what was perfectly obvious to me: this is a very funny film,
but done in a deadpan style. So deadpan, in fact, that I'm not
surprised that might be news to many. I have, coincidentally, recently
been buying up on DVD quite a few classic film noir (Build My Gallows
High, The Strange Love Of Martha Ivers) and like everyone else thought
that the era of film noir had come and gone and that such films were no
longer being produced. Well, blow me if I'm not very wrong: this is
quintessential film noir (though done in colour and with the proviso
that most film noir is not intended to be funny). It would be pointless
to recount the plot, but if you liked all those classic
Mitchum/Bogart/Van Helin/Edwrad g Robinson etc films, you will love
this. Sean Penn never disappoints. By the way the very final twist in
the plot had me laughing out loud. Go for it: you won't be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
A marked gambler (Penn) on the run, comes to a little town in the
middle of nowhere, south USA. A town filled with very unusual
characters, sordid secrets and strange opportunities, that seem very
appealing to this "Pat Poker" on the run, which desperately needs money
to pay the idiotic, redneck town mechanic. Penn and Nolte are at the
greatest level, and Lopez fills the requisites of her character.
Beautiful piece of writing, with surprising plot twists which make way
to a most brilliant ending, "Stone" style despair. A very misunderstood
work by this brilliant, all-American director. Another piece of genuine
America, with all her virtues and even more flaws, seen trough "stone"
cold eyes...
<|_=00=_|>

`U Turn' is an assault on the senses. But then again, what more can one
expect from director Oliver Stone whose innovative brand of filmmaking is
often filled with characters that are violent, insane, heroic, and even
bizarre. `U Turn' has many characters played by big name actors that
intertwine themselves around a central character, in this case, played by
Sean Penn (`Casualties Of War'). Ultimately, a film about getting away with
murder, `U Turn' is an intriguing blend of story, violence, and strange
people. 
	`U Turn' takes place during a hot day in Arizona where we meet our
principal character, Bobby (Penn), who is on his way to California to pay a
debt to the mob that has helped him in one way or the other. When his car
breaks down, Bobby is forced to have a redneck, roadside mechanic, named
Darrell (Billy Bob Thornton), fix it. While his car is in the shop, he ends
up walking into a local town where he meets some very eccentric people from
a blind vagrant (Jon Voight), a drunken sheriff, a hillbilly and his
girlfriend, to an exotic woman who sticks out like a sore thumb against the
simplicity of the town. Every person he encounters ultimately leads to a
conclusion that he could never have expected. 
	Robert Richardson whose superb cinematography has been used in several
films of note filmed `U Turn' masterfully. Richardson's craft with a camera
can be seen in such other movies as `The Horse Whisperer,' `Snow Falling On
Cedars,' and `The Four Feathers.' With its rough cuts, non-steady cam shots,
and scenes filmed as the sun glaring down on the actors, Richardson's work
gives a harsh and nauseating feel to the film.
	Stone's direction was excellent. He's an admirable director in that he
doesn't follow the mainstream concepts that are commonly seen in most motion
pictures. Watching a Stone film is like watching graduate film students show
off their work-it's fresh, energetic, and exciting. 
	`U Turn,' undoubtedly, has some of 1997s best performances. Penn is
outstanding as a guy who just keeps happening on the wrong place at the
wrong time. Jennifer Lopez is surprisingly good in her performances as the
wife of a real estate salesman. Lopez seems to have some talent on the
screenunlike her singing career. Her performance in another offbeat movie,
`Out Of Sight,' was also good. Nick Nolte is as Nick Nolte does-he's rough
around the edges, perverse and violent as the real estate salesman who seems
to rule over the sleepy town. Other performances of note are that of
Thornton has a slack-jawed yokel mechanic. Joaquin Phoenix (`Signs') as a
hillbilly and his simple-minded girlfriend, played by Claire Danes (`The
Hours') give the film a hysterical notch. 
Other points of interest in the film are the score, composed by veteran,
Italian, film composer Ennio Morrcone (`Mission To Mars') whose music adds a
humorous atmosphere to the irony of the film.
All in all, `U Turn' is a film that is gritty and brutal, but entertaining
as all hell. ***1/2

<|_=00=_|>
U-Turn is about a man named Bobby Cooper (Sean Penn) who is on his way
to pay a debt to a gangster when his car breaks down in the small,
redneck town of Superior. There, Bobby is taken advantage of by the
good IL' boys in every way possible, from the dirty mechanic to the
town sheriff. He meets a beautiful girl named Grace (Jennifer Lopez)
and falls for her, and she seemingly falls for him as well. From here,
there are twists and turns in the plot all the way to the very end of
the movie.

Sean Penn was decent as Bobby, but seemed a bit week and was taken
advantage of a bit too easily. I guess that was Bobby's character so he
did a good job. Jennifer Lopez did not have as big a part as I thought,
but she did OK with it. Nothing spectacular, just OK.

The characters that stole the movie, in my honest opinion, were Darrell
the mechanic (Billy Bob Thornton) and Toby N. Tucker (Joaquin Phoenix).
They had the redneck stereotypes down pat, especially Thornton.

This movie was a decent little thriller. I am glad I did not see it way
back when it was in theaters but it is OK for a rental. I give 7 of 10
stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to say this film was sort of what I thought it was... I really
enjoyed it!

I've seen Sean Penn in a few films now and they're all good. Oliver
Stone is one of the finest men in film production. It's visually
stunning, loads of mad camera pans and colour blast-outs! The
supporting cast are great as well. Billy Bob Thornton looks nothing
like him and is away with it, Jennifer Lopez is attractive an alluring,
Nick Nolte is totally convincing and great as the wicked husband,
Joiquin Phoenix is mad as TNT and possibly the best is John Voight as a
blind homeless person!

A great film with a good ending... although I wouldn't like to be any
of them!

A good 7/10

