
In her film debut,the attractive Alicia Silverstone plays Darian
Forrester,a mentally disturbed 14 year old girl who develops an
unhealthy obsession with her neighbour,Nick Eliot (Cary Elwes)a baby
faced blonde hair,blue eyed journalist who has no sexual interest in
her.Silverstone shines in her role as the villain,making life hell for
Nick,who wants nothing more than a friendship with the girl next
door.Darian's desperate attempts to seduce the older man are
unsuccessful,driving her deeper into her obsession and making her more
psychotic.Silverstone's acting is superb,but her facial expressions are
what is so convincing about her performance.Alicia superbly transforms
herself from sweet and innocent into scary and psychotic giving new
meaning to the phrase,'When she was good she was very very good,and
when she was bad she was horrid'. The film has you on the edge of your
seat as the plot unravels,and truths are discovered about sweet little
Darian Forrester who is crazier than anyone thought.Her anger at Nick
for leading her on goes to the extreme until she comes up with a plan
she hopes will destroy his reputation.Nick is oblivious to Darian's
feelings for him and believes its nothing more than a silly school girl
crush that will pass until he discovers just how dangerous Darian
really is.
<|_=00=_|>

It's very hard to understand why this movie is rated so low. I really
enjoyed watching this film, which was Silverstone's first major role. She
plays a crazy teenager who has a crush on a guy who lives in a guesthouse.
In her selfish pursuit of the object of her affection, she makes the guy's
life a living hell. She also makes the life miserable for anyone who tries
to "steal" the guy from her. I think Silverstone fit her role perfectly.
The
plot was very good as well, and I was always wondering what Silversone's
character (Alicia) would do next. This movie gets a solid 8 from
me.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has its faults but you can sit back and have fun watching
it. It's slow at first. It's not suspenseful but it efficiently uses
the short time of action to punch you with thrills. My adrenaline was
rushing when Amy got stung by wasps. The direction is so precise that a
certain number of seconds can leave you hanging off the sofa. Be
careful if you're eating popcorn(or potato chips). You might end up
drooling your food on the floor. Nick isn't that smart but I like him
because he's nobody's fool. Aside from Cary Elwes and Alicia
Silverstone, Kurtwood Smith(That 70's Show) also plays his part very
well. The reversal of traditional sexual harassment and discrimination
was also interesting.
<|_=00=_|>

Alicia's first big film is by far her best. She's gripping, believable and
absolutely devilish in the role of little rich witch. Cary Elwes is
completely at home in the role of victim as this vortex of terror swirls
around him. It's impossible to watch this film without a chill running down
your spine. Oh, if only the rest of us could inspire that kind of devotion
from our admirers!   
<|_=00=_|>
"The Crush" is about a fourteen-year-old girl (Alicia Silverstone) who
falls in love with a journalist neighbor, played by Cary Elwes (of
"Saw" infamy).

Elwes rejects her come-ons and after she tries to kiss him gives her a
slight warning. However her advances are so strong that after a while
he is left dazed, as she accuses him of sexual abuse and has the police
arrest him.

Destined to clear his name for good, he embarks on a mission to expose
her "crush" - and prove to everyone once and for all that she's a
psychopath.

A lot of movies like this were made back in the '80s and '90s starting
with "Fatal Attraction," although this is one of the more entertaining
ones. As far as the acting goes, Silverstone is very sexy (she was
older than 14 during filming so I can say this without coming across as
a perv) - she's good at playing a devious flirt.

Elwes experiments with his off-again-on-again American accent and the
good news is that it's more convincing here than in "Saw" (2004).
Except for a few scenes, he pretty much sounds convincing. His acting
is up to par as well.

It's not a great movie but it's entertaining, which is exactly what it
should be.
<|_=00=_|>
The Crush was one of those movies that I absolutely admired as a kid, I
thought this movie was so awesome and intense well, I was a kid, give
me a little credit. Re-watching this movie, I didn't realize that maybe
it wasn't that great of a movie like I had remembered. It was a pretty
unoriginal plot, didn't add much of it's own taste or style and was
pretty silly over the top. But still I'm not going to diss the film
entirely, this was the beginning of Alicia Silverstone's career and she
pulls in a strong performance and was very chilling on screen with Cary
Elwes. The story may not be original but Alicia and Cary made the story
work.

Arriving in a new city, writer Nick Eliot secures a job at Pique
magazine and lodgings in a guest house belonging to Cliff and Liv
Forrester. Nick soon makes the acquaintance of the Forrester's
14-year-old daughter Adrian, a precocious gifted girl who develops an
intense attraction to him. She secretly helps Nick by sneaking into his
room and rewriting one of his Pique stories, which subsequently wins a
rave from his editor/boss Michael. At a party thrown by the Forresters,
Nick agrees to accompany the lonely girl on a nightly drive to a
romantic spot, where she kisses him. This intensifies Adrian's crush on
Nick, but he quickly wises up and attempts to put her off, having begun
a budding romance with co-worker Amy. Adrian continues to boldly pursue
him, even going so far as to undress in his view. Nick, however,
continues to rebuff her advances, and Adrian's actions become
destructive, she smashes a car he's restored and erases his computer
discs with his work on it. Then, after Adrian spies on Amy in bed with
Nick, you thought Adrian was crazy before, just wait to see what
happens next.

Over all The Crush is a decent enough movie to watch, I wouldn't
dismiss it completely, just if you catch it on TV, check it out. I
thought that the scene where Cary is hiding in Alicia's closet to find
out what she's really been up too and she knows that he is there, so
instead of freaking out, she just undresses in front of him with a
seductive look. Also where you see that she has beaten herself up just
to get back at Cary's character was very chilling. The Crush has good
moments, but it is flawed and in my opinion there are some scenes that
could have had a little more, like the hornets that Alicia uses to
attack Cary's girlfriend with, afterwards in the hospital, she really
doesn't look that injured. But it's mindless entertainment, the new
twist on Fatal Attraction, so if you dig these thrillers then The Crush
is right up your alley.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>

The Crush is about a 28 year old journalist named Nick Elliot. He rents a
guesthouse and befriends the landlady's beautiful 14 year old daughter
Adrian (Alicia Silverstone). Adrian seems lonely, so Nick starts spending
a
little time with her and he gets to know her better. Nick just sees Adrian
as a friend, but Adrian starts obsessing over him and she wants to be more
then just friends, much more. And if Adrian can't have Nick, then no one
can..
I enjoyed this movie, all the actors did a fine job. I would give The
Crush
8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This was Alicia Silverstone's debut film after which she went on to
star in some Aerosmith videos (what red-blooded American male can ever
forget seeing her and Liv Tyler in "Crazy"?) after which she got the
lead in Clueless (1995) and the rest is cinematic history.

In Clueless of course she was a sweet, adorable and slightly
empty-headed Valley Girl. Here she is what might be called a Lolita
from hell. Director Alan Shapiro even has her do a Sue Lyon (from
Kubrick's 1964 Lolita) looking-over-her-sunglasses imitation to start
the film. We soon learn that she is 14 "almost 15." (Silverstone was
actually 15-years-old during the filming.) She is also rich and very
talented, plays a classical piano, knows the scientific names of
beetles and wasps, has skipped two grades, etc. The film itself might
be dubbed a kind of "Fatal Attraction" for teeny-boppers.

Cary Elwes plays Nick Eliot who is looking for some digs as the film
begins. He is a writer who just got a gig with an important, trendy
magazine. After nearly bumping into Adrian (Silverstone) with his car,
he looks askance and sees a sign advertising a cottage for rent in back
of a large house with estate. Turns out this is where Adrian lives with
her parents.

Somehow this reminds me of William Holden as the writer Joe Gillis
pulling into that driveway on Sunset Boulevard (1950). He should have
looked in the other direction! He should have run the other way! When
Little Miss Crazy gets a crush, it is a hum-dinger. Maybe Nick should
have just surrendered at the start and she would have been bored with
him in a couple of months at most. But unfortunately, Nick Eliot is the
epitome of the clueless male. He doesn't see the danger until it is too
late. He is slightly compromised because he has kissed her, he has
wandered about her house when her parents haven't been at home, and
worse yet he doesn't have an inkling of the strength of her passion. To
be honest I felt a little sorry for her having to deal with all that
rejection! I think this would have played more realistically had
Adrian's part been given to an ugly little shrew in the making. But
then of course the film would not have found any kind of audience.

Well, this is a familiar premise and the kind I like to see worked out
and resolved--well, I like to look at Alicia, anyway. Unfortunately
Alan Shapiro, who also wrote the script, has the originality of a
photocopy machine and just milks the premise while mindlessly
escalating the bizarro. Suffice it to say that Little Miss Crazy
doesn't take no for an answer and that Nick stupidly behaves in a way
that just makes his situation worse. The ending does have the virtue of
being nicely ironic while suggesting the hoped-for sequel.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>

Alternating between gothic horror and hilarious camp, "The Crush" is one of
the great cult films.  Writer/Director Alan Shapiro's young discovery,
Alicia Silverstone, delivers her greatest role to date -- no kidding.  This
is pure fun entertainment, I highly recommend renting it.  I will see
anything writer/director Alan Shapiro makes. 
<|_=00=_|>
Word was that "you have to see this Alicia Silverstone; she's really
hot." That was back in 1993, so I checked out the movie. This was
Alicia's film debut and she got a lot of hype for this movie.

I discovered, yeah, Silverstone has a pretty face, but that's about it.
The movie was nothing special; not something you haven't seen before.
Cary Elwes, not Silverstone, ruins the picture. Not literally him; the
character he plays: "Nick." What a dork! 

Nick is an incredibly stupid guy who befriends the 14-year-old
"Adrienne" (Silverstone), who is his neighbor. The girl, who then
expects more from the guy and doesn't get it, vents her wrath on him.
Nick is so annoying I didn't care what the stupid neighbor did to him.
Both of the lead characters deserved each other.

Whatever happened to Silverstone? I guess she never really made it to
stardom. The last I remember her was playing "Batgirl" with George
Clooney and Arnold Schwarzenegger.
