

This is one of those guilty pleasure movies for me...it combines elements of
the great mob movies with fast paced and hard hitting action.  For the most
part, the director pulls this one off pretty well, at least for what kind of
movie he was trying to direct.

I've been reading a lot of comments stating that this movie can't hold a
candle anywhere near Goodfellas or Godfather or even Donnie Brasco (all of
which are excellent movies).  Well, all I have to say is, NO, REALLY?!?  I
mean come on, with a cast like Christian Slater, Patrick Dempsey and Richard
Grieco, what were you expecting?  Another Vito Corleone or Lefty Luggiero? 
This one is aimed at a younger audience (perhaps teens to mid twenties) and
I have to admit, they pull it off rather nicely.  What I mean is that the
movie, though serious throughout, does not try to be an epic, only a high
octane crowd pleaser.  The action scenes are bloody and well done, and the
sets are lovely.  Even the acting is surprisingly good, especially Patrick
Dempsey and dare I say, Richard '21 Jump Street' Grieco.  What kills me
about this flick is that, though it is an exciting movie and a more than
anything else, an effective time killer, the direction cuts from scene to
scene getting straight to the point and little else.  This seriously
detracts from characterization and overall storytelling (I totally agree
with other viewers who said that this movie should be at least an hour
longer).  I mean, at the beginning, we are vaguely introduced to our
protagonists, and then five minutes later, they are in their twenties, and
have already established themselves as small time crooks.  How?  Movies like
Goodfellas and Once Upon a Time in America are great movies partly b\c they
had wonderful scenes of the main characters as children, so we can see their
motives when they eventually become mobsters.  This one, like I said, jumps
from one scene to another, not wasting a second on dramatic pauses or even
characterization.  It seriously reminds you of a cookie-cutter Jerry
Bruckheimer production, minus the explosions.  It does have nice touches
here and there of authentic 1920-1930's life and old movies depicting that
era which gives the film class (the tunes, the model-T's, the dancers, the
neighborhoods and finally, the spinning newspaper headlines) instead of just
being another Young Guns meets the Goodfellas.  However, as I said, the
film's objective, to make a fast paced mafia movie with popular actors
suceeds, but it also leads to its biggest downfall of limited
characterization.  It is hard to feel for (or despise) characters without
knowing their background all too well...all we get is, hey Lucky had a hard
life, Benny likes to kill people, Don Massaria is fat, the other Don is a
bad fella...anyway you catch my drift.

All in all, not a bad film, though it should have been longer.  Watch this
one only when it's on cable or when you have time to kill, for it is rather
visually pleasing and entertaining.  Overall, it is a movie that doesn't
pretend to be something it's not, it's a decent film with a lot of action
and good performances.  I give it 7/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is based on the rise of four leading organised crime figures,
from the end of WW 1 to the early thirties. The central character, Charles
(Lucky) Luciano (Christian Slater)is credited, if that's the right word, for
introducing modern corporate governance to a group of organisations
previously based on ethnic affiliation and loyalty to a chief. So, in the
movie he and his associates Meyer Lansky, Frank Costello and Bugsy Siegel
works to bring down two aging Dons whose time has come. The Dons, played by
Anthony Quinn and Michael Gambon, are certainly ruthless, but their
imaginations are limited. The young turks on the other hand see new markets
and new alliances. In the new mafia, Irishmen, Russian Jews and others work
alongside Italians.

The period is evoked beautifully in shades of brown and cream. Unfortunately
many scenes have a certain sameness to them - a couple of hoods meet in some
office or hotel for a delicate business chat, each armed to the teeth. When
an impass is reached the guns blaze away. This gets boring after a while and
you start to wonder why they don't use the phone sometimes. It isn't because
the FBI are after them (the IRS was a bit more successful) and they have the
New York cops in their pocket. There are some very bloody scenes depicted
with gratuitious graphicness.

Luciano and to a lesser extent Lansky are quite sympathetically depicted,
with many of the killings being of "let's kill them before they kill us
variety." Poor old Tony Quinn is put down not even able to remember the guy
whose death is being avenged. One thing that does come out is that organised
crime was in the US long before the prohibition era, but the money made then
financed the mob into many other areas, pre-eminently gambling in Cuba and
Las Vegas. Meyer Lansky was the biggest investor in the early Vegas casino
the "Flamingo", opened I think, by Bugsy Siegal.

This is a moderately interesting account, though with some substantial
departures from the historical record. Apart from all the gore my objection
to it is that it glamourises some very nasty people who did a great deal of
damage to American public life. The FBI, and all its attacks on civil
liberties, justified its existence by reference to organised crime, yet did
little to stop it. After the time covered by the film Luciano was imprisoned
not through the efforts of the FBI but through those of NY prosecutor Thomas
Dewey. Luciano was eventually deported to Italy, after assisting the OSS,
forerunner of the CIA, in their wartime dealings with the Sicilian mafia. Al
Capone, a bit player here, was famously imprisoned for tax evasion. Meyer
Lansky was charged with tax evasion in the early 1970s, but beat the rap. He
died peacfully at 81 in retirement in Florida. His family not only maintain
his grave, but also a web site about him.


<|_=00=_|>

I must say, I don't really agree with what most other people have to say
about this movie. I must admit it has its ups and downs, especially when
it
comes to the casting. Casting Christian Slater as Lucky Luciano was just
ridiculous. He is just so the wrong type. He is a good actor, but this
part
does not suit him at all!
It is a different story for several other people. I must say I was very
impressed with the performances of Richard Grieco and Lara Flynn Boyle.
Richard clearly shows he can do a lot more than just being the pretty boy.
He was probably the best choice for the part. Violent and sensual. He even
manages to do a quite funny scene, when his character gets angry, because
someone tells him he does not kill with style. I did not know what to
expect
from him, as I had only seen him in "21 Jump Street", but give him a
chance,
because he will not disappoint you. Lara Flynn Boyle's performance is
wonderful. Too bad her part was so small, as I would have loved to see
more
of her in this movie. She shows here clearly she can do so much more than
cheap comedies. Usually I would give this film 8 out of 10, but because of
Richard and Lara, I will make it 9.
<|_=00=_|>

As much as I love Gangster movies there is something that is not quite
right
about this film.Im not sure the problem is that the actors are just a
little
bit too young to pull it off if the film should have been an hour longer
as
there seems to be too much squeezed into 100 minutes. Having said all that
i
did enjoy this film. Christian Slater has a charm all of his own and is
good
as Lucky Luciano. Nice and Violent as well!
6 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't believe that this movie was going to be even somewhat good
after looking at the cover of the box. Boy, was I wrong, Mobsters sure
did not disappoint me and I think I've seen just about every mafia/mob
movie ever made in the last 50 years. I'm not saying this goes up there
with Goodfellas and The Godfathers, etc, but it definitely deserves
some credit. The acting for the most part is very well-done. There is
some good action with a fair amount of bloodshed, great set designs,
and a good cast. I'm not sure exactly how historically accurate this
movie is, but nevertheless, it pulls through to bring an overall
excellent mob flick.
<|_=00=_|>
I have loved this film since it came out and I can't believe some of
the comments! Did you really expect another Goodfellas from the Brat
Pack? Or did you just watch the film so you could confirm your
suspicions and have a good moan? The film is very entertaining and well
acted. Robert De Niro and Al Pacino may be good actors but the cast of
this film is much easier on the eye(!) and I don't think you can fault
the acting in this film. Patrick Dempsey and Christian Slater are
particularly good in their roles.

Stop being so judgemental and accept the film for what it is - an
entertaining action flick loosely based on real events. If you expect a
history lesson from the cinema you are bound to be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes, the detractors always had a point about their derisive pithy
review: Young Guns, The Mafia Years. Yet, the movie, while making some
historical errors, is faithful in part to the mob history of Lucky
Luciano and Meyer Lansky. The writers, apparently to protect
themselves, changed Salvatore Maranzano into Faranzano. Quinn renders
an excellent Masseria, who Volkmann in Gangbusters, tells us could
never find anyone who wished to dine with him. He was famous for
spraying pasta and sauce all about as he devoured four platters of
spaghetti at one sitting. This is what will surprise you: a great
supporting cast stolen by the always brilliant F. Murray Abraham (The
only good part of Star Trek: Insurrection), and the best Mad Dog Coll
ever depicted in a movie. I own the Mad Dog Coll classic from the
fifties, that actor does well, but nowhere this accurately and
brilliantly done. Here, you will hear the eternally Evil giggling with
which Mad Dog was gunning people down with. He is in my favorite scene
when two hapless hit men get the unenviable task of trying to garrote
him, trust me: it doesn't go well. If you read histories of this
period, Coll was described just like this: terrifyingly laughing
manically as he slaughtered people. F. Murray Abraham gives an
excellent rendering of Arnold Rothstein who fixed the World Series with
the 'Black Sox'.

Slater gives the best performance of the young cast, true, it is
downhill from there but Christopher Penn is good as the ill-fated Tom
Reina. The movie follows the rise of Luciano and Lansky during the
Maranzano / Masseria war. The outcome is fairly faithful but for:
Maranzano was stabbed by Gaetano Luchesse (Luciano's right hand man)
not thrown from a window. It was during the depicted phony IRS raid by
Lucchese's men. Masseria was killed just as you see depicted here,
Luciano did excuse himself from the table. My header was hilariously
spoken by Lucky to cops when they questioned his bladder's convenient
timing. It became a part of Mafia lore, it always was quoted by Bugsy,
Meyer and the rest of the gang. The great supporting actors hold this
movie up; true, the young cast is shaky, especially Dempsey as Lansky.
If you don't live within Mafia histories, you will get a passable
history of the war. Maranzano's racism was go great that he even hated
fellow Sicilians who had the misfortune of not being born at his
Sicilian seaport. His anti-semitism is quite historically accurate; he
hated Jews and demanded that Lucky betray all of his Jewish partners. 

This movie is a bit of a temporal anomaly, it was mocked upon its
release; the focus of the critical lampooning was the painfully young,
poorly acting cast. As time has passed, it now has risen due to the
dreadful acting of more modern movies. For my younger readers, you may
really enjoy this. Coll is excellent, the supporting cast holds up the
young guys and the pacing is the other star. With the exception of the
requisite romance, between Lucky and the dancer, the movie moves well
with the narrative. It is refreshingly honest about the ethnic tensions
not just between Maranzano and Jewish gangsters but even between Lucky
and Meyer. It is surprisingly intense with some great gun battles and
you will see how Lucky got that famous knife scar: Maranzano did not
take 'no' well. For me, Abraham's Rothstein, Quinn's Masseria and Coll
are the stars of this movie. If you like gangster movies, the odds are
you missed this; it died a quick death at the box office. It has been
making a comeback on cable lately. It is White Heat? No, but it is much
better than you have heard. Yes, there are the above historical
problems with the movie but you won't notice them unless you are an
egghead like me. Remember, you were washing your hands. Q.E.D.
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed watching this movie. Everyone says that the characters
were too young, but that's how young Lucky and the guys really were.
Christian Slater was actually a couple of years older than Lucky at the
time the movie was set. The age of the characters adds to the amazing
ability of the kids to "succeed" the way that they did. All in all, the
movie was a lot of fun. Even if you don't care for the movie itself,
you can definitely appreciate the determination of these four guys and
the power and strength of their friendship. The movie is fast paced and
fun to watch, so it does a great job of keeping you entertained. It
doesn't hurt to have four hot guys with power and guns, either.
<|_=00=_|>
Mobsters casts four young players of the day as four of the legendary
gangland figures of the 20th Century in their salad days. Christian
Slater, Patrick Dempsey, Richard Grieco, and Costas Mandylor play Lucky
Luciano, Meyer Lansky, Bugsy Siegel, and Frank Costello respectively.
The film is a fictionalized account of how the four of them wound up on
top of the gangland heap.

Michael Gambon and Anthony Quinn play the two old style Mobsters who
are rivals for the title of boss of all bosses in the New York City
area. Playing Charles Ferranzano and Joe Masseria the two of them
control most of the illegal liquor trade which gave organized crime in
this country it's real foothold. But our young men prove to be tough,
smart and resilient as they play off the two old bosses against the
middle.

Mobsters as a film captures the ambiance of New York during prohibition
very well. I'm not sure I would have cast Christian Slater as Lucky
Luciano, still Slater does very well with the part. Richard Grieco as
Bugsy Siegel is very good, you can see the genesis of Warren Beatty's
character when he played Siegel in his film, Bugsy. 

Note should also be mentioned of F. Murray Abraham as Twenties gambler
Arnold Rothstein who was the initial sponsor of the young mobsters in
training. And Nick Sadler is one frightening Mad Dog Coll. You'll see
quite graphically where his nickname came from.

Mobsters is good viewing, not exactly historically accurate, but
actually sticks closer to the truth than most films of this type.
<|_=00=_|>
I have always been very interested in the mob from early 1900 to the
50's. This film didn't disappoint me, probably because I wasn't
expecting much. I knew this film was just made in order to get 4 young
rising actors on screen together. Those actors being Christian Slater
whom would later go to star in Brocken Arrow with John Trovolta.
Patrick Dempsey who plays Meyer Lansky, Richard Grieco who plays Bugsy
Siegel (The man who made Las Vegas) and Costas Mandylor as Frank
Costello.

The film feels very rushed and it seems the producers were more
interested in the action rather than story which is interesting on its
own. THe characters arnt developed very well but as someone who has
read up on all of them I felt as if I already knew them. Christian
Slater does the best but looks nothing like the real Luciano. The film
was too short running in at around 105 minutes. I think the director's
and writers should have sat down and watched GOODFELLAS which was made
the year before.
