

 As a very young child, I grew up on the 1961 101 Dalmatians. I loved the
show, and I remember thinking that it was one of Disney's best. So when the
1996 live-action remake came out, I had my doubts that anything could be as
good as the original.
 I was wrong.
 This movie is absolutely fantastic! It is beautifully written and the dogs
are so cute and loveable... but I think the thing that ties it all together
is the casting. The characters were brought to life in a totally believeable
way--from Jeff Daniels as the Dalmatian-loving, Cruella-hating Roger Dearly,
to Ms.DeVil herself, played to perfection by the unbeatable Glenn Close. All
of the actors fill the shoes of their characters, the comic timing is just
right, and everything about it spells a Disney masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
"101 Dalmatians" is perfectly good clean children entertainment. It's
has a fun feeling and atmosphere and some great characters.

John Hughes his writing style is notable in this movie. The characters
and the humor are similar to his other movies such as the well know
movie "Home Alone". The humor is slapstick like at times (especially
with the villains Jasper and Horace) which works very effective for a
fun children movie like this one.

Of course everything is terribly predictable and nothing that happens
in this movie comes as a surprise. It's simple fun and entertainment.
The humor is simple but it's good and works effective.

Glenn Close is perfectly cast as über-villain Cruella De Vil and
portrays a highly memorable character. She truly is the highlight of
the movie and steals the show. She also seemed to had lots of fun
playing the over-the-top villainous but oh so fun character. Also good
are the more slapstick like, stereotypical villains Jasper and Horace
played by Hugh Laurie and Mark Williams. Another fun villain role is
played by John Shrapnel who is perhaps best known for his role in
"Gladiator".

The fun and perhaps also a bit underrated musical score is done by
Michael Kamen. It quite honestly is one of his better works.

Children will enjoy watching this movie and I can know, since I
actually saw this movie back in the cinema, when I was still a child
myself.

6/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

As an animation student, I frequently cringe when they make a live action
version of an animated film, as they rarely live up to their cartoon
counterparts. This is not one of those films. 
I loved it, the Dogs, pongo and Perdy, were outstanding, and even with
computer stand ins, and Hensons creature shop, you'd be hard pushed to see
the joins, the exceptions being the Wood pecker at the door and the two
Racoons giving each other a high five.
Jeff Daniels and Joely Richardson were great, Hugh Laurie and Mark Williams
were brilliant as the bumbling lackeys, but the star of the show had to be
Glenn Close as Cruella DeVille.
I never knew animated characters could have real life twins, but Glenn Close
was Cruella's, delightfully over the top, with more ham than a bacon
butty.
If you liked the cartoon you'll love this version as well.
The only thing I wondered about in the whole film was how many takes it took
them to get some of the animal shots,  this certainly contradicts the old
adage of not working with animals and kids.
<|_=00=_|>

I've noticed something about John Hughes' movies: he started out writing
about adults with child-like tendencies ("Mr. Mom", "National Lampoon's
Vacation"), went on to actual teenagers ("Sixteen Candles", The Breakfast
Club"), devolved down to pre-teens ("Home Alone", "Dennis the Menace") and
then babies ("Baby's Day Out") and now that he's exhausted all the ages of
man (except the elderly - don't give him any ideas) he's moved on to the
animal kingdom with "101 Dalmatians".

You know the basic storyline if you've seen the 1961 Disney animated
original - Roger and Anita (Daniels and Richardson) meet and marry then
their respective dalmatians Pongo and Perdita have 15 puppies which are
coveted by the despicable Cruella DeVil (played con brio by Close) who will
have them at any cost to make a puppy fur coat.

What's new this time around?  The fact that it's all live action, for one,
and the formidable assistance of computers helps create the illusion of dogs
and other creatures acting with almost human precision, plus the fact that
instead of precocious voices for all the animals they act out voiceless
against the human baddies, especially Horace and Jasper (Williams and
Laurie), as if the animal kingdom were all channeling Macaulay
Culkin.

And, of course, since Hughes wrote the script, you know this won't be
Shakespeare - slapstick malice is at the forefront with cute but noble good
guys, ugly and dumb bad guys and lots of adorable animals. 

But not just dalmatians, mind you: there are all manner of dogs - sheepdogs,
bulldogs, terriers, etc.  Not to mention horses, sheep, raccoons, rabbits,
chickens, pigs, cows, birds and even a mouse in one instance.  All of them
banding together to bring the dalmatians, all 101 of them, together
safely.

Director Herek brings everything together with assurance and all the actors
make sure you know that this is a story that is first and foremost for the
kiddies.  Especially Close - complete with claws on her gloves and a
different wardrobe for every scene, she not only chews the scenery but
nibbles on it with every tooth in her head and savors the taste like a
connoisseur.  Bless her.

This isn't the kind of movie that can be successfully analyzed.  You either
like it or not, depending on what kind of tolerance you have for kiddie
slapstick.  I like that, so I liked "101 Dalmatians".

Seven stars, plus half a star for Close's diabolical work...and a half star
more for the donations from the animal world.
<|_=00=_|>

Incredible as it may seem, this film is every bit the equal of the Disney
animated version of the same title. And it is DIFFERENT from the Disney
version. This is a rare accomplishment, in a medium where remakes and
sequels are so often weak.

The film is made by Glen Close, whose appearance as Cruella DeVil is
fascinating! She is even more evil than her animated namesake. But the rest
of the casting of the film is also incredibly strong. No problems with
anyone.

The dalmations are most excellently employed. Virtually seamless integration
of live action and computer animation. And also, the hosts of animals (live
and animated) in the film do NOT talk (a cloying and sentimental habit too
often indulged in by Disney Studios et al).

The film is an adult's movie that children should also enjoy! The VHS
version was good, the DVD version even better.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies that truly is - and I don't mean to use the
cliché - entertaining whether you are a kid or an adult. The dalmatians
and other animals are a lot of fun to watch.

Glenn Close must have had a lot of fun making this film, playing the
evil "Cruela De Vil." Just as much fun, maybe more, were the two
bumbling dog-nappers - Hugh Laurie and Mark Williams, I believe -
idiots who were genuinely funny in their stupidity. Their dialog was
hilarious.

There are nice colors in here, too, so a widescreen DVD is good to have
if you enjoy this movie. I didn't find the surround sound to be much.

Speaking of clichés and such, there are some drawbacks here that were a
little annoying to me, like overdoing the intelligence of the dogs,
making them almost human-like with their abilities to understand
English. In fact, it's taken to the absurd level level of some of the
animals being smarter than humans. Please....give me a break! Also, you
get the quick "film romance" in which two people (Jeff Daniels and
Joely Richardson) barely meet and already they are in love, getting
married in no time. Please....give me a break!

Still, recommended if you want a want 103 minutes of a "cute" story and
don't take any of it the least bit seriously as if anything in here
could really happen.
<|_=00=_|>

"101 Dalmatians" is a very cute and funny movie from the original Disney
cartoon classic. Glenn Close was very good in the movie, and I liked all of
the dalmatians. Glenn Close did a wonderful job as "Cruella Devil", and I
think she did a good job fitting the role. Overall, this is a family
classic, and should be enjoyed by anybody! I give it a 9.5 out of
10!
<|_=00=_|>
101 DALMATIANS, in my opinion, is an excellent remake of a pure Disney
classic. It made me feel all warm and tingly when Pongo and Perdita set
out on their mission. If you ask me, Cruella (Glenn Close), Horace
(Mark Williams), and Jasper (Hugh Laurie) were truly devious. If I were
Pongo or Perdita, I'd probably do the same thing they did. Before I
wrap this up, I'd like to say that everyone was perfectly cast, the
production design was beautiful, the performances were top-grade, the
direction was flawless, and Disney has done it again. In conclusion, I
highly recommend this pure Disney classic to everyone who hasn't seen
it. I guarantee you you'll enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
101 Dalmatians, the ultimate Disney animated classic about none other
than PUPPIES! It was clever, sharp, witty and just a wonderful movie
and created one of Disney's most memorable and classic villains Cruella
DeVil. So when I had heard about the live action version I wasn't too
interested, this movie came out when I was 11 years old for goodness's
sake, but I just didn't want to see what was already a perfect movie
being made into a live action one, but my grandparents had bought it
and we watched it together. I remember seeing it and really didn't like
it, but as I grew up, it was on TV one day so I figured since I'm a
little more grown up to give this another chance and still I'm not too
thrilled with this new take on the "tail", lol, get it? Eh, my lame
jokes, gotta love them.

Roger Dearly is an American computer game designer, who shares his home
in London with his pet dalmatian, Pongo. One day Roger takes Pongo for
a walk, and the dog sets his eyes on a beautiful female Dalmatian named
Perdy. After a frantic chase through the streets of London, Roger and
Pongo discover Perdy likes Pongo; and Perdy's owner, fashion designer
Anita Campbell-Green, is taken with Roger when they meet in St. James
Park. Romance blossoms between both human and canine couples and Roger
and Anita walk down the aisle. Anita works for Cruella DeVil, a sexy
fashion maven with a great love for cigarettes and fur. Anita becomes
inspired by her dogs and designs a fur coat made with spotted fur,
causing Cruella to leap on the idea of making garments out of actual
Dalmatians. When Cruella learns that Perdy has given birth to fifteen
Dalmatian puppies she offers the couple a decent price for the newborn
puppies, but the couple refuses. Flying into a maniacal rage, she fires
Anita and vows to get even. She has her henchmen, Jasper and Horace,
steal the puppies and deliver them to her ancient estate, but the
puppies escape and now must find their way home.

So I absolutely adore Glenn Close, she's one of my favorite actresses
of all time and always delivers very on the key performances, now she
was a great choice for Cruella, but I think it was just the whole idea
of the movie that dragged her down, the whole cast as a matter of a
fact is too good for this movie. It's just not as fun as the original
animated classic, I think the reason the animated movie is so much
better is because it was just more special and personal as it was hand
drawn and a classic for so many kids who grew up with it. Maybe I am
being stubborn where I'm just more for the original, but honestly this
movie is just kind of pointless and not really for the kids nore the
adults. I'd say it's not like it's the most horrible movie in the
world, but it's just not worth it to go out of your way to watch it.

4/10
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of those times when remakes are a good idea. It was a
remake of a classic and it was the remake of an animated movie to a
live one so I approve and it was a good attempt.

Evil Cruella De vil wants her assistant Anita to give up her spotted
puppies so she can turn them into a coat. Anita is fired for refusing
and De vil has the puppies stolen along with many more and the
adventure begins of trying to get them back.

Of course this movie was no where as good as the original. It didn't
have the dogs as the stars like the original and it took the heart out
of it. It didn't have the hilarious cat from the first one and that was
the funniest bit from the first one. With it being live action many of
the funny stunts pulled off in the original was missing.

It seems to me that working with that many dogs would be a horrible
task for a film maker and you can tell that editor Trudy Ship had her
work cut out for her here. John Hughes wrote the screenplay and he made
a lot of changes, some obviously had to be made and some had to be made
in order to modernize it, it was good and still true to the original.

Glenn close WOW, what a perfect job she did here as Cruella, great
acting and to me this is her best role. I love Hugh Laurie from House,
and he was a great villain and stood out to me from this film. Also, I
like Joan Plowright and enjoyed her as the lovable Nannie.

Not as good as the cartoon, a bit longer and slow at times. Some great
acting and some fillers, boring music that has already dated badly in
the 14 years since its release. I also hated the C.G.I. and most of it
could have been avoided. The movie was very corny at times, which made
it hard to accept as an adult, but this is surely one for the kids...3
out of 10 stars
