

Mr. Bean (Rowan Atkinson) is a London museum guard who is about to be fired
by middle management.  The big boss, however, won't hear of
it;
instead, he sends Mr. Bean to America.  Once there, Mr. Bean is to pose as
an art critic and give a rousing speech about Whistler's mother for a
California art museum. Well, the museum director picks Mr. Bean up at the
airport and pandemonium is the name of the game after that.  Mr. Bean upsets
the director's household, creates havoc at a local amusement park, blows up
dinner and more.  On top of that, he rarely speaks so everyone is certain he
is an idiot.  Can this man transform
himself into an art critic and will he be able to present a speech on the
museum's big day?

This movie is just flat-out fun.  Although he has very little
dialogue,
Mr. Bean's expressions and antics are priceless.  The supporting cast does a
reasonably good job but Mr. Bean towers over everybody.  This movie should
be required viewing for anyone in a depressed state of mind; it can lift the
spirits of even the saddest beings on earth.  Recommended for a fine family
evening of giggles and leg-slapping.
<|_=00=_|>

For those of you who loved watching Mr Bean, this movie doesn't fail to
disappoint you. I saw this last night and laughed my head off, in fact, I
think I was laughing more than when I was seeing Johnny English(also
starring Atkinson).

For those who really love the TV series, a few of the gags have been redone,
including the vomit bag joke, the turkey head and the fast ride (the latter
is so damn funny).

So if you love Rowan Atkinson or love Mr Bean, go see this
film!
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the funniest movies I've ever seen, and in my opinion it
is among the ranks of the legendary Monty Python.

"Bean" is about the infamous Mr.Bean, a lazy buffoon who manages to
cause problems in even the simplest of tasks. In this movie, he works
at an Art Gallery and the management desperately want to get rid of
him. Rather than fire him, they send him to Los Angeles to unveil the
painting, "Whistler's Mother". An American named David Langley allows
Mr.Bean to stay in his house during his visit against the will of his
family. This turns out to be a huge mistake.

This movie is roll-out-of-your-chair-laughing funny. Rowan Atkinson's
acting is beyond excellent, and all of the other characters are good as
well.

The only thing I can find to nitpick about this movie is that there is
not a very strong plot. The movie is basically a line of connected
humor skits. I personally do not mind this too much, but if you are
looking for a movie with a story that can be made into a book, look
elsewhere.

If you enjoyed the Mr.Bean series and like "disaster" movies, this is
the perfect movie for you!
<|_=00=_|>

Bean: The Movie is without a shadow of a doubt, one best comedies of 1997.
Bean (Rowan Atkinson) is working as a guard in the Royal Gallery of
London.
His employers, except for one, all hate him.  They send him on a two-month
sabbatical (to get rid of him for awhile) to present Whistler's Mother to
the Grierson Art Gallery in Los Angeles.  The only problem?  They told the
Grierson that he was a world-famous scholar!  If you think Bean couldn't
get
into any more trouble than he does in the UK, wait till you see what he
does
in the movie!

Bean stays with the Langley family, all of whom I found annoying except
for
David (Peter MacNicol), Bean's new friend.  Burt Reynolds even has a short
cameo appearance as General Newton, a person who cares nothing for art
personally.

Although he used some of his former gags, there is enough new ones that
make
the movie stand out.  The movie did better overseas than in the U.S. due
to
moronic critics and bad advertising.

Bottom line, Bean: The Movie never got the credit it deserved over here.
I
would buy this movie on DVD or VHS, whichever you prefer.  Also if you're
a
Bean fan, look for The Best Bits of Mr. Bean.  It's a collection of Mr.
Bean
skits from his TV show!
<|_=00=_|>

How can anyone not LOVE this movie. It has to be the greatest comedy made
in
the 1990s. IT HAS TO BE. Rowan Atkinson is an incredible slapstick
comedian.
He is one of the great comedy performers of all time, ranking alongside
Chaplin, Keaton, Fields, The Marxes, Tati, Brooks and Allen. This was a
really popular movie when it was released in the Spring of 1997-and with
good reason. If there could ONLY be more movies like this. I'm a big fan
of
Atkinson's TV shows MR BEAN, BLACKADDER and of course THE THIN BLUE LINE.
Do
yourself a favor and see this movie!


<|_=00=_|>

I had never seen any of Rowan Atkinson's performances as Mr. Bean when this
movie came out in 1997, so I knew nothing about it when I went to see it
other than that it was about the zany adventures of this strange looking man
on the movie poster. He strikes me as one of those comedians that you either
completely love or completely hate, because his comedy is so extreme. It's
not the kind of thing that you can watch and just sort of like or not really
care for. It's one of those movies where it's not surprising to see people
walk out in the middle while other people are just about falling out of
their chairs laughing so hard. Personally, I was one of the
latter.

I admit that Bean certainly deals in a very childish sort of humor. This is,
by definition, slapstick comedy, and it is certainly not for all tastes. But
from the movie's opening scene, which shows Bean gleefully shaving his
entire face with an electric razor (including his forehead and even his
tongue), you know that this is what the movie is like, so you can't really
hold that against it. 

The story in the film is clearly one of those that is invented for the movie
and then manipulated to fit the screenplay and to work nicely into the
movie. It's not that hard to realize that such a huge art gallery could be
fooled for so long by someone like Mr. Bean, thinking that he's a genius,
and certainly no way that he would be left alone with a $50 million painting
long enough to remove it from the vault and rub paint thinner into it, but
on the other hand, the rest of the comedy fits so nicely into this plot. At
the very least, there are relatively realistic situations thrown into an
unrealistic plot, which makes the movie enjoyable even though you don't
really take it seriously.

There is a wonderful scene, for example, where Bean sneezes on the painting
of Whistler's Mother, and then he tries to wipe off the spray with his
handkerchief, which has been smeared with a leaky pen. So the painting gets
smeared with ink, and he grabs the first can he sees off a nearby shelf,
which happens to be paint thinner. It cleans the ink off nicely but then
causes the paint to boil off, and then Bean frantically tries to save it by
wiping it even harder, rubbing the paint off right down to the canvas. Sure,
this is not the mark of an intelligent mind, but that's the point of the
whole movie. 

Bean is a film that relies on the fact that humans are so amused by the
misfortunes of others. There's something funny about seeing someone else get
into a sticky situation, and in movies like this, they do just that and
things only get worse and worse. Granted, there are a million ways out of
every situation that Bean gets into that would be less painful than the
routes that he chooses, but if he took them there would be no movie.
Consider, for example, the bathroom scene where a man walks in on Bean as he
appears to be getting a little too friendly with a hot air dryer. He quickly
grabs a light bulb pretending that he had been examining it, and then the
man leaves and Bean drops the hot bulb to break on the ground and when he
goes to run cold water over his burnt fingers the water sprays his crotch
again. Total slapstick, but that's funny!

Like I said, Bean is not a movie for all tastes. But there is a place for
childish humor in movies, and that place is in movies like this. It
certainly can be taken too far or simply done wrong, as in the case of
movies like the American Pies or the Scary Movies, etc., but Bean is a movie
that knows what kind of comedy it delivers, and it knows how far to go
before things just descend into vulgarity and bad taste. It's a comedy that
does not pretend to be anything that it's not, and for that it should be
respected. It is also, by the way, the kind of a comedy that allows for an
almost innumerable amount of sequels. While I can certainly see it being
vastly overdone, I would just like to say that if a couple more Bean movies
were to be made, I would be among the last to complain!
<|_=00=_|>

Warning:Plot Giveaways

Bean the movie is a triumph in the cinema world. For once a film based on
the T.V. series has worked. It may be the case the best jokes are altered
versions of what appeared on the small screen but are slotted into the story
line with immense skill. Just before Bean gets the Turkey stuck on his head
when asked had he cooked a turkey before he nods his head in an unsure
"mmmm" mannner.

The best thing about Bean the movie is the  for once it is the Americans who
are made to look stupid. Whereas in many movies the British are the joke
being portrayed as posh in Bean it the Americans who are laughed at for
being simply to stupid to realise this so called doctor bean is in fact not
a doctor.

On hearing Mr Bean was hitting the big screen I was at first very concerned
that it would not work for him to talk . However many of the funniest lines
are when he does open his mouth such as when he calls a 50 million dollar
painting a big picture of an old bat.

Very recommended
<|_=00=_|>

Although the storyline is quite different to the usual ones in the tv
show,
the movie still captures the clumsiness and total annoyingness of the
character of Mr Bean. Rowan Atkinson is great and so are the other actors
in
the film. I really enjoyed this, probably more because it wasn't a
disaster
like the tv show usually is. In other words Bean didn't stuff up as much.
there were some great scenes involving the painting and in the hospital. I
recommend it to those comedy fans and for anybody who can withstand the
lunatic behaviour of Mr Bean.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite only having fourteen episodes, "Mr. Bean" was a VERY successful
TV series, developing a well-deserved reputation for its excellent
visual humour! Two years after the show's demise, it was decided that
it was time to bring Rowan Atkinson's character to the silver screen.
The result was "Bean" (a.k.a. "Bean: The Ultimate Disaster Movie"), but
unfortunately, this didn't turn out to be nearly as good as the classic
TV series, and has disappointed many fans, including me.

Mr. Bean works as a caretaker for England's Royal National Gallery, and
is one lousy employee (as one would probably assume), constantly
sleeping on the job! Because of this, the board of directors plans to
fire him, but the chairman will not permit this. The Grierson Gallery
in Los Angeles has just purchased the famous "Whistler's Mother"
painting, and curator David Langley has requested that the Royal
National Gallery sends an art scholar to make a speech at the unveiling
of the painting. Since the board of directors can't fire Bean, they see
this as an opportunity to get him out of their lives, at least
temporarily, so they send him, under the name, "Dr. Bean"! David
Langley has no clue that Bean is not a doctor, nor is he even an art
expert, and the painting could now be in danger because of him! Not
only that, the presence of the Royal National Gallery's terrible
employee may also threaten the future of poor David's job and family! 

This movie's main problem is that it simply isn't nearly as
consistently funny as the TV series. There are quite a few funny parts,
I can't deny that, but I think most of them only made me smile or
snicker, not enough big laughs, which there are a lot of in the show!
Also, some gags from the show are repeated in this movie, and were done
better the first time. These include Mr. Bean falling asleep while
sitting down and gradually falling onto his knees and head (I guess
that one is not as funny when nobody else is in the picture), and
getting his head stuck in a turkey dinner (the main reason why it's not
as funny this time is probably because the turkey isn't as big). Now,
this movie did introduce some new and funny gags, but none of them can
match some of the priceless ones in the show. None of the other
characters really add much to the humour, and sadly, Mr. Bean cannot
steadily carry it all by himself throughout the entire thing. Towards
the end, I've found the film gets a bit tiring.

Overall, I would say "Bean" was not a bad first attempt to bring the
world-renowned walking disaster to the silver screen, but hardly a good
one, either, they certainly didn't completely pull it off. I am only
one of many fans who have been disappointed by it to some degree. I
certainly don't think it's something to watch for non-stop laughs over
and over again, and that's pretty much how I would describe many of the
short sketches, which I'm sure many would agree with. I think most fans
of the show would at least find SOME laughs in this movie, but it seems
that some fans hate it, so that's certainly not a guarantee.
<|_=00=_|>
"Bean" is the average but warm-hearted, large screen adventure of Rowan
Atkinson's bumbling but strangely likable character.

With a smörgåsbord of talent behind this film, there are a few genuine
laughs but, sadly, they're few and far between. This film could have
been so much better in the hands of another director. Mel Smith appears
to have been on cruise-control making this movie. It's a case of comedy
by numbers and the film never seems to shift gear.

The always amusing Peter MacNicol is excellent as the suffering David
Langley and provides the perfect foil to Atkinson's Bean.

An average comedy movie, it's worth a viewing if there's nothing else
on the television.
