

After a terrible 1991 loanout to Hollywood Pictures for the weak comedy "The
Distinguished Gentleman", Eddie Murphy returned to Paramount the following
year and gave one of his all time best and funniest performances in this
romantic comedy with a twist. Murphy portrays Marcus Graham, a New York
advertising executive who is known by many people throughout New York for
being a notorious player, a man who will date a woman, get her into bed by
the end of the first date, judge her by the lovemaking and then dump her.
Marcus is quite happy with having this rather low lifestyle and way of
treating women. He goes around proudly reporting the previous night's
results each morning to his friends (David Alan Grier, Martin Lawrence). One
day, an attractive young woman (Robin Givens) becomes the advertising
company's new boss. Marcus naturally feels that she will be his next target
for romantic using and gets more than he ever bargained for when she winds
up being the first woman ever who can see through his tricks and try to get
back at him for it (hence the title). Murphy is absolutely hilarious in his
role as a player who gradually learns to get lessons in treating women right
and Halle Berry has a early leading film part as another work colleague who
eventually comes between the Murphy/Givens love affair. Several other
popular character actors and actresses make appearances here too. 

<|_=00=_|>
Reginald Hudlins Boomerang is probably Eddie Murphy last good film to
date. In this story of a marketing executive who is also a player.
Murphy is great in this role, funny and full of hilarious one-liners.
The film is written well, very funny, direction is decent and acting is
good for the most part. Although Givens is not the best female lead,
Halle Berry was great in her role. Martin Lawrence and Chris Rock were
absolutely hilarious, and David Alan Grier was good as well. The film
is not to be taken to seriously, and although not at the caliber of
Murphy favs of mine "coming to America" and " beverly hills cop",
Boomerang is still a must-see for any Eddie Murphy fan. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
One of Eddie Murphy's best performances in one of his least seen films
was the 1992 winner BOOMERANG. This smart and sophisticated romantic
comedy stars Eddie as Marcus Graham, a womanizing advertising executive
who loves the thrill of the chase where women are concerned, but once
he has completed the chase, he is ready to move on. His sexual exploits
have made him the center of his circle of friends (Martin Lawrence, a
paranoid racist, and David Alan Grier, an insecure milquetoast)who live
vicariously through him and admire his style as the ultimate player.
Everything changes for Marcus when he acquires a new boss named
Jacqueline (Robin Givens), Marcus is enamored of Jacqueline, but is
completely thrown by the fact that Jacqueline is a female version of
himself, a player who avoids commitment and uses Marcus when it is
convenient for her. Throw into the mix another co-worker of Marcus
named Angela (Halle Berry) who is nuts about him, but he doesn't know
she's alive. Everything works here and it is so refreshing to see a
movie with a predominately black cast where the characters are people
with brains and real jobs. Murphy exudes mass amounts of sex appeal in
one of his best roles and Halle Berry, though allegedly playing a plain
Jane, just couldn't come off that way if she tried. There are some
wonderful comic bits contributed along the way by Grace Jones, Geoffrey
Holder, Tisha Campbell, and the legendary Eartha Kitt, memorable as an
aging cosmetics queen with the hots for Marcus. A winning and original
take on the Battle of the Sexes that is entertaining from start to
finish.
<|_=00=_|>

Boomerang was Murphy's last good film before he hit his slump. The film
directed by Reginald Hudlin gave Murphy the chance to spit many
one-liners
and the chance for us to see two people who would be big ten years later
Martin Lawerence and Halle Berry. If you've never seen this film check it
out for some good laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
This film may have it's problems, and apparently many people saw them
first hand and stayed away from the film. And I have to admit that the
first time I saw this film I wasn't too enthused with it. But after I
saw it a second time I fell in love with it and I now own it on video
and have seen it quite a few more. And the reason is simple.

First of all it is an excellent romance. Eddie really surprised me with
his ability to write a story that actually had me touched. He is
especially good as a player who gets played but actually falls in love.
Murphy has shown a different side to him here and it is also one of his
funnier films in quite some time. He is assisted in the comedy
department here by two very funny guys, David Allan Grier and Martin
Lawrence, the latter stealing every scene he is in.

Martin Lawrence has never been as funny as he was in this film. He was
great in Bad Boys, but his supporting turn here as Gerard is a classic.
There is a true camaraderie here between the three friends (Murphy,
Lawrence and Grier) and their conversation and actions around one
another has the easy flow that longtime friends exhibit. They play
jokes on each other, they make fun of each other and they are
supportive of one another. But Lawrence has all the funny lines. From
burning his dinner when his friends come over, to his hilarious
observations about racism (the game of pool is racist because the white
ball knocks the **** out of all the coloured balls, including the black
one) to defending his unfortunate lack of lovemaking in the last few
years, his interpretation of Tyler is just perfect.

Boomerang is also blessed with a truly mellifluous soundtrack. With
P.M. Dawn and Boyz To Men, among many of the stars, lending tracks to
the film, it reminds me of the soundtrack to Last American Virgin in
the sense that there are so many of today's superstars of music on the
soundtrack. With Babyface producing, this is another winning production
from him.

Boomerang solidifies Eddie Murphy's return to the king of comedy. He
did rebound nicely after this film and it is good to see him going back
to what he knows. A very, very funny film.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

A marketing executive quickly learns that what comes
around, goes around when this Don Juan's new boss turns
out to be a Don Juan-ita. Eddie Murphy gives the finest
performance of his career as Marcus, a player
who meets his match with Robin Givens, but finds love in Halle Berry. Murphy
barely drops the F-bomb in the film and the character is well developed by
Murphy himself, who had a hand
in the writing credits for the film. A fun film that features
a great supporting cast of David Allen Grier, Martin Lawrence
and John Witherspoon. 


<|_=00=_|>
The Eddie Murphy romantic/sex comedy "Boomerang" is, quite simply, a
thorough and total joy. Murphy portrays longtime womanizer Marcus
Graham with his usual charm and poise. Halle Berry is absolutely
appealing and absolutely warm as the girl who prompts Marcus to clean
up his horny act. Martin Lawrence and David Alan Grier provide
ingratiating and stylish buddy-support. Lela Rochon and Eartha Kitt
are, respectively, magnificently kittenish and magnificently cougar-ish
as women with whom Marcus scores. Yet the film's greatest asset, its
leading lure is Robin Givens's portrayal of Marcus's boss/female
counterpart Jacqueline Broyer. She is by turns sexy and stylish, sultry
and commanding, seductive and polished. We immediately see why Marcus
falls under her spell and, when she dumps him, not only do we not turn
against her, we admire her independent spirit and her no-bullshit
attitude. Really and truly, by and of itself "Boomerang" is a sexy,
charming, absolutely joyous romantic/sex farce; with Robin Givens on
board, however, it achieves genuine cinematic greatness.
<|_=00=_|>
What this movie is about? The story of a liar who lives a lying world
then finds truth finally? A lover man who's torn between 2 different
women? The friendship of 3 guys? Actually the movie itself doesn't know
otherwise it could've been more coherent, enjoyable and complete.

OK, it's a story of a man who sells everything until he himself becomes
a merchandise to be sold. And as a romance, supposedly romance !, the
movie pushes this lead to learn about himself as lost person without
real love in his life. BUT this movie so lousily sinks itself in a lot
of details, un-comic characters, many conversations before hitting the
right nerve.

It was too late for (Halle Berry) to discover that she loves (Eddie
Murphy) or that he loves her; it seemed a desperate attempt for making
a third act more than being the movie's main core for god's sake! 

Not to mention, the matter of so ugly (Robin Givens) on screen,
portraying a femme fatale as well ??!! The inhumanly dreadful sight of
(Grace Jones) who's one of a few emetic people I've watched in my
entire life. The long conversations scenes which with the tepid, nearly
dead, direction so the truly dull pace the whole thing looked close to
pointless for most of the time. Many characters like (the mail-boy
"Chris Rock", the mad model, the French artistic director, the
old-deceived neighbor, the friend's parents, or even the annoying
employee of the clothes store…) all of them took more time on the
screen than what the original story, any original story, did take or
should've taken.

I pitied the charming and talented young (Berry). Although, she was a
perfect princess of innocence, but this dumb script and that endless
digressions wasted her utterly. The movie didn't give her space to
appear right, or to appear right as someone would love the lead (she
advised him how to seduce her boss by Jazz !?). I think that it must've
been clear to her, so somehow us, how she got something for him from
the very start, and how she must take over the screen at least since
the second half. Instead of that they threw some real naive stuff to
her (like the clueless first dialog between her and Murphy), and
treated her like minor character (the heroine's sidekick) all along to
suddenly remember her just before the very end! Although the intense
performance that she delivered at the scene of her emotional explosion
was the best, most strong anything, of this movie.. still one of the
worst movies she was in!

After many hits in the field of action and comedy, why not (Eddie
Murphy) takes on romance. It was a bold attempt. Yes, he's a good actor
along with being big star, but the movie wasn't that good (the word is
: broken up). I think it got something with (Murphy) himself as the
story's writer, and maybe his fear that the movie could be just romance
without comedy, to end up as jammed comedy with not-real-laughs that
belated the romance if not suffocated it. I loved a few of his moments
here; on their top of course is the shot in which he finds the money
for his "fatigue" besides the bed from his female version who's now
treating him like a whore, notice how Murphy – silently – pulls the
sheets on his chest, sad with weak feminine look in his eyes; actually
with wicked little reactions he mastered like these, he's one of few
comedians who can make comedy brilliantly with or without talking.

Anyhow, it seemed like many incomplete movies in one, or boring stray
comedy. I know that it could've been nice romantic comedy but what I've
watched was an ideal example for underdeveloped one or a movie with
dysfunctional personality. I read opinions about (Boomerang) as "smart
movie"… please, it's anything but smart! 

P.S : at one scene (when the lead was being dumped) we see the lights
go off at the top of one skyscraper. At later scene (when the lead hugs
his friends) we see the lights go on at the same skyscraper !??...
Naaa.. Don't bother, it's part of this movie's naivety !
<|_=00=_|>

Marcus is a player who woos and beds women with great ease – but never
settles down with any.  When a company merger sees him working for the
glamorous Jacqueline, he finds himself being played but still falling for
her.  However a relationship with the more stable Angela beckons if he can
change his ways – but will Jackie allow him to leave her?

Part of the Eddie Murphy come back after the years of Harlem Nights, Golden
Child, Another 48 hours, BHC 2 and other weak films.  This and the
Distinguished Gentleman saw him try to come back with a fresh approach. 
Boomerang is a good film – it uses Murphy's playa persona and turns it on
it's head to good effect.  True some of it is plain silly and it is quite
predictable but it is pretty enjoyable and quite sexy too!

Murphy is good simply because he is the butt of many of the jokes via his
playa image – plus it's good to see him be outdone after so many big-headed
films.  Givens is very good as the man-eating boss but I found Berry to be
too sweet to be believed – but though she was the better looking.  Lawrence
and Rock are well used in small roles but Kitt and Grace are pointless and
stupid cameos.  Witherspoon is very funny and I personally love to see Lela
Rochon in anything (and those aren't her feet).

Overall it may not win any awards or being shockingly innovative but it's
fun, sexy and has a good bagfull of laughs in there.
<|_=00=_|>
Having only heard and seen clips of this movie for the last 20 years, I
finally watched Boomerang on Netflix Streaming just now. Once again,
Eddie Murphy got together with his writers from "Saturday Night
Live"-Barry W. Blaustein and David Sheffield-and made another romantic
comedy that turned out to be a success like their previous one in
Coming to America. And once again, they got a fine supporting cast
accompanying them like Lela Rochon (having previously appeared in
Murphy's Harlem Nights), Robin Givens, Martin Lawrence, David Alan
Grier, Chris Rock, Grace Jones, Eartha Kitt and a newcomer named Halle
Berry. Oh, and Tisha Campbell also appeared before her teaming with
Lawrence in his upcomimg series "Martin". This time the director picked
was Reginald Hudlin with his brother Warrington as co-producer after
their success with their debut feature House Party. Like Coming to
America, this was a nice change of pace for Murphy from his previous
wise-ass characters but with both funny and touching scenes. Really, I
had a good time watching this. So on that note, I highly recommend
Boomerang. Oh, and the person who played a commercial editor looked
familiar so I looked at the cast list and found out he was played by
the one and only Melvin Van Peebles!
