
I haven't seen this film in quite a while but I have pretty good
memories about it. It's an intriguing film, something different and
appealing even though some of the subject matter is "inappropriate."

I saw the last word because it involves a 13-year-old boy whose
hormones are raging and his brief relationship with a grown woman.
There is one sex scene that may make people squirm a bit, so be
forewarned. Other than that, I don't remember anything else
objectionable.

I like the photography and always enjoy seeing the old days - here it's
the 1920s and 1930s - portrayed on today's films with the great
cameramen and directors of today. Also, the South has some beautiful
scenery that is eloquently on display here.

The story is well-acted with real-life mother-daughter Diane Ladd and
Laura Dern, along with Robert Duvall and Lukas Haas. The latter plays
the young man and was already somewhat of a star after playing the
young Amish boy in the 1985 film "Witness." Duvall is one of the finest
actors of his generation so you always get a good performance out of
him.

This is a pretty low-key story but never puts you to sleep. Modern day
feminists might like this film was Ladd plays that role to the hilt.
Dern also delivered, making a very believable "Rose."
<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie. In updating my VHS collection to DVD I bought it a
second time and 
was so glad that I did. I love the music score and the soft period lighting
it provides in 
telling the story of Rose - a down on her luck teen-age almost adult girl
who comes to 
live with a southern family during the depression in the 1930's. Although
the film was 
edited for time (as all films are) the DVD provided more background
information about 
the story through the commentary provided. Although I've never read the book
- watching 
it again has made me decide that I want to. 

I count this movie with others of its' kind (TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, FRIED
GREEN 
TOMATOES, THE HEART IS A LONELY HUNTER to name a few) as providing a
wonderful 
opportunity to become a part of another's family memory. These kind of
movies are 
capable of evoking in us a remembrance of our own childhood and bringing out
feelings 
of warmth and caring that many of us have in common.

I highly recommend it for its beautiful photography and wonderful
music.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is essentially character-driven and features excellent
performances throughout, particularly the four principals-Laura Dern,
Diane
Ladd, Robert Duvall and Lukas Haas.  Ladd and Dern mother and daughter in
real life) give especially fine performances and deservedly received
nominatins for the Academy Awards In the Actress and Supporting Actress
categories.  The film has a good script and is well done technically.  But
it is first and foremost an actor's movie and the acting carries the movie
along.  Well worth your time. Recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
In this limp Southern period piece a wholesome young belle with the
innocence of an angel and the manners of a whore supposedly disrupts
the progressive Georgia household of Robert Duvall and Diane Ladd. The
qualifier is necessary, because the film collapses into pure schmaltz
almost before the end of the opening credits. The clumsy voice-over
introduction by John Heard and the flashback (almost on cue) to his
halcyon youth give fair warning to what kind of film this will be:
safe, calculated, all-too polite, and adapted for the screen by a
novelist obviously attached to his own words. The casting is
attractive, but no one is given much of a character to work with. The
title role gives Laura Dern a vehicle for some overripe histrionics,
but despite her promiscuity Rose is simply one saint in a family of
saints, and every conflict quickly disappears to allow them all a
chance to live happily ever after (Rose is even spared the consequences
of her constant, physical 'search for affection' by a convenient
inability to bear children). In the end it might just be the perfect
diversion for people who thought 'Driving Miss Daisy' too controversial
and inflammatory.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Duvall was splendid in this movie. I do not want to ruin it for
people watching, so I can not tell you much but his acting was great as
well as Laura Dern. What a dynamic and thought provocative movie with
so many interesting twists that are unexpected. The wife was really
good too. The morals of it, the conflicts, the family. This movie had
it all, love, conflict, compassion, passion and all great acting too! I
would imagine if this movie is a book I should read it actually. The
nuances were subtle and well done, it did address some touchy topics as
well. The young boy actor really was well cast too. I guess all in all,
the casting was super, the dialog was well done and the way they
captured the south was excellent as well.
<|_=00=_|>

I got a chance to see this film accidentally while glancing through the
channels on my TV. I was instantly hooked and watched the whole film. This
film is about a young, restless and free-spirited orphan girl,
who
is in search of affection. She's also sexually overactive, well that's what
the people around her in the 30s feel. She's sheltered by a family who are
just like an ordinary family down the road, but when she needs them stand
up
for her, never caring about the so called caretakers of morals and virtues.
A very intersting study if deep rooted charcters, played equally well by
the
actors.
2 characters stand apart in the film, one of the girl Rose played
brilliantly by Laura Dern, and of the mother, played by Laura's real mom,
Diane Ladd. Robert Duvall is very believable as the head of the family in
the southern in the 1930s. I liked the gentle pace of the movie, and its
buildup towards the end, where Diane garners herself for a confrontation
with the self proclaimed keepers of the virtues, including her own husband.
I like the way their Diane's and Robert's characters undergo
transformations, small ones but enough to keep the audience attached to the
film at an emotional level.
Even days after watching the movie, you'd have the images of the cheerful,
sometimes confused, lively and lovely Rose, flashing in front of your eyes.
And that's makes the use of a narrative, which some people didn't like
about
this movie, so appropriate. If I had known someone like Rose in my
lifetime,
I would definately told this story to everybody I knew, many times over.


<|_=00=_|>
Buddy recalls the Great Depression when Rose (Laura Dern) came to work
for his family. She escaped prostitution in Birmingham to be the
domestic servant. Kindly mother Hillyer (Diane Ladd) is partly deaf and
was orphaned young. Rose flirts with father Hillyer (Robert Duvall) but
he rebuffs her. Young Buddy (Lukas Haas) has a sexual encounter with
Rose. She is desperate to stay and convinces him to keep it a secret.
She continues to be flirtatious with the town's men. Father wants to
send Rose away while mother argues to keep her.

This is a nostalgic jazzy rambling reminiscence of a compelling
character. My only problem is that this movie takes a light tone making
this almost a fable. Despite the childhood point of view, it needs to
go for a darker mood to fit this sexualized tragedy. Director Martha
Coolidge is caught between making a kid's coming of age journey and a
young woman's walk on a dangerous tight rope. The light airy mood keeps
the darker material at a distance.
<|_=00=_|>
Which is a shame considering there was so much to like. Laura Dern's
performance is astonishing as the Rose of the title who has a shady
past and comes to live with a family headed up by Robert Duvall and
Diane Lane (her real life mother) who gives a wonderful performance
also.

The story is a cobweb, if story it is, I haven't read the novel,and the
plot is character driven all the way.

The sexual content is handled sensitively and the fact that Rose is a
'nymphomaniac' of the era - i.e. she loves sex - is understood and
tolerated by the family.

The eldest child, Buddy, is played by Lukas Haas who has many good
performances to his credit - and has never turned down a movie role
since he was five - who has an evil streak according to his mother but
keeps certain secrets about Rose along with his father who also has
secrets.

An amazingly tolerant and lovable family headed by a father with
integrity - which was a bit of a stumble for me as Robert Duvall's
incessant smirking does not translate as such to me. I find it irksome
- and confusing. I would have preferred a different actor in that part
a la Leslie Howard from the forties.

The sepia cinematography was breathtaking and the street scenes amazing
as were the two actors who played the younger children.

The wraparound of the story didn't work at all. Rose deserved more that
a verbal dismissal at the end. And the mother vanished inexplicably.
Now there was a character. Too bad the viewer wasn't respected a little
more.

6 out of 10 for all that.
<|_=00=_|>
Rambling Rose certainly has its individual moments. Rose
unintentionally corrupting the two Hillyer men. Dern and Duvall's
stellar performances. The point it makes about men controlling women.
Unfortunately, Rose is an incredibly vexing character, and not is the
way the movie intends. Are we supposed to be sad for her? Love her? The
movie seems to want that, but I don't. Ultimately, it's a boring, sappy
and pointless period drama.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in the South of the 1930's, film tells the story of "Rambling"
Rose(Beautiful and appealing Laura Dern) who comes to the home of
"Daddy" Hillyer(Robert Duvall), his wife "Mother"(Diane Ladd) and
children, one of whom named Buddy(Lucas Haas) will come to love Rose,
as she settles into their lives as a maid, but whose charm and beauty
attract the attentions of all the local men, much to her employer's
consternation, which will lead to a chain of events to have a lasting
impact on the family, especially Buddy.

Very well acted film recreates its specific time & place quite well,
and has an interesting story and character development. Only missteps
with the framing device of the now adult Buddy(played by John Heard,
who doesn't much resemble Haas!) not working well, seemed tacked on and
anticlimactic. Still, a nice little film anyway, with many memorable
scenes and colorful dialogue.
