

I came to the film with low expectations.  I was simply stunned by how good
it was.

Angelina Jolie is an absolutely PHENOMENAL actress. Her performance alone is
worth watching the movie for. But unlike show-stoppers like Marissa Tomei in
"My Cousin Vinnie," merely shines the brightest light in a luminescent cast.

The cinematography was innovative, but not distractingly so-- "Girl
Interupted" shines primarily for its dramatic power, not as a mind-blowing
work of art. It will not explode your vision of the mundane world in the
same way that "American Beauty" might, but it will certainly probe you to
question your way of seeing the world-- at least psychologically.

Winona Ryder challenged my preconception of her, and proved herself as more
than a pretty-girl. Her performance was convincing as Suzanna, a confused
high-school graduate who is eloquent and insightful on paper yet unable to a
rticulate her own desperate melancholy.

The movie takes place primarily in the women's ward of a mental institution
and follows the dynamic friendship between Lisa (Jolie's character) and
Suzanna. Lisa is a kinetic, dynamic personality who cuts right to the
"truth" of things. Her "truth" knows no boundaries and she is a controlling
person prone to violence. Her piercing insights about people and social
recklessness led to her to be institutionalized as a sociopath.

This is not a depressing film. Rather, it is suprisingly life-affirming. Not
cloying, not sacherine, but not inpenetrably dark,
either.  Anyone seeking an angst-ridden portrayal of abuses in mental
institutions should check out Jack Nicholson's "One Flew Over the Cuckoos
nest."

This film has little of the violent anger of that old classic. Yet it does
echo some of the ebulience, the defiance of authority and embracing of
freedom at sometimes incalculable cost.

Performances by Whoppie Goldberg (in a serious and nuanced role) and Vanessa
Redgrave were excellent, as expected.

With the exception of a few holywood gimmicks, predictable cuts and music,
this is a nearly flawless film. Dead-on dramatically, and excellently
scripted and based on an eloquent true-story by Suzana Keisen, this movie
offers a glimpse of one intensely personal experience of truth. Without the
quotation marks, dark cynicism, or pretensions that revelation so frequently
entails. 
<|_=00=_|>

The most striking and yet most frustrating part of `Girl, Interrupted' is
that everybody that's been 19 years old can relate to Susanna, the main
character.  Based on her memoir, the film portrays Susanna Kaysen's short
stay in a famous mental hospital, supposedly to cure her `borderline
personality disorder.'  Set in the late 1960's, Winona Ryder effectively
portrays Kaysen.

In a tradition reminiscent of Holden Caulfield, the audience knows there is
nothing actually wrong with Kaysen, except that she is a typical teenager,
and refuses to conform to the life her parents want for her.  However, after
spending some time with her ward mates and numerous doctors, she starts to
believe that she is insane, but can't understand why or what exactly is
wrong with her.  At one point, she asks a sympathetic nurse (played by
Whoopi Goldberg) how she is expected to be cured if she doesn't even
understand her illness.  Throughout the film, writer James Mangold's
exploration of Kaysen's changing emotions and attempts to understand her
`illness' is captivating.

However, even more fascinating than Kaysen herself were the supporting
characters.   Perhaps the most striking of these characters though, is Lisa,
played by Angelina Jolie.  Jolie
completely immerses herself in the role, and gives a moving, intriguing  and
haunting performance as Susanna's best friend at the hospital.  Although
Ryder does an excellent job portraying the earnestness and confusion of her
character, Jolie is the true star of this movie.

Adapted from  Kaysen's memoir, the film works well to bring Kaysen's' words
to life.  The parts that were altered for the screenplay made sense,
allowing the story to translate well to the screen.  Additionally, the
length of the film allowed for more depth and details to be explored, which
sometimes left out of Kaysen's short novel.  Thus, the film helped add onto
and bring more understanding to characters which were introduced in the
novel.


<|_=00=_|>

It's always tough in today's goal-obsessed society to be someone who isn't
quite sure what they want, but woman and minorities especially have it
tough, because they seem to be automatically assigned "roles" for them(if
you're a woman, even today, people still ask you when you're going to get
married; if you're black and look big, people ask if you're an athlete).  In
the 60's, author Susanna Kaysen was in a similar position; she didn't know
what she wanted to do with her life, but knew she didn't quite fit into the
norm.  Because of that, and because of some legitimate problems(she tried to
kill herself by swallowing a bottle of aspirin), she went into a mental
hospital and was tagged with having "borderline personality disorder," a
catch-all phrase which meant whatever the doctors wanted it to mean.  From
her experiences in the hospital, Kaysen wrote the book GIRL, INTERRUPTED(the
title comes from a Vermeer painting), and now comes the movie version from
James Mangold and Winona Ryder.

Mangold's first two films, HEAVY and COPLAND, were both about main
characters leading lives of quiet desperation; the pizza chef in HEAVY
unable to express himself, and the partly sheriff in COPLAND who must learn
to assume his responsibility with that position.  Susanna fits in with those
two characters, and Mangold does just as good a job with her, except for
some melodramatic scenes near the end.  There are some major themes going on
here, like whether Susanna is really crazy, just spoiled, or conditioned to
think something is wrong with her, the nature of what "crazy" is in the
60's, and of course being a woman at the time, but Mangold avoids making big
statements for the most part, instead concentrating on Susanna's growth into
being a little more sure of herself.

As has been said before, Ryder brings a lot to the table, not just being a
talented actress, but life research, having spent time in a hospital due to
exhaustion(this is why she pulled out of GODFATHER PART III as well).  And
instead of going for obvious drama, she too just makes Susanna's recovery a
gradual and detailed journey, except for those melodramatic scenes.  The
first third, which seems to be influence by SLAUGHTERHOUSE FIVE, flashes
back and forth through time, as if showing Susanna feeling lost and
fragmented.  The rest of the movie is more linear, but Ryder doesn't make it
boring.

Some people have dismissed this as a chick ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST,
which is the usual knee-jerk response whenever a mostly female cast tackles
what is normally done with a mostly male cast.  In truth, they're very
different movies, primarily because in CUCKOO, we're meant to see the
hospital staff, represented by Nurse Ratched, as evil, trying to break down
the patients rather than build them up.  Here, on the other hand, while
we're meant to see the system's shortcomings(in addition to what I said
before, the different meanings of "promiscuous" when applied to men and
women), the hospital staff is generally seen as trying to do the best they
can.  The patients may make fun of the doctors(well-played by Jeffrey Tambor
and Vanessa Redgrave) and occasionally challenge the nurses(head nurse
Whoopi Goldberg gives her best performance in a long time), but there's no
real hatred here, except maybe from Lisa.

Angelina Jolie certainly has a flashy role with Lisa, the resident
sociopath, but makes her seem real, until the movie betrays her at the end. 
When she's pushing people's buttons, she's actually quite sly about it,
which is a lot more multi-dimensional than some have made it out to be.  The
rest of the cast playing patients is also good(it was a little heartbreaking
seeing Elisabeth Moss playing a burn victim, especially when they show a
picture of her as a young girl, where she looks like she did in IMAGINARY
CRIMES).  But it's Ryder who is the main reason for seeing this fine
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

How good is Angelina Jolie in this film? It is a testament to this young
actor's presence that even as dark and soul sickened and gloriously
decaying
as her character is, there is not a frame in this film that doesn't feel
her
infection.

Winona Rider is equally excellent as the psychologically confused (or is it
enlightened?) hero forced to navigate the depths of her own psyche. The
interplay between these two is somehow able to range from the enchanting to
the exquisitely painful; but from beginning to end remains capable of
leaving you breathless.

Presented with the softly rendered and absorbing visualization of a young
girl's decent into psychological insecurity; it is a hauntingly supple
progression toward the half understood disturbance of what we might have
experienced. If you've ever questioned your own sanity or escaped periods
of
exceptional melancholy in your life, this film is certain to trigger old
fears. But it is also certain to remind you how exquisite and simple
salvation can often be.

Refreshingly unlike any of the myriad of fine 'expose' films detailing the
darker side of madness (see Roman Polanski's 'Repulsion') or even those
with
a more poli-social agenda (see Milos Foreman's 'One Flew Over the Cookoo's
nest'); 'Girl, Interrupted' achieves a very rare victory in modern film. It
conjures enough unnerving insight to bring us scintilatingly close to its
most macabre moments; while sewing atop this a spiritual safety net. One
capable of the mental restoration that must bring us back to the security
of
our well cushioned theatre seat. All movement in between remains internal;
a
lingering memory of personal identification and cathartic
resolution.

One look into Angelina Jolie's eyes and you will see the warm, jaundiced
decay of a soul no longer battling with sanity. Fear is born of those eyes
when you realize how strongly they've tempted your own tired efforts...even
as the second look delves closer to a bleakness bearing fruition beyond
existential suicide. This film deserves that second look, as well as its
painful salvation: a jaundiced beauty whose tragic death is no less healing
than the memory of a lost friend.


<|_=00=_|>

The absolute best thing about this film are the knockout performances by
it's 2 main stars Winona Ryder and Angelina Jolie though both characters
(hence performances) are very different they stand out nonetheless.  It
seems to me to be somewhat easier to play a psychotic than to play a regular
neurotic, so who really has the better portrayal of the two?

Brittany Murphy as "Daisy" shines in her scenes.  She is a force to reckon
with in her future film career.

James Mangold directed this film quite nicely from a very good screenplay;
he managed to portray all these young women as young women in turmoil.  No
melodrama, no over the top sentimentality, just a frank peek into their
tumultuous lives.

It is a heavy drama, so be forewarned!  And a very moving drama at
that.
<|_=00=_|>


"Borderline personality disorder" is one of those phrases that says more
about the people who invented it than it does about the patient it's
supposed to describe. When Susanna Kaysen (Winona Ryder) the 18-year old
heroine of "Girl Interrupted" enters Claymoore hospital, a psychiatric
facility outside Boston, she is diagnosed with the syndrome - but in fact,
all she's done is made a hapless suicide attempt and acted slack and mopey
and lost in her sober daydreams. Her personality isn't borderline -- it's
self-pitying and indulgent. Fortunately, the film understands this. Set in
1967, and adapted from Kaysen's memoir of her two-year experience as an
adolescent in the throes of a middle-class crack up, "Girl Interrupted" is
shrewd, tough and lively - a junior-league "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest"
that never makes the mistake of portraying its protagonist as a victim-naif.
She's more like the original poster child for Prozac Nation: a girl who'd
rather interrupt her own life, even if it means going a little crazy, than
grow up.

Susanna is thrown in with a turbulent gallery of disturbed young women. They
range from a girl who tried to burn her own face off to one who won't eat
anything but chicken from her father's deli (she stores the carcasses under
the bed). Most of the patients are harmless, but Lisa (Angelina Jolie)
a heartless, charismatic sociopath, delights in her destructive power. Jolie
brings the kind of combustible sexuality to the screen that our movies, in
the age of Meg Ryan have been missing for too long. As Susanna and Lisa
become comrades, then enemies, Susanna becomes like a space cadet fighting a
secret war with herself, and through Lisa she plays out that war. The film
allows Ryder to trace Susanna's gradual emergence from her "borderline"
state as she confronts the cruel truth of mental illness.

Directed with satisfying authority by James Mangold, "Girl Interrupted" is
really about the thorny neurotic underside of a contemporary young woman's
struggle to leave childhood behind. By the end, you feel that Ryder, at long
last, has done that as an actress.
<|_=00=_|>

My eighteen year old daughter and I went to see this movie last night, it
was excellent! A must see! Even though I cried through the whole last hour
of this movie, it was not a sad film, but a lifting of the human "spirit"!
Winona Ryder and Angelina Jolie were magnificent. The supporting cast was
outstanding. I was amazed when reading the credits at the end that Winona
Ryder was an executive producer. Angelina Jolie deserved her Golden Globe
Award, she should definately get an Oscar nod if not the win. Winona Ryder
deserves some accolades for this wonderful and very enlighting film! Kudos
to everyone involved. A Masterpiece!
<|_=00=_|>

In more ways than one, 'Girl Interrupted' is very similar to 'One flew over
the cuckoo's nest'. To begin with both the films are set in mental
institutions and chronicle life as it unfolds amidst those bland, white
walls. Characters in both the film are acutely lifelike. But owing perhaps
to it being a true story, 'Girl Interrupted' has characters that are much
easier to identify with than McMurphy's brigade. Set in the 60's, the film
is an account of the times spent in the Mental Institution by an eighteen
year girl, Susanna Kaysen, a character portrayed with astonishing brilliance
by the versatile Winona Ryder.

 Susanna is a victim of neurosis, great expectations, confusion, an
uncertain future and the sundry other problems an average teenager's life
are pounded with. For all her brilliance, Susanna has the undeniable gift of
the cynic and the pessimist, who still hasn't made up her mind about life's
meaning and is upset about it. She has the nagging feeling that her
character is incomplete and gets caught in the depressing vortex of
tendencies that earn her the title of, what we're later told, a border line
personality. An almost successful but unintentional suicide attempt lands
her in the footsteps of Claymoore, a mental instituition. In the confined
borders of the instituition, Susanna is surprised to discover how well she
identifies with the pain and flaws of fellow inmates. Here, the atmosphere
is sans any prejudice or cliches. Here, everyone is a victim one way or the
other. Far from the deplorable world outside the instituition, susanna feels
that she's finally home. And it is this atmosphere that slowly gives way to
the realisation of her actual needs, her character and her purpose.

 In the first half of the film, the director employs an interesting
technique of fusing two different scenes and establishing a coherence that
not only takes the story forward but at the same time tells us what is
already past. Apart from Susanna and maybe Lisa, few characters are
generously sketched. This, although, doesn't allow the loosening of the
plot's grip on you. Furthermore, the institution is projected in a more
agreeable light and the resultant sympathy for the characters ( unlike 'One
flew over the cuckoo's nest') does not coincide with an abhorrence towards
the angle of treatment. The movie does lead the viewer to understand the
plight of the inmates, but not with the object of establishing the reasons
that led to their condition. Rather it concentrates on the way these girls
face their fate, day in and day out. It also highlights the way the girls
identify with each others problems, hopes and desires in a fashion that
alternates between being poignant and amusing.

 Perhaps the most distinct factor about the movie is the exemplary
performances put up by a cast that mostly comprises of females. I haven't
seen a film that could hold its own without a single male lead, as good as
this movie does. Winona Ryder is very convincing as Susanna. Angelina Jolie
delivers so well that I am having a hard time getting over the fact that she
agreed to Lara Croft. Whoopi Goldberg is good but her role is regrettably
restricted. Constrained performances by all the actresses make this film
worthy of being watched. It is funny, sad, mischievous and optimistic all at
the same time.

 Watch it if you can for it is very unlikely that you would get
disappointed.
Like I said it is quite likeable!

<|_=00=_|>

GIRL, INTERRUPTED / (1999) ***1/2 (out of four)

By Blake French:

"Have you ever confused a dream with life? Or stolen something when you have
the cash? Have you ever been blue? Or thought your train moving while
sitting still? Maybe I was just crazy. Maybe it was the 60's. Or maybe I was
just a girl... interrupted."

Those are some of the most memorable lines from James Mangold's honest,
heartfelt drama "Girl Interrupted." The speaker is Susanna Kaysen, played by
Winona Ryder. The film is based on the memoir of Kaysen herself,
re-encountering the experiences she actually spent in a mental institution
after an attempted suicide. The book of the same name was published in 1993;
it spent time on almost every best-seller list, including 11 weeks on the
New York Times. 

It was in the 1980's when Kaysen began to revisit the most formative time in
her life-20 years after the actual hospitalization. Memories of a nearly
two-year stay at McLean Psychiatric Hospital, a private and exclusive
institution near Cambridge, resurfaced while constructing her second book.
She began writing vignettes of her experiences in the hospital, writing
short stories about a time in her life she had not discussed for two
decades.

"The only thing that ever made me less loony was writing," remembers
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based writer Susanna Kaysen, author of her memoir,
"Girl, Interrupted." Set in the turbulent 60's, the film details the young
Kaysen, who finds herself at a mental institution for disturbed young women.
Susanna makes friends, including a seductive and dangerous regular named
Lisa (Angelina Jolie). 

I have never read this book, but after watching "Girl, Interrupted" I am
seriously considering it. The film is a powerful exploration into a
depressing, bleak situation. When this movie was released theatrically in
late 1999, I wondered how many people would want to see something about a
young writer who tries to kill herself and then spends time in a nut-house.
However, I was wrong to presume anything. "Girl, Interrupted" contains a
vivid, convincing world for its characters, but never do we feel awkward
while watching this film, but involved and concerned. 

Screen-adapters James Mangold, Lisa Loomer, and Anna Hamilton Phelan
construct a central character that is both consistent and empathetic. As the
movie opens, we never see Kaysen's suicide attempt-there is no need to show
it. This is a film about the results, not the action. We gradually learn
about Kaysen as the movie progresses, thus the lack of initial character
development. Even with little introductory material to establish her
character, Winona Ryder creates a soothing, intriguing sole for Kaysen. The
audience cares about Susanna before we even understand why she was sent to
the mental institution.

The film's supporting cast, including Jared Leto, Clea Duvall, Elizabeth
Moss, Jeffrey Tambor, Whoopi Goldberg, Vanessa Redgrave, and Angelina Jolie,
who won an Academy Award for her performance, actually develops the mood of
the film-an essential aspect of its overall impact. James Mangold
("Copland") has a ambiguous style here, but it works extraordinarily well in
this film. "Girl, Interrupted" should do wonders for Susanna Kaysen's book;
after watching the film, it is hard not to want to read the memoir.


<|_=00=_|>

I loved this movie from on the first day I saw it. This story is so unique
in its way showing the problems many people have to face when being young.
The best thing about this movie is, that it's based upon the experience of
the real Susanna Kaysen, which means that the story is not only real but
also natural and not "brightened up" for entertainment. It shows reality
as
it is! The actors do a really great job and among other acting
personalities
we can find Whoopie Goldberg, Winona Ryder and Jared Leto which seem just
perfect for the roles they embody. The story, which seems to me loving and
cruel at the same time, is pictured by a wonderful musical score and great
songs more or less known from those hard days known as the 60's. This
movie
is a MUST for everyone who is seeking for a deep, thoughtful and emotional
film as well as great actors!
