
By the time this film was released, critics and TV audiences had
already decided its decidedly mediocre box-office fate. The usual
network attitude toward anything which demands thought and
interpretation assured the cancellation of the series in its second
season, and Lynch's departure from the show's director's chair to begin
this film project all but sealed the fate of the show. Unfortunately,
this same fate determined both the critical and public approach to the
film project. 

TP:FWWM is a prequel to the two-season Twin Peaks saga, and (sort of)
answers the question 'how and why did Laura Palmer die?'. Fans of the
show mostly knew the answers before they saw this film, but to see
Laura's life so vividly realized, and to see the TV characters cast
into such a different, more harsh, surreal and disturbing light, really
invigorates the entire TP phenomenon. FWWM actually inspired me to
watch the entire series again (and as of 2004, I am in the process of
watching it again). Fans of the series who found themselves
disappointed by the final few episodes of the series because they felt
it became too bizarre, are likely to find this film more gripping,
though they will probably end up as unsatisfied as they were at the
onset. Those who found the second season thrillingly experimental are
likely to be surprised by the subtlety of and dramatic quality of this
film. Those, like me, who approach the film with few tangible
expectations might just find themselves, compelled, disturbed, and very
entertained. 

The performances are generally very good, but not entirely even. Some
TV cast-members, given the vastly expanded possibilities of cinema,
really showed their range and depth. Sheryl Lee, MacLachlan, Dana
Ashbrook, and Ray Wise were especially impressive. The cinematography
is less powerful than the usual Lynchian vision (see Eraserhead, Lost
Highway for extreme examples), and is more in keeping with the TV
show's straightforward, but moody, photographic approach. The overall
production values are, in fact, comparable to those of Mulholland Drive
- also originally planned by Lynch as a TV show. Though more subtle
than many of Lynch's more extravagant works, TP:FWWM is very
successfully manipulative and powerful. 

I ardently appreciate Lynch, considering him one of cinema and
performance's greatest contemporary artists. And I am unashamed to
state that I believe this to be among his finest works. Many of Lynch's
fans love to write interpretations of Lynch himself, as if all of his
films are in some way connected beyond the obvious fact that he
directed (and more often than not scripted) them. I do not disagree
with this approach, but, in my opinion, any such universalizing
comments more or less miss the point. Lynch is one of many director's
who view film as an art form, not as a craft, nor as a vehicle for
specific messages and stories. As Lynch has stated, repeatedly, his
films involve a dream-like reality and often attempt to invoke a dream
or nightmare state in viewers. Unlike most, however, Lynch succeeds in
the purity of his art. His films demand interpretation, engagement and,
what's more, demand a different and unique interpretation by most who
view them. 

If you are looking for something which can be universally interpreted
from TP:FWWM as part of this imagined set of Lynchian themes, I am not
the reviewer to give it, look elsewhere. I have too much respect for
Lynch's artistry to subject him to my own interpretive explanations. 

If you are looking for a simple story which will clear up the insanity
of Twin Peaks, don't bother with FWWM. 

If you are looking, open-mindedly, for an intense, disturbing, and well
constructed cinematic experience which creates more questions than it
answers, and retains elements of mystery in a fatalistically driven
plot environment, you've come to the right place.
<|_=00=_|>
There's no doubt about it, Twin Peaks changed the living, breathing
face and body of television, the soul and minds of those who watched
it, and the attitudes of film and television makers everywhere, who
watched what was intended to be a 2 hour Tele-movie become a
phenomenon. A phenomenon that dissected the way television was made and
shown to its very core, and reassembled it in a fashion that no one had
ever witnessed, or dreamed of. A phenomenon that would sweep the world
Not since JR was shot in Dallas had the entire worldwide viewing public
stopped to ask itself a question, for one brief, shining, crystallized
moment, in 1990 Who Killed Laura Palmer? And so, with David Lynch's
Fire Walk With Me, the question is not Who? But rather, Why? This film
precedes the TV show, these are the last 7 days of Laura Palmer, and
after watching this film, it is pretty apparent why Laura wanted to
die, she lived in a world out of her grasp and control, she was
desperately fighting what she was becoming, but realized that the
forces that were pulling her down, were too strong for her to fight
against I knew someone like that once, and to be quite honest, it has
changed the way I look at Laura Palmer. The first time I watched this
film was in 1992 when it came out on VHS, I was 16 or 17 and I hated
it. It wasn't Twin Peaks. It was horrible and violent and had none of
the cuteness and quirkiness and lovable characters of the TV show, and
I never watched it again. Watching it almost 15 years on, as an adult,
I understand why I hated it so much when I was a kid. As a 16-17 year
male, I had absolutely no concept or understanding of what it would be
like to be Laura Palmer, completely unable to relate to her, and
therefore completely unable to understand or sympathize. Completely
unable to understand what it would mean to live in a world where
everyone is in love with you, and how that would only make you hate
yourself more, when you hate yourself so much already.

This is a really sad movie. It really puts you in to Laura Palmer's
world, or what's left of it, briefly. Maybe too brief, but, you know,
maybe I read too much in to films, or I get too close too them, but
this film has changed Twin Peaks for me forever. And it's quite
possible that it will do the same for you. Even though she was dead
before the opening credits, I never realized until watching this film
again that Laura was never freed, she was always in 'purgatory' if you
will, always in the Red Room when we saw her, or seeing a flashback of
her murder during the course of the TV show. Fire Walk With Me gives
something to Laura Palmer that she had been denied on television.

Release.

For the most part, this film was not made for the fans, nor was it made
for the money, Lynch made this film for Laura palmer. His love of her
is what inspired him to breathe life into her character on the big
screen, after taking it away on the small. This is his dance, first and
final, with Laura Palmer. It is not ours to be involved with, it is
ours only to watch the romance between character and director evolve
and be burnt too soon. It is ours only to witness, not too understand
or judge, not to ask or question.

From the opening shot, a television with no reception, which is quickly
obliterated by an Axe, it is quite clear that this ain't no TV show,
and if the symbolism of the TV being smashed isn't enough to tell you
that, then the opening scene will. This is the part of Twin Peaks that
simply never would have made it to TV. The real Twin Peaks, if you
will, the dark, tortured, seedy underbelly of a town with too few
people, and too many secrets, the sort of place that exists almost
everywhere in the world (with the exception of Cicely, Alaska).
<|_=00=_|>

WARNING  SPOILERS!!

Well I've just gotten the FWWM DVD and am finally able to appreciate the
film as it was intended to be seen and heard (or at least as close as
possible outside of a theatre).  It's unbelievable, and after watching it
a
few times I was finally able to understand for myself what Lynch was doing
here, and he's right;  intuition is the key;  just pay close attention to
what you are seeing and your mind will intuit the rest.  In fact,
understanding this film was a truly exciting thing for me.  What Lynch is
actually doing here is thrilling.  As much as Lynch would (and myself as
well, but...) hate to hear someone give what they consider a definitive
explanation for the film, I thought I would give some ideas about some of
the most interesting moments.  Any interpretation is viable, of course,
but
this is how I look at it.

First, the prologue:
To understand the prologue one must understand something about the
nature of the evil in this film.  I see the denizens of the Black Lodge as
the physical embodiment of the subconscious.  That's what the Red Room is
to
me, the deepest levels of the subconscious, where there is an
understanding
going on that rational thought won't allow.  For example, Laura doesn't
want
to think that Bob is really her father, but deep down she knows (or comes
to
know in the film).  But Bob is really just the evil that men do, the
darkest
side of humanity, and he can be inside of anybody.  Since Bob is just a
personification of this idea and doesn't literally exist, he really can't
be
caught, because eradicating Bob (and the other members of the Black Lodge)
would be eradicating all the pain and suffering in this world, and that
will
never happen.

In the prologue, Chet Desmond and Sam Stanley come across perhaps the most
unhelpful town on the planet.  Much has been made of how this place is
purposefully the opposite of Twin Peaks, but I don't think that's the
point.
The unhelpfulness is the result of the town knowing that no matter how
many
FBI agents are brought in, you can't get rid of what killed Theresa Banks;
you can't get rid of violence.  They treat the two with disdain because
they
realize the fruitlessness of their search.  Lynch emphasizes the strict
use
of code (Lil) and constantly has characters asking what time it is to give
an air of precision, but nothing gets accomplished.  The electricity
reference is simply marking the presence of something bad in the area.
So,
a lot of investigation occurs with nothing being accomplished.  Theresa
Banks is dead and will remain so.

Perhaps the most obscure point in the film is the sequence with David
Bowie.
To make this short, Cooper's image freezes in the security camera because
the members of the Black Lodge have stopped time for a second, also
apparently causing a rip in whatever fabric divides this world and the
Lodge.  This allows Jeffries to breifly crossover, apparently while the
members of the Lodge are having a meeting.  This bizarre meeting with the
grandson, Bob, etc.  is happening at the same time Jeffries appears in FBI
headquarters.  He says it in voiceover:  "I've been to one of their
meetings".  The meeting is to choose another victim.  The Man from Another
Place is telling Bob to get more Garmonbozia (pain and suffering, which
takes the form of creamed corn) for him.  "With this ring, I thee wed", he
says, talking about Laura.  "Fell a victim", says the grandson, also
talking
about her.  The man in the chair with the beard makes a bizarre hand
motion,
as if saying "and so it shall be done".  Bob and The Man from Another
Place
are shown walking through the Red Room, on their way out after the
meeting,
to go get Laura.  The meeting over, the rip closes, and Jeffries goes back
to the Lodge.  Keep in mind however that none of this is really literal,
although you have to talk about it that way in the context of the scene.
It's the film's way of saying that something bad is happening again,
someone
else is going to be the victim of violence.  The monkey underneath the
mask
is sort of like a fetus, or like a birth.  They've given birth to this
evil
which will grow and grow and grow until Laura is murdered, and the
garmonbozia is given to The Man from Another Place.  After this, the
murderous thirst is quenched, and the monkey reappears, indicating that
things are once again calm but will once again grow (this happens at the
end
of the film). And of course in the series, Madeline dies.

Some quicker explanations:  Laura talking to Harold, saying "Fire Walk
with
Me, ME!!"  is her talking about her temptation to degrade herself.  "He
says
he wants to be me or he'll kill me".  This is Lynch telling us in an
incredibly unique way that the abuse she's had from her father is turning
into self abuse.

The old lady and the grandson are like the gatekeepers of the Black Lodge,
allowing one to enter and exit.  In the literal world, they are Laura's
very
first inclinations that Bob may be her father.  The picture is just saying
that she needs to go into her subconscious to find the answer, which she
does that night.  "Don't take the ring", says Cooper (meaning don't be
another victim; do something about your situation).  After Annie appears,
Laura walks toward her door.  On the soundtrack you can hear her mom
calling
Laura, which references the morning after she was murdered and her mom
couldn't find her.  She looks out at the stairs;  in about two days, her
mom
will come up these stairs to find Luara missing.  She is also in the
picture
looking out the door, meaning she has exited the Black Lodge, or her
deepest
subconscious, and is back in the rational world, almost.  This is her
first
realization that things might get really bad soon.

Anyway, just some observations, but I'm probably running out of words, so
I'll stop now.


<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this movie again for about the 13th time, and it just
keeps getting better and better. This movie is amazing! I had the
chance of following the series from the pilot to the final episode in a
span of three weeks. I then watched the movie for the first time right
after. Let me start by saying everything that happens in Twin Peaks
from the series to the movie all makes perfect sense. This is something
which needs to be viewed carefully, and thought about very clearly. I'm
not going to tell you what I think it's all about but I'm pretty damn
sure I know, and I know well enough to say this makes perfect sense. I
will also say if you have not seen the television show Twin Peaks
(season 1&2) don't even bother with this movie. I am truly tired of
hearing people complain about this movie because of their lack of
understanding. If you have not seen the show, you will not understand
this movie.. So go out and watch the show and then think about watching
this FANTASTIC movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Since the first line of TP:FWWM is "Get me Agent Chester Desmond in Fargo,
North Dakota," some might argue that I am biased in my praise for one of
Lynch's most underrated motion pictures.  The truth is, my life has never
been the same since the fateful midnight in high school when I experienced
Eraserhead for the first time.  TP:FWWM was savaged by most critics, who are
unlikely ever to laud the unconventional Lynch again (unless he makes
another film that connects like Blue Velvet).  Few other filmmakers have had
the ability to depict so tangibly the intangibility of our dreams and the
worlds contained therein.  Couple this with Lynch's corner on the "uncanny"
market, and you have TP:FWWM, a film impossible to confuse with any other. 
My only complaint concerns the absence of Ben and Audrey Horne, who were
such interesting and engaging characters on the television
series.
<|_=00=_|>

This isn't just the darkest lynch film ever made, it is one of the
darkest,
most disturbing films ever committed to celluloid. It tells the tale of
the
last 7 days of Laura Palmer, so it plays as a prequel to the episodic
story
which told the tale of how her murder was 'a feak accident' (described in
this film). The films contains some of Lynch's most creative touches to
date, most notably in a nightclub (from hell) scene, in which the
character's dialogue is bareley audible, and in a dream sequence which
involves a bizarre painting of a wall. Why Lynch fans overlooked this is
more bizzare than the film itself, as it attains a similar style, but does
admittedly drop a lot of the characters that gave it it's quirky charm
(Dale
Cooper has merely a walk on cameo, no sign of 'damn fine cherry pie') but
nonetheless has a sense of bizzare horror and dread and plays out quite
similarly as how you'd imagine 'the Exorcist; the Adolescent Years. After
touches of subtle horror that Lynch has displayed in most of his films,
this
is a return to the 'bizzarly terrifying' sense of dread that Lynch
demonstrated with Eraserhead, but unlike that film it is very true to form
in portraying a slow journey of a downward spiral as seen through the
perspective of a confused teenage girl- caught up in unfortunate
circumstances due to her effortless sensuality, and in doing so it is so
disturbingly authentic young girls heading towards a similar fate may use
it
as an effective warning. Criminally underrated.   
<|_=00=_|>
Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me is a feature film prequel to the
television series Twin Peaks. The film shows the last week of a high
school teenager named Laura Palmer. Laura does drugs and balances life
with her male friends and her best friend Donna. Laura is also really
cautious around her overbearing and creepy father. She also seems to
get weird visions and nightmares on top of things, so her life is
pretty complicated and she is a pretty disturbed teenager. At the end
of the film it ends where the Twin Peaks television show starts with
the investigation of her murder. Winner of The Saturn Award for Best
Music at The Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy and Horror Films; The
Brit Award for Best soundtrack at The Brit Awards and The Independent
Spirit Award for Best Original Score. Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me has
good direction, a good script, good performances by the entire cast,
good original music, good cinematography and film editing. I have never
seen the Twin Peaks television series before, but I really wanted to
see this film because I figured I wouldn't have had to have seen the TV
show seeing as this is a prequel and I also wanted to see the film
because I love the films by the film's writer/director David Lynch. The
film is hard to describe in many ways because like so many of David
Lynch's films it is very unusual and is sometimes hard to figure out.
But I was intrigued by this movie and I liked the character's dialog
and the eeriness of the town and the different people who live there.
The film is very well crafted and put together and I like how David
Lynch was able to put together such an atmospheric and stylish film.
Also to write a movie this interesting and off the wall takes the
genius of a great writer and director such as David Lynch. I was
thoroughly captivated by the film and entertained. I was also
fascinated by this wonderfully unique journey into this odd little town
with odd little characters and settings. A truly unique film experience
and another hit for David Lynch.
<|_=00=_|>

"Twin Peaks" was the best thing to happen to television in years. It paved
the way for fan-favorites like "X-Files" and "Six Feet Under." Even
distant
cousins like "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" owe that surreality, and that
horror-opera continuity, to David Lynch's amazing contribution to
television. And as much as I enjoyed Lynch's ability to re-work the failed
TV pilot "Mulholland Drive" into the very enjoyable film it became, I'd
still give my left arm for it to have remained on the air for a few
seasons.
Maybe it's the additional subtlety that Lynch was forced to apply when
dealing with the much more touchy medium of TV (sponsors only want the
type
of nudity and swearing that will GUARANTEE better ratings,) but I think
TV's
a medium that he excelled in, and for that reason, the SERIES "Twin Peaks"
will always be better than it's cinematic sibling. "Fire Walk With Me" is
for "Twin Peaks" fans. No one else will enjoy this movie. No one else will
GET this movie. And if you do, then you have more surreal and creative
tastes than I do. But for all of the Peak-Freaks, this movie was the last
hurrah, one more crazy, red-curtained dance party for a show that we all
felt ended too soon. If you love Lynch, if you can quote every stupid line
about coffee and cherry pie that falls from Agent Cooper's lips, then
"Fire
Walk With Me" will remain one of the greatest movies of all
time.
<|_=00=_|>

Let me start by saying that I am a huge fan of David Lynch's movies.  Even
if I don't completely understand them the first time around, they always
evoke a strong emotional response from me.  This film was no different.  It
was alternately beautiful and horrifying due to the duality of Laura's life.
 Knowing that Laura was ultimately going to end up dead created a sense of
dread that stayed with me throughout the entire film.  Scenes such as Mike
confronting Leland on the road and David Bowie's appearance as Agent
Jeffries frightened me, for some reason, more than any horror film I've ever
seen.  But the scenes that show Laura accepting her fate are the most
chilling of all; here is a girl who, under different circumstances, would
have been a pure and normal individual.  But she was corrupted by an evil
force and instead used her inner strength to choose to die rather than
succumb completely to BOB.  Sheryl Lee's performance was flawless, and the
rest of the cast turned in great performances as well.  TP:FWWM is my
favorite Lynch film, and one of my top five favorites.  9 out of
10
<|_=00=_|>

Bob, Agent Cooper, Laura Palmer, Teresa Banks, The Man From Another Place,
etc...

Welcome back to David Lynch's offbeat town of TWIN PEAKS.

Much darker than the TV series, this film was in part meant to answer many
previously unanswered questions, but if anything - in typical Lynch fashion
- it tangles things even further, and confuses matters all
round.

Lynch apparently shot more than 5 hours of the feature, and as much of these
deleted/extended/alternative scenes are still missing, the movie we're left
with feels rather bare and rushed.

The performances are excellent, and the movie is visually stunning, and as
usual the plot - while confusing - is intense and riveting.

But alas it could have been so so so much more.... (sighs)
