

This gem hit box offices in 2000, though there's a large chance that you
were sick the
day it was in theaters.. Disney mistakenly bills this as a Sandra Bullock
romantic-
comedy, which it  isn't... If you want to see Sandra Bullock in a cutesy
role, go see "Miss
Congeniality". If your tired of one-track crap like that, come see Gunshy.
This is an
honest, funny view of what happens when Liam Neeson's character, a former
DEA
golden-boy, starts getting job-related panic attacks... Add Oliver Platt
as
a high-strung
gangster with marital problems, Jose Zuniga as a secretly-homosexual drug
lord, and
group therapy, and the result is GUNSHY, a smart, wicked, sweet, fast, and
funny look at
the modern gangster flick. You won't be disappointed...
10!
<|_=00=_|>
No wonder Charlie, the man at the center of the film is suffering from
the pressures of his job. He has too many things to worry about and all
his problems affects his stomach functions producing funny noises at
the worst moments. What's an undercover man to do? He gets involved
more deeply into trying to do a decent job and in the process, he falls
in love with the woman who understands what has to be done to relieve
his symptoms.

Erik Blakeney has written and directed a film that should have been
seen by a wider audience, yet, this movie came and went without
fanfare. It deserved a better fate because of the funny screen play Mr.
Blakeney created and the wonderful cast that was gathered for the
picture. The problem seems to have been in the marketing. This is
clearly not a Sandra Bullock vehicle at all!

Liam Neeson and Oliver Platt are about the best thing going for the
movie. Liam Neeson's Charlie is one of the funniest roles he has done
in his career. Mr. Neeson tends to gravitate toward more dramatic fare,
but as Charlie, he proves he is an accomplished comedian. The same goes
for Oliver Platt who plays a bad guy interested in domestic activities
such as cleaning a messy kitchen, or even thinking about a life in
Italy growing tomatoes.

The minor roles are equally good. Jose Zuniga and Micahel DeLorenzo are
hilarious as a pair of gay drug dealers. Sandra Bullock doesn't get as
many opportunities in the movie, but she is seen in the pivotal role of
Judy. The group therapy sessions involving Charlie and other law
enforcing people are fun to watch.

Erik Blakeney shows he can do good work if only he could have the right
studio people behind him.
<|_=00=_|>

what is wrong with this film? absolutely nothing. the story is MORE
believable than analyze this to which this has been compared but there is
no
comparison-they're both great movies in there own right and totally
different genres. analyze this is a straight up fantastical farce where
gun
shy is a dramatic romantic comedy more in the same vein as whole nine
yards
(but done much better). the soundtrack is excellent (you can't lose with
tom waites!)the editing is wonderful(liam's "perception" in the 1st scene
is hysterical) and the storyline flows.

charlie and fulvio's developing fiendship shows insight to the harshness
of
choosing a dangerous perfession and being born into it. either way you
look
at it, they are just two guys that hate their jobs just like the guys in
the
group sessions. wheather your a cop, thug, banker, lawyer, or
stockbroker;
life gets to a point where it all blends into an unfulfilling mess and you
feel as if your drowning.

i noticed a lot of negitive reviews and am surprised at that. (like the
gay
thing-no one in this film is what they seem - get it?) maybe this is too
complicated of a movie for everyone to enjoy. maybe hollywood has been
putting out too much mission impossible eye candy that thinking about a
movie and an underlying concept just shouldn't be expected anymore. this
is
a funny, sweet, real film. give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Gun Shy is apt title! This underrated comedy, will put a smile on your
face,despite any insanities we'd project as insurmountable odds that
you & I may sometime end up facing! I found it well written, with
appropriate zingers that I find myself quoting, as certain situations
arise! It contains great casting,an interesting plot,& the interaction
of all the charismatic characters kept me glued as to what they'd say &
do from one moment to the next! The spontaneous actions,style & quips
of this zany grand insanity of unusual lifestyles & eclectic characters
being thrust into an quite unusual situation,under the intense pressure
of a bunch of grandiose yet charismatic lunatics,kept me constantly
yearning for more of that unique chemistry,prolific dialog & unforeseen
situations that earmarked this film as an all time favorite of mine!
PS: A Sugestion, place your brain on the shelf & don't knitpick,just
enjoy a "feel good, about feeling bad", kind of movie! ...And for
Heavens sake, smile, as you may have the misfortune of being one of
those dysfunctional, yet incredibly lovable, misfits!
<|_=00=_|>

Stress. It comes in many shapes and sizes, to many totally different people.
Liam's character, Charlie was stressed to the max, but who wouldn't be, if
your life is always on the line because of your chosen profession. Working
for DEA, not the job for me, working for the Columbian Cartel, not for me,
working for the Mafia, again, NOT FOR ME. Put these three groups of people
together to launder money with an over the top type from wallstreet and you
get a movie with a wonderful story line and an even more incredible ending.
OLIVER PLATT, I LOVE YOU!!! He is one of Canada's best exports and very
believable in whatever part he plays. Sandra Bullock shines in her character
and turns out to be what Liams character, Charlie needs, period. The
Columbian "lovers" cracked me up. I was reading other user comments and read
that the script was non consistant because one minute the character is
showing pictures of his wife and kids, but really he's gay. MANY men keep
that part of themselves hidden in a homophobic world, especially when your
father is one of the heads of the Colombian Cartel. The group therapy
sessions, show that all people go through stressful moments, dosen't matter
who you are. I recommend this movie to people who have suffered from stress,
anxiety, and or depression. We're not alone!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Liam Neeson was once a truck driver for a beer company, whether or not
he was any good is a matter of conjecture. Fortunately, for movie
audiences around the world, his talent for acting on the big screen has
superseded and today he is known as one of the finest thespians in show
business. Take this film for instance, it's called " Gun Shy. " In this
story, he plays Charles 'Charlie' Mayeaux (pronounced - MAYO) a field
operative working for the D.E.A. His job is to take on the big drug
cartels and put them out of business. However, a bad experience in his
last encounter with the drug lords, got him so shook up, it left him
with a confidence problem, which has created a noticeable fear of
death. So much so, he has begun seeing a therapist. In the meantime,
his job continues and he must go undercover to confront the Columbia
drug cartel and the America mafia, which could get him killed. Oliver
Platt, is a gangster with anger management issues, José Zúñiga and
Michael DeLorenzo play Columbian operatives out for the big score or
big hit, whichever comes first. If that were not enough, Charlie must
also attend Group therapy with Richard Schiff and other problem
oriented patients. Mitch Pileggi, interestingly plays Dexter Helvenshaw
a corrupt agent. Although there are several parts of the film which
exercise Neeson's great gifts for interaction, most of the movie scenes
are hampered with too many issues and little cohesion and this makes
for awkward moments. Still, it's a good and interesting film and one
which makes for entertainment and isn't that what movie making is all
about? ***
<|_=00=_|>

I truly enjoyed this movie.  It is one of those movies where it seems that
the actors were just given free reign to have fun with their parts.
Oliver
Platt steals every scene he is in, and the Colombian Cartel members are
quite amusing as well.  Liam Neeson and his group therapy session is quite
enjoyable as well.  Even Sandra Bullock is amusing, especially when giving
a
colonic.  This is a movie that looks like it was fun to make, and it can
be
just as fun to watch.  This is not a taut thriller, a gritty cop film, a
clever spy movie, or an intellectual comedy.  It is fun.  Have fun with
it.
If you don't like to have fun then go see the new Time Machine.  If you do
like fun then watch Gun Shy.
<|_=00=_|>

Gunshy (Gun Shy in the US) is a brilliantly scripted, original and funny
film.  With great performances by Liam Neason as well as some of his
supports, writer / director Eric Blakeney has managed to realise and
create
one of the most refreshing films to come out of the US for a long time.
Too
often it is the script that lets a film down - not with Gunshy!  And to
then
put words to the screen as successfully as Blakeney has managed himself is
really encouraging.  After this directorial debut I can hardly wait to see
what he can come up with next!
It just leaves me wondering: who screwed up the marketing for Gunshy,
because this is definitely a film that deserved a much better reception
than
it got.  Categorising Gunshy as a "Sandra Bullock romantic comedy" is not
only clearly wrong, but leaves those searching for such a film
disappointed,
and the audience that would most appreciate this film unaware of Gunshy´s
existence.  I only saw Gunshy by chance, loved it, and would urge anyone
to
go and see it!
<|_=00=_|>

I love Liam Neeson--I've seen nearly every movie he's ever been in. I'm
curious about his life, and I buy the magazines he's featured in. But I
NEVER, EVER needed to see him sitting on the toilet suffering with diarrhea.
GROSS. Or passing gas. Or getting an enema. Or, for that matter, being weak
and whiney. Nothing about his character in this movie is compelling, and it
is a waste of his awesome talent. Also, he looks pale in this movie.

Sandra Bullock plays the one imensional, wacky, unconventional sex kitten.
The only interesting scenes are the opening ones, some of which reminded me
of The Cook, The Thief, His Wife and
Her Lover. One positive thing: the music is good, especially the inclusion
of Tom Waits music.

Bottom line: Don't bother.
<|_=00=_|>
GUN SHY is a peculiar movie, one that purports to have a significant
storyline but one that splinters ideas all over the place, leaving the
viewer wondering what all the fuss is about.

'Charlie' Mayeaux (Liam Neeson) is a bummed out DEA agent fresh from a
bungled case yet given an important assignment to break a Columbian
drug cartel represented by Fidel (José Zúñiga) and his boyfriend
Estuvio (Michael DeLorenzo). Also caught up in this mélange is the
Mafia represented, however reluctantly, by Fulvio Nestra (Oliver
Platt), a nerdy but vicious bungler whose temper is uncontrollable,
partly due to his insipid belittling wife Gloria (Mary McCormack) whose
father demands Fulvio's crime life importance. Charlie is a mess, meets
a psychologist who introduces him to group therapy (where Charlie
idiotically relates all the DEA secrets openly) and to gastroenterology
where nurse Judy (Sandra Bullock) administers a barium enema then other
more herbal-sided treatments while she and Charlie become bonded.
People are maimed (gunshot castration), killed, made to look foolish,
all to the end of supposedly belly laughs on the part of the audience.

True, Neeson shows a flair for comedy and Platt manages to convey a
breakthrough role for him, but the rest is a jumbled mess. Made in 2000
with the Twin Towers of New York frequently visible during talk against
Arabs and the Middle East, it is easy to see why the timing of this
'yet another Mafia vs law' film contributed to its short theater run
(how many have even heard of it?). But in the final analysis it
probably failed on its own merits - sad for a film filled to the brim
with very fine actors. Grady Harp
