

I have always been impressed by the dramatic intensity of Abel Ferrara's
films and 'The Funeral' does not fall short of any of them.  The true
beauty
of this film lies in its characters and their emotions and relationships.
The plot takes second stage but, honestly, the incredible acting
performances will make you feel that a more complicated plot would be
absolutely unnecessary.  All the important bases of small-time mob life
are
covered here - God, family, revenge, lies, anger, etc.  If you can sit
down
and watch a movie that chooses atmosphere and character over action, then
I
highly recommend this movie.  You will be blown away.
<|_=00=_|>

Abel Ferrara is one of the most original and interesting directors in
America movies. He is also one of the most uneven. The guy has made some
garbage and some near masterpieces in his time, so you really have to judge
each one of his movies on an individual basis. 'The Funeral' is an excellent
movie, easily Ferrara's most overlooked effort,  and one which doesn't
deserve the obscurity it's been doomed to. It's almost as impressive as 'Bad
Lieutenant' and 'The King Of New York', yet I very rarely hear it even
mentioned. I really don't know why! The movie has one major stumbling block
that the viewer must accept before they can begin to get on with watching.
That is the casting of Christopher Walken ('The Dead Zone'), Chris Penn
('Reservoir Dogs') and Vincent Gallo ('Buffalo '66'). Three great actors
sure, but playing blood brothers?! Also we see that the youngest brother
Johnny (Gallo) is supposedly 22(!), and via flashback his two older siblings
look only three, maybe four years older. This would make Ray (Walken) in his
late twenties, which is absolutely ludicrous. However, if you can put this
all to one side and not let it worry you then you will be pleasantly
surprised. Some viewers complain that the movie is "slow", "boring" and that
"nothing happens". I totally disagree. Of course if you think it's going to
be a Mafia thriller or some kind of action movie you will be disappointed.
But I thought it was fascinating and very involving. Walken is excellent as
usual, Gallo doesn't have an awful lot of screen time but shows why he is
one of the most charismatic and exciting actors around, and Chris Penn gives
the best performance of his career. Penn alone is worth watching the movie
for, he is just so damn good. The supporting cast is one of the best you'll
see anywhere. The brother's women are played by Annabella Sciorra ('Cop
Land'), Gretchen Moll ('Rounders') and Isabella Rossellini ('Blue Velvet'),
and other familiar faces include the wonderful Benicio Del Toro ('The Usual
Suspects'), The Sopranos' John Ventimiglia and (very briefly!) Edie Falco,
and Ferrara regulars Victor Argo ('Taxi Driver') and Paul Hipp ('Teenage
Caveman'). Also keep an eye out for David Patrick Kelly ('The Crow') as a
left wing agitator. Every time I watch 'The Funeral' I appreciate it a
little more. It's a very subtle and intelligent film that doesn't serve
things up to you on a plate. I think it's one of the most underrated movies
of the last ten years and I wholeheartedly recommend it. If this is your
first experience of Abel Ferrara and you enjoy it, I suggest the moody 'The
King Of New York' (also with Christopher Walken) next, then his powerful
'Bad Lieutenant' (Harvey Keitel) and his difficult but rewarding 'The
Addiction' (Walken again). Those four movies are his best to date, and not
to be missed.
<|_=00=_|>
The Funeral is a dark and gritty story that plumbs the characters in a
New York band of criminal brothers. It doesn't have the romantic sweep
of a Godfather movie, nor the rawness of Scarface. But it does have
great acting: the cold, sinister aloofness of the
leader-brother(Christopher Walken); the raging insanity of the
bartender-brother(Chris Penn); and, the cockiness of the younger
communist-influenced brother. Annabella Scioria as the wife with a
tortured psyche who "had two years of college", and Bennissio del Toro,
as the suave and slick rival mobster round out the terrific cast.

But the movie does have some problems. The abrupt, "surprise" ending is
consistent with the arcs in the movie, and is supported by trends in
the characters' developments, but seems unsatisfying. Also, long
philosophical conversations between killer and victims seems
unrealistic. While these conversations(and flashback sequences) give
insight into characters, it just doesn't seem likely.

Watch this movie if you are a fan of crime/Mafia films, and you can
enjoy a thoughtful introspection of characters and relationships
between characters. Don't watch it if you want to see a
"thrill-a-minute", or explosions every other scene.
<|_=00=_|>

All of director Abel Ferrara's movies are deeply flawed, but he is willing
to take you into darker places than almost any contemporary filmmaker. His
best movies are the bleakest kind of cinematic art, and The Funeral is one
of the best.

To complain about the lack of action in this gangster movie is to miss the
entire point. This is a character study of people who have made choices in
their lives that have left them without hope, in much the same way as
Ferrara's "Bad Lieutenant". Although it is often pretentious and a little
boring, it also contains many potent, unforgettable scenes, most notably
those featuring Chris Penn, who I frankly didn't think could act until I saw
this movie.

"The Funeral" is an unremittingly dark film that at times achieves a
terrible beauty. I'm not sure that I would recommend it, but I am extremely
glad to have seen it.
<|_=00=_|>

Once again Ferrara attracts big star names to a small picture with large
ambitions. This film would have made a great gangster saga but Ferrara and
writer St. John are more interested about the characters than the story.
What occurs on the surface may be minimal and very uncreative but deep
within you enter the souls of each character who question their values as
they mourn the death of a family member. Each one carrying a dilemma to
the
very surprising ending. This film could have been set in any era as it
deals
with intelligent issues such as the complex male macho image as questioned
by Sciorra's character. 
<|_=00=_|>

The lives of gangster brothers Ray, Chet and Johnny are changed forever when
Johnny is killed.  His funeral acts as a time to look back at the past but
also to look inwardly and to the future.  The story is told in flashbacks
that mix the past and present to see a gangster life style in all it's
glory.

 The story here is straightforward – however it's multi-layered flashbacks
and subplots make it too confusing at times.  In simple terms it is two
stories – Johnny before he is killed, and the lives of his brothers
afterwards.  The characters make it come to life but the drama inherent in
the subject matter helps as well.  The story mixes `real' lives, violence
and some black humour to good effect – the overall point being the point
made by Sciorra when she says `there's nothing romantic about it at
all'.

The cast are good – in particular the Ferrara regulars.  Walken gives a more
emotional version of his King of New York character and carries much of the
moral debate with himself and others.  Penn is also good as the self
destructive brother and gives a powerful performance without becoming OTT (a
la Nice Guy Eddie).  Gallo is good although his character is not fully
explained – why did he look for trouble, why the interest in worker's
rights? Rossellini, Argo and Soprano's Ventimiglia are all good and del Toro
does yet another quiet cool role.

Overall this is a good film – it is graphic and dark, but not as much as
some of his other films.  The subject matter will appeal to the mass
audience (most people seem to like mobster movies) and his unromantic spin
on the genre makes up for the occasionally bitty storyline.

<|_=00=_|>
In the 30's, in New York, the coffin of the leftist gangster Johnny
Tempio (Vincent Gallo) is brought to the house of his older brother Ray
(Christopher Walken) for the wake of family and friends. Ray is a cold
gangster that likes to read and is married to Jean (Annabella Sciorra).
His brother Chez (Chris Penn) is a hot head that runs a bar and is
married to Clara (Isabella Rossellini). Ray decides to revenge the
murder of his younger brother and believes the gangster Gaspare
(Benicio Del Toro) is the one who killed Johnny. Meanwhile Chez has a
breakdown with tragic consequences for the Tempio brothers.

"The Funeral" is a violent movie directed by Abel Ferrara with great
characters that are developed through flashbacks along the main
storyline. There are great performances and scenes but unfortunately,
it seems that neither the writer nor the director knew how to end the
story that has an unsatisfactory conclusion. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Os Chefões" ("The Bosses")
<|_=00=_|>
"The Funeral" is a mind-blowing experience that demands a particular
patience.

In fact, you don't need the patience to 'get' it, but to try to put
yourself in the shoes of men who're nothing but criminals. But as
criminals as they are, they are stuck with this last ounce of humanity
giving a meaning to their lives. So let's get this straight, if you're
among the kind of cinematic fans with a particular revulsion towards
gangsters, this film is not for you, all it will inspire is the kind of
demagogic comments such as "good riddance, all these low-life bastards
deserve their fate". But if you're interested by the torments invading
the souls of these underworld humans, prepare yourself for a disturbing
and dark journey into Mafia's hearts of darkness.

It's interesting that the central character is played by Christopher
Walken, the actor had always an extraordinary combination of mental
instability and charismatic aura in his eyes, the kind of man you don't
know if it's safe to approach or to avoid him, in both cases, you
respect and fear him. But now, we're in this man's soul at a pivotal
moment in his life, when he's trying to determine, during the funeral
of his brother Johny (Vincent Gallo), not what the meaning of his life
is, but how he can live with himself with his personal idea of justice
and the satisfaction to do something ethical. Yeah, I see where you're
coming from, how can I ever use the word 'ethic' for criminals? Well,
ethics refers to a code, to some behavior that doesn't necessarily take
the law as a reference, and from that point, anything is debatable. And
when the movie says anything, it sure means it, as even God is
concerned.

Although the movie is set during Catholic funerals, the first thing
that strikes is the amount of blasphemous rants during the discussions.
These men don't believe in God, but they don't sound atheists, it's
just as if they had a proud reaction over a religion that casted them
out anyway. So if they haven't been touched by the divine grace, which
could have inspired them to be good people, so why do they have to
blame themselves? If everything is due to God, why should they feel
guilty? And now, if it all is a matter of free will, and decision, then
what makes their acts more condemnable? Any idea of justice is no
better or no worse than another … the thought-provoking script invites
us to feel an existential empathy toward these men, as if it tried to
explicit all the dilemmas that fill the heart of criminals. After all,
they have hearts, haven't they? To label them as only cold-blooded
murders is another trick to avoid questioning our own approach to evil.

But whatever rationalization it tried to inspire, the counterpart of
this thinking relies on the female characters, the wives, who endure
the machismo of their husbands and try to figure what the purpose of
all this is. Why and how have criminals, killers, fooled them? Some
scenes between Annabella Sciorra and Isabella Rosselini suggest a sort
of female bonding, as a reactive defensive process from the kind of
fusional relationship between the brothers Christopher Walken, Vincent
Gallo and Chris Penn -Rest in Peace, Chris, this was your finest
performance as the most mentally instable of the three brothers- Never
voyeuristic, these scenes of female intimacy where the discussions are
intelligently combined with great metaphysic references, translate the
lack of morality and belief innate to that cruel male world, and how it
can hardly be expressed except in the confinement of a little bedroom. 

The whole confinement of "The Funeral", in its setting, is crucial
here. There is a cloud of lucidity floating in the air, as if the film
trusted our intelligence, by not showing men trying to find excuses,
but on the contrary, men extremely lucid about their fate. This is what
the whole claustrophobic setting of the film is about, it's an
extrapolation of the coffin, symbolizing the whole fate of the family
in microcosm. These men are in a dead-end, and they know it damn well.
During a heart-breaking scene between Chris Penn and a young
prostitute, refusing to deprive her from her innocence, he pays her for
not having sex, she asks for the double to have sex with him, provoking
an incredible outburst of rage. She'll get paid twice the price then
pushed against the wall and assaulted as a punishment for having sold
her soul to the devil. This scene brutally reflects these men's
understanding of their own conditions : they sold their soul, they know
they'll never see the paradise. In other words: their lives are only a
suspended sentence to hell. They don't believe in God, but they don't
deny His existence either.

So, when it can't get any better, the best you can do is to make it
better according to your own codes. And this is the constant disturbing
feel of the film, men trying to act according to their sense of
justice, their morals, trapped between their humanity and their
evilness. Again, Abel Ferrara doesn't invite us to feel empathetic
toward gangsters, as sometimes, the movie indecently flirts with some
stereotypes to better remind us, the world lying beneath that sober and
familial atmosphere. "The Funeral" reflects the affection of true
funerals : a profound introspection in order to understand the value of
goodness and humanity, because once you put your foot in the dark side,
you can't go back, and it doesn't try to fool you with a sort of quest
of redemption bullshit. They're grown-up men, and their life IS
dead-end. To a point you wonder if the title "Funeral" refers to one
man or three souls. 

"The Funeral" is an extraordinary, dark and disturbing journey, that
will simply wow you at the end … so you better get ready.
<|_=00=_|>
When it comes to cult film-maker Abel Ferrara, people seem to either
love his work or hate it. I think some of his films are great but some
are just rubbish. Fortunately "The Funeral" is far from being rubbish,
but then it's not great either.

Set in New York in the 1930s, the film centres on an organised crime
family, headed by brothers Ray (Christopher Walken) and Chezz (Chris
Penn) who are set to bury their younger brother Johnny (Vincent Gallo).
As Johnny's wake progresses the two remaining brothers reflect on his
life and try to track down his killer.

The film is pretty well made, and benefits from strong performances all
round. It's main defect is that the film tends to lose focus and go off
at tangents (scenes where Johnny attends a Communist rally were pretty
pointless). Also, as in many Ferrara films, there is a very blatant
religious subtext which sometimes gets in the way of the drama. Also,
be warned that there is a lot of pretty brutal violence in this film.

If you like gangster films (and obviously if you're a Ferrara fan) give
this a go. It's worth trying anyway just for the quality of the
performances.
<|_=00=_|>

I found this an interesting movie, admittedly a bit slow at points, but if
you're out for another "crime gone wrong" or "gangster crime war" film,
forget it.  Several reviews complain about a lack of action.  It's not an
action film.  Several reviews complain about a lack of plot.  It's more an
examination of characters than a story.  The movie would have been much
better had I been able to hear more of it.  The sound editing is truly
abysmal.  People's shoes make more noise than their raised voices do.  I
actually stopped and rewound a few times to try and catch what people said. 
It's not the fault of the actors.  It's simply a bad mix
job.

7/10
