
A deep space "ambulance" ship receives a distress call from a mining
outpost on a rogue moon (it's been removed from its orbit) 3 thousand
light years away. Normally, that wouldn't be so unusual, but the
distress signal was specifically hailing this particular ship (like
calling someone inside an ambulance directly instead of dialing 911)
and when the source is revealed, female crew member Kaela Evers (Angela
Bassett) realizes that she knows the person who sent it. Worse, it's
someone whom she's had an extensive personal history with and whom she
considers a walking nightmare. Before she can warn Captain A.J. Marley
(Robert Forster), they're in hyper drive on their way to the moon and
unwittingly headed into trouble.

This film was plagued with problems--the originally attached director,
Geoffrey Wright, quit. The replacement director, Walter Hill, had
creative differences with the studio, which demanded re-shoots and new
cuts from none other than Francis Ford Coppola and Jack Sholder. Hill
ended up requesting that his name be removed, and used the new version
of the infamous "Alan Smithee" designation--"Thomas Lee".

And that wasn't the end of it. Upon its release, Supernova received a
critical drubbing. Rotten Tomatoes, for example, a website that
collates professional and semi-professional reviews on films, showed a
90% negative reading on Supernova. The reaction from everyday viewers
mirrored this reception, with mostly negative comments right here on
IMDb.

But Supernova isn't that bad of a film. It's no gem, but it does a lot
of things right: The premise is certainly stimulating. The transition
from a stock, Alien (1979)-like sci-fi film to a thriller in space is
well done. The characters are interesting. The suspense level gradually
increases until the very end of the film.

There are thoughtful subtexts about giving oneself over to a
"feel-good" substance, "survival of the fittest" evolution, and
cyclical regeneration. The "fountain of youth" device is intriguing,
and even though the "Ninth Dimension" stuff is gobbledy-gook, it's good
gobbledy-gook--it makes some sense as fantasy material, and it provides
a lot of suspense. There is a subtle social commentary/criticism on
attitudes about violence in the media, population problems and
eugenics.

A lot of the cast is also good--I like Robert Forster a lot, although
unfortunately he disappears from the picture too soon. I'm also a fan
of Lou Diamond Phillips, even if his presence more often than not
signifies a "C", "D" or lower film. James Spader's characterization of
Nick Vanzant is nice and complex. And the rest of the cast is at least
decent, even if Peter Facinelli overacts a bit towards the end--but the
role calls for that.

However, as a 7, Supernova has its share of problems, too. I don't
usually subtract points for a film being clichéd, but it's difficult
not to do so in this case. The beginning of the film is right out of
Alien--with the ship waking up a crew member unexpectedly, after
running some "tests". This is saved a bit by funny dialogue at the end
of the scene. The computer, "Sweetie", is reminiscent at times of "Hal"
from 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968). The holographic chess game is right
out of Star Wars (1977). The distress signal scenario is again out of
Alien, and the exploration of the abandoned mine on the rogue moon is
similar to Aliens (1986).

The dialogue in the opening of the film is also a bit too jargonistic
and quickly delivered for its own good. It can be difficult to get the
gist of it without subtitles. There are a number of editing problems,
most prominently during the "near miss" of the out of control ship with
the moon--shaky cam cinematography doesn't help, either. And for so
many directors being involved, the direction, while not incompetent,
comes across as primarily "flat".

Is Supernova worth seeing? If you're a huge sci-fi fan (meaning that
you watch and like most sci-fi films) and you do not mind familiar
material that's slightly clunky at times, yes. There are enough
positives to make it worthwhile. Like usual with 7s, the film is best
approached with lowered expectations. Given the reputation of this
film, that should be no problem.
<|_=00=_|>

The title may have been a bit misleading... but the movie really did a good
job of conveying a mood.  The technological picture is well developed
strikingly original and interestingly conveyed.  Many underlying themes of
what happens to humans in the presence of all kinds of environments
(psychological, sociological, spatial and otherwise) are touched upon.  It
is not a mindless drivel action movie which is probably (I know I'm not
being very nice...) why so many people really didn't like it.  Aside from
the ending which was rather humorous and may have left some with a groan, I
happened to like it though it was a tad cheesy.  This movie really touched
on so many things in so many ways that it deserves a much better rating than
what it got.  The mood conveyed was dark and very horiffic.  I would say in
a more psychological way than a gut spilling sort of way.  The performances
of the actors in this film shine, perhaps with the exception of Lou Diamond
Phillips, though not to his detriment as he is capable of better work, and
his part was really rather small.  Tight shots on the crew contrary to
earlier comment, really conveyed the emotion of each situation as well as
the compressed environment of the ship rather than hiding all of the
technological wonders in the set.  Sweeties voice being criticized is a
non-issue in my opinion, female voices are supposed to (supported by
scientific study) command attention better than male-sounding ones.  In no
way did Sweetie come across as a phone sex operator to me.  Quite to the
contrary, I submit the scene in which she begs for the additional passphrase
from Benjamin in order to be able to save his life.  This was one of the
most touching scenes I have ever seen in a movie.  Between a computer and
her Sys Admin there develops love of a kind, really.  Marvelous.  On par
with Event Horizon though somewhat lesser than it for the psychological
horiffics, but really different movies with different objectives.

All you people trashing this... Go watch a heartwarming coming of age movie
and waste no more of your time trashing this fine piece of work.
<|_=00=_|>

Supernova is a perfect example of a studio screwing up everything. MGM had
their minds on a 'sexy and hip' type movie while director Walter Hill was
making a dark, 'logical' sci-fi movie. After the studio screwed with his
movie, he took off. The movie was then taken charge by such directors as
Francis Ford Coppola, and Jack Sholder (The Hidden). Well to make a long
story short, MGM directed this movie, not as they say in the credits,
'Thomas Lee'. The movie ended up being about an entire crew doing nothing
but screwing each other (literally), while bad stuff happens around them.
That's it.

I highly recommend everybody who has seen this movie to check out the DVD.
There they can see all the deleted scenes that the studio cut out. Check
them out, then you think about it. Would you like to have seen the type of
movie portrayed in the deleted scenes, or in the current turd that was
released to the entire world? IMHO, I'd like to see the movie in the
deleted
scenes. Let's just hope that MGM has learned it's lesson with such flops
like this and Rollerball.
<|_=00=_|>

My physics teacher mistakingly thought that this was a film about
Supernovas
and showed it to our class. Let's just say that that day in class was a
romp.

The movie is probably one of the strangest movies I've ever seen. It's not
supposed to be a comedy (well i don't think it is) but it's gonna have you
rolling with laughter. Watch it with a large group of friends and do a
little Mystery Science Theater type commentary on it...you'll have a
blast.

You should see this movie just for the ending. I'd have to say that it's
one
of the best bad endings of all time.

Everyone in this movie is either talking about sex, having sex, thinking
about sex or putting their hands in things and moaning like their having
sex. You wouldn't think that sex would be such an integral part space
exploration...but then again...what else is there to do?
<|_=00=_|>
Supernova is legendary for is production problems and poor critical
reception. However, the end result is an entertaining action sci-fi
film which fails to live down to its absurdly low expectations and also
fails to live up to its very high potential. in other words, it's
better than most people say, and nowhere near as good as it should have
been.

A rescue ship manned by several paramedics, a hot shot pilot just out
of a drug rehab, and emergency personnel, patrols the frontier of human
exploration, serving mining colonies, etc, far from earth's solar
system. Just as we are learning the personalities in the film, and just
as they are starting to become interesting, a distress call is picked
up and the ship responds. Enigmatically, the distress call seems to
have come from somebody out of the chief medical officer's (Angela
Bassett) past, with a lot of problems. "The patient", however, is just
the beginning of the mystery, as a strange object with the potential
power to destroy the known universe is eventually found.

The first problem with the film is that it bites off much more than it
can chew - developing compelling characters, a very interesting,
detailed and original plot, excellent special effects and some great
sets, but never permitting any of them to grow, expand or become fully
realized. The second problem is, I suspect, the fault of studio
mismanagement. Rather than contributing to the film, the cinematography
and editing are so poor that they, in fact, distract and detract. The
production problems - switching directors, mismanagement by the
sponsoring studio, inartistic and uninspired re-shooting and re-editing
- suggest a couple of simple explanations. There are so many wipes and
fades in the second half of the film that I began to wonder whether
they were supposed to signify something (such as the passage of time,
switching of dimensions, etc) which the audience was not privy to.

Contrary to popular belief, this film had a great deal of potential,
however, it would have made a much better TV mini-series or even a
premise for a TV series than a cinema release. Why? Because the story
and especially the characters needed a lot more time and a lot less
editing to develop properly.

The story line can be seen as totally inept or quite brilliant. Though
I am no fan of black-box pseudoscience explanations such as "9th
dimensional matter", I prefer the 'quite brilliant' interpretation. If
you think a lot about what goes on in this film, you can easily link
together what seems to be a mess of loose ends and detached subplots
and really 'get' what the story is meant to convey. Facinelli's
character can be seen as a guardian or simply a power-addict; Spader's
former drug addiction can make his attempt at heroism seem a resolution
of his inner demons; his relationship with Bassett can be seen as the
resolution of the entire set of problems the film poses. However,
realizing all of this requires more though and energy than the film
itself suggests, and depicting it so that it could have been easily
deciphered by the audience would have required at least a few more
hours than the film was allowed.

The acting is actually quite good. Angela Bassett is, as usual,
excellent, and Peter Facinelli and Wilson Cruz are both worth watching.
James Spader's often maligned performance is perfect for the character
he is playing - a former drug addict on a quest for redemption. I
generally do not like Spader's work very much (there are already too
many Clint Eastwood and Robert Downey types in the acting world today),
but I do respect his talent. It is unfortunate that the characters were
not permitted to develop as they should have, and though the reasons
why are almost certainly the lack of decisive directorial control and
the studio's post-production mistreatment of the film, this does not
excuse Walter Hill from partial responsibility. Hill, after all, used
some of the same signature structural plot devices in the over-rated
Aliens and the weak but under-rated Alien3 - both of which were better
films. the problem with the direction here is, predictably, simply one
of consistency. Two to three directors and who knows how many editing
and post-production teams simply can not make a perfectly coherent
artistic vision.

Simply put, if you're into Sci-Fi, and don't mind films which favor the
"fi" part of the phrase over the "sci", then you might just find
yourself quite entertained. If you're no a sci-fi fan and you like
action films, you might make it through Supernova. But, if you're not a
sci-fi fan and your looking for something important, artistic and
thoughtful, you should avoid this film like the plague.
<|_=00=_|>

It's not the greatest movie ever, no doubt.  But it's not bad.  As far as
Science Fiction movies go, this is definitely one of the better ones,
maybe
the best in recent memory.  It's science was dead on, having a NASA
employee
as a technical adviser certainly shows.  As for the story, it's not out of
the realm of science fiction, which is no more and no less than can really
be expected.  It keeps it's pace well and doesn't slow down to wax
philosophic like a cheesy 50's Sci-Fi would have done.  The plot
progresses
logically and doesn't tend to jump around (a thing that I HATE in a
movie).
It kept me entertained, which is more than I can say for a lot of movies
today.
<|_=00=_|>

This wasn't too bad, to be honest, I liked it. I went in, expecting it to be
terrible, but I walked out surprised. It starts off like any sci-fi movie
would, the opening shot being a huge spaceship zooming into our view. This
shot still looks good even though it has been done too many times. This
pretty much sums up the whole film. I can see why people hated this movie,
because of the acting (Lou Diamond Phillips!) and the script and the
terrible dialogue, but it was so spectacular and the special effects were
excellent. The movie's plot was a bit of a mixture of Event Horizon and Dead
Calm. The action scenes weren't that great, and the whole guy with healing
powers thing wasn't great. Overall, I'd say it's worth the ticket price for
sci-fi fans who are bored. 6/10. 
<|_=00=_|>

Supernova was the beginning of the Downfall for Lou Diamond Phillips if
you
ask me. Anyway, the movie is about a traveling hospital rescue spaceship,
that moves about the cosmos to save stranded vessels and what not. They
come
across a distress call, and zip off in some sort of warp travel.

After arriving there they come across a stranded miner and some strange
material, that turns out to be pieces of the 5th dimension. And then the
movie finally collapses under its own stupidity.

Mediocre acting, nice special effects, REALLY stupid plot, all create a
nice
mixture to cause minor insanity in the viewer. Some people even lose all
conscious memory of having ever seen this movie, confusing it with Red
Planet or some other such film.

In other words, Run!

<|_=00=_|>
In the 22th century... an medical space vessel received an distress
call from a supposedly abandoned planet. The Captain (Robert Forster)
and his crew (James Spader, Angela Bassett, Lou Diamond Philips, Robin
Tunney & Wilson Cruz) decides to take the mission as a search and
rescue. When their captain died accidentally from the dimensional jump
in space. Now it is up to the crew to do their mission but once they
rescue the mysterious stranger (Peter Facinelli). This man isn't what
he seems to be and he might danger the entire crew from getting home.

Directed by Thomas Lee, which is actually action filmmaker Walter Hill
(48 Hrs, Last Man Standing, Trespass) made an interesting if failed
science-fiction thriller that has an intriguing premise. Production
Designs and Terrific Special Effects are the highlights of this odd
sci-fi tale. The cast do their best with this wildly uneven material.
There was so much problems making this picture that director Hill
disowned the film after MGM edited their version. When the studio had
problems, they hired B-Movie Filmmaker Jack Sholder (A Nightmare on Elm
Street Part 2:Freddy's Revenge, Alone in the Dark, The Hidden) do to
the re-shoots and then three-time Oscar-Winner:Francis Ford Coppola
(The Godfather Trilogy, Apocalyspe Now, Garden of Stones) edited an
version for the studio but nothing worked. Since the studio originally
hired filmmaker Geoffery Wright (Cherry Falls, Romper Stomper) to make
the movie but he quit before production begins.

The DVD is the Unrated Version of this picture. DVD has an sharp
anamorphic Widescreen (2.35:1) transfer (Also in Pan & Scan) and an
strong Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround Sound. DVD also includes an
collector's booklet, deleted scenes ("Life Form Found" is a fascinating
deleted scene that should have been in the final cut, which it would
explain the film's logic better), stronger alternative ending and the
original theatrical trailer. "Supernova" is a failed Big Budget movie
but it does has some great ideas that never really comes to life. Fans
of Science Fiction films will be more forgiving than others.
"Supernova" is certainly an oddball curio that is worth a look. William
Malone (Creature, Feardotcom, House on Haunted Hill "1999") received an
Co-Story Credit. Super 35. (*** 1/2 out of *****).
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously. One word describes this - boring. Actually two words might
describe it more effectively - painfully boring. The adverb may be
necessary to capture the dismal nature of this film. The story is
silly, the script is weak, the character development is non-existent
and the performance are largely uninspired. When I sat down to write a
review of this I was thinking I would give it two stars. But then I
started thinking - and I realized that I didn't have a single good
thing to say about it.

Such as it is, the story is about a sort of medical spaceship named the
Nightingale set some time in the future (if the time period was
mentioned I missed it.) After the Nightingale receives a mysterious
distress signal from over 3000 light years away, the ship's captain
(played by Robert Forster) decides to respond. They have to go through
something called a "dimension jump" (a way of travelling from one place
in the universe to another very quickly) and discover the sender of the
message, who has a strange artifact he wants to take back to earth in
order to get rich quick.

Painfully boring. Yes. The leads in this are James Spader and Angela
Bassett. Both are decent enough actors, but neither could save this,
and even their performances were far from their best. It was handy that
in order to go through a "dimension jump" everybody has to strip naked.
To give credit to those responsible for this, aside from a clear
topless shot of Danika (Robin Tunney) and some blurry naked shots of
Dr. Evers (Bassett - or, more likely, her double) this aspect of the
story wasn't exploited. The ship has a rather strange robot dressed as
a World War I fighter pilot because the captain is a history buff and a
talking computer with a personality - sort of like HAL from "2001"
except that this one is a female named "Sweetie" (please) and it's
fallen in love with crewman Benj (Wilson Cruz.) I said that I couldn't
think of anything good to say about this. Actually that's not true.
It's less than an hour and a half in length. Someone took mercy on
those - like me - who would choose to watch this. (1/10)
