

A stunning performance by Denzel Washington (Oscar-nominated) carries this
film literally into cinematic excellence. He stars as the titled character,
the controversial Black Nationalist Leader who is easily one of the most
interesting people who lived during the 20th Century. Spike Lee's
uncompromising direction focuses on X's life. From his very early childhood
to his violent death, the audience is given lots and lots information on the
character as the film runs about 195 minutes. A good supporting cast helps,
but this is Washington's show from the very start. His performance is very
dominant and this is easily one of the best jobs that was never honored with
an Academy Award. Brilliant biopic. 5 stars out of 5. 
<|_=00=_|>

Spike Lee struggled mightily to get 'Malcolm X' made, financially and
artistically. But when all was said and done, he produced an epic
blockbuster and a definite treatment of the man's life.

There's great differences between the two as well, but to me Lee has many
things in common with Oliver Stone. Both of them seem to have been born to
make films. Both of them are uncompromising in bringing their artistic
(and
moral) vision to the screen, and neither will try to seduce the public by
catering to their tastes. Both present their own interpretation of facts
without apology. (For example, from what I've read it's not certain that
Malcolm's father was actually killed by Klansmen. But Lee isn't in the
same
league as Stone when it comes to playing fast and loose with the "truth.")
Stone even ends his movie 'Nixon' in a similar way to 'Malcolm X,' with
footage of real-life figures blended in, though I'm not accusing Stone of
imitation.

This movie has an epic sweep and scope and as a director Lee is up to the
challenge. He is served well by being able to direct in several styles,
one
of which is almost cartoonish: witness the scene where Malcolm (Denzel
Washington) and Shorty (played by Lee himself) go stepping out at the
Roseland Ballroom, resplendent in their zoot suits. Some comic relief is
welcome at times because otherwise the serious, heavy message of the
picture
might be overwhelming. For instance, the movie opens with a full-screen
shot
of an American flag while we hear a voice-over of one of Malcolm's most
rousing, or inflammatory speeches, depending on how you look at it ("I
accuse the white man of being the greatest murderer on the planet!") The
flag begins to burn and eventually forms a flaming 'X' as the fiery
rhetoric
continues. But if you haven't been scared away, the next scene shows the
young man Malcolm Little in a funny situation, having his hair
straightened
by a concoction that threatens to burn off his scalp.

Denzel Washington has won beaucoups of rightly-deserved accolades for his
amazing performance in the title role. If you've ever heard or seen
Malcolm
X's speaking, you will be astounded at the similarities in tone and
cadence.
The illusion is so real one may not recognize that real archival footage
of
Malcolm is used late in the film. But this is not a case of style over
substance here. Between Washington's talent and Lee's directing and
screenwriting, an unforgettable character emerges. The film boasts other
fine performances by Al Freeman, Jr. (especially good as Elijah Muhammad,
a
controversial figure in society, and eventually to Malcolm himself),
Delroy
Lindo, Albert Hall, Kate Vernon, Ernest Thomas and many others in its
large
cast.

It's clear that Lee doesn't care for the Motion Picture Academy and they
don't particularly care for him. But the snubbing he and his picture got
at
Oscar time would be comparable to Richard Attenborough and 'Ghandi' not
being nominated the year that film was made. Ordinarily, one would think
this film is the kind of production Hollywood loves to honor. But Academy
Award nominations or not, the film 'Malcolm X' is like the man himself:
impossible to ignore. 
<|_=00=_|>
I was only familiar with the history and influence of Malcolm X before
I saw the film so I can't really judge it's faithfulness or accuracy.
But as a film, I thought it was great. I really like Spike Lee; he
keeps things fast-paced and interesting with his camera angles and
colours/lighting. For awhile after Malcolm first begins his activism
with the nation of Islam, you find yourself conflicted, both respecting
the man and often disagreeing with him. Lee handles it well without
condemning or supporting really, just showing Malcolm's gradual
transition in his beliefs. The inserted documentary footage, especially
at the end, shows how Malcolm's words still relate today. Someone
commented that they only watched an hour of the movie and Lee doesn't
know how to tell a story but maybe if they would be slightly more
open-minded, realize it's not a literal adaptation of the
autobiography, and actually finish the film, they could understand that
Lee does not just want to tell the story of one man but rather wants it
to reflect the struggle of a race. I really enjoyed the film; it was
long but never slow and definitely worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

This was a stirring tribute of a film that to this day still stands the test
of time even after its release more than a decade ago. This was in fact a
autobiography and educational film which some of the most electrifying
performance ever displayed on film,and it is the reason to see why. This was
Denzel Washington's finest piece of work and most notably the best of his
career in which he should have been nominated for Best Actor Oscar
category,instead of his work which he won the Best Actor statue for 2001's
"Training Day". Anyway,"Malcolm X",was a brilliant tribute to the
controversial black activist,a leader in the struggle for black liberation
as well as black pride and one of the most outspoken individuals who had a
different side of the civil rights movement where a time when America was at
war with itself.

Based on the best-selling autobiography by Malcolm X and Alex Haley,and with
spellbinding direction by Spike Lee,it traces the story of Malcolm
himself,from his days as a hustler and drug runner and hitting rock bottom
during his imprisonment in the 1950's,he became a Black Muslim and then a
leader in the Nation Of Islam under the guidance of the honorable Elijah
Muhammad. His assassination in 1965 left a legacy of black
nationalism,self-determination and racial pride that continues to the day
and within a new generation whom for the first time has witnessed a
masterpiece of cimematic work. This is marked by strong performances
throughout with powerful direction by Spike Lee,cimematopgrapher Ernest
Dickerson,and riveting breathtaking performances by Denzel Washington,Angela
Bassett,and most notably from
Al Freeman,Jr. as Elijah Muhammad. The real centerpiece of the film is from
Denzel Washington himself,whose convincing performance in the title role
brings this film alive. When this film came out,it only receive one Oscar
nomination but however,the film garnered a lot of  awards including the
NAACP Image Film Award,The New York Film Critics Award for Best Actor,The
Los Angeles Times Film Award for Best Director and Best Actor,and MTV Movie
Awards for both Denzel Washington and Al Freeman,Jr.--all of this happened
in 1992,when the film came out.

As far as the cameos go,this film had a lot of them in one picture including
Black Panther Bobby Seale,Reverend Al Sharpton,The Honorable
Nelson Mandela,Reverend Jesse Jackson,along with Hollywood
walk-ons:
Christopher Plummer,Karen Allen,Peter Boyle and Danny Glover,and Whoopi
Goldberg.

Brilliant!-Five Stars
<|_=00=_|>

This film was absolutely brilliant. Spike Lee is a genius. We're studying
him in my film class and a lot of his works are controversial, but I think
they're necessary. Malcolm X was beautifully acted by Denzel. He took
Malcolm's mannerisms and passion into himself and carved this wonderful
character. The film traced him from a young kid to his Nat'list days to his
death. His beliefs were different, but he never compromised himself.
Considering where he came from and the time he grew up in, no one can really
yell and scream about why he was the way he was. So many want to glorify
King as the only leader of the time, but X was a leader in his own right.
His ideas weren't that different from King's. His approach was honest and a
response to the times. Denzel shows every emotion in his face that seemed to
formulate in his mind. I seriously thought of him as Malcolm. He really had
to earn people's respect from the background he came from and I liked that.
Nothing was glossed over and no stone left unturned. Malcolm X is a great
film and worth the watch!
<|_=00=_|>
A great movie if overlong and slightly unfocused.

Washington carried the film with a great performance worthy of an Oscar
nomination if not a win which might have been guaranteed had the
director managed to focus.

Spike Lee did a good job as director which is saying a lot, given the
historical scope, danger of offense, and controversy of the project.
His one weak area in this film was editing. There is no reason this
movie couldn't have been half an hour shorter. Right off the bat, there
were unnecessarily lingering camera shots and scenes that could have
omitted. Off the top of my head, I'm thinking of Spike himself sliding
under a woman's skirt and mugging the camera. That scene not only
failed to further the story but instead made the audience stand up and
say, "Hey, that's Spike looking at us!" Lee's biggest editing mistake
was based on his desire to tell the story of Malcolm X AND tell the
story of the African-American experience. That's more than enough for
several movies so why cram it all under one title? After a clear scene
illustrating X's life, Lee would move to a large dance hall to
illustrate the richness of the African-American experience. A quick
shot of the dance hall would have been sufficient. Instead the far away
shots were maintained for too long and when the focus moved back to
specific characters it moved to the character played by Lee himself.
Why? I don't know. It certainly didn't help us to understand X any
better. The ending with children saying "I am Malcolm X" also went on
too long and should have been part of a separate feature. The cameos
were distracting. The movie could have been tighter, shorter, and
better except that Spike Lee wanted to put everything, including the
kitchen sink, into it.

That being said, it is a great movie and I'm glad I invested the three
and a half hours to watch it.
<|_=00=_|>
I think the major success of Alex Haley with this movie is that he
tells the story of a dynamic person known as 'Malcolm X' with such a
skill that no man from any part of any society get his feelings hurt. I
think it is a commendable effort from Alex Haley, Spike Lee and Danzel
Washington that they made a hero out of Malcolm X. I think he deserved
it because he was the man who was not after money or popularity......he
changed his statements, his way of life , even his faith as he knew
that those were true. The theme of the movie is very clear that Malcolm
X was not a hardliner rather he was always open for truth. Secondly, it
also emphasized though in the end that negotiations and reforms is a
better way than the violence. But yet it also gave the message that the
ruling races reap the violence which they breed themselves; sometimes
in the hegemony of their power or sometimes due the wrong
interpretation of their religious verdicts. I think it was right to hit
at the ' Black organization known as nation of Islam' and Elijah
Muhammad. Muslim community is itself greatly indebted to this movie
because Elijah Muhammad's teaching were very far from Islam. The real
Islam practiced worldwide does not believe in the continuance of
prophet-hood after Muhammad (P.B.U.H)and the Black supremacy by Elijah
Muhammad was a ridiculous idea as Islam does not believe in
Nationalism. Any Muslim anywhere in the world whether black or white
are equal in Islam's teachings. It was great to see the scenes of
pilgrimage to Makkah ....... these were not unnecessary ......because
they helped us to understand the sudden change in the teachings of
Malcolm X. Denzel's acting is really superb and also that of Al Freeman
Jr. I think this movie is an invaluable resource for the people who
want to take an insight into the Malcolm X's life.
<|_=00=_|>
Reaching his apex of greatness, Spike Lee created a perfect biography
of the Black Nationalist leader. In the title role, Denzel Washington
literally becomes the character. From the opening, when he accurately
accuses the white man of all the injustices that the white man has
perpetrated, to his conversion to Islam (and rejection of his slave
surname), to his eventual assassination, the movie is top-notch in
every respect.

Having read Malcolm X's autobiography, I can affirm that the movie
followed it very closely. Reading his autobiography will actually help
you understand him even further. As will his indication that
African-Americans bled for the white man in Korea, Japan, Italy, etc.,
so why shouldn't they bleed for their freedom at home? Anyway, "Malcolm
X" is a perfect movie in every way.
<|_=00=_|>
Malcolm X is one of the most influential, positive, and empowering
movies I've ever watched. I knew little of Malcolm X before watching
this film. Now, I've seen it a total of 10 times. I've also downloaded
and read many of Malcolm's greatest speeches, " Ballot or the Bullet"
is an example of one. As is visible, this movie has touched me in many
ways. Denzel Washington's performance of the ex-Muslim leader is
amazing. The only thing more amazing is the fact that he lost out in
the Oscar race to Pacino, who portrayed a less important figure, by
far. Angela Bassett, a beautiful black actress, plays his wife, Betty
Shabazz, in a magnificent role. Delroy Lindo, Albert Hall, Al Freeman
Jr., Theresa Randle, and Spike Lee himself all play great roles in the
movie. Spike Lee was right. I found this movie to be more informative
than two six hour days of any school, grade school, middle school, high
school, and/or above.
<|_=00=_|>
There's two ways to look at this movie: as an entertaining evening
filler, a roller-coaster of a movie, it's very successful -- strange,
and no mean feat, for a biopic about a radical black leader from
yesteryear. As a biography however, which is supposed to tell you the
truth about a person, I think it's simply a piece of blatant
propaganda. I see it as a lost chance to do the man Malcolm X Little
justice, and also to show up the critical aspects of his persona.

The acting is great, I particularly enjoyed Angela Bassett as Malcolm
X's wife Betty Shabazz, as well as director Spike Lee playing Malcolm's
zoot era friend, the wily Shorty. Overall this movie is well made, as
can be expected of a great director such as Spike Lee.

OK, let's focus on content, then. Malcolm X wasn't Martin Luther King,
but this movie portrays him like he had been King's ghetto version. In
his autobiography, Malcolm X describes himself as having started as a
street thug, although one who was driven to this life by racism, who
was transformed in prison to a black minister and leader. An
alternative but possibly more enlightened way to describe his career
would be that he took up the same profession as his father, that of a
black separatist minister (his father had followed Marcus Garvey,
Malcolm followed Elijah Muhammad instead).

Another fact that the movie didn't bring out is that the Nation Of
Islam are no Muslims. They were an idiosyncratic black American sect
which borrowed some formal aspects from Islam, and sold Elijah Muhammad
instead of adhering to his prophet namesake. One interesting question
to ask yourself about Malcolm X is, when did he figure out that the NOI
were about as halal as ham hock? If he really only became wise to the
game after Muhammad had kicked him out, that would have made him seem a
bit dim in the intellectual department (and I don't think that he was
anything but sharp). But if he found out before then why didn't he
leave the sect by himself? Does anyone really buy his magic
transformation into a proper Muslim and non-racist on the hadj he went
on after he had been forced to leave NOI? In the movie, Malcolm starts
to doubt Elijah Muhammad pretty abruptly when he finds out that he has
fathered children with his -- very much younger -- secretaries. This is
shown melodramatically where the mothers are dressed up in their full
freaky NOI costume, have their darling children playing around their
feet and profess that they are only worried about their toddlers'
wellbeing, i. e. present the picture of purity. I didn't buy that
either, neither in the film nor in Malcolm X's life.

There are simply some aspects this movie should have addressed, some
questions it should have raised. Instead it "cultivates" and adulates
Malcom X. Apart from being a fierce speaker and writer, what actual
plans did Malcolm X have? Did he implement them, did they work out, did
they fail? How serious was he about separating the races, or was that
just rhetorics? Did he actually further or hinder the Civil Rights
movement? Didn't he, especially in the light of Obama, fail quite badly
by his own standards? One scene I didn't buy at all was when Malcolm
liberates a black man from racist police imprisonment. He threatens the
officer in charge by telling him to look out of the window, through
which we see a thin row of NOI goons standing before the police
precinct. Somehow the captain freaks at the sight of 20 dudes in suits
and ties and immediately gives in. In the following scene, Malcolm
gives them a sign and they turn around like robots and march off. Wow,
that's how the NOI fought? Too bad Martin Luther King hadn't thought of
that. Although I'd advise anyone not to don suit and tie and descend on
the local police outpost yet. Spike Lee feeds us off with simple
cinematic razzle-dazzle.

Spike Lee also tells us quite unambiguously that Malcolm's father was
murdered by the KKK, where this is at best highly speculative.

Another point: were the NOI with their guru, their uniforms, their sex
separation and their bodyguards not perhaps a pretty scary outfit?
Scary not only in "the KKK had finally met their match"-sense but more
as in "made the KKK seem like a regular bunch of guys with a hood
fixation, and the John Birch Society like a bunch of hippies"? Just a
thought.

Then in the final scene Spike Lee serves up a "I'm Malcom X" scene
which wouldn't have looked out of place in a Stalinist propaganda film.

Malcolm X once said that all his achievements should be blamed on
Allah, and only his failings on himself. Spike Lee should have taken
his word. If you want to learn more about Malcolm X, then even his
autobiography is a better choice.
