

The Sweet Hereafter is as tragic, sad and matter-of-fact as movies get, but
it's still so very beautiful that it becomes a film that's virtually
impossible to forget.

The story makes no secret of the fact what terrible tragedy will happen,
right from the outset. A lesser filmmaker than Atom Egoyan would've jumped
at the chance to shock the audience with the freak accident that robs the
town of Sam Dent of nearly all their children, by telling the story in a
linear fashion. Not Egoyan. The story is fragmented, thus enhancing the true
point: This is not about the overwhelming power of loss, it is about the
overwhelming power of survivor's guilt (nicely represented in Browning's
poem The Pied Piper Of Hamelin, which is referred to in the movie). It's all
about people who grieve not only for the ones they've lost, but also for
themselves, how empty their lives have become because of their tragedies. In
focussing on that point, the film refrains from manipulative sentiment
(which so many others don't), and presents true and unintrusive emotion,
that, in the end, despite all the terror, shines a light of hope, for the
sweet hereafter is not only the peaceful afterlife, it's also the peaceful
future, the continuation of life...

The performances speak for themselves. Ian Holm and Sarah Polley shine in
particular, through nicely subdued and subtle acting. Polley also excels as
a fantastic singer-songwriter. The songs in the movie were written and
performed all by herself.

Egoyan's direction is simply masterful in its beauty, elegance and
evocation.

One of the best films of the 1990s.

10 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

When it comes to drama, The Sweet Hereafter represents the finest cinema
of
the decade. The film lifts the director Atom Egoyan to the highest place
of
Canadian directors -right next to David Cronenberg. With extraordinary
intelligence, Egoyan -the maker of "Exotica"- creates labyrinths of
relationships. Brilliantly using flashbacks the director reveals the
emotions of the characters to the viewers -a powerful way to make the
audience feel anxiety.

The Sweet Hereafter is based on a novel by Russell Banks. This doesn't
mean
that Egoyan hasn't created a film that looks like his own creation. Very
beautifully, even with a sense of poetry, the camera moves in a canadian
small-town, a scenery full of snow. The nicely unusual music of Mychael
Danna creates the mood when a lawyer played by Ian Holm arrives to the
town.
A School bus lies under ice, and the lawyer is invited to sue someone for
the loss of several children.

A very important slice of the scenario belongs to a school girl (Sarah
Polley), who realizes that the grief of loss can't be eased by judging the
cause of it. Also the other people of the town play a remarkable role in
the
script.

Egoyan speaks clearly, but with a sound of personality, about the need of
love, the pain of loneliness and the crossing of emotional obstacles.
Fortunately someone knows how to direct interesting movies with elements
of
drama in them. The Sweet Hereafter possesses a brilliant structure where
the
visual telling breaths in the spirit of symbolism. I'm a very demanding
viewer, a true cynic who always tries to find the worst sides of the film,
but in this case I can't say anything negative.

<|_=00=_|>

"The Sweet Hereafter" was arguably the best film of the 1990s and is
one of my twenty favorite movies of all time. Everything comes together
perfectly: fine characterization and acting (especially by Ian Holm),
beautiful photography, and a hypnotic musical score featuring Armenian
folk instruments. The mood is deeply elegiac but never maudlin or
weepy. There's not a false note in the movie.

But don't worry; I'm not going to start screaming, "If you don't like
this movie, you just don't understand it! Go back to your Hollywood
pablum, you cretinous moron!" That's a stupid argument in any case, and
especially so here. There are going to be some people -- including a
few art-house fans -- who will find this movie slow and tedious. For me
and many others, however, the film is a masterpiece.

10/10

<|_=00=_|>

I re-watched The Sweet Hereafter on video last night, and am still haunted
by it today. It is structured so that you know some of the basic tragic
plot
near the beginning.  This caused my eyes to water at some of the beautiful
lyrical overhead tracking shots of the school bus winding through the snow
covered roads of the Pacific northwest.

The film switches between the time that the lawyer arrives in town to
"help"
the families receive compensation, and to days just prior to the accident.
We witness a loving "hippie" couple who has adopted a beautiful Native
American boy, a loving mother of a school phobic learning disabled boy, and
a widower who loves his two children a great deal and sees them off to
school by following them in his truck.  This same widower is having an
affair with the mother of the school phobic--she is unhappily married to a
"pig" of a husband.  Complicating matters is the father who obviously loves
his teenage daughter in Lolita-like fashion.

Part of the theme of The Sweet Hereafter is similar to Magnolia--accidents
do happen--perhaps no one at fault... or perhaps all the adults had some
part in it without anyone being at fault, as only the innocent children
were
killed.

The town had changed... tragedy has taken away the town's joy and
innocence.
The parents are no longer open with each other, but guarded, suspicious...
in deep grief.

The lawyer is little more than an ambulance chaser, attempting to profit
off
their tragedy. Yet, he, too is a tragic figure who
has already "lost" his daughter--

He had saved her when she was a baby, yet she has now turned away from
him... and his feelings are now ambivalent
towards her--he is a grief-stricken, defeated father, who vascillates
between wanting to talk with his daughter on his cell phone and deciding to
cut her off.

The story of the Pied Piper is interweaved between various events in the
movie to give greater depth to the story.  There's also a great scene in
the
movie between the lawyer and the garage mechanic, who has lost his two
children, that shows that the theme is much broader than the literal story:

"I'm telling you this because... we've all lost our children, Mr.
Ansel.
They're dead to us. They kill each other in the streets. They wander
comatose in shopping malls. They're paralyzed in front of televisions.
Something terrible has happened that's taken our children away. It's too
late.
They're gone."

This movie isn't for everyone. It's a serious, layered piece with a lot of
melancholy.  The kind of fare that film critics can love, but Academy
voters
will avoid. But what it strives to accomplish is done very well.  And it
will stay with you long after the final scenes have appeared.
<|_=00=_|>
Atom Egoyan's The Sweet Hereafter is a drama of loss and internal
conflict within and among the people of small town which has lost its
children to a winter bus crash. The central figure is Mitchell Stephens
(Ian Holm), a lawyer who comes to the town in the hope of putting
together a lawsuit on behalf of the surviving families.

Egoyan drags bitter and emotional performances out of his excellent
cast, and managed to make me fall in love with a group of characters
who, on the surface, are less than appealing. Every major character in
his adaptation of Russel Banks' novel is morally bifurcated and riven
with doubt. 

Particularly interesting from a social perspective is the treatment of
Stephens' mission. I thought the lawyer's efforts to put together his
suit were played even-handedly, somewhere between the greed of an
ambulance-chaser cynically exploiting a local tragedy and the difficult
but necessary effort to use a flawed legal system to achieve a kind of
justice. But the friends who saw it with me saw Stephens strictly as a
"slimeball," placed there to test and tempt the struggling townspeople.
If that's the impression that most viewers get, then I'm disappointed.

Whatever your perspective on that social question, there's no denying
the slow power of this film. It moves with the measured fascination of
inevitability, and leaves you with a bitterness you can savor.
<|_=00=_|>
Brutally honest, haunting, cold, austere and elliptical in the
unfolding of plot and story, Atom Egoyan's restrained but powerful look
at a small Canadian town ripped apart by tragedy and now invaded by a
troubled lawyer (played expertly by Ian Holm) looking to make a killing
off their grief is one of the most artistic portraits of the sorrow of
everyday people ever conceived. The scene where Bruce Greenwood's
character witnesses the school bus carrying his two children and all
the hopes and dreams of a small town skid nonchalantly off an icy road
and onto a frozen body of water that can't possibly hold the vehicle's
weight is among the most chilling, heart-wrenching and gut-dropping
scenes ever put on film. The revelations unearthed during the lawyer's
investigation are both quietly disturbing and all too true to life. The
intertwining tales of the townsfolk and the ultimately heartbroken
lawyer are exquisitely handled by Egoyan and leave the viewer feeling
the same loss as the characters. Tragedy befalls us all. Luckily, every
once in awhile, so does great art.
<|_=00=_|>
This was one of the saddest films I have ever seen. I do not mean that
in bad way though. I have seen sad films that made me depressed and I
usually disliked them because of this. The Sweet Hereafter is different
though. It is a sad film without being manipulative and fake. The film
brilliantly shows how people need to have revenge. After a bus accident
where all but two are killed the people of the town, after a lawyer
pushes them on, become obsessed with suing those responsible. Egoyan
looks at how people can not accept that things happen by accident. The
people of the town feel that someone has to pay for the pain they are
feeling and in the end they are the ones to pay for it. The acting is
excellent, especially Ian Holm. Once you become accustomed to the time
shifts this is an incredibly rewarding film that you will always
remember.
<|_=00=_|>

Marvelous acting, excellent photography, cinematic brilliance. Those are
just a few of the words, that describe this movie. It's a shame that it
did
not receive the attention it should have. Not even at the Academy Awards
where only Egoyan received a nomination. Titanic is not half as great as
The
Sweet Hereafter. So go and get it... and watch it and watch it and watch
it.
It'll be an unforgettable experience. Because of its subtle atmosphere it
seems as silent as a silent film, but its so rich in character and story
development - with great actors in the lead. Don't miss
it.
<|_=00=_|>

There aren't many films that unfold with a true grace, like a bird
spreading
it's wings in a beautifully restrained manner. "The Sweet Hereafter" is one
of them, it is an engrossing film that doesn't rely on emotional
manipulation to effect it's viewer, it tells a tale like it is, and in the
end, that is exactly what makes it so good. The film studies a small
Canadian town in the face of tragedy, and  carefully layers a series of
intertwining stories involving a handful of locals who have all been
impacted by the occurence. Every character seems to have a normal life at
first, but as the film progresses, it becomes clear that they do not. They
are emotionally void people who all harbour secrets and lies, and as much
as
they want to believe what they're doing is right, deep down they know it's
not. Intense emotions of guilt and grief run through them, but for unusual
reasons. "The Sweet Hereafter" examines the things that surface after the
wake of a tragedy, after the eminent shock and sorrow, how people's lives
become so deteriorated and barren. The film skillfully uses different
perspectives, places and time to explore the span of everything involved,
asking why some things in the universe are out of our control, and if they
happen for a reason. I was impressed with the film's meticulous structure,
every frame is measured delicately to maximise it's power, and it works 100
percent of the time. From stark to striking, it's visuals work just as well
as it's intellect. Ok, so Russell Bank's novel is a bit clearer, but Atom
Egoyan's take on it is just as effective, if not more. Another thing that
makes this film shine are it's performances, Sarah Polley and Ian Holme are
both superb, both exude with a gentle sadness that genuinely convinces. In
all, "The Sweet Hereafter" is a film that needs to be seen, it is a
beautifully realised and haunting film that's virtually impossible to
forget.
<|_=00=_|>

On the surface, this is simply the story of a small Canadian town
traumatized by a school bus crash.  Personal injury lawyer Ian Holm arrives
on the scene in his expensive car, cellular phone at hand, ready to sign up
victims for a lawsuit because, "I believe there is no such thing as an
accident."  But that summary really tells nothing, because this haunting
tale is not about a grasping lawyer or greedy victims, but about how nothing
is ever as it seems on the surface.

Director Atom Egoyan does a remarkable job with the narrative.  Though at
times the movie is difficult to follow because of some sequences which it is
not immediately clear are flashbacks, it's worth sticking with it.  The
story works precisely because the chronology is chopped up to reveal the
secrets each character, including the lawyer, keeps hidden, until the
tragedy finally rips open the lives of everyone it touches.

Repeat viewings are definitely in order, if only because of the multiple,
interwoven layers and images which are not always apparent on first viewing,
and to ponder the interplay among the three strands of narrative in the
movie.  The movie is worthwhile, too, for Holm's portrayal of his grim,
relentless character (possibly the best of his career), and Sarah Polley's
remarkable performance as a kind of modern-day Greek chorus.
