

I dont know why this movie is hated by so many people.  It's funny, action
packed and Martin Lawrence and the rest of the cast give good performances. 
Sure it's pretty unbelievable but so are most movies out there.  Also, the
film has a solid car chase scene at the end which is a solid way to end a
fine film.  The opening heist scene is also pretty good as well, a good way
to start the film.  Also the shootout at the grocery store is very funny, as
well as several other scene's.  Highly Recommended,  for anyone who likes
action-comedies.  4/5  
<|_=00=_|>

Personally I enjoyed this.  I often just want to sit down, relax, ad watch
a
film that I don't have to think about and will make me laugh.  This fits
the
bill perfectly and I throughly enjoyed it.

A lot of people wold put down this film, mostly in my opinion to make
themselves look sophisticated. I think if most people were honest they
would
say they had liked this film, at least to a certain extent.
<|_=00=_|>

            This film made me laugh from beginning to end only because of
the great actor and comic, Martin Lawrence(Miles Logan),"Bad BoysII",'03,
who is a bank robber, winds up hiding a large diamond gem in the heating
ventilation of the LAPD Headquarters.  Miles is very comical getting into
jail and getting out and then trying to find this diamond gem after spending
two(2) years in prison.  Words cannot completely describe this great
entertaining film.    Luke Wilson, (Carlson),"Charlie's Angels: Full
Throttle",'03, is a great supporting straight man for Miles and the two of
them made this a great worth viewing.  Martin Lawrence is destined to become
a great Super Star of the Future!
<|_=00=_|>

HILARIOUS! HILARIOUS! HILARIOUS!  That is all I can say about Blue Streak.
Martin Lawrence and David Schapell did an excellent job acting together!
Martin did an excellent job playing his part.  When he lied(throughout the
entire movie) it looked as if it was coming right off of the top of his
head
in a real life type situation.  If you want a good laugh or two for an
hour
and a half, you HAVE to see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

"Blue Streak" is an enjoyable film that stars one of the funniest comedians
in the business, Martin Lawrence. Lawrence is teamed with Luke Wilson as
they take on the bad guys using humor. 

From the very beginning, I knew that "Blue Streak" would be funny and
interesting. The only requirement was to sit back and relax so the movie can
carry me through. The story was quite unique having a thief pretend to be a
police detective determined to collect a jewel left behind from a previous
heist. 

To make the plot better and more interesting the writers make Lawrence's
character in charge of the burglary division. Wilson didn't really add to
the story and seemed to fill a role of sidekick. It was a pleasure to see
William Forsythe in a role that did not have playing a villain. Overall,
"Blue Streak" worked for me. 
<|_=00=_|>
Blue Streak

Starring: Martin Lawrence, Dave Chappelle and Luke Wilson

Genre: Action/Comedy/Crime

Rated: PG-13

Another great Action/Comedy buddy movie! The movie is about a bank
robber named Miles Logan (Martin Lawrence) who steals a crafty jewel
and then hides it in a construction site where his $20 Million heist
went awry. Now that he is out of jail, he wants to get the loot back!
But the problem was that the place where he hid it was now the new Los
Angeles Police Station. So Miles goes in as a member of the LAPD and
works with Carlson (Luke Wilson) a rookie at the LAPD. So now Miles
gives up being a thief and becomes a detective. One of my most favorite
Martin Lawrence movies ever! One of my favorite parts was when Miles
was disguising as a wacky pizza delivery man. This is one of the most
successful Martin Lawrence movies plus another one of the best movies
of 1999! One of the best Martin Lawrence movies ever!
<|_=00=_|>

I know that many people may not like this movie, but I thought it was very
good. The plot was very simple and unique, the characters performed well,
and the movie itself was very entertaining. There were some funny and
memorable parts, including the famous oodles of noodles scene. In my opinion
the funniest character in Blue Streak was Sulley. All of his parts were
funny, and I feel he expressed his part very well. I recommend that you see
this movie before Blue Streak 2 comes out in 2002. Overall, 8 of
10.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie really delivers in the laughter department and succeeds as a
vehicle for star Martin Lawrence. In the film, Lawrence plays a thief who
steals a diamond and manages to hide it in a building structure before being
caught and sent to prison for two years. Upon his release, he finds that the
building is now a police station, and he has to impersonate a cop to get in
and claim his prize. That is where the real fun stuff begins.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>

BLUE STREAK (1999) ***

Starring: Martin Lawrence, Luke Wilson, Peter Greene, David Chappelle,
Graham Beckel
Director: Les Mayfield   93 minutes    Rated PG-13 (for language and
violence) 

By Blake French:

	Martin Lawrence was born to star in movies like "Blue Streak," a film with
much energy and wit, both elements he has coming out of his ears. The film
has no major flaw in it. There are no structural problems, dialogue issues,
disruptive subplots, characterization uncertainty or tedious nuggets found
in it. The filmmakers take advantage of Lawrence being in the movie, and
have lots of fun with both him and the plot--things that make this comedy
worthy of a minimal recommendation. 

The film opens with four jewel thieves, Miles Logan, Deacon, Eddie, and
Tulley, constructing a heist in the middle of a dark, cold night attempting
to steal a large diamond worth millions. Miles and Eddie sneak in the
building, that beholds the valuable rock, from the roof using a steady rope
to lure them down through the elevator shaft to their destination: a
security safe, located a few floors down. Deacon stays above assuring Eddie
and Miles' safely, while Tulley stands watch below in the getaway car.

Then, something goes wrong. While the team of bandits do indeed succeed in
breaking through the buildings security and swindle the diamond, when Miles
and Eddie reach Deacon on the roof, however,  he states that he is too
greedy to spilt the value of the gem four ways, thus killing Eddie, and
attempting to finish off Miles, who is holding on to the jewel, but before
Deacon has the chance, the police arrive, and off goes Tulley in the getaway
car, leaving Deacon and Miles no way to escape except to flee to a
construction site nearby. There, Deacon manages to avoid being arrested by
the cops, but never gets his hand on the gem. However, Miles keenly hides
the jewel in the duct of this developing building, and makes note of where
he hides it. As he arrested by the police, he vows to return for the secret
treasure after his prison sentence is up--whenever that may be.

Two years pass. Miles is happy to once again be a free citizen. He returns
to his girlfriend, who, after never visiting him once in the two years he
spent in jail, dumps him without a second thought. Miles is not too
depressed, however, for he still has seventeen million dollars waiting for
his arrival at the old contraction site where he hid it. The problem: that
exact constriction site is now finished. It is a brand spanking new police
headquarters! 

Miles tries desperately to enter the building, only to be rejected by
security every time. That is, however, until one of his old buddies
manufactures a false police identification for him, thus allowing him to
break into the building, and search for his beauty.  This is when he becomes
involved with a crime bust that leads the police chief to believe that Miles
is a professional, experienced cop, who is then partnered up with novice
detective Carlson (Luke Wilson) to solve a criminal case. From here on out,
the film runs from high energy and action packed excitement to clumsy and
funny stunts of Logan trying to undercover the dream he once had located in
what is now his office building. 

Director Les Mayfield lets the film's  writers have a lot of fun with the
plot. The setup is at shaky  and first a bit ridiculous, but then propels
the entire story following it though the problems it faces; when the plot
stumbles at times and forgets its purpose, the Logan character still has
reason to continue on: the 17 million dollar jewel. The filmmakers do rely a
bit much on that concept, but for the most part, the film stays clear from
too many troubles. 

Just a few days ago, I screened the horror thriller "Stigmata," and ended up
not recommending it due to the fact that the film's scenes did not fit
together to create a story possible to follow. While "Blue Streak" does fit
together evenly and is distributive, if the truth be know, I would choose to
see something with a little more depth, like "Stigmata," than something as
shallow as "Blue Streak." But I feel that the majority of an audience goes
to the movies for entertainment, not for some deep, disturbing message--if
you're that kind of a moviegoer, then "Blue Streak" is for you.

Brought to you Columbia Pictures.

<|_=00=_|>

Jewel thief Miles Logan and his gang are stealing a large diamond in LA. 
After the robbery Logan is double crossed by another thief, Deacon, but gets
away when the police arrive.  He stashed the diamond but is sent to jail. 
When he is released he returns to where he hid the diamond to find it is  a
police station.  He pretends to be a cop to get access but he is partnered
with rookie Carlson and sent out to do jobs.  However Deacon is also
searching for the diamond and Logan must also take care of him as he tries
to find the jewel and solve crimes.

I gotta admit that I hate Lawrence – his comedies are always sitcom level
and he is like a sub-par Eddie Murphy.  Sadly I still find his clowning
funny!  I can't explain it.  Here the plot is no more than an excuse for
many funny scenes with all the action brought together in a `dramatic'
climax!  However it is funny – even if it's very straightforward.  I imagine
that if you hat Lawrence then you'll hate this but if you're in the mood for
a simple no-brain comedy then you can rely on Lawrence to deliver just
that.

He actually quite good here – even if he's the same in every film he does
the same shtick. It's also good to see Luke Wilson in it – even if he's got
a role that is really beneath his talents, although Greene is good. Really
it's Lawrence's show and he does well but if you hate him then you'll hate
this no matter what.

Overall if you want a silly no-brain comedy then this is worth a shot, but
if Lawrence annoys you then don't even bother.
