

"Unlawful Entry" kept me on the edge of my seat, or should I say the edge
of
my bed.  Ray Liotta proved with this performance that few actors can play
the apparently shy guy with evil tendencies better than him.  The movie
also
presents some good "What if" questions.  In the pivotal scene, Liotta
grabs
the burglar who ran into Kurt Russell's house and put a knife to his
wife's
throat.  In an earlier scene, he explains how he'd beat the living crap
out
of that burglar if he had the chance.  Well, one night Liotta gives
Russell
the permission (him being a cop) to "beat the living crap out of him" and
Russell totally panics and refuses.  Meanwhile, I'm thinking to myself,
"If
Madeline Stowe were my wife and that moron put a knife to her throat, I
would've taken that nightstick and beat him to death."  But then again,
I'm
saying that while sitting comfortably on my bed, watching the movie.  I'm
not in his shoes.  I'm sure many people would panic in that situation.

Though the movie kept my eyes glued to the screen, I could've done without
certain plot conventions towards the end.  I don't have to spoil it for
you.
You've seen thrillers in the past, you know what I'm talking about.  And
the writer could've trimmed the use of lines like "Get the f**k out of
here," "Stay the f**k out of my house" and "Stay the f**k away from my
wife"
or "If you touch her, I'll kill you."  I think those lines have popped up
in
every movie thriller I've seen.  But the best reason to see this movie is
Liotta's flawless performance.  On those grounds alone, this movie is well
worth seeing.

My score:  8 (out of 10)   
<|_=00=_|>
What a great, suspenseful, and brilliantly acted film. I still have
chills from watching it. Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe are both
excellent as a well off couple who are terrorized by an unstable
cop(Ray Liotta, who also gives one of his best performances). The film
gives us some great suspense, and you cannot help but feel bad for Kurt
Russell when Ray Liotta starts stalking his wife. I have seen hundreds
of thrillers and this is by far one of the best, along with "Cape
Fear"(1991)and others. A must see if you like thrillers about
obsessions. Overall this is a much underrated, always suspenseful, top
notch thriller. 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember seeing this film in theaters in 1992 at the tender age of 12,
and
I can recall now how frightened I was. That just goes to show the
professionalism involved in this first-rate thriller. When a cop is on
your
back, what are you gonna do? Call the cops? Hmmmm....Kurt Russell and
Madeleine Stowe struggle to find that answer here. Ray Liotta has never
been
creepier. Kurt Russell shines yet again in a role balancing the everyman
we
can relate to and the hero we cheer for in the end. One of the best
thrillers of the 1990s. 
<|_=00=_|>

Unlawful entry stars Kurt Russel and Madeline Stowe as a couple who are
burgled.Ray Liotta plays the lonely cop who comes to their
assistance.
Ray Liotta soon gets friendly with the couple with one intention,Micheals
(Kurt Russel) wife.One night when Micheal drives around with Pete (Ray
Liotta) when he's at work,he gets to see the violent side of him.Micheal
warns his wife,but she still sees him as a nice guy.Pete starts getting at
them in the worst possible ways to try and seduce the wife.

Unlawful entry is one of my all time favourite thrillers.It has all the
elements of a perfect thriller.A good storyline,tension,thrills and
suspense.Believe me the tension does really build towards the end
to.
I would reccomend it to anyone who loves thrillers,it just crackles with
tension and suspense.I rate 4/5.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first watched this film, I could not help but marvel at how
brilliant Ray Liotta was at his role. Even though Kurt Russell and
Madeleine Stowe both gave very good performances, it is Ray Liotta that
stands out the most. I found that the transition that Liotta made
between playing a nice guy to an obsessed and jealous psycho was
absolutely outstanding.I believe he deserved an award for his
exceptional performance. Not many actors could pull off a performance
like Liotta did. Overall I felt that this film was a well thought out
thriller, and was well cast. It definitely deserves the credit it gets.
I would thoroughly recommend this film to anyone who enjoys a good
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
I've heard people who took in a viewing of this movie say it was slow.
I didn't feel it was slow. There was scenes that didn't directly deal
with the main plot, but I liked that because we get to know what kind
of people these are and just not some vaguely sketched characters. It's
here the movie works because it lines you up and scares you in real
world fashion. The reality to the proceeding give it the urban horror
feel and not something made up that we could never identify with or
seeing happening in our real lives. 

The cast carries this out efficiently while if I had any complaint
about the movie it would be Kurt Russell in the smaller role as the
husband. I really like Kurt Russell and unfortunately there isn't a lot
for him to bite into as the real star of this movie is Ray Liotta. Who
I feel bad for lately since he hasn't been able to escape this sort of
psycho role, but there's no denying that he's good at it and he is
largely what makes Unlawful Entry rank amongst the best of the urban
psycho dramas. The story might be predictable in spots, but good
performances and great atmosphere go a long way.
<|_=00=_|>


Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe are Michael and Karen Carr a married
couple
terrorised by a psycho cop in this chillingly suspenseful thriller.One
night
their house is broken in to and the thief gets hold of Karen with a knife
pulled on to her throat.Michael tries to stop him but the thief gets
away.The couple call the police and there they meet Ray liotta who plays
officer Pete Davis a respected cop who they befriend and welcome in to
their
house.Davis comes to their aid and shows his genuine concern and friendly
nature.From Davis's advice the couple get an alarm system on their house
but
as events follow Davis's behaivior takes a turn for the worse.When one
night
Liotta takes Russell to the house of the thief who broke in to the couples
house and Davis starts beating the guy up.Michael sees the whole thing and
is so shocked with what he witnissed.Michael angrily tells Davis that his
job is done of being a cop and protecting Michael and his wife. Davis
begins
to make Michael's life a misery so he can get close to his wife.Kurt
Russell
is believable as the husband who is faced with a difficult situation which
he has to solve.Ray Liotta gives a brilliant performance as the bad
corrupt
cop doing whatever it takes to get closer to what he wants and making the
character so chilling and very real.Unlawful Entry is a brilliant
nailbiting
suspense thriller Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe are excellent as the
couple this is One of the best films i've ever seen Excellent
viewing.


<|_=00=_|>

I consider myself a big film buff, but before I'd seen it recently, I'd
never even heard of Unlawful Entry. The story is pretty simple: a couple in
love (Kurt Russell and Madeline Stowe) make friends with a cop (Ray Liotta)
who turns out to be possessive and to make their lives a living hell (see
also: The Cable Guy, which follows the same lines). But, with a simple
story, this low-key film deserves recognition for being a clever and
original thriller. Throughout the film, you feel all the emotions that Kurt
Russell is feeling as his life is slowly taken away from him by the
ever-menacing Ray Liotta. In brief, this is a fabulous film, which was
under-appreciated and a missed hit.
<|_=00=_|>
Unlawful Entry is by no means a great film; not even by genre
standards, but it still stands out as a more than adequate example of
the genre, and aptly portrays the basic thriller tradition. Next to
thrillers from the same period; films like Basic Instinct, Unlawful
Entry may seem a little tame, but as it puts the focus on its trio of
central characters, the film becomes more interesting than it would
have if experienced director Jonathan Kaplan had tried for more action
and sex scenes. The film portrays the frightening idea of someone
'above the law' abusing their power for their own means, and does this
through police officer Pete Davis. The action centres on married couple
Michael and Karen Carr, who call the police one night after a thief
breaks in and holds the wife to knife point. However, it turns out that
they've actually made things worse for themselves as the officer sent
to the house takes a liking to Karen, and thus makes it his business to
infiltrate their relationship and try to take Michael's wife for
himself...

It has to be said that the film doesn't offer much in the way of
surprises, as the plot is purely formulaic and can be likened to any
number of similar films, but somehow the familiarity of the plot gives
it something of a relaxed feel, and while experienced movie watchers
will feel that they've seen it all before, the film is carried off with
enough panache to see it through. Unlawful Entry relies a lot on its
actors, and the three at the centre of the story manage to deliver
worthwhile performances. Kurt Russell gets toned down in his role as
the unlucky husband, while Madeleine Stowe doesn't get to do any
heavyweight acting, but at least looks nice. The pair doesn't really
have any chemistry together, which is a shame and brings the piece down
- but this is offset by a conniving Ray Liotta, who manages to get
under the skin despite looking a bit like David Hasselhoff. The film is
always interested, but never really intriguing; although the plot does
work well and the ending is fitting in context. Overall, this is not
great or a must see film; but its decent enough and I don't regret
watching it.
<|_=00=_|>
"Unlawful Entry" is a thriller about a respectable suburban couple
whose sense of security is shattered when their house is broken into by
a burglar. The relief they feel when a seemingly friendly and caring
LAPD officer takes a personal interest in their protection soon
disappears, however, when he turns out to be far more unstable and
threatening than was originally apparent.

Jonathan Kaplan's considered style of direction is effective in
creating an unsettling atmosphere and also a considerable amount of
tension. Imaginative camera angles are used and the pace of the action
is perfectly suited to the nature of the story and the timing of the
various plot developments.

Michael Carr (Kurt Russell) and his wife Karen (Madeleine Stowe) suffer
a frightening ordeal when a burglar breaks into their home and holds a
knife to Karen's throat. The burglar then throws Karen into the
swimming pool and leaves swiftly without taking any of their
possessions.

One of the LAPD officers who come to check out the crime scene is Pete
Davis (Ray Liotta) who reassures the couple by arranging for a
sophisticated security system to be installed with the minimum of
delay. Michael tells Pete that he'd like to take his revenge on the
burglar and Pete responds by inviting Michael to go on a "ride along"
one night with him and his partner so that he can see the type of work
that they do. After Pete's partner finishes his shift, Pete takes
Michael to a location where they encounter the man who'd broken into
Michael's home. Pete offers Michael his nightstick and the chance to
take his revenge but Michael passes up the offer. Pete then beats up
the burglar in a particularly brutal attack.

Michael becomes extremely concerned about Pete's behaviour and tries to
take steps to see less of him in future. Unfortunately, Pete responds
by becoming more and more obsessed with Karen and increasingly menacing
towards Michael. This makes the couple's lives progressively more
dangerous and intolerable until a point is reached where Michael
decides that the only way to reach a satisfactory resolution is by
dealing with the problem head on.

"Unlawful Entry" achieves a far greater impact than would normally be
possible with this type of material because of the quality of the
performances by Liotta, Russell and Stowe. Liotta is incredibly good as
the scary stalker whose mental state is particularly brittle.
Impressively, he's equally convincing when he's being manipulative and
scheming as when he's being threatening and crazy. Ray Liotta is just a
marvellous actor and this must be one of his best ever roles.

The success and the affluence which Michael had enjoyed in his life
didn't prepare him for the overwhelming sense of powerlessness which he
came to experience when his wife was being threatened and then later
when he found there was nothing he could do to prevent Pete from
seriously damaging his personal and business life. The way in which
Kurt Russell conveys the desperation and frustration of a man who is
trapped in a nightmare from which there seems to be no escape is both
admirable and praiseworthy. Madeleine Stowe also gives an accomplished
performance as the vulnerable and anxious Karen whose academic
abilities serve her well professionally but who also proves to be
rather naive and not very perceptive in her personal life.

This movie is a great example of how the combination of a
straightforward story which people can relate to and proficient acting
and directing can produce a great box office success.
