
Ah, 1998 Bill Clinton was still in the White House, the Gulf War had
no sequel, gas was under $2.00 a gallon, and a kinda-known actress was
in her pre-J. Lo/Jenny from the Block/Bennifer/media whore phase.

Back when she used to have a little (now she has a lot), Jennifer Lopez
was actually enjoyable in Steven Soderbergh's 'Out of Sight.' I saw
this in the theater when it came out and remember thinking it was one
of the better films I'd seen that year. I watched it again last night
on DVD, and I have to say that it still holds up. Clooney is finally
given a worthy vehicle, and he and Lopez have actual, undeniable
chemistry on the screen. The supporting players (especially the
incomparable Don Cheadle) are perfectly cast. Soderbergh effortlessly
knocks this one out of the park.

One critic gave the film two and a half out of four stars and claimed
'Out of Sight' was in need of a 'shot of adrenaline,' but I have no
idea where he's coming from. When you think of all the bad movies that
are released in any given year, you'd think you'd appreciate something
like this.
<|_=00=_|>
When released in 1998, "Out of Sight" was Steven Soderburgh's most
mainstream film to date, after he burst onto the indie scene a decade
earlier with "Sex, Lies, and Videotape". Based upon the novel by Elmore
Leonard ("Get Shorty", "Jackie Brown"), the movie tells the tale of odd
couple Jack Foley (George Clooney), a career criminal, and federal
marshall Karen Sisco (Jennifer Lopez). After a unique first encounter,
their paths continue intersecting, with various degrees of intent, to
comprise the bulk of the story.

Similar to the Soderburgh-helmed "Ocean's Eleven", "Out of Sight"
blends the standard apples and oranges of genres into a delicious
smoothie. This is a drama, minus the driving intensity, light-hearted
enough to pass as a comedy. It's a comedy, but not of the HAHA sort.
The humor lies in things like Clooney's glances, JLo's relationship
dilemmas, the paradox of Ving Rhames' self-righteous thief, and the
sheer absurdity of Don Cheadle's gangsta. It's also a romance and a
cop-and-robber story, but neither love nor crime is the whole point.
All of these pieces unite to form a fantastic puzzle of a picture.

The tasty complexity is further deepened by the non-linear storytelling
technique. Flashing backward here and there throughout the film is a
good choice because the viewer can only fully understand the previous
events with the 20/20 vision of hindsight. Plus it eliminates what
could have been a painful first half hour of exposition, instead
spreading the backstory through the rest of the film.

The stylistic singular color palettes for different locations that
Soderburgh later used magnificently in "Traffic" are present here as
well. From bright sun-drenched Florida to the ice cold blues of
Detroit, this technique serves as virtual atmosphere, allowing one to
determine the geography even without the convenience of titles. In a
non-linear film like this, that ease in recognizing time and place
facilitates comprehension of what is happening when. Unique among
Soderburgh's work (to my recollection) is the film's use of occasional
freeze frames. Stopping the picture for just a second or two,
Soderburgh gently identifies poignant moments, obvious or not, allowing
an extra moment to deservedly linger on them.

With the high technical accomplishments, the acting almost doesn't
matter, but the slightly understated method works wonders. Clooney is
his usual suave self, complete with snappy dialogue and a cornucopia of
confidence. In a role that "Enough" can only dream about, JLo almost
looks like a real actress (joke). She is absent her too-common
ditziness and easily holds her own, despite being a tad too glamorous.
Rhames, Cheadle, and Albert Brooks are their usual solid selves,
playing parts both similar and drastically different from their
wheelhouses. Everyone seems to have perspective in their parts, not
utilizing excessive gravity or levity, but rather hitting the
appropriate notes as they inhabit their roles to perfection. Ultimately
you believe all of these actors in their parts, even if JLo's skirts
are entirely too short for a federal agent.

Like "Ocean's Eleven", "Out of Sight" is a very good film, merging
quality in all aspects of film-making into a fully enjoyable two hour
experience. The main themes of crime and love are basic, so the movie
doesn't soar to remarkable heights. But if you're looking for a
brilliantly made film that you might have missed on its theatrical run,
espy Out of Sight and settle in for a quirkily involving night. If you
saw it a few years back, check it out again to see Soderburgh's
foundation for his own excellence.

Bottom Line: A wholly absorbing movie that serves as a film-making
clinic of brilliance. 8 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Wild and chaotic action/drama/comedy that was basically ignored by everyone
in 1998, but was definitely one of the top ten films of the year.  Bank
robber George Clooney escapes prison one day and is tracked by a female
federal marshal (Jennifer Lopez, in a very hot performance).  There is
definitely a chemistry between Clooney and Lopez that will lead to fireworks
on more than one occasion.  Clooney has teamed up with some crazed criminals
for a jewel heist, but Lopez continues to track him relentlessly.  "Out of
Sight" is so full of, well, everything.  It is packed with action, romance,
drama, and some very black comedy.  Clooney and Lopez do the best work of
their careers.  The supporting cast is super as well.  Don Cheadle, Ving
Rhames, Michael Keaton, Dennis Farina, and Albert Brooks all shine with the
inventive screenplay and the top-notch direction.  4.5 out of 5
stars.
<|_=00=_|>

'Out of Sight' is one of those rare films that can boast of having class in
every department.  The direction, script, cinematography, design and
costumes disply such an acute and almost natural flair for bringing Elmore
Leonard to the screen that it should be made illegal to film any of his
novels without these people.
But the acting is in a world of its own.  Farina, Keaton, Rhames, Cheadle
and Zahn all bring depth, comedy and intelligence to their
roles.
All are eclipsed however by the irresistable pairing of Jennifer Lopez and
George Clooney.
Clooney has finally managed to act without peering beneath his eyebrows and
the effect is electric.  This is the part he was born to play.  His
charisma
is tangiable, but there is also a sense of fatalism whihc makes his
character all the more compelling.
Lopez, after her screaming shit-fits in the woeful 'Anaconda' proves that
sexuality must also equal intelligence.  Her Cisco is a mouth-watering mix
of sass, beauty and cut-throat determination.  It is one of those moments
when you can actually see a star being born on screen.  Put Clooney and
Lopez together, and you have the type of chemistry with which executives
have wet dreams over

<|_=00=_|>

Chemistry so hot that they ignite the screen. Too bad it didn't ignite the
Box Office, but Out Of Sight is one movie both George Clooney and Jennifer
Lopez can feel damn proud of. Maybe it's the fact that George's criminal
character is *actually* funny and multi-dimensional. Maybe it's the fact
that the storyline actually has a story to it - and an interesting one at
that. Hell - maybe it's just that J.Lo walks around in skimpy outfits -
curves flaunted - and likes to kick butt. After much consideration, I must
concur: it's equal parts to all 3.

Strong performances by Clooney (Jack) and Lopez (Karen), as well as George's
Ocean's 11 co-star Don Cheadle. Witty script and likeable characters with a
satisfying and plot-twisting ending. What more can you want? Did I hear you
say Jennifer Lopez naked? Yeah well, you won't get that here... but it's
good all the same!
<|_=00=_|>

Great film. The characters seemed believable. The dialog well written,
sharp, but not
overly polished, no character has a monologue. How often in the 90's do we
see a
thriller, or crime mystery, or a buddy film, all components the film plays
with, and would
consider a discussion about the script?
Leonard has a way with the practical aspects of crime, the fist fight
and
shoot outs are
awkward, characters miss their mark more often than not, they run out of
gas. How
often in an action film does the hero miss a shot? I'm sick to death of
wildly unbelievable
stories, huge explosions and car chases.
The photography is very well done and the soundtrack is fantastic. Of
particular note
is the editing, of which the film received an oscar nomination. One of the
best love
scenes in a contemporary film.
What you hope you get with an adult crime movie, sleek, smart and
sexy.


<|_=00=_|>
Steven Soderbergh knows his way around the bizarre, nearly impossible
story lines and can translate them to film as few others can. OUT OF
SIGHT is a little masterpiece of film-making despite the fact that when
it initially screened in 1998 it seemed to slip by theatergoers'
attention. Based on the inimitable Elmore Leonard novel the story begs
indulgence in credible situations but shines in quality of script and
characterization and an atmospheric cinematic capturing of a dark, film
noir comedy drama that grabs you by the head and holds you glued to the
screen for the duration.

The story is rather simple on the surface - a jailed bank robber
escapes with the help of his buddy and plans a major hit only to
encounter a federal agent in pursuit of the two who becomes the love
interest portion of this strangely convoluted tail. Subplots and
sidebars are sprinkled throughout Soderbergh's telling of Leonard's
story, serving to keep our minds alert and mesmerized by the plot
development.

The cast is absolutely first rate with George Clooney, Jennifer Lopez
and Ving Rhames especially pungent in roles that seem written for them.
The strong supporting cast includes such fine actors as Steve Zahn,
Catherine Keener, Don Cheadle, Luis Guzman , Isaiah Washington, Dennis
Farina, and Albert Brooks. And for those who enjoy powerful sexual
chemistry Clooney and Lopez offer some of their finest collaborative
acting. This is a fine movie and one that doubtless in time will be
considered and under appreciated Film Classic. Grady Harp
<|_=00=_|>

I, too, had a little trouble buying that such an intense relationship was
born from such a minor conversation between them in the trunk.  However,
when I was able to get past that inconsistency in the plot, I found a great
movie.  Clooney and Lopez have great chemistry and show that they are both
actors worthy of recognition.  I loved the editing--the choppy cuts and the
freezing of certain scenes.  And I have never seen a better seduction scene
in my life.  The supporting cast was great too, especially the incomparably
zany Steve Zahn.  And once I got past the improbability of the relationship
being so intense that she would risk her career for it, I thought that the
way that she did risk her career was just great.  I laughed out loud at the
scene when he waves to her from the elevator.  That is just a wonderful
illustration that not everything is clear-cut or easy to do.  Clooney was
phenomenal, so cool...and just resigned to his life.  I loved
it.

By the way, seeing this movie after Jennifer Lopez has launched her career
in pop music simply infuriated me that Hollywood has all but lost a true
talent to the world of bubblegum pop.  
<|_=00=_|>

"Out of Sight" was one of the best movies of 1998, and yet it was ignored by
moviegoers. I am amazed that most of George Clooney's movies fail, with the
exception of "Batman and Robin" all of his films have been good. This film
has good performances from a talented cast and great direction from an
original story by Elmore Leonard. Highly reccomended.
<|_=00=_|>

Expect good things in the future from everyone involved with this film,
because they all come off nicely. Scott Frank gets Elmore Leonard just
right, and Steven Soderburgh makes all the right decisions, pulling George
Clooney's best performance out of him. Clooney has great chemistry with
Jennifer Lopez, who is sly and tough as always. Their characters'
conversation in a Detroit hotel bar is the sexiest scene I've ever seen.
Albert Brooks and Don Cheadle are perfect, and Steve Zahn steals yet
ANOTHER
movie. The DVD is nice, if only for one deleted scene (right before the
bathtub scene) that is hilarious, yet still never would've worked had they
kept it in the film. SEE this film - and see how long the characters stay
with you. 
