
Here's one of those films that wears you out. By the end, you're
exhausted. I really liked this the first two times but three viewings
were enough. By then, the absurdity of the whole thing had fried what
few brain cells I have left.

Ray Liotta is excellent as the psycho serial killer who puts on a
charming Ted Bundy-like appearance for a short while before publicly
showing his insanity. He's fascinating, start to finish here, even
providing some very humorous lines. 

I wish I could say I enjoyed the other people in here but, except for
Ben Cross, I couldn't. Lauren Holly, the female star of the film, is
decent for much of the "ride" but becomes annoying and totally
non-believable in the final phase of the film, becoming
out-of-character profane and nasty herself. (Of course, her flight did
turn out to be a tiny bit stressful which might have affected her
patience. ha ha)

Of course, with a film like this, there are going to be some severe
questions with credibility, but when did that ever stop filmmakers?
Other reviewers in here have already detailed some of the non--sensible
parts, so no need to dwell on that. This is not brainfood: it's just
escapist entertainment for a night, something to show your girlfriend
so she'll hold onto you during all the suspense!

Anyway, I enjoyed the special effects, especially with the plane
smashing a few buildings, and the sound was awesome, at least on the
DVD. For much of the flight, they are flying through a storm and the
rumbles form the shaking airliner, was dramatic.
<|_=00=_|>

Many people are very critical of this movie-but it does have some
fans,including me!Okay,the whole thing is full of absurdities-but so
what!Butler takes the old "stewardess flies the plane" cliche,runs with
it,and delivers an enormously entertaining slice of hokum.The formula is
paired down to basics,as mad serial killer Weaver(Ray Liotta),creates havoc
aboard the plane,determined it will crash into L.A.-so he can go out in a
blaze of vengeful glory.All that stands in his way is plucky flight
attendant Teri(Lauren Holly).The stage is set for a frantic live action "Tom
and Jerry" wing ding between monstrous male psycho predator,and winsome
female "prey".
Liotta really seems to be enjoying himself here,and is given lots of goofy
"psycho speak" to deliver with relish.Weaver has a sense of humor too!"I'm
never flying this airline again!",he shouts to himself,after being tumbled
backwards down some stairs,a leg painfully crushed in a
door.
Then there's Terri-cute,willowy and Bambi eyed-I found myself pretty upset
seeing what poor Teri goes through in this  movie!But despite
insults,threats,punches,assaults,smoke attacks and all,she has the moxie to
keep going.Battered,bruised and bloodied she still looks stunning!And at the
beginning,we are told some guy just broke off his engagement to THIS girl!HE
must've been crazier than Weaver!
<|_=00=_|>

There's a bizarre human appetite for that which is awful. From lookie-looing
at traffic accidents to Man Show mooks to Lettreman's stupid pet tricks to
worst home videos, etc., people like to watch people being stupid,
outrageous, and ridiculous. Therein lies the appeal of "Turbulence", a
not-to-be-taken-seriously white knuckle ride into the realm of the
ridiculous with Holly as the "Stew" who's got to save a 747 jumbo jet with a
handful of passengers against all odds including one very whacked out serial
killer (Liotta). Ok, ok...this movie is stupid. However, for those who can
get to that place in their heads where they don't intellectualize, just go
with it, and enjoy the humor-tinged hair raising suspense and silliness, 100
minutes of entertainment awaits. (C)
<|_=00=_|>
An implausible but intense thrill ride with a more than competent cast.

As the film opens, it is Christmas Eve, and we get our introduction to
our Bad Guy, Ryan Weaver (Ray Liotta, doing the kind of character he
does best). He's a good-looking, charming-on-the-surface killer who has
come to be known as the "Lonely Hearts Strangler" because his M.O. is
apparently to target a single woman, romance her for a time, and then .
. . well, they do call him "Strangler". After leaving a toy store with
a cute stuffed animal and arriving at his new girlfriend (next intended
victim's) place, he is arrested and kicked in the stomach by the
detective (Hector Elizondo) who has been after him for years and even
framed him by planting evidence (although it's okay in this case
because HE DONE IT! Who cares what they had to do to get him?) In a
clever bit of opening misdirection, we see shots of Bad Guy on his way
to his latest target's place intercut with shots of our Heroine
(waifish but not anorexic, blonde-haired-big-blue-eyed Lauren Holly) in
her own place in such a way as to make us think that she is his new
"girlfriend", when in fact she is not.

The two do meet, however, since our Heroine is a flight attendant
assigned to the Christmas Eve flight on which Bad Guy is being
transported to prison to await his execution. Along with Bad Guy is
another con (Brendan Gleeson, in a Glee-ful performance) who's first
words are his reply to our Heroine's question, "What would you like?",
referring to drinks. His response? "I'd like to nail you, baby,", in
the slimiest-sounding Cornpone accent you've ever heard. Is this guy
really British?! Anyway, our charming con goes on to ask to be taken to
the plane's bathroom, uses the soap-thingy as a weapon to kill the
officer who is guarding him, and proceeds to make like Jeff Foxworthy
if Foxy was a BAD-ASS Redneck. He ends up holding our Heroine hostage
with a gun to her pretty blonde head, and who talks him into letting
her go? None other than our Bad Guy, who at this point is still making
like an unjustly accused and convicted Good Guy. In another dust-up,
the other con and several others are shot. (The pilots have, in the
midst of all this, been killed).

Our Heroine is told by our Bad Guy that the pilot hit his head but is
all right and is going to land. He begins to win her sympathy, asking
her if she believes in capital punishment, to which she answers "No".
Our Heroine is sharp, however, and notices that the plane does not
appear to be descending. She decides to go to the cockpit herself to
check things out and finds the pilot and his co-pilot dead. She manages
to make contact with the ground, however, and they patch her through to
a pilot (Ben Cross, who brings his presence and accent to the role)who
instructs her on how to communicate with the people on the ground and
how to operate the plane(to LAND it, of course). Our Bad Guy, however,
is determined that they will crash and, he hopes, take as many other
people with them as possible. He shows his true colors, and it is at
this point that it becomes almost impossible not to enjoy watching Mr.
Liotta; he simply seems to be having so much FUN playing this
particular wack-pot. As the plane tosses them to-and-fro (did I mention
that they're headed into a six-on-a-scale-of-one-to-six thunderstorm?)
our Heroine must defend herself after being coaxed out of the cockpit
by our Bad Guy. While not trying to come across as the Xena of flight
attendants, Ms. Holly is determined and tough mentally and also
physically when forced to fight for her life. Yes, at one point, she
uses sex - or at least the promise of sex - to get our Bad Guy to let
his guard down for a moment, but, hey, it's one of the few "weapons"
she has at her disposal, along with the fire extinguisher she clobbers
him with shortly after the bogus come-on. (Why, under these
circumstances, does our psycho-but-sharp Bad Guy believe for a MOMENT
that the woman he's terrorizing would have sex with him, even to save
herself and the few other people on board the plane he hasn't killed?
Because it's a movie, children!) Anyway, after kicking a little Bad Guy
butt and ultimately getting ahold of a Marshall's gun and killing him,
our Heroine manages to land the plane. Merry Christmas! If you just
want to shut down your higher brain functions and watch a good
psycho-killer-chiller, and especially if you like it when said chiller
supposedly takes place on Christmas, this is highly recommended for
you. Cheers.
<|_=00=_|>

- 3/5 STARS -

It's Airport 1975 meets Friday the 13th in this thriller at 35,000 feet.
Set aboard the ultra-sophisticated Boeing 747-200, a serial killer and
flight attendant battle for control of the airplane as both his mental
condition and the plane's altitude deteriorate.

A group of U.S. marshals is escorting two convicts aboard a nearly empty
747
on Christmas Eve.  One convict escapes and kills all of the guards, along
with the pilot.  (The copilot is taken out just as efficiently by failing
to
observe the fasten seat belt sign!)  After sitting back and letting them
kill each other, serial killer Ryan Weaver (Liotta) fills the power
vacuum
and systematically secures control of the airplane.  He has no intention
of
mounting an escape, however.  Because he was already en route to death
row,
he plans to slowly torture his group of holiday captives while the plane
flies itself into the ground.

Flight Attendant Teri Halloran (Holly) will have none of that, and we
find
ourselves with a far more capable flight attendant than Karen Black (from
Airport 1975) at the helm of this 747.  A lot can change in 22 years, and
this time our flight attendant is strong-willed, empowered, and ready to
brandish a gun, if necessary, to defend her safe passage to the ground.
But
just as significantly, it's the technology that has changed in two
decades.

The airplane, the set design, and the special effects steal the show.
Airplane buffs will be wowed at the display of real-world commercial jet
technology, including the autoland system, which effectively replaces
Charlton Heston (from Airport 1975) as the emergency pilot-in-command.
Most
of these whiz-bang gizmos are already present and functioning aboard
commercial jets worldwide.  By choosing such a high-tech plane, the
producers were able to simplify the plot and omit the flight engineer
altogether.  He's been replaced by a bank of computers, as is becoming
standard practice among domestic carriers.

The reality factor does have to be put on hold rather often, such as when
the 747 flips over and our stars are forced to struggle on the ceiling of
the cabin.  Or when the plane's landing gear becomes entangled in a
rooftop
restaurant and subsequently scoops up a parked car.  The 747-200's
autopilot
isn't nearly smart enough to recover from either crisis, but it's easy to
let the disbelief slide because the visuals are so startlingly
fresh.

External shots of the plane are well lit and light-years beyond what we
have
seen in any other aviation disaster film.  Inside the plane, the sets are
vibrant and alive with color.  Brilliantly lit instrument panels, along
with
a talkative computer warning system, keep the audience involved.  Even
the
avionics bay is bright and downright inviting!

It's a good thing the director let the art designers run amuck, because
the
psychosis of our serial killer would've sunk the picture otherwise.  This
character should have been penned as a standard mental case, but instead
he's a serial killer and a sex fiend, which makes for a variety of
uncomfortable confrontations between himself and the flight attendants.
Women generally do NOT like this movie, primarily because the
sexually-charged power struggles are repulsive to a modern temperament.
The
audience is officially fed up when Teri strips to seduce Ryan, just so
that
she can hit him in the head.  Of course, he regains the upper hand
moments
later.

If just five minutes of this rubbish had been cut out the film, the
result
would have been much more satisfying. Liotta demonstrates his rendition
of
the crazed lunatic very well, and is highly entertaining until the script
leads him to overly indulgent pastures.  But ultimately, Turbulence is
reluctant to decide whether it wants to be an action thriller or a
teenage
slasher movie.  Although it eventually makes the right decision, half the
movie has already passed by that point and those who would have abandoned
ship, have already hit rewind.

Compared to Airport 1975, Turbulence is at once both a much bigger and a
much smaller film.  Turbulence has an abundance of top-notch special
effects
and is a colorful visual assault.  Yet, the simple story of a frightened
stewardess, struggling to fly a jumbo jet, is lost in this psychotic game
of
cat-and-mouse.  In the world of the seven minute attention span,
Turbulence
plays by the new rules and thus belays its weakness:  it is too youthful
to
know that by simply sitting back and letting the suspense build, the end
result can be so much more satisfying.

<|_=00=_|>

on the evening of the 20th June 2004 I had the choice of watching either Ray
Liotta in GOODFELLAS or Ray Liotta in TURBULENCE . To be honest it wasn`t
really a choice since I`d already reviewed GOODFELLAS and I hadn`t got round
to seeing TURBULENCE so decided to watch the movie I hadn`t seen

!!!! POSSIBLE SPOILERS !!!! 

As soon as the credits started I`d worked out how this movie was going to
play out . Don`t ask me how but I`d got it into my head that this was going
to be very similar to CON AIR with a serial killer taking over a jumbo jet
with Ray Liotta`s character Ryan Weaver saving the day . In this respect my
prediction was half right with a psychotic nutcase taking over a jumbo jet
but it`s Weaver who`s the serial killer . I guess the producers can claim
this is a shocking plot twist but for some strange reason it doesn`t feel
convincing in anyway , in fact it feels downright ridiculous . Judging by
the comments on this page it seems that many people like myself feel cheated
as to how the story progresses , here we were expecting the doe eyed Weaver
to risk life and limb to over come evil scumbags ( And getting a pardon from
the President after the feds finally track down the real serial killer )
only to find Weaver`s the main scumbag 

I don`t know if it`s down to the script but Liotta doesn`t make a convincing
bad guy . No hold on , the more I think about it the more I believe Liotta
should start taking more and more of the blame for this fiasco . It`s
difficult to tell how his career might have panned out if he`d been given
roles as good guys but Liotta has always seemed miscast as a violent killer
and TURBULENCE proves it . Just so Stevie Wonder and all the blind people in
the audience can get the point Liotta goes so over the top that he`s in
danger of going into orbit - into orbit around the planet Jupiter by my
reckoning , there`s no subtlety at all to Weaver and would have probably
brought the film down if it wasn`t for the fact that there wasn`t much of a
film to begin with 

Note to Hollywood producers - Try casting Ray Liotta as a good guy .
Considering he`s appeared in so many turkeys since GOODFELLAS I`m sure he`d
be very cheap to employ   
<|_=00=_|>
Contains Spoilers!! Was this a comedy??????? Because I was laughing out
loud at many points during this 'film'. My laughs hit a peek when
Lauren Holly, a.k.a. 'Terri the Flight Attendant', smashes down the
cockpit door trampling the serial killer Ray Liotta, who was carrying
an axe. Terri goes from being a meek scared little stewardess (yes, I
called her a stewardess), into Trans Continental Ripley from Aliens.
They don't make movies worse than this. The fact that 41 people to date
have given this movie a 10 show there are at least 41 people who have
yet to be treated for their mental illness. I cannot BELIEVE the IMDb
staff averaged this out at a 6.9. You people need help too.

Parts that were laugh out loud hilarious include: 

1. The fact that though it is Christmas Eve, the plane is virtually
empty of passengers. All of us who travel during the Holidays can vouch
for how empty planes are. Didn't the director ever see PLANES, TRAINS
and AUTOMOBILES, or even HOME ALONE? 

2. Ray Liotta taking time out during the F-6 storm to use the air phone
to call the detective (Hector Elizondo) that arrested him to say he
will be crashing the plane into LAX. 

3. The 747 flying UPSIDE DOWN for NO reason (I have a hard time
believing it would not crash). POSEIDON ADVENTURE meets AIRPORT 75. 

4. The plane clips a restaurant/bar with the terribly clichéd Japanese
tourists butchering karaoke Christmas songs. 

5. Ray Liotta singing Christmas songs while he runs aimlessly through
the plane, his favorite being 'Buffalo Gal Won't You Come Out Tonight'. 

6. Liotta's air phone popping up again in the circuitry section of the
airplane, so that he can call Elizondo AGAIN, just to let him know he's
going to disable the autopilot. 

7. The F-16 fighter pilot, who surely will receive a court martial,
disobeying repeated direct orders to shoot down the 747. 

8. The fact that they put the F-16 pilot in the air to shoot down the
747 over the dessert to avoid civilian casulaties, yet they wait until
the plane ALREADY passes over LAX to order him to shoot it down. 

9. The F16 pilot instead shoots the Ford Explorer off of the 747's
landing gear (yes-that' right, the plane picked up this unwanted
luggage when it sheared the top off of the parking garage - again
failing to crash).

10. The Ford Explorer not exploding during the first abortive attempt
to land the 747 when it was dragged at 400+ mph along the runway. 

11. The 747 crashes through a billboard and still flies. 

12. The autopilot controls conveniently surviving the ax attack by
Liotta. 

13. The British accented airline captain who walks Terri through the
'landing' (also, he's not in the flight tower, but sitting in his plane
on the runway). 

14. The fact that Hector Elizondo appears at the plane seconds after it
lands standing under an umbrella, despite the fact we just saw him in
the Air Control Tower seconds earlier. 

15. The fact that the before mentioned British Captain is the only one
there to greet Terri as she leaves the plane, and they waltz away under
an umbrella together.

By the way, has anyone ever traveled in a plane packed with Christmas
decorations??????????? This film makes DIE HARD 2 look like a
documentary.

If you're in the mood for a good laugh, don't watch Airplane again for
the 20th time. Instead check this film out. It is likely to be in the
Adventure section of your local video store, but it should be relocated
to the Comedy section.
<|_=00=_|>
Action/disaster movies involving planes are good and enjoyable (Die
Hard 2, Snakes On A Plane, Con-Air, Air Force One, Executive Decision
etc). Same goes for action movies where the bad guy is a total lunatic.
So this personal favourite of mine has the best of both world's - a
wisecracking total lunatic in charge of a 747 he intends to crash.

Ray Liotta is absolutely excellent as a sarcastic lunatic in this
movie! I love indulging in Turbulence every now and then. Just to watch
Ray Liotta's character 'giving it large' to his nemesis - some cop who
framed him - on a plane that he intends to crash, just for him (the
cop) - to make him famous cos he was hopeless at catching Liotta and
had to plant a teddy bear in his car to get a conviction (Liotta's
character supposedly strangles women after giving them a teddy bear for
Christmas btw).

Anyway, the dialogue on the plane between the cast in the early stages
is quite good. Especially the drinks and dinner menu scenes. Once the
movie becomes cat and mouse between Liotta and the air stewardess, some
of the dialogue is very good and quite amusing if you view it from the
point that Liotta's character is a crazed psycho with nothing to lose
but wants to have a bit of fun along the way.

Some of the scenes involving the landing of the plane are quite good as
well especially when it almost collides with a hotel restaurant and you
get a POV on it. Forget that it is a stupid idea where a stewardess
gets a crash course from the ground crew (pun intended) to land a 747.
Plane movies are always spectacular when they involve some kind of
crash idea or a novice attempting to land one.

So Ray Liotta as a crazed psycho with a grudge against a cop and on a
hijacked empty 747, a guy who is destined for the chair and with
nothing to lose is pretty good idea for a movie....in my opinion. The
premise may be mindless, but who cares - it's a wonderful life.

LOL
<|_=00=_|>

I guess September 11th of 2001 has eaten lots away from the entertainment
value of movies like "Passenger 57" or "Turbulence" but let's face it, this
one was never a masterpiece to start with. The biggest reason to watch
"Turbulence" is Ray Liotta's excellent, furious performance as a
psychopathic killer Ryan Weaver. Without him the film would hardly be even
half as good. There's very little of decent special effects and the plot is
incredibly basic, providing not even a single surprise or a twist. In a
nutshell, this is just one watchable plane flick if you really haven't got
anything better to do and certainly more interesting than just an empty
television screen.
<|_=00=_|>
Sure, it's not the best movie in the world, but for action, suspense
and a Lauren Holly/Ray Liotta combo, it's pretty darned good. I watched
this on a lazy Saturday morning and ended up nearly hyperventilating by
the time it was over, not to mention having enough excess adrenalin to
turn the lazy morning into a more productive one. One viewer commented
that this was the best worse movie they'd seen. I wouldn't go so far as
saying it is in the 'worse' category, because it had a lot of good
qualities. There was a long list of favorite character actors, enough
suspense to keep you interested, great performances by Holly and Liotta
(two of my favorite Soap turned Hollywood actors), one of everyone's
'worst nightmares come true', and...none of it was spoiled by a
romantic element often inserted in a good heart stopper action movie.

Kudos to Ms. Holly on her performance during the last fight scene. By
this point, I was having to remember this was a movie, not live action.
I was asking myself what I would do and how I would be feeling in a
similar situation. That was the time when I realized I was
hyperventilating and had to make myself take a breath. This is
definitely a movie that I am glad I didn't watch just before bedtime. I
would have not slept from the charge this movie gave the nervous
system.
