

I'm a little surprised by the negative criticism this film is
attracting.

I'm old enough to be the father of the two main characters; they seemed like
accurately drawn teenage girls to me. And I've probably hung out with both
of their fathers before. I've been to the Far East. I've stayed in both
better and worse places than the girls stayed. I had the pleasure of seeing
the inside of a police station after I was robbed. I'm glad I had no more
direct exposure to the local judicial system than that; that was more than
enough. Everything in this movie seems awfully familiar to
me.

I think "Brokedown Palace" represents something pretty close to stark
realism. It certainly reminded me of Asia.

Of course it's true that the attitudes of the girls often don't do much to
improve their situation. But they are meant to be an example of what not to
do overseas. And the portrayal of some of the Thais did make me
uncomfortable. But then many of my own personal travel anecdotes don't paint
a complimentary picture either.

This is a cautionary tale. An unfortunate consequence of too many people
having too much money to spend these days is that you will find unescorted,
unprepared, "streetwise", naive young people popping up in places where they
have no business being. And when that happens, you end up with situations
mirroring this movie.

I suspect people choose to denigrate this one because they are too
embarrassed to accept how true it is, and how vulnerable they would be if
placed in similar circumstances.

<|_=00=_|>

Although I go to the movies regularly, I didn't see a trailer for this
film,
and the few reviews I read beforehand suggested it would appeal mainly to
women under 35.  Being neither, I could have been excused for missing this
film, which would have been a shame, because I enjoyed it. The acting from
Danes, Beckinsdale and Pullman was excellent and a pleasant change from
watching films where special effects try to substitute for quality acting.
Brokedown Palace is one of the few films I've seen this year where I
haven't
been able to correctly predict the outcome half way through.

For me this was more than a repeat of the "tourist taken advantage of by
nasty local/foreign low life" film.  While it is clearly a cautionary tale
of the risks of travelling abroad, it is also very much about trusting your
friends and the extent you are willing to make sacrifices for them.

It is also a reminder that in any country, justice is dispensed by people
with power, and the extent that truth features in the dispensing of justice
is largely at their discretion.  The film correctly portrays that crying
"I'm an American citizen, I have rights" rarely sees an immediate release
from jail and humble apology from the local police, nor does enlisting the
help of the US embassy result in a company of marines landing at night to
storm the jail and rescue you.

Brokedown Palace is one of the few films I have seen this year which I
intend to see again. 
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film at a store in the cheap section. I actually vividly
remembered seeing the commercials and trailer for it years ago. I thought
"What the hey' and bought it, basically because the plot sounded interesting
and Claire Danes has always been someone of talent in my eyes (this was also
before I became a huge Kate Beckinsale fan).

So it's about two girls who sneak off to a vacation in Bangkok, get busted
for narcotics (which they are innocent of) and then are sent to a Thailand
prison. The film follows what will happen to them and at times questions
their innocence.

Both Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale give great performances, and the plot
of this film wraps itself up unconventionally, and raises some nice moral
discussion questions.

I think this is a solid good film, but there could have been some
improvements. It could have been longer...it would've helped to solidify
these characters and more insight into the politics of Thailand's justice
system would've helped.

Nevertheless, other than that, it's a good film with some great
performances.

P.S. For all you pop-culture junkies be on the lookout for a two-minute role
by Paul Walker. I didn't even notice him the first time I saw the
film.

<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie by luck, just because I was going through a phase
where I had a new found admiration for Bill Pullman and wanted to see
all of his recent movies and thank God I did! This Movie has stuck with
me ever since and remain one of my favorites! The story revolves around
two girls who embark on a dramatic journey in a foreign country where
they'll learn the true meaning of freedom.

Alice and Darlene were just trying to spend a vacation together before
going to college but their trip ended up a much more complicated story.
The struggle they go through as they are arrested in Thailand and
became prisoners is very moving and intense. The acting is amazing, the
images extraordinary, the soundtrack is fantastic and so right for the
movie and the message transmitted definitely powerful. I actually can't
even find the right words to describe how this movie makes me feel
every time I watch it. I know some people haven't appreciated as much
as me by the rating the movie has but I swear, this one, you have to
see!!! I promise it will stick with you!
<|_=00=_|>

*** out of ****

Brokedown Palace has an intriguing premise: two best friends (Kate
Beckinsale and Claire Danes) fresh from high school are on their summer
vacation in Thailand, but are arrested for possession of narcotics, found
guilty and sentenced to 33 years in a women's prison.  Admittedly, I'm aware
of several films with similar stories (Midnight Express, Return to Paradise,
and Red Corner), and I must also admit I've only see one of those three
aforementioned films, which might be why much of it felt fresh and
engrossing to me.  Either that, or it's just a story that's told damn
well.

Bill Pullman also stars in the picture as an American lawyer named Hank
Greene, who feels for the girls' plight and fights to prove their innocence.
 But the real focus is on Beckinsale and Danes, whose wonderful performances
are the anchor to the film's drama and moral quandaries.  Beckinsale's
Darlene is the more reserved and quieter of the two, the kind of person who
sort of follows her friend without question, and certainly not the type to
take unwarranted risks (unless her friend persuades her to).  She's almost a
direct opposite of Danes' Alice, whose outgoing and semi-rebellious behavior
is the indirect link to their current troubles.

I hesitate to give much more of the movie away, suffice to say that their
friendship is what's ultimately put to the test, and watching the twists and
turns (almost all of which are perfectly believable) in the story is utterly
captivating.  The film slinks to melodrama in its climactic moments, but
still rings true thanks to the tour-de-force turns from Beckinsale and
Danes.

It's an open-ended question as to whether or not either of the girls
committed the crime of smuggling narcotics, and such ambiguity might upset
some, but I liked not knowing for certain, and it's not as if it makes the
final scenes any less believable.  In fact, the ambiguity only makes it all
the more compelling.  Yes, the plot has its share of head-scratching moments
(what purpose does that Thai girl who despises Darlene and Alice really
serve?) and lacks subtlety on occasion, but it's a well-crafted film that
boasts great performances, and has the guts not to cop out in the
end.
<|_=00=_|>

Alice(Claire Danes) and Darlene(Kate Beckinsale) have been best friends
since forever and after they graduate they decide to take a trip to
Thailand. Due to a incident, they meet a young attractive mysterious
stranger who invites them to go with him Hong Kong for the weekend. But at
the airport, Alice and Darlene are mistaken for drug smuggling heroine and
they are sent to prison. Now it's time for ultimate survival and true
friendship.
This was a pretty good movie, i've seen it a couple of times and after a
while you notice that they are a few holes in the plot but the movie still
keeps you entertained. Claire Danes did a great job as usual, she is a great
actress. I would give Brokedown Palace 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is cold, bare truth. Often we think "oh no, that won't
happen to me." But it can. Drug smuggling is big money and often people
are unknowingly (or tricked) into doing things for smugglers. The story
of these two girls is the story of many young people who like them,
only wanted a exotic holiday - which turned into a nightmare. People
need to know that these sort of events aren't improbable or exaggerated
- this IS a major problem in today's society.

I would recommend this movie to mature viewers because of the
understanding needed to truly appreciate this movie. It is very
emotional and raw. Well worth watching and certainly stays in your
memory.
<|_=00=_|>
Brokedown Palace is truly a one of a kind. It's an amazing story,
showing two girl's plight for freedom against the Thailand justice
system. They soon find themselves placing faith into a system they know
nothing about.

Alice Morano (Claire Danes) and Darlene Davis (Kate Beckinsale), are
two best friends, strait out of high school. They suddenly change their
vacation plans from Hawaii to Thailand, and are immediately captivated
by a young man, Nick Parks. He flirts with them both, and suggests that
the three of them go to Hong Kong for the weekend.

When the two arrive at the airport, they are immediately searched for
drugs. Someone tipped off customs, and in an instant, their life is
changed forever. In the mix of the confusion of settling into their new
life, they learn about a highly respected lawyer, named Hank Green
(Bill Pullman).

An American who knows the Thai justice system, he fights for the girl
to be free. But they soon find out, when they leave or go is all up to
them.

If you're looking for a great movie that'll stay with you for years -
Brokedown Palace is definitely the way to go.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie a million years (5 years to be exact) ago for the
first the time. In the light of recent events with the Australian woman
Schapelle Corby being imprisoned in Indonesia for so called smuggling
pot, I decided to watch this movie again. I excepted to cry my heart
out, 'cause I'm sucker for hot girls in need (just read my review of
'the stalking of Laurie Show'). Some moist escaped my eyes, but it were
hardly buckets filled with tears. Why? Not because the two heroines
weren't utterly adoring and helpless, not because the movie wasn't
heartbreaking at the sight of these two kids in the prime of their live
locked up in almost inhuman conditions. Why then? Why did I not cry? I
wanted to cry! When I rent a movie like this, I except to be moved, to
sob like there's no tomorrow, to feel miserable and like it. This movie
was simply too short to do this. It was just like the script was
reduced to the main plot elements, and while doing this the
psychological aspect was thrown aside. Clare Danes and Kate Beckinsale
did an excellent job portraying the emotions of the two friends, but
this movie just screamed for more footage of these girls in their
depressing (and oppressing) surroundings. The mental journey is missing
here for some reason. You only get to see the key moments of it (which
are very touching, I admit), probably because of bad editing. Sometimes
I felt these girls were walking around in a postcard. The relationship
with the family members could also have used a bit more attention.
What's up with the relationships between the girls and the parents
(especially between Alice and her dad)? You catch a glimpse of it, but
the film doesn't quite offer the whole picture, sadly enough.

Nonetheless this was a great movie, and at the end I even had to bite
my lip a bit. But I guess this has more to do with the acting skills
(and the looks) of the actresses (and the music) then with the merit of
the director. To be honest, I hardly knew who Kate Beckinsale was
before I watched this movie (again). Now, I am a fan! Great movie, as
long as you don't expect it to be classic cinema.
<|_=00=_|>

We all have friends.  Some of us have more than others but there really are
only one or two people that you feel really close with, people that you can
say are like your brother or sister.  Alice ( Danes )and Darlene (
Beckinsale ) are like that.  You can see that from the beginning.  They
graduated together, they go to parties together and they decide to go to
Bangkok together when they were supposed to be going to Hawaii.  They also
get busted for attempting to smuggle drugs into a third world country and
that spells disaster.  The rest of the film is about survival and not giving
up hope.  It also has a strong message about the power of friendship and
what it can mean to someone.

Brokedown Palace is a very good film, it is not excellent and that is due to
a few issues that I want to talk about.  But first I want to say what is
good about the film.  And for starters the acting is top notch, and you can
look no further than the two leads.  Danes and Beckinsale are perfect in the
roles that they have.  Alice is always fiery and seems a little rough around
the edges, but she seems more fun than Darlene.  But sometimes that fun can
get her into trouble.  Darlene is always a little on the conservative side
and although that can get irritating sometimes, it would have served the two
girls better if her way was adhered to instead of Alice's.  Bill Pullman is
adequate as the American lawyer living in Thailand.  The film is
photographed very well also.  The inside of the prison while not the same as
Shawshank or Natural Born Killers or Return To Paradice, but it does show
the necessary ( but underdone) hopelessness of the situation that they are
in.  Johnathin Kaplan's direction is quite good as well.  We see the two
girls struggling to make it through each day but you can see their spirit is
being put out a little more each day.  Brokedown Palace is excellent when it
talks about friendship and it shows how they have to rely on each other to
survive.  The other thing that I had to comment on is the soundtrack for the
film.  It heightens and compliments the mood of the film to perfection.  The
song that you hear in the trailer is also played in the film and when it
plays you feel the plight of the women in this prison.  You can feel how
alone they must feel and how desperate they are to get out and get back to
the simple things in life.  And it also makes you look at yourself and
realize how lucky we are to live in the society that we do.  We have it easy
compared to some country's and believe it or not the music is a perfect
catalyst for reflection on this subject.  Some of the music is done by a
group called Delirium ( I think ) but it is Sara McLaughlin( wrong spelling,
but how do you spell her last name? ) that does the lyrics and her voice is
beautiful and haunting and it adds so much to the film.

What I didn't enjoy about the film was some of the stupidity that the girls
exhibit.  I won't say what it is that they do but when you see it for
yourself you'll know what I am talking about.  Also I didn't really feel
that the prison they were in was all that bad.  It looked more like a
minimum security prison and that may be because when there are similar
circumstances in other films that invlove men doing time in a foreign
country, the prison scenes are always brutal and sadistic.  But I didn't get
that here.

Overall this is a great film and it really does make you ask the question, "
How far would you go for a friend? "  That is a tough question and maybe one
that none of us could honestly answer until put into the same situation. 
Let's just hope that it never comes down to that.
