


	Produced in India by an Indian director and production crew for the primary
purpose of introducing Europeans and North Americans to some aspects of the
Hindu culture, this film was never intended for domestic markets and in fact
I believe that it remains banned in most parts of India. Although in many
ways the Hindu culture is highly erotic, eroticism is not normally featured
in domestic Indian films and the Director had to recruit two British born
actresses for the starring roles. It is a beautiful film which was quite
successful in parts of Europe and it is unfortunate that it had only a
limited release in North America.

	Ultimately the film is a Feminist Tract, which is said to be based on an
Indian legend from the early sixteenth century - the period immediately
after the foundation of the Mohgul (Mongol) empire in India. It is a story
about an intelligent woman born  into a low cast who is the servant of a
high cast compatriot betrothed to the local Raj. In most parts of the world
the subservient status of women at the time of this legend made it very
difficult for them to establish a satisfactory lifestyle except in the
traditional role of wife to the master of a family and mother to his
children. In India the difficulties were greatly compounded by the
additional limitations imposed by the cast system. The film basically
records the efforts of this woman to use her sexual attractiveness to
develop a lifestyle that would be acceptable to her. In modern parlance Maya
has the moral standards of a guttersnipe, but in the context of the period
in which she lived she merely manipulated the weapons available to her to
try to establish what any modern woman would describe as an acceptable
independent lifestyle. Ultimately her plans basically fail and the film ends
with her walking confidently towards an unknown future after losing her
lover and every support that her former life had provided, but with a
confidence that she could face the future, whatever it might bring, thanks
to the lessons in life that she had learned during her period at the Royal
Court. Women can clearly identify with this story - although IMDb users in
general have only given this film fairly average ratings, the demographic
breakdown of these ratings shows that younger women rate it most
highly.

	The title "Kama Sutra - A love story" poses a problem, Many western viewers
expected a near pornographic sequence of orgies with sexual encounters
involving highly convoluted positions - their disappointment can be seen
both in some of the viewer comments featured in this data base, and by the
low ratings many viewers have given to this film. (One IMDb reviewer has
made the interesting comment that the film might have been much more
successful if it had simply been titled  "A love story".) The film has also
been derided as an Indian version of a modern soap opera. The common feature
of soap operas is probably their limited characterisation and a shallow one
track story line; but if we look at European stories and legends from the
same period we find that they mostly show similar features - think only of
the Decameron or such works as Moll Flanders and Fanny Hill. I have never
been a fan of the modern soap operas- perhaps because they cut too close to
home- but I am a sucker for those such as "Dangerous Beauty" or "Black
Venus" which have the ability to temporarily transport one into life during
an earlier period. Consequently I greatly enjoyed this film which not only
successfully recreates a long past period, but also provides a realistic
glimpse of life as lived in a totally different culture to my own. Most soap
operas are rather melodramatic, but despite its exotic locale and period,
the film "Kama Sutra - a love story" remains somewhat underplayed. The Raj
showed a fairly unsavoury character, but none of the petty vindictiveness we
associate with European royalty of the period. The arrest and execution of
the sculptor, Maya's lover, was clearly inevitable but it was not carried
out with the oriental barbarism I expected to be displayed, and this Indian
royal court was shown as both more civilised and more humane than say its
European equivalent in the English court of Henry VIII.

	For a film to be a success there are basically two requirements, it must
have something worth while to feature and it must be sufficiently
competently made to hold the viewers attention whilst watching it. In my
view this film fully meets both these requirements. Although the story line
was a little trite and the characterisation was somewhat shallow, the camera
work was superb and was a delight to the eye throughout. It is hard for a
Westerner to judge how authentically the sixteenth century Mohgul royal
court was represented, but as shown its visual impact was both exotic and
exciting. A important part of this film was the outstanding score which
contributed much to the mood and atmosphere. This score, the sets, the
costumes and the camera work were outstanding throughout and provided a
continual feast for both eyes and ears. What more can a viewer expect? I
give this film a rating of eight out of ten, much higher than the average
rating recorded in the IMDb database, and I do so deliberately not because
it was a great story but because both the score and the camerawork justify
this rating. This is at least as valid as giving a similar rating to films
with a great story to tell, but with very indifferent camera work. After all
the cinema is essentially a visual form of entertainment and any film which
can, like this one, keep our eyes glued to the screen throughout has to be
recognised as way above average.  
<|_=00=_|>

I've watched this film over and over again and it just gets better. It's
actually based on a book called "Hand-Me-Downs" which you'll understand
after you've watched it. As the last person who commented on this stated
it's not the "Kama Sutra" you're thinking of. There IS sex, there IS a bit
of violence, but don't watch this with the hopes of seeing your average
vulgar action and sex film. The women in the film are instructed and shown
how to the master the art of Kama Sutra, mind you the ART not the
positions.
Anyway, the film setting is gorgeous and the acting is superb. You'll
recognize Sarita Choudhury as Tara if you've already watched Mississippi
Massala. Indira Varma does an excellent job in expressing her revenge,
regret, and mystery in Tara's character. Everyone and I mean EVERYONE did
an
excellent job in this film. 
<|_=00=_|>

When I rented KAMA SUTRA - A Tale Of Love, I thought my girlfriend would
kill me for what the title implied.  We were plesantly suprised to find a
Love Story / Drama which, yes, has some very sexy scenes in it.  Those
looking for a movie version of the ancient text will be disapointed with
the
reasonable use of sexual content.  There is an actual storyline here!
This
film is about true love, and the struggle for that love in the face of
adversity. The love triangle, along with enough character development to
explain the relationships between the five main characters, speaks of the
human condition.

The story takes place "Once upon a time...".  The costumes and sets are
really well done.  The cinematography is richly textured, with India as
the
exotic backdrop, and you are transported back into time... and into the
lovers' experience.

This movie can take you through a full range of emotions, see it with your
significant other, and expect it to effect you for the rest of the
night.


<|_=00=_|>

I must say I really enjoyed this film.  I saw it late at night, when they
usually only show crap on TV, and I was just blown away.  I loved the
historical setting, the costumes, the sets, the interaction of the
characters, the dancing and the love story.  I also can't help thinking
that
Indira Varma is probably the most beautiful woman alive.  I found this
film
stunning, enjoyable and moving, and I highly recommend it to audiences who
don't mind a little sensual nudity in their films.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this movie about 4 years ago. And upon the first viewing I
was dis-appointed about 15 mins into it. I'm sure most males are
attracted to this film simply by the title... Kama Sutra. LOL. I was
disappointed because on first glance I did not find Maya and Tara
attractive. Yes I know, how lame of me to judge a film based on the
looks of the actresses. In my defense, the title threw me off as I was
expecting something highly erotic and very porn-ish. However, other
than the title of the movie I've heard accolades from critics about
this movie... so I manage to finish the movie. I remember thinking wow,
not too shabby, the film wasn't what I expected. It really is a tale of
love. I've just viewed the movie three times in the last couple of days
and at last I'm really appreciating the film.

The acting are superb and I think Indira Varma was a newcomer at that
time. I think she played Maya perfectly... Her performance reminds me
of how impressive Natalie Portman was in Leon as a totally unknown.
Although Natalie was much younger with her debut. It was a delight
watching Indira portraying the deep emotions and the hard life of Maya
being always in Tara's shadow. My favorite scene was when Maya and Jai
reunited. The music/score was perfect and the acting was heart felt I
think they have perfect chemistry.

The sets and costumes were colorful and rich. The cinematography was
stunning. Character development was complete and the pace of the story
was quite good never a wasted moment. This is one of my favorite films
about love. It encompasses a lot more than merely the thought of "Kama
Sutra" conjures up. It is also about girl going into woman hood. Please
enjoy the film with a open mind and I think you will find its true
beauty that is rarely matched.

One other film that's a personal favorite is Crouching Tiger Hidden
Dragon which is directed by Ang Lee. I grew up in Taiwan, but spent
most of my life in California and I'm well versed in both the
traditional Chinese culture as well as contemporary American. I
understood perfectly what Ang wanted to do. There's a big similarity in
the fact that both directors made the film for the _foreign_ audiences.
I think these films should not be completely judged on its accuracy,
but rather, from the director's vision and what they wanted to
accomplish. In both cases I think the directors were perfect.
<|_=00=_|>

I bought this movie after seeing most of it on Bravo several different
times.  I really love this movie.  It has beautiful imagery and a good
plot.
I was captivated by the lovely erotic scenes.  Although there is a love
story in it, the film isn't entirely an happily ever after affair.
However,
the ending retains the feeling of hope and the fact that love (though not
necessarily the lover) survives all things.

A sad, yet hopeful movie.  I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
Having read The Kama Sutra and having found it disappointing, I figured
this late night showing couldn't be anymore disappointing than the text
of the same name in translation. The subtitle, A Tale of Love, does
help inform the potential viewer that this is not a hot porn flick.

The few pieces of Indian literature I have read treated love stories
similarly. I was curious though, as to how the Bombay movie industry
would treat this story, knowing they do no show kissing in the romantic
films for domestic consumption. IMDb was the source I turned to to
learn more about this film and its production. Thank you for the
answers.

This movie is a fine tragedy carefully told in the context of 16th
century India. It portrays a woman's plight in that time, marry or be a
courtesan in a harem. By giving the women empowered roles the writers
allow viewers to see that while today would would find those roles
unacceptable, some women of those days could find satisfaction, if not
happiness. The mistress of the courtesan school gave everyone her
pupils a view of the truth and their options, even before the women
were ready to see them.

The movie also contains moral lessons. Maia misuses her sexuality to
her own detriment. The princess, could not buy happiness. The sculptor
rejects Maia's love out of fear for loss of his independence, then gets
paid back in kind.

This is a captivating story I will watch again, to catch the dialog I
missed while away from the television, and I rarely watch movies twice.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was wonderfully told to me. The characters where great, the
location was magical, and the whole film just left me with a great
feeling.
I love Indira Varma, she is so beautiful and such a talented actress. The
role of Queen Tara portrayed by Sarita Choudhury deserves mention also. I
would recommend to anyone with an open mind. Though I was very young when
I
first watched it, it is for the more mature audience. 
<|_=00=_|>
i admire mira nair's films. she clearly loves India and its culture, a
fact evident in all of her films i've had the pleasure of seeing. but
her real art is showing her passion through so many prisms. vanity fair
showed us India from the British home perspective which we usually see
from western directors, while salaam bombay showed us modern urban
India at its most destitute and triumphant. monsoon wedding introduces
to the rapidly expanding Indian middle class, providing us with a far
more intimate appreciation of her subjects than we might get calling
for tech support for our computers or trying to understand a credit
card bill. 

kama sutra shows us India through yet another prism. first a prism of
history, which she lushly recreates, and then through a prism of
sexuality, which she (rightly) brandishes as legacy of a great and
ancient culture. perhaps she suggests that the British morality imposed
by the empire attempted, with some success, to obscure a vibrant and
enthusiastic sexuality. well, if British sex is anything like British
food, and Indian sex is like Indian food, she might have a point.
curiously, i've been told that if you want to eat good English food in
London, go curry. 

i don't think that nair's ultimately interested in instructing us on
sexual physics, or in telling us an epic melodrama. but through her
four characters, she reveals love and sex as they are manifest
continuously through the human story. a king imposes himself on his
queen (patriarchy and rape), a king demands his coutesan (adultery and
carnality), unrequited love (every character, each with a twist),
jealousy, shame, sex as love, sex as passion, sex as brutality, and so
on. the shades of sex that she reveals through her characters'
relations are familiar, and she artfully sketches the nuances in three
dimensions, where you rarely see more than one or two in Hollywood
tripe. yet, like a good tikka masala, the chicken is familiar, but the
colors and the flavor are distinctly and marvelously Indian.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie and I loved it. It was powerfully beautiful and the
character of Maya was unbelievable. (I was pleased to share the name with
her.) Indira Varma did a wonderful job and I was completely taken with it.
I
recommend this movie, although will not be liked by everyone. It is truly
a
work of art.
