

I checked this out from the library - I figured, what the heck, it's free,
and I'll get a campy laugh from it.  But the movie is in fact sweet &
affectionate.  
OK so the guy playing Travolta who walks off the screen looks nothing like
him & is actually doing a slightly Southern accent.  The lead actor (playing
Hock) looks a lot like Bruce Lee and turns out to be a good dancer as well
as great at kung fu.  
Nobody has yet mentioned a minor subplot, of the idolized older brother - a
med student who needs money for a sex-change operation.  The father disavows
the med student son in anger.  The 70s costumes are good fun and I like the
kid sister character who's hooked on romance novels.  
It reminded me in a way of "Strictly Ballroom" (a much better Baz Lehrman
film than "Moulin Rouge" BTW!)  And everybody's speaking quite good English
- no terrible dubbing!  So check this one out & enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

On it's own this film is as good as anything Hollywood puts out. But if you
understand the dynamic that exists between Asian traditions and Western
Cultural influence, like there is in Singapore, that pushes the story over
the edge into the realm of great film. Most Americans (I am one, Irish and
Norwegian, but aware of the situation there) won't appreciate the
subtleties
and the subtext, but it IS wonderful.
<|_=00=_|>

An indie gem from Singapore.  In the exuberant yet grounded tradition of
Muriel's Wedding... "That's The Way I Like It" (aka Forever Fever) took me
into 1977 Singapore, to follow the dream of a regular guy who is discovering
his passions in life.  Lots of disco music, polyesther, and family conflict
doesn't spread thin this tightly and deftly told story.  The budget seems
meager, but the movie doesn't suffer from that at all.  The had enough
production quality to tell the story they wished to tell, and
congratulations go to Glen Goei and his team for this wonderful
tale.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie definitely exceeded my expectations...especially since I knew the
main theme of the film was disco.  This movie parallels the classic of the
disco genre, Saturday Night Fever, in many ways, but also is a delightful
look at life in the late seventies in Singapore.  

The soundtrack is full of great 70's hits, and the cinematography takes full
advantage of the exotic locale.  The actors and actresses breathe real life
into what normally would have been one-dimensional characters, making this
film very enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a charming and touching Singaporean combo of STRICTLY BALLROOM
and Saturday NIGHT FEVER with bits of ENTER THE DRAGON (!) thrown in
for good musical kung fu measure and pleasure. I am sure you never
thought in a million years that you would read that all in the one
sentence. Well, all in the one film makes it a delightful mix. Lurching
in and out of English Spinglish and various Asian dialects FOREVER
FEVER has a wonderful sense of itself as both a urban musical and an
Asian romantic drama. Like Bollywood films pinching plot and images
from various western films, this low budget Malaysian production
manages to lift whole plot ideas and reverse them, and then even chuck
in some PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO cinematic off-the-screen advice and ideas
from viewer to screen actor. Well made and with a terrific soundtrack
FOREVER FEVER could easily be remade in 2006 as a regular
Anglo/American/Aussie film and succeed all over again. FLOWER DRUM SONG
it is not.
<|_=00=_|>

"That's the Way I Like It" is a flick which would never work on paper but
manages to be thoroughly enjoyable on the silver screen. It's all about Hock
(Pang), a Singapore store clerk who wants no more than to kick butt like
Bruce Lee and own a motorcycle but meets a disco dancing hottie who
convinces him there are better things to get into than motorbikes. Always
fun, upbeat, and good natured, this little English language flick out of
Singapore is a kind of "Enter the Dragon" meets "Saturday Night Fever" meets
"All in the Family" colorful comedy drenched in nostalgic hit disco tunes.
Fun stuff especially for anyone who has ever done the Hustle.
(B)
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILER WARNING!

Disclosure: I am a Singaporean, wannabe film critic.

Forever Fever is a very fun film on the outside (except for one highly
charged scene). However, it has many subtexts that are only apparent if
you
are familiar with Singaporean culture. It is actually quite a serious
film,
and manages to address many highly charged issues that are difficult to
discuss in Singapore (like abortion in the US). I'll give just two
examples:

East vs West, Old vs New - Singapore is too young a country to have any
real
culture of its own - everything is imported. We basically don't know who
we
are, yet. All the characters are torn to some extent between the venerable
Eastern culture they *should* respect, and the exciting new Western world
they actually *want* to embrace. Each character eventually makes his own
choice, for good or ill. There are clear incompatibilities between these
cultures. Is Leslie's father a homophobic bigot or a staunch defender of
our
ancient traditions? Whose side are you on, anyway? Why?

The Elite - It is sometimes said, very quietly, that Singapore is
dominated
by a class of educational and economic "elites". While the system is
officially egalitarian and meritocratic, some charge that it is really
elitist. The medical student Leslie, the rich spoiled boy and his
well-educated girlfriend represent this class in effigy in the movie. This
movie manages to deftly air most of the grievances against them, including
their influence, isolation and "immoral" Western influence. Some righteous
butt-kicking and some overdue peace-making eventually occurs.

The film suffers a little in terms of production values, which is
understandable given the budget. However, the actors put in spirited,
convincing performances, the script satisfies on many levels, and it's
just
great fun to watch. The characters have unexpected depth, are easy to
relate
to (at least to a Singaporean), and manage to quickly draw you into their
lives on screen. Glen Goei's direction is straightforward but solid, and
his
vision shines through.

This is the kind of movie Hollywood has forgotten how to make. It is
strongly built on the fundamentals and succeeds the old-fashioned way. And
that's the way *I* like it!

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

"That's the Way I Like it" or "Forever Fever" is a movie that makes me
smile.  It plays a lot like Saturday Night Fever, the music, the disco dance
competition, and the hero changes dance partners along the way.  But it
isn't a parody of the movie just based in Singapore, instead I think it's
just paying homage to the great film.  This is really a feel good movie that
makes you laugh, want to dance, and smile throughout ... except for this
really moving and well acted scene with Hock's brother Leslie and his
father.  By the end you will be glad you saw a movie that made you smile...
and find yourself saying, "Thats the way I like it."  This movie is a simple
story, that ask you to , 'Don't think ... feeeeeel' "Enter the Dragon.
1974"

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie nearly three years ago, when it first came out in
Singapore
(was living there at the time) and I thoroughly loved it.  I'm excited
that
it's finally come to the US (if only in video).

The story is, well, predictable (except the subplot with Ah Hock's
brother).
But that's alright.  So is most of Hollywood.  What makes this movie such
a
gem is the earnestness of the acting--the fun the actors really seem to be
having making this movie.

The film uses some of Singapore's unique talents (it's too bad Steven Lim
isn't doing that much acting any more or that Medaline Tan hasn't been
seen
in a while).  Take the dance instructor, for example--he's probably
Singapore's most famous transvestite (you see him in his more usual role
in
a short cameo).  Goei's subtlety in showcasing aspects of Singapore that
are
not its more renowned is especially appealing.  Singapore hasn't always
been
as clean, well-run, and efficient as it is now.

Don't get me wrong.  You don't have to be Singaporean to enjoy this movie
(I'm not).  Enjoy the Singlish that is unabashedly used throughout.  Enjoy
the fun (if not technically amazing) dancing.  Enjoy the wonderful
soundtrack, full of disco classics re-recorded by Singaporean bands
(although you can't always tell).  Enjoy the fact that a company of
Singaporeans have made a film worthy of hollywood without any of hollywood
in it.  It's a blast.  
<|_=00=_|>

Forever Fever is the sort of film you don't expect to 
like, but do. It's basically a tongue-in-cheek remake of
Saturday Night Fever, Singapore-style, including all the
bad clothes, hairstyles and music we've tried to forget.

Add elements of practically all other youth-oriented 
genres, lovable supporting characters and a great 
reference to the career of John Travolta, and we have a
film that's frequently hilarious; never less than 
charming.

