
I watch a lot of movies & I can't remember the last time a film held me
so spellbound. Not only are the characters engaging & vividly portrayed
by an excellent cast, the subtle dynamics of their interactions are
portrayed with inspired undertone & nuance. Star billing or even an
Oscar should also have been awarded to the spectacularly beautiful
scenery of Montana for the vast majesty it bestowed.

This complex saga of love, grief & loyalty is narrated with stark
simplicity by old Stab, long-time friend to retired Colonel Ludlow &
his 3 sons: staid Alfred, the eldest ("old even for his years");
idealistic Samuel, the youngest ("There was nothing these brothers
would not do for him."); & wild Tristan ("Such people become crazy or
they become legends."). The conflict between Ludlow's fiercely
anti-government anti-war stance & his sons' determination to do what
they see as their duty is but a small part of the story; the heart of
the tale is the rift that threatens the mutual devotion of these 3
loyal brothers as they all come to love the same woman. "She was not to
blame," Stab tells us, "She was like the ice that freezes in the rock
and splits it apart."

A tragic tale, yes; heartbreaking at times, but never boring. Every
time I felt certain I knew what was coming next, the plot took another
unexpected turn & I sat there riveted, softly breathing "Wow!" now &
again into the darkness. This film immediately became one of my
all-time favorites; I've watched it half a dozen times since then & its
scope & power never fail to move me.
<|_=00=_|>
...but I must admit that I loved Legends of the fall. I
understand that some
people think it's corny and too romantic but if you like epic dramas this
is
the movie for you.

Reasons to see the movie:
- Great acting. Anthony Hopkins makes a classic role as the US army
officer
gone anarchist father. Brad Pitt is perfect in the role as the wild one
with
an indian "stepfather". Aidan Quinn makes another great performance, and
Julia Ormond is very good as the (tragic) woman they all long
for.
- The scenery. Magic. I want to have a farm in Montana!
- The camera work.
- The story. I guess I am a sucker for epic dramas.
- A number of very, very good scenes.
- The movie is a kick in the nuts to "civilized life" and state
affairs.
- The anarchistic attitude.
- The character Tristan Ludlow.
- The character William Ludlow.
- The emotional ride.

Reasons to NOT see the movie:
- You will be called a pathetic romantic if you like it. And you will
most
probably like it...
<|_=00=_|>

The raw passion of this movie is enough to make any serious movie
enthusiast
weep.  I honestly can't believe this movie was not nominated for about 8
or
10 Academy awards.  It also baffles me that some people think this was
Anthony Hopkins worst portrayal. He was absolutely brilliant in this, as
was
Brad Pitt. THIS was the movie that made me take a look at Pitt and see
that
he's more than just a pretty face. After watching this, he became, and is
still to this day, my favorite actor.  In this movie he was rustic, yet
thoughtful.  He was strong and vulnerable.  He had a great love for
family(especially his father) and for a woman he knew should not be his.
This film a true epic with history, talent, superior cinematography,  and
most of all(and what many movies of today lack)..  closure.

Watch and
wonder
<|_=00=_|>

I can't believe the bad reviews Legends of the Fall got when it was
released. This would have to be one of the best movies around. Everything
from the acting to the directing was brilliant and the scenery was
breathtaking.

Anthony Hopkins gave another knockout performance as Colonel Ludlow and
Brad
Pitt was brilliant as Tristan.Aidan Quinn, Henry Thomas and Julia Ormond
were perfectly cast as Alfred, Samuel and Susanna.

The one thing I liked most about this movie was the ending - which I won't
spoil. It is rare when watching a movie, you cannot pick the ending. The
ending to this movie was so amazing, and the fact that it wasn't obvious
what was going to happen made this movie more enjoyable.

James Horner is a master. Just like he did with Titanic, the score for
Legends of the Fall took the movie to another level.
<|_=00=_|>

Normally love dramas don't interest me, since I find them boring and
predictable. This film, while being more than "just" a good love drama,
really impressed me. Many of the scenes are quite visually beautiful, some
in cinematography, others in content. As a love drama, it's moving, and at
times almost poetically beautiful. It involves three men, brothers, who are
all in love with the same woman. She has a relationship with each of them,
but ultimately realizes that she only loves one of them. The plot is very
good, and evolves at the right pace for this type of story. Not terribly
fast, but never stands still either. The actors all portray their respective
characters well, nearly all of them giving a perfect performance. Anthony
Hopkins is great, as always. There was not really anything in this movie
that disappointed me. The ending scene involves some of the best
cinematography I've ever seen. There is a very emotional scene near the end
which is also one of the most visually beautiful I've ever seen in a movie.
I recommend this to most fans of love dramas, and, to a lesser extent, fans
of war dramas. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Dispite some of the reviews, i think this film is one of the best ever
made.
i have seen it a hundred times.
the sweeping score, the Montana backdrop and the plot are just some of the
things that make this film great.
i would recommend everyone to see, although not everyone will like what
they
see as it requires a certain taste.
11/10
<|_=00=_|>

I absolutely loved the movie, it's the second time I'm seeing it and I'm
glad I did, because I love epic dramas...and this one well, not only did
it
have a great and an original storyline, it had a great cast also. But my
favorite had to be Brad Pitt, his performance was engaging and I couldn't
take my eyes off the screen, because I simply was fascinated by the way
the
story was constructed. I've read a few comments made here...and this film
is
everything but predictable. It has so many twists and turns that it just
keeps you wondering until the end...where you feel like you've watched the
film to its fullest and there's no more stories left untold, that's what I
look for in a good film. Even though the story was tragic, it was a story
of
love, loyalty and family. I give it a 9/10...if you haven't seen this
movie
yet...SEE IT! You'll love it, even if you don't fancy Brad Pitt.

<|_=00=_|>
There are many things you can say about this movie. Many people would
say it's both full of clichés and too dramatic plot(s). But I have
never caught the point in these kind of critics. If a story is a bit
used up and filled with clichés, why does it have to be mocked? Such
films as Pearl Harbor, Titanic etc., are a bit over the top, but I
honestly think that Legends of the Fall contains so many qualities that
it deserve the credit it deserves. All along the film, we follow the
life and times of the Ludlow family living in Northern USA in the late
1800's and early 1900's. It is always well balanced between
ingeniousness and cliché. Just a few times this line is crossed
(thereby 9, not 10 points), and in the end, you're left with a good
feeling, 'cause this is really a "feel-good movie". If romance, action
and intrigues are your thing, I can absolutely recommend this, 'cause
every time I see it I'm deeply touched.
<|_=00=_|>

A really good film. Basically a melodrama. Repeat, MELOdrama. Hollywood used
to churn out this sort of film all the time with no apologies. OK, many of
them seem corny now, but why do people think that every movie made has to be
stark realism? 

I was tremendously impressed with Brad Pitt's performance. (I'm a guy, so I
mean that, and am not swooning over his looks). I had never seen him in
anything before, and had barely heard of him.  Anthony Hopkins was, as
always, fantastic. In fact every single actor hit every single note with the
possible exception of Henry Thomas. One of Aidan Quinn's best films, also.
The photography of Alberta is magnificent, and I think no one can begrudge
LOTF its cinematography Oscar.

The film makers have an excuse for the occasional credibility lapse, in that
there is a story frame, the recollections of One Stab, the old Cree. This
covers things like Susannah falling for Samuel, who seemed to be an empty
suit, Tristan keeping his long hair while in the British Army, etc.
Excellent performance by Gordon Tootoosis, by the way, although his manner
of speaking is very reminiscent of Chief Dan George.

I highly recommend this film, if you can watch it without trying to dislike
it. 
<|_=00=_|>

I couldn't know where to start!

I found just about every aspect of the movie poor and deplorable (except
for
a superb cinematography, to be fair). The acting is quite pathetic and
embarrassing at times. The whole movie seems to gravitate towards
beautiful
poses of Brad Pitt with the sunshine through his hair and the wonderful
Montana woods in the background, like in a bad shampoo commercial.

The character played by Julia Ormond is simply unbelievable! She is
supposed
to be in the 1910s, yet she behaves like a very promiscuous 90s woman. If
the movie had any grasp on historical realism, this woman should have been
ostracized from society, end up as an outcast. Instead, she jumps from bed
to bed in her fiancee's house like there's no tomorrow, and nobody seems
to
be bothered about it!

The screenwriters add some characters to the story for the sole purpose to
be killed and make our "heroes" look sad and puppy-eyed. Literally!
Otherwise someone please explain to me the character of Isabel in the
movie.
She doesn't even have two decent lines in the script!

The worst element of the movie was the incredible amount of historical
mistakes or anachronisms. There were too many to let you concentrate in
this
excuse for a plot. I'm a great enthusiast of movies that try to reflect an
era, and pay lots of attention to every detail. The erroneous details were
so numerous that I would burst in laughter at times. And this movie was
made
by the director of a movie like "Glory"!
From the way they talk, to their apparel, to the tools they use, to every
other detail, the movie as bad as "Titanic" as far as historical accuracy
is
concerned.

To illustrate with an example, at a point in the movie Susannah -Julia
Ormond-  pulls a portable photo reflex-camera on a tripod and takes
idyllic
pictures of the brothers in the Montana landscape... They are supposed to
be
in the 1910s-1920s! Cameras were as big as a TV set! And portable reflex
cameras were not available as consumer products until the 1950s! Anyone
that
knows a bit about photography probably caught that major
goof!

The movie is so plagued with goofs that makes it difficult for a serious
movie-goer to concentrate on the story. I guess they really made the movie
with one thing in mind: milking the cash out of those teenage fans of
Brad!
There's no other explanation for this awful flick.

Please avoid this movie at all costs if you don't like 3 hour- long
shampoo
commercials with very, very bad plots. You have been warned... unless of
course you are a hardcore fan of Brad.

