

This is my first time to comment on a film on this site. I have enjoyed
reading y'all's comments. After 4 viewings, I found peace with the
mysteries
I saw in the film. Barton, though he talks a good show about wanting to
write about "the common man", doesn't see anything around him as worthy
of
being a subject. He fears learning about the common man, or anything else
outside his experience. His experience  teems with material for a
watchful
writer, but Barton sees nothing. When the wallpaper peels, he doesn't
look
for what's underneath or an explanation, he feverishly tries to cover up
what's "exposed" as fast as he can (uno metaphoro). I agree with all
comments about Goodman presenting Barton with a "common man" right in his
own room. He has a research subject to learn from and to use as a
springboard to break through his "writer's block", but he can't see
anything
that "god" presents for him to use. And the Woman on the Beach.
Interesting
that he never sees her face. He can never really SEE her but seems drawn
to
her and fascinated by her. He is drawn to the fact that she is
"unseeable".
In the end he "sees" her and doesn't explore that possibility either. The
Box? He never opens it. We assume what we want to assume, but Barton, who
is
in control (!) simply attaches to the box without ever "discovering" it.
He
is all show and no substance. I agree, his one hit (the play) may be all
he
has in him. He's a one-trick pony posing as a seeking writer, intent on
revealing the inner "common man" but is petrified by fear, ignorance or
what-you-will. Look at the film again with an eye to his inability to
"see"
what is clearly revealed to him. you may "see" what I mean!
Cheers!
<|_=00=_|>

Spoiler Alert 98% of the above user comments have totally missed the
idea of this movie, and yet some have gotten it exactly correct without
even realizing it. Here is THE WHOLE POINT OF THIS MASTERPIECE MOVIE...

Those that stated that the first 2/3 of the movie is boring and then it
starts to pick up when the action begins, have unwittingly seen the
plot, and masterfully fulfilled its premise. See, Barton Fink is a
boring, artsy, impassioned Jewish writer, that gets one lucky break,
and is instantly summoned to write a movie that the execs are sure
"will be a winner" (no pressure there, right Hollywood?). But since he
is so much an "artist", he cannot lower himself to the level of writing
a simple wrestling film, desiring instead to write witty stories about
"the common man", films that "really mean something". Then he refuses
to listen to common man stories, stuck instead on his own ideas of what
that should be. 

Well, OK, what is obvious here? Well the Coens for one, are Jewish
WRITERS/ FILMMAKERS, who got one lucky break, "Blood Simple", and then
were given the open door to make Hollywood films, are always branded as
mere "artists", too idealistic for the majority of the masses (their
movies are rarely fully appreciated or understood, and make only a
small profit, but their genius high critic ratings keeps them afloat).
So THEY ARE Barton Fink, quite literally and intentionally. It is THEIR
personal tale, ensconced in a symbolic cloak. 

Summary: Barton wants to write for the common man, and yet what the
common man wants to see is this dumb "B"-rated wrestling flick, not
some heartfelt idealistic piece about some friendly yokel. They want
predictable mystery, unadulterated violence and blood, guns blazing,
detectives crunching, and loud sex. As Barton stares at the image of
his idealism (the beach picture), he longs for his ill conceived
idealism to take form and materialize onto the paper. But of course it
is a failure, because he sees himself as an "artist", not as a business
man with epic visions. 

Which is why finally, the mysterious Audrey (the real writer he is
supposed to consult), who always helps Mayhew's stories out of a jam,
becomes the catalyst for this story as well, by initiating the
sex/horror/detective story as soon as she is asked to. Normal writers
apparently are like either Fink or Mayhew, but she sees through to what
makes for real-world successful writing (not some dorky contrived
"common man" story), and she initiates the final action-filled finale
immediately. 

This is PURE GENIUS! "Adaptation" as one user here mentioned is like
this film, because of the similarity in how the plot loops back in on
itself. But this one is much more subtle, to the point where the
"common man" would not even understand this movie, and thereby fulfill
its message, that all people want are the action films that Hollywood
dishes to us, just like the mogul states over and over, and we see
delivered on the last third of the celluloid. In the end, Fink realizes
his idealism, that what he really wanted is to get his artistic view
rejected, so that he can maintain his idealistic (unrealistic) outlook,
which is his true passion, the "fight" for self fulfillment. This is
personified by the appearance of the girl on the beach, with Fink still
not realizing what would be in the box, because he doesn't comprehend
Hollywood thinking or action movies (or "mainstream" movies or plots).
But he has achieved his goal, as has the movie for Joel and Ethan, as
both being an incredibly well-thought and executed film, both an art
flick, and an action piece with more perfectly executed symbolism than
anyone since Wells.

Now you know why it won all the Cannes awards that year, and why these
two brothers from St. Louis Park Minnesota are gods of the art film,
while the contrasting Warchowski brothers were once gods of the "common
man" film (the first Matrix at least). The Warchowski's even named the
subtitle of the Matrix Reloaded as "The Burly Man", which if you look
closely (zoom in), is the name of Barton Fink's mystery screenplay,
thereby once again fulfilling the intention of this film to the fullest
(that what common people want is delivered like clockwork in the
Matrix), just like pure Bible prophecies. 

Amen, brothers.

<|_=00=_|>

 I am absolutely amazed at the fantastic taste of the imdb readership,
having loved this film for years and always been told by people I'd told
about it and persuaded to watch that it was no good, I finally find some
other people out there who love it as much as me, posting (mostly) extremely
positive comments...This is a fabulous film, dripping with a brooding,
sticky atmosphere that draws you in to the clammy world of Barton Fink, sat
in his hotel room listening to the creaking of the wallpaper as it dribbles
moistly from the walls, searching for inspiration in his tacky painting and
dusty typewriter...Perhaps it is a little dark for some tastes, but as black
comedy goes this is the blackest and the most biting there is, the Hollywood
system and New York theatrical snobbery lampooned with equal viciousness.
Deep insight into the nature of the creative spirit, a plethora of fine
performances bringing at first stereotypical characters to full life
(despite the unreal, fable-like atmosphere created by the slimy, glistening
colours reminiscent of the films of Jeunet&Caro...), and many moments of
hilarity make this a perfect movie, one I would not hesitate in recommending
to anyone despite the fairly high probability they will hate it. A lack of
any underlying morality, an absence of absolutes of right and wrong, good
and bad, give this film a unique feeling that it could go anywhere. The last
twenty minutes are about the most powerful I have ever seen in anything, at
the end of almost every scene I thought it could end there and be an amazing
film, yet each further scene only added further depth and poignancy. The
first time I saw it, it left me drained, mind spinning, hands shaking,
barely able to reach for the remote to rewind it to watch it
again...
<|_=00=_|>
I recently purchased "Barton Fink" along with "Miller's Crossinhg",
another Coen Brothers gem.

Barton Fink quite simply is a writer who cannot see the forest for the
trees. He is so taken with the fact that he is a writer that he can't
write. He is so idealistic that he misses fantastic opportunities to
become a writer for the ages because he wastes precious time
proselytizing. John Goodman perfectly sums up everyone's frustration
with Barton Fink when after a series of unfortunate occurrences, Barton
asks him "Why me?" to which John's character answers "Because you don't
LISTEN!" Set in 1930s Hollywood we follow the exploits of a one-hit
wonder, Barton Fink, who has written a successful Broadway play and is
summoned by the powers that be to Hollywood. After much cajoling to
take the job from his agent, Barton arrives in Los Angeles determined
to become the writer for the common man where he insists true stories
live. The trouble with Barton, however, is he does not have time for
the common man because he has so romanticized their lot as well as his
particular quest in speaking for them.

Excellent performances from John Turturo, John Goodman, Judy Davis,
John Polito (often overlooked, but his scenes ALWAYS become his!!) and
the inimitable Tony Shaloub.

I have decided after a slew of Coen Brothers films I currently have in
my collection, that any project these guys are involved with deserve
more than passing scrutiny.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a satire which really eviscerates its main character, nebbish Barton
Fink, a semi-successful, very Jewish New York playwright who comes to
Hollywood to make his dreams come true, which in his case is definately not
writing the next Wallace Beery wrestling picture.  There are just too many
funny things in this movie to mention them all, so I won't mention any.  But
this is a movie that is going to stand up to the test of time; it may be the
Coen brothers' best movie, because it is both dead funny and dead
serious.

Turturro gives the performance of a lifetime as Barton, and Goodman proved
with this movie that he was a first class acting talent (what made the Coens
think of him in this role, anyway?  surely a mark of genius).  Davis also
shows herself off extremely well, in one of this underrated actresses finest
roles.

There is, simply put, no better satire of Hollywood, and none that I can
think of that so successfully manages to also spoof the pretentions of those
who despise it.  
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILER ALERT!  If you have not seen the movie please do not read the
following comments.

Others have commented about Fink's apparent "descent into Hell", led by the
neighbor/devil.  I found a different interpretation, revealed by the very
last shot of the film.  To me, it is fairly clear that he is "in Hell" so to
speak, but it is very much a Hellish existence on Earth, and the fire is
merely allegorical of the intense pressure for him to deliver, compounded by
the stifling Summer heat in his hotel room.
I believe that at the end, Barton is still hopelessly blocked, having not
written anything beyond his opening paragraph.  He didn't get laid, there
were no murders, no police, no package, and his neighbor has no dark secret.
Those were all part of Fink's fantasy/insanity, created out of the
desperation to come up with ideas, as he continues to stare at the picture
over his desk.  I even have doubts about the visit to the studio executive's
home.

In short, at the end of the film, I think he is in exactly the same
situation as at the midpoint of the film, the last time we see him staring
into the picture, waiting for inspiration.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm still not entirely sure what to think of this film.
One thing is sure, it won't be easy to forget. This movie is clearly the
product of a writer who has struggled with their muse, and equally one who
has a healthy mistrust of Hollywood - the sausage grinder.
Although Hollywood has been critiqued in film before in similar ways,
memorable scenes, clever dialogue, quality acting, and a surreal plot and
setting, add together to make this an unusual and different
film.
Maybe another viewing might add a different dimension. This is by no means
'light entertainment' and it leaves plenty of questions unanswered. But on
the whole, an intelligent movie, if something of an enigma.
My vote 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
The Coen brothers have come a long way from their start with an 8mm
camera. They have written and produced some great homages to the film
noir era of Hollywood, and this film is no exception.

First, is the great dialog written by the brothers. Great dialog is a
feature of their films, and this one has some of the most memorable I
have heard. You can almost turn off the visual and just listen and be
enchanted and know you are listening to a Coen brothers film.

But turning off the visual would deprive you of the great
cinematography of Roger Deakins. His can frame a scene to the point
that you could pause the film and just soak in the texture and color
and realism. It is almost as if every frame is a painting.

The Coen brothers also seem to get the best performances out of an
actor that I have seen. John Goodman is brilliant in this film and he
seems to do his best work for the Coens. John Turturro is captivating
as the hack writer who talks about his love for the common man, but
just really doesn't know the common man and really doesn't care about
them. Michael Lerner was brilliant as the requisite man behind the desk
that is the feature of 40's noir.

One doesn't always know what is in the Coen brothers minds. Is this a
foretelling of the rise of Nazism, of intellectuals who really didn't
understand the appeal of fascism to the common man, or a surreal
portrait of someone who sells out. No matter what their intention, they
make you think and return to see their films again and again.
<|_=00=_|>

The Coen-movie I liked best was "Raising Arizona". But being realisic, I
know that "Miller's Crossing" and "Barton Fink" were better. There is so
much inside and behind this movie, it's impossible to refer to every single
detail. John Turturro has never given a better performance than here, as
arrogant, too ambitious author Barton Fink. John Goodman also plays his role
for a lifetime. And of course, Michael Lerner was nominated for an Academy
Award. The reason why he still is no star is that he didn't act in any other
Coen-brothers-movie. It's a fact that with their direction actors reach
their climax.

Some of my friends who saw this film disliked it because they didn't
understand the plot. Well, this is not a movie for people who need
instructions how to handle a film. You have to think, to guess what all the
symbols mean, what the ending means. Whatever you'll guess it can't be
completely wrong because a real masterpiece like this offers many
possibilities for interpretation.


<|_=00=_|>
This slow-paced journey of a writer being lured into a doomed life in 
the
limbo-esqe state of California (synonymous with misery) takes it time
developing and preparing itself for a dynamic execution in the end. 
John
Turturro is brilliantly subdued as the tragic writer. Most of the most
powerful emotions he conveys are not done through any words or even 
give -away facial expression. He finds a way to make all those emotions 
implied,
so that you, the viewer, almost insert your own feelings of anguish and
impotence into his role. Michael Lerner earned an Oscar nomination as 
an
enthusiastic director, who is critically self-determined, though 
constantly
shifting on what he is supposed to be determined about. John Mahoney, 
Judy
Davis and Tony Shaloub also turn in solid, dependable performances. But
above all the other actors, it is John Goodman who shines in a 
brilliantly
conceived and brilliantly executed role. While I will not give away the
secret behind his character, this is not a performance that any true 
film
buff will want to miss. It is one of the most dynamic and powerful
performance in recent memory. And so, you will not want to miss this, 
the
Coen brothers most moody and tightest film, even beyond their other
masterpiece, "Fargo."
