

This is one of those harmless sequels that seems to draw unnecessary ire.
This is a "rip-off" sequel, but the cast plays it well, and it's true to
its
formula.  Michael Ironside is a fine villain.  And Hillary Swank, who went
on to win a Best Actress Oscar, shows sparkle and potential in the lead.
There are many worse movies to rent to watch with your niece.  My score --
6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Here is introduced a new kid , girl , with the subsequently two times
Oscarized Hilary Swank . This is an entertaining martial arts movie
with the intimate Pat Morita (his final appearance as Keisake Miyagi) ,
and , as always , the show belongs to Noriyuki-Miyagi . The story deals
with a troublesome teenage named Julie (a newcomer Hilary Swank) ,
thanks to Miyagi she aware that Karate is his salvation , as she
battles an evil nemesis , facing off a violent young group trained by
an expert fighter (Michael Ironside) . The Japanese Miyagi (Noriyuki,
Pat Morita) born in Okinawa teaches his martial arts and to combat at a
Zen temple along with some sympathetic monks . Meanwhile , Julie falls
in love with a youngster (Chris Conrad) .

This enjoyable movie , a sort of junior version of 'Rocky' , develops a
sincere and deep friendship between two protagonists , the rookie young
girl and the wise old man . Using more than his fists , Julie learns
about herself and the sense of life . Agreeable and likable acting by
main actors : Pat Morita and Hilary Swank . Furthermore , it appears as
secondaries , the ordinary baddie : Michael Ironside , and the veteran
Constance Towers who formerly worked in various films directed by John
Ford . The picture contains adequate cinematography by Laszlo Kovacs
and long-standing musical score , though with some disco-music , by
Bill Conti , trilogy's usual . This feel-good message picture was
professionally directed by Christopher Cain , though John G. Avildsen
was originally slated to direct his fourth Karate Kid film but dropped
out in order to make 8 seconds (1994) . The three previous films , all
of them produced by Jerry Weintraub and directed by John G Avildsen ,
are the followings : original Karate Kid I (1984) in which are
presented the classic characters , Karate Kid II (1986) where the
protagonists travel to Okinawa and Part III(1989) where Daniel again
battling nasty enemies . Rating : Acceptable and passable following ,
worthwhile seeing . This heartwarming will appeal to Karate Kid trilogy
fans .
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie was going to be a disgrace to the series. After
all, part 3 didn't measure up to part 2, and this one doesn't have
Daniel Sawn. Miyagi's humour wasn't quite as witty in this one as in
part 3, but it was funny enough to make the movie worth watching.

The girl's part was pretty good. She's a lost teenager who needs
direction. I find the plot a little hard to believe. That the aunt
would simply agree to leave her home and her niece under the care of
Mr. Miyagi, a man she just met. Of course, he was a friend of her
brother.

I did appreciate the monastery. One might think from some of my other
reviews that I wouldn't have liked the dancing monks, but I thought it
was amusing. It showed that they know how to have some fun. Now if
these were monks in ancient China dancing to pop-music, that would have
been another matter.

Probably the most intelligent part of the movie was when the girl
thought it was stupid that the monks wouldn't kill a bug. Miyagi told
her that street gangs killing each other is stupid, nations trying to
destroy each other is stupid, but having respect for all life is not
stupid. Miyagi has expressed such wisdom in the other films as well.

I give this movie a 4 out of 10. Sure, there were some things I liked
about it. It wasn't as funny as part three, and no character could ever
live up to Sato in part 2. This movie has no re-watch value. I can't
imagine watching it again, but it is worth seeing once.
<|_=00=_|>
I really didn't think The Next Karate Kid was THAT bad. Flawed yes, but
it is not terrible I don't think.

As I have said, the film does have its flaws. The story is quite
predictable and formulaic, though in its defence, the story wasn't
necessarily a strong point in the previous three either. Second, the
script has its weak spots, it did have its moments such as with
Miyagi's humour. Third, there are some unrealistic moments here, the
ending especially. Fourth, it isn't as efficiently paced as the first
or third films.

However, it is nicely filmed, the cinematography is good and the
scenery is very nice. The soundtrack is pleasant, and the karate is
good. The direction is good enough, and the characters are still at
least engaging. The acting is decent, Hilary Swank is a worthy
replacement for Ralph Macchio, while Pat Morita elevates this movie to
a better level acting who is arguably the best character of the film
and giving a strong performance in the process.

Overall, it was pretty decent, and better than its reputation. It could
have been better, but I have seen much worse movies. 6/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I remember watching this movie at the age of nine and being completely
smitten by Hilary Swank as the feisty Julie. Now years on, the film
seems to be unable to match the greatness of it three predecessors, but
I am trying to re-collect the feelings I felt as a child, being
mesmerised by the film, the characters, the build-up to fight scenes.

The film is still fun to this day and it generally has some great
moments that make it definitely worth ones time. The character Miyagi
is still cool, I felt that we needed to see Julie learn a bit more
Karate...But still it's a film that tries to journey into a new
area...About finding one self and to a child this film genuinely
excites.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally i have seen this movie about half a dozen times.I think it
is great.Do not get me wrong,in my humble opinion the original karate
kid(1984)with Ralph Macchio was better but Hilary Swank gets the job
done nevertheless.An exciting story,a lot of action,a little bit of
drama and sentimentality when it was required and exceptional
acting;What is not to love?All that hate does not make any
sense.Someone who liked the first movie should like this one too and
even if you were not a big fan of the first movie you absolutely have
to give it a try.Mr Miyagki for once more turns out to be an excellent
teacher that every (karate)kid would want to have.

This is a must see and it goes in my personal top 25 movies.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Next Karate Kid" is not a very impressive film.  However, it
introduces
a young actress named Hilary Swank to the mainstream audience.  Amazingly,
just five short years after this film Swank would be holding the Oscar for
her gender-bending role in "Boys Don't Cry".  In this film she takes
Macchio's role and does an admirable job even though the material is just
not there.  2.5 out of 5 stars.  
<|_=00=_|>
When the third came out, I knew they would soon run out of steam. But
then I saw the fourth and changed my mind just a little. The Karate Kid
2 managed to entertain me enough without making it seem like the fourth
attempt to keep milking the original.

In this fourth installment, the boy has left and in place is a girl.
She's a teenager and has lost her parents so her attitude and mood are
affected by that. However, when the great karate master in the past
three films comes to "babysit" for a while, things get tense.

At first the girl is annoyed by him as she was her aunt (I believe),
however after much time and a trip to see Monks, the girl soon becomes
happy. Soon she gets a date to prom and then of course, things get
crazy! But that's for you to find out!

Anyway, I rate this 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Having seen the other Karate Kids, I was curious about this film,
though I had never seen or even heard of it. The usual elements are
back. New kid in town that struggles to adjust; a Mr. Miyagi that helps
to instill self-confidence in the teen; and the climax of needing to
use the recently learned karate in a pivotal fight scene. I was taken
in both by Hilary Swank's character, expressing the range of emotions
and soon willing to be positively formed (the Karate Kid characters are
always so kinetic, aren't they?) and Mr. Miyagi as the walking book of
Oriental proverbs. I loved it! Slow in some parts, but some intriguing
scenes.
<|_=00=_|>
I cant believe that some people gave this such high marks! First off, I
have a hard time believing that this group of thugs would be allowed to
go around tormenting students, and sexually harassing girls. The
principal OVERHEARS the head thug bullying Julie into meeting him "at
the docks...most girls have to BEG me for an invitation, and you're
turning Me down?!?!" Yet, even though he OVERHEARS this and SEES the
girl trying to pull herself away from this dork, the Principal STILL
sends HER to the office?!? Yea, right. You cant tell me she is the
FIRST girl he has tormented, and you cant tell me that no girls went
home and told their parents.

It appears that the football coach (?) has his own private gang/ army
and he allows them, encourages even, to torture others. He says "If a
student throws a piece of paper on the floor, you make them eat it"
Yea, RIGHT! This gang walks the halls together, dressed like a bunch of
1950 throw-back thugs, in their tight jeans and tight, matching black
t-shirts, and black leather belts. GET REAL! And apparently, they also
have the right to wander the halls of the school in the middle of the
night. No parent would put up with this crap going on in their child's
school. If MY kid came home, told me this crap was going on, you can
bet Id be on the phone with state superintendent.

The coach (?) beats up his students outside, on the field, in broad
daylight. This is okay? My FAVORITE, though, was the coach telling his
"gang" to blow up that dudes car.This whole thing was a joke. The thug
busts out the guys windows on prom night and says "MEET ME AT THE
DOCKS" OK, see, Id go inside Julies house, pick up the phone, call the
cops and SAY" Some crazy dude in a jeep just busted out my windows and
told me to meet him at the docks if I was brave enough" Then, let the
cops go to the docks and find his jeep, and arrest his butt. This movie
was just lame.
