

I have seen many reviews bashing Mission to Mars. I see why they've attacked
the film but I think they missed that the excitement, action and deep
humanity of this film far outweigh the forced quality of a few scenes. There
is scene after scene in this movie that pulls the viewer's heart and mind
nto some of the deepest veins of human emotion. More than once I felt myself
drawn into the middle of intense depictions of love, terror or excitement.
If a little subtlety were mixed into just a few scenes this movie would have
stood out as one of the greatest and lasting human dramas in science fiction
history. I heartily recommend this movie; it will
transport you and involve you if you are just a little forgiving.
<|_=00=_|>

Visually, "Mission to Mars" is stunning.  Nobody tells a story better with
pictures than De Palma.  The scenic design and photography kept me riveted
to every frame.  On the recommendation of a friend, I watched the movie in
widescreen on DVD using a high resolution monitor.  The visuals are so
important that I cannot imagine watching a pick and scan version on a
conventional TV set.  Too much would be lost that way.

The scene, early in the movie, where one of the Mars astronauts gets blown
up made me levitate.  Also, I though Tim Robbins' and Connie Nielsen's
weightless dance in the spaceship on the way to Mars was lovely.  The scene
with the startling all white surroundings that the astronauts faced in the
"faceship" (to coin a phrase) was also well done.  

I thought the performances were uniformly excellent.  That fact and the
wonderful visuals overcame sometimes excruciatingly bad dialogue so that it
did not really detract from my enjoyment of the film.  That being said,
though, I loved the exchange where it was observed by one character that the
mere three per-cent difference between the genetic makeup of men and apes
"gave us Einstein, Mozart" and a second character adds, "Jack the
Ripper."

Some reviewers complained about the similarity of the film to "2001," but
that is exactly what De Palma had in mind, I think.  "Mission to Mars" pays
homage to every sci-fi cartoon and movie ever made, from Buck Rogers to
"Close Encounters," and does it well.  Anyway, De Palma proved to me again
that he really does march to his own drummer.  I was hugely entertained and
highly recommend this film -- but only if you watch it in widescreen on DVD
or, better still, in a theater.  Eight out of ten.
<|_=00=_|>
After a second viewing, I can say that I am still not sure what to make
of this film. Many will see this as something of a remake of 2001. And
yes, the film is visually almost plagiaristic of the Kubrick
masterpiece. The two biggest problems are a lack in originality and
thoughtfulness. From my rating, you can see that I did not despise this
film. It's visually nice, and the performances are all good. However, I
am not sure I can recommend it.

I'm a sci-fi fan, and a scientist, so I was initially intrigued by the
notion of a big-name dramatic film-maker doing a sci fi epic, which
appeared, at least initially, to be hardcore sci-fi. By hardcore
sci-fi, I mean fiction based on scientific reality, not fantasy with a
tiny bit of science thrown in for decoration. An example, also using
Mars as a vehicle, is Ben Bova's novel "Mars" - which focuses on the
very edge of plausibility, only occasionally overstepping the bounds of
scientific possibility. Film has rarely achieved this - a few
interesting exceptions are Alien (the original), Outland and Silent
Running. Hardcore sci-fi, which, I argue, this film could and should
have been, is careful about that boundary. And 3/4ths of the way
through Mission to Mars, it's still a hardcore sci-fi flick. Then
suddenly, it's something else. I will leave that something else for you
to discover, and stay focused on what the director and screenwriter
were trying to do here.

What we have here is not really a single plot, but a pastiche of plots
that have been strung together into one long, mysterious and grandiose
story line. The film starts out with a couple of scenes which might
have been lost in Appollo 13 - providing a little bit of character
development and letting us know that we are about to witness the first
manned space flight to Mars. That flight ends pretty quickly, as
virtually everything goes wrong. And as a rescue mission begins, the
question then becomes, why is everything going wrong? Up to the point
where the rescue mission enters Martian orbit, this central question is
sustained and developed skillfully, but then , in my opinion, things
start to go wrong with the film itself. 

There are major problems with what could have been the best aspects of
this film. The spaceships are remarkably flimsy and poorly designed,
but they look great! The safety protocols for the mission, about which
we hear so much, are either not followed or incredibly naive. The
heroes are not particularly clever about heroism, and seem to forget,
at times, what the actual possibilities are for mobility in space (why
not use the tether three times - twice out to Woody and once to get
back after you run out of fuel, Terry?). The guy who authored the
safety protocols does not appear particularly concerned with safety, or
even protocols. The evolutionary biologist on the crew is amazingly
poorly informed about the Paleozoic period of earth history and the
evolution of species. I could go on.

The film is broadly derivative of 2001 A Space Oddyssey, The Abyss,
Star Gate, Event Horizon, Fifth Element, Contact, and a few dozen other
somewhat entertaining but not particularly believable space / sci-fi
adventures, but while it resembles, and in fact pays homage to these
films (especially 2001), it never entertains quite as well. Why?
Because these films do not pretend to be based on scientific ideas, but
rather, aesthetics and humanism. While most of these films invite
interpretation, Mission to Mars simply repeats ideas from previous
films and doesn't even bother to recast them into an interesting new
light. Mission to Mars is something that has been done many times
before, and in more interesting, entertaining, and thought-provoking
ways. 

Technical proficiency, which is something this film exudes, is no
substitute for a compelling story and interesting individual
characters. Unfortunately, even in terms of technique, the film has
some flaws. Some will disagree, but I found the soundtrack irritating,
and the pace of the film very uneven to say the least. And the
characters lives are so intertwined in the few character development
sequences that only Sinise, Robbins and Bennings' characters develop
rudimentary individualities. 

Despite his reputation, I can not hold Brian De Palma up to standards
which are different than those of other film-makers, and I can not
condone creating a special vocabulary or a sophisticated argument to
permit interpretation of his films as part of some over-arching theme
which only he and a few of his fans understand. There is a fine line
between flattering imitation and shameless copying, so I'd rather not
get into an extrapolated meta-film discussion of this film's
relationship to 2001. I don't think this film is worthy of such a
sophisticated analysis. 

There are some truly great moments in Mission to Mars. This should not
be too surprising with the wonderful cast, big budget, and talented
production team. What did surprise me about this film was the 2001-like
180 degree turn it took off of the map of scientific possibility 3/4ths
of the way through the film, and I can't say that turn and its outcome
really impressed me.

If you're a sci-fi fan, or somebody with a very casual interest in
science, you should probably see this. But if you haven't seen 2001
first, by all means, wait until you have. And don't take this one too
seriously when you do get around to it. This has much more to do with
fiction than science fiction.
<|_=00=_|>

So many critics blasted Brian De Palma's "Mission To Mars", that I feel I
must have seen an entirely different film.
Perhaps people were expecting "Armageddon", or any other number of "space"
films.  This is a film about people, not space.  People who are great
friends on earth, who must face challenges to their friendships and their
humanity, while in space and on Mars.  They could just as easily have been
in Kansas.  Brian De Palma (the greatest living visual director), takes us
on a glorious journey, with his camera.  The sets and special effects never
overshadow the actors, who blend in seamlessly, to create a visual treat for
the eyes.  This is a tender and moving film about people and their
relationships.  It's a beautiful film, told in a very slow, deliberate
manner.  It pays homage to many other films, but it is its own entity; 
unlike any other "space" movie you have ever seen.  The film features
wonderful performances from its cast, an effective score by Ennio Morricone,
and peerless direction from Brian De Palma.  The nature of its stunning
visuals demand that this film be seen in widescreen, ONLY.  Highly
recommended!


<|_=00=_|>

In this day and age of computer generated eye candy, it is very common to
see movies that are based solely on special effects and nothing else.
Movies like Wing Commander have great graphics, but the story line and
acting leave you back at the ticket booth.

Mission to Mars does not fit in this category.  When I saw previews, the
special effects looked great, but I could also tell that there was a plot to
this movie.  For once, I was right on the mark.  Mission to Mars made you
think about what was happening and what the consequences were going to be.
The suspense takes a firm grip on one's eyelids and pulls them up to the
ceiling.

What truly makes this movie stand above others of its ilk is the great
acting of the characters.  In sci-fi shoot 'em ups, the viewer develops a
way of not caring for the characters, as they are uncreative and inflexible.
Mission to Mars made me care about every single character; I was eagerly
awaiting every twist and relished every event.

The climax (which I will not at all spoil) was hair raising and at the end
extremely satisfying.  Upon leaving the theater I quickly realised that I
haven't seen a better movie all year.

I give every recommendation I know to go see this movie.  And, by the way,
look out for some foreshadowing.  It's in there.


<|_=00=_|>

My Mission to Mars was a pleasant adventure.  Departing from today's
incessant need to combine blood curling aliens with one's travels through
space, Mission to Mars provides an intelligent ultimatum.  The film lies
somewhere in between 2001, The Abyss and Lost in Space, forcing us to
examine our roles as humans throughout the ages in this unexplored
territory.  Sprinkle a touch of action, and a pinch of suspense, and you
have yourself a sci-fi film for the new millennium.

The film stars such veteran actors as Tim Robbins, Gary Sinise, Don Cheadle,
and Jerry O'Connell; an ensemble where only first-class acting is possible.
So let us move onto the direction.  It is Brian DePalma's foray into science
fiction.  And masterfully done to say the least.  His shot
composition is reminiscent of  Scarface and The Untouchables, mixing
filmmaking from the days of yore with today's MTV aesthetic.  DePalma's
talent for filming suspenseful action sequences is in full swing in this
film.  The spacewalk scene will be one that will not be forgotten for quite
some time.  Could possibly be one of the best spacewalk scenes in films to
date.  The hidden jewel for me was the unpredictability of the film.  Each
corner turned was a pleasant surprise.  I can't remember that last time I
saw a movie with this quality, especially coming out of the Hollywood
mainstream.

The cinematography was astounding.  Imagine Lawrence of Arabia lensed on
Mars.  Professor Jenkins from Scientific America was correct when he said
that the images from the film were identical to those photographed from the
actual planet.  And that is not a small feat.

<|_=00=_|>
No laser beams. No alien attackers coming to consume Earth. No Will
Smith and no Charlize Theron in sexy outfit. Not frightened yet? Read
on...

I saw this movie in a cinema with my girlfriend - a Physics teacher.
What we both liked was how it followed laws of physics - it was perhaps
the first sci-fi we saw which showed properly how space works and what
vacuum is all about.

I read in one review that the scene where they raise the USA flag is
pathetic, when they should be running into the base to look for
survivors; I disagree: Since they arrived nearly a year AFTER the
incident, rushing doesn't make any sense.

I liked the "puzzle" part of the movie, as well as the final moments
when the truth is revealed. Some laughed at that point, but I liked it
a lot.

Remember how Space Odyssey plays with the idea that the intelligent
life on Earth might be a product of "targetted imprinting"? Well, M2M
suggests yet another possibility, and I find that extremely appealing.

The cast seemed brave to me: No top-class stars, no pretty faces, but
instead good actors that are believable (after all, Garry Sinise played
in Apollo 13 and Jerry O'Connell played a similar role in "The
Sphere").
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

The first thing is that the dialog is idealized at the level of THE
SOUND OF MUCUS. Does Brian think this is the way astronauts talk to
each other? They are all saints descended from heaven devoid of all the
qualities that make associating with people such a joy. Envy, jealousy,
anger, hatred and resentment: none are present here. These people do
not exist anywhere but in Brian DePalma's imagination. Gus Grissom's
favorite expression was #$%$ the pooch. Does that sound like these
people? The opening party scene is a natural emetic. One gooey, maudlin
line after another; are these astronauts? Are we in Heaven? The next
problem is aliens, putatively benign, who react to someone sending the
wrong transmission by unleashing a ten story sand tornado that sucks
the people up and rips them into pieces. Gee, do you think these aliens
might not be so friendly after all? I love New Ager's deductions if it
hears the wrong frequency it goes postal on the transmitters but they
cling to their benign deduction. We saw this in THE MOTIONLESS PICTURE,
it cannot tell scans from weapons, even though we primitives can, so it
blows everything up. Hey, maybe we should entertain the hypothesis that
they may be slightly inimical, what do you think?

Did they buy that rescue ship on sale? Do you know how many sensors are
on the space shuttle for the sole purpose of saying: Attention, monkey
boys, trouble with your hunk of junk. Peruse your hunk of junk
breakdown warning lights. Here, way in the future, their space ship
does not let them know that their fuel lines have more holes in them
than swiss cheese? I think it might have intoned loudly: Monkey boys,
do not activate engines your stupid fuel lines are leaking badly, just
a guess on my part. It kinda seemed a bit unrealistic to me. Does Jim
have a death wish? Why does he refuse about thirty warnings that the
air is thinning? Is he late for a big bowling date? Jim, if you turn
purple and die that hurts our mission you big dummy! Yes, Dr. Pepper
saved the day and got a nice product placement all at the same time. If
you were Woody and your ship had more holes in it than a colander would
you tell the monkey boy computer, hey HAL we are going to hold up on
that there orbital insertion to see if we can see through our ship
first, OK silicon boy?

Now, if all your friends got wiped out by psycho aliens who unleash the
twister from the WIZARD OF OZ on you if you send the wrong
transmission, would you still want to meet them? Did the person who
wrote this write PROMETHEUS? Non sequitur, they would get back in their
ship and get the hell out of there. Obviously, people who react with
mass murdering frenzy to errors in signal transmission might be
slightly hostile. When we do meet them they are plenty stupid looking.
They look like retarded, weepy giant Cellos all that was missing were
the bows to play them with. Come on, the film sucks big time. RED
PLANET was bad but it was not retarded like this. It also had realistic
human dialog with the requisite number of jerks and idiots. I expected
to see Julie Andrews come out with her guitar here, the dialog is right
out of that insipid movie. Save yourself, it is just awful.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

In my experience, there is no filmmaker like De Palma. As with Kubrick and
Greenaway, you have to know what to expect going into a theater, because
they do not concern themselves with storytelling in the ordinary sense. De
Palma doesn't make films about life, and is unconcerned with the drama one
normally finds there.

He makes films about films, and since the target is an abstraction in the
first place, the dramatic focus is flat, the acting obvious, the stories
predictable -- all by design. By definition, we've already been wherever he
goes. The value of the experience is in how he takes something that is
ordinary and examines it in new ways. Its the 1890s Paris painting scene,
where the eye is everything.

We've seen him do Hitchcock, Kurosawa, Antonioni, and more. Here he tackles
Kubrick, and the results are astounding.

Kubrick does an end-on entrance of a spaceship with majestic passing; De
Palma does too, and then enters a window to show Robbins and wife in an
elaborate view, dancing the camera around them with Robbin's face reflected
just incidentally. Kubrick has a clever shot of a man walking around the
gravity ring; De Palma elaborates on this a hundred-fold with comings and
goings and ups and ins and reversals until we are dizzy. 2001's spaceships
were the stuff of pulp covers, but here we have even accurate rivet
patterns, everything scrupulously close to NASA specs. 2001 has a cheap
Kaleidoscope passage and some clean room visions when the makers are
encountered. M2M's `makers' are encountered in an ever-cleaner, ever more
abstract room.

Incidentally, in the only clever element of the script, those makers show
images of how they `seeded' Earth, with an  ambiguity between the making of
the image and the act itself.

One doesn't go to a film like this expecting a traditional Lucas-like ride.
This is intelligent, self-referential stuff targeting not the mind but the
eye. I suppose a question is whether it can also be entertaining for kids. I
suspect not. Kubrick himself never tried. The fault is with the marketeers
who try and sell these films in the same way as simple thrill rides. Shame
on them. Regrets to all the ticketbuyers expecting Spielbergisms.

If you are an IMDB visitor and reading this, chances are you are serious
about film. If so, I recommend that you see 2001, then this in one evening.
Forget about story, acting, drama, and focus on where these gents take your
eye. The thrill is that you become God -- what higher fantasy do you
wish?

<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was GREAT!  People are forgetting the fact that they
are seeing a MOVIE!  And this movie Rocks (The mind). This movie is for the
hardcore Sci-Fi fans, like myself.  Yep, I like seeing space, space
stations, planets, aliens and stuff other people might find boring.

I thought is was facinating that the base camp on Mars was so close to the
"Mars Face".  Of all the places that NASA has sent probes (in real life)
they seem to be going to the wrong areas.  It's like someone from another
planet sending probes to the North or South pole on Earth and expecting to
find life or signs of life there.  I'm not implying that there really is
something up there on Mars but just thinking from the scientific side of
reality of what if?

I read and heard all the negative reviews on this movie and I had to set
them aside and see it for myself, and I'm glad I did.  My girlfriend was
upset that I didn't take her to see it and I'm kinda sad that I didn't.
Maybe next time.

