

Warner Brothers has seen fit to butcher this masterpiece with a new animated
version that is thoroughly awful.  The producers have attempted to bring the
story down to a kid's level by eliminating key elements from the original
and introducing new characters that would make Richard Rogers and Oscar
Hammerstein both turn over in their graves.  The King no longer has a harem
here, and his 106 children have been reduced to a mere 8.  The Prime
Minister has been transformed into an evil wizard who uses a magic gong in
an attempt to overthrow the King, and he is aided by a bumbling fat midget
who keeps having his teeth knocked out.  Then there is the onslaught of cute
animals including a monkey, an elephant and a panther that constantly save
the King by hurling mangoes at the villains.  Many of these new characters
are directly stolen from Disney films, especially from `Aladdin.'  If all
this was not enough, we even get a scene where the King rides in a hot air
balloon that is powered by a panther riding a bicycle mounted to a
propeller.  And just to make sure that we have a happy ending, absolutely
NOBODY dies in this version.  Admittedly, seeing this was an animated
feature I was fully expecting some liberties to be taken, but I was not
expecting a rewriting of the entire story.

The film's worst moments come during the musical scenes.  Some of Rogers
and Hammerstein's music manages to make it onto the screen but it is handled
in such a way that it makes your stomach turn.  For example, the movie
begins with Anna singing `I Whistle a Happy Tune' while a sea monster
attacks her.   The King sings `A Puzzlement' while being attacked by giant
statues that have suddenly come to life.  Then there are the kids that sing
`Getting to Know You' while being stalked by the fat midget.  At the
screening of this film I kept sinking deeper into my seat and saying, `Tell
me this isn't happening!'

<|_=00=_|>

We know the limitations of animation, or do we? Animation can be great,
especially if it allows us to see something that we otherwise wouldn't, but
this effort is a disaster. Just because Warner had the rights to reshape the
story doesn't mean that it was wise to do so. I suggest either the original
drama >Anna and the King<, a rather adult approach with much darkness
that fits the original story, or the more accessible live-action musical
>The King and I<, which has the benefits of Richard Rogers' musical
score. It looks much like an attempt to capitalize upon either >Beauty
and the Beast< or >Aladdin<, both infinitely better.

This animated film is a disaster from the start. It tries to make a fairy
tale out of a story from the nineteenth century by adding sorcery and
magical devices that mock the norms of nineteenth-century thought. Sorcery
and the hyper-rational nineteenth century do not mix.

Some of the animated sets, I concede, are attractive. That said, the
treatment inexcusably confuses Chinese and Thai culture. (To be sure,
Thailand has a large Chinese diaspora, and it is quite influential, but not
dominant).

Many of the characters are over the top, including the devious Prime
minister who exploits a big-screen "magic mirror" and wears a Colonel
Klink-like monocle and has a stereotypical stooge as his confederate. The
animals are excessively cute and unrealistic, including the sterotypical
'mischievous monkey' and the King's cuddly pet panther(?), not to mention
some of the most unrealistic elephants that we have ever seen and the snakes
that the evil Prime Minister conjures out of vines. We've seen it all
before, and this time it doesn't work.

Forget this one. Too many valid alternatives exist for this general story.
If you want magic in an animated flick, then seek something in a more
mystical time (such as >Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs<} or place
(the beautiful-but-creepy world of >Spirited Away<.

Don't debase your video collection with this derivative rubbish. This
movie's story is too dumb for adults and too dark for children.
<|_=00=_|>
In the past year I saw a parody of "Titanic" on Saturday Night Live's
TV Funhouse, entitled "Titey," the joke being that Disney had turned
the story into a big joke, with a singing ship, an evil ice berg, and
sea animals that come together to rescue the poor sinking ship, helping
it land safely in America.

The funny part is, if those writers gave the same treatment to "The
King and I" the result would have been this movie. Except, in the SNL
skit, they had Whoopi Goldberg voicing the iceberg. That was funny.
Here, the best they could do for comedy was... Darrell Hammond, an SNL
cast member.

Whoever made this movie doesn't have kids, nor much of a brain either.
1 out of 10, but only because it wouldn't let me type in a lower
number.
<|_=00=_|>

It has been said that a thousand monkeys working on a thousand typewriters
would eventually come up with the script for Hamlet.  If that's so, then
this was obviously one of their earlier attempts.  Why else would a monkey
take center stage in this remake of Rodgers and Hammerstein's listless
musical of the same name?  And while they were using their hands to write
the stumbling and obvious plotline (including an evil wizard (?!) with the
typical maniacal laugh and bumbling sidekick), the monkeys were busy
creating poorly drawn images with their feet.  The best I can say about
the
animation is that it was probably done as paint-by-numbers using crayons,
although monkeys are commonly known for drawing with their...
wastes.

How do movies like this get made?  Do people in hollywood actually think
that children are dumb enough to watch this drivel?  Just thinking about
this flick makes me want to stab my brain with a q-tip, hopefully causing
blissful amnesia, or maybe even a coma.  Either way, the thought of this
film would no longer haunt my worst nightmares.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to watch this cartoon because I'm Thai.  I wanted to see how it is.
And I found that it's too
terrible for me.  I mean I couldn't accept some lines in the story.  It's
not true for the magic.  I don't
want to see western children think that Thailand is a mysterious country
which "Kla-holm" used magic
to harm people.  And we haven't had that kind of animal in the sea, look
like a dragon, I'm really sure.
All I say doesn't mean that I don't accept in the story which Anna wrote
for
long long time ago.  The
Western didn't know about our culture.  And the story is just Anna's view
point which no one knows that
it's all true or something she made from her own idea.  That's what I can
accept.  However, I can't believe
the director and script writer of this globalization period do this with
Thai culture.  Magic and love story
of our Prince Chulalongkorn with Tubtim are not true at all.  Do you know
that Thai people love and
respect our royal family, especially Prince Chulalongkorn was our King
Rama
V who did many good
things for Thailand?  Do you feel ashamed to do like this?  (I just wanna
ask the director and script writer.)
Thus, I think I can accept the classic one more than this cartoon.  And I
hope the film which Jo-yun Fat
performes will be better.  Please don't "play" with my history in the
film.
The director of the next film, at least, please do what Anna wrote.  Or it
will be better to do the research of Thai history.

And I think this cartoon isn't good.  I don't have bias but I don't think
the picture is really beautiful.
Many cartoons are much better.

Hope you all understand my English.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's the story: When I was a toddler, I went over to my Grandfather's
house and he had a copy of the old classic King and I. He set me off to
watch it and I loved it through out. Well, in the presence, I watched
this on STARZ and I didn't know what to do but sit through it and think
about it. I had to rate it a 1/10 because of how awful this was. Look,
I don't remember if the original King and I had this, but this was waay
too frightening to look at for young viewers. There is a villain named
whatshisname who puts on an evil scheme to distract the village with
scary dragons, scary animals, a bloody-colored river, and there is a
near death experience with the king. This movie is way to scary too
look at with your kids. There is this woman who almost drowned at the
part where she gets carried away in the river. I don't think this is
nothing copied off of the original classic King and I but here are some
subjects about it:

The animation was beautiful (almost like a Disney animation film). The
script was flat. And the storyline was mostly predictable. The songs
were forgettable. The characters are unfavorable.

Skip this floppy animated version and watch the original King and I.
<|_=00=_|>
Having two younger children, I try to take them to movies like this,
sight or review unseen, when I can. They, like most kids, have seen the
violence, heard the profanity, and fell into the lowest common
denominator of most movies being made today. That's what makes this
such a disappointment. I like to observe their reactions and their
responses and not rain on their parades. But all they talked about when
the thing was over was the guy who kept losing his teeth (remember that
from the original Broadway musical?), and the mango throwing monkey.
This is their memory of "The King and I." Both my kids have visited
Thailand and I thought perhaps this would bring up some of the spirit
of that world. Instead, we have this exploitative mess that throws out
most of the cultural issues and the dramatic impact for a supernatural
villain (where did he get these powers? The King didn't have any, other
than incredible athleticism). And, of course, is there a movie around
that doesn't have a Martial Arts component? I know that kickboxing is
big in Thailand but.... I am generally very accepting of the things
that are put out there for the kids, but this was terrible. A message
to the producers: "Please, please, please, leave Rodgers and
Hammerstein alone. I don't want to watch an interplanetary war version
of "Oklahoma"!
<|_=00=_|>

Easily the worst movie I've ever seen.
Disastrous attempt to copy the Disney formula of adding magical bad guys
and silly animal sidekicks -- TO A TRUE STORY?  This story actually
happened
to an English teacher who went to Siam in the 1800's! And was made into a
hit Broadway musical with the same Rodgers and Hammerstein songs.  And
they
didn't just add ridiculous characters, but REWROTE major parts of history?
Watch "King and I" starring Yul Brynner before watching this, and your jaw
will drop from beginning to end.
Worth watching, although it's not "so bad it's good", but because of a
near
perfect constant stream of over the top errors.
<|_=00=_|>

I was extremely disappointed in this cartoon.  I was recently in the play,
and the 'King's kids' from the play and I went to see it today.  I knew that
there were some changes, but these were ridiculous! Why have Tuptim fall in
love with Chululongkorn and not Lung-Thai?  Why have the Kralahome be a
stupid, evil guy when he actually had some intelligence in the play and
movie?
Why have some guy who can play mind tricks -- what purpose in the movie does
he have?  Also, the ballet, one of the best parts, was left out. I don't see
why they had to add a monkey that seemed to be taken from "Aladdin," a
jaguar, and elephants, when the plot would have been so much better w/o
them.  I definitely don't think that the king should have lived at the
end.....I don't care if its Disney or not.  The real movie/play is much
better.  And as I said at the end, "We were SO much better!"  It's true.
Don't plan on seeing it if you are faithful to the real
story. 
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw this film on TV one late night, it seemed like a harmless,
under-appreciated flick but I realized why it's under-appreciated, it's
boring! At first, I thought I was just tired even dozing off during the
climax but when I watched it with my mom on DVD through Netflix rental,
I realized I was right, it is a very boring film. Even my mom dozed off
during the climax. I know it's meant for kids and Disney knock-offs
were a major fad in the 90's, but even they had some sort of
entertaining potential, but with this, they barely put any effort into
it. Ironically, the director did "The Fox and the Hound" and "The Black
Cauldron".

So yeah, a major disappointment from this film, the animation doesn't
have much detail, the story has no plot and the characters had the
personality of sandpaper. No story structure, no character development,
nothing. They butcher the song segments making them look pointless and
stupid. The comedy relief was more annoying and less funny.
Particularly the monkey named Moonshee whom is ripped off from, er I
mean inspired by Abu, every other second, I wanted to kill Moonshee, he
was that annoying. Also, the villain's assistant Master Little looks
like Chien-Po's (Mulan) midget brother whom has the curse of "unfunny
running gag" by getting his teeth knocked out. What was also stupid was
replacing Lun Tha with an adult Chulalongkorn. the story of Tuptim and
her lover was a really sad, tragic story and I see they tried to clean
it up but they did a really bad job at it. However, the King's panther
Rama was the only character I found likable.

Well, to wrap this up, this is a really boring film, like the summary
says, it should have been adapted by the real Disney, not some other
company trying to imitate Disney.
