

As I left this movie, someone said "How nice to see an intelligent
movie!"

The risk going in was that it would be ONLY an intelligent - or at least
clever - piece, all period manners and costumes. In fact, with all the
Oscar
Wilde wit which sounds wonderfully fresh here, there are also rich moments
of emotional depth throughout this amusing but also quite moving
film.

One theme here - touching in hindsight - is how little it can take to
destroy a reputation - Wilde was later to have some of the most painful
possible firsthand experience of this.  But the central question here,
which
anchors the humor and beauty that decorate it, is the cost of rigorous,
even
rigid, honesty. And the growth of the central characters on this point
shines through, even through the dance of wit and farce.

Underpinning this is a surprising faith in human nobility, quite in
contrast
to the ironic persona Wilde maintained.  It struck me while watching it
both
that Wilde had very French characteristics - a continental finesse, the
love
of repartee - and yet was profoundly an English writer by virtue of his
faith in fair play and the bonds of (platonic) male friendship.

In fact, Lord Goring, whose world-weary ways make him something of a
surrogate for Wilde, is a distant cousin to Sidney Carton in coming to the
defense of a 'nobler' friend even at great (possible) sacrifice to
himself.
His very lack of seriousness is what makes his efforts on behalf of his
friends so moving.

With this, the pure visual beauty of actors like Cate Blanchett and Rupert
Everett, matched by sumptuous costumes and sets, adds a sensuous element
which, in a lesser film, might have dominated the movie. They, with Minnie
Driver in cheeky comic form and Julianne Moore sweetly evil and superbly
English, make it a delight both to watch and to savor later as tart food
for
thought.
<|_=00=_|>

To say that this film is a filmmaking tour de force would be a great
injustice.  It is far better than that.  Oliver Parker's revitalizing of
Oscar Wilde's classic play is filmmaking at its finest.

Every element of this film is superlative.  Wilde's story as adapted to the
screen by Parker is witty, intelligent and engaging from start to finish.
Seldom can you find a story that attempts to be a romantic comedy, a tale of
duplicity blackmail and betrayal, and a drama of political intrigue, and
succeeds so well on all counts.

The intricate weave of deception, manipulation and double entendre along
with comic misperception, irony and rapier witted dialogue are delicious and
classic Wilde.  This is a film you will want to see again and again, just to
discover all the lines within the lines.

I cannot say enough about the brilliance of Oliver Parker's direction in
this film.  He has captured late 19th Century aristocratic England with
vivid and rich images that put the viewer right into the period.  David
Johnson's cinematography is fantastic, with every scene working well as to
lighting and color.  The beautiful blend of colors in the costumes and the
set always looked like they belonged together.  Parker also provides
numerous interesting camera angles that help dramatize the scenes.  It
serves to remind us that glorious films can still be made relying on the
creative eye of the director rather than special effects.

The acting was delightful.  Rupert Everett, as the self absorbed Lord Arthur
Goring, delivers an exquisite performance as the unscrupulous rogue upon
whom the mantle of truth and honor is laid.

Julianne Moore was delightful as the evil and cunning Mrs. Cheveley.  As
cold, manipulative and heartless as she is with
Chiltern and Lady Chiltern, she is that vulnerable and helpless with Lord
Goring, for whom she has long held a flame.  Moore handles this emotional
juggling act with great skill and you find yourself simultaneously loving
her ingeniousness and hating her treachery.

Cate Blanchett turns in another wonderful performance as the oh-so-perfect,
Lady Gertrud Chiltern.  Jeremy Northam is also excellent as Robert Chiltern,
the man of untouchable character with a scandalous secret in his past.  Even
Minnie Driver is charming as Robert's sister.

This is a terrific film for the refined viewer who appreciates all aspects
of filmmaking.  Even for those not into the art of filmmaking, it is simply
great entertainment.  I can think of no negative criticism of it.  It is
well written, directed, photographed and acted.  It is filmmaking the way it
was meant to be.  A perfect 10.

<|_=00=_|>

If I weren't so lazy, I would have checked the original play to see if my
favorite line from the movie was in it:

Goring's father: I use nothing but my common sense.
Goring: So my mother tells me.

Even if was concocted for the film, that line still contains the essence
of
Wilde and the essence of all modern British humor, for which, I should
say,
I'm a major sucker.  While watching An Ideal Husband, I didn't object to
the
lack of suspense as long as Rupert Everett was working his way around
those
Wilde lines, which he does as well as anyone I've ever
heard.

I used to think Stephen Fry was Wilde on earth, but Fry is something
wonderfully different -- Everett is Wilde on earth, or at least the actor
that Wilde should have had around to deliver those lines when he wrote
them.
I first saw Everett in The Madness of King George, for which he put on
weight.  Every review of that film mentioned this; I thought the attention
excessive,  but when I saw him lying shirtless in a sauna, I understood.
The man is, shall we say, cut.  I can only imagine the effect of that
scene
on straight women or gay men -- probably something akin to the effect
Greta
Scacchi's "I think we're alone now" smile at the end of The Coca-Cola Kid
has on me.

An Ideal Husband is full of good performances, with one glaring exception:
the usually great Julianne Moore.  Her scenes are curiously leaden, and
Parker -- whose fault this may be -- has the camera linger over her as
though the exposure will convince us how evil she is.  The one exception
is
her scene with Everett, which has a real "Will he sleep with the enemy?"
tension.  It may be that Moore was just outclassed by the Brits, who are
born to this stuff.

Cate Blanchett, whom I've seen in three movies, two of which were British
period pieces, continues to amaze me with her range.

The unsung hero of the movie is Jeremy Northam, who takes a thankless role
-- the man in the play who isn't the Oscar Wilde figure -- and makes it
emotionally compelling.  He is responsible for the play's only real
suspense
and emotion, since the rest is word games, more or less.

All of which leads me to blame the production's shortcomings on its
writer/director, Oliver Parker.  He seems to have squandered an
outstanding
cast.  The play's final scene is played as a series of French scenes -- a
film term for a series of different scenes in the same location -- and
this
kills any momentum that scene might have had.

Three out of four stars, I say, which makes it better than 90% of the
movies
out there.

<|_=00=_|>

An Ideal Husband - ****

In 19th Century London, Sir Robert Chiltern (Jeremy Northam,) is a
successful member of parliament married to the virtuous, fabulously
popular
Lady Gertrud Chiltern (Cate Blanchett.)  Sir Robert's sister Mabel (Minnie
Driver) is infatuated with Sir Robert's friend, Lord Arthur Goring (Rupert
Everett.)  The dashing Lord Goring, the wealthy son of the Earl of
Caversham, is an inveterate bachelor who lives a life of leisure.  Into
this
already crowded picture drops Mrs. Laura Cheveley (Julianne Moore,) an
Austrian socialite with two ex-husbands and a convoluted past.  Not only
was
she briefly engaged to Lord Goring, but it seems that she possesses
evidence
that the noble Sir Robert once committed a terrible indiscretion.  Mrs.
Cheveley uses this explosive evidence in her attempt to blackmail Sir
Robert
into voting against his conscience on the floor of Parliament.  What
ensues
is a fascinating examination of honor and idealism.  We learn that the
noble
Sir Robert is less than perfect, while the rakish bachelor Lord Goring
possesses a surprising level of honor and insight.

If Shakespeare in Love deserved an Oscar, this film deserves the Nobel
Prize.  It is simply outstanding in every respect.  The first thing one
notices is the dialogue.  It is a bit stiff and stilted, as was the custom
in London at the time, but it also possesses a razor sharp wit and sly
sense
of humor.  Every last character speaks with intelligence and humor.  The
verbal fireworks, particularly as provided by Lord Goring, illuminate
character and motivation while simultaneously producing guffaws from the
audience.  The plot structure is a marvel.   There are no explosions,
fireballs, or car chases, but the picture achieves a certain
breathlessness
simply through its intricate layering of multiple characters, all with
intertwining motivations, interests, and connections with one another.  A
prime example of this is the scene in which poor Lord Goring receives
multiple visitors at his home in a single night.  All of the visitors have
conflicts with one another, so Lord Goring must segregate them and move
from
room to room, listening to their problems and providing insights.  The
costumes and locations are all excellent.  I particularly liked the manner
in which Sir Robert's bright home is contrasted with Lord Goring's dark
and
cavernous bachelor pad.  The one complaint I have is with the film's
music;
it seemed too light and frivolous, overplaying the "madcap shenanigans"
element of the picture.  But this is a minor quibble indeed.

The acting is first rate across the board.  Jeremy Northam (yes, he could
play James Bond) is well suited to the role of Sir Robert.  He exudes
intelligence, honor, and duty.  Julianne Moore, as Mrs. Cheveley, seems to
relish the conniving and scheming of her character.  Cate Blanchett and
Minnie Driver capably bring depth and intelligence to their limited roles.
But the true star of the film is Rupert Everett as Lord Arthur Goring.
Mr.
Everett has had a promising career to this point, but An Ideal Husband is
his breakout role.  In this film he is witty, charming, caring, wise,
devilish, and childish all at once.  Lord Goring is the kind of man that
makes women swoon and men flock around to hear funny stories.  He reminded
me of Cary Grant - only better.  Someone give that man an Academy
Award.

<|_=00=_|>

As we prepare to enter the 21st Century, An Ideal Husband allows us to see
the world, England in particular, as we enter the 20th Century, and who
better to guide us than Oscar Wilde.  The story is not unfamiliar ---
politics, blackmail, love, and friendship.  What is different however is how
these are viewed thru the prism of the Victorian Era, the centerpiece of the
film.  The cast was superb from Jeremy Northam, Sir Robert Chiltern the
title character, to Cate Blanchett, Lady Gertrud Chiltern his wife, to
Minnie Driver, Mabel Chiltern his sister, to Rupert Everett, Lord Arthur
Goring his friend, and Julianne Moore, Mrs. Cheveley.  The minor characters
of Lord Goring's father and butler were good as well.  Although all were
very good, Rupert Everett stole the show.  His character is the one who
connects all the others and does so with grace, charm, and wit.  Which
brings me to my final point, the film is filmed filled with witty dialogue
and double-entendre a la Oscar Wilde.  I went to see this movie twice.  It
was that good and appreciated it more the second time. I can not see how
this movie could have been better.  Four stars!!!
<|_=00=_|>

I saw "An Ideal Husband" at the Old Vic theater in London, and was surprised
at the time how timely a 100 year old play could be.

When I saw the trailers, TV ads and posters for this version, it seemed like
an entirely different story--will Rupert Everett get married off. That's
certainly a thread in the movie, but in the marketing of this version, they
made it appear as if it was the entire wardrobe.

I didn't see the film when it was in theaters because these ads, with their
very modern music and fast cutting, made the film look like a joke.

But when it came out on video, I decided to try it, and am glad I did.

The film itself is excellent. Beautifully shot and paced, with an expert
cast. Wilde's humor shines through, and the writer-director has done a
wonderful job "opening" up the play into a film, without changing anything
important. It's a masterful job of translating from stage to screen.  It's
really so crisply done, and very funny.

In years to come people will realise that this is a fine movie version of
this play. And by then, hopefully, they will have either forgotten about the
marketing campaign, or hopefully learned from it.

I recommend the film.


<|_=00=_|>
One of the principal sources of humour in Wilde's plays comes from
pricking at the inflated egos, pious humbug and ignorance of the upper
classes. There is always a Wildean character to reverse a clicheed
expression or invert conventional 'wisdom.' Unfortunately, by stripping
most of his characters of their stiff formality and rigid social code,
the writer and director have removed the butt of the joke and Wilde's
comments on absurdity are left without a punchline. The attempt to work
in anachronistic social relevance leaves us with a set of feeble
characters who fall in love with each other for no obvious reason.
Because Wilde's language has been sterilised the actors have to use
mugging to express the personalities Wilde created. Result, a charmless
and dated 'political' drama as credible as a Jeffery Archer novel.
Gertrude is insecure and fretful where she should be smug and priggish-
Mabel is arch where she should be caustic- Poor Oscar - gets no
'Oscar'!
<|_=00=_|>

"An Ideal Husband" is a charming though contrived little
19th century English period comedy with the subtly sardonic
sense of humor typical of Oscar Wilde. The film, which
deals
with the politics of society first, the politics of the
heart second, and the politics of the state last, features
all the trappings of the period, a solid cast, and a clever
script. An amusing and enjoyable watch for those into 19th
century English period films.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a wonderful movie! It is fast-paced, funny, moving in parts,
entertaining.  Rupert Everett and Minnie Driver play their parts to
perfection, and so do all the remaining actors.  Costumes, music,
photography, everything was excellent! I've not yet read the original play,
so I cannot judge how close it is to it, but it is certainly very close to
Wilde's spirit.  Hilarious!
<|_=00=_|>

A movie taken from a Wilde's play has to be pleasant by default. It's
impossible not to enjoy the fire-works of wit so smoothly offered by the
Irish writer. Yet "An ideal husband" almost succeeds to be a boring film.

It should be observed that "An ideal husband" is Wilde's fourth play not
only chronologically, but also with respect to the artistic level. In
particular, the dramatic turns of the plot and the design of the moral
scruples of the characters are decidedly weak. Therefore, to focus on these
aspects of the play, as the movie does, is a major mistake. The Oliver
Parker's script of the film presents several changes with respect to Wilde's
original text. You easily recognize the added lines: they are so flat
compared with the true ones! One scene is so un-Wildean that it has to be
remarked: in the Turkish bath Lord Goring (the author's alter-ego) shows his
gym-built muscles. Nothing could grate more with the spirit of Oscar Wilde,
who always addressed his most ferocious sarcasm against the fashion/mania of
sport, gymnastics and physical shape.

The acting is surprisingly flat (save Peter Vaughan and John Wood in two
minor roles). Actually, Rupert Everett as lord Goring makes an adequate job:
nothing memorable, though. To compare him with Cary Grant is sheer
blasphemy. One can't believe how misfit Jeremy Northam is to play Robert
Chiltern: he really makes an awful performance. Minnie Driver as Mabel
Chiltern is not much better, with her perpetual half-stunned, half-whining
expression. Moreover she is ugly (sorry). Julianne Moore is generally
considered a first-rate actress: I don't know, but here she certainly
doesn't show her talent. Needless to say, Moore is unattractive, too. Now
let me ask: is there a LAW AGAINST BEAUTIFUL ACTRESSES in current movies? Is
such a law some form of political correctness? Let some Foundation for
Endangered Species preserve Catherine Zeta-Jones for all us...

 
"An ideal husband" is a forgettable movie: a routine work that produce poor
results from Wilde's brilliant matter.
