
We own this movie in our home collection and we haven't watched it in a
while. Saw it again tonight on TV, and realized that it is still a good
movie.

Clint Eastwood produces and directs this movie, and draws some
"experienced" actors to help him fill the lead roles. They manage to
extol the trials and tribulations of the senior years, while still
capturing the exuberance of youth from the past.

the story leads a mildly predictable pattern, but in this case it is
not the end of the story that is primarily important, but instead how
they get there. Also, all 4 lead actors all come off as really having a
good time in the movie, it feels like they really enjoyed making this
one and it comes out on the screen in the performances.

The pace is even and smooth, again demonstrating Clint Eastwood's
legacy of directing and acting in watchable, enjoyable movies, no
matter what the gender.

I should also mention that the special effects and the space sequences
are stunning and much better done than most other movies in near-earth
space. That would be the industrial Light and Magic team doing it
again.

Overall, enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>

Space Cowboys builds its humor around a quartet of aged characters who seize
their first and last opportunity to fulfill their lifelong goal of going
into space. Space Cowboys satirizes the traditionally romanticized
conception of the young hero by portraying its characters as sagacious --yet
imperfect-- old men.

Space Cowboys revisits its embittered protagonist, the retired Air Force
test pilot Frank Corvin (Clint Eastwood), forty years after a humiliating
episode where he is replaced by a monkey for a 1958 NASA mission to space.
Unexpectedly, Frank is summoned by ex-boss and NASA official Bob Gerson
(James Cromwell) to fix a Russian communications satellite that is soon to
crash, and that contains the obsolete guidance system that he and his
colleagues designed for the earlier satellite, Skylab. Realizing he is the
only one who can fix the system, Frank coerces the desperate Bob into
rehiring his old team: pilot Hawk Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), structural
engineer Jerry O'Neil (Donald Sutherland), and navigator Tank Sullivan
(James Garner) --all seemingly unlikely candidates for the task at hand.
Gaining the trust of NASA Engineer Sara Holland (Marcia Gay Harden) and the
mistrust of flight director Eugene Davis (William Devane), the reunited
"Team Daedalus" face the biggest mission of their lives.

Space Cowboys, which benefits from the performances of four seasoned actors,
successfully establishes its four main characters as the source for all its
comedy. Space Cowboys' initial introduction of its protagonist (in the brief
black and white sequence which includes the humiliating incident with the
monkey), offers a convenient setup which allows the ellipsis of forty years
to hyperbolize the four characters' emotional states and to justify their
subsequent actions. Furthermore, this initial sequence, which also depicts
the four characters as audacious US Air Force pilots, establishes itself as
a point of reference against which the present inconsequential lives of
Frank, Hawk, Jerry and Tank will be contrasted.

Space Cowboys subtly and effectively creates an analogy between the
characters and the troublesome "guidance system": while the men's present
occupations are portrayed as rather useless, the guidance system's design is
described as old and obsolete, yet neither the men nor the system are
entirely expendable. (This suggested duality of man/system is emphasized by
Frank's ironic statement: "...it wasn't designed for this duration.") While
Space Cowboys draws its humor from the characters' efforts to revert to
their prior occupation and regain importance, the second part of the
film --the mission-- serves a dramatic purpose, where the characters' true
mission is to disprove the others' belief that they are outdated and
replaceable. Narratively, Space Cowboys' space sequence does little more
than simply prolong the characters' task of proving themselves, yet
visually, it offers eye-catching special effects and set design.

Nevertheless, Space Cowboys succeeds more as a comedy that deconstructs its
heroes than as a drama that exalts their heroism.


<|_=00=_|>
The year is 1958. Frank Corvin, a bit of a rebel and a hothead, leads
Daedalus, a small Air Force team training to be the first men in space.
However, his lead pilot, William "Hawk" Hawkins is even wilder. He
pushes a test flight beyond its limit. They have to bail out. The plane
is destroyed, and it leads the project director, Bob Gerson, to pull
the plug on Daedalus and set his sights on putting a chimp into space
first instead.

We cut to the present (circa 2000). A Russian "communications
satellite" is experiencing problems and will return to Earth if it
isn't fixed. We see a Russian General, Vostow (Rade Serbedzjia) and
Gerson (James Cromwell), now a NASA director, agreeing to attempt
repair. The only problem is that the guidance system is so
antiquated--it's the same as the old Skylab guidance system--that no
one in NASA can quite figure it out, and they only have a few weeks to
act. It turns out that Corvin (Clint Eastwood) designed the guidance
system. Gerson and Corvin understandably hate each other because of the
events in 1958, but Gerson gives the okay to contact Corvin to see if
he can fix the system somehow or train others to do it. Corvin finally
agrees, but only if Gerson consents to a seemingly crazy plan--Corvin
wants the four members of Daedalus--Hawkins (Tommy Lee Jones), Jerry
O'Neill (Donald Sutherland), Tank Sullivan (James Garner) and himself,
all now senior citizens--to be sent up in the space shuttle to fix the
satellite.

As many have pointed out, Space Cowboys seems like a bit of a riff on
Armageddon (1998), and understandably so--an unlikely, gruff, motley
crew are sent into space by NASA on short notice to stave off some kind
of impending disaster. However, it would be difficult to say that Space
Cowboys was directly influenced by Armageddon. They're too close in
time, and scripts have a tendency to float around Hollywood for a while
before they're picked up and greenlighted. What seems more likely is
that Space Cowboys was just another one of the films riding on a trend
in the late 1990s for sending motley crews into the face of danger in
some kind of insular vehicle, against all odds, to "save the planet".
It wasn't only Armageddon that had that plot, and at any rate, anyone
who regularly reads my reviews knows that I disagree with the "cult of
originality". Films aren't better just because they're unprecedented.
Space Cowboys does the plot just as well as Armageddon.

Besides, like Armageddon, there are other stories happening here, too.
The focus is much more on the geriatric crew and their relationships to
each other and a few select NASA employees. After the period intro, the
bulk of the film focuses on Corvin fighting for the agreement to get
his friends into space, trying to get his friends regrouped, fighting
against Gerson, who is trying to sabotage him in various ways, and
Daedalus' training period.

Given that structure, the casting was extremely important. Eastwood,
who also directed, produced and contributed some of the music, put
together an excellent bunch. Eastwood, Jones, Sutherland and Garner
mesh extremely well, even if Sutherland and Garner do not get nearly as
much screen time. This is a fairly serious film in many ways, but it
also has a strong comic element running throughout. Eastwood and
scriptwriters Ken Kaufman and Howard Klausner find a nice balance
between the film's various modes. Although the NASA-oriented material
works well enough, the best moments arrive through the core cast's more
mundane interactions, including the scenes where Corvin first tracks
his friends down.

We know that Eastwood as a director is extremely skilled and
multifaceted. Even at that, it was surprising initially to see him
tackle film with sci-fi elements, but he's just as adept here, whether
it's creating suspenseful moments that hinge on dial-loaded equipment
or achieving attractive "space" cinematography. He proves a natural at
the latter--the closing scene of the film is one of the more poetic yet
economical in cinema history.

However, some of the film's minor flaws also arrive with the sci-fi
material, but seem to emanate from the script. The dialogue can become
too jargony and/or gobbledy-gooky to follow, especially during a few
crucial moments. I never did quite follow the final solution to the
dilemma, despite rewinding the DVD a couple times and putting on the
subtitles, although I was able to figure out the gist of it so it made
sense in a more fantastical way.

But even without a full comprehension of the plot details when it came
to technology-oriented ideas, Eastwood as a director is able to
completely wrap you up in the film emotionally. The climax is sustained
and will have you on the edge of your seat, ready to cheer the
penultimate scene, despite realizing how ridiculous it is to do this
towards your television.

Although it's not a "perfect" film, Space Cowboys delivers just what it
should--a very entertaining "ride" with a fair amount of poignant
subtexts about friendship, loyalties and our culture's off-base
conventions/popular beliefs about age and ability.
<|_=00=_|>

While much of the film is predictable (except for a couple of surprises) and
and almost certainly implausible, the movie was enjoyable because of the
camradarie between the characters and the theme of redemption. How often
does someone get a second chance and then also make good on it? The sets and
special effects were very convincing and Eastwood seems to be good at both
the artistic and technical aspects of directing. There's great chemistry
between the stars as well. All in all, a very enjoyable movie,
8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a pretty enjoyable tale of "The Ripe Stuff," four old geezers
going up into space to help save a project they had a hand in years
ago. It's pretty long at 130 minutes but the four diverse characters
help keep your interest. Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald
Sutherland and James Garner are quite a foursome. Add Marcia Gay Harden
to the mix, along with Loren Dean, Courtney Vance and James Cromwell
and you have a fabulous cast.

This is a drama but one in which there is a fair amount of comedy and
some romance. There are some Hollywood clichés (a suspect boss, arguing
pals going back-and-forth all the time, a weak minister, etc.) but they
aren't as blatant as usual. 

The storytelling is pretty good but the real show here is not the story
but that group of veteran actors. One joke was overplayed: Sutherland
and the size of genitals. Not real classy stuff but, overall, the movie
is fine. Definitely a rental, at the least.
<|_=00=_|>

As always.  The people putting in the post here are looking for too much in
this movie.  This was a fun old geezer movie. So what if it reeked of
Armageddon.  Client Eastwood going around collecting men to help him save
the world.  Just like Bruce Willis did.  So what if a lot of the "Scientific
Facts" did not mess out correctly.  Who cares.  This was a funny and
entertaining movie.  I laughed in all of the right places.  Just pure
entertainment.  Nothing to take all serious.  Get over it!!!!!  If you
wanted something serious - read a book.
<|_=00=_|>

Four old guys going into space to do something for NASA sounds even more
stupid than a bunch of people who normally drill for oil going into space.
Almost. I didn't expect too much of it but Oscar winners like Clint
Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Marcia Gay Harden (OK, she won it after this
movie) and Oscar nominees like James Garner, James Cromwell and a great
actor like Donald Sutherland don't sign up for nothing. For that reason I
saw the movie and (not for that reason alone) I was not
disappointed.

Sometimes a movie is just fun to watch. This is a very good example, and it
is even a little more than just fun. Because the guys are old a lot of the
jokes come from that area and they are truly funny. There is also suspense.
In space the four (Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, Donald Sutherland, James
Garner) have to get a Russian satellite back in its orbit and of course
things do not always go as planned.

There are some predictable elements, or things I doubt if they are even
possible, in the movie but in a movie like this that don't bother me. Great
actors, making fun of themselves, a nice story and better visuals than we
saw in 'Armageddon' or 'Deep Impact' make this a pleasant
surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
What movie with Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones. James Garner, James
Cromwell, Donald Sutherland, and Marcia Gay Harden wouldn't be worth a
look. This one has it all, but mostly laughs. This Clint Eastwood
produced and directed movie is great simply because the cast doesn't
appear to take it seriously. They are just having fun. And special
effects? They are better here than other movies like Armageddon and
Deep Impact.

If you like movies where people are considered outdated or replaceable
and prove the experts wrong, then this is the one. I watch it and keep
getting reminded about all those COBOL experts who were back making the
big bucks just prior to the millennium change.
<|_=00=_|>

This has to be one of my all time favourite films. I wasn't sure what to
expect. The acting had to be some of the best I've seen in a long time, but
with four such amazing lead actors it was hard to believe it could be any
other way. The story didn't let the film down either. It could have been so
easy for them to have just put in four really well loved actors and then not
bother with an exciting and heart wrenching storyline. This is a film which
has every emotion flowing, one minute your laughing, the next your on the
edge of your seat and can't believe what is happening. It is very rare to
come out of the cinema and be blown away by a totally amazing film but this
did it. I now have four films which impressed me in the cinema and I'm very
pleased to add this one to my list.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the greatest action/dramas that I have ever seen. Not since
ARMAGEDDON has there been such a movie that managed to satisfy my craving
for action, laughter, and drama all at the same time. Clint Eastwood returns
to show us that he can handle any role that comes his way. While the film
was not a really big hit in theaters, it managed to catch my eye at the
video store because it had to do with a failing Russian satellite and since
the four lead actors are so good. Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones, James
Garner and Donald Sutherland are the title characters and our heroes in
SPACE COWBOYS, one of the most memorable movies of the year for
me.

I enjoyed the way the film slowly develops the characters and shares with us
their past history. The film is great in my opinion. The supporting cast
includes James Cromwell, Marcia Gay Harden, William Devane, Loren Dean and
Courtney B. Vance (Loren Dean and Courtney B. Vance both being men). All of
the key actors and elements of the film are wonderful and create a film that
is both memorable and, in my opinion, timeless. SPACE COWBOYS gets
5/5.
