
Definitely worth the price of the rental! I can't believe I never saw
this movie before. It was action packed, gripping, THrilling, No Love
scenes and John Voight was masterful in his part. I hated him in this
movie, and wanted to see him in pain, Which means the acting works!
Rent this movie and let me know what you think. I didn't think it was
as hilarious as the last commenter but it some funny parts.Keenan was
also a great asset to thismovie. I've seen him in 1 other movie like
this and he was good in that as well. I Don't understand why he doesn't
do more movies. Jill Hennesy, although GREAT in "Crossing Jordan"
didn't really impress me. Maybe this is her first movie. I expected a
little more from her. This Movie wasn't your typical "ARNOLD" or "BRUCE
WILLIS" movie with the corny one liners. This was much better thought
out. When a comment was made after some sort of action theme, the lines
were actually funny.
<|_=00=_|>
The film talks about a marine (Keenen Ivory Wayans) condemned on death
row but he breaks out and is recruited by a shadowy U.S. military
General (John Voight) forming a group of secret operations . The
objective is to kill murderers and delinquents and acting as judge ,
jury and executer , preventing traditional law enforcement . However ,
in his first mission happens death of the First Lady and the events led
to him . All the forces , Cia (deputies : Paul Sorvino and Eric
Roberts) , Military Forces (Voight , Eddie Velez) and Police are
looking for him and he is attacked and pursued from both sides , making
desperate attempts to escape and even going into a highway with cars
driving in fast speed at some breathtaking scenes . Film captures the
special excitement of the protagonist for the continuous pursuits and
he can see no way out , being only helped by a beautiful woman (Jill
Henessy) , killing's witness . As the protagonist becomes from most
honored to Most Wanted . Sometimes the most patriotic thing a Marine
can do , is disobey orders .

Picture has maximum suspense , thrills , emotion and tension from the
subsequents attempts of starring to get away and resolve the enigma
about the assassination . Film is exciting and tense , besides is
plenty of noisy action , violence , shootouts , at time brilliant
luster and big budget . Although is a standard actioner is fast
movement with atmospheric action set pieces and extremely entertained
and amused . Keenen Ivory Wayans (Scary movie, Glimmer man) is a
stunningly action hero . Jill Henessy (Crossing Jordan) is enjoyable
and attractive . Special mention to John Voight (Deliverance, Midnight
Cowboy , Pearl Harbour) as a crazed and evil General in a
sensationalistic and overblown interpretation . The movie was rightly
directed by David Hogan (better than ¨Barbwire¨ film). The flick will
appeal to action movies fans .
<|_=00=_|>

This is a fine romp of a movie, full of interesting plot twists and
developments, and not too heavy on mindless violence.  The politics of the
story are a timely warning against the military industrial complex that
would destroy democracy for its own greed.  The true hero is the one who
abides by human values rather than accepting the blind authoritarianism so
common in right-wing zealotry.  Jon Voight superbly skewers this insanity
masquerading as patriotism in his performance.  Jill Hennessy provides
adept
detective work in uncovering the conspirators heinous plot.  A very
enjoyable adventure.
<|_=00=_|>

Keenen Ivory Wayans plays a marine on the run after he is framed for the
murder of the First Lady. It's watchable and the cast is good, but there's
absolutely nothing that you can't predict. A good premise that needed a
sharper script. Voight steals the show as a corrupt general.
2/4
<|_=00=_|>

Enjoyable movie by today's standards. It used some technology that was
exploited one year later in another movie called "Enemy of the State".
More
than one subplot came together nicely at the end. Contains mystery and
suspense interspersed with action. Not being overly critical, I found
only
one sentence that I would have changed with different words. A seldom
seen
movie, this little gem has a few surprises that can keep one's interest
to
the finale.
<|_=00=_|>
Hilary Rodham Clinton probably will skip "Barb Wire" director David
Glenn Hogan's action epic "Most Wanted," a clever but contrived
conspiracy thriller about the assassination of a fictitious First Lady.
Wayans plays rogue Marine Gunnery Sergeant James Anthony Dunn whose own
superior officer frames him for gunning the first lady down. Actress
Jill Hennessey appears as Dr. Victoria Constantini, a Zapruder style
eye witness who videotapes the real assassins that shot the President's
wife. Before long Constantini finds herself on the lam with Dunn.
Despite its clearly imitative nature and its wholly disposable plot,
"Most Wanted" contains enough okay action scenes to make the grade.
Nevertheless, this standard issue shoot'em up is definitely not the
best work of actor/writer Keenen Ivory Wayans. He was more fun in his
1994 action comedy "Low Down Dirty Shame" with Jada Pinkett.

Not only does Wayans star in "Most Wanted," but he also penned the
screenplay. Wayans cobbles together scenes from every major action
flick to create his own film. Shrewdly, he forges a plot around a
string of surefire movie scenes that he has rewritten carefully. In the
opening scene, Sgt. Dunn refuses to shoot an innocent shepherd boy
during Operation Desert Storm. Sgt. Dunn's Commanding Officer threatens
to shoot him on site for disobeying an order. They struggle. During the
struggle, the officer's gun discharges accidentally and the officer
dies from a gunshot wound. Dunn receives the death sentence for murder.
During his bus ride to Fort Leavenworth, Dunn is rescued by a super
secret anti-terrorist military unit. An evil, redneck Gen. Adam
Woodward, alias Lt. Col. Grant Casey (Jon Voight of "Midnight Cowboy")
gives Dunn the option to either join his group or die. Reluctantly,
Dunn agrees to join and finds himself the designated hitter in an
assassination attempt.

The unit has targeted shady biochemical mogul Donald Bickhart (Robert
Culp of "Hickey and Boggs). At the VA Hospital where Bickhart is
greeting the First Lady, Dunn is set up. Gen. Woodward's henchmen kill
the First Lady and frame him. Now, the Los Angeles Police Department as
well as Woodward's gunmen pursue Dunn. Our wrongly accused hero spends
the rest of the movie trying to exonerate himself. The filmmakers pad
the action out with a superfluous subplot involving the Central
Intelligence Agency. C.I.A. Deputy Director Kenny Rackmill (Paul
Sorvino of "Goodfellas") smells a cover-up. He is suspicious because
Dunn's description as the assassin was confirmed far too quickly. Dunn
calls in the agency, but the C.I.A. refuses to help him until he can
find scoop some poop on Gen. Woodward. Meanwhile, Constantini doesn't
totally believe Dunn, even after he saves her life from a bomb planted
in her house.

Director David Glenn Hogan and Wayans have crafted a Kennedy style
conspiracy thriller. The heroic sergeant that Wayans plays is the
classic loner with either no family or no friends. He qualifies as the
ideal choice for the assassin as well as the fall guy. The first scene
borrows from the Sylvester Stallone shoot'em up "The Specialist"
(1994)" with Sharon Stone. The bus escape scene is straight out of
Brett Ratner's "Money Talks" with Chris Tucker. The ebony and ivory
combo of an African-American hero and a white heroine recalls the
chaste "Pelican Brief" with Denzel Washington and Julia Roberts. Like
"The Pelican Brief," Wayans and Hennessy never get the hots for each
other and play hide the salami. "Most Wanted" has a prefabricated,
trace-the-numbers storyline that leaves little doubt about where the
action is leading the characters. There are some really dumb scenes,
too. After the authorities have identified Dunn, he strolls into a
public library to use a computer. The Dunn character wanders through
half of the action without a disguise. In the most original scene, half
of L.A. chases Dunn onto a freeway in a Frank Capra like foot chase.
Sadly, Keenen Ivory Wayans wants to become the black equivalent of
Stallone's Rambo character. He makes a suitable, straight-forward hero,
but he's far too dull. Mario Van Peebles would have been a better
choice for Dunn. Wayans plays a squeaky clean hero. 

The reverse occurs when the antagonists are involved. Enjoying a
villainous career comeback since "Mission Impossible," Jon Voight
conjures up a full-blown portrait of evil. As Gen. Woodward, Voight is
a ruthless adversary. Paul Sorvino lends his considerable screen
presence as the spy chief to the C.I.A. subplot as does Eric Roberts as
his aide. "Most Wanted" squanders both Sorvino and Roberts. "Miami
Vice" supporting actor John Diehl shows up in yet another cameo as a
police captain. Luscious actress Jill Hennessy is sexy enough, but she
never really proves herself either as a heroine or a hot date.

"Most Wanted" emerges as brisk, harmless action fodder. Don't dwell on
its improbable plot if you want to enjoy it for the mindless fodder
that it is. Just sit back and get a kick out of its adrenalin antics.
The pizza scene is hilarious and the dialogue on the prison bus is a
hoot! Wayans appears to have had the most fun writing in the scene
where dozens of blacks with shaven heads crowd the scenes. Another
funny moment occurs when a guard mistakes Dunn for another talk-show
host and asks for his autograph. "Most Wanted" plays it safe, confining
itself to familiar territory, doing exactly what you expect for a
thriller of its caliber, and delivering the usual quota of thrills,
chills, and spills without offense of any kind. Composer Paul
Buckmaster endorses the action with a flavorful musical score, and "Set
It Off" lenser Marc Reshovky's murky photography captures the element
of paranoia that suffuses this saga.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is not one of those Huge titles but it is a huge movie. Edge of
the seat excitement that just keeps going. Hard to get a breath during
this
film. Special effects are pretty good with characters you'll love to hate.
The best part is it keeps twisting and turning right to the end as a
matter
of fact it screams sequel just to finish it off but it probably didn't
make
enough people care WOW I Loved it!!!
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the most entertaining action films I've seen in a long
time.
It was hilarious. I don't think there was one moment of the film that the
viewer could take seriously, and I'm not really sure whether this was
intentional or not. Either way, this film is hilarious. I've seen
straight-up comedies that weren't as funny as this film.

Throughout the '80s, we saw a trend toward more and more outrageous action
films. The Die Hard series really pushed the limits of the suspension of
disbelief, and that trend continued with a number of other films. Most
Wanted is a continuation of this trend, perhaps the culmination of
it.

If you pay money to rent this and expect to see a serious
action/conspiracy
film, you're in for a big disappointment, because that's not what this
movie's about. It's about hyperbole, and that's what makes it
entertaining.
You can't help but laugh at it.

Jon Voight is fantastic in his role as the cruel general. If I were going
to
cast someone in an over-the-top role, I'd have to choose Voight. I enjoyed
him in Anaconda, and I enjoyed his performance in this
film.

If you want to see a hilarious action/adventure romp, rent Most Wanted. I
thoroughly enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>

Keenen Ivory Wayans decides to get serious in Most Wanted. An
action/thriller that has a few good moments of tension, but almost
everything in this film is predictable or heavily cliched. Jon Voight
steals
the show as a corrupt general. 2/4
<|_=00=_|>
Wayans and Voight are the two main subjects in the film and there is
really nothing but cardboard cut-outs in between. The dialogue is
cheesy and a lot of the action scenes require you to give up your
belief in reality and let your imagination roll with the punches and
shots fired and all the plentiful action and violence in this film.
There are some good moments (the ending especially) but for the most
part this film is very campy to say the least, definitely not getting a
Oscar any time soon. This movie is trying to push the bad cop good cop
message (at a higher level) but it doesn't seem to stick as movies like
Dark Blue and others have before. It's a lot of Keenan Ivory Wayans and
his tough as nails brutish military strut, while still able to throw in
some humor from time to time, which trust me is not funny at all, you
practically laugh at the jokes in sympathy for how cheesy they are! 6
out of 10 stars.
