
A "pro" golfer duking it out with veteran game-show host Bob Barker
right in the middle of a tournament. That scene alone makes this one of
the more memorable comedies of the last 30 years. Almost everyone I
know has either seen or heard of that scene and everyone laughs at it.

It IS ludicrous and that's what makes it so funny. In fact, most of the
movie is totally preposterous, totally unbelievable and totally wacky,
which is Adam Sandler's trademark in these comedies. He's low key but
violent, as he was in Mr. Deeds, Punch-Drunk Love and a few other
films.

Here, Sander is even more vocal and violent than normal and definitely
more crude, which is saying something since this actor usually doesn't
play guys with a lot of class. "Happy" is a hot-tempered hockey player
who can hit a golf ball 400 yards so he tries his hand on the PGA tour
to help raise money for his grandmother. I just shake my head even
writing that last sentence, it sounds so stupid....but this is a stupid
movie with an incredibly stupid story but is hilarious, for the most
part.

Anyone who is a golfer would appreciate this movie more than others,
because Sandler says and does things we'd all like to do on the links
at times but, thankfully, don't. In short: this is a crude but very
funny movie.
<|_=00=_|>

"Happy Gilmore" is the Adam Sandler movie to see. If everyone had to see one
Sandler movie before their lives were complete, I would seriously hope this
is the movie they see. It's nice to see golf and hockey in a movie again. I
don't think there is another movie out there that makes me laugh as much as
"Happy Gilmore" does. You have Happy, the ultimate hero, fighting to win a
life of security for his grandma. There's Shooter McGavin, the villain you
love to hate, who attempts to foil Happy's quest. And then there's Mr.
Larson, Happy's 8' tall monster of a former employer, threatening Shooter at
every turn. Hey Bob Barker is in this movie! It doesn't get much funnier
than Mr. Price Is Right insulting our hero. Well maybe Ben Stiller's part in
this movie is funnier, as he corruptly directs a retirement home. It doesn't
matter what's the funniest. This whole movie is one hilarious moment after
another.
<|_=00=_|>

Okies....here we have the indisputable King of mediocrity but one thing you
gotta say for Sandler - they don't come more unpretentious! He delivers what
you expect and in HAPPY GILMORE he came up undeniably with his best
film!

As the wannabe hockey great in dire need of an anger-management course,
Sandler discovers by chance his prodigious golfing talents - but using a
hockey stick! In a performance best decribed as R-rated Jerry Lewis, Sandler
is a hoot as he takes on Bob Barker, the establishment and Shooter McGavin -
golfing's hissable "Mr Smarm" (An Oscar-worthy turn from Christopher
McDonald)

Carl Weathers turns in a blinder as Sandler's newly come-by coach with an
unfortunate earlier run-in with a hungry croc! If you don't find anything in
this film funny, you're a dead person! Like many devotees, we have watched
this film countless times - it just improves with age!

<|_=00=_|>

In what is Adam Sandlers best work to date, the hopeless hockey
failure Happy Gilmore must join the Professional Golfers Tour to
help his Grandmother with her finances.  

As a golfer myself I can say that the antics pulled in this golf caper
are are riot!  I have seen the film probably over 50 times but each
time I laugh as if it were my first time viewing it.

From Carl Weathers and his wooden hand, to Happy  teaming up
with Bob Barker, this movie keep you laughing the whole way
through.  Even my 80 year old grandparent loved it!

Perhaps the best review I can give for this movie comes from
Happy himself-- "Talk about a hole in one!"
<|_=00=_|>

Adam Sandler has a very funny movie here that works like no other since
Caddyshack.  Sandler plays a lazy guy who has to save his grandmother's
house from being removed.  So, he starts to play golf in a way that only
Sandler can.  He is also instructed by Carl Weathers (who memorably played
Apollo Creed in Rokcy), and wathcing his scenes I had to leave the theater
from laughing so much (he had a wooden hand and it always gets knocked off).
 Sandler knows how to keep people rolling in the ailes, and this proves it. 
A++
<|_=00=_|>

Adam Sandler may not be the all-round actor who can deliver many
different comic performances but he does have a certain comic style.
Happy Gilmore is a failed Hockey player who cannot skate and has a lack
of any self-discipline. His life seems to be a complete failure until
he finds out he can hit a golf ball over 400 yards. At first you might
feel little empathy for Happy as he obviously deserves all the bad luck
he gets from the way he treats his friends. But the introduction of
Shooter to the screen suddenly makes you root for the underdog. The
plot is thrown together to get the most out of Sandler and his antics
on screen. Some of the scenes are totally unbelievable particularly
when a car is driven on to the golf course to run down Happy! But no
matter how many times I see the film it can still make me laugh.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is an incredibly hilarious movie, no matter how many times
you watch it. It's true that it's profane, violent, and stupid, but in
this film, that's what makes it so funny! The timing is just perfect.
It's a great movie to watch with friends for the first time, especially
for the fact that you will be quoting lines with them randomly for
quite a while. I have seen it over 30 times, and I still laugh. This is
Adam Sandler at his very best. Great random characters, such as the
"Jackass" man, the homeless guy, and very best, Bob Barker! To tell you
the truth,"It'll make you laugh until you hyperventilate". There's not
only great vocal humor, but the visuals and especially the body
language coming from the actors is classic. To me, there is not a
better comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

This is Sandler's best movie to date.  I could watch this movie 50 times
and
still laugh.  It doesn't get any better than this, except for Tommy Boy!
Sandler can only go downhill from here,
Waterboy was dumb compared to this.  Goddamn I hate that Bob Barker,
Classic!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Happy Gilmore is Adam Sandler's only standout performance in a long
list of half-assed, unfunny comedies. But this is it, the real deal.
This is the film that all other Sandler films make references to, quote
and celebrate, in case you ever wondered where phrases like "It's all
in the hips" (as said in Little Nicky) and "You eat pieces of sh*t for
breakfast?" (quoted everywhere) came from. Well, Happy Gilmore is the
birth of these phrases as well as the birth of a comedic star. It is
also just all-around solid comedic entertainment and a crash-course in
golf. Or rather, 101 Things Not To Do On The Golf Course.

Adam Sandler is Happy. But this is only his character's ironic name,
because Happy is really quite angry and extremely frustrated at getting
nowhere in his amateur hockey career. He slips into golf by what can
only be described as a fluke, and is able to take out his aggressions
on the golf-court, setting records for longest drives ever as he
aggressively hits the ball. The anger he has is advantageous here, but
a big problem when it comes to putting - and an even bigger problem
when it comes to dealing with smug competitors like Shooter McGavin
(superbly played by Christopher McDonald).

Happy Gilmore thus follows Sandler on the golf-court, where 90% of the
film takes place. Happy is one of those rare characters in films that
you desperately pull for and end up hating all of his competitors and
enemies. In this way, Happy Gilmore is a very effective film as it
establishes a hero-feeling with its main character, in spite of his
flaws. I can't think of many other films in which I've wanted the lead
character to win as much as in this one. On top of that device, you
have such gems like Adam Sandler beating up old man Bob Barker on the
green, Adam Sandler screaming at a golf ball asking it "Are you too
good for your home?", and Christopher McDonald in one of the most
hilarious and subtlety comedic performances of the 1990s.

So Happy Gilmore is the Godfather of all Sandler films, as well as the
only truly good one. It borrows somewhat from Caddyshack in the goofy
golf sense so it can't be considered truly original, but it IS original
when it comes to Happy Madison productions.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film is the one that introduced me to one of my favorite actors,
Adam Sandler. His movies are mostly hit-or-miss gag machines, but this
is one of his movies in which nearly every gag works. I almost miss the
old Adam Sandler. The old Adam Sandler character would be a man who
acts nice, but turns violent and angry when he doesn't get his way. Now
he plays a mild-mannered every-man who makes little wisecracks. Not
that the latter isn't funny, but the former is what he'll always be
remembered for, and this is a perfect example of an Adam Sandler's true
comedic side.

Happy Gilmore (Adam Sandler) is a nearly unlikeable loser who after a
strangely traumatic childhood, grew up to be a raving, anti-social
lunatic, who happens to be obsessed with hockey. He constantly tries
out for hockey teams, and proudly holds two league records (Most time
spent in the penalty box, and he was the only person in history to ever
take off his skate and try to stab somebody). One day, his girlfriend
dumps him, he doesn't make the hockey team, and the IRS repossesses his
grandmothers house which he grew up in. Soon, he discovers that he has
an incredible talent for golf, with a record breaking long drive.
Unwillingly taken under the wing of one-handed former golf pro Chubbs
Peterson (Carl Weathers), and becomes a golf sensation due to his long
drive, and extremely rude behavior, much to the dismay of the leading
tour money winner, Shooter McGavin (Christopher McDonald). A bitter
rivalry and a race-against-time ensue, as Happy tries to earn back his
grandma's house, and beat Shooter.

Happy Gilmore is a movie that I truly adore, and will always cherish.
There are many quotable lines, and hilariously random scenes and/or
characters. One of the funniest ones is a cameo by Ben Stiller as a
cold-blooded orderly at an old folks home, who treats the citizens like
inmates. One of the funniest comic bits in any Adam Sandler movie is
the sequence in which Happy gets into a fistfight with Bob Barker, the
host of "The Price is Right." For some reason, Bob fails to notice the
heckler who's most frequently uttered word never fails to affect
Happy's game for the worst. 

Another hilarious thing about this movie is how many of the characters
in the movie manage to play their parts and keep a straight face, even
when Happy is assaulting innocent people for the smallest reasons, and
cussing out the golf ball when it won't go "home." Happy is one of a
group of quirky characters in the film, but much of the humor comes
from the reactions of the serious characters, and/or the extras when
Happy does something stupid. One hilarious example of this is when
Happy repeatedly screams out every word that can't be said on TV,
well... on TV. The overall premise of the film is fun, and the film
delivers non-stop laughs. Sit back and enjoy the classic Adam Sandler
vehicle. I highly recommend this film, and give it 10/10. 

It is proudly rated PG-13 for Language and Comic Sexuality. Sex: 4/10
Violence: 5/10 Swearing: 5/10 Drugs: 2/10
