
Steven Seagal reprises his role as a one time SEAL team captain, a
counter-terrorist expert who had to rely only on his personal skills in
order to survive, and protect the hostages... He happens to be on the
Grand Continental passenger train traveling from Denver to L.A...
Seagal joins the only family he has, a 'cute kid' named Sarah
(Katherine Heigl) after her parents died in a plane crash...

Seagal has an electrifying screen presence... Seeing him in action is
similar to appreciating modern art... 

The train is hijacked by a team of 'ugly men' with guns... Their chief,
Travis Dane (Eric Bogosian), is a high-tech mastermind, who fakes his
own death in order to gain control of a top-secret nuclear satellite...
For this crazy technical genius, technology can be used for beauty or
debasement, and 'until you plug it in, you just can't tell.'

Dane's henchman Penn (Everett McGill) is a soldier of fortune freak,
whose relationship with his boss resurfaced during Desert Storm...

Morris Chestnut's focus is on humor and breath-taking sequences...

Geoff Murphy's film is incredibly entertaining, combining action,
martial arts, and dark sense of humor...
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, the earthquake beam from space (heck, the whole story line and all
of the villains too) are totally unbelievable. Frankly, if you can find
a "believable" action movie, I have a beach house in Arizona you might
want to buy. Yes, the production values were not the finest.

But -- if you like watching the hero exterminate the bad guys, few do
it with the style of Seagal. Like Jet Li (yeah, I am old enough to
remember Bruce Lee the original, and Chuck Norris), he is one of the
few action heroes who is a real martial arts guy, and he moves so fast
and fluidly it is hard for the eye to follow, but fascinating to watch.
This is brainless entertainment, full of hilariously cheesy B-movie
one-liners you can laugh at ("Assumption is the mother of all f-ups!"),
often bad acting, a story line you could describe in one sentence, and
zero character development.

There are worse ways to spend 90 minutes. Believability is for films
that take themselves seriously. Seagal is more like stand-up comic
straight man meets Aikido ace. At least he handles a handgun like
someone who has actually fired one.
<|_=00=_|>

The best Steven Seagal movie to date.  This is the second, and apparently
the last, in the series in which Seagal plays Casey Ryback, an ex-Navy SEAL
Captain, who, as explained in Under Siege, was demoted for punching out a
superior for poor intelligence which got many of his men killed.  In Under
Siege 2, his character has been promoted from Chief to Lieutenant, although
we only find that out in the end.

Unlike some of his earlier movies in which Seagal fights for causes,
specifically liberal environmental issues, here Seagal is fighting strictly
for family and Country.  The first scene starts off with Seagal making his
appearance in civilian clothes to dramatic music.  We learn the grim news
that his character's only brother and sister-in-law were killed in a plane
crash, leaving his only relative, a niece, still alive.  He accompanies the
teenager on a train ride from Denver to LA.  He has the bad luck, but good
for his Country, to be on the train that is attacked by terrorists bent on
destroying Washington, D.C., and the US eastern coast for profit only.  The
maniacal would-be killer of millions is character Travis Dane, recently
fired by a Government agency.  The terrorist method is a high-tech powerful
new weapon orbiting the earth and the train moving through lonely mountains
provides the screen, as in "Dark Territory".  Seagal seems somewhat lucky to
avoid being killed early on, but then becomes a locomotive of destruction
for the bad guys.  Andy Romano returns as the full admiral, chairman of the
joint chiefs of staff and provides a continuity from the first Under Siege
movie.  This is all action showing Seagal as a dedicated and deadly force of
protection for the train hostages and the citizens to the east.  The action
moves, and some of the death blows are right out of the military manual. 
Watchable over and over and still exciting.
<|_=00=_|>
Since 2001 Seagal has been quite happy to let his film career crash and
burn while he sings the blues and does all his strange little things in
his personal life (have you ever tasted his wine or his energy drink?).
But there was a time in the 90s when his name guaranteed you an hour
and a half of broken bones, severed limbs, bad guys in agonizing pain
and a showdown with a head villain who stands no chance against the
awesome hurricane force that is Steven Seagal.

I never really like the first Under Siege. I found it to be too low key
and slow and after enjoying such brain-free fare as Marked for Death
and Hard to Kill in my youth I had come to expect a tougher movie than
the what we were given (though the tyrannical BBFC cut the film to
shreds and denied me what I wanted to see). I was dismayed at the lousy
15-rating and not even Erika Eleniak's boobs could cheer me up (she's
blonde-not my thing).

Flash forward to July 1995 and the awesome poster for Under Siege 2
started showing up in cinema lobbies. It featured the impassive one
clinging to the side of a burning train hurtling through the
countryside and featured, quite frankly, the best subtitle of any
sequel ever 'Dark Territory'. This time it was rated 18 which meant I
could look forward to all the blood and gore that the first Under Siege
lacked. Obviously I couldn't see this film in the cinema, being only 15
and all, so I had to wait until the video came out in early 1996. By
that point the BBFC (those people from the dark-ages again) had
censored every last bit of red stuff to the point where it could be
shown on the friggin' Disney Channel if it weren't for the swearing.

I would have to wait until 1999, when I bought the uncut US version on
DVD, to see the film in it's entirety. And when I did it was like
watching a brand new movie.

Casey Ryback, now the head chef of the Mile High Cafe in Denver, had
retired from the Navy but still works for the government doing the odd
secret mission here and there. When his brother is killed in a plane
crash he takes his niece Sarah (the lurvley Katherine Hiegl) on a trip
to LA on the Grand Continental, but that particular train just so
happens to be hijacked by crazed computer genius Travis Dane and his
band of menacing mercenaries featuring dead-eyed Everett McGill and the
sleazy Peter Greene. He has a beef with the government and is only too
happy to use his skills to blow the Pentagon off the face of the Earth
and collect a nice paycheck from the Saudis.

Luckily for Ryback, he was momentarily absent when the hostages were
rounded up as he nipped into the kitchen to bake a cake. He teams up
with naive porter Bobby Zachs (Morris Chestnut, bringing life to an
otherwise ordinary sidekick role) and begins his skulking, lurking
mission through the shadows and voids of the train to pull the brake
and free the hostages. Do these nasty people really think that they
stand a chance against Ryback's awesome power and apparent
invincibility? Sit back and watch them get annihilated with a variety
of improvised mêlée weapons and other gruesome tools.

The train is a better setting than the boat. This time instead of a
plain black backdrop we've got lots of pretty scenery and the constant
forward motion of the loco gives the movie a nice momentum. Basil
Poledouris' score soars miles above Gary Chang's bland notes of the
first one and it honestly ends up being one of the best scores ever and
a perfect example of how action music ought to be. And don't worry
about this one being slow as the first. Under Siege 2 is edited so
quickly that coherence is almost lost. You have to pay quick attention
and perhaps watch the film a few times just to catch everything.

The comic-book nature of the plot, the cliffhanger feel of the
ever-escalating mayhem and cartoonish villains might normally result in
a campy movie but Under Siege 2 is as hardcore and sadistic and
mean-spirited as the come. That's probably the reason the BBFC chose to
cut it, claiming that it featured 'gloating and pervasive violence'.
Well, I never found it to be that evil, just entertaining. Which is why
I don't like narrow-minded institutions telling me what I can and
cannot watch.

No one could possibly have a bad time watching this film (unless it's
the UK version) and if you've had enough of Shane Meadows doing
pretentious black and white stuff or Keira Knightely in a frock to last
you a lifetime then the brainless and breathtaking action of Under
Siege 2 is just what you need.
<|_=00=_|>

A high water mark in the career of Mr Segal. He returns to the screen
as the, unflappable, invincible, ice cool, ultra hard Casey Ryback. See
him leap from a speeding train, rock climb, roll in dirt, take bullets
in the arm, all without putting a mark on his immaculate black suit. No
messing about with drawn out fight scenes against a super hard villain,
everyone is dispatched with minimum of effort as no-one is anywhere
near as hard as Casey Ryback. No-one is more entertaining as to watch
as the one man army than Segal. If you watch this film expecting an
intellectual script and fine acting then you will be disappointed. But
if you expect that from any all out action film I expect you are a
fool. Totally over the top, totally unbelievable but a total blast.

<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best sequels to Steven Seagal. Under Siege 2: Dark
Territory is not your ordinary hijack-action-adventure films. Since I
do like trains, this movie was a plus for me. The part in this film was
everyone, including Ryback(Seagal) got to be part of the action. His
niece Sarah, played by Katherine Heigl, knew how to fight back. Bobby
Zachs, played by Morris Chestnut, didn't shy away from the action,
unless he saw Ryback kill one of the hijackers. The funny part was when
one of the female passengers flashed her cleavage saying she "broke her
bra", the perfect distraction to the hijacker. Great cast, great
action, and a great plot I say. I don't care for the critics' opinion,
I just liked this movie the way it is! Rating 3 out of 5 stars. 8 out
of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
... Close your eyes and listen to all the explosions and the sound of
limbs hitting flesh, and you may be happy. If you OPEN your eyes,
however, that's when the implausibilities become much harder to ignore.

A CD-Rom is crucial in some megalomaniac's plan to extort money and
terrorise the world. I've no problem digesting that, I've seen it
happen before in the movies; but when said CD is dropped ON A ROCKFACE
and left undetected for who knows how long, it still works as it needs
to!! Funny that, I don't dare to even put mine on the coffee-table if I
want to be able to use it again...

We see a shot of Seagal's large head within the cross-hairs of a sniper
rifle... Game over, Casey? No way, within no time he's hiding under the
train and explaining blithely that the bullet just 'grazed' him...
However stupidly enjoyable the rest of the film was (and I suppose it
has its moments) I could no longer in good conscience cheer for Mr.
Ryback, he should have been dead by now, not completely impervious to
harm so that he can continue with his rescue mission...

A train is a poor environment in which to stage skilfully choreographed
battles. On the boat you had galleys, walkways, etc; but here
everything's a bit cramped. This means we spend a lot of time watching
dough-boy (What?! He's a chef, that's all I meant... :-) ) on top of
the speeding vessel, making his ungainly way from carriage to
carriage... Here's a general rule; as soon as a terrorist so much as
peeks their head outside, they're a dead man (or woman). If Seagal ever
gets his hands on a baddie, just assume that Stevie wins the day, since
a lot of the time things are so poorly directed and edited that it's
hard to tell...

Bogosian playing the 'tech-geek' villain does well. True he can't come
close to matching the previous standard of Lee Jones or Busey, but
that's to be expected. I have to admit, as hitherto mocking as I've
been, that there is still a strangely unaccountable thrill in seeing
the big man in black bust up those with shadowy souls... Darkness very
much the theme, then. If you can manage to turn off the overhead light
of your brain for awhile, then you can still find some entertainment in
this as long as you feel your way gently.
<|_=00=_|>
I love action movies, if they features some decent bone breaking
action, it's even better.

Steven Seagal is the lord of bone breaking, how you could go wrong ?

Plot: A bunch of terrorists hijack a train, they took a satellite
(which is also a weapon of mass destruction) under they control, they
demand 1 billion dollars, or they are going to blow up everything !
Unfortunately for them, Casey (Seagal) is on the same train, while he
was traveling with his niece.....now bones are going to break and arms
are going to get snapped.

Under Siege 2, delivers good one-liners and violence. The violence is
almost in a comic-book or video game style, that is one the reasons why
i like Under Siege 2.

You can watch it even if you haven't watched the first Under Siege,
because there are no real "connections" from the first movie, just the
character played by Seagal.
<|_=00=_|>
All right, guys. Let's admit it. This one is a classic. Say what you
will about Seagal but he gave us UNDER SIEGE 1 and 2 and he got sucked
out into the clouds in the Stuart Baird thrill-ride EXECUTIVE DECISION.
And for these 3 films I'm eternally thankful. I still can't change the
channel every time this one comes on. C'mon! Trains, terrorists,
Katherine Heigl, Seagal at his most zen-like, and Everett McGill as
Penn who uses pepper spray as a breath spray. What's not to like? And a
techno-nerd bad guy who looks like a demented cross between Elliott
Gould and Tim Curry! With classic lines like "Your safety IS our
primary concern. However, if you try anything stupid, Federal
Regulations require that I kill you" I'm surprised this thing didn't
win the Oscar for best script...lol.

But seriously, with so much testosterone flying around, helped by Basil
Poledouris's rousing score, and so much cool train climbing action
(over, under, all over) I sometimes wonder if this one isn't even
better than the first one - helmed by Andrew Davis. I mean the Eric
Bogosian/Everett McGill combo is just as good as the Tommy Lee
Jones/Gary Busey combo! And the kill quip by Seagal (after he
dispatches McGill) "Nobody beats me in the kitchen" is right up there
with some of the best quips in the Bond pictures.

Anyway it's one of the top films of 1995. I have come to the conclusion
that you just can't go wrong when using the DIE HARD formula. I have
yet to see a bad DIE HARD clone. SPEED, CLIFFHANGER, UNDER SIEGE,
SUDDEN DEATH, AIR FORCE ONE, CON AIR, etc. Die Hard on a Bus, Die Hard
on a Mountain, Die Hard on a Ship/Train, Die Hard in a Hockey Arena,
Die Hard on a Plane, etc.
<|_=00=_|>
There's a moment in Howard Hawks' congenial Western, "Rio Bravo," in
which some bad guys have captured Wayne and are forcing him to trick a
deputy into releasing a prisoner. Wayne, in his John Wayneness, has
previously rid the world of a passel of evildoers. As they ready
themselves, Wayne mutters something expressive of reluctance, and one
of the bad guys says, "If it had been up to me, you'd have never got up
off the floor. Some of those you killed were friends of mine." 

None of that sentimental crap here. None of the dozen or more heavies
is friends with any of the others. Instead, they slap each other
around, issue orders, leave each other to bleed out, curse one another,
and sacrifice each other without blinking an eye. In one case, I think,
they sacrifice one of their own simply because leaving him behind the
train would seem untidy.

And the villains are -- or should be -- the best part of a cartoon
movie like this. They LOOK fine, for heavies. They're ugly and/or
sinister and all are brutish, though, at times, Steven Seagal
dispatches them with such alacrity that we can't register which is
which. They're just bodies slumping bloodied to the floor of the
speeding train or acrobatically tumbling off a high span bridge. It
doesn't matter. They all look as if they should have been strangled
with their own placentas. Except for Peter Greene as a subordinate
villain. He not only looks the part; he can act too. (Catch him in "The
Usual Suspects.") 

Maybe I should mention the plot. Sure, why not? Eric Bogosian is a
computer genius who has commandeered a secret satellite that can
virtually destroy anything on earth. It can cause subterranean
earthquakes or shoot down airplanes or whatever else is required to
make the brass at the Pentagon tremble. He wants a billion dollars not
to trash the Pentagon -- and he gets it. Oh, and he makes a hundred
million on the side by destroying the unpleasant wife of some rich guy.
Steven Seagal -- surprise! -- foils the plan and kills all the
evildoers.

Hundreds of people are held hostage aboard the train. Seagal saves them
all, except a young couple from the Pentagon who give Bogosian the
required passwords rather than have their eyeballs coagulated by a
red-hot needle. Besides, they were fornicating, so they deserve being
thrown to their deaths, such fraternization being against Pentagon
policy.

I don't know why the other passengers are allowed to survive. Okay,
maybe they weren't having unmarried sex with one another. Not as far as
we know anyway. But none of them can act. Appearing in an important
role, as Katherine Heigl does, and being bereft of talent is a worse
sin than fornication in my book. She's young and tender but she looks
sassy enough, and she's supposed to be Seagal's niece, so I suppose
they let her survive with the others.

In the Pentagon group -- those guys sweating it out and trying to
figure out how to stop Bogosian from destroying the world -- Kurtwood
Smith is his reliable self and so is Dale Dye, looking abominably fit
in his Navy captain's uniform.

The direction follows the simplicity of the story. Multiple close ups
almost burst out of the screen. For important or unusually witty
wisecracks, EXTREME close ups are used. Eric Bogosian never looks at a
camera or a computer monitor without the exposure of every pore of his
face. You can almost see his pupils dilate when the lights go off at
the end of a take.

Of Steven Seagal, what is left to be said? Mano a mano with skilled
martial arts experts leaves him unscathed -- not even breathless --
while his opponent fights dirty, curses violently, and invariably loses
and winds up covered with blood. Seagal doesn't even have one of those
trickles of blood from the corner of his lips. He can't. He's
superhuman, supernatural. When his train crashes head on into another,
he can outrun the impact and throw himself onto a helicopter ladder.
Yet, I'm not sure he's that bright. There is a CD ROM that makes it
possible for Bogosian to control the satellite. Seagal and a sidekick
manage to steal it and leave the train. A land pursuit follows because
the terrorists need the CD and want it back. Why doesn't Seagal just
throw the CD irretrievably into the canyon? Did Superman ever take an
IQ test? Inquiring minds want to know.
