
I, personally, cannot understand why so many people have left negative
comments about this film. When it was released, many of us were young
children and we all enjoyed it, but now that we are older, too many
people are pointing out the bad jokes and mistakes and clichés that
they have found. The point is, this is a children's film, and we didn't
see those mistakes when we were children because it's designed that
way. Even so, people fail to see deeper into certain aspects of the
film. Peter Pan was meant to be 'the boy who never grew up', so to have
a tale of his adult life and to show how he forgot Neverland is a
special and unique take on the story, one that won't be forgotten.

There have also been many complaints about the scene where Tink becomes
human-size and expresses some kind of love for Peter. Although she is
not a human per se, she can have human feelings, so why would she not
love him? As the original story tells, she is often jealous of other
womens' affections towards him, and this film just extrapolates on that
theme a little.

There have been comments about the
'father-who-is-so-busy-and-can't-go-to-the-game' cliché. Well, here's
news for you. It's cliché because it happens all the time, and it's a
truth! Some parents are just too busy to care. Lastly, too many people
are moaning that Hook was too comical to be the bad guy. Well, this is
a kids film and if he wasn't a little bit cheery-in-a-maniac sort of
way, you'd have parents complaining that their kids were scared.

The main thing about this film is that it is really good, but it IS
designed for children, and adults who go back and watch it years later,
then suddenly spot loads of mistakes are just ruining it for themselves
and others.
<|_=00=_|>
Right, I can understand that Spielberg's previous achievements had set
the bar really high, but by no means does this make 'Hook' a flop. The
story is what is so appealing to a young audience and a mature audience
for that matter. The sensitive undertones of such a celebrated story
spark much joy and heartfelt moments. The 'what if' factor of the whole
story is really adventurous, and the fact that this story stems from
the original is brilliant. Its a story of love,family and identity. All
three elements resonate with a lot of audiences. From a visual
standpoint Spielberg triumphs again! And i don't understand why people
beg to differ! For the purpose of entertaining young audiences, it
fulfills the intention and more. I must say however, the film owes 50%
of its credit to John Williams. His absolutely stunning score supports
the story's tenderness. The flying sequence is so thrilling that it
literally makes me get up and want to levitate! 

The performances are equally stunning and convincing, Robin Williams
encompasses both his comedic and dramatic skills towards a full blooded
performance. Dustin Hoffman and Bob Hoskins are superb....really really
astonishing. 

This film has to be one of Spielberg's most overlooked and underrated
films of all time. It holds so much promise and warmth that every time
I sit back and soak up the high-flying adventure it sends shivers down
my spine. I recently watched it after so many years of it lost in my
memory that I felt like I had visited a historical landmark..its placed
within a treasured set of memories on my part. 

I cant express how moving this film is, its just enthralling in every
sense of the word..the construction of the story is very clever and
realistic - from a child's point of view. 

Really guys hold the cynicism and unlock you imaginations and
appreciate this work of cinematic art.
<|_=00=_|>
I try to make it a point to watch this movie at least once a year, or
when I feel myself getting too cynical. This is because if you are
looking for fun movie that really does pull at the kid inside you, then
this is definitely it.

Robin Williams is just the right kind of goofy for my tastes, and makes
an excellent Pan. Captain Hook was perfectly fit by Dustin Hoffman. I
could have done without Julia Roberts as Tink. Actually, I can do
without Julia Roberts all together. But Bob Hoskins made a great Smee.
(I like to watch this and Who Framed Roger Rabbit, back-to-back)
Anyways, I watch this movie once a year because the message of the
movie, and the reason people watch it, warrants that. A movie where the
message is to never lose sight of your inner child. Imagination. Belief
in magical creatures. Sword fighting with pirates. All of these things
that I'm sure you did as a child, as I did.

As far as I'm concerned, all of the people who have written bad reviews
for this movie, saying things like "The characters weren't believable",
and "Spielberg tried to answer a question that didn't need an answer"
have lost sight of the kid in themselves, have become pirates, and
should have their hands fed to crocodiles. It's a movie. A family
movie. One that needs to appeal to both children and adults, which is a
difficult task, to be successful. And I believe that this movie
succeeds at that very well.
<|_=00=_|>
Hook is a spin off of the classic tale of Peter Pan, you ever wonder
what life would have been like for Peter Pan if he had grown up? If he
had kids, a wife, and a career as a lawyer? Not very much, but it
happens here in Spielberg's tale of the boy who never wanted to grow
up. Hook is a pretty good film, it was definitely very imaginative and
creative story wise. The sets and actors were absolutely perfect for
this film; did you know that Michael Jackson originally wanted to play
the role of Peter? Pretty creepy, huh? But Robin Williams and Dustin
Hoffman were so great together, I really enjoyed their performances.
But the only actress I questioned was Julia Roberts as Tink, I'm not so
sure if she was the best choice for the role. But that's just me, while
the story seemed to drag on a bit, it was actually pretty good.

Peter is a bit of a grown up who just can't seem to have fun in life,
he misses his son's baseball games, doesn't spend much time with the
family, and is always focused on work. But when he and his wife visit
England with their kids to see Wendy, the lady who raised Peter when he
was an orphan, his kids are kidnapped by Captain James Hook who wants
to challenge Peter, but when Tink takes Peter back to Neverland, he
needs major convincing that he is Peter Pan and is given three days to
do so to get back his children. The Lost Boys try their best to make
Peter bang-or-aign once again with them and that he'll get his kids
back while learning the importance of youth.

Hook is over all a good film that I would recommend to people. It's not
at all a bad film, it has good drama in it along with great comedy.
Most people love the dinner scene between Peter and Rufio, mine is
Captain Hook explaining to Peter's kids why parents don't love
children. Dustin's delivery of "I want to potty, I want a cookie" was
just so perfect and funny. This is a good family film that I think
you'll like, it's just an honest film with a fun story.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
as is typical of reviews of most films at IMDb, 20% or so find films
reviewed here as being bad. 

Hook is no different. I never tire of seeing this film. Sure Spielberg
gives us his take on the story and the "what ifs" abound, and there are
imperfections. so what else is new about film-making?

do you see any films on this website that got a 10? NO!

no one film will EVER please everyone who watched it. so what's the
point of giving your opinion? it obviously won't change the film. your
opinion warns others to "stay away" from this film. "don't waste your
time" blah blah blah.

point of my diatribe? take the wonderful parts and acting and visuals
and music and whatever aspects of the film you like, and ENJOY THEM.

there are wonderful bits and pieces of Hook, and whole scenes, and the
notion that people can change and try to make life better for those
they may have hurt, and so on.

this film, if you have a heart, and some of you don't, speaks to that
heart and moves it and makes you thankful for those in your life who
really do need you.

am i a sentimentalist? so what if I am! get over it. and get a life.
<|_=00=_|>
Purportedly Steven Spielberg is not happy with the end product of Hook.
I'm at a loss to know why because I think it's an absolutely charming
fantasy, using his own peculiar take on the Peter Pan story and
extending it.

Robin Williams as Peter Banning is a hard driving lawyer with a wife
and two children Caroline Goodall, Charlie Korsmo and Amber Scott
respectively. He was an orphan kid who married the granddaughter of
Wendy Darling who was Sir James M. Barrie's inspiration for the Peter
Pan tale.

But it's all real, Robin Williams doesn't know he's Peter Pan who left
Never Never Land for reasons you'll discover in the film. But he left
one nasty enemy there in Captain Hook and Hook captures his children to
lure him back to Never Never Land where Hook can take vengeance upon
him.

Spielberg got some great performances out of his cast which also
includes Julia Roberts as the elfin Tinkerbell and Maggie Smith as the
aged Wendy. But stealing the film completely in one bravura performance
is Dustin Hoffman. 

Captain Hook is one of those fabulous roles where the actor can just
feast on the scenery and can just go to town with it. It's a role that
it is impossible to overact in. I doubt if Dustin Hoffman ever enjoyed
himself more in making a film.

Hook got five Oscar nominations in the technical categories, but sad to
say did not win anything in 1991. I'm surprised that one of Arnold
Schwarzenegger's Terminator films beat Hook out for Best Visual
Effects, this one is clearly superior in that department if anything.

Robin Williams has his innings as well, trying to remember his past as
Peter Pan and get back into Pan like behavior to defeat Captain Hook.
As to why he left Never Never Land in the first place. Let's just say
he took one too many trips outside his domain and something happened to
him that happens to all young men at some point.

Hook is a great piece of family entertainment from Steven Spielberg and
Dustin Hoffman's fans will really enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes you have to accept that you are the minority. I didn't find
Casino Royale to be the ultimate 007 movie and I didn't think Batman
Begins was the ultimate Batman movie. I think the Star Wars prequels
deserve more credit and what people so viciously hated about Jar-Jar I
will just never understand. But it's OK. I accept that. In these cases
it's simply just a matter of taste. You don't agree with me, I don't
agree with you? It's not the end of the world.

There are however other times when you feel that you have seen an
entirely different movie than others have. And as some movies like 2001
or Blade Runner were torn apart or frowned upon when they first came,
they have grown into classics later on. Why? My guess is misconceptions
and pre-set expectations.

Now, I can't stop anybody from hating Steven Spielberg's Hook if they
want to. But I think it's appropriate to raise my voice a little, in
talking about what kind of a movie it actually is.

First of all, it's always been clear to me that Hook isn't that much of
a story of Peter Pan as it is a story of Peter Banning or, if you want
to get far fetched, perhaps Spielberg himself. Peter Banning has no
respect and takes no interest in his children; thematically, this is
defined by the way he consistently denies their world as REAL. By their
world, I mean the world of a child, the world of games, stories, action
and adventure. Be it baseball, school plays, drawings, bedtime
storytelling or indoor games, Peter Banning does not comprehend this
world as a very real world - but it is real to his children, it's
actually their only real world, since the adult world leaves no place
for them.

Now, the movie is all about Peter Banning finding respect for his
children and understanding their world as real. In the movie, he
becomes forced to do this. At first he is hooked, if you will, by the
very real notion that his children have been kidnapped. That naturally
catches his attention, and naturally to him, nothing could be more
frightening or real. His motivation here is to simply bring back his
children, but as it turns out he will have to totally enter the
children's play-world and play, accepting their world as real.

To make it entirely clear that the children's world IS REAL, the movie
literary crosses the line between fantasy and reality and Tinkerbell
arrives to Peter Banning. The movie suggests that he not only will have
to play that he is Peter Pan, he undoubtedly IS Peter Pan and cannot
get away from it. He is hereby forced into play. This continues when he
arrives at Neverneverland. Again, he cannot escape this world and in my
mind this world is not so much JM Barrie's creation as it is a realm
that essentially embodies child's play in general. It's like locking a
bad parent into a playground, forcing him to spend time with the
children in there. Because Neverneverland IS all play and fun. The lost
boys PLAY that they are the lost boys, the pirates PLAY that they are
pirates, Dustin Hoffman is obviously PLAYING that he is Captain Hook
and as much as Peter Banning has to be forced into actually being Peter
Pan in order to force him into taking it seriously, he eventually also
PLAYS that he is Peter Pan. The theme of adults not seeing their
children, or taking their world as real, is common in Spielberg's
films. Remember Drew Barrymore in E.T, suggesting that maybe grown-ups
can't see E.T and later on, Dee Wallace's mother is in the very same
room as E.T but can't seem to notice him, since she is not interested
in hearing any stories about men from the moon, that is to say she
doesn't take it for real. There is a thematically identical scene in
Hook where Peter is served the empty plates with food that he cannot
see until he understands that the play is all for real. It's the scene
that most people remember from the movie, even those who don't like it,
and I don't think it's any coincidence.

This theme about believing and seeing children's fantasy world as REAL,
is sprinkled all through the movie in just about every scene from
beginning to end. But to underline that this movie essentially is about
a man who will have to take his kids seriously, and not so much a movie
where Peter Pan actually goes back to Neverneverland, the movie's final
sequences have Peter Banning waking up by a Peter Pan-like statue,
suggesting that perhaps it was all just a drunken dream. Note that I am
not saying it was, because the movie clearly states that the events
have taken place within the reality of the movie, it's not a "it was
all just a dream"-ending, but the scene clearly points out that it
doesn't really matter if it was all make-believe nor not, because in
the eyes of a child, make-believe is just as real as "the real world".
Actually, the last line of the movie is "To live would be an awfully
big adventure" so I think Spielberg is also suggesting that grown-ups
too need to think of their life as something a little more romantic and
adventurous.

All in all, I think the movie has flaws and all, that's not what this
comment is about, but I haven't seen these points anywhere so I figured
I post my views. Hook is first and foremost not a "What if?"-story, and
not a story of the adult Peter Pan. Yes it's what happens in the movie,
but it's not what the movie is all about.

Bangerang.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a fantastic classic movie of a classic fairy tale.

The sets are amazing (none of this green screen crap!)

The acting is fantastic. Dustin Hoffman, Maggie Smith, Robin Williams,
and Charlie Korsmo do an especially good job.

The adaptation is written very well. Instead of the boy who can't grow
up, it's the man who's forgotten how to have fun, and be in the moment,
like a child.

The IMDb rating is way off. How the hell does Pitch Perfect, and
rubbish like that do better? How? Because either this site is full of
morons with no taste, or the world is, or more likely both...

All negativeness aside, this is a great movie, if you haven't scene it,
you're missing out.
<|_=00=_|>
I was 10 years old when I first saw this movie (and I was born in
1993), and it was one of my favorites. The 90's had a lot of very great
movies, and I had to watch movies when I reached an age where I'd
understand them. At 10 years old, I began to watch movie after movie to
catch up to my older sister. Hook has many talented actors in it, and
the plot was very good. The action scenes were very well done, the
pirates were incredibly detailed in their clothes, and the whole island
brought me back to the world of wonder that is Never Never Land. The
Disney movie of it was what led me to watch this one, and because I
watched the Disney one, it made me love this one even more. Sure, there
are some of you who say it could have been better, and in some ways, I
do agree, but for what they had to work with, I say it was a
spectacular adventure.
<|_=00=_|>
All of you that are leaving comments are probably old farts that didn't
grow up with this movie. This movie is a awesome fairy tale. It is a
classic and probably my most favorite movie of all time. Very creative
storyline. Its about Peter Pan forgetting his past and saving his kids.
Robin Williams did a incredible job in this movie. I saw people dressed
up as Rufio at every year at college parties. this movie was made 17
years ago and its considered a classic. I've never meet anyone that
doesn't like it. So if you haven't seen it then go watch it! It has
everyone one from the cartoon, like Wendy, peter pan, hook, the lost
boys, tinker bell. And a new character Rufio!!!
