

This film seems to have provoked a lot of irritation. Personally, I can't
see why. I feel it's a
classic teen drama with a lot of heart and some very fleshed-out
performances. Another
poster got it right when they compared it to Sixteen Candles, Breakfast
Club
and other teen
dramas.

To criticise the norms of the genre is pointless: it's like complaining
that
a slasher pic has too
much blood and gore. It's a teen high-school drama, *of course* it's going
to have jocks vs.
geeks, pivotal parties and the leads getting together in the final fade.
We
all know the
destination, it's the journey that counts.

And I'd say that journey is pretty wonderful. The film gripped me in the
first few minutes. I
expected Melissa Joan Hart to turn in a mannered, 'Clueless'-type
performance, a pastiche of
popular girl gets a heart. But in fact, there was a lot more light and
shade
to her character,
she didn't just flip from one stereotype to another. I thought the whole
cast turned in sterling
performances. Perhaps they were too good and the naysayers have forgotten
these people
aren't actually jocks and geeks?

Whatever - I'm an old bloke who was touched by this film. It brought back
memories of the
hell / heaven of secondary school, of how important and fleeting those
relationships are. It
connected with me.

Not every film has to be 'Un Chien Andalou', you know...
<|_=00=_|>

It's a teen movie. It's not meant to be analized.

The concept was fairly original. Scheming Teen Socialite plots to get a
dream date for the school Centennial Dance (NOT the prom, as most
descriptions say) and it falls through at the last minute. Her next door
neighbor and childhood former best friend is dumped by his girlfriend. The
two of them pretend to be a couple to make their former significant others
jealous and ward off the scorn of their friends. She makes him over in her
immage (of course: "If you want to get results, you have to go to
extremes!").In the process she learns a little from him as well and they
fall in love. The movie also has a cast of secondary characters who are
interesting.

This isn't Shakespare, folks! It shouldn't be analized to death. It's fun
and entertaining. Sit down and watch it and leave the cliff's notes at
school.

The actors were great (It's nice to see that Melissa can play something
besides Sabrina). Adrian Greere and the rest of the cast were great
too.

The soundtrack was great as well. Get the CD: (You Drive Me) Crazy,
Unforgetful You, I Want It That Way, It's All Been Done, Stranded, Faith in
You, Is This Really Happening To Me, Steps, Hammer To The Heart, One For
Sorrow, Sugar, Regret, Original, Help Me Save The Youth of America from
Exploding, and  we can't forget "Keep on Loving You" by the teen girl rocker
group "The Donnas".

You can get this movie for $5.88 at Wal-Mart!
<|_=00=_|>

Well, the plotline was predictable, however, Drive me Crazy is a highly
entertaining teenage romp. The dialogue is witty, the theme is
good-spirited, and, as in every teen movie, the soundtrack is
great.

The film has its flaws, however, particularly in Melissa Joan Hart,
one
of the worst actresses of our time. Thanks to her, an almost entirely
likeable character is ruined. Her cute lines are recited flatly, and she
adds no wit or life to the film. However, I was very impressed with the
actor portraying Nicole's project, Adrian Grenier. His looks and
intelligent
delivery make the entire film worth seeing.

Overall, a cute and cheery romance that does not feature the head
cheerleader nor the lowest of the low geek- it presents it's characters
and
storyline in a fun, believable way, and it'll leave you loving every
minute
of it.

<|_=00=_|>

I think the story of it all is fresh and natural-  like what you'd see at
my
high school, and it teaches you (yes I actually learned something from
this
movie) that the right person for you may have always been there to begin
with, even with all of his imperfections.  Adrian Grenier plays Chase
Hammond very well with a lot of sarcasm, wit and intelligence.  If he went
to my high school I'd have snatched him up right away!  :)  Melissa Joan
Hart's character (Nicole) starts out shallow but eventually grows a heart
bigger than her high school ego.  This movie altogether isn't necessarily
the best movie ever made, but it is a funny and serious romp through the
final days of high school (love, crushes, the final school dance, peer
pressure)-  harmless but sweet and full of characters that are likeable
and
might remind you of people you once knew.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this movie on `Sky' after watching `TOMCATS' on video, so whether
my judgement has been affected by that, maybe.  As compared to Tomcats this
film looked like an Oscar winner, but I must say I did actually really enjoy
it in its own right. 

Its typical teen comedy/drama in the same vein as `TEN THINGS I HATE ABOUT
YOU' and `SHE'S ALL THAT' but if you like that kind of film then this will
in no way disappoint you. Hart and Grenier play polar opposite next door
neighbours who hook up as a sham couple to try and win back the attention of
their dates, who dump them on the eve of the schools centenary bash. It
doesn't take a genius to guess what happens but its all pretty harmless and
a lot of fun. Well worth and hour and a half of your time.

<|_=00=_|>

I went to this film expecting it to be just a formula teen film. It does
have formula to it -- such as ending with the big dance -- but it actually
has some interesting ideas too. It is about the images that people hide
behind, the distortions that they manufacture to escape from painful
reality. 

One symbolic scene takes place in a carnival fun house with mirrors that
twist and pull reflections into any shape the person wants. This of course
is the metaphor for what is happening with all the characters. Another
interesting bit of symbolism is the MTV-like video showing the zombie-like
behavior of the high school in-crowd compared to images of animals and Nazi
rallies.

Yes, it's a teen romantic comedy, but it actually has some real thought in
it, and the talented cast play characters that show some depth. The film is
a pleasant surprise.
<|_=00=_|>

If you don't like teen comedy/drama films, then don't bother seeing this
film, you're going to hate it.  There is nothing terribly original or
spectacular about this film, compared to similar films, but it's still got
some good stuff.  There really isn't a whole lot of comedy in the film, so
I'd be much more inclined to classify this film as a teen drama, so don't
watch this film expecting a hilarious movie.

The cast is surprisingly good in the film.  Melissa Joan Hart does a great
job in her first starring role and puts on a pretty good show for the most
part.  She also looks very attractive throughout the film.  The other main
character, Chase, played by Adrian Grenier is a new face to me, but does a
good job with his role.  Ali Larter looks very nice in the film as well and
does a fine job in her role.  Stephen Collins was another familiar face to
me, and does a good job, although his role is rather minor.  Susan May Pratt
caught my eye in "10 Things I Hate About You" and pulls off another good job
in this film as well.  Keri Lynn Pratt (I wonder if they're related) is
another new face to me, but I will definitely keep my eyes open for her
future work after seeing her in this film.  She is also quite easy on the
eyes.  The rest of the cast did a good job as well.  Nothing to complain
about in that respect.

Most of the characters were actually rather interesting.  I really liked the
characters of Ray and Dave, they both seemed like very likeable people and
quite the underdogs (gotta root for the underdogs).  I also really liked
that even the jocks in this film were not really made out to be idiots and
jerks (of course one of them in particular was...Eddie).  The character,
Brad, was the most important jock-character and he wasn't made out to be a
bad person or unlikeable person at all, just a guy that Nicole (Melissa Joan
Hart) was head over heels for...and then wasn't.

Another thing this film really had going for it was that it stayed away from
all the gross-out, stupid comedy that is so abundant in most teen movies
these days.  I can really appreciate a film that doesn't resort to
that...sure sometime it's really funny, but most of the time it's just
un-needed.

If you are the kind of person that likes teen comedy/drama films, then give
this one a chance, you just might like it.  Other than that, I would
recommend you spend your money and time elsewhere.  If you do see the film,
I hope you enjoy it.  Thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

This one is a guilty pleasure movie of mine. I can't explain why I like
it,
or if I even do like it, but when it's on I watch it. Sure it has my all
time favorite movie babe Ali Larter in it, but you don't see me watching
Varsity Blues or American Outlaws. Maybe when I discover what it is I like
about this movie I'll post it later.
<|_=00=_|>

Often when a teenage actress reaches her twenties she's anxious to leave off
the schoolgirl roles and try something different, so one might have thought
it would take something special to get Melissa Joan Hart ("Sabrina...,"
"Clarissa...") back in the classroom again. I can't believe that this movie
was it, though. It appears to be an attempt at the "sophisticated" style of
teen dramedy made popular by movies like "Clueless" and "Cruel Intentions"
and TV shows like "Dawson's Creek," but this film is clearly not in the same
league with those, mostly because of a listless script. "Drive Me Crazy" is
more likely to put you to sleep than to arouse any emotions suggested by its
title. The intentions may have been good here, but the execution strikes me
as simply uninspired. There's nothing much at all to recommend it. 

<|_=00=_|>
Nicole (Melissa Joan Hart) has her eye on a hunky basketball star. She
makes the overtures but he casts his gaze on a cheerleader instead.
Nicole has been the major planner for an upcoming community dance and
now her choice of dates is taken! Meanwhile, next door neighbor, Chase,
has been dumped by his eccentric girlfriend. He's sad. Melissa cooks up
a compromise. If Chase will pretend to be her guy to make the
basketball star jealous, she will do the same for him and his ex. But,
first Melissa insists on giving Chase a makeover. Will their schemes
result in mutual benefits? And, what about Nicole's absentee father?
Will he ever be interested in his daughter's happenings? This movie
would make a nice conversation starter for high school teens. Besides
its entertainment value, it has some good messages and quandaries about
what it means to be in the "in crowd" and the "out crowd". The stars
are quite good looking and have good acting abilities, especially
Adrian Grenier. Typical but nice costumes and settings compliment the
film, too. If you would like a movie to watch with your teenage
daughter or son about self worth and choices in life, this movie would
be beneficial. And, you both just might end up giggling and touched.
