

I found this film to be excellent.  Though I am a student of history,
I
really do not know all the details regarding this episode of the freeing of
Italy from Austrian authoritarianism.  Though interesting, the historical
aspect of the movie was not that important to me.  It was a highly
enjoyable
adventure film that could have been placed in lots of different historical
times.

Besides being a great adventure film it masterfully dealt with a most wide
range of emotions.  There were many undertones and harmonics dealing with
fear, desperation, horror, escape, passion, love, honor and divine, or
natural, justice.

What was so fascinating to me was how the movie showed the power of
freedom, courage and focus.  The protagonist was raised by his mother (a
most curiously powerful presence in this movie even though we never see or
hear her)to be independent and freedom loving and this movie shows how
strong and almost invincible this makes him because he believes it and
lives
it with all his heart.  All around him the world is literally falling apart
and going mad from fear and disease and yet, by neither railing against it
nor taking on these thoughts, he triumphs with his will to live and being
true to his own vision at all times.

And as an added bonus, the visual artistry of this movie, from the titles
all the way to the end is beautiful to behold.  The scenery, costumes,
sets,
actors, camera angles and etc. are all brilliantly satisfying.  The movie
was a joy to see.
<|_=00=_|>

Provence provides a stunning locale for this romantic adventure.  The camera
work is exquisite and every opportunity is taken to capture the natural
beauty of this region.  The story is simple enough.  Angelo, an Italian
colonel (handsome Olivier Martinez) escapes from Austrian-oppressed Italy to
raise funds in the continuing battle against Austria. He finds more than an
unsympathetic acceptance in France.  Most of the towns through which he
rides are beset with cholera.  The camera scenes of the dead and dying
victims, horse-drawn carts packed high with bodies and funeral pyres are
terrifying enough, but it is the fluttering of black wings as crows seek out
the eyes of the dying victims that frighten most. Some of the close-ups are
pretty grim.  In lighter vein I liked the scene where a cat befriends our
horseman and he talks to it on the roof about how wars are won with money as
much as guns.  The cat is a great little actor. The horseman an accomplished
swordsman carves his way through many a desperate situation (What hero
doesn't?) He acquires a bottle of medicine from a dying stranger who has
taught him a massage technique to avert death from cholera. On his way back
to Italy with a bag of gold coins, he gives protection to Pauline, a
doctor's wife (Juliette Binoche)who is seeking out her missing husband in
the cholera-infected area. The young 25-year old colonel who sends almost
daily letters to his mother in Italy (they are really a diary of events)
behaves as the perfect gentleman at all times, but his protegee is obviously
drawn to him.  Here is a love story where the lovers admire from a distance
never submitting to the chemistry which is drawing them together.  When the
woman collapses with cholera, all existing barriers are forgotten as he
works on her frantically with his acquired knowledge to save her life. One
of the great joys of this film is to watch the handsome faces of Martinez
and Binoche. Their beauty contrasts sharply with the agonised plight of the
villagers and the devilish black crows which hover continuously about the
dead, fluttering out through open doors and windows. The ending may not
satisfy some, but it leaves us with the thought that somewhere sometime all
will be well again.
<|_=00=_|>

This gorgeous movie was set in the cholera stricken period which wiped out
the whole of Europe in 10 days. Juliette Binoche, in her pre-The English
Patient role, was as gorgeous and subtle as ever. The thing about this
movie
though that it's billed as a romance but you don't see it anywhere but
just
hints of it and feel the sexual tensions between the 2 main characters.
Rather disappointing for some but it's that exact same formula which makes
it such a beautiful movie to watch. To top it off, it was filmed in the
French countryside which is so breathtaking that you could just watch the
movie for the cinematography alone. All in all, it's a superb movie in the
tradition of finely crafted French costume dramas.
<|_=00=_|>

It takes quite an amazing group of people to make a great epic.  Aside from
great source material, really all the components have to be superb, and it
has to be put together in such a way that the viewer is not left wondering
what happened to a decade (see: Queen Margot).

Most of the necessary pieces are here, but there is something missing, some
element that keeps it from being a truly great film.  It is certainly a good
one, a movie that is worth seeing, and worth doing so on a big screen,
thanks to its beautiful scenery between France and Italy.  The stars are
very watchable, and the story is tight enough to keep your attention
throughout. Unlike many films of its genre, it is not overlong.

Ironically, I found myself comparing it to another Binoche epic, The English
Patient, which made me wonder what was lacking in light of what I consider
to be a finer film.  In the end, it may be simply that the latter had a
novel that was more compelling, or a lead (Fiennes) that was just more
riveting.

The story is of two people fleeing the outbreak of cholera in early 19th
century France.  Angelo is attempting to return to his native Italy, to join
the revolution, and Pauline is searching for something... They manage to aid
each other's flight.

In the great tradition of French period epics, this is not the pinnacle, but
it is near the upper echelon.  It's worth a shot.
<|_=00=_|>
Two superstars of the french cinema: adorable Juliette Binoche and hot
Olivier Martinez, love and save each other from lost, sickness and
death, while horse-riding through the stunningly beautiful Provence. An
adaptation of the famous novel by Jean Giono. They are there: on the
screen, on their horses, in this magnificent landscape, he tries to
become a man, she tries to stay a woman, they are smiling, and soon
you'll express the wish of being with them on this screen, to be one of
them, maybe both, if this happens, Rappeneau gets to his goal: grace. A
great tale about love, renouncement, youth, passion, courage and Honor.
A famous novel of the french literature. Patriotism, romanticism, and
grace. Rappeneau is the master, Binoche and Martinez are the gifted
pupils.
<|_=00=_|>
Le Hussard sur le Toit presents its audience with the grim reality of
cholera-stricken rural France in 1832 and its effect on a journey of
escape by two anxious visitors. The frequent images of corpses and mass
burial are refreshed by the breathtaking and beautifully shot scenery,
itself brought to life by characters who dilute the presence of death
with an oxymoronic mix of comedy and despair. Carrion crows regularly
appear, mercilessly flying around in sinister anticipation, their
cawing beaks wide open with hunger. 

Juliette Binoche enters only in the second half, her laconic period
style beautifully portrayed, and preparing the way for her appearance
as George Sand in Les Enfants du Siecle (1999). Le Hussard's plot is
simple, its screenplay uncomplicated. But the action is fast and
Bond-like and the innocence of Martinez' military-dominated character
is uncanny. But it is its simplicity that makes this movie a work of
exceptional visual satisfaction, for romantics or action-lovers alike.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is one of the most expensive films ever made in France but it was
worthwhile. Even with such a huge budget, Jean-Paul Rappeneau is controling
very well this epic film. Moreover, it shows numerous qualities which proves
Rappeneau's confidence towards his film, for example: the beauty of the
landscapes, the performance of the two main actors: Olivier Martinez who is
very at ease in his role of soldier and Juliette Binoche who is ravishing
and brave too, the briskly rhythm of the film itself and the quality of the
screenplay which is sometimes ironic .I didn't read the novel by Jean Giono
but I suppose that the film is very faithful to the novel. I noticed one
thing in this film which is weird: very famous French actors have got only a
little role: Gérard Depardieu who performs a policeman, Jean Yanne who is a
hawker and François Cluzet who is a doctor. As a conclusion: an epic film
which is worth to be seen   
<|_=00=_|>
This is a 19th century story that is strongly reminiscent of a "knight
in shining armor" story of long, long ago. The handsome hero is both
committed to his cause of freeing Italy from Austrian rule AND
protecting his lady from all harm--even when she stupidly blunders into
it on a couple occasions. From start to finish, this is an excellent
historical "chick flick" and is likely to excite the passions of many
female viewers, but I am a guy (at least the last time I checked) and I
STILL enjoyed it. The acting was excellent and the cinematography
outstanding. About the only minor problem with the film was the
occasional stupid behaviors by the female lead (Binoche). A couple
times, she just seemed too stupid to live--but, of course, the handsome
hero came to her rescue.

An excellent film, but a little disturbing due to its graphic depiction
of plague victims. Plus, with a little nudity towards the end of the
film (it was explicit but not gratuitous), this is NOT a film for the
kids.
<|_=00=_|>
The Horseman on the Roof has to be one of the most beautiful looking
films I've ever seen, which is odd for a movie about a cholera
epidemic.

Set in a beautiful summer in the mid-19th century, it follows Olivier
Martinez's Italian in exile as he is chased across France by Austrian
agents intent on killing as many Italian rebels as they can only for
his pursuers to be outrun by a cholera epidemic that picks off friends
and foes. Along the way his path crosses with various victims and
survivors - a doctor who teaches him a neat disinfecting trick of
setting your hands on fire, a cute governess, Jean Yanne's duplicitous
peddler, Gerard Depardieu's paranoid mayor, and most importantly
Juliette Binoche, who is determined to find her husband. Naturally they
become travelling companions as they try to get through roadblocks and
avoid being put into quarantine by the soldiers cordoning off the roads
- a virtual death sentence - and eventually nearly become more. The
film looks so good in cinemascope and so much of it is terrific than
you can just about forgive the fact that the ending is a bit of a
washout after everything that's gone before.

A really enjoyable old-fashioned epic, I'd definitely pick this up if
it ever turned up on DVD uncut with English subtitles (the Miramax disc
is typically cut by 17 minutes thanks to Harvey Scissorhands).
<|_=00=_|>

Juliette Binoche and Olivier Martinez look great, and they throw themselves
enthusiastically into their roles. They do have a certain chemistry
together, but the film devotes much more attention to the effects of the
French cholera epidemic in 1832 on the countryside. The plot that kicks off
the story rather dramatically is that of the assassination plots against
Italian nationalists by Austrians who'd like to take over northern Italy.
The end of the movie, however, reveals the true focus of the story.  I wish
that the majority of the movie was devoted to that story.
