

Ahh. White Fang. The very title itself brings warmth to my heart as it was
the first novel I ever read. Now, this isn't quite an exact adaption of
Jack
London's novel, that would be difficult. What is does do is take the fine
wildlife elements of the novel and fuse them onto the tale of a boy rather
than vice versa as in the novel. This is more the story of Jack than the
wolf itself. As a film adaption however, it was the correct road to take
and
makes for splendid entertainment. There are many recognizable moments from
the book however to ensure the film is deserving of the title. It's
beautifully shot, with amazing scenery so it certainly realizes the vision
of the book. It also has top performances from the two leads and nice
support from Remar as the snarling Beauty. The bottom line though is
whether
you're familiar with London's touching novel or not this film will warm
your
heart. Recommended to anyone who likes a good old fashioned yarn.

Niz 
<|_=00=_|>

Good family-oriented movie from the Walt Disney Studios proves that
sometimes less is more. The story is about a Yukon gold hunter's (Ethan
Hawke) friendship with the titled Alaskan husky. Jack London's wonderful
novel is methodical both in the book and on the silver screen (this is a
major plus). Every frame here is a joy as wonderful editing and
cinematography enhance a deceptively smart screenplay and noble direction.
Hawke, one of the more under-rated actors of his generation, proves he can
handle a major production and take the reigns as the primary focus.
Supporting actor Klaus Maria Brandauer shines throughout. One of the finer
family films produced in the 1990s. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
Prior to seeing this, I remember reading a lot of good reviews on it.
Well, the critics were right about this one: it was good. It's an
excellent adventure film that really gets you involved with the story. 

The story, off the famous book written by Jack London, involves a young
adult male's adventures during the gold rush days of Alaska at the end
of the 19th century.

Some of the Alaskan scenery in here is just magnificent. I have talked
to a couple of people who have been around the world and they both said
Alaska had the most incredible scenery of any place they'd been, and
you see evidence of that in this movie. 

They did a nice job with the action scenes in here: not too much, not
too little and pretty realistic. The dog-fighting scenes aren't
pleasant, but they aren't bloody, either. The villains, led by James
Remar, are nasty but not profane.

This is not a typical Disney film, at least at the time of its release,
because the violence is intense at times and there is some profanity.
It's a rugged story about rugged people in a rugged land. These
adventurers had to be rough to survive.

Ethan Hawke plays the young man-hero whom we all root for, and the way
he builds a relationship to wolf-dog "White Fang" is touching to view.
The movie offers everything but humor but they do throw one funny line
in at the end, by one of the villains, no less.

Summary: a memorable adventure. One of Disney's best films of any
genre. I am amazed there are less than 20 reviews of this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The film deals about a very young man (Ethan Hawke) going to Klondike ,
Alaska territory , where there's a mine which inherited from his
deceased father . There he meets prospectors (Klaus Maria Brandauer and
Seymour Cassel) and they go on looking for gold . The protagonist
befriends a mixed dog-wolf called ¨White Fang¨ for its white and sharp
tooth when he is saved during the attack of a bear . After that , he
rescues to White Fang from hands a villainous (James Remar) who
utilized it for illegal dogs fighting . 

The picture is based on autobiographic life of Jack London , as in his
real life was a gold seeker or prospector . Furthermore , there remains
the essential elements as the young-dog friendship , the gold rush ,
spectacular outdoors and snowy locations and several moving scenes .
Authentic film stars are the animals , there appear the followings :
dogs, wolves , bear and specially ¨White Fang¨ incarnated by a
magnificent animal , middle wolf and dog . As says the warning in the
beginning of the movie , the animals aren't mistreated but they're well
cared by an exceptional trainers group . The best part of film are the
spectacular snowy outdoors , the marvelous landscapes are stunningly
photographed by Tom Pierce Roberts . The film is wonderfully set in
Klondike -Yukon territory- on the end XIX century and was filmed in
sensational scenarios and gorgeous landscapes . The movie is a feast
for the eyes and ears that captures the adventure feeling as few others
have ever done . Ethan Hawke as a young adventurer is nice , he's a
newcomer and would have much success later on , converting himself in a
world star . Evocative and atmospheric musical score by Basil
Poledouris (author of Conan soundtrack) . 

The film was one of the various adaptations about Jack London novel ,
though differs partially from the book (other pictures were directed by
David Butler , Lucio Fulci and Italian exploitation) . The movie got an
official sequel : ¨White Fang II, myth of the white wolf¨ , though
differs significantly from the book , being directed by Ken Olin ,
starred Scott Bairstow , Alfred Molina and Geoffrey Lewis . The motion
picture was rightly directed by Randal Kleiser (Grease) . The flick
will appeal to animals enthusiast and adventure cinema fans. Rating :
Good and entertaining , it maintains the charm and magic of the classic
novel but still makes for decent kiddies amusement .
<|_=00=_|>
I just read White Fang and I found it awesome. London is the writer of
the Yukon and the Gold Rush. When I start watching this movie I just
thought that it must have a lot of twist to be a good movie. The book
was really wild: the famine, the attacks of White Fang to the dogs at
the station, are not here... It will be too cruel to the movie screen
and I guess impossible without hurting the animals. Instead, you will
find here a kind movie, with action, with a spectacular scenarios, with
this beautiful wolf/dog, with great music and with the London adventure
at his best. Inspired in White Fang, the movie carry us trough the life
of Jack becoming a man, and a simple and moving relationship between
the man and his dog. There are scenes that were just great: the amazing
dog combat, in this point both movie and book are just awesome.

Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
WHITE FANG, in my opinion, is a very touching movie that's well-acted
about a special friendship for all ages that will warm your heart. When
White Fang became orphaned, I felt like crying. However, I really loved
the relationship between Jack (Ethan Hawke) and White Fang. If I could
have, I would have loved to have been friends with the animal. In
addition, I liked the other animals, too. The score was good, the
costumes were perfectly designed, everyone was cast perfectly, and the
direction was flawless. In conclusion, I highly recommend this very
touching movie that's well-acted about a special friendship for all
ages to anyone who hasn't seen it. You're in for a real treat and a
good time, so go to the video store, rent it or buy it, kick back with
someone close to you, and watch it. I guarantee you you'll thoroughly
enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
***SPOILERS*** Heartwarming Jack London tale of a hybrid wolf/dog puppy
who was out on his own trying to survive the harsh weather and the
Alaskan Yukon's frozen and dangerous countryside.

The pup, who's mother was caring for it until she died, due to being
shot by a gold prospector, was trying to go it alone with no family or
wolf pack to provide food care or safety for it is later caught in a
trap by a local Inult Eskimo Grey Beaver, Plus Savage, who gives the
puppy the name "White fang" due to it's over-sized dagger-like killing
canine teeth.

Later at the local town when Grey Beaver, with White Fang, was there to
trade in furs for food and supplies some of the people spotted the
unusual wolf/dog and set a huge sled dog on White Fang who the wolf/dog
made short odor of. The owner of the sled dog Beauty Smith, James
Ramer,forces Grey Beaver to give up White Fang to him for compensation
for what he did to his lead sled dog and trains the wolf/dog to be a
fighting dog at the local illegal dog fighting pen. 

White Fang terribly abused and brutalized by Beauty to be a killer wins
dozens of dog fights for his greedy owner until one night in a fight
with a much younger and powerful bull-dog is almost killed only to be
saved by young Jack Conroy, Ethan Hawke,as the Royal Mountie Police
broke into the dog fighting pen discontinuing the vicious savagery
going on there. White Fang saved Jack's life earlier in the film,
before he was taken from Grey Beaver by Beauty Smith, when the powerful
and courageous wolf/dog stared down a giant Alasken Bear who was about
to maul and kill the wounded young man and now Jack was returning the
favor. 

Back at the shed Jack was with his partner Alex Larson, Klaus Maria
Brandauer,a friend of Jack's late father who died in the wild Alsaken
wilderness and left the claim to the shack and mine to him. jack
patching the wounded canine showed the love and kindness to White Fang
that he never knew and soon became Jack's, as well as Alex's,best
friend. 

Striking a gold load at the mine Jack,together with White Fang, go to
town to see if the gold he found in his mine is genuine which it proves
to be. Beauty Smith spot's the young man and his former fighting
wolf/dog and together and with a number of his criminal associates
follows them back to the shack in order to kill both Jack and Alex and
steal their gold but They didn't count on White Fang. The brave and
ferocious wolf/dog put the whole gang out of commission and ended up
plowing his ferocious teeth into the hated Beauty's derrière. 

Touching tearful and uplifting ending with White Fang coming back to
Jack who earlier chased the wolf/dog into the wild. That was after he
decided to leave the Yukon with Alex and his girlfriend Belinda, Susan
Hogan, for San Francisco to open a hotel, with the money they made from
the gold mine, with Jack being a co-partner. Wonderful story for kids
and grownups of all ages with some of the most scenic and beautiful
photography, around the towns of Halnes & Skagway Alaska, ever put on
film.
<|_=00=_|>

The backgrounds of wolf dog and his new owner and the owner's
partner (Beautifully played by Claus Maria Brandauer) explore
unlikely  relationships that form in a turn of the century Yukon
environment which is raw and difficult.   The boy becomes a man,
the wolf-dog becomes a loyal friend of the young boy, and the
partner becomes mature and sentimental - all changes against a
glorious mountain backdrop..  The American Humane Society
approved the many action scenes, some of them very violent, in
which the dog and other less friendly dogs appear.  The criminals
are taken to the Royal Mounties, the boy stays with his wolf dog,
the partner goes off with the bar owner after boy, dog and partner
find a mine full of raw gold.  It's a classic old movie with boy and
dog as an unexpectedand wonderful team.  What a beautiful dog!

A few tears.  Great!
<|_=00=_|>
i remember watching this film when i was kid back in 1991. I was and
still am a lover of Wolves, and this film really got to me. I just
purchased the DVD last night, and am so excited to re-live what was
once my all time favorite movie. The acting and the scenery in this
film are amazing, i can still remember sitting in my bedroom watching
Ethan Hawke's character walking up that huge slope to get to the top
and meet with the people he is going to mine gold with. Along the way
White Fang comes along and helps him and protects him. It is one of the
greatest movies having to do with the gold mining and wildlife. White
fang was my hero as an animal as i was growing up, and i had always
wished that i could find a wolf, and live in alaksa with it by my side.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in the frozen wilderness and frontier towns of the Yukon Territory
at the height of Klondike Gold Rush in the late 1890's, Randal
Kleiser's "White Fang" (1991) is above all a story of love and
friendship between two young orphans: Jack Conroy, played by a
fresh-faced but precociously talented Ethan Hawke, and White Fang, a
lone gray wolf.

Loosely based on the classic Jack London novel of the same name, "White
Fang" is as eager and hopeful a film as Jack is when he touches shore
in the Yukon Valley. But no sooner is Jack mugged by reality in the
shape of a sly and malicious Beauty Smith (played a finely villainous
James Remar) and his two cronies, than Kleiser begins to unveil the
unyielding, unpitying hardness of nature, starting with the shooting
death of a she-wolf, mother to the wolf pup White Fang.

The story of the film is a journey in more ways than one, and Jack's
journey closely parallels White Fang's in spirit and tone. Both are
recently orphaned survivors, vital spirits in a barren landscape.
Jack's challenges start as soon as he lands: a new land, both harsh and
majestic, with potentially unlimited wealth awaiting the lucky and the
industrious. The difficult conditions are compounded by the reason for
Jack's sojourn: though he claims to want only to work his father's
claim, he clearly, ultimately, seeks to redeem his father's death.

As their stories progress and Jack and White Fang eventually find each
other, their fraternal/paternal relationship seems to take the place of
the their absent parents. They care and look out for each other and at
different times, rescue each other from certain death. Kindred spirits,
both were forced to grow up quickly and they take on the odds of
survival with pluck and, mostly, good humor.

The photography of "White Fang" matches the beauty of the arctic
landscape: underground lakes and grottos, ice caves and vast expanses
of snow framed by distant mountain ranges. Cinematographer Tony
Pierce-Roberts's impressive use of the wide shot – in some instance
with the sled team slicing across the screen, perfectly channel the
adventurist spirit of the time and the place. Like Jack, it's hard for
us not to be completely swept away by the wide open scenes of nature at
its purest. Pierce-Robert's dramatic crane shots, from slow, intimate
creeps to quickly rising booms are also beautifully choreographed.

According to Kleiser, the film was storyboard from first shot to last.
Given that so many scenes involved wolves or wolf-dogs of varying
degrees of tameness and training (as well as an astonishing cameo by
Bart the Bear in a fight scene) this was a wise decision. Because of
the limitations inherent in filming under these conditions, Kleiser
bravely relied on the pure visual grammar of film language to tell the
characters' story. His economy of shots, matching eye lines,
composition and distribution of elements in the screen space were
carefully thought out and intelligently, if not painstakingly,
executed.

On a personal level, I found watching "White Fang" to be a touching,
even moving experience, and only very momentarily sentimental. In fact,
the director's reserve in not allowing the material to move into
maudlin sentimentality is to be admired and appreciated. This reserve
is the mark of a great observer.

Successful sound design elements also contribute to the film's faithful
and creative re-creation of its sensory world: at tense moments like
when the ice is cracking under Jack's feet, or when we hear a
heartbeat-like thudding in more hallucinatory scenes, as when Gray
Beaver of the Han tribe finds little White Fang caught in a game trap.
I also very much enjoyed the majestic soundtrack, with its resonant
symphonic score: horns, strings, and unusually, wind instruments
working together in resonant and harmonic ways to make Jack and White
Fang's story truly great storytelling.

Finally, the film's faithful and evocative re-creations of the
historical era, from the stock photos and maps of the opening credits
to the impressive outdoor sets of the Klondike towns, combined with a
refined instinct for storytelling, magnificent locations, well-directed
actors (including a small, delightful role by the great Seymour
Cassel!) and disciplined choreography make "White Fang" a great film
experience.
