
When someone asks me which movie i have seen the most times, i have to
answer Friday. I know the movie pretty much verbatim, and have seen it
well over 30 times. Chris Tucker is one of the funniest people ever.
This is his best performance, followed closely by Rush Hour. There are
so many funny moments in this movie it would be impossible to name them
all here. My favorites would have to be when Smokey meets his blind
date, who turns out to be fat and bald, and the scenes where Deebo
confronts Smokey and Craig, played by Ice Cube. The movie has a
hilarious supporting cast, including John Witherspoon, Tiny Lister, and
Bernie Mac. Critics don't know anything. If you ever have a chance to
see this and enjoy urban comedy and Chris Tucker, don't even hesitate
to watch. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
When I was 14, I first saw Friday and almost choked from laughter. The
script by Ice Cube and DJ Pooh is right on target with it's ghetto
humor. Another plus point for the film is it doesn't stereotype. But
it's Chris Tucker as Smokey who makes this film. His high pitched voice
and mannerisms are classic.Hard-core rapper Ice Cube, after appearing
in such hard-hitting films as Boyz 'N the Hood and Higher Learning,
played his first comic role in this picture he co-wrote with frequent
musical collaborator DJ Pooh. Craig (Ice Cube) manages to get fired on
his day off (though he claims it's through no fault of his own) and
spends the day hanging out with his buddy Smokey (Chris Tucker) and
trying to avoid his father (John Witherspoon), who wants him to find
another job immediately. Smokey (whose name might have something to do
with his tremendous fondness for marijuana) has even more serious
problems; he was given $200 worth of weed to sell by Big Worm (Faizon
Love), but he ended up smoking it instead, and if he can't come up with
the money by the end of the day, he'll be in a world of hurt (and will
put Craig in the same place just for being his friend). And Deebo (Tom
"Tiny" Lister, Jr.), a gargantuan bully who roams the neighborhood on
his bicycle, has it in for Craig, while Craig tries his best just to
stay out of his way. As one would expect, Friday features a strong
hip-hop soundtrack, featuring tracks by such artists as Dr. Dre,
Cypress Hill, Mack 10, and Funkdoobiest, as well as old-school R&B
selections from The Isley Brothers, Roger, and Rose Royce
<|_=00=_|>

This is probably one of the best modern comedies. Chris Tucker is great as
Smokey, and Ice Cube is great as Craig. The movie starts off perfectly, and
ends the same way. It's a very believable film, and is definitely worth a
watch. 
<|_=00=_|>
Eleven years ago (one year before this movie debuted), if you'd have
told me you can get an entire movie from two guys sitting on their
porch on a hot Friday afternoon, I'd have said you were nuts.

I first saw this movie on a date with my girlfriend as a teenager way
back in 1995 (it's hard to believe that was 10 years ago, I laughed
through it then and I laugh through it now.

It's also the movie that made me a Chris Tucker mark.

I see everything that guy is in.

The same goes for Cube.

I love this movie's ability to show that ghettos aren't all like the
'Good Times' TV series.

This movie keeps it's lightheartedness throughout especially with funny
characters to support Cube and Tucker like DJ Pooh, A.J. Johnson and
Tiny Lister.

It also doesn't hurt to have Nia Long with her fine self in it either.

But as I stated this movie is very lighthearted and doesn't begin to
get serious at all until the end where Craig tears Smokey a new one for
getting him involved in the mess, Big Worm's assassination attempt on
Craig and Smokey and Craig coming to the aid of Debbie (Nia) when D-bo
(Lister) is beating her up.

It's at those two points you almost forget this is supposed to be a
comedy movie.

The most important message in this movie actually came from Johnny
Witherspoon who portrayed Craig's father.

He gave his son some very fatherly advise...which I hope to follow with
my own son one day.

Although I can't say I'd have been that calm if I walked into my son's
room and saw him holding a semi-aotumatic 9mm pistol.

But I did like his advice....as I believe it was meant to be a message
to the audience.

"You kids today are nothing but punks, so quick to pick up a gun. You
scared to take an ass-whipping!" (referring to his fists) "These are
all the protection you need. You win some, you lose some, but you
live!"
<|_=00=_|>

Believe me, If you could relate to SMOKEY and CRAIG, then you would see why
this flick is so funny!  While Dumb & Dumber and Austin Powers:The Spy Who
Shagged Me, had me rollin' at times, it didn't do enough to throw me at that
front porch where our two main characters sit and do nothing but get high
and jive!

Yeah I can understand those critics who say "what's the point"?  But in this
flick, You don't need a point! Just plain and simple laughs! This is already
a camp classic in case y'all don"t know!  Please give it a look.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is hilarious! As far as comedies go about the hood, this one
is hands down the best. Chris Tucker and Ice Cube really mix up nicely
in this one. This is a feel good movie and doesn't glorify the gritty
hard reality violence of the inner city at all, but rather focuses on
strugglin to make it with good humor and staying positive. Sure they
smoke weed all up and down side to side through this movie, but you
have to remember that brings a certain audience and humor to it that
wasn't present before. This movie is downright laugh out loud caliber.
The situations this odd couple is forced into are interesting and very
funny. The re-watch value for Friday is tremendous and the characters
are beautifully developed. There are some true memorable moments in
Friday, and even more memorable characters. This is just a fun movie
from start to finish and never tries to be perfect. Thank you for
keeping it light, and to the point. All we wanted was some fun and it
was delivered with Friday.
<|_=00=_|>
After listening to Ice Cube's song "Friday", I was very curious to know
how good the actual movie was. Then when I finally bought the DVD of
the film, I was very pleased. The movie was a great comedy, filled with
laughs and an interesting story.

The whole movie's story takes place on a Friday. It's about two friends
(played by Ice Cube and Chris Tucker) who try to get through a regular
Friday in their urban neighborhood. Little do these two fellows know,
this Friday will be anything but regular. This Friday will be the most
different Friday they will ever experience.

The best thing about the movie is Chris Tucker. He gives a very comical
and humorous performance as Smokey, the weed-addicted home boy. I've
heard that Chris Tucker didn't star in the sequels to this film, so I
refuse to watch the sequels. Ice Cube was pretty good in the movie too,
but I wish he didn't have to star in the Tucker-less sequels, since
Cube & Tucker go well together as buddies.

The soundtrack of the movie is great as well. There are lots of hip hop
songs played in various parts of the film. I particularly like the
songs from Dr. Dre, Cypress Hill, and Ice Cube himself.

The bad part about the movie is that the story itself seems to be
over-simplistic. I think a way to improve the movie would have been to
add more sub-plots, therefore making the movie contain many funny
twists. But still, the movie is pretty good as it is.

To sum up, this is a great movie to watch on a day when you're in need
of some good comedy. I'd recommend watching the movie on a good ol'
Friday night!

I give this movie a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
(Re-review in 2015): It's interesting to see how this has been labeled
the first "Hood" comedy. I'm sure there have been others - though
written by, of all people, Joel Schumacher, I've always thought of
1976's Car Wash as the grand-daddy of them. It's also become a
benchmark for stoners; for the 20th anniversary, it was screened for a
special event on 4/20. Sadly, I couldn't attend full of the green
stuff, but it was still an enjoyable experience seeing it again. Not
great, but good.

For all of the comparisons to it being Boyz N tha Hood as a crude
comedy, that it is in part. But it's also like the Watts equivalent of
something closer Clerks, also by first-time filmmakers: it's mostly
about two guys who don't have much going on with their lives or
prospects or action, but they're surrounded by so many 'lively'
personalities and moments that are meant to get BIG laughs, regardless
of a story structure that is super-strong outside of the
Day-In-The-Life thing. And both borrow of course from Do the Right
Thing, though Cube actually goes for his own version of the violent
climax with a fight. The lack of any cops shows this is a fairly
insulated world. Works for me.

If it doesn't really have the same existential heft as Clerks, well,
it's not fully trying to be that anyway. What we get here also, of
course, is the breakthrough for Chris Tucker - an opportunity he'd only
really pursue for another few years before spending his life, it
appears, on Rush Hour checks (and a surprise guest spot in Silver
Linings Playbook, of all things). His work here is still electrifying
and high-charged, though maybe this time I saw more of the obvious
"tics" of the character (like, we get it, the Angel Dust bit is one of
the major highlights of the movie, but can't you move on?) And Cube is
good as straight man for Tucker's foole, and has a few moments too.

This is one of those movies I watched a LOT 'back in the day' as one
might say. It's really a movie, despite being rated R, for 13 year
olds, black or white, and seeing it at 13 made as big an impression as
seeing Clerks or Pulp Fiction or whatever. At the time I thought it was
that good on the level. But some things do last better than others, and
the seams in Friday show much more over time. Some bits don't work -
the crackhead (?) hustler is hit or miss, mostly great in the "HEY,
SMOKY BACk HERE TAKING A S***!" bit - though Tony Lister, DEEBO of
course in capital letters, is still amazing. And I found myself
laughing often through the film, in part due to things still working,
like anything with Bernie Mac (and Tony Cox!), and sometimes just
nostalgia. It surprised me just how much I remembered in terms of
dialog - if only I remembered everything from school like this, I'd be
probably a smarter man today... oh well.

Bottom line, enough of it holds up to recommend as a fun comedy, but
the effect of 20 years of stoner/hood/black comedies have diluted some
of its effectiveness; any time Craig narrated, or that quick montage of
'things that happened today' right before the fight, drag the movie
down. And why do they go OUTSIDE knowing that the drive-by is going to
happen? That they might shoot the houses whether or not they're there?
Doesn't make sense.

Maybe I'm putting too much thought into it here. But, for what it was,
and is, it's fun, dirty stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
Chris Tucker and Ice Cube what more do you want for a Movie like this!?
This movie was funny, bright and original. theirs not a point in the
movie where it goes dull or boring.

Its starts off when Craig (Cube) wakes up on a Friday morning with his
friend Smokey (Tucker) outside of his house for only Smokey to find out
Craig got fired on his day off, Smokey tries helping Craig feel better
by Rolling him Joints and drinking beer, Craig doesn't touch weed,
until Smokey forces him to, they both end up getting high, Along comes
Big Worm, the man that gives Smokey the weed to sell, only for Smokey
to smoke, later on Big Worm finds out Smokey doesn't have the cash to
cough up so Big Worm gives Smokey a deadline warning, or a drive-by.
Craig has nothing to do with it, but nothing matters no more.

Through out the movie comes local bully's, Stupid Neighbours, dumb
friends, Early 90's rap music, drive-by's, Horney midgets, fights and
Craig & Smokey. A lot can go down between Thursday and Saturday!

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
........................................................from
Pasto,Colombia...Via: L.A. CA, CALI, Colombia & ORLANDO, FL 

I was feeling like a GOOD Comedy, (SO hard to come by nowadays, ne
c'est pa?) I recalled a recent note from a Friend, touting Friday,
saying that only ONE Friend had rated it below 6*. Clicked to
check...Nine out of Ten = 10* Reviews and one 8* on PAGE One! Takes
place in South Central L.A Hey! I grew up in SOUTH CENTRAL!...WOW!
Sounded like a 100% sure bet, Right? (Queue LOUD Buzzer Sounding)
WRONG!!! Was REALLY disappointed...

Here's WHY: Friday did not really offer up much in the way of anything
fresh or original. In a DVD Extras' interview, the principals claimed
that Friday would show a much more true-to-life, much less violent
HOOD, unlike some other famous late 80's early 90's flicks. Hmmm...

OK, let's see: One of the two main "Buddies", played by a then
relatively unknown Chris Tucker, smokes weed, non-stop, 24/7, and is
named "Smokey"! Oh! BTW, he also deals Marijuana! WOW! We've NEVER
seen THAT in an inner- city movie before, huh? Excuse me!?! Did they
say "True to life...or True to Stereotype?" Well, how about the "much
less violent" angle? HmmmTwo machine-gun toting Gang-bangers spray
their house with at least 100 rounds! Hey, just another typical day of
peace and quiet in the HOOD, right! There are a number of other
negative stereotypes presented as well.

Two things I resent: First, why are these things OK if it's supposedly
Black movieor do I have to say "Afro-American"? Secondly, why are so
many people afraid to bring it up, for fear of being labeled, "Racist"?
I have African ancestors. They are 6 or 7 generations removed, so I'm
pretty bleached out, but I must still have a couple African genes in my
genetic profile. So, PLEASE, spare me the racist label, O.K.? Must
admit though, HOOD did deliver at least a few good laughs!
5*...ENJOY/DISRUTELA!?!...(I Hope Much More Than I) 

Any comments, questions or observations, in English or Español, are
most welcome!
