
I don't normally respond to these kinds of things, but after reading
some of the negative responses I couldn't help myself. There is a movie
out there for everyone, something everyone NEEDs to laugh at and who
can relate to. This movie is the opidemy of my humor and the extreme
way it portrays the upper crust world of stuffy, snobby, self absorbed
unrealistic people who think the world revolves around their view and
opinions is classic and makes me laugh in a way that is honest for me.

I read that some people were offended by it and want to get others to
share their view. All I gotta say is, "If you didn't like the first
one, why did you go to see the second one? Just to complain?" Do all of
us "Friends" of Jim Carey a favor, if you don't like his humor, just go
find some stuffy anal retentive "fluff" film, and write reviews on them
that we will never read since those movies are for stuck-up self
absorbed types. Sorry I just didn't think it fair that these people are
"Flameing" this as if there are no other possibilities.

Thanx for reading.
<|_=00=_|>

Is it dumb? Well, it's definitely low-brow, but it also has some gags that
are undeniably clever. Is it racist? Yeah, a little, but it's also
satirizing old stereotypes about "Dark Africa." Is it immature and and
gross
and sophomoric and over-the-top? Yes. Yes, it is.

But someone (well, me) once said the only thing comedies have to be is
funny. And this movie is dang funny. Need I remind anybody of the scene
where Ace insists on dropping a slinky down the hundreds of steps leading
up
to a Buddhist temple? ("It was RIGHT there!") Or the slideshow in which
Ace's hand appears to greedily devour a poacher's crotch? That's just
hilarious!

The great thing about this movie is that it doesn't settle for outlandish
set-ups that only seem to be jokes. This movie gets full bang for its
comedic buck. Do we have a fight with a crocodile presented
in-and-of-itself
as humor? No! In a lesser film, perhaps. But Ace Ventura goes the extra
mile, bringing us childish schoolyard taunts ("Stop hittin' yourself! Stop
hittin yourself!") And is it enough to have Ace chasing the villain through
the jungle in a monster truck? No - he actually pulls up next to him and
utters a bon mot worthy of Groucho. Also, where did that monster truck come

from?! The sheer resolve not to explain the truck's presence is a sublimely
satirical dig at movies that might place monster trucks in the jungle just
for cheap, lazy wackiness.

This movie is anything but lazy. Jim Carrey, like no actor before him,
pulls
out all the stops as Ace Ventura. Is he milking things? Oh sure. He's
milking things like Paganini milked the violin, or like Michelangelo milked
the Sistine Chapel. He's inventing a manic persona so complete and fully
realized, that it transcends standard comedy and achieves something
mystical
and poetic and truthful. And that's how it keeps from being
annoying.

This film is too casually dismissed because it looks like a terrible movie.
I was hesitant to watch it. But maybe, years and years from now, it will
achieve the kind of subversive cult-film status it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was directed and written by Steve Oedekerk. Tom Shadyac is
not attached to this movie for some reason. But, Steve Oedekerk did a
pretty good Job. The movie begins with a spoof from "Cliffhanger" where
Ace fails to save a Raccoon. Ace retires from being a "Pet Detective"
until Fulton Greenwall (Ian McNeice) offers him a large amount of money
to find a missing sacred Bat. The plot of this movie is not as good as
the original. But it's funnier! And a lot of fun. I remember watching
this 10 years ago at the theater when it first came out. Frankly, I
think there should be one more movie before Ace retires. Jim Carrey is
a comedic genius. And he is pure talent. Not even Jerry Lewis can
compare to the talent of Jim Carrey.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite most views of this movie, I thought it was just as good as (and in
some aspects better than) the original.  Of course there was a lot  of
recycled humor, but there was also a lot of original humor too.  I was a
little bummed to find out that Courteney Cox wasn't returning in the second
installment, but they did just fine without her.  I doubt it will happen,
but I would love to see an Ace Ventura 3 someday.

I thought the scene where Ace is trapped inside the animatronic rhino was
the funniest scene in the movie, but the film is filled with other great
scenes too.  I also loved the fact that he is a lover of all animals, except
Bats.  I thought that was such a funny idea for the character.  I mean, what
does that say about bats if a lover of all animals can't even stand them and
finds them revolting.  Just thinking about it makes me laugh.  I just love
the irony I guess.  Anyhow, there isn't much more I can say about this film
other than if you liked "Pet Detective", you should see "When Nature Calls".
 "Bumble-Bee Tuna",

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie ever since in come out in 1995 when i was six years
old...

I love Jim Carrey am a BIG fan of him...and i think that this was his
best performance...he just so funny in this movie...

"It's the mucus that binds us" still cracks me up today... His other
famous saying "Ok take care now, by bye then" and "alrightly" are
classic lines...

Its best to see the first movie "Ace Ventura: Pet Detective", before
you see the second movie so you get the feel of Ace Ventura...the jokes
get so much more funnier in the second movie...

Just the way Jim acts as Ace is genius...i recommend everyone see this
movie...
<|_=00=_|>

I didn't think the first movie was any great shakes.

Sure, it had Carrey in it, running amok and mugging and mimicking and making
every rude sound a kid would learn by eighth grade.  But the story just kept
getting in the way.

That's why "When Nature Calls", in my opinion, is much
funnier.

The story of securing a sacred bat is neither too intrusive nor annoying and
leaves room for gags aplenty.  

And Carrey....  Well, he enters a slapstick marathon and wins the gold in
every event.  I swear the man is made of rubber.

Some of the jokes are pretty gross (the spitting ritual, the "guano"
references, etc.) but why should that come as any surprise?  Most comedies
gear for that kind of humor anymore and, more or less sophisticated, reach
the same common denominator: body fluids is funny, dude.

Still, without the fluids and functions, there are still great scenes (Ace's
entrance in the dining hall, the monks' reaction to his departure, his
behavior at the slide show, his driving habits, his escape from a mechanical
rhino) and plenty of opportunities to see Hollywood's most uninhibited
comedian use every conceivable part of his body to make us
laugh.

I laughed.  His work is done.

When this "Nature" calls, answer it.

Nine stars.  And remember: do not pass go, do not collect
$200.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best and my favorite comedy movies ever! I have watched it
at least 7 times and found it funny each time. All those guys saying
this part is not as good as the first one, must be out of their sense
of humor! This part lives up to its expectations and i found it even
funnier than the first part. You might get bored watching the first
part 3 or 4 times but not this part! This is a must see film if you
haven't seen it already. I own its DVD and keep it very close to my DVD
player all the times...never know when i'd like to watch it again :-) I
would give it a well deserving 10 out of 10, it cant get any better
than this. I really feel sorry for those who didn't find it funny.
Please Don't miss it...watch it today!!! Highly recommended!!!!
<|_=00=_|>

When you hear a really hilarious joke the normal logical reaction would most
likely be that you burst into hysterical laughter. Later on when someone
tells you the very same joke again something is already different. You don't
laugh to it anymore, you just give it a little weary yawn and say: "I've
heard that one before". However, there are refreshing exceptions. "Ace
Ventura: When nature calls" is one of them because if the joke is good
enough and someone can still tell it properly it can be just as funny even
though you've heard it once before.

This sequel isn't better than the original but unlike some other IMDb-users
I feel that it really isn't much worse either. If you loved "Ace Ventura:
Pet detective" I see no sensible reason why you shouldn't love this one as
well. Best thing about "Ace Ventura: When nature calls" is the fact that our
beloved pet detective has moved right from urban city surroundings deep into
the exotic African locations. It would've been a really hard job to figure
out perfect settings for the third part of this unholy saga so I'm pretty
damn glad they never made it (as far as I understand Carrey refused) because
these two flicks are so sensationally good comedies it would have been quite
a shame to see how the excellent idea wears out after too much
use.

In the mid-90's when Jim Carrey was just becoming a huge superstar I used to
consider him just an annoying and overrated jerk. I simply didn't understand
him. I guess it isn't always easy to admit that a guy who talks through his
arsehole is one of the most talented comedians of our time but in the end it
probably tells more about our time than Mr. Carrey. "The Truman show", "Man
on the moon" and "The Majestic" has also proofed that Carrey is more than
just a gifted comedian, he's a really believable, charming and impressive
actor.

Actually I predict that sooner or later when the time is right and he ends
up in a right movie he will definitely get his Oscar but it's not coming
from something like this that's for sure. Let's face it, if you're not used
to Jimmy's humor these movies are not exactly the easiest ones to swallow
since the breathtakingly lunatic Ace Ventura is one of the most (if not the
most) overdone characters of the whole movie history. But if you give it a
try, you may just love it. I can honestly say that I do. This is classic Jim
Carrey at his best.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, then god help you. I've known people who are not big fans of Jim
Carey's style of comedy and I can see their point. He's just outrageous
and rarely witty. But this movie has a bit of everything: clever
dialogues, beautiful locations, and of course Jim Carey at his very
best.

I find it much funnier than any of his other works. The Mask had too
few of the 'mask' scenes, Pet Detective was just about OK, nothing
great. This movie though is better because the story flows
freely(unlike P.D) and it has a lot of Jim Carey (unlike The Mask). The
scene at the monastery is actually brilliantly shot and to have such
OTT comedy at what otherwise seems so mystical a location, I've never
seen something like that. And lastly, yes it may seem a bit absurd,
it's Ace's love for animals that comes out quite well. To have gone to
a seclusion for losing a racoon(he was not paid to find anyways) is
both hilarious and heart warming.

The rhino scene alone would've made this one of my favorite comedies,
but there's so much more on offer.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Jim Carrey is one of those actors you will find yourself either adoring
or hating. He does not ever "underact." This movie made me laugh so
hard I cried (even after the fifth time!) From the robot rhino scene to
the monopoly guy Jim knows how to be hilarious. I saw the first one
(liked it a lot) and have to say this one is way better! I am a huge
fan of Carrey. I don't think there are many people who can make such a
variety of facial expressions. The only reason this is not a ten is
because there is (as usual with Carrey) some inappropriate stuff thrown
in. But if your love laughing and you love Jim, this movie will fit you
"Like a glove!"
