

I was watching a Lakers games when I first saw a commercial for Love &
Basketball, so naturally it was comprised of mostly basketball action and a
snippet of an adult version of the b-ball game HORSE.  I thought, "oh, cute
movie about a guy and girl who play basketball and get together".  Not
exactly earth-shattering, I thought, but cute.  So imagine my surprise when
I saw the film start like a cute movie but then evolve.  And deepen.  And
bloom.  I laughed, I sat on the edge of my seat in anticipation, and I
swear
I almost cried.  A "cute" movie?  This film had levels I hadn't dreamed of
and spoke to so much more than just sex and basketball, and yet all of it
was held together cohesively by the love affair and the commitment to the
sport.  I was thoroughly impressed by the performances all around and by
Ms.
Prince-Blythewood's unerring writing and direction.  A definite
recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>

First off, let me say that I am a huge fan of almost every sport known to
mankind.  Now perhaps because of this, you'd think I'd enjoy movies easier
whose central theme revolves around a sport.  Contrary to that notion
though, I am often a hard rater of sports movies because I expect so much
from them.

I really enjoyed this movie though.  I thought the acting by both Lathan
and
Epps was outstanding.  I found it to be extremely realistic, with the
exception of seeing Epps in a Laker uniform, but other than that, it was
real.  At one point during the film, I really started to wonder if this
film
was based on a true story or something, how cool would that have been.
Nonetheless, the fictional story is captivating.

Yes I am a guy and I love sports, but I do like watching the occassional
love story.  I liked Pearl Harbor and Titantic which revolved around love
stories, and I liked this love story too.  There is more to it though,
than
just two people who fall for each other who happen to play basketball.

There is the relationship not only between Quincy and Monica, but the
relationships they had with their father and mother respectively.  There
is
also the relationship they have with the world they live in, trying to
find
out what they really want in life.  It really makes you think about how
sometimes the very thing you are looking for is actually standing right
there in front of you and you don't realize it.

In the end, I loved Love and Basketball, and I give it a
10.
<|_=00=_|>

	Follows the relationship of Monica and Q from elementary school, through
high school, college, and life afterwards as they grow to maturity on the
court and off. Sanaa Lathan is great as Monica, the girl who wants nothing
more than to be the first woman to play in the NBA yet slowly begins to
realize there is something greater missing from her life. Omar Epps does his
usual fine performance as Q, a boy striving to be better than his NBA star
father who learns that a man doesn't necessarily have to be a star. The
basketball scenes are well shot and pretty realistic in the aspect of how
male and female teams are viewed by the fans. Overall a very enjoyable
movie. 

<|_=00=_|>

Love and Basketball: Monica and Quincy have lived beside one another since
they were kids, and they only care about two things in life - basketball and
each other. 

I am definitely more of a movie fan than a basketball fan, thus I went in
expecting a jock flick with a token relationship thrown in to justify the
title.  I could not have been more wrong.  Unlike "He Got Game" (another
very good film), which dwells solely on the negative aspects of the sport -
hustlers, hookers, drugs and death, L&B concentrates on the positive things
in life and basketball serves as the background rather than the focus.  The
story is very well written and works on several levels - it refuses to be
pinned down as simply a romance or drama, choosing instead a careful
blending of different elements.  My only complaint - minor at that - would
have to be the ending (and no I'm not going to tell you).

First, how could I find fault with a film that actually does a great casting
job with Tyra Banks?  She has a small cameo role- she plays a beautiful
stewardess, small stretch - with some great lines. Omar Epps brings his
trademark cockiness to the role, and although it took me awhile to buy him
as a basketball player -he's not exactly Goliath -he grows on you.  More
importantly, he exhibits and a depth and range that he's never shown before.
Sanaa Lathan however, goes one step further, and demonstrates an intensity
both on and off the court that puts her in a league all her own.  Her
performance can be summed up as superb. 

L&B is real, engaging, and enjoyable.  

Don't miss it.

<|_=00=_|>
"Love and Basketball" is one of the most feminist and non-stereotypical
teen-through-20something movies I've ever seen. 

It's in effect a tribute to Title IX and the WBNA, casually showing a
girl with basketball dreams, and how it affects her personal life and
those around her. Highly recommended for teens! 

As good as Omar Epps was though, I thought he was a bit short to be
believable as an NBA prospect.

Except for one talky section of the movie towards the end where
everyone pretty much says the obvious about their relationships, the
rest of the character development is done visually and through
situations and not one sports movie (or African-American) cliché. It is
a date movie because both leads change. 

Stay through the credits to see a sweet shot at the end.

I was girding for a hip hop soundtrack, but it's old school R & B all
the way and lovely to listen to (complete with a wonderful line that
the audience really appreciated: "Mom, why are you drinking? I haven't
seen you drink so much since Marvin Gaye died." 

(originally written 5/6/2000)
<|_=00=_|>

i must of watched this film a hundred times it is so fab. Sanaa Lathan and
Omar Epps are brillant in this movie. It is not only a super love storey
but
it shows the womans rights to play a sport she loves. This film is by far
the best film i have ever seen the actors the director everybody involved
in this movie was totaly brillant. There has been many love stories that
are
typical they meat fall in love and live happy for the rest of there lives,
this movie shows the ups and downs of a relationship but still the bond
between them is never broken.
This is a movie worth getting.
<|_=00=_|>

This is not just another sports movie.  It's a story about the many layers
of love: mother and child, father and child, between siblings, between
friends, the romantic love between a man a woman, and love for sport and
trying to maintain and balance of all of these.  Basketball is the back
drop
but the characters are the story.  I can watch it everyday and will have a
tear in my eye each time.
<|_=00=_|>

Instantly, when I watched this one, I could not help but harken back to
Everybody's All-American, which had sports as an undercurrent to the central
love story between Gavin and Babs streching a full quarter-century in
spanning four decades.  Even with football enveloping all which had entwined
their lives, the humaneness of those two characters could not be discounted,
especially with Babs emerging into a more stronger character who came into
her own as a woman and an individual toward the film's
end.

I bring that up to start my assessment of Love and Basketball.  Yes, there
were differences, of course, with Quincy (Omar Epps, of whose work I have
been a fan of since "Juice" in 1992) and Monica (Sanaa Lathan, who has
seemingly come from nowhere to emerge as a serious talent to be reckoned
with on the screen!) both being African-American.  And instead of football,
the sport was basketball.  And instead of one athlete, there were two, as
Monica was a superior talent on par with Gavin Gray and Quincy McCall.  And
the story, of course, was set more in the recent past, from 1981 to the
present.  

Nonethelss, this was also a film which touched my heart.  I loved the depth
which both actors in this film displayed, showing them not only as athletes
and people, but also as they were with regard to their families as well. 
And the depths from where they came to where they ultimately went, from
their beginnings as children to the adults they grew up into, was nothing
short of amazing.  I saw this not as a "black" movie, but rather as a movie
about African-Americans and their dreams, desires, pains and triumphs as
individuals and as a couple.  

The way this was broken down into four quarters is a testament to Gina
Prince-RockByTheWood's astute writing and directing.  And the supporting
cast was on-mark also, from Alfre Woodard and Debbi Morgan on through to
Dennis Haysbert and Harry J. Lennix...as well as Tyra Banks in her smaller
yet significant role as the film bore on down the stretch.  All-in-all, a
film definitely worth the see. I came away with a warm smile not only on my
face, but in my heart as well.
<|_=00=_|>

I loved that Monica was fierce about her love of basketball, had a quick
temper on the court, and knew exactly what she wanted.  I kept waiting for
her to punch out those idiot female high school classmates of hers who kept
picking on her because she was a tomboy.  There was a nice contrast between
Monica's independence and the traditional homemaker route that her mother
took.  The subplot about the troubled marriage of Quincy's parents was also
well done.  I have seen other basketball movies ("Above The Rim" and "He Got
Game" comes to mind), but this is one of the better ones, esp. since it
tells the story from the viewpoint of the female athlete, and an
African-American one, at that.  I wholeheartedly recommend this.  It's free
of the fluff that permeates other romantic dramas.
<|_=00=_|>
i love this movie.. actually i watching it now.. I love how it puts
love into one of my favorite sports.. its so much fun to watch and you
never get sick of watching it. It shows how Monica and Q have grown
through the "quarters"in the movie.. This movie reminds me a lot of my
first love, when we broke up I still loved him just as Monica did with
Q.. My favorite part of this movie is when everything is going great
with them and they are in college and their life just seems perfect. My
least favorite part is when they are going through their crossroads
because i hate to see people that are so in love break up. this is my
favorite movie and i would recommend it to anyone!!!
