

Mary Jo Walker is constantly on the road.  She moves from state to state
as
one relationship ends and she heads out looking for another.  Her daughter
is used to the unsettled lifestyle but starts to feel at home in her new
school once she gets a lead role in the school play.  Mary Jo gets herself
a
job and a new boyfriend, trucker Jack, however how long will it be before
problems put her on the road again?

As a concept, this film lacks originality - the plot and the characters
will
be recognisable from other films, but that in itself is not a bad thing as
nothing is ever totally unique (well, rarely).  That said, this film still
manages to be enjoyable and engaging thanks to a well written script that
gives us characters and not caricatures combined with some very good
performances to deliver them.  The story relies heavily on the characters
and this really does a good job of bringing those out to the strength of
the
film.  It struggles towards the end with a bit of sentimentality that
betrays what has gone before but mostly it is pretty true to
itself.

The writing allows Mary Jo to be a complex character but yet one that we
can
understand and sympathise with even if we can't empathise.  Likewise her
relationship are real rather than just being one-dimensional - with Jack
we
can easily see the major problems between them but we can also see what
drew
them together.  This works because the film has the cast to deliver these
characters well.  McTeer was Oscar nominated for this film and she
deserved
t hat at least.  Her thunder was stolen a year or so later by Roberts'
doing
a similar performance but in a bigger film (thus more kudos).  She is very
good and she made the film.  Brown is just as good and isn't the `cute
kid'
that can kill movies.  Sanders has the worst role and he knows it - his
white knight threatens the whole film but it is not his fault.  O'Conner
gets the triple by being good as Jack as well as doing the business with
directing and writing.

Overall, I wasn't sure if I'd like this film as generally the genre
doesn't
always do it for me, but here the performances really bring a well written
script to live.  It doesn't quite know what to do with itself towards the
end and risks it's integrity a bit but mostly it is very good and worth
seeing.
<|_=00=_|>

I urge all film lovers to see -Tumbleweeds-.  The relatively unknown cast,
director and screenwriter(s) blew me away!  This film is a gift of fantastic
proportions wrapped in plain, brown paper, so tear into it and see what's
awaiting you beyond the simple plot of serial-monogamist mother and
almost-fully-teenaged daughter fleeing the scene of yet another bad breakup,
and heading West to find a new home.  I was gripped by Janet McTeer's
powerful performance, and unusual character, from the first scene.  I cannot
imagine anyone not being similarly bowled over.  The supporting cast will
also surprise and delight you--why can't all young actors be as natural as
Kimberly Brown?  Rent it today! :-)
<|_=00=_|>

The other review of this film misses the point entirely.  There is indeed
tension, of the emotional variety, between daughter and mother.  The child
is the adult and the adult is child-like.  One always hopes for the mother
to make the right decision, to turn her and her daughter's life around.
The
performances are of the highest caliber, as is the writing, and the
direction complements both beautifully, never getting in the way of the
simple story.  Watch this with a parent, a son, a daughter...a rewarding
viewing experience.
<|_=00=_|>

The premise of a film about a mother and 12 year-old daughter on the road is
not necessarily attractive to everyone. But this was a refreshing example of
the genre, mainly because the director allowed  character development.
Mother and daughter have characteristics both endearing and infuriating
(like all of us; something that Hollywood so often forgets) and, as a
result, we're not forced to take sides with one against the other. Rather we
find ourselves looking out for opportunities for them to both lead a more
stable existence. Inevitably in a film of this nature there must be a great
temptation to play on sentimentality and help boost Kleenex sales. But
fortunately that doesn't happen; in fact the only tearful moment comes from
one of the male characters recounting the loss of his wife. The two leads
react well to each other, something which was essential for the film to
work.

An entertaining approach to the genre for which the viewer doesn't have to
suspend rationality.


<|_=00=_|>
I must admit that I didn't really look forward to this movie. I mean, a
movie with a story about a mother and daughter on the run for an
abusive husband, is there a bigger cliché in the history of Hollywood?
I really don't think so. This is the stuff bad TV-movies, which have
only one intention and that is to make the average housewife cry her
eyes out, are made of. I only gave it a try because I didn't have much
better to do and was only thinking about watching the first 15 minutes,
just in order to be sure that it was one of the many. But guess what, I
finished it. That already says it all, but for those who are
interested, I'll also explain why I liked it.

Every time her relationship fails, Mary Jo Walker runs from town to
town and from state to state with her 12 year old daughter. And every
time she promises herself and her daughter that everything will be
different this time. Now she will look for a decent man who will love
them forever. They decide to go to San Diego. But before they get
there, their car breaks down and they need the help of a trucker to fix
it. Mom immediately sees a new candidate husband in him, but her
daughter already sees what is about to happen. He's the same kind of
guy as always, mom will fall in love again and tell that this one is
different, but will end up running from him like she has always done.
And indeed, that's the way it happens, but this time Ava, doesn't want
to leave anymore. She has made friends at school and will soon act in a
school play...

Even though this movie was rather predictable and far from original, I
admit that I had a good time watching it. The story isn't the reason
why I liked it so much, although it could have been a lot worse. The
fact that Ava wasn't the 'cute and lovely' kid who will bring her
mother on the right track again by organizing a romantic date with a
great man sure had a lot to do with the fact that I still enjoyed the
story. But in the end it's still the acting that really did it for me.
Janet McTeer was really excellent as the runaway mom and together with
Kimberly J. Brown, who played Ava, she formed an excellent team.

Overall this is a nice movie that sure is a lot better than what I
expected. Yes, I even liked it and no I'm not a middle-aged housewife.
It just wasn't too corny and had some very fine performances to offer.
That's also the reason why I give this movie a rating in between 7/10
and 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
A Southern woman (excellent Oscar nominee Janet McTeer) leaves an
abusive relationship and hits the road with her young daughter
(Kimberly J. Brown) looking for the man of her dreams. Of course though
McTeer's dreams are foggy and incoherent when it comes to the opposite
sex. She has a love affair with a moronic trucker (director Gavin
O'Connor), finds friendship with co-worker Jay O. Sanders and dodges
advances from old perverted boss Michael J. Pollard. Shades of Martin
Scorsese's "Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore" as this is basically a
road trip picture for the fairer sex. McTeer is amazing and totally
believable as an American from the wrong side of the tracks (she is a
classically-trained Brit in reality). The quirky situations and
hilarious moments make up for the picture's helter skelter screenplay
and prodding tone. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

In "Join Together," the Who sang, "It's the singer, not the song/That makes
the music move along," and that can be true of certain kinds of movies as
well.  TUMBLEWEEDS is surely not the first mother/daughter film ever made,
even this year.  I haven't seen ANYWHERE BUT HERE yet(though the novel it
was based on is quite good), but TUMBLEWEEDS distinguishes itself from the
crowd by its attention to detail and character, and the performances. 
Director/co-writer(with ex-wife Angela Shelton) Gavin O'Connor makes San
Diego come alive, from the office Mary Jo(Janet McTeer) works in, to the
beach, and the small houses she and her daughter Ava(Kimberly Brown) end up
living in.  And except for perhaps Mary Jo's boss(well-played by Michael J.
Pollard), who is a caricature(albeit a funny one), every character here is
well drawn.  Even Jack(O'Connor), the trucker Mary Jo ends up with in San
Diego who later turns bad, is well-drawn; we're never meant to see him as
completely bad, though he does have his darker side.

But the real reason to see this is the performances of the two leads. 
McTeer and Brown are fresh faces to movie audiences, which means they have
no image to distract us from the story, but it also means they bring nothing
we know from them to the part, so they have to start fresh.  And they
respond with wonderful and realistic performances.  McTeer doesn't turn Mary
Jo into the stereotype of an oversexed woman or the insufferably noble
mother but as a woman who wants to do right but isn't always sure how.  And
Brown doesn't make Ava overly cute or precocious, but a recognizable kid who
nevertheless has to be the adult at times.  The two of them also have a
terrific bond together as well, and like a character late in the film they
meet, O'Connor the director knows enough not to intrude on
that.

One last note; some comments have dismissed this entirely because it's
familiar.  Are you the same people who will gladly see a hundred SLEEPLESS
IN SEATTLE clones or THE MATRIX clones and not complain about them being
familiar?  As I said at the top, sometimes the telling can distinguish a
familiar tale.
<|_=00=_|>
British actress Janet McTeer gives a convincing, first-rate performance
as a Southern woman and man-lover who can't find a good guy to love.
She and her preteen daughter drive from one state to the next, lighting
in a motel room somewhere until a local romance blooms--and then
high-tailing out of town when it predictably blows up. Soon after
arriving in Southern California, McTeer's Mary Jo Walker finds a decent
job, begins making friends, and sees her daughter excelling in school
for the first time; however, a new relationship with a sexy but
volatile trucker may put everything on the rocks. What starts out as a
generic road movie--with hints of "Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore"
besides--becomes an absorbing, intimate character portrait. McTeer (who
resembles Laurie Metcalf) isn't your typical tramp or "lover of life";
she isn't unstable, and she's a good mother, but what she's trying so
hard to get (a husband and a real home) doesn't always respond to her
in kind. We see Mary Jo trying her damnedest to make her life work,
eventually falling into familiar patterns but this time learning from
her mistakes. The finale is rose-colored and probably not credible, but
the optimistic nature of Gavin O'Connor's screenplay (co-written with
Angela Shelton), as well as his perceptive direction, makes the journey
a fun, embraceable ride. **1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>

Janet McTeer's multi-faceted performance makes this otherwise predictable
character study a must-see for serious acting buffs. As a native
Southerner,
I have suffered through more hideous attempts at Southern accents than I
care to remember, but McTeer nails the accent right down to the
complicated
vowel sounds and makes it seem utterly natural. The story runs out of gas
in
the final third, and the "Winnebago ex machina" element comes out of left
field, but why quibble? McTeer is absolutely phenomenal, bringing far more
complexity to the role than is written on the page.
<|_=00=_|>

There are spoilers in this review, so don't read it if you haven't seen
it.

As with almost every film ever made involving a road trip across the
country, The Tumbleweeds choose to drive along empty two lane backroads
instead of our wonderful interstate system.  These groan inducing scenes
at
the beginning set the tone for the whole film.

Janet McTeer and Kimberly Brown are The Tumbleweeds, a snappy white trash
mother daughter duo who have apparently spent their lives running from
whatever wife-beater wearing, Coors Light drinking scuzzball Mom has been
shacking up with.  This time, however, we know things are going to turn
out
differently, because The Tumbleweeds are not going from West Virginia to
Georgia, or Kentucky to Mississippi, but instead, are headed to
California.
As Ebert pointed out, California is always the destination of choice in
films where troubled Americans head to solve all their problems.  Why
going
to California didn't occur to Mom after the ending of any one of her
previous four marriages is an unexplained mystery of the
film.

Of course, Mom and Daughter have a great, loving relationship throughout
their travels.  Their loving relationship, though, has been permeated by
the
"liberal grossisms" perpetuated by Hollywood over the last decade.  You
know, the kind of stuff you never would have seen in a film like this ten
years ago.  Mom and Daughter passing gas in a roadside restaurant, and
laughing and giggling about it afterwards.  And when the car "is out of
water" (Diagnosis: Daughter), Mom comments "I should have saved my piss."
Mix those new cliches with old tired ones, like Daughter wanting her
"ta-tas" to grow bigger faster and Mom teaching Daughter the proper way
to
kiss, and you've already ran the gamut.

But, wait!  The groaning has just begun!  While mulling over the fact
that
the car "is out of water", the Marlboro Man (a truck driver played by the
director, Gavin O'Connor) comes to the rescue.  He, of course, fixes it,
and
the gals are on their way.  I don't know exactly where the breakdown
occurs,
but it is in the middle of the desert, far from San Diego, the
Tumbleweeds'
destination.  As improbable as it may sound, Mom runs into the Marlboro
Man
again at a San Diego dive bar a few weeks later.  He, of course, becomes
the
man du jour, and along with Mom's new stereotypical job as a clerk in a
small business office (complete with small, sexist jerk boss), provides
new
opportunities for you to practice your groaning.

Meanwhile, Daughter hits the ground running.  She starts at a new school
the
day after they get there (?????!!!!), has no problem fitting in right
away,
meets a new best friend, a new boyfriend, gets to play Romeo in Romeo and
Juliet, and forms a special bond with a "nice guy" who I'm sure she'd
rather
see her mom with than Mr. Marlboro.

Gavin O'Connor, despite the fact that he wrote and directed a bad movie,
is
actually the best part of the film, as an actor.  The fact that he's
supposed to be playing Mom's scuzzball du jour is all the more perplexing
to
the film, because he really doesn't seem like that bad of a guy.  He's
generally nice to the Tumbleweeds, and throughout the film, only loses
his
cool a little bit, never to the point of being mean, and every time after
he's been agitated by Mom or Daughter.  Even the "final straw", Daughter
refusing to put her Romeo and Juliet script away while the trio are
having a
celebratory dinner for his new job, and Him making a scene in the
restaurant
is really not that bad.  Throughout the film, I was almost thinking that
the
script called for Mom and Daughter to do and say everything they can to
piss
the poor guy off until he couldn't take it anymore, then they'd leave him
too.  O'Connor's Marlboro Man does a good job of keeping his cool
throughout, despite the Tumbleweeds best efforts to set him off.  The
confusing part of all this is that they either should have made the Man a
real jerk throughout, or had some sort of reconciliation in the end.  The
middle road doesn't make sense.

Other scenes in the film seem to have been put in just to stretch the
length.  Either that, or it seems like scenes or sequences that should be
there are not.  The "nice guy" almost seems to be in a different film
than
Mom.  Mom quitting her job just seemed like one more opportunity for
McTeer
to act like an immature ass.  After one prior scene showing Mom working
with
flowers and visiting a nursery, there's a scene where she goes and begs
the
proprietor for a job, and gets it.  Then, it is forgotten for the
remainder
of the film.  In one scene, Daughter tries out for Juliet in the play.
In
the next, she refers to her "ex-best friend", who was also trying out for
the play.  A few scenes later, they are best friends again, like nothing
ever happened.  The film has serious continuity problems.

I could get really nitpicky and belittle things like the cost of living
in
San Diego.  Mom and Daughter come to California with little or no money,
and
by the end, on a job that probably pays Mom about 11 dollars an hour,
have a
year lease on a San Diego house that in reality, probably costs at least
1000 a month.  Rent and housing bills would take up her entire check.
It's
absurd, but I won't dwell on it, or the fact that a girl with a horrible
Southern accent would get to play Romeo in a school play.

This film came out around the same time the very similar Anywhere But
Here
did, so comparisons are inevitable.  Anywhere was not very good, either,
but
Natalie Portman almost singlehandedly elevated it to a tolerable level.
There is no such magic here.  You may think I'm just cynical and don't
have
a heart, but that's not the case.  This is just a bad movie.  About six
months after these two films came out, another film with a similar feel
came
out that did an infinitely better job of rising above many of the same
cliches and stereotypes that I've pointed out above.  That film was Erin
Brockovich.  Go watch that one again.

"D"
