

Nineteen ninety-nine was an outstanding year for adaptations of major
literary works, but of all the great books that came to the screen last
year, this is my favorite.  John Irving's novel and adaptation is one of the
most complete stories I can remember in many years.  It is poignant,
exhilarating, and astutely human in its scope, presenting a myriad of human
emotions and experiences.

Often, when a story attempts to cross genres so broadly, it fails from lack
of depth or insufficiency of the writer or director to meet the variable
demands of such a wide-ranging treatment.  This film was a comedy, a
tragedy, a romance, a human-interest story, a character study, and a period
piece, and each element was excellently done.

This was all accomplished without sacrificing the philosophical and
emotional depth Irving imbues in all his works.  Irving weaves a strong
moral into this story; that rules need to be questioned and that being human
is not so easily codified.  He revisits this theme repeatedly, with each
character facing dilemmas regarding societal and personal rules that are
difficult to reconcile in the given situations.

If there is one thing that stands out about this story, it is its human
realism.  These are ordinary people struggling with problems we all face. 
We come to have affection for almost all of them, and can identify with
their tribulations.  Although the story is excessively sentimental and
fatalistic, it reminds us that life is complicated and doesn't always turn
out the way we plan or hope. 

From a filmmaking perspective, we could not have asked more from Lasse
Hallstrom.  Known most in the U.S. for his direction of ‘What's Eating
Gilbert Grape', Hallstrom has been making wonderful films in Europe for
almost twenty years.  However, this film will certainly go down as his
finest work.  In the featurette on the DVD, he said that when he goes to
Blockbuster with his daughter and sees it on the shelf, he will have a
feeling of pride; and well he should.

This motion picture was beautifully filmed with rich cinematography,
breathtaking locations, and precise period props and costumes.  However, the
greatest achievement for Hallstrom, working in concert with Irving, was to
orchestrate a large cast in such a way that no character seemed
insignificant.  Hallstrom took great care to do enough development of each
character (often just visually without any dialogue) that he made us care
for each of them.  He gave the film an emotional depth and breadth that is
difficult to achieve in two hours.  His work with the children in the
orphanage was superb, bringing forth their innocence and enthusiasm without
minimizing their plight.

The acting was uniformly outstanding.  Tobey Maguire infused Homer with the
right combination of idealism, naiveté and inner strength to make him an
unassuming but powerful lead.  Charlize Theron continues to impress me with
her acting ability.  Besides her enchanting girl-next-door attractiveness,
she showed terrific range in a character that at first seemed shallow, but
later proved to be quite complex.

Michael Caine has had a legendary career spanning close to half a century. 
He has long been one of my favorite actors.  His performance here was
powerful and well deserving of the acclaim he received.  Dr. Larch was an
extremely complex character; egotistical, self-abusive, manipulative and
recalcitrant, yet a saintly, self-sacrificing and loving crusader for the
good of the children.  Caine's ability to span that range was
remarkable.

Finally, I have the highest praise for Delroy Lindo as Mr. Rose, the orchard
foreman.  Lindo's bright smile and enthusiasm created a rock solid character
with charm, strength and simple wisdom.  He captures our admiration
immediately, and despite his despicable act, we cannot help but pity him in
the end.

After having seen all the films that were nominated by the Academy for best
picture last year, I have to say that this was my personal favorite.  It
wasn't as flashy as the rest; in fact, this was downright old fashioned in
its approach.  They just don't write stories like this anymore, and that's a
shame.  I rated it a 10/10.  In its quiet way, it captured my
heart.

<|_=00=_|>

I didn't think it was possible, but one of John Irving's most difficult
books was condensed by the author himself (the last third of the book is
gone) into a very very good movie.  All the acting is great (especially the
nice low key performances by Macguire and Caine), BEAUTIFULLY shot (in
Vermont, Maine and Massachusetts), a score that fits the movie like a glove
and fully realized three-dimensional characters.  Plot-wise there's nothing
new (young man goes out to see the world, discovers himself, etc etc) but
the cast makes it seem new.  They all find depth in roles that have been
done before--especially Caine who speaks with a very convincing Maine
accent!  Bring lots of tissues with you--the movie is sad and disturbing at
points (all kept in the PG-13 rating however), but it has a happy ending. 
Well worth seeing.  See it on a BIG screen--all the beautiful shoots won't
work on TV.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite the various good reviews of the movie, I was a bit skeptical about
the movie due to the fact that it was based on a John Irving novel.  What I
found was a warm, sweet film, that was well cast and proved to be
unpredictable just when it
appeared you had it figured out.  Tobey Maguire gives an excellent
performance as a man/boy seeking his place in the world.  He is supported by
an excellent cast, particularly Michael Caine, despite a number of "accent"
lapses.  Even though they were relegated to small roles, it was great to see
Jane Alexander and Kate Nelligan on the big screen once again.  Charlize
Theron continues to show that she is not only beautiful, but can act in a
wide range of roles as well.  Interesting casting as well in using
Hip-Hop/R&B artists, Erykah Badu and Heavy D in small, but important parts.

The movie was a wonderful mix of laughter, tears, and human emotion, and
magnificently directed by Halle Lasström.  Kudos to all those
involved.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie will be looked at from many different views. I forgot about race
and religion and watched a very good movie about the human condition. John
Irving did the screenplay of his own novel. A young boy, played by Tobey
Maguire, is born and raised in an orphanage. He is taught the ways of
childbirth and abortion by the headmaster, Dr. Larch, played by Michael
Caine. The young boy wants to be more useful in life and goes on his own way
to end up working in an apple orchard and learning about lobster
fishing.

The Maguire boy/man character fights with his own morals and lack of
worldliness as the movie progresses. The predictable ending probably
couldn't have been any better. Life happens. Bad things often happen to good
people. This movie does question your thoughts of humanity.

I found raw emotion, humor and tenderness in this movie. The story is set in
Maine; but actually filmed in Vermont and Connecticut too. Scenery is
awesome. Maguire's timid, monotone character does take some getting used to.
Caine was very good. Charlize Theron proved that not only is she beautiful,
but she can act as well. Erykah Badu did extremely well in a small, but
important role. This movie is worthy of its many Oscar nominations.

<|_=00=_|>

This is one of my favourite films (if not my favourite), so I cannot be
altogether objective, but I must say I find it an eye-opener. It's a
lesson on tolerance carried out by a really talented cast and crew.

Everyone fits in his/her role, although the movie is more Maguire's
than anyone else's. He's definitely a natural, and while other actors
in the business try to impress the audience and make the most to show
their talent, Maguire acts with subtlety and thoughtfulness.

The film might seem a bit slow for some people accustomed to more pacey
and epic films. However, those who have read the novel will realize
just how fast everything goes. 

Rachel Portman's score is truly beautiful: probably one of her best.

<|_=00=_|>

Some movies you enjoy at the theater once and then forget them. This film
is
one that you do not soon forget. Tobey Maguire has got to be one of the
most
gifted actors I have ever seen. His portrayal of Homer Wells is compelling.
This movie will take you in during the very first scenes and won't let you
go. When it's over you don't want to leave them all behind. Have you ever
been so engrossed in a movie you don't realize what's going on around you.
Cider House Rules is one of those rare films to come along and totally
involve you in their lives. Maguire and Theron are wonderful along with the
whole cast. Can't wait to see what other gifts Maguire gives us on the
screen in the future.
<|_=00=_|>

Sentimental but well-told, visually beautiful and enjoyable story of an
orphanage and the moral dilemmas of abortion, exploring emotional issues
from leaving home and fatherhood, to first love, self-discovery and the
burdens of responsibility. "Sometimes you have to break the rules to make
things right."
<|_=00=_|>

 "Cider House Rules" is the best translation of a novel to film that I've
ever seen. It must help that the novelist adapts his own work and writes the
screenplay. This novel is a large, complex work with many characters and
sub-plots. It would have been easy for the screenwriter to become bogged
down in details and losing their way. Irving doesn't. He grabs at the major
thematic thread and defines an engrossing tale of growing up and discovering
one's self and one's calling.
Set in rural Maine during World War II we follow Homer Wells, adolescent
ward of an orphanage run by Dr. Larch. Visually it's a dark foreboding
place, put emotionally full of love and happiness, excepting the sad women
who trek to the orphanage to unburden themselves of their pregnancies,
either by adoption or (illegal) abortion. Dr. Larch helps with both. Dr.
Larch has also provided Homer with an education in practical obstetrics that
would be the envy of any medical school. I don't want to go on further with
the plot, it's a sweeping tale told with great acting, camera work, and
scoring.

What worries me about this near perfect film is that my views are colored by
having first read the novel.  The characters and locations in the movie are
exactly as I visualized them. It's spooky. And this provides me with
information to fill in gaps about the character's motives and drives. How
big a hindrance is not having read the book? I hope not much, because I feel
this is one of the best movies of 1999.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie was very inspirational to me and was very hopeful.  I think that
Michael Caine and Tobey Maguire did a fabulous job and some of the scenes
were so moving that I was almost in tears just because of the emotion. 
Definitely not cheesy, I respect that it raises important issues, makes you
consider your values.  It made me think again about everything I've always
believed, and challenged me to think beyond the obvious. 

Although I haven't read the book, clearly this is an original story by John
Irving, and more sentimental than I would expect from him. 

Note: Not appropriate for children under 14, many friends of mine have said
it should have been rated R.
<|_=00=_|>

Part of the charm of "Cider House Rules", a coming-of-age
movie with Tobey Maguire at the center, is the finesse
with
which it presents itself as a "feel good" movie when most
of
the characters have precious little to feel good about. The
film
could easily have had a harder edge to it. However, the
makers of this carefully crafted film tiptoe so adroitly
around such issues as abortion, murder, infidelity, and
incest as to leave the audience with an ample helping of
the
warm and fuzzies. The film deserves high marks for
enjoyability and for bringing back the charm of Hollywood's
golden years.
