
I've always thought Fargo would make a great Shakesperean play; you
could alter the modern elements and still have created a buzz 400 years
ago in suburban England. Indeed, the plot is similar to Hamlet's, in
that they both have characters we root for who create zany plans than
end up spinning wildly out of control into bloodshed. Many people seem
to like Fargo for its humorous qualities, its characterization of the
Minnesotan culture and Frances McDormand- not me. I love Fargo for its
brilliant writing, its tragic musical score, its tragic plot, William H
Macy, Harve Presnell and Steve Buscemi, its ignorance of political
correctness (how many movies can you remember when the only two
minority characters were both revealed to be creeps).I want to draw
attention to an overlooked reason why the film works so well - how well
the music suits the visuals in this movie. Each murder scene is scored
superbly, and other audio clues really add to the effect (for instance,
notice how when the police officer asks Carl Showalter "What's this?"
in reference to the abductee, a disquieting guitar sound is immediately
played that has an instantaneous psychological effect on how you
interpret the scene). I have seen this film over, well, an embarrassing
number of times and have committed its screenplay, from start to
finish, by memory. Fargo is the ultimate Coen Brothers movie, a
brilliant tragedy, and restores my faith in Roger Ebert as he places
this movie in as his fourth favorite movie of the '90s.
<|_=00=_|>
Boy, is this a good movie. In its bare bones it is a crime drama but
the Coen brothers constantly undercut the seriousness with a quirky
irony. The acting, the script, and the direction lift the movie light
years above most of the movies of its decade.

The performances, for instance, everyone speaks with what passes for an
upper Midwestern accent, a very pronounced accent, let's say. So when
characters are doing wicked things on screen, it's rather like watching
people dressed in clown suits do nasty things. It's utterly impossible
to take it very seriously -- only just seriously enough for us to feel
sorry for the victims and to disapprove of the bad guys, but no more
than that.

Everyone except the two killers are forced by their culture to speak
and act cheerfully. They never swear either. "You're darn tootin',"
they say. The casting couldn't be better, with Frances McDormand, Steve
Buscemi, and Bill Macy outstanding.

The script is likewise splendidly done. It's full of scenes that seem
peripheral except that they add to our understanding of the characters
and often lead to later payoffs. Without taking the space to describe
them, I will simply mention the scene in the restaurant between
MacDormand and her Japanese friend from high school. Why is it in there
at all? (My God, those hotel restaurants are depressingly ugly.) Well
-- among other things, such as establishing the kind of milieu these
folks consider Ritzy, it tells us quite a bit about how MacDormand
handles attempts to violate her inherent good nature. When the Japanese
guy tries to sit next to her she tells him firmly that she'd prefer it
if he sat across the table so that she can see him more easily. When he
breaks down in tears she whispers that it's all okay. She is polite, a
little distant without being unfriendly, completely practical, and
absolutely iron bound in her values. Nobody is going to take advantage
of or discompose this hyper pregnant babe. Further, this scene is a set
up for a later one. After MacDormand learns that the Japanese guy has
told her a gaggle of lies, she wakes up to the fact that, yes, people
can tell untruths -- and she returns to interview Macy a second time. 

In another scene, when she's pressing one of the criminals during an
interview, he excuses himself for a moment and she spots him taking off
in his car. She exclaims, "Oh, for Pete's sake, he's FLEEIN' THE
INTERVIEW." It's impossible to improve on a line like that, or on
MacDormand's delivery of it.

The third element of the film that makes it superior is the direction.
The pauses come at the right times. A woman is sitting on her couch
watching a soap opera on TV. Through the glass door of her apartment
she sees a man approach. He's wearing a black ski mask and carrying a
crowbar. He walks up to her door and shades his eyes while trying to
peer inside. Now in an ordinary action movie, by this time the woman
would be screeching and speeding down the hallway. Not here. The victim
sits there staring at the intruder as he fiddles at the door, half
horrified and half curious. "Who is this guy? He's not the meter
reader, is he?" 

Coen the director has an eye for the suggestive picturesque too. Bill
Macy has asked his father-in-law for a large loan for some sure-fire
business proposition, but Dad offers him only a finder's fee. We see
Macy's deflated face as his disappointment sets in. Cut. Now we're
looking at a white screen punctuated by four or five bare trees
equidistant from one another, and there is a tiny car in the middle of
the whiteness. Then Macy's tiny figure trudges into the bottom of the
shot and we realize we're looking at a snow-filled parking lot with
only one ordinary-sized car in the center of it.

Wintery weather plays an important part in the movie. People die in it,
drive off the road because of it, stand shivering in it. Two freezing
people are conversing on the street while one shovels snow. The
shoveler stops, gazes up at the sky, and remarks that it "ought to be
really cold tomorrow." Cars and ambulances tend to drive in and out of
white outs during blizzards and blowing snow. MacDormand is driving her
murdering prisoner through a niveous white landscape in which nothing
much is visible and she is mildly remonstrating with him, saying
something like, "Why did you do it, for a little bit of money? It's a
perfect day, and here you are." (A perfect day!) 

There are seven murders in this movie. Only three take place on screen.
The others either take place off screen or else the director has the
good sense to cut at the moment the gun fires or the ax blade lands.

"Fargo" is one of perhaps half a dozen movies from the 1990s that I
would consider buying on DVD. It's an original and refreshingly adult
picture. Don't miss it.
<|_=00=_|>

With all the sorry films these days it is good to see a movie as funny,
wicked, dramatic, and utterly demented as "Fargo".  It's one of those films
that you just have to see.  William H. Macy gives an Oscar-nominated
performance as a car salesman who hires two thugs (one a
know-it-all-know-nothing and the other a demented psychopath) to kidnap his
wife so that he can keep half the ransom from her well-off father.
Needless
to say nothing goes right and Brainerd sheriff Frances McDormand (in an
Oscar-winning role) comes in to save the day.  I won't give anything away
because the material is too good to tell those who haven't seen this
inventive film.  "Fargo" was ranked on the 100 Greatest Films list in 1996
and it was well-deserved.  In this age of by-the-numbers film making, this
film was a refreshing flashback to the risk-taking style that made the
1970s
such a great decade for movies.  5 stars out of 5. 
<|_=00=_|>
If you haven't seen this movie, do yourself a favour and see it. It is
very well put together and the plot is constantly evolving into a
deeper shade of creepiness. At times scary (not in the horror movie
sense) and quite rich in dark humour, this is one of those movies that
gives you a weird felling inside even an hour after its over. The music
is quite appropriate and unlike Scarface, is timeless. The camera work
is usually quite basic but whoever directed the photography had the
enjoyable habit of giving us interestingly artistic segways between
scenes. This is the first film so far that I've given a 10 out of 10. I
was going to give it a 9, but I couldn't think of a reason to take any
points from perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
An instant classic. I must admit what attracted me at first was the
wood chipper incident I had heard about but by the time the movie gets
there, I was in a totally in a different universe. While the movie does
not have anything to keep you glued to the screen (a wicked script,
lots of action) you can't prevent yourself from wanting to see what
happens next. This is due to the wonderfully portrayed characters.
Steve Buscemi's performance as Carl Showalter is fabulous. I love when
he is confronted by Shep Proudfoot and tells him to "hey man, smoke a
f***in peace-pipe", or any of his conversations with Jerry Lundegard
are priceless - "I'm not going to debate you Jerry, I'm not going to
DEBATE". My recent favorite is when he storms out of the hideout and
says "and if you see Shep Proudfoot, tell him I'm gonna nail his
f***kin ass". The Jerry Lundegard character is such a beautiful loser,
I don't know where to begin. I especially love his reappearing temper
tantrums(slamming the phone book in his office, scraping the ice off
the windshield, jumping up and down after his father in law leaves the
house with the million dollars) and practicing the phone call to his
father in law where he tells him his wife has been kidnapped - too
funny. Marge Gunderson is the glue that holds it all together with a
performance by Frances Mcdormand well deserved of an Oscar. I thought
they might have overdid it a tiny bit with the scene with Marge and the
two hookers (too many "Ya's" in it) but otherwise a wonderful,
refreshing character in the middle of a bunch of losers. Her character
is so honest and persistent, it makes me wonder why I cant find a woman
like that - and then I realize, I'm watching a movie and a brilliant
one at that.
<|_=00=_|>
Nobody seems to know that Fargo is first and foremost a beautiful and
very simple love story about two ordinary rural small town American
people and secondly a superbly acted crime murder mayhem movie,
probably the best that has ever been filmed. Every character is
genuine, believable, and Home, not Hollywood, spun. The suspense rolls
in and out like a San Francisco fog. The side shows that are built in
are amazing (sheriff's conversation at a bar with old acquaintance -
stamp conversations - breakfast makings). The whole film is an American
Shakesphere. I actually know frequent moviegoers who have not seen
Fargo (and Sling Blade and Shine). I feel a special sorrow for them.
Back to Fargo, every time I watch it I don't want it to ever end. I
even sometimes find myself wishfully thinking I could move up there,
it's a Lake Wobegone, and then the movie would never end. Fargo is as
close to capturing and portraying real life as a director and bunch of
actors can get. I wish IMDb had a just one time eleven so I could crown
it emperor above all.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't see this in the theater but saw it the first week it was out
for rental, and have enjoyed it ever since. In fact, I probably enjoy
this more each time I view it. It's a sick movie, though, make no
mistake about that. However, it holds a strange fascination, probably
because of the odd characters.

About the story: first, it is NOT a true story as indicated in the
movie. That's a lie. It's a fictional kidnapping-turned into murder
story with a few bloody scenes, lots of profanity (most of it by Steve
Buscemi) and a comedy. Yup, this is pure "black comedy." It's dark
humor mixed in with a parody about the way the Scandanavian people in
the upper Midwest supposedly speak.

Both William H. Macy and Frances McDormand have some wonderful facial
expressions along with their accents. Those two and Buscemi are the
lead characters and all three "are a trip." Macy is hilarious; the best
character in here, in my opinion. The more I watch this film, the
funnier he gets. It's also the best role, I assume, ever for McDormand
who was never a star before - or since - this movie. Her character in
here, "Marge Gunderson," elevates this movie from just another
modern-day sick crime movie, to an original. It's nice to see a
wonderful husband-wife relationship, too, as is shown here with her and
husband "Norm" (John Lynch).

You have this clean, old-fashioned lady cop (McDormand), a
middle-of-the-road bungling car salesman (Macy) and two extreme
low-life killers in "Carl Showalter" (Buscemi) and "Gaear Grimsrud"
(Peter Stormare) all combining to make this story a mixture not only of
people but genres. Other minor characters are strange, too, led by one
of Marge's old high school acquaintances "Mike Yanagita" (Steve Park).
Add to that some equally-bizarre music (slow violins) and you have this
unusual story that brings out the morbid fascination in us viewers.

So, I guess what I am saying is this movie truly is an original, the
best film the Coen Brothers have ever made and maybe the rest roles
ever for the three main actors, McDormand, Macy and Buscemi.
<|_=00=_|>

With no major stars or well-known names, the actors outshine many more
 familiar personages.  The story is well thought out.  The criminals don't
 try to ingratiate themselves with the audience which adds to its reality. 
 The acting is most convincing and the writing is excellent.  Even the cold
 of a North Dakota winter comes across.  Every film course should make use
 of this movie to demonstrate how to make a very good film without relying
 on a bottomless budget.
<|_=00=_|>
This should stand as the Coen brothers' tour de force, although I found 
"The Big Lebowski" to be an even more satisfying film. I look at 
"Fargo", "The Big Lebowski", and "Brother, Where Art Thou?" as being 
the Coen's three best movies. I hope there is more from them in the 
future that can rival these three; though recent offerings such as 
"Intolerable Cruelty" and "The Ladykillers", could be proving their 
peak creativity is behind them.

"Fargo" is beyond a doubt, their masterpiece. IMDb's ratings bear this 
out - 8.2 for "Fargo", 8.0 for "Lebowski", and 7.8 for "Brother". For 
sheer entertainment, "Lebowski" or should I call it, "The Dude" wins 
handsdown, but "Fargo" has all the elements of a true classic. Beyond a 
doubt, I have never seen such a dramatically-obvious portrayal of good 
vs. evil, and never, never, have I seen such gut-wrenching violence. 
Oh, the violence, beautifully believable, in it's grotesque way. This 
movie is proof that artistic freedom to portray such violence should 
never be denied. Steve Buscemi's bullet-grazed face becomes almost as 
painful for the watcher as it is for his character; Steve Buscemi's leg 
in the wood chipper is as horrific a scene as you are ever going to 
see. Enough to give Marge Gunderson morning sickness all over again.

And the good vs evil thing: so obvious in the contrasts between Marge 
(the good), Buscemi and Stormare (the evil), and poor Jerry Lundegaard 
(William H. Macy) squeamishly caught in a trap in-between. I could only 
handle the violence because of Marge. She is the rock of normality, who 
continues trumpeting the virtuous life, when all hell is breaking loose 
around her. She knows all-to-well that "you know what" happens, but 
always knows "you know what" can be flushed down the toilet. Frances 
McDormand, as Marge, deserves every acting award she ever got for this 
role. Marge, to me, is the most perfect cop I've ever encountered. She 
is polite, non-judgemental, yet able to ask the tough questions that 
gets her the information she needs. You can see how thoroughly she 
sizes up those she interviews: watching every nuance of their body 
language, and hearing ever inflection of their speech. Now here's a 
woman who can spot a lie when others can't. Unlike so many cops in 
movies, she doesn't have to beat information out of someone; she can 
charm it out of them, all the while appealing to their moral 
responsibility, no matter how immoral they may be.This is so well-shown 
in scenes such as talking to the two young hookers in the bar, and 
putting Jerry on the hotseat in the car dealership interrogations.

I elected not to watch some of the scenes on my second viewing. 
Somewhat oddly, I skipped almost all the scenes involving Jean 
Lundegaard (the kidnapped one) - I couldn't bear to watch what was 
happening to this woman, knowing full well her fate. I felt so sorry 
for her; she was the true victim in this - the most innocent, yet the 
one who suffered the most. I guess a case could also be made that her 
son, Scotty, suffered equally, but most of what he went through was not 
presented on camera. Maybe he would suffer the most, for he had to live 
afterward. Even Marge would suffer from this catastrophe, but you know 
her suffering will be tempered by an unwavering belief that good 
triumphs over evil. As the last scene shows (Marge getting into bed 
with her husband): despite the horrors that might go on around us, we 
must seek solace in the everyday beauty of the things that are nearest 
and dearest to us all. And this message is conveyed to us all by the 
Coen brothers without any allusions to religion whatsoever. But I'm 
getting into a personal bias of my own here - if you take solace in 
religion playing a part in morality, so be it.
