

`Bounce' is an utterly winning romantic drama, replete with an intriguing
storyline, believable characters and honest emotions. 

Ben Affleck stars as Buddy Amaral, an arrogant hotshot advertising exec,
who, in a rare moment of kindness, offers his seat on an airplane to a young
writer desperate to get home to his wife and kids for the holidays.  When
the man dies in a plane crash, Buddy is suddenly sent on a mission of
soul-searching, trying to sort out the complex emotions he is now forced to
deal with.  When drinking provides no solution, he feels himself compelled
to seek out the man's widow, Abby, played by Gwyneth Paltrow, and their two
young boys.  Buddy keeps his connection with them a secret as he begins to
fall in love with Abby and to become a part of their wounded
family.

In its bare-boned detailing, the plot may smack a bit of incredibility and
contrivance.  But thanks to expert writing and directing by Don Ross, every
detail in the film feels just right.  Take the opening scene, for instance. 
Ross gives the chance encounter between the two strangers who will be
forever tied together by fate the loose, casual, and offhanded quality one
finds in real life.  Nothing in this film ever seems forced, least of all
the romantic feelings these two hurt, vulnerable and attractive people feel
for one another.  In fact, it is the complexity of the characters that helps
`Bounce' to rise above the superficiality of most films in this genre.  In
addition to Buddy's character-building, we see Abby trying desperately to
overcome the bewildering tragedy that has befallen her, unsure of how to
deal with her own feelings of loss, guilt and anger that inevitable arise
from such a situation.

Affleck and Paltrow bring such an air of thoughtfulness and maturity to
their roles that we find ourselves genuinely caught up in their predicament
and rooting them on all the way.  It's nice for a change to see a romantic
film truly centered on a pair of likable grownups as opposed to the
superannuated adolescents we usually find in films of this type.  Here are
flawed, often weak, individuals who nevertheless contain cores of genuine
goodness and innate warmheartedness.  

The movie also achieves additional depth and weight in its exploration of
the vagaries of fate as many of the characters examine the `what if'
scenarios that haunt anyone caught up in a situation like this
one.

`Bounce' is well written, directed and acted.  Even those who don't normally
go for love stories should definitely check it out.

<|_=00=_|>

	A tragic brush with fate sets a man on a road to self awareness and
discovery that drastically alters his perception of himself and the world in
which he lives, in `Bounce,' directed by Don Roos and starring Ben Affleck
and Gwyneth Paltrow.  In  Chicago on business, waiting at the airport for a
flight back to L.A. just before Christmas, Advertising Exec/salesman Buddy
Amaral (Affleck) gives his ticket to a man he's met that evening in the
lounge, Greg Janello (Tony Goldwyn), who's just been bumped from his flight.
 A writer, in Chicago for the opening (and sadly, the closing) of one of his
plays, Janello has a wife, Abby (Gwyneth Paltrow), and two kids waiting for
him at home, and is grateful for Buddy's apparent random act of kindness. 
Far from being a benevolent gesture, however, Buddy's motives are purely
self-serving, and have to do with another passenger, Mimi (Natasha
Henstridge), who's also been bumped and who has been given accommodations
for the night by the airline.  It seems that everything has worked out well
for all concerned, until later that night, when the news breaks that the
plane carrying Janello has crashed somewhere in Kansas, and that there are
no survivors.  For Buddy, who should have been on that plane, it's an
awakening; and for probably the first time in his life he is forced to look
inward.  And he doesn't like what he finds.  His confrontation with the
demons within ultimately leads him to Abby Janello, and another unexpected
turn in his life.  
	Director Roos has created a richly textured drama that is both captivating
and credible; the story is well written (by Roos), developed with precision
and expertly paced, which makes it all entirely believable.  Much more than
a simple love story, it's about a man forced to confront what he sees in the
mirror, and how he must cope with what he finds there; and about a young
woman with two children, suddenly widowed, who must come to grips with an
unsure future while dealing with such a devastating loss.  What follows is
an examination of a relationship forged by fate and born of need; a fragile,
precarious situation at best.  And what makes this film so good is the
gradual way the relationship between Buddy and Abby is formed, neither
hurried nor forced, with a couple of truly poignant moments along the way. 
And it all rings true, courtesy of a great script, Roos directing and the
engaging performances of the stars.  Affleck brings real depth to his
character, and most importantly, a sense of true sincerity that makes him
real; he illuminates Buddy's imperfections to perfection.  And Paltrow is
absolutely disarming as Abby; gentle and vulnerable to a fault, winsomely
charming, and beautifully played.  Also, there is a definite chemistry
between Paltrow and Affleck that cannot be denied.
	The supporting cast includes Jennifer Grey (Mrs. Guererro), Joe Morton
(Jim), David Paymer (Prosecution Lawyer), Alex D. Linz (Scott) and Johnny
Galecki.  A touching, memorable movie, `Bounce' is a reflection on the
journey of life we all must take; and it makes you realize that it's
something you have to work at.  It's a film that makes you stop to
reconsider choices made in the past, while recognizing that in the end,
perhaps love and happiness is the bonus for doing it right.  I rate this one
9/10.        
<|_=00=_|>
While at the airport bar waiting for their planes, ad exec Ben Affleck
gives his ticket to a family man anxious to get home to his wife and
kids; after the plane crashes, Affleck checks up on the man's widow,
even helps get her work, before falling in love with her--and also
before disclosing he has something to tell her, something
important...but it can wait until tomorrow. As written and directed by
Don Roos, "Bounce" follows such a formulaic pattern that everything in
it is fraudulent. Gwyneth Paltrow plays the bereaved with a certain
amount of sophisticated grace, but her character is always on the verge
of making a hasty exit and her dialogue smacks of too-smart little
observations thick with script-writer's ink. Affleck is always on the
verge of finding a character--and failing (even when he has tears
welling up in his eyes, nothing Affleck says or does quite rings true).
The picture doesn't exist in any kind of reality--nothing in it appears
natural--with decorative city and beach settings that may very well be
stock shots. The character conflicts don't balance out for us
emotionally, and when Paltrow kicks Affleck out of her house in front
of her two kids, she's suddenly so embittered and vindictive that we
can't recover from it in time for the finale. There's also the
proverbial gal-pal for Paltrow and gay assistant for Affleck who both
dish out that kind of 'it-hurts-but-it's-good-for-you' advice prone to
romance weepies. It's an assembly-line chick flick for viewers who
bounce unceremoniously from one of these movies to the next. ** from
****
<|_=00=_|>

"Bounce" has the familiar elements of a romance-drama.  The premise is quite
original and engaging, but as the relationship between Ben and Gwyneth
blossoms, we're given the Hollywood treatment.  However, Ben and Gwyneth
give spirited performances and keep everything afloat.  Both of them are
extremely charming, have terrific charisma and there are some nice
interactions between the two of them.  I wasn't touched after I finished
viewing this formulaic romance, since I pretty much saw what was coming--but
it's a likeable, feel-good movie thanks to the charming performances.  It's
a good date movie, though I assume the woman will be shedding most of the
tears.

My score:  7 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>

I'll admit Gwen Paltrow could make a hunting safety video interesting, but
there are many problems with Bounce that cannot simply be
ignored.
Caution, spoilers ahead, drive carefully.

First of all, Affleck and Gwen have no chemistry on screen. Affleck has more
chemistry with his 2 fingers of scotch. In fact, its nice to see stock
footage of Ben exiting the rehab center worked into a major motion picture,
but I digress. Charlie Sheen has been pitching that one around Hollywood for
years without success.

Essentially, a formula story with a predictable ending and nothing you'll be
too interested in. Affleck's character is not someone you root for. He's the
take-no-prisoners-life-is-too-short-to-drink-cheap-vodka hot shot ad exec
who "graciously" gives up his airplane ticket so he can bed some broad he
has known for all of 5 minutes; how noble. He'd be better off with Sandy
Bullock's character from 28 days, now there's a $500 Charles Nelson Riley
match for you. Tell us what she's won Gene Rayburn...

Gwen is the life boat that prevents this sinking ship from going under
mostly due to Ben's unlikable Buddy and a vapid script. Buddy shows up to
"make amends" with Gwen and within 5 minutes starts making a play for her.
What is that ? Is that a sub section of the ninth step in the AA codec: make
amends with those you have made suffer, and if possible, try to get them
into the sack ???? 

Consider it star training. Someday Ben will make the big blockbuster (Pearl
Harbor notwithstanding) but it ain't this dog.


<|_=00=_|>
Not a bad premise, especially for what is merely yet another romantic
drama that pairs up any major male star with any major female star.
However, once the basic premise "happens" (so-to-speak) the rest is
very predictable and formulaic, including the soppy and mediocre
ballads sung by current females-on-acoustic-guitar semi-poet
semi-90s-philosopher pop-singer morons. 

It was obvious Affleck would: 1) get in touch with Paltrow, 2) fall for
her and vice versa, 3) not tell her immediately le big secret, 4) she'd
find out, one way or another, and tell him to go away, and 5) at the
end they'd continue where they originally started. So the first half is
totally by-the-numbers. There is even a gay character who offers
counsel, support and all that other gay stuff which all 90s gay movie
characters are required to do. (If they aren't (un)funny sidekicks,
then they at least have to be WISE AND GOOD.) Still, at least they let
Affleck make a sarcastic comment about the gay guy's role; a bit of
unexpected but ultimately insufficient irony. Paltrow is annoying,
Affleck is "blah" – so nothing new there. He is a weak actor because he
is Ben in every movie he plays. Sure, Clint Eastwood is Clint in every
movie he plays, and the same goes for Bronson and some others, but with
a big difference: those guys have charisma, i.e. we want to see Clint
be Clint and so on but we don't ever want to see Ben be Ben because Ben
isn't charismatic but simply a 90s Hollywood brat. (In fact, I don't
want to see Ben Affleck AT ALL.) 

The thing I mentioned earlier, about male-female-star pairing-ups is
getting downright tiresome. There is a list of male and a list of
female actresses who are paired up every now and then (read: far too
often) for various romantic dramas or romantic comedies that are always
based on clichéd scripts; movies that promise cash once the women and
the girls in the audience start taking out those handkerchiefs out
(usually towards the end of the movie) so that they can wet them with
their tears of soap-operatic self-delusion.

The men: The women: George Clooney Michelle Pfeiffer Bruce Willis Salma
Hayek Ben Affleck Jennifer Lopez Keanu Reeves Sandra Bullock Matthew
MacConaughey Winona Ryder Richard Gere Gwyneth Paltrow Hugh Grant Meg
Ryan Tom Hanks Julia Roberts Nicolas Cage Charlize Theron

Pair up any of these randomly, placing them in a movie about on-&-off
love in which usually someone has a terminal illness or someone is from
a different social class than the other, etc, and you can make your own
90s soap movie with very little entertainment or cinematic value. Try
it. It's very, very easy. You might even get a feeling of deja-vu
because some of these pairs already made films - with fascinating,
brilliant results. Now you know how easy it can be to run a movie
corporation.

If you want to read my parody-biographies of Affleck, Paltrow, and
other Hollywood dimwits, contact me by e-mail.
<|_=00=_|>
BOUNCE (2000) ***1/2 Ben Affleck, Gwyneth Paltrow, Joe Morton, Natasha
Henstridge, Jennifer Grey, Tony Goldwyn, Johnny Galecki, Caroline
Aaron, Alex D. Linz, David Dorfman. Excellent romantic drama tinged
with equal parts tragedy and comedy with Affleck (in one of his best
roles to date) as a charming alcoholic ad exec who sobers up after a
year of harboring a guilt-plagued secret: - giving his plane ticket to
family man Goldwyn en route home only to die in a plane crash killing
all aboard – and seeking out the widow to make amends. What he doesn't
count on is falling in love with her and the circumstances hovering
their impending romance.

Paltrow has never been finer and succeeds in making her character not a
victim but an individual coping with the harsh reality of raising her
boys by herself and coming to terms with loving again. Written and
directed by Don Roos (the script is smart, witty and poignant
throughout with characters that feel all too real in what easily
could've been manipulatively maudlin. Laugh and cry formula works and
the on-again-off-again real-life relationship between the couple
underscores all the emotions on full tilt.
<|_=00=_|>

Old premise, new film. A reasonable attempt at film making,
"Bounce" is fraught with problems not the least of which
is
casting Affleck opposite a fine actress. This light drama
starts okay but fizzles. The chemistry between Affleck
and
Paltrow is predictably nonexistent. Affleck and Bullock,
maybe. Affleck and Paltrow, no way. The drama in all corners
of the film, from alcoholism to the Kodak moments to the
"can I love the guy who killed my husband" paradox doesn't
work because the film builds a weak foundation, develops
characters poorly, and just plain unravels in the
denouement. Wait for broadcast on this one.
<|_=00=_|>
Why, why, why did Jennifer Grey have to go and get a nose job? I hardly
recognized her in this movie. IMHO, she looked rather attractive just
the way she was.

OK, having got that off my chest, I am one of those who like Bounce,
despite Affleck's limitations as an actor and the somewhat predictable
plot. A bittersweet, tender romance movie is not really meant to move
mountains artistically, nor should it be expected to. But this one does
draw you in, emotionally, for better or for worse. Case in point: Look
at all the IMDb comments posted on it! And as for those who would have
liked more sizzle in the romance between Affleck and Paltrow, remember,
this is a film that also has the death of Abby's husband as its
constant backdrop, hence, the film's rather understated treatment of
their romance, I think.
<|_=00=_|>

What makes BOUNCE rise above the average of romantic films is the direction
of Don Roos, who also made the eccentric THE OPPOSITE OF SEX. Here he avoids
sappiness but every now and then the film gets quite melodramatic.
However, Gwyneth Paltrow and Ben Affleck are surprisingly good and have a
nice chemistry, in a good and warm date movie.

7/10
