
I can't help but to be amused by the other comments/reviews on this
movie. They (even the positive ones) completely enforce exactly what
this movie is actively trying to point out about our society.

Several people noted that the narrative was weak or nonexistent, that
the film didn't "go" anywhere, and/or that there was too much extra
"stuff" that distracted the story from the "real" plot line. I'm here to
tell you that this is the whole point of Spike Lee's brilliant Girl 6.
It's not a flaw in the movie, it is part of it's very construction.

Every time an extradiegetic scene was placed within the overall plot
(such as the Dorothy Dandridge, Foxy Brown, Jeffersons scenes as well
as the recurring image of the elevator shaft) the audience is pulled
away from the narrative of the film and forced to see it as such: a
movie! And fictional movies have no basis in reality; the people and
actions depicted are not real. This disrupts our normal expectations
about what we expect to see in a film.

The movie is also scattered with touches of reflexivity. For example,
Naomi Campbell, wearing a shirt that says "Models Suck" and Quentin
Tarantino, acting very ironically in a way he has been accused of. At
the end, the movie theater in L.A. is showing a movie entitled "Girl 6"
and a billboard proclaims that it's "The End." Absolutely all of this
is purposeful and calculated. It does exactly what so many people were
disappointed not to see, by subverting our expectations and implicitely
pointing out that this is NOT a movie you can just "fall into" and
become a passive spectator, that it actively engages the audience and
breaks down our concepts of the master narrative by giving us an ending
we did not expect.

Girl 6 is not a movie about phone sex, as so many of you seem to
believe. It is a feminist (if you know anything about Suzan-Lori Parks,
you know she would never condone something sexist, let alone write it)
film that deliberately references itself in order to subvert our
expectations about films, society, and women.

It's really a shame that so many people are, in fact, so hooked on
"traditional" forms of narrative (taught by a sexist society) that they
fail to see the value of this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Spike Lee is a man that loves to provoke. He awakens the viewer as he
asks to participate in what he is showing on screen. Most of Spike
Lee's films have been unmercifully panned by his detractors, including
the printed media in this country, and it's a shame because Mr. Lee is
one of today's most original creators. In "Girl 6", based on a screen
play by the talented Suzan-Lori Parks, a playwright herself, the
director directs his satire to the porn industry. If you haven't seen
the film, stop reading here!

Judy, the young and black woman at the center of the story, is seen at
the start at a casting session with Q.T. (Quentin Tarantino, at his
most obnoxious self). Judy is asked by the director to show her
breasts, which she reluctantly does, but she is so repulsed by the
experience, that Tarantino, or no Tarantino, she's out of there.

This young woman can't find work to enable her to live. The solution
presents itself when she answers an ad for a sex phone line after
having turned down a woman who runs a strip joint. It appears that Judy
is a natural for the job. Suddenly she becomes one of the most demanded
woman in the place. She listens attentively, talks soft and is never
too pushy or mean to the men who seek her.

Judy makes a mistake when she gives someone her home phone number and
goes to meet one of her "regulars" at Coney Island's boardwalk. That's
when the dangerous creep keeps persecuting her with threatening phone
calls. Since she basically is an actress and wants a change, she
decides to leave New York and go to Hollywood, a sad mistake. The last
thing we see her do is go to another casting agent who demands to see
her breasts, the same thing that the great Tarantino demanded from her!
In fact, Spike Lee shows us how women, especially young ones, are
vulnerable to fall pray to these unscrupulous operators just to get
into the movie business. One thing is evident: Spike Lee is a director
who gets magnificent performances out of the stars of his films. In
this case is the wonderful Theresa Randle who as Judy runs away with it
because she is perfect as Judy. In fact, this young actress turns a
great performance under Mr. Lee's direction. It's a shame we don't see
her in roles that will let her show her talents in a positive way.

The large cast does amazing work. Madonna does one of the best things
she has ever done in a film with the manager of the strip tease joint.
She's perfect! Quentin Tarantino plays himself with all the
characteristic excess. John Turturro is seen briefly as Judy's agent.
Michael Imperioli and Peter Berg are seen as some of Judy's callers.
Gretchen Mol, Debi Mazar, Naomi Campbell, Jenifer Lewis are part of the
sex phone women, and Ron Silver shows up at the end. Spike Lee himself
is the next door neighbor, but he takes a back seat in order to leave
the front to the amazing Theresa Randle.
<|_=00=_|>
Amazing how badly received was this film. Only an average of 5 from the
IMDb viewers?? In my opinion it is a remarkable film from many points
of view, daring and interesting, one of Lee's best.

There are many layers in this film. Let us start with the story - an
Afro-American actress refuses to expose her body for screen tests,
finds herself unemployed, and the lucrative job she finds is in the
phone sex industry. Is this job less exposing and more honorable? It
seems it is, and what comes plays on a fine line between acting and
living a virtual life, that takes over the mundane aspects of the
say-to-day life (a kleptomaniac ex, a timid neighbor). The dream plan
becomes more complex, intertwined with the story of a little girl that
went through an accident to be saved redeemed by the good people
around. The film asks questions about the border between passion and
addiction, between real life and imagination in a series of lively
sketches. Lee with his Afro-American New York reminds here Woody Allen
at his best when re-creating the Jewish New York.

Unfortunately, the end is conventional and a little bit confusing.
However, the film has many qualities, and a strong cast, first of all
the amazing Theresa Randle. I wonder how such a wonderful actress
disappeared after such a film, does anybody know what happen to her
career? Good movie, worth watching, growing up in time. 8 out of 10 on
my personal scale.
<|_=00=_|>

(SOME SPOILERS) With it's release in Spring of 96, "Girl 6" was called
"the worst Spike Lee film". I am here to defend "Girl 6". Those that
have seen "She's Gotta Have It" and understood it, you will understand
"Girl 6". "Girl 6" is about Judy (Theresa Randle), a struggling black
actress looking for work. She isn't able to pay her acting coach and
she is let go. After working a night at a club, she's reading a
newspaper and stumbles upon an ad looking for someone interested in
working in the phone sex industry. She takes the job and becomes so
involved in her work she loses touch with reality. Like most of Spike's
films, there are the multiple stories (her ex-husband wanting her back,
the sick guy that keeps calling her, the little girl Angela, Judy's
friendship with Jimmy, her fantasies and Bob) The film did have it's
flaws. The phone sex scene with the "kielbasa" man should've been left
out. A plus for the film was the soundtrack by Prince and his related
bands (Vanity 6's Nasty Girl was so perfect for this movie) This cast
was a who's who of celebrities (Maddonna, Naomi Campbell, Quentin
Tarantino, Ron Silver and a Halle Berry cameo) Michael Imperioli was
sadistic and creepy as the crazed "Scary Caller #30". The
cinematography is stunning. The elaborate fantasy scenes (Foxy Brown is
the funniest one) are quite funny and award winning playwright Suzan
Lori-Parks first and only screenplay is a decent one. "Girl 6" may have
it's downs but it is an enjoyable film.

Girl 6- rated R *** out of ****

<|_=00=_|>
Girl 6 is not a laugh-out-loud comedy so much as it is a satire of the
nature of the struggle of the typical New York City actress with big
dreams. She can hardly get a job and eventually resorts to using her
talents to the most basic and competently lucrative degree as a phone
sex girl.

The film held my interest to a great degree, but only because of the
visceral experience of watching it. John Corso and Malik Hassan
Sayeed's cinematography, which ranges several different sorts of film
stock, and Lee's consistent talent with the placement of music combined
with the film's fascinating look is beautiful. There are several
feelings that I felt that took me on a ride, but they were empty
feelings, fleeting ominous moods, energy. The story doesn't fit. Thus,
the movie is only stylistically moving. If the script had been directed
by anyone else, it likely wouldn't be worth it at all.

The substance of the film is basically nonexistent. The satire is not
cohesive because there is no real point the film makes. This is
certainly one of Spike Lee's worst films, but it certainly has a beauty
lathered on top.
<|_=00=_|>

I have always like Spike Lee's movie due to the intelligence he puts in
the
plot and in the dialogues. His films are full of things that make we think
and they're guarantee we'll have fun. "Girl 6" however doesn't fit this
category. It's not bad, actually I liked it, but it's just an ordinary
movie. I liked (very beautiful) Theresa Radle performance and Spike Lee
himself is also good. There are lots of pretty girls in "Girl 6", what is
a
good reason to watch it, but there's nothing really impressive here.

My rate 6/10

<|_=00=_|>
Girl 6 could have been helped from a little trimming, this is the first
and probably foremost criticism. At 106 minutes, which should be
average length for any movie to aspire to have, it's a few minutes too
long and although one might lose the visual metaphor of the drop down
the elevator, whatever it really means, the whole sub-plot involving
the little girl falling down and breaking her head is unnecessary
throughout and brings the film to a halt every time the 'newstory'
segment pops up. And every so often, though not frequently, a technical
touch or a performance might be a little too over the top, too
flamboyant even for the Spike Lee Joint standard.

But aside from this, Girl 6 is fun and enjoyable "fluff" for Spike Lee,
which means that it's still risqué and poignant and sharp-tongued (more
than usual here and in more ways than one, some pun intended), and
loaded with hit or miss R&B songs (this time by Prince, not quite as
cool as Batman tracks but close). It's about an aspiring actress
(Theresa Randle) who hits roadblocks in her career when she gets told
to take her top off for a "TOP Hollywood DIRECTOR" called "Q.T.", and
played not too embarrassingly by the man himself. After some crappy
gigs she goes for something that involves sex but only with the vocal
chords, and indeed involves a kind of on-the-spot improvisation:
phone-sex operator.

From here the plot kind of takes off, however episodically and
sometimes very loose in structure (there's some connection with one
phone sex guy, Bob, whom Girl 6 crushes on and gets practically dumped,
and a "Scary Caller" who treats her like dirt), and mostly involves us
seeing what the person on the other line might look like in grainy
video, and her own fantasies of movie-stardom from her favorites. This
latter part provided the funniest and most visually creative scenes of
the picture for me, particularly when Lee himself becomes Mr. Jefferson
from the Jeffersons and when Girl 6 becomes Foxy Brown. While some of
the visual flourishes we all like from a Lee Joint are present, and
maybe too typical, it's fun to see Lee work through talky material, and
all the actors have fun with their roles; especially Randle, who gives
it her all in a seemingly breakthrough serio-comic turn and who gets to
dress up and go for broke in many moments.

Bottom line, it's not as bad as you've heard or seen it rated on this
site, but it's also somewhat of a trifle in the Lee cannon, albeit
within its own limitations almost (though not quite) the level of
romantic-comedy we might expect from the director of She's Gotta Have
It. Hey, it's better than She Hate Me, at the least, and somewhat less
incoherent.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is by far one of my favourite Spike Lee movies, along with
"She's
Gotta Have It"  It follows the trials and tribulations of an actress
trying
to make it in New York City.  She decides to take a job as a phone sex
operator until she gets an acting job.  Theresa Randle gives an excellent
performance throughout. The musical score by Prince, which includes some
of
his classic '80s tunes, makes this a movie that you can watch over and
over
again.  Too bad it's not available on DVD, like some of Spike's other
movies.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw Girl 6 on HBO after it was released (I wasn't allowed to see it).
At that time Girl 6 didn't really catch my attention.  I never knew what
phone sex was so I couldn't really understand the movie too well.I
recently rented Girl 6 and was glued to the screen. I really loved the
performance of Theresa Randle as the African American woman desperately
in need of a job she later discovers phone sex and yadda yadda yadda.
The most elaborate scenes in Girl 6 has to be her fantasies where she
becomes Dorothy Dandridge in Carmen Jones, Foxy Brown, and Thelma from
Good Times. A lot of people I know hates this movie but I think it was a
promising Spike joint, I really enjoyed it. Not as much as Bamboozled,
Do The Right Thing, Malcolm X and Clockers but I enjoyed it. From every
angle Girl 6 was enjoyable, Prince (then known as The Artist Formely
known as Prince) provided a great score and playwright Suzan Lori Parks
made Girl 6 the slick comedy it is today.


<|_=00=_|>
Considered to be Spike's worst, I still found this engaging (ha ha) as
his others. Randle holds her own as a New York actress, dropped from
her agency after walking out on a QT audition. Idiot. Footnote: If you
see how bad Randle's character's acting is, you question how she's come
so far. Now out of the work, scoring the odd extra audition, Randle
finds a new way to tap into her talents, as a phone sex operator. This
is where the movie gets juicy, thanks to Randle's colorful callers, one
Hispanic couple cracked me up. Unfortunately, one of her callers is a
unhinged stalker, where the movie later shifts into drama, where
originally, really, it was an intended drama. The stalker who played De
Caprio's dying friend in The Basketball Diaries, a year earlier, sent
some chills through me when getting to the crux his threats, on poor
suffering Randle, where this change of mood to the film was good.
Randle's ex, a good hearted thief (Issah Washington) isn't really,
helping as wanting to get back with her. Her good friend/neighbor,
Jimmy, of course played by Lee, who sort of bludges off of her, tries
to talk her out of this dangerous and nowhere job. Lee's quite good in
this, a proved actor, given the right environment. Too, Randle's being
harassed by a middle aged Indian store owner, who rejects his advances.
Underneath, this is a movie about woman's rights, not wanting to
conform, like when being asked to strip for a movie audition, where she
blows other ones later on these same grounds. It too shows how
dangerous it can be, when you get too friendly with the wrong client,
who sounds so nice and genuine over the phone. Women shouldn't have to
tolerate drooling men, or sick minds. Randle's character's
independence, I really liked, and she does have a real sexy voice. If
you're a Lee fan, don't shun this one out, or if you're an avid Lee
fan, it goes without saying. Opening score is great, as is a guest
appearance by Madonna, fondling a cute dog, plus all those dropping
phones in the street, in it's finale, with Randle and partner making
up.
