
This is one of those first few movies which represent Seagal's best.
The story moves by quickly, the action never stops, and the quality is
excellent. 

Seagal's bombastic aikido style is a sure show-stopper. The action is
so captivating that it almost renders the story unnecessary. The story
consists of Seagal searching out the murderer of a friend. There are
other elements to the plot, but that is the gist. It would do no good
to attempt to detail the plot however, as the story is lost in a flurry
of fists and knees.

If you are a fan of Seagal's bone-crunching, show-stopping,
hard-hitting martial arts style, you will simply love this one. 

Although this is quite pretentious and philosophically preachy, this
has to be one of my absolute favorites of his older movies.

I love it!

It rates a 7.4 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
IMO, this is at once the best AND the most formulaic of Seagal's
endless string of beat-'em-ups. If you like Seagal, you will love this
film; if you don't, OFJ probably will not convince you.

The fight scenes have a nice, bone-crunching kinetic energy to them,
the plot has something of an urgent feel to it, and the soundtrack
contributes greatly to the atmosphere and mood of the proceedings. I
especially liked the placement and timing of 'No Sleep 'Til Brooklyn'.
This played during the montage driving scene where 'Gino' (Seagal)
drives through various ethnic neighborhoods and reacts to various
sights and extras - to me this was the actual highlight of the film,
giving the viewer a sense of place and humanity missing from most films
of this type. 

There are, of course, a couple of major problems with the film that
keep it from being anything more than a typical Seagal action vehicle.
The first one is that 'Gino' is such an unstoppable fighting machine
that you never really worry about him or whether he will be a match for
the villain once he finds him. And indeed, once Gino catches up with
'Ritchie' (William Forsythe, dreadfully miscast and not especially
convincing), the denouement is a completely one-sided *ss-kicking that
lacks any suspense whatsoever. Gino just mows Ritchie down like winter
wheat and the scene comes to an end. At least Seagal had some trouble
with Tommy Lee Jones and the terrorists in 'Under Siege' and with the
voodoo gangster guy in 'Marked For Death' - you got the sense that he
really was in danger. Not so here.

2ndly, and probably worse, Seagal seems to have decided that he wanted
to stretch himself as an actor in this movie. So the script gives the
movie way too many scenes where he delivers endless monologues - no,
actually they are more like oratories - in a static talking head shot
filmed over the shoulder of another actor (or extra). These scenes go
on for literally minutes, and bring the film to a screeching halt,
because Seagal just can't pull them off. Hell I'm not sure Deniro
filmed by Scorcese could pull them off, because these speeches just go
on and on until even the biggest Seagal fan is saying 'OK, Steven, we
GET IT, you're ACTING, now can we PLEASE MOVE ALONG?!?!?" 

Still this film, and the following film 'Under Siege', probably
represent the peak of Seagal's career as an action star. After this he
started going downhill, getting greasier and flabbier with each new
release, and each new release was more and more unconvincing and badly
made than the last, until finally he seems to have bottomed out with
"Exit Wounds" and direct-to-video crap like "Out For A Kill".

So if you want to watch a GOOD Seagal film, consider this one. It holds
up well over repeated viewings and over the decade since it was made.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is the ultimate violence film.  i'm not going to give any
specific
examples but the fight scenes are so brutal is hilarious.  its not like
one
of those japanese ninja violence films, or evil dead type violence.  this
is
like real-life violence.  seagal plays gion fellino, a tough brooklyn cop,
who is as the title suggests, out for justice.  after the start seagal
goes
round giving a good hiding to anyone who so much as looks at him funny.
the
scenes in the butcher shop, the pool hall and the final fight are the best
examples of the violence in this film, however they are scattered all over
the place.  its about 2 minutes into the film before the first person gets
a
severe decking from seagal.  and its fairly brutal.  the butcher shop is a
good example of seagals martial arts abilities, but more of the fact that
gino is a total bad-ass.  the pool hall is the macho scene and is a
ripper.
no-one escapes a good decking.  and the final fight is pretty much the
harshest beating i've seen in any film.  well apart from when like old
people get battered but you'll see what i mean if you watch it.  make sure
to get it on dvd too.  its really badly cut on vhs.  overall, this film is
an all time ripsnorter and probably my favourite seagal film, and in my
top
ten films of all time.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, first off I'd like to say I'm a bit of a Seagal-junkie. Then I'd
have to say why I bothered writing something this time.. this just
might be the best film Seagal's ever done! I haven't seen them all,
yet, they're quite hard to get. The role Seagal has is perfect for him,
a hardened cop, the role in which he owns the screen, anyway he acts
great. In the film there are superb martial arts. There's even a bit of
a plot. And did I mention martial arts, they are totally kicking arse.
And there are lots of them. As well as action, car chase(s), gun
fighting, everything.

I definitely recommend this to anyone who's into action films. And you
have to find yourself an uncut copy.

<|_=00=_|>
Gino Felino, like Nico Toscani, Mason Storm and John Hatcher before
him, is a good cop in a bad mood. His partner Bobby Lupo has been
gunned down in the streets in front of his wife and kids by crazed
wannabe gangster Richie Madano. Richie was always into something bad,
even when he was a kid and now seems to be going psycho, snorting coke
and smoking crack. He's got a one-way ticket to oblivion and he's going
to have fun getting there along with his evil henchmen Joey Dogs, Bobby
Arms and Bochi. Luckily for the good citizens of Brooklyn, Gino is on
the case and on the mission to find Richie by means of broken bones,
severed limbs and agonizing pain.

As Steven Seagal movies go (the pre-1997 Golden Years) Out For Justice
is definitely one of the strongest. Tight fast-paced direction, well
balanced widescreen framing, a great score by David Michael Frank and
an impressive cast of familiar faces give it a lasting impression.
Also, Seagal has mentioned that this is his favorite film of his own
and you can really see it in his acting. He's often been criticised for
not giving any effort and I wholeheartedly agree in regard to his later
films. But there was a time when he did try and in Out For Justice you
can see that a little effort goes a long way. I know his Brooklyn
accent isn't THAT convincing and his acting in general isn't exactly on
par with Olivier, but if he we're to be just as enthusiastic about his
other characters then maybe his film career wouldn't be in the toilet.

Out For Justice never loses its appeal. William Forsythe is just so
evil as Richie that I've never been convinced by the nice guy
characters he's played in other movies. The fight scenes in which
Seagal takes measures to ensure maximum suffering are most entertaining
and small moments of character give it a strange edge. But you can tell
that there's been a lot of stuff left out. This is especially evident
in the montage sequences where characters are wearing different
clothing and meet up with each other all over the place. There is also
hints at more murders by Richie in the trailer that are never seen or
referenced in the film at all.

Proof positive that Seagal once had it. But then came religion and
then...well...you know how it went.
<|_=00=_|>
Alright guys, I'm gonna be straight with you. In this review, I'm gonna
be praising "Out for Justice" and will be recommending it to anyone,
but the truth is, Steven Seagal's best movie to me is always gonna be
"Under Siege", period. "Out for Justice" to me is more like his second
best, even though you might think that saying that might not be saying
much at all, the truth is "Out for Justice" is an a great martial arts
film that is worth your time.

During Steven Seagal's ponytail years and before "Under Siege" came
out, Seagal was basically putting out a few martial arts films that
were considered to be something new at the time. And because of that,
they were box-office successes and other actors such as Jean Claude Van
Damme and Wesley Snipes started doing what Seagal was doing and the
three of them rose to stardom. But during the course of the 1990's and
the 2000's, the mainstream culture started to look to other martial
artists (like Jason Statham in his ridiculous Transporter films) and
Seagal, Van Damme and Snipes started doing their thing in the
straight-to-DVD way and things will never be the same again.

But thank god we still have the movies to watch forever, and "Out for
Justice" does Seagal's career a whole lot of true justice. In this, he
plays a Gino Felino, a tough as nails cop who grew up on the streets of
Brooklyn and with Mafia ties. But one day, his best friend Bobby is
ruthlessly shot and killed in daylight and in front of his wife and
kids by a wannabe wise-guy named Richie (William Forsythe). And Gino
happens to know him since those two were kids, and he's willing to do
anything to get to Richie, such as arresting his sister to get
information and even being rough with his parents. Also, even the mob
guys are after Richie since he's making them look bad, but they keep
screwing up and Richie keeps killing whoever they send to get him.

And Seagal isn't too shabby as an actor when he gives that depressing
monologue about his character's father, but I'll admit that there were
some areas that he could've improved on to make it better. And his
slick fighting skills make his character really stand out. And also the
part when he saves a harmless pup from being run-over by a car after
its owner threw it out in a garbage bag on the road, is what is another
defining point of him. And then in the end he finds that owner and
kicks that guy in his family jewels. Pretty funny stuff there.

Also, William Forsythe's portrayal as the psychotic Richie is another
one of the movies best parts. He's completely believable in his role as
a guy who was always breaking the law since the start and then finally
loses his mind when he starts taking crack and dope. And Forsythe
displays his character's emotions of insanity and fury with sheer
skill, and also I laugh every time the line "Shut up about the f**king
mouse!" is said.

And as always, the action is what's best, the aikido/ martial arts is
completely realistic and doesn't seem too fake or stiff that some
karate-esquire movies do. The action is absolutely and positively
brutal, bloody and violent. And this is clear proof why Steven Seagal
is the best at what he does, the scene in the bar in which Gino takes a
billiard ball wrapped in a towel and whacks Richies men and knocks a
guy's teeth out is one of Seagal's best ever fight scenes. And who
could forget the end when Gino storms that house with a shotgun and
totally trashes the hell out of Richie?

I actually just rented this movie last night from Blockbuster and I was
amazed at how wrong I was about Seagal before. He doesn't deserve all
the criticism he gets for not giving any depth to his characters, but
in "Out for Justice" I was seeing some of that. And next thing I'm
gonna do is I'm gonna buy this on DVD and add it to my collection. Who
knows? Maybe I'll even start making a collection of Seagal movies and
this is along with "Under Siege" is a start.....
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of Seagal's best from the early 90's. If you
like
hardcore violence and "true" justice, then this movie is for
you!
If we had more cops like Gino today, we wouldn't have a need
for
maximum security prisons!! or the courts for that matter!
If you liked Seagal's earlier movies, you'll love this
one.
Keep makin' movies Gino and Thanks!

<|_=00=_|>
Sometimes, you're just in the mood for a good ass-kicking action movie.
That is the definition of Out for Justice.

The movie is not very big on plot, although it does offer some in-sight
on different back-stories, characters' pasts and several other things.
We do get to know some characters pretty well, but others not so much.

Steven Seagal stars as the protagonist Gino Felino, the tough,
ass-kicking cop who does things his own violent way but still has a
soft side evident.

William Forsythe stars as the antagonist Richie Madano, the drug using,
dirty, evil, sniveling, careless wise-guy who's violent
night-long/citywide rampage has Gino chasing him all over town.

There are a lot of great action scenes, and plenty of ass-kicking by
Steven Seagal for those who are into pure action. I usually like movies
with a good story, but once in a while I like to kick back with a good,
senseless action movie. So if you're into movies that favor action over
plot: This is definitely one for you.

8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Now this is action! Out for justice is more like out for revenge on
home turf. Bloody, gritty, relentless, pulpy and whispering Steven
Seagal (at his concise best). Nice, but making it work is that action
maestro John Flynn is at the helm where he makes great use of the
authentic Brooklyn backdrop and implements some cracking in-your-face
set-pieces of Seagal harassing, causing a mess (that's property damage)
and then effortlessly busting body parts. Oh it's a great sound! He
even manages a few amusing wisecracks or so, although I could have
heard less of his character's moving childhood stories with some sort
of philosophical message, but we're just seeing the sincere reflective
side of the man. Even taking time out to look after a dumped puppy,
while after an elusive criminal (that he knew through childhood) that's
roaming Brooklyn and who brutally killed his partner / friend in
cold-blood. I guess this is to counter balance the violence and
there's a lot of it. However Seagal is overshadowed by William
Forsythe's dominating, hot-headed and vicious drug fuelled gangster.
Definitely one of the most insane villains put on screen and Forsythe
milks out every opportunity to display it. When these two characters
finally come to blows, it doesn't disappoint. Director John Flynn keeps
it lean, mean and quite explosive in a familiar but well done manner,
as he knows when to up the ante and to let it settle. The music
soundtrack was the only thing I found to get in the way at times,
trying to be hip in its flavour. The rest of the cast is reasonably
good with the likes of Jerry Orbach, Gina Gershon and Julianna
Margulies showing up. An entertainingly unapologetic action joint
<|_=00=_|>
This is a gritty and violent action film that spends it's time
unequivocally building towards a final confrontation between Gino
(Seagal) and Ritchie (Forsythe).

Gino, the plainclothes policeman, and Ritchie the drug-crazed criminal
are (mostly) equaling opposing forces. Their activities take place in
Brooklyn , the borough where they both grew up. Now, as adults, their
incompatible lifestyles must face off, (preferably in the final reel,
please).

This film shows Seagal as a kind of "Death Wish" type character, and he
is intent on tracking Ritchie down. So much so, that he is leaning on
anyone who knows anything about him. These are probably the best scenes
in the film - where Gino confronts Ritchie's brother in a great bar
fight sequence.

Although the film is a little bit unbalanced in it's pacing, and the
criminals are too comic-book-like for my tastes, this film does make
use of it's background setting well. We are taken to all sorts of
down-market dives, hotels, mob-boss meetings, and brothels. It's a
living slice of New York.

Seagal is surprisingly convincing, and his naturalistic style here
really does work for the film. Again, like elements of "Marked for
Death", there is a slight echo of that "Walking Tall" idea; where a man
single-handedly cleans up his own territory - against the odds, and at
any cost.
