
You have to be THE most die-hard, unrelenting cynic not to enjoy this
movie. I love it when television networks play this film around
wintertime because for some reason it doesn't suit any other time of
year. In winter you like to have a comfort zone and this film is it! 

It tells the story of lonely singleton Lucy who daydreams of better
things while working at a ticket booth and drooling over the secret
crush of a local commuter (Peter Gallagher) One morning she saves him
from a coming train and while he lies comatose she gets reluctantly
cosy with his family. The deceit is understandable and by no means
menacing, as it's Christmas the younger brother Jack (Bill Pullman)
returns home and subsequently falls for Lucy. 

While you were sleeping is beautiful and sweet in so many ways: You are
reminded of the more old-fashioned romances of the 40's and 50's. There
is not one hint of sexuality or lust in this as the love blossoms
between Jack & Lucy is honest, pure and all together endearing. 

We all relate to Lucy on some level (a dream trip to Paris, Rome or in
this case Florence) So it's hopeful to us all when she gets her happy
ending. I absolutely loved it!
<|_=00=_|>

Lovely little film that has the lonely Sandra Bullock admiring high-class
businessman Peter Gallagher from afar in her toll booth on the subway. Then
one day he is attacked by a couple of muggers and Bullock saves his life by
getting him to the hospital. Naturally Gallagher is in a comatose state
after the attack. A true misunderstanding makes it appear that Bullock is
Gallagher's fiance and typical confusion ensues. Now Gallagher's family all
believe that Bullock really is his woman. Gallagher's brother (Bill Pullman)
is suspicious though, but slowly starts to believe Bullock as well. He then
starts to fall in love with her and vice versa. A great romantic comedy that
is so pure and well-made that it is near impossible to say anything negative
about it. It is not a perfect film, but it is a very likeable movie that
delivers what it promises. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

A sweet and gentle, romantic film about how love sometimes slips in
through
the window rather than coming straight in through the front door, it's the
one that put star Sandra Bullock into contention with Meg Ryan for the
crown
of America's Sweetheart.  And with good reason, because in `While You Were
Sleeping,' directed by Jon Turteltaub, Bullock emerges as the epitome of
the
modern day `girl next door,' in the best and most sincere sense.  This is
a
film that explores one of the basic tenets of the human condition, the
need
to love and be loved, and makes no bones about what it's trying to
accomplish along the way.  Clearly, the filmmakers want to make you feel
good and entertain you at the same time.  And they succeed on both
fronts.

Lucy Moderatz (Bullock) lives alone in Chicago, where she has an
apartment,
a cat and a job with the CTA as a token taker for the train.  Her life is
fairly uncomplicated and uneventful (read:  Dull), and the one thing she
looks forward to in her daily grind is seeing a certain young gentleman
who
rides the train everyday and always passes through her toll booth.  She's
doesn't even know his name, and they've never exchanged so much as a `Good
morning,' but in her mind he's become the Prince Charming she's always
dreamed about.

Then on Christmas morning he passes through, but while waiting on the
platform for the train he gets mugged and falls onto the tracks,
unconscious.  And a train is coming.  Lucy runs to his aid and saves his
life, but the severe head trauma he's sustained has put him in a coma.  At
the hospital, they refuse to let her in to see him, as that is a privilege
reserved for family members only; so in desperation she tells them that
she
is his fiancee, which does the trick.  But when his family-- his rather
`large' family-- shows up, her ruse creates something of a sticky wicket.
Everything is moving so fast and becoming so emotional that Lucy simply
can't get in a word of explanation.  The next thing she knows, to the
family
she is their beloved Peter's (Peter Gallagher) intended (even though he's
never said a word to them about her), and because the situation is so
frantic and there's such concern about Peter, besides which it's
Christmas,
Lucy can't bring herself to tell them the truth.  So in an instant, her
life
is suddenly changed; she's surrounded by `family,' and she's `engaged' to
her Prince Charming.  Even if he is, well...in a coma.

Turteltaub has crafted and delivered a thoroughly engaging film in the
tradition of Nora Ephron's `You've Got Mail' (the second best romantic
comedy ever made) and `Sleepless In Seattle.'  He sets a perfect pace, and
presents his endearingly eclectic assemblage of characters in the best
possible way-- he makes you feel at home with them.  Most importantly,
though, Turteltaub manages to make this a `sweet' film without being
`saccharin' about it, which would have sunk it quicker than a deflated
rubber raft in an undertow.  Instead, he pulls out all the right stops to
make his film entirely Ephronesque and entertaining, and it works
beautifully.  The humor is warm, and as the story moves along he builds
upon
that strong sense of `need' that is universal, then triumphs by satisfying
that need in the end.

Sandra Bullock has never been more winning or winsome than she is here;
there's a special quality about her Lucy that makes you want to reach out
to
her.  She is, without question, the most vulnerable character Bullock has
ever played.  There is very little of Annie (`Speed') or Gracie (`Miss
Congeniality'), for example, about her; the closest to Lucy of any of her
characters, in fact, would be Birdee in `Hope Floats.'  That is not to say
there is anything `weak' about Lucy at all-- quite the contrary, in fact.
There is a decided strength in the very benevolence of Lucy's nature, even
in the way she wears her heart on her sleeve and especially inasmuch as
she
is not afraid to admit to herself what she really wants and needs.  This
is
an independent woman who accepts and meets any and all challenges of life,
but keeps an open mind and, above all, an open heart.  And that is what
makes Lucy so endearing; she's the one who brings a cake to the office to
share with her co-workers for no other reason than the fact that it makes
the world and everybody in it a little bit better.  That's what Bullock
brings to her performance here, and it's what makes Lucy one of her most
enduring and memorable characters.

As for sliding in through the window rather than coming through the front
door, that's exactly what Bill Pullman does with his portrayal of Peter's
brother, Jack Callaghan.  He's the one who shows up after the fact, as it
were, but very quickly makes a connection and ingratiates himself with the
audience.  Initially, Jack seems to be playing the role of devil's
advocate,
his suspicions aroused by the fact that Peter has never mentioned Lucy to
him; but that begins to change with some very subtle undertones that prove
to be extremely effective.  And Pullman does a terrific job of developing
his character in real time, which makes Jack convincing, and a piece of
the
puzzle that fits in perfectly.  A `character actor' type leading man,
Pullman has a resume filled with varied and colorful characters, but Jack
is
his most engaging role ever, and he succeeds entirely with it.

The wonderful supporting cast includes Jack Warden (Saul), Peter Boyle
(Ox),
Micole Mercurio (Midge), Michael Rispoli (Joey) and the wonderful Glynis
Johns, as beautiful and charming as ever as Elsie.  Warm and poignant,
`While You Were Sleeping' is one to savor; this one's a keeper.  (BTW, the
#1 romantic comedy?  Bonnie Hunt's `Return To Me').  10/10.


<|_=00=_|>

Next time you are depressed, this is the perfect pick me up.  If you like
watching the same movies over and over, this is great for that also.  The
chemistry between the two main characters is outstanding, much better than
in this year's Two Weeks' Notice.  Laugh out loud and cry out
loud.
<|_=00=_|>
This was the picture which proved things could be all about Sandra
Bullock. "Speed" - one year earlier - showed this. This picture proved
it. A lot of people nowadays make fun of a typical Bullock picture and
speak of her as negligible in this day and age. They probably forget or
were never aware that she was hailed as America's new sweetheart back
in '95 and it was no idle chatter. There are very few actresses who can
carry a picture on their own slight shoulders - I mean, really make it
a success. Sure, Bill Pullman helped, but this really was Sandra all
the way, in a sappy, soapy, cliché-ridden slight story of sudden
romance usually very hard to buy into. But because Sandra is there on
the screen throughout nearly every frame, it all works out, and you're
rooting for her happiness in the final few minutes even knowing very
well what is about to happen. It's like you've seen it all before, but
Sandra makes you want to see it again. We are all very fortunate, those
of us who have seen this story, that it was Sandra in the central role
and not someone like (shudder) Demi Moore. And if a guy is really
fortunate, he may meet someone like Sandra in real life.
<|_=00=_|>
Sandra Bullock is a working girl who wants to travel. She has no
family, and is usually stuck doing holiday shifts in the Chicago
transit system (as a toll booth clerk on the elevated railway). She has
noted one man who uses the station all the time (Peter Gallagher), and
rescues him when he is thrown onto the train tracks just before a train
comes into the station. Gallagher is in a coma and (due to a
well-intentioned nurse) Bullock is introduced to the family of
Gallagher as his fiancé. She tries to tell them the truth, but when she
learns his grandmother (Glynis Johns) has a heart problem she
hesitates. Soon she is treated as a member of this nice family as a
member (well, she did save Gallagher, and she is thought to be his
fiancé). Only his brother (Bill Pullman) has real doubts, and keeps
mentioning them (and keeps apologizing for them. Bullock and Pullman
find that they are also growing more attracted to each other. The film
shows how these problems are resolved. And it is all done in a most
charming manner.

This is one of those films that would take only a few minutes to
quickly resolve in the real world, where Bullock would have told the
truth early on. But the audience is allowed to suspend it's disbelief
because the characters are uniformly likable. Although Jack (Pullman)
is constantly questioning Bullock's story, each time she gives a
plausible explanation of what is going on, and Pullman likes her enough
to accept these explanations. The only one who knows the truth is the
family friend Sam (Jack Warden) and he too feels that the news has to
be broken carefully (he loves the family and doesn't want them hurt).
Oddly enough his one effort at meddling almost screws up the situation
in the film for Bullock, Pullman, and Gallagher. Pullman also faces the
truth and explains to his father (Peter Boyle) that he doesn't want to
continue in the family business. Boyle's reaction becomes important
too.

The performances are flawless, and one finds oneself rooting for most
of the cast (the sole exception is the actress playing "Ashley", Peter
Galagher's actual girl friend). Her opposite number, "Joe Jr." is too
comic a figure to dislike (in fact, at one point he thinks Pullman is
annoying Bullock and offers to take care of him - not the act of a rat
at all). For a sweet, lovable love tale WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING is hard
to top. In the last decade only WHEN HARRY MET SALLY, WORKING GIRL,
PRETTY WOMAN, NOTTING HILL, SLEEPLESS IN SEATTLE, and YOU'VE GOT MAIL
are on par with it, but the family becomes so important to Bullock in
the plot this has a special warmth in it that is quite is different
from most of the others.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an extremely underrated movie. There were so many funny little
segments and happenings in this movie. Like when the newspaper boy was
delivering papers, and when they had the dinner conversation. If you
just watch the movie for some good laughs and don't try to expect some
big, deep storyline you will find that it is a VERY enjoyable movie. It
had us all laughing till we......well you know what I mean. Sit back,
get some popcorn and enjoy the show. There's nothing wrong with silly,
senseless humor, is there? Even my husband enjoyed it. I've seen this
movie more times than I probably should admit. But I laugh every time I
see it. Another good choice...How to meet a guy in 10 days.
<|_=00=_|>
Warm and gentle comedy that shows Bullock to her best advantage, in her
favorite role of shy closet beauty. Bullock obsesses about a man she
sees briefly every day; when he is knocked unconscious she claims to be
his fiancée. Then sparks begin to fly with the brother. Wonderful turns
by Boyle and Warden as older family members. There's a great line by
Boyle in this movie, something like you always imagine you'll have
these long golden moments in life and then when you get there it lasts
about a minute. I think Bullock was never better than in this movie, in
later productions her shy modesty seems a little artificial. She and
Pullman have just enough chemistry together to pull this through.
<|_=00=_|>
WHILE YOU WERE SLEEPING, in my opinion, is a sweet, charming,
hilarious, and heartwarming romantic comedy. If you ask me, the way
that Lucy (Sandra Bullock) and Peter (Peter Gallagher) met was very
romantic. Also, in my opinion, Joey (Michael Rispoli) was a little
crazy. This was because he just couldn't seem to leave Lucy alone. In
addition, to me, Jack (Bill Pullman) was a really cute guy. Before I
wrap this up, I'd like to say, "If you like romantic comedies or movies
where people meet by chance, I highly recommend WHILE YOU WERE
SLEEPING!" Now, in conclusion, when you see this sweet, charming,
hilarious, and heartwarming romantic comedy, prepare to laugh and be
touched.
<|_=00=_|>

I know, I know...You saw the name Bill Pullman and wanted to shove this
movie a side too. In this movie though, he is absolutely a sweetheart. This
wonderful fairytale really got me. Sandra Bullock, Bill Pullman and his
entire kooky family sucked me right in. This movie is such a chick flick,
but it is really funny too. (Joe Fusco Jr.!!!) See it! I think you'll love
it. I did. 
