

It's a pity that many of the user comments on this movie are simply a
vehicle for people's dislike of Picasso, and that they treat the film as
though it were a documentary. Picasso may have been as sex-mad,
egocentric,
paranoid and capricious as any Hollywood star (think Chaplin); but first
and
foremost he was a prodigious artist, who transformed our view of visual
art,
and dealt with some of the great themes of western culture. And presumably
it was those latter qualities which drew women to him, in the same way
that
women have been drawn to successful, powerful men of dubious character
since
the dawn of time.

The movie and Hopkins' performance are certainly successful in displaying
Picasso's human weaknesses; but there is a failure to adequately convey
Picasso's enormous creative power, a weakness compounded by the fact that
the makers were not allowed to use much of his work in the film. I see the
film as a well made, excellently acted, but partial (in both senses of the
word) portrait of the artist. Its real focus is the women in his life,
especially Francoise Gilot, and on the two-way exploitative nature of the
relationship between a man of this kind and his mistresses/wives.

<|_=00=_|>
The movie is about Francoise Gilot, not about Picasso. It is not
intended to tell Picasso's story. Picasso was brilliant, spectacular,
the living center of the world of art and a sexual magnet. Women wanted
him and, king that he was, Picasso viewed their adoration as no more
than his due. 

Francoise Gilot, a talented painter in her own right - but no Picasso -
lives for ten years a life which for her is absolutely worth the pain.
And when the pain is so grave that she will surely be overwhelmed, she
stands up and leaves. The pain doesn't go away instantly, but it does
go away, in time. 

In one memorable scene, Gilot, at home with the baby, questions
Picasso's absences, his obvious womanizing. He tells her in no
uncertain terms that he will do as he chooses, that his life outside
their home is none of her business. She has no right to question him.
He doesn't say, "Take it or leave it," but that is the unmistakable
message. She takes it, for a few more years, and another child. 

It would be interesting to know whether Gilot, who was born in 1921 and
is apparently still with us, harbors regret. I cannot imagine that she
does. Of course she would have enjoyed that ten years better if Picasso
had been able to love, in some recognizable way. But would she trade
that life for one less magnificent? For one that would not be a good
movie? Hardly.

The acting is of course perfect. Anthony Hopkins becomes the man
Picasso. Natascha McElhone, Julianne Moore and Susanna Harker tell us
the truth. Well paced, finely directed, this movie tells a riveting
story. It is very, very good.

It is perhaps worthy of note that many of the negative reviews of this
movie are written by men. Picasso was not just difficult; he was a
Difficult Man.
<|_=00=_|>
I recognize James Ivory's talent, but except for this movie, never
watch any of his movies for the second time, and this because his taste
for stretched, out-of-date, heavy, static movies(see "Howard's End").
His predilection for adaptations for the big screen of a novel usually
set in a time period when social standing was more of an issue than
today, combined with his obvious taste for older actors, and not at
last, his age, which unavoidably sets the pace of the movies he
directs, makes him a favorite for an older audience. 

This is not the case here, where Ivory uses all his resources to the
full extent, without sacrificing on freshness. The point of view is
quite interesting placed as Françoise Gilot, a subjective, yet well
informed observer, this imprinting a fresh and personal point of view
to the account. 

Françoise has the right, and judges Picasso(although she knew what she
was getting into), who clearly was a difficult man, but also, like all
powerful personalities, was a much misunderstood man. In a sense it's
an account of a meeting between an artistic genius with a common
person, who unavoidably perceives him as an oddity; but how can one
expect a man like Picasso to behave like a common man, when he was not
one? 

Anthony Hopkins undergoes a complete transformation, and becomes the
man Picasso, this only coming as further proof that a great artist can
only be understood by another great artist, and the rest of us are just
lucky spectators.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie quite a bit.  It is not a very flattering portrait of
the
master, but it gives one insight into his art.  Anthony Hopkins gives a
convincing portrayal of the bad and the good qualities of the man.  He had
a
charming playfulness about him which the women in his life fell for despite
themselves and the knowledge of his reputation.  Of course, his dark side
was his maniacal desire for control of his women's lives, even after the
romantic sides of their relationship had long since died.  My question
about
those women is why they went out of their way to get into a relationship
with him, knowing he had already ruined the lives of others.  Francoise,
the
main character, thought herself strong enough to stave off any emotional
harm he could do her, but when you get into a romantic relationship with
someone, your reason disappears.  Nobody's strong enough to not be hurt by
someone they are emotionally involved with.  The trick is to meet only the
people who you feel reasonably sure will not do you harm.   One would think
an intelligent woman like Francoise would know that.  If this were a piece
of fiction, I would find it hard to believe, but given that the movie is
based on fact....  This knowledge added a great deal to the intrigue of the
movie, and a great deal of depth to the characters.

The acting is first-rate.  I've seen a few of the other movies in which
Natascha McElHone has acted, but those parts were not large enough to show
her range.  I was extremely impressed.  She has a very expressive face,
capable of portraying an entire pallet of emotions, and, most importantly,
she is obviously an intelligent woman, capable of convincingly playing an
intellectual.  Of course, the fact that she is elegantly drop-dead gorgeous
has not colored my emotions about her performance one bit.

Hopkins as usual does a brilliant job.  I have never seen him express
ebullience as he does here.  He does a good job of showing how charming
Picasso could be, supplying some motivation for why women fell for him,
knowing his infamous past.

Seeing this movie lent new meaning to some of his paintings which I have
seen recently.  There is a portrait of Dorra Marr (sp?) in the Belissario
Hotel in Las Vegas.  One half of it portrays a happy woman, the other half
is tinged with sadness.  I now know the story behind this painting, making
it all the more memorable.  Like the first reviewer, I'm not a big fan of
Picasso, but knowing what lies behind some of his paintings will add
interest in the future.
<|_=00=_|>
Pablo Picasso portrayed by the only woman to have survived his
narcissistic, manipulative, patronizing and womanizing tendencies and
come out of the minotaur's labyrinth, his studio, before he shatters
her. A great performance of the master painter and sculptor genius by
Anthony Hopkins who is a master actor himself adequately next to his
young co-stars. I am a great admirer of Picasso myself and I really
appreciated all the research to fit every detail in its place to make
this kind of biographical film. I'm very fond of the relationship
Picasso had with Henry Matisse despite their differences and the
competitiveness between them.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film initially in 1996. I remember having to work in the
morning and had a few hours to kill in the afternoon. I decided to give
it a try, because it starred Anthony Hopkins and I'm a fan. Being a
Merchant Ivory film I thought it was going to be boring. It wasn't. It
held my interest until the ending credits. I sat amazed when it was
finished....just processing what I had just witnessed.

Pablo Picasso has to be one of the most complex of human beings ever.
Surviving Picasso chronicles his love affair with Françoise Gilot. He
spent from 1944 to 1953 with her, and fathered two of her children, but
wouldn't marry her. Gilot is realistically played by Natascha McElhone.
We get to see how difficult Picasso was to live with. Anthony Hopkins
plays an emotionally weak, yet tyrannical genius. Literally, holding
this young woman hostage. He was the father of her children, but never
gave her any monetary compensation to raise those kids. She had to
depend upon the kindness of her grandmother.

Of all of his women, we start to see that she alone understood his
weaknesses. I got the impression that out of all of the women he was
involved with, she probably loved him the most. He knew this and used
this to hold her his emotional prisoner.

Surviving Picasso is not an easy film to sit through. You begin to hate
Picasso for manipulating everyone he comes in contact with. My thought
was that he was a spoiled child that never grew up. He relished when
his women fought over him, pined over him, and even did desperate
things to show him how much they loved him. Yet, he didn't seem to
appreciate any of their efforts.

I was totally drawn into this film and think one needs to give it a
chance. It's a thinking person's film. The character development is
complex, but you begin to have sympathy for the victims of this madman.
<|_=00=_|>

As far as context goes, I had already known most of the material from
biographies in other sources.  There were only a couple new aspects to
this
one.
The acting was superb.  Anthony Hopkins and Natascha McElhone were
passionate and believable.
It portrays Picasso's nature as narrated by one of his former lovers.
It's
NOT a fluff piece, but you shouldn't end up hating him unless you did
already. 
<|_=00=_|>
Magnificently crafted exploration of the question, how does a seeming
despot generate such passion and devotion from the women around him.
The high points are many but what makes the greatest mark is the
flawless timing, throughout; then, of course, Hopkins completely lives
the lead while McElhone preserves the central conundrum, the
impossibility of the relationship(s). Forget the Picasso figure - apart
from forming a setting and contributing the element of fame (I almost
added "genius" but that's absolutely irrelevant, too), any similar
figure would do, quite irrelevant to the point of the story which is to
amplify the tension to be found in varying degrees in every one of our
relationships. Extremely stimulating and provoking - not a must-see for
80s feminists.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I watched this, I didn't really get what was going on. All
the plots about Picasso's various wives seemed mixed up and
uninvolving.

However, now that I am studying Picasso and his women for an AS art
module,
I can watch the film and feel very satisfied because it breathes a lot of
life into the subject. For this reason it is worth having some
fore-knowledge or a framework of Picasso's life prior to viewing it,
which I
guess restrains the target audience somewhat.

Hopkins was superb and became Picasso completely in behaviour and
physique -
even to the extent of shaving his head and wearing brown contact lenses.
His
accent took a while to take hold though, which I thought was odd, as the
early scenes felt very cold and welsh simply because he hadn't quite
shaken
off his normal speech. This didn't matter after a while though, because
his
entire manner was actually very well done and really brought out the
macho
and possessive ego of this wild artist.

One major flaw however: Nazi stormtroopers would never march as sloppily
as
portrayed in this picture.
<|_=00=_|>
subjective, partial, the life behind his work of a great artist.
seductive for the performance of Anthony Hopkins, important for define
the sins of one of the significant names of the art from the XX
century. but far to be a docudrama. only a slice from a long and not
comfortable life. the film remains remarkable for acting and for the
structure of story. for the trip in a dark zone and for the science of
Anthony Hopkins to be Picasso in each detail. and this is the basic
virtue of this film. to recreate a world. impressive, ambiguous,
charming in a way. a portrait. profound subjective.that is all .
