

Jake Lo lives in America having seen his father killed in Tiananmen Square
during protests.  He is embittered about taking a stand for anything and
believes his father died for nothing.  However while at a fund raiser he
sees mobster Serrano kill a Chinese drug dealer and finds himself in the
witness protection programme with the FBI.  However when `FBI' agents try to
kill him he finds himself on the run not knowing who to trust.  He
eventually finds himself with a Chicago cop Ryan who will do anything to get
to Serrano's boss Tau.

This is an excellent little martial arts film mainly due to the involvement
of the late Brandon Lee.  The story never really gets above the usual
B-movie fare of guns and gangsters.  There is some clever stuff with
occasions where we and Lee never know who to trust, but for most of the way
the story is simply an excuse for a huge amount of fight scenes.  Lee has
plenty of skills, he doesn't rely on wire work for spectacle but here he has
a mix of his father's style and Chan's ability to use everyday items.  The
fights are well handled and all his moves are clear to see, making it all
the more interesting to watch.

Lee is excellent here, he's really fit and has movie star looks.  His
performance is perhaps more thoughtful than you'd expect, but the real skill
is his fight scenes which he handles well.  Of the rest of the cast Powers
Booth and Tzi Ma stand out.

A great little martial arts film.  Not a fantastic story but the fight
scenes are really well handled.
<|_=00=_|>

This was Brandon Lee's second american made movie (Showdown In Little Tokyo
was the first) and the film where you could see Brandon was starting his
ascent up the action hero ladder. With each film Brandon's martial arts
skills improved and in this movie he really shines. Not to mention his
acting ability as well. 
He proved in this movie that he had what it takes to be a star. He
incorporated some Hong Kong style action similar to Jackie Chan's films into
this movie. An example is a terrific sequence in a small apartment where Lee
takes on several bad guys armed with guns and he takes them out with his
hands, feet, kitchen utensils, refrigerator doors, etc. Powers Boothe also
does a great job as tired cop and Nick Mancuso plays the main villain very
superb. 
The Crow was Brandon Lee's best movie but Rapid Fire displays his fighting
skills the best. Definitely a must for action fans!
<|_=00=_|>

We'll never know what Brandon Lee, who was the son of the late martial arts
legend Bruce Lee, would be capable of in Hollywood since he, like his
father, died before the peek of his fame, and subsequently a mass following
has been built in his memory.

Bruce Lee died just weeks before the American premiere of his last completed
film "Enter the Dragon" in 1973.  Consequently, Lee had also been working on
the "Game of Death" before his passing, which we would later see,
meticulously reconstructed (as Lee had intended), in John Little's touching
and poignant documentary "Bruce Lee: A Warrior's Journey."

Brandon was slain by a stunt gun while filming a scene in his last movie,
1994's "The Crow."  Using careful CGI techniques, the filmmakers were able
to successfully gather enough footage of Lee's performance to complete the
film.  Lee haunted every frame of Alex Proyas' dark and deeply affecting
film, which was the adaptation of James O'Barr's popular comic book
character.

Brandon, like his father, was also a talented performer - actor and martial
artist.  However, if one were looking for Brandon's acting talents, look at
"The Crow," as you will not see much of him using martial arts.  If one were
looking to see him using those martial arts talents, and the best showcase
for those talents, look no further than 1992's "Rapid Fire."

"Rapid Fire," from the beginning, has a very flimsy plot, as Lee plays a
Chicago art student who witnesses the gangland murder of a South Asian drug
lord by Italian mobsters.  Lee can't trust anyone, as he's forced to go on
the run from gangsters (Asian and Italian), cops, and other corrupt law
enforcement officials.  It seems that he can only find comfort and
protection through his martial arts skills and an independent Chicago police
unit headed by a grizzled cop (Powers Boothe).

As stated before, you should only watch "Rapid Fire" for Brandon Lee's
martial arts skills, as this is really the best place to see them; you're
not going to find them in "The Crow."  Brandon did the best that he could
with this role and just went with it.

Brandon, like his father, passed on before true success would reign in on
him.  Like Bruce and "Enter the Dragon," Brandon and his last film "The
Crow," will be forever remembered by fans and cinema-goers alike in years to
come.

I'm not really sure where "Rapid Fire" would stand in Brandon's short-lived
career, other than it was a showcase for his fighting talents.  "Rapid Fire"
is decent, certainly not perfect, but very fun to watch
nonetheless.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
'Rapid Fire' goes down as one of my favourite Brandon Lee movies,
joining 'Showdown in Little Tokyo', 'Laser Mission', and 'The Crow'. Oh
wait. Yeah, I'm just a Brandon Lee fan boy. Brandon was awesome. 'Rapid
Fire' is awesome.

Brandon plays Jake Lo, a college student majoring in arse-kicking. Jake
witnesses the murder of a drug-lord by mafia boss Antonio Serrano (Nick
Mancuso). Jake is put under the Witness Protection Program for a whole
of five minutes before discovering that the agents supposed to protect
him are, in fact, on Serrano's payroll. Jake has no choice but to team
up with Chicago cop Mace Ryan (Powers Boothe) and kick some gangster
arse. Awesome.

Right from the start, 'Rapid Fire' is pretty much a showcase for
Brandon Lee's martial-arts abilities. He was awesome on-screen in this,
as in his other movies, and could pull off some really cool action
scenes. Apparently Brandon was a fan of Jackie Chan, and it shows in
this: Brandon uses easily recognizable stunts and fights from 'Police
Story' (among other movies) and does them just as well as Jackie Chan
did originally.

You won't find any semblance of a plot in this. 'Rapid Fire' is an
action movie, the only difference between this and any other action
movie is that Brandon played a college student instead of any usual
action hero type. Naturally, this college student also knows how to
kick butt, so there goes any developed plot, in favour of Brandon Lee
kicking arse. Awesome.

Simply, 'Rapid Fire' is an awesome action movie. Brandon Lee rocked,
may he rest in peace - 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Bruce's son gets the Hollywood B-movie treatment in this all-out action
fest
that stands as one of his better pictures, featuring a roguish yet
charming
Brandon fighting like his father in scenes that frankly appear out of
place
in an American action picture of its time. Thankfully, Brandon neglects
the
deadly stares and patriotic words of his father and offers us a totally
different image altogether: Brandon is hip-talking, cool, equipped with an
attractive physique and razor-sharp kung fu. He plays Jake Lo, a
bike-riding
Chinese-American who gets himself caught up in a plight to bring to
justice
a mighty drug trafficker after he witnesses him murder a client. Soon Jake
is enlisted to be used as bait in the police's attempts to root out the
drug
lord. Throw in a load of gunfights and fisticuffs and we have quite a
meaty
actioner on our hands, complete with Hong Kong-style choreography
supervised
by Brandon himself (the best example being a classy little battle with
midget-stuntman Al Leong). Rapid Fire did prove to be Brandon's big break,
and it's through his uniquely charismatic and exciting performance here
that
makes us acknowledge his early death with an even greater tinge of
sadness.

<|_=00=_|>
Jake (Brandon Lee) gets caught up between feuding drug lords and
witnesses a killing, making him Mace Ryan's (Powers Boothe's) new best
friend.

While helping the cops with their investigations, he becomes more than
a witness, he becomes the man to save the day.

Packed with Gunfights and Great Kung Fu, this movie is a must for fans
of the genre. After Showdown in little Tokyo and preceding the Crow,
this was sadly Brandons pen-ultimate movie and he is, like his father a
big loss to the movie world.

For Brandon Lee fans, or indeed Kung Fu Movie Fans, this is a must see.

Rest in peace Brandon, your public misses you.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

One of Brandon Lee's best films is Rapid Fire! Powers Boothe, Nick
Mancuso, Tony Longo, Tzi Ma, Kate Hodge, Al Leong also star! The action
is very good in this movie and in fact in My opinion its some of the
neatest fighting action in a movie! The music is by composer
Christopher Young which it is a very different score! The acting in the
film is solid. Brandon Lee did a lot in this film and his fights with
Tony Long and Al Leong were very good! I think that Lee had a potential
to be a huge star because this film proves it! If you like big time
action in a film with martial arts and are a fan of Bruce Lee, Chuck
Norris, Steven Seagal, Jean Claude Van-Damme, Bolo Yeung, Michel Qissi,
and Jet Li and want to see Brandon Lee and Powers Boothe in different
performances then Rapid Fire is a good one to watch!

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this once when I was about 10 years old and ever since that I have
been a huge Brandon Lee fan, and since the first time I watched it I have
seen this movie over and over again and I never seem to get bored of it.
Everything about this film is good, especially the seemingly non-stop
action
and Brandon Lee's amazing martial arts skills which he displays very well.
Another part of this movie is the incredible acting.....both from Brandon
Lee and the supporting actor Powers Boothe(Mace Ryans) . This is one of
those films that stick out and it's one of those films which you can just
watch over and over again and never get bored of. When you see a normal
action film you notice that the acting and the plot are rather weak however
in Rapid Fire everything is strong and enjoyable....the plot, the acting
and
of course the action. Many people have said that Rapid Fire is slightly
tacky and corny, well all I can say is what do you expect from an action
movie made in 1992?

This is an amazing film which really sticks out and leaves a mark, and
Brandon Lee is excellent and not to mention funny and his sarcasm and
strange sense of humor is a fresh change from the usual wooden and hollow
action heroes. This is one of my favorite movies of all time and if you're
a
Brandon Lee fan such as myself this is truly unmissable.

9 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
It was a huge blow when the news of Brandon Lee's death made headlines
in the mid 1990s. The fact that the guy never managed to fulfil his
opportunities as a successful action movie star and follow in the
footsteps of his dad in that particular sense was tragic, considering
just how good he was on screen. Showdown In Little Tokyo was a C-list
martial arts epic, whilst The Crow- Brandon's very last movie he had
starred in, was a horror movie, which whilst his martial arts skills
were relatively limited, he still manage to display his acting graft as
well as to show that he can act, in addition to kicking arse.

Rapid Fire came out in 1992 amidst his previous effort, his
collaboration with Dolph Lundgren entitled: 'Showdown in Little Tokyo',
which was released the year before. In this movie, Brandon plays art
student Jake Lo, who witnesses a murder and afterwards, finds himself
on the run from a gang of evil drug lords, as well as a bunch of
two-faced, backstabbing cops, of whom are enlisted and supposed to
protect Jake but who turn out to be doing the dirty work for the bad
guys. Thankfully, he has a good cop on his side and together, the pair,
despite their dislike for one another, work together to bring them to
justice.

American martial arts films tend to be rather forgettable, run-of-the
mill type of movies compared to the Hong Kong, Kung Fu-based flicks,
but Rapid Fire in contrast is one of the much better efforts. It is
action-packed, explosive and Brandon is not that bad of a fighter. He
is exceedingly good and manages to combine his late father's trademark
moves and aggression with Jackie Chan's athleticism, and his fast and
frenetic movements. Another leaf he has taken out of his text book is
when he takes an object and smashes it on his opponents head, for
example.

This is a good martial arts movie; alas, it is a glimpse of how great
Brandon was and how great could have been and how far his career might
have gone- had he still been alive today
<|_=00=_|>

Brandon Lee is nothing short of electric in this movie and I suspect that
had he lived he would have alternated movies like this with more esoteric
fare like "THE CROW." He had the potential to be a bigger star than his
father as he was a better actor and was more vulnerable in his portrayal
of
a fighting hero therefore making him appeal to both sexes.Women tend not
to
be great Bruce Lee fans.
The action in this movie is explosive and well choreographed and for this
credit should go to Lee's friend Jeff Imada whose name you will find on
the
credits of most movies and t.v.shows that feature martial arts
action.Powers
Boothe is his usual reliable self in his cop role and if faults are to be
found with "RAPID FIRE" they are that the villains are not memorable nor
do
they offer a great threat to Lee and the leading lady is just used as
window
dressing.However,Dwight Little as director delivers the goods here and the
film is an good companion piece to his exhilarating Steven Seagal actioner
"MARKED FOR DEATH." made the previous year.
