
John Singleton's Boyz n the Hood remains one of the best fictionalized
and most poignant summaries of some of America's toughest internal
problems - racism, violence, poverty, and drug abuse. This is not a
hip-hop film, nor a detached and dehumanized story about "gang
violence" (the great over-simplified scapegoat of the issues treated in
this film), its a story about growing up fatherless or motherless in a
war zone with a faceless enemy, where people do not value each other's
lives at all and value their own lives only slightly more.

Laurence Fishburn leads one of the best casts of the early 1990s, in
his memorable portrayal of Furious Styles, a father trying to raise his
son (Cuba Gooding Jr) well in an environment where murder and substance
abuse are day-to-day realities - South Central L.A. The film follows
his son, Tre, and his friends, from the hardships of childhood in an
irrelevant educational system and a neighborhood which doesn't allow
kids to be kids, through to the realities of making decisions about the
value of life and the development of responsibility and hope as young
adults.

The cast disappears into their characters and brings each one to life
in a unique and powerful way. losing the identities of big
personalities like Fishburne and Ice Cube is no mean feat. Many of the
performances recorded here are award-worthy - Fishburne, Bassett,
Chesnutt, Gooding, and Ice Cube are especially memorable. For me
personally, this is the film that convinced me that Ice Cube was
destined to become a major personality in American cinema. While I had
enjoyed some of his music prior to this film, it was here that I was
first exposed to his versatility and intelligence as an actor. 

While some may see some of the film's messages as heavy-handed, and
others might have issues with the fact that the film deals with so many
of the problems of inner-city life in a very 'in-your-face' almost
archetypal manner, I find these criticisms impossible to justify.

This is a great film about real issues, sensitively portrayed and
thoughtfully examined. Every American who cares about the vast untapped
potential of our people ought to take a long, hard look at this one.
These are not 'black problems', they are everybody's problems, and
their solutions will require everybody's understanding. I could think
of far worse places to begin developing that understanding than Boyz n
the Hood.
<|_=00=_|>

Boyz N The Hood 
Directed by: John Singleton
Country: USA
Year: 1991
Running time: 107 minutes
Starring:
Laurence Fishburne and Cuba Gooding Jr.

"I watched the news this morning. Either they don't know, don't show, or
don't care about what's going on in the hood. They had all this foreign
sh-t. They didn't have sh-t on my brother, man." 

The mother of Tre Styles (Cuba Gooding Jr.) decides to send her son to live
with his father, Furious Styles (Laurence Fishburne), after he gets into a
fight at school. Furious, who lives in the heart of South Central LA, is a
man that knows the values of how to respect and how to earn it. He's strict,
but he's fair. Furious works as a mortgage broker.

We watch Tre mature from a young boy to his senior year in high school
taking the SAT's. His two best friends are brothers. Ricky (Morris Chestnut)
is a great athlete and is getting into college to support his girlfriend and
infant son. The other brother, Doughboy (Ice Cube), is headed down a totally
opposite path of guns, drugs, gangs, and violence. He's in and out of prison
each year.

Furious knows that his son could get killed easily, as he was once involved
with the gang scene himself. He wants Tre to graduate college and be good in
whatever his profession may be.

As the story goes more in depth, we see that even if you aren't involved in
a gang, you could still be a target. Whether it's your brother, cousin,
sister, or other family member that is thee one involved with the violence,
the main target could be the person in the family who stays away from the
dangers of the street.

Tre and his friends are in a world where being violent is sometimes the way
to live. Helicopters are heard searching for murderers every night. The
police are so busy, that sometimes a 9-1-1 call could mean waiting for the
police to arrive. There is even one Black-cop, who uses his power to try and
intimidate young Blacks who he thinks might be involved in the gangs and
violence.

This is the ultimate ghetto film, which will never be topped. All of the
direction and screenplay is brilliant. Singleton doesn't use cheap scenes
that get the viewer off-topic and the audience, as a whole, is always into
the movie. Come into a world that most of us haven't been in. Follow the
life of one boy who turns into a man as he has to not only goes through
personal struggles, but has to worry about whether he'll be killed at any
moment. -Pat

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

John Singleton's best film also 
proved to be one of my favorite 
movies about life in the streets. 
Cuba Gooding, Jr. displayed early 
on he was going to be a respectable 
actor. The power of the film has yet 
to be matched as most modern 
interpretations of street life prove to 
be violent stylizations. While Singleton 
has taken a couple missteps along the 
way, this film still stands up rather well 
by today's standards. The motives and 
actions appear realistic, especially 
Doughboy's thirst for revenge. A good film, 
which not only helped improve Laurence 
Fishburne's career, but introduced us 
to Gooding.
<|_=00=_|>

An exemplary directorial debut from John Singleton, who managed to create
an
American classic with his first effort.

As we follow Tre Styles from childhood toward becoming a young adult (as
played  effectively by Cuba Gooding, Jr.), and attempting to dodge, with
the
cautious guidance of his parents, the many dangers and risks associated
with
growing up in inner-city America, the sense of ever-present danger and,
often, hopelessness associated with attempting to avoid falling into the
cracks of society is abundantly clear.

In the role of Tre's troubled friend Dough Boy, Ice Cube is something of a
revelation, and his balanced performance, alongside Singleton's excellent
script, prevent him from becoming merely another gangster caricature.
Lawrence Fishburne and Morris Chestnut add further depth to a strong
cast.

All in all a very real, gritty depiction of the challenges faced at every
turn by African American men and women in modern America. The building
anger
bristling beneath the surface in so many scenes is particularly resonant
given the outburst of violence in the Rodney King Riots that took place in
the very same city of the story just one year later.

The film spawned several 'urban gang flick' imitations in subsequent
years,
but most glorified violence and placed an emphasis on a loud soundtrack
and
sexual explicitness at the expense of strong plot-line, good character
development and a serious social message.

All three are to be found in Boyz N the Hood.

<|_=00=_|>
Most movies about life in the hoods of LosAngeles, New York City, and
other urban areas of the U.S. are discounted as novelty entertainment
for audiences seeking sex and violence. Out of an era of gangster rap
came a nationwide exposure of the issues within the Black and Latino
communities, and directors like John Singleton and the Hughes Brothers
follow in the footsteps of the great Spike Lee. The film Boyz n the
Hood is an intricate examination of the archetypes and stereotypes of
the hood, as well as an introduction to the survivors, both trapped in
the violence and escaping the cycle. The film concentrates on a Black
community without the interactions between communities shown in Do the
Right Thing, another epic race commentary. The direction of the film is
fluid and natural, the acting heartfelt and strong, the affect
extraordinary. The message of the movie is deeper than White or Italian
based gangland movies, because the human aspect and the characters are
more solid and approachable, and rooted in highly intellectual and
applicable theories on race and violence. This film is a showcase of
the radical and moderate themes expressed by Black activists, with
Laurence Fishburne's character as the leader and role model of the
film. A careful examination of the film reveals a strong message and a
strong film. Don't underestimate the power of this film.
<|_=00=_|>

John Singleton with his debut film cleared easily any opposition in the
ghetto life genre. These are real characters facing real problems. Singleton
goes one step beyond Spike Lee, analyzing and not only describing, proposing
and not only denouncing. The film gets even more absorbing by the terrific
camera work and the top notch acting.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to believe that John Singleton's work degenerated so in later
years, because his debut was a masterpiece. We probably all have to
agree that "Boyz n the Hood" was basically the first "growing up in the
ghetto" movie, showing how these African-American youths are surrounded
by violence during their childhoods - some perpetrated by the cops,
some is their own doing - but they all have to find a way to keep
going. If the movie has any problem, it's that it opened the flood
gates to a series of similar inferior movies (but also the hilarious
satire "Don't Be a Menace to South Central While Drinking Your Juice in
the Hood").

Anyway, this is the one that I recommend. Cuba Gooding Jr. made a very
good debut. Also starring Laurence Fishburne, Ice Cube, Morris
Chestnut, Nia Long and Angela Bassett.
<|_=00=_|>

Well-done movie by John Singleton, and very well-acted. Well-developed
characters, and people you come to really care about. What's especially sad
is we actually have areas of this country where the brutality and
senselessness portrayed here is all too real. Cuba Gooding, Jr. is
exceptional as a bright young man deperately trying to not get sucked into
the endless rage and revenge life of his boyhood pals. Laurence Fishburne is
tremendous as a father trying to steer his son through this minefield of a
life, and on to better things.

One complaint, his "Don't trust the white man" speech has gotten
ridiculously old. This attitude serves absolutely no one, and makes all of
us, white and black, worse off because of it. It's time this ceased to be
portrayed in movies.
<|_=00=_|>
1991 

"One out of every twenty-one Black American males will be murdered in
their lifetime"

"Most will die at the hands of another Black male"

"Increase The Peace" is the closing message of John Singleton's
powerful, intelligent and affecting call for calm in South Central Los
Angeles. Often mistakenly presumed by those who haven't seen it to be a
film that glamorises violence, Singleton's debut film takes us into
South Central and holds us there by just shooting the story. No
trickery or overtly moralistic posturing from the director {and
writer}, just an unpretentious look at life in a modern ghetto.

The story follows three black teenagers as they ponder on what life
holds for them as adulthood lurks from around the corner. Brothers
Doughboy {Ice Cube} and Ricky Baker {Morris Chestnut} and best friend
Tre Styles {Cuba Gooding Jr}, each have the usual worries that come
with leaving the teenage years behind. Parents, girls, careers, not
returning to the pen! But this is no ordinary coming of age drama, we
have been party to this neighbourhood that these boys live in. This is
a place where a trip to the store can get you killed in a drive by
shooting. A place where those keen to learn, and do their homework have
their muse shattered by the frequent sound of gunshots and sirens
filling the South Central night.

Tho Singleton can be accused of painting some of his characters as too
saintly, he should be forgiven since this is after all, a message
movie. Besides which his portrait of this particular neighbourhood is
done from honest memory since he himself be a former youth of South
Central LA. There in lies one of Boyz's trump cards, Singleton, thru
his own observations, asks of those in "The Hood" to take
responsibility for what they do. Something that is potently given
narrative credence courtesy of Tre's father's {a fabulous understated
Laurence Fishburne} deep musings. Once the built up tension explodes
with the inevitable tragedy that all should be ready for, the impact is
like a sledgehammer hitting bone. Not in a blood letting for impact
sake, but with it's aftermath as a family soaks up the situation. It
gives 90s cinema one of its most affecting and damning scenes, one that
once viewed is hard to fully shake out of the memory bank. Here
Singleton could possibly have bowed out of the story, but he goes
further, expanding the aftermath and taking us, along with the
characters, to it's final "Increase The Peace" dénouement.

It's been called everything from an After School Special to the most
important Black American movie made thus far. I agree with the last
assessment. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
A movie that takes place in South Central Los Angeles in 1991. I don't
know about now but, at that time, that area was crime ridden with drug
deals and murders happening almost daily. Father Jason Styles (Larry
Fishburne) tries to bring up his son Tre (Cuba Gooding Jr.) correctly
despite all the violence around them. It also deals with two friends of
Tre--Darin (Ice Cube) an angry young black man and his brother Ricky
(Morris Chestnut) who wants to go to college. It all leads up to a
truly harrowing ending.

Director John Singleton's first movie is incredibly powerful and still
his best movie (so far). From what I've heard he captured exactly what
it was like to grow up in that area. It's a little dated though--the
guy sucking on the pacifier confuses some people but that was a big fad
back in 1991. It's just unbelievable that kids grew up in an area like
that and survived. The story itself is a little too simplistic (the
good and bad brothers) and it's basically just the story of a teenager
coming of age--but it still works. Singleton wisely doesn't accuse
anyone of how the situation is and offers no solutions. He just
presents it in a matter of fact way which makes this all the more
powerful.

The acting is just great. Fishburne and Gooding play a father and son
perfectly. Fishburne is just incredible--Gooding falters a few times
(and it's obvious that he's no teenager) but he's still very good. Ice
Cube is a little one note in his character (always angry and sullen)
but it fits. Chestnut is just great.

People should be warned--there's tons of profanity (but that is how
kids talk) and the ending gets very bloody and disturbing. I still
remember people crying out loud in the audience back in 1991. A
powerful film and well worth seeing.
