

This is a truly wonderful film.  It is an adaptation of the 19th century
romantic poem by Alexander Pushkin about the tragic love affair between
Evgeny Onegin (Ralph Fiennes) and Tatyana Larina (Liv Tyler).  Evgeny has
inherited his uncle's provincial estate and goes to the country to put his
affairs in order.  While there, he befriends Vladimir (Toby Stevens) who
introduces him to Tatyana, the sister of his fiancé.  Tatyana falls madly
in
love with Evgeny, but he brutally rejects her and leaves to return to St.
Petersburg.  Upon returning years later to find her married, his regrets
ignite into a passionate and obsessive love for her.

There has been some criticism of the fact that this film was produced by
Ralph Fiennes to give a project to his sister Martha (director) and brother
Magnus (original music).  Well, if this is the high quality wrought from
Fiennes nepotism, we need more such collaborations.

In her feature film directorial debut, Martha Fiennes gives us outstanding
imagery, precise period renderings, innovative camera work, and dramatic
lighting.  The locations, sets, costumes and props were fabulous. I
especially loved the furniture.  The scenes on the dock by the mill in the
fog were eerie and chilling.  One shot of Liv Tyler in a rowboat, shot
through out-of-focus reeds in the foreground, was pure art.  The extreme
close-up of the inking of the love letter added to the power of the
emotions
being written.  Remi Adefarasin (‘Elizabeth') added wondrous cinematography
to the list of filmmaking kudos.

Ralph Fiennes delivers another superb performance as Evgeny.  In the early
scenes, he is cavalier, self absorbed, and arrogant to the point of being
despicable.  His stoical dismissal of Tatyana was ice cold.  In the later
scenes, he delivers a character so pathetically tormented by love that he
wins back our sympathies.

This is by far the best performance I have seen by Liv Tyler.  She was
poised, graceful and lovely, and gave an extremely dignified performance.
With this role, she has proven that she can move beyond the troubled teen
type and play a character with substance.

This is intelligent and inspired filmmaking.  I rated it a 9/10.  The
pacing
is deliberate, so action junkies will want to pass on this film.  However,
for those who can savor a compelling love story with splendid imagery, this
film should not be missed.
<|_=00=_|>

Any film that opens with a carriage on runners being pulled through the snow
has got to try really hard to fail. My wife and I spent the whole of this
film entranced by the scenery, the exquisitely detailed sets and costumes,
superb performances by all of the cast with a refreshingly thoughtful and
adult dialogue and several surprising twists in the story. Liv Tyler
delivered the most sensual performance I have seen in a film for quite a few
years proving that you don't have to be naked and sweaty to stimulate an
audience! I have not read the original story but I think this film may do
for russian novelists what the recent spate of period dramas have done for
Shakespeare and Jane Austen. The pacing of the film is slow and salubrious
but definitely not plodding (sic. Angela's Ashes) You will be left wanting
more but any more would spoil the plot. Don't miss it. Full
marks.
<|_=00=_|>

Fine performances highlight `Onegin,' a generally interesting version of
Pushkin's complex love story whose contemporary significance shines through
the tortured souls of its two main characters.  Ralph Fiennes stars in the
title role as a 19th Century Russian aristocrat who, like many similar
figures in Russian literature of that time, suffers from the attenuating
effects of enervation and ennui.  Though the recipient of vast sums of
wealth and property at the death of his uncle, Onegin finds no meaning or
solace in life as he lives it.  He is as bored by the stifling
superficiality of the privileged elite languishing in splendor in the fancy
halls and glittering ballrooms of cosmopolitan St. Petersburg as he is by
the domestic dreariness of the provincials residing in the bucolic
countryside where one of his uncle's vast estates is located.  In the latter
setting, while visiting Vladimir - a poet he has recently befriended -
Onegin becomes drawn to Tatyana the beautiful younger sister of the man's
fiancé.  Both Onegin and Tatyana reflect a remarkably modern sensibility in
their temperaments.  For instance, though the attraction between the two is
a mutual one, it is Tatyana who makes the first move, pouring out her
unbridled love for this newcomer in a letter which Onegin politely rejects
because he fears the deadening of the soul that he believes will inevitably
accompany marriage and fidelity.  One can't get much more contemporary in
tone than these two characters, one stepping well out of the accustomed
bounds accorded her sex in affairs of romance and the other reflecting the
fear of commitment that is such a staple of modern times.  Yet, fate plays
its cruelest hand at the end, as Onegin finds himself, years later, trapped
in an ironic role reversal as the now-married Tatyana is forced to rebuff
the advances of the obsessed, lovelorn man whom she still admits to loving. 
As in many bleak works of Russian literature, the character is forced to
live out his existence in a hell of his own making, suffering the torment of
regret without end.

The personal drama unfolds against the fascinating backdrop of the subtly
changing society of 19th Century Russia, a country that, then and now, has
seemed to be always several centuries behind its European neighbors in its
moves towards liberalization in the areas of basic human and civil rights.  
We see clearly the struggle between the empty ritualism and entrenched
barbarism of the past, as reflected in the continuing institution of serfdom
and in gun duels fought over affairs of honor, and the enlightened
philosophy of the coming world, as many young aristocrats begin to champion
both the abolition of serfdom and the growing acceptance of love as the
foundation of marriage.   Indeed, the two young lovers cannot extricate
themselves from the entanglements that often accompany a time unsure of its
traditions.  Onegin, for all his talk about freeing his serfs, is himself
forced to participate in a duel that both horrifies and disgusts him.  And
Tatyana, for all her comments about only marrying a man she loves, succumbs
to the pressure of tradition, ultimately agreeing to a marriage based on
class, money and position.  Here are two people caught in a world not yet
ready for them, who are forced to settle for the compromises their society
has deemed fit and proper.

This well-acted, well-written and well-directed film may seem a bit slow at
times, but the intelligence of the dialogue, the subtle underplaying of the
cast and the quiet beauty of much of the direction lead us into a strange
world of the past that still has resonance and relevance for the world of
today.

<|_=00=_|>

Excellent film!!!  I was captivated by it, however, my wife fell asleep
during the film.  For those who enjoy Russian literature, this movie will
captivate you; for those who have no exposure to it, it will not.  So your
preestablished experience will determine to a great extent your appreciation
of this film.

The lead acting is superb!  Ralph Fiennes and Liv Tyler are so good that
they unfortunately show up everybody else.  The setting, however, does not
have much of a Russian feel to it, what with everybody trying to act French
and all, which is very accurate to the time.  (Thank *you* Peter the
Great.)

As for the story, the movie is very faithful to the Pushkinian attitude. 
The story is very character-centred, typical to Russian lit.  The change in
Evgenyi Onegin (pronounced, "Yev-geh-ny Ah-nye-gin") is marked indeed. 
However, the character of Tatyana captivated me.  Her faithfulness to
herself and to her integrity, especially given the context of American film,
is amazing.  How refreshing to see a character turn down the opportunity to
have an affair with the man she loves deeply out of loyalty and faithfulness
to her husband whom she unfortunately doesn't really love.  This is
especially refreshing in light of prevailing attitudes towards marriage and
in particular adultery.  Liv Tyler portrays both the deep angst and yet the
firm conviction of Tatyana beautifully.

I recommend this film heartily.  I gave it a 10 in my rating, and I
encourage anyone to view this film to escape the prevailing American Bruce
Willis-type formula film, and allow this film to expand your perceptions and
your mind, and to enjoy the challenge of seeing people grow, and thereby
encourage yourself to do the same.
<|_=00=_|>

   This is truly a great and wonderful film!  A marvelous adaptation of
Alexander Pushkin's classic story about the love and obsession of Eygney
Onegin for the beautiful Tantianna Ladin.  Ralph Finnes is the young,dashing
and playboy Onegin, who goes to settle his deceased uncle's estate in the
country.  There, he meets the young and beautiful Tantianna Ladin, played
astonishingly well and seductively by Liv Tyler.  Their love sets off a
chain of tragic events that will forever alter their lives.  A great tear
jerker!

   Besides an excellent cast and story, the scenery and majesty of the film
is amazing.  Filmed in England and Russia, the film gives viewers, a feast
for the eyes.  The camera work is so well done and every shot is done with
such care and precision that it is absolutely breathtaking.  Director Martha
Finnes has truly outdone herself.  The score by Magnus Finnes is also
terrific and adds so much depth and feeling to the story. 

The costumes are also something to be commended, they are so gorgeous and
well made.
Bottom line is: great movie for anyone who appreciates good literature and a
good period drama.  This movie moves along very slowly so action fans
beware.  However, romance lovers, don't miss this film.
9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This film is a visual delight and a faithful adaptation of the famous
Pushkin poem. The story revolves around a country woman who falls for a
sophisticated man. Starring handsome Ralph Fiennes as the title
character and winsome Liv Tyler as his star-crossed love interest,
viewers will get caught up in the ebb and flow of the romance, as well
as the innovative and beautiful techniques of film-making. ( A scene
where Liv Tyler's character writes a letter is spectacular.) As the
first setting in the desolate countryside gives way to the bustling
city of St. Petersburg in the second half, change and surprise is
integral to the slow, well-developed storyline. See it for Fiennes
performance and the talents of his sister and brother who directed and
scored the film, respectively. Recommended as a great film for a
winter's evening by the fire.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is wonderful and beautiful. I was impressed with the amount of
user comments, considering the film has not been very popular, and in the
Americas, hardly seen, and bashed by critics. It is an almost perfect film
rendition of this classic literary work. I recently saw an acclaimed
production of the opera Eugene Onegin by Tchaikovsky, and have read Russian
literature. This film is a more complete, and captivating experience than
the opera or the original verse novel (in translation). However, the true
Russian spirit cannot be captured with the entire cast speaking in Etonian
British accents. The film should have been released (even in English
speaking countries) completely synchronized in Russian (I prefer to say
synchronized since the actors in any film are dubbed, the word is very
negative,  by themselves anyway). Some of the original verses could have
been included. The wonderful score by Magnus Fiennes should have been
complemented by Tchaikovsky (and not German Beethoven) music, preferably
from the newly-popular Onegin opera. With those (very important) revisions,
the film would have been the finest example of Russian literature ever
brought to the screen.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very good film overall. Having grown up in Russia and being, as
we
would say here, `a great Pushkin's fan' ;-), I was caught between
curiosity
and caution when deciding whether I should even rent this film. Then I saw
Ralph Fiennes name and thought that it could not be all that bad.so
curiosity won.
I was pleasantly surprised that the film is fairly faithful to the
original.
Not completely, of course, but when I think about horrible mutilations
other
filmmakers perform on marvelous works of literature, I'm very grateful
that
the producers of `Onegin' read the poem very well and chose scenes and
changed some of them with care.
I won't talk a lot about beauty of scenes in the film: it's a pleasure to
watch.
Here are some of the things I didn't like. First of all I was a little
disappointed by the film's interiors. Several of them look very natural
(some of the room's in Larin's and Onegin's houses). Others (like
Petersburg
palaces) more than anything resemble theatrical decorations. I don't think
this was intentional, since the overall scenery is very realistic. Another
objection is the lovemaking scene. I don't think it belongs or was needed
at
all. Was it just a due paid to modern filmmaking? Why not do Tatyana's
dream
instead (this is a meaningful symbolic scene in the poem, not filming it
could hardly be an accidental decision, I would love to know what was the
reason)? The third, kind of big problem is that married Tatyana is not
clearly portrayed as the queen of Petersburg's society. This detail is
very
important for understanding of Onegin's character: a tragic figure who can
only exist within the laws and decorations of high society - the very
society he despises more than anything else. Tatyana, the queen of this
society, a complete part of it and yet completely not involved with it,
comfortably within and yet far above the chattering crowd - that very
likely
is the only thing Onegin can love. Unfortunately the question `am I noble
enough for you now?' which Tatyana throws at Onegin during the climax
scene
of the film, does not fully convey that understanding and is an
oversimplification compared to the speech that Pushkin's Tatyana gives to
her fallen and still loved hero.

<|_=00=_|>

Although I saw this film several months ago, its images and characters
remain vividly with me.  Martha Fiennes, as a first time feature director,
certainly understands the visual medium she is dealing with.  The scenes of
snow and mist over water, are a significant contrast to the sumptuous indoor
scenes, as though nature itself reflects  what lies in the human
heart...that all the wealth and lavishness created by man cannot assuage. 
Ms Fiennes very wisely saw this verse play as a vehicle for her talented
brother, Ralph.  His ability to portray a brooding, alienated...yet
passionate man is extraordinary, in my opinion.  Although Liv Tyler is very
beautiful and was a knock-out in that red ball dress, I wasn't as convinced
by her performance as others who have posted here.  I would have preferred
an English actress, Polly Walker, perhaps.  In any case, I loved this film
and have every intention of seeing it again.   
<|_=00=_|>

I have to say that I was a bit hesitant about seeing this film for several
reasons.  I had read Onegin in the original Russian, and frankly I
mistrusted the abilities of a film-maker to convey a true sense of the story
and the life and mood of Imperial Russia while also catering to the tastes
of modern film audiences.  But as a fan of the work of Ralph Fiennes and
Toby Stephens, I took the chance on this film, and I am glad that I did. 
Onegin was fantastic.  I have to agree that this film is not for action
fans, but everything came together spectacularly in Onegin: the acting, the
dialogue, the haunting music, the beautiful cinematography, the subtle
timing and angle of each shot in the film.  I was, moreover, surprised by
the superb acting of Liv Tyler.  The high point of the film, with the
unveiling of Tatiana's letter and Onegin's growing passion, is well worth
the anticipation.  Fienne's portrayal of Onegin is realistic, absolutely
riveting...  He is a man jaded by opulence and overindulgence, trapped in
his indolence and boredom, cool and reasoning and underneath it all,
absolutely miserable, a man who comes to realize too late what flames of
passion burn within him, which he attempts to "beat down with his reason"...
 His torment creates the most compelling kind of tragedy: the tragedy that
compels us to consider what might have been.  
My rating: 9/10
