

Don't get me wrong, the old Adam West Batman TV show was certainly funny,
and given the times, a more accurate representation of what Batman was
trying to be wouldn't have succeeded nearly as well. But the show still
betrayed all the emotion and grimness of Batman's themes.

In Batman & Robin, Schumacher seems to be getting back to those roots. He
treats the entire Batman franchise like a joke. Even if it was funny, this
would be betraying the name of Batman. But here, seeing as it's NOT funny,
it only succeeds in becoming the worst of the Batman movies, and,
arguably,
the worst films ever created. And I'm taking into account Plan 9 From
Outer
Space, Gigli, and You Got Served.

George Clooney just plays George Clooney. Which is the road he usually
takes, but this suave, dashing, and charming Batman seems more like
Mystery
Men's Captain Amazing than the crimefighter of legend.

There's Chris O'Donnell, the angst-ridden Robin trying to break out of
Batman's shadow. The only thing he ever really does is act like a
child.

Alicia Silverstone. Wow. I seriously wonder what makes someone say, "Hmm,
who should we get to play Batgirl . . . I know! Alicia Silverstone!" No
offense to Alicia, but she's out in right field on this one. Her
tough-girl
performance is sprinkled with reminders of her Clueless days. But all that
aside, she actually does very little.

Now, onto the villains. Uma Thurman, who we know CAN act, is hamming it up
to ridiculous proportions. First, when she's playing the nerdy Dr. Pamela,
she exaggerates that to a level I thought impossible. And then she
inexplicably turns into an extremely sexualized villainess whose plan, by
the way, would kill all the plants she advocated protecting.

Arnold seems like the worst possible choice for Mr. Freeze. I mean, of all
the Batman villains I could see him playing - Bane, for christ's sake -
Mr.
Freeze is not on that list. He possesses none of the emotionless,
calculated, and cold (no pun intended) sociopathy which makes Mr. Freeze
such a good character.

And then, all that aside, they're handed ridiculous catch phrases and
cliches they're expected to say with any level of sincerity? At one point
Mr. Freeze says "chill out." Of all the ways it sounds, menacing is not
among them.

Seriously, I'd have more respect for Schumacher if I discovered that he
hated Batman, and had intentionally ruined it with this garbage. Then,
this
might actually be just his own personal joke. Instead, it borders on a
travesty of good cinema. I only wish that 0 stars was a selectable option
at
the imdb, for this film ALONE.
<|_=00=_|>

I've rated several hundred movies on IMDB, and overall, I go easy on them.
Most of the so-so ones get a 5 or 6.  A movie has to be pretty bad to get a
4 or 3 from me.  And movies with a 2 are simply, awful, awful
movies.

I have saved the rating of 1 exclusively for Batman and Robin, for I'm
pretty sure no movie could possibly suck more.

Normally, when I walk into a theatre with low expectations for some movie,
this gives the movie an advantage since I've basically lowered the bar for
it.  I held low expectations for Jurassic Park, but ended up being
surprisingly entertained.

Batman and Robin failed completely to meet even the rock-bottom
expectations
I held for it when I saw it.

The script is a complete wreck.  The jokes are an insult to your
intelligence.  The acting isn't especially bad, but then again, very little
is required of the actors.  The action sequences are confusing and
incoherent.

If you're a Batman fan, then you will hate what Joel Shoemaker did in this
film.  His bastardization of Bane pretty much kills any possibility of a
Knightfall-based movie.  If you're not a big Batman fan, you'll just hate
this movie just because it's so freakin' stupid.

Any pros?  Well, I've read some reviews that say the sets are beautifully
constructed.  Personally, I thought the sets were ok, but hardly anything
special.  Nothing that couldn't by done with lots of construction paper and
elmer's glue.

So, no, there aren't really any pros.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the most disappointing movie in the history of film for me.

A 2 out of 10 is generous. I should give it a zero strictly based on the Bat
Credit Card scene. 

Every single individual whether it be producers, director, writer or actors
(minus Chris O'Donnell) should be "Bat-Whipped" for this piece of junk. This
is your typical "absolutely cannot fail" franchise in film getting raped by
studio execs making critical content decisions about a film when they have
no talent to do so. Batman is popular simply because of the comic book not
because of that retarded TV show starring Adam West, but this movie is more
fashioned after that campy trash. This was nothing but a slap in the face to
every true fan of the Batman. The direction of Joel Schumacher was
deplorable. The set designs looked cheap (the ice looked and acted like
dried craft glue) and were visually painful, especially the overuse of the
red neon hue in many scenes. The digital effects were OK but often over
done. The production cost was extensive, and I wonder what percentage of the
budget went to the salaries of Arnold, George, Uma and Alicia. I'm sure it
was high. I know Arnold got $20 million, so the percentage had to be fairly
high. Well, everyone one of them needed to give back large portions of their
salaries because their performances were atrocious. Alicia Silverstone needs
to give her entire salary back. Hers was probably one the worst performances
ever in a major motion picture. Arnold can't act anyway so I wasn't really
expecting much, but I was disappointed when I heard he was cast as Freeze
because he in no way fits that character. Freeze was a scientist and when I
look at Arnold my first thought is not "Scientist". Ben Kingsly or Patrick
Stewart would have fit better. Uma, who is normally a credible actress, was
too "drama queen" which made it hard to immerse yourself in scenes she was
in. Clooney was totally miscast as Bruce Wayne/Batman. I mean it's hard not
to laugh when Batman is shorter than Robin. George like Uma was too overly
dramatic, especially in scenes with Alfred, which made it hard to take him
seriously. Chris O'Donnell was really the only actor that seemed real. With
all that, I would have to say the overwhelmingly worst part of this movie
was the script. Akiva Goldsman should have been banned from Hollywood after
this script. It was a completely brainless jumbled mess. The story, which
was pitiful at best, gets completely lost in entirely too many characters.
It was so frustrating seeing the origins of certain characters ripped too
shreds as Goldsman attempted to jam them into the script. Batgirl, who
should have never been in this film in the first place, was changed from
Commissioner Gordon's daughter to Alfred's niece, which made absolutely no
sense. In an attempt, to explain why Freeze was so muscular it was explained
he was an Olympic gymnast. How freakin' stupid is that? Gymnasts by
necessity need to be small in stature to perform well in gymnastics and
Arnold is enormous. Goldsman's use of dialogue was highly irritating
consisting of nothing but one juvenile one-liner after another after another
after another. One other thing that really irritated me was the complete
mishandling and waste of the character Bane. Bane is a much more complex and
vicious villain in the comics, and this movie version with Bane reduces him
to a mindless henchman. Bane deserves much more character development than
he received in B&R. The same thing happened in Forever, when one of the most
highly complex and interesting villains in the comics, Two-Face, got reduced
to second billing. Note to Warner Bros. stop screwing with Batman he can
sell himself, and stop trying to cram so many characters into the films, and
understand nobody wants to see a Campy Caped Crusader.


<|_=00=_|>

This is hands down the worst film ever made in the history of the existence
of the universe. There have been some bad films made but this is a travesty.
It is hard to believe that money was spent to make this. It could have been
used on something else (charity I suppose). I was 12 when I went to see this
and it broke my heart. Batman was my favorite comic book and character when
I was a kid and this film broke my spirit. The excellence of the Tim
Burton/Michael Keaton films are long gone. The dark emotional center and
development of the hero and the villains is sidelined for action sequences,
action sequences and some more action sequences, some of them incorporating
the worst CGI and model work ever seen on film. 

The casting itself had to the potential to make a good film. George Clooney
could have made a great Batman (square jawed, popular with the ladies), the
only thing going against him being that can be too laid back (maybe with a
better script he could do the darker material). Uma Thurman is perfect for
Poison Ivy. She is a good looking yet quirky actress, but you wouldn't know
it by the emphasis on camp context and innuendo in this film. Arnie is maybe
a little miscast as Mr Freeze, but he does well getting a chance to use some
'great' puns, but someone who can come across as more evil would  have been
better. Then there is Chris O'Donnell and Alicia Silverstone as Robin and
Batgirl. Let's just say more charisma can come from a line of fridge
freezers with nothing in them. The only decent performance comes from
Michael Gough as Alfred, only one of two actors to have appeared in all four
films. His performance is wonderful in this otherwise mess of a
film.

The blame for this disaster can be laid at the hands of Joel Schumacher. His
direction misplaced and his intentions misguided. He may have redeemed
himself with Phone Booth, but he will always be the man who destroyed Batman
in my eyes. 
<|_=00=_|>
BATMAN & ROBIN will make you lose all faith in Hollywood, indeed
humanity as a whole. Stunningly awful, this was a disaster from the
moment George Clooney traded in his scrubs for the black rubber boots.
And it's not even awful in a cute, SHOWGIRLS kind of way. You won't
laugh, but you might cry over the fact you've just flushed 125 precious
minutes of your life down the crapper.

While everyone involved brings shame to their families, from the
uncomfortable Clooney as the lamely-interpreted hero to Governornator
Arnold Schwarzenegger as the junior-high-dialog-spewing Mr. Freeze,
director Joel Schumacher must be punched the hardest. Even those who
thought he embarrassed the franchise with the light-hearted BATMAN
FOREVER were taken aback. Schumacher treats the audience like a group
of eight-year-old boys with ADD, constantly trying to impress us with
unexciting action scenes like a hockey-themed opening battle
reminiscent of the under-appreciated genius of MIGHTY MORPHIN POWER
RANGERS.

The writers only make things worse with their "witty" hero chatter
("This is why Superman works alone"... har har, where do they come up
with them??) and drawn-out "human" angles, such as butler Alfred's
illness and a childish romantic triangle between Batman, Robin and the
sexy Poison Ivy. This isn't root-on-the-heroes entertainment. On the
contrary, you'll find yourself wishing Poison Ivy would tongue kiss
both masked men to put us all out of our misery.

I love Batman and superhero flicks. I'm not a movie snob by any means,
as I'm willing to forgive many a gaffe. But I absolutely loathe BATMAN
& ROBIN. I loathe how it disgraces the characters it depicts. I loathe
how the "talent" involved is still allowed within 100 feet of a film
set or writer's room. It must be said again that BATMAN & ROBIN is the
kind of experience that will make you lose all faith in Hollywood --
and humanity.
<|_=00=_|>

I know that there has to be some justice in this life, so everyone will pay
for their sins and crimes someday. I shudder when I think what will happen
to Joel Schumacher for killing the "Batman" franchise.

"Batman", the best of the series, was a dark, psychotic and complex movie
with over the top acting and settings. The Batmobile was beautiful, as were
the sets. The movie was forceful and interesting. "Batman Returns" shared
some of the traits of its predecessor while adding more lunacy to the mix.
It did suffer from the lack of top of the line talent (Jack Nicholson).

And then Mr. Schumacher ruined everything. 

"Batman Forever" is a shame of a movie, but NOTHING compared to what this
piece of garbage is. Since its from the same series, there is no excuse for
the director to run wild and away from the spirit of the originals, in which
a sad soul has to fight crime in order to mantain sanity. In Schumacher
movies, Batman has to have the coolest cars, to kiss the most beautiful
girls and to have a lot of fun while doing this. The first 2 movies
acknowledged that killing or hurting people was a conscious choice which was
painfully taken by Batman; in the last 2 it is as if violence was fun and
part of Batman´s life.

There are so many wrong things about this film it is useless to count them.
But there are two things that are an insult to every film goer: the
Batmobile is reduced to a clownmobile, and Batman´s suit has NIPPLES in it.
What a disgrace of a movie. This doesn't even qualify as "so bad it is
good". This is merely "so bad it is bad".
<|_=00=_|>
Batman & Robin, the big summer movie of 1997, I remember seeing this in
the theater when I was 12 and even then I wasn't impressed. But when I
was more grown up, I watched this film again, I figured since I loved
the 3 previous Batman films, why not give this one another shot? Now,
seeing this movie once again, I can understand the low rating on IMDb,
this movie was just a pathetic attempt at merchandising Batman and
making an over the top action movie that really had nothing to do with
Batman. The casting was just oh, so plain wrong. We have Arnold
Schwartzenegger as Dr. Freeze?! Not to mention the accent, the
character was just someone you felt like you could laugh off. Alicia
Silverstone as Batgirl, she was alright, but again, questionable
casting since she seemed out of place. Now, George Clooney?! I couldn't
believe how Val Kilmer got complained about, but George Clooney I can
see why. He was just the most awkward Batman ever and didn't fit the
role at all, he was only used for his popularity.

Batman is living it up with his bachelor lifestyle, but Robin is a bit
upset that he is living under Batman's shadow and wishes to be the
star. Alfred is becoming very sick and needs serious help; his niece,
Barbara comes to his aid and hopes to help him and stays with Bruce
Wayne. Dr. Freeze is our new villain and is looking for a cure for his
wife who is frozen until he can find a cure for her, he also is
intending for the world to pay for what has happened to him and his
wife for some reason. Dr. Pamela Isley is a plant scientist/right
activist and while her boss sees her finding out more than she needs to
know about an experiment on his version of Frankenstien, named Bang, he
"kills" her with her plants. But the plants chemicals have an effect on
her and actually make her into Poisen Ivy. She and Freeze team up to
take over Gothem and of course to split Batman and Robin forever, oh
yeah, then kill them I guess.

Batman & Robin was really beyond over the top, the costumes were a bit
silly and the story was just too family friendly. This is Batman, the
Dark Knight, it's not meant to be this bright and so crazy. I couldn't
believe Joel did this, I really wish I could get past this, I know he's
going to get a bad rap for this film for the rest of his career. The
acting was just stupid and not true to Batman at all. The problem here
was that the story and setting just had nothing to do with what Batman
truly is and was just an excuse to spend stupid money. Please, don't
watch this film if you love Batman, or you'll be sorry.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Strangely enough, that's one ice-related pun that Mr.Freeze doesn't use
in this film. Though it does adequately describe the movie. What was I
thinking, watching Batman & Robin for a third time? Even worse, what
was I doing actually starting to enjoy it?

Yes, there's something endearingly awful about a film that fails on
almost every technical level. But it wasn't always so. The first two
films in the franchise, anchored by the strong, and much undervalued
lead of Michael Keaton, were enjoyable pop-art excursions by Tim
Burton. The first, still by far the best, allowed Jack Nicholson to ham
it up amongst retro stylings and the music of Prince. The second,
Batman Returns, was a less successful effort to homage German
expressionist cinema, the darkest of the four films, and struggled
slightly under the weight of three villains.

The lesson wasn't learnt, and the usage of multiple baddies has been a
fixed staple ever since. With the third, Batman Forever, the flat
acting of new bat Val Kilmer was coupled with Joel Schumacher's garish
direction and Chris O'Donnell's irritating Robin. Akiva Goldsman was
now the writer, and any sense of depth had given way to trite puns and
disjointed set pieces.

And so it was that everything that was symptomatically flawed with the
series was expanded upon and magnified for the fourth, and by far the
weakest, instalment. George Clooney has accepted a lot of the blame for
this film, a humble admission but unfair. While he's clearly miscast as
both Batman and Bruce Wayne, he doesn't give a bad performance per se.
Rather, it's his back up that lets the side down. Uma Thurman (am I the
only one who doesn't think she's that good-looking?) has a great time
overdoing it as Poison Ivy, but she's joined by Arnold Schwarzenegger
as Mr. Freeze. Schwarz, not exactly known for his acting skill, is
unrecognisable under his costume, so what's the point? He gets to call
Batman "Batunbuuurg", refers to Robin as "Buuurd Bouy" and only has 100
lines in total. The fact that 26% of these lines are lame puns on the
word "ice" that even a two-year-old would struggle to find funny is
even more deplorable. And when you hear Freeze tell Batman "Yew arr not
zending mee too da cooola" the urge to use the video's "stop" button is
almost insurmountable.

Bane makes up the trio, a monosyllabic muscleman in a gimp mask. A
completely unnecessary addition, he offers nothing to the plot and goes
largely forgotten. The introduction of wonky-mouthed Alicia Silverstone
as a fatuous Batgirl character is also grating. And why doesn't her
costume come fitted with Batnipples like the rest?

Tiny traces of amusement can be gleaned from Ivy's dialogue, with her
urges that her "garden needs tending" adding some form of adult tone to
the humour. However, it's unrelenting innuendo - "I'll help you grab
your rocks" - does start to wear thin very quickly. I did smile at
Batman's cashcard: "I never leave the cave without it"; and it's also
nice to see some small references from other films. Even if it is just
a glimpse of the Riddler's costume from Forever, some guards
paraphrasing Cobra or some street bystanders dressed as Clockwork
Orange Droogs. In fact, the idea of a Batman film as completely OTT
comedy send-up may have worked, were the rest of the humour more
sophisticated. "It's the hockey team from Hell"; "So this is where you
hang out"; "I'll cancel the pizza"; oh, how lame and functional the
dialogue is!

The film wraps up with a rather pathetic plot contrivance, and George
having to dish out bland platitudes. "Not all heroes wear masks"; "to
give life... that's true power". Oh, it really is abominably bad.
Batman & Robin exists as a classic example of the Hollywood system
folding in under its own weight. However, the universal slating this
one got neglects one factor: while the least successful, it still made
over $230,000,000 at the box office. I wonder how many people would be
satisfied with "failures" like that?
<|_=00=_|>

I understand what Schumacher tried to do with this movie...it seems like a
giant comic book, but...oh, hell...the movie is horrible.  I don't think
I've seen such bad performances in my entire life.  I wasn't only
disappointed by this movie, but mildly insulted that something like this
was
supposed to be a blockbuster at one point;  yeah guys, maybe if we were
all
five.  Whatever happened to the original Batman?  Michael Keaton and Kim
Bassinger?  Yeah, see, back in the good old days, good comic book
adaptation
movies were made.  Batman and Robin is TO BE AVOIDED LIKE THE
PLAGUE
<|_=00=_|>
How did the Batman series begin so well and come to this? OK, none of
the films are masterpieces, but this one is insulting. Anyone who paid
to see it should join a class action to recover damages against the
filmmakers.

Lousy acting from great actors. And some of the worst -- perhaps the
worst -- set design ever. The plot is a grab bag, literally. A little
of this, a little of that. No particular rationale behind any of it. I
would have loved to have been a fly on the wall as the cast watched the
film. Every single one must have thought, "It can't get any worse than
this."

The most amazing thing of all: Director Joel Schumacher has actually
been entrusted with directing jobs after this.
