

I hate reading these reviews putting this movie down.  This movie kicked ass
plain and simple.  It's a fun movie to watch and enjoy!!! Sure, there's not
much of a plot but if you wanted that why would you go to see this film?? 
The only reason to see this film is because you want 2 1/2 hours of
entertainment!!!   That's what this is, pure fun.  
<|_=00=_|>
I think us movie buffs sometimes forget that not all movies are made to
have some sort of under lying message that can or will change our
lives. That's why it pains me to see some users give this film a bad
review because "the dialog is weak" or "the scenery isn't vibrant" or
something along those lines. This is not a stab or an insult to you,
but what I'm saying is; sometimes movies are made with one intended
purpose... ENTERTAINMENT! I could careless if this film had poor
actors, poor script, poor lighting, that doesn't matter when you watch
an action film. This movie delivers your monies worth too, in my
opinion Will Smith and Martin Larwence make such a great team that part
of the fun is just watching these two get into it from time to time.
And with Michael Bay directing, you know you're going to get some good
action scenes. Let's face it, Bad Boys II has one of the best car chase
scenes ion recent history, it dominates the dismal over played chase in
Matrix Reloaded which was the other big summer sequel of that year. I
think all that needs to be said here in a retort is the movie is an
action movie ans needs to be looked at as an action movie. To hell with
the elements that the Academy looks at, appreciate the film for all the
stuff that blows up and the laughs the cast can bring you to.
<|_=00=_|>

I really get a kick out of all the people crying about how violent,
profane
and indecent they found Bad Boys II to be. Hello!!! It's an R-Rated action
movie(and a damn fine one at that) so what exactly were you expecting,
Finding Nemo? I like the fact that Michael Bay and Jerry Bruckheimer had
the
balls to release a take-no-prisoners action flick like this instead of a
"pussified" PG-13 movie like everything else Hollywood has given us this
summer(Hollywood Homicide, Tomb Raider, 2 Fast 2 Furious, Charlie's Angels
Full Throttle, The Hulk, etc). If you don't want to see a movie with a lot
of violence and profanity, the solution is simple.......STAY HOME! There
are
plenty of other movies out there to see this summer so it's your own fault
for going to a movie you know you're not going to like in the first place.
I
agree that a couple of scenes were probably unnecessary(I could have done
without the morgue and the bodies falling out of the van), but other than
that I thought this movie was the perfect action film and the best thing
I've seen this summer. It's funny as hell and the action is non-stop from
beginning to end. What more can you ask for from a summer movie? Don't
listen to all the pompous movie critics because they don't like action
films
in the first place and they are very biased in their opinions. All they
want
you to see is movies like Seabiscuit or The English Patient. Well, screw
that! I like movies where a lot of s**t blows up and as everyone knows,
Michael Bay blows s**t up better than anybody in Hollywood. Go see Bad
Boys
II and actually get your money's worth from a movie this summer(a rarity
indeed). 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was a hell of a lot of fun to watch. The action sequences were
really well done, and there was tons of them. It was a lot more violent than
the first one as I noticed. I thought the scene with all the cadavers was
really unnecessary. It was kind of gross. And the chemistry between Will
Smith and Martin Lawrence is great. The arguments really reflect from the
first one. I was really enjoying the tense scenes where the cars were flying
off the truck. A great movie. 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Well after that blunder of a motion picture called "Pearl Harbour" Micheal
Bay bounces back with a better movie here. To his credit though in the few
short films he has made so far none of them have bombed. This movie was 10x
the action definately, and was actually way funnier than first one. Will
Smith was definately more built, much tougher and more in charge, Martin
Lawrence stole the show with his silly remarks every 5 seconds but I loved
it. 

The car chase scene on the highway was way better than the Matrix Reloaded's
car chase scene, it puts that one to shame. But this highway chase scene
will definately rank up there with T3's. Some parts in this movie were a bit
overdone such as the morgue scene, won't get into it but I'll leave it at
that, and the rats...that's it! :)

If you are looking for a solid type performance from Will Smith to be a good
actor don't bother, this movie was all about pure action, and mindless fun,
if that's what you want then go see it, if not don't waste your 2 hours and
40 minutes seeing it. Funny thing is, it didn't feel that
long.

Can't wait to see this out on DVD in superbit. A great
sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

I just got back from seeing Bad Boys 2 and it was the coolest move ever.  It
had so much action in it topped off with comedy.  For a 2 and 1/2 hour movie
it didn't seem that long at all.  I loved that it didn't have a whole lot
CGI effects in it.  I liked how they actually destroyed the cars and how
they really blew up that mansion, no fake model stuff.  This was just as
cool as the first movie was but a little bit better and cooler.  I don't
know how the critics in different areas rated the movie but the ones in my
area only gave it 1 and a half stars.  I think it deserves at lease 3 and a
half to 4 stars.  I can't what for this movie to hit DVD I be there to get
it definitely the first day it hits shelves.  If you haven't go and see this
BAD movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This was a really fun movie to watch. It has some intense action
sequences. Actually, a lot of intense action sequences. The shooting
never stops and the explosions keep on coming. Martin Lawrence and Will
Smith are hysterical, again. And Joe Pantoliano makes every movie
better. The two funniest scenes are when Burnett and Lowery are scaring
the hell out of Burnett's daughter's date and after the chase scene
with the dead bodies and Captain Howard goes off on the two. Absolutely
hilarious! My only gripe is that it seemed that the writers were
running low on material and resorted to gross-out humor like rats
having sex and corpses losing their heads. Not funny. Otherwise it was
very funny, due to the amazing chemistry between the two leads. I still
prefer the original Bad Boys, but this is still a great time at the
movies. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Well, if you need action or comedy, this is the movie for you. It was a
perfect mix with Big Willy and Martin Lawrence.

It was a bit long. It felt like I watched 2 movies, but that's not a bad
thing. The action was fast, but the realism of the movie was not
believable.
Way too many close calls, the way action movies usually are.

The comedy gets an A+ in my book. So far, this is the funniest movie I've
seen of the year. There was A LOT of comedy, note that I stress the
words,
"a lot." I was laughing from start to finish. Very few lines were weak,
but
there not noticeable.

Overall, this is the perfect film if you want to sit back, watch some
people
die, and laugh your ass off. You didn't need to see the first one to
understand the story, so don't worry. But I do advise you, it was a very
gory movie. They showed a lot of disgusting parts, and I'm not talking
about
sex, I'm talking about gore.

9.1/10

-Aren~
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was very entertaining.  It had me wanting to watch all the way
until the end.  It was about 30 minutes too long I'm afraid though.  There
were many times that I thought there were scenes that could have been cut
and still made this movie funny and with great action.  Some of the parts
were a little overacted as well.  All in all I thought this was a good film
and I will watch it over and over again for a few scenes.  It does have some
horrible language in this movie so do not let you kids see it unless you
don't care if they repeat what they see.  Check the movie out if you are of
age.  It's a good film.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Boys 2... what can one say about it? well, put it this way, it's
much much better than the first and has one of the best car chases in
history.

Will Smith and martin Lawrence are two cops have a lot in common,
especially their attitude, are sent to investigate the a Cuban drug
smuggler who smuggles drugs in America. What a wild, surprising and
funny time they have! I know the storyline doesn't sound very
convincing, but, this movie is not 'okay' as most people put... it's
the action movie of the year! The storyline is, as I said, probably not
very convincing and that lots of movie have been made like that and you
think that you've seen every on of them...

But if you watch this movie, you'll be really, really surprised. The
director, Michael Bay, is one of my favorites and this movie is one of
his action masterpieces.

Rating: 7/10
