
This movie doesn't get the credit that it deserves. Travolta's speech
at the end of the movie to the doctor is incredible. Rarely do I ever
see a movie that acknowledges the value of a single human life like
this movie does. Most movies glorify sacrifice. This movie glorifies
life. I highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

An ex-girlfriend talked me into seeing this movie, and I am happy she did.
In my opinion, John Travolta deserved at least a nomination for an Oscar
here, if not the award itself. The story was decent, but the performances of
Travolta, Forest Whitaker, Robert Duvall, and Kyra Sedgwick made me care
about what was happening on the screen. By no means is this a romantic
comedy. It's romantic, probably the most romantic film I have seen in a long
time. The reason for that is simple...it's real. In most movies you see the
main characters sleep together within a day at the most, which rarely
happens with two people who are really in love. True love has to take time
and effort, which is exactly what you see here. Travolta's George is
patient, but not because he wants to be. If you're a romantic at heart you
will understand and relate to him, and you will hope for his success as you
would for your own. Without giving anything away, I will tell you that the
ending is sad, but also heartwarming. George has his "experience" for no
other reason than to suggest what we as humans can become. Phenomenon is a
story about our potential, the good and bad things that can happen to us if
we achieve it. We could only be so lucky, and watching the movie is a good
start. I give it 8 out of 10 stars. 
<|_=00=_|>

An ordinary small-town man (John Travolta) sees a flash of light in the sky
one night and then starts to experience super-intelligence and telekinesis.
Soon he is changing everyone's life for the better (most notably love
interest Kyra Sedgwick, town doctor Robert Duvall and best friend Forest
Whitaker). Slyly funny and innovative at first and then impressively
dramatic and thought-provoking, "Phenomenon" is an effective picture that
comes through because of good performances across the board and smart
screen-writing. Travolta and Duvall are excellent together and they share
the spotlight in the venture. Under-rated production that should be given a
try. It is one of those films that will cause your emotions to come shining
through. 4 stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
My favorite movies are: Pulp fiction, Run Lola Run, Seven, and A
Clockwork Orange. So how in the world do I like Phenomenon? It is very
well-made (i.e. lighting, direction, editing), excellente acting, and a
very strong message. Give it a real chance, and you can't deny that it
is at least good. I personally gave it a 9 out of ten, and I'm rarely
that generous.
<|_=00=_|>

I think any movie that can be described as both (a) a Scientology
recruiting
pamphlet, and (b) an analogy to Jesus' life has to be a bit out of the
ordinary.  In some ways, this film reminds me of another seeming science
fiction movie that really turned out to be about people's response to the
unusual: `Charly'   In both films an extraordinary increase in
intelligence
frightened the people around the main character; they just couldn't deal
with it and feared him for it.
The love story was a gem.  Lacy had obviously been badly hurt by a past
relationship, and simply didn't want to encourage George's love.  But when
he began to be hurt by the way some of his friends treated him, she warmed
and opened her heart to him.
The way George tried to describe how he looked at things differently and
saw
relationships that he'd never seen before reminded me of classical
descriptions of the act of creativity in many fields.  And it's a sad
thing
but true that we are all capable of concentrating harder and focusing on
things to achieve more, but it's very difficult, and more often than not,
we
tend to take the easier road.
Good thought-provoking flick.

<|_=00=_|>

     This movie was, without a doubt, one of the finest ever made in a long,
long time.  I was expecting ti to take a sci-fi route with abductions and
vulcan mind-melds...but the ending and explanation for George's predicament
are not only plausable but heart-breaking.  You cannot help but feel for a
like George Malley.  I didn't buy into too much of the hyseria surrounding
the townsfolk as it seemed a little "tacked on"...but the performances by
Travolta, Duval, Kyra Sedgwick and Forrest Whitaker made up for any
shortcomings and plot holes.  I have watched this movie time and time again
and the combination of true emotional drama and a beautiful score nearly
bring me to tears everytime.  9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw this movie in the theater, I was on a first date with a nice
lady. However, she appeared to not be moved by the movie and showed no
emotions at all, not even one tear. Seeing as how this movie is a real
tear jerker, I thought she was not my kind of women. I have seen this
movie about 10 times (or so) and never tire of it. Absolutely
wonderful. Great casting, writing, directing and acting. Everyone
involved is at their very best! Truly a "must see" movie. John Travolta
was superb here and Kyra Sedgewick was at her very best! This movie is
pure magic. It made me cry happy and sad tears. Truly a remarkable
achievement. Enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

Phenomenon is a story about energy that is in everything and
everyone.
It's a very subtle and philosophical film that expresses more than meets
your senses. It goes right for your heart and stays there. One might argue
that it is a very "sugarsweet" tale of the things that
make
life (worthwhile), but there is so much more to it.
The heart of the matter is that nothing goes to waste in the universe.
Everything is on it's way to somewhere all the time. Energy will manifest
itself without getting tired. Things, bodies, thoughts, even love, are all
vessels that are secondary to the spirit that drives them.
This sounds all very vague and maybe even religious-like. But indeed some
things are hard to explain. Questions are often a waste of time. So don't
ask where all this energy originates from. Phenomenon will not provide the
answer, at least it is not pretentious in that direction because the
makers
realize that the human-mind is unfit to grasp this in the first
place.
Phenomenology is the philosophical school that investigates how things
appear in the world. The film shows that it is often slightly or
profoundly
different from how it looks at first hand.
I enjoyed the simple way of presenting this very complicated message that
matters to all of us and everything else too. 
<|_=00=_|>

"Phenomenon" is about a small town auto mechanic (Travolta) who experiences
something he can only describe as being "light" and suddenly has peculiar
powers such as being able to learn to speak  Portuguese in 20 minutes or
understanding Dianetics. At issue is, will these powers, which make him the
object of fear and awe by the townsfolk, help of hurt his chances with his
reluctant love interest (Sedgwick). An pleasant little folksy, Mayberry
RFDish flick, "Phenomenon" sticks to the people story and doesn't go off
into sci-fi-land as it conjures up the warm and fuzzies, takes a romantic
turn with the best haircut & shave since "Wrestling Ernest Hemingway", and
tries hard to deliver a message about what's important in life. Yes, the
film gets a little sugary sweet but...okay, it gets a lot sugary
sweet...but, if you go with it and don't fight it you'll be assured of a
pleasant three star watch. Good stuff for sentimentalists.
(B)
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not usually inspired to review your average hollywood fare, but I was
moved by this film.  Not only did it portray dramatic tension between one
who is experiencing 'supernatural' awareness and their hokey, small-town
friends, but Phenomenon also gains rank by being one of the first few films
with a completely 'open mind.'  I attribute its existence to the film
Powder, which came out a few years ago, and I am honestly looking forward to
more innovative dramas in a similar vein.

It will probably not become a classic, but it deserves to be seen in its
time.  Perhaps the honesty of this film will inspire other, greater
filmmakers with more influence to change their ways and provide more
thinking elements in their films.

Watch it with a loved one on a Saturday night.  

A good alternative to show those boyfriends who are  caught up in their own
male-ness.  Try this before plopping in Gone with the Wind.  It may bridge
the gap.

