
Here's another film I watched when it came out and then later when the
DVD was released and enjoyed both viewings, despite the fact I got
"lost" several times. It's about time for another look because it's
well-worth it and who knows....maybe I'll finally figure it out!

If you get a little confused trying to follow the plot, don't feel
stupid. This isn't an easy story to follow but it gets high marks for
keeping it interesting despite that problem.

The interesting characters, good cinematography, fun James Bond-like
gadgets, just the right amount of action scenes and one very memorable
heist scene with Tom Cruise dangling from a wire all make this an
enjoyable two hours of entertainment. That scene with Cruise trying to
break into this vault-like room remains as the one of the better
tension-filled scenes I've ever witnessed on the big screen.

The final action scene with the speeding train and helicopter also is
very memorable. John Voight, Emmanuelle Beart, Henry Czerny and Jean
Reno make it a fun cast to watch, too. Note: stick with this film and
forget the sequel. Despite the confusion, this film is still fun to
view.
<|_=00=_|>

I would like to reiterate what "Anonymous of Derby, England" said about this
film (20th November). The fact that so many people have complained that they
"didn't get it" is proof that our brains are being atrophied by so many
movies that do all our thinking for us. I had no trouble in following the
plot and found the fact that I actually had to concentrate and think things
through quite refreshing. Okay, so a lot of the stunts were a bit far
fetched but what does it matter when they were so entertaining? After all, it
is only a movie; nobody expects us to believe that these things could really
happen any more than they expect us to believe that King Kong really existed
or that there's a Volcano ready to errupt in L.A. Besides, with the inspired
casting of David Schneider as the train driver, Brian de Palma must have had
his tongue in his cheek for at least some of the time. He's created a
masterful boy's own adventure story, an original "ripping yarn" and that
brilliant comic touch added to this perfectly.

"Mission Impossible" is a visual and cerebral treat. Tom Cruise is excellent
as Ethan, Vanessa Redgrave makes a superb villian and Jean Reno is watchable
in ANYTHING he does. The only weak link is Emmanuelle Beart, who did a good
job of looking beautiful but very little else. What a shame Kristin Scott
Thomas couldn't have taken a more central role; she makes the gorgeous but
bland Beart look like a waste of space.

I give this 8 out of ten and it would have been more if it wasn't for
Beart's character.
<|_=00=_|>
For those who have not seen the original Mission Impossible, it is a
real shame. While the other flicks offer plenty of explosions and cool
action sequences, the original remains the best for it's interesting
plot twists, some decent acting, and a well developed element of
suspense that's lacking in the later pictures.

To reveal any of the plot would be a disservice: it certainly has some
pretty interesting occurrences that should be seen for full effect.
What really makes this great though is De Palma's direction. Unlike the
later flicks, key scenes are drawn out: there is a real Spense of
suspense that is rarely achieved. Three key action scenes come to mind,
and there all extremely cool: it's just a shame that Criuse couldn't
enlist the services of more experienced director's later in the
franchise.

A memorable, well executed thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
Based on the TV show of the same name, Brian De Palma's stylish
thriller stars Tom Cruise as Ethan Hunt; a James Bond-esquire secret
agent working for a certain section of the government. As the title
suggests, many of the scenarios in the film are extremely unlikely; but
then again, the film wouldn't be living up to it's title if they
weren't. It's one thing to criticise it's stunts for being overblown,
but if they weren't, critics would be on it's back and calling it
things like 'Mission Possible', so really you've just got to go with
it. Brian De Palma makes it easy to just 'go with it' by way of an
intriguing plot line, a constant array of high-octane sequences and
lots of his trademark style! The plot does get a little too convoluted
for it's own good at times, and sometimes it's a little hard to follow;
but it gives the film a good basis for all manner of impossibilities,
so it serves it's purpose. We follow Ethan Hunt and his team. After a
botched mission, Hunt finds himself on the run from his employers after
being accused of disloyalty. Hunt must now pull out all the stops to
stay one step ahead of his pursuers and get to the bottom of why their
mission went wrong.

The film features a number of stunts, the best of which sees Tom Cruise
breaking into the CIA via the roof. This sequence is brilliantly
executed, with De Palma managing to inject bucketloads of suspense into
the scene. This scene fits the tone of the film as it's brooding and
cerebral, but the film ditches that idea for it's conclusion, which
sees a bullet train, a helicopter and the Channel Tunnel combine to
great effect! The problem with all these stunts is that the parts
between the action sequences aren't all that interesting, and at times
can slow the film down to walking pace. This isn't a big problem,
however, because there's always more action around every corner and
that keeps the film going. Tom Cruise obviously has charisma and can
lead a film, but I often find it hard to buy him in action roles. This
one suits him, though, as although his character is still more than
capable, he comes off as being quite vulnerable, and lucky at times,
and that suits Cruise's persona. On the whole, while this isn't a great
film; it makes for good entertainment and if that's what you're in the
mood for, Mission: Impossible wont disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, there was a time when Tom Cruise was charismatic. Take trashy
movies such as Cocktail and Far and Away or great movies like The Firm
and A Few Good Men and imagine anyone other than Tom Cruise in the lead
role. Hard to do, isn't it? His brash, cocky attitude was once
appealing. Now that he feels he's an intelligent spokesman with
something to say, he just comes across as an arrogant a**hole.
Fortunately, the first MI falls into his earlier stage.

This movie would have been just another action flick without Cruise.
Sure we have a stellar cast, but did not Mr. Cruise steal every scene?
He is perfect in the role of Ethan Hunt, a spy whose whole team is
rubbed out in a convoluted cover up at the start. It is up to Ethan to
uncover the plot behind the failed mission. The movie is a series of
unveiled plot twists that becomes implausible after a while. But that's
not the fun behind Mission Impossible. The fun is watching the great
action scenes with their suspenseful turns. So much so, we are willing
to suspend disbelief to enjoy the ride. And to let ourselves be swept
away by Mr. Cruise's undefinable quality to take us there.
<|_=00=_|>
Brian De Palma delivers a kinetic live wire suspense filled espionage
thriller to open the Mission Impossible franchise. The camera work is
exceptional with De Palma's trademark sense of motion applied to
suspenseful heists and an amazing train ride sequence during which you
really get the sense of speed and danger. Also created is one of the
most iconic images from any thriller of recent times Tom Cruise
suspended mid heist inches from a pressure sensitive floor. Cruise
lives up to his star billing and for me really nails the Ethan Hunt
character, Jean Reno, Ving Rames and the stunning Emmanuelle Beart
provide able support.

My one problem with this film and unfortunately quite a big problem is
that the twist in the tale can be seen coming a mile off. Which is a
real shame as this film is inventive, fun, stylish and everything a
main stream thriller should be.

Fun but the twist in the tale doesn't have enough of a sting 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is, without a doubt, one of my favorite films of all time!  I'll never
forget watching this film for the first time with a good buddy of mine,
afterward we couldn't stop talking about it and spent a great deal of time
explaining plot points to each other.  We finally decided that we just had
to see it again, so we did and all of our questions were answered and our
theories proven correct.

The story is nothing less than superb!  Every time you think you have the
movie figured out they throw you for another loop, but not too much as to
get you irritated trying to figure out the plot.  This is most definitely a
film that deserves at least two viewings before you can truly understand and
appreciate the story.  The characters are all excellent as well, although I
was sad to see Jack Harmen (Emilio Estevez) get killed off so quickly, I
liked his character.

The cast is extraordinary!  Tom Cruise plays Ethan Hunt perfectly!  Jon
Voight was the perfect choice for Jim Phelps.  Emmanuelle Beart was very
good in her role.  Henry Czerny was superb as Kittridge.  Jean Reno was an
excellent addition to the cast.  Ving Rhames was a very nice touch and
really added a lot to the film.  Kristin Scott Thomas was lovely as always,
although played a somewhat minor role in the greater scheme of things. 
Vanessa Redgrave was another nice addition to the cast.  And finally, Emilio
Estevez (as I mentioned above), played a small role, and played it quite
well.

I can see why some of the big fans of the show wouldn't like this film due
to certain plot points that I can't give away, so if you are a big fan of
the show, be forewarned, you may have some issues with the film. 
Personally, I've never seen a single episode of the old television show, so
I had absolutely no frame of reference.  Which, I believe, put me in a
better position to appreciate the story.

I feel that I have to mention the action scenes in this film! 
SPECTACULAR!!!  The scene where Kittridge and Hunt are talking in the
restaurant...just AWESOME!  The entire last 20 minutes of the
film...UNBELIEVABLE!!!  The filming, the action, the special effects and
stunts alone make this film worth watching (but luckily, there is so much
more to appreciate).

If you are a fan of Tom Cruise, or just crime/mystery/action films in
general, be sure to check this one out (at least twice).  This is honestly
one of my top 20 films of all time, I truly hope that you will enjoy this
film.  Thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
Every now and again, you will come upon a film that you know really
isn't the best movie in the world, or even a particularly good movie on
its own. And yet, despite its glaring flaws and imperfectness and lack
of completion, you do find yourself strangely attached to it because it
has a charm to itself that keeps you interested. Call it a guilty
pleasure.

Mission: Impossible is my guilty pleasure. It's based on a 1960s
television series created by Bruce Geller and the movie with Tom Cruise
is kind of like a mash-up between The Bourne Identity and the James
Bond pictures. Basically, the standard spy movie. Tom Cruise plays a
spy who is falsely accused of betrayal to his organization and finds
himself working with some unlikely partners to track down the real mole
in the system and expose him and clear his name. Now, this is a plot as
old as the hills and Mission: Impossible works with it just as well as
the others. Not enormously well, but on an acceptable level.

Tom Cruise is great as the film's action hero lead, unfortunately his
supporting cast is quite uninteresting. Another defect worth noting is
the film's convoluted plot, which sometimes is hard to follow. This is
caused by a screenplay in need of revisions. That's one of the film's
major weaknesses and really the reason why it's just a standard spy
movie with lots of cool gadgets instead of something special.

But that's really my only significant complaint about Mission:
Impossible. Those rather small, unimportant defects left aside, and
leaving the movie to its own devices, it works out well especially in
its action sequences. Again, it's all been done before, sometimes
better sometimes worse, but that doesn't meant it's boring or
overdrawn. In fact, sometimes it's very primal. There is one scene in
particular that I found intense and suspenseful on a hair-raising
level. The scene goes on for an unremittingly long time, keeping us on
the edges of our seats, and the best thing of all is that it's silent.
The filmmakers could have chosen to go along with some dark, heavy
music or some ominous heartbeat sound effects to put us in the same
shoes with the characters, but the fact that it's quiet—too quiet for
our liking—makes it so much more compelling. I only wish the rest of
the movie was like this scene. Then it really would have been special.

Nevertheless, De Palma's Mission: Impossible works out well for what it
is and unless you're not a fan of the standard spy movies or action
pictures in particular, of if you have your standards and hopes up too
high, I imagine you will enjoy it. Again, it is kind of a guilty
pleasure, but hey, it was a lot of fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Tom Cruise Ethan Hunt, a secret agent framed for the deaths of his
espionage team, is on the run from government assassins, as he tries to
uncover the shocking who's and why's of his setup.

Cruise performs well in the role, and the support from Jon Voight,
Emmanuelle Beart, Jean Reno, Ving Rhames and more is strong and
definitely adds plenty of body to the film.

With some good intrigue and tension, a few breathtaking stunts and a
strong conspiracy style plot; Mission Impossible is a decent adaptation
of the original series, without really being too familiar.

7/10 but should have been better
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw Mission: Impossible when I was 15 and I didn't have a
Scooby what the hell was going on. And I considered myself to be
smarter than the average bear. In retrospect, it's not that muddled. In
comparison to the very-dumbed down sequel it stands out as a better
example of film-making made by a director who doesn't underestimate the
audience.

Brian De Palma is known to be a wildly inconsistent filmmaker. From the
over-rated Carrie, to the under-rated Snake Eyes, the classic
Untouchables and the downright hideous Mission to Mars and Scarface,
he's been through just about everything. But Mission: Impossible was
his first true mega-hit. Movies from TV shows are a dime a dozen these
days and are rarely taken seriously, I mean look at trash like S.W.A.T.
or Dukes of Hazard, but M:I is actually supposed to be a continuation
of the show, rather than a spin-off.

Tom Cruise is Ethan Hunt (no, not cockney rhyming slang) an IMF agent
who's entire team is killed in a phony sting operation in Prague.
Accused of being a traitor he legs it before they can nab him and
assembles a team of rogue operatives to find out who the REAL traitor
is. Many double-crosses and double-double crosses ensue.

For those who cannot follow the plot there are some really good
set-pieces with enough tension and excitement to carry the whole movie.
You'll know by now the dangling scene in the top-secret room but the
best scene in the movie is the high-speed train rocketing through the
English countryside. While other directors might use this as a chance
to show off, De Palma keeps it as realistic as possible which makes it
infinitely more cooler.

Parts of the movie may seem a bit dated now and it's weird seeing Tom
Cruise look like a little boy even though he was already 33. He even
sounds different. And what kind of supervillian uses floppy discs? They
could have tried something a bit more high-tech there.

The M:I franchise could be a helluva lot better, I suppose. The second
film was terrible and the third merely average. But they're still
better than the last few Bond outings, though it ain't quite up to the
rugged quality of the Jason Bourne movies.

At least it got off to a good start. But can the world tolerate Cruise
long enough to ever get a fourth made?
