
Kingpin, (despite what you may think) is a ground breaking comedy.
Don't let the unpopularity of the people's recognition of this film
missguide you; it is a truly hilarious film.

Woody Harrelson plays the ultimate dead-beat. A washed up
ex-professional bowler. A man who's become a disgrace. A man who would
rather float around in his existence as a mortal wound of obscurity and
drink himself to death, than possibly making something of himself
again. He meets up with a dense amish kid named Ishmael. Ishmael's so
stupid, so naive and oblivious 

of what's going on around him--that he makes it funny. 

Bill Murray appears off and on in this twisted picture--and all of his
screen time is absolutely precious . Kingpin is a piece of comedic
gold, that many have overlooked....
<|_=00=_|>
This of course is not a great movie but I just have to give it a 10/10.
I have never laughed more in my life. Even the jokes that aren't funny
are funny. This film's comedic build up is about the best you will ever
see. It doesn't even matter what the punch line is, its how they get to
it thats hilarious.

Now this cast was perfect. Anytime you have Randy Quaid in a film you
just know the film is going to make you life just by looking at him.
Kingpin couldn't have shown this any better as he plays an Amish man
who just happens to be amazingly talented at bowling. Woody Harrelson
plays a has-been ex-professional bowler who makes a comeback with
managing through Randy Quaid. Together they go on a ride across the
country making money left and right. Along the journey they are great
supporting comedic performances given by Bill Murray and Vanessa Angel
who certainly makes the look of the film more appealing.

The Farrelly brothers in my opinion give their best direction they've
yet to have. Yet it is the writers who so perfectly set up one joke
after another. It seems as if the script is so sharp that their are
jokes within jokes. The Farrelly brother handle this material so well
by virtual unknowns.

As I have said before this is not a great film but I would highly
recommend this if your in the mood of watching something spontaneous.
It may not be the most technically sound movie ever made or the deepest
but I have never laughed so much in life and that in it self is what
comedies are about.
<|_=00=_|>
Kingpin should be approached with the same kind apprehension that any
sane person would approach any Farrelly Brothers film. Expect a
procession of jokes at the expensive of the main characters, fused with
an simple storyline and that's exactly what to expect from a Farrelly
brothers film.

Woody Harrelson plays Roy Munson a washed bowler that had potential to
be a professional Bowler but his dream comes to an end when he
encounters Ernie McCracken, played to perfection by Bill Murray who
ends up costing Roy Munson his bowling hand. Cut to mid-90's Roy is now
an alcoholic, in serious debt. A chance meeting with Ishamel Boorg,
played by Randy Quaid, an naive Amish man at a bowling alley leads to
the pairs cross country trip to save both their respective futures.
Along the way they met Claudia, played by Vanessa Angel, a tough
talking con woman with her own mission. Together the three form an
unbreakable bond and come face to face with their adversary Ernie
McCracken.

I like my comedy to be intelligent, and Kingpin is one of the few
movies of its kind that actually makes me laugh. It made me laugh when
I first saw it in 1996 it made me laugh till I was sore and now ten
years on in 2006 it still makes me laugh. The cast are brilliant and
it's their talents that really keep this comedy from dating. Randy
Quaid is always solid, Vanessa Angel is devilish sexy and cunning,
Woody Harrelson is suitably vexed and Bill Murray reminds us all why he
has remained Hollywood's main comedy actor long since all his peers
disappeared.

Kingpin is definitely for an adult audience and it is worth watching
some night that there is nothing on the television or at the cinema.
Not for all tastes but damn it is good and it is one of the Farrelly
brothers better films in my opinion. 10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Before "There's Something About Mary" or "Me myself and Irene" there
was Kingpin. Kingpin is a comedic masterpiece-not many comedies make me
laugh out loud like this one. If the Farrellys were not attached this
movie wouldn't be half as great as it was (This film was originally
written by Barry Fanaro, and Mort Nathan) Roy Munson was a bowling
champion in the late 1970s. Roy retires after a dirty trick pulled by
Ernie McCracken costs him to lose his hand. Roy becomes an alcoholic
and sinks very low going as far as sleeping with his repellent,
disgusting Landlord. He meets up with Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid) in a
bowling alley. After some convincing talks him into driving down to
reno and enlist in a bowling contest. This is the Farrelly's second
movie after dumb and dumber, and is some ways, a lot funnier. Bill
Murray is genius and ad libs most of his lines. Woody Harrelson does a
great job; He goes as far as shaving his head and goes all the way to
look like a dead-beat. Randy Quaid is innocent and funny. **** stars.
<|_=00=_|>

When this film first came out, I had no use for it. Then I was home sick one
day and caught it on cable. I laughed my butt off. This is a crude, rude and
down right funny film. It also helped that I grew up near the Pennsylvania
Dutch and plenty of bowling lanes. Two seemingly safe areas that the Farley
brothers attack it without mercy. Sometimes it gets down right disgusting
and many cannot stomach, but overall, its very funny.

Bill and Woody were funny as anything. The Disco-era beginning makes me
laugh like crazy. The commercial Bill Murray does is to die for. This film
will offend alot of people, and many references played for humor may make
folks feel uncomfortable, but I loved it. If you are easily offended, this
is NOT the film for you. But for everyone else who likes rude, crude and
deviously funny -- often at the expense of others kinda humor, this is a gem
to see.
<|_=00=_|>
I say this in a good way: this film captures bowling's underbelly,
where even the pro stars sometimes have to supplement their income the
old-fashioned way: by taking it directly from obviously weaker bowlers
who somehow manage to be convinced to risk their money. Just as poker
games are often won with guns, bowling for money has hazards all its
own, something I learned even as a junior bowler hustling games after
the league on Saturday.

Roy E. Munson (Woody Harrelson) is such a loser that acting like a
total loser is actually called "being Munsoned." The term is named
after an incident where some victims of a bowling hustle relieve Roy of
his right hand in a gruesome manner which involves bowling equipment.
Somehow, even THAT manages to be funny, which speaks to the quality of
this film, a film smart enough to have its three main stars on screen
for most of the time. The 1979 accident was the result of Roy taking
the fall for the hustle engineered by legendary bowler Ernie McCracken
(Bill Murray).

Fast forward to 1996, and Roy stumbles across an Amish bowler named
Ishmael Boorg (Randy Quaid), the most talented bowler he's ever come
across. He offers to coach Ishmael for a $1 million tournament in Reno,
Nevada that can save his family farm, but Ishmael is conflicted (the
deepest emotion of the film) because he has strayed from the Amish
country. Ishmael's brother is the requisite family member sent to bring
the stray relative back home, and Vanessa Angel is extra-hot as the
love interest for almost every guy in the film.

If you think this is a parody of bowling, the joke may be on you. Hang
around enough lanes, in certain places, and you just might see these
guys or something very close to them. Just be careful if they look
drunk and want to play for money.
<|_=00=_|>
Bobby and Peter Farrelly, the directors of "Kingpin" show a great flair
for this type of comedy. Not having seen it when it first was released,
we were lucky to catch it on cable the other night, and frankly, it
proved to be a happy choice. The Farrellys had a good screen play by
Barry Fanaro and Mort Nathan to work with, as they showed a talent for
assembling a wonderful cast to make this a winning comedy the fun and
exciting film it is.

The best thing in the film are Woody Harrelson and Bill Murray. Mr.
Harrelson plays Roy Munson, the man who love bowling, but through an
unfortunate incident, loses his ability to play the sport he was born
to play. Woody Harrelson is wonderful in his portrayal of Munson. Bill
Murray's role is much smaller, but he does wonders with it. Best of all
is the way we see him at the bowling tournament in Reno with his teased
hair in disarray.

The rest of the cast is good. Randy Quaid as Ishmael Boorg, gives a
funny reading of his naive character. Also the attractive Vanessa Angel
plays the woman who has an interest in the game.
<|_=00=_|>
Young Roy Munson has been raised to be a bowler.It's what he does best.
In 1979,at the age of eighteen,Roy(Woody Harrelson from here on out)is
at the top of his game and a bona-fide star in his Ohio hometown. After
he beats Ace pro Ernie"The Big Ern"McCracken(Bill Murray,smarmy and
snarkly as ever)in a match,he is raked into Ernie's con game and pays a
dear price for it.

Seventen years later,Roy is anything but the local hero he once was. He
lives in a seedy apartment in small town Pennsylvania,does odd sales
jobs and has to "satisfy" his decrepit landlady to avoid the rent. It's
at one of the bowling alleys that Roy does routes to that he witnesses
one Ishmael Boorg(Randy Quaid,backing his scene stealing performance in
ID4 with this bravura turn),a sweet,gentle Amish man-child who has a
natural knack for bowling. Needing money and smelling a chance at
scoring big time,Roy decides to take Ishmael under his wing.

On the way to a Million dollar tournament in Las Vegas,Roy and Ishmael
pick up a comely stowaway and ally in a gangster's moll(VAnessa Angel)
and bond from mishap to mishap.

There's nothing particularly brilliant or especially sharp about this
offering,the second from the brothers Farrelly,but its uniqueness and
lack of restraint on the gross-out humor make this movie a very easy
watch(for those who love that kind of stuff,of course).
Harrelson,Quaid,Murray and Angel move effortlessly through this
flick,which may explain why it's so good. Since this film,the Farrellys
have steadily moved away from the almost merciless gross-out gags of
their films and has made seeing their films a little less riotous and
fun,so this movie is a healthy reminder of what a little imagination(I
mean,honestly...a movie about Bowling AND the Amish?)and mischief can
make. A great cheap rent or cable TV movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Bill Murray pretty much steals the show every time he's on the screen.
He's
sleazy, he's smarmy and he's very funny.  With that comb-over going nuts
at
the big game, and his victory dance at the end makes Kingpin that much
better.  That's not saying that the rest of the film isn't good, it is.
Woody Harrelson, Randy Quaid and Vanessa Angel make a very odd
partnership.
An Amish bowling whiz, a one handed ex-bowler, and a very sexy hustler
scheme and dream to make it to Reno, but of course they have to beat Big
Ern.  
<|_=00=_|>

Back in the '70s, Roy Munson (Woody Harrelson) was a bowling phenomenon. He
was none too sharp about picking friends, though, and the champion he had to
beat, "Big Ern," takes him under his supposedly friendly wing. Big Ern (Bill
Murray) shows him the high living lifestyle, and induces him to go on the
road with him, hustling small town bowlers. A couple of the men he bilks
take exception to the scam, and show their displeasure with Roy by mangling
his hand. Twenty years later, Roy (who now has a hook in place of his hand),
earns his living as a salesman. On a visit to a bowling alley, he cannot
help but notice the incredible talents of an Amish boy, Ishmael (Randy
Quaid). Bowling is not part of the Amish lifestyle, but Ishmael occasionally
sneaks into the bowling alley and plays a frame or two. Roy takes Ishmael
under his wing, and together with Vanessa Angel they begin a quest for
bowling success. Kingpin is funny, due to a great cast and good writing,
gotta love Bill Murray. 
