
Rocky and Bullwinkle first appeared in an animated TV series in the
late 1950s. Decades following the cancellation of the show (which
lasted only a few years), some film and video game adaptations were
made but they all only generated lukewarm responses, although I do
enjoy the video games.

Here, we have this film called The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle.
Like all films based on the TV series, including the one called Mr.
Peabody and Sherman, this film could not breakeven in box office
numbers, let alone make a profit.

I can only wonder why any adaptation, film or game, based on the TV
show can't get any success. Perhaps it goes back to TV show itself.
Because the flying rodent is male, they could have selected a boy to do
his words. But instead, they selected a hag which is unauthentic,
untraditional, and artificial. I guess that really hurt the rodent's
popularity as the moose gained more attention in the show's later
years. Strangely though, they continue to use the hag for this film as
well as the 2014 short film. Well I'm glad that the pesky hag has
finally kicked the bucket. This time could a brighter and better era
for the franchise.
<|_=00=_|>

Why is this movie so bad? Why am I reading that people enjoyed this? It's
embarrassing, the acting is awful, the script is even worse. This is a slap
in the face to all of those who love Rocky and Bullwinkle. People are
defending it, saying that it carries the same type of humor over from the TV
show, and I'll have to agree, but it's not funny. It just doesn't work. So
sad. 
<|_=00=_|>
For much of my life, I knew nothing about Rocky and Bullwinkle. In fact
I never knew until I read about cartoons with similar styles, and some
of the actors of the Rocky and Bullwinkle show.

Many years after the characters made a name of themselves in a 1960s TV
series, some people who probably liked the show a lot decided to give
Rocky and Bullwinkle an encore through this film. Had the film been
commercially successful, the franchise would have been revived to a
great degree. Unfortunately, that wasn't the case as the movie bombed
at the box office.

Because I'm hardly a fan of the 1960s show, what become of the feature
film almost doesn't mean anything to me. But if I were fan, I'd
probably beg the filmmakers to make another film. And to make the film
more appealing to moviegoers, my advise to the filmmakers would be that
they should use a young boy to perform the role of Rocky.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this one with a couple of my friends. They walked out of the theater
totally hating the movie and me for suggesting it. I couldn't have hated it
as much as they did, but it was really disappointing. The characters were
left as shells of their former selves. The movie seemed to suck out the
heart and soul that was put into the TV show to make the movie nothing but a
series of pathetically bad jokes. Granted, it was really funny to see a live
action Boris, Natasha, and Fearless Leader. Jason Alexander, Rene Russo, and
Robert DeNiro were the only reason I didn't pull my hair out in sadness and
disappointment at seeing some of my favorite TV characters in a
piece-of-junk movie. 
<|_=00=_|>
Having enjoyed the original cartoon series, I went into this film with
a good attitude. I enjoyed "Airplane!" and am hardly one of those film
school arty types who can't take a joke. If Rocky & Bullwinkle had been
campy, dumb, but fun, I think I would have enjoyed it.

Unfortunately, the only good thing I can say is that I was hoping to
hear a lot of bad puns, and I did. But there the similarity ended.

Taking Rocky & Bullwinkle out of its cartoon format into a 3D realm
didn't work for me. The plot stuttered and didn't make any sense. Even
starting from the attitude that this is a cartoon, so things will be
wacky and nonsensical, it still didn't make any sense.

Worst of all were the syrupy and melodramatic interactions with Karen
Sympathy, the FBI agent. The emotions and decisions of the characters
didn't make sense.

Finally, there's something about comedy that involves timing. I don't
know what it is. But the build-ups and physical pranks didn't work for
me. Something was really askew in the presentation.

Who should see this film:

-- nobody, even kids, and especially if you've seen the original
series, it will just make you sad

I'm forced to give The Adventures of Rocky & Bullwinkle a 3 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Yet another lame attempt to put animation into flesh-and-blood
reality.

"This is not a cartoon, this is the real world!", claims rookie FBI
agent Karen Sympathy, played by Piper Perabo, and I wish I can say the
same thing about THE ADVENTURES OF ROCKY AND BULWINKLE. It has a big
budget, which it spends on fancy cartoonish sets and other bizarre
gimmicks, for what? To make it look like a cartoon! This results into a
lot of things that we could prefer seeing in a Saturday morning
cartoon. But as a movie, it's pretty hard to see why this was such a
favorite cartoon during the early '60's. This is one of the most
ineffective and unfunny movies I've seen in a while. And if your not
convinced, lets move to to the casting. Lets see, Robert De Niro as
Fearless Leader and Jason Alexander and Rene Russo as his bumbling
minions. Okay, now your convinced.

The film uses the technique of putting animated characters in real-live
settings and real actors. This was done many times since films in the
80's like WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT and, recently SPACE JAM. And like
SPACE JAM, although not quite as bad, ROCKY AND BULWINKLE enjoys too
much with the playfulness of its cartoon characters that they forget
that they're making a feature film here. So, it has not much to tell
and can't even afford to make jokes that really work.

The film is basically a cartoon on a live action movie (which is made
just as cartoonish as the animated world). Animated evil mastermind
Fearless Leader (De Niro) and his henchmen have crossed the boundaries
of an animated world and arrive in our 4-dimensional world and start a
TV company called RBTV, meaning "Really Bad Television" (how
prophetic), and turn people to mindless drones with their horrible
cable shows. The FBI sends a rookie agent (Perabo) to protect
still-animated Rocky and Bulwinkle from being zapped, allowing the
megalomaniac from ruling the world.

And as the story goes, the laughs and silliness get even worse. The
film hardly made me laugh, and no head-hitting, car-crashing and any
other mishap to change my mind about that. They should know they're
making a motion picture here, not a an episode of Bugs and Daffy
(which, at least, is better than this). Despite its budget, director
Des McAnuff instead spends it on silly cartoonish gimmicks that, joined
in with the corny laughs (if you'd call it laughs) and embarrassed
leads, it can all be summed up in a 30 minute animated feature for TV,
not an 88 minute film.

Still, I did find one thing that was quite bearable in this walking
disaster waiting to happen, and that is the entertaining cameos. How
many movies can you see well-known (and then well-known) talents like
Whoppi Goldberg, John Goodman, Kenan (Thompson) and Kel (Mitchell) and
Billy Crystal just to name a few. Their cameos thankfully lightens up
my high criticism for the film, but that doesn't stop me from giving it
a big thumbs down.

Still, I won't discourage you from letting the kids see it, for it's
mainly made for them and they might be the only ones who'll enjoy it.

Rating: * out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
Movies that aren't serious can be really fun, this one however is an
exception from that statement. I know it's supposed to be silly, to be
wacky and hilarious but it just doesn't do it for me. The green/blue
screen effects are extremely bad and throughout the movie I never felt
that the animated characters were "real". The puns in this movie was
over-used as well along with the bad script and I think that's what
destroyed it the most for me. Now don't get me wrong: an unserious
storyline can still make the watcher believe it by using the right
tools. But a script that bad made the storyline completely unbelievable
and breaking the fourth wall is something you should not over-use even
if you want the comedic effect to become stronger. Why is that? Because
breaking the fourth wall is a great way to make the audience get
shocked since the actors are breaking a rule there, which catches their
attention immediately. If you over-use this, however, the effect gets
worn off to the point where it just gets annoying.

In some shots there's some filming-errors as well such as too much
headroom, unnecessary space where it's not needed since it doesn't
provide any information, lack of contrast balance between the
green/blue screen shots and the objects/people and etc. Perhaps
something you don't think about too much, but can be extremely annoying
if it constantly occurs. This is also the reason why it looks like a
really really bad B- movie from the 80's personally. The acting overall
was pretty okay, even though there were in some places in the movie
where it was noticeable that the actors didn't really did their roles
seriously which made it harder to believe the story.

All in all, a bad movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Rocky the Flying Squirrel is a character who appeared in a TV series
named for him dating from the late 1950s to the early 1960s. Decades
later, filmmakers who are probably fans of the show's characters try to
make a film, and try to revive them. 

At first, I had no idea that the film flopped at the box office because
I was not following it. This was until I read about it on Wikipedia. It
was there I found out. I find it hard to believe how a film featuring a
famous TV character could bomb. Films bomb at the box office either
because of negative reviews from critics or insufficient marketing. But
in the case of The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle, the reason is
unknown. Perhaps it has something to do with which the filmmakers
choose who gets to play who in the film. If a lad were selected to be
Rocky, I guess the film might have been much more financially
successful.
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, it should be noted that the film makers here had respect
and affection for the source material, and it shows. Rather than just
enticing audiences with known characters and titles, then assaulting
you with a worthless script (as happens all too often in TV show
"adaptations"), this movie pays due homage to the irreverent satire
that was the original Rocky & Bullwinkle cartoon, by staying close to
its theme.

Much of the original schtick is here: the frantic narrator, the inside
jokes, the brutal political satire, the cluelessness of "our heroes,"
and of course, the wonderfully awful puns. The oaf super spies from
Potsalvania, Boris and Natasha are here, as is their "Fearless Leader."

On top of that, several celebs drop by for some clever cameos, in a
"Muppet Movie" style way. There are some good one-liners, and everybody
seems to be having fun doing the movie.

But it just doesn't click. Jokes seem to be presented in an "in your
face" manner, slapstick routines are overdone, and end up just looking
like pale impressions of the original. The story and script seem
contrived just to set up situations for the "comedy." The animation of
Rocky, and even more so of Bullwinkle, look awkward, almost eerie. I
almost felt like asking Moose and Squirrel: "Wassamatta U?"

Sincere but misguided. Gets lost somewhere between Pottsalvania and
Frostbite Falls, and just isn't worth the time to find it again. Rent
compilations of the original cartoon series instead.
<|_=00=_|>

this is cinematic rubbish this film was a waste of my time it had some
well
known stars big deal robert de niro oh the sham u came from a line of
great
films why blow it all well i cant compare the movie to the tv show becase
ive never seen it and after the movie i think i never will
