

Sound like a bold statement? Devotees of classic cops and robbers flicks
of
old will no doubt take exception, but I believe that Michael Mann achieved
some measure of perfection with Heat. To break this three-hour gem of a
film
down to its core, this is a film about men - strong men - and the
supporting
role that he women of the film have on them for better or worse. Take
Pacino
as good cop Vincent Hanna: one of the most intense characterizations of
the
tragic hero that I have ever witnessed, as he laments the demise of his
third marriage to a pill-junkie wife. A fact which he discusses with his
archnemesis (De Niro) in what history will regard as one of the most
frenetic scenes in the history of film. The dialogue in this scene (at the
very end of the first tape, if you own the VHS version) sets up the last
half of the film beautifully, as our two rivals come to the joint
realization that they have no hand in choosing the paths that will lead
them
to their ultimate confrontation: their very natures so define their
respective actions that any attempt to do otherwise would simply be a
waste
of time. While I have heard others (who I am ashamed at times to call
close
friends) say that Heat drags in places, I will concede that there are
moments in the film that require more than the cursory attention that they
give to the movie they happen to be watching at any given time (I'm sorry
not every director is Jerry Bruckheimer), there are poignant developments
of
character in Heat that many would casually disregard. I am thinking of the
interaction between the ex-con who finds conditional employment in a diner
with an opportunistic scum of a boss, and whose girlfriend is so proud of
him for swallowing his pride and not simply giving the sonofabitch a good
pummeling. But there is a catharsis that I felt for that same ex-con when
De
Niro's character presents him with the opportunity to take just one more
score, for old time's sake. Who doesn't feel for this guy - this minor
character in a film with big-time heavyweights who gets to shine for a few
brief moments. That's what Heat is really: a series of brief moments, some
touching, others traumatic, and still others incredibly horrifying in the
feelings that they inspire in the romantic who, like me sees not black or
white portrayals of protagonist and villain, but a montage of grays that
combine to create a vivid spectrum of film characterization that could not
be found in hundreds of films combined. One of my five favorite films of
all
time, Heat is a cinematic banquet of intense imagery and pulse-pounding
action. Come hungry.


<|_=00=_|>
For some reason I cannot stop thinking about this film lately.

You know that feeling of having seen it about 3 or 4 times in the last
12 months is not enough? That's what I feel at the moment.

I rate it as Mann's best. It's his most kinetic,vibrant(for a film
mostly shot in steely blue),agonising,stirring,brash,violent and
brilliance in such a simple story. 

What games did you play as a young kid? Cops and robbers.Good guy.Bad
guy.

We all know De Niro and Pacino could have been either main part,but can
you imagine it any other way round. Pacino doing ice cool calm? De Niro
the manic outbursts,arms flailing? It wouldn't work. We know these men
now.We know neither will stop at what they do.And yet there is no way
either would stop the other.Unless they had too. Which leads us too the
characters. All of them.

This is an extended family where you feel you know all of them without
knowing anything at all. The cops are similar to the robbers and
vice-versa. Perhaps Mann is telling us were all the same.Except in what
we do.Every speaking part holds substance in this movie, and the
support cast is astonishing when you actually read the caliber of who
appeared in this film.Tom Sizmore, Val Kilmer,Ashley Judd,Ted
Levine,Wes Studi,Hank Azaria,William Fitchner,Henry Rollins,Dennis
Haysbert,Tom Noonan. And Natalie Portman, for chrissake! Try getting
that cast again.

A real 10/10 film. And that Moby song at the end(God moving over the
face of waters) gets me every time.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the most amazing things about Heat is the scale of the film; it is
nearly three hours long and packed to bursting with mind-blowing visuals. It
seems one of Michael Mann's main priorities was to make a film with a
dreamlike feel to it, to portray LA as a dusty oil-painting on which complex
characters could play out their lives. One of the main themes is the
similarity of the career criminal and the street-wise cop. It is fascinating
to find yourself really feeling for DeNiro's tragic bank-robber, a man of
philosophical merit who realises he's stuck in a life of crime he doesn't
want to lead. Pacino's cop is less easy to sympathise with, but he too leads
an in-escapable life of guns and crime. What really stands out is the
climax. On the whole, Heat has to be the best cops n' robbers film ever
made, indeed, one of the best films. An epic, wonderful, sad,
adrenaline-fuelled exercise in scale and
grandeur.
<|_=00=_|>

'Heat,' a film of epic proportions on a common placed scale, provides all
the essentials of a great crime drama and then some.  With a fascinating
storyline, involving characters, and Mann's sometimes poetic, sometimes
gritty directing, 'Heat' is arguably one of the best crime
dramas.

Perhaps the most unique feature of this movie is its manifold storyline,
which focuses primarily on the main characters: Vincent Hanna and Neil
McCauley.  Because of this complex storyline, it almost seems as if one is
watching two movies, with one about each of the two characters.  While
following Hanna's personal life, the movie shows how it is about more than
just a cop in pursuit of a criminal.  Hanna's marriage is deteriorating,
his
step daughter is falling apart, and, as wife Justine says, he lives his
life
more among the "remnants of dead people."  A man of two other failed
marriages, Hanna's story is that of the strain of trying to fulfill both
his
professional and personal, where, every time, the professional wins out.
Neil McCauley's story is that of a man who used to know his role: his job.
Everything in his life revolved around making the next score (whether it
be
large or small).  His story chronicles his relationships with the other
men
in his crew, and his relationship with Eady, his girlfriend who does not
know all she should about him.  The tensions build as Mann shows the two
opposing strategies of each man as their paths (and thus their stories)
draw
closer together.  When the two storylines do meet (at different points in
the movie), the result is--for lack of a better word--epic.  To say that
these two major storylines are the only strong ones of the movie would do
injustice to the many others (following Chris and his wife, for example);
but to say that they are the driving force of the movie, to say that they
are responsible for transforming a typical cops-and-robbers story is the
best explanation.

In addition, the characters in this movie undoubtedly make it so
successful.
This cast comes as close as possible to being ensemble with two such huge
main characters.  And the cast is one of the best, at that.  DeNiro.
Little
more needs to be said.  Ever the master, his character, McCauley, can be
on
the one hand a ruthless robber and cold-hearted killer, on the other a
warm
friend and tender lover.  And, despite his life of crime, McCauley's human
side shows through.  He will not kill unless he must, as seen through his
anger at Waingro and bank heist.  His warmer side shows through his
relationships with his friends and girlfriend Eady.  Pacino.  Equally
without need of praise.  As always, he delivers an intense performance,
here
as Hanna, a workaholic obsessed with catching his man, while also fighting
a
losing battle to save his personal relationships.  He may seem just the
harsh cop, but he cares about every man under his command, about his
stepdaughter, and, yes, even about McCauley.  Through Hanna, Pacino shows
just how torn such a man can be.  Hanna demonstrates both coldness and
compassion, both anger and sensitivity.  Additionally strong is Val
Kilmer,
as Chris Shiherlis; with a raging temper, undying devotion, and a fierce
will to persevere.  Kilmer does an excellent job with the character of a
flawed individual, whose flaws prevent him from lasting contentment, but
against which flaws he continually strives.  Ashley Judd is an
unforgettable
Charlene Shiherlis, who, despite a smaller roll, makes a lasting
impression
on the film.  Tom Sizemore, as the implacable Michael Cheritto, and Jon
Voight, as a gruff Nate, are both likeable (because of their human sides)
and despicable (because of their professions).  Each does excellent work.
And equally fine are Diane Venora, as Justine, and Natalie Portman, as
Justine's daughter Lauren.  As Venora is strong opposite Pacino, so Amy
Brenneman, Eady, is an equally strong opposite of DeNiro.  In a cast so
full
of big names, it is so rewarding to see everyone come together to make the
characters each have their own place in the film.

And Michael Mann's direction of the movie keeps the film moving while
providing a tremendous combination of action and drama.  He moves from
scene
to scene quickly and effortlessly.  He also switches between the many
storylines logically and fluidly, none of the story being lost.  Each
scene
leaves its own, unmistakable impression, and each scene of each storyline
builds upon the previous.  Action scenes are handles crisply but grittily.
The gunshots are loud, the blood is abundant, but Mann wisely does not
linger on the horror of the moment.  He paints a realistic picture, but
keeps to the topic.  The action never becomes more important than the
drama.
Mann is also responsible for what is perhaps the greatest robbery scene
ever.  Here, his more gritty sense of style is what makes this scene so
believable.  And, despite the enormous cast, Mann was still able to keep
his
agenda clear, and orchestrate so much talent into a coherent movie.
Michael
Mann deserves credit for both his vision and ability to express
it.

Because of these and other well done aspects, 'Heat' is one of the most
powerful crime dramas ever made.
<|_=00=_|>

In this exciting thrill ride, good and evil battle it out.  But not in the
usual comic-book style of most films today.  "Heat" carries with it the
moral values so many of us take for granted.  Although much in the film is
morally ambiguous, one may find that even when all your life you've lived on
the other side of the law, you can still settle down and have a
heart-to-heart.  When I first saw this movie I was sure it would be another
violent crime movie that I would never want to see again.  I have since seen
it 4 times and have a copy of my own.  The thrilling sequences and brilliant
camera-work have you glued to the screen.  The exceptional cast of
characters has you wondering "who could be so lucky to work with them?".
From the opening scene to the thrilling final scenes and everything in
between (including the climax) "Heat" grabs you and pulls you in.  This is a
true film masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
I really believe this is one the great crime movies of all time. It has
some drawbacks that wouldn't make me recommend this for family viewing
- tons of f- words by Al Pacino and a few bloody scenes, but as far as
a fascinating crime story: wow!

This movie made modern-day history because it was the first time two of
the great actors of this generation - Pacino and Robert De Niro -
finally acted together in the same film. Those two didn't disappoint,
either. They were great to watch and one of the huge highlights of the
film, to me, was when they faced each other in a simple conversation
over a cup of coffee. That conversation has always fascinated me, no
matter how many times I've heard it. It was such a "landmark" scene
that It's even the subject of a short documentary on the
special-edition DVD.

As with the conversation scene, the shootout segment in the streets of
Los Angeles still astounds me no matter how many times I see it. The
other action scenes are intense and memorable, too, and the cast in
here is deep. This isn't just Pacino and De Niro. It's Val Kilmer,
Ashley Judd, Jon Voight, Diana Venora, Natlie Portman, Tom Sizemore,
Amy Brenamann, Wes Studi, Ted Levine, Mykelti Williamson, on and on. 

Put that fabulous cast under Michael Mann, one of the best directors in
business, add a great soundtrack and interesting camera-work and you
have a great film. At three hours long, it never bores one and at same
time, doesn't overdo the action, either. I read one critic criticize
this film because of the time taken to examine the personal lives of
the main characters, but you can't have three hours of nothing but
action. The only scene I felt went on a bit too long was the ending
chase at the airport, but that's nitpicking considering the film as a
whole.

This is just one of those movies where a great cast and director live
up to their billing.
<|_=00=_|>

Most of the comments I've read here agree that this is a great movie. I have
the same opinion.
The coffee shop scene tells everything about this film: 10/10. The human side
of the characters is perfectly explored, especially concerning De Niro's
character (Neil). His personal conflicts are as strong as his determination
and skills as a gangster. This is the magic of this film and only two
fantastic actors like Pacino and De Niro could represent it so totally.
Congratulations to Val Kilmer that shined and performed exceptionally well
under the huge shadow of Pacino and De Niro.
A must see !
<|_=00=_|>

Heat is a masterful cops and robbers tale that shows both sides of the law
in exquisite detail.  Strong performances by Pacino and DeNiro (the scene
of
them sitting across the table from each other is possibly 5 of the most
memorable minutes in film history).  Excellent cinematography and perhaps
the best gunfight (if not, one of the most intense) since Hard Boiled.
More
than worth the 3 or so hours.
<|_=00=_|>
I am assuming I am commenting on this film for those who have not seen
this film and for those people I pity you. Its a crime thriller. Won't
describe the story as its not particularly original and not the best
thing about this film. You've got Pacino and Deniro on screen in a film
for the first and possibly last time which should be recommendation
enough. You've also got director Michael Mann at the top of his game.
An awesome supporting cast firing on all cylinders. Arguably the best
"shoot-out" in any film - ever. What more do you want???

It's a long film but there is not one wasted scene in it. Even the
incidental story lines - for example, the recently paroled ex-cell mate
of Deniro whose first job is in a "grill" working for a nasty,
exploitative boss and then ends-up as a stand-in getaway driver for
Deniros crew. It just adds weight to the whole film. All the domestic
dramas of the good-guys and the bad-guys that you wouldn't get in the
typical cops and robbers film are shown in loving detail and nothing is
rushed. Just makes it a more satisfying and involving film.

Mann who started his career on Miami Vice almost seems to be taking a
trip back to the eighties with the soundtrack and styling of the film -
almost but not quite. 

If you still don't want to see the film after this then what the hell's
wrong with you?! Sit back and enjoy. Also - no. 247 in the top 250??
Whats up with that???
<|_=00=_|>

I am always wary of films boasting of star-studded casts and big-name,
behind-the-camera talent. So, I approached "Heat" with some
trepidation...of
course, I'm a big fan of DeNiro and Pacino (even as he has declined into
one-note, manic performances in the 90's) and I feel that Michael Mann is
one of the most underrated directors in Tinseltown (one need only view
"Manhunter" to view his genius in pacing a crime thriller). Given the
incredible supporting cast, this production set high standards for itself.
I
must report that it did not disappoint. Given that the running time is
almost three hours and Mann has the task of balancing two significant
storylines (DeNiro's and Pacino's), the film is a stunningly linear
examination of life on both sides of the law. The viewer sees sacrifices
made and relationships lost in both arenas without the usual emotional push
to root for one side against the other. The visceral thrill of watching
Pacino and DeNiro emote together was one of the film's marketing points;
though they have two brief scenes together, it is a unique thrill to see
these two modern icons of cinema play off one another. While it is clear
that either of these two has the star power to carry a film singlehandedly,
the experience of watching the cop and robber suffer through their
diametrically opposed, yet parallel lives is fascinating. I'm sure that
fans
of the films will remember, in the years to come, the diner scene between
the two as fondly as some hold the pairing of Randolph Scott and Joel
McCrea
in "Ride The High Country".

Those who criticized the film at the time of its release found particular
fault with the climax. They cynically deemed the clasping of hands between
the two opponents as a overly sentimental gesture. While it is sentimental,
the scene is a neat capsulation of their relationship, however unexplored,
throughout the film. They have acted as the hunter and his prey; yet, they
finally realize that they are kindred spirits - dedicated men who put their
chosen profession above all else in their lives. They are aware of the
opportunities for "normalcy" they have sacrificed for their obsessions (I
love DeNiro's line in the diner on what's normal) and hold each other in
high regard because they share the same pain and isolation. I think "Heat"
has a beautiful ending, enhanced by Moby's elegiac "God Moving Over The
Face
Of The Waters"

I don't put much stock in the Academy Awards in terms of evaluating a
film's
worth, but it was a true disgrace that "Braveheart" was chosen Best Picture
in 1995. "Heat" was not even nominated! Hopefully, the Academy voters will
right this error with Mann's equally powerful "Insider" at this year's
ceremonies.

Don't be scared off by "Heat"'s running time or by criticism that its too
indulgent in its character studies. It is precisely the film's attention to
developing its characters that sets it apart from every other
by-the-numbers
Hollywood crime film of this era and makes "Heat" a classic.
