

I've always been fascinated with the idea of stopping time, so when I saw
the trailer, I was really interested in seeing the movie.  Anyhow, the movie
was actually really cool and had some REALLY cool ideas.  I really liked the
idea that they weren't actually stopping time, they were just slowing it
down REALLY slow.

The main reason I wanted to see the movie was for the special effects and I
wasn't let down, the special effects were spectacular and lots of fun. 

As far as acting goes, I thought all the actors did a find job.  I liked
Jesse Bradford, French Stewart, Michael Biehn and last but certainly not
least, Paula Garces.  I was really impressed with Paula's beauty, she is a
quite a beautiful woman and predict a great future for her.  I can't wait to
see her next project.

As far as story-line goes, I thought it was pretty darn good and rather
smart.  There were a few things that I could have done without, but I can
deal.  One part that really struck me as odd was when he (Jess Bradford) was
in the bathroom at the hospital and he was trying to get the watch
(time-stopper) to work.  While he was in the bathroom the bad guys slow down
time and come walking into the hospital and suddenly you see Jesse disguised
as a cop and then as soon as the baddies walk by Jesse takes off running.  I
assume he got the watch to work momentarily, but that doesn't really make
sense because later in the movie he gives it to French Stewart so he can
repair it and get it working again.  I just think that one scene could have
been explained better and it would have been quite easy to
do.

One little movie trivia tid-bit that I noticed in the film was when
Francesca and Zak are having fun with the watch and she says "Make it so
Number One".  That is a reference to Star Trek: The Next Generation. 
Captain Picard always said that to Commander Riker (aka Number One).  This
is interesting, because "Clockstoppers" is directed by Jonathan Frakes, who
plays Commander Riker in Star Trek.

I hope you enjoyed the movie as much as I did.  It's not a superb sci-fi
movie, but it's fun and it's got lots of cool things to look at and some fun
ideas.  Thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a very loose remake of the 1980 TV movie, "The Girl, The Gold
Watch, and Everything".

A young boy accidentally finds a watch built by his estranged father that
accellerates whoever is wearing it, and whatever (or whoever) they're
touching into "hypertime", which makes the rest of the world move at a
snail's pace, comparitively.

Michael Biehn plays a decent villian, although he is not allowed much
developement, which is a bit sad, after his excellent work in Terminator,
Navy Seals, Abyss, and The Rock.

French Stewart (Harry from "3rd Rock from the Sun") provides the comic
aspect, and was pretty much my favorite character.

Jesse Bradford & Paula Garces do a good job, too.

Remember, this is a kid's movie, done by Nickelodeon, so it's on a kid's
level, which explains some plot holes.

<|_=00=_|>

Zak Gibbs (Jesse Bradford) is a teenager, son of Dr. Gibbs (Robin Thomas), a
brilliant scientist. He wants to buy a car, but the attention of his father
is to his own research work. Zak likes Francesca (Paula Graces), a new
student from Venezuela.  One day, Zak finds by accident a watch developed by
Earl Dopler (French Stewart), a former student of Dr. Gibbs, with capability
of accelerating time. Henry Gates (Michael Biehn), the villain of the story,
stole this research and wants to make lots of money with this device. Zak
and Francesca will face lots of adventures due to this finding. The
screenplay of this film has lots of flaw, but anyway it entertains. There
are lots of inconsistency in the story, but if the viewer do not pay
attention to these details, may have some fun. The special effects are very
reasonable. Teenagers are certainly the public-target of this movie. My vote
is six. 
<|_=00=_|>

When the government secretly hires a firm to produce a time-slowing device
that would speed up a person's molecules so that they could travel at
several times normal speed, a high school student ends up with the device
and becomes the target of a manhunt to get it back.

Clockstoppers is the first feature film from director Jonathan Frakes

outside the Star Trek universe. The story revolves around a mysterious

watch with the power to speed the wearer's molecules and allow him to move
faster than anything around him does. Scientist Earl Dopler sent a prototype
of the device to friend and college professor George Gibbs to help him
perfect the device. One afternoon, the watch accidentally falls into a
broken toaster where George's son Zak picks up to take with
him.

Zak has been trying to get a new foreign exchange student to go out with
him. She finally agrees after he goes out of his way to stop some bullies
from harassing her and agrees to have him come over to her house to help
rake the lawn.

When he activates the watch, thinking it's a stopwatch, time slows suddenly
and while taking the bag of leaves to the garbage can comes across a hissing
possum. He pokes it and thinks it's dead and waltzes into Francesca's house
to show her what he found that was invading the trash cans and his watch
suddenly ends its time and everything goes back into standard motion. The
possum isn't really dead and when he tries to explain, things get out of
hand.

After figuring out what the watch does, Zak and friends go on the lam trying
to escape the organization that's trying to get it back. They use similar
watches, preventing him from using the watch as an escape
mechanism.

Nickelodeon films, one of the production companies behind the film, have
been known for good and bad movies throughout their feature film career and
have managed to stumble across both an idea and a director that works.
Frakes proved his capabilities with the feature film Star Trek: First
Contact, a terrific film that shines among its fellow Star Trek films. Now,
Frakes has branched further into the science fiction genre, stepping away
from his small screen productions. He takes a potential childish and
unemotional film, blends in the right amount of scientific explanation,
avoids paradoxes adroitly and keeps the film excellently paced with plenty
of room for enjoyment.

The performances are probably the weakest part of the film. Each actor does
his very best to portray the characters realistically and perhaps their
relative inexperience is a factor. Bradford has numerous credits to his
short career, including Hackers, but smiles far too often for his characters
needs and even when he's upset or angry, the tell-tale smile is nearby.
Garcés tries her best, but with the broken English, she feels more like a
caricature than a character, but she is awfully beautiful! The same goes for
the third friend, Meeker, who is around for comic relief more than for
dramatic necessity.

Television actors Stewart and Julia Sweeney, as Zak's mom, are capable

actors in their own rights, but for Stewart, this was a step in the wrong
direction as he bounces well over the top of good taste in his rather
amorphous role.

The true prize of the picture is its slow-down visual effects. Using

technology first seen in commercials to stop the action and then using a
composite image to allow actors to walk freely amongst stopped figures, was
a bit troublesome at first, but as the film went on the effects were better.
The most notable was the frozen water droplets hanging in air while the
actors interacted with them. The effect was admirably done and important
only to the magnificence of the experience.

Clockstoppers is most certainly made for teens, but adults will be able to
sit back and enjoy the film without feeling talked down to.  I thoroughly
enjoyed it! 


<|_=00=_|>

Clockstoppers is everything I'd hoped for... Action, some comedic moments,
good SciFi, great special effects and very decent acting.

A lot of money was spent on this movie for the effects and crew and it
shows.

There's been a few negative comments from folks who seem to forget that it
is a SciFi movie made for kids and families, intended to be a good story
with good effects and offend no one.

Looking at Clockstoppers in that light, it is a big success.  Compare it to
The Matrix or 2001, and it falls short.  No surprise, they weren't meant to
compete.

All in all, a formularic "boy meets girl/father and son resolve differences"
family movie, combined with state of the art special effects make for a
great family movie night.

<|_=00=_|>

The story of Clockstoppers centers around a very cute teenage boy who is
good at a lot of things, extreme bike-riding with lots of incredible
tricks,
playing a guitar, riding a skateboard, fighting with his
sister...

His mom, played by Julia Sweeney of "Saturday Night Live" and "It's Pat"
fame is a doting, (and docile) mom but his father, a college professor, is
much more involved in his students' lives than in Zak's life.  This causes
a
lot of conflict between them and Zak tries to get his father to understand
how he feels.  His dad looks guilty but professes that Zak is
exaggerating.
When he has promised to go with Zak to look at a car that is Zak's heart's
desire, his dad suddenly has to go away to help an old student who is
having
a problem with an invention.

The invention is a wrist watch that can be activated to put the wearer
into
"hyper-time".  After the father leaves, Zak finds the watch and puts it
on,
thinking it is only a watch. While visiting a girl he has recently met,
Zak
pushes the button to check the time and voila!  Time stops.  To the viewer
it appears to freeze everyone and everything else, but then you begin to
notice that drops of water from the sprinkler are still falling, just
falling a millimeter per second; a hummingbird suspended in mid-air is
still
flapping his wings, but so slowly that you can barely see the movement.
However, Zak, and anyone who is touching him when he activates hyper-time
is
moving at what appears to be a normal speed.

Zak is stunned at first but eventually realizes what has happened and, as
a
typical teenage boy, proceeds to have some fun with it, along with the
girl
he wants to impress!  Some of the tricks they pull are hysterical and lead
you to imagine what you might do if you got ahold of this
watch!

Of course, there must be an evil plot behind this somewhere, and we soon
learn what that is.  This leads to grave danger for Zak, his dad and Zak's
new girlfriend and also provides for some fun car chase scenes.

The movie, of course, requires you to suspend disbelief and if you aren't
capable of that, skip the movie!  Otherwise you are only going to spend
the
hour criticizing the scientific aspects of "hyper-time" and annoying
everyone around you who has some imagination and is having a good time.

The movie is directed by Jonathan Frakes, who played Commander Riker on
Star
Trek, the Next Generation.  He apparently learned a lot during his STNG
days
and puts it to good use in this science fiction fun-fest.  Thanks Number
One.  You made it so.
<|_=00=_|>

There are people out there saying negative stuff about this movie, but what
people are not realizing is that is is a family movie. It's for kids and
family. Jonathan Frakes did a great job directing this movie. Jesse Bradford
was good as the main character. Michael Beihn was just awesome as the bad
guy in this movie. Nickelodeon is just down and out awesome. I love their
movies. This one had lots of really really cool special effects. great
acting and lots of fun. Oh yeah, lots of action kids style too. I recommend
this movie to anyone who loves a good family movie. Or for anyone who loves
an awesome Nickelodeon movie. 
<|_=00=_|>

This is a fun movie for kids, I went with 7 - 8 year old kids, they loved
it
: with them around, it interesting, otherwise, don't go with adults,
they'll
find it kinda stupid.

By the way, it's paradoxal to see a movie based on a plot very close to an
old Star Trek  episode ("Wink of an eye") directed by Jonathan
Frakes...!

<|_=00=_|>

I'm really glad to see such a good kid movie again. The music went along
great with the movie, all fun. The special effects were fantastic,
(although
it was "The Matrix" that re-defined bullet-time photography), those in
charge of special effects did a great job with what they did. French
Stewart
was great!
Glad to see Jonathan Frakes do such a good job and hope he'll come out
with more.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm not just saying this because this is a movie to watch to waste your
time; I really think this is a cool movie. It has good Sci-Fi movie
quality, especially for a Nickelodeon movie. And it asks you the
question, "What if you had the power to stop time?" I mean, there would
be a lot of opportunities in that category. This is a real treat, and
the best way to watch it is along with some Back to the Future movies.
It's not the best movie I've ever seen, but it really redefines
adventure. I totally recommend this movie if you want to rent something
that will please you. As I have said many times with other comments,
there will never be another movie such as this.
