

Raising Cain is an awesomely baffling set of pomo hijinks care of the man De
Palma. I can't blame the hordes of people who hate this movie for its
nastiness and incoherency, but those are the reasons I love it so much. It's
a total parody/homage/celebration of the kind of razor-inspired fun De Palma
spent much of his career perfecting, with the fun (and intentionally
self-destructive) gimmick of presenting the movie more or less from Carter's
point of view. 

With this, the movie trades conventional thrills, chills, and spills for a
sneakier sort of fun. Instead of putting together the sort of hallucinatory
bloodbath De Palma specialized in, he takes it apart. It's like he took all
of his box-office successes, threw them in a blender, and kneaded the
mixture into an extended nightmare sequence of half-remembered horrors,
unreliable visual intake, and malformed cliches.

If you try to take it as a straight thriller, it'll never work. It's a
thriller plot turned into a horror flick, where instead of being the brave
wife protecting people from her deranged husband, we're the deranged
husband, not sure where we are or who we are, doing terrible things we don't
quite understand, in a dreamworld constructed entirely of cliches and stock
terrors. 

Scream would take the parody aspect into firmer territory and Lost Highway
would take the insane protagonist aspect into firmer territory as well, and
both of those films worked very well, but Raising Cain gets the ultimate
thumbs-up from me for being constructed much like my own nightmares and for
genuinely surprising me from time to time, not to mention for creating a
feeling of urgency and sympathy for Carter.

If you're into really oddball flicks, give Raising Cain a
chance.
<|_=00=_|>
The Multiple personality disorder has been subject of stories ever
since Stevenson's famous novel "The strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr.
Hyde". Here, in "Raising Cain", director Brian De Palma shows
everything he learned from studying Hitchcock and gives us a good story
of suspense that although flawed, it is very enjoyable and gives the
chance to shine to the underrated actor John Lithgow.

Lithgow stars as Dr. Carter Nix, a brilliant psychologist that is
spending a year at home in order to care for his little daughter.
Jenny(Lolita Davidovich), his wife, is concerned that he is becoming
obsessed with it, and her problems increases when she finds Jack
Dante(Steven Bauer), an old lover who is interested in continue their
affair. Little she knows that not only she'll have to face his husband
Carter, but also his other personality, the evil Cain.

Many reviews have complained that there is never a mystery that Carter
and Cain are the same person. Well, that is because it is never
intended to be a mystery. This is a suspense movie. As Alfred Hitchcock
used to say(and no doubt that De Palma knows it), suspense is in the
fact that the audience knows more than the characters. We know that
Cain can appear at any time, and how the characters react to him is
what keeps us thrilled.

John Lithgow truly shines as the troubled Carter/Cain, in a role that
brings back memories of his superb performance in "The Twilight Zone".
Sadly for the movie, the rest of the actors give awful performances,
Davidovich and Bauer have zero chemistry on screen, and almost no
charm, so since their characters do not have redeeming qualities, one
ends up wanting them to be killed by Cain.

One big exception is Frances Sternhagen, who in her little screen time
steals the show. Watch her in an amazing sequence as her character, a
retired psychologist, explains the mental disorder to the detectives.
That sequence is typical De Palma's perfection and Sternhagen makes the
most of it.

The script is for the most part OK, and so is the directing. Not De
Palma's best, but certainly satisfying; his obsession with Hitchcock's
suspense is notorious, but still he manages to give the movie his own
style and while this do not save completely the movie, will be
appreciated by those who enjoyed "Dressed to Kill" or "Sisters".

To summarize, it is a better than average movie with superb
performances by John Lithgow and Frances Sternhagen. Don't watch it
with high expectations and you'll be satisfied.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
This has a seemingly convoluted plot. Carter (et al., played
exceptionally well by John Lithgow) begins to grow strange when he
learns that his wife is having an affair with her ex. He becomes more
obsessed with their young daughter and a rash of kidnapping/ killings
occur. His wife (Lolita Davidovich) must figure out if he is behind the
crimes or if his "dead" father, who committed experiments on children
to develop multiple personality disorders, is to blame. Whew…

What makes this film interesting, other than the above-stated reasons,
is that they give away one of the twists at the very first scene. The
audience is already aware that Carter has multiple personalities. What
makes it more intriguing is that de Palma tricks the audience with
constant flashbacks, dream sequences, and appearances made by "dead"
people that are not really dead.

The film starts a tad slow during the first 15 minutes and seems
Lifetime Channel worthy. But as the film progresses, it gets trippier
and more Hitchcockian (paranoid, obsessive, and voyeuristic with a
knock out ending). Oddly enough, this is rated "R", but for very little
reason. There is no nudity, minimal sex, minimal violence, and no gore
at all. Most of the violence is implied and the tension comes from the
suspense built by de Palma, the disturbing subject matter, and dark
atmosphere. 

There are a few standout scenes that will creep the viewer out. My
favorite was the hospital scene. It literally had me sinking into my
couch as this thing slowly turns towards me. It scared the bejesus out
of me and had me rewinding to catch a glimpse again. Other noteworthy
scenes include the interrogation scene where Lithgow weaves in and out
of his different personalities and the ending that is incredibly
reminiscent of "Dressed to Kill".

Favorite Quote: "Hickory dickory dock. Cain has picked his lock. He did
a bad deed and Josh comes to bleed. Hickory dickory dock."

DVD Extras: The barebones from Universal. Only Brief Production Notes
and Original Trailer.

Bottom Line: A great psychological thriller. Gorehounds should pass
though. A must for de Palma and Hitchcock fans.

Rating: 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Brian de Palma was once a great director who could do magic with his
keen sense of suspense that paid a heavy homage to the works of Alfred
Hitchcock, Orson Welles, and Sergei Eisenstein. However, he tried to
sever himself from his patent themes of choice and tackled other
genres. While he excelled with his crime drama THE UNTOUCHABLES, he
failed miserably with THE BONFIRE OF THE VANITIES.

So by 1992 he decided (like most directors of a known style going
through a bad patch) to go back to what he was known for. One problem,
though. Assuming the role of screenwriter became his big misstep
because as much as the idea works on paper, his dialog almost ruins the
movie. It's the same thing that affected DRESSED TO KILL in which Nancy
Allen was given some horrendous lines to say even when that film is a
fantastic exercise in suspense and a correct reconstruction of a
well-known story -- that of PSYCHO.

However, de Palma creates a masterful dream-like world not that
different thematically from the worlds of Luis Bunuel and his
bourgeois, caught in the middle of their own frenzied dreams which are
harbingers of nightmares, waking up to find they may still be in the
middle of something not quite real. The story opens up layers upon
layers of mystique and mystery and reveals information only in fits and
spurts, which leaves us in a state of wondering what the hell are we
watching at times.

Indeed, it may take one more view to get the impenetrable mess that
RAISING CAIN is, and this is due to the fact that so many of Carter's
personalities come forth like an unseen cast operating only under John
Lithgow's chameleon-like persona. In showing the two characters
battling for the upper hand by placing Lithgow being a tree, for
example -- a technique Peter Jackson would use for scenes in which
Gollum and Smeagol shared their twisted, tragic banter about the
wretched Ring in his LORD OF THE RINGS: THE TWO TOWERS -- he has one of
the best moments of duplicity ever seen on screen, and one that doesn't
need split screens or special effects to be potent.

But interesting as well is how another character is introduced, also
under the persona of Lithgow. Margo, a kind woman, is only described by
Lithgow's own words as being one "who looks after the children." I find
it interesting that for Carter to be set free he has to let this female
personality come forth and lead him to sure escape. As to whether she
will remain as a dominant personality when she appears in the final
reel remains a mystery but like Bunuel films, it's there, unexplained,
shown mainly for a shock tactic a la UN CHIEN ANDALOU, but in a less
threatening way.

RAISING CAIN is a pretty slick movie that should be seen at least
twice. There is so much happening with its plot, and so much
interpretations that can be given to the dreams that blend in with the
reality which in itself may be a dream that it may well be one of his
better films, underrated because of the fracas of BONFIRE. It's
intoxicating, and a Brian de Palma movie, this is it, hands-down. Every
scene is a hoot to watch: it's as if the director had a huge bag of
tricks that were part of his style and he had decided to let them all
out in a flood of images and great sequences. And this is not something
directors of a certain vision can say they do. I have to say I loved
every homage and element thrown in. The dream within a dream sequence,
Dr. Waldheim's (Frances Sternhagen) explanation that follows her
throughout a winding set of hallways before having the camera zoom in
on a victims horrified face, Carter's wife Jenny's (Lolita Davidovich)
sudden awakening inside a car that is sinking into a swamp (another
PSYCHO link) and the final showdown happening at several levels and in
slow motion. If anyone can do high suspense today, it's de Palma.
<|_=00=_|>
"Surveillance didn't start with Nixon." – De Palma 

Brian De Palma's "Raising Cain" typically gets compared to Hitchcock's
"Psycho", but its got more in common with Kubrick's "The Shining".
Here, like Kubrick's film, a seemingly nurturing father, Carter Nix,
regresses into a unhinged, murderous male. Both films' "daddies"
represent unchecked patriarchal rage, but whilst Kubrick's Jack
Torrance is haunted by the ghosts of patriarchy, Carter Nix is
literally possessed by his authoritarian father, whose abusive hands
led to Carter developing multiple personalities.

Beneath its trashy exterior, "Raising Cain" is chiefly concerned with
Nix's compulsion for control. Though he feigns compassion, Nix is
emblematic of a breed of masculinist technocracy, obsessed with
surveillance, cameras, discipline and actively engaged in a scheme to
kidnap kids

Early scenes highlight this: television monitors show Nix comforting
his young daughter, and then, shortly afterwards, telling a woman that
"controlling early childhood development is essential in the creation
of a wholesome personality". But while Nix hopes to traumatise kids in
order to induce multiple personalities, he himself is fragmented (or
displaced) because of his father's abuse. One of his many personalities
is Cain, whom De Palma differentiates from Nix's other personalities by
using canted noir angles. Cain marks the horrific return of the
repressed id, which emerges as a ghost of a murderous past to unleash
vengeance specifically on women and children.

Significantly, Cain's appearances are triggered when Nix is confronted
with repressed fears and anxieties, not unlike the psychiatrist in De
Palma's "Dressed to Kill". When Nix sees his wife having sex with Jack,
her former boyfriend, Cain emerges and concocts a diabolical plot to
murder Nix's wife. In typical De Palma fashion, however, the woman is
magically resurrected. She then begins her mission to rescue her
daughter from the hands of her deranged husband and his equally insane
father.

Things get more complex when another one of Nix's multiple
personalities, a figure called Margo, begins to take over Nix's
personality. In a reversal of the transvestite role in De Palma's
"Dressed to Kill", Margo becomes the maternal protector of Nix's
multiple personalities.

In a slow motion sequences filled with phallic symbols, Margo then
kills Nix's father as Nix's daughter falls into the arms of surrogate
father Jack. Margo thus becomes at once the castrating female, the
maternal id of Carter's multiple personalities, and the alter ego of
Carter. In order for Carter to free himself of his father's tyranny and
rescue his own childhood, as well as become the instrument in rescuing
his daughter, he must become the maternal (m)Other. Though, as is often
the case with De Palma's climaxes, there is some ambiguity about the
final triumphant personality of Carter. Whether Margo is ultimately
malevolent or benevolent is left up to the audience.

Like most horror films, whilst "Cain" opens up the possibility of a
post-patriarchal future, it remains submerged in the patriarchal rage
to which it calls attention. De Palma is doomed to be caught between
his own critique of patriarchy and his inability either stylistically
or ideologically to embrace a post-patriarchal future. He knows that
only the release of monstrosities can destroy the forces that
engendered them, but trapped in our historical moment, cannot
concretize any prospect of change.

This has led to many feminist writers (for all the hate De Palma gets,
feminists love him) leaping upon "Caine" as a symbol of post-Vietnam
America and its patriarchal crisis. Nixon, wiretapping, government
conspiracies and paranoia are common "themes" in the director's
filmography, but with "Caine" it seems possible that the diabolical Dr.
Carter Nix (two successive American presidents, Carter and Nixon?) is a
cinematic analogue to the nefarious wiretapper Richard Nixon. Like Nix,
Nixon traumatised a generation of young people in his perpetuation of
war and the attendant repression at home against political dissidents.
Moreover, Nixon's resignation after the disgrace of Watergate, like Nix
Senior's exile after being charged with kidnapping children, represents
an indictment of a patriarchal order that used its sons as sacrificial
lambs in their mad designs. The reappearance of Nix Senior and the
right-wing repressive patriarchal politics represented by Nixon in the
figures of Reagan/Bush Senior suggest, for many feminist writers, a
need to expose patriarchy's past.

Contrast De Palma's approach to these themes with that of his buddy
Spielberg. With Spielberg, the castrated (loveable) father always
retreats to a fantasy-scape of the past where he is restored and where
there can exist no social fallout from his recuperation. Writing of
this, Lynda Boose says: "America's post-Vietnam narrative is stamped
with the intensity of a generation stuck in its own boyhood and now
playing out, with increasing violence, an unconscious cultural myth
that attempts to recover the father. The quest for the father - which
might seem to be a reparative ideal - is dangerously regressive and
invariably futile because what was required at the time of transition
to adulthood cannot, by very definition, be incorporated twenty years
later." 

De Palma's cinema, however, exhibits the opposite trend. In his
universe, the paternal super-ego, before its many De Palman
castrations, is responsible for all manners of blood opera and baroque
violence, women always the first to suffer, be it at the hands of the
military, Hollywood, porn, capitalist exchange, organised crime and the
various gender pressures delineated in "Sisters", "Carrie" and "The
Fury".

Incidentally, "Caine" initially sported a very non-linear, radically
different narrative structure. De Palma, however, reworked his scenes
into something more conventional late in post-production.

7.9/10 – De Palma once said: "I spend a lot of time picking these
architectural places precisely because they will take root in your
subconscious. But the critics sort of dismiss it as nice camera work."
By De Palma's standards, "Caine" features poor architecture.
<|_=00=_|>

Despite the fact that he wrote a rather unintelligent script for his 1992
effort, director Brian De Palma's "Raising Cain" is still fast, funny, and,
occasionally, very scary.

In order not to reveal too much and spoil this wild little roller coaster
ride, all I will say is that John Lithgow plays or at least speaks for five
very different roles(!)

De Palma isn't at his all-time best, but Lithgow proves that he is one of
the great character actors of our time. Rated R. 95 minutes. 6 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>

After reading the reviews here I felt the need to defend this film. OK so
it's not the best film in the world but what it is, is a good, dark
twisting
little thriller.

John Lithgow as Carter, Cain, Josh etc. is great and convincing in every
role that he plays, as are the supporting players. The film is shocking,
funny and sad.

POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD!!!!

Shocking is Jack's dying wife movements being reflected on the TV, funny
is
the character of Dr Waldheim and sad is the abuse inflicted on Carter by
his
dad.

END OF SPOILERS

If you go into the film expecting too much then you may well be
disappointed
but if you have no expectations and love black comedy then this film is
for
you. And compared with DePalma's most recent films (Snake Eyes, Mission to
Mars) this film is a masterpiece, although obviously nowhere as good as
Carrie.
<|_=00=_|>
Despite the hordes of comments made about this film explaining where it
'went wrong', it appears a great deal of these reviews are from viewers
failing to recognise the directors tongue in cheek intentions. 

The film is a satirical thriller/horror that abides by the conventions
of the genre, though twists them. Instead of concentrating on what the
audience doesn't know and building up to a yawn-full climax, a cliché
that Scream parodies, the film takes on the perspective of the psycho,
presenting the audience with more information than other characters. 

The obvious influences, or should I say homages, to Hitchcock show De
Palma's respect for his predecessors, though it appears De Palma is
also presenting us with a parody of Psycho, which is a reason in itself
to watch this movie. 

Along with other directors (Including Scorsese, Coppola, Spielberg and
Lucas), Brian De Palma has been labelled as a 'movie brat', and I think
this film is a prime example of a film made by this generation of
filmmakers.
<|_=00=_|>

Possibly the most entertainingly sill film I've ever seen...

***POSSIBLE SPOILERS***

Raising Cain is almost like a parody of a De Palma film in some places,
with
the extravagant camera moves and blatant Hitchcock rip-offs, but I mean
that
in a good way. The film was often entertaining, the performances were
generally OK (except for John Lithgow, who was as enjoyably over-the-top as
ever) and even though it's made patently obvious from the very beginning
that the main two characters Lithgow is playing are actually the same, the
ending did come as a bit of a surprise. It's sometimes scary, sometimes
funny, and often laughably absurd, but still highly watchable.

Raising Cain is certainly not classic De Palma, clearly not up to the
standards of Carrie, Dressed to Kill or Blow Out, but it is a very
entertaining film all the same, and more proof that he should be making
more
of the typical De Palma films and less of the Hollywood
guff.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>

De Palma's tongue-in-cheek twist on his own thriller formula works mainly
as
an inside joke for his fans - if you're looking for a standard formulaic
suspense thriller, watch something else.  Lithgow puts on a show with
several superbly over-the-top performances.  Some parts are scary, some
suspenseful, and some hilarious, although they all have the mark of a
virtuoso filmmaker - and they succeed because he doesn't take them
seriously
for a second.  For De Palma fans, they don't get any more entertaining
than
this.  However, non-fans might not get it.
