

Since I have always been a Christian from childhood and agreeably conspire
to my faith today, I am always curious about what causes others to "be
saved" later in life. "The Rapture" tells this story with fascinating
insights into the modern Christian perspective and what scares the public
about its predictions. Mimi Rogers (in a heart-wrenching performance) plays
Sharon, a telephone operator who leads a tedious and extremely boring life
by day, but resorts to group sex and orgies to add excitement to her
nightlife. She discovers Christianity through people pamphleting at her door
and other employees in her office she never cared to talk to before. They
use the imagery of a pearl to describe their experience of being saved, and
Sharon longs to discover what it is about this religion that can bring
fulfillment to her own life.
    David Duchovney, before his stint on "The X-Files," co-stars as Sharon's
boyfriend and later husband she meets through her reckless "dates," and whom
she induces to join her spiritual quest to find God. After their marriage
and birth of their daughter, her faith is tested to intense extemes in ways
I would not dare describe, but can honestly say are truly
harrowing.
     I was surprised that, even though I am a devout Christian, I was not
offended by this film, what can be seen as a blatantly sacreligious movie. I
think every religious individual should see it to get a better understanding
of what they conspire to, as well as how others may conceive of their faith.
"The Rapture" is not a tame flick, and does not shy away from controversial
discourse, but all in all, this is a rewarding picture that gets its viewers
to think about their lives and what they believe in. No doubt you will be
entranced.
       Rating: Three stars and a half.
<|_=00=_|>
Several of the cast members of this movie have noted that the budget
pretty much ran out near the end. Fortunately by then you are so
fascinated to find out how it will all end the shortcuts are easy to
ignore. This is one you remember. There's a certain type of convert -
to religion, politics, you name it - who is so sure of him or herself
they just can't ever stop and question whether they've substituted an
arrogant certainty where faith and humility should reside.

Seldom is this zealotry depicted in film, and if it is usually some
secondary character wears the label, all the better to comment on or
contrast with the actions of the main characters. Here that character
is front and center. The sin of pride born of absolute certainty is
Mimi Rogers real co-star. Rogers is so effective here because her
zealotry is low-key. She is soft spoken and serene, a lovely woman.
Only gradually do we see how deep rooted is her need to understand God
in her own way and how convinced she is that she's doing it absolutely
the right way.

Movies never, ever take a certain type of religious conversion all the
way to such a logical conclusion. For me, that's what makes this movie
such a stunner. I've always been sorry this film never got it's due in
the theatrical release, but the subject matter, coming after an opening
act glimpse of Rogers' empty sexual adventuring, probably made it a
double whammy for timid theater owners. If it were released next week
somehow I don't think it would be nearly as ignored as it was. I only
made an effort to see it because Roger Ebert paid it some special
attention in his review, and I'm glad I did. This movie needs a DVD
release, because it definitely is an overlooked and memorable film that
should prompt many a conversation about worthwhile matters of the
spirit.

As I write this there is a certain amount of criticism of Clint
Eastwood's "Million Dollar Baby" coming from various corners, including
one film critic who claims that Hollywood dislikes religion. "The
Rapture" seems to me a perfect example of a movie designed to start
useful discussions about what it means to be outwardly "religious" in
an "us vs. them" mindset rather than truly, inclusively spiritual. I
don't recall any public commentary about this movie when it came out at
all, yet I'd say it is far more the provocative of the two.
<|_=00=_|>

A haunting movie -- one that lingers in the mind (and the heart) for a long
time afterwards. Mimi Rogers turns in a stunning performance as a woman
trapped in a cycle of dull work and duller play, whose life is transformed
twice -- first by a religious conversion, and then by coming face to face
with the literal meaning of that conversion.  She is incandescent in her
belief, and in the movie's final scenes, takes on the epic proportions of a
Job or  King Lear.  You may be puzzled, conflicted, or even offended by
what
the movie "means," but you won't be able to walk away from it
untouched.
<|_=00=_|>
I like many different kinds of movies, but this is one of my very
favorites because it's among the rare few that really touched me. The
film takes on a HUGE subject (the price of devotion) in a very direct
and simple way, and truly brought me inside the heroine's world. 

I think a lot of us can identify with Sharon's yearning to get
something more out of life; I mean, who can claim this is really the
best of all possible worlds? (Look around!) The scene where Sharon
breaks down after showering in scalding water, weeping that she's tired
of all the pain and emptiness, is unforgettable. Mimi Rogers plays the
part with complete conviction, and I especially like her glowing
serenity in the middle section in which she's saved. (The actress'
delivery is occasionally a bit flat, but I actually think that's
brilliant. Roger's isn't playing a rocket scientist, just a lost,
ordinary woman.) As for the poster who made the brilliant observation
that the character "looks just as bored and unfulfilled by random group
sex as she is by answering telephones all day," um, that's the point.
In the first group sex scene Sharon enjoys herself, yet she eventually
leaves the swingers scene when she feels unfulfilled.

I also love the sequence where the born-again Sharon is at work,
proselytizing The Word to people who've only called Directory
Assistance for phone numbers. ("Well I'm sure you're in a hurry, but
don't you think you could take time out to get to know your Lord and
Savior?") The scene where Sharon tells her old party pal that she's met
a really great guy (Jesus) is priceless as well, and the scene where
she's pulled over by a cop near the end and breaks down is extremely
powerful.

The film does look a little low budget, especially near the end, but
it's a movie about ideas and emotion, not spectacle. It's a thoughtful
and thorough film, with an articulate point of view that doesn't judge
its characters who enjoy evangelical faith...which is rather unlike the
judgmental view of the God we're usually presented with.
<|_=00=_|>

Uncommon mix of sex and religion is hard hitting and thought provoking. 
Mimi Rogers, giving easily the finest performance of 1991 (and many other
years), was completely overlooked by the industry, and that's unfortunate
for us. She is so superb in this film, that it is inconceivable that she
doesn't work more than she does.  She is supported by a fine cast, most
notably, Kimberly Cullum, as Mary.  It's too bad that Mimi Rogers isn't 
given more roles in Hollywood; but we do have this performance, in this
film, and I highly recommend it!
<|_=00=_|>
The final scenes which show the end of the world and the apocalypse and
the passing of all the biblical prophecies (the four horsemen, the
trumpets etc) are NOT hallucinatory. They are supposed to be real not
inside the main character's head.

Look at the way they are depicted, she is in a police station, and the
people around her react to these things, another woman prisoner begins
singing "hark the herald angel", the bars fall magically off the cell
doors, the TV that is on starts showing the 4 horsemen and angelic
figures, and we hear the sound of the trumpet and see everyone: the
sheriffs, the prisoners reacting to this.

The point of the film is this: that religious fanaticism may be
frightening. But what would be EVEN MORE frightening: what if the
religious zealots depicted in the film, what if they turned out not to
be misguided or wrong in their beliefs but to be RIGHT: that the Book
of Revelations actually WILL come true! This is what makes the film so
terrifying.

The very final scene where the 2 remaining characters, Will Patton and
Mimi Rogers are in Heaven, shows that in the end even though the world
has ended and the coming of the Apocalypse has passed, and the Second
Reign of Heaven has come, that in the end, the Mimi Rogers character
finally realizes that in spite of her previous choices, that she
decides human free will and the right to question, to choose (i.e. free
speech) must be paramount, EVEN if this means she is condemned to
purgatory forever.

So she chooses NOT to embrace God, this is why Will Patton suddenly
vanishes, he chooses to and goes to Heaven, but she allows her earlier
doubts, about how God can allow evil and suffering, to prevent her from
accepting God as the Saviour. She accepts He exists, but will not
follow Him.

So THIS is the film's ultimate message: that human freewill may triumph
even against the strongest powers.

I know this may be hard to accept, but it does not make the film
anti-Christian but thought provoking.

I am Catholic and was not offended by the film at all, as it raises
important issues. What is sad is that it is clear from previous
comments on this site is that it went straight over many people's
heads.

Read more, attend more University courses, is my advice.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those films that come along in a great while that both
enthralls and disturbs you. Mimi Rodgers plays a woman caught up in
depressing job as a directory assistance operator with her only escape, the
sexual games and encounters she has with her lover. Driven to seek a better
life, she is drawn into a religious cult that has her believing the
Apocalypse is near. She is chosen by the group to go out to the rugged
landscape and wait for a sign from God. What happens there is the
remarkable
and torturous journey of a woman brought to madness and questioning all
that
she believes in. This film haunts you long afterwards like witnessing a
roadside accident. You are mesmerized by the horror of it while at the same
time wanting to turn away. This film is powerful, provocative and deeply
moving. A must see for serious film lovers.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the most intriguing movies I've ever seen and most underrated I
might
add. I'm not religious but this movie is mesmerizing from the performances
to the script and poses a lot of interesting questions about life as well
as
religion. Why Mimi Rogers didn't become a Star after this, I don't know.
Now
she's reduced to movie to movies like Lost in Space and guest appearances
on
X-files with her costar of Rapture, David Duchovney.
Check this out. You won't be sorry.

<|_=00=_|>
Before my praises for The Rapture, first a scolding at New Line Cinema.
SHAME, SHAME, SHAME on you for marketing the home video of this very
important film as if it were a soft-core sex romp. The original artwork
for the film captured its essence very well (the soundtrack on CD has
the original artwork), but the VHS video box cover on the front shows
Mimi Rogers looking like she had the biggest...well, you know...sexual
thrill of her life. The back cover shows a shirtless David Duchovny
(but with a look on his face like a deer caught in the headlights). The
cover says "exploring a woman's sexual and spiritual awakening." Excuse
me, but Mimi Rogers' character seems to already be well educated in sex
by revealing that she likes to swing with friend Patrick Bauchau. Sure,
there is some sex in the first part of the film, but the story as a
whole is 95% about the spiritual part. I'd love to yell at the person
who got the job of marketing that cover and say how it really is an
insult to people's intelligence in general. The Current DVD cover
unfortunately makes it look like a religious family film...a big
mistake. Should have kept the original artwork (again, see the
soundtrack CD cover for that).

NOW, for the praise. The Rapture is one of those rare films that
refuses to compromise and doesn't apologize if it offends one's
religious beliefs. Mimi Rogers is a telephone operator with a very
unremarkable life. Even her sexual experiences with her friend seem to
be boring her. She eventually overhears co-workers talking about "The
Boy" and she is intrigued by the secrecy surrounding him. She
eventually gets involved with this religious group and as time passes,
gets married, has a daughter, and continues her religious life. Then
things get a bit....bizarre. It leads to a conclusion that may anger
those who are devout and get a a lot of respect from those that feel
there are many things we just shouldn't settle for in our existence.

I'm not an Academy Award nut, but the fact that Mimi Rogers was
overlooked for a nomination is "sacrilege"...excuse me, but in
reviewing something like this film some puns are inevitable! The one
scene that most everyone I know refers to specifically is the one where
Mimi confesses a crime to policeman Will Patton on the side of a road.
Watching her emotional pain as she cries out how she can't love God
anymore tears me up every time I see it, and it leaves you in a
weakened state for the rest of the film. And the rest of the film will
have you in a state of amazement right through to its fade. I was so
impressed by the uncompromising conclusion and while some may feel that
maybe Mimi didn't really win in the end, I feel she did. I too want to
know why people think God solely has us here to worship, worship,
worship -- at one point Mimi even asks co-workers "Isn't that a bit
selfish?" While we don't get the answers we seek in this film, at least
it challenges our minds and gets us talking. I can't recall any other
film that has an effect to such an extent as The Rapture. 

Whether you are very serious in your religious beliefs or are open to
all sides of discussion, The Rapture will unnerve, exhilarate, and
leave you truly touched in some way.
<|_=00=_|>
The Rapture is one of the most courageous films I have seen in a long
time, one of the most daring. It's themes of religion are scary to
anyone seeing it, on whichever side you are on.

Mimi Rogers in the lead role is fantastic. She goes from a sinner to a
believer to a sinner back again. Since I had never heard of this film
before I saw it, I did not know what to expect. It started off very
bleak, with amazing dialogue, and as the film goes by it's tone
changes. The film also forces us to hear it out, to witness the
distressing things that this woman does, yet she is not a villain in
any way. The scary thing is that there are actually people like this
out there in the world. Here we go back to the focus of the film, God.
Obviously a film like this will never get unanimous approval because of
the religious subject matter, and because people always have different
opinions. Some will agree with the lead character, some might see where
she is coming from, others will completely despise her, and in terms
despise the film. However, one thing is certain, the film is coming
from a group of very talented people. Technically, the film is
brilliant, the cinematography very focused and 'normal' at the right
time and in the end it shows us another side of the film.

I do not really understand the ending, but this is a film that goes
where rarely any films go, and should be seen by anyone. I am surprised
I had never heard of it, and while many will disagree because of the
actual focus of the film, I think it is really something great.
