

After viewing this film many, many times since I first saw it I came to
the conclusion that this film basically put on screen my feelings as to
why I disliked and still continue to dislike the 90's/Post-Millenium
American Pseudo-Culture. At first I did not understand it (the
metaphors and such) but having viewed it countless times over the past
few years I have developed an understanding of this truly remarkable
film.

Critics over the years have panned this film as a 'glorification of
meaningless violence', when in fact the film itself is basically the
90's equivalent to Kubrick's 'Dr. Strangelove', where it turns the
paranoia of a nation into satire and then deconstruct it in the best
way possible. Everybody who is reading this review right now has
probably seen the film anyway so I won't reiterate the plot, but what I
will do is try and help explain the concept of the film since it's
quite obvious that there are a few people out there who don't
understand this film.

The 90's - A decade after the Reagan years and a time for the next
generation to settle down and basque in the trails of excess that the
previous decade left behind. What are we left with in Western
Civilization? Media sensationalism and the counter-culture of people
who watch car crashes.

Oliver Stone very much plays on the idea of
'serial-killer-turns-media-story-turns-pop-icon' which has been quite
evident in the cases of people such as Charles Manson and Richard
Ramirez. What Oliver Stone manages to do is portray the negative in the
90's, particularly American pseudo-culture in the 90's. You have Rodney
King, O.J Simpson, Tonya Harding, Waco, The Menendez Brothers... and
all these things are linked by a single medium, 90's television. The
sensationalism of the media saturates most of Western Civilization
today, and we live in a world where it's more important to see
celebrities on the front of magazines or right-wing televangelists
telling us that we need to give them money than it is to focus on the
real issues that exist in this world. 'Natural Born Killers' relates to
this. What 'Natural Born Killers' plays on is the question - 'why did
we, the people, turn on to CNN and watch a white bronco cruising
through the streets of Los Angeles one day in 1994?'. In turn, 'Natural
Born Killers' plays on the culture-question - 'why do people stop to
see car crashes?'. It also asks the question - 'Is that guy on
television crazy because he's killed 90+ people or am I crazy for
watching a white bronco cruise through the streets of Los Angeles?'. So
there are 3 questions that 'Natural Born Killers' raises without a lot
of people really understanding them. What the film does - instead of
answering these questions - is let the viewer decide for himself or
herself whether the serial killer on television is crazy for killing
people or we are crazy for actually watching a serial killer talk on
television.

So why do the critics despise this film? The critics despise this film
because what they see on the film is themselves in Wayne Gale. Robert
Downey Jnr accurately portrays the absolute false hysteria and false
machismo of tabloid figures such as Geraldo Riviera and Oprah Windfrey
et al, in his characterisation of Wayne Gale. He plays the archetypal
media figurehead that lives in newsrooms, talking into mobile phones,
smoking cigarettes, drinking coffee, watching television and living
deceitful private lives. Another reason why the critics hate this film
is because of the subversive message that it portrays in the script.
The writers grew up in the 50's and 60's when the paranoia of Cold War
was still in their faces everywhere they went. After the Cold War was
over these same people started asking themselves, "well, who is the
enemy now?". Some of them started realising that the enemy wasn't
10,000 miles away hiding in a mountain, the problem was not attached to
a very large metal object that goes 'boom!', but rather the fact that
the real enemy is in the corporations and media, the real power of a
nation doesn't rely in the leader but the television. 'Natural Born
Killers' subversively explains this, that THEY are the problem, and
many members of the mainstream media didn't like because they were what
the film was about.

Why do the general public despise this film? Because the same people
who hate this film are the same people who the film-makers were
laughing at when they made it. When the character of Mickey is on the
television giving his interview, and the film cuts to a simple black
and white image from a stock house of a typical American family sitting
around the television, the same people who hate this film are the
typical American family sitting around watching the interview, glued to
the television like mindless zombies.

Overall - this film is brilliant and it tells it exactly how it is.

<|_=00=_|>
...people really need to take another look at "Natural Born
Killers."

The plot: Mickey and Mallory Knox (Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis in
roles that are a little too convincing) are a husband/wife pair of serial
killers whose vicious crime spree across the country has made them into
media superstars.

This movie is a barrage of frightening and surreal images, and is damn
near
hypnotic to watch.

I can see where the controversy surrounding this film comes from but what
I
don't understand is where the hate is coming from.

1994's "Natural Born Killers" has to be one of the best movies of the
90s -
its sole purpose on this planet is to showcase America's fascination with
violence.

But lets try to understand the hate.  This movie is here for one reason
and
I think that we can all agree on that reason.  Oliver Stone is a competent
and accomplished filmmaker and most of the hate seems to be directed
towards
him.  Stone, who is working from a script that has since been virtually
disowned by Quentin Tarantino, pretty much took over and shaped the
screenplay to his own vision.

I can understand why fans of Tarantino have a right to be p*ssed off, but
I
find it extremely difficult to believe that they truly hate the finished
product, and the same goes for Tarantino.  Don't get me wrong, I'm a huge
Tarantino fan myself, and I'm sure he didn't appreciate Stone re-writing
his
script, but he should be proud of what was done with it.

The message, if you can call it that, is that we are obsessed with
violence,
and Stone exposes our love for it and spits it back in our faces.  To
quote
Marlon Brando -  "The horror, the horror."  I say to hell with the
hypocritical people who find this movie offensive for they are the ones
that
this movie is truly aimed towards.

Yes, horrific images are displayed in this movie and terrible things
happen
to people all throughout, but it's giving us we want, and we hate it.  The
hate surrounding this film is extremely misguided.  My high school paper
recently did an article about sex and violence on television and one of
the
supposed outlets of that violence would be our fascination with the war in
Iraq and the Jessica Lynch story.

It said that we are much, much more concerned with the sex (I personally
don't think today's teenage girls are THAT impressionable, but who
knows?),
rather than the violence (which apparently seems to be causing a misguided
sh!tstorm of controversy, too, and like the sex, I don't think that people
are that impressionable), namely the kind that is seen in music videos and
such.  Though the article refused to go into specifics (but we know who
the
people being discussed are and I'm sure they do, too), it brings me back
to
"Natural Born Killers," which I think people need to take another look
at.

In this day and age, violence on television is becoming more and more
commonplace, and this movie's relevance seems to make its viewing that
much
more important.  Before we go and continue to bash the hell out of it
again,
people need to come back and take a look around themselves and watch
"Natural Born Killers."        
<|_=00=_|>

"Natural Born Killers" in itself is a picture of the ironic tragedy of the
satire. This movie took the media and American culture head on, challenged
it and spoofed it- as a result, American pop culture kicked it up a notch to
become as outrageous as the parody! On top of that, few understood Stone's
film was a satire and instead accused him of promoting violence. This is a
tragedy because "Natural Born Killers" really is a sharp and funny satire
that helped to usher in the 90s with Tarantino's "Pulp
Fiction".

Yes, it's over the top, yes, it's violent, yes, it's flashy, and most of
all, yes, it works! The effect may make you a bit dizzy, it may disturb, and
may even offend, but this is a truly great piece of cinema. Like its great
predecessors, which it freely homages, "In Cold Blood", "Badlands", and
"Bonnie & Clyde", this film is about two killers on the road who are in
love. Unlikely movie stars Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis play Mickey
and Malory. Through a few frantic and imaginative scenes we see them meet,
fall in love, murder Malory's abusive father, and hit the road. These scenes
are instantly unforgettable, bearing a wit that may be overt, but is funny
enough to accept. Meanwhile our heroes become a media sensation thanks to
the TV show "American Maniacs", hosted by Wayne Gale (Robert Downey Jr. with
a British accent).

It isn't all glitz and blood splatter. Auteur Stone works with (what remains
of) Tarantino's script to make all these characters into real people, and
not symbols or cliches. Character motivation is related mostly through
flashed images and flashbacks (as in "In Cold Blood"). The editing and
superb Richardson camera work relate complex emotional states, as well as
the frenzied mood of the violence. Oliver Stone does have the tendency to be
peachy and over the top, but his strength in portraying sympathetic humanity
over comes his weaknesses.

Under-appreciated actor Tom Sizemore ("True Romance", "Heat") plays
detective Jack Scagnetti, the celebrity homicide cop who pursues and
eventually captures Mickey and Malory (in what has to be one of the best,
most intense arrest scenes in screen history). In the context of this film,
he is a villain, but he is a human being just the same. He leads us into the
second half of this picture, which has Mickey and Malory behind bars
awaiting a big TV interview with Wayne Gale on Superbowl Sunday. Tensions
build to one of the best climaxes a crime or prison movie ever
had.

Rodney Dangerfield, Russell Means, and Tommy Lee Jones put in highly
memorable appearances in supporting roles. On the director's cut DVD we see
cut footage of performances from Ashley Judd (her best work) and Dennis
Leary. "Natural Born Killers" is many great small parts adding up to an even
better whole. All of it is accented and sealed by a very good soundtrack
arranged by Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails (who contribute the beautiful "A
Warm Place"). This is a movie you won't soon forget and will likely
enjoy.

I recommend this to fans of Stone, of the movies I mentioned above, of
Tarantino (he didn't approve, but as a fan of his, I did), and to anyone who
is simply curious about it. It'll blow you away, in the good
sense.

"Do you believe in fate?"
<|_=00=_|>
Natural Born Killers

Released just long enough ago to be forgotten by today's standard of
speed amnesia, this film by Oliver Stone is worth seeing again. The
violence in it was sickening just a few years ago, but such things have
quickly gotten normalized in our culture's ongoing desensitization.
Ironically, this very process of media desensitization is precisely the
topic of this film's satire. NBK has since even been the subject of
copycat crime sprees, or so the culprits claimed. This is troubling,
because while the film works hard to analyze the dubious process by
which violent killers are turned into romantic heroes in the mass
media, NBK seems unable to escape from the same orbit, ending with the
killers as living happily ever after, justified by the brutality of
their backgrounds, and morally superior to the prison officials and
popular journalists who pursue them. But as a postmodernist satire of
media saturation-violence, from wrestling to sit-coms to real crime
dramatizations to obsessive live news interviews, Stone's film is a
thought provoking exercise that is stylistically mesmerizing.

As a postscript, several people accused Stone of inciting copycat
crimes and called for him to be sued for damages-- which happened. The
lawsuit was dismissed. At the least he was negligent, they argued.
Interesting to me that the glorification of violence found everywhere
in the thriller genre is taken to be safely neutral, while a powerful
satire of glorification is condemned as, well, too violent. The last
time I checked, this was always defined as "hypocrisy". The major
contradiction in media culture now is that on the one hand, Natural
Born Killers is reviled for inciting violence, while on the other hand,
it is reviled for being _too obviously_ critical of media violence in a
simplistic and unsubtle manner. But can we have it both ways? No.

A 2nd postscript on another form of hypocrisy: Quentin Tarantino, the
reigning postmodernist "King of Cool" who plays with pastiche of pop
culture genres, wrote the script for Stone's Natural Born Killers, but
then criticized the way the film was directed. Ironically, Tarantino
then copied several formal film techniques and innovations straight out
of NBK for his later "Kill Bill" films. -- with the key exception that
Tarantino continues the tradition of glamorizing violence. The
Tarantino crowd sees itself as properly aesthetic and cool, far above
the ham-fisted Stone! Creepy isn't it?
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't seen too many Oliver Stone pictures; JFK, Scarface(which he
wrote, not directed), and this one. I don't know too much about his
directorial style, but if any of his other films are like this one,
I'll have to watch more of them. The visual style is amazing. The whole
film has sort of a psychedelic visual style, and utilizes constant cuts
and constant change in color scheme, often changing between powerful
green, blue, red and even black/white. Of course, none of this is
random. It's there to project symbolism and keep the mood intense and
constantly evolving, and, believe me, it works perfectly. With many
references to popular media(television, mainly), demons and the
desensitizing effect of television. The effect of half of the imagery
being seen through a television screen or hallucinated is amazing. The
film is experimental and psychological. As Stone puts it in the
documentary, it's a film about two people breaking the rules, so it's
only fitting that the film-makers are also breaking the rules. It's
chaotic and wild, insane and mentally exhausting. It's a film about
pain, violence and giving in to cravings and desires. But it in no way
romanticizes the aforementioned three points. Quite the opposite. I
believe someone once told me that the film makes killing and violence
look appealing. I can't even explain how wrong that is. This truly is
an amazing film. If you can sit through this, and you (honestly) think
of yourself as perceptive and intelligent, you have to see this movie.
It's not just recommended or a good idea to watch, it's mandatory for
anyone that 'get' it. The plot is great and well-paced. It's never
boring. The acting is great. The characters are well-written, credible
and so easy to understand and sympathize with that many will hate the
film for it. The whole film is amazing on so many levels. I recommend
it to any person who believes himself or herself to be hardened and
intelligent enough to sit through it, and, more importantly, understand
it. I recommend you get the directors cut, as it keeps everything that
the other released version cut off. Highly recommendable. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Oliver Stone seems to have outdone himself on this one.  Not only is
Natural
Born Killers a visual masterpiece, but it is probably one of the most
insane
and nonsensical social commentary films I have ever seen.  Disappointing,
since it was penned by one of my favorite film directors, Mr. Quentin `Bad
Motherf***er' Tarantino himself.  The elements of a good story are there:
Boy meets girl, boy and girl fall in love and go on a mass murdering spree
which is lapped up by the media.  While there is definitely a strong
social
statement, the story is too erratic and scattered to be completely
coherent.

Visually however, Natural Born Killers is stunning.  It is intensely
colorful, unflinchingly violent and innovative in its cinematography.
This
movie is not for most, but if you decide to try it out, be warned:  It is
not for the faint of heart, and not for the weak of stomach.  But it is an
important film for its visual merits, at the very least.

--Shelly

<|_=00=_|>
This is a big, loud, colorful tragicomic and articulate satire on human
society, media, politics and the most inner desire and organic need of
man to destroy. There has been criticism on the high content of
violence, and has been categorized as instigating, but it's actually
quite obvious that it's just a satiric view of contemporary "personal
success" driven society. All characters are natural born killers, not
only the ones doing the actual killing. They are all shown as predators
with no morals, who will do anything to achieve their goals. The movie
will take you flying, smash your brains and feast your eyes..., it will
feed your senses, it will make you love it and hate it. Combining the
brilliant early writing skills of Tarantino, Oliver Stone's addiction
to violence with the brilliant performance of Woody Harrelson, Juliette
Lewis, and all the supporting cast(Rodney Dangerfield, Robert Downey
Jr, Tom Sizemore and Tommy Lee Jones). Fantastic soundtrack and
graphics. It's THE eye opener. The ultimate 90's movie. 

It's a ride!
<|_=00=_|>
I remember "Natural Born Killers" making a huge fuss when it was
released because the media and conservative families were in an outrage
over the level of "glorified violence" in the film. To some extent they
were right -- the violence isn't glorified but much of it is
unnecessary. The movie could still be a brilliant satire of society/the
media without going into such graphic detail -- it's been proved in
cinema before that sometimes seeing less is better than gratuity. If
Oliver Stone's movie has one outstanding flaw, it's the lack of
subtlety.

That said, if you can handle the level of violence and take it
tongue-in-cheek, "Natural Born Killers" is so bizarre and funny that
it's worth the "trip." (Pun intended.) This is a crazy drug odyssey
that would have made Hunter S. Thompson look like Ronald Reagan. The
film is twisted, outlandish and out of its mind -- Oliver Stone has
gone stone-cold crazy and it's awesome.

Despite my reservations about his lack of subtlety, there is a flip
side to the coin: It is a story about excess. Stone's film-making has
gone somewhat awry over the years (look at the pointless excess of his
films after this), but this fits the bill because it IS a story of
excess.

Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis play the titular "Natural Born
Killers," Mickey and Mallory, a pair of crazy serial killers who both
suffered traumatic childhoods and are now rampaging America on a
literal killing spree.

After they are finally apprehended, the media has by now turned them
into such icons and glorified personalities that the public and media
seems to respect them as titans of filth.

This is where the social satire of the film comes into play,
essentially saying: We focus more on the killers than the heroes.

I do think it's a bit hypocritical of Oliver Stone to attempt to point
this out, as he is a die-hard liberal at his core and, as the
controversy surrounding this film's release proved, the conservatives
are too conservative to praise killers. It seems to be the liberal
media that glorifies violence (to some extent of course) so I thought
Stone would be the last person to ever criticize the media.

So yes it does come across as somewhat of a moot point but nevertheless
the film is still enjoyable despite its sometimes sickening amount of
over-the-top violence (the opening sequence of the Director's Cut is
stomach-turning).

The cast is superb - Rodney Dangerfield, Robert Downey Jr., Tommy Lee
Jones, Tom Sizemore, Edie McClurg (the rental car agent from "Planes,
Trains and Automobiles" and Rooney's assistant in "Ferris Bueller"!)
and Denis Leary and Ashley Judd in deleted scenes included in the
Director's Cut.

The story was conceived by Quentin Tarantino (and it's very similar to
his "True Romance" script -- a sort of modern-day "Bonnie and Clyde
Redux") and re-written by Stone (much to the chagrin of QT). I'm not
sure which would have made for a better film but, despite its flaws
(which are mainly a none-too-subtle message and too much violence),
"Natural Born Killers" is a sort of bizarre, outlandish masterpiece of
drugged-out cinema. --
<|_=00=_|>

Natural Born Killers is a disturbing film. It is a great film as well.
Visually it looks great and between all that violence there is a message.
Criticizing the influence of media with another form of media called
film.

With a lot of cuts, strange camera angles, different colors, the kind of
music and a lot of symbolism the sick world of mass murderers Mickey (Woody
Harrelson) and Mallory (Juliette Lewis) is presented. And the sick world of
how people react to their violence. Director Oliver Stone shows it to us
with this satire in a great and really disturbing way.

Harrelson and Lewis hit the right tone for Mickey and Mallory. Tom Sizemore
as a cop, Robert Downey Jr. as a journalist (representing the whole media)
and especially Tommy Lee Jones as the prison warden are great too.
Originally written by Quentin Tarantino, although he was not too happy with
the result in the end, this is one of the best satires I have seen. May be
it is not for everyone, the images are not always that nice, but the meaning
must be for everyone.
<|_=00=_|>

*Spoilers*
Some people claim that Natural Born Killers is brilliant criticism of the
media obsession with violence. But this contention ignores the actual
content of the film.
Oliver Stone could have shown his serial killers as vicious, inhuman
murderers of innocent people and contrasted this with a morbid media
fascination. Instead he lends them justification.  The movie portrays just
about every victim as someone who deserved to be hurt. Engaging in vicious 
stereotyping, Stone presents the victims as unpleasant caricatures - dumb
rednecks, broken-English speaking immigrants, lazy fat people.  The one
person that the homicidal lovebirds is also a stereotype. Of course they
befriend the old, hallucinogen-using American-Indian - because they're
trendy, dude? Let's make him an admirable character.  Fat, Chinese clerks
and "hicks" are uncool, so let's make it seem like the deserve to
die.
Instead of twisted,hateful that are corrupted by their misdeeds, their
rampage makes them happier and more in love. Mickey and Mallory are made
sexy and cool and surreal visuals are bound to entice more impressionable
people.
Justice is mocked.  The police and prison officials are portrayed as brutal,
ugly and scowling compared to the GQ murderers. Again, this is not in the
media reports within the film but in the "reality" in the
film.
There is no nuance or subtlety in the film - just overblown performances and
visuals. The film says nothing new or specific about the obsession with
violence. The proof that the film fails in its message lies in actual real
world reactions to it. Some impressionable young people who saw this movie
cited it as inspiration for murders that they committed. The film's
"message" is a failure because it inspires people in the opposite direction
with horrendous real-life results.  The clever message is nowhere to be
seen.
