

"An Awfully Big Adventure" is a story of a naive 16 year old girl,
wonderfully played by Georgiana Cates, and her interaction with the
members
of a bottom-of-the-line stock company in 1947 Liverpool.  The Liverpool
actors are lead by an incredibly nasty, chain-smoking homosexual director,
played by Hugh Grant in what may have been the best performance of his
career.  Their star, "Perhaps the best Captain Hook ever," is played by
Alan
Rickman in yet another stellar performance.  This is a consistently
entertaining but very, very cynical coming of age story.  Thus, it may not
be for all tastes.  Nevertheless, I recommended it highly, 8 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>

The real hub around which this movie moves is not Hugh Grant or Alan
Rickman but Georgina Cates as Stella, an unpaid sixteen year old student
who
is not only stagestruck but enamored of Meredith Potter (Hugh Grant), the
cruel and thoughtless director who is more interested in boys.

Stella, ignorant of most of life, is unaware of his predilictions and so
ill-informed she is afraid she might have a venereal disease from touching
a
man with her hand.  Having been abandoned by her mother (who is the voice
on
the phone giving the time), she is being raised by her aunt and uncle,
well-meaning people who love her but have no idea of what to do with her or
tell her.
Eventually she is seduced by P.L. O'Hara (Alan Rickman), who has come to
Liverpool to play Captain Hook but also to once again look for the woman
who
bore him a child many years before.  He imagines he has a son and that
belief allows him to continue, despite his lack of self worth.

He eventually succumbs to his own predilictions when he pursues Stella.
She, having no idea of sex other than as something to be done to her, is a
slow learner but eventually says that like "learning a ukelele, it takes
practice."
The Grant character is so thoroughly despicable it proves once and for
all that Hugh Grant can, in fact, act.  Rickman gives a well done, mostly
underplayed performance, not even having a line in the first four scenes he
is in.  Georgina Cates is the real jewel here, with a combination of
naivete
and boldness, along with a girlish charm which makes Stella believable as
well as pathetic.
Not the greatest movie made but a well done, well cast piece of work by
professionals with a sense of purpose.  See it!  But not for the
children.

<|_=00=_|>

A bitter-sweet film with comic moments, especially the amazing performance
by Hugh Grant. I missed a few priceless quips because I couldn't quite get
the meaning because of the dialect, but a replay solved that problem.
Georgina Cates was so beguiling and wistful in her role. I hope to see
more
of her. And what a treat to see Rita Rushingham if only in an
underwritten,
restrained part. Alan Rickman tortured response to the twist (twisted?)
event which occurs in the film was difficult to watch. What a brilliant,
subtle, internalized reaction in the living room of Stella's uncle -a fine
piece of acting!

This is a must for Hugh Grant and Alan Rickman fans! 
<|_=00=_|>

The likely reason people don't like this film is because it was released
by
Miramax who are infamous for mis-marketing their tough sell pictures
("Muriel's Wedding" was a feel good, laugh a minute romantic comedy?
"Captives" was a thriller!). This movie isn't a sweet coming of age
story.
It's a devastating account of a young woman's loss of innocence in a
cruel
world.

I tend to really like the movies most people find too depressing. Like
the
ancient Greeks I find human tragedy the greatest form of emotional
catharsis. If you are the same way I recommend this film highly.

<|_=00=_|>

Shame on all of those who gave most of the plot away. This is a worthwhile
film, one I have seen at least twice and will watch any time it is on.
True,
I am a fan of Alan Rickman, but it goes beyond that. As a slice of British
theatre life it is up there with "The Dresser" and is about as depressing.
A romp it is not, but so what? Was it marketed badly? Yes, perhaps. But it
is well acted, tightly directed and even fun to watch at times. It doesn't
end well, but as Brad Pitt said in character in "The Devil's Own" ...
"this
isn't an American story." Hooray for that.

As a character study of several people, it is about as good as it gets,
although I might want a little more depth, especially on Rickman's
character. He is gentlemen enough to be destroyed by what he does in the
end
and it enobles his character. I enjoyed watching Hugh Grant, who is a
delightful man in person and not quite the twit he often plays, cast
against
type as a nasty, bitchy queen. Yeah, he can act. So what if they pay him a
lot of money to be himself, more or less, most of the time? When pressed,
he
can deliver.

If you like Grant and Rickman, you can't go wrong. If you like dark
stories
of behind-the-scenes theatre life, this is a good 'un for you. And young
Ms.
Cates, married to Skeet Ulrich gives a great performance, even if she had
to
lie her way into the part.
<|_=00=_|>

I've been curious about this movie for a long time. I finally saw it on
IFC.

It was great! In this age of VERY expensive, predictable, committee-approved
"art", I was relieved to watch this story unfold. Although I suspected early
on about the relationship between Cates and Rickman's characters, it's
execution was much better than the usual pap that pretends to be a surprise
or twist.

Or even interesting.

The real twists in this story, was its own mirror of the real human forces
and decisions that keep some of the sweetest, and unfortunately, worst
stories going on. The twists were the tiny reasons why such things,
sometimes painful and abhorrent to our collective cultural sense of what's
right and decent in a society, to continue within it.

The hypocrisy of denying that these dark parts of ourselves exist often
cause them to continue. Often times, the self-appointed moral-police of our
culture make this inevitable in their pursuit of human frailty, the
aftermath of its hunt, and the white-washing of the events (and non-events)
they discovered.

No character represented total evil, good, decadence or purity, including
Stella. She had as much (subtle) emotional weaponry with her, as she had
emotional scars.

Many Americans don't like, or have been trained (over time) to not have
patience for such imperfect main-characters in fiction anymore. The
one-dimensional, mass-marketed character, is the norm here
now.

That's sad. Because of that, this movie (and others like it) didn't do very
well here.

Having this story take place within the entertainment industry is an
excellent way of displaying so much of the world's human tragedy AND
stupidity being covered up by some people's treachery, some people's
nobility, or a combination of both.

And even at the end of this tale, all of the stage crew, like life itself,
executed their own particular versions of the adage, "The show must go
on."

No perfect hollywood story here, with it's base and stupid doling out of
come-uppance of everyone's flaws...or Evil.
<|_=00=_|>

Young stage-struck Stella (Georgina Cates) has bright dyed red hair and
lives with her aunt and uncle (Rita Tushingham and Alun Armstrong, both very
good) in run-down Liverpool.  She joins a theatre group where she isn't
required to do very much and develops a crush on vain director Meredith
(Hugh Grant, better than usual) and a half-contempt for the other members of
the company (including a wicked parody of the professional ham from Edward
Petherbridge).  When flamboyant actor PL O'Hara (Alan Rickman, excellent)
arrives to play Captain Hook in a new production of Peter Pan, his fate
becomes entangled with Stella's in a way neither of them could have
predicted.  This movie veers from a sharp set of character studies of
provincial theatre to a weird and twisted love story with a tragic
resolution.  Aside from the main story, there are two lovely support roles
for Prunella Scales and Peter Firth.  The one problem in the cast is Cates,
whose background was in TV sitcom and it shows.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked the film and, though I'm sure there were countless other ways that
they could've still retained its twisted plot in a more concise way, I
enjoyed the uniqueness of its story. It was certainly a sad story and it
did
catch me by surprise. Alan Rickman was terrific, but I wish I could've
seen
more of his character because for the amount of time he's in the film it
simply wasn't enough, especially since he appeared to be a main character.
However, it was entertaining and I really liked it and its
originality.
<|_=00=_|>

Even as a genre (black humor), this movie comes off with only two
stars. Incest is never funny, is I guess my reasoning. Also, the film
is confusing. It may take several viewings to fully understand and
appreciate the action. A note: I've seen it on tape and on cable TV,
and for some reason, every time, the sound has been so bad,
much of the dialogue is unintelligible.

In spite of all that, if you have any interest at all in any member of
the cast, or in  postwar British theater, or just in the theater in
general, you should see it.

Basically every performance in this movie is brilliant, especially
Alan Rickman, Peter Firth, Georgina Cates and, my favorite actor,
Hugh Grant.

This film is a must see for anyone who thinks Mr. Grant is a
"wooden" actor, or always plays a "hesitant Englishman" (A
ridiculous charge made by people who have seen only a fraction of
his acting output).
<|_=00=_|>

Well, this movie has definitely changed my views on Alan Rickman. He just
blew my mind with his passionate performance...there isn't another to
explain it.

Now the plot was very complex so you did need to see it more than once to
get the gist of every little twist. I'll tell you there are allot of
twists
in this movie. But thats what makes it a must see.

I recommend this movie to anyone thats in need of a good slap in the face.
I
know that I sure did.
