

Why does Martin Short always get the fuzzy end of the lollipop? And even
more so, why does he get the fuzzy end unrightfully? "Pure Luck" is a funny
movie with some very funny moments of genuine comedy. It relies more on
subtlety than on loud antics; more on characters than on pure gags. It's
pure luck this movie is bashed so unfairly.

Short plays Proctor, a bumbling man who doesn't find bad luck - bad luck
finds him. He would be the one the automatic sliding door doesn't open for;
he would be the one that chooses a chair with a broken leg; he is the one
who would be capable of finding an equally unlucky woman lost in Mexico,
whose father is Proctor's boss. 

Proctor's boss figures that singe he's such a bad luck charm, his daughter -
who is just like Proctor - would be found much quicker if they used another
luck-impaired civilian to find her. Of course, Proctor thinks he has been
chosen for being a great mystery solver. During the entire film he walks
around thinking that he was chosen for the job because he is good. But alas,
that is not the case.

Danny Glover is the head honcho looking over Proctor to lead him along - but
Proctor thinks he himself is in charge, and that Glover is his co-detective.
Some funny scenes come out of this.

A movie like "Pure Luck" is fun not because it is wildly outrageous (i.e.
not Jim Carrey humor), not because it has great direction, but simply
because it has a more subtle humor reminiscent of an older type of film; its
actors are terrific (whatever happened to Danny Glover and, even more so,
Martin Short?); the script is funny.

Is it just me or is Martin Short a funny guy? He's got the comedic timing
all down-pat, he has comical facial expressions, comical guestures - what
can I say, he's a comical guy. People seem to forget his roles in "The Three
Amigos" (alongside Steve Martin and Chevy Chase), "The Father of the Bride"
(also with Steve Martin), and so on. But I think he's talented.

And Danny Glover ("Lethal Weapon") is a great character actor who hasn't
appeared in many films over the past few years. Maybe "Predator 2" put him
out of the game for a while. But he was in "The Royal Tennenbaums," so . ..?

This is a funny movie more character-driven than anything; it has an element
of subtle humor that adds a charm to it. I really don't care if people don't
like this movie - it's one of those that everyone I talk to loves, yet the
general public seems to have a different opinion. Odd - is it just me, or is
this funny stuff?

3.5/5 stars -

John Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>
Is a great funny film that can cheer up any day of your life and keep
you thinking on some of the scenes after it's been finished.

The combination between Danny Glover and Martin Short even when is a
bit strange it really works out in a funny way and how the story been
such a simple plot can take you from the desert to end up in the
waterfalls in the beautiful Mexico.

There is a certain American humor that i can enjoy a lot, this film
belongs to that type, because even when is about bad luck and how funny
that could be, is never over the top and you are just waiting what
would be the next thing to happen.

I didn't stop laughing.
<|_=00=_|>

I didn't expect to like this film, but I have to admit that it was a better
than average comedy, and I laughed several times even though I knew exactly
what was about to happen.  So on it's own terms, this is a good enough
movie.  However, I have a problem.  The problem is that this American remake
of "La Chevre" pales in comparison.  There was just something about the
pairing of Pierre Richard and Gerard Depardieu that easily outshined the
American tandem of Martin Short and Danny Glover.  Only watch this inferior
version if you really hate subtitles, but instead of watching a great movie,
you'll only be watching a good one. 
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know what all the negative comments are about. This film is
absolutely superb fun. It has been my family's favorite comedy for years.
We've got more funny lines from this film than any other.

This is Martin Short at his best. He plays the part to perfection. His
facial expressions, body movements, and vocal intonations are exactly what
this character needed. I'd like to see all these negative people do
better!

Danny Glover is excellent as well. The perfect complement to Short. I
can't
wait to add Pure Luck to my DVD collection. If anyone knows of an on-line
petition for getting this movie to DVD, please let me know!! I'm
there.
<|_=00=_|>

  What has everybody got against this movie? It's damn funny! Martin Short
and Danny Glover going over from NYC to Mexico to search for the
accident-prone daughter of Short's big company boss Highsmith. Monosoft,
played by the brilliant Harry Shearer, has the idea of sending Eugene
Proctor (Short) to Mexico with detective Raymond Campanella (Glover). The
jokes come thick and fast and, although sometimes predictable, the movie
goes along fine with plenty of wonderful slapstick thrown in all over the
place. Probably the funniest scene of Eugene inflating to twice his size
because of a bee sting in the helicopter! All in all, this is not a movie to
be taken too seriously! It's a funny, light-hearted film with plenty of
action and comedy thrown in that will always entertain well for people of
all ages.8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This sit-down, family film is definitely something to have among your
classics. Ten years after my first viewing of the movie, my family,
friends and I occasionally bring up a "What was that movie where..."
line. We refer back to pure luck and think how funny it was. The movie
is very creative. It is the best portrayal of bad luck I have ever
seen. If you have not yet seen this movie, and are looking for
something hilarious, fun, imaginative, creative, and that will leave a
positive impression on you and your family, than this movie is
definitely for you. While reading through the ratings, I encountered
some negative ratings. This film is definitely better than those people
made it out to be.
<|_=00=_|>
My wife and I enjoyed the movie and got a laugh from it. You can watch
it with your Kids! Get the pop-corn out. Kids from 8 to 13 will get a
kick out of this. (well most will). My family loved Its A Mad Mad Mad
world ,and have watched it many times. Pure Luck is not worth as many
viewings, but is well worth an evening with the kids. Martin Short is
the most unlucky person and Danny Glover is funny as well. There are
not many movies theses days that can whole family can watch together.
There is not much to find offensive in this movie. If you would like to
see the range that Danny Glover can play watch this and Gone Fishing
(with the kids). Then put them to bed and watch SwitchBack. I like him
better in the comic roles but he can be sinister as well.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very funny movie that deserves to rated much higher than it
is! I have seen it several times and always laugh hard. It was witty
and cleverly written, and I think Short and Glover play very well off
of each other (contrary to what many reviewers have said.) The scene in
the mission is among the funniest things ever put to film. I don't need
to write a book about this...you just need to rent it for yourself and
you'll understand. It is a true comedy classic despite being a
lesser-known film (like some of the other "bests" I might add.)

While there is not a lot of "substance" to this movie, for pure comedy,
it is amongst the best!

<|_=00=_|>
When I saw this rating (5.0/10) on IMDb, I learnt one thing: IMDb
ratings reflect NOTHING on the reality of movies. This movie is indeed
one of the all-time funniest movies I've seen. It's so cleverly
written, witty, and every single cast member has been selected to
perfectly suit the role. The lines all come out naturally, and you
cannot help but fall in love with this masterpiece. This movie is one
of the very few movies I know line by line, and for a reason: Every
line is memorable. I seriously cannot get over the totally unfair
rating this movie is receiving here on IMDb. Martin Short and Danny
Glover give a phenomenal performance, and make copycats out of all the
black guy/white guy movies that followed.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very funny funny movie...It kept me laughing through the whole
show. I kept wondering what would happen next and couldn't believe the
silly
things that were taking place...There are some really goofy characters and
I
look forward to watching it again soon.
