

Every time I look back at movies through the years, I find myself wondering
why The Joy Luck Club did not make a huge splash in the awards circle.  The
film is one of the BEST FILMS of my lifetime.  It will always represent to
me, the dream that is America.

I think it's because the emotions of the film are so universal, that I count
it as one of my favorites. I am male, I am hispanic, I came to the United
States when I was 13 years old.  I felt alienated, lonely and hopeless,
could anyone really understand all that I wanted to do, all that I wanted to
become.  How do you reconcile your cultural roots, with wanting to fit into
the American Dream.

I try to watch The JOY LUCK CLUB as often as I try to read the book. 
Because it reminds me that we are all connected in so many ways. That our
dreams and desires are not all together different. that Love reaches beyond
race, beyond politics and beyond time.

when I saw this film I thought, The Academy of Arts and Sciences would gush
over it.  But it never reached the kind of acclaim it truly deserved.  I
think it's because most film makers field of personal experience limited in
reaching and feeling.  Most of the Academy comes from back grounds that
didn't see struggle, that doesn't see the world in unison, but in carefully
separated categories. This to them was not a human experience film, it was a
film for a minority group.  But, while
The JOY LUCK CLUB is life affirming to some, to those who have lived the
similarities, it is life changing. 
<|_=00=_|>

The Joy Luck Club is a movie based on the bestselling novel by Amy Tan of
the same name. It is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. It
combines the stories of mothers and daughters to tell one sincere story of
friendship. It is one of the finest pieces of acting collaberations among an
ensemble cast. It also combines foriegn film with American film in a way
giving it a new style. This movie is almost ten years old. For me it never
gets old and the stories are also fresh. I like the set up of the movie or
the sequence rather, better than the book. It seemed to make more sense. It
also has the movie and book on the same level of unique style and
everlasting stories to go along with it. Many of the performances were
powerful. Even those who only spoke the Chinese language in the film should
have gotten awards for performances that made me laugh and cry. I would
recommend this film to anyone who wants to see an honestly good film without
the Hollywood hype. Rent it, you won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>

I have read the book and seen the movie.  I have also read reactions to
both.  Some really liked it and found it to be very real, while others
hate
it and object to the "stereotype."  It seems to depend on whether you
could
relate to the stories, characters, or themes.

I myself could relate very well to the stories, but that could be because
I
too have experienced the intergenerational and intercultural conflict as
an
American-born Chinese daughter with a very traditional Chinese mother.
Many
other American-born Chinese women who were born in the 1960s could relate
to
the stories very well also.  For us, we would start crying as soon as the
first sentence is made.

I didn't experience everything that June, Rose, Lena, or Waverly went
through, but on a grander scale, they are dealing with issues that I have
struggled with as well.

I understand that there are other women who could relate to it as well,
and
these are not Chinese women--or even Asian women.  Perhaps Amy Tan has
touched on universal themes that women of other nationalities could relate
to.

On the other hand, I have found that some people who are ten years younger
than me didn't like the book/movie too much and found the characters
"stereotypical" or "unrealistic."

Some Caucasian males didn't like this book/movie either, and again it
comes
back to them not being able to relate to it.

I understand another user's comment about the negative portrayal of Asian
men, but this person has forgotten about June's father who was portrayed
as
a very likeable man who was trying to bridge the gap between his wife and
his daughter.  As for his objection of the daughters marrying Caucasian
wives, he needs to realize that there are other issues/reasons involved
and
it's not because Chinese-American women like them "hate Chinese
men."

In short, this movie is very good at portraying the intergenerational
and/or
intercultural conflict between people who are caught between two cultures.
Women like me have cried while watching this movie because the issues have
been very real for us.  For those who could not relate to it or cannot see
the "reality" of it, then this movie would not be for them.

<|_=00=_|>
Joy Luck Club is a deeply moving film that will touch the heart and
mind of anyone who opens themselves to it's messages about life.

If someone (such as darkfalz) feels this film speaks more of women's
shallow choices, they miss out on humanity for the sake of superficial
judgment.

This is a film about hard choices and sacrifice. It's a story of the
generation gap that inevitably occurs between immigrant mother's and
their daughters who were brought up surrounded by different values.
Each mother strives to raise her children in a way that will bring them
success and joy in life. Each hopes to free their offspring from the
pains they themselves had to endure. 

It is also about the Chinese way of pushing a child to be the best, and
gives insight into a mother's need to see her own struggles amount to
something great in her daughter. However, this is not just about
Asians. It is about all parents hopes and all children's frustrations
with fulfilling those dreams. 

In America the story of the first generational gap is a very real and
painful one. It happens for boys as much as girls, and I know a lot of
men who relate to this film despite it's inherent chick flick nature.
It celebrates the need to keep your roots and history alive, even if
you let go of certain traditions that you were not born into. 

The women in the film often make hard choices. Many of them folly and
sin, but it is not a film about forgiving them so much as it is about
the lasting effect of the choices we make. 

Everyone should see this film. It's one of the most honest human dramas
out there.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I sat down to watch  this it was just because there wasn't
anything else on. I mean what would a single guy in his late twenties be
interested in a film about relationship between Chinese-American women and
their mothers? Well I was wrong. This film was very captivating and
moving.
It does excellent job of showing the universal issue of generational
differences and the love that exist between parents and their children.
All
of the perfomances in this film were excellent. 8 out of 10
stars.
<|_=00=_|>

It's surprising they managed to make a movie out of The Joy Luck Club, which
was, after all, a series of anecdotes by 8 different people.  But somehow
they did it, seamless weaving in and out of the characters' reminiscences. 

Joy Luck Club could reasonably be described as a chick flick - it is, after
all, a film about a bunch of women and their feelings - but that would be a
disservice.  "Chick flick" has become a somewhat derogatory term, partially
because it was a term created by guys who find women and their feelings
annoying, but to a great extent because most movies in this class are shoddy
pieces of tripe like "Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood."  If movies of
women and their feelings were all this intelligent, insightful and affecting
I doubt anyone would have even coined the term "chick flick."  This is a
movie of honest emotion that leaves you with a sense of fulfillment, a
rebuke to all those manufactured, syrupy women's movies that Hollywood
churns out.  Highly, highly, HIGHLY recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I think I feared seeing "The Joy Luck Club" because it just screamed
chick flick all over the cover, but my mother kept insisting it was an
excellent film that anyone could really enjoy. So, I let my guards down
and I was pleasantly surprised by this uplifting and rewarding drama
about mother's and daughter's. Just wanting what is best and growing up
wisely. I know this sounds silly, but this film made me not only
appreciate being an American even more, but it also made me fell better
as a woman. The four "Auntie's" had such wisdom and I felt that their
stories were so heart wrenching but true and realistic.

One of my friends is from China and she told me how women are treated
there and it just broke my heart, watching this movie helped me realize
more how much I should appreciate what I have. I even called my mother
after the film and told her I loved her because she always tried her
best to look out for me. The four stories of how the mother's made
their journey to America and raised their daughters was very touching
and the ending felt like it could only be a new beginning. I would
highly recommend this movie for anyone, it's perfectly directed and
acted.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

This film is truly a classic.  The stories will touch your heart and make
you laugh and cry.  The cast did an excellent job of portraying these
diverse women.  You will love each character.  A movie every woman should
see.  
<|_=00=_|>
I cannot praise this movie enough. It leaves me walking away feeling
empowered! I had a very close relationship with my mother and after she
passed this movie helped me with my grief. It is more than a "chick
flick" it is a look into another culture's past, present and future. It
is a light at the end of a tunnel for those that hold this movie dear
to their hearts as I do. This movie helps you run thru all aspects of
feelings, I find myself laughing, crying, sad, happy. Every woman I
have shared this movie with or recommended to have thanked me endlessly
for it. I have also read the book - now normally I would say the book
was better but I'm going to have to agree with Theaterchica07's comment
that the movie was easier to follow than the book. I reread it 3 times
before my mind could actually put together the scenes. My favorite part
of the movie is Rose standing in the rain and she says "You're not
taking my house, you're not taking my daughter, you're not taking any
part of me, because you don't know who I am. I died sixty years ago. I
ate opium and I died for my daughter's sake. Now get out of my house!"
That right there sent instant chills thru me. Well done!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Words fail to capture the essence of this film.  I read the book before I
saw the movie and as anyone can tell you, the book for a movie is usually
a
lot better, but in this case and I think they are both on the same level.
I
watched this movie again for the umpteenth time today and every time I
watch
it I see the magic again.  It makes me think of my own relationship with
my
mother and my relationship with my daughter.  This is the story that made
me
feel in love with Asian film.
