

You have to wonder why some folks out in Hollywood try to remake that which
was done so very well the first time.  You can just see them sitting around
the conference table talking about adding color and, oh, yeah, lets make the
characters black!  It would be OK if they really tried to do it better.  But
they are really just trying to cash in.

Such is the case with "The Preacher's Wife".  A modernized color version of
the Cary Grant vehicle, "The Bishop's Wife", the insertion of even this
excellent black cast does nothing to enhance the story.

Denzel never seems to capture the sly charm of Dudley, the angel sent to
help the Preacher.  Now we know Denzel can be a charmer, but even he cannot
deliver through this tired direction and uninspired script.  Nothing really
works in the movie (unless, perhaps, you never saw the original),  the
Preacher is not sympathetic enough, Whitney isn't at full strength as the
title character, and even Gregory Hines can't seem to make the villain seem
like much of a baddie.

A thorough waste of time and celluloid!
<|_=00=_|>
There is no reason to be hard on this film. An overall rating of 5.2 is
very low, in my opinion, and there is little to dislike about "The
Preacher's Wife." It's a fairly simple story involving Dudley (Denzel
Washington), an angel sent to earth to assist a pastor's marriage
during Christmas time. One reason I liked this film is because few
romantic comedies in recent years have been clean enough to watch with
the entire family. There is almost nothing objectionable here, just a
few brief, very mild swear words that have no bearing on the film. It's
a decently funny film as well. I had to laugh at Dudley finding an
image of a Windows computer screen in his angel handbook. The
wisecracking grandmother was also a beneficial addition to the movie.
Take her comment "We're gonna play Monopoly, with real money." There
are still a few things that could have been improved on. The plot twist
involving Dudley falling in love with Whitney Houston could have been
played up more and was not nearly as funny as it had the potential to
be. Also, the chemistry between the main couple is not super good, and
the film lacks the romance necessary to make this a great rom-com.
Nevertheless, it's enjoyable and doesn't deserve any harsh comments.

Note: Because of the abundance of Christmas-related content, it's best
to watch this around Christmas time, or you may feel slightly
embarrassed.

*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
This is a wonderful piece of work that should not be compared with any
other in the genre of the Christmas/angel type or the so often
mentioned Bishop's Wife. Its not the first film to use an old story and
alter it and should be looked at as an original piece of work which is
what it is. It simply works well mainly because it is perfectly cast,
any romantic will be drawn in, willing the beautiful people in this
case Whitney Houston and Dezel Washington together. Washington is pure
magic on the screen, playing the inoffensive angel who ignores the
ignorance and rudeness thrown at him by thoughtless people who should
know better, he pulls off some great moments in the story. Unusually
too the children are well cast, not too sugary or given scene stealing
lines, they complement the adults rather than displace or ridicule
them. This is a specialist type of film, a romantic, unrealistic dreamy
story, and must be judged in that light.
<|_=00=_|>
I just couldn't get into this film, a re-make of sorts of "The Bishop's
Wife." The first hour was either annoying or just plain boring, and by
then I didn't care what happened in the rest of the movie. Not much
happened throughout this film, anyway.

The angel in here, "Dudley" (Denzel Washington) said things no angel
would say, such as "If you're up there, Lord, then....."

"If???" He's an angel and he doesn't know if there is a God? Puh-leeze.
What an insult to anyone's intelligence and beliefs. Only the secular
film world have a dialog like this, where "Secular Humanism," not
Christianity, is worshiped, as it is in this film. 

Whitney Houston looked good in here, the best I've ever seen her.
Washington went around with a sappy look on his face through most of
the film. I wonder if he was just embarrassed starring in a dumb movie
like this.
<|_=00=_|>
A very long time ago I happened on "The Bishop's Wife" and really liked
it, but it wasn't a Christmas classic and I never saw it again. So when
I realized there was a "re-make" I was excited. I liked this story even
better! I thought Whitney Houston was terrific and the rest of the
characters (especially her mother) were also very enjoyable. Sometimes
I just need a break from the mayhem and violence and this is a sweet,
uplifting, old-fashioned Christmas pleasure I try to watch every year.
If you like Denzel, if you like Lionel Ritchie, if you like Gregory
Hines, and especially if you like gospel music, please give this movie
a try.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this when it was in the theaters. I basically loved it mainly for
its music and Jennifer Lewis' (Julia's mother) performance, but also I
loved the opening and closing (climax) scenes. I'm basically a sucker
for that kind of thing, and I understand how other people wouldn't find
it interesting. I just saw the movie (The Bishop's Wife) which it was
based on and finally feel qualified to comment. TPW was not just a
remake of TBW, but more of a combination of TBW and "It's a Wonderful
Life." Henry in TPW was the character of Jimmy Stewart in IWL, always
caring for the underdog (altho very cynical to the angel's angelhood);
Joe Hamilton in TPW was "Mr Potter" of the same, with his schemes to
redevelop and control the town. I actually found it charming the way
elements of TBW found themselves woven into TPW: the ice skating scene,
the typewriter-turned-PC, the final sermon, to name a few. But I did
realize that the message had been diluted into a feel-good comedy.
There are no moments where one feels deeply moved merely by dialogue,
such as TBW's Dudley's story of David and the Lion, which captivates
the Bishop's entire household, down to the all-business secretary (not
to mention the audience!). In TPW, we are made to be moved by the
beautiful music; and as such, I guess we might as well just buy the
soundtrack. TBW reminded me that special effects are only as good as
the movie itself.
<|_=00=_|>

Fine and uplifting remake has everything going for it. A great leading man
(Denzel Washington) and a great cast of characters that will lift your
spirits when you are down. Penny marshal has made a new Xmas classic, and
it's a much better movie than the original Bishop's Wife.I like the
original
as well with Cary Grant but Denzel Washington makes an even better angel,
and gives an even bigger heart.

Great support is giving by Courtney B. Vance and Whitney Houston, and the
late Gregory Hines in one of his finest performances. The soundtrack by
Miss
Houston is simply amazing, and it has every that a soundtrack should have
in
it. This is one fine and amazing movie, see it and let a smile come a
cross
your face. 
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe I am one of the few people on this message board that actually
liked this movie. I thought it was great. It was a charming story about
the power of miracles and the fact that angels do really exist. (Of
course, we wish they all looked like Denzel Washington, but they do
exist!) This is my favorite type of a story because so many people
these days forget about the miracles every day. 

I mean, here comes Dudley, an angel, from heaven sent to help out a
family that was about to come apart. Maybe some people don't believe
that is possible, but I certainly do. The performances were amazing and
we get to hear Whitney Houston's beautiful voice. Give this movie a
shot!
<|_=00=_|>
As a rule I don't tend to warm to remakes of classic films however the
Penny Marshall directed Christmas story "The Preacher's Wife", is a
definite exception and has become one of my favourite festive season
viewing experiences. Based on the classic Samuel Goldwyn film "The
Bishop's Wife", which starred legends Cary Grant, Loretta Young and
David Niven, this 1996 effort has a charm and slant on the essentially
same story all its own. Denzel Washington in the role of an angel sent
down to earth to sort out the life of a preacher who has lost sight of
what really is important, is a most worthy successor to Cary Grant in
the original film and Whitney Houston in the female lead displays a
warm screen presence and great musical talent that couldn't be bettered
in this type of story. Amazingly I only saw this film for the first
time 3 years ago but it has become a firm favourite of mine ever since.
Combining a traditional and much loved Christmas tale with some truly
wonderful gospel singing gives this effort a really upbeat feel which
however never sacrifices for one minute the more touching aspects of
the story.

A truly inspirational and touching story filled with some beautiful
music and comic pieces is the best way to describe this beautiful
little movie. I love all three lead performances here and it's a joy to
see Denzel Washington, normally the star of some intensely dramatic
films, in such a charming and light hearted role as Dudley. He displays
a fine comic talent and teams especially well with the other two leads.
If ever there was a proper successor to Cary Grant in this role then
Denzel Washington is it. Whitney Houston does very well in the role of
Julia and she displays a nicely touching persona especially in her
scenes with her screen son. She of course comes alive in the musical
numbers many of which she produced herself. I've become a big fan of
gospel music after her terrific rendition of such numbers as,"Step by
Step", and especially the show stopping "I believe in you and me".
Courtney Vance playing the earlier David Niven role of Henry is also
excellent and his performance contains a lot of the dramatic meat of
the story as the essentially kind hearted preacher who is torn too many
ways and sees himself loosing his family. His work with Denzel
Washington in particular is note worthy especially in the scenes when
he can't seem to understand just "where", this mysterious helper has
suddenly come from. Other standouts in the cast are Loretta Devine as
Julia's mother in a very funny performance full of great lines and wry
observations about what is happening in the Biggs household, and
Gregory Hines as sharp business man Joe Hamilton who in turn is also
affected by Dudley's presence in his previously rather shallow life.
The look and feel of "The Preacher's Wife", makes it a wonderful newer
Christmas viewing experience and much of the credit goes to the church
scenes with the St. Matthew's choir taking centre stage. Their singing
and expert handling of all the gospel music is perfect and really gets
you into the feel of the season.

As a "modern", Christmas story I personally feel "The Preacher's Wife",
is a most worthy successor to the well known and greatly loved earlier
classics like "White Christmas", and "Miracle on 34th Street". Taking a
very different slant on the story than the earlier 'The Bishop's Wife",
it manages to be wholly original in its own way and makes delightful
seasonal viewing. Try and see this touching film next Christmas and I'm
sure it will become a treasured part of your holiday viewing like it is
in my home.

danceability-1, Amsterdam Holland
<|_=00=_|>
Yet another cinematic remake of an older classic that begs the
question: "Why?" Especially when the changes made to script and story
not only offer no improvement, but are actually giant steps backward.

"The Bishop's Wife," upon which this film is based, beats this one
hands down in all major categories of story, direction, and acting. I
even enjoyed the original soundtrack by Hugo Friedhofer far better, in
spite of the fact that this film was obviously intended to be a vehicle
to exploit Whitney Houston's vocal talent. (Does that remind you of
another Whitney Houston vehicle co-starring Kevin Costner?)

In the original movie, a need for an angel to be sent to the Bishop
makes perfect sense...the bishop played by David Niven was obviously
conflicted with earthly ambitions and had lost his way spiritually,
sadly neglecting his wife and child in the process. In this remake,
Denzel as Dudley the angel seems lost as to what his mission is. In
fact, the Preacher often seems to be a better person than the angel in
this version! The basic problem is that the Preacher is so dedicated in
his role as pastor helping the sick and troubled ghetto kids, his time
as a family man is understandably stretched thin. (Incidentally, there
is a scene where Henry the preacher is spending quality time with his
son, which even undercuts the film's attempt to construct this minor
conflict.) Anyway, it all seems more like a job for a scheduling
consultant than something as drastic as sending an angel down from
heaven to perform "miracles".

The Bishop's Wife was also made during a time when Hollywood did not
shy away from Christian spiritual themes. While Cary Grant's Dudley the
angel is clearly a messenger and servant of God, Denzel Washington's
tired glances skyward seem to indicate a reluctant impatience with the
Almighty that further contradicts his role and ultimate purpose in the
story. And as can be expected in this era of movie sermonizing,
humanism is the true "savior" celebrated on Christmas Day.

A handsome cast with Denzel and Whitney, but lacking all the charm,
subtle spiritual depth and cohesion of the original.
