

I am just shocked at all the negative reviews by pseudo-intellectuals saying
the film was heavily flawed, incomprehensible, devoid of any merit, and
"lame", to quote a few.  What were they expecting?  A remake of 2001:  A
Space Odyssey.  Sure, I am not going to pretend the film does not has many
glaring weaknesses.  The plot is hardly original; its execution is even less
inspiring.  Roland Emmerich goes out of his way to use every cliche in the
book, over-sentimentality, weak, flat characterizations, incredible jumps in
logic and reasoning made on the viewer, and the use of special effects to
overcome these shortcomings.  But what some of the reviewers seemed to have
missed, and its there as substantiated by the huge popularity of the film,
is heart. The film has a lot of heart.  It makes you feel good after
watching it.  And although that quality does not make it a great film, it
certainly makes it a good film in my book.  The film is vastly entertaining,
very suspenseful, a delight for the eyes with dazzling special effects, and
even has some dialogue that does just rise above its hackneyed origins.  The
acting is adequate all around with no one pulling off a great performance,
but a few doing marvelous jobs with what they have to work with.  Judd
Hirsch easily out acts his fellow colleagues as a Jewish father with a gift
for common sense and lack of tact.  Jeff Goldblum also gives a pretty good
performance as his son.  Yeah, Will Smith is just Will Smith..lots of one
liners and little meat so to speak.  But he is bearable.  Watch for Brent
Spiner in an outrageous role as a hippie scientist.  His performance is a
real hoot!  If you are looking for philosophical science fiction, this is
not it.  See Starship Troopers(a great film).  This is just good old
Americans against the universe stuff, lots of action but little substance. 
But whatever it may have as its faults, it is a fun, happy, sad, charming,
engrossing film to watch...time and time again.
<|_=00=_|>
Independence Day is the sort of film that's best appreciated on a big
screen, preferably a massive great plasma television that is so huge
you had to cut the roof off your house and get airlifted in by
helicopters just to get it in the living room. You should also have the
most state of the art surround sound possible, with bass pickups so
deep they cause earthquakes on the Eastern seaboard. Not because Dean
Devlin and Roland Emmerich's alien invasion flick is a masterpiece of
cinematic art or anything, but because it's loud. Very loud. And if the
windows in your house don't shatter when the spaceship flies over New
York then well, you're just not experiencing it properly.

Taking the 1950's invasion narratives and pro-tooling them for 90's
audiences, Independence Day is an absolute blast of visual flare and
gung ho heroism. The plot is so straightforward as to be superfluous
(aliens invade, fights ensue) but even so, it remains an invigorating
watch purely because of the spectacle it provides. Back in 1996, the
sight of that giant blue laser tearing apart lower Manhattan made jaws
drop and while it's unlikely to do the same to today's overstimulated
audiences, it's still an incredible visual feast. What's more, the
ensemble cast makes it surprisingly unpredictable - we all know that
the aliens will be defeated at the end, but what isn't so obvious is
which characters are going to be alive to see it. Except for the kid
and the dog. They're relatively safe bets.

Watching it now though, it does possess a cheerful naivety in the face
of world politics. After all, this was 1996, the Cold War was over and
9/11 a long way off, so the entire world uniting against a common foe
without being bogged down with petty arguments and personal agendas
still seemed believable. Hell, even the gun-toting Arabs that briefly
appear on screen are more than happy to rally behind Uncle Sam in the
name of freedom. That's right folks, it's an Americans Save The World
movie, complete with a snapshot of British officers drinking tea in the
desert and waiting for those silly yanks to get a bally move on and
show us what to do.

Needless to say, this is blockbuster entertainment through and through.
The aliens are apparently here to strip mine the planet of all her
natural resources, but they're quite happy to put that off for a bit in
order to blow things up for the entire running time. Fans of in-depth
characterisation, intelligent story telling and emotional engagement
with the protagonists are wasting their time, but if you want to watch
tourist attractions, jet planes and space craft exploding for three
hours, you can't really go wrong. That business about a computer virus
bringing down the mother-ship is a bit daft though, not once did they
try switching everything on and off again.
<|_=00=_|>

Never mind the stereotypical characters. Never mind the non-existant logic.
Never mind that the dialogue is inane and bordering on idiotic. THIS IS
GREAT ACTION! And there's no point in denying it.

First of all: I love to watch destruction. Preferably in larger scales. You
get fed an enormous amount of it here. Second: I love alien starships the
size of New York. And you sure get that too. And third: I love dogfights.
You get that too. Forth: I don't take it seriously.

This films is one of the best of the decade, not simply because it works so
well in an all-over scheme, but it provides some kicks that no other film
had up to then (1996). Aliens arrive in gigantic spaceships and blow up a
bunch of major cities. That's all I need.

How to grapple with the fact that logic takes a backseat - please spare me.
There are worse films than this one.
<|_=00=_|>

I enjoyed this movie, sure it isn't the most original movie ever made or the
best, but it was what it set out to be...which is a combo alien attack movie
of the 50's plus an all-star disaster movie of the 70's.  A lot of critics
don't like this one and a lot of people who think of themselves as critics
don't care much for it either, but it still brought in over 300 million at
the box office in the summer of 96.  I thought it was an entertaining film
with lots of action and a good dose of comedy as well.  One complaint I have
is that it runs a bit long and you feel the time pass not like other movies
like "The Two Towers" where it doesn't feel like all that much time has
passed.  Another problem with this movie is that it is best seen in the
theater.  This movie has a score of only six at imdb, so a lot of people who
saw it probably saw it on TV.  Or if they did see it at the theaters,
realized it just wasn't as good on the small screen when they saw it on TV. 
The movie also benefited from a great ad campaign that started with a super
bowl spot that showed the White House being destroyed.  The movie is
basically an alien invasion movie and it is like a 50's science fiction
movie.  It also has a lot of stars, not the biggest names, just like a 70's
disaster flick.  If you don't care for either of these genres you probably
won't like this movie, but if you like one or the other or both it is worth
checking out.  Just don't take it too seriously and have fun watching
it.
<|_=00=_|>
What's the fuss about this movie? Why does everyone think so poorly of
this? Well, in my opinion they compare this film to the Best Picture
movies. This is not a Best Picture film, but a very entertaining
popcorn film. This tells the tale of aliens attacking Earth and a group
of survivors must unite together to destroy the invading aliens. The
acting is decent. Will Smith, with a movie career underway, is
excellent. Bill Pullman is great as the President. The effects were
amazing especially when the buildings were blown up. David Arnold's
music score is just fantastic. The theme is still stuck in my head.
Overall, this is an excellent film. I rate this film a 10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
If this alternate title had been chosen, I would've avoided the loss of
two hours of my life and had an extra $9 in my pocket. If you set aside
the fact that the aliens in this movie use Macintosh-based computer
systems, the Prez hops into a fighter jet AS THE PILOT, and Will Smith
punches an alien unconscious in his downed spaceship...this movie is
still horrible. Aliens come to earth to sap it of it's resources,a nd
to accomplish this, of course, the aliens have to destroy earth's
inhabitants. The enormous spaceships gather above major cities around
the globe and WAIT THERE DOING NOTHING FOR DAYS. Then, they start to
blow up stuff we recognize (not military targets, just useless tourist
attractions that will make us sad). Does blowing up hte White House
really accomplish anything? Does it terrify Earth's inabitants? the
giant spaceships do that just fine. How about attacking military
installations capable of fighting back? They can't be stopped...or can
they? What's next?...Not Six Flags over Nebraska!?!?!?! 

The solution to Earth's dilemma lies in the Apple Corporation's
operating system for home-based computing. Simply walk into an Apple
store, grab a Powerbook, fly into the enemy spaceship (how, you
ask?....naturally by piloting one of their spacecraft 200 years ahead
of earth technology on your first try), mess with their hard drives
using an earth laptop computer (I'm not kidding), and
wham-o!!!...Aliens start dropping like flies! Not an ounce of
creativity, or originality, or brain-power was used in writing this
drivel. I enjoyed all the stereo-typical characters brought together to
fight...the drunken former pilot, the hotshot young stud pilot, the
computer geek, the kid, and the most powerful man we gots...the
PRESIDENT OF THE US... YEAH BABY!!!It plays like a 10 year-old's idea
of "a really cool thing that happened once." Horrible. Don't see it.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't usually comment on this, I don't like to portray a movie as
being good or bad just on my opinion, as everyone has their own tastes
and needs when it comes to cinema. But god damn, why do so many people
hate this film.

Firstly, this is not a serious film, it has never happened nor will it
ever. This film is just damn good fun to watch...the explosions, the
suspense, the cheesy one-liners...its not trying to tell you that
aliens are coming to blow the s**t of of us...its entertainment. To all
the people here that have said this is the worst movie ever...you guys
need need to watch more movies, because if this is the worst movie ever
then im Santa clause! To put it simply, this is 2 and a half hours of
fun filled, edge of the seat (occasionally have a laugh) action...and
nothing else. 

Why cant people just enjoy a independence day for what it is (as
mentioned above)...not why its improbable etc etc etc we all know that
duh! This film is entertaining, full stop!! and thats all its supposed
to be.
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILERS (as if I could spoil it any more...)

The brilliance of ID4? Well, I guess it is genius to a certain degree to
progressively stack the crap higher and higher as the film goes on. It did
take some kind of planning for a film to start off as an entertaining
concept and get progressively stupider and more moronic as you go. Pathetic
one-liners, terrible performances, actors clearly embarrassed to be
there...
When you've got Jeff Goldblum embarrassed, you've accomplished something
with his career. Bill Pullman, non-actor, as President of the US, with his
goofy, no eye contact, sheepish wimp performance donning a flight jacket.
Randy Quaid, doing the worst "heroic" death in the history of cinema. Will
Smith searching for and finding his wife, apparently the only survivor of
her entire city. What a lucky coincidence! Just return that copter when
you're done with it, Will. It's not like we'll need it in the midst of
fighting an interstellar war.

To give you an idea what kind of slack-jawed Neanderthal moron preschool
lobotomized chimps liked this movie in the theater I was in... there's a
scene where a wave of fire is engulfing a tunnel filled with cars. People
are dying by the thousands. There's a dog who somehow figures
(ridiculously)
in all of this. The dog makes it to this maintenance exit in the nick of
time to be spared. The entire audience oohed and ahhed like they were
watching "The Wonder Years". Who cares if throngs of people have been
reduced to charcoal briquettes! Just so the cute wittle puppy dog made
it!

This is one of the worst movies ever made and when you compare the
stupidity
proportionate to the amount of money spent, it's THE WORST movie
ever...

Bleeeech!

<|_=00=_|>
As a rule, I don't like high-concept movies. However, Independence Day
is one of the few with some merits. It is also the best film to-date by
German sci-fi/action director Roland Emmerich. The greatest flaw of
Indepence Day (aka ID4 due to initial copyright problems with the
Independence Day title) is the excessive jingoism. Completely America
centric, it seems that the rest of human civilization is helpless
without the Yanks. The American President is not just the only world
leader fighting for a free world, he even moonlights as a fighter pilot
attacking the aliens.

However, its still a damn entertaining film. There is a large ensemble
cast of good actors, some in career best roles. Will Smith was really
launched as a movie star by this film and he has some very funny lines.
Jeff Goldblum actually looks nerdy-cool as a scientist who likes to
play chess in the park. And Bill Pullman is the clean-cut American
President who proclaims that July 4 will no longer be an American
holiday, but a world holiday! The rest of the ensemble cast includes
small but meaty roles for Judd Hirsch, Randy Quaid and Vivica Fox.
Harry Connick Jr. has a small part but blows it completely.

The things that make ID4 watching is that something is always going on.
There are plenty of one-liners and the one-dimensional character all
have their peculiar personality traits and quirks. The action scenes
are impressive and in fact this film has the largest number of
miniatures ever built. That record will probably never be broken
because digital technology is limiting the use of miniatures. If you
can let your hair loose and just want to enjoy a light movie without
letting the America is Great propaganda get to you, ID4 is for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Personally I think this is the best movie of the 90's.

But then I think South Park is the best TV show of the 20th century.
Followed by Twilight Zone and Star Trek tying for second and third
place.

While there's no accounting for taste in art, I can make reasoned
arguments for my choices.

The people here on IMDb who hate this movie and provide negative
comments probably have their reasons too, but mostly they say stupid
things. For example, the one vituperous reviewer who lambasted the
film's "less-than-impressive CGI effects". Well, duh, they didn't use
very much CGI as far as I know. They did special effects the
old-fashioned way. This schmuck is complaining about reality not being
very realistic?

And if box office is any indication of excellence, then the stats are
on my side and prove the nay-sayers are tasteless boobs. Make that
witless, tasteless boobs. Independence Day is one of the highest
grossing movies in history, worldwide sales topping a billion.

Admittedly ID4 is one of those semi-rare movies that people either love
or hate. And in this case hate with a passion. Why? I'm still trying to
figure that one out, but so far I believe the whiniest critics are just
your stereotypical jaded art critics: self-centered
pseudo-intellectuals with attitude who pounce on any flaws in anything
they personally don't like just to show off their own vapid
superiority. What do they want? Yes, the movie has flaws, but it also
has a lot of plot, a lot of heart, and a lot of action. Dialog? I make
fun of the dialog myself... so what? The worst criticism I can lay
against the writers is that a lot of the dialog is inane... just like
real people talk! That just makes it more realistic. Have any of these
critics on here ever listened to how real people talk? In some cases
the dialog is sooo frigging inane in ID4 that I marvel at it's
brilliance. Or chutzpah.

"What happened, mommy?"

"I don't know, baby"

As for the Apple-alien hook-up... my god, have we become so inured to
the miracles of science that we calmly overlook or accept miracles like
anti-gravity and kvetch instead about mundane technicalities? Yes, the
Apple-alien computer hook-up is a plot hole... so what? I can easily
explain that away a billion times easier than I can explain
anti-gravity. I happen to know a bit about both.

Again. Are there stupid things that happen in ID4? Sure. Checked
reality lately? Stupid things happen all the time. But so do heroic
things. As well as evil. Typical fare for the ancient tragedies. I
believe ID4 carries on that ancient and honorable tradition:
entertainment. And viewing it as a work of art, I must say that I was
impressed over and over again while watching this film: where most of
the studios would have wussed out or flinched, these film makers
didn't. They stepped up to the plate and tried to beat the ball to
death over and over again with their bat.

And you know what? These film makers did it with a hint of humor. Not
bad at all.
