

Combine THE THIN MAN with IT HAPPENED ONE NIGHT and THE FRONT PAGE and what
do you get?   This is an enjoyable thriller - rival newspaper reporters
(Nolte playing Jack Nicholson and Roberts playing herself) try to outscoop
each other, get drawn into a suspicious cover-up and wind up joining forces
(and falling in love) as they single-handedly solve the mystery.   Terrible
title but some beautiful cinematography and a plot that moves along
entertainingly.  It's all predictable, but the fun lies in the constant
attempts of the two protagonists to outsmart, outscoop and blatantly lie to
each other to get the upper hand.  Marsha Mason has two scenes playing a
Senator (one without dialogue) in a performance that lasts less than a
minute, which would tend to indicate her subplot was cut in the editing
room.   It's long enough at 123 minutes.  If you like the stars and want to
see a well-done romantic cops and robbers flick, this is a
go.
<|_=00=_|>
Handsomely-produced 1940s throwback has two modern-day reporters for
rival Chicago newspapers both covering a train-wreck, eventually
teaming up to get all the shady details. Casting Julia Roberts and Nick
Nolte in the leads might've been a gamble that paid off, but the
ruff-n-bitchy chemistry they try to create doesn't click, mainly
because the lines in the script are so stale. The picture looks
expensive, and the plot isn't a con (I suppose it is fully thought
out), but who even wants to see Julia Roberts in a Tracy-Hepburn
knock-off like this? And who wants to see her kissing Nick Nolte? The
whole concept is, well, Troubled. *1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>

That this film fails on so many levels and still remains watchable, if not
actually enjoyable, must be a credit to someone involved in the production;
it's just not immediately clear who.

There are three main problems with the movie.  One, the attempt to graft the
noirish elements onto a hi-tech industrial-intrigue plot, which results in
an uncomfortable mix of pulp culture from two generations: the hardboiled
detectives of the '40s thrust into the realm of today's potboiler mystery
bestsellers.  Whereas the earlier style was streamlined, and relatively
simple and focused, today's genre authors seemingly compete for who can make
the most convoluted plot with sidetracks, red herrings and subplots galore. 
This contrast leaves the film trying to go in two directions at
once.

Two, the relationship between the leads is never quite satisfactory. 
Roberts and Nolte are just not cut out for their cut-out roles, and while
they try gamely,  it's tough to buy them as reporters who bicker, and almost
impossible to imagine them falling in love, even though its obvious from the
first reel that this is where the story will take them.  Three, the film is
far too long, and it becomes a chore to maintain attention and interest in
what happens.

On the plus side, there are some redeeming features.  The plot plays its
cards close enough to its chest that some elements of the ending come as an
untelegraphed surprise.  The comic touches are successful enough, especially
in the bickering between the two as they try to out-do each other in getting
the scoop for their respective newspaper.  The camera work and editing
employ some tricks to freshen up some scenes and the cuts between them.  The
only problem here is that once the same trick is employed more than once or
twice it becomes a little tiresome.

We're left with a very standard piece of work, but one that works just hard
enough to keep it relatively entertaining but not quite memorable, even for
Nolte and Roberts fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I wouldn't exactly describe this as a timeless classic, a thought
provoking movie, or one of the legendary love stories of the silver
screen. Still, it's a fun romance and an entertaining way to spend a
couple of hours.

The tale revolves around two rival Chicago reporters, one relatively
novice, Sabrina Peterson, the other the more seasoned, well known Peter
Brackett, who are both hot on the trail of a train derailment story. Of
course competition between them is intense (and so at times is the
chemistry) as the two exchange false leads, fibs, barbs, and witty
repartee. Lots of predictable action, chases, and mystery as to the
identity of the bad guys.

The lovely, always endearing Julia Roberts plays the journalistic sharp
cookie, Sabrina, with Nick Nolte convincing in the role of her rival,
Brackett. At least the pair are not hopping into bed within the first
half hour (in refreshing contrast to most modern films), leaving a
little time for storytelling and character development.

This is definitely describable as a "flick" (for guys or chicks); its
spirit is in keeping with its title. Personally, I'm a great Julia
Roberts fan. This isn't her best picture but, nevertheless, it's quite
watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
I love trouble isn't awful or outstanding, it's simply a by the
numbers, at times pleasant movie that is extremely predictable but
isn't a bad choice, particularly if your a Roberts or Nolte fan.

I love trouble doesn't stick out in my mind at all as either great or
awful and I suppose I enjoyed it, moderately. It's not a must see but
is worth seeing on a rainy day as there is absolutely nothing about it
that's dreadful.

This part mystery part romance relies on Nolte and Roberts to carry it
and if they had been exceptional together the by the numbers and
predictable factor may not have mattered. But unfortunately, Roberts
and Nolte certainly don't have much chemistry and they've both been
better with other leads playing opposite. There are some fun moments in
this and as mentioned, it's not really bad or dull as much as utterly
predictable in every way, but it's not a movie where the chemistry of
the two leads or the storyline will stick in one's mind after.

There's nothing wrong with predictable sometimes but as predictable
movies go I have seen much much better.This is probably about average
or so.
<|_=00=_|>
"I Love Trouble" is an okay romantic comedy with some charm in certain
points. But that's all.

As a movie, it is generally watchable (at least during its first half).
However, in the second half the movie seems to become way more slow,
lame, goofy and with a notorious lack of interest and entertainment.
Only the «crazy speed at the rain in the car» scene, the forced wedding
scene and the thrilling ending (with some good action) are the good
things about the second half. Other than that, not really. Why? Because
before the thrilling ending, that sequence starts by taking too long to
finally win some "life". Besides, there is a scene in a bar with
dancing or country music, which is one of the most boring things for me
in a movie. Not to mention that I don't see what's the point of both
Peter Brackett and Sabrina Peterson keeping out-scooping each other.

Nevertheless, until the first hour the movie is okay and contains some
good humor. Besides, Nick Nolte is great as Peter Brackett and Julia
Roberts is not bad as Sabrina Peterson.

Overall, not a great movie, but certainly not as bad as they make it
sound.
<|_=00=_|>

1st watched 2/8/2002 - 6 out of 10 (Dir-Charles Shyer):
Nolte/Roberts starpower make this rather convuluted, unbelievable story
watchable.  A very simple title for a very over-the-top complex story that
starts with two rival reporters covering a train de-railment in Chicago
and
ends with having something to do with a chemical that helps cows produce
milk at an early age.  As silly as the story plot is,  we follow Nolte as
a
well-known name for the Chicago Chronicle, and Roberts as a newcomer for
the
Chicago Globe with both of them having one thing on their minds - their
egos!!  The movie starts out slow but once the two heroes start acting
like
they're actually trying to work together, things heat up. The exchanges
between the two are comical and classic at times.    Roberts seems to
always
to be matched up with some of the best male actors in Hollywood and she
usually comes out holding her own, this is no exception and the movie,
it's
ok too. 
<|_=00=_|>
'I Love Trouble' is a fairly entertaining film, that offers some
interesting moments in the goings-on. What really stands tall in this
film, are the performances by it's popular cast.

'I Love Trouble' tells the story of how 2 Competing journalists at
rival papers fall in love, while exposing a government-involved
scandal.

Written by the husband-and-wife team of Nancy Meyers and Charles Shyer,
The writing in the first-hour is convincing & moves easily. But, in the
second hour it falters and dips for quite some time, but the
culmination is nicely done. Charles Shyer's direction is fair.
Cinematography & Editing are functional. The Action Sequences are
interesting.

Performance-Wise: Nick Nolte is terrific, as always. Julia Roberts is
equally superb too. In the supporting cast, Olympia Dukakis, Robert
Loggia & Saul Rubinek are noticeable.

On the whole, A One-Time Watch!
<|_=00=_|>

When a train crash happens, veteran newspaperman Peter Brackett is sent
from
the Tribune to cover the story despite him being a columnist.  At the
scene
of the crash he meets the beautiful young reporter Sabrina Peterson who he
tries to hit on without much success, before dismissing her as an
inexperienced youth.  The next morning she scoops him in the Globe,
getting
an angle on the story that he didn't have.  This sparks a rivalry between
the two journalists but, as they find out more about the story they find
themselves in mortal danger and are forced to form an uneasy
partnership.

In case you are film-illiterate, this film has even called a character
`Thin
Man' to help you realise what it is clearly aspiring to be.  The fast
talking, battling characters aspire to be like those in the Thin Man
series.
However the main problem here is that this film has none of the wit,
spark
or fun of that series at it's best; instead it is all a bit lifeless and
flat.  The plot is good but it doesn't decide to be a mystery thriller
until
very late in the game; the final set piece is good but, because the film
had
been aiming for `playful' up till that point, it just doesn't work out
well
and it can't just suddenly create tension out of nowhere.

The rest of the film tries to be light and witty but it doesn't manage it
either.  A major fault in this regard is with the script; it doesn't have
any really good lines or sequences.  As much as I accept that Woody Allen
is
not everyone's cup of tea, he would have been the perfect part of a
writing
team here - witty dialogue in The Thin Man style is really his thing.  The
other problem is with the cast.  Nolte and Roberts may both be big names,
but they sadly have ZERO chemistry and this is a big problem.  The two
have
no lines and their lack of spark just makes it worse, to compare this with
the Thin Man series does that a great disservice.  The support cast fares
a
bit better and contains quite a few famous faces such as Rubinek, Rebhorn,
Loggia, Dukakis, Levy, Martin Smith and Gleason.  They all do OK but they
can't help the failings in the script, atmosphere and in the two
stars.

Overall this is just about watchable but it's hard to ignore what it
clearly
intended to be.  It is pretty much a big failure as it fails to amuse,
excite or entertain on anywhere near the level that it was aiming
for.
<|_=00=_|>
Bland and unimaginative but many films are that what really drags this
down is not the lack of chemistry between the leads but the transparent
loathing they have for each other. The production of this was
notoriously contentious between Roberts and Nolte and their utter
abhorrence is something that seeps out of every frame of the movie.
Sometimes that can fuel a set and make the picture better, as it did on
I Married a Witch where Veronica Lake and Fredric March's mutual
animosity somehow translated into a kinetic on screen chemistry, such
is not the case here however it just makes an already weak picture that
much worse. A good supporting cast and decent production values aren't
enough to save this turkey. It stinks!
