

Come next year, when I am trying to devise a list of the best films of the
90's, Robert Altman's "The Player" will be near the top of my list. This
film skillfully creates a central plot around Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins)
(who hears about 125 movie pitches per day), a studio executive who is being
threatened by a writer whose script or idea he likely brushed off. But what
is even more brilliant about "The Player" is everything going on
peripherally to the main plot; all the references to studio techniques of
film-making, foreign film movements, homages and Old Hollywood vs. New
Hollywood. The film is multi-layered, yet everything that we view falls
neatly into the formula which Hollywood film-making survives by. What we see
in the duration of "The Player" would potentially make a perfect pitch for a
movie. This may sound confusing, but watch the entire film, and you will
immediately know what I mean.

The film begins with a stunning homage to Alfred Hitchcock's "Rope", an
approximately eight minute long take where the camera moves freely around a
studio encountering many people in the midst of their everyday routines. For
example, we come across a couple discussing how Hollywood film is now much
like MTV "cut, cut, cut". One of the characters even uses the example of
"Rope" to illustrate his point. "Rope" is approximately a ninety minute film
that appears to have been shot all in one take. Of course, it wasn't done in
one take, as reels of film at that time were only ten minutes long. If one
watches the film very closely, it can be determined where the cuts are
made.

In the duration of the same take, we encounter Griffin Mill conducting
business in his office. People walk into his office pitching movie ideas. It
is here that we begin to learn about populist Hollywood film-making. Ideas,
not stories or scripts are pitched to executives "in 25 words or less".
Almost always, the ideas thrown out are based on previous films (e.g.
"someone always gets killed at the end of a political thriller") and even
combinations of previous films (e.g. "It's Pretty Woman meets Out of
Africa"). When we see the usual films that are released into theaters each
week, it is not difficult to believe that this is the way in which they are
conceived. The usual Hollywood formula entails sex, violence, familiarity
and most important of all "happy endings, a movie always has to have a happy
ending".

"The Player" is filled with loads of Hollywood stars, most of them playing
themselves. Jeff Goldblum, Malcolm McDowell, John Cusack, Angelica Huston,
and Burt Reynolds to name a few. Many of them are encountered at restaurants
during lunch and at night time Hollywood gatherings, where the topic of
conversation is always movies. Near the beginning of the film, Griffin
suggests that he and his lunch guests talk about something else. "We're all
educated adults". Of course no one says anything. Their lives are so
indoctrinated by Hollywood, they do not know what else to talk
about.

Right from the beginning Griffin receives numerous postcards threatening his
life. He begins to suspect a certain writer and goes to his house one night
to confront him. The man turns out not to be home, but there is an
incredible scene where Griffin talks with the man's girlfriend on the phone
while voyeuristically watching her through the window. This is an
extraordinary symbolization of the voyeuristic essence that goes along with
watching a film, or the notion of scopophilia to be precise. The idea behind
the concept of scopophilia is that the cinema constructs the spectator as a
subject; the beholder of the gaze, who has an intense desire to look. The
cinema places viewers in a voyeuristic position in that the viewer watches
the film unseen in a dark room. While Griffin is watching the girl as he
speaks with her, it is night time and he remains unseen to her. This
scenario metaphorically represents the theater and the
film.

In the duration of Griffin's conversation on the phone, he finds out that
the man he is looking for is watching "The Bicycle Thief" in an art-house
theater in Pasadena. This film in itself represents the first contrast to
Hollywood that we see in "The Player". Vittorio DeSica's "The Bicycle Thief"
was part of a movement that lasted from 1942 to 1952 called Italian
Neo-Realism", whose other main exponents were Rossellini and Visconti.
Rossellini called neo-realism both a moral and an aesthetic cinema.
Neo-realism, to a great extent owes much of its existence to film-makers'
displeasure at the restrictions placed on freedom of expression. This film
movement is quite different from the modern Hollywood formula of
film-making. When Griffin first meets the man he suspects is sending the
postcards, he suggests that perhaps they could do a remake of "The Bicycle
Thief". The man responds with "yeah sure, you'd probably want to give it a
happy ending".

Also interesting in "The Player" is one of the studio executives suggestions
to newspapers as a source for script ideas. This serves to contrast Old
Hollywood versus New Hollywood. In the older days of studio film, Warner
Brothers (one of the studio's of middle-class America) would produce films
with ideas seemingly drawn from real life or from the headlines of major
newspapers. This gives us the sense that often Hollywood is stuck for
original ideas, so ideas from the past re-circulate themselves.

I have touched on only a few of the many interesting references that run
peripherally to the main plot of "The Player". The great thing is that even
if you do not catch all the film references that I have been discussing, it
is still enjoyable. When I first saw the film, I was really young and did
not know much about movies, but yet I enjoyed it thoroughly. Now, it is one
of my favorites. I definitely recommend it to anyone who has a keen interest
in film.

**** out of ****

<|_=00=_|>

Griffin Mill is a young hotshot producer who everyone bows and scrapes to
because he has the powers to get a movie made. However he starts getting
bugged by a dissatisfied writer which leads to all kinds of  deadly
intrigue.

Just when I thought Altman had gone totally off-the-boil he suddenly jumps
back with his most perfectly realised film. While hardly unapplauded on
its
release (and in short retrospect) this is a movie that will be regarded by
future generations as a classic. It is so smart, sassy, funny and has a
beginning, a middle and an end. The kind of tragicomedy that gets the best
of both worlds.

Robbins is perfect as the lead. He doesn't do much or emote much. As
Robert
De Niro once said "most people don't show their emotions, they hide them."
Occasionally we get behind the shield of human indifference, but only
occasionally. We don't like him much - nor should we - but he is not so
bad
that we can't bare him. Indeed he is merely someone whose selfish world
gets
out of control. Whoopie Goldberg makes the most of her unlikely casting
too.

The appearance of stars in guest parts adds a bit of icing, but that is
all.
I loved Altman's directions to the stars who had to play walk-ons (who
else
could have got that?) "remember, you are responsible for who you are on
screen. You are playing yourselves!"

The sexy Scacchi plays the love interest with great skill. While just a
muse
she is a far better actress than most and this shows in her short screen
time. Shame she hasn't more involvement in the main plot.

Like breaking a car down in to its competent parts, taking The Player
apart
only leaves an ugly mess of oil and metal. Together it drives a tight
little
film that has insight, drama and comedy. I would hesitate to call this a
masterpiece, but it is a mini-masterpiece that however farfetched never
reaches the point of being totally unbelievable.

The pay off at the end is one of the best belly-laughs any film buff could
ever get. I doubt I will see a better film about modern day Hollywood in
my
lifetime. Like Pulp Fiction, a film that is as enjoyable the second time
of
viewing as the first.
<|_=00=_|>
"Players only love you when they're playing." --Stevie Nicks

Griffin Mill, whose name has a kind of ersatz Hollywood feel to it
(cf., D. W. Griffith/Cecil B. De Mille), is not a player with hearts so
much as a player with dreams. He is a young and powerful film exec who
hears thousands of movie pitches a year, but can only buy twelve. So he
must do a lot of dissembling, not to mention outright lying, along with
saying "We'll get back to you," etc. This is what he especially must
say to writers. And sometimes they hold a grudge. In this case one of
the rejected writers begins to stalk Griffin Mill and send him
threatening postcards. And so the plot begins.

Tim Robbins, in a creative tour de force, plays Griffin Mill with such
a delightful, ironic charm that we cannot help but identify with him
even as he violates several layers of human trust. The script by
Michael Tolkin smoothly combines the best elements of a thriller with a
kind of Terry Southern satirical intent that keeps us totally engrossed
throughout. The direction by Robert Altman is full of inside Hollywood
jokes and remembrances, including cameos by dozens of Hollywood stars,
some of whom get to say nasty things about producers. The scenes are
well-planned and then infused with witty asides. The tampon scene at
police headquarters with Whoopi Goldberg is an hilarious case in point,
while the sequence of scenes from Greta Scacchi's character's house to
the manslaughter scene outside the Pasadena Rialto, is wonderfully
conceived and nicely cut. Also memorable is the all black and white
dress dinner scene in which Cher is the only person in red, a kind of
mean or silly joke, depending on your perspective. During the same
scene Mill gives a little speech in which he avers that "movies are
art," a statement that amounts to sardonic irony since, as a greedy
producer, he cares nothing at all about art, but only about box office
success. His words also form a kind of dramatic irony when one realizes
that this movie itself really is a work of art. As Altman observes in a
trailing clip, the movie "becomes itself." The Machiavellian ending
illustrates this with an almost miraculous dovetailing. This is the
kind of script that turns most screen writers Kermit-green with envy.

Incidentally, Joe Gillis, the Hollywood writer played by William Holden
in Sunset Boulevard--personifying all unsuccessful screen
writers--actually does call during the movie, but Mill doesn't
recognize the name and has to be told he is being put on, further
revealing the narrow confines of his character.

In short, this is a wonderfully clever, diabolically cynical satire of
Hollywood and the movie industry. This is one of those movies that, if
you care anything at all about film, you must see. Period. It is
especially delicious if you hate Hollywood. It is also one of the best
movies ever made about Hollywood, to be ranked up there with A Star is
Born (1937) (Janet Gaynor, Fredric March); Sunset Boulevard (1950); A
Star is Born (1954) (Judy Garland, James Mason); and Postcards from the
Edge (1990).

I must add that in the annals of film, this has to go down as one of
the best Hollywood movies not to win a single Academy Award, although
it was nominated for three: Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay and
Best Editing. I suspect the Academy felt that the satire hit a little
too close to home for comfort.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>
During Robert Altman's "The Player" the criteria for a good Hollywood
movie are established by the lead character: "Suspense, laughter,
violence, hope, heart, nudity, sex, and happy endings, mainly happy
endings". If you look close enough you'll find all of them in the film,
as well as some in the film within this one. "The Player" is a
scathing, smart, and funny attack on the Hollywood studio system and
doubtless one that will be enjoyed more by those who have prior
knowledge of the studio system, or are simply just movie fans. This
film is packed with cameos, specific references to film history and
only a truly dedicated movie fan could catch all of them.

The film opens with an eight minute long continuous shot which follows
the lives and discussions of several executives and other personnel at
a movie studio. This shot establishes several important characters as
well as the cynical tone of the film (we hear a pitch for "The Graduate
2" set 25 years after the original among other ridiculous discussions).
It also pays tribute to Orson Welles and Alfred Hitchcock, even
mentioning Welles' "Touch of Evil" and its similar opening shot as well
as Hitchcock's "Rope". Soon we meet Griffin Mill, a studio executive
whose job is basically to hear pitches and either approve them or turn
them down. His job isn't to pick the good movies, it's to pick the
moneymakers (later in the film a character talks about "The Bicycle
Thief", a product of Italian Neo-Realism and says: "that's an art film,
it doesn't qualify. We're talking about movie movies"). One of the
writers Mill turned down starts to send him threatening postcards and
he assumes this person is David Kahane (Vincent D'Onofrio), so he
tracks him down and semi-accidentally kills him, leading to a rather
typical police investigation into the matter. Mill begins a romance
with Kahane's widow, further adding to the convoluted Hollywood
thriller plot.

In a wonderfully funny subplot Mill approves a pitch for a bleak, dark
drama in which an innocent woman is sent to the gas chamber. The pitch
is for the film not to include a happy ending and also 'no stars, only
talent'. The subplot is developed alongside the main plot and used
mainly for pure comic relief (nothing in "The Player" is serious drama,
but the main plot is played straight and is mainly satiric in its
ridiculousness, mostly avoiding big laughs in favor of more subtle
humor). Over the course of the film the criteria for a good Hollywood
film are all met. There's suspense (suspense in the Hollywood sense),
laughter, violence, hope and heart (we manage to feel supportive of
Griffin Mill even though he's mostly heartless and cruel), some nudity
thrown in for good measure, and even an utterly idiotic sex scene which
of course has nothing whatsoever to do with the plot. The brilliant
double-ending is played for laughs and remains one of the best I've
ever seen.

The screenplay by Michael Tolkin (who also wrote the book) is
pitch-perfect in its balance, it manages to be satiric without
descending to farce and scathing while remaining good-natured. The
acting is excellent all around, particularly from Tim Robbins, who is
perfectly capable of a strong performance (see Clint Eastwood's "Mystic
River"), but plays his role here like any bland lead in a Hollywood
thriller. He doesn't even bother emoting for the majority of the film,
which only makes the satire stronger.

With "The Player" Robert Altman returns to form and makes a worthy
addition to his impressive filmography (which includes films like
"Nashville", "Gosford Park" and "MASH"). The film is funny both in a
traditional manner and also in a dark, satirical manner. By including
all of the elements of typical Hollywood in his film Altman has crafted
a crowd-pleaser as well as a tribute to film and film fans everywhere.
One of precious few films that are truly perfect.

5/5
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Altman gets under my skin. His films are worthy of great
respect, yet they are frequently as irritating as they are brilliant.
The Player is, as much as Short Cuts, a quintessential Altman film. It
is also one of the best roles Tim Robbins has ever enjoyed.

This film is about Hollywood's dark underbelly. The Player eviscerates
its subject by twisting justice, political gamesmanship and artistic
integrity into new configurations. For non-film-buffs or
non-professionals some of the humor may seem too subtle to notice. To
film buffs and insiders, the humor is totally over the top.

Robbins plays a young studio exec who is playing the game to win and
seems, at least part of the time, to have a conscience. Everything is
going along fine for him until he starts receiving threatening calls
and letters from a writer whose screenplays he has rejected, and an
arch-rival is promoted to a position just above his own. Paranoia and
real danger seem in the periphery of every scene in his life, as the
make-believe of his industry and the reality of his life begin to blend
freely.

Robbins makes a character who could easily have been totally unlikeable
somehow sympathetic. Despite his amazing performance, liking the
character makes you feel as if you should go stand in a shower and
exfoliate for an hour or so. He is supported by excellent supporting
work all around. Especially good are the two major women's roles -
played by Greta Scachi and Bonnie Sherrow, and veteran camp character
Dean Stockwell.

The photography is liberally and amusingly lifted from several classic
thrillers, mysteries and dramas, and comes off fresh and original - not
at all like a DePalmaesque bit of visual plagiarism. And the pace is
brisk.

The Player is probably my favorite Altman film, and it is easily my
favorite Tim Robbins film. It's entertaining, intelligent and, well, it
has a bad attitude. See it some night when you're angry and you need a
good dark laugh.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert Altman performed a great service to us movie fans with this
movie. We are able to see the brutish way the studios treat their
writers....and don't find it difficult to believe that some writer
would want to murder the producer.

The many homages paid to other movies is great: the execution scene
from "I want to Live" is replayed, and Bruce Willis jumping in the
midst of the cyanide fumes to rescue the damsel in distress makes the
contrast with the Graham movie even more poignant (especially if you
believe she was innocent). Watching the various emotions play across
Tim Robbins face makes you understand what a great actor he is.

The convoluted plot makes the movie more interesting, even as we see a
Palm Springs lovers' rendezvous where some lovers swim in the nude in
front of others dancing. You don't know what's true and what's not,
even when the producer's ex-girlfriend is left sobbing on the steps. It
seems too melodramatic for reality, but melodrama is what these people
are all about!!!!! Altman's favorite trick of having everybody talk
over each other is, while realistic, disconcerting. I still wish I
could have heard what Burt Reynolds was saying, nothing complimentary,
when Robbins walked up to him at the restaurant. Watching the writers
become sycophants, prostituting their 'art' just to get the movie made
rang QUITE true. He backs down on both 'no stars' and 'no Hollywood
ending'. The only one with morals involved in the movie business gets
fired, of course.

One of the movies you need to have on your shelf. Now I've got to go
back and watch for Robbins' many references to different brands of
water, pointed out by the NYTimes just today.
<|_=00=_|>
I just went back and watched this again after many years and still find
it one of the best movies ever made about movies. This "movie within a
movie" has it all. Suspense, drama, comedy, great and numerous cameos,
and some "inside Hollywood" jokes. One highlight is at the start where
the actors are describing the best long opening tracking shots of all
time while Robert Altman skillfully is showing you one at the same
time! The Burt Reynolds cameo is very funny, sounds unscripted, and is
one of many brilliant uses of this device. Favorite line: "waiter, this
is a wine glass. I'd like my water in a water glass". The line comes
from Tim Robbins, who is excellent as studio executive Griffin Mill.
<|_=00=_|>
Once The Player's end credits rolled, I was shaken, but in the kind of
way that you are when you hear a really sly, long joke by someone who
knows what they're telling is not hysterical but still has a wicked
knack that will stay with you or gnaw at your side. Robert Altman's the
Player, one of his very best films (maybe his best) made since the
1970's, is as much about the detached, perfunctory nature of these
characters as it is a story of a murdering writing executive. It's not
a satire in the sense of Dr. Strangelove; there's nothing that's over
the top for the audience. But it does get in some notes, practically
without any pretense of going about it otherwise, about the sterility
of modern Hollywood. As a film buff, while watching this movie I'm not
even bowled over by the numerous cameo appearances by Hollywood's main
stars and wonderful character actors. That's because Altman, while
being un-obtrusive of what the actors are doing on screen, has his
focus set very carefully, and it's in this precise kind of mode that it
works best.

It's not to say Altman's style doesn't have its own voice, and some of
the shots in the film- self conscious no doubt- bring out the
anti-Hollywood while Hollywood ideas. And working in the framework, not
the dependence, of the story lets some interesting things of reality go
on. When you see this 8-minute long take at the start of the film, it's
getting the music of the film going right away, of the 'money-talks,
BS-continues' attitude of a Hollywood studio, not just of the main
character Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins). It may be 'just a movie', but
it's also one with this constant feel of life going on, as Altman,
through Tokin's screenplay, is a fly on the wall as it were. We see
Mill, a writing executive, go through a rough patch with a certain
writer (Vincent D'Onofrio) who hasn't heard back from him in a while.
When a harsh accident occurs, Mill has to keep moving, not just with
his job or his details of the night the two had, but with the writer's
girlfriend (Greta Scacchi) who start an affair.

Altman once said, quite famously, once casting is complete 80% of his
work is done. The Player is one of those major examples in Altman's
career, and despite the fact that most, if not all, of the supporting
actors (who may or may not also be in their cameo roles) are sublime in
their roles (Goldberg, Scacchi, Lyle Lovett, and especially Cynthia
Stevnenson), it's a key Robbins turn. His career has often had roles
where he can lay in a naturalness that other actors might not have gone
for. He also fits the role of Griffin Mill much as he did for Andy
Dufresne and Dave in Mystic River. Here he has a perfect quality in
this character to, as Ebert pointed out, not be un-likable even as he
is not a good person. I loved the little facial gestures, the seemingly
controlled stares, and the small moments where his upper class facade
starts to wear down beneath the bloodless business of making movie
deals. His could be for some the only reason to see the film, and
rightfully so, as I really don't think Altman would've been able to
pull it off with another.

It does almost add to what could be frustration for some by the end of
the film to see what happens to him, but it actually is after thinking
about it more even more satisfying an ending. A question the film
ponders for this character is- if he can survive the reality when all
he wants is a happy ending in the stories he hears? And through this
simplicity some compositions and scenes are quite remarkable; that one
single shot of a certain close-up of a sex scene not only plays
brilliantly off of a script description earlier, but is one of the best
scene-shots I've seen in recent movies. Very well done, if not for
everyone.
<|_=00=_|>

What I mean by my tagline is that you will get the most out of this film if
you've watched a lot of old classic and understand how the Hollywood system
works. If you're more or less a casual film fan, who watches movies once in
a while, you might not like this too much. As for me, I'm sort of in a
transitional stage, so I enjoyed myself without understanding everything.
Considering that this film comes from Robert Altman (look at his profile,
click on some links for his movies if you don't know who he is. His movies
are weird and usually have good casts), you can expect it to have some weird
features. The story follows Griffin Mill (Tim Robbins), a Hollywood
executive that has a million and a half mediocre ideas thrown at him every
day. One day, he has a couple of drinks with a writer (Vincent D'Onofrio)
and ends up killing him. The movie is basically plotless, and yet
complicated. Griffin goes paranoid and thinks everyone is after him,
including a pair of cops, played by Whoopi Goldberg and Lyle Lovett. The
movie is splendid, right from the opening shot played as an homage to
Hitchcock'S Rope. The opening shot is eight minutes long, without a single
cut. It just pans all over the place as people talk. The performances by the
main cast are pretty good, especially Robbins. But the part that's really
worth seeing is the ton of celebrity cameos. Just about the whole world
shows up here. Bruce Willis, Cher, Elliot Gould, Rod Steiger, Julia Roberts,
Anjelica Huston, Lily Tomlin, Burt Reynolds, Mimi Rogers, Susan Sarandon,
Nick Nolte,Marlee Matlin and Jeff Goldblum are just some of the cameos. The
in-jokes are very funny if you can understand them, and the whole pace of
the movie is good, if a little overlong. (It's not really that long,either.)
If you think you know enough about movies and Hollywood, then take a crack
at The Player. You won't be sorry. 8/10 
<|_=00=_|>
Screen writing is a craft, one of many in Hollywood that builds or
supports the towering edifice upon which our glamorous "stars" ... sit.
Without a screenplay, actors, directors, and others in Hollywood might
otherwise grovel for beans and potatoes at the local soup kitchen.

And so, director Altman gives us "The Player", a film about a screen
writing executive (well played by Tim Robbins) who listens to story
ideas, and makes decisions about what you and I see, and don't see, at
the local multiplex. For every idea that evolves into a film, billions
and billions of other ideas wither and die, along with the careers of
the writers who conceived those ideas. Inevitably, some of those
writers get miffed, and that is the premise of "The Player".

It's actually a weak premise, because in reality the business of screen
writing is fairly bland, and the conflict, which exists mostly in
people's heads, is fairly tame. To rev up the drama, and to qualify the
film as a "thriller", the filmmakers here insert some contrived
conflict, in the form of threatening postcards. If you watch this film
for the "thriller" element only, you may be disappointed.

This film works, not so much as a thriller, but rather as a classy,
semi-inside peak into the back rooms of Hollywood decision making.
There's lots of humor, some obvious, some subtle. And the film's plot
is filled with satirical irony. In addition to Robbins' fine
performance, Whoopi Goldberg is great as a tampon obsessed detective.

The best approach to "The Player" is to absorb the Tinseltown setting,
and watch the characters as they maneuver for selfish advantage. I
really liked the inclusion of dozens of real-life Hollywood
celebrities, just being themselves. You get to see them in their
natural habitat. This element adds texture and authenticity, and thus
helps to prop up the weak story.

Although the contrived plot falters somewhat in the middle Act, it's
the overall Tinseltown setting and real-life ambiance that make "The
Player" an entertaining and insightful film.
