

This is the most horrifying movie I've seen (gave it 10, though). I had the
sensation that I was witnessing somebody die - and like Selma in the movie,
I just begged for another musical-show to begin... I couldn't stand it.
Everything is so tormenting and you just need that last (but not last!?)
dance... Bjork is stunning as Selma, and the music she has composed blew me
away. Even though this is perhaps the movie that has left the strongest
impression with me ever, I don't know when I will be able watch it again.


<|_=00=_|>

It feels awkward to attempt to put Dancer in the Dark into words. Von
Trier's film is one of those movies that truly change the way we think
about
cinema and its possibilities, and for such a film, words do no justice.
Dancer in the Dark centers around Selma (Björk), a factory worker, who
loves
her 10-year-old son above everything else in the world. Selma is a happy,
innocent creature who enjoys musicals for "nothing bad ever happens in
them". These elements (mother's love for her son, joyfulness of musicals
versus the hardships of every day life) create a whole unlike anything ever
seen on silver screen.  Selma is rapidly losing her eye sight, but not her
vision: she's the 'dancer in the dark' who is prepared to sacrifice herself
to  keep the light in her child's eyes. Very early on it becomes obvious
that this story can't have a happy ending. However, once you've accepted
it,
you can put your mind at ease and see the film as it unfolds from Selma's
point of view. And what a view it is! Björk gives a performance of a life
time - this little woman with a huge voice is all emotion all the time
without ever  appearing overtly dramatic or cheaply sentimental. There's no
weak link in the rest of the cast either, Peter Stormare as Jeff, Catherine
Deneuve as Kathy and Siobhan Fallon as the prison guard to name but a few.
The biggest star is still the director himself; von Trier demonstrates his
talent in a superb fashion by both telling a simple story that will most
likely break you heart and examining the ever-persistent ills of the life
of
the lower class of the American society. What about the film's musical
character then? This is where von Trier triumphs the most by understanding
the very essence of the whole genre - hope; hope that will live in our soul
for ever if we'll only follow our heart.           
<|_=00=_|>

The reviews were extremely black and white for this art-house film.  People
were either enthralled or bored to tears by the whole experience.  There
seemed to be no middle ground.  Now, that's my kind of movie.  Any picture
that can reap awards (Cannes Film Festival) and get lambasted by the general
public at the same time will always pique my interest.  In respect, it was a
rich, rewarding odyssey, much easier to get through than, let's say, even
half of "8½."  

My initial respect for the unique, uncompromising style of Danish director
Lars von Trier goes back to his compelling work in "Zentropa" and "Breaking
the Waves," both bleak, surrealistic studies of man vs. reality.  His pieces
usually center around some innocent, simple-minded, self-sacrificing soul
who inevitably succumbs to the cruelties of life.

I found the central role of Selma (as played by the extraordinary Björk) to
be very much the emotional equivalent of Emily Watson's touchingly
childlike, near-sociopath Bess in "Breaking the Waves" -- blessed and cursed
with a naive, soulful purity.  Selma represents one of God's little quirks
of nature.  A bespectacled, pathetically infantile little ragamuffin
completely out of touch, Selma has somehow survived like the runt of a
litter would - through luck, will power, and the extreme kindness of those
around her.  An impoverished Czech-born emigré living in a small
Northwestern U.S. industrial town during the mid-60s, this luckless creature
manages to eek out a meager Airstream-like existence as a factory worker,
despite the fact she is legally blind.

Selma is, amazingly enough, a mother.  Seemingly ill-equipped to care for a
child much less herself, she has nevertheless managed to provide for the
12-year-old boy, while nurturing the child as a young girl would her rag
doll.  The fairly adjusted boy suffers, however, from the same optic disease
as the mother, while the crux of the story revolves around her attempts to
save up money for his inevitable operation.    

The fascination of "Dancer in the Dark" lies in Selma's musical world.  With
her eyesight failing, her ears become the only sense of joy, falling
periodically into bouts of fantasy anytime she grabs onto a rhythm or beat
(like machine sounds, train engines, etc.), wherein she becomes the star of
her own working-class musical production.  These compelling sequences become
mere extensions of her real-life circumstances, i.e., the musical interludes
at work will include the factory itself as a set piece and the other workers
as her ensemble.  A strange mix of Fellini neo-realism and Busby Berkeley
illusion, these daydreams (sparked by Vincent Paterson's inventive
choreography and von Trier's purposely puerile lyrics) become her only
escape.  Björk's odd musical talent and vocal style may be an acquired
taste, but she is so mesmerizing here it becomes a non-issue.  In addition,
there are brief moments of levity as a hopelessly inept community theater
production of "The Sound of Music" goes into rehearsals with the very
awkward Selma playing Maria.

The subordinate cast is equally in tune.  The wonderful, beguiling French
star Catherine Deneuve downplays her ethereal beauty as Kathy, Selma's
co-worker and trusted friend.  And a strange, maternalistic friendship it is
indeed, for this woman seems to have no other purpose in life than to be
this girl's eyes and hands, looking out for her practically day and night. 
Peter ("Fargo") Stormare shies away from his ruthless killer image with this
touching portrayal of a sensitive, almost pitiable boor who only has eyes
for the ungainly Selma.  David Morse is gripping as a seemingly
compassionate but despairing policeman whose one desperate act involving
neighbor Selma results in tragedy.  Joel Grey has a brief, telling moment
near the film's end as a faded musical star idolized by Selma.

As in his other featured works, von Trier's gritty, hand-held camera work
may be dizzying to the point of distraction at first but its overall impact
to the stark proceedings is unquestionable.  Moreover, the grueling paces he
puts his actresses through to achieve absolute truth borders on misogyny but
the rewards are tenfold.  As in the case of Emily Watson, Björk has never
shined brighter as an artist.

A harrowing, refreshingly original piece of filmmaking that should be
experienced by anybody who dares to be different.

<|_=00=_|>

This is quite possibly the most moving film I've seen, it ensnares you
within the first minute, or Bjork does with her interpretation of the sound
of music, which is both hilarious and introduces one of the main themes: the
magic of musicals. Not one of my favourite genres (but everyone loves The
Sound Of Music, right?) but Lars Von Trier makes you re-evaluate your
perception with a gentle loving pastiche of the way for no reason people and
things in musicals spontaneously erupt into song, made more credible in this
film by implicating a reason for it: Bjork's character is going blind so she
hears music in the slightest thing and she, in her mind, sees how moves
should be choreographed with the music she hears, reminiscent of her own
‘It's Oh So Quiet' music video. And the best thing about this film is the
way Bjork charms you with her portrayal of the nicest person in the world,
she will do anything for you if she could. She is essentially an innocent
and though this is her weakness you can't help but love her all the more: a
sparkling performance from a unique singer in real life.

However from this don't assume that this is a light happy film as there is a
dark tragic side also, and this side is full of injustice, agony- and I mean
agony-, sorrow- like you'd not believe-, and an intense emotional pull as
I've ever felt in a cinema before, and it's this half that propels it from
being just a great film to becoming one of the greatest. Its greatness is in
telling a simple story of a woman trying to stop her own genetic sight
disorder afflicting her son, by working every hour to afford the operation,
working heavy machinery despite essentially being virtually blind, its
greatness is its ability to inflict upon you the gift of feeling every
conceivable emotion you posses and you do, you really do experience so much
during this film. But I'll not say too much as my enjoyment of this film
increased due to, for a change, not second guessing what would happen but to
just let it be, I would say to passively watch but there's nothing passive
about this film. It really moves you. It makes you feel alive.

This film should be seen alone, in the quiet when you are all by yourself,
but more importantly than that it should be seen: this is more than mere
movie this is art this is real this is the greatest film I have ever seen:
even better than Casablanca, and Shadowlands, and The Piano.

<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  I was not familiar with
the director's previous work, but had picked up the soundtrack by Bjork and
was intrigued.

Selma (incredibly portrayed by Bjork) makes the audience laugh and weep
simutaneously just by following her heart.  Every character is played
flawlessly, and the cinemetography is innovative and dynamic.  The musical
numbers jump to life in a 'colorized' style, emphasizing the break from the
dismal reality of Selma's painfully decaying life.

I will say only this.  I hate crying at movies.  Yet, as I was driving
home,
mad at the fact that I was still sobbing uncontrollably, I realized how
much
I loved this movie.

<|_=00=_|>

When I was driving to see this movie, I wondered how I was going to react to
the film. Lars Von Trier had always been one of my favorite directors, but I
was unsure if I was going to enjoy this film. After watching the film, I
half to say that this was one of the best films I had ever seen. Lars von
Trier used handheld cinematography perfectly and I was especially impressed
by how he operated the camera himself. Also the way he used lighting and
still cameras in the music sequences expressed the surreal
daydreams of Selma.

Selma, played by Bjork, is a strong willed yet kind character who is hit by
a series of bad events. Bjork plays this role so convincingly it is almost
uncomfortable to watch. She doesnt act more than emote the character.

With Lars Von Trier directing and great acting, this is far and away the
best film of the year. Its unfortunate that America didn't give the
recognition the film deserved.


<|_=00=_|>

This is distinguishably different from the general Hollywood films or
independent projects. It's not like anything done before. LARS VON TRIER,
and BJORK, simply blow your mind away: such totality in delivery!

It's gut wrenching - an absorbing tearjerker - but not sentimental. It is in
strong doses. (NFE: it may not be for everyone.) The theatre audience was
very quiet with occasional sniffing heard. The film may be a fantasy, yet
there are subtle jabs at certain social norms and contains hints at how we
treat life and lead life.

Bjork made it natural, innocent, and naively good. It is all Bjork matter:
she is feeling all the joy and pain and daydreaming, saying all those words,
singing all those songs, and dancing along to the music she so ingeniously
composed. Lars von Trier once again wrote and delivered a 100% powerful
film. He packs all kinds of emotions into 2 hrs. and 20 mins.: from the
endearing friendship of two working women Kathy and Selma; to the faithful
loving pursuit of Jeff for Selma; to the quiet exchanges of seemingly
trusting souls of Bill and Selma; to Selma's son, Bill's wife, the crime,
the court, the prison's loneliness within; the anguish pain of a determined
mother; and the integrated mood changing musical numbers in-between. One
scene of Bjork lying motionless with just one finger moving with quiet
sobbing heard is powerful imagery.

Catherine Deneuve as Kathy is well at ease in her supporting role. She
continues to exude her charm quietly. You can tell she thoroughly enjoys the
company she's in at this production. Musical-wise, Deneuve is no stranger:
besides "The Umbrellas of Cherbourg" 1964 - every word in the film was sung,
I also remember Jacques Demy's "The Young Girls of Rochefort" 1967 - she
danced and sang with her sister Francoise Dorleac, along with Gene Kelly,
Michel Piccoli and George Chakiris.

David Morse as Bill (the policeman and neighbor) reminds me of what a
memorable performance he delivered in Sean Penn's "The Crossing Guard" 1995
opposite Jack Nicholson and Robin Wright. 'tis great to see Joel Grey
dancing again (hm, in the most improbable setting!)

For a 5' 4'' singer-songwriter from Iceland, Bjork is a giant impact in this
quiet powerhouse of a film, "Dancer In the Dark." Lars von Trier's vision
and confidence in Bjork truly paid off!

<|_=00=_|>

Gene Kelly's musicals may never have tempted a tear, but this film sure did.
This is the most creative and powerful film I've seen this year. I just got
back so it will take a while to absorb where it fits in the hierarchy of
great movies, but it is one of the few 10's I have ever given on IMDB. I
went in knowing nothing other then that Bjork was the lead and that it was a
Cannes favorite, I and was rewarded greatly. I am not closed minded, but I
thought I would never again find a musical that so wrapped you up in the
emotional core of the piece, such as the musicals that I enjoyed in my
youth. Its style is experimental enough that I would be surprised if it got
a Best Film Oscar nod, but never would I be surprised for any honors
bestowed on Bjork, who torturingly WAS Selma for those two painful hours.
She is a goddess.
<|_=00=_|>

Dancer in the Dark haunted me. This film was an amazing view into the human
mind as well as a tragic story of hopeless hope, betrayal by others, and
still remaining true to yourself. Bjork produces an inspirational
performance, of which one would never think she is not primarily an actress.
Some of her moments in this film bring you to tears with their absolute
honesty. The ensemble cast are a godsend as well. Peter Stormare, Catherine
Denevue, and David Morse in particular. Morse, playing the most varied and
difficult character, succeeds with apparent ease. The only complaint I had
of the film is that it was slightly drawn out and slow paced. However, it is
still spiked with moments of surprise that knock you so hard, you are pulled
back in immediately. With an incredible closeness to these people, Dancer in
the Dark will make you think and stretch your emotions to the
limit.
<|_=00=_|>
Seriously, a 7.8 on IMDb? My wife and I got roped into this from a
fairly interesting summary: A woman losing her sight turns her reality
into musical numbers as her life spins out of control. Little did we
know that every single awful thing that happens to her is because of
her own stupidity.

Actually, I can't blame the character - I think she was losing her mind
along with her sight (it's the only explanation for her moronic
behavior) - but I sure as heck blame the director. NO ONE acts like
this Bjork character. Covering up for the guy who stole your kids eye
surgery money because he made you promise not to tell anyone about his
money problems? Even when you are on trial for his murder? Even when he
begged you to kill him because he's a scum who steals from a blind
woman? PREPOSTEROUS. I would've made the leap of illogic if she
would've sprouting wings and flew into the air. But this? Come on! 

This has to be one of the most insulting movies to the intelligence of
film audiences everywhere. All that was lacking from the forced
emotional suffering of this character was having her dog get run over
by a car because she forgot to put on the hand-brake or something.
There was no dog but I really don't know why the director didn't throw
that cheap-shot in as well. Something to do with Animal Cruelty laws in
Europe or something? It's the only explanation.

Blech, I just had to vent something about this awful film but I refuse
to go deeper. I think a quick scan of some other comments will provide
you with a body of evidence to avoid this one. The one star reviews are
the only legitimate entertainment you'll get out of this disaster.
