

I always find the idea of improvised (or semi-improvised) film making an
interesting one, even if the results themselves are disappointing, and very
rarely work (exceptions being some of the movies of Christopher Guest and
Abel Ferrara). It's a risky idea because it's a true test of an actors
talent. Some succeed and some fall flat on their faces. 'Black and White'
is
a perfect example of this, for every interesting moment involving say Ben
Stiller, or yes, Mike Tyson, there's way too many dull and rambling scenes
that go nowhere (come on down Brooke Shields and Bijou Phillips). What
makes
this movie even more frustrating is James Toback is obviously aiming for a
BIG STATEMENT regarding race relations in contemporary America, yet the
movie is so superficial and confused it ultimately says nothing much.
Toback
is a maddingly uneven film maker, but he is responsible for one of my all
time favourite movies, the sadly underrated 'Fingers', so I usually give
him
the benefit of the doubt. Unfortunately 'Black and White' is a missed
opportunity and has very little to recommend it. I suppose Toback deserves
some credit for at least attempting to do something other than mainstream
Hollywood dreck, but ultimately a crappy movie is still a crappy movie, no
matter how good the intentions. 
<|_=00=_|>

Robert Downey Jr. is fantastic in all of his 60 or so seconds in this
film. I think he is one of the best comic actors of all time.

Brooke Shields also does a spot-on amateur documentary film-maker
shtick. I didn't even recognize her in her dreadlocks in the first half
of the film. She and Downey trail a bunch of rich white high school
kids half their age, trying to be one of them as they go slumming.
Shields best moment is when she meets a recently married old friend on
the Staten Island ferry, and you feel the disparity between Shield's
refusing-to-grow-up character and her ordinary, grown-up old friend.

Downey's best moments are when he tries to pick up Mike Tyson and when
he tries to pick up one of the high school students, reprising his
character in Wonder Boys. It's too bad Hollywood has an insurance
clause against him now, because everything he does is exceedingly
knowing.

The flattest moments are the James Tolback Obligatory Sex In Central
Park scene, apparently a rehearsal for an identical one in this year's
"When will I be loved?", and in the contrived Typical Banker's Family
Dinner with the Sullenly Rebellious Daughter While The Manservant
Ladles the Soup. Please. We know Tolback has a lot of celebrity
friends; they're all in his movies. I doubt he has met a single real
banker in his life.

Also we are treated to the same flaw which is in Black and White,
namely the highly implausible plot devices that tie all of the
characters together, wherever they live in the movie and whatever their
social strata. He is a big buyer of the Deus Ex Machina.

He's also a big buyer of improvisation. In the DVD he says almost all
the films are improvised except the one where Claudia Schiffer
impersonates what one critic called "the world's most unlikely graduate
student", and another called "a surprisingly believable turn as a
faithless brainiac". Whatever. She looks hot for the most part except
towards the end where they're one outdoor shot in a riverside park
where her lips just look too big and she looks like a squeaky and
insufficiently made-up skinny yin-yang. What can you do. Her funniest
moment was the split second sitting next to and conversing with Robert
Downey Jr. when he turns to compare perfume notes with the young man
sitting next to him, and she figures out she's no longer the center of
attention and suddenly gets up and walks away. Her least likely moment
is when she is about to have sex in a bathroom with her boyfriend's
best friend. Not that the premise is unlikely: She is just too Teutonic
and awkward beneath all that prettiness to look like she's about to
tongue-wrestle with a big sweaty gangster. (Much more believable is the
news story about her I read the other day where she is applying to
private schools for her unborn child.)

Tolback cast himself as Tolback pretty much, as usual. If you're the
director, why not throw yourself a cameo? It's just a stone's throw
from there to writing in a sex scene with the lead actress, but if he
did that he'd have to write himself a lead part and then he'd be
Vincent Gallo, but he's not, he's more of a voyeur; enough to write
those Central Park scenes and shoot them in closeup with full
improvisatory rein given to the actors. Let them really get into the
moment, keep the cameras rolling.

Am I boring you with this review? Is it running on a little long? Does
it seem a little disconnected?

If you think this is bad, go see the movie.

<|_=00=_|>

Black & White: a documentary director and her husband follows several upper
middle class high school kids to try and comprehend why they have chosen to
emulate black inner city hip-hop rappers.  

What is intended to be an avante-garde-in-your-face mockumentary addressing
serious sociological issues is a weak series of loosely interconnecting
stories with poorly developed and uninteresting characters. The credits tout
many big names - Robert Downey Jr., Ben Stiller, Brooke Shields among them -
but the performances are lackluster at best: while Downey's stereotypical
fey gay character borders on offensive, he can't compare with Mike Tyson's
ludicrous attempts at philosophizing.  

At least there are no shades of grey here - it is all bad.

<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

This project should have worked. It has at least one, maybe two, good
actors, several competent ones, a couple genuine personalities and a few
committed explorers. It has a moderately interesting subject: the adoption
of middleclass white teenage rebellion modes by urban blacks and the its
exploitive encouragement by the marketing machine as `black.'

Plus, it is framed in a promising perspective: weak minds finding roles,
which gives the actors a chance to play people who are acting but don't know
it. Add to this the approach that you let those actors create their own
lines because they will be more `genuine,' an absolutely mindboggling
self-referential irony. If you go this far, you must be explicit about the
self-reference so make the film about the making of a film about the same
thing. Even double it by putting filmmaker in a role of the `recording'
boss.

More and more: make the key characters (and actors) `performers' of
different kinds: models, sports guys, a DA, a journalist, a thesiswriter, in
addition to the rappers. Turn sex into performance, not particularly
original, but helpful. (The first scene is of `performance
sex.')

This could have been a good film, even an important one in the hands of a
filmmaker who could control and shape it, someone like Tarkovsky, possibly
Soderbergh. But this guy isn't intelligent or strong enough. So we get a
jellied mess of each actor strutting about. I have oft maintained that the
actors are the last people who usually know what a project is about. The
simply have different interests and concerns than filmmakers and almost
every time you put them in control you loose.

The two actors who could have worked with the "knowingly acting a role which
is acting a role but doesn't know it" bit are wasted: Downey and Stiller are
motivated by compulsions (sex, gambling) and are out of the self-referential
mechanism.

Ted's Evaluation -- 1 of 4: You can find something better to do with this
part of your life.
<|_=00=_|>

Exploitative and depressingly awful film by James Toback about rich white
kids and their identity-seeking obsession with all things black. Toback
proudly stated that most of the actors were improvising their scenes and
dialogue; didn't he know that it only makes him look worse for letting
such
a mess go on in front of his cameras? The performances otherwise are all
good, especially from Marla Maples and Claudia Schiffer, two names I
never
thought I'd be giving praise to. Unfortunately, the film just seems to be
constantly looking for new ways to p**s you off. 
<|_=00=_|>

Well, at least that's what this movie becomes in the end.  Actually, I
couldn't finish the movie.  I got 90 minutes into it, and gave up hope that
the movie would return to its beginning.  The movie starts out good, with a
nice angry premise.  It seemed so full of venom and froth that the movie
would turn out to become a great statement about white culture, black
culture, inner city culture, middle class culture, etc.

The movie begins with a black man and two white girls having sex.  Then
jumps to show that one is middle class.  Then, in one of its greatest
moments, it has a white guy explore the difference between N-a and

N-r.  That was a priceless moment.  It adds to the fun with Brooks Shields,
and Downey (unnecessarily, but fun).  And it keeps going with
brutality.

However (There's that nasty word), the movie loses itself fairly quickly. 
It gets caught up with a basketball player being bribe to lose a game, then
blackmailed for accepting it.  It goes on, and the movie begins to have a
plot instead of a theme, which has nothing to do with the theme.  Its like,
the movie lost its way, and had nothing left to say.  I think I knew where
it was going to go with it, but it didn't go there.  Maybe it was still on
its way, I dunno.

But, in the end, the movie would have made a better episode of "Strangers
With Candy" than anything else.  It lost its way, and I wonder how it ever
got greenlighted, nevertheless had all the big stars in it.  Well, we all
make bad choices (check "Ready to wear (Pret-a-porter)"), but this one
should never have been made.

3/10 (for the beginning)
<|_=00=_|>

I rented this title because I saw Elijah Wood was casted in it, my
favorite
actor.  Make a notation that I use the word "title" rather than movie
because it isn't deserving enough to be called that.

From the very beginning to the very end it was nothing but a major
disappointment.  I had no idea that Wood would even be in a movie so bad.
I
never even knew a movie that he was in could be bad! He had very little
lines, and was the only decent character in it.

As for the film...
IT HAD ABSOLUTELY NO PLOT!! None at all.  There was no major internal
conflict, or external for that matter.(Well at least that the movie was
based on, just small disagreements).  Everyone in this film played a
static
character, making no change within the movie.  It starts off with white
kids
wishing they were black, and ends the same way.  Many small plot strands
were thrown together to make a meaningless, unsubstantial, stupid film.
It
was thought out like something a 5 year old could do, that is, a 5 year
old
with a terribly sick mind.  Even if there was a plot there was too much
swearing and cheap sex (which pertained to nothing at all in the movie) to
even get a message across.  I would rate this movie a perfect 1 on a scale
from 1-10. And I think many would agree.

These white kids were not "hip-hop culture", they were a bunch of winey
teenage posers who couldn't see how good they had it, middle class
suburbs,
so they stooped down a level where they had their own fantasy world of
being
black and from the ghetto, which they weren't either.

As for the "rappers" in the movie, their parts were thrown in for nothing.
They did nothing accept waste time on the screen.  Maybe (that's a BIG
maybe) if as much thought went into emphasizing the the white kids (whom I
thought it was about) the movie could have been semidesent.

The last 2 minutes of the film were the worst.  It ended with an
unpredictible twist that in no way pertained to anything that was seen
during the other 97.
<|_=00=_|>

Watching Robert Downey Jr. try to seduce Mike Tyson is worth the ticket
price alone, but only just.  The appropriation of black hip-hop culture by
privileged white teenagers should prove interesting ground for storytelling,
but James Toback's film is undermined by the lack of even one likeable
character.  It's very hard to care about the motivations or destinies of
people you hate.  Two pleasant surprises amongst the vignettes: Ben Stiller
can be convincing outside of trash comedy; and Claudia Schiffer can actually
act.
<|_=00=_|>
The idea of the movie sounds interesting, white kids who imitate black
hip-hop culture, but that's it. Toback is a 60 year old man who doesn't
anything about the youth at the time this movie was made, and was
simply trying to cash in on the hip hop craze. With the help of Wu-Tang
clan. We have a series of vignettes ,where these characters interact.
Few scenes are memorable like Robert Downey trying to pick up Mike
Tyson or Claudia Schiffer's ramblings. But many parts have simply to
much holes in the plot,..oh wait, there is no plot, just htese
vignettes.

This movie is racist. Blacks are all thugs, rapper, who want to have
sex with white women and smoke weed. All whites are losers, posers and
have no personality. There are no Hispanic nor Asian characters, even
though it's supposed to be New York. They are no Black females either.
Kidada Jones plays Power's love interest, but her character seemed
Puerto-Rican to me, and in real life she is biracial. The threesome in
the park seemed odd,..who the f*** has sex in Central Park in broad
daylight? Can't they go to a motel room? Power is supposed to have
money. I'm not from New York, I'm from Miami and the only public place
I know people have sex at is a beach at night, but Central Park? Is
Claudia Schiffer's character a psycho? she gets her boyfriend killed by
his best buddy, whom she later hooks up with. She is evil incarnate.
What would she find in Ben Stiller? She is several inches taller. and
even her character is a feminist, she ends up with Mike Tyson? 

Rent this movie only to make fun of the idiocy of Toback, and the
stereotypes.
<|_=00=_|>
I am not sure what this movie was trying to portray, whether it was
white kids wanting to act black, or life stories of black hip hop
artists/basketball players living in new york. If it was trying to
display both it made a total mess of it.

No story in the film was shown in depth, out of the all star cast only
Brooke shields, Robert Downey Jr and Mike Tyson shone. Nice to see
Claudia Schieffer on screen, she can act but her part in this film is
awful. I became bored from listening to one constant hip hop song after
another as well as the black rapper actors speaking in an
unintelligible language which made the film even more confusing then it
was before. The only highlights of the film for me was Robert Downey Jr
confessing to his wife he is gay at the end, and Mike Tyson giving
advice to a young rapper (he doesn't just box!) Anyways in my opinion,
terrible, but if you got time to waste then perhaps watch it.
