
Who said all movie series become worse with every installment? Lethal
Weapon 4 is probably the best fourth movie in a series ever. I find it
incredible that the magic is still there. The main characters still
feed of each other and their friendship (both on set and off set) is
clearly felt in every scene they have together. Mel Gibson has finally
laid the ghost of his wife to rest and is as chipper as ever. He does
this without seeming truly obnoxious (even though that is a part of his
character). In fact he seems more likable in this film than he did in
all the previous films. Danny Glover reprises his role from the
previous movies and that is not a bad thing because the Murtaugh role
is the best of his career. Rene Ruso returns in her part and although
it has been cut down considerably its still a decent role. Joe Pesci is
also back and this time around he gets to add some depth to the
character (something that was missing in the previous film). Chris Rock
is decent. He isn't much of an actor but he is pretty funny and fresh.
His part also adds a little something to the all-round comedy of the
film, but if you want to know what it is you will have to watch the
movie yourself. Jet Li is the villain in this movie and while he is the
weakest villain in the series acting wise, he is definitely the most
menacing.

The action is still brilliant despite the fact that the actors are
getting older. The story is decent for a fourth film and the overall
execution is brilliant. I actually prefer this film to the second and
third of the series because I find it to be more entertaining overall.
It cuts down on the seriousness (even though its still there) and adds
a lot to the comedy and this is a very good choice.

All in all an excellent film. Highly recommendable for all fans of
action movies and the series in particular.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is the end of a series which spanned almost two decades.

This time around Riggs (Gibson) is facing three very personal problems.
1) Age is catching up to him, 2) his g/f is pregnant and he's facing
being a daddy, and 3) he's facing the dilemma of wanting to remarry.
Also, Murtaugh (Glover) is about to be a grand-daddy to a baby by his
oldest daughter, and she is secretly married to Detective Butters
(Chris Rock), which everyone is keeping a secret from him.

Add to this the fact that both they are now taking on one of the most
powerful crime syndicates in the world, the Chinese Triads, in an
effort to stop slave trading and money laundering. The task of a bad
guy this time goes to Jet Li, who made his American debut (atleast from
an American Film Company) in this movie. Yes, this is the movie which
launched him here in the states, and he deserved it.

This movie is as good as the rest of them, though nothing beats part 2
in my opinion. Lethal Weapon 4 really hits home on a lot of subjects,
such as facing responsibility, to coming to terms with who you are. And
it ended the series in a way that makes you smile and love it even
more.

I give it a 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
OK... so the language is gratuitous. Just having Chris Rock on set put
it over the top. But his acting aside, I thought this was a worthy
addition to one of the best cop/buddy series around. It was enjoyable
to see the characters we love deal with the inevitabilities of aging
and the fierce loyalty of friendship. Some of the mystery is gone and
it feels like a pair of comfortable shoes. But aren't those shoes your
favorite ones? It was interesting to see the development of Lorna and
Riggs' relationship, as well as the growing up of the Murtaugh kids. It
makes you feel like you're catching up with old friends at a reunion!
Plenty of action and the incredible work of Jet Li make this movie a
favorite at my house. Overall, a great wrap-up to the series and a lot
of fun for long time fans. Worth seeing! If the language is a real
issue, watch for it on TNT and enjoy the edited version.
<|_=00=_|>

There are some movies where you get sick and tired of sequels, but the
Lethal Weapon series isn't one of them, all are full of action and humor,
with Chris Rock and Joe Pesci. Lethal Weapon 4 has some awesome sequences of
action and lots of explosions, guns, blood, fighting, and everything you
would expect out of a action flick. I seen a lot of action movies this ranks
up there with the best I have seen, well worth your money.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, the script in the film is brilliant. Joe Pesci, as always, makes
the crowd laugh until they have tears in their eyes. Just by having
Chris Rock in the cast makes the film worthy of watching. Just like the
other lethal weapon films, there's the great duo that makes this film
shine, and of course that i am talking about Mel Gibson and Danny
Glover. My favorite part of the movie is where Joe Pesci has a little
"argument" with Danny Glover, and the constant mistakes by Mel saying
the name of Cris Rock's character are hilarious. The roof top jumping
and the last fight with Jet Li was also great. So if you haven't seen
this, get some some money from your parents and go and rent it!!!
<|_=00=_|>

By this point in the series, it seems that they just aren't trying as hard
with these films, which is kind of a shame. The Lethal Weapon series is
really a good group of action films, but part 4 doesn't really seem to take
itself seriously. It clearly had the biggest budget and probably some of the
most elaborate stunts and action scenes (as well as some of the most
exciting, such as that thrilling freeway chase scene), but many of the other
elements of the film have deteriorated badly. 

I think that with the addition of Chris Rock, while he delivered a
satisfactory performance as far as the role that he was playing, caused the
film to detract into too much goofy comedy, which unnecessarily diverted
attention away from the surprisingly interesting smuggling plot involving
illegal Chinese immigrants and counterfeit money. Joe Pesci was just as
funny as ever, which is probably the reason the Chris Rock actually took
away from the film as a whole. Pesci is all the comic relief that a Lethal
Weapon movie ever needed, and Rock is another substantial addition of comic
relief that just isn't necessary. 

Danny Glover and Mel Gibson work great together for the fourth time; I'm
beginning to wonder if they couldn't go on with this great duo forever. And
of course, Renee Russo is back, with her and Riggs picking up with their
quirky relationship, right where they left off at the end of part 3. But the
person who really steals the whole show is Jet Li. Man, I thought Jackie
Chan was fun to watch! Even though it's not all exactly real, this guy pulls
out some unbelievable martial arts moves that give Lethal Weapon 4 a
much-needed boost of energy. I wonder how long it will be before Jet Li and
Jackie Chan come out with a movie together. Probably never, because if they
worked together, no one could touch them, and if they were enemies, neither
of them would be able to end up as the loser or the bad guy. Oh well, we can
still hope, right? Even though the 4th installment in the Lethal Weapon
series is not nearly as good as any of the previous three, it still remains
a quality action film, despite its many weaknesses. 
<|_=00=_|>

It is extremely rare for the fourth film in a series to be just as good as
it's three predecessors. Lethal Weapon 4 was awesome.

Mel Gibson and Danny Glover had no trouble recreating the magic from the
first three films. The humour was there, the action was there and the
chemistry between them was there. Joe Pesci was back as Leo
Getz.

Lethal Weapon 3 was released in 1992, Lethal Weapon 4 was released in 1998.
Six years had passed yet none of the actors or production staff involved in
Lethal Weapon 4 had any problem in making a great movie.

The action throughout is brilliant (are real American policemen as mad as
Riggs and Murtaugh?). And of course the humour is there; particularly the
beginning of the movie where Murtaugh (Danny Glover) strips down to his
underwear in the rain and acts like a chicken in order to distract the bad
guy. There are other humorous scenes throughout and a great plot
too.

Roll on Lethal Weapon 5.


<|_=00=_|>
Lethal Weapon 4 starts out with a boring and ridiculous beginning. I
remember watching it the first time and thinking, "oh no, another bad
sequel."

However, once past the first ten minutes, the film starts to pick up
its pace and retreat into familiar Lethal Weapon style.

Just like film 2 and 3, Lethal Weapon 4 isn't as good as the original,
but it never gets to the point of unbearable. It is quite entertaining
and fun to watch, with some very great actors, that have some very
great chemistry between each other.

Mel Gibson and Danny Glover fit like a glove, and Joe Pesci is perfect
as the comedy relief, not being like the recent "side kicks" we always
see, that are so obnoxious we want to punch them. Mr. Pesci is a very
talented actor, and he always makes me laugh, whether it's Lethal
Weapon 4 or Raging Bull and Casino.

Rene Russo provides Mel's love interest yet again, and though I found
the marriage thing a bit of a throw-in, it was still good for the
story. It provided some laughs at the end of the film.

Chris Rock stars in one role where his character is not completely
annoying or loudmouthed, mainly because he wasn't extremely famous yet,
and had only been on SNL and a few small roles in film... Joes Pesci
and him throw back and forth a few insults and jokes, and bounce off
each other, which helps me welcom Rock a bit more.

Jet Li's first American film, I believe, proves he can be a quite and
intriguing character, which later helped him get roles in films like
Kiss of the Dragon and The One.

Another thing about this franchise is that director Richard Donner
directed all four films, and it's always good to use the original
director for a sequel, rather than a lesser director, as we have
countless examples of. (especially horror films!)

From the opening jazz music we have come to love, Lethal Weapon
provides enough entertainment and fun to keep one entertained, and it's
definitely worth watching. I hope they stop while they're ahead, and do
not make another Lethal Weapon film, because it's rare for a film
series to still be entertaining and imaginative after these many
sequels. 3/5 stars-
<|_=00=_|>
Lethal Weapon 4 is an excellent,entertaining Action-packed and
hilarious conclusion to the Lethal Weapon series that is filled with
great direction,exciting Action,a memorable villain and a great score.
Although not as good as the first three films,Lethal Weapon 4 is an
Action to watch if you liked the first three Lethal Weapon's.

Lethal Weapon 4 finds Riggs(Mel Gibson) and Murtaugh(Danny
Glover)having to deal with Chinese criminals including a deadly
criminal named Wah Sing Ku(Jet Li)who are smuggling Chinese slaves into
the United States and have to stop them. With the help of new partner
Lee Butters(Chris Rock)Riggs and Murtaugh have to deal with the Chinese
criminals as well as Riggs becoming a parent,Murtaugh becoming a
Grandfather and getting old and the gang is all back for more laughs
and thrills.

Lethal Weapon 4 is a Action-packed and funny conclusion to the Lethal
Weapon franchise and every main character is back. Every franchise or
film series comes full circle and the Lethal Weapon series is no
exception and the Lethal Weapon series goes out with a bang with this
film. Now,Lethal Weapon 4 since it's release has divided fans with some
loving the film and some hating the film,I fall right into the former
category because I liked this film and the other Lethal Weapon films
for what they are:thrilling,Action filled,funny movies. Right from the
explosive opening Lethal Weapon 4 is a film filled with Action and
great laughs taking what worked in the first three films and adding it
to this film. LW4 is funny and is probably the lightest of the films in
terms of Comedy and Humor with the characters Riggs,Murtaugh,Leo and
Butters and the moments and dialog between the characters is hilarious
and memorable. While LW4 is an Action-Comedy the film at it's heart is
about getting old and change especially with Riggs and Murtaugh because
Riggs and Murtaugh have been through a lot of things throughout the
series getting into crazy adventures and even though the two have
survived and had success Riggs and Murtaugh realize that they are not
getting any younger and success won't come as fast. The change comes
when Riggs realizes he's going to be Father with Lorna Cole(Rene
Russo)and Murtaugh being a GrandFather of Rianne's(Traci Wolfe)and
realize they can't be cops and take risks forever. Each sequel
introduces new characters throughout the series. In LW2 it was Leo
Getz,in LW3 it was Lorna Cole and in this film it is Lee Butters and
Wah Sing Ku. Lee Butters is a character who works with Riggs and
Murtaugh and brings laughs and one liners and is the opposite of Riggs
and Murtaugh and is the new generation of cop. The character will
divide viewers some will like him and find him funny while others will
feel that Butters doesn't belong in the film but I like the character
for his laughs and loudmouth energy. The villain Wah Sing Ku is pure
evil and is physically the most challenging bad guy Riggs and Murtaugh
have ever have to face because Wah Sing Ku is so quick and can take
your head in one second without hesitation and he doesn't have to say
much words because he is that menacing. Every time Wah Sing Ku shows up
a there is tension all around and you will feel like something is going
to happen when Wah Sing Ku is around. LW4 like the other films moves at
a wonderful pace and never slows down until the end. The Action and
fight scenes are great and each Action scene is raised to a higher
level each time and there is suspense and nice build up to each Action
scene. The ending of the film is excellent because it is filled
wonderful Action,Laughs and heart and will have viewers smiling at the
end and it is a great cap off to this excellent series.

The cast does amazing jobs in their roles. Mel Gibson and Danny Glover
do excellent jobs one last time as Riggs and Murtaugh once again having
great chemistry. Joe Pesci is hilarious once again as Leo Getz and has
great scenes with Gibson,Glover and Rock. Rene Russo is fantastic as
Lorna Cole and has good scenes with Gibson. Chris Rock is great and
funny as Riggs and Murtaugh's new partner Detective Lee Butters. Jet Li
is menacing and believable as Wah Sing Ku,one of the villains of the
film. Kim Chan is wonderful as Benny "Uncle Benny" Chan,a Chinese crime
boss. Steve Kahan(Capt. Ed Murphy), Mary Ellen Trainor(Dr. Stephanien
Woods),Darlene Love(Trish Murtaugh),Traci Wolfe(Rianne Murtaugh),Damon
Hines(Nick Murtaugh),Ebonie Smith(Carrie Murtaugh)and Eddy Ko(Hong)give
good performances as well.

The direction by Richard Donner is excellent,with Donner always moving
the camera and giving the film a great pace and energy especially with
the Action scenes. Great direction,Donner.

The score by Eric Clapton,Michael Kamen and David Sandborn is great and
intense and matches the tone of this film. Another great score from
Clapton,Kamen and Sandborn. There are also songs by War(Why Can't We Be
Friends)and Eric Clapton(Pligrim). Wonderful songs.

In final word,if you love Action films and the Lethal Weapon franchise
you will love Lethal Weapon 4,an Action-packed,hilarious conclusion to
a great series that is well worth your time. Highly Recommended.
9.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

So many people have knocked this film, I guess they have forgotten what
movies are all about. Loud, action sequences, and humor mixed in for two
or
more hours of entertainment. The more characters they add also adds to the
completion. After all fans noticed that Rianne had a crush on Martin Riggs
in the first movie. As the movies went on, each new Lethal showed that was
a
harmless crush. Martin Riggs who lost his wife because he was a cop, is
afraid of getting married again for fear of losing Lorna. My favorite
portion is seeing that Martin Riggs after so many times of being the tough
hero, needs Roger Murtaugh at the finale to finish the battle. Also you
finally see the clenching speech,given by who else Leo Getz, that makes
Martin run for the altar with Lorna. Lethal Weapon was the start of a
partnership, when they were paired together. Lethal 2 built on that
relationship, when Riggs admitted some things he never said before( you
find
out more about Victoria Riggs death). Lethal 3 tested it, when Murtaugh
was
going to retire and his kid's friend was killed by him. Lethal Weapon 4
finally made it a family, by well you just have to watch this to see and
hear the ultimate ending line to a film. All in all a great movie to
watch.

