

Anthony Mingheller's astounding film cleverly sweeps the audience into
the
horrors of war at its beginning.  He then introduces his two principle
characters who would gradually move the audience into their world wrought
by
war and hardship. We watch as the characters begin to unravel their
internal
tortures and their need to subdue their isolation to face their regrets
and
hope for the future.  This is an absolutely fabulous movie that portrays
the
stunning performances of its stellar cast of actors and the overwhelming
raw
landscapes that are kept in sync with their events and moods.  Observe
the
stages of emotional changes in the characters. So amazingly and
magnificently captured at different camera angles, from scene to scene
against the cold, mountainous countryside!

This film isn't throwing off longwinded dialogue and lengthy physical
encounters between Jude Law's Inman and Nicole Kidman's Ada to reveal the
meeting of two souls searching for a meaningful existence.  Yep, it's
that
brief and silent stare of Inman as he confronts the graciously low-keyed,
prim and proper Ada that explicitly puts their sensory awareness of each
other so powerfully on screen.  As the events flow, I was completely
mesmerized by the Inman character watching him transcend to his sense of
isolation and his developing disillusion with his world. On the other
hand,
I couldn't take my eyes off the immaculately well-bred and gorgeous Ada
as
she succumbs into a scrawny hapless damsel in complete distress.  It's
fascinating to watch the couple adapt to situations beyond their control
and
to study the emotional and behavioral attitudes of two human beings
altering
at such opposing magnitude as a result of one war.  Observe how the once
popular Inman slips into desolation in the battlefield, becoming even
more
tormented from his world as he meets up with some very strange
characters.
Will he ever find solace with these characters, or with Ada at the end?
Will Ada, while feeling alienated from her new abode, at the beginning of
the film and with the death of her father, be able to battle her
insecurity
to become spiritually enlightened and physically capable with the help of
her new acquaintances?  Is she able to embraces what the farmland has to
offer her? And will Inman be capable of escaping what the gruesome
battlefield has come to mean to him?  This film lays out an enormous
ground
for the examination of the effects a war on different individuals.

The film continues to remind the audience that Ada and Inman are bound
together by their haunting memories of one another.  That, indeed, is
beautifully captured by the expressions on Law and Kidman's faces. The
symbolisms, throughout the film, are plentiful and brilliantly ascribed,
allowing the audience to join the dots to the destinies of the couple.
Even
crows, clearly suggesting doom and destruction, never fail to demonstrate
the dark instincts that trouble a man's soul. And those women Inman meets
in
his journey seem to trigger the expectation of the audience to see him
drawing closer to the woman he loves and to home.  Even these characters,
encountered by Inman, provide a picture of how different people react to
the
war. But will war ultimately bring peace and safety to its protagonists?
This film is a masterpiece that will provide much food for thought.

Renee Zwellweger is phenomenal in her boisterously loud 'Ruby' role. She
brings another aspect of the American woman that's so different in
breeding
from Kidman's Ada.  Both are educated in their different cultural way of
life.  What can Ada learn from Ruby, the frontier woman who sees the
'hands
and knees' toiling as the only way of survival in her community?
Zwellweger
provides the comic relief that's much needed for this powerfully intense
film.  She's superb in her role as the beacon of strength and hope for
injecting a meaningful existence of living. Unlike the soldiers or the
hypocritical Home Guard authorities that use guns to destroy their
enemies,
Ruby uses her hands-on skills to beat the odds of survival. It's
uncannily
delightful to watch her interacting with Kidman's character. She, Law and
Kidman are definitely worthy of being recipients of the Oscar statuettes.
They exhibit their superb non-stop performing talents in this film with
their onscreen appearances. The Q&A session with Brendon Gleeson (who
plays
Ruby's father), has prompted me to want to go see this movie again - to
watch closely how the strength of the film's womenfolk can make a
difference
to the human beings' survival instincts.  I want to study again how
hellish
wars are for destroying and crippling, not only the physical, but the
mental
aspects of the masculine race.  And Gleeson does drive home an
interesting
question: When these mountain folks `volunteer' to fight a war, how come
they should be penalized as deserters if they were to decide to opt out
of
it?

This film is a MUST-SEE. It's beautifully crafted, assembled, and
absolutely
mesmerizing in all aspects of filmmaking techniques and style. The music
score and soundtracks are so appropriate locked into the events and the
moods of the characters. And the film's title? It does project its
allegorical appeal.

A+

<|_=00=_|>
'War movie' is a Hollywood genre that has been done and redone so many
times that clichéd dialogue, rehashed plot and over-the-top action
sequences seem unavoidable for any conflict dealing with large-scale
combat. Once in a while, however, a war movie comes along that goes
against the grain and brings a truly original and compelling story to
life on the silver screen. The Civil War-era "Cold Mountain," starring
Jude Law, Nicole Kidman and Renée Zellweger is such a film.

Then again, calling Cold Mountain" a war movie is not entirely
accurate. True enough, the film opens with a (quite literally)
quick-and-dirty battle sequence that puts "Glory" director Edward Zwick
shame. However, "Cold Mountain" is not so much about the Civil War
itself as it is about the period and the people of the times. The story
centers around disgruntled Confederate soldier Inman, played by Jude
Law, who becomes disgusted with the gruesome war and homesick for the
beautiful hamlet of Cold Mountain, North Carolina and the equally
beautiful southern belle he left behind, Ada Monroe, played by Nicole
Kidman. At first glance, this setup appears formulaic as the romantic
interest back home gives the audience enough sympathy to root for the
reluctant soldier's tribulations on the battlefield. Indeed, the
earlier segments of the film are relatively unimpressive and even
somewhat contrived.

"Cold Mountain" soon takes a drastic turn, though, as the intrepid hero
Inman turns out to be a deserter (incidentally saving the audience from
the potentially confusing scenario of wanting to root for the
Confederates) and begins a long odyssey homeward. Meanwhile, back at
the farm, Ada's cultured ways prove of little use in the fields; soon
she is transformed into something of a wilderbeast. Coming to Ada's
rescue is the course, tough-as-nails Ruby Thewes, played by Renée
Zellweger, who helps Ada put the farm back together and, perhaps more
importantly, cope with the loneliness and isolation the war seems to
have brought upon Ada.

Within these two settings, a vivid, compelling and, at times, very
disturbing portrait of the war-torn South unfolds. The characters with
whom Inman and Ada interact are surprisingly complex, enhanced by
wonderful performances of Brendan Gleeson as Ruby's deadbeat father,
Ray Winstone as an unrepentant southern "lawman," and Natalie Portman
as a deeply troubled and isolated young mother. All have been greatly
affected and changed by "the war of Northern aggression," mostly for
the worse. The dark, pervading anti-war message, accented by an
effective, haunting score and chillingly beautiful shots of Virginia
and North Carolina, is communicated to the audience not so much by
gruesome battle scenes as by the scarred land and traumatized people
for which the war was fought. Though the weapons and tactics of war
itself have changed much in the past century, it's hellish effect on
the land is timelessly relevant.

Director Anthony Minghella manages to maintain this gloomy mood for
most of the film, but the atmosphere is unfortunately denigrated by a
rather tepid climax that does little justice to the wonderfully formed
characters. The love story between Inman and Ada is awkwardly tacked
onto the beginning and end of the film, though the inherently distant,
abstracted and even absurd nature of their relationship in a way fits
the dismal nature of the rest of the plot.

Make no mistake, "Cold Mountain" has neither the traits of a feel-good
romance nor an inspiring war drama. It is a unique vision of an era
that is sure not only to entertain but also to truly absorb the
audience into the lives of a people torn apart by a war and entirely
desperate to be rid of its terrible repercussions altogether.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie moved me more than I was expecting, and I was fully prepared
to cry. The acting mainly carried this film, with superb performances
from Jude Law, Nicole Kidman and Renee Zellweger, as well as the
supporting cast. These actors portrayed characters so intensely human
that they lingered the remainder of the night with me, and I had
trouble shaking this war drama. The costumes and cinematography were
also magical, but didn't get carried away with themselves. They didn't
take focus, but added to the whole effect. Cold Mountain could never
become my favorite movie, as that title will always belong to The
English Patient, but it's in the top five. The story itself was well
developed, and stayed fairly unpredictable. I did not find myself
guessing what line came next. A heart-wrenching story about humanity
and war. In fact, this movie was so strongly real that it was barely
noticeable it took place in the 19th century. It seemed to apply to all
times.
<|_=00=_|>
There are a couple of things wrong with this episodic, rather sweeping
film, but not enough to destroy it. Fortunately, the good outweighs the
bad enough to make it worthwhile viewing. Law plays a shy, but
thoughtful young man in Cold Mountain, NC. When the local minister's
daughter (Kidman) moves to town, he is immediately taken with her and
they share a few very brief, very stifled moments (including an
impromptu kiss) before he leaves to fight in the Civil War. (An opening
battle scene is so intense that the impact of it literally tears the
clothes off one participant!) As they each experience great change,
disappointment and destruction, it is their longing for each other that
keeps them going. He can't wait to get back to her and she can't wait
for him to come back. As Law treks across the southeastern coast, he
comes upon a wide variety of opponents and allies. These are all played
with great skill by a terrific gallery of solid, semi-name actors
(Hoffman, Ribisi, Portman, Atkins, etc......) Meanwhile, Kidman faces
the end of her gentle existence and almost existence itself until a
scrappy, brassy local girl steps in to rescue her. Zellweger plays this
feisty, mouthy girl, using every ounce of her acting prowess. The pair
must fend off an opportunistic home guardsman played by a slimy
Winstone. The film lurches forward with the all-important reunion
moment dangling in front of the viewers like a carrot on a stick. It is
solely due to the acting talent and intense chemistry of the stars and
not the sketchy, spotty script that this moment carries any dramatic
weight at all. Somehow, Law and Kidman manage the impossible, which is
to create a romance and desire for one another that is never properly
developed on the screen. They are forced to create everything through
their expressions and body language and do just that. As good as they
are, they are almost completely overtaken by the surprisingly wondrous
and intriguing work of Zellweger. Her welcome dash of vinegar and
bluntness is a perfect counterpoint for the dewy and sensitive lovers.
Also, of particular note is another surprise - the downright striking
job that Portman does as a lonely widow and mother. She outdoes herself
in this brief role. As a matter of fact, nearly every performance in
the film is excellent. The one exception is the horribly anachronistic
and inexplicable presence of the peroxide blonde henchman to Winstone.
His punk-rock, eyelinered look and shopping-mall line delivery remove
the viewer from the already tenuous time period whenever he's on
screen. (And is it ever stated why someone his age isn't IN the war??)
That's one other problem. There is very little period feel to this
film. It always seems like the actors are playing with clothes they
found at Western Costume with their make up done by Ben Nye. Kidman's
hair, while lovely, is absolutely ridiculous. It distracts from and
detracts from scenes very often. Ditto her make up. One key scene near
the end is a close up and her heavy mascara and shadow grey/purple
eyeshadow (masterfully applied by those Hollywood wizards) turn what
should have been an agonizing emotional moment into "Barbie Does the
Civil War". Zellweger does better in the make-up department, though her
chemically-whitened teeth do not go very far in suggesting her
character's background. Her deliberately tousled hair is also a problem
at times, but nowhere near the level of Kidman's. These are quibbles in
light of the bigger problem which is an overriding predictability. Even
to one who has never read the book, there is no doubt as to the ending
of the film. There is very little room for surprise and what there is
of that is telegraphed again and again. So the audience is left
watching a 2-1/2 hour film with a foregone conclusion. (And this
sometimes meandering work was originally FIVE hours long!) The amount
of footage left on the cutting room floor makes for some uncomfortable
continuity (such as when a character is tortured and watches 3 family
members slaughtered and is next seen smilingly dancing a Christmas
jig!) Nevertheless, the romance and beauty of the film still delivers
and there is no doubt that Kidman is a MOVIE STAR. She glows and
glistens and has every accommodation made to her. Even her old riding
coat looks runway perfect. Law is achingly beautiful in the early
scenes, but delivers a sincere, dedicated performance in spite of his
physical features (which are all but buried as it wears on.)
<|_=00=_|>
A strongly acted and always interesting portrait of the hardships that
came with the American Civil War, not only for soldiers but for those
who did not fight too. The times are portrayed well, with sets and
costumes that cannot be faulted. What can be flawed in the film however
is the central romance, which is without much spark or realism. But all
the action surrounding the romance is great, with some good-natured
humorous touches, wonderful supporting characters and the perfect
picture overall of life during the American Civil War. The cast is
superb, with Zellweger in particular undergoing a superb transformation
from her typical roles. The film is generally well written and well
directed by Minghella, so that in spite of a lackluster romance, the
film is still a captivating and entertaining watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Anthony Minghela's (writer/director) Cold Mountain is a carefully
constructed, sensitive, and intelligent drama set in the social context
of the confederacy during the civil war. It deals with the politics of
the war in a very subtle and realistic manner. While it accurately
depicts the brutality and inhumanity of that war, it also does
something that many films related to this period do not handle
effectively - Cold Mountain studies the southern context from the
inside out, and portrays changes among the non-slave owning common
people wrought by the war. Almost uniquely, Cold Mountain does not
over-generalize southerners, northerners or anybody else.

The film surfs through genres as needed - never presenting a dull
moment. It is a romance, a war story, an action-adventure and
historical fiction, all nicely woven into one.

The story centers on Inman (Jude Law) and Ada Monroe (Nicole Kidman),
who are smitten with each other for very simple reasons. As this young
romance begins to bud, Inman enlists in the confederate army, taking
with him a book Ada has given him and a photograph of her. Ada's
character is one of the most brilliant aspects of the film, which is
important because the audience experiences this film from a third
person perspective, but the story is clearly hers from the beginning to
the end. Ada is an intelligent southern belle and daughter of a liberal
minister. She begins the film as a daddy's girl skilled in many of the
arts that southern women who have been surrounded by servants most of
their lives were expected to learn. In other words, as she admits to
Ruby Thewes (Renee Zellweger), she is a master of everything useless.

Ada's father passes on, and she is left to manage his modest estate by
herself. With no experience of this sort, she struggles, and survives
by holding the memory of Inman close to her heart. Ruby enters the
picture as a tough young woman who has been raised by a drunk and
negligent father. Ruby has all the skills and abilities Ada lacks, and
as they become inseparable business partners, they grow to love one
another as best friends. Inman's experience is radically different, but
something of a mirror image. During his participation in the war, he
sees many friends killed for causes they don't really believe in, and
decides to desert. Nobody he meets comes to his rescue as he begins the
thousand mile walk back to Cold Mountain and Ada, and most of those he
meets die.

The bulk of the film takes place during Inman's long walk, following
both of the protagonists as they live, learn, grow and change. An
on-going act of will borne of desperation preserves their intense
passionate love. For Inman, it is his only source of hope in a world of
pure desperation. For Ada, it is very much the same thing, but also a
symbol and remnant of the old south - a world which is rapidly passing.

The cinematography is powerful and breathtaking. There are beautiful
shots of Appalachian landscapes which give the film a strong sense of
history. The script and editing are also extremely strong - emphasizing
the broad class and educational differences reflected in the ante
bellum southern dialects of the middle and lower classes. With the cast
of this film, nothing short of perfection should be expected. And the
cast, mostly, rises to the occasion. My one criticism, however, relates
to the accents adopted by Kidman and Law's characters. An Australian
and a Brit probably should not be expected to accurately reproduce
southern American speech, but there are a few occasions where these two
exceptionally gifted actors produce distracting vocal slips. I admit my
oversensitivity to this, and can say with some confidence that it won't
bother most people. Zellweger's performance is outstanding and she
creates a character I will remember into my senescence.

Very highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
(Minor spoilers in this post)

Cold Mountain's greatest flaw may have been its wrong-headed promotion
as a great one-on-one love story. It is more a revelation of people,
place and time.

We avoided the theatrical release, because of the Law-Kidman romance
that was promised (just another date movie...), then I read the Charles
Frazier book. Oh. Think again.

The film is nearly true to the novel. If anything, Minghella felt
compelled to make more of Ada and Inman's budding romance before the
war. "I-I don't know you" is spoken several times in voiced letters and
at the end in the film. In the novel, they didn't know each other at
all: three awkward meetings and one fumbled kiss.

But, as happens in real life, Inman and Ada felt something was possible
... then their worlds were overturned. Minghella is true to Frazier in
the bulk of the story.

Ada is a photo that Inman carries, but she really represents HOME: Cold
Mountain, his real love. A return to sanity from the insanity of mass
murder.

Inman is a photo that Ada keeps. He is a glimpse into the rural life
she began to appreciate after her unhappy girlhood in the crinolines
and parasols of Charleston. Her scholarly father was her one true
friend. His early death left her completely alone, neither fish nor
fowl.

Until kindly Sally Swanger (Kathy Baker) sends Ruby Thewes (Renée Z)
over to kill that floggin' rooster, and shows her how to survive.

Maybe that's what disappoints many formula love-story critics. Law and
Kidman are apart for nearly the entire film. Ruby and Ada get that
place a-workin' -- just enough to last the winters at first, but
functioning. Ada doesn't pine for Inman; in her letters she is caring,
then as times get worse, she is very strong: "If you are fighting, stop
fighting. If you are marching, stop marching. Come home. Come home to
Cold Mountain. That is my request."

Another frequent complaint is that Cold Mountain is "episodic". Yeah,
it is. That's the structure of the novel. Inman's desperate journey is
another retelling of Homer's Odyssey - and that was THE love story of
the ages, more than Romeo and Juliet.

This is a story of the War Between The States, but one that looks
beyond the the glory and horror of Gettysburg, Antietam and Manassas.
This ain't "Gods and Generals" ... this is about a few ordinary people
in an obscure corner of America. Inman's journey is a way of revealing
how that war's evil claws reached the most innocent folks. And turned a
few of them unspeakably cruel.

Perhaps Frazier and Minghella did not intend to remind us, but their
story was echoed in 1990's Bosnia; and too many other places today.

Cold Mountain: the Frazier novel curled all my toes with its poetry,
suspense and aching love of the mountains. Minghella earns two of my
thumbs and a few toes for getting it on film.

10/10 for the book; 8.5/10 for the movie.
<|_=00=_|>

There are so many good things to praise in COLD MOUNTAIN that it pains me to
say that staying with it to the very end is sometimes difficult because it
drags in spots and some of the story-telling techniques are awkwardly
staged.

Nothing but kudos for the casting. Nicole Kidman and Jude Law are in top
form--with Law hiding his good looks most of the time under beard, stubble
or mud. Renee Zellweger makes us understand why she won the Best Supporting
Actress Oscar for her role as the tough but tender-hearted Ruby.
Cinematography and background score are tops.

By the time the two lovers have been reunited for the finale, much has
happened in the way of showing how war brutalizes men. Anthony Minghella
doesn't flinch from showing the harsh realities of battle and then switching
to scenes of pastoral splendor on the home front. 

It's a film in which all the ingredients are put together with exceptional
craftsmanship. So much so, that you wish the script had been a little
stronger to make the two hours and thirty-four minutes more absorbing.
Unfortunately, it tends to take too long to tell a tale that lacks the power
of holding interest once it gets past the midway point.

Nevertheless, anyone interested in the Civil War period will find this a
meticulous work as far as costumes, settings and use of folk music is
concerned. 

But be warned: This bittersweet romance at times is downright depressing and
the gritty war scenes (and the brutality of certain Yankee soldiers) are
about as graphic as such battle scenes usually get. The overall feeling is
one of awe that so much has been accomplished and yet there is something
unsatisfying about the tale itself.


<|_=00=_|>

In Cold Mountain, North Colorado, near to the period of the American
Civil War, the Reverend Monroe (Donald Sutherland) arrives in the small
town with his daughter, the shy Ada Monroe (Nicole Kidman), due to
health reasons. Ada meets the also shy Inman (Jude Law), and they fall
in love with each other. With the beginning of the war, Inman becomes a
soldier, and his great support to stay alive is the wish to see Ada in
Cold Mountain again. Meanwhile, Ada meets Ruby Thewes (Renée
Zellweger), a survivor of the war, who helps her in the farm and
becomes her best friend. The story alternates present and past
situations, disclosing a beautiful romance. I liked this film a lot.
Having names such as Philip Seymour Hoffman, Natalie Portman and
Giovanni Ribisi in the supporting cast, a magnificent direction of
Anthony Minghella and seven indications to the Oscar, this movie does
not disappoint. My remark is that there are some very important scenes
deleted in the story and presented in the DVD. At least one of them,
which show what happens with Sara, her baby and the three dead bodies
in her farm, should not be deleted as it was. My vote is nine.

Title (Brazil): 'Cold Mountain'

<|_=00=_|>
Cold Mountain is directed by Anthony Minghella who also adapts to
screenplay from Charles Frazier's novel of the same name. It stars Jude
Law, Nicole Kidman, Renée Zellweger, Eileen Atkins, Kathy Baker,
Brendan Gleeson, Phillip Seymour Hoffman, Ray Winstone and Natalie
Portman.Music is scored by Gabriel Yared and cinematography by John
Seale. Plot finds Law as W.P. Inman, a wounded deserter from the
Confederate army who is trying to make his way back to North Carolina
to rekindle a fledgling romance with Ada Monroe (Kidman). 

This is Minghella's world and the American Civil War movie gets a
double shot in the arm as Cold Mountain not only deals in the home
front, but also in the perilous life of the soldier. Add into the mix a
fire cracker of an opening, a central romance and an array of expertly
drawn characters, and it's safe to say that Minghella's film is not
only epic in production, but also in story telling. In essence the film
is about love, friendships and learning to cope under the most trying
of circumstances, but the director doesn't paint it with a sentimental
brush. As the three strands of the narrative play out, tone is often
gritty, intense, sorrowful even, with Minghella cribbing from the
Anthony Mann Western book by having the stunning landscapes form part
of the characters emotional world. 

Come back to me, come back to me 

Story is strong, even if the key romance is soft; since it's told
mostly in flash backs, but those flash backs are threaded into the main
seam of Ada's life on the home front and Inman's perilous odyssey. She,
befriended by hard working, dirty handed, Ruby Thewes (Zellewegger
excellent); who also provides the only moments of levity within, he,
meeting up with a number of interesting characters, both good and bad.
This of course makes the film episodic, but in this instance it's a
good thing, mainly because characters are so utterly compelling.
Hoffman as a less than honourable priest and Portman as a young woman
out in a wood cabin, alone with her sick baby, they stand out. But
there's also the Home Guard attached enforcers led by blood thirsty
Teague (Winstone) and a potent thread involving Ruby's fiddle playing
father, Stobrod (Gleeson as usual a considerable screen presence). 

On the technical front it's hard to find fault, it's a tip top
production. Romania's mountains, rolling hills and forests form the
backdrop to most of the action, with John Seale's Academy Award
nominated photography neatly passing for a rugged North Carolina. While
the costumes, set design and Yared's score also add impetus to the feel
of the time. There's some minor itches, such as fluctuating accents and
the delicacy of the romance lacking the passion to drive such a journey
by Inman on, but they are not flaws. Such is the strength of
Minghella's story telling ability, Cold Mountain still comes out as
great cinema. A film that can stay in your mind for days after viewing
it. Bleak yet subtle, savage yet tender, a different sort of Civil war
movie. Amen to that. 9/10
