

With a maze of plot twists and surprises, "Shattered" is one heck of a
guesser.

The plot follows Dan Merrick (Tom Berenger) after a horrifying car accident.
He suffers from amnesia, and must piece his life together post-accident. As
he learns more and more about his past, his life spins out of control,
leaving the most horrifying revelation for the end.

"Shattered" is carefully constructed and directed by Wolfgang Peterson. His
cast really brings this one together, with great performances by Berenger
and Bob Hoskins. It is simply impossible to guess the events in this film as
you are watching it, and it is best to go into it knowing as little as
possible.

"Shattered" is an excellent effort and film that has been wrongly ignored
over the years since its release. This is a great rental for a cold and
rainy Saturday night.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>

This is a film which I have recommended on many a Friday night when all
the
new releases are already gone and others are looking for a good
mystery/suspense title.  I have seen it 3-4 times which is rare for me,
especially for a mystery.  It is fine entertainment with an excellent
story.
Not the highest production value, but it's unique story makes up for it.
Highly recommended, especially on a weekend night when there just aren't
any
NEW mystery/suspense releases on the shelf.
<|_=00=_|>
Dan Merrick (Tom Berenger) and his wife Judith (Greta Scacchi) are
involved in a car wreck that leaves Judith with only a scratch but Dan
in critical condition that involves restructuring his face to look as
much as possible like the old face. Dan has one other serious problem,
the shock has left him with amnesia. He tries to put his life back
together with the help of his wife but nothing seems real. In trying to
piece together his former existence, he tracks down all types of
hunches and leads that take him nowhere. Then one day he comes across a
strange bill for $7,000 from a pet shop. When he investigates further
he discovers that the pet shop owner, Gus Klein (Bob Hoskins),
moonlights as a private eye. Gus tells him all kinds of strange
happenings including a story about his wife's lover. He also learns
that his business partner's wife Jenny Scott (Joanne Whalley) is much
closer to him than he wants her to be. As Gus and Dan search for clues,
they find more than either one bargained for. The ending is a grabber.
The viewer won't be disappointed.

Director Wolfgang Petersen of "Das Boot" fame directs with a flair for
action and suspense. There is a wild car chase toward the end of the
movie that really delivers the goods. Though Petersen's film (which he
wrote based on a novel) may not exactly be film noir, it shares several
elements in common with that genre including two femme fatales. There
is also symbolic use of natural forces such as the pounding of the
waves against the shore to enhance portions of the script, which may or
may not have been inspired by the 1942 film noir picture "Street of
Chance."

All the acting is above average, but the standout performance is by Bob
Hoskins as the PI who loves animals. There are also bits of humor from
a pet shop employee, Sadie (Jedda Jones), over the phone when called
asking for Gus.
<|_=00=_|>

Petersen's skillful direction and a cleverly constructed script combine to
make this a thoroughly entertaining and absorbing thriller. On the first
viewing, you're likely to dismiss the shocking and unpredictable ending as
"far-fetched" and "unbelievable" (at least that's what I did), but see it
again and you'll realize that the story DOES stand up to scrutiny; there
are
no scenes that cheat the viewer here. Bob Hoskins steals the show as the
likable private detective. And overall, this a movie worth seeing.
(**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has got to be the best surprise I've ever gotten from a last
second pick at the video store.  The first time I saw this movie was in
college, we watched it one night and it continued to be shown in our
apartment almost non-stop for the next 4 days.  People could not get
enough
of it.

I won't go into the plot, etc. but will tell you it offers many twists and
turns and will keep you interested and surprised at the
end.

You cannot go wrong renting this movie!
<|_=00=_|>
Pretty clever mystery that will leave you gasping when the shocking
twist is revealed. Tightly woven together, Wolfgang Peterson delivers a
smart story about Dan Merrick, a San Francisco businessman who can't
remember his past after surviving a horrific car crash. While
recovering at his lovely secluded home, Dan discovers his adoring wife
Judith, played by Greta Scacchi, is cheating with another man. Dan sets
forth to discover that all is not what is seems to be. Bob Hoskins as
Gus, the pet shop owner / part time private eye, gives a wonderful
performance as well as Joanne Whalley, who knows much more than she
ever wanted to know about Dan. Slick scoring by Alan Silvestri, knock
out sets, and direction make this mystery / thriller a winner!
<|_=00=_|>
The feel of this film rings of a late 1970's early 1980's action-drama
TV show, like "Hart to Hart", "Charlie's Angels", or even "Dallas",
particularly because of the location shots and the music. The scenes
alternate between million-dollar mansions, ritzy hotels, billion-dollar
corporations, and rural locales. And the lush strings always emerge
when the characters are driving through some mountainous areas. I kept
thinking that Jaclyn Smith would turn up at any moment. 

The opening premise is quite a stretch: Tom Berenger as Dan Merrick
survives after having plunged about 6000 feet off the road in his car.
It's a miracle that his legs didn't end up in the glove compartment.
Despite being more or less still intact, Merrick's face has been
crushed into hamburger, and he can't remember who he is or what
happened to him after he awakens from a coma. His wife Judith (Greta
Scacchi) is only a little scratched up after the ordeal. She nurses him
back to health and tries to help put the puzzle pieces back into his
"shattered" memory.

He finds out he's a rich commercial real estate developer with a house
with its own zip code. His office at the TransAmerica building in San
Francisco is bigger than the average person's apartment. And he has a
beautiful secretary who must have just finished a stint as a cover
model for Vogue. And his colleague is the kind of guy who uses the old
"two shooter" gesture while saying "We'll do lunch." That would be a
nightmare!

But other pieces do not come together so easily, like why, before the
accident, did he hire a private investigator (Bob Hoskins) who fronts
as a pet store owner? And why did this guy's invoice end up at the
development company? At one point, he thought he had bought $7000 worth
of pets! (With that kind of money he could have gotten the equivalent
of Magnum PI.)

The film becomes a kind of noir mystery in which Merrick tries to put
the pieces of his life back into perspective all the while trying to
figure who he can trust. Although some of the writing and circumstances
were a little hard to swallow, the movie sort of gets better as it goes
along. And a great performance by Berenger holds the story together
more or less. At every moment, despite its short-comings, you want to
find out what happens next. And a dynamite ending that is worth the
wait and the price of admission, $5 for the DVD at Fry's.
<|_=00=_|>
Late one night, I found myself working late in my college apartment,
studying or trying to study for Spanish and it just so happened that I
also had the TV on (which I wasn't really paying much attention to)
when I just happened to look up and see that a new movie was starting
called "Shattered". Seeing that it was directed by Wolfgang Petersen, I
became a little curious but didn't really plan on watching it. Well,
that thought went out the window when the movie opened with a bang.
Husband and wife Dan and Judith are involved in a devastating car
crash. But despite all odds, both survive; however the husband (played
by Tom Berenger) is in critical condition and is left with no memory of
who he is or what happened. His seemly loving wife (Greta Scacchi) does
everything she can to help him readjust after getting out of the
hospital but, alas, something just doesn't seem right. He slowly begins
to realize that everything may not have been as rosy as his wife would
have him believe and things get even more interesting when he learns
that he paid for services by a street wise private detective named Gus
(played by Bob Hoskins).

"Shattered" is one of those unassuming movies that, going in, you're
not expecting to find anything too shocking or surprising and that's
where you'd be wrong. I've seen a lot of thrillers and mysteries, so
much so that eight out ten times, I can probably tell you what the
ending will be. However, I got to tell you, the twist at the end of
this movie is so well done and so shocking that I didn't see it coming
for a million miles, and believe me, that's saying something. The movie
also does a good job drawing you, the viewer, deeper and deeper into
the movie without even realizing it with the direction of Petersen, the
story, and the actors; Tom Berenger does an excellent job in his role,
as does Greta Scacchi. However, my favorite actor out of this is
probably Bob Hoskins, since he's able to provide a little bit of comedy
and heart to his role. If you're one who's looking for a lost gem of a
film or is just looking for a good surprise at the end, then I highly,
highly recommend "Shattered". You won't regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
"Shattered" is an old-school psychological thriller in which an
intricate puzzle is cleverly created concerning a man who's been
seriously injured in a car crash. As the story progresses, numerous
clues to the puzzle are provided but it's always unclear which ones are
reliable and which are intentionally misleading. Similarly, the natures
of the various characters who provide these clues are also uncertain.

Dan Merrick (Tom Berenger) and his wife Judith (Greta Scacchi) are
driving home from a New Year's Eve party when their car suddenly leaves
the road and plunges down a steep embankment. Judith is thrown clear
and only incurs superficial injuries. Dan, on the other hand, is
trapped in the wreckage and subsequently spends a considerable amount
of time in a coma before undergoing extensive plastic surgery on his
disfigured face.

As a consequence of the accident, Dan suffers from selective amnesia
and flashbacks in which he sees shattered glass, huge waves and a gun.
He's also unable to remember any information about his personal life
and during his recuperation; Judith dedicates herself to his care and
tries to help him by sharing recollections about their life together
and showing him photographs.

Dan's a wealthy property developer and is surprised when his business
partner Jeb Scott (Corbin Bernsen) mentions that before the accident,
Dan and Judith's marriage was on the rocks. Jeb's wife Jenny (Joanne
Whalley-Kilmer) tells him that he and she were lovers and he also
discovers photographs of Judith in bed with another man.

Dan finds a receipt for a payment he'd previously made to a pet shop
and on visiting the premises discovers that the proprietor, Gus Klein
(Bob Hoskins) is also a part-time private detective who he'd paid to
follow Judith. Klein had discovered that she was having an affair with
a man called Jack Stanton (Scott Getlin) and so when Dan hears that
Judith has received a telephone call from Stanton, and decides to
follow her, the events that follow ultimately lead to a shocking
discovery.

"Shattered" is a stylish movie in which deception, murder and treachery
feature strongly and numerous unexpected plot developments keep the
action intriguing and tense. The fact that the audience discovers the
clues at the same time as Dan creates a great deal of empathy for his
predicament and a clear understanding of the confusion and frustration
that he experiences.

This movie is graced by consistently solid performances but Tom
Berenger and Bob Hoskins stand out. Berenger does well in conveying his
character's confusion and helplessness and Hoskins is a powerful and
entertaining presence in every scene in which he appears.
<|_=00=_|>

Wolfgang Petersen has done some good thrillers in the past and has deep
respect for classical directors such as Hitchcock, so what better
opportunity than to create his own thriller the way the Master of Suspense
would have if he were alive. He assembles a good cast, among them Tom
Berenger, Bob Hoskins (in an enjoyable role), and Greta Scacchi, and creates
a story a la Vertigo. What could go wrong? With movies like this, one glitch
in the plot could topple the whole film off the bell tower (pardon the
Vertigo pun), and this one does just that. A man trying to remember what
occurred in his personal life after surviving a tragic car wreck can be
enthralling, and at many times this picture is indeed mind-numbing, but
three-quarters into the story, you feel as if you have been cheated.
Plausibility is a real concern in this thriller, but that's not to say there
are not good elements within this confusion. Wolfgang Petersen shows a real
expertise for framing his ludicrous story, and I believe Hitch would have
been pleased with how Petersen motivates the camera here. Berenger does an
okay job as the suffering crash victim, but it is Hoskins that really
impresses as the pet store owner/private investigator who helps Berenger
discover who he really was. "Shattered" is a nicely lensed film with a good
dose of suspense surrounding it, but for a pay-off, I believe Hitchcock
could have shown the filmmakers a thing or two about playing it straight
with a good ending.
           Rating: Two stars and a half.

