

It's not unusual in Hollywood for 2 studios to be working on similar
projects at the same time. One obvious example might be Milos Forman's
beautiful Valmont, and Stephen Frear's certainly adequate Dangerous
Liaisons. The latter featured a ‘bigger' cast by American standards, and did
better business, not surprisingly.

About the same time as Randa Haines' beautiful, ‘The Doctor',  with William
Hurt  was delivered, so was Mike Nichols ‘Regarding Henry', starring
Harrison Ford. Again, the latter did bigger business, and as a result I feel
this film was largely overlooked.

On first look, The Doctor seems a standard tale: icy, successful surgeon
finds out what medicine is really like when the tables are turned and he is
diagnosed with throat cancer. His redemptive arc is somewhat predictable, as
he reconnects with family, redefines his medical practice, and restructures
his relationship with his similarly icy partners.

But it's under these, predictable circumstances that a true craftsman like
Ms. Haines can make the ordinary extraordinary. The film is genuinely
heartfelt and touching, resisting at every turn any self-indulgence, or the
gratuitous pulling at heartstrings, relying on a quiet, confidence, a softer
emotion instead.

Not that it's not weepy at times.

Hurt has never been better in the title role. Elizabeth Perkins as his
soul-mate cancer victim is equally superb. 

<|_=00=_|>

A truly solid cast delivers a moving drama filled with humor and emotion.
This could be the single best exploration of the theme of "empathy" ever
filmed.

 This film should be required viewing for any training or development on
health care, communication, leadership, and service. Watch this the same
week you watch "Patch Adams" and you'll be a better person emotionally for
it.


<|_=00=_|>
I was impressed and touched by the movie's theme. I've recommended the
movie to friends and acquaintances and those that watch it are also
moved. 

When my wife was hospitalized for leukemia there was an intern who
became impatient with my questions and concern. I couldn't help but
think that "hey, someday you'll become a patient too. Let's see how
you'll handle it."

They should have medical students watch this movie. We can become
callous at times, that we forget to put ourselves in the shoes of the
other person. 

The movie shows that there are people that stay in our lives so briefly
but leave warm and good impressions that last a lifetime.
<|_=00=_|>
The Doctor may not be the most moving, most influential, or best
portrayed movie of all time, but it certainly should rank near the top
of the best medical movies of all time. The story is about Dr. Jack
MacKee (William Hurt), an arrogant heart surgeon whose believes that
doctors should "Get in, fix it, and get out". However, when he finds
himself diagnosed with cancer, he must see the system from the other
side - a mechanized, unsympathetic system where the patient's comfort
is the least concern. The story complicates when he befriends a fellow
cancer patient, June Ellis (Elizabeth Perkins), who proves to be an
inspirational figure in Jack's battle against cancer.

The movie could be deemed a transformation story. At first, Jack is an
unlovable character - the doctor we all wish we didn't have. However,
as he continues through his ordeal, his attitude begins to change. It
is a profound change, and provides for many deep, moving scenes.

The story itself is not complicated, and is easy to follow. The acting,
however, is top notch, and makes for a terrific movie. I would
recommend it to anybody.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the major problems with American-made films is they overlook the
touching effectiveness of simplistic and credible story telling
combined with well-toned, subtle and even performances. Films such as
Rain man and Erin Brockovich are good examples of where these
attributes are ditched in favour of over-dramatic, occasionally
over-melancholic and (often) unrealistic subplots. This, in turn,
usually results in forced, uneven and rather unmoving performances.

American film makers need to review films such as Paris, Texas and The
Browning Version to see how powerful, touching and engaging real-life
drama is presented most effectively when the script-writers and
director chooses simplicity and subtlety, without 'flair' and forced
drama (ie... they need to look to Europe to see how it's done!) 

The Doctor is certainly a large step in the right direction. The tone
is subtle and the acting is fantastic because it is even across the
cast. There is nothing unrealistic or fancy about the story and we
don't have doctors running round the "ER" yelling and screaming and
"manufacturing" drama. The Doctor is simple, yet brilliant.

I find it irrelevant that the story is overtly predictable. I'll never
know why Hollywood finds it necessary to throw in the "dramatic twist"
into every film? The majority of the time, the "twist" is usually
predictable anyway, creates little by way of dramatic effect and is
often childish and stupid (case in point "High Crimes"). Telling the
story is the secret to drama, not artificially manufacturing one! 

Perkins was terrific in the Doctor, but it was surprising to see that
she had few notable roles after this film.
<|_=00=_|>
The premise seemed a little too straightforward at first glance: Doctor
becomes patient. But it is so well executed, you can't help but be
drawn in. I kept suspecting it was going to turn sappy at any moment,
but director Randa Haines does not hold back on the emotional
awkwardness that comes from difficult situations. There is much less
sentimentality than Haines' best-known film, Children of a Lesser God.
And although Hurt is far less "charming" in this film than he was in
that one, he actually is more watchable. The more difficult he becomes,
the more interesting the film gets.

Another intriguing aspect of the film is the feelings Chritine Lahti's
character experiences, from sympathy to anger, to jealousy, to feeling
shut out, you name it. In fact, the film could have delved even deeper
into their marital discord and it would not have lost me. For some this
film may go down a little too easily, but I think the accessibility of
the subject matter in this case is an asset.
<|_=00=_|>

The Doctor is a film that really touches you without being too weepy. It's
the way doctors along the world think until... something happens and they
find themselves on the other side. William Hurt is great as The Doctor. The
desperation on his face when he finds out that from now on  he'll be a
cancer patient is unique and authenticque. But the film is not only for
this
doctor. It's about the community of doctors. It's about a closed profession
that will hardly accept anyone else. Doctors have their own way of seeing
things and that's obvious in the film. They are those who know what comes
next and that's even more frightening for them. Dr. Blumfield is someone
who's been banished from that special community for "daring" to see the
side
of a patient. The transformation of Dr. Jack McKee is a miracle that rises
through his own sickness and his "patient-mate" is an angel in disguise to
help him through. The whole story verifies what people say:"doctors are the
worst patients ever" and that's because they experience the ultimate fear,
considering that they have the knowledge. The film illustrates all of the
concerns of The Doctor so beautifully and with such realism that's hard not
to like it. I don't know about the general audience, but I do strongly
believe that every Medical Doctor should see it.
<|_=00=_|>
San Francisco surgeon Jack McKee (William Hurt) has been a jerk his
whole life. He never refers to his patients by their names and
apparently never knows why they're in the hospital. In short, Jack's
the opposite of Patch Adams. But then, he becomes a patient, and finds
out what it's really like to be on the other side. Admittedly, this is
sort of a cliché (and maybe sappy at times). But still, it's a good
look at one man's change.

I will say that what Jack does at the end looked a little unrealistic;
I doubt that he went that far in real life. But even so, I still say
that the movie is worth seeing. Not a masterpiece by any stretch, but
important. Also starring Christine Lahti, Charlie Korsmo, Mandy
Patinkin and Adam Arkin.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie came out about a year before I was diagnosed with thyroid
cancer, and I watched it during my recovery from surgery and radiation
treatments. It helped me to understand the relationship between doctor
and cancer patient. William Hurt is indeed excellent in this film, but
I have always liked his understated presence and aloof yet empathetic
evocations. Recently, a colleague was diagnosed with a serious cancer
and he continues to undergo his treatments. I think the American
medical community has made great improvements in the emotional
component of care for cancer patients, but in 1992 Hurt's portrayal was
close enough to echo my observations of how I was cared for then.

So, though it's a bit of a tearjerker and has a happy ending that
reality will not always produce, I think it is a meaningful film and
especially for those who are facing a serious diagnosis or caring for
those who are.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is an involving, serious and important reflection of what
changes a doctor goes through when he is diagnosed with terminal
cancer.

Dr. Jack McKee (William Hurt) is an arrogant self-satisfied surgeon on
top of the world. He and his colleagues, Dr. Eli Blumfield (Adam Arkin)
and Dr. Kaplan (very well-portrayed by Mandy Patimkin) are all
successful surgeons. Some go through character transformation for the
better when they learn that Dr. McKee has throat cancer.

An early scene in the film involves Dr. Abbot (great performance by
Wendy Crewson as the ENT/throat surgeon who diagnoses his cancer). She
is cold and clinical, and Hurt becomes angry. He tells her she is not
treating her patients with any compassion or empathy. She basically
responds by telling him her patients are basically an assembly line.
Hurt used to be similar to Dr. Abbot, as we see in an opening scene he
makes a cutting remark to a breast cancer patient.

The transformation also occurs as Hurt is waiting for an MRI. He meets
June Ellis (Elizabeth Perkins) who has an advanced brain tumor. She
talks with him, and tells him they got to the cancer too late. She is
resigned to her death. Hurt is outraged as he notes that she was never
treated appropriately for her illness, as an MRI test would have
diagnosed the early stages of a cancer. She retorts that her insurance
company refused to pay for an MRI.

Hurt's wife is well portrayed by Christine Lahti. She tries to help
him, and he finds himself drawn to the patient, June Ellis. Hurt
realizes that life is multi-faceted, and being a doctor is not the only
thing that matters. Ellis teaches him to appreciate nature, they take a
trip to the desert, there are some beautiful scenes and cinematography.

Hurt finally realizes he must first teach compassion and empathy. New
surgical interns are trained by him and there are some amusing scenes
where he makes them enact a role reversal, and put on hospital gowns;
they are to be diagnosed with fictional illness and identify with the
patients. My brother is a surgeon and went through similar training.

Overall an excellent and moving film not to be missed. Highly
recommended. 9/10
