

Return to Me is a movie you will want to own. It is a story of inspiration
and family love that appeals to all ages. The story, though seemingly
impossible, aspires to divine intervention when a man looses his wife in a
tragic accident and finds that love again in the woman who receives his
wife's heart. David Duchovny and Minnie Driver give warm hearted
performances as the designated to-be-lovers who meet by chance. But the real
story lies in the friends and family around them who love and support them
in times of trial. Carol O'Connor as Minnie Driver's grandfather, is
authentic in every scene. Bonnie Hunt as the friend whose wit and
encouragement underlines Minnie as a 'sister' is funny yet warm in the
scenes especially with James Belushi as her husband.  Classic scenes and
writing makes this story so enjoyable and touching to watch over and over
again. Thank you for making a movie that demonstrates families and friends
as close knit caring people who love each other through difficult
times.
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw the trailer for this film, I said out loud to no one in
particular "this film is going to bomb."  I also said that about THE MATRIX
and look at what happened there.  Now I am not a box office guru by any
stretch but I usually have a pretty good gut about what is going to be good
and what is going to really suck.  In this case I was blinded by my complete
and utter apathy towards David Duchovney.  Let me put it to you a different
way:  I don't like his as a person ( from what I have read of him in
interviews, he is unbelievably pre-madonna like and he is full of himself
considering all he has done is X-Files ) or as an actor.  PLAYING GOD was a
really poor film but he came off thinking that for some reason he deserved
big bucks on the big screen.  But I am happy to say that even though those
things may still be true about the man, Return To Me is delightful and has
it's heart in the right place.  Bonnie Hunt has directed a beautiful story
and she has told it with class and grace.  This is one of the most romantic
films I have seen and even though it may seem to be a bit sad and maudlin in
its premise, give it a chance and you will be hooked.

It has to be said ( and this pains me to do so ) that the reason this film
works so well is because of the story and the cast.  Duchovney and Driver
are so wonderful and believable here that I honestly wanted to cry along
with them.  There is one particularly powerful scene when Duchovney comes
home after his wife has died and he slumps down on the floor of his house. 
As it always does, the family dog looks to the door to wait for his wife to
come walking in.  She doesn't and with his shirt collar still stained with
blood, Rob ( Duchovney ) tells him that she is not coming home, ever.  He
then calls the dog over to him and they seem to share a cry together.  The
dog lets out a small moan and then Rob cries.  And this is one of the most
realistic moments of pain I have ever seen in any character in any movie. 
You can feel his pain and at that moment I forgot I was watching an actor
that I generally don't like, and I felt that I was watching someone that I
knew moarn the loss of his beloved.  This is powerful stuff.

Another strength of the film is the supporting cast.  Bonnie Hunt has
combined an ethnic melting pot of Irish and Italian characters that share a
common bond.  They share a pub called O'Reilley's Italian Pub.  That is a
delicious name all by itself.  And heading the diametric scale of clashing
cultures is Carol O'Connor and Robert Loggia.  These are two proud old men
that love their homeland but love their granddaughter and niece ( I think it
is ) respectively.  And that is the character played by Minnie Driver.  This
scenario is ripe for comedy and Hunt doesn't miss anything
here.

Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi also share some funny moments together as the
middle aged married couple and Belushi gets top points as he accepts
humility gracefully and shows off his ample keg of a stomach for laughs. 
With his family consisting of three or four kids, there is very little time
for him and the wife to have quality time.  And again Hunt handles this with
perfect elegance.  

This is a wonderful story of finding true love, knowing how lucky you are to
have true love and the power of friendship and family.  Return To Me is a
wonderful romance and even though I still don't have a great admiration for
David Duchovney, I have to admit that he was perfect in this role and I
could not picture anyone else playing his character.  He was sensitive and
believable and the movie was good because of him, not just because of him,
but he sure added to the flavour.

If you are a sucker for a good romance and you want a good cry, then this is
the film for you.  

8.5 out of 10 I will see anything that Bonnie Hunt puts out with her in the
director's chair.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this move for the 5th or 6th time and am still in love
with it. It still makes me cry and sing and worry and celebrate.

I almost wrote Bonnie Hunt a letter to tell her how much I love it.
David Duchovny's grief scene is so flippin real!!! Minnie Driver is so
natural and honest. My favorite line is when Duchovny says "I miss
Elizabeth but I ache for Grace". Oh man! I'm crying just thinking about
it. ALSO... Bonnie Hunt and Jim Belushi are sooooooooooooo the perfect
Chicago area couple!! I know them I swear! I'm related to them I'm
sure. 

This movie is in my three times a year rotation!!! I'd watch it once a
week but I'm afraid I'd get too used to it!!! I always want to make it
a special day when I watch it!!
<|_=00=_|>

My two daughters (ages 11 and 13) and I were lucky enough to see a screening
of this movie last night.  We were all pleasantly surprised to see how
entertaining and funny this movie was.  David Duchovny was very appealing as
the male lead and Minnie Driver gave her usually competent performance.
Some of the scenes are laugh out loud funny - especially one scene Minnie
Driver has with a fellow "transplant" donee.  I liked the fact that it was a
movie that I could watch with my children and I wasn't embarrassed by any
scene whatsoever.  Everyone in the movie theater was laughing and enjoying
themselves.  Thumbs up Bonnie Hunt!
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie again yesterday with a 20-year-old intern from my
office (OK - it was the quiet day after Thanksgiving) and we both loved
it. I love the unique plot, David Duchovny, David Allen Greer, and the
way the dog keeps waiting at the door. Isn't part of each of us just
like that dog after someone we love dies?

I also love the old folks at the restaurant - they remind me of some of
the older people around Southern New England, where your ethnic group
is a very important topic of discussion. And I love the wedding at the
end.

Minnie Driver is great in this movie - and Bonnie Hunt should have won
an award for everything. 

Bonnie - make more movies!
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie! It has everything! Bonnie Hunt did a fantastic job
co-writing, directing and co-starring in this film. David Duchovny is just
plain hot. and Minnie Driver is as cute as ever. combine all that talent
with David Allen Grier, Carol O'Connor, Robert Loggia, Joley Richardson,
and
Jim Belushi you have a Oscar worthy movie! I'm surprised they didn't get
one.
if you haven't seen it, go rent the DVD, watch it once then put directors
commentary on...Bonnie Hunt is Fabulous! 
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie with my mother, and I loved it! It was such a sweet
story, (Not to mention funny because of the supporting cast!) They
never make movies like this...ever! My favorite part is when
Grace(Minnie Driver) finds out about her boyfriend's wife's death, and
that she has the deceased wife's heart and she screams, "WHAT WAS GOD
THINKING?" I do believe everyone(No matter who you believe in) has
thoughts like that once in awhile. But while it's very sappy, it just
might make you believe in true love and destiny for once and for
all.(Sigh)

The comedic timing between Bonnie Hunt and Jim Belushi will just make
you crack up(especially in the aforementioned scene, it's terrible, and
yet so funny!). They make a good pair, and I hope to see them again in
something soon. 10/10 Stars

<|_=00=_|>
I LOVE THIS MOVIE!!!

This beautiful, charming love story drew me in immediately with its
lovable characters and heart-warming romance. I became so attached to
the characters throughout the film that I felt as if I knew them
personally. The storyline is very enchanting, and it brought me to
tears in several touching moments. Duchovny and Driver have a very
cute, chaste relationship that you can't help getting involved in. This
one's worth watching more than once, and showing to all your friends.
I'm just curious, why wasn't this a big hit?

I give this a 10 out of 10! Spectacular film! (And this is coming from
a guy who thinks that 9 out of 10 movies aren't even worth watching.)
<|_=00=_|>

[This comment contains **SPOILERS**]

David Duchovny in a romantic lead? "Nah, don't think so," was what I thought
before I saw the film. Well, I was wrong, Duchovny's performance in this
movie is great. Minnie Driver also gives a likeable performance.

Return to Me is a sweet romantic comedy and it seems different from other
romcoms simply because of the premise (which most of you know all about
already, so I won't bring it up here). But the movie isn't really different
from other romcoms apart from the fact that it is sweeter, more interesting
and generally better than most other films belonging to the genre. But let's
face it: from the moment you pop the cassette (disc) into the video
(DVD-player) you know where this is going to end. The film is also about
twenty minutes too long and some scenes are so obviously superfluous that
you'll be asking yourself why they left them in the film. I'm thinking about
the (boring) scenes with Grace's grandfather and his friends discussing
music, in particular. Also, other scenes are ridiculous, e.g. Sydney
responding to Grace the way he responded to Bob's wife. Too much,
really.

Overall, though, Return to Me is a good film with likeable performances by
Duchovny and Driver.
<|_=00=_|>

RETURN TO ME / (2000) ***1/2

Starring: David Duchovny, Minnie Driver, Bonnie Hunt, David Alan Grier,
Joely Richardson, James Belushi, Robert Loggia, Eddie Jones, and Carroll
O'Connor. 
Directed by Bonnie Hunt. Written by Bonnie Hunt and Don Lake. Running time:
113 minutes. Rated PG (for language and thematic elements).

	"Return to Me" is a warm and fuzzy romantic comedy with heart-in
metamorphic and literal terms. Unlike a lot of recent romances, this film is
not suggestive or sexy, but gentle and gradual. Director, writer and star
Bonnie Hunt is descriptive in believable methods, detailing human emotions
and the bitterness loneliness. This is one of the most effective, if
somewhat formulaic, comedy-dramas this year. 

	 David Duchovny stars as Bob Rueland, a modern day construction consultant.
He and his wife, Elizabeth (Joely Richardson), are a happily married,
offspring-free couple living a life of honesty and hard work. Elizabeth is
in the process of founding a natural habitat for gorillas currently living
in enclosed captivity. Bob's best friend, Charlie Johnson, (David Alan
Grier) supports the Rueland's whenever need may be. 

	"Return to Me" contains two separate story lines before narrative
connection in the second act. The secondary story centers on a young woman
named Grace Briggs (Minnie Driver), who requires a heart transplant in the
very near future. Megan and Joe Dayton (Bonnie Hunt and James Belushi)
support her. This family owns an Italian Restaurant in which Bob and Grace
meet one night.  

	This is an excellent setup containing thoroughly developed characters, a
clear dramatic premise, emotional and physical conflicts, and an unusual
structure. Although we do not witness some of the important narrative
actions, (Grace's recovery from surgery, an automobile accident resulting in
the death of a character), the film firmly paces itself with various plot
elements and emotional qualities. 

	"Return to Me" inhabits many enormously likable characters. Both central
characters, Bob Rueland and Grace Briggs, empathetic and believable, are in
a homespun situation. They both contain chemistry-rich elegance and
gracefulness. There are very funny moments planted by Megan and Joe's
comically dysfunctional family. This family appears somewhat unfocused but
wisely portrayed as background characters developing Grace's lifestyle with
more depth. 

The film's humor is handled with delicacy and knowledge. The filmmakers are
careful not to travel over the top in hilarity; this is not a story about
slapstick issues but about heartfelt secrets and personal fears. Comedy is
not overabundant nor overwhelming and does not distract the story from
developing its themes. Every funny moment in "Return To Me" is scattered
throughout the context of the plot. 

David Duchovny and  Minnie Driver pair up for the perfect unlikely romantic
couple. The inspirational performance by Driver induces lovable charm and
imagination. Duchovny is also engagingly sweet, filling his character with
polished humility. Likewise, the background performances are magically funny
and heartwarming. The actors paint their characters beautifully.

	"Return to Me" is the kind of date movie where the characters and the
audience go home happy and warm. Bonnie Hunt is on target with this comedy
straight from the heart, leaving viewers with a cuddly feeling of
satisfaction.

"Return to Me" is brought to you by MGM Productions.  

