

I started watching this movie after having read the viewers' comments, so
I
was prepared for the depression inducing effect everyone kept talking
about.
Seems like you are never prepared enough for this movie.
Sadness and tragedy are in the air right from beginning, you can feel
them
all the time, even when things start getting better for the two
protagonists
you know it can't last...because they are doomed, losers, not meant to be
happy together. And yet the love they share is the purest and most
devoting
love I have ever seen on screen; it stunned me how true Jude was to Sue,
and
how brave Sue was, accepting Jude jr. as one of her own, no questions
asked.
Many people might find the scene of Sue giving birth and being watched by
Jude jr. disturbing, yet it is essential to understand his later deeds, at
least partly. The climax of the tragedy is so emotional and so immensely
cruel it rips your heart out. I felt the theatre was falling into pieces
and
so were we, watching this emotional tornado, weeping like possessed. The
experience of this movie will make you ponder life, love and death, it
will
make you understand how important it is to teach your children well and
never make them feel undesired. It will make you realize how important it
is
to always think twice before commiting yourself, even in the modern world
flooded with divorces. It will show you what it means to really love,
completely and uncompromisingly.
I highly recommend this masterpiece, a tale of two beautiful, unfortunate
heros ahead their time, doomed by cruelest fate imaginable.
10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Life and love can be tragic and beautiful. The ways of society and the heart
are not simple and can be quiet opposed. 

Jude is a masterpiece as a novel and film. Yes, it is quiet the most painful
story, but all lives worth living have pain and heartbreak, love and
laughter.  This is no sugar-coated romance, but a dark, dirty, tragedy. What
affects me so is the timelessness of this story. Michael Winterbottom truly
made a wonderful film - he did not write the story folks.

Christopher Eccleston is a master actor, he brings such a full-blown sense
of the man "Jude". He really knew this character strongly and I feel that he
has a level of intelligence and feeling that is rarely used in modern male
actors. 

Kate Winslet is a stunning actress. Hard to believe that she carried the
level of passion and maturity in "Jude" as Sue Bridehead at the ripe age of
20. She is truly one-of-a-kind and deserves all accolades placed upon her
shoulders. 

I had no problem with the love scenes and nudity in this movie - although
that could be because Chris Eccleston is so incredibly attractive. Isn't
love-making crucial and appropriate for two people in love? I don't
understand how some people commented poorly on that. It seems quite
acceptable for me.  

Don't look for mushy weepy romance in Jude. You will find power, grief,
passion, love, and bravery. Jude and Sue possess more bravery than most
people living today, the tragedy is that they risked everything for their
love - which destroyed them and the lives of their children.

Masterpiece film making and acting. Bravo!  
<|_=00=_|>

You can't discuss this movie without discussing the novel of the same
name.
The movie stays remarkably true to the novel; from character to location.
If anything, the movie enhances the novel--through Christopher Eccleston's
fantastic performance we see in Jude the light of desire and the crush of
defeat.

Though another review characterizes Thomas Hardy's depiction of females as
misogynistic, I disagree.  The character of Arabella is certainly a
villain
at her heart, but the character of Sue Bridehead is a mirror of our tragic
hero, Jude.  Through their interactions, we see not only a stunning
performance by Kate Winslet, but also a relationship of equals in misery.
Certainly, the males in the novel and movie are depicted at least as
wretchedly as the females.

This movie draws the viewer in and gives you insight into Jude's world,
from
it's optimistic beginning to its tragic end.  Definitely not a date movie,
but absolutely fine film-making.
<|_=00=_|>

...but i loved it. i was at the library getting a movie for girls night
and then i saw the jacket for this movie. first thing i notice it has
kate winslet, its historical, and the tag line is really catchy so i
check it out, drive to my friends house and start the show. instead of
a cute feel good romance i'm confronted with a heavy movie of death,
love, hate, and betrayal.

now i found this movie to be amazing. the story was very much true to
hardy's novel (well up until the end) and while the film is dark it is
wonderfully so. it is not a lighthearted period romance but rather a
study on human behavior and how it can go terribly wrong when the heart
becomes involved. it is obvious that they love each other, and the fact
they are cousins is secondary... they had never known each other as
children as most children know their cousins. they met as adults and
fell in love as such. their story is an impassioned one of trail and
error romances, exploring ones desires and drives, the burden of
nonconformity, and what can cause as love to break down. 

very good, very powerful, but a very abrupt ending with one of the best
closing lines. ****/*****

<|_=00=_|>

This is not a film for Hardy purists, nor is it for the faint-hearted. No
two-hour adaptation could do complete justice to Hardy's final work, and
many of the themes of religion, education and society are pared down in
favour of the tragic central relationship between the eponymous Jude and
his
cousin Sue.

Eccleston and the then up-and-coming Winslet are superb as the on-off
couple, lifting the film despite some patchy directing. The passage of
time
and emotion is dealt with heavy-handedly (albeit faithfully) by
Winterbottom, but this is in contrast to some beautiful and touching
set-pieces. This is where the film excels, especially in the bold decision
to cut the final stage of their relationship in favour of a powerfully
bleak
ending in which the audience, along with Jude, is left with little
closure.

No happy endings here, then, and those of fragile stock should be warned
that, despite being visually underplayed, the pivotal scene is played with
a
brutal tragedy which makes it no less shocking.

Finally, I feel the score should be given special mention: this was Adrian
Johnston's first major work but it succeeds as an evocation of tenderness,
piety and sorrow, especially in the final two scenes of the film.

<|_=00=_|>

There are three common errors made by directors of historical films that
Michael Winterbottom neatly avoids in 'Jude', his adaptation of Thomas
Hardy's novel.  Firstly, he creates a picture of a livable past, not some
shallow collage of country houses and Dickensian squalor but a world in
which a normality, of sorts, might reign.  Secondly, he sets out to explore
that normality, instead of simply judging the past by present values. 
Finally, he is working with a script that is neither archaic and stiff nor
laced with modern anachronisms.  Add to this strong direction and casting
(Christopher Ecclestone is excellent in the title role, and a young Kate
Winslett fetchingly appealing as Sue), and the result is a good film; but it
lacks something of a dramatic punch.

I haven't read the book, but one senses from the film that it may represent
a fierce attack on then-contemporary values, particularly those involving
marriage, values which drive the characters to their ultimate misfortune. 
One senses this, but in the movie this theme is played down, so the story
seems merely to tell of the ups and downs of Jude's life, presented as
fairly accidental happenings.  A terrible tragedy eventually occurs; and,
because of what has happened in the past, a second, avoidable, tragedy then
follows.  The problem, dramatically speaking, is that the second tragedy
appears smaller than the first, thus the end of the film serves as an
anti-climax. Without a unifying sense of accusation, we, instead of a
powerful polemic, are left with only the tale of an unfortunate.

'Jude' is one of the better, and the least sentimental, of historical films.
 But something of the point has been lost in translation.


<|_=00=_|>

The best film of the 1990's.

Dazzling and heartbreaking in every way imaginable.

Eccleston and Winslet give career performances, Hossein Amini's screenplay
is judicious and honest, and Winterbottom's direction and cinematography
capture everything there is in Hardy's greatest novel.

Unmissible,  unparallelled, and devastatingly beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>
This pessimistic and rather brutal cinematic production is based on the
nineteenth century novel Jude the Obscure by Thomas Hardy. A
bowdlerized and altered version of that novel first appeared in
Harper's New Monthly Magazine as a serial beginning in December 1894.
Its original title was 'The Simpletons,' a title modern viewers of this
movie might find appropriate considering how Jude and Sue round out
their lives.

It need hardly be said that any motion picture, and certainly not one
running only about two hours, can hope to do justice to Hardy's novel
(his last, incidentally) which is about 180,000 words long (about 400
pages of dense text). An earlier TV mini series version made by the BBC
that I have not seen, Jude the Obscure (1971), ran for almost four and
a half hours in six episodes. But this is a pretty good movie anyway,
highlighted by an enthralling performance by Kate Winslet.

The movie starts rather slowly, if picturesquely, until Kate appears
and then the movie comes to life. I have seen Winslet in several films,
including her first feature film when she was18-years-old, Heavenly
Creatures (1994), an interesting film made in New Zealand based on a
sensational matricide from the 1950s. She was very good in that film,
her budding talent immediately obvious as the spinning, laughing, crazy
teen who went off the deep end emotionally. In Jude, Winslet's sharp,
confident and commanding style is given greater range and she comes
across with a performance that is full of life, effervescent,
delightful, witty, sly, clever, and very expressive, and she looks
beautiful doing it.

The story itself, a naturalistic tragedy that in some respects
anticipates Theodore Dreiser, et al., was considered immoral in its
time. 'The Bishop of Wakefield, disgusted with the novel's insolence
and indecency, threw it in the fire,' according to Terry Eagleton who
wrote the Introduction for the New Wessex Edition of the book. Modern
film goers will hardly notice the implied critique of marriage that
offended Victorian readers, but they might find the scene where
Arabella throws the pig's 'part' at Jude indelicate. Victorian readers
found that scene most offensive. As a public service I want to warn any
modern viewer who might be offended at seeing Kate Winslet naked to
avoid this film. (Just Joking: Kate is quite fetching in the Rubenesque
shot.) To be honest, though, this really is a tragedy that still has
the power to offend some sensibilities. Certainly you don't want the
kids to see it.

Christopher Eccleston plays Jude and does a good job, and Rachel
Griffiths in a modest part plays Jude's first wife Arabella. Director
Michael Winterbottom stayed spiritually true to Hardy's dark vision
while tailoring the tale for modern audiences. There's a nice period
piece feel and some charming cinematography. The denouement is well set
up and so realistically done that we don't know whether to be horrified
or outraged. I think I was both.

(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)
<|_=00=_|>

Set in late 1800's Britain, "Jude" traces the life of the title character
(Eccleston),  a learned but humble stonemason, who courageously struggles
with life's disappointments only to be struck with unspeakable tragedy. A
beautifully depressing human drama, "Jude" traverses the highs and lows of
life through its dreary tale of one man's steadfast conviction to his
beliefs and to the woman he loves. Not for everyone, "Jude" is a film for
realists into serious drama which many will likely regard as a "downer". 
(B+)
<|_=00=_|>
How could such a sprawling novel like Hardy's become a two-hour movie?
It was a mammoth task and the result is only partly successful.That's
why the beginning of the movie seems botched.Actually everything
happens when Kate Winslet's character appears.The main flaw lies in the
fact that Jude's main ideal was to become an intellectual,Christminster
remained his horizon till the very end.In the movie,the second part of
the movie focuses on the Sue-Jude relationship.After the doyen's
letter,his cultural ambitions take a back seat and it's Sue who
provides the main interest:a woman ahead of her time,despising
marriage, this leading to her downfall.Then again,the film recreates
the fatality (recalling sometimes French writer Zola )hanging on Jude
and Sue only occasionally (Drusilla warning the hero).Arabella's
character,though vital in the novel,is sometimes reduced to a walk
on,the same goes for Aunt Drusilla. Assets: a very good music
score,fine performances with K.Winslet the stand-out,beautiful photo
and nice film sets.
