
A Low Down Dirty Shame is really no more than all the most familiar Cop
movie clichés arranged in an order that makes a barely cohesive story.
But it's all the fun and silly action that occurs in between that
really matters! It's a bit like The Last Boy Scout from a
spoof-blaxploitation angle.

Shame (Keenan Ivory Wayans) is a former cop who has been blackballed
after a major drugs bust went awry, leaving several DEA agents dead. He
now works as a private detective, taking on suicide missions for
peanuts and barely scraping by. His disapproving secretary Peaches (a
very funny and very, very small Jada Pinkett) wants him to get his act
together but he's too busy wallowing in self-pity.

His old pal from the DEA shows up and offers him a side mission to help
get back at the Drug Kingpin who ruined his career. And so, with only a
few clues, Shame begins his search and soon all roads lead to lies and
deception. Like I said, the plot is certainly nothing special. But it
does contain a helluva lot of laughs and decent action.

The one thing I can complain of is that the production design is kind
of dated now. Action films have evolved so much in the past decade that
watching ALDDS 12 years on can be a bit distracting. Wayans (who also
directs as well as writing and starring) too often shoots non-actions
scenes like a sitcom and his light-hearted editing may help remind you
that this totally AIN'T a serious film but it's a little TV-ish if you
know what I mean.

If you find ALDDS for cheap somewhere or if it's showing on TV then
don't con yourself out of a fun movie. High art is not what this film
aims to be.
<|_=00=_|>

"A Low Down Dirty Shame" is a hysterically funny and action packed movie
that is a must see! Most movies that try to blend comedy and action usually
fail, but not this movie. This movie delivers equally on both counts. Watch
this film, you will not be disappointed.           
<|_=00=_|>
I'm sure this movie wasn't done with "we're gonna win an academy award
with this one!" intentions it doesn't take itself too seriously & was
done to entertain & it did just that! Trust me all the negative
criticism & unnecessary flack this movie got was totally unwarranted &
was done by people who have NO taste for GREAT entertainment! That
being said this movie is one of my favourite comedy/action flicks..it
is FUNNNNNNNNNY & the ACTION is steadily paced & EXPLOSIVE there isn't
a dull moment in this one guys.Jada Pinkett was too cute not to mention
hilarious in this movie & her personality amped this film up nicely.The
guy who played Louise was very funny & of course the oldest Wayans
brother Keenan (the star)delivered too.Lol the guy who played Wayman
was a riot as well. In my head I'm trying to pick out a favourite
moment from this movie & I can't!..the whole movie was a BLAST & if you
haven't seen it yet you're wasting time..seriously! It's one of the
best films in the comedy/action genre & fans of both individual genres
WON'T be disappointed either..so if you haven't seen it yet do yourself
a favour & check it out you won't regret it! 10 out of 10 stars!
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed this film, and it holds up fairly well with repeated
viewings.

But more importantly, this film has historical importance.

First of all, this film is drawing very heavily on Hong Kong action
thrillers at a time when these were just getting attention in the US.

Secondly, compare this film very carefully with the Samuel Jackson
"remake" of "Shaft", released - with enormous hype - in 2000.

I don't know why Wayans didn't sue for plagiarism. Samuel Jackson's
Shaft is Shame without humor.

Unfortunately, the humor is absolutely essential to this story. For one
thing, it creates a "black" identity that is capable of rising above
any Hollywood appropriation of it. Shame's secretary - and real
romantic interest - is a strong black woman - a character type that
Hollywood has finally admitted actually exists only very recently,
since about 2001.

So Samuel Jackson's Shaft gets a x-million dollars promo, and still
can't come up with an interesting story (although it was nice to see
Richard roundtree on the screen again).

Meanwhile, let's talk about entertainment - alright, there are some
bits that don't work; but enough do to keep the film moving. I had good
time; what the heck.
<|_=00=_|>

Considering that Keenan Ivory Wayans is a comedian, I was impressed with
the
way that he handled this action-comedy which he starred in and directed.
A
not so far cry away from his comedic success with his "blaxploitation"
spoof
"I'm Gonna Git You Sucka", Keenan manages to fare well with good action
sequences and stick a lot of funny s*** along the way.  Jada Pinkett lives
up to comedic expectations as the sexy but tough assistant to Shame as
Peaches.  It's a good action-comedy to rent, but put the kids to bed
before
you watch it.  The movie has plenty of violence, adult content and plenty
of
raw language.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was so funny! Peaches (Jada Pinkett) and Shame (Keenen Ivory
Wayans) made a good team. There were so many funny scenes especially when
Shame had 3 dogs chasing him and he started singing a song by James Brown
and he woke up in bed with a guy in his bed. Oh also my favorite part was
when, Peaches punched out a soap opera actor because his character had sex
with one of the other characters that she didn't like. There are so many
other funny parts in this move. I'm hoping that Wayans will consider
making
a sequel to this movie. I wonder what Peaches and Shame will be up to
next.
If you haven't seen this movie yet, rent it and you won't be
disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some films that you can't decide whether the film is good or
bad. On whether the film is worth the watch or you're better off doing
some other more meaningful things. This film is one of it.

As I said, you might like it, you might not.

The acting a little bit over the top, but I think that's what the
producer intended to do. The jokes may at times be quite crude, but
maybe it's exactly the way it was suppose to be.

Worth a mention here is Jada Pinkett acting. She's quite good ! And I
like her hairstyle too. Not that it has any bearing of the quality of
acting though, just wanted to let you guys know.

Over all, the film is nice to watch, if you don't take it seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie to be quite over the top. Sure, the mass destruction
is reminiscent of the Blues Brothers. Sure, the action and hype is
quite over-rated. That's what makes Keenan Ivory Wayans the talent that
he is. I find that I like to watch this movie when I am down in the
dumps and in need of a distraction.

Jada Pinkett (later Smith) shines in this role. I have a sneaking
suspicion that she's quite a lot like this character in real life. She
made this movie, and I think it launched her for future good acting
roles. Girlfriend doesn't ride Will's coatails, she's established on
her own in my book.

The characters in the movie needed to be taken at face value, that was
all they were worth. If you took an instant dislike to any of them, you
were supposed to. The plot is a no brainer, and the jokes were quite
funny even if you view this movie excessively. You WILL catch yourself
wandering around saying lines from the movie....a true mark of a decent
film. 

I recommend it for a burst of energy on an otherwise boring weeknight.
Happy viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
Plot: A black detective becomes embroiled in a web of danger while
searching for a fortune in missing drug money. During the course of his
investigation, he encounters various old connections, ultimately
confronting the criminal responsible for Shame's expulsion from the
force. He must also deal with two women, Angela, a beautiful old flame,
and Peaches, his energetic but annoying sidekick.

This is easily my favorite Keenan Ivory Wayans directed film. This
combines action and comedy very well within its story. The cast all
play their roles very well, especially Keenan and Jada Pinkett Smith
who delivers some of the funniest lines of the movie. The jokes don't
feel forced and help drive the story forwarded unlike a lot of comedies
these days who like to repeat the same joke over and over again. I wish
more comedies nowadays were more like this.

Overall, A Low Down Dirty Shame is a very underrated action comedy that
delivers on the laughs, action, and has s good straight forwarded story
That holds its own. Check this out if you haven't seen it, you will not
regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
After all these years, I can finally scratch this one off the list. I'm
a big fan of Keenen's work. Who doesn't love In Living Color and I'm
Gonna Git You Sucka, c'mon now! But somehow Shame went under my radar.

Straight up, it wasn't as good as I'm Gonna Git You Sucka, which is
pure comedy gold. But it was definitely a perfect movie to watch after
coming home from work and just wanting something that doesn't involve a
lot of thinking but still fun to watch.

Everything about this movie is pretty mediocre: the action lacks
explosions, the gun play is a little tame, and the bad guy isn't very
"bad." What saves this movie is Keenen's charisma. The dude is really
funny and can carry flimsy plot all the way to the end. It felt as if
he were missing an equally strong partner, such as Lethal Weapon's set
up, but Jada sorta fills that role with her strong personality. I just
wish they would have given her more screen time.

All in all, cool movie to chill out with.
