
This film had the sad history of being blackballed in the United States
due to the incident at Columbine...which is a real shame, because it is
a treasure...written and directed by Troy Duffy, Boondocks is set in
Boston...it is the story of fraternal twin Irish boys (Connor and
Murphy McManus) who work in a meat packing plant...when their friend,
Doc, is being stiff armed by the Russian Mafia, the boys and their
friends step in to help...and away we go! Two of the most interesting
characters in the film are played by veteran actor William Dafoe, and a
newcomer to the silver screen, David Della Rocco. Dafoe's character is
Paul Smecker, a gay FBI agent specializing in organized crime...Rocco
plays an Italian Mafia package boy who is a close friend to the Irish
brothers...the central theme of the film is the indifference of good
men...Connor and Murphy are not indifferent, and after helping their
friend, Doc, the two embark on a crusade to rid the streets of Boston
of criminals...with the assistance of their comical and zany friend,
Rocco...This film had positive elements on all sides...humor...a moral
message...and incredible actors...you will no doubt find yourself
repeating the many memorable quotes from the film...I am a woman, and
not at all into your typical "shoot 'em up" guy films...this is not
another one of those films...it has become an underground "cult"
sensation...See it...you will not be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>

The Boondock Saints is one of the most pleasant surprises I've had in my
years of watching indies, and it proves conclusively that you don't need a
massive budget to do a terrific action film!

Two blue-collar Boston Irish brothers (Sean Patrick Flanery and Norman
Reedus, who are both terrific!) rid their favorite pub of an influx of
Russian gangsters, and soon decide they are on a Mission from God to execute
all the 'heavy hitter' criminals from the city. While this makes them local
heroes, it also sets sympathetic detective Willem Dafoe on their
trail.

The story is reminiscent of the 'Death Wish' series, without the glossy
superficiality of the Bronson films. At times funny, at times disturbing, it
never loses momentum, with a twist ending is both satisfying and thoroughly
insane! 

While the violence is graphic, the story is character-driven, and never
allows the executions to overwhelm the plot. You actually like the brothers,
and may be hard-pressed NOT to root for them, even if you do feel a bit
guilty about it!

The Boondock Saints is a fabulous film, one that deserves your
attention!

<|_=00=_|>
Very intelligent action movie, about two Irish brothers who kill
'sinners' to punish them. The movie is a bit different from the typical
action movie, as it doesn't have car-chases or explosions. The action
consists of stylish shooting sprees. It also has a fairly original idea
that is utilized in nearly every action scene in the movie, and that
should be used more often in action films; first you see the aftermath,
the crime-scene, the police investigating, counting bodies, etc.
After/as the police come up with theories to the crime, we see the
actual scene, of the brothers punishing criminals. It's a different
kind of vigilante movie. It's particularly gory and bloody, but this
just makes it all the more realistic. In real life, there is a
significant amount of blood when someone is shot in the head. The movie
has some Christian subtexts, I think I've heard about five major
theories about the whole movie's meaning. This shows, in my opinion,
that there was obviously a lot of thought put into the movie. I'd
recommend it to anyone who can stand the gore, even if they aren't
Christians. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

You've either seen it or you haven't; you either love it with a fiery
passion, or curse it for
ever being thought up. Boondock Saints is one of those films that people
just can't seem
to be apathetic about.

I happen to be one of the those who love it with a firey passion. I
thought
that Willem
Dafoe's character was fantastic and created a gay man unlike the
stereotypes
of "Queer
Eye." I also thought Duffy's was well suited to the tone of the movie, and
created several
fascinating shots that I love as a film student. The credit sequence
strikes
me as
brilliance; the film raises a lots of questions of where the line between
good and evil lays
and about perceptions of God. The writing made me laugh, the music made me
shiver
(the opening sequence is The Blood of Cu Chulainn--fantastic if you like
that genre), and
the characters made me care. On a purely shallow feminine note: just as
straight boys
have twin fantasies, so do I with a pair of fraternal Irish twins...thank
you Troy, thank
you.

Of course then there's the opposite side of the coin. Allowing yourself to
be immersed in
the story takes some huge suspension of belief. Common examples: Conner
jumping off
a building and not breaking bones--possible, but unlikely, and the boys
falling through
the air duct after magically taking a coiled rope, untying it and getting
tangled in it
enough that when caught would hold their weight allowing them to shoot
every
major
boss in the Russian Mob--yeah, I don't buy it either, but it's extremely
cinematic! Some
people would point to that and say "divine intervention! God loves them!"
Yeah well, God
loves us all, but you don't see people flying off buildings because of
it--well you might,
but you get my drift. So my point is that, while I love this movie, I
could
very easily see
where someone else wouldn't.

If you haven't seen it; you should. Give it a chance. Don't listen to
anybody else before
you do. Hell, if you haven't seen it why are you reading this? Go rent it,
burrow if from
your friends, whatever; watch it and form your own opinions and then join
in
some huge
fight on the message boards. Good fun can be had by all, whether you loved
or hated it. 
<|_=00=_|>

I know there's a lot of people who either worship this movie or hate
it. Truth be told this movie is just a fun action movie with a good
plot, great characters, and very good direction. Compare it to whatever
you want, but you can do that with any movie out there. If you haven't
had the chance to catch this flick, go out and rent it! it's one of
those movies that shouldn't be missed. I guarantee that once you see it
you'll be quoting it left and right. Sean Patrick Flannery and Norman
Reedus have amazing chemistry together, and David Del Rocko just adds
the comedic relief that makes the trio one thats hard to take your eyes
off of. 

See the Boondock Saints and get ready to have a good ole celtic time.

(B)

<|_=00=_|>

Preliminary remark: the comments refer to a pre-release version that was
shown at the "Fantasy Film Festival" in Cologne, Germany, in August
1999.

"Boondock Saints" is a clever, funny, sufficiently violent movie with an
overall high entertainment value. The story revolves around two
Irish-American brothers and an excentric gay FBI agent (awesome: William
Dafoe). The brothers - devout Catholics - who speak several languages
fluently and work in a slaughterhouse find themselves equipped with money
and weapons and subsequently start their very own crusade against the evil
men of Boston - professional killers, mafia bosses and drug dealers. The
agent is at their heels from the outset, but he has to realize that
justice
is on the side of the brothers...

This basic plot is the foundation for a highly energetic narrative: we get
excellent and at times highly comic dialogues (with a high F***-word
ratio),
running gags, and lots of crazy situations and plot developments that are
as
absurd as they are funny. The action/shooting scenes are
well-choreographed
with a fine eye for the detail, but it's the main characters, their
dialogues and developments around which the movie is develops rather than
the action sequences.

On top of this, we get a fractured time/place structure that's already
familiar from movies such as Kubrick's "The Killing" or Tarantino's
"Reservoir Dogs", but "Boondock Saints" takes it to new extremes - and
thus
it's fun to watch.

Of course, the characters are a bit shallow every now and then and one
would
love to learn more about their background, but that's only a slight
criticism. Overall, and measured by its own intention, "Boondock Saints"
is
great entertainment. More, it doesn't need to be.
<|_=00=_|>

A fourth year film student with a chip on his/her shoulder will probably
tell you that this film is simple, uninspired, derivative, gratuitous.....
ignore him/her just like you always do and see this genuinely funny movie.
It has an inspired performance by Willem Dafoe and enough new ideas to
keep
you glued.    The social commentary should probably be looked at as more
of
a plot device than intelligent thought, but I found myself watching this
movie repeatedly and enjoying it more the second and third time around.
This is definitely a naughty pleasure for the movie enthusiast.
<|_=00=_|>

My son called me from Korea (Army Medic) to tell me that I had to see
this movie. He brought it home with him on leave and we watched it
together and he was absolutely right. It was "off the chain" as he
says. It was so different from the standard fare that only substitutes
different faces into the same tired story lines. We love it and I am
now buying my own copy. I recommend it to any one that I know is a
discriminating movie lover. I can't wait for the sequel. By the way ,
I'm a 43 year old mom of three so it's not just for 20 something males.
Willem Dafoe was over the top but absolutely perfect for this movie. My
husband hates movies and any TV that doesn't have a ball and a score,
but he actually loved this movie too. It kept him on the edge of his
seat and he actually laughed out loud several times.

<|_=00=_|>

*A lot of Spoilers*

Almost all of my friends told me to watch this movie. "It's so sick",
"Great
Movie", "It's so badass", and "It is in a category of it's own"... well, I
can honestly say that "The Boondock Saints" was one of the worst movies I
have ever seen, and had it not been for Willem Dafoe, it would have easily
been the worst movie of all time. (A title currently held by both The
Exorcist II and The Amityville Horror). This movie is crap, there is no
way
around it. The cult status it has climbed to is baffling. The fact that
many
people enjoy this movie is beyond the realm of human comprehension. I
cannot
understand. It has a lousy story line, and it doesn't gel or make sense.
The
action is GARBAGE. I don't care what anyone says, it blows. Its cheesy,
dull
and anticlimactic... Half of the "action" is bad quick-cut scenes zooming
in
on aftermath, or shots of people shooting up a storm. For some reason
people
can't seem to shoot each other from ten feet away, and while dangling
upside-down in a room full of gangsters, these jerks kept their bearings
and
shot up the joint, killing almost 10 mobsters (How can they shoot so well?
why can't mobsters shoot? what was holding up the rope?). Why were they so
smart? why did they pack meat for a living if they could speak multiple
languages? How come he didn't die after jumping off a building at least 5
stories high into an alley? What the hell was the writer thinking? The
acting, with the exception of Willem Dafoe (why did he have to crossdress?
honestly...), was ghastly. The Irish accents were brutal, and the overdone
villains were just as horrendous. The whole "we're catholic, but we
execute
Mobsters" thing was also swill. The prayer being spoken in unison was so
lame!! Who writes this crap? The whole symmetric action shots of them
lighting cigarettes, praying, shooting, etc. were so corny I was ashamed
of
myself for watching, and I was hoping nobody would come into the room and
watch... I would have been reprimanded for watching such trash. The
accents
from the "Saints" were like a poor man's Mickey, from "Snatch"...a good
movie. This movie is so flawed, so cheesy, and so boring I was shocked
after
I watched it. Also, another atrocity is that its being compared to
Reservoir
Dogs and Pulp Fiction. How dare someone make that comparison? Those movies
are masterpieces, with good actors, excellent dialogue, perfect direction,
fitting music (this movie had the worst music I think I've ever heard in a
film) and reasonable story lines. This movie was the polar opposite of
that.
Irish people should be appalled by this... anyone from Boston should be
appalled by this... every person on the face of the earth should be
appalled
by this. What gets me the most is the alienation that people who don't
like
this movie feel. They become outcasts in the conversation... I Just don't
get it... we need more movies like Commando, Terminator, Aliens, Rambo,
Cliffhanger, or Predator... hell, even Marked for Death or Cobra (that's
right, 1986 Sly Stallone) is better than this. Its a sad day when people
think that Matrix movies and this refuse are excellent action films. Shed
a
tear for a near dead genre. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, unless
you
want to watch it in order to make a subsequent film look really good.  ½
star/ 5. This movie is on par with Jaws 4 and Barb Wire... despicable...
May
god have mercy on Troy Duffy's soul.
<|_=00=_|>

I've always enjoyed non-linear storytelling.  A number of people seem to
have picked up on this aspect of the movie and thus dubbed it similar to
Pulp Fiction (though no one mentions Reservoir Dogs) when this movie takes
non-linear storytelling to a level beyond where Quentin Tarrantino was
ever
able to go.

Now, certainly Memento came along afterwards and transformed the entire
art
of non-linear storytelling.  However, Memento uses it to keep the movie
watcher guessing until the very end, whereas Boondock Saints puts the
pieces
on the table, letting you try to put them together, but then will continue
handing you pieces until the picture becomes clearer.

Clearly the movie is designed to be over-the-top, both from Williem
Dafoe's
character to the action sequences themselves.  Williem Dafoe makes this
movie for me.  The plot, which centers on religiously-inspired vigilante
justice, has an air of being somewhat cliched, although I would be hard
pressed to name another movie which handles it in this
matter.

I still fail to see how others consider this movie vacuous and without
meaning, when its message about the pitfalls of our current legal system
and
the need for something that transcends it is quite clear.  I thought the
ending, in which various people are interviewed about their opinion of the
"Saints" and how for some vigilante justice was an incredibly sensitive
issue, made this point very clear.
