

Call me the ultimate anarch, but I'm inclined to disagree with the
slatings
this movie has received.  Maybe I was watching a different film, but I
pretty much enjoyed Hideaway.  Okay, maybe the scripting wasn't pure
Shakespeare, maybe the plot was a little tenuous, or a little unoriginal,
but still, a little credit where it's due please.

I admit, I was expecting from the write-up a second rate TV movie, but
ended
up with a deranged grin plastered across my face.  I particularly enjoyed
the film's 'darkness', and hellishly black soundtrack that only added to
the
effect.  Personally, I'm surprised that Jeremy Sisto has yet to be
mentioned
in the reviews, because I believe his chilling performance as Vasago was
one
of the shining factors in this movie.  What with his penetrating stare and
spooky, well-spoken accent he made, to me, the perfect killer.  A round of
applause for the young man, if you please.

Personally, I see Hideaway as a movie that should be a big hit with the
gothic community, and I shall stand by my word regardless...

<|_=00=_|>

I haven't read Dean Koontz's novel, but most of this movie's
faults
can be traced back to predictable
and simplistic script, which bears a strong resemblance to "The Eyes Of
Laura Mars". 
Otherwise, this is an entertaining horror thriller,
with trippy "tunnel vision" (literally) sequences,
flashes of dark humor and
the usual good performance by Jeff Goldblum.
The "good vs. evil" climax does come off a bit cheesy,
but
that doesn't happen because the effects are not good; it happens
because
of the way in which they are employed.   (**1/2)

<|_=00=_|>

Seriously...why can't they make one of Dean Koontz's book into a DECENT
movie? I mean they dont even get the characters right...Regina
(Silverstone)
is supposed to be a nine year old "crippled" (as she defines herself in
the
book). Changing her character takes away from the plot of the story! It's
a
shame that they waste Koontz's amazing talent on movie's like
these.
<|_=00=_|>
While traveling on the road with his wife Lindsay (Christine Lahti) and
his daughter Regina (Alicia Silverstone), Hatch Harrison (Jeff
Goldblum) has a car accident, hitting a truck and falling with his wife
in a river. He dies for more than two hours, but the specialist Dr.
Jonas Nyebern (Alfred Molina) successfully brings him back to life.
Hatch has some weird premonitions and becomes able to see through the
eyes of the psychopath serial killer Vassago (Jeremy Sisto), a young
man that killed his mother and his sister and committed suicide and was
also brought back to life and now is killing young women and teenagers.
When he foresees that Vassago is trying to capture his daughter, Hatch
tries to find the criminal first, in spite of Lindsay, Regina and the
detective in charge of the investigation believe that he needs
psychiatric help.

"Hideaway" is another rip-off of "Eye of Laura Mars", I believe the
first movie to explore the idea of a person connected to a serial
killer through his eyes. "Hideaway" has a good cinematography and
special affects, the cast is great and the sequence of the accident of
Hatch and Lindsay is excellent. Although not being an original
storyline, this attractive movie entertains. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "O Esconderijo" ("The Hiding Place")
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen earlier Brett Leonard's horror film "The Dead Pit"(1989-check
out
my comment of it!)and this director is incredibly overlooked and
talented."Hideawy" is excellent-fast-paced,violent and really dark.The
visuals(especially the vision of Hell)are really impressive,and Jeremy
Sisto
as a satanic killer Vassago is outstanding-he is pure evil!Great
soundtrack
bu such industrial/metal bands like KMFDM,Fear Factory,Godflesh("Nihil"-I
love this song!)and Front Line Assembly.My absolute
recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>

Hideaway grabs your attention from the start with Hatch Harrison going to
the spiritual world filled with spectacular, illuminating effects.  Then
seeing through the eyes of a killer who is after teenage women and having
Alicia Silverstone (Regina)as your daughter you know that he will meet with
the killer sooner than he ever hoped.  With the plot having more twists and
turns than first meets the eye makes this easily the best thriller I've
seen.  With the killer being perfectly cast with his black sunnies and
trenchcoat, I even love the music which provides an eerie atmosphere for the
movie.  This movie has made me a big fan of Dean Koontz's novels. 

<|_=00=_|>
Dean Koontz chiller, starring Jeff Goldblum. Highly
entertaining...suspenseful... even mesmerizing at times.

Jeff Goldblum pulls the veritable rabbit out of the proverbial hat in
this one. His acting is intensely deep and highly professional in this
Brett Leonard (director of the notoriously horrible adaptation of
Stephen King's "Lawnmower Man," so bad it was, King SUED and WON, to
have his name removed from the title and marketing!) adaptation of Dean
Koontz's literary effort.

This adaptation is horrid, as well. Koontz, in my opinion, should also
have sued. The "adaptation" isn't an adaptation, it's a complete
rewriting of the story, dialog, setting and characters. 

The only thing that remains the same is Hatch (Goldblum) and the
circumstances which surround his amazing new "gift." Koontz's earlier
works, as was the work upon which this movie was based, had little
detail, although his characters are very well developed and his story
lines/plots move along with little or no distraction at all. This
leaves his earlier works easily adapted to film by any director with a
capable imagination and even just a little talent. Unfortunately, Brett
Leonard displays neither in this attempt. Someone should have told him
the red sun ... wasn't SCARY!

As a movie, it is highly entertaining, fun, scary and has you literally
on the edge of your seat several times during its viewing. There are a
couple of really well done "scare you!" moments and many moments where
you catch yourself holding your breath. 

However good the movie itself may be (or may not, depending on your
point of view), Jeff Goldblum's performance completely redeems the
horrid rewrite and inept direction of this production. 

Totally.

The scenery and props were very well done, and the scene in which Hatch
visits the Tarot Reader is very authentic. The tarot cards she uses are
quite unique and extremely well designed. I wouldn't mind having a deck
like that myself. 

The Alpine-styled architectures and wooden and glass designs are truly
lovely and well designed. Even the slightest attention to scene
settings and props make for a much more enjoyable finished product.

Christine Lahti is very convincing as Hatch's (Goldblum's) wife,
Lindsey Harrison, and Alicia Silverstone is believable and fun to
watch, in her portrayal of the Harrison's younger daughter. I'm not a
fan of Ms. Silverstone's, but I must say her performance in this role
is about the best I've ever seen from her.

The twists and turns in this movie are a bit predictable, but there are
a few surprises which leave you saying, "Wow..."...but what saved this
production was Jeff Goldblum's marvelous talent. 

Jeremy Sisto was a nice bit of eye candy for those who are interested
in that, but it was Goldblum's wonderful gift for acting that put this
movie in my horror collection.

It was a good book, and is a good movie; it's just not enough like the
book for me to feel comfortable with the adaptation, and the direction
was completely lacking. However, the actors weren't walking around
aimlessly, spouting drivel and worthless platitudes thanks to Walker's
(he did BRAINSCAN!!!!) abilities, but his screen play/adaptation should
really have been more faithful to Koontz's wonderful story. It would
have made for a much more entertaining evening...and movie.

The ending is very satisfying; high tension, wonderful techno music
playing not too loud, but loud enough in the background, and Hatch's
wife saying over and over, "I'm so sorry," for doubting Hatch's visions
were real. His gift takes him straight to his daughter's side...and
into the clutches of the "demon" with which he has been granted psychic
contact.

Who will win the ultimate battle? Hatch (the good guy), Vassago/Jeremy
(the "demon") or another, unrevealed participant? 

While the final battle takes place on this plane, the ethereal battle
which rages in the background is every bit as important. This climaxial
scene is the epitome of metaphorical synergy. It was the only scene in
the movie which was well-directed; where the acting quality, the visual
effects and the direction were in sync with one another. Before this
scene, for the entire rest of the movie, the acting quality is the only
thing which will keep you watching it.

All in all, it earns a 7.0/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is by far, one of my favorite films.  I will admit that the very
end of the movie was a tad cheesy, but not so much that the film was
ruined.
I left the movie feeling very fortunate to have been able to watch it
again.  I saw this movie about four years ago and loved it, and watched it
again.  It did have some scenes that I preferred to watch through
half-closed
fingers, but for the most part, it was truly a wonderful film.  As it is,
it is a very underground movie, and in the years to come, it will become
even more so.  I recommend this movie to anyone who has a strong stomach
and
has an open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't forget to watch the final scene. If you are patient enough, wait
until the credits are over and you will be rewarded with one final
scene. I won't tell you anything about it, you have to see it for
yourself. Like this one, there are many films that have inserted one
extra piece of the story. Some times you have to expect the unexpected,
a twist in the plot right in the final scene. Why directors include
such easter eggs? Maybe they expect that a film-goer like you should
see the entire movie, his whole piece of art. So, run to your video
store o videoteque and place the VHS or DVD in your player and enjoy.
Remember: the story is not over till it's over.
<|_=00=_|>
Hidaway tells the tale of the Harrison family, husband & wife Hatch
(Jeff Goldblum) & Lindsey (Christine Lahti) plus their teenage daughter
Regina (Alicia Silverstone). Driving back from a weekend away they are
involved in a car accident which kills Hatch but after being
technically dead for 1 hour & 20 minutes Dr. Jonas Nyebern (Alfred
Molina) manages to bring him back to life using a new form of
resuscitation developed by himself. At first the Harrison family
believe they have been given a second change & are overjoyed but one
night Hatch as a disturbing vision while cutting himself, that of a
young missing girl named Wendy Stone (Gaetana Korbin) being brutally
murdered. The visions continue as Hatch begins to think that he may
have a psychic link with a serial killer named Vassago (Jeremy Sisto)
but at the same time Vassago has a link with him & decides he'll pay
Hatch's family a nice friendly visit...

Directed by Brett Leonard I thought Hideaway was a decent enough
horror/thriller but in the end nothing spectacular. The script by
Andrew Kevin Walker & Neal Jimenez was based on the novel by Dean R.
Koontz who was prepared to sue to get his name off the opening credits
he thought it so crap, well I probably wouldn't want to put my name to
it but that seems a little extreme. Anyway Hideaway moves along at a
reasonable pace although it could have used 10 or so minutes cut out,
it takes Goldblum ages to realise what's going on while we, the
audience, know almost straight away so we sit there waiting for him to
catch up. I was also disappointed in the weak climax, a lacklustre good
vs. evil showdown with Goldblum's family in danger, seen it all before.
On a positive note I thought the film was entertaining for what it was,
there's an average twist at the end which isn't brilliant but is better
than nothing I suppose & it maintained my interest in where it was
going.

Director Leonard doesn't do much to impress, Hideaway is a well made
but has little in the way of scares or tension. The best scenes involve
Vassago dressed in shades & long black coat, he's has a strong on
screen presence. The gore is OK but not exactly plentiful, someone
impales themselves on a knife, someone's eye is poked out, there are a
couple of slit throats & Goldblum clenches a razor which sends blood
squirting everywhere.

With an extremely healthy sounding $15,000,000 budget I simply can't
see where all that money went, I really can't. Sure you have to pay
stars Goldblum & Silverstone but apart from that there's no big action
scenes, limited special effects, no exotic locations & the thing looks
like a TV film on occasion. Certainly not worth fifteen big ones. The
acting is pretty good & Goldblum is always good to watch although I
thought Lahti as his wife was awful.

Hideaway is a decent way to pass the time, it's not the best film ever
but it's not the worst. I liked it but I could see why someone
wouldn't, hard to give a glowing recommendation to but I think it's
worth a watch.
