

When I first saw the previews for this movie, it had me interested.  A movie
about guys who fight - it didn't seem to deep, but I thought it would
provide entertainment.  I had heard buzz about, a few of my friends raved
about it for a few days, and I was convinced.  I should see this movie.  I
went to my local video store and picked up the last remaining DVD.  I popped
it in, sat in amazement until the last credit rolled, and then watched it
again.  And again.  And again.

This movie is dark and disturbing, however, it is equally smart and
stylistic.  I found it hard to watch at points, but I couldn't turn my eyes
away.  Fight Club makes many bold statements against the modern
consumer-driven society, and produces Norton's best performance and Pitt's
second best (12 Monkeys).

Norton plays an average-Joe who is living a dead-end life.  He needs
something to change his life.  Tyler and Marla will take care of this, and
that is all I want to give away.  Other comments will tell you more, but I
suggest you let it all sink in while watching.  As for it's ending, it
doesn't rival 'The Sixth Sense' - it blows it away.  One of the best movie
endings I've seen.  Even better if you're a Pixies fan.

As for it being important, don't worry.  You will be hearing about this
movie.  When 'A Clockwork Orange' came out, it was met with mixed reviews,
deemed too dark and violent, and is now considered a classic.  These two
movies share quite a bit in common - both were based on great books.  If you
haven't read either, get to it.  Politicians will use this movie as a
demonstration of careless and consequenceless violence in movies, and as a
perfect example of what today's youth are being influenced by.

Watch this movie, and watch it again with some of your more intelligent
friends.  10 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

I am, unfortunately, not one of the faithful Chuck Palahniuk readers who had
read the book BEFORE they saw the movie. I, however, couldn't wait to read
the book after seeing this film. I've read the book 5 times since and seen
the movie more times than I can remember.

 Simply put, this movie changed my life. Not just on a personal level (on
which I will not comment here except to say I'm now a major Palahniuk fan)
but also as a movie-watcher. I view movies differently after seeing this
movie, because it broke down doors.

 This movie is literally the first time I ever came upon something that, at
first sight seemed incredibly stylish, sophisticated and entertaining. The
plot lured you in before turning you upside down, the acting was nothing
short of perfect (has there ever been a more memorable character than Brad
Pitt as Tyler Durden?), the music, the screenplay (based on what is now my
all-time favorite book), the lighting, the pacing, the everything! Virtually
everything about this movie took my by surprise, save for one man.

 David Fincher, director, was probably the only reason I went to see this
movie in the first place. His work on 'Seven' and 'The Game' had me excited
to see what he would do next, but I came to this movie expecting a stylish
flick that offered a good plot and hopefully some good acting but what I got
was so much, much more.

 Honestly, how many times have you seen a movie that, with every viewing,
gets even more complicated yet so simple that you can't help but laugh.
Every time I watch this movie I notice something new about it, such is the
depth of what is on the screen. Then there's the tiny issue of the story of
Fight Club, penned by Chuck Palahniuk (who has one of the most fertile
imaginations around. Don't believe me? Read 'Survivor' and weep!) the story
is nothing short of incredible, a pure shock-value social commentary on the
state of the world at the end of the century. You'll cry, you'll laugh,
you'll do all the clichés but most importantly you'll identify with every
single thing on the screen.

 This movie rates as one of my all-time favorite movies and, simply put, if
you haven't seen it yet then quit wasting your time OnLine and get to the
nearest videostore!

 5/5
<|_=00=_|>

Fight Club is one of the most unique films I have ever seen. In addition to
presenting a rather fresh take on life, FC also presents its material in a
fresh way. My main interest in the film is in that, in my opinion, it does
not present characters for us to think about. Rather, it presents actions
for us to think about. I will say that I cannot recall *ever* having been
"asked" by a film to both suspend my disbelief the way this film asks in
its
third act AND at the same time come to terms with an understanding that
there is no room--or need--for disbelief.

Perhaps these comments will not make sense to the average movie goer who
will dismiss this film--and, unfortunately, its premise--as another
hollywood flick filled with gratuitous violence. I'd go as far as to say
that this film is not about violence. It is about choices. It is about
activity. It is about lethargy. It is about waking up and realizing that at
some point in the past we've gone to the toilet and thrown up our dreams
without even realizing that society has stuck its fingers down our
throat.

I would argue that anyone caught, at some point in their lives, between a
rock and a hard place--anyone who has reached bottom on a mental
level--anyone who has uttered to themselves "Wait, this isn't right. I
would
not do/say/feel what it is that I just did/said/felt... I do not like this.
I must change before I am forever stuck being the person that I am not."
These people, they will know what I'm talking about. These people will not
only recognize the similarities between Edward Norton's character and
themselves--they will be uncomfortably familiar with him. These people will
appreciate Fight Club for what it is: a wake up call that we are not
alone.

As David Berman once said: "I'm afraid I've got more in common with who I
was than who I am becoming." If this sentence makes any sense to you, go
see
Fight Club. You won't regret it.

L.

<|_=00=_|>

"Fight Club" an aggressive, confrontational, often brutal
satire that is quite possibly a brilliant masterpiece. Taking
the "Choose life," anti-consumerism rant at the beginning
of "Trainspotting," and carrying it to its logical -- albeit
extreme -- conclusion this is a big budget, mainstream film
that takes a lot of risks by biting the hand that feeds
it.
The film's narrator (Edward Norton) is an insignificant cog
in the drab, corporate machine, dutifully doing his job and
what he's told without question. He's an insomniac slave to
his IKEA possessions and only finds joy in going to as
many self-help/dealing with terminal diseases sessions
as he can. It provides him with an escape from his
sleepless nights. That is, until Marla Singer (Helena
Bonham Carter), a trashy chain-smoking poser, enters his
life and upsets his routine. The narrator also meets Tyler
Durden (Brad Pitt), a charismatic soap salesman whose
straightforward honesty, candor and sleazy lounge-lizard
outfits are a breath of fresh air.
One night, after the two men have bonded over beers, Tyler
asks the narrator to hit him. At first, it seems like an absurd
request but after they pound on each other for a bit, a
strange feeling overcomes them. They feel a kind of
release and satisfaction at inflicting pain on one another. In
a world where people are desensitized to everything
around them, the physical contact of fighting wakes them
up and makes them feel truly alive. Others soon join in and
pretty soon Fight Club becomes an underground
sensation. However, it becomes readily apparent that Tyler
has more elaborate plans than just organizing brawls at
the local bar.
David Fincher has taken the dark, pessimistic worldview of
"Seven" and married it with the clever plot twists and turns
of "The Game" and assembled his strongest effort to date.
"Fight Club" is a $50+ million studio film that remains true
to its anti-consumer, anti-society, anti-everything message
-- right up to the last, sneaky subliminal frame.
What makes "Fight Club" a subversive delight is not only its
refreshing anti-corporate message but how it delivers said
message. As Fincher has explained in interviews, you don't
really watch the film but rather download it. Its structure is
extremely playful as it messes around with linear time to an
incredible degree. The narrative bounces back and forth all
over the place like a novel, or surfing on the Internet -- even
making a hilarious dead stop to draw attention to itself in a
funny, interesting way that completely works. Yet Norton's
deadpanned narration holds everything together and
allows the viewer to get a handle on what's happening.
This is the way films should be made. Why must we
always have to go through the A+B+C formula? "Fight Club"
openly rejects this tired, clearly outdated structure in favour
of a stylized frenzy of jump cuts, freeze frames, slow motion
and every other film technique in the book that only
reinforces its anarchistic message.
A film like this would have never been greenlighted by a
major studio if Brad Pitt had not been attached to the
project. Once you see the film, it becomes obvious that he
was the only choice for Tyler Durden. Like he did with
"Kalifornia" and "Twelve Monkeys", Pitt grunges himself
down and disappears completely into his role to a
frighteningly convincing degree. During many of the brutal
fight scenes, he is transformed into a bloody, pulpy mess
that'll surely have the "Legends of the Fall" fans running for
the exits. It is an incredible performance -- probably his
best -- for the simple fact that he becomes the character so
completely.
If Pitt has the flashy, gonzo role, Edward Norton is his
perfect foil as the seemingly meek yet sardonic narrator. It's
a deceptively understated performance as the last third of
the film reveals but Norton nails it perfectly. He is clearly
our surrogate, our introduction into this strange world and
his wry observations on our consumer-obsessed culture
are right on the money. They are the perfect setup for
Tyler's introduction and his view on the world which is
clearly a call to arms of sorts, a manifesto that rejects the
notion that we are what we own.
And ultimately, that is what "Fight Club" tries to do. The film
is a cinematic punch to the head as it challenges the
status quo and offers a wakeup call to people immersed in
a materialistic world where those who have the most stuff,
"win." I think that Fincher's film wants us to tear all that
down, reject corporate monsters like Starbucks and
Blockbuster, and try to figure out what we really want out of
life. It's almost as if the film is suggesting salvation through
self-destruction. And it is these thought-provoking ideas
that makes "Fight Club" a dangerously brilliant film that
entertains as well as enlightens.
<|_=00=_|>

The script was tight, the theme fascinating, the acting incredible
(especially Edward Norton, as one might expect), the direction inspired,
and
the cinematography stunning. It is one of the few films of the past five
years that deserves to be seen multiple times.  In fact, if you have seen
it
only once, you have missed something.  I was seriously hoping the movie
would receive Oscar nominations for Best Actor (Norton), Best Screenplay,
Best Director, Best Cinematography and Best Picture.

So, how is it that the film received no nominations? Unfortunately, it had
a
mismatched ad campaign.  The ads made it seem like the movie was about
street boxing, instead of a intellectual and emotional ride through a
man's
psyche as he takes a strange path toward rebellion against consumer
society.
As a result, most who went to see it were disappointed, and those who
would
recognize its brilliance stayed far away from the movie theaters.  This is
one of the most underrated movies I know.

I always love movies that keep you entertained and keep you guessing, and
this movie scores a 10 in both.  Those who enjoyed The Game, Memento, or
The
Matrix really should check it out.
<|_=00=_|>

Similar in idea to 'American Beauty' but certainly not in style or content
this bleak look at underground culture and the spiritual redemption it
brings is easily one of the most intelligent films I've ever seen. Directed
by the same man who brought us the superb 'The Game' this is another film
which you'll have to see more than once to truly understand.  Focusing on
sad white-collar, middle-class Norton whose only real dream in life is to
own all the contents of an IKEA catalogue it follows him through a chance
meeting with charismatic stranger Pitt and the unfortunate events which
conspire to draw them together. After a nights hard drinking they start a
friendly-ish scrap which is viewed by a couple of others and from that
small
acorn a mighty oak called Fight Club grows. This is the point around which
the whole film revolves with Norton and Pitt forming an underground club
which draws more and more disillusioned young men to join it. Based on firm
'Queensbury Rules' it is a cathartic if bloody way to spend your night.
Eventually as it becomes a huge operation Pitt, the de facto leader, moves
it up a gear and creates his own cult from this secret society. This is
where the film becomes brilliant and the twist near the end is magnificent,
better even than the much talked about 'The Sixth Sense'. It just has so
much to say about things: the emasculation of an entire generation of young
men ("No great war to fight, no great depression"), the growing isolation
we
all feel from one another and the need to find something to draw us back
together and most importantly, the power of an exciting, challenging idea
and it's fermentation into cultism. However, where many films would just
say
'This is a bad thing' 'Fight Club' doesn't. It is more a condemnation of a
materialistic society which has forgotten about a large section of itself.
You can empathise with these men completely, even when they band together
against this uncaring society that has reared them to be something their
instincts don't understand. It's as close to genius as you'll get and one
film you'll talk about and think about for days.
<|_=00=_|>

Faithfully following Chuck Palahniuk's acerbic satire, Fight Club presents
the vast emptiness of modern existence- ridden as it is with shallow
values,
rampant consumerism, empty of meaning, feeling and life itself- in a slick
and ironically consumer oriented fashion.  In a different vein from
American
Beauty, Fight Club explores the solutions to the veritable sleepwalking
existence that plagues modern life.  The film is violent, but it is not
gratuitous violence, and any reviewer who claims that the film is promoting
violence has missed the entire point of the film. A very black comedy, it
is
sure to provoke much conversation- it is definitely a film to see with
friends.  The film is fast-paced, densely packed and merits a second
viewing, just to take it all in, especially if you haven't read the book.
In typical Fincher style, you the viewer are left to draw your own
conclusions. He feels no impetus to tell you how to interpret what you've
seen, appropriate since the film condemns falling victim to the strictures
of what society tells us to think and to value.  My only criticism is that
the editing is not as tight as it could be in the middle section of the
film, it drags just a bit then picks up again. Other than that, it should
definitely be an Oscar contender.
<|_=00=_|>
Let's ignore the advice and talk about "Fight Club". This film was a
milestone; although it bombed at the box office, Fincher's cinematic
language left a mark that can still be felt now, 14 years later, on
many current releases. Despite the risky 'cutting edge' nature of the
film, Fincher got a huge budget for this and it shows: the camera
effects and the whole production design are amazing.

This movie has a raw energy that grips me every time I watch it. What a
crazy, fun ride! Whether it is a very clever satire or pure
testosterone going on a rampage - both are fine by me. A film so
visually stunning and sexy, with career best performances by all
involved - welcome to movie heaven.

My vote: 10 out of 10

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
<|_=00=_|>

Fight Club is a brash slap in the face of consumerism and the working
dead.
It questions reality. It is strikingly thought provoking and visually
stimulating. The direction is incredibly brilliant. Director David Fincher
(Aliens, Se7en and The Game) is at his finest here warping both space and
time, dropping in things here and there to make things clear. Edward
Norton
is excellent as Jack, the narrator of the movie. He is a nerdy insomniac
who
catalog shops at Ikea and has a going nowhere job. Brad Pitt is dynamic as
Tyler Durden, an anarchistic man who lives in a run-down abandoned house
and
makes and sells soap for a living. Helen Bonham Carter is also great as
Marla Singer, the manic-depressive chain-smoking woman in both their
lives.
Her role is critical and she plays it well.

There has been some controversy about the violence in this film but it is
not gratuitous violence, it is part of the story and serves it well. It is
much less than what you would see in your average Hollywood blockbuster.
This is actually an insightful film and in many ways similar to American
Beauty, although this film is much more in your face about it's message.
If
you are squeamish, you may not want to see it. There are some very painful
bloody scenes, but if you can stomach it, then check it out. There is also
a
huge twist in this film that almost rivals the twist at the end of The
Sixth
Sense. And I must admit, it is the twist in this film that made me really
love it. The best audience for this film is men in their 20's or 30's, but
anyone that can appreciate film as a modern art should like it. One of the
best films of 1999.
<|_=00=_|>

After watching this movie I was totally filled with enthusiasm.
Fight Club is definitly Fincher's best movie even better than se7en. It's
not only the story but the optics which fascinated me. When I had seen it
for the second time I could see this movie with the knowledge of the
conclusion which is really fascinating as you'll see Fight Club in a
totally
different perspective. Also great about Fight Club is its soundtrack
performed by the Dust Brothers and especially the song 'Where is my mind'
by
the Pixies which really fit to the end of the movie. Unfortunately Fight
Club didn't have much success in Germany but anyway the movie got best
reviews of the German press. I also have to mention the brilliance of Ed
Norton and Brad Pitt who plays best in roles in which he performs the
villain. But it's quiet amazing what Edward Norton is able to do - he is
just overwhelming. For that role he has to get the oscar.
