

Why?  Well for starters there is the best chase sequence since The French
Connection.  Then there is Will Smith as an actor - not just a star,
though
later in the movie he is admittedly overshadowed by veteran Gene
Hackman.

There are two layers to this movie:  On the surface is a pacy thriller
with
edge-of-the-seat chases but underneath lies a telling commentary on
government surveillance.  It is one of those truth-in-fiction stories
which
makes its point about government intrusion into privacy dramatically and
effectively.

There are references to the classic, The Conversation: The surveilled
couple
talking in the park, and the Hackman character's premises are an obvious
recreation of his workshop in the earlier movie.  If you haven't yet seen
The Conversation - see it before you see this one - you will understand
the
Hackman character a lot better (besides, it is a superb movie in its own
right).

Oh, and Jon Voight is terrific as the bad guy... 
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know how I missed this in theaters, but I watched it for the
first time tonight. I almost gave it a 10, because this is as good as
the suspense/action drama gets. Somebody on the DVD special features
called it "...a combination of Crimson Tide, The French Connection, and
3 Days of the Condor." From my list of favorites I'd also say it has
aspects of Marathon Man, The Fugitive, and The Firm. Will Smith, whose
work does not thrill me 100% of the time, is terrific, and Gene Hackman
could not have been better. They also receive support from some great
character actors, many of them UNCREDITED (a fact which blew me away). 

My enjoyment was enhanced by being familiar with Hackman's The
Conversation, in which he plays Harry Caul, one of the world's greatest
audio surveillance men. His hideout/office in Enemy is reminiscent of
Caul's digs, and the photograph which the bad guys have on file for him
is of his character from The Conversation. I sort of wish they'd named
the new character Caul, giving long-term continuity to the story. 

I'm running off at the fingers here, so I won't elaborate on the
location, direction, etcetera, but will end with SEE THIS FILM!
<|_=00=_|>

Well, I like this one. I like the cast, the visuals are well done, but
what
is more important is the plot that I like really much. It's not the most
sophisticated plot of all times, but I think it's quite good, and to some
degree, realistic. Of course it's not possible to move sattelites that
quickly, or zoom in on a videotape that much and still have crystal-clear
visual, but quite some technology seen is realistic today, or in the near
future. This is an hollywood flick, all right, so they have quite much
action and everything looks very easy, steering a sattelite seems to be no
harder than playing a video game, what makes it all seem a bit
unrealistic/sci-fi-like, but today's technical posibilities are quite
large,
and continue to grow, so informing oneself about the issue (I mean the
real
world issue) is not a bad idea.

To give you some points to think:

- It's routine for the credid card companies to document every transaction
made with the cards, go figure who gets the docs if police is
investigating.

- Every call / fax done is documented for billing, go figure, who...

- At least for your ISP it's possible to read every unencrypted email you
send or receive, go figure ...

- Today there are MANY cameras in public areas in Great Britain, with
numbers still growing.

- Face recognition software is already being used in combination with some
surveillance cameras.

- Dictation software that can interpret your spoken word and convert it
into
written text is being sold to you today, maybe some organisations have
much
better versions at their hands ...

The list could go on, but what I want to say is that one should think
about
the posibilities and listen to what the politicians say, and what they
want
to allow the federal organisations.

You want to be able to still _enjoy_ the movie in some years time, not
thinking of it as being somewhat normal just as everyday life, all
right?

<|_=00=_|>

Sucessful lawyer Robert Dean is passed information by an old friend without
noticing. Seconds later that friend is killed and Dean is targeted by a
group within the Government who wish to cover up a conspiracy involving the
murder of a congressman. With the Government's full weight of surveillance
equipment brought to bear Dean turns to ex-NSA agent Brill to help protect
him, find the information and get it out into the open.

This is much better than the ususal summer crash, bang, wallop stuff we
usually get fed. It's greatly helped by the sense of paranonia that runs
through the whole story from the Government's power and corruption at some
levels. The film starts well, with 'everyman' Dean being drawn into a game
of cat and mouse, framed for a crime he didn't commit and forced to go on
the run from Government agents. Will Smith carries the film only so far but
it realy gets interesting when Hackman turns up as Brill. He casts light on
the ability of the government and is almost able to play them at their own
game. Brill makes an appearance when the film starts to become too much of
a
staight chase movie.

To me the use of Hackman as Brill is the best bit of casting ever and makes
this film stand out as being clever. In the 70's Hackman played a
surveillance expert in Copolla's The Conversation. The film ends with
Hackman
being monitored himself, with him ripping his house apart looking for the
bugs. What makes his casting as Brill so good is that Brill is where
Hackman's "The Conversation" character would be 20 years on - it feels like
it's the same character again. The director also deserves a lot of praise -
he manages to keep the pace up throughout the film, whether it be scenes of
chasing action or technological pursuit. The script helps as well - the
conspiracy and the paranoia is strong throughout.

Smith is good in the lead, but he isn't quite as good an "everyman" as
classic actors as Cary Grant or James Stewart were. Smith also struggles to
carry the whole movie and the chases do get a bit samey after a while.
Fortunately Hackman is brilliant as Brill, he is a classy actor and brings
a
lot of weight to the film just as Smith begins to feel the strain. Jon
Voight is also good as the villian of the piece. The supporting cast is
deep! There were so many famous faces in small roles that I really felt
this
was an allstar cast, despite the fact that it's a Smith vehicle. Gabriel
Byrne makes a fleeting appearance, Ian Hart is there, Jake Busey (son of
Gary) shows up, Jason Lee (actor in many Kevin Smith films) witnesses the
murder, a gorgeous Lisa Bonet has a small part, James Le Gros, Regina King
etc etc. The cast is well packed with famous faces - they don't all get the
chance to put on a show but it adds quality at all levels.

Overall this is a fancy chase movie, but good direction, a strong and deep
cast and a fantastic Hackman all make this film much better than it could
have been. The last scene of the film is a little too upbeat but other than
that it's pretty good stuff.
<|_=00=_|>
Enemy of the State (1998) 

Review: This is a different direction for many. Will Smith for one and
some noticeable comedic actors are here, but this is no comedy.

Enemy of the State is quite a movie. What is the main point of this is
the plot. It works in many ways. In a situation like this, anyone with
connections and power can have access to such technology to track down
anyone who knows far too much. It's quite real. Scary in a real sort of
way.

Another truly strong point here is the acting. Will Smith and Gene
Hackman deliver excellent performances. Smith showed great emotion and
Hackman had conviction. Not just these two were great, we have Jon
Voight as well. But what really got me is the acting from other
characters as Seth Green, Barry Pepper, Jake Busey, and even Jack
Black. These people are great especially Black who is really acting
here! Black should have realised that comedy is not his thing if
suspense and drama are as he is great here.

Overall, we get great acting, a fine plot, and fast, character
development and fast and intense action as well. Sound like a winner to
me. Enemy of the State is fresh and original and clever. One of Smith's
finest movies.

The Last Word: Don't miss. Gripping and Suspenseful.
<|_=00=_|>

Jon Voight, Will Smith, and Gene Hackman are the three stars who make this
movie interesting.  Voight is a rogue NSA operative and Smith quite
accidentally gets on his trail without even realizing it.  Hackman provides
the key to exposing the crooks and facilitating a reasonable ending.
Watching this movie makes you wonder how much of the surveillance depicted
can really be done today by our governments. Although the movie has its
share of violence, and an ending out of Reservoir Dogs, it also is sprinkled
with some good humor.  If you like action and espionage, then you'll like
this movie.  The DVD picture and soundtrack are both excellent. I give the
movie overall 8 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I stumbled onto this thriller while channel surfing in an Istanbul hotel
room.  I missed the first 20 minutes, but it didn't take long to be drawn
into the story.  In fact, the action is so fast and gripping that I didn't
dare get up to take a pee for fear of missing something.  Now that's
gripping!

Earlier today I saw a report on cameras no larger than the size of a pill
that can make a movie of your digestive tract, from mouth to anus.  Now if
such miniature devices are already a reality, then some of the tracking
technology used in this film must be close to reality - maybe too close for
comfort.


<|_=00=_|>
Enemy Of The State is one of the few movies I went out of my way to see
in the theater ( I'm a video-rental guy) and it's indeed a grand
action-movie. The big surplus is of course the great messages behind
the film. It entails a fear that we all have in some degree, the loss
of our privacy. Of course all the Hollywood-elements are present: the
returning catchphrases and jokes, the over-dramatic scenes, etc. but
Scott never goes too far. The pacing is great and the film's over
before you know it even though it has a relatively long run-time( for
an action-movie) of 120 min. Will Smith is solid but Gene Hackman is
the one who steals the show. It's the first movie I saw that starred
him (I was only 10 when the movie came out and I've been a big fan ever
since.

Tony Scott's new movie, Deja Vu, really is a lot like EOTS in many ways
but I still deem EOTS to be superior. Deja Vu is great of course but I
guess I add some sentimental value to EOTS. It's really a must-see for
action/thriller fans and I do not say this lightly.

EOTS fully deserves it's 8
<|_=00=_|>

The murder of a congressman is caught on tape and Robert Dean (Will
Smith)  has it. He has to save his family career and life all in 2 hours!
Although the plot twists aren't always surprising they are convincing.  Gene
Hackman plays the role of the paranoid informant wonderfully but Will Smith
can't help being funny no matter how hard he tries.  Tony Scott shows the
action from surveillance camera and telephoto angles giving an edgy feeling
throughout the picture.  Most of the chases are on foot keeping car chases
are kept to a minimum.  The chases technically well done but seem to be
missing an over the edge quality like most of the movie.The story moves
along at a good speed making it a good action movie with a solid
plot.
<|_=00=_|>
Conspiracy theorists who enjoy films like JFK and Conspiracy Theory
will have a lot to enjoy with Enemy of the State. For a film that came
out almost 10 years ago, it seems just slightly ahead its time. I don't
remember everything about 1998, but I do know that things like DVD was
in it's nascent stages and although the internet has been part of our
vernacular for almost 20 years now, the technology prevalent back in 98
as opposed to now is light years apart. And in the post 911 days,
having the idea of our privacy abolished is pretty much upon us. Maybe
not to the extent perpetuated in this film, but we are pretty much
under Big Brother's watchful eye all the time. When you walk into a
bank, a restaurant, a convenience store or any public place, you are
photographed and recorded and your image can be recalled with a simple
enough click of a button. Even today when you call places like phone
company's or pizza parlours you hear a recorded message that says this
call may be recorded for quality purposes. We are being watched and
kept tabs on everywhere we go and in everything we do. In this vein,
Enemy of the State is a marvel. It is a film way ahead of it's time. No
one could foresee the tragedy of 911, but now that it is part of our
history books, films like The Siege and this one are that much more
clairvoyant.

Will Smith plays a Washington attorney whose life is turned inside out
when he is given a disc that has a political murder on it. He doesn't
know that it does and when an unsanctioned government spook squad comes
after him, he is confused and out of his element. Gene Hackman plays
Brill, who might as well be an older version of Harry Cauld, his
character from Francis Ford Coppola's 1974 film The Conversation. He is
a communications expert that has basically gone mercenary and no longer
does the dirty work for the CIA and other seedy government factions.
Smith needs his help attempting to understand what it all means and how
he got entangled in this imbroglio. While Smith is the star of the
film, it is clearly Hackman that steals the show with his vernacular
and expertise on the subject.

The film is also blessed with so many bit players that are now either
famous or semi famous that it's like watching a Robert Altman film such
as The Player. There are that many famous faces in here. Barry Pepper,
Jake Busey, Jack Black, Jaime Kennedy, Jason Lee, Gabriele Byrne, Tom
Sizemore and Jason Robards all show up in the film in supporting roles.
Add to that the incomparable Jon Voight and you have one hell of a
cast.

Enemy of the State moves at a break neck pace. It is directed with a
kinetic urgency and Tony Scott shows us why he is one of the best in
the business with his style. I can't imagine many haven't seen this,
but for those that haven't, it is definitely one of Jerry Bruckheimer's
best. And that is saying something.

9/10
