

Rich but eccentric millionaire Steven Price is looking for the ultimate
scares.  He invites a group of people to spend the night in the former
Vannacutt Psychiatric Institute for the Criminally Insane – where the
inmates revolved in a orgy of violence against the cruel regime of Dr
Vannacutt.  The one who does spend the night will get $1million dollars. 
However it soon becomes evident that not all the scares are set up by Price
himself.

This remake of the old 1958 movie sees the plot expanded and made a lot more
creepy and enjoyable.  In fact the end point of the original is only the
halfway mark of this one.  The plot may not be imaginative but the delivery
is very good for this type of film.  I'm not a big fan of horror or this
type of Hollywood slasher movie as I find them too obvious and not scary. 
However here the gore is well used and the general creepy mood wins the
film.  The movement of the deceased Dr Vannacutt is very creepy and is much
better than some of the gore.

Sadly the final 20 minutes feels it needs to reveal a bigger evil and the
secrets of the house are brought to life in boom of CGI beasties.  At this
point it reverts to form and because just another Hollywood creature feature
and it is a bit of a let down.  However up to this point it works very well
and it's real creepy.

The cast are all pretty good and do `camp' when necessary but don't take
away from the terror that's coming later.  Rush plays nicely to the camp in
his homage to Price's role in the original.  Jensen, Diggs, Gallagher and
Kattan all do well and the cast do better than the scream queens that usual
inhabit these films.

Overall the film starts like any other Hollywood horror but the clever
direction, creepy music and imaginative visuals of Dr Vannacutt all create a
creepy feel to the film that is better than the gore that also comes.  The
final section slides back into standard fare with the old CGI evil coming to
get us – but up till then it's surprisingly good stuff.
<|_=00=_|>

For once, a movie even scarier and more horrifying than the trailers for it.
BUT......

The whole was not equal to the sum of its parts. Geoffrey Rush (what's HE
doing in this movie?!) as Steven Price is actually a very interesting
character, which can be attributed to either the effort the script takes to
set him up, and/or the brilliance of the Oscar-winning actor in the role.
Price's wife, Evelyn, gets similar treatment, but it is here the
screenwriter(s?) get lazy.

The strangers in the house DO get a minimal amount of character set-up, i.e.
who they are, what they do... but this information is never touched on
again. One would HOPE that all ths information is being displayed for some
higher purpose-- the background of these five strangers, the cat-and-mouse
game played by Mr. & Mrs. Price, and Mr. Price's fascination with fear that
is set up so intensely in the movie's opening minutes.

But alas, none of this GOES anywhere. It is all completely independent from
the agenda of the House when I felt like it should all tie together,
somehow. There are three forces at work here-- the ghosts who haunt the
house, the humans who are trapped in it, and the Darkness that lives beneath
it. These are all separate entities, we find, but for what purpose? This
movie could have gone on another ten minutes, some loose ends could have
been tied up, and I could have given it a much higher score.

Instead, what was truly an INTENSE build-up, sputters out at the very end of
the movie. It didn't even feel like an end, it just felt like the movie
stopped, and we're left without an explanation to what happens to the
survivors-- including the most interesting character in the movie, the House
itself.

7 out of 10. Fun to watch, truly terrifying, but incomplete.
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen some of the comments on the film here, and would beg to differ
with many. I found the film to be entertaining (wouldn't William Castle
have
wanted that?) and that it actually paid homage to the original in so many
ways (how many remakes ever do that? Generally they add a
flavor-of-the-month star, a bunch of irrelevant plot changes and a
soundtrack from a has-been band or one that should never have been). As a
bonus, a supernatural element was brought to this film that wasn't there
in
the original version. I've seen a lot of complaining about the ending, but
hey, life sometimes sucks and I could certainly see something like that
happening to me. To tell the truth, I'd have to say that this remake was
better than the first version. And this is from a stone-cold believer that
Karloff was the best Frankenstein monster and Lugosi the best Dracula.
Tongue in cheek this movie is -- James Whale would have loved
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Asylums.  Crazy people.  Insanity.  Mental therapy, mental hospitals, mental
patients have been used time and time again in horror fiction and horror
films.  Why?  I'm not sure;  maybe, it is the normality of being like those
that are insane which brings a more genuine horror  to us.  Whatever it is,
House on Haunted Hill certainly uses all the mental derangement cliches to
full effect.  I could easily pan this film by saying(and rightly so) that
its predecessor, the original House on Haunted Hill directed by William
Castle, is a far superior film.  That Castle's film was filled with better
acting, better timing, and easily a better script.  But I liked this film,
which is not really a remake entirely.  It has many elements that are not in
the first film;  most of them centering around the mental aspect
aforementioned.  The house in this film was once an asylum where
people...thousands perhaps..were brutally butchered in the name of mental
good health.  The house is scary.  Empty corridors, large, vast rooms,
incredible special effects all add to the frightening aspects of the film. 
The biggest problem with the film is that much of it just doesn't add up in
terms of making sense of the plot.  The film fortunately is more special
effects driven than plot driven, and at least is able to deliver the goods
in that arena.  The acting is pretty good with all the leads really doing
quite a good job.  Geoffrey Rush gives his best Vincent Price
impression(pencil-thin mustache and all) delivering lines with bravura
gusto.  The other exceptional standout is Chris Kattan as Watson Pritchard. 
Kattan is just wonderful in the role showcasing his obvious talent.  As far
as great horror films go...this film is adequate, yet very thrilling,
exciting, and entertaining.  If you are like me and love the old one...just
look at this film as a totally different entity.  It is.  One thing is for
sure...it is one heck of a rollercoaster ride!
<|_=00=_|>

This is not a bad remake.  It is "R" rated, so parents
beware,
this is NOT the Price classic of 1958.  Within the first
scene
there is gore (surgery on a wide awake man), violence (the
inmates of the asylum break loose and attack the staff),
and
nudity (uniforms ripped open on the women).  This is crucial
to the plot (Hill House is not the same murder house from
the
original, it's a former asylum for the criminally insane
where
torture and experimentations are done on the inmates).  A
fire
breaks out and all but five die.

Jump to present day.  Multimillionaire Steven Price (is
the
name a nod to Vincent?) played by Geoffrey Rush, doing
his
best sideshow barker impersonation/Williams Castle
impersonation, and wife (Famke Janssen) are having a party,
in the restored former asylum.  The guest's trip to the
house is still via several hearse and from this point much
of the original plot is maintained.

The part that bothered me about the arrival scene at the
house,  was the inappropriate song.  It set the wrong mood,
and I worried about what was going to be next. Thankfully,
the rest of the score (except the end title) was strictly
orchestral, and sent a nice dark mood to try to help to
scare you. Applause to Don Davis.

House does rely rather heavily on special effects as do
all the current re-makes.  Is it really better or worse
for it? I think it adds, and they didn't just redo the
same show. It's spooky and a good Halloween movie, and
a dark theater is excellent for it's effect. I am sorry,
but there was nothing that I found really scary or
horrifying.  Of course, I haven't really been scared by
a movie since I saw the Wolf Man (1941), with Lon
Chaney jr, in 1958.  


<|_=00=_|>

I was expecting the worst--a remake of a lousy 1950s Vincent Price flick (I
HATE the original--talk about boring!) and there were no previews--never a
good sign.  I was surprised to find an intelligent, scary movie.  There was
gore and violence, but they didn't overdo it (except for the part when
someone was given shock treatment--talk about harrowing!).  The script was
intelligent--all the characters talk and, sometimes, act like real people.
And, thankfully, no stupid in-jokes or character to provide "comic" relief. 
Everything is dealt with seriously which just adds to the tension.  The
setting is scary--the "house" (actually an abandoned asylum) LOOKS evil, and
inside it's all darkness and cobwebs.  The acting...well...Rush is having a
GREAT time in his role, and it rubbed off on me.  Every time he was on
screen I enjoyed it.  The rest of the cast is OK, but anyone could have
played these roles...they were just mostly reacting to special effects.  The
only real disappointment here was Taye Diggs.  He showed that he had
charisma, could act and has a GREAT body in previous flicks ("How Stella Got
Her Groove Back"; "GO"; "The Wood").  So why does he give such a so-so
performance here--he's even worse in "The Best Man".  Hopefully he'll start
acting again...soon.  

I also heard about lousy CGI effects in this movie.  When the CGI effects go
barreling out of control at the end though, I was scared!  I'm a veteran of
hundreds (literally) of horror films so I don't scare easy.  The only weak
part was a real stupid "surprise" at the end that comes out of nowhere. 
Other than that it worked.

So, this is a good, scary horror film.  Worth shelling out full price at a
cinema--DON'T wait for the video.  This works great in a dark theatre with
excellent stereo sound--it won't work on a TV. 
<|_=00=_|>

I've never seen William Castle's original from 1958,but in my opinion 1999
version isn't completely bad.Director William Malone creates some atmosphere
and suspense during the first hour,but everything is almost completely
ruined by awful ending.There's some good gore,striking visuals and
atmospheric sets,but the conclusion is absolutely lame(the CGI effects look
really fake!).If you like horror movies give this one a look,just don't
expect something impressive.
<|_=00=_|>
House on Haunted Hill, my first rated R movie I saw in the theater,
huge deal since I was only 13 at the time. But anyways, House on
Haunted Hill is of course remake of the same title, back in the day the
original star of the movie was Vincent Price, it was spooky and creepy,
the only problem? The original has some what lost it's effect it had on
people, don't get me wrong, it's still an excellent film, but compared
to a lot of horror films of today, it seems rather tame. So of course,
you know what that means… Let's remake the story and add tons of
computer CGI and gore! But was this remake really that bad? Actually
I'd say that I did enjoy it, it had good suspense and very grizzly
images that will stay in your head. It's a pretty decent update of this
chilling ghost story and never lets go.

The film is set in an abandoned asylum, where numerous murders were
committed in the past. The head of the facility, Dr. Richard B.
Vannacutt, performed grotesque experiments and medical procedures on
the patients, killing many in the process. The hospital was closed when
some of the patients escaped, killing almost the entire staff and
burning the hospital. We then meet Evelyn, a spoiled trophy wife, and
Steven Price, an amusement park mogul with a wicked sense of humor,
each of whom would gladly kill the other. Evelyn fancies spectacular
parties, so Steven leases the house from the owner, Watson Pritchett,
for his Halloween birthday bash. Evelyn gives Steven a guest list two
pages long; he shreds it to spite her and then creates one of his own.
The five people who show up for the party: Jennifer Jenzer, Eddie
Baker, Melissa Margaret Marr, Dr. Donald Blackburn and Pritchett
himself — aren't the ones he invited. Neither Evelyn nor Steven know
who they are. Despite this, Price continues the party's theme, offering
a million dollars to anyone who stays in the house and survives until
morning. Of course this isn't any easy task as the ghosts are about and
ready for a bloody good time.

While I would recommend for nostalgic reasons to stick to the original
as it is a true classic, I say that this remake is still worth the
look. It's definitely worth it in the dark, I can't tell how much this
one scene frightened me beyond compare… when the reporter is filming in
the basement to get an idea of what the asylum was like and the ghosts
only appear on camera, she sees them torturing a patient and they look
up at her and goosebumps are the least of your worries at this point.
All in all, this is a very decent remake compared to other sad remakes
we had that year like The Haunting. But still I wonder what Vincent
Price would say if he was able to see how they updated the story… maybe
even do his little "rap" Thriller style! You know I had to get that in.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
HOUSE ON HAUNTED HILL 

Aspect ratio: 1.85:1

Sound formats: Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDS

Six strangers are invited to a 'haunted house' party at a former asylum
- the scene of a massacre many years earlier, when inmates rebelled
against the psychotic chief surgeon (Jeffrey Combs) - and the guests
are assailed by restless spirits with a murderous agenda...

This remake of William Castle's 1959 shocker was the first title in a
projected series by Dark Castle Entertainment, a genre outfit
established by the creative personnel behind HBO's "Tales from the
Crypt" (Robert Zemeckis, Joel Silver and Gilbert Adler) as a platform
for the 'revision' of Castle's entire oeuvre. Working from Robb White's
original story, screenwriter Dick Beebe and director William Malone -
previously responsible for such unassuming B-movies as SCARED TO DEATH
(1980) and CREATURE (1985) - remain faithful to Castle's original
whilst goosing the material with newfangled effects technology and
levels of gore which Castle had been denied during his lifetime.
Production designer David F. Klassen has also updated the eponymous
house, a clifftop monstrosity whose plunging Art deco exterior masks
the Gothic ruin within, haunted by monstrous spirits who 'come alive'
and terrorize a cast of defiantly modern characters, including Geoffrey
Rush as a cynical fairground entrepeneur (clearly modelled after
Vincent Price), and Famke Janssen as his beautiful, bitchy, duplicitous
wife.

The film's uneven tone (veering between horror and humor and back
again) is likely to divide viewers from the outset, but the horror
scenes are played with remarkable gravity, and attentive viewers will
spot visual references to the likes of GHOST STORY (1981) and JACOB'S
LADDER (1990), particularly a 'guest appearance' by one of the most
hair-raising phantoms from that former title. Some of the original
film's charm has been lost along the way, replaced by profanity and
splatter (though not as much as some outraged critics would have you
believe), and there's nothing in the remake which compares to the
blood-freezing shock induced by Carol Ohmart's encounter with a blind,
white-haired ghost in Castle's version, but Malone's update deserves a
mark for trying. Also starring Bridgette Wilson, Peter Gallagher, Ali
Larter and the ultra-beautiful Taye Diggs, alongside comedian Chris
Kattan, here playing it impressively straight in a role originally
essayed by Elisha Cook Jr.
<|_=00=_|>
The similarities between William Castle's campy 1959 original and this
typical Hollywood remake are kept to a minimum. We have the premise of
5 people who're offered a million $ if they survive spending a night in
'the house' and Rush who brings tribute to Vincent Price (who played
the lead role in the original). Other than this, Malone just follows
the routine remake-standards meaning bigger, louder and more
spectacular. If you're not too harsh, this actually is a pretty
enjoyable movie and – at times – a successful mixture between an
old-fashioned 'haunted house' chiller and a modern special effects
playground. Thanks to some sort of miracle, Malone managed to cast
class actor Geoffrey Rush and a more than decent supportive cast. Rush
is talented enough to make his performance of eccentric impresario
Steven Price look like a homage to Vincent Price instead of doing a
lame impersonation. To me, however, the absolute star of this film is
Jeffrey Combs (Re-Animator) who plays the small role of the demented
Dr. Vannacutt. As usual, Combs' character is the cause of all horror
and his grimaces are more diabolical then ever. He's an amazing horror
icon and I simply can't get why he isn't enjoying an immortal
success-status. Until about 5 minutes before the ending, the use of CGI
is imaginative and not irritating at all. The finale is overly fake and
kinda ruins the film. If you're not too demanding, The House on Haunted
Hill guarantees a lot of fun and a few scares. Definitely a better
remake than Jan De Bont's The Haunting and Steve Beck's 13 Ghosts.
