
MST3K fodder. It's so bad it's actually worth seeing just for that
reason. There are some hilarious things in it, such as the mysterious
device the bad guy is seen working on for the whole movie, that turns
out to be this tiny helicopter that flutters around carrying and firing
a machine gun without so much as a wobble, but is brought down by a bag
of balloons (the kind they release at political conventions). Many
other wonderful touches of that sort. Stars Charlie Sheen. There's one
scene where he spends five minutes recording a conversation, only to
drop the microcassette in the Potomac River by accident. If they'd cast
Emilio Estevez in the part that never would've happened.
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this on a local independent station in the New York City
area. The cast showed promise but when I saw the director, George
Cosmotos, I became suspicious. And sure enough, it was every bit as
bad, every bit as pointless and stupid as every George Cosmotos movie I
ever saw. He's like a stupid man's Michael Bey--with all the awfulness
that accolade promises.

There's no point to the conspiracy, no burning issues that urge the
conspirators on. We are left to ourselves to connect the dots from one
bit of graffiti on various walls in the film to the next. Thus, the
current budget crisis, the war in Iraq, Islamic extremism, the fate of
social security, 47 million Americans without health care, stagnating
wages, and the death of the middle class are all subsumed by the sheer
terror of graffiti.

A truly, stunningly idiotic film.
<|_=00=_|>
What's all the fuzz ? This is just a really good movie. This movie is
the real evidence what a good movie should be for all who like
political thrillers. Watch and relax. Don't bother the negativity's.
For me a movie is good when it keeps me awake. I can assure you that ,
in this case it isn't any problem. There is no annoying minute in it.
The camera movements are superb. The music score very functional. The
acting of the protagonists can't be better. I don't understand why so
much comments are negative. Perhaps those people don't like to give
positive comments ? Anyway. I only want to give my comment and that's
what counts for me. Every review is subjective.
<|_=00=_|>

One wonders how did this screen play got to be made into a thriller
movie. The writers had no clue into the many holes they were creating
in a story so predictable as this. At the same time, one has to
question the studio as to why this movie was approved. The director
George Cosmatos must have a more clout among the Hollywood bigwigs than
we can think.

I never saw this film when it had a commercial run. It was recently
shown on cable, and not having anything better to watch, decided to
take a chance. Wow, it's that bad. 

The film could have used a more likable hero than Bobby Bishop, blandly
played by Charlie Sheen, who whispers his lines incomprehensibly. The
pairing of Linda Hamilton with Sheen doesn't add anything to the movie.
Donald Sutherland must have a lot to explain to his friends in how he
accepted to appear in this picture.

<|_=00=_|>

When political aide Bobby Bishop is warned by an old friend of a high level
Government conspiracy before witnessing his murder he finds his life turned
upside down and pursued by a trained killer.  Unsure of who to trust Bishop
teams up with journalist Amanda Givens in a race to uncover the conspiracy
and clear his name, but who can he trust as the stakes are
raised.

This is ultimately a chase movie, the political conspiracy is nothing more
than an assassination plot that is wheeled out at the end.  Most of the film
is Bishop escaping from the killer and trying to uncover the truth.  The
conspiracy is pretty thin and you can guess who is involved from the first
20 minutes.  The way that Bishop manages to uncover this great conspiracy is
far too easy and it makes it all feel too lazy.  And the assassination
attempt is worth seeing just to laugh at how ridiculous it is - I won't
spoilt it for you but trust me, it's totally absurd.  That leaves the chase
element which is quite dull and gets repetitive.

Sheen is not great here - often he can do well in poor films, such as
Terminal Velocity, by giving a fun performance.  Here he is serious and
hunted and must "do" serious throughout.  In fact the cast is actually
really good on paper - lots of famous faces, Linda Hamilton, Sutherland,
Turturro, Paul Gleason, Sam Waterston and Gore Vidal.  Gore Vidal for God's
sake!  How all these people manage to not see that this was going to be a
turkey is beyond me.  Hamilton is unbelievable and seems content with the
fact that it's not just a TVM.  Sutherland does his usual stuff and is quite
good.  But should a poor film like this deserve a cast this
deep?

Overall a poor film that relies on lazy plotting to move it's action along. 
The conspiracy is easily uncovered and the killer is easily avoided.  When
even Charlie Sheen describes this as "a piece of s***" then you know it's
not going to be good.  Avoid this - an alternative is Enemy of the State
which has similar themes but is much, much better.

<|_=00=_|>
They make everything too easy in this film. It sort of reminded me of
Indiana Jones where he hides on the outside of a submarine during an
ocean crossing. Everybody knows everything that's going on, it's just
real easy to get anyplace you want in the White House. I don't even
know why I watched half of it. Because I like Charlie Sheen and Donald
Sutherland. I expect the usual ability to dodge bullets from every
angle, and be able to run faster than a motorcycle (usually it's faster
than a car in a garage or a allyway). It was silly, mostly, and I
didn't even know then had a ten-story elevator in the White House.
Anyway, anything conspiratorial is always interesting.
<|_=00=_|>
Bobby Bishop's role in the White House was never made clear, but when
they needed him, they sent a helicopter, and he arrived in a conference
room full of suits still wearing his sweaty Princeton sweatshirt. Once
he cleaned up and put on his own suit, Bishop went before the press to
clear up a public relations problem--after reminding a certain
congressman what could happen if said congressman didn't help.

A secret meeting with Prof. Pochenko promised to reveal something not
quite kosher in the White House. But a man with a gun wanted the
information to stay secret. So Bishop spent the rest of the movie on
the run and trying to uncover secrets with the help of Washington
Herald reporter Amanda Givens. Meanwhile, someone was capable of
monitoring pretty much every phone call that took place in the movie.

I like Charlie Sheen better as a womanizing jerk, but he was just fine
here. Both Sheen characters know how to scheme and lie and otherwise be
quite charming to get what they want. Donald Sutherland did a credible
job as the White House Chief of Staff who didn't have faith in the
President's ability. And Sam Waterston didn't exactly inspire
confidence as the President. Linda Hamilton was good as Amanda. 

This wasn't a great action thriller, but it was good nevertheless. Too
violent for my taste (and there was a stern warning on the TV station I
watched, even after the movie was cleaned up for TV), but I enjoyed the
chases and the occasional comedy.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know what is so bad about this movie.The cast performing well and
being Charlie Sheen,Donald Sutherland,Linda Hamilton,Stephen Lang,Nicholas
Turturro,Ben Gazzara,and the film having tons of action and a great score
by
Bruce Broughton and being directed by George P. Cosmatos how in the
wide,wide world can you go wrong?Lang was really the ultimate villain!I
really loved his role and performed neatly and perfectly!If there is a
movie
with at least one of these great actors its a must see or at least it is
with Me!If you are looking for a good action packed conspiracy movie with
the above mention cast then check this one out as I recommend it very
much!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is filled with so many idiotic moments, that you wonder how it
ever got made.  For example, they get into the sewers from the Capitol and
while they're in the sewers you can see signs pointing to various
government
buildings, and then they come up in the middle of the street!  I highly
doubt that government buildings would provide public access through the
city
sewer system.  Anyways, I gave this a 2 instead of a 1 just because of its
comic value.  I laughed the whole way through at the idiocy of everyone
involved in this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of those movies whose cast and trailer sound promising,
only to drop the ball altogether when you watch it. It is no surprise
it bombed miserably on the ticket booth.

It was yet another conspiracy movie of they stream that peaked with
Enemy of State in the mid-1990s. The Soviets and communists used to
offer an easy, credible enemy to write a thriller movie about, so
"average" plots could fit well on the screen. Without Soviets around,
it became tricky to explore other enemies, and many movies were shot
around that time with internal conspiracies within the US government.

The cast is not bad at all, on the contrary, it is quite respectful.
Photography is lackluster, though, and the characters are just not
credible. The first 5 minutes are definitively the only salvageable
part of the movie.

As usual in this type of movie, the real intentions and objectives of
characters are not clear from the beginning and there are some twists.
Again, unfortunately those twists happen without any explanation or any
crescendo that leads to them. It gives the viewer the impression that
they needed to turn a "good guy" into a "bad guy" and just did it in a
frustrating way.

Were the cast not a A- cast as this is, it would have been a trash
movie. The cast, indeed, did a good job on containing damage and
ameliorating the failure this movie is.
