

I can only say that I never expected very much from "Idle hands" but luckily
I watched it anyway because the film turned out to be rather a pleasant
surprise. Brutal gore effects, amusing dialogue, wacky storyline and wild
situation comic makes this film much better than most of the recently
released horror flicks. Devon Sawa was amazingly funny in the leading role
of young Anton and I have to give it to him: he really performed some pretty
damn skillful and terrificly successful slapstick comedy. Seth Green and
Elden Henson as his silly pothead pals were highly amusing too and Jessica
Alba was, well, simply lovely. This movie contains such a crazy ideas and
black, wicked humor I can't help of loving it. I also have to say how very
happy I was to find out that "Idle hands" wasn't just a bunch of teens
screaming, running and hiding from the vicious serial killer but actually
much more than that. I'm also a fan of The Ramones and this movie gave me a
nice opportunity to hear their classic hit song "I wanna be sedated" as
performed by The Offspring. So I suggest you to forget your ridiculous
"Scream" -trilogy and the likes of "I know what you did last summer" and
"The Faculty" and watch refreshing "Idle hands" instead. This dark and
speedy tongue in a cheek splatter comedy is a great, captivating experience
you shouldn't miss if you wanna enjoy and have some bloody good
laughs.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't care what anyone else says, I found this movie to be hysterical. For
one, it's pretty violent. People get it in disturbing ways here. One comes
to mind in particular where someone gets a knitting needle rammed straight
into their ear. It's not nice stuff but it's so funny you can't help but
laugh. A major question, first and foremost: just what the hell was Vivica
A. Fox doing in this movie? I've never used the word slumming before in a
sentence but I think it applies here. Devon Sawa is a cool cat. I liked him
here and his brand of physical comedy is pretty impressive. Watch Final
Destination after seeing this and I think you'll wonder why we haven't seen
more of him. Seth Green is cool and so are Elden Henson and Jack Noseworthy.
And for Jessica Alba fans, she's in here, in all her pre-Dark Angel glory.
I've never used the word nubile but I think it definitely applies here. She
looks so good in this movie that it hurts my chest. She's one of the finer
points (literally) of the movie. There's a chick in this movie wearing Paul
Stanley's KISS makeup that should email me so I can give her my home
address. There's parts of the movie that kinda fall flat but that's to be
expected. Check this movie out if non-pc humor and bad mojo violence is your
thing. Especially if you liked Evil Dead 2: Dead by Dawn, I think you'll dig
this picture. And if you appreciate Jessica Alba in any way. Rating: *** out
of *****.
<|_=00=_|>
As mentioned in the other comments, this movie is a awful lot better
than it would first seem. Its still a rather brainless teen slasher
flick, with the usual array of 2D characters ( the goofy friends,
gorgeous love interest, aggressive hunk etc) and situations (school
Halloween dance), but the great dialogue and great visual effects
elevate it above the majority of other movies in the teen slasher style
and doesn't do too much talking down to the audience. Where most other
movies of this type give the audience 2 answers before a single
question is answered Idle Hands has no fears about leaving things
unanswered, where the viewer can make their own mind up (for once).
Devon Sawa makes for a convincing and cute Anton, while Jessica Alba is
all thats needed to keep the target audience of under 20's males glued
to their seats. Don't get me wrong, this isn't up there with the likes
of Lawrence of Arabia, but it never sets out to be; it's hilariously
funny, satisfyingly gory and one hell of a lot better than you'd ever
think. Go rent it, you'l be pleasantly surprised. Also, the soundtrack
is great.
<|_=00=_|>

Watching "Idle Hands" is like watching an R-rated rendition of
"Beetlejuice."  It has the same tone as the Tim Burton classic.  Though it
is basically a dark comedy--emphasize the word "dark" as much as you
can--there are some moments of graphic violence that the casual moviegoer
might not expect out of a comedy.  But not all comedies are meant to be like
Mel Brooks movies.  Peter Berg explained it perfectly on the David Letterman
show when he was talking about "Very Bad Things," which he wrote and
directed.  He said, "Just like how some people, like me, like our food
spicy--some people also want their comedy spicy."  Just like "Very Bad
Things," "Idle Hands" is a grotesque, slightly off-putting comedy that won't
be taken easily, but that's part of its appeal.  It gives you that "dark
comic rush."  And there are moments where you can't help but laugh
hysterically.  

Seth Green and the other boy--I don't know his name--have some extremely
funny moments.  Most of the jokes have to do with scatological and
drug-related elements, but they work perfectly.  This is not for the
prudish, not tailor-made for the sick and twisted (though they would
probably take delight), but makes intelligent use of gruesome and coarse
gags.  I know that doesn't sound appealing on paper, but you'll see what I
mean.  See for yourself.  

"Idle Hands" is not for all tastes, it's not sophisticated and I would call
it a popcorn movie...but you'd probably throw up your popcorn if you were to
watch this flick.  As for eye candy (for the guys) we have the stunningly
beautiful Jessica Alba, who never gets naked (Dammit!) but struts around in
a revealing blue nightie with her beautiful cleavage on display.  She's just
one of those extremely cute babes that you just want to cuddle like a teddy
bear.  

Idle Hands may do the Devil's work, but it makes heavenly
entertainment!

My score:  7 (out of 10)
<|_=00=_|>
Usually, when you watch a movie that sends up the horror genre, the
movie sacrifices the scares in favor of the laughs. But, in Idle Hands,
the movie makers remembered to keep all the creepy touches and
startling frights that make a horror movie when they mixed in all the
humor.

Not nearly as heavy handed as, say, the Scary Movie franchise, Idle
Hands has all the normal trappings of a good teen horror flick: The
unstoppable killing evil that has come back, the buddies of the main
character who don't understand the danger until it's too late, the
horny girl who main character must protect and a brave hero who is a
bastion of all that is good in the world to defend us... 

OK, so I was lying about that last one. And that is one of the best
twists of the film, the main character is a screw-up and doesn't act
very heroically until very, very late in the film. In addition to
really revving up the laughs, this feature is also what kind of makes
this movie stand out from the usual horror fare.

Now, here's the key: While Anton struggles with the evil in his
bumbling way, egged on by the wise-cracks of Mick and Pnub, the film
delivers actual horror. We get shocks, we get creeps, we get gore and
we don't get the "ha-ha got ya!" joke right afterward that you get in
most parodies. The scares are real, the deaths are real, the danger are
real. And, surprisingly, so are the laughs.
<|_=00=_|>

For reasons unknown, I couldn't see Idle Hands when it was released into
theatres last year in 1999.  I didn't get a chance to see it until it came
out on tape in August later of that year.    
The plot centers around Anton Tobias(Devon Sawa), he's 17, he hasn't been to
school in 6 months, he's in love with Molly(Jessica Alba) a girl who has
lived across the street from him for lord knows how long, and he smokes pot
with his friends Mick(Seth Green) and Pnub(Elden Henson).  Anyway, Anton
wakes up one day to find that his parents have disappeared, (although it
takes him about two days to realize this).  This goes to show you should
stop smoking pot all the time.  It isn't long before Anton discovers his
horribly mutilated parents and that his right hand has been possessed by
Satan.  His hand soon kills his best friends Mick and Pnub.  With the help
of a priestess Debi(Vivica A. Fox) and a local headbanger (Jack Noseworthy)
Anton comes up with a few odd ways of keeping his hand occupied from its
homicidal tendencies such as listening to heavy metal and needle point. 

Let me just say that this movie is hilarious.  I should also say that this
movie is also one of the grossest and goriest movies I've ever seen.  There
are quite a few hilarious moments as well as a few shocking ones. 

Vivica A. Fox's name says it all and Jessica Alba isn't bad to look at
either.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was going to be just another dumb teen comedy. After
watching the first 10 minutes, I was convinced it was, and was ready to
try something else. Well, I am glad I stayed with it. It was very funny
and a combination comedy and horror film. Yes, it's humor geared more
for teens but people far older than 15 should still get a lot of laughs
out of this.

Warning: some of the scenes are pretty gross, at least for a comedy,
but that's what made those particularly scenes funny. Comedy and horror
mix well together, anyway.

The film reminded me a bit of "American Werewolf in London" with the
"undead" kids. Despite the absurdity of it, there are a couple of good
message in here....but, generally, this is purely escapist fun and
nothing else.
<|_=00=_|>

  I rented "Idle Hands" and I have to say that it was a GREAT movie! It was
kind of like "Scary Movie", but better! It was VERY funny!! Devon Sawa, Seth
Green, Eldin Ratliff, and Jessica Alba were SPECTACULAR! This is a very
funny/gorey movie. The acting is funny and great, and the directing is
great! This is a smash-hit! I loved it! I highly recommend this film to
horror fans and comedy fans for that matter! I give this film a perfect 10
out of 10!!!!!!!  :)
<|_=00=_|>
What more can I say about this movie? 

All I knew about it was that it had quite a few elements of teen comedy
and that I've only seen the tail end of it a few times. 

Now that I finally saw the whole thing, it's now one of my favorites!

It's a welcome change from most of the horror movies I've seen.

Great music, great acting, and gorgeous women (Specifically speaking,
Jessica Alba)... what more do you want?

This is one of those movies that you can watch and understand it
perfectly... whether or not you're stoned. 

10 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
i am particular about my films and usually don't go for "stoner" comedy
but i thought this film was hilarious, i mean the story was a little
thin but and the main star isn't a star but what makes a movie is how
it plays out and it played out brilliantly even though the acting was
poor in places it didn't matter cos u couldn't stop laughing long
enough to notice Jessica Alba played a very cheesy yet funny part my
favourite line being "mmm, your Kinky" the look on her face and how she
said it made me collapse into laughter, and being a great fan of the
offspring made it even more of a bonus though Dexter's acting was
terrible.

i was a great fan of Sam Raimis Evil Dead Trilogy the hand scenes
reminded me a lot of Bruce Cambells Hand trying to kill him the hand
scenes in Idle Hands were very well done 

Please see this movie, u wont regret it
