

It's hard to really adequately describe this movie.  Let
me try.

For starters, in spite of the advertisements, it's not merely a remake of
"Kelly's Heroes".  Yes, we are in a postwar situation, where a bunch of
Americans are trying to "recover" gold stolen
by the enemy, but that's the end of the similarities.

"Three Kings" does an excellent job of showing just how gonzo modern
warfare
has become.  You've got unemployed reservists going to the Middle East for
kicks fighting Saddam, who uses
gas attacks, electric shock torture and other atrocities
to fight the rebels.  Thrown in the mix are a U.S.-educated Iraqi whose
businesses were destroyed by the Americans, a
bunch of rebels and refugees living in bunkers, a CNN-type
correspondent facing the threat of younger reporters, and
Mark Wahlberg's character finding a cell phone in the Iraqi bunker and
using
it to call his wife in the U.S.

The movie is extremely funny at times, graphically violent
at
times, but always on target.  It provides a lot of insight
into
how non-Americans view the U.S.  I cannot think of another
major
movie which showed people in a third-world country as modern
people without patronizing.  Even the soldiers shooting
at
our heros, gassing the refugees, and torturing Mark Wahlberg's character
are
shown as human beings.

Somehow this movie got lost last year amongst all the hype
for
"American Beauty".  "Three Kings" looks to have much more staying power.
George Clooney continues to shine in yet
another under-appreciated performance.  For somebody with
a
Hollywood legacy, he really seems to have pushed some of
the
wrong buttons in Hollywood.  I cannot think of any other
explanation for why he has yet to achieve the acclaim his
performances deserve.
<|_=00=_|>

In 1994 and then 1996, David O. Russell proved himself to be one of the few
original voices in American comedy with his films SPANKING THE MONKEY and
FLIRTING WITH DISASTER, respectively.  He could have continued in that vein,
but instead he seemed to be going mainstream with a studio film, starring
George Clooney, Mark Wahlberg, and Ice Cube, which seemed to be an
action/adventure set in the Gulf War, at least if you only saw the
trailer(which left me going "Huh?").  After seeing the film, it's clear to
me that Russell is now one of the major talents to emerge from the 90's, as
this is a masterpiece.

As I mentioned before, the trailer was confusing, but while the movie is
clear, Russell(who re-wrote a script by John Ridley, though there's a lot of
contention over who exactly did what) makes clear from the beginning his
intention to throw curves at us whenever he can, starting with Wahlberg
asking as he draws his sights on an Iraqi soldier, "Are we still shooting at
people?"  He shoots the soldier anyway, and is immediately remorseful when
he sees the soldier was holding a white flag.  The movie goes from there to
soldiers who, although in a celebratory mood, are still somewhat puzzled as
to why they're there, a reporter(played well by the underused Nora Dunn) who
can't help but talk in cliches, a tanker which, when shot, turns out to be
holding milk, and Iraqi refugees who thought Americans were going to
liberate them from Saddam Hussein and now are suffering because of it.  It's
this attitude which makes the otherwise normal-sounding plot - Clooney,
Wahlberg, Ice Cube, and Spike Jonze play soldiers turned thieves who end up
with a conscience - play as anything but normal-sounding.

Another thing which helps is the photography(I forget the guy's name, but he
also did THE USUAL SUSPECTS).  Far from the clear-looking photography we got
in the telecasts, this is rough, dangerous, and, just like the plot,
constantly putting us off our guard.

Finally, the performances.  Clooney I think has long been underappreciated
not, as most people assume, because he's a sex symbol, but because he, like
Harrison Ford and others of his type, make it look easy.  There's nothing
easy about his character here, and Clooney doesn't take the easy way out
here.  He doesn't coast on his charm and try to make the character likeable,
but goes through the journey his character does, and even without a lot of
dialogue(at the end, his face when he signals to Wahlberg and Ice Cube says
all we need to know, as does their nods back).  Wahlberg is fast becoming
one of our better actors, and this proves it.  He even finds comic potential
where you wouldn't expect any.  Ice Cube has had a mixed career since BOYZ
IN THE HOOD, but this ranks up with that performance.  Finally, Jonze has
been criticized for playing a hillbilly stereotype, but the key is how he's
more like a lapdog hungry for affection rather than just plain white trash,
and he plays it as such.  This is the best film I've seen so far this
year.
<|_=00=_|>

A film for anyone who ever relishes the triumphal note of western war
films,
who gets carried away by the moral high of being on the winning side.  For
those who saw the good in the Gulf War, saw how many people America helped
and was proud to live in the Western world.

Three Kings is an anti-war film.  Its opening scenes are not the
declaration
of war, but soldiers celebrating its end.  Then coming to grips with its
consequences.

Of course, Saddam Hussein is depicted in the customary role of the villain,
but then so is George Bush whose abandonment of the Iraqi people he had
called to rise against Saddam is illustrated with examples of human
suffering - emotional as well as physical.

Don't get the idea that this is a bleak and 'worthy' film, in many ways it
is, but it does it with such style and black humour - that forces you to
laugh even while being disgusted or perturbed - that it is eminently
watchable.  But still edgy, I was pleased to see one couple walk out
(though
they might just have gone to the toilet, who knows, I was absorbed by the
film and didn't pay enough attention).

Director, David O Russell, ensures that the film never gets carried away
with action scenes - bullets have consequences (good and bad) even when
fired by an all-American soldier.  There is some stunning cinematography.
Particularly shocking to me was when Iraqi soldiers fire at a tanker.
Nothing's more shocking than the unexpected and dramatically understated (I
didn't see the trailer, though I believe that scene was actually in
it).

There are some interesting cinematic devices in the film.  The next time
that sepsis comes into conversation I'm sure anyone who has seen the film
will call to mind scenes of a bullet travelling through the body.  I've
seen
less violent films than some people, but have been swept away by their
power
many times - become blasé about bullets and cinematic death.  I've seen it
all too often before to care about nameless victims that stand in the way
of
the power, wit, and understanding of the hard-bitten, long-serving soldier,
wielding a justice in the shape of a gun.

Russell claimed to make every bullet count in the film, and in one
memorably
calm scene of confusion and crossfire, he certainly does.  The style of the
film however doesn't detract from its content.  Three Kings doesn't have
pretensions of addressing difficult issues by showing the manly, serious
face of George Clooney looking a little concerned after killing a few dozen
of the enemy.  It has intelligent dialogue and moving scenes of
confrontation between the opposing ideologies of the Americans and their
'allies' and 'enemies' alike.

Not the best date movie in the world.  Funny, shocking, thought provoking
and honest, 8.5/10.

<|_=00=_|>

I spend most of my time bitching at just how mindless and cliched most
movies released by Hollywood are, so it's always a pleasant surprise when a
'Pulp Fiction' or a 'Boogie Nights' or an 'American Beauty' gets released
and makes me eat my words. 'Three Kings' deserves to be mentioned in the
same breath as those very fine movies, but what a left field surprise this
one was! As much as I enjoyed David O. Russell's previous movies 'Spanking
The Monkey' and 'Flirting With Disaster', I never would have expected him to
be capable of making a movie as fresh and original as this! Easily
overlooked, it very cleverly manages to work simultaneously as an
action/adventure, and a comedy, and a wonderfully subversive lesson in
recent political history. Who would have thought? The other surprise is just
how fine the motley cast is. TV heart throb Clooney, rappers turned actors
Wahlberg and Ice Cube, and video director Jonze. All are much better than
anyone would have the right to expect, and are supported by some strong
performances from the likes of Cliff Curtis ('Once Were Warriors'), Nora
Dunn ('The Last Supper'), Jamie Kennedy ('Scream') and especially Said
Taghmaoui ('La Haine'), the latter in a role that should have made him an
international star. 'Three Kings' is in my opinion a modern classic and one
of the very best movies of the last ten years. I can't recommend this one
highly enough!
<|_=00=_|>

With the exception of 'Magnolia'and 'The Green Mile', I don't believe that
there was a movie as great as 'Three Kings' last year.  It was a brilliant
look at the Gulf War and stretched beyond the boundaries of all war movies
before it. David O. Russell did an excellent job writing and directing this
movie and George Clooney gave one of the best performances of the year.
Mark Wahlberg proved that his work can go beyond that of Dirk Diggler.
Spike Jonze was hilarious as Wahlberg's lacky.  Watching the movie is a
memorable experience.  It's way out there with it's comedic sense of
timing,
awesome action sequences, and morals to match.  It dealt with the political
issues of the Gulf War which was seen as a pretty harmless war from an
American's standpoint. Russell showed us the plight of the freedom fighters
in Iraq and told a very serious story, but did it with a sense of humor
that
was neither tasteless nor melodramatic.  Russell kept an even tone
throughout the entire movie and perfectly blended the action,black
comedy,and war genres into what was one of the year's best.  An
entertaining
movie that never ceases to amaze me.  I still am trying to figure out why
it
didn't get nominated for any Oscars.  I hope that one day people will see
this move for what it is...a masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit first I was born without the gene that understands why
countries go to war.  I don't understand who is fighting, why they are, the
whole concept is a mystery to me. On a moral level its extremely offensive
and completely unpleasant for all involved.  So by extension its hard to
watch a war movie because I go in already confused.

But I know a good movie when I see one, and this is a very good movie in
many ways.  This movie has a heart, some fantastic acting and something
worthwhile to say.  It was not hard to watch or understand, especially
since, like I said, I don't always get it.  But I will be watching this one
again.  At times it felt like a documentary.  All the acting is so natural,
no one makes a false move and you can't say that about most movies.

And I also didn't know Infiniti made a convertible!

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I avoided this film for some time because I have a strong dislike of
war films, particularly relatively recent wars. Too bad for me. I
finally rented it because of the impressive works I've seen by Mr.
Russell. This is not a war film, even though it takes place during a
war, and in a war zone. This is a film of humanity. Like many other
films that I find excellent, this film deals with the human condition
on many levels. There's pathos, humor, love, violence, ad infinitum.
You'd get a sterilized version of what this film shows on the evening
news. It shows that our soldiers, just as ourselves, are human, with
all our frailities. And, I believe, it gives an honest account of what
life is like for the people of the Middle East.

Fine acting by truly fine actors, great cinematography, and a very
intelligent script make this a must see film.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember the 1991 Gulf War well, and in fact visited the area in late
1991. After looking at the "extras" on the DVD version of Three Kings, you
realize how accurate the movie is, having used USA veterans as consultants,
and some of the extras were actually Guld War refugees.  I rate it "8" of
"10".

The movie is action-packed and well-acted.  The only thing that threw me off
a bit was the sometimes strange mixture of humor and tragedy - people
graphically getting killed in one scene, and characters being in humorous
situations the next. Still, it is an entertaining movie overall, and gives a
great glimpse of what the Gulf War was all about.
<|_=00=_|>
If there is one thing you can't accuse the makers of this movie of,
than it must be that they weren't original. I don't think I've ever
seen a 'war movie' that is sometimes shocking, but also funny, one that
criticizes the politicians for what they did during the war, but also
offers a big adventure at the same time...

The story goes like this: A few days after the first Gulf War has
ended, a group of American soldiers come across a secret Iraqi map.
This map reveals where the bunker can be found in which the Iraqi's
have stored the gold and the treasure that they had stolen from Kuwait.
But they aren't thinking of giving it back to the Kuwaiti's. They want
to keep it for themselves and get as rich as kings and so they go on a
trip full of adventure. Even though they are very egoistic at first,
they aren't blind for what is happening around them. They soon learn
that the Iraqi's have been encouraged by the U.S. government to rebel
against the regime and fight Sadam Hussein. But the U.S. military
refuses to help them with their uprising, which means that the rebels
are facing certain death. What should they do? Take the money and run,
not caring about the fate of the civilians or helping them across the
border into Iran and risking to loose all their wealth...

Calling this a war movie isn't exactly right. It's true that its story
is told during the first Gulf war, but the war isn't the most important
thing in this movie. Personally I think you better call this an
adventure movie, because that's what it really is. They go on an
adventure to find a lot of gold.

The acting and the story in this movie are really good and more than
just worth a watch. It's an original movie that blends drama, comedy,
politics and war together into a fine mixture, but I wouldn't call it a
masterpiece. Nevertheless this is a good movie that is certainly worth
a watch. I give it a 7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>

In the aftermath of Desert Storm a group of soldiers find a secret map
showing a bunker containing Kuwaiti gold.  When they begin to go for the
gold they find little resistance from an Iraqi army more concerned with
killing civilians than protecting gold.  The uprising had started when the
US army had encouraged civilians to rebel but now will not support
them.

When I first saw the trailer for this I knew nothing about it – from the way
it was marketed I had assumed it was going to be a modern day `Kelly's
Heroes' with bright comedy and good action scenes.  On first viewing I was
disappointed but interested.  On second viewing I now see what this film was
about and how badly marketed it had been.  The plot is no comedy but is
really an extreme anti-war film that condemns America's approach to the Gulf
War.

When our characters go after the goal they go in a gung-ho manner, seeking
only riches and not interested in the plight of the people.  This is how
America went in – not to protect the people but because of the impact the
invasion was having on oil prices and reserves.  The anti-war message is
also hammered home in the gross close-up shots of how a bullet damages a
body.

It's only in the final half hour that the film goes a little wrong – looking
for an ending that isn't depressing in a subject that really can't have a
`happy' ending and please American audiences.  It has other weaknesses –
some of the scenes are off subject , meaningless or just don't work. 
However for the majority this is a surprisingly good film that makes points
that aren't seen in Hollywood films (and if this whole flag waving thing
continues much longer, we won't see a counter opinion for quite a
while).

The cast are good and deserve praise for choosing this film.  Clooney and
Wahlberg both add a large box office draw while for Jonze this made up a
great summer of exposure.  Ice Cube again shows that not all rappers have to
do rubbish hip hop comedies to get into movies.

Overall this was betrayed by it's own marketing department and many people
may not have liked it for that reason.  However this is an intelligent
anti-war film that has flaws but should be given respect for it's honesty
and bravery.
