

I have recently been seeing a psychiatrist about a few troubles. In one of
his sessions, he bought up about the movie Cruel Intentions, which I
absolutely loved. He said he loved the start of the movie where the evil
Sebastian says to the Psychologist `You have beautiful legs, I would love to
photograph them'. This then sets the tone for one of the best teen films
that the world has seen. Based on the movie Dangerous Liaisons, Cruel
Intentions goes down as one of my top five favourite films of
all-time.

A sex-obsessed rich boy Sebastian sets out to win his greatest "conquest" -
a girl who has proclaimed in a Teen magazine that she will wait until
marriage to lose her virginity. The teen is egged on by his sister,
Catherine, an evil scheming girl in her own right. The two have a wager on
whether Sebastian can achieve his conquest. If he wins, he gets a night of
bliss with his stepsister, if she wins, she keeps his most prided
possession, his Jaguar convertible!

Well this is a brilliant backstabbing, bitchy, love and hate war movie. I
cannot remember a movie like it in my time. The theme of the movie was
priceless. Having two rich hobnob kids toying with various people's emotions
in their neighborhood was just great. In fact it is not at all silly to
think that this does not happen in real life, because if you don't believe
that then you are very naïve. 

There are many people who need to be praised for this classic movie.
Director Roger Kumble did a great job in bringing this movie to our screens.
He added so many little `steamy' pieces to this movie that it was never
going to fail. Then you have the producer Neal H. Moritz who also allowed
this film to shine. He gave this film all the right production touches,
which I can only praise.

Then you have the wonderful cast that was assembled for Cruel Intentions.
The main star for this film would have to be the gorgeous Sarah Michelle
Gellar. She was outstanding as the horrible Catherine. Her character while
at times was extremely hard to like, she was almost too hard to not want to
like. I mean she was every guy's fantasy. Sexually liberated (and not afraid
to admit it), then all she wanted to do is screw up all her enemies at the
same time. Then you have the patronising and ‘stud man' Sebastian, played by
Hollywood hunk Ryan Philippe. His performance in this film was also first
class. I thought his character was a lot more likable then Catherine's, but
you could sometimes want to strangle him for the way he screws with people,
just like his stepsister does, and then still seemingly gets more women
dying to be with him. 

Other cast members just help to make this film an extraordinary viewing
experience. Reese Witherspoon is fantastic as the pure and innocent,
Annette. She helps to balance the sour bitchy side of the cast, with her
friendly almost sickening goody goody side. I am looking forward to seeing
Witherspoon in the comedy, Legally Blonde, directed by new Australian
director Robert Luketic. Selma Blair was also very good in her role as the
dumb and very naïve Cecil. The kissing scene that she has with Gellar was
one of the highlights of the film, with the kiss being voted the best
onscreen kiss a few years ago.

Then this film has another great side to it, that of the soundtrack. It has
so many great songs on it. Placebos tune `Every me, Every you' helps start
this movie off, then you get songs such as Colorblind by Counting Crows and
the classy, Bitter Sweet Symphony, by the Verve. This would have to be one
of the world's most popular soundtracks from where I view
it.

In conclusion, Cruel Intentions is a film I can say I love and that I can
learn from. People in real life do use people and do hurt them. I know this
because I was involved in such a scenario not so long ago. Nothing was ever
happy until it was a fight and scrag. I will go as far to admit that I was
confronted with a real life Catherine, a person who was such a goody goody
on the outside, but the real person on the inside is a person that loves to
cause trouble and will go out of her way to do it. Anyone who is like that
is a real low-life in my view. Get swept up in the nasty love triangle,
‘Cruel Intentions'!

Rating: 5 Stars or 10/10

<|_=00=_|>
This movie gives a sexy, sensual twist to the stereotypical "teen
flick." It communicates a new idea of sexuality amongst present-day
teenagers, rather than the "bang her and leave her" mentality that is
most commonly portrayed. I think the cast was very well chosen, and the
dynamics of the cast were amazing. There weren't too many "no names" or
"B list" actors, but on the other hand there weren't too many "A
listers," which would have thrown the focus off the plot. The music
used in the movie was perfect because it accentuated the tone of the
movie. 

I give "Cruel intentions" a "10" because it is a saucy love story
without all the corniness of normal movies.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm writing on this movie because there is probably no bigger afficionado on
this subject than myself. I've seen this movie thousands of times and must
say that it is exquisite. The portrayal of Valmont by Ryan Phillippe is
magnificent, and its intriguing to know that the object of his affection,
Annette (Reese Witherspoon), is his real life wife. Sarah Michelle Gellar
does easily the best acting of her career, not that that says too much. The
story is one that has been done many times over (Dangerous Liaisons,
Valmont), however, this was an excellent adaptation to this age group and
these current times. The fact that the 20 somethings are portraying 17 year
old kids is unnoticeable because of the great acting and the portrayal of
the story. Phillippe is easily the highlight of the film with his slick
portrayal of Valmont. His disregard for others feelings and emotions is
ruthless. The piece is without comparison of the trend of terrible teen
movies made in the late 90's-early 00-01. This is the only one that takes a
serious storyline and portrays it with enough maturity to appeal not only to
teens but older audiences as well.
The one problem I do have with the movie is the way that Sebastian turns
from so evil and wicked to this love sick kid at the end of the film. When
you see the deleted scenes on the DVD, you see the original cut of the
climatic scene between Valmont and Merteuil. In this scene rather than walk
out in near tears, Valmont slaps Kathryn and demands her end of the bet,
before he is finally denied and then leaves. This would be a much better
scene than the one used. It goes along with the entire idea of the character
and when he turns to a sap you feel like Sebastian is turning to a sappy
wimp.
The film is still an excellent piece and should be regarded as an admirable
adaptation of the novel "Les Liasons Dangereuse".
<|_=00=_|>

This film (based on the 1988 hit 'Dangerous Liasons' starring Glenn Close,
Michelle Pfieffer and John Malkovich) is a great movie intended for the
older teenagers, and stars fine young acting talent.

Rich kid Kathryn ('Buffy The Vampire Slayer's Sarah Michelle Gellar) bets
her equally jaded step-brother Sebastian (Ryan Phillippe; 'I Know What You
Did Last Summer', which co-starred  Sarah) that he can't seduce good girl,
and virgin, Annette (played by Ryan's real-life wife Reese
Witherspoon).

Along the way, Kathryn tries to help sexually-inexperienced Cecile (Selma
Blair) get some action in her life, while she starts screwing Cecile's
ex-music instructor! Sound weird? It is. It's basically about 2 rich snobs
who mess with the lives of those around them, just because their lives get
boring.

This film also stars Joshua Jackson ('The Skulls', 'Urban Legend', TV's
'Dawson's Creek) as Sebastian's gay best friend, who also gets involved in
the use or be used storyline. Fellow teen-movie star Tara Reid ('Urban
Legend', 'American Pie') also has a small role, as Sebastian's
psychiatrists's daughter.

This film is pretty intense and deals with sex, drugs, seduction and
alienation in a brave, way that makes it appealing to all teenagers. Not for
the light hearted, more daring than anything like 'She's All That' and
'Never Been Kissed', but it's still good fun!

<|_=00=_|>
Cruel Intentions was my favorite movie when I was 14, to me it was
everything I just wanted to be as a teen, despite how cruel and
manipulative Katheryn was, I thought she was the coolest and strongest
female character I'd ever seen on film. Now a couple years afterwards I
read the book and saw the original Dangerous Liasons with John
Malkovich and Glenn Close, I still very much enjoy Cruel Intentions.
Like I said, this was just a terrific updated version of the ultimate
story of love and betrayal, it was a little Dawson's Creek at times,
but from what angle they went at, it was understandable. It had the
biggest stars: Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillipe, Reese Withersppon,
Tara Reid, Joshua Jackson, and Selma Blair. May I say they gave
extremely impressive performances, but the best without a doubt goes to
Sarah Michelle Gellar, she was just ultimately brilliant as Kathryn
Muertiel, the cruelist girl in school who's goal isn't to be the most
popular, but to dominate everyone's innocence.

Kathryn and Sebastion are step brother and sister, they have a
partnership together to work the school into a total wave of turning
the most innocent into the most corrupted. They also have a love for
each other, but Kathryn is the only girl Sebastian can't have, it kills
him and she teases him constantly over it. Kathryn asks Sebastian if he
could help her corrupt the girl that took her boyfriend, Cecil, a naive
young girl who is under Kathryn's wing, but isn't aware of her
intentions. But the plot thickens when Kathryn finds out that Cecil is
in love with her black music teacher which her mother wouldn't like
very much. Then Sebastian finds a girl, Annette, who believes that
people shouldn't experience the act of love until they are in love. He
and Kathryn make a bet while he seduces Cecil, that if he can corrupt
Annette, he gets to bed Kathryn. But there's one problem, he might be
in over his head when he starts to fall in love with Annette.

Cruel Intentions is a great movie with good, strong performances. For
what might have been a typical teen movie, this was just a good idea on
where the director made decisions on how to make the story real. It's
very romantic, heart breaking, and even has it's dark comedic moments
for a little breath of air. I will always recommend this film to
anyone, it's a great story. I would also highly recommend to watch
Dangerous Liasons along with Cruel Intentions, so you have a little bit
of a different variety. You'll find yourself a bit seduced with these
movies.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I have recently seen the movie "Cruel Intentions," and let me say it is
one of the best films I've seen in a long while. As a big movie buff, I
always see the latest movies on opening night, but I got a chance to see
this one months before it will be released. Sarah Michelle Gellar is a
stunning actress, and portrays Kathryn extremely well. Her character is evil
and cunning, and is delivered with such grace and perfection... Ryan
Phillippe is excellent as well, and he portrays Sebastian Valmont with as
much talent as the lovely Ms. Gellar. They work very well together, as they
did in their last movie together, "I KNOW WHAT YOU DID LAST SUMMER"

Reese Witherspoon gives a nice performance as well, and Selma Blair's
acting is worthy of as much recognition as Ms. Gellar's.

Anyway, I should stop ranting about the cast... the story is  a great
update of "Dangerous Liaisons," with a perfect mix of satire, wit, and
drama. Writer Roger Kumble certainly has a sick sense of humor, and I
applaud him for that. This is the most beautiful, wicked film since "Wild
Things," and though that may not impress some people, oh well. I thought it
was incredible. 
<|_=00=_|>
I found this movie to be one of a kind, it was a lot better than I
originally thought it would be, the name didn't make the movie sound
too good, but after watching the movie I thought it was excellent. I
found Reese Witherspoon's performance in this movie to be outstanding,
I think SHE was the person who made the movie what it was. 

The movie started off by showing what kind of a person Ryan was in the
film, but as the movie commenced it showed how he fell in love and by
the end of the movie he had done a complete 180 from how he had
started. This movie was just so much better than most of the other
films I watched in those days, and it got me into not judging a movie
by its title or by what other people think. Some people had different
views on it, but I thought it was brilliant and I don't think they
could have done much more to improve on this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those movies that you'll hate yourself for liking. It's
another teen update of a classic story, in this case, Dangerous Liasons.
Good acting, competent direction, nice cinematography, and an excellent
soundtrack make this one entertaining viewing. 6.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
In this film wealthy prep school student Kathryn (Sarah Michelle
Gellar) bets her stepbrother Sebastian (Ryan Phillipe) that he can't
deflower the virginal Annette (Reese Witherspoon) before the school
year begins. If he fails to accomplish this task, Kathryn gets his
Jaguar Roadster; if he succeeds, he gets an evening of pleasure with
Kathryn. 

I just finished watching Cruel Intentions and what a pleasant surprise
this film turned out to be. I guess the best way to describe it is as a
sexy and seductive thriller. The film is very clever and bold but above
all, extremely engaging and entertaining. Dealing with this kind of
subject...making this kind of film...it's definitely not easy. Usually
these kind of films come off somewhat "fake" and lame; corny, whatever
you want to call it. Thankfully, Cruel Intentions went the other way,
probably thanks to the witty and sharp dialogue and a very good
direction. 

Ryan Phillippe delivered a terrific performance and so did Reese
Witherspoon. I was actually a bit disappointed with Sarah Michelle
Gellar, her acting was not very convincing at times to say the least
but honestly, the story is so engaging that I was able to overlook that
flaw. Another aspect that really took me by surprise was the musical
score. Cruel Intentions has one of the best soundtracks I have ever
seen in films. There's some great well known songs like Skunk Anansie's
"secretly" and Placebo's "every me and every you", but there's also
some fast paced instrumental tracks throughout the film that really
compliment the scenes. Overall, a great watch and so much more then a
teen film.

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Cruel Intentions is the perfect romantic drama. This fruit did not fall
far from the Romeo & Juliet tree. Romance, love, plots, and drama are
all turned modern and splendidly rendered. Add to that a great
soundtrack, beautiful shots, tension, hot eroticism, sex, and you get
the perfect mix for that type of flick.

All the actors are playing their best game, without exception. The
story line is gripping, interesting, and it delivers without fail. The
twists are numerous, non-repetitive, and scandalous.

This movie showed everybody that Sarah Michelle Gallar could play
anything, because this role is as far from the vampire slayer as you
can get.

A must see.
