
The Corrupter is beset by expectations of Yun-Fat Chow in another John
Woo flick. This isn't a John Woo flick (and I mean the old John Woo
pre-American Studio), but it does evoke moments that are very John
Woo/Yun-Fat Chow esque ala The Killer and the blind girl.

This film is a character study of Nick Chen and Danny Wallace (played
very well by Mark Wahlberg) as cops that must make decisions that may
compromise their professional and personal integrity, but the lines
drawn are not as simple as that. The film really asks people under what
circumstances is it okay to bend the rules in order to achieve results
that otherwise would not be possible? Would it be okay to let one
guilty person go in order to catch ten more in the future? Would it be
okay to convict one innocent person in order to catch a thousand guilty
in the future? 

Danny Wallace joins Nick Chen in the Chinatown task group. Danny is
forced to ask himself whether the short term actions, and their moral
implications, are worth the long term good of the force, himself, and
his family.
<|_=00=_|>
Nick Chen is a tough as nails New York cop who works on both sides of
the law. When a new rookie cop is assigned to his unit he sees how the
local crime boss tries to corrupt him and Chen reconsiders his ethics.
All the while a few twists and turns show who is really playing who.

This is by no means a very original movie, especially for Chow Yun-Fat.
His first American film, 'The Replacement Killers,' also was kind of a
re-run, but what is there to say? He's good at this type of stuff.

Just like 'The Replacement Killers' this film was also a flop at the
box office and it is probably through its gritty and uncompromising
tone. Yeah, there's action and intense shootouts, but it is not like
'Die Hard' or anything. Innocent people die, the ending isn't happy,
but what matters is that the film isn't cheesy - it pulls no sucker
punches or cheap thrills. It sticks to the characters while keeping the
action secondary, but no less intense. The plot too is also pretty
interesting and is a little more intricate than 'The Replacement
Killers' or Chow Yun-Fat's cult hits from Hong Kong like 'Hard Boiled.'
It is not quite a masterpiece of genre, but remains a solid crime
thriller nonetheless. 8/10

Rated R: strong violence, and profanity
<|_=00=_|>

This is a Hong Kong action flick with a distinct taste of the west.  The
movie starts off with a bombing and small store shoot-out that is right out
of John Woo's stylebook but then it under goes a change.  The story starts
taking over and it is one of intrigue within intrigue.  There are great
moments of action with two guns blazing and an unbelievable amount of
bullets but the story becomes the main thing.  This works as glue that a lot
of Hong Kong movies don't have.  There are long pauses of plot developments
between double crossing bad guys that are a real change to what is a typical
Hong Kong action flick.

The director John Foley likes to place people in positions where they have
to make critical decisions under pressure (At Close Range and Fear) and this
is no exception.  A caring cop caught up in a situation of corruption is
under constant pressure to decide what is right.  You are kept guessing as
to his ultimate decision but the pressure is there under a dozen different
situations.  The sub-plots add to the texture of this movie and add to its
richness.  These side stories of the bad cop father in trouble, the
interaction of rival Chinese gangs and his love of Asian culture are all
parts of the puzzle that is Danny Wallace played by Mark Wahlberg.  Foley
knows Wahlberg from the direction of his acting breakthrough in Fear and
uses him at what he does best, the confused tough guy with the sensitive
agenda. (His latest movie `The Yards' is an example of what I mean). Nick
Chen the experienced street cop played by Chow Yun-Fat is the perfect
slightly crazy hard-hitting loner, who has embedded himself in the struggle
of rival gangs in New York's Chinatown.  There is no black and white here,
only shades of gray, in a world of who is doing what to whom but like the
cultural differences between East and West the relationships between
individuals overcomes the hard facts of doing business on the street.

A very good blend of the Hong Kong actions movie that was brought in by Chow
Yun-Fat (if you hear the commentary that Foley never saw a Woo movie) and
what Foley's image is for street life in New York.  Coming from New York and
living and working in Asia gives me insight into the homework that went into
the making of this movie and I will say they did a very good job.

<|_=00=_|>

Wahlberg and Chow both perform very believably and work well on screen
together. This partnership reminded me of Training Day (with Denzel
Washington and Ethan Hawke). That is, the green cop being "educated" by
the seasoned cop and we're not sure if the seasoned one is corrupt or
not. I also thought it was shot well with good use of lighting. The
action scenes were well directed and quite spectacular in some cases
(eg. the car chase and several shoot-outs) without going too over the
top. The plot was a little hard to follow at first, but I blame this on
myself, not the storyline. It's commendable that so much thought was
given to the script and plot so it didn't always seem we were just
waiting for an action scene. The drama added intensity and suspense
well, too. For example, the tension between Chen and Wallace. The
thread with Wallace and his father added good depth to his character
and the story, as did the fact that he and Chen retained their
partnership in fighting even when the suspected worst was revealed
about Chen. It was also notable the role music played in the film. For
example you always knew when the Asian punks were about to show up due
to the rap music. The subtle music in dramatic dialogue scenes gave the
scenes a good atmosphere.

<|_=00=_|>

The Corruptor is Chow Yun-Fat`s second American film.
This is more like an explosive thriller, rather than his usual non-stop
action-films.  There is a handful of actionscenes and a cool car chase,
though.
Chow Yun-Fat is Nick Chen, a cop in Chinatown, who is corrupt as you may
have guessed. Mark Wahlberg is Danny Wallace, a white cop, who is
transferred to Chinatown, and becomes Chen`s partner.  Danny soon discovers
that not everything is quite how it should be with Chen, who has a lot of
money & and overlooks many crimes in Chinatown.  The Corruptor is a movie
about the releationship between Chen and Wallace.  
I must say that I didn`t like Mark Wahlberg at all, because his performance
is poor.  
Chow Yun-Fat carries this movie by himself, and he has a lot more dialogue
now than in The Replacement Killers.  
If you like Chow Yun-Fat or actionflicks, you should consider watching this
one night.  It has not got as much action as The Replacement Killers, but it
has a far better story and better acting. 
8/10  
<|_=00=_|>
While not perfect, The Corrupter is far from lacking when it comes to
delivering the action goods we've come to expect from a Chow Yun Fat
movie. People who say it needs more action or character development
must have watched the wrong movie. To add more of either would have had
to resulted in a longer movie. From start to finish, no time is wasted
in conveying the story or showing Hong Kong style gunplay that is above
and beyond what American audiences are used to. Extremely violent and
full of imaginative ways to kill people with a gun, I don't see how
anyone who would even consider watching this would give it a low
rating. Unlike today's action flicks who strive for their precious
PG-13 rating, this movie takes it over the top and is full of
gratuitous nudity, immoral activity, and point-blank head-exploding
gunfire. If you're into any of the aforementioned goodness, then you
more than likely won't be disappointed by this flick. The famous car
chase scene is perhaps the most violent ever put to celluloid. Mark
Wahlberg isn't the greatest actor but is believable nonetheless. Chow
Yun Fat plays the role of desensitized Asian gang taskforce detective
Nick Chen perfectly. This isn't a movie to watch with the kids as
Chen's antics can sometimes leave one questioning his sanity. With a
touching ending and adrenaline pumping action, The Corrupter delivers
on all promises - so much so that I must wonder if some of the other
reviewers here were even watching the same movie. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

	They say everyone has a secret. The Corruptor is a prime example of this
saying because everyone in Chinatown is hiding something in this movie.
Detective Nick Chen, played by international star Chow Yun-Fat, heads the
Asian Crime Unit in his precinct. Chen is a decorated hero with many years
on the force. He is also in the back pocket of Uncle Benny, the leader of
the old-line gang in the city. Because of this he is fighting even harder to
take down the Fukienese Dragons, a gang of young Chinese recently arrived to
America. Adding to his problems Chen has a new cop in his unit, Mark
Wahlberg plays Danny Wallace. Wallace is a rookie with his own secrets
including a father who owes the Italian mob a large sum of
money.
The Corruptor is fun! Any movie that starts off with an entire storefront
exploding and the one `survivor' being gunned down as he comes out the door
is bound to grab your attention. Many gunfights and chase scenes later you
even realize there is a story here. Mark Wahlberg continues to improve as an
actor though it is hard to think of him as anything other than `Marky Mark.'
Chow Yun-Fat is the main reason to see this movie. He was a star in China
for many years before we were lucky enough to catch a glimpse of him. His
English has improved immensely from his first American movie, The
Replacement Killers, and his charisma is at the level that it always has
been. When Chow is on the screen it is hard to watch others and it will
definitely be interesting to see him in the remake of The King and I with
Jodie Foster.
	James Foley directed this movie. It's not for everyone but if movies like
Hard-Boiled and The Killer entertained you then check out The Corruptor.
It's worth it!

<|_=00=_|>
New York's Chinatown is the background for this story about cops
assigned to the area who are pursuing the Chinese gangs that operate
within the neighborhood. Nick Chen, is a much admired cop who
understands the people and the underground. When a white cop arrives to
Chen's precinct things get a bit tense. Nick Chen takes Wallace under
his wing and shows him the ropes.

The film starts with a big bang, as a Chinese gang has wired a corner
restaurant and blows it in a big explosion. Danny Wallace, who is at
first cautious, is able to overcome his awkwardness and gains Chen's
support. When Danny is almost killed, he tells Chen he owes him his
life. What Chen doesn't suspect is that Danny is doing his own
undercover investigation about what goes on in Chinatown.

When prostitutes begin appearing dead in empty trash bins, Wallace
realizes there is much more going on in the area. All points out of
Uncle Benny's doing, but also involved is the powerful Henry Lee, a man
that has a lot of interests in Chinatown and has his hands into
gambling, prostitution and illegal smuggling. Nick Chen might be
involved in some of the corruption. Danny Wallace's father, also a cop,
comes to his son for money to keep his habit, and finally is found in
his son's apartment, where he has collapsed. Nick and Danny's
friendship will be put through a test.

James Foley, an otherwise good director, brings some good ideas, but
clearly, this genre demands someone else with more experience. Mr.
Foley produced a stylishly looking film with a superb cinematography by
Juan Ruiz-Anchia who loves to photograph from the air. His take of the
Chinatown location is one of the best things in the movie. Also, the
moody music by Carter Burwell seems to go hand in hand with what we are
watching. Robert Pucci's screen play is full of twists and
complications.

Chow Yun-Fat and Mark Wahlberg show an easy chemistry in their work.
These actors compliment one another and make their characters seem
real. The terrific Ric Young is perfectly reptile as he develops his
Henry Lee, a corrupt man. Brian Cox turns up briefly as Sean Wallace,
Danny's father.

Be prepared for a lot of action!
<|_=00=_|>


Fans of Chow Yun Fat can finally exhale; he has made a decent Hollywood
movie at last.

I went to see "The Corruptor" this past Saturday in HK. While it's not an
especially good film, it's a solid piece of entertainment. Most importantly,
it allows Chow Yun Fat to be Chow Yun Fat. Whereas he was stiff and
tentative in "The Replacement Killers", in "The Corruptor" Chow burns up the
screen. From the very first few seconds of his appearance in the movie you
can see that "The Coolest Actor in the World" is back in
form.

In fact, it's the acting that saves the movie. The story is a tired one, but
Mark Wahlberg and especially Chow are charismatic and make their characters
sympathetic. Chow also develops an onscreen chemistry w/ Wahlberg that was
completely absent in his partnership w/ Mira Sorvino.

Because of it's uninspiring storyline, however, "The Corruptor" will
probably still not make Chow a household name in America. But it will win
him lots of new fans. Let's hope this upward trend in Chow's career
continues w/ "Anna and the King". 
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Yes, I know critics, it has Wahlberg but Foley has him on a leash here.
If you notice, unlike The Departed, where he went wild and ran the
movie over, here he has limited dialog which is a good thing. Everyone
says Replacement Killers is better, I disagree, Fat gives a much more
complex, multi-layered performance here. He portrays his mixed
loyalties to Uncle Benny, the police department and his growing father
like affection for Danny very well. The script itself is much more
complex than Fuqua's action fest. I own that movie also but this one
follows Danny into the ambivalencies of going undercover to check out
Fat which is complicated by his growing friendship with him and his
father's gambling debts which suck him into the grasp of the Tongs and
Henry Lee, well played by Ric Young. This is a very intense well
written piece of work that bombed frankly because Wahlberg has a bit of
a negative reputation. Please, The Happening? where he tried to play a
scientist? Whose idea was that? Here, he is very much subdued and under
control; Foley wisely limits his dialog there are no long spiels where
he displays the limitations of his acting range. The loyalties get all
mixed up as Danny gets deeper and deeper plus Lee starts manipulating
him by using his wish to help people as a oar to steer him into trouble
with.

Fat will shock you with how well he does here. I am one of the few
people who loved his performance in Anna And The King. My favorite
scene is after this cop flips him crap, he pops his mouth with his
finger and displays it in a circle with a sneering smile. The man is
such a gifted actor. Imagine the Curse Of The Golden Flower without
him? The characters are drawn well full of dichotomous feelings, light
and dark, like all human beings. As corrupt as Fat is, he still is
helping a prostitute that Henry Lee has slaving for him. These are not
all good or all bad cartoon characters like many action movies. I
really cannot understand the low IMDb rating except for people who
detest Wahlberg. It certainly cannot be Fat's performance which I
consider to be his best in an American film. The film's intensity
begins from the first frame with Bobby Vu, the leader of the Fuchinese
Dragons, blowing up a store and shooting the poor burning guy coming
out. 

As we discover as the movie progresses, Lee is doing a behind the
scenes mission to usurp control over the Tong from aged Uncle Benny.
Fat feeds him information hoping to keep him away from Danny but good
luck, Lee wants a white cop inside the precinct. The movie builds to
the showdown where Fat has to decide whether to kill Danny when Lee
discovers he is internal affairs. I admired the lack of a clichéd story
with the stupid, happy ending. Foley makes a very different film even
Danny's father is corrupt. There are no pure good or evil characters
only the complex people you find in real life. Do not believe the above
rating, this is an excellent movie. I own some of Fat's Chinese
performances but this was his best role in English. A Hidden Treasure.
