

I watched this movie yesterday, and I was hooked to its haunting story till
the end.
First I have to say the performances were excellent, Johnny Depp still
surprises me with his variety of roles, I can't imagine he could have done
the hilarious role of Captain Jack Sparrow after this scary
role.

His eyes were acting more than any part of his body and you could feel the
slight change in his character through the stillness of his
eyes.
Charlize Theron gave a better performance than her Devil's advocate role
although they had the same criteria, the disturbed wife. But her genuine
agonizing performance distinguished her in this movie.

I noticed the music was a major pillar in this movie, it was like another
main character in this movie, the editing was great also especially the
scene in the subway. The story was an original also, it had good turn ups
and twists.

The movie had all the right elements in general and it certainly doesn't
deserve a 4.7 on the imdb. I think the voters were greatly disappointed
after seeing all those good elements destroyed by the cheesy and typical
ending that only producers could have had a part with, in order to make
another sequel.

The ending by all means was bad, it destroyed the originality of the story
and the tension build up. I give it an 7.5 for all the good elements, it
would reached a 9.0 if the ending was different.
<|_=00=_|>
There is scene in this movie in which a stroke is medically referred to
as "a severe insult to the brain". A line which describes this entire
film far better than any reviewer possibly could.

Obviously influenced by The X-Files, the first thing that strikes the
viewer is the invasive use of tense mood music. If the Astronaut's Wife
is opening a fridge there is a string quartet behind anxiously
heralding a danger which subsequently doesn't exist. In a TV show like
The X-Files it's a trick used to great affect because it's stylistic
and the shows exhibit a degree of wit and imagination that relieve us
from the pointless tension. Neither of those saving graces feature in
this film.

The characters are poorly drawn, we're constantly told Spencer (The
Astronaut) has changed since his last mission into space. We need to be
told this so often because we're deprived of witnessing very much of
his prior personality. And throughout the story Jillian (The Wife)
never functions as anything more than a paranoid wreck, even before she
suspects that something is really wrong.

Fans of Depp and Theron will be as disappointed as the rest of us.
Johnny's flyboy astronaut is utterly out of place since we all know
true spacemen are stiff and boring scientists, yet this guy is
exhuberant like the barnstorming 1950's test pilots that never really
existed. God only knows what hewas thinking with this part. And
Charlize, throughout she never lifts above the catatonic. Literally,
and I mean this folks, there is nothing more to her performance than
the bags under her eyes and hers is the lead character, our heroine for
crying out loud! That's beyond appalling.

As a thriller there is never a comfort break in this pretentious sci-fi
flick that asks us to care for a character it's impossible engage with.
It's non-stop, we're expected to be in the edge of our seat with every
single scene, and if the plot doesn't supply the drama a 'bus' (that's
the Hollywood term for a false shock) will. They are countless, and
soon annoying. The same can be said for the way The Wife is
mysteriously at the front of every crowd during key moments of action,
which is one of the other cheap dramatic tricks overused by a really
really bad director.

Until recently writer/director Rand Ravich hadn't been in charge of a
film since this 1999 failure, you'll know why.

Fifteen years ago this was the kind of film that made a frustrated
Quentin Tarantino decide he really needed to begin making his own. 

It's diabolical.
<|_=00=_|>

What do you get when you mix six parts "I Married a Monster From Outer
Space" with four parts "Rosemary's Baby," "The Omen" and "Village of the
Damned," shake it and stir it, then add "Invasion of the Body Snatchers" and
the "Alien" movies as  chasers?  You end up with "The Astronaut's Wife," a
film cobbled together from so many disparate and familiar sources that the
audience is always ten giant steps ahead of both the plot and the
characters.

This shamelessly derivative film, essentially an unattributed remake of "I
Married a Monster From Outer Space," stars Johnny Depp, taking one of his
rare side forays into straight commercial moviemaking, as an astronaut who
experiences a strange, inexplicable two-minute long phenomenon while outside
his space capsule and who returns an oddly changed man - though Depp plays
both the before and after roles in so similarly deadpan and lowkeyed a style
that we frankly cannot see too much of a difference.  Charlize Theron
portrays Spencer's wife, Jillian, who slowly comes to perceive that all is
not true blue with her hero husband.

"The Astronaut's Wife" suffers so fatally from a sense of deja vu that it
becomes almost impossible to stay interested despite a yeomanlike
performance by Theron who even sports the shorn pixie hairstyle made famous
by Mia Farrow, thirty-two long years ago, as she too ran around New York
City, desperately searching for answers as to just what diabolical force was
incubating deep inside her womb.  

This film does provide an admirably dark finale as well as art direction,
cinematography and music that create a spare, almost hermetically sealed
world, devoid of sunshine and life.  Too bad these quality elements are
placed into the service of such completely unimaginative material.

<|_=00=_|>

THE ASTRONAUT'S WIFE / (1999) **

Johnny Depp plays a NASA astronaut named Spencer Armacost who, while on a
space mission, losses contact with Earth for two minutes. He and his
colleague, Alex Streck (Nick Cassavetes), return home to their spouses,
Jillian Armacost (Charlize Theron) and Natalie Streck (Donna Murphy).
Bizarre episodes begin to occur with Alex, leaving Jillian suspicious of her
husband's condition. As her husband's strange behavior increases, Jillian
begins to question what really happened in those 120 seconds.

"The Astronaut's Wife," written and directed by Rand Ravich, poorly executes
good ideas. We have imaginative and potentially suspenseful ideas with this
film's concepts behind such happenings in two minutes as Spencer and Alex
are in galactic boundaries. The gradual increase in Spencer's unusual
behavior depicts effective suspense-but thorough introduction of the
characters does not take place, nor do we witness the key events in which
the rest of the move hinges upon. Consequently, "The Astronaut's Wife" does
not work.

The film's first act is full of incidences, characters, and subplots.
Clearly too many things happen too early in the story. Within the first
thirty minutes the production attempts to develop two separate
relationships, shows us the atmosphere of a teacher's workplace, something
bizarre transpires out of earth's orbit, a decision is made to resign and
move to New York, a suicide takes place, a character mysteriously dies, and
probably  more. I just couldn't follow the plot.

I liked the eerie, supernatural overtones located throughout the production.
The film is smart to reveal the right amounts of information at the precise
time. There is also a certain style to "The Astronaut's Wife," containing an
elusive mood, a weirdly intriguing design, and some tense and
unusual
camera angles. The movie becomes more interesting as we reach the
closing.

Charlize Theron has been in a lot of movies lately, but "The Astronaut's
Wife" is her first leading role. She seems to have come out of left field in
1997 with the comedy "Trail and Error." Afterwards, she contributed larger 
performances in "The Devil's Advocate," "Celebrity," "Mighty Joe Young," and
most recently "The Cider House Rules," and "Reindeer Games." Her role in
"The Astronaut's Wife" is a little more complex than her past credits,
excluding her enticing and believable acting job in "The Devil's Advocate."
She presents the traumatized Jillian Armacost with the perfect blend of zest
and tragic confusion. 

Depp and Theron conjure a chemistry-rich couple. The movie very clearly
takes Jillian's point of view instead of allowing us to know mysteries with
Spencer. This stays consistent and focused, but sometimes leaves us
pondering about unexplained events.  

"The Astronaut's Wife" builds for an awe-inducing conclusion through
revealing and intriguing dialogue and an omnipresent undertone. The film
suggests a form of extraterrestrial is behind the deaths of several
characters as well as the strange behavior of Spencer, but we learn the
truth  only in the end. Call "The Astronaut's Wife" an unusual "The X Files"
episode featuring a cliffhanger conclusion and a supernatural climax. The
movie must have appeared really exciting on script. If only more capable
filmmakers would have claimed this production we may have had a real winner.
Instead audiences feel disappointment and failure, potential is wasted and
originality is underscored


<|_=00=_|>
Two minutes of lost communication between a space shuttle and home.
What went on? The astronaut involved returns, but his wife finds he is
not quite the same... This film can be considered a serious blight on
the resumes of Charlize Theron and Johnny Depp. I found the film a
terrible mess,mostly because a slightly interesting premise, (which had
tricked me into watching) disintegrated into adisjointed, incoherent
plot and the final blow, horrific special effects. The cast seems to
struggle with the script and the scenes of violence and sex are awful
and unnecessary. Even the combined talents of Theron and Depp cannot
save this bombshell from outer space.
<|_=00=_|>

Up to about ninety percent through the film, The Astronaut's seems to be on
course to being something special. Leads Depp and Theron are very convincing
in their roles and they are backed by a very competent supporting cast led
by the always reliable Joe Morton (T2, Speed, Bounce, Paycheck, Smallville).
The special effects and cinematography are well done and the pacing and
building of suspense entice the viewer to unravel the mystery along with the
protagonist. Unfortunately the revelation doesn't quite live up to the
buildup leaving the viewer more than a little dissatisfied. Despite the
letdown I still recommend this movie on the strength of the performances and
on the fact that is a rare hybrid of the science fiction and thriller
genres. 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Spencer Armacost and Alex Streck are on a mission in orbit to repair a
sataleitte when NASA loses touch with them for two minutes.  After this two
minutes the pair are recovered and return to earth.  However Alex dies of
heart failure soon after return and his wife, Natalie, kills herself.  Soon
Spencer's wife Jillian falls pregnant with twins and they move to New York
for Spencer to take up a job with a military aerospace firm.  However
Jillian begins to have doubts that Spencer hasn't been changed by his
experience – doubts that are backed up by NASA scientist Sherman
Reese.

Playing like a cross between Rosemary's Baby and Contact, this film
attracted me to it on the strength that Johnny Depp was in the lead.  The
plot is interesting as I quite enjoy sci-fi when it is done well, although
it maybe doesn't deliver everything you'd expect in terms of thrills.  It
has a nice slow patient build up throughout the film, we are invited to be
unsure if Jillian is losing it or if she's catching on to the reality of her
situation.  A great performance by Joe Morton helps this uncertainty as he
plays a NASA rep who may be unhinged as much as he is informed.

The director uses various tricks to help keep the film feeling tight.  Shots
flash quickly around the illustrate the panic and confusion in Jillian's
head, the camera spins around some key confrontations to make the movement
draw out pace etc, but for the most part he has a lowkey tension playing
constantly which, for me, worked better than big shocks and scares.  The
`truth' is revealed a little too early, leaving the film with it's wad blown
with still 20 minutes to go, and the climatic confrontation would have
worked better with a rant that explains everything in terms of `why' and
`who' – but the actual conclusion is pretty cool and maybe it's better we're
left wondering.

Depp is OK in the lead but not his best work.  He only has to walk round
looking menacing and talking with the Texan accent and that's it!  Theron is
much better and she portrays Jillian so well that the audience aren't sure
if she's crazy or not.  Her gradual descent is well done and helped by the
director.  Morton is excellent in what amounts to little more than a cameo
and the rest of the cast are pretty good.

Overall this is not a perfect film and is really a bit of a hybrid of
genres, but it works pretty well.  The slow build up of tension works well,
even if it bails out before it should.  The ending may be slightly
unsatisfying but there's no denying it is a brave attempt.  I enjoyed it
even if I felt like a bigger ending was in order.
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Is this the same Charlize Theron from Monster, Prometheus and Reindeer
Games? You know, superwoman, who shows men who's boss? The movie's
premise: that an energy being, that is as alien to us as energy is to
matter, could live inside of a human body, parasitically, makes TRON
look realistic. The biggest flaw is the eternal boredom in a putatively
scary movie. This is followed by a woman who continues in the
relationship apparently needing either the Deity to tell her to get the
hell out of there or see the water tentacle come out of him. The latter
you will have to wait the entire length of this incredibly boring
movie. Yes, I concur with the above great reviewers, this really is a
cheap rip off of Polanski's Rosemary's Baby with just enough changes to
escape a lawsuit. Spencer is so obviously not himself, from the moment
she is reunited with him, the viewer will get progressively more and
more irritated with her stupidity and impotence. Then his partner buys
it, his wife tells Charlize the truth, before electrocuting herself,
does she run then? Nope, she stays with him. More and more disturbing
things happen and are done to Theron but she continues to, insanely,
stay with him.

The movie has perhaps one scary scene, Nan's murder, Charlize's friend,
but that is really not terribly intense, frankly. If you get this
expecting Rosemary's Baby, forget it, this idiot couldn't polish
Polanski's shoes: he sucks as a director. There is such lack of
verisimilitude in Charlize's character. She suspects Spencer's boss;
yet, she goes to Baldy's wife for the abortion pills? After Spencer
discovers this, gee, where could he have found it out from? She still
stays with him. This is the core of why people hate the movie and it
dropped like an anvil. Her stupidity is matched only by her cowardice,
at the end, pulling her feet up and dooming the entire world because
she is such a stupid, clueless, dependent, cowardly fool. This is your
heroine? How the actress who did Monster could portray such a weak
woman who ends up, theoretically, destroying the world because she is
afraid of going through with it and pulls her feet up? 

My theory is that the feminist Theron liked the character because she
is tortured and set upon by the evil male Spencer. He is so cruel,
rapes her, kills her friend and then annihilates and possesses her body
at the end. Well, sorry Charlize, audiences just will not identify with
the world's most clueless, retarded, cowardly heroine. Look, I am open
to other interpretations, try to find one where a feminist actress that
plays strong female role models, like the new Mad Max, chose the most
pathetic wife in the history of films. I am sorry the only logical
explanation is to delineate the horrors visited upon this sweet,
clueless idiot by this evil, cruel man. Whatever the ideology, this is
the most boring horror movie you will ever endure. Frankly, nothing
much happens until the end of the movie. Three quarters of the movie is
Spencer acting creepy, with her growing suspicions that a Down's
Syndrome patient would have known within fifteen minutes and caught the
next plane to Montana. 

Creepy music does not substitute for actual scares and a script.
Frankly, she may have made some ideological points for her cause but
she did real damage to her career taking this role. The premise itself
is not clever: the idea that an energy being could live both in the
vacuum of space and possess a human body, I found utterly absurd. It
really is just an idiot's remake of Rosemary's Baby; he changes it just
enough to get away with it. Can you tell he is not Roman Polanski?
<|_=00=_|>

I have to say, I always enjoy Johnny Depp's work. He is a chameleon; an
actor who can take literally any role, who can step outside the
boundaries of typecasting. And, his performance in this film is in no
way weaker than any other character; it is merely a role that not many
are likely to recall when asked about him. The film builds decently
enough. Depp and Theron play a married couple, and a significant
element of stress begins to grow on Theron following Depp's events
during an orbital assignment given to his character.

I also like Charlize Theron; my one nitpick is how she seems to always
find her way into these 'tormented woman' roles, like in the Devil's
Advocate. Her skills are not necessarily hindered by this
repetitiveness; I just find it a redundancy she needs to work beyond.
Those of you watching this film for a horror-themed thriller are going
to be mostly put off. This film really does not rely to such an extent
the horror mechanisms; rather it builds the tension through a number of
strictly dialogue scenes, using the plot to intrigue rather than scare
tactics.

The ending - quite literally, the last twenty minutes, is the only
place you're likely to see what may be called horror. I will not give
away what happens here; you have to watch it and see. All I will say is
that the ending left me anticipating more. That said, my overall
opinion is this movie is satisfactory at best, not a true stand out in
the annals of cinema history, but certainly not one of the poorest
examples of the profession.

<|_=00=_|>
"The Astronaut's Cowardly, Whimpering Wife". A bland title, a very
atypically bland Johnny Depp, and a story that is too obvious and
annoying. 

A certain Ravich wrote/directed this unimpressive little mediocrity,
and I'd be surprised if this guy is going to be making any more movies
of a similar type of budget any time in the next couple of decades.
What we have here is predictable situations, sudden appearances, a
mysterious loss of electricity (which turns out to be nothing to do
with aliens - duh!), Theron behaving like an idiot and a coward, and
just generally things happening in the last moment that prevent Theron
and the suffering viewer from finally finding out the bleedin' obvious:
namely, that Depp is an alien. 

What is apparent to even the most brain-dead viewer, very early on, is
guarded as a top-secret surprise by a director who thinks that he is
the only one who saw/read dozens of similar movies/novels/comics about
aliens taking over human bodies. 

One of the more ludicrous scenes is when Theron refuses to listen to
the black ex-NASA guy; I mean, there she was wondering all the time
what the hell is wrong with Depp, and when finally someone approaches
her with potential answers to the Depp riddle that preoccupy her so,
she decides not to listen to him. Duh. She is constantly crying,
worrying, sweating with anxiety, but never really does anything
intelligent to fight the alien beast. She is therefore annoying. And
it's oh-so convenient of Ravich to make Theron have a mental-patient
past, so that - very conveniently - no one will believe her when she
expresses any kind of misgivings about Depp and his intentions. It's
like the kid or the drunk whom no one believes when they see an alien
UFO. What a brilliant plot device! It's straight out of the "Idiot's
Guide To Making Lousy Movies With Awfully Annoying Dumb Cliché Plot
Points". 

Depp is neither menacing nor interesting; he is simply bland, and this
is his worst role yet. Plus, I don't see why he has to talk like he
just left a Tennessee farmhouse for the first time since his Maw and
Paw brought him to this world. Apart from the obvious annoying things
that I mentioned, the film somehow manages to be continuously
irritating, and I can't quite put my finger on what it is that makes
this film almost "icky"; perhaps it's Depp, or perhaps it's just bad
direction - something intagible. 

The ending is one big nothing; she kills Depp, and the alien enters
her. How brilliant! And then we are shown Theron some years later -
finally with some hair on her head - with the evil alien twins going to
school, while listening to alien sounds on their walk-mans. Big deal. 

Casting Charlize The(mo)ron, who once infamously said how much she
enjoyed Budapest when in Turkey, is ideal for this dumb movie.

If this movie could talk, it would say that Budapest was in Turkey.
