
Actually, after seeing the rating on Halloween 6, I have to admit that
I was a bit scared to see this movie, not because it's a horror story,
but because it just had a low rating. But still I wanted to complete
the Halloween series and when I rented this movie, I was really
surprised that I liked it as much as I did. I think the rating is a bit
harsh, this story brought us back into the story with Jamie, even
though a warning in advance, she does get killed off with this sequel,
I liked how they continued the story with one of the original
characters, Tommy Doyle. It was cool to see him grown up and how the
events of 1978 effected him. Honestly I don't know why this movie has a
lower rating than Halloween 5, but I guess to each his own, but I
really do think this story carries itself a lot better.

Michael Myers, his niece Jamie Lloyd, and the mysterious Man in Black
have all been in hiding for six years. It is revealed that the Man in
Black is the leader of a Druid-like cult, and the Man in Black
kidnapped Jamie and had her impregnated. The baby is born on Halloween
Eve and is carried away by the Man in Black. Later that night, a nurse
helps Jamie and her baby escape. Michael Myers, in pursuit of Jamie and
her newborn, kills the nurse. Jamie, meanwhile, steals the truck and
flees to a dark and empty bus station where she calls in to a radio
show that happens to be doing a broadcast about the Haddonfield
murders. Jamie gets on the air, begging for help and warning of
Michael's imminent return. Beaten and exhausted, she makes her way
inside of an old barn where Michael is waiting for her. He kills Jamie,
only to find that Jamie does not have the baby. Meanwhile, Tommy Doyle
has his eye on a family who's moved into the old Myers house across the
street from the boarding house where he lives. The boarding house is
run by a mysterious old woman named Minnie. Tommy has been obsessed
with finding the truth behind the murderous motives of Michael Myers.
After hearing Jamie begging for help on a local radio show, Tommy finds
her baby at the bus station and takes him into hiding. The people
living in the Myers house are relatives of the Strode family, and among
the current residents are Kara Strode and her son Danny. The plot takes
a turn when the Man in Black finally reveals himself as Dr. Wynn from
the original Halloween. Wynn has been experimenting with pure evil,
does he think this is a good idea? Happy Halloween.

Granted, Halloween: The Curse of Michael Myers is very different than
the other Halloween stories, but I think this was a good pick up. Plus
you have to admit that Jamie's death is very effective and scary. The
whole cult thing was a bit much, but still I think it was a good scare
factor to add into the story. The acting is better I think and the
writing was a little more accurate. Plus unlike Halloween 5, Michael
actually scared me again, thank God, I was getting a little frightened
that he was loosing his touch and his butcher knife. So I do recommend
this movie if you're looking to complete the series or if you're just
looking for a good scare.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Halloween 666 (1995) The producer's cut review!

Halloween 666 starts of with a recap of the horrific ending to Part
five. If you thought the last chapter was dark, this one will really
blow your mind. A mysterious "Man in Black" has raided the Haddonfield
Police Department freeing Micheal Myers. In the process poor Jamie
Lloyd was abducted by strange cultists. What they want with her? Who
knows, but let's just say her long suffering will end soon. Doctor
Loomis is back spending the rest of his twilight years trying to stop
Michael Myers from killing any more innocents (good luck). A friend of
Loomis, Doctor Wynn comes back after a four sequel hiatus to help the
good doctor. Another old face from part one guest stars as well.

This dark and dreary sequel was dismantled during the post production
editing. For some reason the distributors felt that the final product
wasn't worth the average horror film watcher's time. So they decide to
dumb it down. Then after having the film sit on the shelf for several
months it laid an egg at the box office. No matter what they did to the
film, they made it worse. They should have left well enough alone. Hey,
the film company knows better than the filmmakers now....don't they?

Producer's Cut :Highly recommended 

Released version: Not recommended
<|_=00=_|>

This was a really interesting Halloween film.  I wasnt to thrilled with the
whole Thorn theory but it still makes for a good film.  I liked getting to
see Tommy Doyle back but sadly Donald Pleasance died right after shooting. 
The film had a really REALLY bad director who didnt give a flip about the
series, from what I heard treated Donald bad, and wouldnt let Danielle
Harris come back as Jamie.  Its like he was just trying to bring down the
film, but I still liked it.  There were alot of cuts and music changes and
if you're lucky you can get the Producers Cut which features over 40 min. of
never before scenes. With those scenes it turns into a whole new movie.
Check it out if you have the chance.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though the original version of Halloween 6 is not a great movie by
any stretch, it was somehow even more frustrating when I finally got
around to watching the rare, fabled "Producer's Cut", which I logically
assumed would clear up the messy plot points of the original film with
a totally superior version across the board, and yet........The
Producer's Cut is honestly an even worse movie in just about every
possible way.

Things that really annoyed me about The Producer's Cut when compared to
the original:

- The repeated use of THE EXACT SAME piece of music throughout the
film. It's an incredibly effective piece when used once or twice, like
in the original 1978 film, but using it over and over and over again
just killed any suspense it was supposed to bring and made it feel like
it was a generic placeholder that the director put in just until the
composer was ready to record the actual new music for those scenes. 

- Jamie's death was handled way worse here than in the original movie.
Instead of getting killed by Michael while protecting her baby, he just
stabs her once and leaves. She then gets taken to the hospital the next
day all just to end up getting shot point blank while lying unconscious
in a hospital bed.........HUH??? What a crappy exit for the heroine of
the previous two films.

- The pointless/beyond gross insinuation that Michael is the father of
Jamie's baby?!? Just awful. 

- The entirety of the new/massively inferior third act and ending. For
starters, Michael is barely seen in the third act of The Producer's
Cut. And when he is rarely featured, he does literally NOTHING of
worth, all for it to culminate with him being left frozen like a statue
and completely powerless. The original ending where he actually
interacted with and attempted to kill the protagonists was vastly
better, for obvious reasons. 

- And finally, the closing scene of the movie, which somehow manages to
be even more confusing/nonsensical than the original ending where you
simply see Michael's mask and hear Dr. Loomis scream. At least THAT
ending had a creepy, ominous feel that implied Michael had possibly
killed Loomis, which would also be a fitting conclusion to the original
series of Halloween films. But what they give instead in The Producer's
Cut is an even more pointless/convoluted ending where Michael swaps
clothes with the man in black for absolutely no reason while Loomis
magically has the mark of thorn appear on his wrist so that..........he
can become Michael's new guardian.........maybe??? Honestly, who cares?
It made little sense as an ending to the movie and even less sense as a
set-up for a potential sequel.

Overall i'd recommend watching The Producer's Cut once and once only if
you are a hardcore Halloween fan and not bothering with it at all if
you're just casually checking out a few films in the series. In either
case though, stick with the far superior original version. 

Producer's Cut: 3/10

Theatrical release: 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is pretty good as it is, but the unreleased Producer's Cut is
my
favorite movie in the series after the original. Jamie's story is handled
differently, the death scenes are done 10 times better, there's more
footage
of ritual type stuff giving more story about Micheal, Jamie and her baby.
There is also an alternate ending which is also better. Why they didn't
release this version instead I have no damned clue. If you can find this
version, see it. 
<|_=00=_|>

Taste is a subjective thing.  Two people can watch the same movie with one
of them loving it and the other one hating it.  As it concerns
'Halloween:the Curse of Michael Myers' I fall into the latter category.

I'm of the opinion that John Carpenter, in 1978, made one of that decade's
finest fright films, which despite its flaws, still holds up well into the
21st century.  It reused many of the old horror film devices but utilized
them in original and effective ways.  It had no pretensions that it was
anything other than a movie about an escaped mental patient stalking
babysitters on Halloween night.  And yet there were 'ideas' in the film but
they were subtly introduced and not hammered into your skull.  It juxtaposed
the myths of the macabre festival with the reality of what was taking place
in the story and it did this with a wonderful ambiguity. 

The 'filmmakers' of this 'film' probably wouldn't even understand that
previous paragraph.  That's why we're saddled us with this miserable and
inept piece of disposable celluloid.  Direction, script, acting are of the
lowest strata imaginable.  This is the type of film that is so mind
numbingly dull and nausea inducing as to make you want to crawl back into
the womb and die.  It is also truly, truly sad to see veteran British actor
Donald Pleasence wasting his acting abilities with this saliva puddle of a
movie.  He seems drained of all his energy and resigned to the fact that
this may be his last film.  Maybe that's what killed him.
<|_=00=_|>
Some great moments of violence. The problem was that the great concept
was poorly executed. The story progression is often slow and confusing.
Some good ideas emerged though. I just couldn't help but think that
this film could have been so much better. Turn it on, sit back and let
it happen, it's fine.
<|_=00=_|>

What made Myers so scary was the fact that you didn't know what drove him to
such insanity or made him indestructable.  Trying to explain his origins
would have been a tough thing to do right, and this doesn't come close. 
Does this film bore? no, but had they kept the producer's cut instead of
this version it might have been worthy.  
<|_=00=_|>
The sixth entry in the Halloween franchise picks up some years after
the conclusion of Halloween 5. Jamie Lloyd is now a full grown adult,
and she's just given birth. Unfortunately for her, Jamie has been kept
in the basement of Smith's Grove Sanitarium (the facility that has
housed Michael during his stints in and out of custody) by the likes of
an underground Druid cult that seeks to somehow restore the once great
night of Halloween to its former glory. What that former glory entails
is anyone's guess; some gibberish about mayhem, bonfires and star
alignments is thrown into the mix, but said references are every bit as
vague as they sound.

The question you likely have is this: How does Michael Myers fit into
all this ridiculousness? Well, as the previous movies have indicated,
he's somehow connected to the Druid sacrificial rite, but a lucid
explanation of the exact role he plays is혰yet again혰conspicuously
absent. I suppose it doesn't really matter, though; he's still alive,
still angry, and still killing people. Once again he's after the last
living remnant of the Myers bloodline, the newborn baby of his
aforementioned niece. Oddly enough, Tommy Doyle혰one of the children
from the original Halloween that Laurie babysat "the night he came
home"혰has become obsessed with the persistent rumors about Michael and
has rented a room across the street from the Myers house to keep tabs
on its residents, one of whom is a kid with the same penchant for
murder that Michael himself demonstrated so many years ago.

Loomis is back, too. He is, of course, not surprised in the least when
Michael reappears in Haddonfield, and the usual hijinks ensue (namely,
people don't believe the famed serial killer is still alive, make the
mistake of writing him off, and end up getting axed in oh-so-creative
ways). The atmosphere generated in the movie is admirable, and this is
one of Michael's more menacing outings. Still, one can't help but feel
disappointed by the lack of story development, and the movie's
conclusion feels much too abrupt. This almost certainly is a direct
result of director Joe Chappelle's apparent distaste for Pleasence.
According to the Internet Movie Database, Chappelle found many of
Pleasence's scenes "boring," and thus engaged in heavy editing in an
effort to trim down his presence in the movie. The result is a
disjointed affair that's not nearly as effective as it could have been.

In short, The Curse of Michael Myers is a convoluted mess that only
pretends to answer some of the longstanding questions surrounding the
Halloween mythology. The movie has its moments, and the presence of
Paul Rudd as the now adult Doyle adds some memorability to the cast of
characters.
<|_=00=_|>
For some reason, I always enjoy movies that people hate, when I really
don't think they're that bad - and this is one of those films. In the
case of this movie, I think it is way too over-criticized, I really
isn't that bad of a film at all. In fact, I think this is one of the
better sequels. "Halloween: The Curse of Michael Myers" begins on the
night before Halloween, where Michael brutally murders Jamie Lloyd (who
was taken captive by the "Man In Black" in part 5) after she gives
birth to his baby. We are then introduced to the Strode family, who is
now coincidentally living in the old Myers house (which seems to change
in each film). Kara and her son Danny are the main characters, along
with Tommy Doyle, the now adult boy who survived the original killings.
They must fight together to save Jamie's baby from an evil cult that
takes care of Michael, while Michael himself is driven to kill by an
old Celtic ritual where he must sacrifice an entire family in
Haddonfield.

This is surely one of the best sequels in the series, in my opinion
anyway, and I can't understand all of the hate it has gotten. It had
some nice suspense, an interesting plot (but sometimes confusing, I'll
admit), some scary moments here and there, and plenty of gore and knife
slashings to appease all of you gorehounds. Not all of the acting
wasn't particularly great, but it was convincing enough for me.
Marianne Hagan is the leading lady and she is very likable. Paul Rudd
plays a grown-up Tommy Doyle, and is also very talented and plays his
part nicely. The rest of the supporting cast (besides the brilliant
Donald Pleasance) isn't much to praise, but it wasn't too bad either,
all things considered. I'm still not sure if giving an explanation for
why Michael kills was completely necessary, but it turned out to be
okay in the end and I wasn't upset with the way they tied everything
together. The open-ended conclusion was also kind of eerie, but could
have been something more. 

I have also seen the infamous "Producer's Cut" of this film, the
original cut of it, and I think that in some respects, it is better. It
further explains the Thorn curse that drives Michael and has some extra
scenes that really helped support the film, plus the ending was a lot
better in my opinion. It felt more natural than the conclusion that
we're given in the studio cut of the film. I wish that Dimension would
release this alternate version of the film, because I personally think
it is better. The chances of that are very slim though.

Overall, "Halloween: The Curse of Michael Myers" is a very good sequel
and will please all of the fans of the series. This movie isn't the
best of all horror movies, but it's definitely worth renting if you
want to see Michael do his thing. Just don't expect brilliance, and
you'll enjoy it. 7/10.
