
The beginning of this final installment of the long-running "Death
Wish" series is shaky with inappropriate humor (even the title comes
off as a tasteless pun, as a central character is disfigured by having
her face bashed into a mirror) and a lot of mobster-movie clichés (the
henchmen to Michael Parks' villain are howling stereotypes),
writer-director Allan Goldstein transforms "Death Wish 5" into a
surprisingly entertaining little crime thriller. Though frequently
riddled with inept moments (the mobsters unload round after round into
walls after their target has jumped out of sight) and plot holes (how
is Kersey tracking the bad guys, and since when did he become an
explosives expert?), the film is the most well-developed of the series
in terms of character, plot, and pacing. I've never seen Charles
Bronson more convincingly expressive than he is here, and Michael Parks
("Kill Bill, Volume 2") is utterly reptilian in his loathsomeness.
While the plot is essentially a repeat of the previous films, it
contains a confident gloss that lifts it out of exploitation and closer
to a mainstream film--it isn't entirely successful, but rooting for
Bronson never gets old.
<|_=00=_|>

What a massive and regretful shame and lost it was that our good old beloved
screen legend Charles Bronson passed away last august. Suddenly it meant
that a great and talented actor and certainly one of the toughest and
coolest action flick stars ever was gone forever and it also killed all the
hope to ever get the final sixth episode in the "Death wish" saga. I know it
was extremely unlike dream but right until I heard the sad and shocking news
somehow part of me was always hoping for him to still make a return to the
shoes of Paul Kersey for the very last time. At least the minor possibility
was there. Unfortunately this was one of the last films of his respectably
long career. Bronson was aged and tired but his acting was nevertheless
still enjoyable. If I only look at "Death Wish V: The Face of Death" as an
individual action movie it's definitely pretty senseless, simple, ordinary
and cheesy. But that would be a mistake. The only proper way to see this
film is to consider it as the fifth part of the famous motion picture series
and at least when I personally watch it with this in mind I can only admit:
in the end it's far from being all that bad.
<|_=00=_|>

Every Death Wish movie is a classic. They continue to get higher body
counts and plenty of action. I never get sick of watching Bronson blow
away
these scumbags. All of Bronson's movies are great and I think he is by far
the greatest actor that ever lived.
My favorite films of Bronson have to be the later ones. Kinjite, Death
Wish 1-5, Murphy's Law etc. Bronson had big budgets to work with and
plenty
of people to blow away.
The ending of each Death Wish just gets better and better. Blowing
people away with Rocket Launcher's, Cannon's, Bazooka's, throwing
villain's
into Acid. How can any action fan not love this stuff?
My favorite Death Wish film is part 4. What a great plot and plenty
of
Bronson action but Part 5 is also very good and the Villian played by
Parks
does a really great job. I saw this film in a packed theater and fans were
clapping and cheering for each Bronson kill, It was great! The DVD was
even
better.
Death Wish 5 had a good plot and plenty of bad guys for Bronson to
play
with. I would really like to see Bronson make at least on more Death Wish
movie. In part 5 his closing line was "Call me if you ever need any help."
Well, Mr. Bronson today's action heroes are a joke and we could use your
help to mop up these clowns. Guys like Vin Disel, Arnold, Stallone, Van
Dam,
Siegal to name a few. Even at your age these punks can't hold a candle to
your acting or screen presence.
I hope to see you again on the silver screen soon. That is my "Wish"

<|_=00=_|>
**SPOILERS** The fifth last and most vicious and violent of all the
"Death Wish" movies based on the sadistic and brutal scenes in the
film, even though the body count in "Death Wish V" seemed to be the
lowest of all the previous sequels with the exception of the original
"Death Wish" back in 1974. 

Paul Kersey, Charles Bronson, now thanks to the Withness Protection
Program is living as an non-violent and law-abiding citizen in New York
City, Paul is a professor of architecture at a local university. With
his life back to normal, no more shooting of criminals, and having a
classy and beautiful lady-friend Olivia Regent, Lesley-Anne Down, who
has a cute and adorable daughter Chelsea, Erica Lancaster, things
couldn't be better but then "They" came on the scene. What "They" did
to Paul's future wife and to his and her friends, including little
Chelsea, made Paul turn into the crime fighter and personal avenger
that he tried to put behind him. In the end "They'll" never be the
same, or in one piece, again after the outraged and infuriated Paul
Kersey does "His Thing" or "Job" on them. 

"They" are a Westie-like organized mobster gang headed by Paul's lover
Olivia's former husband and little Chelsea's father Tommy O'Shea,
Michael Parks. Tommy is a borderline psycho who loves to hurt and
torture people that he doesn't like or who don't obey him as fast as he
want's them too. Getting his hands on the garment industry in NYC Tommy
has a stranglehold on Olivia who has a line of clothes thats produced
from a business that she owns there. 

The O'Shea mob starts to put the screws on Olivia's business and those
working for her. The local D.A Tony Hoyle, Saul Rubinek, gets a number
of workers in the garment center to agree to testify against O'Shea and
his mob. Unknown to D.A Hoyle there's a member of his staff who's
tipping off O'Shea to who's to testify and has the O'Shea mob murder
them before he, D.A Hoyle, can provide them with police protection. One
of those who's at first viciously mutilated and later murdered by the
O'Shea Mob is non other then Olivia,this brings the wild animal out of
the peaceful and kind Paul Kersey.

Charles Bronson's Paul Kersey takes on organized crime in "Death Wish
5" unlike the mostly unorganized street thugs and criminals that he
took on in the previous four "Death Wish" films. Again like Kersey did
in the earlier movies he does the bad guys in, and finishes them off,
in the most spectacular ways that he can devise. 

Even though he was 73 at the time in 1994 Charles Bronson is very
believable as the avenging vigilante Paul Kersey knocking off the
entire O'Shea Mob. Kersey does his unpleasant and bloody job not only
with bullets but with cyanide-laced pastries exploding soccer balls and
clothes making and knitting machinery.

Tommy O'Shea, as well as his gang, gets his comeuppances by being
dropped, by Paul, into a boiling vat of acid and made to look a lot
slimmer and 150 ponds lighter. Not realizing that their no match at all
for the angry and rampaging Kersey the O'Shea mob tried to trap him, by
kidnapping and holding hostage Chelsea, at the plant and do him in.
Kersey was on to them from the start and in the end it was he who was
the hunter and they, the O'Shea Mob, who were the hunted with the
results, in this deadly cat-and-mouse game, being a forgone and bloody
conclusion for them not Paul Kersey.
<|_=00=_|>

Gangsters have bullied and murdered a woman. Now they had better watch out,
because her fiancée is none other than Paul Kersey – and it's time for Mr.
Bronson to dispense some more swift justice! 

While this entry in the Death Wish series doesn't have the highest body
count (see part 3 for that) and isn't the most grim and gritty (see part 2),
it is the most sadistic. You see, in previous films Bronson got his wrathful
business done with his trusty sidearm – but we get some variation in this
one. Here he breaks out a marvelous assortment of deadly amusements such as
the exploding soccer ball and poisoned pasta mentioned in other reviews –
all seen in graphic detail as they work their murderous magic. Add to that
the stress on facial disfigurement and scenes involving torture by steam
press, plastic wrapping machine, and radial saw – and you have a new and
wonderfully vicious formula for more Death Wish mayhem.

This is not the best in the series, but Bronson's presence alone gives it
distinction, and it manages to make the most of the obviously very limited
budget. If you're a fan of the series like me, you'll enjoy it in all its
unpleasant, uncompromising glory.


<|_=00=_|>
After years in L.A., Paul Kersey is back in New York with his new
fashion-based designer fiancée Olivia Regent and along with her young
daughter Chelsea. Kersey has put away his old habits, until Olivia's
ex-husband Tommy O'Shea (who happens to be mob figure) uses her
business to run an illegal money laundry scheme and tries at every
optometry of scary her from testifying against him in court. They go
one step to far when they disfigure and then later on kill Olivia. By
law Chelsea is to live with her father. This tips Kersey's world up
side down and vengeance mode comes kicking back in.

What a crying shame. I'm shocked to see the user rating for this "Death
Wish" instalment to be so low. Making it by far the weakest of the
series. I don't agree, but hey you can't have it all your own way,
right. Anyhow, this was the filth and final "Death Wish" to date and it
was actually the first one I ever saw. Maybe that's why I seem to cut
it a bit more slack then say number four.

So, it's been going on for twenty years and Charles Bronson (who was
around 70 at time) is still around looking to quite fit and rather
animated. Definitely more so than his two previous efforts. Back to
form with his dry, ice-cool persona and showing some feeling along the
way. What I like about this outing (other than being a improvement over
"Death Wish 4") is that it seems to go back to the dark underbelly and
cruel vibe (maybe more so) that worked in the earlier forays. Kersey is
up against more upper-class foes, than the usual street pests. At heart
is goes back to the basic, heavy-handed revenge yarn, where the
detailed situations are harrowing and the violence is simply
cold-blooded. He might not want to return the favour (as firstly he
lets the cop do their job), but his finally forced back into his
beloved side-trade, as it's in the blood and the loved ones are taken
away from him… again. Once you start, there is no going back… even when
the police know his secret. The way he subtly toys around with the
guilty criminals to get them rather anxious, waiting for their turn to
be mowed down. Only adds to that ominously nasty touch that waits and
the dark humour has real snappiness to it here. The deaths scenes are
at times wickedly inventive (well it beats going up to someone and just
shooting them) and rapid stunt work is exceptionally pulled off with
such thrilling poise. Oh and how can I forget about the gratuitous slow
motion? Some times it works and other times your thinking… "Oh why?".
Anyhow you gotta love it on this occasion! 

As director (and writer) Allan Goldstein stylishly tailored it on a
much larger scale that seemed to pay dividends with its competently
showy set pieces and crisp pacing. There's always something there to
hold your interest. In all, there's no denying it's by the numbers and
the predictable plot has a fair share of clichés grounding it. Although
it goes out there to delve a little deeper into the material (a highly
witty and concise script: "Idiots with guns, make me nervous".) and
truly making you feel for the characters. The hammy bad guys are
typically portrayed as slimy, ruthless tyrants that deserve what they
get. You'll sure be cheering on Kersey here, after you cop a taste of
the lively performances of Michael Parks (who's tremendously scummy as
Tommy O'Shea) and Robert Joy (makes light work as the paranoid nutter
Freddie 'Flakes'). Lesley-Anne Down's presence simply glows and is
credibly good as Olivia Regent. Giving able support are Saul Rubinek,
Kenneth Welsh and Miguel Sandoval. The technical side of the production
is soundly staged. The special effects are put to good use and come off
well. What is nailed down is a traditionally sounding music score that
likes too flutter about with loud echoing cues and the standard
camera-work sufficiently frames every shot with nice scope.

By me saying it shares some common ground with the original films. I
guess you'll be hoping for something rough around the edges and some
exploitation to fit right in. Too bad, as that isn't going to happen.
Those looking for the obligatory rape scene too (which appears in
basically all four), forget it. This one is going for the mainstream
pool. Even the ending has that cop-out feel about it with what has gone
all before it.

For all your troubles it's nothing more than a glossed up, blunt
action/crime vehicle for Bronson, which manages to mix the good and
not-so-good aspects of the series. Only fans should bother.
<|_=00=_|>

With his cousin and long-time partner Yoram Globus gone after the private
feud that errupted when Cannon Films went bankrupt, Menahem Golan turned to
schlock producers Ami Artzi and Damian Lee to produce the fifth entry of the
series. Surprisingly, especially considering the general quality of their
output, they manage to improve on the poor quality of DEATH WISH 4. The
production values (as low budget as they may be) aren't as cheap as they
were before, Bronson is a bit more lively in his performance, and the
screenplay tries more for a story of substance. What really makes the movie
fun at times is its twisted sense of humor. There's some nice black
comic-moments, such as with one particular mobster's funeral scene, or the
later plastic wrap sequence. Even better is Michael Parks' performance as
the chief bad guy. His various comments (improvised?) about anything are
hilarious, and he lays on the ham very thickly to be a lot of fun to
watch.

It still could have been better. One of the two big problems with the movie
is that it takes about half of the movie for Bronson to start his rampage of
vengeance. Even with Parks' entertaining performance, you'll likely be
squirming in your seat with impatience for Bronson to get it on. And when he
*does* get it on, it's kind of underwhelming - there's not much of a body
count, and the length of time between kills is relentlessly padded. At least
the end results are not the worst way the series could have ended. (By the
way, Golan actually announced "Death Wish 6: The New Vigilante" in the trade
papers not long after this one was released, though his company going
bankrupt put an end to that plan.)
<|_=00=_|>
I have noticed in the previous parts that Charles Bronson's character
is himself a total psycho/mentally "ill" person. And that's totally
understandable knowing what he's been through. So both the bad and the
good guys are real extremes also in their sickness (in these movies).
You have to be "freakin'" crazy to fight these crazies. "Fight evil
with evil". "If you "have" to fight, you have to fight dirty." "Because
war in itself is bad, evil and crazy." (These citings are not from this
movie, they're just clichés.) Is there any other way? But compared to
the bad guys Bronson's character is also very, very sad and
sympathetic. It's sad that some people have to see and experience so
much evil in this world. It is a very interesting character and
portrait of a time and a frame of mind.

And the bad guys are not as comical as in some other Death Wishes, they
are somehow more realistic.

From the start setting of this film some mental professional would
suggest that Bronson's character is begging for blood and violence in
his life: He has hooked up with some psycho-sadist-mob boss's ex-wife,
who has a daughter with the mentioned. But let's not be shrinks.
Shrinks (both amateur and pro) seem to be wrong very often, maybe as
often as non-shrinks. Maybe it's just because they have fallen in love.
And maybe Bronson/Kersey has heard about this only later.

One of the most important questions that these movies rise is: What
would YOU do? Would ethics and philosophy of forgiveness be enough, if
some person would for example kill some of your loved ones with no
reason. Would you think that that person has deserved forgiveness and
is worth of that? If that person would be a repeated killer, who has
been in jail a couple of times already for his/her former
crimes/killings? Would you think of that person as an equal to some
person you love, and who you know is trying to be as good person as
he/she possibly can? The movie is very well directed, shot, acted. Good
editing and music. The atmosphere is whole. Some nice pictures. It's
also more sexy than all the other parts combined. This might be one of
the 3 best of the 5 Death Wishes, but wouldn't 3 have been enough?
Obviously not, because these movies are just a small glimpse of the
"vigilante"/revenge-movies genre... Worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>

I am a great fan of the Death Wish films as I love to watch Bronson knocking
off one by one the scum of society. My favourite is the number III by a long
chalk but this one isn't bad either. This one also has some very comical
moments notably when Chickie dies when eating a cyanide flavoured "canoli"
(whatever that may be !!). Also, what is interesting here is when Bronson
gets rid of the scum using different methods than just the usual old "gun".
In this vein, I liked most the radio-controlled football which blew apart
Flakes' face, and the death of the villain at the end in the acid bath when
we see his flesh melting away off the face in the acid.

The only reproach I would make to the film are its picture and sound quality
( on the dvd at least ). These are really not up to scratch for a film made
in the 1990's.

I eagerly await the day when Death Wish 3 and Death Wish 4 will be available
on dvd. Bronson is truly a great actor, whatever the role he plays, but he
is especially effective in the part of a vigilante.


<|_=00=_|>
CHARLES BRONSON reprises the role of vigilante PAUL KERSEY for the last
time in this final chapter to the "Death Wish" series. The story starts
out with Paul Kersey going under the name PAUL FINE & taking up the job
of a college professor, he is also engaged to a new woman named OLIVIA,
who also has a pretty little daughter, but like always, being Kersey's
girl puts you in the arms of danger & Olivia is soon attacked & later
killed by a group of men who work for her mobster ex-husband, so Kersey
as always, decides to take revenge. Fifth chapter in the series is in
my opinion, the best sequel to follow after the excellent, but violent
original, the violence was also surprisingly played down & the story is
much better than the last three installments, you see, unlike the last
three where Kersey's family is killed, rather than picking up a gun &
blowing the scum away who killed them, Kersey stands back & lets the
cops handle it, but when it turns out that the cops can't do anything,
he decides to take revenge, but in a different way, while he still uses
a gun to blow some of the bad guys away, he also uses poison, bombs
etc. Bronson puts in a fine performance, as do the rest of the cast &
the bad guy characters are extra slimy & hateful. All though I was
secretly hoping that Kersey would return in at least one more "Death
Wish" movie & go on one last crusade before retiring, I'm kind of glad
the series ended with this one, it was a fun decent sequel that closed
the series out with style (At least I thought) I mean let's face it,
each sequel was basically a remake of the last, i.e. Kersy loses his
family, Kersey seeks revenge on the ones who did it etc. I mean you
have to ask yourselves the question, What are odds of the same thing
happening to the same guy five times? Bronson/Death Wish fans should
check this out. R.I.P. MR. BRONSON, were gonna miss ya!

***1/2 (stars)
