

"There Goes My Baby" (title of a 1965 song) is one of the many movies that
deals with the end of an era in this case: the American innocence
established between the end of WWII and the murder of President Kennedy. The
movie shows us the last day and evening of the class of '65 where the boys
and girls are together before they take off to the real world i.c. college,
tour of duty in Vietnam, discovering the real America by car, becoming a
music-star or a member of the flower-power movement in San Francisco... Each
of these students have their hopes and dreams. Each character represents a
different aspect of the American society. At the end of the movie not many
dreams have come true. The difficulty of this kind of movie is that there
are several students that are being followed so each story is very thin
spread during the course of the movie. There is no real depth of caracter or
background. The movie never explains why these students act the way they act
or what their motive is to do something. Nevertheless the performance and
drive of each actor is superb especially Dermot Mulroney, Rick Schroder and
pre-E.R. Noah Wyle. They are all very convincing in their role and they glue
very well together. A great asset of this film is the use of the music from
1965. Dialogue is not needed because the songs of that era say it with more
passion and determination than any scripted dialogue could ever do. This
movie is a-must-see for everyone who wants to know how it was in 1965 when
America lost her innocence. After seeing this movie it seems that the golden
sixties were never that golden and the youth had as much trouble as they
have today! Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
So,much like Steve-O who just posted his review today,I just last night
(3/31)@ 11pm watched this film. Unlike Steve,I like it quite a bit
more. 

Although I will agree that,yes,we've gone down this memory lane before
at the movies and truthfully I'd never even heard of it. It was pretty
entertaining but this particular plot was done on a stronger level in
the TV movie "The 60's" a few years back and as mentioned "American
Graffitti". Still,I think it could be a good introductory film for
young people to watch as a way to teach them about this era.

A great plot idea to set it around the closing of the favorite
high-school hang out,complete with one of those fun but at times
annoying DJ's (The Beard),who used to talk in rhyme! Places like "Pops"
stand as a symbol of the innocence of the previous era that was soon to
be lost.

Now,Rick Schroder is a good actor,not great like say Johnny Depp or (I
can finally say without laughing)Leonardo DeCaprio. He's almost first
billed but doesn't do as much as I though he would. His emotional
breakdown at "Pops" was done quite well along with the scene with his
character's father.

Pirate is he school's delinquent who is always at odds with Principal
Maran (they call him moron of course). The actor who plays the
principal is okay but should have played it a bit stronger. Pirate,for
being a delinquent,sure is a quiet one...at least until later.

The early days of Vietnam protest and the Watts riots are recreated
very well also but are not as graphic,as done in other films. I found
it a bit odd to put "Turn-Turn-Turn" by The Byrds over the riot scenes.
Could they not find an appropriate song by an African-American act?? I
could say the song might be lyrically relevant but musically,it's too
light for such scenes. 

In the middle of this a young man named Morrisey burns his draft card
and is,roughed up by the police and then later hangs himself. The scene
that comes later of Pirate and crew (no joke intended)burning the
statue in front of their school,is truly the strongest scene in the
whole film. I would say the Watts riots as first,but again,The Byrds
song kind of waters that scene down.

The young ladies in this movie are good at portraying the females of
the time,who are the last generation to grow up with "finish
school,find a man,get married & have kids". The actresses do an
admirable job and the emotions from them really felt genuine to me.

The music is great of course because,hey,these are classics. Although
some have been used countless times before in movies.

Overall it's not a bad little film but I do once again agree,it could
have been so much more for a movie depicting the beginnings,of the most
turbulent of times,in our country's history. By the way,this movie was
filmed & then shelved in 1990.

8 stars because...again..a stronger sense of the mood of times,as they
were,would have made it a 10 star. (END)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie rocks!  I hear that most of the cast look back on this movie and
say that they wish they hadn't made it, but I can't see why they would say
that.  This is a fine example of a movie about the "innocent" years of the
sixties, full of emotion, and spirit.  It's nearly impossible to find a
copy
of this, but if you can, it's definatley worth a rent. A remade American
Graffiti.
<|_=00=_|>

It certainly would help if you, (as I was) a teenager during the mid to
late
60's to enjoy this movie. The writer and director skillfully encapsulated
all the issues of the time into a two hour movie that chronicled one
graduation day/eve in 1965.
All the emotions, political troubles, moral issues, family belief
structures
and youthful life styles and were portrayed through the friendship of
these
few individuals. This movie was one of the most nostalgic films I have
ever
watched.  
<|_=00=_|>
It's the summer of 1965 in Los Angeles. And a group of photogenic high
school students contemplate their lives and their futures in this
nostalgia flick aimed mostly at baby boomers. Teenage angst, emotional
turmoil, and general confusion comprise the fuel for a plot that
centers largely around a colorful burger joint called "Pops Paradise".

Hollywood has been down this cinematic road before, many times. The
screenplay here is conventional. Characters tend toward stereotypes.
The kids are idealistic; the school principal is unrealistically
belligerent and unsympathetic; and Pops has the requisite cool jiving
disc jockey. The script's dialogue is fairly poor in that there is very
little subtext.

Even so, the film has terrific 1960's production design. One of the
main characters drives a black 1957 Chevy, the vehicle icon of that
era. And, many scenes occur at Pops wherein a parade of old cars slowly
encircles the front entrance. Clothes and hairstyles are typical for
that era. Overall quality of acting for the ensemble cast is
acceptable. Kelli Williams, in particular, gives a nice performance as
a budding flower child.

Arguably, the best element of the film is the rock'n roll music. "One
Fine Day", "California Dreaming", "Mama Said", "Barbara Ann",
"Loco-Motion", and The Diamonds' "Little Darlin" are among the great
songs, together with the title song by The Drifters.

Although the film's screenplay is sub-par, elaborate production design
and some great oldies but goodies give "There Goes My Baby" great 60's
atmosphere and the realistic feel of a turbulent era that now seems far
off and illusory, in retrospect.
<|_=00=_|>

Although it might not seem, it's a picture of what happens, at least
once,
in our lives...
As the countdown begins for the demolition of Pop's Paradise, great
friends
get closer and closer to separation, as they will start heading for their
own lives, following their "objectives", their dreams, after finishing
high
school.
It all happens in the mid 60s, among social and political tension, which
characterized the problems in the U.S.A. during those times.
Full of spirit, it will show you courage, friend and leadership, and make
you feel somehow nostalgic.
The soundtrack couldn't be better, as it gathers some of the greatest
hits
of that decade, like The Drifters or Beach Boys.
<|_=00=_|>
I look at this movie, which tries to collect all of this rebel youth
spirit and embody it within a six or seven characters, as most movies
about the 60s often seem to do. The result is often clichéd and I'm
wondering whether, in the end, these movies are encouraging a sort of
myth. Yes, there was the civil strife that lasted at least twenty
years, starting with the culmination of the civil rights movement in
the mid fifties and continuing to the end of the Vietnam War. That's a
long time for a lot of anger, confusion, and energy to come out. And,
of course, it did. But how much of it was done in this sort of way,
this almost ritual arrangement of characters and themes? This movie
made it look like, first, that all of the youth (at least in this town)
were in favor of simply one side of questioning their parents or
teachers (or other's) judgments and rebelling non-stop against that. Is
that the way things went on after being saturated in this struggle for
change on so many fronts (civil rights, the war, the feminist movement,
etc)? Movies like this tend to be less realistic in their efforts to
mark a particular decade, or a particular era, with this desired
representation. And "There Goes My Baby" does with particularly little,
if any, relent.

This is the story of six friends on the eve of their high school
graduation in 1965. Post high-school plans for one involves going into
the Army, after having enlisted. For two others, it means hitting the
road and "discovering this Country" and sort of getting lost in that
hippie culture (at least as embraced by the character, Sunshine). For
two of them, it's off to college. And for yet another, it means trying
to get famous (an odd one out in this particular mix of characters).
But, things suddenly change when, in such a short span of time, they
each seem to have their little flirtations with the bigger restlessness
of the decade (riots, protests, and so forth) that cause them to
rethink things (although, some already realize what's what). It just
seems to easily, and done with an abundance of corniness that should
have been held at bay if this movie was to be as effective as the
filmmakers anticipated. There are far too many ultra-patriotic speeches
that seem more laughable than dramatic. And as such, it makes the
entire film even more ridiculous.

As others may be attracted to the film for the same reason I was, you
do get to see a number of well-known actors in their early days. Look
for then-unknown Mark Ruffalo talking to "Stick" (Ricky Schroeder) in
one scene where he talks about having found someone to buy Stick's
Woody (yeah, that sounds funny).
<|_=00=_|>

I was a junior in high school in 1965. This movie brought back so many
wonderful memories of that time. I saw this movie for the first time this
year (2003) on HBO. As soon as the movie concluded, I went to Amazon.Com
and
ordered the DVD of this movie. I loved the entire movie. The music was
great
and the story was good with wonderful characters. I actually 'knew' some
of
those folks way back in 1965. I was one of them myself. I will watch this
DVD many times and I am sure to enjoy it each time. I do think you needed
to
be high school age in 1965 to TRULY enjoy and appreciate this
movie!!
<|_=00=_|>
Couldn't go to sleep the other night. So I got up, flipped on the tube
& this movie was on.

Film makers bit off more than they could chew. Just as ambitious in
scope as "Forrest Gump" was. But Gump read like an fairy-tale where an
extraordinarily lucky man guides us through the era. TGMB just relies
on tired clichés to tell the story. Almost like a Broadway musical
where actors have to ham it up. Every character's purpose was to fill a
silly 60's archetype.

Take how we're introduced to Finnegan: Hugging his black maid &
receiving a framed picture of MLK. Criminey, talk about heavy-handed.
Why not just give him a t-shirt saying "I Heart Black People"?

Sunshine: "Isn't free love groovay, man? Oh no, I didn't have my
period." 

Mary Beth: "I want to go to Berkeley, not square UCLA." Uh, excuse me?
There was nothing square about LA in the 60s. Rather than take the time
to demonstrate what made Berkeley unique, we just hear this brat whine
about not going there.

Can't even remember the black kid's name. He was just a prop used to
show how racially tolerant the other kids are.

Thing is, period pieces don't have to be this cheesy. Take "Dazed &
Confused." Look how we're introduced to the football hero, Randall
Floyd. We don't first see him on the football field. In fact, we never
see him play football. We're introduced to him in class, inviting his
nerdish poker buddies to a party.

In "Dazed" feminism isn't a casual by-product of some chick getting
knocked up. It's much more organic, more serious than that. It's
refined in the ladies' room over a flip discussion about Gilligan's
Island. Serious ideas can grow in the most mundane settings. But real
life is like that.

Some of the warm comments here note that the themes in this movie are
still relevant. I agree! Which is why I feel so disappointed by this
piece of Baby-Boomer pornostalgia.
<|_=00=_|>
The seniors of Westwood High in Palm Springs, California are headed
into the unknown. It's last day of summer school 1965. Pop's, the local
hangout burger joint, is getting demolished for a new mall. Stick
(Ricky Schroder) is a surfer heading for Vietnam. Pirate (Dermot
Mulroney) wants to find America driving Route 66. Finnegan (Noah Wyle)
is Harvard-bound political rebel and forced to take summer school as
suspension from the dictatorial principal. Mary Beth (Lucy Deakins) has
a crush on him and narrates the movie as an adult. She wants to go to
Berkley but her parents insists on the less radical UCLA. Calvin works
at Pop's and is the only negro in school. He would often visit his
grandmother in Watts and then it explodes in riot. Finnegan is going
out with rich girl Tracy. Pirate's girlfriend and Mary Beth's best
friend Sunshine (Kelli Williams) discovers that she's pregnant. Babette
is desperate to make it as a performer.

This is an overflow of '65 standard stories. The Watts Riot is literary
a small chapter in this epic wannabe. It's trying to do too much. It's
full of the expected characters. Stick's breakdown is the most
surprising scene. The actors are solid but the movie doesn't have a
cinematic feel. Floyd Mutrux has no cinematic sensibility and it has
the look of a big TV movie.
