

Now I liked Sandra Bullock in the original Speed. I even liked her in that
film where she went into a beauty pageant. But in this monstrosity, I just
wanted to slap her repeatedly and say "What are you doing!?"

She is just dire. Not in acting (well... any more than usual, anyway) but
just in the way her character made you want to shake her until she regained
some sense. Whoever was responsible for the script needs a good beating
here. Unless I am completely mistaken, her character between the events of
the first film and this one, turned into a complete and total airhead
bimbo.

Add in Jason Patric (who will never be leading man material) and it seems
that only Willem Dafoe was having any fun. Truly awful!

But it is good to see that ocean liners, which may have to weather tropical
storms, apparently have windows made of glass so easy to break that anyone
can hurl themselves through them on a whim. Priceless cinema.

Avoid this one if you liked the original.

Avoid this one if you expect a thrilling sea drama.

Avoid this one if you like Sandra Bullock.

Avoid this one if....well....just avoid it.
<|_=00=_|>

The enormous success of "Speed" in 1994 could only create a (poor) sequel.
The less we can say is that the scriptwriters have got a great
narrow-mindedness. Here, the bus was replaced by a cruise ship and the movie
doesn't work, partly due to this: a cruise ship can't go as fast as a bus
even if it's trapped.

Then, Keanu Reeves' absence can terribly be felt. His replacement is so
colorless and listless that Sandra Bullock almost steals the show from him.
Moreover, as a rule, "Speed2: cruise control" is supposed to be a suspense
film. Well, in this case, where's the suspense? The filmmaker doesn't
succeed in creating the suspense and he even can't create a disturbing
atmosphere. The end of the movie falls into the ridiculous when the ship is
entering the dock and destroys everything in its path.

At the end: one of the worst sequels ever made. 
<|_=00=_|>
Speed. the first movie wasn't that bad, and so the other day I decided
to watch speed 2, which appeared on television here. (god knows why)
After 2 minutes I realized why Keanu didn't accept the role for this
second part. The entire movie is filled with extremely bad timed jokes
and unrealism beyond recognition... The killer being sandra bullock
chainsawing open a fire door with people trapped behind that door (as
if there wouldn't be an emergency handle, and what the **** is a
chainsaw doing near the cabins?!?) After completing this task sandra
keeps the chainsaw in the opening she just made. the people look at her
and say she has to get out of the way with the chainsaw. she looks
back, doesn't respond. They have to ask AGAIN and then she's all like:
"oh oh oh, yeah yeah yeah yeah, sorry sorry sorry." taking another 5
minutes to apologize before she finally removes the roaring blade....

another great feature about this movie is the fact that people have to
die 4 times before actually dying, or other impossible things that
somehow the actors can make possible with their magic wand or
something. a nice example: **** SPOILER **** The bad guy (i didn't even
bother remembering his name) is flying one of those water planes. He
isn't really paying attention as he flies over an oil tanker and hits
the mast with a speed over 50 mph at minimum... Instead of crashing
down or getting hit off course, nooo... the plane instantly stops and
gets stuck at the top of the mast. The bad guy naturally hasn't a
scratch. Then suddenly the plane decides to explode, taking the entire
oil tanker with it. Of course there couldn't be any safety measures on
board, since oil isn't flammable at all. 

anyway my conclusion is that speed 2 is a blown up piece of poo, and
should have never been made. this is one of those movies just to get
people in the seats, leaving them to die of boredom in the theatre.
(and was probably a career killer for sandra bullock, too....)
<|_=00=_|>

Having long since broken things off with her boyfriend, Annie and her new
beau plan a romantic holiday on an ocean liner.  When onboard a
disgruntled
ex-employee of the liner disables the computer controls and sets it on a
collision course while he escapes with his goods.  Alex has to take him on
and try to stop the ship as it `races' out of control.

As if Twister hadn't done it already, Speed 2 basically showed us that the
potential that was shown by De Bont's debut was clearly misplaced and he
has
yet to show he was really anything other than in the right place at the
right time when it came to Speed.  The smell of desperation is in the air
from the very start when Reeves declined to star, although Bullock was
more
desperate and did it.  This caused Annie to repeatedly state that
`relationships built on etc etc never work out', all in an effort to
explain
it away and help the audience move on.  That the film is constantly
harking
back to a much better film is a big problem, it would almost have been
smarter just to move totally away than to retread.

The plot is plain silly and never gets close to being involving.  To
demonstrate this, I never once gave a rats' ass what was happening -
people
got crushed by the boat and mangled in it's propellers (unseen) but the
film
(or me) never care and never lingers.  Likewise the supposed big climax is
unengaging and smacks of desperation - bang for buck and all that.  The
whole set up never really feels immediate or threatening, even when the
boat
swings out of control it is difficult to feel terrified as the boat
slooooowly goes towards the tanker, worst come to worst people can jump
off
to safety.  The cruiser setting also is daft when seen beside the bus
concept - the vast majority of the audience will ride a bus quite often,
very few of us can relate to an ocean liner!  The speed is a problem and
it
is almost laughable it works so poorly!

The cast is another problem.  Bullock tries to repeat her sparky
performance
from the first film - when she manages it, it only feels like an
impression,
when she doesn't manage it she is cast as a shrieking beauty needing
saving.
However she also struggles from a lack of chemistry with Patric.  It is a
shame as he is an OK actor but not used to a pure action role and not used
to not having material to work with.  He lacks charisma and is quite
unconvincing.  Dafoe is awful; he drags the film down as much as anyone.
His villain is a joke and never threatens in the way that Hopper's did
(who
managed to be funny and scary).  It is a bad impression all round.  The
support cast of `innocents in peril' do much the same as the ones on the
bus
did, but we care less about them - they are well off and are separated
from
the action; those on the bus were in the thick of it and `normal' people
who
we could relate to.

Overall this is as good a reason for not making unplanned sequels as any -
there should be a board to approve all sequels to prevent cashing in!  The
memory of the original is cheapen by this nasty film that is uninspiring
and
unthrilling at best, dull and stupid at worst.  De Bont never gets up a
decent head of steam and he shows his inability to inject drama out of his
own skill - anyone can point a camera, not everyone can (or should)
direct.
A dull 2 hours later, I was wondering why I wasted my time with a film
that
was so clearly all at sea.
<|_=00=_|>

After seeing THE best action movie ever (Speed) I went to this expecting
more of the same awesome action.

Instead I was physically sea sick! Sat through the entire thing feeling like
I was at sea in a teacup (in the middle of a cyclone), made worse by the
terrible acting (even Temuera Morrison wasn't up to par in this) and lame
'action scenes'. The baddie wasn't bad enough, his reasons for hijacking the
ship was just plain dumb, and Keanu Reeves, where the heck was he?

This whole flick was over-the-top-bad, trying waaaaay too hard to equal
Speed One. But putting all the action on a cruise ship - a SMALL cruise ship
at that? There was twice as much action in the elevator scene at the
beginning of Speed One!

I found the gigantic tanker explosion, the ship crashing through the dock at
the end TOO long and boring. By this time, however, the sea sickness had
subsided (probably because the ship had already landed!) The ending would've
been easier to bare if the characters hadn't said such dumb cliches....

I think I should've stayed at home....


<|_=00=_|>

Let the screenwriters and director go down with the ship I say. As the sun
sets slowly in the West, Speed 2: Cruise Control sinks without a trace. The
sequel to 1995's surprise drive-a-bus hit has barely caused a ripple at the
box office. The threadbare script is mostly to blame. It consists almost
entirely of simplistic, exclamation-point dialogue like, "We're gonna
crash!" "We're going too fast!" "Do something!" "This isn't happening!" "We
gotta get him outta here!" "There's not much time left!" and the ever
useful, "Oh, s**t!"

There is, indeed, not much time left for characterization or interpersonal
drama. Speed 2 gets off to a winky-dinky start with Sandra Bullock taking
yet another disastrous driving test. Bullock's natural charm can go only so
far, however, and you keep wanting to throw her a life preserver or a new
script. As people drop dead around her, she must continue to whine about
the
ruination of her vacation. Bullock doesn't get a lot of help from blandish
co-star Jason Patric, who plays her cop boyfriend. The nasty,
computer-literate villain, who likes to attach blood-sucking leeches to his
body, is certainly quirky. Willem Dafoe, who's pretty quirky himself, does
what he can with the overriding vagaries of his character's mad-bomber
motivation. The action bits are fairly frequent, but seem anemic when
compared to what else is available to fans of such. Director Jan De Bont
fared much better in 1996 with the flying cows and funnel clouds of
Twister.
Speed 2 ends up with some highly anticipated destruction as the cruise ship
plows into the island of St. Martin. No matter, as I hear the whole thing
was computer-generated anyway. This cruise is no carnival, and could have
used a cameo by Kathie Lee. Would loved to have seen Dafoe slap her around
a
bit.

<|_=00=_|>
I was so curious as to what they would do in the sequel of Speed, I
just watched Speed today and absolutely loved it! So, I can understand
why Keanu turned down the movie, first off not only the script was bad,
but the coincidences were beyond ridiculous of Sandra Bullock being in
the same position twice and Jason Patrick?! He was so scared of doing a
great movie like The Lost Boys, but yet he couldn't hesitate to do this
movie? The movie just lost it's course and didn't work on any level, if
it had different characters, maybe, but these great actors should know
better and check twice before signing onto these sequels.

Annie is with this new policeman, Alex, and he surprises her with
cruise tickets. He is planning on asking her to marry him, but that is
shortly interrupted when Willaim Defoe is now the super duper bad guy.
He is upset that he designed the ships computer system but gets no
credit, so guess what? He decides the best way to avenge this is to
blow it up! But with Alex on board... yup... you guessed it, he's gonna
stop William and save the day! Good for him! 

Speed 2: Cruise Control was just a money maker that is truly a fake
movie that was really sad. The acting was really bad and Sandra's
character went from admirable to just plain annoying. Alex had no
character or any sympathy. The explosions were lame and the plot was
just beyond unbelievable, poor William, he was probably on medication
when he said yes to making this movie. Well, just please stay away from
this movie, it'll be a waste of your time.

2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Nah, it just isn't worth watching, or renting, why? Well let's just say
it didn't live up to the first one. It wasn't very fast paced, or
exciting, it was very predictable. And it's mostly them on the boat,
trying to get everyone out, because it is out of control. It lost most
of the elements the first one had. It didn't have the 'speed' theme, it
was mostly a boat out of control, how? Someone just hacked it, and
there it went, it wasn't on the threat of terrorists, there wasn't the
threat of a bomb explosion, and it wasn't even sinking. Where's the
excitement? The movie doesn't even deserve to be called 'Speed' because
there was nothing about 'speed' in it, sure it had Sandra Bullock in
it, but Keanu Reeves was missing in it. If you want to see a film about
a boat out of control, just watch Titanic.
<|_=00=_|>

Oh Dear. Speed never need a sequel. It was a solid action movie with good
performances and - most importantly - lots of speed, the essence of the
film. Unfortunately, Speed 2 lacks both of these things, as well as
anything
else which could make it a good film.

Annie (Bullock) is off on a cruise with her new boyfriend, Alex (Patric).
But surprisingly things don't go to plan when a crazy ex-employee of the
ferry company with a terminal disease (Dafoe) takes over the ship using
only
his laptop. So its up to Alex, Annie and a few stupid crewmen to save the
day.

So that's it in the way of plot. I'd go onto character development but
there's nothing to say about that so I'll skip to the acting. Although
Bullock is given top billing, she is (unfortunately) relegated to the
sidelines and Keanu replacement Jason Patric does most of the work. As for
his acting abilities, lets just say a coffee table would have been more
convincing. And you thought Keanu Reeves was wooden. Dafoe is almost as
bad.

Another area of dire quality is the script. Actually, atrocious would be
more appropriate. Unlike the original it's filled with lots of "funny"
bits,
which only made me cringe even more than I was doing before. Even the
action
is poor. Where Speed screamed along at 100mph, the sequel kind of meanders
along like a pensioner driver.

Verdict: Bad story, bad acting, bad script, bad film. Sitting through this
film is as torturous as listening to Westlife. So in case you haven't
caught
on yet, AVOID THIS FILM.
<|_=00=_|>

Sad sequel to the early 90's hit with Bullock and Patrick playing a
vacationing couple who save the day when a madman 
(overbearing and overacting Willem Dafoe) commandeers their
cruise ship. Director Jan DeBont still pours energy into
the
effects, but the story and performances lack that polish
and
care. 
