

Robert Altman has an affinity for the South, and "Cookie's Fortune", reveals
that it is gentle, pleasant and relaxed. Set in small town Mississippi there
are none of the typical Hollywood stereotypes of flaming racial hatred,
sexual oppression, and class bigotry. Well, not much at least. The
characters in Holly Springs all know and like one another regardless of
their race and social standing. Well acted by a great ensemble cast that
portray an 'Altmanesque' kaleidoscope of small-town characters, most of whom
are eccentrics.  The plot revolves around the suicide of Cookie, a matriarch
of one of the town's leading families. Since suicide is considered
disgraceful, two of her nieces, upon discovering her body, cover it up to
make it look like a murder. And then an innocent man becomes the prime
suspect and...off we go.  Ok, so it's not as 'deep' as many of Altman's
films, nor as dark either. But that's not bad, and "Cookie's Fortune" is a
very enjoyable movie. I recommend it highly for a Saturday night
rental.
<|_=00=_|>

It's hard to believe a film this sunny came from Robert Altman, and is also
this good, but there you go.  While I love some of his films, like M*A*S*H,
MCCABE AND MRS. MILLER, NASHVILLE, THE PLAYER, and SHORT CUTS, there are
times when I feel he has a fundamental contempt for his subject matter, like
in THE LONG GOODBYE and POPEYE, and for his characters.  But while this
movie, well-written by Anne Rapp, is essentially a Tennessee Williams drama
turned inside out (Glenn Close's character is the only one who seems like a
refugee from Williams territory), we instead feel a great deal for each of
the characters.  Even Close's Camille, whose machinations end up in the
temporary jailing of an innocent man for a crime that never was, is somewhat
likable.

When Altman is on, we really get a sense of community and place, as opposed
to movies which are just a triumph of production design, and this is no
exception.  The best example of this is how Lester(Ned Beatty), a deputy
sheriff, sums up his reasons for why Willis(Charles S. Dutton), that
innocent man referred to earlier, is innocent of killing Cookie(Patricia
Neal); "I fished with him."  In another movie, that line of reasoning would
be ridiculous, but since you feel all of these people have known each other
for years, it seems just right.  And the rhythms of the town feel right as
well, so you don't feel like you're just watching a filmed
set.

Casting has always been a hallmark of Altman films, and this one is no
different.  Charles S. Dutton is as good as they say, being more restrained
than usual, Close shows great comic timing in her role, and Julianne Moore
is very good as her put-upon younger sister, who has a lot more to her than
meets the eye.  And Altman regulars like Beatty and Lyle Lovett are quite
good as well.  The most surprising turns came from Liv Tyler and Chris
O'Donnell.  I've liked Tyler before(in HEAVY, EMPIRE RECORDS, and THAT THING
YOU DO!), but to imagine her with shorn hair playing a rebel who skins fish
for a living was a bit much, to say the least, but she's utterly convincing.
O'Donnell has always seemed too callow, but here he's quite funny as a
deputy sheriff who's seen way too many cop shows.  And he and Tyler have
nice chemistry together.
<|_=00=_|>

Cookie shoots herself. Glenn Close discovers the body and the suicide note.
Being a theatrical director, she decides this will not do... She invents a
scenario for how a burglar might have murdered her. What she didn't expect
was for the police to find a suspect...

Everything just goes completely right in Cookie. The atmosphere really gels,
the cast are cohesive, the plot situation is interesting and its subtextual
implications on suicide is also fascinating. Its actually an Altman film you
feel like delving into. The amateur production of Salome the community are
putting on is one of his most interesting devices. It gets you thinking of
rhythms that run through the film, of suicide and human
existence.

Also, Glenn Close's being a theatrical director, and carrying those skills
into everyday life, to fairly extreme measures in the film, is an
interesting subtext - commenting on the director/author as
God.

Altman's regular themes of the small town and the weather are here - the
weather once again reminding us of a higher force we have no control
over.

I thought it was a fascinating, enjoyable film. I laughed out loud many
times - mainly at just fun little aspects of the characters. Which is why it
was such a pleasant surprise that Cookie's Fortune was not only an enjoyable
movie, its actually a really great one.

10/10. One of Altman's best, and my favourites so far.
<|_=00=_|>
Ever since I've seen "Gosford Park" I'm convinced that Robert Altman
has some real talent. The only Altman movie that I had seen before that
one was "Prêt-à-Porter", at least a part of it, but enough to know that
I didn't like it. So when I got the chance to see this movie with the
interesting title "Cookie's Fortune", I gave it a try. I thought that
this would be a comedy about a Chinese restaurant or something (The
only thing that I knew before taping it, was that it was a comedy from
Robert Altman, that's where my confusion comes from). It had nothing to
do with what I thought, but I liked it nevertheless...

Jewel Mae "Cookie" Orcutt is an older lady who lives in a small town,
called Holly Springs. All the residents are peaceful, kind folk, except
for her niece Camille Dixon. Cookie is a widow for several years now,
but she isn't alone. Willis Richland does all her shopping and helps
her wherever he can. But she is tired of living without her husband and
she wants to die. She commits suicide, but when the irritating and
pushy Camille discovers what her aunt has done, she decides to cover up
the real story, convinced that this will have a bad influence on the
good family name. Together with her shy younger sister Cora, whose
estranged daughter Emma as just returned to town, she tries to make it
all look like a robbery and murder. To do so, she eats the suicide
note, hides the gun in the bushes and shatters some windows. The police
is convinced that the murder story is true and they start looking for a
suspect, Willis. Although the rest of the town is convinced Willis
didn't commit the crime, an outside investigator isn't so sure. But as
the truth comes out, more secrets are revealed than everybody thought
existed in this quiet town...

I guess it's the combination of the rather naive looking people in the
town, the nice story and the fine acting that makes this movie work. Of
course you expect to see some nice performances from people like Glenn
Close, Julianne Moore, Liv Tyler,... but in my opinion it was Charles
S. Dutton who was the most surprising of them all. He has already
played some minor roles in well known movies like "Alien³" and "Se7en",
but it was the first time that I saw him in major role and I must say
that I liked it.

Overall, this may not be the most original movie, but it is a nice
comedy and I had some good laughs with it. Sure, it is a bit
stereotypical, but that's not bad. It's a comedy and well-used
stereotypes are always funny to watch. Add to this some fine acting and
a nice story and what you get is a comedy that certainly deserves to be
seen. I give it a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

What would it have been like had Tennessee Williams -- for some
unfathomable reason -- been hired to write a script for "The Andy
Griffith Show?" This is hardly a pressing question for either amusement
or intellectual debate, but the answer would surely be something very
much like Robert Altman's COOKIE'S FORTUNE. 

This is undoubtedly Altman's most accessible and likable effort. It is
set in Holly Springs, Mississippi, but it could just as easily be
Mayberry, North Carolina. Both are in a fantasy world just north of
Sitcomville and across the ridge from Capratown. In Altman fashion,
Holly Springs is populated with variety of oddball folk, but in
contradiction to Altman tradition, they mostly tend to be free of
cynicism and malice. Andy, Opie, Barney and Aunt Bee would feel right
at home. Indeed, there is even a town jail where the cell doors are
left unlocked, all the better to allow visitors to come and go as they
please. 

The hypothetical contribution by Tennessee Williams is nonetheless
apparent as well. There is a murder mystery, a suicide, a bit of gore,
a dash of sex, some racial consciousness and Glenn Close, whose
character might be a second cousin to Blanche DuBois. But these
elements of dark and twisted madness aren't all that removed from the
cheerful eccentricity that is a trademark of fictional smalltown
America. As such, COOKIE'S FORTUNE falls somewhere between SHADOW OF
DOUBT and THE GHOST AND MR. CHICKEN in its representation of bucolic
life; there is a cheerful silliness to the characters, but tragedy
darkens the edges just a tad. 

No one would ever accuse Altman of being the sentimental type. His
screen career has consisted largely of taking pot shots at the American
landscape, aiming to reveal hypocrisy behind everything from patriotism
to idealism, with his preferred vehicle of deconstruction being the
conventions of various movie genres. He has taken a wrecking ball to
everything from the backstage musical to film noir to westerns to
sci-fi. Yet he approaches the Capraesque vision of smalltown American
with a gentle good humor, refraining from indulging in either parody or
satire. COOKIES FORTUNE is probably the only Altman film where the
characters are characters, i.e., loopy individuals, not archetypes to
be debunked or mocked. I'm an admirer of Altman's films, but I have to
admit that I am hard pressed to think of any other instance where I
felt actual affection for any of his characters.

Alas, Altman's visit to Holly Springs is no doubt a side trip in the
director's journey from one "important" film to the next. A chance to
stretch his legs a bit before getting back to the serious business of
showing how corrupt the world is. That's a shame, because Holly Springs
is a right nice little place to visit.

<|_=00=_|>
One might call Cookie's Fortune a 'minor' effort from Robert Altman, a
filmmaker who once commented that each film "is all part of the same
picture", or rather one long movie with bits and pieces making up a
career whole. But it has enough going for it through its very competent
cast and interesting script to keep it afloat from being the kind of
small film little old ladies might watch on TV during the day. In that
sense it isn't as 'heavy' as some of Altman's other work. It is also
cool enough to treat the subject of a mystery around a suicide with
enough humanity to make some scenes smile-worthy. Considering some of
the darker elements in the script, Altman depicts this to the point
where- get this- Cookie's Fortune is sometimes shown on the HBO family
channel! 

Is it really a kid's film? I'm not sure, but it isn't work for only one
age group- its appeal from its cast of a collective of small towners is
appealing to most in the audience. That the cast- Glenn Close, Liv
Tyler, (especially) Charles S. Dutton, even Chris O'Donnell- gels and
plays some of the dialog sincerely even when its meant to not be taken
seriously at all, is a credit to the filmmaker. That it also might not
be quite as memorable as some of the director's major films is and is
not a fault. It is a fault because the subject matter is sort of stuck
in a certain genre realm. It is not because the subject mater is also
very much more intelligent than would be expected at times. I was also
fond of certain scenes and interactions with the actors, the rhythm of
it all, like early on with Dutton and the actress Patricia Neal who
plays the old lady. I also really like the climax. 

So it's a good work about the rumblings and eccentricities of a small
town, the good in people as well as the lesser parts, and parts of
greed and death seen through a light that is not aiming for anything
'cheap', so to speak.
<|_=00=_|>

I'll fess up, Altman ranks high with me and has for a long time. This is
far
from his best work -- but also far, far above your average bear, er,
rather... average film. It has much to recommend; many fine performances, a
complex storyline; it will request a little patience from you -- be so kind
as to grant it. Patience lies at the heart of this film; not the high-jinks
and rapid-fire action of most movies. Kindness gets lost, and many deeper
human qualities, too -- when people or a culture push patience out of the
way. Altman seems to know this, to celebrate patient people, sensible
people. But there are plenty of good jokes, visual, verbal, plot-involved.
Relax and laugh, let things develop. You might even laugh pretty hard --
and
happily. I suppose this film could be called Capra-esque, and thus
old-fashioned, even nostalgic -- not a good fit with the tumult of violence
and dishonesty which characterized the media's portrayal of the nineties.
Too bad. Rent the video; or buy the video and watch it with your kids and
later with the grandkids. People complain about too much violence in the
cinema and then ignore a film like this -- and many of these people are
critics! Here's the full panoply of human life, young, middle-aged, and
elderly, all interesting, all central to the story. What a fine
thing!
<|_=00=_|>
"American cinema is a bit like telling bedtime stories to children." -
Peter Greenaway

Robert Altman typically begins his films by quickly sketching some
self-contained environment (military barracks, hospital, dance studio,
radio show, rodeo, stately mansion etc). His environment created,
Altman then inserts an ensemble cast and lets his actors improvise or
create their own roles. 

His actors in motion, Altman then uses a free floating camera to track
various characters and tease out various subplots. Of course all
directors do this, but Altman's plots seem particularly ill-defined.
There is a sense of an entire world in motion, a world which continues
along regardless of where Altman pokes his camera. We, meanwhile, are
invited to choose where we look and what we see. And so we float from
one seemingly arbitrary nodule to the next, sculpting the film
ourselves and stumbling upon bits and pieces of a "story" which we are
asked to piece together and make coherent. 

Altman also typically inserts some symbolic
performance-within-the-film. His character's often gather to put on a
play, production or show, a kind of self-reflexive model of the film
they're in. The play within "Cookie's Fortune" is a performance of
Oscar Wilde's "Salome", a tale of seduction, necrophilia, unlawful
marriages and dangerous female seductiveness. Why "Salome" was chosen
will become apparent to us later on.

Jazz music often find its way into Altman's films. His aesthetic style
is itself jazz-like, his films structureless, improvisational and
constructed around riffs and ripostes. "Cookie's Fortune" itself takes
place in a Mississippi town with a strong jazz and blues tradition.
Altman populates this town with lovable Southern eccentrics, amongst
whom are Cookie (an elderly woman who commits suicide), a local sheriff
and his deputies (who do nothing but drive about and talk about
fishing), and Camille Dixon, a bossy matriarch who tends to her slow
witted sister, Cora Duvall. Other characters include Manny (a lonely
fisherman), Emma (a rebellious young woman) and Willis (a kind black
man and local drunk). 

Altman has always been a fairly relaxed film-maker, but "Cookie's
Fortune" takes things to new highs (or leisurely lows). The film begins
with a easygoing walk, and the film as a whole feelings like one gentle
cinematic stroll, Altman casually introducing us to his cast and the
film's key locations. Elsewhere the film engages in Altman's love for
subversion. Watch how scenes or images traditionally associated with
danger are subverted or rendered benign. A black man breaks into a
house, for example, but it is then revealed that he knows the owner. A
man opens a gun cabinet, but he simply wants to clean the guns. A
creepy peeping tom spies on a girl, but he means no harm. And so on and
so on. Indeed, the film itself is a satire on the Southern Gothic genre
and various Tennesee Williams plays, but Altman's tone is less caustic
than usual. He seems to love this community of eccentrics.

But there are sinister things lurking about. Watch how Camille Dixon,
the director of the play within the film, becomes the God who controls
the film's plot and who manipulates the on-screen murder investigation.
Surrounded by a sea of inept actors and second rate actresses, she is
in control of "Cookie's Fortune" the film, Salome the play, and
Cookie's fortune, the literal will and testament of Cookie, a
now-deceased elderly woman within the film. As her community bands
together outside the Oscar Wilde play, however, Camille begins to lose
control whilst they, ironically, begin to gain control of both Altman's
film and Wilde's play. This power struggle is epitomised by a character
played by actress Julianne Moore, who develops from an incompetent
actress to the new star of Salome. She then usurps Camille.

Typical of Altman, there's some dark inter-racial, psycho-sexual stuff
hidden in the film's margins. In the Salome myth, Salome is the
stepdaughter of Herod and dances seductively before Herod and her
mother Herodias. Her mother had her with another man, an affair which
causes John the Baptist to denounce the mother's marriage to Herod as
being unlawful. For spreading what she perceives to be these lies,
Salome executes John. In the film, it is implied that Emma's mother
isn't her mother and it is her real mother's sister's husband who is
her father. With Camille Dixon obsessed with "pride" and "preserving
the pride of the family and community", it seems that perhaps she was
covering up some affair (or even a murder) with a black guy who "went
back to Africa to serve as a missionary" (or jail or on the run).
Altman inserts various breadcrumbs for those inclined to search.

Elsewhere the film advocates a kind of humble, mixed-race community
spirit. A kind of sexual liberation where black and white, upper and
lower classes, put things aside and get along. The aristocratic and
stuck up Camille Dixon (a haemophiliac – on a symbolic level, her blood
refuses to mix with outsiders) belongs to an era which the rebellious
Cookie and Emma turned their backs on, one skipping town and getting
into trouble, the other literally wearing her humble Mississippi State
university sweater to her grave. This kind of warmth was typical of
Altman's later films, particularly "Prairie Home Companion".

8.5/10 – See Mamet's "State and Main". Worth one viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

In the small town of Holly Springs, Mississippi, the highly strung Camille
is leading rehearsals for a performance of Salome.  When she drops in on her
Aunt Cookie (whom she has a frosty relationship with) she finds that Cookie
has taken her own life in order to be with her late husband again. 
Unwilling to have her family name tarnished by this shameful act, Camille
takes a necklace and moves things around to suggest a murder.  Things get
more complicated when Cookie's caretaker and loyal friend is arrested for
the murder and the investigation begins in earnest.

I wasn't sure what this film was about when I took up to watch it but was
wary as often I have found Altman films to be too sprawling for my tastes
and have struggled to get into them.  This film started well and light and
pretty much managed to retain that feeling for the duration, making it
enjoyable to watch.  In terms of plot, the central action is strong enough
to hold the focus, although really the film is more about the characters
than anything else.  This is good as I felt the film's strength was the cast
and the characters.  All the characters are watchable and interesting –
whether they be amusing, likeable or strange.

The film's humour is good as it matches the light tone it sets itself.  At
times though the humour is misjudged, for the most part it is natural and
charming but there are times when the film forces jokes (for example
semi-pratfalls etc) and they don't fit the mood.  Likewise the drama
occasionally goes a little too heavy (the ending for example) but these are
minor compared to the effect of the whole.  Generally it free wheels along
quite nicely – funny without ever becoming absurd or unenjoyable.  Having
said that, it may annoy those who expect more of a firm
plot.

The rich ensemble cast makes it worth watching alone.  Dutton stands out in
the lead role, he is as relaxed and as affable as they come which was needed
to carry that role.  On the total other side is a well pitched Close, her
character needed to be realistic (i.e. not another Cruella De Ville) but
still be unpleasant enough not to have the audience with her – Close manages
it well.  Tyler does ok but I found it a little hard to accept her casting
at first, O'Donnell appears to have little to do but does well to play a
fool without thinking of his career too much.  Moore is good in support and
Neal's pitching of Cookie's past and personality in only a few scenes
enables us to feel for her and thus prevent her dark act from taking away
from the light touch too much.  Beatty has some great lines  and Vance
steals many of his scenes with a comic touch.

Overall this film is very slight and may not appeal to all for that reason. 
I felt like I'd had a rest on a hot day after watching it – it was enjoyable
and undemanding.  Not perfect by any means but it's fun to spend to hours
with the characters herein.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this wry comedy that takes place in a small Mississippi town
where everybody is, at least outwardly, friendly with everybody. It was
directed by the late Robert Altman (1925-2006), who also gave us
M*A*S*H and Nashville, and much more. Terrible title, however. It has
nothing to do with fortune cookies, or cookies of any kind. The fortune
refers to the assets that the heirs of a family matriarch, whose
nickname is Cookie (Patricia Neal), will inherit when she dies.

One of the little comedic touches I appreciated were the historical
markers in the town, one of which I think read "nothing historical
occurred at this spot." 

I enjoyed the treat of four generations (each about 20 years younger
than the next) of noted actresses in one film. In addition to movie
legend Patricia Neal (1926-2010) who won an Oscar for Hud, Glen Close
(who has had 6 Oscar nominations so far) played Camille Dixon, Cookie's
over-bearing theatrical-obsessed niece. Four time Oscar nominee
Julianne Moore played Camille's subservient and perhaps dim-witted
younger sister Cora Duvall. Cute Liv Tyler (who was Arwen in the Lord
of the Rings trilogy) is Emma Duvall, Cora's estranged daughter.

Charles S. Dutton is great as African-American Willis Richland, who is
kind of a genial gentle care-taker for Cookie. At the end of the film
we learn he is more than a friend.

Famed singer Lyle Lovett plays a spooky peeping Tom character who is
interested in Emma. His role didn't seem to be fully developed and
didn't contribute much to the film. 

Chris O'Donnell plays a Barney Fife type sheriff's deputy, except he is
very good looking and is romantically involved with Emma.

Cookie, who's mind is beginning to go, misses her late husband and
kills herself to be with him. Camille Dixon discovers the suicide and
initially is shocked and horrified that people will learn that her aunt
killed herself (nice people don't commit suicide) and affect Camille's
social standing. So she makes it look like a thief murdered Cookie. But
once she does that her horror turns to appreciation. She now can move
into Cookie's grand house. But she hadn't counted on anyone in the town
becoming a murder suspect.
