

Sean Connery leads an all star cast in an extraordinary yet odd film. I
didn't really understand this film until I reached the end and then all
the pieces fell into place. I had to see it twice to really grasp what
the plot was all about. 

The story followed four different couples; married, engaged, dating and
cheating. Gillian Anderson and Jon Stewart literally bumped into each
other and are about to venture out on a first date. 

Angelina Jolie is crazy for a guy she met at the club (Ryan Phillipe),
Anthony Edwards and Madeline Stowe are cheating on their respective
spouses. This makes for an interesting viewing and ending, which was a
complete twist, and a pleasant shock. "Playing By Heart" has a lot of
complex story lines that really works.

This was a film of epic proportions and showed what it had to take to
maintain relationships and what love really is and what it will do if
people truly love their spouses. I was impressed with everyone's
performance; however, I must point out the most outstanding one, which
was by Angelina Jolie. Jolie has finally come out from her father's
shadow and created one heck of a resume of films that includes "Gia"
and "The Bone Collector" among others.

I highly recommend this film to everyone.

<|_=00=_|>

Why this film wasn't in wide release is beyond me.  It had a great cast and
a great story and even the trailer for it was funny.  And plus, can't Sean
Connery sell a movie all by himself?  This is a true hidden gem of a film
and it is one that really should be seen by everyone.

I won't really get into the details of the film too much because seeing
what
this film is all about is one of the joys of it.  You watch it and you know
there is more to it than the screen play lets on about and it is fun trying
to piece clues together to understand what is going on.  It is a mystery in
some ways and isn't that what the movie claims to be?  A mystery about
love.
And as they allude to, love is a mytery anyway.

My fave characters are Gillian Anderson's and Jon Stewarts.  Their story
hits all the right notes and it is easy to relate to them.  They are both
cautious people when delving into love.  Both have been hurt but one of
them
is just a little more relaxed and willing to learn about love again.  And
there is one scene where Gillian jumps all over Stewart about some silly
issue and this is the area where most movies go the traditional route and
they break up, get back together and live happily ever after.  It is a
typical concept and it has been done to death.  But in this movie it takes
a
fresh approach to solving problems and that is it's strength.

This is a great romance and it is also wickedly funny.  And the way
everything is summed up at the end is not only perfect but it is heart
warming and it leaves you feeling glad to be in love, or at least willing
to
fall again.
<|_=00=_|>


When I checked this one out on IMDb before watching it I was firstly
surprised by the cast: how do you get all those well-known actors in a film
which seemed very unprepossessing and might be considered a `sleeper', made
by a practically unknown director? Apart from a couple of films in the late
80s and a number of films for video with perfectly unappetising titles,
Willard Carroll did not seem to be a promise living up to the great cast he
assembled for this film.

How wrong can you be! An excellent drama with real life issues is presented
in a more live theatre style than the heart-tugging overplayed resources of
more banal cinema productions. I mean, what bad luck that such a pretentious
over-hyped `American Beauty' (qv) for instance, receives an avalanche of
undeserved accolades, while this little gem just passes by, relatively
unknown. In `Playing by Heart' you have a natural well played-out series of
events without any of the overladen bombastics so frequent in American
cinema. Excellent interpretations here – among the best I have seen of Sean
Connery, and Gena Rowlands is his perfect counterpart. Full marks for
interpretation to Gillian Anderson, Jay Mohr, Dennis Quaid, Ellyn Burstyn
just wonderful, as is Madeleine Stowe, and Ryan Phillipe; and it is the
first film in which Angelina Jolie is not appearing only to show off her
indisputable charms, as she is wont, but to play her first really convincing
rôle without flashing unnecessarily her anatomy all over the
place.

So, evidently, full marks to Willard for piecing together all these elements
to bring out what is indeed a very enjoyable surprise. Most certainly a film
to see again. My only quibble is that perhaps the last ten minutes or so did
not quite live up to expectations: however I would not say that this factor
spoils any of the impressions made during the rest of the
film.

My vote is a little higher than the IMDb User Rating.

<|_=00=_|>
When I first came across this movie I was somewhat unconvinced by the
blurb given on the back of the DVD. However, I decided to give it a
chance any way (mostly due to the excellent ensemble cast) and I found
that I was completely surprised - this movie was positively charming !
Granted, it is not without its slightly exaggerated moments but in the
end this does nothing but add to its charm ! Angelina Jolie's
character, Joan is delightful if somewhat melodramatic and Gillian
Anderson does a great job as the relationship-shy Meredith enraptured
with, yet afraid to commit to, the charismatic Trent. Sean Connery's
performance is effortless and the rest of the cast are all excellent as
well. There are light moments and completely heart-breaking moments but
all in all - it ends on such a high note of hope that one cannot help
but be delighted !

Definitely worth your time - 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

There are certain movies that grab ahold of you at the first scene, or even
the first line, and refuse to let you go until the credits start rolling in.
This is one of those movies. And I can go on and on about what makes this
movie great, but I can't list all of them, since there's a thousand word
limit, so I'll just take the principal two, with a PS. Here they
are...
Story: This is six different stories, woven in to one. As the movie
progresses, and we learn more about the different characters, we see more
and more of their connection to each other. And that just gives you so much
more to enjoy. 
Acting: There are a lot of talent in this movie, but the two that really
steal the movie are Angelina Jolie and Ryan Phillipe. They put on awesome
show together.
PS: Ryan is sexy even with blue hair...
<|_=00=_|>
Writer/director Willard Carroll, the director of "Playing by Heart",
has constructed a multi storied film where different narratives are
seen completely without any idea how they are connected until the end.
This device has been employed by other directors, notably, Robert
Altman. Whereas Mr. Altman interconnects his scenes differently, Mr.
Carroll, keeps the stories separate, only to have them come together at
the end.

The director was exceptionally lucky in amassing this talented cast to
appear in his film. Viewers of all ages will identify with the
different stories since they resonate with different age groups. Most
comments submitted to IMDb seem to be from young viewers who think the
best thing in the movie are Joan and Keenan. While this couple do a
good job, there are other good moments involving some of the other
couples we see in the film.

Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands make an excellent couple. Angelina Jolie
and Ryan Phillippe do also good work in the film. But Madeleine Stowe
and Gillian Anderson have more interesting characters. Same could be
said about Dennis Quaid, who makes a mark as Hugh, the tormented man
who discovers his wife's infidelity. Anthony Edwards, Ellen Burstyn,
Jay Mohr, and a surprising Jon Stewart are among the actors seen in
minor roles.

The film will delight audiences because the film catches one's
imagination from the beginning.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie takes you by surprise from the minute it begins.  The cast is
filled with many 
beautiful and brilliant actors.  There is never a dull moment in this movie,
it makes you 
question your relationships and how to make them better without being
"Hollywood".  
Sean Connery is certainly a stand out in this movie as well as Gena Rowlands
who by far is an 
extraordinary actress with many dimensions to her.  Angelina Jolie and Ryan
Phillipee are 
sweet and tender in this film...it can make you cry at the emotions that
come out of them. 
<|_=00=_|>

Talking about love is like dancing about architecture," claims Angelina
Jolie as Joan in Playing By Heart. An ensemble romance that should at
least
be notable for bringing together such a large and diverse cast, Playing By
Heart is an enjoyable romantic tale of eleven people in Los Angeles whose
lives are interconnected.

Sean Connery and Gena Rowlands play the oldest couple. Dealing with old
age,
Gena discovers that Sean considered having an affair during their 40 years
of marriage. Learning to deal with this 25 years later, Rowlands and
Connery
are very good as a couple going through changes late in life. Connery is
as
dashing as ever, and him and Rowlands seem they have been together for 40
years. Their story is convincing and refreshing.

Keenan (Ryan Phillippe) and Joan (Angelina Jolie) are the youngest couple,
two club kids looking for companionship in a complex world that Connery
and
Rowlands had never conceived of. Their story is as engaging and believable
as that of Hannah and Paul. Jolie is the real star of this movie. No
matter
how composed she makes Joan out to be, we can always see her insecurities
lurking just beneath the surface. Phillippe has little to do but bounce
off
of Jolie's tour-de-force, but he does it admirably and they make a sexy,
believable young couple.

John Stewart and Gillian Anderson are also very good. She is a lonely
theater director and he is a lonely architect. They have a natural
unforced
chemistry that you wouldn't expect from these two very different
television
personalities. Although their relationship in the script seems
ill-conceived, their performances almost make up for it.

Madeline Stowe and Anthony Edwards are the most unappealing and ridiculous
couple in the movie. As a couple cheating on their respective spouses,
they
have secret rendezvous in a hotel room almost every night from what it
would
seem. We never know the specifics of anything which is amusing at first,
but
becomes tired by the end of the film, as do the performances of Edwards
and
Stowe.

Ellen Burstyn and Jay Mohr play a mother and son. Mark is dying of AIDS
and
his mother rushes to his bedside. Mark and become very close before he
dies.
Although Burstyn and Mohr are good their story gets little screen time and
thus doesn't feel as important as it should be.

Finally, Dennis Quaid is a man who spends his evenings in bars telling
fantastical stories to anyone who will listen. Why does he do this? I
can't
give away the film, but the answer isn't truly satisfying, although Quaid
gives a very good performance.

The stories all manage to come together in the end in a way that's clever
and satisfying. While not the best movie, Playing By Heart has its heart
in
the right places and manages to have some keen insights into love and
relationships.

Grade:B+


<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie twice and liked it better the second time.  If you like
love stories and involved dialogue then this is a flick for you.  It is a
quadruple love story with a small dose of extra marital affair, a fair look
at a husband's search for himself and a sprinkle of mother/son
understanding.  Six stories to start and you must follow each of them.  All
of these stories come together at the end in a way that really touches your
heart.

Beware of other comments regarding this movie in this area  - a couple of
commenters have told the entire story.  Part of the joy of this movie is to
try to figure out how all of these characters connect to each other.  I
found it enjoyable to see I was right while I watched it all unravel.
There's nothing wrong with predictability especially if you're not really
*that* sure if you came to the right conclusions before the end.

Angelina Jolie's acting is stunning and her repore with Ryan Phillipe is
perfect.  I was surprized to see that Jon Stewart is a natural and Gillian
Anderson can do no wrong in my eyes.  If nothing else, see it for Sean
Connery who is always at his best.

I think that people who don't like this movie don't enjoy the mystery of
love.  "Talking about love is like Dancing about Architechture."  How is
this so hard to fathom?  The story is confusing because love is confusing.
That's what this movie is trying to say.  "But that's not gonna stop me from
trying."  These lines are reiterated in the movie:  They're said at the very
beginning and then the same scene is shown in its proper order.  It doesn't
take a genius to appreciate it.
Some have expressed disinterest in a few of the characters, such as the
affair between Madeline Stowe and Anthony Edwards.  It's called a family and
once the movie is over, we see how they relate at the end.  For Stowe and
Edwards, one of these hired the other for a job at a party at the end, and
an affair ensued. Stowe's husband, Dennis Quaid, thinks she doesn't like him
and does some role playing and soul searching because he's been told he
doesn't have much of an imagination.  He's only trying to figure out where
the two of them went wrong.  Some have also expressed concern over why the
mother/son segments, played by Jay Mohr and Ellen Burstyn, were even needed.
This would have only taken some extra attention to the story itself.  Hint
to those who have not seen it:  they were the next door neighbors to "Hannah
and Paul" making Jay Mohr the 'boy next door.'

All in all, all the actors do an incredible job and the story is something
to see and LISTEN to.  Both times I saw it, the entire theatre stayed put
for at least 4 minutes taking in all they had just seen.  That alone should
intrigue you.  On a scale of 1-10 I give it a 9.
<|_=00=_|>

I was quite impressed with the entire presentation of the film.  The
characters were well developed, individual, and full of potential and
humanity.  The relationships were actual and realistic, a wonderful break
from the Fantasy of Sleepless in Seattle (or You've Got Mail, pick the
title
you want).  The presentation of people with problems and realistic
responses
to these problems and the people who are affected by these problems really
makes this movie more than a past-time; it is a gift, showing us what we
are
and what we can become with some work and maybe a small paradigm shift.

Everyone did a wonderful job of presenting real people, Sean Connery found
a
role which allowed him to be his age but not loose that which he is loved
for: sinful good looks and flawless composure. Gillian Anderson was so good
that by the end I had almost stopped waiting for Molder to arrive. But for
me Angelina Jolie was the centerpiece, as she showed the greatest degree of
development and growth, epitomizing the struggle that each person was going
through.

To me, the plot was a lot more complicated than just the feelings that
develop from watching the movie, and the depth of perception is honestly
presented in the comments of the other reviewers; most seem to have watched
the movie with so much intensity that they got up 35 minutes into it to go
and tell the popcorn boy to give them a new bag because they had
specifically asked for NO butter.  This movie is cognitive to the degree it
is affective.  It takes one relationship and divides it up into several
stages (seen as the family members' relationships), and in doing so it
allows us to see relational development in ways we normally can't, just as
we repeatedly see the time of day change against the buildings.

It is funny, it is romantic, but it is true. And I am thankful for its gift
of sight: into life, into death.
