
I got to go to an advance screening of 'Corpse Bride'. The anticipation
for the movie was high as the theater audience was clapping and
yelling.

I had been afraid this was going to be too reminiscent of 'Nightmare
Before Christmas', but it was delightfully original. That is
potentially what I enjoyed most about the movie. It's quite an original
story.

I commend Burton and all those who worked on this movie. I really enjoy
watching the animation, and the characters are all very well developed.
It's so good in fact, that I can't imagine this movie being done with
real actors.

The songs in this movie are good and enjoyable. I don't enjoy them as
much as I did 'Nightmare's', but they do justice.

The voice work in this movie is great. Depp(whose praise I'm not sure
will ever stop) did excellent work. I don't think I would've known it
was him, that is if I hadn't already. Albert Finney is great, and it's
so nice to hear Michael Gough.

My only criticism of this movie is they don't always take enough time.
It starts off wonderfully with the wedding rehearsal, introducing us to
the characters and the situation. Then Victor takes ends up "running
into" the corpse bride, goes to the "underworld", and the whole thing
is explained with a song. I was left wanting more when it came to the
corpse bride and the underworld. Then the movie continues at a nice
level, just that one part left me wanting more.

It's a good movie. If you want to see it you shan't be disappointed. If
you don't want to see it, it might be a pleasant surprise.
<|_=00=_|>
I gotta tell you.Animation films these days are just getting better and
better.Tim Burton's directing and vision succeeds once again.For almost
the whole movie,I could tell everyone in the theater was enjoying it.

Johnny Depp and Helena Bonham Carter were fabulous voices,the music and
songs were just right for the mood,and the story was actually quite
different from The Nightmare before Christmas.Altogether it made an
enjoyable,clever and funny movie,that I think you will want to see over
and over again.Take your friends.Family or relatives to see this
classic movie.Trust me you will NOT be disappointed.Or at least I
wasn't disappointed
<|_=00=_|>
This film is 100% spectacular, in my opinion. As we all know from the
previews prior to the release, Johnny Depp's character must choose
between his living and dead brides, essentially. To be perfectly
honest, throughout most of the film, I was undecided on who I thought
he'd choose and be able to work it out with. This is accounted for by
wonderful story-fying and lovely screen writing! Danny Elfman is the
musical genius still, not that I had any doubts.

Overall, throughout my viewing of the film, I was in awe, gales of
laughter, near tears, or just plain excited! Tim Burton has done it
again.

AMAZING FILM!
<|_=00=_|>
I think that The Corpse Bride is a beautiful story. It's about true
love and kindness. Johnny Depp is a perfect Victor Van Dort and all the
characters are played wonderfully. The animation is superb from facial
expressions to a reflection in a tear drop. The ending is one worth
waiting for. It's an excellent film that all families should see. I'd
suggest not taking children younger than 8 or 9. They might not
understand the story line that young, but they'll love the dancing
skeletons and the fun songs! That was a surprise: all the songs they
sang. If there's one song you must hear it has to be the skeleton one,
but also the piano sequence is beautiful as well. Hope you enjoy the
film as much as I did!
<|_=00=_|>
In Tim Burton's dazzling Corpse Bride, both Tim Burton fan freaks (I
was raised on Edward Scissorhands and Beetlejuice) and new inductees
alike will find something to like here. The exceptional stop-motion
animation (which has seen an upgrade since 1993's classic Nightmare
Before Christmas) joins with top-notch voice talent (Depp and Helena
Bonham Carter stand out here) and typically good score/musical work
from genius Danny Elfman to create a wonderful movie-going experience.
Yes, this is a movie for anyone - in fact, I think teens and young
adults will enjoy it more than younger kids with its dark at times bold
humor and fast-paced banter (particulary in the clever songs). NO, it
is not as good as Nightmare Before Xmas, but it may be that it would be
hard for any film to match that picture. As usual, Tim Burton is always
at the top of his game when he sticks to his favorite formula -
exploring the darkness of the human soul with off-beat humor.
Well-paced and a terrific ending wrap up this well-crafted package!
9/10 stars - it's awesome.
<|_=00=_|>
Don't let the creepy title of this animated, musical tale throw you
off. In the tradition of other excellent, animated features of recent
years, The Corpse Bride will surely rank as one of the best. Granted,
this kind of film may not be for all tastes, but if you can get past
the title and are game for a wondrous, haunting world of fantasy and
love, then this is your meal ticket.

Victor and his parents meet Victoria and her family to attend a wedding
rehearsal. Unbeknownst to Victor's family, it seems Victoria's parents
are broke and desperately need the marriage to secure their future.
Yet, marriage is new to the nervous Victor, and when he gets jittery at
the church, he runs off and into the woods to collect his thoughts.
There, he jokingly recites his wedding vows and slips his wedding band
on a finger shaped piece of what appears to be wood. The next thing he
knows, the wooden finger is a real finger belonging to a former bride,
and she has sprung 'alive' to his offer of marriage. As Victor reels in
horror and confusion at his 'corpse bride', he is whisked away to
another world of people who have died. While the corpse bride is partly
decomposed, she retains much of her former beauty. Yet others in this
strange land are mere skeletons and rotted flesh. It turns out that the
corpse bride was to be married, but her groom had evil plans for her.
She has been waiting for her true love ever since her demise.
Meanwhile, Victoria's parents are approached by a mysterious, handsome
suitor who wants to marry Victoria. Victor must make a fateful decision
and choose between the two brides even as the dead descend on the land
of the living for a wedding ceremony like none other. One groom and two
brides-what to do? This is Tim Burton's latest foray into stop motion
animation, and he and Mike Johnson direct with economy from a
relatively simple screenplay by John August, Pamela Pettler, and
Caroline Thompson. The characters, especially Victor and the corpse
bride, are well etched and create an emotional bond with the audience.
Although we want Victor to marry his love Victoria, we grow to feel
sympathy and attachment to the corpse bride as well. As for the images
of the dead, Burton and company do a delightful job of making what, on
the outset, could be grotesque and turning them into energized, playful
souls. There is a terrific Peter Lorre homage with a worm who keeps
popping in and out of the bride's eye socket. After a short time, the
skeletal limbs and discolored dead no longer seem frightening or gross.
Ironically the most colorful sequences involve the world of the dead
while the living are painted in austere, lifeless mutes of gray.

Much of the production team are veterans of other Burton films.
Longtime collaborator Danny Elfman again provides an atmospheric score
and a handful of nifty, little songs to move things along. Even the
voices of the principals are Burton alumni, Johnny Depp and Helena
Bonham Carter (Burton's significant other). Give Depp credit for
voicing a British sounding character convincingly while others like
Emily Watson, Albert Finney, Christopher Lee and Tracey Ullman, to name
a few, are quite effective at bringing their figures to life. It's a
testament to Burton's imaginative appeal that twice the usual number of
major acting talents contributed to this work.

For all those who loved Burton's earlier produced efforts, The
Nightmare Before Christmas (whose ghoulish nature is quite similar) and
James and the Giant Peach, this is a worthy followup. The animation
itself is virtually seamless, and the characters and figures move as in
real life. It is a far cry from the Rankin-Bass Christmas specials of
the 1960's. The set designs and costumes are very much Gothic in style.
It seems that Burton is drawing from his own films or is perpetuating
his influences as evidenced in his previous films like Beetlejuice,
Batman, and Edward Scissorhands particularly in his obsession with the
good and evil in man. It also delves into the perception of life versus
death. Who is really alive and who acts like the nonliving? It is
evident that the true antecedent of The Corpse Bride is Burton's own
version of Washington Irving's Sleepy Hollow with a nod toward Dickens
(with its contrast in class distinction and its unsavory characters),
especially the Miss Havisham character in Great Expectations.

The Corpse Bride marks a continuing peak in the current revival of
animated feature films which was signaled by Toy Story a decade earlier
and has been raised to new heights with such recent triumphs as Shrek
and Finding Nemo. The final shot is a wondrous, memorable end that
recalls the transformation scene in Disney's classic, Beauty and the
Beast. In fact, so good is its animation and technique that it is easy
to forgive any shortcomings in what is basically a one act, one note
story albeit told with sincerity. With just a bit more pathos and
storyline, Burton's team would have had an instant classic. It's a near
miss, but its status as the best animated film of the year is secure.
<|_=00=_|>
After enchanting audiences with "The Nightmare Before Christmas," Tim
Burton brings another stop-motion animated spectacle, "Corpse Bride."
In this story, Victor Van Dort, an inept young groom-to-be, can't make
his way through his wedding rehearsal. Going outside to get his lines
right, he accidentally winds up marrying the corpse of a murdered
bride-to-be. The animation is spectacular, proving stop-motion can be
good enough to compete with computer animation. Johnny Depp provides
the voice of Victor, showing mild-mannered and nervous grace. Helena
Bonham Carter is the voice of Emily, the Corpse Bride, giving the dead
character lively emotion. One striking element of the movie is the
color scheme. In the living world, there is no bright color, making a
near-black and white appearance. The story is well-written, and the
music is good. Overall, "Corpse Bride" must definitely be seen!
<|_=00=_|>
Corpse Bride works for me on so many levels but outstanding is the
integration of music and words. The musical that blended the words and
music to such a level that one could hardly imagine the film without
the composer's contribution. This should be advertised as Danny's
production as was the practice of Rogers and Hammerstein, or Irving
Berlin or Cole Porter. We have a new art form here: the animated opera.
Music is alive and well in the world of the dead. The music in the
titles presents themes which continue into the film. An important part
of the love story is the interest of the main characters and their
methods of expression of emotion via piano music. The characters exist
in an aura of sound. Imagine a Russian epic without the Lara Theme or
Rick's place without Sam's piano. This film has achieved an identity
that says this is music and this is what the movies has to say. All
awards to those involved!
<|_=00=_|>
Tim Burton's Corpse Bride was one of the best animated movies I've ever
seen. My mother and I are so happy that he made another beautiful and
original animated film since The Nightmare Beofre Christmas because we
waited for it for 10 years. I'm glad to say that the wait was worth it.
The Corpse Bride is a wonderful emotional yet fun story with heart. We
had a wonderful time watching it in the theaters and we can't wait to
go see it again this weekend. The visuals are so amazing that you'd
have to go see the movie with your own eyes for its impossible to
explain there perfection. The characters all look stunning and there
are so many wonderful new characters in this movie that will keep your
eyes glued on the screen. The voices of Johnny Depp, Helena Bonham
Carter and Emily Watson are packed with fantastic emotion and acting.
The score goes very well to the movie and the four songs that are
performed sound wonderful. My favorites were "Remains of the Day" made
me feel like dancing: it was such a jazzy fun song with the cool voice
of Danny Elfmen. And my other favorite was "Tears To Shed" it broke my
heart. Helena Bonham Carter sang that song with such heartbreak I loved
it! The story is very entertaining and it has so much heart in it and
Gothic like background. I loved the dialog some of my favorite lines
were "Why Go Up There When People Are Dying To Get Down Here" and "Can
A Heart Still Break Once It's Stopped Beating." But the most important
thing is that this movie makes you feel less frightened about death.
Death in this movie is a lot funner than living and the dead are always
having a good time and partying that you feel like dying is not so bad.
You should take anyone to see this movie if their paranoid about death
it will soften their fears, Overall I strongly encourage anyone to go
see this movie. I hope Tim Burten wins the Oscar for best animated
movie this year. He truly deserves it! Thank you Mr. Burten for the
Corpse Bride, Nightmare Before Christmas and years worth of your great
films.
<|_=00=_|>
i just saw this movie at the Toronto film festival. Tim Burton, as with
most of his movies, makes the setting and visuals the most important
part. And what a beautiful movie it was, the animation was astounding.
You could tell that each frame was tirelessly worked on in order to
make each little piece have its own distinct look. The plot is
unimportant, and cliché, but that doesn't matter. This movie shouldn't
be watched for the storyline. The voice acting was very convincing,
especially the lead, Johnny Depp, who does a great job as the shy,
clumsy Victor. The only character i really didn't think was needed was
the worm, who was just included just for some childish comedic relief,
which took away from the dark mood of the picture. Though not as
enjoyable as "Nightmare Before Christmas" it still was a very good
animated movie. 8.5/10
