
It always amazes how many opinions can come from the viewing of the
same movie. But this movie should have as many admirers as possible.

OK, the ending is predictable. So is eating, sleeping, working and
making love. Is that any reason not to watch a movie? 

What makes CLOUDS wonderful is the ride. It is a beautifully acted
ride: Keanu Reeves acting his guts out plus: international sensation
Sanchez-Gijon, noted actress Aragon, veteran actress Elizondo, Giannini
the legend and the irresistible Anthony Quinn, Beautifully directed:
Alfonso Arau, Wonderful cinematography: Emmanuel Lubezki, the wonderful
music of Maurice Jarre and the song by Cuban Guitar composer, pedagogue
and legend Leo Brouwer.

What is bad about smiling during a movie? I found myself smiling and
giggling during the grape stomping scene. Does it hurt when you laugh?
I guess only if you are jaded, spoiled and bored with life. 

There is love, mysticism and joy...This is a movie to savor and breath
in and enjoy the wonderful..

Walk in the Clouds....
<|_=00=_|>

Does anyone recall a time when values, integrity, uprightness and true
human compassion were a way of life? A Walk in the Clouds does. The
story is sweet, romantic, dramatic, and heartwarming. The 1940's was an
era when it was terrible shame to be unwed and pregnant. Daughters were
often cast away or sent to some distant relative to bear their child in
loneliness and disapproval, then the child was given for adoption. I
know because I was one of those children. For my mother there was no
Paul Sutton to love her and rescue her and her child. The father,
portrayed by Giancarlo Gianni was a typical man of those desperate war
torn years who was unable to get in touch with his feelings on any
level except work and anger. I am more amazed at his ability to show
affection for his wife than I am at the anger which rules his life. The
family who eventually adopted me was just like this family. Hard
horrible father, heavy drinker, full of anger, yet rapier wit and
tongue. The rest of the family are so real because in those days most
families who had a disagreeable father figure pulled together to make
up for and cover over the hurts and embarrassment generated by that
father. Very different from today's dysfunctional families. Anthony
Quinn was superb and Keanu Reeves could not have been more believable
as a simple man with a good heart and high values. His character is not
meant to display anything but goodness, which he does beautifully. We
have to remember that men used to be governed more by what was right
than by the emotion of the moment as they are today. Aitana as Victoria
is very lovely and desirable, but her character is also governed by the
morals of the day. While she is sexy and flirtatious and clearly loves
Paul, she stops short of using his attraction to her to seduce him
because the very things she values and loves about him are his
stability and uprightness. Today most women would simply go for it, but
this film is not about today. It is about real love and true respect.
The musical score is simply beautiful and very moving. The wine country
and the shot of the California coast along Big Sur are great. Oh, by
the by, for the unbelieving, after the grape harvest in the fall the
branches of the vine die and become dry and brittle very quickly. The
only part of a grape vine that continues to live is the stock and it's
root, but even that seems all gray and dead from just looking at the
outside. A fire in a dry, post-harvest vineyard would spread and
destroy all, just as it did in the film. Today, there are sprinkler
systems, etc. to prevent such loss, but not in the 1940's. What a great
movie. I own it and will always enjoy watching it again and again.

<|_=00=_|>

What a revelation, a romance, pure and simple, with no sex, no violence, no
foul language just pure and simple romance.  While many modern romance films
claim to be such they invariably end up with hero and heroine ending up in
bed (sometimes with a little too much detail thanks very much).  But here,
in this visually stunning feast, we have a romance where the hero, out of
honour and respect, doesn't bed the heroine.  I am amazed that it has taken
me five plus years to see this movie, and I am grateful to the family
channel for screening it for me to tape.  With a relatively simple story,
set against beautiful scenery with cinematography to die for, we are swept
into a world of the past, where honour meant something, where marriage vows,
no matter how hastily taken were still to be respected, and where a single
pregnant female was a family shame (not the norm as today unfortunately).  I
read one review where the reviewer said "in reality Paul would have said not
my problem babe get an abortion"  in whose reality?  2002 reality perhaps
but not 1940s reality, abortions were for bad, nasty girls in back streets,
by unlicensed doctors not for nice girls who had made a mistake (okay so
some things have changed for the better.)  I simply loved this film, while
it gives a fairy tale view of the vinyards and the family running it, it is
a feast for the eyes and the soul.  The entire cast are superb, particularly
Anthony Quinn who relished his role as the family patriarch and seemed to
simply enjoy being in this delightful tale and of course Keanu whose
performance is so beautifully low key and understated he reminded me of
those wonderful hollywood leading men of old, strong, silent, gorgeous, Cary
Grant would have played this role back in the day, who would have thought to
put Keanu in the same role?  Turn off your 2002 brain and just revel in the
sheer delight of this wonderful film.  I just know I will watch this again
and again.  
<|_=00=_|>

This film in one word, "beautiful." Keanu Reeves and the rest of the cast
make this film enjoyable. I am not a big fan of romance pictures, but this
has to be one of the more enjoyable ones. The acting is superb and the story
is excellent.

A young woman heading back home meets up with a chocolate salesman. She is
pregnant (but not married) and cannot bare to face her father. Keanu's
character hides his true identity to play the role as her husband.

This picture is worth seeing and I advise anyone to see it. Whether they are
into romance films or not. People who bad-mouth this film are too dense to
realize you don't need action and bloodshed to have a good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Who are you and what have you done with the real Keanu Reaves? This
guy's come a long ways since Bill & Ted.

I was floored by the cinematography, the story itself, and the way the
family was portrayed, capturing the way so many of the wine-growing
families of the day were in California--not to mention the traditions
and mores that existed at the time.

Anthony Quinn also turns in a stellar performance, as always, as the
eccentric grandfather that really isn't quite as odd as he'd like
everyone to believe he is, spots Reeves for what he really is early in
the story, and pretty much drives him to face what should be his
destiny--but lets him think that he's making up his own mind. All in
all, I have to say this flick is a major winner, despite the fact that
there's no sex, no one is gunned down, no one is blown to bits, and
there are no computer generated graphics of meteorites plowing into
gasoline refineries. See it.
<|_=00=_|>
After working as an actor in such films as Sam Peckinpah's
controversial Western "The Wild Bunch," and starred in Alejandro
Jodorowsky's legendary cult film "El Topo," Alfonso Arau makes his
directorial debut in a magical Mexican art film, 'Like Water for
Chocolate,' set during the Mexican Revolution... 

His success makes him direct his first English-language feature, where
he presents the strength and beauty of the bonds that can unite human
hearts... 

The time was right after World War II... 

The place was more lovely than you ever imagined... Gorgeous scenery
dominated by vineyards, the perfect nestle for a romantic fairy tale...

Everything comes from the heart in this rich heartwarming film...
Arau's vision and dream was to build a tunnel between what we know and
don't know about two-spirited people, the roots and blood-ties of a
family, its traditional values, and its attachment to the earth...

Arau reinforces the borders of tradition in the Mexican aristocratic
family who have lived on American soil for generations, describing her
fundamental values: family solidarity, religious commitment, and
cooperation with the land and nature... His motion picture derives its
emotional power not only from the sweet love that blossoms between Paul
and Victoria, but from the unconditional familial love that the young
GI encounters while at her hacienda... Each type of love is
strengthened through the knowledge that one leads to the other...

Keanu Reeves plays the quiet expressive dreamer who finds the
traditional values in a magical place... He is a genteel seller of
chocolate candy who, en route on a train from San Francisco to
Sacramento, meets a graduate student in crisis... He learns that she is
frightened to return home because she is pregnant and unmarried...

To protect Victoria from her father's wrath, and ignoring obviously the
outcome, Paul tells Victoria that he believes "there's a perfect
someone for everyone - someone who'll love you no matter what." He
gallantly insists in posing as her husband just for one night...

Making her American film debut, Aitana Sanchez-Gijon plays the strong,
exquisite woman 'so easy to love'... Victoria has been seduced and
abandoned by a 'free spirit.' She is now on her way to her wine-growing
family in Napa Valley to help with the annual grape harvest... 

While her silken butterfly big wings spread the heated air around the
frozen grapes, Victoria's sight was enough to engulf Paul with
desire... And when her dark hair tumbled down to him, Paul's face was
burnt by the harshness of actually having been able to feel some part
of her... This burning has been caused by something as soft and
luscious as her beautiful black hair... It is simply Arau's shot of her
luminous figure, that discreetly heightened her feminine mystique, and
her strong sensuality...

The legendary Anthony Quinn, a two-time Academy Award-winner for "Viva
Zapata" and "Lust for Life," is the wise patriarch, Don Pedro who tries
to intensify the romance between Paul Sutton and Victoria, while her
father tries his best to show his displeasure at her choice... While
chomping Paul's chocolates, the sagacious old man shows the polite
soldier the root from which the entire vineyard has grown, and
instructs him the traditions and beliefs of his ultra-conservative
family...

Screen veteran Giancarlo Giannini (who received an Oscar nomination for
his performance in "Seven Beauties"), plays the proud, suspicious,
ultra-traditional father, whose beliefs are deeply rooted in tradition:
'My daughter can trace her roots back 400 years to the best families in
Mexico,' he affirms... As a strong believer in the importance of
family, Don Alberto Aragón reacts violently to the prospect of his
beloved daughter already married to someone who has nothing... No
family. No past. No future! 

If you want to be moved by a consummate screen composer, and enjoy a
wonderful family dinner... If you want to watch Reeves and Quinn
singing and getting drunk... If you want to observe joyous women
rolling around in a tub of emerald green grapes, keeping pace with the
help of musicians... If you want to admire sensational landscapes
sleeping against the sunset sky, or forming like a dream out of the
silver dawn... don't miss this breathtaking piece of visual art, and
step into the magic!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a magical movie.  Even if you turn off the sound and just watch
it,
it is beautiful.  Of course, if you turned off the sound, you would miss
the
beautiful music.  As for the story, it is a fairy tale, totally
unrealistic.
But it is a very, very romantic fairy tale.  I'm an overage, overweight,
cynical old lady, but I still cried through half the movie.  If you watch
this movie, have a big box of tissues, a big box of chocolates, and a
large
dose of the willing suspension of disbelief.  If you have even one
romantic
bone in your body, you'll love it.  If you can't suspend your disbelief,
skip it - you will just be irritated.  
<|_=00=_|>
Many women who have written reviews said Keanu Reaves was an ideal man.
Most men would like to think they could live up to the quiet strength
shown by Reaves portrayal of Paul Sutton. Of course a woman as
stunningly beautiful as Aitana Sanchez-Gijon could certainly inspire
such nobility.

They are many roles that Reaves is not suited for. I am not a fan of
his Matrix acting and please keep him away from Shakespeare. However
playing a humble straight forward guy with some nobility he can do.
Essentially that is what he was doing in Speed, Something has gotta
give and this role. He even did that playing an adult turned teenager
in Young Again. I am not sure he is a great actor but he is perfect for
this part.

Aitana Sanchez Gijon has a beautiful screen presence which has shocked
me why the Hollywood hype machine has not tried to build her up like
they did with Penelope Cruz. This film did nothing for her career over
here. I would watch her over Jennifer Lopez, Penelope Cruz and dozens
of other actresses that Hollywood has hyped into stardom.

Giancarlo Giannini is great as the father. Although Italian, his
portrayal of a Mexican with roots back to Spain was dead on. Living in
Florida near Tampa, many Cubans In Tampa trace their ancestry back to
Spain and exhibit the same type of pride he showed in the movie.

It was also Anthony Quinn's best role in years.

However the star of the show was the music and the photography. Except
for perhaps the music and photography of Last of the Mohicans, I can
not think of a film where the scenery and the music did so much for a
film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an enjoyable film without a lot of surprises. It is pleasant
without being really suspenseful, and its sweetness may be a little too
much for the small screen where on the big screen, you just go with it.
Aitana Sánchez-Gijón is flawless as the female lead, which is a good
thing considering her leading man is the almost always flaw-FUL Keanu
Reeves, who has amazingly held onto his leading man status despite
having only his great looks and minimal talent (the modern-day Rock
Hudson). With a great supporting cast (including a pre-Six Feet Under
Freddy Rodriguez and a post-original "Swept Away" Giancarlo Giannini),
Reeves' shortcomings as an actor can't help but stand out. Amid all the
good players and romantic tone, there's also some lovely scenery and
good costuming.

But seeing this film on HBO nearly ten years after viewing it on the
big screen begs the following questions: Why has Penelope Cruz been
foisted on the American moviegoer when we could have had Aitana
Sánchez-Gijón all along?! Why did it take Hollowood so long to
rediscover Debra Messing after her bit part in this film? Why is Keanu
Reeves a big star while the extremely sexy Gregory Martin (whom I still
remember steaming up the small screen in the miniseries "Ellis Island")
never appeared in a movie again? Man, he was hot! And although you
wouldn't know it from his small role here, I'm sure he could act
circles around you-know-who.

I may never get answers to these questions, but if your video store
doesn't carry "Il Postino" and "Cinema Paradiso," you might want to
check out this slightly inferior but nevertheless enjoyable film. The
reason the story is timeless is because it is an English language
remake of the 1942 film, "Quattro passi fra le nuvole," and it was a
good idea on the part of the producers to resurrect it.
<|_=00=_|>

in the whole career of Keanu Reeves this is probably one of the mightiest
movies ever ...probably anyone would envy him for working with the king
himself "Anthony Quinn" in all the years Anthony Quinn whom has made many
movies there wasn't a better interpretation on why people should break
medication rules
those doctors say Don Pedro no salt , Don Pedro no wine , Don Pedro no
chocolates , Don Pedro no women ...they know about the needs of the body
but
what do they know about the needs of the soul ....
He is one of the best actors to live in this Earth and I guess it was
Earth's honor that he was in it ....this movie proves it with his noble
decent yet lovely presence ...also the 1940 morals make the movie superb
and
Keanu's way of being so polite makes this movie more than just a
classic...it makes it a " You Must Buy" kind of movie....

