
I grew up watching this film and along with Beauty and the Beast and
Cinderella it is one of my favourite Disney films. I love it! Robin
Williams is so good in it. He's hilarious. This film isn't just for
kids but for the whole family. I think I was about 5 when I first saw
it and at 14 I still watch it and so do my parents. I haven't seen the
sequels because I heard that Robin Williams wasn't in them and decided
that they wouldn't be as good without him. He was made for the part.
The songs are amazing. I love singing along to "A Whole new World". I'm
hoping to get the soundtrack soon. I also love the film because I have
the same name as the princess in it! I would definitely recommend it to
everyone. You're never too old to watch a classic Disney film.
<|_=00=_|>
Aladdin is such an awesome move that still gets me excited to this day,
I remember when I was 7 and I saw this in the theater and I just had so
much fun. I am such a dork, I still love a lot of the Disney movies
that I loved as a kid, but I think the reason that I love Aladdin so
much is because this is one of the last Disney movies that was hand
drawn animation, the reason I love hand drawn animation is because it
feels more personal and that the crew put their heart and soul into it,
you can tell by watching it. They got a great cast of voice actors
including Scott Weinger from Full House and the always entertaining and
hilarious Robin Williams. Robin was just a perfect choice for Genie, he
brought a lot of energy to the movie and makes the genie a great
character. Who knew that a kid's version of the Arabian Nights tale
could be so great? This is a great Disney movie that I guarantee you're
going to love.

On a dark night, when Jafar attempts to access the Cave of Wonders, a
magical cave which holds treasures beyond the wildest belief, above all
is a magical oil lamp containing a genie is hidden. He and his talking
parrot, Iago, learn that the only one who can enter the Cave of Wonders
is the metaphorical "Diamond in the Rough". Meanwhile, in the palace of
Agrabah, Jasmine, the beautiful teenage daughter of the Sultan, must be
married before her upcoming birthday, but she rejects every prince she
meets, as she wants to be married for true love and not merely for
wealth. Later, Jasmine, frustrated with having her life lived for her
climbs over the palace walls, and sees the marketplace for the first
time, where she meets the street urchin Aladdin and his monkey, Abu,
and the two young people are seen to be falling for each other. Jafar
uses a machine to see that the "diamond in the rough" is Aladdin. Jafar
sends a group of guards to capture Aladdin while Jasmine is still with
him. Jasmine tells Jafar to release him, but Jafar lies and tells her
he is already dead. Jafar, disguised as an elderly man, releases
Aladdin from prison and leads him to the Cave of Wonders. They are told
by the tiger-shaped head of the cave to touch nothing but the lamp.
Aladdin enters the cave and encounters a magic carpet before finding
the lamp. Abu tries to steal a ruby and causes the cave to start
collapsing, but the carpet helps them to the entrance. Jafar takes the
lamp from them and tries to kill them but Abu takes the lamp back and
bites his arm, causing him to knock Abu back into the cave just as it
collapses. When Aladdin awakens, Abu gives him the lamp which he had
snatched from Jafar. After rubbing it, a genie is unleashed, revealing
that he will grant Aladdin three wishes. Aladdin dupes the genie into
freeing them from the cave without using up a wish. While contemplating
his wishes, Aladdin asks the genie to make him into a prince so he can
marry Jasmine. Iago later steals the genie's lamp back and brings it to
Jafar, who becomes the genie's new master and uses his first wish to
become sultan. Jafar then wishes to become a powerful sorcerer, Jafar
then keeps the Sultan, the Genie, and Jasmine as his slaves. Aladdin
must figure a way to save all of them and make things right again.

Aladdin is just a great movie that I promise you'll love, it has great
characters, beautiful animation, and a terrific and catchy soundtrack
that you'll be singing all day. This was one of the rare Disney movies
that you pretty much loved ALL the characters, even Iago who is voiced
by Gilbert Gottfried, the voice is a bit much but he is great as well.
I personally love both the carpet and the genie. Who knew that a carpet
could have so much personality? I absolutely adore the "Friend Like Me"
scene, it was incredible to watch and had terrific animation! If for
some odd reason you haven't somehow seen this movie, I highly recommend
that you do, this will probably go down in your favorites as well.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

I did not care to see this movie, but I was such a big Robin Williams that I
rented it long after it stopped playing in the theaters. From the first few
scenes I was spellbound by the voices and the script.I can still mimmick
nearly all of the Genie's themes as well as see myself play Aladdin in a
live action version of this movie with Paula Abdul as Jasmine and John De
Lancie as Jafar. Jasmine in this movie has the same sexual innocence as
Ariel the Little Mermaid and Krysta of Fern Gully. The songs are infectious,
especially "Friend Like Me" and "A Whole New World." The whole movie is one
big roller coaster ride augmented by the raucous wit of Robin Williams and
his own talent for mimmicry and improvisation. Ten Stars way up!

<|_=00=_|>
This movie has three elements that are important for an animated Disney
movie: Great songs, a good villain and a great sidekick.

The songs and music in general are just great and very memorable. Jafar
is a great villain mainly because he is voiced by Jonathan Freeman who
has got a good and scary voice. But what is maybe the best element of
the movie is Robin Williams as the blue genie. The blue genie is like a
jokemachine that once it is started can't stop again and keeps you
laughing.

The story is good and the pace is high. "Aladdin" is not too short and
it's not too long, it's not too immature and it's not too mature, it's
a perfect movie for the entire family with a wonderful love story (even
though it's no "Beauty and the Beast") and good animations with some
good looking early computer effects.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I think this is one of the funniest films that Disney has ever done.
This is due entirely to Robin William's brilliant voice of the Genie.
He is wonderful in this role. I think the animation is pretty fair
although I dislike the "generic" people that Disney's shop is putting
out these days. They all share the same basic facial structure and
eyes, so there is not much difference between any of the characters.
It's not like Sleepy, Doc and Sneezy, who all looked very different.
Still, this is a great and funny film. It is totally clean and not very
violent so it is appropriate for every member of the family. Give this
one a try and you'll have a great time watching it!
<|_=00=_|>
Just watched this recently, on the new-and-improved DVD which features
a restored print, and it looks spectacular. The story is slightly
shallower than the best of Disney's films, but this is balanced by the
sheer lunacy of Robin Williams' bad, blue Genie. Whoever first thought
of putting Robin Williams in a Disney flick should get a Pulitzer, or a
Nobel, or something. The comic timing of his riffs combined with the
comic timing of the animators transform the Genie from a "Deus Ex
Machina" into the soul of "Aladdin."

I have a tiny issue with the fact that the most recent VHS and DVD
prints of the movie have bowed to pressure from activist groups and
altered a line in the opening song. The original line was, "...where
they cut if your ear if they don't like your face/It's barbaric, but
hey, it's home." The revised line reads, "...where the land is immense
and the heat is intense/It's barbaric, but hey, it's home." Protesters
claimed the original line perpetuated a negative stereotype of Arab
countries and peoples. But...but...but marketplaces and cities in
Arabian countries still cut the hands off convicted thieves. And
there's even a scene in the film which threatens to relieve the
princess of an appendage. They're not being negative; they're being
accurate. And, oh yeah, IT'S A CARTOON. But that's just my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
Simply a classic. The movie Aladdin is hilariously told with many many
MANY funny moments. The genie his an all-time high in this classic film
about a street rat and a princess. A great movie for young kids, but
even adults will love the wonderfully amusing lines throughout the
story. 

The songs in the movie are well-known and catchy. I even had a guy
since one of them to a girl at a school dance! Everyone recognizes
them, and it is our duty to make sure the next generations continues to
appreciate such a wonderful work of art.

A great movie for the entire family to sit down and watch together,
it's good sometimes to take a blast to the past and enjoy some of those
good ol' movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Magic, adventures, laughs, love... This film has everything mixed, and
the result is quite good! The film is about the classic tale of
"Aladdin and the magic lamp", so the story is well known by everybody.
Despite it is for children, the quality of the characters is very good,
the story, though predictable and typical, results interesting and,
which is more important, it males us to spend a good hour and a half.
The songs (typical in Disney) never are boring, and are surprisingly
well mixed with images. In addition, action scenes are well ended and
most characters are very charismatic. Aladdin is sympathetic form the
beginning and most secondary characters are simply perfect. The
"acting" of the Genius is superb in his strangeness and absurd, and
Yafar is well remembered as one of the "best" bad ones of the history
of cinema. It exhales an immense aura of evilness hardly ever seen in a
movie... To sum up, one of the best (maybe the best) Disney film made,
which everything to have a nice afternoon with your children or just
spending a nice time laughing and remembering when you were a child.
<|_=00=_|>
I can think of three quick reasons why this has remained one of the
best animated movies ever: 1 - Very good, very catchy songs that still
sound good 15 years later; 2 - excellent, colorful visuals; 3 - the
unique humor of Robin Williams, who seems to spout a joke-a- second. In
fact, you have to pay close attention to hear Williams' lines because
they come so fast and furious. Actually, at times they are too fast.
You hardly have time to laugh or digest what he just said when another
line hits you. Williams' genie character doesn't appear on screen until
after the first third of the film is over.

Without all those jokes - and the great visuals that go with those gags
(things popping up like Saturday morning cartoons), this would just be
a routine Disney animated film. Part of the normal Disney fare includes
a hero who is a good guy but a liar and a heroine who is the typical
wasp-waisted beauty who is rebellious against the rules of the day. The
villain is an "Oil Can Harry" mustached dastardly employee of the king
who desires king-like powers. His scenes, however, are tempered with
humor thanks to his New York City-sounding obnoxious parrot, who
provides most of the movie's slapstick humor.

Maybe the best attribute of this film is simply how fast it moves,
meaning it's very, very entertaining.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was the biggest film of '92, and it's easy to see why-a lotta
fun, as a terrific Robin Williams performance carries it to heights it
otherwise would not have gone to. Great animation, fine songs, a decent
plot--what is there not to like? I will admit some of the Arab characters
seemed to be stereotyped-but no more so than in Mulan or Tarzan or
whatever;
animation seems to stereotype Everything.

A great movie, ***1/2 outta ****, a fave then and now.
