

The Santa Clause (1994)

This movie is a holiday classic. Tim Allen is really funny, and the movie
is
non stop entertaining and fun. This is one movie that I can watch over and
over without getting bored, at any time of the year. Simply a holiday
classic. Great for the family. 10/10!
<|_=00=_|>

"The Santa Clause" isn't laugh out loud, roll on the floor comedy; it
isn't
old-fashioned "It's a Wonderful Life," romance. Nope. It's an original
'90s
style Christmas story that tugs at your heart strings, and reminds you
that
we were all kids once. It reminds you of those days when you dreamt of
Santa... when you stood in line waiting to sit on the jolly elf's lap...
your knees shaking... as you tried to memorize what you were going to ask
Santa. Anyone who isn't touched by this movie should look for the little
boy
or girl inside, and remember the Christmas Eves when you listened for the
clatter of reindeer hooves on the roof. If you have no such memories, you
may not understand this movie. Thumbs up to Tim Allen and Judge Reinhold!
Thanks for the happy tears!
<|_=00=_|>

	Ever wonder, who is Santa Claus, really?  Where does he come from, how old
is he?  How in the world does he squeeze down a chimney, and how does he get
in if there isn't a chimney?  What's the deal here?  Well, happily, the
answers to these questions and more are finally answered, as the legend of
Santa Claus comes to life as never before in `The Santa Clause,' directed by
John Pasquin and starring Tim Allen.  Scott Calvin (Allen) is an executive
with a toy manufacturing company, he's divorced and has a young son, Charlie
(Eric Lloyd), who still believes in Santa, but is at an age at which doubt
is beginning to creep into the picture.  And the fact that Charlie's mom,
Laura (Wendy Crewson) has a boyfriend, Dr. Neal Miller (Judge Reinhold), who
is a psychiatrist, isn't helping the situation any.  Neal, it seems, is
adamant about counseling Charlie in the realities of life, which of course
includes the real scoop on Santa, which doesn't go over too well with Scott.
 

	Then on Christmas Eve, which Charlie is spending with Scott, a strange
thing happens.  There's a clatter on the roof, and Scott rushes outside to
investigate, where he discovers a man in a red suit clamoring about on the
roof of his two-story house.  As Scott watches, the man loses his footing
and falls into the snow on the front lawn.  And to Scott's amazement, it's
Santa Claus!  Or at least a guy dressed up like Santa, and he's not in very
good shape at the moment.  Lying there on his back, the man hands Scott a
card with instructions written on it about what to do in this particular
situation.  `Put on the suit,' it says, `The reindeer will know what to do.'
 And when Scott looks back up at the roof, what he sees concludes what Neal
would probably call an SEE (Significant Emotional Experience), and though he
doesn't realize it at the moment, his life is about to change
forever...

	And with that, Pasquin goes on to tell the story of Scott Calvin's amazing
odyssey, which puts a humorous, and at times poignant, spin on this
contemporary and highly imaginative rendition of the Santa Claus story,
which offers much more than merely a fresh face on an old tale.  The Santa
angle has that universal appeal that will attract viewers initially, but
what makes this story really accessible is the reality which lies beneath
the fantasy.  The relationships examined in this film-- the whole situation
with Scott, Charlie, Laura and Neal-- are quite common in our modern world,
and that obstacle in the lives of these characters puts a necessary balance
in the story that makes it more than just another Christmas fantasy.  It
puts an edge on the sentimentality that would've been over-the-top had
Scott, for example, been a happily married man with a text book family life.
 That would've been good for maybe a one hour T.V. special on a Tuesday
night, whereas this story and the way it's presented is unique and lends
itself well to full length motion picture status.

	When you think of Tim Allen, you don't necessarily think in terms of Santa
Claus-- his Tim Taylor, `Home Improvement' persona is simply too
far-reaching (there are, in fact, some `in' jokes sprinkled subtly
throughout this film, like when Scott, in Santa's workshop, picks up a toy
tool belt and holds it up to himself)-- but it actually becomes a positive
here, and another part of the appeal of this film.  it establishes Scott as
a real person, an average guy attempting to cope with the everyday problems
of everyday life.  And it keeps the core of the story grounded, which
ultimately makes the fantasy work while giving it heart.  So, in retrospect,
Allen was a perfect choice for the role of Scott Calvin, and in the long run
this just may turn out to be one of his most memorable roles (which is
somewhat ironic, as this was Allen's big screen debut), because this is
certainly the kind of film that is bound to make a lot of people's annual
`holiday movies to watch' list, falling into that category of films you can
watch over and over again every Christmas season, like `A Christmas Story.'
`Christmas Vacation,' `A Christmas Carol' and `It's A Wonderful Life.'  All
films which, though certainly diverse, have at their center the spirit of
Christmas along with family values and traditions, and all told in a way
that enables the viewer to readily identify with the characters and the
story, which is exactly what this film does.

	Eric Lloyd turns in a good performance as Charlie, making his character
believable while keeping him positive despite the conflicts which surround
him, and Crewson and Reinhold are solid in their respective roles, as well. 
But in supporting roles, the standout performances come from David
Krumholtz, as Bernard, Santa's Head Elf, and Paige Tamada, who is endearing
as Judy, the Little Elf.  

	Rounding out the supporting cast are Peter Boyle (Mr. Whittle), Mary Gross
(Miss Daniels), Larry Brandenburg (Detective Nunzio), Judith Scott (Susan),
Jayne Eastwood (Judy, the Waitress) and Joyce Guy (Principal Compton).  An
entertaining and ultimately uplifting movie, `The Santa Clause' is funny and
enjoyable and has a lot to offer in the way of family entertainment, the
kind of film adults and kids alike are going to appreciate.  And it may even
make you believe in some things you hadn't even considered before-- but
that's for you to figure out as you watch the movie.  And that's the magic
of the movies.  I rate this one 8/10. 

	           
<|_=00=_|>

I remember the first time I saw the trailer for The Santa Clause. It was
during the previews for The Lion King. As soon as the camera panned up from
the snow globe to reveal Tim Allen, all the people in the theater began to
laugh. This is a great, wholesome, funny flick that grown-ups and kidlets
both can enjoy. Tim Allen was perfect to play the dad who becomes Santa, and
I love when he burned the roast! I also thought the actor who played Bernard
the elf was very funny and stole every scene he was in. And I especially
enjoyed Judge Reinhold's turn as Neal Miller. I love the scene where he
finally gets the hot dog whistle he'd wanted since he was a kid! Great
holiday fun!

<|_=00=_|>
THE SANTA CLAUSE, in my opinion, is an absolutely hilarious Christmas
flick! I thought that Scott (Tim Allen) was a very funny guy, although
he wasn't very jolly when he was first recruited to be the new Santa.
Even so, I laughed really hard when he said, "Yeah, same to you, and
that's not very ladylike," "Nice teeth," and, "It felt like 'AMERICA'S
MOST WANTED!'" I also laughed when he imitated cats and dogs fighting.
Oh, man, those parts were funny! Before I wrap this up, I'd like to
say, "Tim Allen has scored huge!" Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan
of Tim Allen, and you haven't this absolutely hilarious Christmas
flick, I highly recommend it, that is, if you haven't seen it.
<|_=00=_|>

i liked this movie ever since i was little..it was funny and it had a lot
of
fantasy and good acting by all the people that played in it...it had
comedy,
fantasy and it was just a good movie to watch for christmas, or any time
of
the year!
<|_=00=_|>

With great, funny holiday flicks like "The Christmas Story" and "National
Lampoon's Christmas Vacation", "The Santa Clause" is next on line to add
laughs as the common sounds of Christmas other than jingling bells! Tim
Allen is great in his movie debut as Scott, a toy salesman that owned the
roof where Santa Claus fell from to his death! So in pleading cries from
his
young son,   Scott puts on the late jolly-old-elf's suit and instantly
becomes Santa, which insues problems to him, his ex-wife and her new
boyfriend (played with annoying sarcasm by Judge Reinhold) and Scott's son.
That's where the real chaos starts!
>
"The Santa Clause" is a great flick to watch on Christmas Eve. True, it can
get too sentimental at times (Scott and his wife are battling for custody
of
their son. Remember "Kramer Vs Kramer" and "Over the Top"?!). But that
surely fades away thanks to Tim Allen's antics. It'll make you wonder if
Santa really is that clumsy!!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a truly magical film that will continue to enchant children and
adults for years and generations to come.

The simple premise is executed well and Pasquin excels in making a film
that appeals to all ages.

Tim Allen plays his part to perfection and has never been funnier. He
captures all the heart that the film needs as well as having an
excellent on screen rapport with young Eric Lloyd.

All the other cast members are good in their roles with David Krumholtz
being the standout.

Overall a fantastic film that for me truly sums up the spirit of
Christmas. Although I like the sequels that followed this film this is
the true classic of the series.
<|_=00=_|>

I really enjoyed this movie.  It was heart-warming and fun to watch.  I
remember as a child watching my favorite Christmas movies, such as the
Grinch that Stole Christmas (cartoon), Miracle on 34th Street, and the
classic Scrooge.  This movie was so full of fun and warm fuzzies, and
PERFECT for the holiday season, that it has easily earned its way into the
holiday film montage for my family.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked this film, it is very funny and pleasant. Tim Allen
gives a truly amusing performance as Scott Calvin, who replaces Santa
after he falls off the roof. The plot is original, the script is fun,
and the pace is surprisingly even. Don't expect a classic like
Scrooge(1951), the first 2 Home Alone movies or It's a Wonderful Life,
just expect a pleasant family Christmas film, that way the whole family
is in for a good time. The film is directed with careful precision, and
the characters are likable, though I did find the parents a tad too
clichéd and the film a tad too overly sentimental in places. If I had a
favourite character, I think it was Judy, there was something about her
truly infectious smile that made me warm to her. All in all, well above
average and highly recommended. 8/10 Bethany Cox
