

In the Western town of Redemption John Herrod runs everything, they say he
gets half of every dollar spent or earned.  In order to face his enemies
face on he runs an annual quick draw contest where fights battle each other
until only one remains.  The winner takes home a small fortune – the losers
leave wounded if they are lucky.  Into this contest comes a group of
hopefuls including a woman who has personal reasons for signing
up.

Looking at the list of names it is evident that the casting director is very
good at his/her job as they managed to catch several big names, get several
stars who were a few years away from hitting big and also get veteran faces
as well.  The ensemble of well known faces suits this film as the focus is
very much on style and appearance than it is on substance.  As a plot it
takes the well known genre of the revenge western and makes a sort of
pastiche of it.  Thus we have the OTT and hyper direction of Rami and gun
fights that are delivered with energy and shots that have no bearing to
reality.

When I think about the actual plot, it really should bother me more than it
does.  The plot is pretty thin and contains nothing that you can't see
coming from about the first 20 minutes of the film – certainly the woman's
`secret' will be no mystery to anyone who has seen `Once Upon A Time In The
West' which it clearly apes in this regard.  What exists in the place of a
wider plot is characters and style.  The style is fun and energetic and will
appeal to fans of Evil Dead etc.

The characters themselves are also pretty good, each has a little back story
which helps to fill out the running time without getting too serious.  Stone
does surprisingly well in the lead, she's no Clint Eastwood but she leads
the cast well – which is no mean feat when you look at the credits.  Hackman
is a gleefully good villain – even more mean and unrepentant that his
character in Unforgiven.  Crowe and DiCaprio were both a few years from the
levels of stardom they now hold, but both are engaging and enjoyable.  The
support cast is also full of names and faces you'll recognise – either as
solid support actors of recent films or older faces.  For example –
Henriksen, David, Sinise, Hingle, Bell and Blossom.

Overall this film might infuriate you if you are looking for a film that has
more substance than style, as this is the other way round.  However fans of
Rami's style and/or revenge westerns will find much to enjoy here.  Every
time I see it I always find it hard not to get caught up in the atmosphere
it creates.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie uses lot's of ingredients used in classic westerns. It does
it in a fun way but it doesn't spoof the classic westerns in any way
and it never becomes humorous or a parody that makes fun of the genre.

Who would have known, Sharon Stone is a believable cowgirl. I think
it's fair for me to say that she's the best I have seen in a western.
The movie also features both Russell Crow and Leonardo DiCaprio before
their days of fame and big Dollars. It's always fun and great to have
Gene Hackman in a villain role and he makes this movie an even more
pleasant watch. The movie features lot's of other fun and stereotype
western characters.

The settings and costumes are great and real western like and help to
create the right atmosphere for the movie. The great western score is
by Alan Silvestri and fits the movie well, even though the score goes a
bit too much "Back to the Future" like at times.

The movie is filled with some unusual but great Sam Raimi like
cinematography and tricks.

Just enjoy and don't pay attention to the story. It is just simple
entertainment!

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Like all of Sam Raimi's movies, this flick was a cartoon. That's not an
insult- his works with the Coen brothers on movies like The Hudsucker
Proxy are some of my favorites, with their insanely "zoomed-in"
quality. This movie was a spaghetti western, it was ABOUT spaghetti
westerns, and it was also a weird, wonderful nightmare where your
options are limited, you're a superhero, and your enemy is
all-powerful. That's adolescent, silly, and totally compelling.

Raimi has always done brilliant visuals; I don't know his history, but
I suspect he read a lot of pulp comics as a kid. The early scene where
Stone gets up (after playing dead) and you see her shadow putting her
hat back on, with the obvious bullet hole in the brim, is sheer visual
brilliance.

Gene Hackman is, of course, great (MST3K line: "He's good in
everything!"). Sharon Stone has gotten a lot of static for doing what
Clint Eastwood built a legend on: bad acting, done intensely. (And in
Stone's case in this flick, I think, purposefully.) Leonardo D. is
well-cast as a cocky, yet needy, "bad-a** in his own mind" type.
Russell Crowe (who nobody knew at the time, especially me) is great in
his role as a survivor of a 12-step program to help fight a dependence
on violence, complete with backsliding moments.

Do not look to this movie expecting anything like realism,
believability, or moderation. This is pulp fiction, eye candy,
nightmare surrealism, wanton entertainment. It's trash culture saluting
trash culture, and if you can appreciate that, it's a hell of a great
ride.
<|_=00=_|>
With The Quick and the Dead, Sam Raimi approaches the old west with a
very new/contemporary style. With its brisk energy and competitive
characters, the story often feels like a sports movie with lots of
photography tricks. If you want a top western, this might not be your
film, but if what you seek you is good old pistol-whippin' American
fun, this might do the trick.

Thanks to James Cameron, since T2, there has been nothing sexier than a
woman with a gun. Sharon Stone actually brings a fairly macho 'Sarah
Conner' quality to her character. She plays Ellen, a young cowgirl who
rides into a mysterious town for a very special event, a gunslinging
competition. The mayor of the town is a dangerous fella and one of the
most feared gunslingers around. It is this man who Ellen is after. The
question is, why? In order to fight him, she must beat everyone else in
the competition. There will be blood, for sure.

In order to make up for his superficial plot, Sam Raimi has a lot of
tricks up his sleeve. One of his most recognizable through his career
is going over the top in an amusing way, which he does here too, mostly
at the climax. He doesn't make great movies, but he makes clever and
entertaining ones, which this is.
<|_=00=_|>
Sharon Stone is another gun in the old West town… It seems that she is
here to pay off an old score that has haunted her since she was a
child… She becomes swept up in a deadly quick-draw contest where
anybody can challenge anybody in the windy dusty streets… The fighters
must not draw until the clock makes the first chime of the hour…
Whoever is standing after the draw is the winner… The prize is
$123,000… 

The lawless town of Redemption is ruled by a despicable ironfisted
gunman called John Herod who takes a lot to scare him… Hackman plays
pretty well the kind people hate… He is, here, a fearless, sadistic,
cold-blooded killer in charge of everything, who decides who lives or
who dies… 

Herod wants a preacher in the tournament – even if he has to beat,
kick, and knock him to the ground to force him back into it… Cort—
humiliated and chained out by the fountain—used to be pretty fast,
faster than Herod… But now he wouldn't hurt a fly… He is a man of peace
who has renounced violence… Years ago he was an outlaw… In fact, he was
only a kid when he hitched up with Herod… He singled him out because he
was a little smarter, a little faster than most… Now, he must revert to
his former believes to survive… 

As Cort, Russell Crowe is saintly when compared to the movie's real
villain… Cort tries to redeem himself, but gets enticed into the
killing by Herod who is trying to prove that he's a fraud...

Several other men were just running a little errand for Herod… But
Herod made an example of them all: the buffoon card shark (Lance
Henriksen); the hired gun moseying into town to kill (Keith David); the
teenager gunslinger who thinks he is on a different level (Leonardo
DiCaprio).

Raimi succeeds through his shots of each gunfighter to show the worried
and scared faces of each gunfighter, the clock counting away the time,
and Herod's magnified evil smile…
<|_=00=_|>
Peculiar Western with spectacular gun battle between Sharon Stone and
Gene Hackman . The title "The Quick and the Dead" comes from the King
James translation of the Bible, I Peter 4:5, which admonishes the
believer from behaving like pagans, "who shall give account to Christ
that is ready to judge the quick and the dead" . This violent Western
is set on a township called Redemption , the star is a mysterious
female revenger , ¨a woman without name¨ (Sharon Stone as Clint
Eastwood-alike interloper) who has a secret agenda of her own . It
deals about a gunfighter arriving a little town , it has the usual
shops and buildings, as General merchandise, Livery stable, boarding
house , Hardware , Barber shop, Saloon , Hotel and Church . The western
town owned by a ruthless gunslinger (Gene Hackman) hosting an
elimination tournament to find the fastest gun in the West , as Lady
avenger comes to the aid of embattled citizens as well as searching
vendetta . The excitement starts at the duel when the hands point
straight up .

This offbeat Western contains thrills , parody , black comedy ,
hilarious set-pieces , and breathtaking duels . This special Western
picture concerns upon a deadly gun-battle pits two individualist
characters and it results to be an enjoyable as well as hyperbolic
homage to the style and vengeance fantasy of Sergio Leone Spaghettis ;
as it takes parts from ¨Dollars trilogy¨ : ¨For a fistful of dollars¨,
¨For a fistful of dollars more¨ and ¨The good , the bad and the ugly¨,
along with ¨Once upon a time in the West¨. But it has nothing to do
with the Spaghetti maestro , the great Sergio Leone . There is also an
impressive roaring climax with an amazing final showdown . All of the
actors on the set in the gunfight scenes were instructed in the art of
the quick draw by a stunt coordinator . The violent gun-play is
heightened by a slick , often amazing use of F.X. , plenty of blood and
gore . However , the film is pretty well but it doesn't work at all and
packs endless close-ups, sluggish scenes , flaws , gaps and many scenes
reveal nothing . So many good actors , such excellent actors as Kevin
Conway , Keith David , Lance Henriksen , Pat Hingle ,Gary Sinise , Mark
Boone Junior , Robert Blossom's last role in a theatrical feature and
final film by Woody Strode who appears briefly as a coffin maker in the
opening scene . And Russell Crowe's first American feature, he has a
hot sex scene with Sharon , but director Sam Raimi decided that it
wasn't a necessary part of the story , the scene was not included in
the American release of the film, but international versions do include
it. The lion's share of the acting meat deservedly goes to Gene Hackman
as an unrepentantly nasty . And a very young Leonard DiCaprio is
surprisingly effective as a rookie gunslinger .

Exciting and fitted to action musical score by Alan Silvestri .
Colorful as well as evocative cinematography by Dante Spinotti .The
motion picture was well produced by Sharon Stone . Sharon was given a
lengthy list of directors that had been approved to direct this film,
so that she could choose the directors she thought would work , Sharon
sent back a list with a single name , Sam Raimi ; she said it was
because she liked Evil Dead and Army of Darkness , among Raimi's other
works.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Quick and the Dead" is a "splatter Western," directed by horror vet Sam
Raimi (whose latest, as of this writing, is "Spider-Man," but who cut his
teeth on the "Evil Dead" trilogy).  It's set in the oh-so-ironically named
lawless town of Redemption, a haven of grotesques that gives us an idea what
the wild West would've looked like if had been painted, not by Frederic
Remington, but by Heironymus Bosch.  

In a surfeit of Biblical nomenclature, the town's mayor/owner/capo is named
Herod (Gene Hackman at his oiliest, complete with bad hair).  Into town
there rides a mysterious stranger, not Clint Eastwood this time but Sharon
Stone.  I'm not the world's biggest Stone fan, but this movie and "Total
Recall" indicate that she has her uses in kick-butt action roles that make
no demands on her limited thespianic skills.  As gunslinger Ellen, she's
doubly armed--with a six-shooter, and with an axe to grind; even her "inner
child" packs a gun.  She enters Herod's to-the-death fast-draw tournament, a
no-win, no-exit, potentially no-survivors affair, with an agenda on her mind
other than just winning the prize money.  

This is an overripe, over-wrought movie, but it mostly works.  Raimi all but
erases the slim wall between the horror and Western genres:  Redemption is
another Transylvanian village of simple peasants lorded over by by an evil
baron, and the atmosphere--palpably oppressive and claustrophobic--could be
cut with a knife.  Leonardo di Caprio and veteran character actors Lance
Henriksen and Roberts Blossom effectively round out the cast, and the action
scenes--exaggerated, mythic, often darkly humorous--deliver.  If you're more
of a horror fan than a Western fan, this may be the Western for
you.
<|_=00=_|>

The first thing to say about this film is that the cast is an all-star one:
Sharon Stone, Gene Hackman, Russell Crowe, Leonardo DiCaprio, and Gary
Sinise in a bit part. Each of the characters, even Hackman's villain Herod,
is so likeable and charismatic that you can't help but feeling sad that a
good portion of them will be killed. There is some spectacular
cinematography and creatively conceived shots from director Sam Raimi and
his team. A particularly memorable shot is the one of the sunlight shining
through the bullet hole of the victim's head. In my opinion the two
drawbacks of The Quick and the Dead are the thin plot and the relative
scarcity of dialogue. With a cast like this it's a bit of a shame that it is
underutilized. Still this film provides a solid hour and a half or so of
entertainment, 7.5/10. 
<|_=00=_|>

This film is hilarious. If you found it unintentionally funny, you probably
haven't seen enough westerns. Spaghetti westerns were all about modern
parallels. They were "post-modern". Raimi has gone one better and made a
satirical pastiche of every western there ever was. Sharon Stone as the 90's
feminist gunslinger was an hysterical joke that seemed to go over everyone's
head. All of the performances in the film are highly referential and
brilliantly pulled off, especially Gene Hackman. Leonardo DiCaprio sticks
out as undisciplined. If the film has a fault it's that it's too smart. It's
a testament to miss Stone's legendary I.Q. I guess, as she is one of the
producers as well. Even if it's too "wierd" for some commercial-minded
viewers, there's no denying that the film is beautifully shot and fun to
watch. 10 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Yes, I know the critics at the time panned it. But if that was the
baseline for greatness, films like Wonderful Life and Citizen Kane
would be lost to obscurity. Bottom line, this is a "high concept" film
that is much more entertaining than you would guess. The timeline is
fascinating. In the 1960s, after a half-century run, and massive
exposure on the new medium called Television, the classic western
started to disappear. But, as they say, nature abhors a vacuum; and at
the same time the sun started to set on the traditional western, it
started to rise on something called the "italian westerns" or
re-imaginings of the genre from Europe. This is for example how Clint
Eastwood went from forgotten TV actor (Rawhide) to #1 box office
attraction. This new genre lasted barely 15 years or so and soon
disappeared as well. Yet out of nowhere, 20 years later someone in
Tinseltown gets the idea to re-imagine the ALREADY RE-IMAGINED western,
this time starring a female. Sharon Stone was past the apex of her
career by this point, making the project more of a challenge. The other
talent was awesome. A pre-Oscar Russell Crowe, a pre-Titanic diCaprio,
and all backstopped by Hackman, I mean, wow. The big question, did it
actually work? Answer yes. It was uneven in parts and an argument could
be made that Hackman overdid the "bad guy" role or, alternatively, the
part was over-written. Stone was awesome, proving she had the chops to
take on a bizarre role and make it hers. Actually gets better with each
successive viewing.
