

Calling Showgirls "poorly acted" or "sexist" completely misses
the
point; it's like accusing Britney Spears of not being a "real
musician,"
as though you've discovered something.

Of *course* Showgirls is exploitative and demeaning to women. 
Almost
all Hollywood movies are demeaning to women.  Almost all of them
are
male-written, male-directed male fantasies. But most of them cover
this
fact with a thin veneer of "empowerment" and "sensitivity,"
making
perfunctory, surface concessions to political correctness. 
It's
hypocritical, dishonest and has horrible long-term effects on
the
psyches of young impressionable girls (and boys).  The brilliance
of
Showgirls is that it gathers all of the worst Hollywood masculine
excess
and throws it unapologetically in our faces. The movie
is
straight-from-the-id, primal, brutish male fantasy.  Every woman in
the
movie is a laughable caricature who advances, if at all, by
deceiving
other women and becoming a sexual object for men.  The "heroine,"
Nomi,
crosses every line, sells every shred of dignity, physically
assaults
her female competitors, sleeps with her boss (in the most
over-the-top
sex scene in cinematic history), gets her best friend raped... and
at
the end of the film, claims that she has gambled and won
"herself."
This tragi-comic nod to empowerment is a slap to the face of
anyone
who's been paying attention.

Whether Esterhauz and Verhoeven intended it as such, Showgirls is
at
once a camp classic and a sly satire, an example of everything
our
culture at once wallows in and disavows.  Sure, you can react
with
righteous indignation, waggle your finger at the movie, and pat
yourself
on the back for being so enlightened.  But maybe you should take a
look
around, at the billboards, the commercials, the sitcoms, the movies,
the
music videos, your own prejudices... and think about whether you
can't
find a better target.
<|_=00=_|>

I read through a few of these reviews and the general analysis seemed to be
that this movie sucks more than the lead character does in the back room of
the Cheetah Club. Well, I guess if you take it at face value, it does.

However, it's not meant to be taken that way (internally, with a glass of
water?), and it's a shame that so many people did. Really, 'Showgirls' is a
campy, funny movie. It's a riot. And it's supposed to be.

Elizabeth Berkley, in the lead role, plays her part like an actress on one
of those day-time soaps - which is probably exactly what Verhoeven wanted.
She does everything dramatically. She sits down, dramatically; she takes off
her jacket, dramatically; and if you watch closely enough you'll even see
her eating fries dramatically.

Gina Gershon as femme fatale/lead dancer Cristal gives the best performance
of the film. She obviously is in sync with the director and has a lot of fun
with the part, and if you only watch it for one reason, watch it for her.
Because, in the words of L'Oreal, she's worth it. She's a great talent and
it's a shame she's not recognised more widely.

Would I recommend it? I don't know. It depends on your taste. If you're
looking for a drama, go elsewhere. If you're looking for a quirky, funny
movie, and you don't mind lots of naked ladies running around all over the
place (yes, even if you're female - I am, and I liked it), go rent it. It
might surprise you.
<|_=00=_|>
Nomi is a young girl who is going to Los Vegas to become a dancer.
She's starts at a strip club called cheetahs, then she makes it to the
Stardust chorus line. Her friend Molly, she is a costume designer for
the stardust, which helped with her career path. The lead dancer at
Stardust is Chistal, and Nomi trys get overthrow her to get her part.

This is such a stupid movie, but that's what makes this movie such a
treat. When this first came out 10 years ago, it majorly flopped. It
was seen as exploitive against women and depraved. Elizabeth Berkley
from saved by the bell fame used this movie as her chance to be taken
as a serious actress, and she was outcast from acting. I think this
movie was made just at the wrong time. It has been ten years and what
social satire in '95 was, is very different now. I found this very
empowering towards women. It shows just how blind men can be; that
women have more power than they actually realize.

Elizabeth Berkley does do a very bad job at acting, but there is this
charm she has. all the over acting brought some dignity to her
character. Gina Gershon as Christal plays the best bitch; very two
faced. Kyle MacLachlan looks like he stumbled off the set of Blue
velvet, but brought some of Denis hoppers sleaze along with him.

Paul Verhoeven directed this bag of sleaze, but like a lot of his
movies, there is this mood of depression; showing life at its worse,
where it cant get any worse. If you've seen Total Recall, RoboCop and
Starship Troopers you'll notice this running theme of his.

this does have a bit of a slow burn to it. a lot of the back stabbing
doesn't happen till about the hour and half point, but its a great
cynical satire till then. there's so many clichés in here, but you
kinda don't think about them as most of the time your wondering if you
just saw what you just SAW. And the one liners are just awesome.

This may not be a master piece, its far from it. but this show just how
great some bad tasting movies can be the most pleasurable experience.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this film was not bad actually, and saw it as a voyage though
bitchy sleazy Las Vegas showlife. Everyone goes on about the wildly
exaggerated sex by the leading girl, but might that not be her style as
a wannabe Vegas showqueen.

I think compared to a lot of films that come out that deserve a one
star rating this doesn't deserve one, I found it watchable and I think
there's been a kind of herd effect to say it's trash. It's just *about*
trash.

So right on Tarantino for coming out alone in praising it I say.
<|_=00=_|>

People love to trash this movie for some reason. Sure, it has its cheesy
moments and maybe there is some over-acting on the part of a couple of the
actresses, but still, this movie has some really fun scenes.  You just can't
take this movie too seriously and still enjoy it.  Watch it as if it is a
raunchy comedy and you won't be disappointed. I think it is hypocritical
that the same country that made the movie Basic Instinct a hit would trash
this one. I just feel sorry for Elizabeth Berkley since this movie probably
ruined her career. Still, I think we should all give her another chance.
She's worth it. Don't all our Saved By the Bell loyalties mean anything? I
want to close by saying that I am proud to own this movie in my personal
video collection. It is a cult classic in the making!!!
<|_=00=_|>

I'm glad I didn't turn this off 20 minutes in, thinking that it was
basically what I'd heard and expected. Despite all the early embarrassing
missteps and clunky lines delivered by Ms Berkeley, the film actually grew
into an experience that I didn't want to turn off. It's ten times as good as
Striptease.

It's not Citizen Kane, but it's not a soft-core porn version of Rock Star
(awful film) either. Most of the characters were well-developed and
believable, even it the situations were not. And there's plenty of humor,
the vast majority of it intentional. 

I'm wondering if most of the heavy derision of the film comes from
Puritanical attitudes, rather than from an honest evaluation. If
unromanticized sex and heavy nudity -- literally, in the case of one
character -- make you (or your viewing companions) uncomfortable, Showgirls
probably not for you. 

I enjoyed it and would watch it again. 


<|_=00=_|>
The seedy under belly of Las Vegas? Nude lap dancing? A tough old broad
with a heart of gold and the mouth of a sewer? A ruthless climb to the
top? Kicking a fuax Michael Bolten's azz in thigh highs? This movie has
it all and then some! Showgirls is one of the funniest comedies ever
made. OK, so it was supposed to be an erotic drama but forget that and
sit back and laugh your way through the very best of the worst movies
ever made.

There wasn't a thing that did not go wrong with this film. The script
reads like it was created via the Hollywood processor. Feed in one part
'Flashdance', another 'Basic Instinct' and with more than a with a tiny
dose of the great 'All About Eve', and then stir with a few characters
lifted from a 'Mannix' rerun: the Cheetah club operator (who reads like
he came from pimp school 101) the chubby foul-mouthed MC with a heart
of gold, and best friend who will have to suffer and ladies and
gentleman, we are ready to shoot! And what about the cast? Madonna, in
one of the few wise film choices she made, turned down the role of the
leading lady of Las Vegas and Gina Gershon stepped in. Drew Barrymore
said no thanks to the role of Nomi, the ambitious dancer who was ready
to claw her way to the top, and after they hit up every B, C and D list
of actresses they ended up casting Elizabeth Berkley. Who, up to then,
was best known for her sweetie pie role on the tween comedy "Saved By
the Bell.' 

Director Paul Verhoven and screenwriter Joe Esterhaus re-team coming of
the world wide smash hit 'Basic Instinct' and most likely had virtual
carte blanche, no one to say no. They made gazillions for the investors
of Basic and were at the pinnacle of their power.

A lousy script, incredibly poor casting choices and direction and big
glitzy production numbers and the recipe for a disaster of legendary
proportions was the result.

Sit back, have a glass of champagne, get ready to toss your fries and
sit back and enjoy. You will be able to tell all your friends you saw
it long before the Broadway musical all drag version was all the rage!
<|_=00=_|>
Every once in a while, a film comes along that strikes a chord with
audiences in such a way that they react strongly; sometimes, because of
this, the film can become a hit. The opposite can happen as well.
"Showgirls" drew some venomous reviews from both critics and audiences,
and it quickly gained a reputation as a bad movie--it became a buzzword
and a joke immediately. An entire generation of filmgoers who were too
young to see "Showgirls" (or else uninterested in it) were instructed
that it was a bad movie when it was mentioned as such in the all-ages
trailer for the big hit "Scream 2". More recently, people like
Tarantino and a few respected film critics began to admit that they
loved the film, and while it's never going to gain acceptance as a
serious film, at least people are able to see "Showgirls" for what it
is instead an opinion based on legend.

Yes, "Showgirls" is trashy and absurd, but we do enjoy those kinds of
films. Are we saying that it's wrong to make them? I think the main
problem with "Showgirls" is that it's a great looking, big budget film
that is a pastiche at heart. Whatever people were expecting at the time
of its release, they were definitely not expecting a new "Beyond the
Vally of the Dolls" (which, like "Showgirls", got the strongest
possible rating at the time of its release). Also similar to Russ
Meyer, Verhoeven takes Joe Esztherhas's crazy script and directs his
actors to be straight faced at all times, saying these lines as if they
mean it. Just like in 1970, this defied the expectations of the
audience, and it got the movie panned. 

Whatever Paul Verhoeven intended with this film, it's hard to imagine
that this happened accidentally, and even the people who claim to like
"Showgirls" because it's "so bad" are missing the point just a little.
I think the bizarre qualities of the film are mostly intentional, and
it doesn't stray too far in style from successful films Verhoeven made
before this, mostly "Basic Instinct". In fact, it seems to me that the
only true bungling has been MGM's marketing. Even now, as they reap the
benefits of it being a cult classic that has sold extremely well on
home video, their idea of how to round out the DVD edition is to get
somebody totally uninvolved with the film to deliver a sometimes
amusing but otherwise unnecessary commentary about the obvious instead
of paying Elizabeth Berkley a couple thousand dollars to offer her own
commentary on the film, which would have been a couple thousand times
better.

Eszterhas writes trashy movies intended to be a good time, and
"Showgirls" is certainly that. But I can't imagine Verhoeven thinking
that this movie would connect with audiences on a large scale basis;
the trailers implied that "Showgirls" would be similar to "Basic
Instinct", which it is not. Maybe if this movie had come later, after
another failed attempt to recreate "Basic Instinct", people might have
accepted it as its own type of film. The dialog is way over the top,
and how utterly boring would the movie have been otherwise? Other parts
of the film are marvelously conceived, and Verhoeven keeps the film in
motion at all times. The only thing that truly spoils the fun is a
violent rape scene, although it does fit with the reptilian tone of the
movie, full of victims and victimizers; it is the one thing that
grounds the film in the real world with real violence. It may not have
been intentional, but it presents an interesting concept: if the rape
had happened to any other character, it would not have been the same.
Because it happens to the film's only sympathetic character, it carries
a great impact. The cinematography is flawless, and the sets are always
interesting and sometimes funny (like the bizarre stage numbers). Pay
attention to the soundtrack as well, Verhoeven has an excellent
collection of songs, many of them written specifically for the film.

Watching Elizabeth Berkley's career self-destruct on camera is one of
the film's most morbidly fascinating pleasures. I beg to differ with
people who call her performance "bad"; what actress could have played
this part and made it anything other than what Berkley did? The truth
is, she worked wonders with a character that was impossible to play.
Her dancing is both ridiculous and a marvel. How she can bend herself
into those positions and hit those marks, not to mention her famous lap
dance gyrations, must be seen to be believed. Gina Gershon is great
too, a leering predator who manages to be both vulnerable and
invincible at the same time, and only because she seems to be the only
actor in the troupe that's in on the joke. Kyle McLachlan is skeezy,
with a haircut and a smile that make him resemble the creature from the
"ALIEN" franchise more than a human being. You expect an inner jaw to
emerge from his mouth at any moment.

"Showgirls" is ridiculous, but to me it's also multifaceted and
fascinating, appealing to the cynic in all of us. It fails as an
engaging story, but the film itself doesn't fail to engage the viewer
at all; you can laugh at it (or with it), and it accomplishes something
subversive in the way it makes you consider the filmmakers and actors
involved. I think most people just say "Showgirls" is a bad movie
because they've already been told it's a bad movie. I revisit it more
often than some of the other films in my collection, and it gets more
absurd, funny, gross, and sometimes even beautiful, every time I watch
it. Bad movies are boring movies. "Showgirls" is not.
<|_=00=_|>

This excellent remake of "All about Eve" have been extremely underrated
without motives. First of all,I will say it is far more sordid in its
depiction of Las Vegas showbusiness backstage than the majority led you to
believe. 

The principal guarantee is that it is directed by Paul Verhoeven, one of the
most interesting and personal filmakers nowadays, with frenzy and nerve and
that mixture of sex and violence characteristic of his filmography, so
there's no doubt this is one of his most personal works for the screen. His
perverse look to human desire, impulses and instincts and the direct way he
brings it to he screen are something really unique and make him an "author"
rather than a mere director. Talking about "Showgirls", the exciting
choreographies and its connection with what is being told reveal his love
and knowledge of the musical genre. 

In addition, the script by Eszterhas is a malicious retelling of the
Cinderella's tale, manipulative, funny, filled with great dialogue and a
sense for rhythm than a lot of screenwriters would like to
have.

Gina Gershon shines in her role, but I simply can't believe why the critics
deceased Elisabeth Berkley when her performance is filled with enthusiasm
and energy.  

Bear all this in mind, and at least, give it a try! If you know and admire
Verhoeven's work, you will sure appreciate "Showgirls" in its just
measure.


<|_=00=_|>
"You want it, you pay for it." - Club bouncer (Showgirls)

Showgirls is an interesting film, though people won't appreciate it for
many years to come. The problem with Paul Verhoeven is that nobody
realises that he's a satirist. All his films shot outside of the
Netherlands are intensely satirical and not meant to be taken at face
value. With "Showgirls" he quotes from "All about Eve" and "42nd
Street", tearing apart those pipe dream stories that audiences have
been so conditioned to absorb.

Verhoeven's real target isn't Hollywood or American crassness, but
rather those morally dubious "Star is Born" tales. The audience isn't
punished for wanting to see sex and nudity, it's punished for wanting
Nomi to succeed. The film is saying that in a crass society, success is
bankrupt, and by pushing the pipe dream, you merely fuel this big, ugly
machine.

Nomi, the star of "Showgirls", isn't a character. She's a piece of
wood. A piece of wood not because she can't act, but because she's a
mere slab of fuel, existing solely to be burnt up and combusted by her
neon lit environment. She goes from strip club, to dance club, to
theatre house, exploited all the way. And she loves it.

By the end of the film it's not funny that Nomi is going to make the
same mistakes all over again. It's sad that despite the fact that the
Myth has been revealed repeatedly, she is still seduced by it enough to
try all over again. It's like those Toys they give kids at Macdonald's.
The child knows the toy is total crap, but they just have to collect
the other one. Why? Because it's a toy, and the child's perception is
that toys are fun.

"Showgirls" deals with this false perception. The toy is crap. It's
unsatisfying, but we want it because we can't find satisfaction in what
we have and in where we're at.

"Showgirls" is also intensely symbolic. Song titles mirror Nomi's
apartment numbers, each of her jobs takes her one step further into
hell (which ironically is her goal), she symbolically dies and is
reborn, the famous lapdance is shot to mirror the sex scene in the
pool, and the film ends with Nomi battered and broken and more
importantly, even more ignorant than before. Then there's her "dream
man" (hinted at by a billboard at the start) who turns out to be a
devilish rapist by the end of the film. This theme of one being
punished for ones "fantasies" permeates the entire film and extends
outward in such a way that the audience itself participates. At first
we're titillated, but by the end, the sex has numbed us and we reel in
disgust.

In terms of style, the film is intentionally over the top. It's loud,
crass and overly colourful. Nomi herself thrusts her body at us in a
ridiculously pathetic manner. The director's aim is not to titillate.
He wants us to pity the girl's desperation, her falsity, the tasteless
stains of her makeup and desperate contortions of her body. Nomi is
dumb and is always begging us to accept her. And so Verhoeven subjects
us to visual and aural overload, all designed to numb our minds. We
leave the film stupid, and unaroused, poetically blind and unaware of
the truths it has shown us.

The best satires tend to raise the most unjustified hate, and
"Showgirls" is no different. What's different is that the nudity, sex
and overall tacky "bad movie" aesthetic of the film, prevents it from
being re-evaluated or even embraced. Future audiences, desensitized to
pornography and nudity, will probably accept this film easier.

There's also one really good shot in the film that reminded me of
Welles. The shot occurs when Nomi sits on a park bench alongside a busy
street. The bench is in the foreground, but perspective is forced in
such a way that it dwarfs the Las Vegas buildings surrounding it.

In terms of camera work, the film is also impeccably shot. Verhoeven's
camera is precise, with some beautiful steadicam and crane shots.

7.5/10- An interesting satire, intentionally camp, cartoonish and over
the top. Though some scenes feel tasteless, the film as a whole
surprisingly seems to get better with repeated viewings. Pay attention
to one scene in which children walk innocently through a theatre, nude
women all around. Moment's later a woman curses violently and the kids
and their mother are shocked. Verhoeven's point is clear: language,
violence and exploitation are far more tasteless than any naked breast.
