

This film wasted too much time trying to get our heroes back to the island
and the first half of the flick was almost an exact repeat of the same
sequence in the first.  I really wanted to see the grow up again and not
just see how they got lost--which was pretty standard in both films.  Of
course the two castaways had to "rediscover" their sexuality--this is what
this film is about.  The movie really changes into high gear when the
children are re-introduced to civilization.

It really explored the question--who is more civilized?

Obvious comparisons:
Brooke Shields/Milla Jovovich--looks: dead heat, although Milla
showed
 more skin (she may have had more upstairs to show).  acting:  Brooke seemed
to capture the innocence of unexpected woman hood (she was brought up by a
male, not a female so she may have had less schooling)

Christopher Atkins/Brian Krouse--looks: Chris hands down, Brian looked like
a Pillsbury Dough Boy by comparison; acting: Brian had a slight edge, in
that he had to act more "grown up".

Amazingly both original and sequel are worth a watch:  The first for
the
story and acting; the second for Milla and a more interesting
ending.
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't think this movie was too bad.

I didn't necessarily like that Richard and Em from the first movie
wound up being found dead by different people when they were found
"just sleeping" at the end of the first one by Richard's father. Kinda
takes away from the first movie, but I guess it was necessary to set up
the angle of their son in the sequel.

I think the fact that they were more educated than the couple in the
first movie was good, because it gave it it's own element. No one
wanted to see a complete repeat of the Blue Lagoon. But the innocence
is still there.

The fact that they wound up on the same island isn't that far-fetched.
They were in the area when they lost their paddle in the first movie.
The location they stayed with Paddy as kids in the first movie wasn't
THAT far from where they wound up staying after he died. In the second
movie, The mother and the kids get dropped off the main boat, so it was
probably the closest land there was.

And for the people that wondered where the tribe came from when they
didn't see them for years, they came every 3 months when it was a full
moon outside. That's where the drums were coming from AND the boats
going through the water in the middle of the night. They were just
never allowed to go to the other side of the island, ITS THE LAW! lol
and when they did sneak over there, there was no full moon, so the
tribe wasn't there.

I liked that they brought in "civilized" people towards the end of the
movie. It let the viewers see how they'd interact with other people.
They always knew that they were supposed to ask to be taken back to
civilization if a ship ever came, but if the only interaction they had
with "civilized" people was being shot at and attempted rape, I'd want
to stay on the island too.

Overall, it wasn't that bad of a movie. Maybe not as good as the first,
but what sequel is? I'd recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
going into this movie, i didn't have expectations of great acting or a
phenomenal script. i had never even heard of it or The Blue Lagoon
until a few weeks ago because people only talk about the really great
movies.

i judge movies on how they make me feel deep down. this wasn't perfect
but if you leave all your expectations at the door, you'd be surprised
how much truth is there.

it lets you enjoy innocence. i think that's why i could even accept the
fact that the performances weren't absolutely perfect. children aren't
supposed to be perfect, but they do have one thing over most adults, a
child of innocence will love unconditionally despite all the confusion
that can be found in the world-even on an deserted island. i think the
people who created this movie were able to capture that part of life
and so i have to approve.

i watched The Blue Lagoon before this one and have to say, even though
this one is less explicit, it's even more enjoyable. both are worth
attention though.

however, neither should be viewed by young children; they were given
their ratings for a reason.
<|_=00=_|>
The Blue Lagoon was a silent success with the audiences of 1980, not to
mention one of the most controversial movies of all time. So, I guess
the director just wanted to have the same amount of success, so he used
the same story, just different characters.

Unlike the way the first one ended, Richard and Emily are dead when
they are found, but their son, Patty soon renamed Richard after his
father is adopted by the only mother on the ship, Sarah who has another
child, a daughter, Lily played by a new successful actress, Milla
Jovovich. When the ship takes another tragic turn by getting torn down
by sea, Sarah, Richard, and Lily land "coincedentally" on the same
island that Richard and Emily lived on. The house has change a bit, but
I guess it can't always stay the same, but Sarah raises the children
more different than in the first film, Lily and Richard know the ways
of nature and let their love blossom after Sarah passes from being ill.
When civilized men finally come to save Lily and Richard they begin to
question the meaning of what is truly civilized and what is not.

Over all, I wouldn't say it's a bad movie, but it was just an
unnecessary sequel. Because of the fact like I said, it's the same
plot. Some great actors got their start though because of this film. So
over all, I'm not going to give it a terrible rating, but the director
could have thought this out a little more.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>
In 'Blue Lagoon' the movie ends with the young couple and their baby
adrift at sea as a boat approaches. We don't really know what happened
or if they survived. This movie, "Return", takes up where that one
ended, somewhere in the Pacific, in the late 1800s.

As a small party from the ship board the small boat, they find the
parents no longer alive, but the baby boy is fine. On board the ship
are a mother and her daughter, and she decides to care for the baby
boy. But on board the crew soon begin to come down with an illness,
Cholera, so the woman and the two small children are put out on a
lifeboat, it is their only chance to survive.

The story that results is very similar to the first movie, in that an
adult and 2 small children are stranded on an uncharted island, in fact
the same uncharted island, and there the children grow into young
adulthood.

Milla Jovovich, who was only 14 or 15 during filming, is very suitable
as Lilli, the girl the baby grew into on the island. Brian Krause, who
was 20 or 21 during filming, was Richard, the boy that the baby boy
grew into. As the story progressed and they entered puberty we see them
facing many of the behavioral issues the teens in the first movie
faced, and mirror what teens in our own society face.

No, by no means is this a great movie but it is interesting. It is too
much like the first one so not much new is explored, but interesting to
see anyway.

MAJOR SPOILERS: As the 4 are initially out to sea in the small boat the
seaman sees they are running short of water and wants to throw the two
small crying children overboard. As he begins to the mom takes a
harpoon and knocks him out them dumps him into the ocean. The remaining
three of them come ashore and soon find the home that the boy and his
young parents had left not long before. As the children grow, and are
maybe 8 and 10, the mom gets pneumonia and instructs them how to bury
her and carve a memorial after she dies. As they get to be teenagers
they decide to marry and have their own ring ceremony, then basically
behave as if they are on their honeymoon. A ship shows up and a small
crew comes ashore looking for fresh water, and the captain's daughter,
Sylvia, tempts Richard, tries to seduce him but he spurns her advances
to stay true to Lilli. A rogue crewman tries to violate Lilli,
eventually tries to shoot Richard, but gets eaten by a shark as he
chases Richard into water off the reef. After all these experiences
Lilli and Richard decide to stay on the island and have their baby
there, instead of going back to "civilization."
<|_=00=_|>
This film was absolutely beautiful. I can't understand so many people
having a problem with it. Everybody says its horrible, why, what is so
horrible about it? It made me wanna become more natural and relaxed,
knowing that nature is truth and purity while civilization is
corruption and a lie. This movie is definitely for Milla Jovovich and
Brian Krause fans. Milla's acting seems very inexperienced and like she
doesn't care about it, but that actually makes her seem more natural,
although I wish she would be more professional. Brian Krause does an
average job, but again when you watch the movie the last thing you
think about is how the actors act. What gets you the most about this
movie is its beautiful message about how a human being should be,
beautiful and pure in all ways.I definitely recommend this film.
<|_=00=_|>
*SPOILERS AHEAD* 

Call it morbid curiosity but I couldn't resist watching this
sequel/remake/cash-in.

The Bad 

1. The Plot; (see the Good) A basic rehash of the BL as our Paddy gets
rescued from the small craft the original BL couple Richard Snr and
Emmeline were cast adrift in. Renamed Richard, his rescuing ship is now
rife with cholera and his adoptive mother and her daughter, Lilli, find
their way back to the original island. Plot devices repeated from the
first film as his new guardian teaches the young children the facts of
life and conveniently expires so that the young couple can go through
adolescence, the discovery of love, sex etc etc much like the BL,
except this time they are more knowing than the original couple. The
wide-eyed innocence and charm of the first film is completely lost so
the coming of age story had NO resonance. There were no important
themes about life and death, parenthood, and familial love. Even the
same scenes are repeated; the water-slide; swimming blissfully in the
sea, love beneath a waterfall. I can't even comment on how Richard Jnr
can outswim a shark (!) and his father couldn't but I'll let that one
slide...

2. Acting; Of all the criticisms against the BL about the poor acting
from Shields and Atkins, this one is not any better. At least the first
couple from the original movie had the excuse of having the mentality
of eight year olds and their sparse, childish banter reflected this.
This couple (Krause and Jovovich) say cringe-worthy pretentious things
like "There's a baby growing inside of me... a woman knows these kinds
of things".

3. The Characterization; I never understood the motivations of these
two except that they liked frolicking in the surf. At least in the
first film one had the contrast between Richard Snr wanting to go back
to civilisation and Emmeline who didn't, and the break-up in their
friendship following Emmeline's failure to light the signal fire. The
pivotal emotional point in the BL was when Richard Snr realised he had
everything he wanted on the island and didn't hail down his father's
ship when it did arrive.

4. The Romance; Nope. Didn't feel it or root for the couple, especially
when Richard Jnr starts making eyes at the new girl, pushing poor Lilli
so far as to daub herself with clownish make-up and put some clothes on
(!). In the first movie, Richard Snr rejected civilisation for his life
with his new-found family.

5. Cinematography; Bland. The first BL was much better and the
underwater scenes felt magical.

6. Music; Didn't really lift the scenes and barely noticeable except in
the action sequences.

The Good 

1. The Plot; The last 25 minutes were interesting. A "What If" if
"civilized" people came ashore. Well, they're not much better, being
conniving strumpets, thieves and potential rapists. It also worked
better as an action-adventure film than the first film.

2. Social commentary for young ladies; make-up is bad, clothes are BAD,
anorexia is even WORSE. Seriously, though, I felt sorry for Lilli when
she tried to copy her rival for Richard Jnr's affections, going so far
to put on make-up and clothes and refusing to eat. I didn't see the
anorexia part coming...

Overall, this film is barely adequate if you've never seen the first
one. And if you liked the BL, you won't like its sequel. For those of
you who enjoyed "Return to the BL", I urge you to check out the far
superior original.
<|_=00=_|>
I had never even heard about the blue lagoon movies until about a
year ago. After finding out that shields was in the first movie I
thought that it might be kind of interesting since she was one of my
favorite actresses however after finding out that there was underage
nudity in it my first though was "how could this be legal" since my
understanding was the underage nudity was not legal in the united
states. I put that  thought aside and decided to watch the movie
anyway. After watching it I Saw just how innocent the nudity really
was. There was nothing sexual at all about it. About a month or so
after watching the original blue lagoon I found out that there was a
sequel and that this one had mila jovovich  in it, another actress of
whom I knew from the resident evil  series. I figured that this one
might be just a good as the first one and for the most part it was. I
mean don't get me wrong this was a wonderful movie and the story line
was well thought out but the innocents that we saw from the first movie
was taken away. In the first movie they grew up not knowing about
puberty, pregnancy, and what your body goes though during that time. In
this movie both of the young children were educated about the changes
that their bodies would go through when they hit the age of puberty. If
you put that aside and just watch both movies you will see that they
are both great movies to watch. I personally cannot see how people can
say that this movie or it's original with shields in it are in any way
borderline child pornography. Okay so what I mean yes we do see  a
frontal view of mila jovovich's breasts and she was only like 15 or so
in this movie and during the first twenty minutes or so there
are numerous scenes in which we see a frontal shot of young
Courtney barilla who is only like 8 or 9 at the time but it's not like
it is  anything that we've never seen growing up so I personally cannot
see how people are so bent out of shape about seeing it in the movies
but to each their own. Putting that aside both the original and it's
sequel were great movies and their story lines were well thought out.
They are both worth seeing and in my opinion are a perfect family movie
for all ages. Younger children might not fully understand what is going
on in the movie and parents might have to explain some things but both
movies are family oriented.
<|_=00=_|>
RETURN TO THE BLUE LAGOON, made 11 years after the successful first
film, is one of those movies that's happy to reprise the plot of the
original while adding a few twists and tweaks of its own. It's an
entirely superfluous kind of film that sees yet another couple of kids
washed up on a desert island and having to fend for themselves against
nature and their fellow man.

There are a few differences here - the adult with them is a woman, the
boy is the son of the couple from THE BLUE LAGOON, they're staying in
the same place so make use of the already-there house, etc. - but none
of them make a difference. Once again the film is all about puberty,
isolation, love and family, except as it's not original it feels like a
lukewarm rehash of the first movie.

The acting doesn't really sit right either. The age gap between Milla
Jovovich and Brian Krause is too obvious, and Krause is as equally
wooden as Christopher Atkins before him. Jovovich definitely has
something feral within her, but less use is made of that as in THE
FIFTH ELEMENT, which handled her unique qualities perfectly. Director
William A. Graham made a career of TV movies and although RETURN TO THE
BLUE LAGOON had a theatrical release, it feels very much like a
second-rate outing in every respect.
<|_=00=_|>
WARNING: I advise anyone who has not seen the film yet to not read this
comment.

Okay, let me start off by saying that I absolutely loved The Blue
Lagoon and the only reason I gave this the rating I gave it is for
their effort. Yes, I could tell they actually put in an effort to make
this a satisfying sequel, but sadly failed.

Well, I'm going to start with the beginning. I like how they began
where the first one left off by finding Richard and Em dead floating in
the boat along with baby Paddy who survived, though they had been in a
completely different looking boat, not laying on their stomachs, had
been found by completely different looking people and the people who
found them's boat looked completely different, but still, they made an
effort. On into where Lilli, Richard (Paddy) and Sarah are shipwrecked.
I like how they showed them finding the home Em and Richard inhabitant
from the first film, though if I recall the house was on the beach not
half-way into the woods and the inside looked (using this word again)
completely different, but still, I loved how the movie actually gave an
effort. Also, I liked how they gave an effort to make Sarah a more
compelling parent figure as Paddy was in the first and they actually
accomplished that, I felt a little sad when she died and I did not care
one bit when Paddy did.

Well, then the rest of the film goes on and we see Lilli and Richard
grow up. From then on out until about the last 20 or so minutes of the
film are left, it is the exact same as the first! Nothing is new except
the cast! Since this is rated PG-13 and the first was rated R, you get
no actual compelling feelings and scenes as you did in the first, such
as, in this you do not get to see the sex scene or any sex scene that
leads up to their baby, when you did in the first and it made the film
more touching and beautiful. The last 20 or so minutes as I said, they
tried something new, and gave an effort by adding to the movie that
people actually found the castaways on the island this time. I hated
this change. Not because I hated the idea, they just went about it all
wrong. So these people are landing on this island that isn't even on
the map, as one of the passengers stated, why, the movie did not say.
The idea that a very lady-like and civilized daughter would fall in
love with this guy she just saw for the very first time on an island
who has no interest in her at all and is uncivilized is very stupid and
the idea that one of the crew members will deliberately chase Richard
across the island to try and kill him just because they were what, in a
fight, is stupid.

At the very end, there is a baby born which you do not care about at
all in any way because the film spent absolutely no time at all on
showing it grow up whatsoever, which they did in the first, and then it
goes off. I have wrote so much and spilled my heart out about this
sequel because I absolutely fell in love with the first and I thought
this was very, very disappointing. Like I said, I didn't give this a
lower rating because it actually does manage to entertain at a lot of
points and the actors captured their parts rather well, I guess. As you
can obviously tell by now, I thought they gave an effort at trying too
and I found that respectable, but overall this was totally unnecessary
and just left me wanting so much more. It makes the first look like a
goldmine, which it already was a masterpiece anyway...
