

Hackers is a non-stop cheeze-fest. It's also one of my favourite films of
all time. Which is not to say it's a perfect ten, it isn't. But it's a
great
combination of good cheeze and pure fun. Suspend all disbelief, it's not
about realism. And try not to nitpick (we all know graphics would not have
been possible using Unix, we all know that those archaic modems couldn't
run
that fast, etc. etc. etc.)

That aside, this film is really funny. It also laughs at itself on a
regular
basis...I mean just look at dade's wardrobe, and then remind yourself that
you know half a dozen people who dressed like that in 94. I know a people
who mirror just about every character in this film, which makes it even
more
enjoyable.

The dialogue is often over the top, and some of the acting is overdone, but
tis the nature of the beast. Jonny Lee Miller (who never ceases to amaze
me)
pulls off the American accent quite well (though he tends to slip on
occasion) and Dade is certainly no Sickboy. But that's just an example of
range (he did it again in Dracula 2000...and almost saved it). Matthew
Lillard, though occasionally OVERLY annoying, is perfect as Cereal Killer;
his best role ever, though Scream comes close. Renoly Santiago is a funny
and loud Phantom Phreak, a role only second to his role in Con Air, and his
lines are always great; and Laurence Mason as the ultra-cool Lord Nikon a
very close tie with Tin-Tin in The Crow for coolness (and he's done some
*cool* spots...Floyd D in True Romance (not to be confused with Brad Pitt's
character 'Floyd';) and Roach in an awesome ep. of Law & Order...) his
character is by far the coolest of the Elite. Lorraine Bracco in a *very*
early role...and speaking of *early* - Early Edition's Fishe Stevens is
amusing as the arrogant swine Eugene 'The Plague' Belford. And how can one
not like a film with Penn Jillette in it???

But all that aside, Angelina Jolie stole the show (as she often does).
Looking like a cyber-elf straight out of ShadowRun, she's sultry and sexy
in
a way most actresses these days can't manage. I can't think of any films I
haven't liked her in...even if I didn't like the films themselves. She's
simply awesome here, she even takes bad dialogue and turns it into fun,
good
lines. And *her* outfits are really nice, save for that horrid dress she
was
stuck in at the end. And she has a Massive Attack startup on her puter!!
(with a 28.8 bps modem!! ;p~~~)

Overall: sure it's unrealistic. Sure half of it's impossible. Sure it's
overacted and the dialogue needs work. But the cast are all under-rated,
and
most of them went on to better roles, some to much fame. And the
soundtracks
are absolutely AMAZING!! I own them and listen regularly... This should
probably rate a four or five, but I can't help but ignore all critics and
pronounce myself as one of the large cult following of adorers of this
film.
For fun value, let alone the fact that it's entertaining as hell:
8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

First off I would just like to say that anyone who reads into this
movie too much(ie try to take the validity of each and every aspect of
the movie) will hate the film. Coming from a programmer and a computer
enthusiast, the movie was great despite all the false statements, fake
guis and totally bs methods of cracking. Quite frankly if you are one
of my fellow computer geeks don't expect anything close to the real
deal, it would never make a good movie for the public. I think that the
true movie here is behind the whole "hacking" front. It is the
development of characters the build up of a plot and an exciting climax
and satisfying denouement. In closing, don't expect a command line
prompt or a true UNIX client on any of the systems because it just
doesn't happen in movies. Instead watch the movie because its exciting,
fun and a great throwback to the early 90's.

<|_=00=_|>

The problem with any movie that focuses on technology, particularly
computers, is that it will become dated nearly immediately. This isn't a
new
problem for filmmakers; great films of the past, from DESK SET to
COLOSSUS:
THE FORBIN PROJECT, from DEMON SEED to TRON and THE LAST STARFIGHTER have
all featured 'cutting-edge' technology that seems quaint, by today's
standards. Even 'Hal', from the timeless classic 2001:A SPACE ODYSSEY, is
a
huge monstrosity that could be miniaturized to a fraction of it's size,
today. So when a film's whole theme involves computers, like THE NET, or
HACKERS, you can't take the technology end too seriously, even if much of
it
is bogus, as is the case of Iain Softley's paean to teen-aged computer
freaks. Hackers are, of course, not romantic, adventurous daredevils who
are
trying to right wrongs by attacking evil conglomerates via an expertise in
computer programming; they are generally over-educated anarchists who
create
worms and viruses for the simple joy of seeing the disruption and
destruction of EVERYONE'S computers, just to know that they can do
it.

Having said this, let me say that the true joy of HACKERS is seeing a
group
of young 'Stars in the Making', early in their careers. Of course the most
recognizable and famous of these is Angelina Jolie, who looks butch and
adorable with short hair, and 'an attitude', but the film also offers a
dazzling performance by Matthew Lillard (Shaggy in the live-action
SCOOBY-DOO), who has become one of the finest young comic actors around;
gifted British actor Jonny Lee Miller, playing an American, here, who
would
go on to TRAINSPOTTING, DRACULA 2000, and the title role in the TV
production of BYRON; Jesse Bradford, star of last year's CLOCKSTOPPERS;
Laurence Mason (BEHIND ENEMY LINES, A.I.); and Renoly Santiago (CON AIR).
Quite an impressive resume for a cast of 'unknowns' in
1995!

Of course, the established actors of the film haven't done badly,
either...While Fisher Stevens never became a 'major' star, after the
build-up television and the SHORT CIRCUIT films gave him, he still remains
active; and of course, Lorraine Bracco went on to THE SOPRANOS, as the
Mafia's favorite 'shrink' (with the possible exception of Billy Crystal).

So, if you skip over the dated attempt to be 'cutting edge', and just sit
back and enjoy the performances, HACKERS is a fun movie that can be
appreciated as a 'Preview of Coming Attractions' from a remarkable cast...

<|_=00=_|>

I happen to like this movie because it is just fun to watch. If I'm bored, I
can easily become unbored by watching this movie. The soundtrack is awesome
and it introduced me to electronic music. I never liked it until I saw
"Hackers". I love the clothes and the visuals. I knew it wasn't accurate
from the minute I saw it, but then again, it's not like it was posing itself
as some movie that depicted the real life of cyberpunks. It's just fun
little movie. Though some of the dialogue is a bit cheesed up, it is
quotable.

I especially enjoyed the performance by Matthew Lillard. It made me look
forward to seeing him in "Scream" later on. He is so funny. I enjoyed
Angelina Jolie, though this is hardly one of her best performances.

The only person who really didn't belong in this movie was Lorraine Bracco.
She just looked strange in her role. Other than that, this movie was a good
movie and it shouldn't be bashed because it depicts people, technology, and
life inaccurately. What movie ever does? I'm from Iowa and do you think
movies depict  Iowan's lives exactly the way they are? No. But I'm not out
to fertilize the lawn with "What's Eating Gilbert Grape?".

<|_=00=_|>
I'm working in IT for over 10 years now, and let's be clear: Hackers is
a movie, .. there's nothing real about the "hacking" going on in the
movie.

There's a few scenes that are horribly done (for today's standards) but
all in all I loved the movie. The acting is OK, the soundtrack is great
and it changes for the everlasting "chliché" of the IT Nerd.

It's a movie that could surprise you, especially with the amount of bad
movies being released nowadays. It's funny to see Johnny Lee Miller and
Angelina Jolie at the beginning of their careers as well. 

If you're looking for light entertainment for one evening, ...
<|_=00=_|>

This flick came out during my freshman year of high school, pretty much
everyone who saw it that I knew had a blast watching it, and in fact saw
it
several times in the theater (one fellow saw it about 6 times i think).
While the computer screens depicted aren't realistic so to speak (I'll get
to that in a moment) it was exciting, and made computers exciting again,
it
also didn't hurt the fact that everyone I knew used Macs just like the
Hackers in the movie, so as you can imagine, it inspired many of us to see
if we had the potential to do similar things but ultimately gave up
(popping
in a few CD-ROM games was much more entertaining;;)  ). Anyways, now I own
the film on DVD and I believe I've come to a revelation regarding the
computer screens shown in the film...what we see is not what is actually
happening on the screen, what they're showing us is what the hackers are
doing, as visualized in their mind, they picture the data on the screen in
a
way in their head where it comes together, and what we see is that picture
in their head, if maybe only an enhanced picture...anyways, thought I'd
share that.

Oh, and isn't it funny to see computer geeks drooling over a laptop with a
28.8 modem?::)
<|_=00=_|>

It doesn't take a very good movie critic to see that the movie doesn't
really have a really interesting plot with interesting characters. A group
of teenagers doing things they really shouldn't, getting into trouble and
saving themselves again. And in the mean time a sub-plot which involves a
girl and a guy that hate each other in the beginning and fall in love with
each other throughout the movie.
Nonetheless, i still rated this movie very high. Why? because in my
opinion
it's still a great cult classic. It gives a very good image about how
people
thought about computers a few years ago when not everybody had one yet.
The
handlenames are mysterious ("acid burn" "the plaque") but would be
ridiculous in this age. People are overjoyed when they get to see a 28.8
BPS
modem (who needs T3 anyway? ;) PLUS they pretend as if you can see a
program
running like it's some sort of great graphic animation.
Angelina Jolie and Jonny lee Miller (from trainspotting) are really great
in
this movie although you can see they're still pretty young and
unexperienced. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, I've read lots of the reviews here.  I'm a computer person by trade,
and
I'll agree that the effects, and even some of the terminology is WAY off.
But that's not the point of this movie.  It never claims to be a
documentary, just a fun movie about good vs. bad, and good wining.  It just
happens to take place over the internet.  I think that this movie has just
gotten a bump rap, it's the perfect B movie for lazy Saturday
nights...
<|_=00=_|>

Although not very accurate, it is an excellent film. On the other hand, I am
a sucker for Angelina Jolie so that might be the reason why I loved it. I
recommend catching this one when it is on or renting it. Well worth
it.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all: The movie does not rate "Hackers" as bad guys, but then again,
neither does the good, old "Wargames" feat M. Broderick. One positive
comment.

The movie depicts a computer environment far from what is reality, and what
makes is even worse is the *frantic* use of technical computer terms. Like
RAM or Pentium i.e.

As to my knowledge the crew made a decent background survey on the "Hacker
community", prior to writing the script. What is unbelievable to me, is how
much they failed. Even "The Net", feat. Sandra Bullock, has a better grasp
on reality. This movie just has to become a "Cult" movie for all those who
doesn't know a computer from a Toaster.
