

(originally a response to a movie reviewer who said A Bug's Life was too
much, too fast--he was "dazed and exhausted" by the visuals, and seemed to
ignore the story completely)

Okay, first off, I'm 26 years old, have a job, go to school, and have a
fiance'.  So maybe I'm nuts and just really good at hiding it...but not only
did I NOT come away from A Bug's Life exhausted or dazed, it wasn't until I
saw it the second time that I could even begin to truly appreciate the
artistry and humour of the spectacular visuals--because the first time I
went to see this movie, I got so wrapped up in the story and the characters
that I FORGOT that I was supposed to be sitting there being "wowed" by each
frame visually.  How can you not empathize with Flik and his
road-to-heck-paved-with-good-intentions life?  "Heck" indeed, I found myself
identifying with that little ant (not to mention some of the other bugs) in
a lot more ways than one...and that, in itself, says more to me about what
an incredible movie this is than a whole book on its beautiful eye candy. Of
course, it's beautiful (every blade of grass, the tree, the rain...).  Of
course, what they can do with technology is amazing (you can read their
lips! try it!).  But this movie is not just a masterpiece of art and tech,
not just an dazzling explosion of movement and color.  No, A Bug's Life
would be static if it were all that and no story.  But, I'm glad to say,
it's not!  A Bug's Life has real heart.   Yes, there's a lot going on,
storyline-wise as well as visually, but that's because the story and
characters actually have some depth to them!  Just because it's a kids'
movie doesn't mean you should have to turn off your brain at the theatre
door--kids are smarter than you think!  Besides that, I think that the PIXAR
crew made this for themselves, even before their kids...and it shows, in the
amount of heart in has.  This movie is moving, touching, funny, intriguing,
and generally engrossing.  The character development in such an ensemble
cast is amazing, there's a major amount of character growth, and not just of
the main character--so rare in animation and often in movies in general. It
doesn't hit you over the head with its points once it's made them--every
scene, every frame has a reason in the storyline for being there, and there
are no gratuitous shots.  Not always stating explicitly in words exactly
what is going on means subtlety, to me, folks; it means not "dumbing down"
your movie and assuming the audience is stupid, which it mostly is not.  All
I can think is, if you can see A Bug's Life and not feel anything at all,
then you must have never made a big mistake, hurt your friends, had a crush,
fallen in love, been frustrated that no one would listen to you, lied to
someone you care about, felt like a social misfit, gotten excited over a new
idea, come up with a great idea, had what you thought was a great idea
backfire, been awkward one moment and confident the next, felt the pressure
of responsibility, stood up for yourself and your loved ones, stood alone
against the crowd, felt like a failure, felt like a big success, felt the
need to make a difference with your life in the lives of others...well, you
get the point.  Final words: A+ rating from me; please, if you're going to
see it try to see it in the theatre (pan and scan video is NOT going to work
for this movie); if you loved Toy Story you'll most likely love this (PIXAR
knows how to make movies with heart); if you do love it see it multiple
times or you STILL won't know what you're missing (the amount of detail and
subtlety here is considerable); and whenever you're feeling really low, just
pretend it's a seed, okay?  
<|_=00=_|>

"A Bug's Life" is like a favorite candy bar -- it's chock-full of great
little bits that add up to something really tasty.

The story couldn't have been better; it's clever, has "heart" (emotion), and
every character has a nice "arc" (a growth or change).  By comparison, the
only characters in "Toy Story" to have an "arc" are Buzz, who learns to love
being a toy, and Woody, who overcomes his resentment of Buzz.  There are
tons of laughs and cute moments in "A Bug's Life".  All of the actors turn
in great voice work, and the animation, both the motion and detail, is
superb.

This serious movie buff doesn't throw around "10"s lightly, but this movie
certainly deserves the "10" I gave it.
<|_=00=_|>

There is great detail in A Bug's Life. 
Everything is covered. The film looks 
great and the animation is sometimes 
jaw-dropping. The film isn't too terribly 
orignal, it's basically a modern take on 
Kurosawa's Seven Samurai, only with bugs. 
I enjoyed the character interaction 
however and the bad guys in this film 
actually seemed bad. It seems that Disney 
usually makes their bad guys carbon copy 
cut-outs. The grasshoppers are menacing 
and Hopper, the lead bad guy, was a 
brillant creation. Check this one out.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a FUNNY film. It has all the usual Disney components (music, great
range of characters, story, appeal), entwined with superb animation and the
excellent voice talents of less well known actors as those in say "Antz" and
"Price of Egypt".

The characters work really well, and have a strong appeal, and the humour is
aimed at a wide level which overcomes generational barriers. The movie is
also presented in superb cinemascope format, which adds to the cinema
experience.

Call me crazy, but I have seen the film three times, and I intend on taking
more friends to see it this weekend. Many skeptics have seen this film on my
recommendation and not been disappointed. I work in a multiplex, and I can
honestly say that no-one has ever walked out of this movie without a sense of
satisfaction.

See it, and don't be put off because it is animated. You are sure to enjoy
this movie, and make sure you stay for the end credits! The bloopers and
out-takes at the end are the funniest part of the film, which is packed with
laughs throughout.
<|_=00=_|>

Several of Walt Disney Pictures' best animated films of recent years have
been released or distributed through Pixar, an animation studio that
specializes in computer generated animation and "A Bug's Life", their follow
up to the hugely successful "Toy Story" ranks as one of the best and
funniest Walt Disney Pictures animated films. Released during the same month
as a similar computer generated animated film, "Antz", "A Bug's Life"
suffers no bad comparisons because I consider it to be just as good as
amusing as "Antz." The main focus of the film is Flik, a worker ant who has
a very inventive mind and keen eye for detail. He means well but his
attempts at helping his fellow ant colony with his ideas and inventions
usually cause accidental disaster. One day, the ant colony set up a tribute
display for a bad grasshopper named Hopper and his gang but Flik
accidentally knocks it down. Hopper is very upset by this and he threatens
to kill off the entire colony if they don't build him another provisions
pile by the time he inspects the area again. Flik decides to help. He has
only a few days to find some "warrior" bugs that can stand up to Hopper and
his gang. He comes across a group of disgruntled bugs that had just been
fired from their gigs at a flea circus. Flik decides to bring them back to
the colony and recruit them as warrior bugs. An inventive idea for a
children's film with much of the same humor and ideas that helped to make
"Toy Story" an animated classic.  
<|_=00=_|>

This animated feature about ants, grasshoppers, and various other bugs is an
inspirational testament of never giving up despite the odds stacked against
you.

 The story begins as Flick, voiced by Dave Foley, the ant who always invents
things one right after the other. After the grasshoppers come to invade the
food supply, Flick comes up with the idea of getting warrior bugs to fight
the grasshoppers. Not only will this idea give Flick respect it will allow
him to get redemption as he has messed his prior invention up. This epic
journey starts as Flick goes in search of the warrior bugs; he finds them in
Circus bugs. Consumed for Princess Atta, voiced by Julia Louis Dreyfuss, and
her approval, Flick hides the fact that these "warriors" are in fact circus
bugs. 

I was smiling throughout this film because it was the one of the best
animated features I've seen. Furthermore "A Bug's Life" far eclipses "ANTZ"
because this film has a point, storyline, and direction.

The ending is no surprise as far as the typical ending goes, but this is
definitely a delight worth seeing on the big screen. I recommend this movie
because it allows the mind to sit down and relax and without tension watch
the movie in peace. 
<|_=00=_|>

A Bugs Life is a great film that is not just for kids but for adults
too.
The story is set around a colony of ants and their struggle against the evil
Grasshoppers who come back every year and steal their food ( A Mirror of the
Magnifiscent seven). There is some wonderfull computer animation and the
voices are great too.
You will love it!!  8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Critically, people say that Antz is better. Antz is a good film, but I
enjoyed Bug's Life a bit more. I can't remember a Pixar animation,
other than the two Toy Story films, that I was laughing so hard. The
animation is clean, the story is original and doesn't preach. The voice
overs are what make this movie. Dave Foley is an earnest ant that gets
himself into trouble a lot. Hopper is a superb characterisation by the
always wonderful Kevin Spacey, as is Haydn Panettiere as Dot . There is
also sterling support from Dennis Leary, David Hyde Pierce and Madeline
Kahn, and I could go on and on. The script is fantastic, so funny and
sometimes even touching. It lacks the social messages of Antz, but what
we have is rock-solid entertainment. 9/10. Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

You will marvel at the incredibly sophisticated computer animation, and the
novelty probably won't wear off on the first, second or third viewing, but
you?ll be drawn in by the characters which are so simple yet intriguing,
that you may find yourself actually caring for them in an unexpected way,
which may or may not make you feel a little childish due to the
medium.

Disney continues to firmly hold the title of "Greatest Animation in the
World", with "A Bug?s Life" standing as one of their greatest achievements.
One of the innovative attachments being the delightful "out-takes" added to
the end of the film. The DVD has two sets of these out-takes where as I?m
told the VHS cassette has one alternating version per tape. The DVD also
features "Gerry?s Game" which is a delightful little PIXAR short that was
also shown prior to the film in theaters.

This is by far the superior insect-film in comparison to Dreamworks? "Antz",
which in all fairness is pretty good, but lacks something in the animation
and in the story development and characters. If you look at the star voices
of both films, "Antz" is largely cast with big name "movie" stars with a few
familiar "TV" star voices, where "A Bug?s Life" is just the opposite, loaded
with "TV" stars with Kevin Spacey as the only stand out exception. But the
difference in quality is distinct and obvious.

Dreamworks can?t be blamed or surprised though, when you go head to head
with Disney, you have your work cut out for you. This is the kind of film
that almost makes me wish I had children to share it with. Don?t think for a
second that this is just a movie for kids, though.

<|_=00=_|>
"Bugs Life" was blasted by the critics upon release, springing from the
bowels of Disney not too long after the almost identical "Antz".
However, as a stand-alone movie, it is difficult to fault. The
characters and backgrounds are beautifully rendered but still look like
computer animations. That might sound stupid but for those who think
computer graphics can equal live-action, this film serves to debunk
that idea. It does look good, no question, but compare this to the
computer wizardry behind Gollum in the "Lord Of The Rings" trilogy and
you'll see what I'm getting at. This is not much of a criticism though
- it would be akin to disliking Scooby Doo (the series) because nobody
says "Zoinks!" when they're scared.

I must confess, I rather enjoyed this film. It is imaginative and
colourful and full of zest and energy - exactly how a kids film should
be. The humour is a little on the basic side (dumb insects falling into
walls and references to "poop-poop") but again, this is what you would
expect. Another reason that "A Bug's Life" got the cold treatment from
critics was because it simply wasn't as entertaining to adults as the
"Toy Story" films and I'm afraid I agree. But what the film lacks in
cross-generational appeal, it makes up for with enthusiasm and
story-telling. It does for bugs what The Flintstones did for neolithic
cavemen, fitting outsiders into our own everyday lives. Flick, the
rebellious ant at the centre of the story, produces telescopes out of
grass and water. Piles of rubbish are portrayed as vast cities and the
characters, good and bad, behave as we might. Credit for this must go
to the top-notch cast of voice actors including Kevin Spacey, David
Hyde Pierce, Denis Leary and the others. Probably the only let-down was
John Ratzenberger who sounded exactly like Cliff from "Cheers". Still,
nice to know he's getting work after all these years.
