
Best robot film ever. This really is a great film, which shows how a
machine who strangely is endowed with creativity, thought and awareness
unlike other robots, strives to become more than he is. This is a great
film and very much about family life, emotions, what it means to be
human, and trying to better oneself through both serving others and
learning with others about oneself. If you ever wanted to be more than
you are then watch this film. This is not so much a film about robots
or sci-fi, but a film about life and humanity and relationships, love
and family. The robots and sci-fi are just a scenario which allows us
to explore ourselves more as humans and wonder about our existence.
<|_=00=_|>
I heaven't read the book, but BICENTENNIAL MAN is a very touching and
heartwarming movie about a house-robot (Robert Williams) that begins a
200-year journey to become and to be legally recognized as a human.
During his journey, he has to face the fact and live with it that all
loved ones around him grow older and eventually die while he is
immortal.

I think that this was one of Robin Williams' best performances ever, if
not the best. He proves that he can either play a 'funny wacky'
character but also a serious character that will touch the hearts of
the viewers. And this movie does just that.

I like the purity and the innocence of the story and I wonder why this
movie has such a low rating. It's a must see for all open minded
people.
<|_=00=_|>

Owing to the fact that it is based on an Isaac Asimov story, `Bicentennial
Man' turns out to be a more interesting and meaningful film than both its
advertising campaign and its own opening section would indicate.  The caveat
for those seeking out a fun film for the entire family is that this movie,
though initially sold as a warm cuddly comedy in the tradition of say `Mrs.
Doubtfire,' actually deals with some very heavy and heady issues like
sexuality, aging and dying, which may make it less-than-ideal viewing for
young children.

The first section of the film is, by far, its weakest.  In 2005, the wealthy
Martin family receives delivery of a brand new servant android (Robin
Williams) who, almost immediately, begins to display a remarkable range of
human emotions and interests.  Thus, we are set up for yet another in a long
line of predictable tales (i.e. `Harry and the Hendersons,' `Stuart Little')
in which a family comes to adopt a strange, not-quite-human creature,
welcoming him in as one of their own.  Indeed, in the film's early stages,
there is no shortage of either bland humor or drippy sentimentality as
Andrew, the android, ingratiates himself with all but one of the Martin
household.  The `wit' in the film consists, basically, of endless jokes
about how Andrew takes all idioms at literal face value, a running gag that
is, finally, as unoriginal as it is wearying.

Then, however, just as we are about to give up hope in it, the movie becomes
more intriguing.  Rather than staying within the context of the present life
of this one family, the screenplay begins to move ahead in time, exploring
Andrew's gradual growth toward total humanity, while the initial family
grows up and eventually dies off.  Actually, despite how one may feel about
the film itself, one must admire its boldness and audacity, for it is not
often that, in a film billed as a mass audience comedy, all the main
characters pass on to their heavenly reward at one point or another – but,
then again, how many comedies span a two hundred year time period? 
`Bicentennial Man' obviously has more on its mind than mere
fish-out-of-water buffoonery, as it becomes an often-elegiac reflection on
the transience of life, the meaning of being human and the search for
societal acceptance.  The mood of the film is remarkably hushed and
reflective at times, which again might make it slow going for the modern
mass audience more conditioned to a faster pace and giddier tone, especially
in a Robin Williams film (though, of late, his films have certainly been
taking on a much more somber quality, vide `What Dreams may Come,' `Patch
Adams' and `Jakob the Liar').  There are times when `Bicentennial Man' seems
overly impressed with its own self-importance, yet one appreciates its
refusal to settle for the easy path of cheap comedy and upbeat sentiments. 
There is, indeed, a real sadness to much of the film.

Special acknowledgement should be made of the superb art direction, set
design, costume design, makeup and special effects that together give the
film its understated and believable futuristic look.  In addition, James
Horner's melancholic symphonic score, though a bit lubricious at times, does
create an atmosphere of contemplative seriousness that perfectly matches the
tone and purpose of the film.

`Bicentennial Man' may not turn out to be what you are looking for when you
first seek it out, but, if you approach it with an open mind and a certain
degree of tolerance and indulgence, you may be pleasantly surprised and,
perhaps, even rewarded.

<|_=00=_|>
Firstly, i have not read Asimov's book and therefore cannot remark on
any errors in translation from book to film.

I have read many of the comments posted here on the IMDb, but fail to
see why so many people feel the need to mention that the world is
perceived as perfect in the the future, maybe it is, maybe it isn't,
the fact is, it's not important. This movie quite simply follows the
life of a man trapped in a robots body and his quest to be accepted in
the world, and be allowed to love and cherish the people close to him.

I have to say that i didn't expect much from this movie, i thought it
would be a kids film, full of typical Robin Williams style laughs, i
was way off in my assumption. This is probably Robin Williams's best
performance and it is a very emotional journey through change and
development of the human condition.

Overall the film is quite amusing, very touching and is full of
realistic characters all very well cast to not overshadow 'Andrew' as
he quests over 200 years for acceptance.

A great movie 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie surprised me. Having been a fan of Issac Asimov for many years I
thought that this adaptation with Chris Columbus at the helm would be
terrible. I was wrong. Some may complain that this movie is too long and
slow, but I would wager that their attention spans are somewhat lacking. If
you are looking for a high action movie with robots then you have come to
the wrong place. If you are looking for a sci-fi based romantic comedy about
the personal growth of one man...er robot, then this is the movie. The
comedy was well written and well played, appropriately placed in each
moment. AS for the character of Andrew(Robin Williams), though he is
supposed to be a robot you really connect with his character and sense his
growth over time. Unlike A.I. his character learns and grows and has real
not fabricated emotional attachments. I give this movie an 8 or 9. Very
good.
<|_=00=_|>
For Ray Bradbury the masterwork of perfect poignance is Drink Entire:
Against the Madness of Crowds. For Isaac Asimov it is Bicentennial Man.
Only Asimov could remake Pinocchio as compelling science fiction. So
many have tried to create a sweet and funny story of the machine that
would be man, but this is it's perfect telling.

Only Robin Williams could play the unlikely hero of this story with
perfect comedic timing and perfect emotional pitch. Embeth Davidtz as
his leading lady matches his skills at every turn, and Sam Neill turns
in one his best performances as the man who first recognized the
irreplaceable uniqueness of his mistuned android.

Bicentennial Man is first rate science fiction – without physical
conflict, without wars, without new ways to incinerate each other. In
the end, it makes you glad to be a messy human. Watching this truly
beautiful film is a wonderful way to spend an evening, and a guarantor
of better dreams than you've had in many years.
<|_=00=_|>
Most people who have seen this movie are of the opinion that it was
average at best. Indeed there is no complicated plot, no big action
scenes and a predictable ending but there is a Story. It's Andrew with
his Box of Chocolats, simply going through life searching for what
eludes him and what we generally take for granted - humanity. The
characters along the way are well acted - in particular the robot
creator and his ditsy assistant. This movie is a tear jerker as
Andrew's friends come and go and lifetimes pass him by without him
really comprehending it all. The only real failings were the large gaps
in time and how Andrew came about - but then it's difficult to compress
200 years into 1 1/2 hours. If you enjoyed Azimov's books as much as I
did, then this movie is for you. Far better in my opinion than IA or I
Robot who also took their cues from Azimov.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is absolutely outstanding. Forget the reviews of the critics
who seem to love bashing films, this is a tremendous, epic film with
such a great heart that explores the values and meaning of humanity and
life in general. I saw it for the first time in ages today and its
still as touching as the first time I saw it a few years ago. In fact I
remember it being shown on a plane I was on the year it came out and I
watched the first 5 minutes on a screen with poor picture and sound and
remember thinking it was just cheesy family comedy which just plays for
humor and nothing else. When I first saw it a few years later when
there was nothing else on I was completely blown away by it. It was the
complete opposite of what I was thought it was originally. This film
does have its humor and that humor is often hilarious in parts, but
thats because its delivered so brilliantly by Williams who plays his
character to perfection. More importantly it is not supposed to be a
comedy. Its a drama and features brilliant performances from an
underrated cast including Williams, Sam Neill, Embeth Davditz and
Oliver Platt among others.

The film is also outstanding from a technical perspective. The
futuristic cities, buildings and vehicles look fabulous along with the
new household appliances, but the most important thing that really
steals the show is the Script and Direction from Kazan and Columbus
respectively. I will certainly be watching more of Kazan's films in the
future and already thought he did a great job on Matilda beforehand.
I've always been an admirer of Columbus and this has to be his best
film to date. His vision of the film is splendid and I applaud him for
bringing such a brilliant set of actors and sets together to make such
an epic and unforgettable film.

For most of my reviews for films, I don't like commenting too much on
the plot, but here I feel the need to because it touched me so much and
the plot helps explain why this happened. It is about a Robot that over
200 years, learns about humanity and seeks to be a part of it. At the
beginning its more of a comedy as the robot (who's called Andrew) gets
used to the way humans are and learns about simple well known things in
life i.e Laughter, Sex, Family Life and Change. 

But further on as he becomes close to the youngest in the family, he
learns more about love and how life is. I sympathised with him as he
has to witness this and we follow him as he experiences the deaths of
the people closest to him. I felt for him due to him being unable to
experience these things like we do. Throughout the film I felt
(although the critics certainly didn't and many here probably don't)
all these things and became closer and closer to him as he constantly
never gives up hope on becoming a human. I found it very emotional and
I actually appreciated many of my abilities that I as a human have. To
love, to cry, to experience changes, to reproduce, watch my children to
grow up, to get older and to eventually move onto another life. As
Andrew learns about all these things and begins to want them I really
did feel for him like I say because I would find it incredibly hard to
live if I was like that.

SPOILER Having witnessed the ups and downs of Andrew's life throughout
the film and his epic journey to finally become a human being, by the
end of the film Andrew has managed to fully achieve this. He is fully
human and unfortunately misses this declaration by a few seconds. But
he didn't need to like his lover Porscha (His closest family member's
granddaughter) says. He has done it. He has found the love he's wanted
all those many years with her and he won't have to experience the
sadness of watching things change ever again. He has moved onto another
life like we're all destined to do and Porscha decides to join him. END
OF SPOILER

Basically, after seeing this film I did learn just how lucky I am to
possess all these extraordinary and unique abilities and I don't
believe it is just an accident or coincidence. We each have a destiny
and I believe God wants us all to experience these things in life and
I'm grateful to be here today and will certainly not be taking any of
them for granted.

I really think that that this film with a rating of just 6.1 and with
the harsh and very unfair criticism its got from critics has to be the
most underrated misunderstood film ever made. The film is not really in
my opinion a family comedy although it unfortunately has been marketed
that way. Its a drama about humanity with bits of comedy that should be
watched by anyone of any age. I believe it can help people to become,
like me, much more grateful for things we as humans perhaps take for
granted in life.

I thank you for reading this review and advise you to watch this film
and prepare to be moved in a way I don't think any film has done or
ever could do.

10/10 Not my favourite film of all time but certainly in my Top 5.
Stunning.
<|_=00=_|>

BICENTENNIAL MAN (1999) ***

Starring: Robin Williams, Sam Neill, Wendy Crewson, Embeth Davidtz, and
Oliver Platt
Directed by Chris Columbus.   Running Time: 133 minutes.   Rated PG (for
mild language and some sex-related material) 

By Blake French:

	Chris Columbus is very good at directing tearjerkers. He has a history of
constructing such movies as "Stepmom" and "Mrs. Doubtfire." "Bicentennial
Man" is being misadvertised as a humble family comedy. Although it starts
out unsatisfying, the film gradually becomes more and more penetrating as we
discover the film is really about inner emotions,  the changing of times,
how people change over time, and the meaning of life from an original point
of view. "Bicentennial Man" is a sweet, touching production with lots of
heart and a shapely message.

	At first "Bicentennial Man" looks  to be about a futuristic family who buys
an android robot that is supposed to do housework and serve them. The family
of four includes two children, one named Little Miss, and the parents who
are called by the name of Sir and Ma'am. They adopt Andrew expecting him to
be similar to all the other androids in the area. Nearly every household has
one. However, Sir soon notices certain features about Andrew that make him
unique, different from any other android he has ever seen. Andrew occupies
creativity and emotional personality, elements that these robots are
presumed not to contain.

	The film doesn't contain a good an introduction to the family who adopts
Andrew, which is mainly the reason why I was never entirely concerned for
the characters. But the reasoning behind the lack of focus on the family is
due to the fact that "Bicentennial Man" isn't about the family who buys
Andrew, but a narrative of Andrew himself.

	A running flaw in the film is our foundering curiosity that only grows more
ponderous as the script progresses. The audience desires more information
about why Andrew is so different from the other robots. There are obvious
reasons, sure, but what I wanted was an explanation of why he is special. A
lust for information that is never appropriately granted.

The film skips ahead a generation or so. Sir and Ma'am age and Little Miss
grows to be a full grown woman. Many things change for Andrew. He begins to
wonder what lies beyond the likes of his household. He longs for emotional
reactions to take place on his face and the concept of freedom. Sir has
taught Andrew about death, sex, love, humor, and time. He gradually wants
more and more independence. This is where Andrew starts becoming interested
in turning from a mechanical being to a biological being.

	The age advancing make-up is believable and awe-inducing. I could hardly
trust my eyes that Sam Neill wasn't an old man in the movie. However,
although I can see that the filmmakers had no other reliable option, I
disliked the jumps in time the it takes. The time gaps force us out of
massive plot pieces, some of which are important to the character
development.

	There are some really funny moments in "Bicentennial Man." Most of them
appear when the picture becomes a bit emotionally heavy, in order to relieve
such tension in the audience. This is a wise choice in the writer's part;
the viewers who do mistake this movie as a family comedy will gain some
satisfaction from these insulated humorous moments.   

	I wanted more information on how the robot Andrew gradually becomes
''human.'' I felt cheated out of a lot of decent, noteworthy material here.
I felt this way because the scenes where we do have the privilege to see
Andrew reinvented are wonderfully inventive and interesting. The film should
have leaned towards that material a little more. 

	The movie features super charged performances by the entire cast. Robin
Williams offers an emotionally accurate acting job that brings the confusion
and imagination of the android Andrew to life. The supporting cast is also
filled with fine performances with Sam Neill, Wendy Crewson, Embeth Davidtz,
and Oliver Platt.

	Even though I can admit that "Bicentennial Man" contains several flawed
motives, I still was a little surprised that the film opened to many
negative reviews. This isn't a bad movie, just a differently anticipated
one. The movie sets up its effective conclusion from the very beginning; it
is the only logical climax for such a story. Although it leaves viewers with
a sense of well-being, I thought it posed too many spiritual and biological
questions. Overall, however, the movie is a well-depicted idea that deserves
more appreciation from audiences than its receiving.  

Brought to you by Touchstone Pictures and Columbia Pictures.

<|_=00=_|>

Chris Columbus has another hit on his hands.  Robin Williams gives his
usual
first rate performance, along with Sam Neil and Embeth Davidtz. They
highlight a well cast movie that will pull at your heart strings more than
once, in a tale written by Isaac Asimov that brings a lot of human emotion
to this science fiction piece.
