

A few reviewers here need to chill out. 'Tis true, Hyams is no Kubrick, even
an infusion of the great man's DNA wouldn't guarantee his next flick would
rise above plebian mediocrity. So what?  Does Hyams aspire to creative
brilliance? or does he just make films at his own pace and at his own level
of artistic creativity, which after all is his right to do. If there are
those who look down from their own lofty pedestals frowning upon what they
see as ungilded simplicity well - whoopy do, go shoot your own celestial
Heart of Darkness - make your point that way!

For my money, TIMECOP achieved exactly what it set out to achieve...value
for your $12.95 whatever. Certainly no cerebral rush, but honest
entertainment nonetheless. I rather doubt the Van Damme brigade were looking
for some kinda kick-ass Yoda with nunchukas. Hyams delivered his requisite
quota of high kicks per dollar and exploding blood capsules per
reel.

The imdb rating for this film is laughable...it rates a minimum of
6.6!


<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was a notch above the normal no-brainer kick-boxer
action flicks which star men like Jean-Claude VanDamme, Steven Segal,
Chuck Norris, Jackie Chan, etc. because of the interesting and somewhat
complex tale with time travel as the main theme. The story also has
some good twists and humor.

THE GOOD - Kudos to the four s's in here: Silver, suspense,
special-effects and sound - all of them are very good. There is
something about Ron Silver's looks that spell "sleazy and rotten"
before he even opens his mouth! When he speaks, his accent and
profanity quickly verifies those suspicions. The special- effects - at
least when this came out in the mid '90s - were very cool when the time
travelers reached their destinations and appear out of this wall of
near- transparent plastic. The story can be a bit confusing at times
but is fun at most times, especially near the end when doubles of all
the characters are on the screen at once

THE BAD - The bad part of the film is the credibility, especially with
Silver who plays a politician. No politician, no matter what party or
where, would be this much of low-life. In fact, the story is full of
unlikable and untrustworthy characters, too many of them. There also is
too much Rambo-mentality and the final action goes on way too long. The
time travel ange of the story may be intelligent but the dialog in this
movie is just plain dumb and too juvenile.

Overall, this is one of the best of a small group of well-done Van
Damme movies.
<|_=00=_|>
Timecop is probably remembered as his last good movie before he got
into a rut of mediocre(though successful) action flicks.Its also the
most mainstream picture he was ever in for my money.

In 1994 Time-travel has become a possible reality.Washington decides
that it needs to be "policed" from criminal activity and the paradox's
of undoing life as we know it.Cut to 2004:Enter Van Damme as Walker the
on-the-rocks time-cop who uncovers a plot to swindle the presidency by
a corrupt Senator McComb played by Ron Silver,who actually engineered
the murder of Walkers-wife(Mia Sara).Can Max stop McComb?Can he go back
and save his wife?After some decent gunfights and roundhouses you'll
have to find out.

Timecop benefits from having a talented director Like Peter Hyams
behind the wheel for this one.He stages everything well,Keeps the
action and plot flowing,Special FX are engaging,and gets a very good
performance by Van Damme.Who comes off vulnerable and like a real
person.The production values are very good here too.It is also pretty
decent political backdrop/Sci-fi combo.

Ron Silver is a great Bad Guy here as McComb.He gets to shoot, beat
people up,Snarls And looks frankly maniacal at times.Mia Sara is
engaging and looks beautiful as ever.Bruce McGill has some funny bits
as Van Dammes Boss.The very sexy Gloria Ruben also shows up as Walkers
new partner.

Timecop is not the greatest when it comes to plot-holes.But unlike the
recent version of HG Wells Time machine, it is a very fun movie.And one
of Van Dammes best.
<|_=00=_|>

Timecop is a pretty hilarious movie, and it has all the trademarks of a

Tapert/Raimi film (i.e., the guys who brought you Evil Dead, Hercules,

Xena, Jack of All Trades...). It's definitely a big-screen movie, but they
have some fun, even including dialogue that pokes fun at Jean-Claude's at
times unintelligible accent. There are some decent martial arts set pieces,
they don't spend too long on the time travel aspects (which is about par for
the course for the guys who did time travel in Evil Dead, Hercules, and
Xena...). Ron Silver makes a suitably sinister villain, but Bruce McGill
steals the show as the protagonist's somewhat befuddled but loyal boss.
There are the usual holes that accompany any time travel story, and a weird
ending. With the feel-good ending, no one seems to realize that Max won't
recall the last 10 years of his married life and time raising his kid! 
Still, it's a pretty good, not too deep, enjoyable movie.
<|_=00=_|>
kicks? check 

punches? check 

signature semi-nude van damme splits? check

van damme playing multiple roles? check 

'Pete' from MacGyver? check

time travel police going back in time wearing futuristic uniforms
labeling themselves as Time Enforcement Commission officers indicating
to those in the past that time travel will one day be possible even
though TEC code 40.8 subsection 9 strictly forbids time travel with
intent to alter the future as a crime punishable by death? check

Van Damme takes a break from his usual tournament-style fare to bring
us a movie based around a story rather than a series of jump kicks. I
won't repeat the synopsis you can read on IMDb. What I will say is that
this is honestly the single best movie of Van Damme's career. It made a
solid attempt at a story, it had decent special effects and sound
effects, the acting was as good as van damme gets, and the action was
good. Perhaps if he had made a few more of this caliber he might have
become a more stable box office draw rather than the queen of straight
to video punch-and-kick drivel.
<|_=00=_|>

Forgot how good this movie actually was! Definitely one of Van Dammes best
and one of the better action movies in the 90's! Also Ron Silver is great
as
the bad guy "You can forget about being my Chief of Staff, if slamming
your
head into the sideboard turns you into a Snivelling Weasel" :D ... give it
a
watch you wont be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>

This was actually a decent film.
If you can get past the gratuitous violence (a virtual requirement for Van
Damme films), you might like this movie. Van Damme plays the title
character
who needs to stop a crooked politician from changing history while trying
to
decide whether to save his murdered wife.
I liked this. Silver is good as the bad guy, and Van Damme is watchable.
See
it if you get the chance!
*** out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
I've only ever seen this film while drunk, so bear with me ...

Awful Belgian 'actor' John Claude Van Damme grows an emergency mullet
in order to go back in time and rescue Ferris Bueller's girlfriend.
While in the past he runs into that chap out of the Kirstie Alley
sitcom (the one about underwear where she's put on a lot of
weight).Meanwhile, back in the future, the guy with the moustache who's
been in loads of stuff gets killed by the future version of the guy
from the Kirstie Alley sitcom. In retaliation, John Claude Van Damme
kills the Kirstie Alley guy by throwing another version of the Kirstie
Alley guy at him - the two sort of moulding together in a bubbling, bad
special effects mess on the carpet. John Claude Van Damme then finds
out he's had a kid in the future and that the guy with the moustache
who was killed by the Kirstie Alley guy isn't dead after all. So that's
alright then.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the best Action/Sci-Fi films ever made in my opinion
with a kick ass story and 2 amazing performances from Van Damme and Mia
Sara!. All the characters are wonderful, and i think this is Van
Damme's 3rd best, plus Van Damme(as usual) and Mia Sara are simply
amazing in this!. The effects were just awesome and one of the coolest
scenes for me is when The future Van Damme confronts his wife it was
rather tense and very moving, plus Ron Silver is extremely menacing as
the main villain!. I thought Van Damme's acting was fantastic, and he
and Mia Sara had amazing chemistry together, plus the opening is quite
disturbing and very memorable. It's quite original and it had a
fantastic all around cast, plus it's exciting throughout!. The finale
is one of the best ever and, i thought the ending was really neat and
quite emotional, plus It had some great fight scenes as well!. It's one
of Van Damme's best performances, and i thought it was extremely well
written and made as well, plus i can't believe this only has a 5.5
rating as it should be much much higher in my opinion!.

It really is a brilliant film, and i just loved the whole concept of
time traveling!, plus it's very imaginative and creative as well!. All
the characters are very likable, and i really hope they make a true
sequel to this with both Van Damme and Mia Sara back together!, plus it
has quite a few shocking and disturbing scenes as well. Van Damme once
again has a cool look,and i thought the scene where Van Damme visits
Sarah Fielding in the hospital, was really moving and tense, plus the
locations were also awesome!.There were also quite a few harsh jokes
throwin' at Van Damme and he took them extremely well This is one of
the best Action/Sc-Fi films ever made in my opinion with a kick ass
story and 2 amazing performances from Van Damme and Mia Sara, and if
you haven't seen it do so immediately!, you won't regret it's one of
Van Damme's absolute best!.

The Direction is amazing!.Peter Hyams does an amazing job here with
wonderful camera work, fantastic angles, some great close up shots,
great use of colors and he kept the film at an extremely fast pace!.

There is a little bit of blood and violence. We get some bloody gunshot
wounds, harsh beatings, a bloody broken nose,gunshot wounds to the head
with blood and brains spurting,wicked shattering arm,graphic fall
victims, cool scar transformations, and other minor stuff.

The Acting is amazing!. Jean Claude Van Damme is AMAZING as always, and
is amazing here, he is extremely likable, fantastic in the acting
department, had amazing chemistry with Mia Sara, gives one of his best
performances, had tons of charisma, had a lot of character, and just
did an amazing job overall!. (Van Damme Rules!!!!!!!!, he is the man!).
Mia Sara is also AMAZING as always, and is amazing here, she is
STUNNINGLY GORGEOUS!, was fantastic in the acting department had
amazing chemistry with Van Damme, had a great smile, and was especially
good in the finale!, she is one of my favorite actresses. (Mia Sara
rules!!!!). Ron Silver is wonderful as the evil Senator McComb, he had
some awesome one liners, had some great scenes with Van Damme, was
extremely menacing and just did a wonderful job overall!. (Silver
Rules). Bruce McGill is great in his role, he was very likable and did
a great job i liked him lots. Gloria Reuben is hot, and did excellent
with what she had to do, although i wished she had more screen time.
Rest of the cast do great.

Overall if you haven't seen this do so immediately you won't regret it
it's one of the best Action-Sci-Fi films ever made, and Van Damme's 3rd
best. ***** out of 5
<|_=00=_|>

'Timecop' probably represents Jean-Claude Van Damme at his very best -
this
movie demonstrates his ability...

The movie itself is slick and some thought has obviously gone into it -
some
time-travel movies do fail on grounds concerning plausibility, though
'Timecop' is intelligent as it is enjoyable...

The complexity of the film really finds the viewer respecting Van Damme a
lot more, it simply isn't an action movie, though Van Damme shows that he
still retains his amazing physical talents...

I recently saw this movie on NBC, and though not seeing it from the start,
it brought back memories of the entire film, and what a great film it is -
I
had originally thought about giving this a [6/10], then thought maybe [7
or
8/10]...I opted for [8/10]...(maybe leaning more towards
nine)...

:)


