
You have to hand it to Warren Beatty, he redefines the term "maverick".
He could be, like many of his contemporaries, taking it easy. Instead,
"Bullworth". One of the most outrageously funny satires I've seen in a
long time. Satire? Somebody asked me. Well yes, satire. A realistic,
daring, clearheaded, masterful satire. We live in satirical times, we
have no choice in the matter. It takes an artist of Beatty's caliber to
turns things around and makes us laugh and shiver at this mess of our
own making. After seeing "Bullworth" I felt compelled to revisit some
of Beatty's earlier work as an actor or producer or director. From
"Mickey One" to "Reds" passing through "Bonnie And Clyde" and "Shampoo"
not to mention "Heaven Can Wait" Mr. Beatty's legacy is one of amazing
consistency. As I smiled enjoying his funny portrayal in "The Roman
Spring of Mrs. Stone" with Vivien Leigh, I thought: that beautiful man
is not just a pretty face.
<|_=00=_|>
Bulworth was released quite a few years ago, but it is still (if not
more) relevant today. It merges two "cultures," one being the rich
white class culture, and the other being the urban lower class culture,
and ends up with many universal ideals. The story's hero is Jay
Billington Bulworth, portrayed brilliantly by Warren Beatty. I think
some people have a problem with the fact that he is...well, more or
less insane, but that is possibly the most important thing about the
character. You could call him insane, but if you look at it more
romantically, perhaps he is "posessed" by the "spirit" of social
justice, a mere vessel for the truths that need to be told. He is a
character unaware of the significance in what he is saying. To him, if
he's not completely insane, he's simply a man who broke down and
decided to tell it like it is (ala Peter Finch in Network, but with
rapping and rhyming). There's something actually kind of mystical about
all this.

Since it would be way too preachy if that's all there was to the story,
there's some other aspects that make for an entertaining viewing.
Bulworth, in his depression and anxiety, hired a hit-man to "off" him
so his family could collect the life insurance. Once his speeches and
raps become a success, this is obviously a big problem since he wants
to live again ("You should never make life and death situations when
feeling suicidal"). There is a love interest with a girl named Nina,
played by the lovely Halle Berry. You don't know if you can trust her,
and her intentions are unclear.

There is also a fine supporting role by Don Cheadle, who plays a
"business man" who uses young children to sell drugs. His character
does bring up some valid points, and we're forced to really put
ourselves in his shoes. He's doing what he feels is right, but
ultimately, the ends don't justify his means.

With a movie that has so much going on, it would probably be difficult
for the filmmakers to figure out a way to wrap everything up, right?
Unfortunately, yes. Bulworth ends pretty abruptly and leaves with the
film's message being half-assedly shouted at the screen. The last act
is a huge flaw in an otherwise perfect movie.

Bulworth is a hilarious comedy and it heralds something truly special
and unique. It is not a film to be taken for granted or forgotten. It's
a quintessential example of a 'contemporary classic' for our
generation. I have no doubt that over the next decade or so, people
will want to revisit it and examine the politics and the cultures; it
should be studied in classrooms, it should be valued. I loved Bulworth!

My rating: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

I cannot recommend 'Bulworth' highly enough.   Sure, I've seen lots of
worthy political satires.   'The Candidate', 'Wag the Dog', 'Bob Roberts',
and others.   But this is the finest example ever made.   Warren Beatty
should be very proud of this masterpiece.   Not only for the guts it took to
so brazenly confront the modern political process (and how it affects race
relations, the film industry, education, medicine, and so on) but also for
the fact that he wrote it, produced it, directed it, and starred in it.
Any one of those jobs can be a supreme undertaking, and here he has
accomplished all four with integrity, wit, humor, intelligence, and
undeniable brass.   It is quite simply impossible to watch this movie
without being repeatedly shocked at the depth of its honesty.   The
supporting cast is also excellent, and Don Cheadle stands out as LD.

<|_=00=_|>

BULWORTH (1998) ***1/2

Starring: Warren Beatty, Halle Berry, Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt, Isaiah
Washington, and Christine Baranski
Directed, produced, and written by Warren Beatty   108 minutes   Rated R
(for pervasive strong language, drug use, sexual references, and brief
violence) 

By Blake French:

	I have seen a lot of movies in my time, but I have never seen anything as
witty, as twisted, as entertaining, as outrageous, or as original as Warren
Beatty's new political satire "Bulworth." It is, at times, funny, but at
others very dark. I can't recall ever stating that a "serious comedy," is
one of the years best films before. That was then, this is now--and
"Bulworth" is truly one of the better film's of 1998. 

	As the movie opens, a US senator named Jay Billington Bulworth, hires a hit
man to kill an individual of his desire. The hit man wonders exactly who
this person is in which a man of such power wishes to eliminate. As it turns
out, Bulworth has paid this hit man to kill his own suicidal self. "If I'm
not dead by Monday, I'm canceling that check." Bulworth states firmly.

	This is were the outrageous humor begins. During a campaign speech at a
local African American church, Bulworth goes seemingly nuts. He begins to
tell the citizens the truth about subjects in congress that most politicians
would never think of revealing to the general public. His representative,
Dennis Murphy, who cares only about getting Bulworth elected, almost faints
in shock and disbelief. But you have to understand, these are the last days
that Bulworth will be experiencing life, so why not reveal secrets, release
envelop pushing information, and start up controversy with the nation with
his last breaths.

	"Never make life of death decisions when you're suicidal," explains
Bulworth during one of the film's more invigoration sequences. He is talking
to a woman named Nina, whom he met nonchalantly during one of his
presentation speeches. The two of them fall in love. Too bad Bulworth has
not taken his own advice typed above, for his death is near. But is Nina who
she appears to be? Is his wife, Constance Bulworth, having an affair with
another man? Is Bulworth's demise in the near future? All suitable questions
that will all be answered when you see the movie. 

	Parts of the film do not work. For instance, the subplot involving
Bulworth's wife who is adulterous just isn't detailed enough, nor are the
characters introduced, for us to even consider this anything but a gimmick.
True, the affair does symbolize chaos preoccupied in his household, and
establishes another reason for him to be suicidal. Still, it's too small for
a movie that offers so many good qualities.  

	"Bulworth" has a detailed opening that provokes empathy for our main
character, Jay Bulworth. We learn of an external problem, Jay being involved
in a heated presidential campaign, and an internal problem, Jay being
suicidal and calling a hit on himself. The structure only goes uphill from
there, and that is hard to do. Both conflicts are evolved, with Nina,
Bulworth's sense of honesty, the hit man's presence, and several character &
plot twists in which someone is not who they appear to
be.

	Along with some very dramatic and meaningful moments found in "Bulworth,"
also contained is dialogue that is smart, witty, and at times hilarious. The
first shock value sequence is truly outrageous, and the films unabashed
sense of eagerness only gets more perverse; the film is rated R for
appropriate reasons, mostly coming from Bulworth's style of life he becomes
involved with. The situations we're facing here are quite controversial, but
Warren Beatty directs the film with a certain humorous touch. He uses
effective but bizarre camera angles, and a hip cinematographer that creates
aggressive chemistry between Beatty and Halle Berry during their "party
animal" scenes together. 

	The performances in "Bulworth" entirely demonstrate that Warren Beatty is
not only able to direct, write and produce well, but also that capable to
lead an all star cast, including Don Cheadle, Oliver Platt, Isaiah
Washington, and Christine Baranski, into an Oscar worthy overall appearance
level. All of these things contribute to making "Bulworth" is of the better
films of 1998, and I recommend it highly.

   Brought to you by Twentieth Century Fox. 

<|_=00=_|>
In BULWORTH Warren Beatty gives one of his funniest and most outrageous
performances. This sharp political satire is even more timely now than
it was in 1998. This is a marvelously subversive movie on several
fronts: politics, race, economics, Hollywood itself! Beatty stars as a
fading senator from California who is so burned out he arranges for a
large insurance policy and then hires a hit man. He's at the end of his
rope personally and professionally. He's losing in a primary election
to a young gun and has nothing left in his life. After days without
sleep or eating he is dragged off to a rally at a Black church. He
starts to read his "usual" speech but almost in a state of delirium he
starts answering questions HONESTLY. He enrages the Black congregation
with his brutal answers but somehow feels buoyant. Outside the church
as the mobs surround him he runs into Halle Berry and her friends and
they all take off in the limo.

This starts a voyage of discovery for Beatty. Of course at this point
Beatty is also running from the hit man. His new honesty unleashes a
desire to live. They arrive at a Black hip-hop club where Beatty
drinks, smokes pot, and is transformed by the loud urban rap music. The
dance scene with Beatty and Berry is remarkable.

Next stop is a speech at a fancy Hollywood hotel filled with film
executives. Beatty makes many comments of how Jews run Hollywood,
becomes rich, but turn out a crappy product. Next comes a debate with
his political opponent, and finally an interview. The new Beatty
parrots back much of what he has heard from poor Blacks but of course
he has always known the truth. His sense of freedom from the back-room
politics of Washington is exhilarating and his new voice reaches the
masses of disenfranchised voters. His comments about the media and how
it is controlled by corporate America is more apt now (during the Bush
administration) than ever before.

Beatty is brilliant, and this ranks as one of his very best
performances. Berry is actually good as well in her pre-movie star mode
when she still bothered to act. Oliver Platt scores as the political
aide. Paul Sorvino is a lobbyist for the insurance industry.

Jack Warden, Helen Martin, Don Cheadle, Christine Baranski, Florence
Stanley, Laurie Metcalf, Sean Astin, Isaiah Washington, Nora Dunn,
Joshua Malina, William Baldwin, Hart Bochner, Armelia McQueen, and
Jackie Gayle co-star.

Filled with humor, political insights, and top-notch performances. This
acid look at politics in Amerca is more timely now than ever. Bravo to
Warren Beatty!
<|_=00=_|>
Other than a few forced silly moments, this is the sharpest, darkest,
bravest. most disturbing political satire out of Hollywood since
"Network". 

This is Beatty's career best performance by far, making his rapidly
breaking down liberal Democrat Senator into a character simultaneously
howlingly funny, pitiable, admirable, wince inducing, pathetic and
horrifying. 

Beatty has made a film that walks the razor's edge right along with
it's lead character, playing into deliberately provoking racial and
cultural stereotypes at the same time it shreds them. 

This isn't a polite "the system needs fixing" movie, it's an
in-your-face scream that the system is broken, perhaps beyond all
repair. That idea seems only more timely now.
<|_=00=_|>
Bulworth may have been filmed in the MTV quick edit way that some find
unfitting for an Oscar worthy production but, aesthetics aside, its
contents are right on the mark.

Anyone who claims Beatty's/Bulworth's analysis and solutions to
political problems are dated, must be living under a rock. As we speak,
Bulworth's claims that "white people have more in common with black
people than with rich people" are proved to be completely accurate as
we look at the devastating aftermath of hurricane Katrina. Though New
Orleans' population consists largely of blacks and ethnic minorities,
those who were left behind had ONE common denominator: they are infirm
either economically or physically i.e. they are POOR or HEALTH
CHALLENGED. The TV-images show poor white people among the many poor
blacks. Poverty is what sets them both back. Bulworth dated? You must
be living in a socio-economically comfortable cocoon.

If anything, Beatty proved with this, both hilarious as bluntly
accurate, brilliant movie to be a visionary. He puts his finger on
where it hurts most: the complete corruption of the system, the
hand-clapping, backslapping deals between interest groups and
politicians, turning the last group into mouthpieces for selfish
agendas. The hypocrisy behind the photo ops (look at Bush yesterday on
the news posing with hurricane victims), the empty rhetoric, the
feigning to be there for the people, when really they're only there for
themselves.

People who cannot come up with more than "this is socialist
rhetoric/propaganda" comments are obviously deaf, dumb and blind to the
realities of (modern day) politics and therefore deserve to be duped by
the leaders they so willingly, blindly, wish to trust, believe and
follow. It really is true folks: "Tax payers, tax payers, take it in
the rear". Wake up and smell the dung, for goodness sake!

Now for the movie itself. Some have commented that Beatty, as an
affluent, middle-aged (by now senior citizen) WHITE man, cannot
possibly understand what "ordinary people" go through. Think again.
Beatty has been in politics for the Democrats for decades. He is one of
the very few rich (DEMOCRATIC) guys who actually gives a damn about the
less privileged of our society. Being rich does not equate being unable
to educate oneself, nor does being white. Beatty's always had many
contacts and friends in the black community with whom he exchanged
ideas and concerns.

I'm colored and found nothing about the movie stereotypical or racially
offensive AT ALL. Those who do, including blacks, are missing the
larger picture this movie is trying to paint. Bulworth is not intended
as a "white Messiah" for the "stereotypical hoodlum blacks". He is a
metaphor and as a wake-up call, he NEEDS to be an extreme. The movie
would not have worked if Bulworth had been a black senator, a young
senator, or if Bulworth had met a white single mother Starbuck's
employee. When you want to reach people, you have to wake them up, you
have to make them sit up, take notice, think, and start discussing what
they have just seen. THAT's exactly what this movie in THIS chosen
format, with these characters, does. It completely serves its purpose.
Unfortunately those who oppose the movie are even unaware that their
criticism is a credit to this movie, for it apparently made them think
(even if they arrive at mixed up, not understanding conclusions).

Bulworth is not perfect, but its imperfections are easily forgiven. The
movie keeps moving without a dull moment in it. Beatty is hilarious and
totally enjoying his part (and his freedom?) addressing everything
that's wrong in this sick society with a zeal and energy that many guys
half his age must envy. I love the fact that this is the first movie in
which Warren dares to look his age. He has never been afraid to
ridicule himself in past movies. Anybody who's into Beatty knows that
horse-face Carly Simon's "You're so vain" most definitely is NOT about
him. The rest of the cast is simply fantastic, too. Oliver Platt is
rib-crackingly funny as the concerned, confused and finally mentally
broken down campaign manager Murphy. He elevates the term "spin-doctor"
to complete new heights! Joshua Malina (campaign aid Feldman) is almost
as funny. Platt and Malina have some hilarious scenes together. Old
Beatty favorite, veteran actor, Jack Warden is solid as ever. Halle
Berry's character could have used a bit more humor, but she does a good
job. Yes, it is a bit of a stretch that the gorgeous Nina would fall
for the "used to be gorgeous too, but not so much anymore" aging
Bulworth, but to state that without looking deeper into how she comes
to her choice, is to ignore a significant part of the movie. At first
she doesn't know what to make of this, seemingly confused, man. But as
she follows him, his actions, his words, his attitude, she discovers
that he is sincere. That combined with him being in a position in which
he could actually make a much needed difference in society, makes her
"change her mind" and fall for him. It's not like this young girl Nina
has some geriatric preferences in the romantic department! Ariyan A.
Johnson and Michele Morgan are amusing as the two enthusiastic new
Bulworth "VOOOOOOLUNTEEEEEEEEEEEEERS". Paul Sorvino, Richard Sarafian,
Don Cheadle are all solid. Yes, the turnaround of L.D. in the end is
too quick in the making, but the alternative would be a (much) longer
movie, so that's one of the very few weaknesses in the script. Last
comments: - NO, Bulworth does not "only speak in rap" once he's started
rapping. - NO, Bulworth is not some aging actor's ego trip. It's a
wake-up call to America. - Never knew a 60 plus year old white guy
could look so hilariously cute in hip hop gear. - Let the spirit take
hold of you, and let it lead you to take action, now that Bulworth has
been silenced.......
<|_=00=_|>
I should have known this movie was going to be good because it came
highly recommended by Matt Lueck, who seems to be very picky about what
he considers "good" movies. This movie was exceptional.

If you don't like politics, this film might not be for you. Or maybe it
would be for you even more, since all it does is attack the political
system. Warren Beatty stars as a Seantor who is sick of all the lies
and crap in Washington, so he takes out a life insurance policy and
hires a hit-man to kill him. After partying with some ghetto people
(including Halle Berry) he sees the error of his ways and tries to call
the hit off. The rest of the film follows this path.

I liked the storyline of the film, but more so I liked the nuggets it
dropped along the way. The claims of politicians using minorities, the
reality of drug culture, the fact that greed controls health care in
this country. I found myself agreeing with almost everything in this
film (though the part about the elimination of all races went too far).
The ending was also exactly what I expected it to be - and what I felt
it should have been. Only they added an aspect I hadn't considered and
I think it made the film so much better. (I'm being vague so as not to
give anything away.) Warren Beatty rapping is both comical and
annoying. But if you look past his "wack skillz" and listen to what he
has to say about corporations, big oil, TV networks and more, you'll
get so much more out of this film. I'm also not a fan of Halle Berry,
but she was probably the best person for the role so I'm okay with
that. Hooray for Oliver Platt and Sean Astin, both looking very slim in
this movie.

Not the best film you'll see this year, but highly recommended just the
same.
<|_=00=_|>
Warren Beatty's Bulworth is one devastating satire on the political
scene of the Clinton years. Sad to say things really ain't gotten any
better here.

J. Billington Bulworth, Democratic Senator from California at one time
rising liberal star has had to tack mighty heavily to the right in
order to keep his office. Even at doing that he's facing a heavily
financed rightwing opponent. 

With defeat staring him in the face and no home life so to speak with
both he and his wife pursuing the opposite sex, Bulworth just decides
to chuck it all. His friends in the insurance industry are writing him
one whopping life insurance policy and Bulworth hires a hit man to do
him in. 

Of course no with nothing to lose our U.S. Senator who before mouthed
the political platitudes and nostrums we get from our elected officials
at voting time, now starts telling some uncomfortable truths. Lack of
sleep and some controlled substances produce a rapping U.S. Senator who
along the way picks up some black groupie types with Halle Berry. The
consequences of all these hijinks you'll have to watch Bulworth for.

One friend has compared it Network and there are certainly some
similarities. I think Bulworth should be seen back to back with Robert
Redford's The Candidate. If you'll remember Redford was the idealistic
liberal who trimmed his sails through the advice of his hired spin
doctors and got himself elected U.S. Senator from California. His Bill
MacKay was wondering what he does then at the end of that film. I think
Bulworth provides some answers as to a possible direction MacKay might
have taken.

Warren Beatty wrote a witty script and a mean rap. Director Beatty gets
some good performances by his cast and best in the supporting cast is
his aide Oliver Platt who sees his whole career going down the tubes.
There's a peculiar symbiotic relationship between Capitol Hill staffers
and their bosses. They serve at the pleasure of, but at the same time a
good one can make himself pretty valuable to his boss. Platt's such a
guy, his character is quite authentic.

Remember watch Bulworth back to back with The Candidate.
<|_=00=_|>
An impossible feat to pull off, this film is remarkable in its
audacious use of Rap rhythms and in your face farce that is a wonder to
behold. There is literally nothing like this in moviedom. An over the
top take on class war and politics that is amazingly fresh. 

You would hardly think that Warren Beatty as a depressed suicidal
Senator having a nervous breakdown and suffering from sleep
deprivation, taking on the ridiculous persona of an inner-city youth
and parading it in front of the National News Media, could work as a
piercing political satire. But it does, and it is a devastating
delivery of an unbridled, out of the box, stream of consciousness
conviction of a world gone mad.

This is probably too pretentious and pandering for anyone but the far
left to tolerate. However, even years later it is timeless, and you
cannot deny that it is a mind-numbing movie that is entertaining and
one must wonder, just how they made it happen. But here it is.
