

I love this movie.  As a movie buff, I must admit, objectively, this is a
bad movie.  The writing is ridiculous, the plot is convoluted, and Val
Kilmer's accents are bizarre.  But I love this movie.  It is that
wonderful
combination of danger and romance that makes for great fantasy.  The
chemistry between Kilmer and Shue holds this movie together.  It is a
delight to watch them realize that their skin deep attraction goes much
deeper.  If you can suspend your disbelief and just enjoy the ride, the
Saint is a fun movie.  Despite its flaws, the Saint is a guilty pleasure
to
indulge in when your own life is lacking in explosions, gun fights, and
sudden, passionate romances.  
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie. Not as "The Saint" but as an elaborate action movie with
a twist. Val Kilmer bears nothing in him that even gets close to Roger
Moore's character - but if you look away from that and try to see it as an
ordinary film, it's really good.

First of all, Val Kilmer performs fairly well, despite his weird accents. I
really liked his artist type guy who seduces Emma Russell, he was great
fun.

As for the story, well...I didn't bother to check for anomalies, I knew I'd
find plenty. I only have two more things to say:

1. Elisabeth Shue is absolutely stunningly beautiful in this
film.

2. The cool car that we only get to see a few seconds is a Volvo C70, a
worthy replacement for the Volvo P1800 that Moore's Saint drove around
in.
<|_=00=_|>
The Saint starring Val Kilmer is one of my all time favourites I can
watch it again and again and again!

The Saint is hired by Russian gangsters to get a secret cold fusion
formula from a brilliant, beautiful and young scientist played by
Elisabeth Shue. Anyway he falls in love and has to outwit the dangerous
gangsters.

Val Kilmer plays the eccentric master thief the Saint who has a dark
past and an impressive talent for disguise. All the different
characters the Saint disguises himself as are memorable. I personally
like heroes with a dark past who aren't perfect and have suffered to
become who they are today.

The chemistry on screen between Val Kilmer and Elisabeth Shue is
excellent - and well Elisabeth Shue is beautiful! This is such a fun
feel good film (although it does have dark elements to it) that gets
better every time I watch it and personally I do find some characters
touching especially the Saint himself who Val Kilmer plays perfectly.

This film has a bit of everything - romance, comedy, drama, suspense
and action and is definitely worth renting and is definitely in my
collection!
<|_=00=_|>
I thoroughly enjoyed this film and not just because of Val Kilmer's
accomplishment at successfully being eye-candy, but also because of the
amazing personality transformations his character goes through in front
of the mirror. The story line itself is pretty impressive and I loved
that although it keeps you guessing, you don't end up wondering, "What
the hell is going on?' The science side is played down enough for the
audience to know it's there but not to get distracted by its details. I
don't know if the theory actually works, but after watching the film I
don't really care - that isn't the point of the movie.

The thing that surprised me the most though was the leading female
scientist, played by Elisabeth Shue. It's obvious from the start that
she's going to be the 'love interest' but her characters personality
always puts a question to the question, will they actually end up
together. She's shy and nervous of people, but is incredibly open,
honest and warmly lovable - an almost perfect contrast to Kilmer's
über-suave, identity-confused, international thief-for-hire/spy. But
that's the very thing that makes them ideal for each other, they might
just be able to help each other with their character flaws and so you
root for them both on a rather grand scale.

I was vaguely baffled by the inclusion of random, suffering Russian
civilians towards the latter half of the film, but considering that
they were a film device to make the baddie look bad, the goodie look
good and the 'common people trapped in the middle' look down right
fantastic, they do their job rather well (apart from one woman who rats
out our hero). All in all, they makes sure the audience are still
caring if the common people are helped by the good guy, and hoping that
the bad guy will eventually get his comeuppance. 

However, back to my original point. I still think that the film's main
achievement is putting Val Kilmer in an interesting role that shows off
just how good he can be; he's observant, yet unobservable; seductive,
yet not a cad; confident but riddled with insecurities. Moreover, in
the early stages of the film, British students are no longer
misrepresented as drunken, whoring lay-abouts, but as attentive
learners who actually show up for lectures. Impressive stuff.

Yours Sincerely, A Proud British Student.
<|_=00=_|>

Reading the average vote for THE SAINT disappointed me. 5.8, come on! It
should at least be a 7 if not an 8! Many were disappointed because it didn't
live up to the TV series. I have never seen the series so I can't really
compare. Val Kilmer was just perfect for Simon Templar, and um a lot of
saints. Elisabeth Shue was great for Emma Russell, as was Rade Serbedzija
for Tretiak. I thought the rest of the actors were good too. I loved the
plot and everything about the movie. Its a great espionage type thriller.
Its a combo of Bond and Mission: Impossible. Bond gadgets, Mission:
Impossible type plot. If you like those types of movies, see THE SAINT.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Maybe my expectations were too low going in after reading a slue of
terrible reviews, but I thought it was a good solid movie and very
entertaining. Val Kilmer was great in his disguises and rolls.
Elisabeth Shue was attractive as ever and played her part well. The
movie kept on a continual pace, and kept the action and suspense
throughout. There were a few things I thought were lame and it got a
little unrealistic at times, but all in all it was a good solid movie.
Maybe even a good action / romance date movie. If you haven't seen it
(as I hadn't until today), give it a try. It has action, suspense,
romance, and a little comedy thrown in for good measure. It runs in at
just about 2 hours long, so long enough to get a good plot, some twists
& turns and yet not bore you. There will always be people that pick
plot holes in movies and just love proving that it's road kill. If
you're one of those people, maybe you should stay away, but if you want
a good entertaining popcorn movie it's worth a watch.

<|_=00=_|>

This film upon first viewing might not bowl you over as I thought it only
o.k however after watching it many times I began to see just how good a
movie it really was.
Firstly you have fantastic locations which I must admit generally don't
draw
the out the movie going public out in huge droves but do help the movie in
my eyes, then you have the cast, Val kilmer makes a fantastic Simon
Templer
although I was'nt the biggest fan of the tv series upon which the movie is
based so have no basis for comparison, which is probably a good thing as
comparing actors again'st other actors who once filled the role can make
the
viewers decide its going to be awful before even giving it a chance.... to
cut a long story short I'll say this..... good plot, great cast especially
Val Kilmer pulling off the cool, dark and secretive character he portrays
and last of all excellent locations all I can say is view it as a new
movie
and not a modern remake and see what you think.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those movies that is strictly for the eye.
The soundtrack by Graeme Revell was brilliant, Elizabeth
Shue
is absolutely stunning. In the apartment scene her eyes
shine
in diamond hazel colors. It was just a simply movie, decent acting, but
there was something about it. It captured an essence, I can't actually
describe it, it was actually corny
and beautiful at the same time. 
<|_=00=_|>
Back in the sixties Roger Moore don the persona of Simon Templar, known
to his fans as The Saint. From the small tube to the Silver Screen, our
hero has arisen to a modern audience. With the superb talents of Val
Kilmer, the saint is out to accomplish two goals. First he attempts to
secure his life-long ambition of amassing $1 billion dollars, and
second to perform three miracles. In the process, he encounters both
friends and life threatening villains. In this episode, the Saint
attempts to save the crumbling Soviet Empire' energy supply, by
revamping the scientific and long sought-after formula of Cold Fusion.
In this story, he helps brainy, Dr. Lev Botvin, (Henry Goodman) perfect
the celebrated formula of Physist Emma Russell, (Elisabeth Shue). The
re-energized formula will replenish Russia's dwindling energy and save
the Premiere of Russia from the anti-government villains played
adroitly by (Rade Serbedzija), Ivan Tretiak, (Valeri Nikolayev) and
Vereshagin (Michael Byrne), the archenemies of Templar. Alun Armstrong
is believable as Inspector Teal. The film is fast paced and action
oriented with plenty of drama, guns, explosions and international
intrigue. Kilmer is fantastic and I believe this will become a classic
among all the great films of his career. ****
<|_=00=_|>
The movie deal with Ivan Tretiak ( Rade Serbedzja ) and his son (
Nikolayev ), Russian Mafia chiefs who want to create an oil crisis in
Moscow and seize power as a result . They agree Simon Templar ( Val
Kilmer ) , -master of disguises and great international criminal- , and
send him to Oxford to steal a secret formula for cold fusion from U.S.
scientist Emma Russell ( Elisabeth Shue ) who cooked up the recipe .
That formula will give Tretiak a source of cheap energy and deal of
money as result . But Templar falls in love with Emma and they attempt
to outwit the two megalomaniacs and his hoodlums , hiding from them in
Moscow . Meanwhile , Simon Templar is continuously changing identities
and being relentlessly pursued by the police ( Alun Amstrung ). The
Russian magnate with an eye on the presidency of the Russian Empire
plans a coup détat. 

This exciting picture is packed with frantic action, thrills, suspense,
tension and an enjoyable love story . However , it contains a silly and
dumb final set on the square of Moscu . The story bears little
resemblance to the 60s British TV series on which it is based because
of the complex argument is quite different . Brief acting by Emily
Mortimer and uncredited Roger Moore as voice in car radio . Splendid
musical score by Graeme Revell based on the catching leitmotif of the
60s series . The motion picture is regularly directed by Phillip Noyce
. Rating : Average and overlong though entertaining. 

This character based on Leslie Charteris' novel was formerly adapted
for cinema with George Sanders and Louis Hayward and for TV in the
classic series starred by Roger Moore and subsequently by Ian Ogilvy in
the 70s and the 80s performed by Simon Dutton and produced by Robert S.
Baker the same producer of the recent rendition.
