
What a riveting, startling and altogether masterful achievement. The
idea the we're actually seeing Leopold and Loeb in person crossed my
mind more than once. The illusion is overwhelming and the idea that
we're seeing and hearing something that we shouldn't is part of its
fascination. I loved Richard Fleischer's 1959 film from Meyer Levin's
novel. I was enthralled by Dean Stockwell's performance and that's the
only missing element here. Dean Stockwell. However, Tom Kalin has
masterminded a narration that makes the whole thing so close to what it
really must have been that the experience, for all film lovers, should
be a must.
<|_=00=_|>

The film "Swoon" gives an insightful view into the minds that went behind
the Leoplod-Loeb murder case.  The cinematography was very well done,
looking as if actual 1920s film stock, yet using very progressive camera
angles and point-of-view shots at times.  The film was also very frank
about
how homosexuality (and prejudice against it)played a role in the murder
and
their conviction of the murder.  It's interesting to think of it in light
of
Alfred Hitchcock's "Rope," (which is based on the same murder case) in
which
the homosexuality of the lead characters is only hinted
at.

Another thing I found interesting was the use of anachronisms.  You might
notice whenever the Leopold-Loeb duo use a phone in the movie, they always
use touch-tone phones, while every else has phones more fitting for the
time
period.  Another anachronism is an homage to Hitchcock.  When Leopold and
Loeb meet in bed, they recite nearly verbatim the opening lines from a
scene
in Hitchcock's "Rear Window" in which Lisa Carol Fremont (Grace Kelly)
kisses L.B. "Jeff" Jeffries (Jimmy Stewart).

My only major complaint about the film was the acting.  It seemed as if
the
two leads were either melodramatic or stoic, most often at the wrong
times.
Even the bit part players seemed rather aloof in their acting.  A better
cast would have made this movie much better.


<|_=00=_|>

"Swoon" is an enigmatic, sometimes almost inaccessible film that I
continue
to find oddly emotionally satisfying, even after having seen it at least a
dozen times. An intentionally chaotic jumble of images and brilliance,
speckled with anachronisms, sly winks at the camera, stock footage and
allegorical sound affects, the film functions more like an avante-garde
stage play than a typical movie- and yet it remains very cinematic, very
engaging despite being occasionally cryptic, and very emotionally
powerful-
even surprisingly romantic in places- even though there is clearly a
satiric
and dry bent to the director's vision. Like a good Hal Hartley film, there
is an intelligent handling of deep, dark emotions here, and for it's
direct
but never sensational treatment of massochism and obsession, I am
incredibley thankful and eternally enlightened- I sort of wish would-be
auteurs of the psychosexual (i.e. David Lynch) would take a cue from this
strange but excellent little movie.   
<|_=00=_|>
Director Tom Kalin took the Leopold and Loeb murder case of the 1920s,
which already had been the basis of such films as "Rope" and
"Compulsion," and filmed the sordid episode as an exercise in style
with flashes of homo-erotic imagery. In his film, "Swoon," Kalin does
not flinch from either the murderers' ethnic background or their sexual
orientation, although the part that either aspect of their makeup may
have played in the crime was not explored. Utilizing haunting
black-and-white cinematography by Ellen Kuras, documentary footage from
the period, and an often-melancholy score by James Bennett, Kalin
fashioned a strangely fascinating look at the aimless lives of two
young men with too much money and too much time.

Although the two youths are lovers in the physical sense, their
partnership seems to have been born more of boredom than passion. Their
lovemaking has eroticism, but it lacks fire. The pair performs more
like two bored schoolboys passing a rainy afternoon pleasuring each
other than like two men with deep emotional ties. Tragically, this
passionless attraction spawns what appears to be an equally passionless
crime. The plot to kidnap and murder a young boy seems to have been
born of the same boredom that gave rise to Leopold's and Loeb's erotic
desires. The two young men have no emotion either before or after the
murder, although there is a flash of zeal on the killer's face during
and shortly after the murder. The men's demeanor throughout the
interrogation and trial suggests a complete lack of, not only remorse,
but also comprehension that they have taken a human life. The duo
bicker about the details of the crime as though they were trying to
recall what they ate for breakfast. The men are distanced not only from
the crime, but also from any semblance of humanity.

Appropriately, the sharp light and shade contrasts in the stark
photography at times make the film resemble a silent horror film,
because "Swoon" is a horror show at its core. These two men are like
monsters that were created without souls and that lie in wait until
idle thoughts prompt them to fill their empty hours with crime. The
languid air that pervades the film underscores the tedium of their
existence. Kalin tracks the two men to the ends of their lives and
leaves the viewer with an ambivalent feeling about whether or not
justice was ever served. Like "In Cold Blood," however, "Swoon" focuses
on and almost celebrates the two killers, while the innocent young
victim is reduced to a nearly anonymous figure. Thus, "Swoon" is often
a difficult film to watch, yet, despite lingering and disturbing
thoughts afterward, Kalin has fashioned an intelligent, intriguing work
that merits attention.
<|_=00=_|>
It feels like a period documentary and the story is the story of
Leopold and Loeb - A terrifying portrait of two real life killers who
killed without passion or reason just to prove they were above the law.
The period details are beautifully drawn but where it lacks is in the
actor's faces. They appear rather than participate fully. There is a
detachment in their portrayal that kept me at a safe distance and I
could admire it with my head but I couldn't connect with my heart. The
opposite of what happened to me with 1958's Compulsion - I was riveted
by Dean Stockwell. I believed and understood just by looking into his
eyes.
<|_=00=_|>
In this modern version of the infamous Leopold and Loeb murder case of
the 1920s, "Swoon" stresses the gay angle, relative to "Compulsion"
(1959), a film of the same story, but burdened by the watchful eye of
the censors associated with the moralistic Hays Code. Actual court
records do in fact indicate that the relationship or bond between these
two guys was primarily sexual.

Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb apparently had a masochistic pact. And
"Swoon" asks the question: which guy was in control? The answer seems
to be that they alternated control. Also, compared to "Compulsion",
more attention is given to the actual murder of the teenage boy.

This film is quite stylized. Archival images and lyrical cutaways
unrelated to the story are used because they are thematically relevant.
Further, some scenes are intended as dreams. And non-period piece
elements add textural perspective.

The real Nathan Leopold is shown in historical footage, first as a
young man at about the time of the actual killing. He is shown in a
sequence with a group of fellow ornithologists. And near the end of the
film, he is shown as an older man, having been released from prison.

"Swoon" was shot in B&W. Images are a tad grainy, maybe deliberately
so, as part of the film's visual style. Casting and acting are fine. I
did not care for the background music. It's too whimsical and kooky
sounding, given the subject matter. But the music does contribute to
the film's overall flighty, giddy tone, reflected in the lack of
emotional involvement of the characters. Further, the killing of the
young boy is perfunctory and nonchalant.

The film's peculiar tone and mood I found annoying. Yet, it's probably
consistent with the mindset of these two peculiar criminals, two guys,
both cerebral and intelligent, completely lacking both in conscience
and in a sense of moral principles.

Overall, compared to "Compulsion", "Swoon" is more direct, and perhaps
a tad more thematically compelling.
<|_=00=_|>
Two highly intelligent young Jewish men, who are also lovers, attempt
to get away with "the perfect murder". This intriguing drama was also
filmed as "Rope" (1948) and "Compulsion" (1959). Based on the true
story of Nathan Leopold and Richard Loeb, this version stars Craig
Chester (as Mr. Leopold) and Daniel Schlachet (as Mr. Loeb). Of the
three features currently available, this is undoubtedly the most
"realistic" version of the gruesome crime. Yet, for most, "Swoon" will
also be the least entertaining of the three films.

This one focuses on not only the murder, but also the sexual
relationship between the principals. With unsavory flourish, "Swoon"
comes across as an attempt to move responsibility for the crime from
Leopold and Loeb, to an intolerant society, with the former explaining,
"I wanted to murder the idea of suffering as my condition; I wanted to
surpass the boundaries of intelligence for something more pure."
Excuses, excuses.

Director Tom Kalin makes it an outstanding looking production, with
Ellen Kuras contributing terrific black-and-white photography. Due to
the availability of archival footage and Mr. Kalin's expert editing,
the real Leopold and Loeb can be seen. And, due to and Leopold's
relatively long life, we have one of the subjects characterized
becoming an actor in the film. The real actors, Mr. Chester and Mr.
Schlachet, perform superbly.

******* Swoon (2/19/92) Tom Kalin ~ Craig Chester, Daniel Schlachet,
Ron Vawter
<|_=00=_|>
Swoon tells the story of Leopold and Lobe with homosexuality constantly
in mind, because it was important (or at least everyone at the time it
actually happened believed it was important). This film points out how
the trial focused on their homosexuality, using authentic court
transcripts, despite the murder having nothing to do with sexual
orientation. This mirrors Michael Foucault's History of Sexuality
regarding the policing of sexuality. Thought-provoking.

Although a bit confusing at times, a movie worth watching once. Perhaps
do a bit of research on the background of the case to supplement the
film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is the third film on the case I've seen and it certainly has
merits of its own. There was no grandstand acting here, no over-acting
for the Academy Awards or anything like that. I actually found the
acting quite adequate unlike some others. It was downplayed, true, but
sufficient. Let's remember that these people were not the norm for
their time - or for any time. They were bigger than life, or at least
they thought they were. The cinematography and staging were wonderful
with so many scenes "unbalanced" in their composition. The cutting too
was uneasy but uneasy on purpose. The characters were not portrayed as
likable and, no, an intolerant society was not set up for blame. There
is much going on here - certainly more meets the eye on first viewing.
<|_=00=_|>
The true story of gay lovers, Richard Loeb and Nathan Leopold Jr. who
kidnapped and murdered a child in the early 1920s for kicks. The plot
covers the months before the crime, the investigation, trial and final
fate of the two men.

Of the few film versions of this story out there, they all seem to be
naturally quite good. "Compulsion" is no doubt the best, and this film
definitely takes some cues from it. Based on what I know of the case,
the script follows reality quite closely.

This version does play up the homosexual angle a bit more, though there
is some debate on that. My understanding is that one of the two was
clearly gay, but the other may or may not have been. Regardless, this
is an aspect that makes the case all the more interesting... even when
it is more subtle such as in "Rope".
