

I really liked this movie. Great acting, great direction, great
plot!

As another reviewer pointed out, the movie indeed has 3 parts. before,at
and
after the correction center. All three parts are equaly gripping. Except
that the part in the correction center is very dark and
disturbing.

Brad Pitt shines in a small role he  has. So does Jason Patrick. Hoffman
has
his ususal confused charisma. Rest of the supporting cast is excellent
too.
Especially the denizens of hell's kitchen. Kevin Bacon looks realy
menacing.
But the person who realy shows his caliber again is de niro. He has one
of
these rare "non-swearing" roles of his. There is a scene where Jason
Patric
tells the story of the abuses they faced, and the camera focusses on
Robert
De Niro's face. Only thing changes is his eyes, from sharp and focussed
at
the first, you see them widening and then you see some trace of tears.
Great! This scence reminds me of Omar Shariff standing on a balcony while
soldiers start mayhem on the streets, in Dr. Zhivago.

A good care has been taken in getting child stars and adult stars look
pretty similar.

Only thing li'll bit out of the place is constant referance to Count of
montecristo. The revenge in the book is "sweet lasting revenge" where in
this movie its straight shot. But heck! this is real life!

the last night the friends spend together is also really
touching.

my rating 9/10.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie made a fuss when it came out because there were claims that
its author had lied about it being "based on a true story." As a result
it become a sort of infamous title and people cared less about the
film's content and more about its "accuracies."

Well, frankly I don't really care about whether or not the story is
true because I know things similar to this _do_ happen - children are
abused and using this as a backbone for a revenge film may seem a bit
inappropriate but it is handled with care by director Barry Levinson
and the highly talented ensemble cast treat it with caution.

Robert De Niro gives a convincing performance as the Catholic priest
who is a father-figure to a bunch of disillusioned Brooklyn youth.
After they accidentally injure a man during a rebellious incident they
are sent away to a juvenile facility where they are sexually and
physically abused by the evil warden (Kevin Bacon). Years later two of
the boys (now grown men) take revenge on Bacon and kill him in a public
area. They are sent to trial but not all is what it seems -
representing the case is someone involved with the past and there are
some other interesting twists along the way.

The abuse isn't really the subject of this movie - instead the "what if
a trial could be rigged?" question is more prescient. (Think "Runaway
Jury" meets "Deliverance.") The cast is fantastic - De Niro, Dustin
Hoffman, Brad Pitt, Jason Patric, Minnie Driver, Bacon, et al. It's a
movie buff's dream come true! If only Al Pacino had popped up....

De Niro has been given a bad reputation lately as a "sell-out" - but he
provides a really deep and multi-layered performance here. It's too bad
people forget about this movie along with some others he made around
the turn of the decade because a lot of them were very good. This is
one of them.

Levinson ("Rain Man," "Diner") is sometimes a bit too heavy on schmaltz
in his films and that's the reason many people (myself NOT included)
disliked "Rain Man." However here - for the most part - he abandons
this and presents the material with a good touch. It's atmospheric and
dark - it feels a bit like De Niro's "A Bronx Tale" and "Diner"
colliding together.

Overall this is a really good film that is not without its flaws but is
still engaging and surprising and underrated - a must-see for any
self-respecting film buff.

4.5/5
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of the best movies made in a long time.  Previous comments
seem to focus more on whether or not the story is true and seem to forget
the phenomenal story.  Who cares if the story is true or not?  If it is, it
only makes the movie that much more disturbing and heart-breaking.  What is
the big deal if it is or isn't true?  It is still an amazing movie with a
great story.  Most so-called "classics" are not based on true stories, so
what makes this movie any different?  OK, now that I have said my peace
about my feelings about the authenticity of the story, I can now comment on
the actual movie.  I can not say enough positive things about the movie.
The actors are perfectly casted.  I think every single one of them do an
outstanding job in their portrayal.  The story is heart-wrenching and it
does an excellent job of getting its point across without showing or saying
too much.  This movie deserves more than it got.
<|_=00=_|>

Sleeper(1996) is a deeply emotional and brilliant film that was overlooked
in 1996.  It deals with the past and how events from the past can be
instrumential in shaping the present.  The movie was very controversial due
to the subject matter.  I believe that one reason that Sleepers(1996) didn't
get the praise it deserved is the film deals with things that were already
present in Mean Streets(1973) and Once Upon a Time in America(1984).  The
first half of the feature reminds me a lot of the flash back sequences from
Once Upon a Time in America(1984).  Brad Pitt gives what I see as the best
performance of his life.  What I also like about Sleepers(1996) is that it
puts together two of the best actors of their genreation in Dustin Hoffman
and Robert De Niro.
<|_=00=_|>
A classic. The story is complex and very sophisticated. The cast is
sheer brilliant and hardly to surpass. Here we get first-class
entertainment in combination with suspense and a variety of themes that
are fairly well known to anyone, just as revenge, justice, murder,
abuse, atonement etc. The kids do a fine job, really. They add
tremendous depth to the deeds and to the behave of the grown ups. Their
genuine and sure-handed performances grant the movie a considerable
amount of emotional recognition and chain anyone who soaks up and
identifies with the storyline and the characters. The very end closes
the circle and makes us aware of how quickly our lives can fall apart.
Thrilling and suspense is guaranteed. Very recommendable.
<|_=00=_|>

Like the controversial book, the movie SLEEPERS is divided into three parts;
before reform school, during, and after.  But whereas the parts in the book
all worked together into a satisfying(albeit disturbing) whole, the movie
only really catches fire in the last third, which is enough to recommend it.
 Before I get to why, regarding on whether it really happened; that's
irrelevant.  It could have happened.

Part one of the book, like the movie, establishes our protagonists and their
personalities, as well as draw out the supporting characters.  We get to
know and like them, and therefore the climax to the first part is quite
disturbing.  The movie, alas, relies too much on voice-over narration.  A
former friend once called movies like these "narration from hell" movies,
and this one certainly qualifies.  It tells us, rather than shows us, about
the main characters.  The four young actors are certainly appealing enough,
but they're left with nothing to work with.  Perhaps because it's so poorly
written, Jason Patric, the one who narrates it, seems to do his job badly a
la Harrison Ford in BLADE RUNNER.  Or maybe he's just not good at it(he is a
good actor).  Only the supporting characters, like De Niro as the priest and
the great Italian actor Vittorio Gassman as King Benny, come
through.

Part II takes place at the reform school/prison, and it's the weakest part
of the book, simply because it's all been done before, although this one is
more sadistic than usual.  What helps the movie, besides keeping DeNiro
around, is the performances.  Kevin Bacon is chilling as the head guard, and
Terry Kinney, who usually plays weak-willed men, is surprisingly effective
here as well.

Part III is the most controversial part of the book and movie, since it
alleges a prosecutor threw a case, and a priest lied to help two murderers
get off.  Also, like A TIME TO KILL, it raises the question of whether
revenge killing is justified.  Unlike A TIME TO KILL, however, this movie
and book don't take the easy way out, but look at both sides.  You may not
agree with what the priest character does, but you can't say it was easy for
him, and like the book, the movie implies a little shame for having to ask
him in the first place.  And DeNiro's performance here is excellent; the
look on his face when he hears for the first time what the boys went through
in prison says a lot.  The third part is where the movie finally comes
alive, even though that annoying narration is still there, because the
actors have something to work with, and they work with it.  In addition to
DeNiro and Gassman, I'm thinking in particular of Minnie Driver, Brad Pitt,
and Dustin Hoffman.  Driver and Pitt have to suggest earlier involvement,
and they do in their powerful scene together in the subway when she reveals
she now knows what went on at the prison(her reaction when she finds out is
also powerful).  As for Hoffman, one reason I am tired of courtroom movies
and shows is the assertion that yelling is the only way lawyers examine
people, and Hoffman resists the urge to overact.  Watch him particularly
when he destroys Kinney's character on the stand, with a low but probing
voice that nicely plays against his questioning, rather than blow it up. 
And so, when the four main characters(along with Driver) come together for
the last time, you really feel the moment, more than you'd suspect from the
start.  It's not a perfect movie, but stick with it and it is
worthwhile.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie for its honesty, and sadness... But most of all i
feel for these 4 boys, and all the other young boys around in this
world being abused. Carcaterra you have my respect! I think the cast in
this movies is awesome and they all do an incredible job playing the
main characters... The boys in particular... I am sure those scenes
where they were abused was hard to do...This is a must see film for all
people, and a must read book as well. It is brilliant, and really
honest. A true story about 4 boys worst nightmares at a boys home, and
how they got their revenge...It is so brilliant that i am amused it is
a true story, and not a Hollywood written screenplay.... Amused in a
positive way!
<|_=00=_|>

"Sleepers," is a captivating, taut, ride. It's well-crafted visually and
storywise, keeping my attention from the first plot point to the last,
which
is hard to do, as I see dozens of movies each week. I can't believe I
missed
this back in '96.  It must have been the pedestrian title, but at any
rate,
the performances were top-notch and the story, both intriguing and
heart-wrenching. One seemingly harmless lifting of a hot dog, places four
lives in a juvenile system that rips their promise apart. Wow.  Who cares
if
the story is true, the movie is entertaining and a fun ride!

<|_=00=_|>
'Sleepers' is a good film, existing out of two parts. The first part is
a drama that involves four young teenagers in the sixties, Hell's
Kitchen, New York. They make a stupid mistake that sends them to a
reformatory, the Wilkinson home for boys. Here they are sexually abused
by the guards including Sean Nokes (Kevin Bacon). The second parts is
about the revenge the four boys have when they are grown up. If you do
not want to know what they're plan is, read no further.

Two of the boys, John (Ron Eldard) and Tommy (Billy Crudup), have
become killers and one day, 1981, they see Nokes in a restaurant. They
walk up to him, shoot him, and leave. The District Attorney who handles
their case is Michael (Brad Pitt), one of the four. He has asked for
the case, not to win, but to lose. It is time for revenge. Together
with Shakes (Jason Patric), the narrator of the story, they come up
with a plan to expose events at Wilkinson. Key figures here are John
and Tommy's lawyer Snyder (Dustin Hoffman), the girl they all like
Carol (Minnie Driver), the Mafia boss from the neighborhood King Benny
(Vittorio Gassman), and a priest who has been friends with the four
forever, Father Bobby (Robert De Niro). Especially he has a very
important role.

The first part is very good with four kid actors who are not annoying
and a Bacon who is close to pure evil. The way they set up the story is
very good as well. We learn to know the kids, King Benny, Father Bobby,
the neighborhood. We feel we understand how things work in Hell's
Kitchen which is pretty important to make events plausible when the
kids have grown up. The second part is not as good but as least as
interesting. There are more question we could ask here, but fine actors
like De Niro, Hoffman, Pitt and Patric know how to create believable
characters. Although what they do might not be the right thing, we
somehow hope they pull it off.

Director Barry Levinson has made a good film, with 147 minutes a little
too long maybe. He finds the right way to tell this sad story, with a
perfect set-up and with interesting courtroom scenes in the second
part. That is sort of an achievement since we know the whole thing is
scripted there. The star power probably does the rest. Hoffman and De
Niro are great as always, Bacon is perfectly creepy, Pitt, Patric and
Driver are effective. John Williams' score is great. We feel it, but it
never distracts from the story. 'Sleepers' is most definitely worth
watching.
<|_=00=_|>
The first hour of Sleepers is highly impressive, with the account of
the protagonists' fall into the hands of their oppressors and the
subsequent atrocities dealt with very well. The images of what happens
to the boys are sensational but realistic, avoiding, except at one key
point, the kind of triumphal uprising-against-the-system plot line that
normally takes over. Here there are no heroes and no courage - just
blunt brutality.

Unfortunately, the second half of the film, in which convoluted
courtroom-revenge theatrics take over, is unable to deliver such a
punch. The only interesting character from the prison meets his end far
too early, and we are left, apparently, to cheer on the demise of
characters whom we have only seen in half-glimpsed slow-motion
fragments. We know nothing of them, and don't care about their plight,
other than in a general 'they're bad so they must die' Hollywood kind
of way.

We are also asked to support a priest who lies under oath to protect
two boys who, by their own admission, have murdered a man in the middle
of a bar. That several witnesses saw the murders happen in front of
them is ignored by the end of the film - all logic having been cast to
the four winds to support a system of values which, while intuitively
just, is, on reflection, highly tenuous.

An interesting film, then, but one which needed less Hollywoodisation
and a little more thoughtfulness.
