
I saw "Mystery Men" on my birthday in 1999 while I was away on
vacation. When I came back home, I went to see it again. Keep in mind,
I was twelve, but at that time it was the coolest movie ever. I even
collected the ultra-rare action figures (I have them all except for the
Bowler, which is the hardest to find. They made Mr. Furious, The
Shoveler, The Blue Raja, The Spleen and Captain Amazing, in case your
wondering. There IS a William H. Macy action figure in existence!).
I've watched it many times over the years and it still remains a
favorite of mine, due mostly to fond childhood memories. It's not a
perfect movie, but it definitely deserves another look and perhaps a
cult following.

The story: a bunch of low-level superheroes save the day. This was
executed again in the mediocre, direct-to-video "The Specials" as well.
But this is the other end of the spectrum: big budget (huge budget,
almost $100 Million I think) studio comedy. Yes, the effects are
overblown and the huge sets and wonderful production design are a bit
much considering the plot. But don't think this as a stupid, special
effects-y superhero movie--it's a PARODY. They fight a villain named
Cassanova Frankenstein, people. He has a psychofrakulator, whatever
that is (it's a doomsday device, he'll take over the world, yada yada.)
And resident superhero Captain Amazing (a Zapp Brannigan-esque Greg
Kinnear, with commercial-product-logos on his costume, nice touch) is
kidnapped. Time for the Mystery Men: Mr. Furious (Ben Stiller, gets
mad), The Shoveller (William H. Macy, beats people with shovels), The
Blue Raja (Hank Azaria, British, throws forks), The Bowler (Janeane
Garafolo, bowls), Invisible Boy (Kel Mitchell, guess what he does), The
Spleen (the great Paul Reubens, farts), and The Sphinx (Wes Studi, cuts
guns in half with his mind, I am not kidding). The rest of the
fantastic cast of character actors includes Geoffrey Rush as Cassanova,
Lena Olin heavily edited out as Cassanova's bride, and the one and only
Tom Waits as a crazy weapons dealer. So...with Macy, Kinnear, Olin, and
Rush there are four Oscar-nominees (and one winner) and Tom freakin'
Waits! It's not perfect though. It's overlong and there are some gushes
of corniness here and there (The Shoveller's full of them).

The dialogue definitely outweighs the physical comedy, which is
sometimes lacking (there's a guy who farts for his power, case closed).
The dialogue is definitely a highlight, the cyclical ramblings of the
Sphinx, the mixed metaphors of Mr. Furious, etc. It's downright a funny
movie, (it will almost make you forget that this was the film that let
"All Star" by Smashmouth out into the world.) 

Unfortunately, the film did not do as well with critics and audiences
as it should have. A sequel was originally planned (the film is in fact
based on a comic book and characters from "The Flaming Carrot" comics.
The Flaming Carrot was planned for the sequel I believe) but this did
not do well at the box office. It could have been a hard sell, a
superhero comedy with the guy from "There's Something About Mary." It
also could have been the fact that it was released on the same day as
"The Sixth Sense"--which ended up being the biggest hit for the month
of August--as well as "The Thomas Crown Affair." Two other
misunderstood classics were released on the same crowded weekend, oddly
enough--"Dick" and "The Iron Giant." Critics gave MM passable reviews,
but it was quickly forgotten. Sadly enough, on Comedy Central's Roast
of Jerry Stiller, comedian Jeffrey Ross commented to Ben Stiller that,
"I saw 'Mystery Men' and I fired MY agent." Ben is then seen to mouth
the words, "I should have to." Don't listen to him. Give "Mystery Men"
a chance.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought this movie was hilarious when I first saw it and even bought it.
I'm surprised that there is so much controversy over this film, because
everyone did great performances, especially Ben Stiller as Mr. Furious.
Quotes like "I need a compass to show me which way the wind shines." are
just a small fraction of the hilarity in this film.

Grade: A+(One of my favorite comedies of all time)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie
is a lot of fun. What makes it great especially are two things: one is the
straightforward way the characters embrace the stereotypes, with
discussions
of their costumes and superpowers. There's an endearing earnestness to the
parody that's very appealing; the second is basic sweetness of the
characters and the quality of the chemistry. Claire Forlani deserves
particular note as the object of Mr. Furious's desires. There's a boatload
of talent here. I realize some with high expectations may have been
disappointed, but this movie is a lot of fun, and kind of
sweet.
<|_=00=_|>

As a comic book reader, who still sees myself as a total kid at heart, I
admit I might have been a bit biased towards this movie.  I mean, there
hasn't been a good superhero movie out for quite some time (NOTE: Batman
Forever was NOT a good superhero movie).  I really wanted this film to be
good, and unlike most of my recent trips to the cinema (read Blair Witch
Project) I wasn't disappointed.

Mystery Men was definitely not a high-effects, tension-filled action flick,
it was a comedy.  And on that basis, it was a success.  It had everyone in
the small theater laughing, and got applause and laughs right through the
final scene.  Stiller and Garofolo are hilarious together, as always, and
Azaria adds just the right touch of craziness.  William H. Macy plays a
great straight man, while Kel Mitchell and the fart-powered Paul Rubens are
added just to keep the kiddies happy.

Though the sets are bizarre (and at times seem like ripoffs from both Batman
and Blade Runner), and some of the jokes are obvious, it is still just plain
funny.  There are some lines that will catch even the most jaded viewer
off-guard, and bring tears from the belly-laughers among
us.

I definitely recommend this movie.  Although not an all-time classic, it is
twice as funny as the latest Austin Powers retread.  The writing is good,
and the cast is GREAT.  If you're worried, plan on the matinee and pay less,
but either way you'll be pleasantly surprised.  I mean, who among us doesn't
root for the losers once in a while?
<|_=00=_|>

Mystery Men is one of those movies that gets funnier over time. There is a
naive innocence and "niceness" to the characters.  It has become part of
our
family "culture," and we quote the characters often.  It is my favorite
film
of the last two years.  My kids are 13 and 11 and we all three love this
film.  Great acting and comedy.
We love Galaxy Quest and Monty Python flicks too.  Okay, we're not talking
intellectual here, just Family bonding!

<|_=00=_|>
This movie was a brilliant concept. It was original, cleverly written
and of high appeal to those of us who aren't really 'conformist' movie
pickers. Don't get me wrong - there are some great movies that have
wide appeal, but when you move into watching a movie based on "everyone
else is watching it" - you know you're either a tween or don't really
have an opinion. This had a lovely subtle humor - despite most people
probably looking only at the obvious. The actors portrayed their
characters with aplomb and I thought there was a lot more "personal"
personality in this film. Has appeal for kids, as well as adults. Esp.
nice to find a good movie that's not filled with sexual references and
drug innuendos! A great film, not to be overlooked based on public
consumption. This one is a must buy.
<|_=00=_|>

	Director Kinka Usher stays true to his own credo, "Play it straight and
they will laugh," and with the help of a superb cast has crafted what should
become the #1 cult film of all time, `Mystery Men.'  When an evil villain,
Casanova Frankenstein (Geoffrey Rush) is released from a mental institution,
captures the local superhero, Captain Amazing (Greg Kinnear), and threatens
to take over Champion City, three wanna-be superheroes, Mr. Furious (Ben
Stiller), The Shoveler (William H. Macy) and The Blue Raja (Hank Azaria)
come to the rescue.  Frankenstein has been joined by a myriad assortment of
underworld scum, however, and has become a formidable opponent.  The trio
realize that help is needed, and decide to recruit; what they end up with is
nothing less than the most unforgettable team of `superheroes' ever
assembled in the history of the cinema.  Mr. Furious has his rage; The
Shoveler, his shovel; The Blue Raja flings silverware (mainly forks, and the
occasional spoon, but never a knife); the Invisible Boy (Kel Mitchell) can
turn invisible as long as no one is watching; the Sphinx (Wes Studi), a
heavy hitter from down south, is very mysterious and can break guns in half
with his mind.  Maybe; the Bowler (Janeane Garofalo) can fling a ball with
deadly accuracy; and The Spleen (Paul Reubens) wields flatulence that can
incapacitate an entire room.  
	This is a brilliant ensemble piece that delivers the laughs without ever
becoming condescending or patronizing the audience, while playing it
straight at all times.  The dialogue is witty, and the performances given by
Stiller, Macy, Azaria and Garofalo are exemplary.  There is a number of
memorable, hilarious scenes, especially the one in which they throw a pool
party and barbecue to recruit, and conduct interviews with a stupefying
assemblage of applicants; and another, in a bar, when the Bowler has a
conversation with her long-dead father, whose skull has been implanted in
her bowling ball.  The funniest of all, however, has to be when the team
actually attempts to rescue Captain Amazing.  But these are only examples,
for the entire movie is composed of one hilarious scene after another, laced
with subtle humor that will keep you laughing and thinking about it for a
long time.  The real secret of it's success, though, is that Usher keeps it
all real; the relationships between the characters are true, and the whole
concept of being a `Superhero' is played as being entirely reasonable, which
somehow gives a sense of credibility to the entire proceedings.  In this
world, the aspirations of Mr. Furious and the rest are tenable, and Usher
keeps the laughs coming without ever resorting to slapstick or mere sight
gags.
	The solid supporting cast includes Lena Olin (Dr. Annabel Leek), Eddie
Izzard (Tony P.), Tom Waits (Doc Heller), Claire Forlani (Monica), Louise
Lasser (The Blue Raja's mother), Jenifer Lewis (Lucille) and Pras (Tony C.).
 `Mystery Men' is a truly inspired movie that can be seen over and over
again, with a new chuckle to be had with every viewing, guaranteed.  In the
immortal words of the Sphinx, `We are number one!  All others are number
two, or lower.'  Is it an Oscar-worthy movie?  Hardly; but for a good time
and a lot of laughs, treat yourself to this masterwork of comedy; it's the
real deal, and you won't regret it.  I rate this one 10/10.       

<|_=00=_|>

I could have sworn I submitted a review of this some time back. Be that as
it may, MM is a terrific comedy and affectionate spoof of comic book movies,
much like GALAXY QUEST spoofed sci-fi flicks. Ben Stiller shines as an inept
superhero with anger management issues who leads a group of equally inept
superheroes played by shovel-wielding William H. Macy and fork-tossing Hank
Azaria (I kid you not). They add some new members in the course of the
movie, played by Janine Garofalo, Paul Reubens, Wes Studi and Kel (of Keenan
and Kel fame), in order to face down an army of bad guys headed up by the
always delightful Geoffrey Rush. The plot is virtually identical to X-MEN,
which came out the following year. I think this movie does better by the
plot, which is your basic let's-save-the-world scenario. Some money was
clearly expended on this under-appreciated enterprise. It shows in the
costumes, the sets and the CGI. Garofalo, who came late to the project, is
absolutely hysterical as a lass armed with a bowling ball containing the
skull of her late and hardly lamented dad, who evidently converses with her
although we never hear his side of the conversation. The movie will make no
sense to those with no exposure to comic books or superhero movies. For
everyone else, it is a gem. Watch out for some patchy editing in the final
showdown.
<|_=00=_|>

In the history of movies based on comic books, "Mystery Men" is one of the
most underrated ones.  This is no regular comic superhero movie!  It follows
the exploits of a motley crew of well-meaning wannabes, which include Mr.
Furious (played by Ben Stiller), the Bowler (Janeane Garofalo), the
Shoveller (William H. Macy), the Blue Rajah (Hank Azariah) and the Spleen
(Paul Reubens).  "Mystery Men" spoofs several aspects of superhero movies
like "Superman" or "Batman," such as the pithy sayings, and the questions
about secret identities.  Most of the superheroes aren't billionaires like
Bruce Wayne, but blue-collar types with menial jobs and neurotic home lives.
 So it looks as if director Kinka Usher is making the heroes into something
the average viewer can relate to.  I found "Mystery Men" to be visually
stimulating and very funny.  Even if it doesn't turn into a franchise, it's
still a joy to watch!
<|_=00=_|>

Though I can't claim to be a comic book fanatic, I have read my share, so I
guess I'm part of the audience of this film, and I wasn't disappointed.  It
does run out of steam near the end, it's almost overflowing with ideas, and
it seems like Lena Olin, one of my favorite actresses, was left on the
cutting room floor.  Also, a little of Hank Azaria's Blue Raja can go a long
way.  Still, it's easy to forgive all of these faults when you have a film
which is this much fun.  All the actors seem to be having a blast with their
roles, especially William H. Macy as the straight-arrow Shoveler, and
Janeane Garofalo as The Bowler.  And unlike some, I found the design of the
city to make the joke even funnier.  I also liked how disco was the music of
choice of the bad guys; somehow, it seemed appropriate.
