

I was a little disappointed when I left this film, but not because of the
 overall result. I was disappointed because of the wonderful way in which
 the story was laid out and unfolded itself in the beginning, then seemed to
 fall away during its 2nd act. The reverse theme of bad kids turning good
 was fascinating, and the paranoid performance by Nick Stahl was worth
 watching and intrigued me. But then, as soon as Stahl was converted, the
 film started to fall apart. For one Stahl was the only character I found to
 be truly worth watching. Marsden and Holmes were just two pretty faces
 noticeably void of much talent; I never believed the two as a couple, and I
 never found any reason to invest myself in hoping for their well-being
 other the fact they were the lesser of two evils. But most noticeably, I
 grew disinterested because of the change in aim by the makers. The first
 half of the film, which by itself I would have given an 8 or 9 out of 10,
 was more of a grown-up horror movie, where the situation and plot rather
 than actions dictated the fear of the audience. But after Stahl disappears
 to the dark side, the film changed into a teen slasher film almost, where
 blood, violence and screaming is used in a vain attempt to induce fright.
 This 2nd half was worth a 4 or 5 out of 10. The length did not bother me as
 much as others (I've seen plenty of effective movies that were under 90
 minutes). What bothered me more was the lack of development in some key
 plot points. I think the entire conspiracy plot behind the conversion of
 the teens needed to be fleshed out much more, characters needed to be drawn
 more distinctly, and so on. So I balance out the two halves and come up
 with a 6 out of 10. Worth renting, but could have been something special. 

<|_=00=_|>

Disturbing Behavior is a difficult film for a serious movie critic to
defend, primarily because of a long-standing prejudice to both the teen
and horror genres. Granted, few teen movies are designed to treat their
subjects with any degree of seriousness. And of all the film genres,
horror is kept alive with only the slightest bit of effort, accompanied
by even slighter expectations. But director David Nutter tackles both
these obstacles in a rare attempt to sophisticate Hollywood's offerings
to teen audiences and bring dignity to the maligned horror genre.
Despite a screenplay written contrary to his vision, Nutter succeeds in
creating a dramatic, moody, and entertaining sci-fi/horror yarn far
more difficult to dismiss than its contemporary equivalents. That is,
until MGM destroyed it.

It's important to note that the version of Disturbing Behavior being
analyzed here is the director's cut, which is not the version released
in theaters. Nutter's cut isn't available commercially, but if you
watch the DVD's considerable amount of deleted footage and the original
ending, you can see just how devastating the studio's changes were. 

After suffering the loss of his older brother, Steve and his family
relocate to Cradle Bay, where some of the kids at school aren't quite
themselves these days. With the help of friends Rachel (Katie Holmes)
and Gavin (Nick Stahl), Steve discovers that a local doctor, Caldicott
(Bruce Greenwood), is conspiring with parents to lobotomize their teens
in order to create "good boys and girls", all of whom become members of
the school's Blue Ribbon elitist clique. Caldicott's experiments
prevent the Blue Ribbons from sexual impulses and mold them into
academic achievers that spend a great deal of their time trying to
recruit others to "the program". Unfortunately, the experiments don't
always work and trouble is at hand, especially when Steve's parents
sign him up.

Scott Rosenberg, the screenwriter of the film, later expressed great
disappointment with Nutter's handling of the material. Rosenberg, the
screenwriter of Con-Air and Beautiful Girls, never intended his script
to be treated as dramatically or realistically as Nutter executed it.
Instead, it was supposed to be more "hip" and "cool", allegedly without
being mired down by characterization or atmosphere. This seems to
indicate that the screenwriter, like the studio executives, had low
ambitions with the material, planning to do nothing more than churn out
another cheap horror film that insults the intelligence of its target
audience. 

David Nutter, a veteran director of The X-Files, saw the potential in
Rosenberg's script and acted on it. He started by casting three of the
most talented young actors in Hollywood. James Marsden breaks the
stereotype that models can't be good actors by delivering a subtle,
restrained performance as Steve. Katie Holmes has a few opportunities
to demonstrate her abilities as well. As the socially outcast Rachel,
Holmes combines a defensive posture with an underlying desire to
connect. Nick Stahl has the meatiest part, playing the cynical Gavin, a
critic of all the other cliques at school. Gavin's quiet omnipotence is
colored by a dry sense of humor much needed in the film. Other notable
performances include William Sadler as Newberry, the school's janitor.
Newberry is a little off kilter, squinting, grumbling, and hell-bent on
ridding the world of all rats. Another interesting character who almost
steals the show is U.V. (Chad E. Donella), Gavin's reticent albino
friend who spends most of the film sitting at Gavin's side and uttering
only a few syllables. 

Nutter's style is very much the signature X-Files style, dark, steamy,
creepy, and purposeful. To achieve this, Nutter enlisted an X-Files
photographer (John S. Bartley), the X-Files composer (Mark Snow),
several X-Files actors (including Steve Railsback, aka Duane Barry),
and key production personnel. The result is a movie that feels like an
X-Files spin-off, with a subdued ambiance that washes over you and gets
under your skin. Nutter commissioned one of the more remarkable opening
title sequences in recent film history, one that serves as a cinematic
prelude to the lobotomy procedure later in the film - a rapidly-edited
montage of happy images and words designed to hypnotize and brainwash
Caldicott's victims. 

If Disturbing Behavior should be criticized, it certainly loses points
in its third act, one that falls dangerously close to cliché, with
Steve becoming more the archetypal hero figure in a predictable and
unimaginative showdown with Caldicott and the Blue Ribbons. Since the
third act of any story is largely plot (character development is
usually pretty well wrapped-up by then), I imagine Nutter had little to
work with from Rosenberg's original screenplay. That the first two acts
were so emotionally engaging is the result of Nutter's persistence and
better judgment. It's too bad that MGM freaked out after a test
screening in Texas and thought they could improve their numbers by
shortening the film and forcing it into the cookie-cutter shape of the
average, low-achieving horror flick. 

I champion this film because of its thematic content and its ideology.
Like many of my favorite films (RoboCop, Dances with Wolves, Rebel
Without a Cause), it deals with characters in crises of identity,
trying to become or remain whole, and connect with each other. Equally
interesting to me are the notions of sexual repression as a sign of
perfection, man playing God, parents' willingness to medically alter
their children, and human unwillingness to face loss. Nutter's bold
vision for this material, his ability to cull it from a screenplay
where it was not just dormant, but banished, makes his director's cut a
remarkable achievement. Add in the exemplary performances of Marsden,
Stahl, and Holmes, and that special X-Files flare, and I've got
something I can really sink my teeth into. - Scott Schirmer

<|_=00=_|>
After the suicide of the teenager Allen Clark (Ethan Embry), his family
decides to move from Chicago to the quiet Cradle Bay Island seeking a
peaceful life for the siblings Steve (James Marsden) and Lindsay Clark
(Katharine Isabelle). When Steve joins the local high-school, the
outcast Gavin Strick (Nick Stahl) befriends Steve and introduces his
also rejected friend Rachel Wagner (Katie Holmes) to the newcomer.
Gavin exposes to Steve in the refectory the punks, the nerds and the
different tribes of the school and he defends the weird theory that a
sinister force changes the behavior of the annoyingly perfect "Blue
Ribbons", a group of good students that wear identical jackets and
gather in the Yogurt Shoppe. Further he tells that he had witnessed the
blue ribbon Andy Efkin (Tobias Mehler) killing their schoolmate Mary Jo
(Natassia Malthe) that is missing and the local Officer Cox (Steve
Railsback) covering the murder. Steve does not believe on Gavin words,
but when his friend is submitted to the treatment of Dr. Edgar
Caldicott (Bruce Greenwood) and immediately changes his behavior,
joining the Blue Ribbons, Steve and Rachel decides to investigate the
mystery discovering the dark secret of the perfect behavior.

"Disturbing Behavior" has an intriguing beginning, with a murder and a
group of former troublemakers and potheads transformed in perfect
students, like in the classic "Invasion of Body Snatchers". However,
when the paranoid Gavin changes his behavior, the plot becomes silly
and flawed, and the conclusion is awful. I saw this movie for the first
time on 25 March 2000 and I keep my original opinion that this movie is
reasonable, but could be great with improvements in the second-half of
the story. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Comportamento Suspeito" ("Suspicious Behavior")
<|_=00=_|>
Steve and his family move from Chicago to Cradle Bay (which based on a
road sign is outside Seattle). We later learn his brother Allen died,
and that has something to do with the move. At his new high school, he
meets Gavin and U. V., who take drugs and listen to depressing heavy
metal music. Gavin has the hots for Lorna, but she's a Blue Ribbon, a
member of a group of students that help out in the community and help
each other study. Gavin wants nothing to do with these people.

It turns out the Blue Ribbons aren't as goody-goody as they first
appear. To call them snobs is an understatement. Anyone who isn't a
member is treated like dirt, but of course new members are accepted all
the time. The organization had its beginning with a deadly car wreck,
and Dr. Edgar Caldicott played a large role in getting it started.

This film reminds me of an episode of 'Smallville', except only the
villains (who appear to be the good kids) have the super powers. Or
maybe they're not actually super powers. This film had its own version
of Belle Reve, where all the Smallville freaks seemed to end up
eventually. Also, there was the loud alternative rock music in some
scenes and the pleasant classical-style background music in others. I
really liked the music in Roscoe's Yogurt Shoppe and in the asylum (I'm
referring to Barry Manilow).

I actually found the bad kids appealing in this movie--Gavin, Rachel,
and Dickie in particular. The real standout character, though, is the
demented janitor Mr. Newberry, who comes across as if Gilbert Gottfried
had played the Bill Murray role in 'Caddyshack'. Another good though
brief performance came from Julie Patzwald as Betty Caldicott.

This was a little on the violent side, but I guess for the type of
movie it wasn't too bad. A lot of bad language seemed to have been
cleaned up for TV. And I'm not sure whether this is something that was
edited out, but in one scene, the position of a girl's head relative to
her date suggests something that happened in Bill Clinton's White
House.

It wasn't a classic by any means, but it wasn't too bad.
<|_=00=_|>
This is basically a modern take on the Sepford children but with added
sexual content and more graphic detail. The premise is this.After the
death of his brother ,young teen Steven Clark, played by James Marsden,
X Men,moves to the seemingly innocent town of Cradle Bay with his
family.At first everything seems normal.The children are typical teens
but when they get a red light in their eyes they become totally
different. Steven makes friends with a weird group of outsiders
including Katie Holmes who warn him that something is going on.He
remains sceptical till he gets beaten up by a group of the teens and
realises that something is terribly wrong. In this film you are never
quite sure who is what and look out for the seemingly retarded janitor
whose role is pivotal in the outcome of the movie. This film reminded
me of the film The Faculty in many respects but wasn't as good. I saw
this at 9.00 on channel 5 so it was probably cut but it still an
enjoyable romp into the world of mind control and the scene in the
hospital sticks in the memory. The cast did well but William sadler, as
the janitor, did especially well and James Marsden and Katie Holmes
show good chemistry. This film is not in my top ten fave movies but
good for an hour and a half of escapism. Good film but the twist can be
seen a mile away. My score 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Contemporary horror flick with a standard premise. This flick is about a
teen stumbling across an evil conspiracy that is turning the teenagers of a
small town into well dressed, well groomed, intelligent students that resort
to homicide when angry. 

Katie Holmes is totally wasted in a supporting role. Excessive pre-release
cutting damaged what could have been one of the best teen horror films of
the 90's. This could have been a very emotional, haunting and even touching
film with a disturbing ending. What is left now is a teen driven, cold, and
chainsaw edited flick with a poor gimmicky ending. Still some signs of
intelligent intentions shine through, the performances for the most part are
unusually good, and the director does a fine job of building up a paranoid,
crazed sense of atmosphere. 

Rated R; Violence, Sexual Situations, Nudity, Drug Use, Drinking, and
Profanity all involving teenagers.

The original cut would merit a * * *1/2 rating.
<|_=00=_|>
I caught this film on a late night TV slot (around 1:00). Since it was
an evening of surprisingly watchable movies up until then (Michael
Chrictons 'Runaway' & Clint Eastwoods 'White hunter, black heart') this
mix of teeny horror and x-files type paranoia sci-fi was just the kind
of icing on the cake I needed before finally calling it a night.

Even though it obviously suffers from some plot holes and studio
interference, I must say that I still found it much better than other
late 90's 'Scream' influenced (and included) teen horror revival stuff.
Sci-fi element was, even though lacking in any deeper explanation,
believable enough, especially the part with problems arising due to
puberty related hormone/neurotransmitter surges (i.e. Lorna's sexual
turn violent outburst at Steve's house) etc.

All in all, not really a shining example of cinematic art but still
bearable enough for a late night entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
The makers of "Disturbing Behavior" proudly call this a horror film,
but anyone who has the slightest bit of experience with this (usually)
wonderful genre will only label it as childish, pitiful nonsense. The
plot is obviously stolen from "Invasion of the Body Snatchers", only
it's severely simplified so that fans of dud high-school shows like
"Beverly Hills 90210" can get some thrills out of it. The evil school
psychiatrist (!) of Cradle Bay island plants computer chips into the
brains of mediocre students and, overnight, they mutate into grade-A
model adolescents. New arrival Steve Clark teams up with pothead Gavin
and hottie Rachel to prevent this from happening to them. Not a single
storyline in the script is adequately explained (the reason behind
Steve's brother's suicide, the flaws of the 'good behavior'-program,
the connection with rodents, etc...) and whenever the film threatens to
become too incoherent, the camera quickly zooms in on Katie Holmes sexy
belly in order to distract your attention. The attempts to create
suspense and mystery are laughable, the use of clichés and stereotypes
is dreadful and many lines are vaguely offensive. The climax is
hilarious, though. Good actors, like William Sadler and Steve
Railsback, make fools out of themselves in the supportive cast.
High-school horror was inexplicably popular near the end of the 1990,
but this film is the absolute low point of them all. Better watch "The
Faculty"...or even "I Know What You Did Last Summer".
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw this movie on TV and missed the first 15 minutes. I thought
the
movie was great so I bought the DVD and haven't stopped watching it yet.
Every actor is perfect for their roles (although William Sadler's accent
is
ridiculous), every location looks like it was created to be in this movie
(several locations are in "The 6th Day") and the story was
great.

Although basically just a rehash of the Stepford Wives, this movie is set
for for teen audiences and director David Nutter makes the story seem
completely original.

The story is this: A boy and his family move to Cradle Bay to try and
escape
the memories of his brother, who committed suicide. When the boy, Steve
(played by X-Men star James Marsden) starts school he quickly makes
friends
with outcast Gavin (Nick Stahl of T3), who explains to Steve that
something
fishy is going on as his friends have traded in their sex, drugs and rock
and roll lifestyles to join the Blue Ribbons, the straight-A good boy
jocks
and cheerleaders.
Gavin then introduces Steve to his friend Rachael (the talented Katie
Holmes) who he falls in love with.
Inevitably, Gavin becomes a Blue Ribbon. Steve and Rachael then try to
find
out what is going on and how to stop it while trying to stop themselves
becoming part of the group.

This is a great story of love and paranoia. The lunch room "Freak Roll
Call"
is a scene not to be missed.

The only problem is the way the film has been edited. On the DVD are 10
additional scenes which expand on such stories such as Steve's parents
fearing he will commit suicide like his brother (which is irrelevent in
the
theatrical cut) and expansions on the paranoia. There is also an
alternate
ending that shows us an exciting final confrontation between Steve and
Gavin. This movie was rushed into cinemas and not properly done so it
becomes a standard teen flick.

My advice, rent or watch this movie on TV and if you enjoy it slightly,
go
purchase the DVD to broaden and expand you're enjoyment of this
film.
Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
A sci-fi/horror flick aimed at the "Scream" crowd, "Disturbing
Behavior" concerns at idyllic coastal town where everything seems just
a bit too peachy. The local high school is populated by picture perfect
teens who, despite their wholesome love of yogurt, tend to get a little
trigger happy when the hormones start flying. When the new kid in town
(Jason Marsden) stumbles upon a dark secret, it's up to him and a few
other mistfits (Nick Stahl, Katie Holmes) to shut down the powers that
be.

There's loads of potential in this film that is, unfortunately, never
capitalized upon. You can thank the editing department for that one. If
the deleted scenes are any evidence, this movie was trimmed and dumbed
down to the point of no recognition. While the uninterrupted flow makes
for an easy, breezy viewing, the overall story lacks substance and
coherence. Its 84 minute running time, in turn, is a redeeming feature.

The director, David Nutter, spends much of the film building up ample
amounts of atmosphere and is aided wonderfully by a brilliant score by
fellow "X-Files" alumnus Mark Snow as well as some striking scenery
thanks to it's Vancouver location. So, the film isn't a complete waste.
You'll get some kicks out of the dialog and while Katie Holmes in
particular isn't given much to do, she at least looks good in skimpy
outfits while doing so. Also, it's hard to hate on a movie that is of a
more intelligent cut than the other teen-geared fare being produced in
its time. The movie at least aims high, and even when it doesn't quite
reach, it never bores.

A passable sci-fi teen romp, "Disturbing Behavior" is entertaining
late-night fodder that, surprisingly, will inspire repeat viewings.
It's a shame, though, to think of how much better the whole could have
been.
