

The greatest fault of The Thin Red Line was its timing - it was released at
around the same time as Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan.  While most people
dismissed The Thin Red Line as the `other' World War II movie of 1998, it's
actually a very different kind of film - the film itself is not hurt by
similarity to Ryan but was hurt commercially due to the misconception.
It's
easy to forget that Red was nominated for seven Oscars.  This is an
extraordinary film that can stand well on its own next to
Ryan.

Saving Private Ryan was significant in that it visually depicted war in a
realistic, gritty way.  The Thin Red Line's focus is more philosophical.
It
is about the contradiction between the beauty of nature and the destructive
nature of men.  The movie cuts continuously between the external struggle
of
American GIs fighting to take a crucial hill from Japanese occupation on
Guadalcanal - and more importantly, the internal chaos of war as every man
tries to come to his own terms about matters such as morals, death, God,
and
love.

Unlike in Saving Private Ryan, there is nothing patriotic about this movie.
In fact, there probably has never been a more anti-war film.  The fighting
men here are disillusioned, lost, and frightened.  They don't fight for
their country or "democracy" - they fight because they have to.  The only
priorities are survival, and - for the more humane - caring for their
comrades.  Renowned composer Hans Zimmer - who won an Oscar nomination for
his work-captures the grim mood perfectly and allows us to hear the men's
thoughts.

The characters are portrayed by a strong ensemble cast.  Acting is
uniformly
excellent, especially Nick Nolte as Colonel Tall, who is the unfeeling
commander of the ground offensive on Guadalcanal. Thoroughly unlikable, he
is the closest thing to a villain in the movie.  After studying war for an
untold number of years, Tall sees Guadalcanal as his chance to prove
himself
and move up in the ranks - the men are only a tool to accomplish this goal
and expendable.  In one crucial scene, he orders a captain (played by Elias
Koteas, in another outstanding role) to lead his men to a frontal assault
against a Japanese controlled hill.  When the captain suggests a more
logical alternative, the colonel screams: "You are not gonna take your men
around in the jungle to avoid a goddamn fight!"  To this, the captain
replies, `I've lived with these men, sir, for two and a half years and I
will not order them all to their deaths.'  Later, when the hill is taken,
he
is dismissed of his duties as Tall sees him as a threat to the successful
achievement of his goal.  Certainly, not every commander must have been
that
coldhearted and selfish, but surely some were, though not necessarily to
that extreme.

While the acting is very good, much of the cast is relatively unknown and
it
can initially be hard to distinguish the characters from each other as they
may appear to be very similar.  They are all about the same age, have dirt
smeared over their faces, and wear helmets and the same military garb.
Also, the stars in this movie have very small roles.  George Clooney and
John Travolta are credited with starring roles while really little more
than
extras - clearly for marketing purposes.  You will not see more than two
minutes of each.

One of the main themes of the movie is the contrast between nature and
men's
destructiveness in war.  The director, Terrence Malick, hired
cinematographer John Toll to capture this on camera, and towards achieving
that goal they couldn't have been more successful.  The almost surreal
scenery is nothing short of stunning and has the same visual impact as any
special effect.  The beauty of nature is always present, even when it is a
setting for battle of destruction, and death.

Though the battle scenes fall short of the frightening realism in Saving
Private Ryan, they are heads and soldiers above every previous attempt.
One
truly gets the sense that war is a chaotic, often hopeless environment
where
it is only a matter of luck whether you survive or get killed.

`How did we lose the good that was given us? Or let it slip away? Scatter
it
carelessly ... trade it for what has no worth?'  The film is filled with
such poetic questions as to which there are no real answers.  This is
definitely not a party movie.  There isn't anything uplifting about it - it
is downright depressing.  Asides from entertainment value, however, this is
a film that makes you think.
<|_=00=_|>

Having taken the time to read scores of reviews for TTRL (including IMDb
ones here), I'm reminded of the movie subscript for this most
controversial
film:  "Every man fights his own war."  What a polarization exists amongst
its viewers, and a lot of emotion both ways.

I was stunned, moved, transfixed and totally absorbed by this film, even
more so on subsequent viewings.  I was one of the considerable number of
people who, as the credits appear, sit quietly till one has to leave --
still stuck in the film's experience.  I'm not angry at others who merely
fell asleep.  It's odd how some of the film's harsher critics seem
compelled
to vent their anger in disparaging comments against those who loved it --
most of those who liked the film were gentler in commenting on its
critics.

In contrast to what some have written, "The thin red line" has nothing to
do
with the British infantry in its imperial past.  Jones referred to two
related quotes in his excellent book, both having to do with a thin line
between sanity and insanity.  Whether "justified" or not, necessary or
not,
there is a lot of insanity in the war experience by anyone's definition of
insanity.

War exists and seems to recreate itself -- I never got the idea from
Malick's film that he was preaching that we should just stop having wars.
On the contrary, he takes war as a given in the human part of nature, and
shows how individual human beings variously adapted (or mal-adapted!) in
order to be able to keep eating, breathing and, yes, killing.  The war
experience is not primarily about shooting and blowing things up -- as
Jones
described from his own experience, it's largely about what happens between
skirmishes -- strife and comradeship, fear and bravado, homesickness and
freedom from past constraints, and waiting to die or to see a buddy die.
People came, died, and were replaced -- much as portrayed by the cameo
appearances in the film that confused or upset some viewers.  Veterans
always talk about how hard it is when you have to rely on your buddies
(and
feel for them) even though odds are most of them will die.

What is most important to me (and it doesn't have to be for anyone else, I
know that) is how the eternal themes of humanity are affected and
expressed
in such circumstances.  All great works of art have something to do with
the
themes of beauty, pain, triumph, despair, good and evil.  There's nothing
wrong with entertainment as a diversion (The Matrix was fine fun); there's
room both for film for fun and for film as art.  Saving Ryan's Privates
was
mostly good entertainment (although I found it terribly manipulative and
jingoistic), while TTRL explores the themes I mentioned above, never with
easy answers.  If you found the voice-overs heavy-handed, maybe it's
because
you're used to Hollywood telling us what to think and feel and thought
Malick was doing the same.  Watch again and see if he's not just giving us
access to various individuals' often conflicting perspectives.

As for those who think the film portrays "our soldiers" in a bad light, my
family members who fought in WWII described their experiences and their
reactions much as those shown in TTRL -- they were ordinary men, decent
enough people, not heroes though sometimes unpredictably capable of the
heroic, and devastated by their experiences.  I'm proud of them for having
done all they could to do what they felt was their responsibility, and to
keep some humanity intact in spite of the horror.  None of them told me
they
felt "ennobled" by war; they endured it and were badly hurt by it but
didn't
feel sorry for themselves, either.

In TTRL I got to see this portrayed with such compassion I wept.  Even the
guy (Dale) who ripped gold teeth out of the mouths of dying Japanese
soldiers was no stereotypical villain -- he has his moment of grace as do
they all.  No one's defenses are portrayed as impregnable, not even
Witt's.
No stereotype himself, we see him kill over a dozen soldiers in battle,
while still trying to see God in the midst of the chaos.
And what a powerful scene at his life's end, fulfilling his own striving
for
self-sacrifice, and recognizing in a moment of epiphany where his own
immortality lie.  Those who couldn't find a plot line in the film must
have
missed the first ten minutes...

Maybe it's because of my own experience in life that I respond to this
film
so strongly.  I endured and survived ten years of intense, inescapable
unrelenting abuse as a child.  I remember even as a small child trying to
make sense of it all -- looking for the good, the reasons, God's plan, my
purpose.  Others who've survived trauma (in the Holocaust camps, on the
cancer wards) often describe how such experiences focussed their attention
on things that matter, beyond the physical realities they could not
control.
Ever since my childhood I've moved through life with a second
awareness --
that examination and self-examination while "real time" goes on.

That's what Malick portrayed, for me, in this film.  Maybe you think
that's
"sophomoric" or "pretentious".  It may not seem so when you're in the
midst
of a struggle, or on your death bed...

DGH

P. S.  I organized a special screening of this film locally for a few
friends -- 400 others paid to come, by word of mouth. Over a hundred sat
spell-bound as the credits scrolled by -- hushed and not wanting to leave.
Fellow wounded souls, some of them, I'll bet. 
<|_=00=_|>
The "Thin Red Line" is not an easy film to understand. It uses one of 
the most complex narrative structures yet produced by cinema to tell 
three stories (yes, it DOES have a plot): 1) the one the book wanted to 
tell (the book's title comes from a 19th century allusion to the 
British Empire's infantry [red uniforms] whose small numbers managed to 
'protect' the British ["civilization" from their point of view] from 
the countless hordes of "savages" which the Empire ruled (this concept 
is regrettably racist). James Jones used this analogy to tell the story 
of how young American soldiers with no battlefield experience become 
bloodied veterans. 2) the fundamental paradox of war: to protect 
"civilization" (all that we hold dear) we are prepared to send young 
men to fight in wars. We know that in war they will see and do things 
that will turn them into the very "savages" that we are trying to 
prevent from destroying our civilization. If you believe that there are 
things even worse in the world than war (genocide, rule by the Axis 
powers) then war is not irrational, but the paradox mentioned above 
exists. 3) man is not distinct from nature but a part of it. Therefore, 
nature is both beautiful and cruel. (Like our civilization and war).

To tell these stories Terence Malick used symbolic imagery, flashback, 
voice-overs, passages without dialogue, long close-ups of the actors' 
faces, changes in tempo and a haunting score.

For example, his use of symbolism has been much criticized but 
everything has a purpose e.g. the crocodile entering the green algae 
covered water (nature's savagery), the native man who passes the 
company, after they land on the beach, walking in the opposite 
direction apparently oblivious of their presence (their shocked and 
bewildered faces reveal how they are forced to question the relevance 
of the reasons for which they may shortly die - the defense of 
civilization), the tree being choked by parasitic vines ('nature is 
cruel' as Lt. Col. Tall so aptly puts it), the bird being born as a 
soldier dies (it was not dying as many people thought - "we come from 
the earth and return to it" as we hear in the voice-overs), dogs eating 
a human corpse ("dog eat dog" - the soldiers are becoming desensitized 
to the violence) the same crocodile, now dead, at the end of the film 
being carried away as a sort of trophy (danger has receded for the 
moment), the coconut sprouting a palm on the empty beach in the last 
scene (after death comes birth - the cycle of life). There are, of 
course, many, many other examples.

The use of flashback accompanied by voice-over to convey feelings as 
opposed to narrate a story must have appeared strange to anyone who 
never saw Alain Resnais' "Hiroshima Mon Amour". It was used most 
effectively with Ben Chaplin's character (Pvt. Jack Bell) when he 
thinks of his wife back home - incidentally he idolizes her in the same 
way we do our own culture - another metaphor. His disillusionment is 
profound and shows that what he was prepared to die for was only as 
pure as any ideal.

It is often say that there was no character development. This is also 
false. For example, in the scene where Sgt. Welsh is speaking to Witt 
shortly after his arrest for being AWOL , Welsh seems to claim that it 
is every man for himself when he says that individual sacrifice is 
worthless, there is no world but this one and that each man must get 
through the war the best that he can. However, we subsequently see him 
risking his life to deliver morphine to a MORTALLY wounded man during 
the frontal assault on the Japanese machine gun nests. Also, Witt can 
not understand where evil comes from in the midst of the beauty he sees 
in the Melanesian village, but when he returns there he sees man 
arguing, enemy skulls, crabs hideously crawling around on an 
outstretched human hand and a child's back covered with insect bites 
while those people around it are seemingly uncaring. These images 
suggest that evil is inherent in man.

Malick avoids the usual stereotypes. Although we see heroic acts (such 
as the taking of the machine gun nests by Capt. John Gaff's [John 
Cusack] team of volunteers), there are no recognizable heros. It is 
true that the characters are not sharply defined. When the violence 
comes it is against all of them i.e. all of US.

Are there then any relevant negative criticisms of the movie? I would 
say that it did not meander as some critics alleged (every scene has a 
purpose) but it was unnecessarily long. There is a certain irony in 
this. It is said that Malick edited over 100 hours of material first to 
9 hours. Understandably the studio did not accept this. He then reduced 
it to 6 hours and then to 3. (This helps to explain the lightning 
appearances by John Travolta and George Clooney, I see no problem, 
however, with using big name stars in such short roles - Richard 
Attenborough did it in "A Bridge Too Far"). With so much cherished 
material available, I suspect that Malick fell into the trap of opting 
for the maximum length that the studio would allow when more 
artistically efficient editing would have reduced the film to 2* hours. 
The balance between the action and meditative passages would have 
worked better if certain scenes had been cut, such as Witt's passing a 
wounded soldier on the way back to his company after leaving the 
Melanesian village the second time and also the conversation that Witt 
and Welsh have towards the end of the film (Welsh appears a stranger to 
him, suggesting that he is simply a troublemaker). Even with the 
exclusion of these scenes Witt would still appear a humanist and Welsh 
a complex "every man".

Most people would agree that the film is visually stunning. As there 
has been very little even remotely similar in the past, it will be 
confusing for many people but I am convinced that this will come to be 
seen as a hugely important work - the most influential of the 1990s.
<|_=00=_|>

what many people do not know is that this film, directed by terence malick,
is without question the reason that Shakespeare in Love won the best
picture
oscar over the much favored Saving Private Ryan.  why am i saying this?
first let's deal with the movie.  long? yes.  too much?  sometimes.  but is
it good?  i can not begin to describe the beauty of this
film.

about the oscars, i only watched the film after its surprise nomination for
best picture.  i had seen the competition already, and it was time to check
out the fifth nominee.  i went to the theatre myself, and came out three
hours later, went home, and i cried.  not only because i was disturbed, but
i loved every single character in the film.  i wanted to be there for them,
cry with them, fight their battle.  many people who have watched the film
have said the same thing to me.

the Thin Red Line is sometimes painful to watch, but only because of its
realistic juxtaposition of humanity, philosophy, and the terror of war.
the
film does not delve into any historical fact about Guadalcanal, except that
the battle itself was terrifying (as is any battle).  the characters
introduce themselves through voice-over narration, which accompanies much
of
the action.  and speaking of action, there is not much in the film.  more
images. images of war and the lives these soldiers left behind.  this was
Terence Malick's intent, of course, and many people were insulted and
thought it was his own pretentious self getting the best of him.  "boy he's
a genius.. must he show it??"  sometimes it is a little pretentious, but
the
film would've been "just another WWII film" if it was out of Malick's
hands.

i can not understand why Sean Penn is billed as the top actor or the main
character of this film.  he was there a lot, but the film is carried by Jim
Caviezel as the beautiful and ethereal private Witt.  words can not
describe
this performance.  with as few lines as he had, Caviezel portrays the
symbolic soul of Witt, and by the end of the film he will break your heart.
also excellent performances from Nick Nolte and the understated Elias
Koteas, who can stretch creepy (Crash) to sympathetic in the blink of an
eye.

now.. let's consider hollywood.  sure they love Spielberg, and sure Private
Ryan was a masterpiece (and it really was), but nobody even expected the
Thin Red Line to get seven oscar nods, especially for best picture.  but
Shakespeare in Love was the crowd pleaser, and the other two were epic war
films.  most hollywood "artsy" people are anti-war.. kind of like the Thin
Red Line.  Private Ryan seemed to be MUCH more patriotic "pro-america" than
the other.  so if we've got anti-war on one side, and patriotism on the
other... open and shut.  the votes were split between the two, and
Shakespeare emerged victorious.  too bad.

anyway... the Thin Red Line was definitely better than Shakespeare, and
definitely a completely different film from Spielberg's.  John Toll's
cinematography and Hans Zimmer's score work together to convey the tone of
Malick's lyrical and poetic direction, and both should have won oscars.
this film is nothing short of breath-taking, though understandably not for
the average american moviegoer.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is unlikely to be appreciated by audiences reared upon a diet
of dumbed-down Hollywood action fare. However, if you're prepared to
sit down and watch THE THIN RED LINE with no interruptions and give it
the attention it deserves, you'll be rewarded with one of the most
intelligent, poetic and stunningly beautiful films you're ever likely
to see.

Director Terrence Malick's films are alive with a sense of pure cinema
with every frame delivering such detail and richness that you could
swear you were there. The only other person capable of bringing such an
immediate sense of time and place and sheer nuance of film (although in
a completely different way) is David Lean, another major league
craftsman.

Here, again, Malick uses his customary voice-over device although this
time as a means of vocalising the abstract thoughts of the various
soldiers as they struggle to make some sense of the conflict. It's an
interesting approach which allows the audience to identify with the
characters in a far less superficial way than in, say, SAVING PRIVATE
RYAN (the film THE THIN RED LINE is most often and most unfairly
compared to). Malick is also not afraid to take time to illustrate the
continuing natural backdrop to the carnage. Mother Nature almost seems
to be occupying a pivotal supporting role as a detached observer on the
sidelines, calmly and inscrutably watching the chaos develop.

It's a measure of Malick's complete disinterest with the normal
conventions of Hollywood that actors such as Lucas Haas, Vigo
Mortensen, Jason Patric, Mickey Rourke, Martin Sheen and Billy Bob
Thornton all spent months in Queensland Australia and the Solomon
Islands filming roles that ultimately ended up on the cutting room
floor. Blink and you'll also miss major marquee players such as John
Travolta and George Clooney. The stand-out performances come from Jim
Caviezel and, especially, Nick Nolte.

Nolte just seems to be getting better and better as he gets older and
his portrayal of tyrant Colonel Tall is something to see. I have never
seen anyone express such an impotent sense of rage, anger and fury than
Nolte does here. It's a fantastic performance from a real pro and it's
a mystery to me why he didn't get an Oscar.

John Toll's pristine cinematography and Hans Zimmer's wonderfully
evocative (Oscar-winning) score are other strong elements. The unusual
music and visuals contrast so well that Malick sometimes fades out the
noise of the shouting, explosions and guns, an effect that only serves
to heighten the emotional power of the experience further.

You won't see a more beautiful film about the horrors of war. Movies
like this make the task of trawling through the weekly diet of dumb
formulaic junk served up by Hollywood almost seem worthwhile.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the most beautifully crafted and haunting films that I have
ever seen. Not only is the amazing ensemble cast give truly beautiful,
effective performances, but the direction and cinematography combines to
create a magnificent visual and mental feast.

 This story about the Guadalcanal campaign during WW2, based on the James
Jones novel, weaves the lives of many characters together seemlessly,
creating a philosophical/emotional experience of war. It's not just about
war. It's about love, faith in yourself and others, friendship, humanity,
morality and also works as a startling indictment of man's conflict with
nature. The amazing opening sequence, sets up a tranquility as the character
Witt, finds peace on a secluded island among the natives, a peace which is
shattered by the war.

 What follows is not a mindless battle-after-battle onslaught of
pyrotechnics, smoke, dust and blood, but a thought-provoking, visually and
verbally poetic analysis of war and humanity. In my opinion it is the
greatest war film since Apocalypse now, which I believe bears more flaws
than this. It's not an Us-and-Them war story about the glory of the USA
defeating the evil Japs. It sticks close with the characters, as we hear the
thoughts, their hopes, their fears, leading to a moving experience.

 This film was released a few months after Saving Private Ryan and
unfortunately did not experience the same attention that the latter film
did. Ryan was an excellent film, but to offer a comparison, The Thin Red
LIne treads where Ryan didn't dare. Ryan sat in the safe territory of Good
vs Evil with a bit of Futility of War and a lot of American Patriotism. It
seemed to be more about America at some points than about war. The Thin Red
Line is about war, the people involved and the destruction it creates for
the mind, the soul and for nature. It does not deviate from this to make
simple contrasts and offer easy binary oppositions.

 In fact, TTRL is not an easy film. Gasp, it even tries to make you think.
Though the title is not really explained in the film, I believe it is
implied, and could have many meanings - the line between sanity and
insanity, morality and immorality, love and hate, companionship and
loneliness, nature and man, war and peace. While the characters share their
thoughts, deeply poetic as they are, the meaning is not thrown in your face
and neither is the answer to the questions raised. In this way it is the
most thought-provoking war film I've ever seen and one of the best films of
all time in my book. Top ten easily.

 Now to my whinge. I think TTRL was shunned unmercifully at the 1999 Oscars.
Shakespeare in Love beat two brilliant films - TTRL and Elizabeth - to get
that oscar, and don't get me started on Gwyneth's award. This is the best
film of 1998/9, in line with Elizabeth. It's unfortunate that the two, thoug
h greatly revered, did not achieve the success and attention they deserved.

 Don't be afraid by its length, it's a beautiful journey, full of rich
colour, sound and the reward is a deeply moving human experience, unlike any
other that the past decade has offered.
<|_=00=_|>

The Thin Red Line has no real hero and no real plot to speak of. Due to its
release the same year as Saving Private Ryan it will forever be linked to
Spielberg's anti-war opus. Yet, "TRL" deserves to be compared to  Stanley
Kubrick's 2001 due to it's style and distance from the audience. The film's
only character is the Charlie Company and the conflict is between humankind
itself. Director Terrance Malik asks profound questions and unlike "Ryan,"
doesn't expect them to be answered because they simply can't be answered.
Like 2001, the viewer is left with more questions than answers at the end of
the film and is told in stunning visual fashion. Some critics have pointed
out various flaws in the film; however, these traits are what sets TRL apart
form it's peers. The stars like John Travolta and George Clooney have little
screen time. They are the officers who command attention and are larger than
life to the simple GI's who do the real work (and most of the acting in the
film.) The characters are mostly unrecognizable and you know little about
them save the main characters like Pvt. Bell. But, the faces are meant to be
unrecognizable; to paraphrase the film they are simply flesh and meat made
from the earth simply to return back to it. Those who criticise the lack of
violence in some scenes while labeling the other scenes intense don't
realize the intensity the fight scenes generalize are due to the fact that
the soldiers don't know when their next battle will be and when their last
breath will take place. The main character, Charlie Company, is fighting to
stay alive, the only real driving force of the plot. All of the characters
have different views of the war, shown through the use of random spoken
narrative. There is no easy conclusion to the war and the film starts off
where it began, among the animals of the pacific. Life is one huge circle
and one could guess the battle for the bunker on top of the hill could be
fought again and there is no possible way to stop it, (At least that is what
I was able to muster of the film itself.) For myself the most haunting image
was the scene when the Americans stare at their Japanese enemy after
capturing the hill. Both sides seem to realize that they could be on the
other side of the battle and that in war there really is no good vs. bad
scenario, just what nation you're from and who you are trying to kill. Yet
the question asked is why war occurs and why we must fight each other. On
that note, we still have no answers. The acting and sound are superb. The
direction, editing, and score are all Oscar caliber. I don't shrink from
saying that TRL is the best film of 1998 and one of the greatest war films
of all time; (and contrary to what some are trying to say it is a war film,
that is at its core.) TRL is the only film to ever make my knees tremble and
haunt me days after I saw it. If you see it, I'm sure your opinions will be
just as strong as mine. 
<|_=00=_|>

By far the best film I have ever seen.  It baffles me that people could
criticize this intricate metaphysical look at war, nature and humanity.
The
cinematography is so superb that each frame of the film stands on its own.
The voice overs offer majestic reflections on the nature of war and
humanity.  The intensity of this film is unsurpassed.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is three hours of movie poetry. "Saving Private Ryan," though
brilliantly made, is a jingoistic cartoon by comparison. "Thin Red Line"
follows a company of American rifleman brought in to consolidate the Allied
grip on the Pacific island of Guadalcanal in 1942 in the face of Japanese
invasion, but the place could be just about anywhere where war is
fought.

The company is not made up of conscripts but regular soldiers. Some of them
have been in the Army more than 10 years. Some of them however have never
seen real action before and this is a hot and uncomfortable location,
despite the lovely tropical scenery. Some crack up, some die, some do heroic
deeds. Their leaders are not particularly admirable; one is quite happy to
get his men killed if he can come out of the action looking good.

Out of sight for most of the film are the Melanesian inhabitants, the
Solomon Islanders, who are carrying on living as best they can while the war
rages around them. Their serenity is in sharp contrast to the frenetic
military activity. Of course, there is nowhere for them to go.

There is some action excitingly filmed but as in real wars much of the time
is spent preparing and waiting. Personal stories unfold but at the end it is
survival that matters.

The lighting and photography is quite superb, the lighting in particular
fitting the mood perfectly. Filming was not actually on Guadalcanal but near
Port Douglas in Northern Queensland where there is similar tropical
rainforest and fauna but with much easier logistics. It took ages apparently
but seems more than worth the effort.

This is probably one of the four or five greatest war films ever made, right
up there with "All Quiet on the Western Front, " "Paths of Glory," "Bridge
on the River Kwai" and "The Longest Day." Never has a movie better portrayed
what it's like to be a frontline soldier.

Terrence Malick has the reputation of being an eccentric, difficult director
- Kubrick without the fear of flying. Yet this is not a particularly
unconventional movie - it's just that everything hangs together - the story,
dialogue, performances, photography and settings. On thing is clear - this
is a better interpretation of James Jones' novel than the 1964
version. 


<|_=00=_|>

I'm very sorry I didn't get to see this film in the theatre. It is a
beautifully filmed masterpiece with a superb story, excellent acting (esp.
Nick Nolte), and a great script. It takes things way deeper than Saving
Private Ryan or most other modern war movies dare to go. Very introspective
and dreamy at times, with the camera constantly dwelling on faces, animals,
and the landscape. Merrick is never in a hurry, and this pace suits the film
well.

The Thin Red Line asks a lot of good questions about death, war, and the
ultimate meaning of life. Now that I have seen it, I'm very surprised that
this film did not win picture of the year. Spielberg's film was a gritty,
realistic portrayal of war. But it was also highly commercial and had a very
contrived plot. In comparison, this film sort of wanders through itself and
in the process helps to put you in the boots of the soldiers it portrays.

My only criticism is perhaps the film was a bit long, but I never noticed
that the second time through. I can't praise this film enough. Excellent
work.
