

First and foremost, if you have read the Dumas book, then you realize that
this movie doesn't resemble the novel in the slightest.  The only thing that
this movie got right was the names of the characters! 

However, I am a big advocate in saying that you should never compare a movie
back to its book, and I use this movie as an example.  This story has been
"Disney-fied" so that it can be called a family film.  If you read the book,
a true adaptation would not be family entertainment.  Disney changed
everything that they do.  Read the Tarzan novel and compare to the cartoon. 
BIG changes there.  The Little Mermaid.  How convenient that Disney left out
the fact that Ariel dies at the end of the story.

But what we should judge is the end result.  This movie is still
entertaining, despite having nothing to do with its literary influence.  The
characters are portrayed with the same attributes that they have in the
book.  For instance, D'Artagnan, while very duty bound and honorable, is
young and headstrong, and prone to impulsive decisions that will help him to
prove his skill and worth.  Porthos is self serving and self praising, very
vain and cocky, yet has a lust for the finer things in life.  Aramis is
humble and religious, but very skilled and intelligent, making him a very
formidable soldier, yet he also loves the finer things in life.  And Athos
loves his wine, trying to bury himself in a alcoholic haze to hide the pain
that he suffered in losing the love of his life.  All of these come through
in the movie, and all of the actors were great in performing them. 

As far as the story is concerned, Disney likes things black and white, good
vs evil.  And so, the story changes to make the Cardinal a power hungry man
with his own interests in mind.  He wasn't like that in the book or in real
life, but he was underhanded, and Tim Curry does another great job as the
villain that he steals the show.

Overall, a great and enjoyable movie, worth watching with the
family.
<|_=00=_|>

Nope, it's by no means an accurate adaptation of Dumas' original work.  Umm,
does nanyone really care?  Dumas' plot, while interesting in and of itself
to many, is probably not one that many folks who think of "the Three
Musketters" could actually _tell_ you.

This movie sets out to more or less capture the feel of such films, rather
than the source material itself.  In that regard, it's not too badly done. 
The characters are pretty broadly drawn, but adequate for the younger
audience they're aimed at.  Sutherland, Platt, and Sheen all seem way too
young, but at least the first two are entertaining.  Platt in particular
manages to steal every scene he's in.

By the same token, Richelieu's character is simplified to "generic bad guy."
 The King and Queen seem too young as well (although they're represented age
may be novelistically and/or historically accurate - again, could most folks
really tell you, or care?).

Overall, I'd recommend the movie for some light entertainment, but don't
take it too seriously.
<|_=00=_|>

I particularly liked the evil performances of Rochefort (Michael Wincott)
and Cardinal (Tim Curry).  The rest of the cast includes plenty of A-list
types such as Keifer Sutherland, Charlie Sheen, Oliver Platt, Rebecca
DeMornay, Gabriel Anwar, and Chris O'Donnell.   There are more great
one-liners in this movie than a Clint Eastwood film, a Sean Connery film,
and a Arnold Schwarzenegger film combined.  This movie is definately worth
seeing and worth owning.  Again, Tim Curry and Michael Wincott's
performances really do it for me. Evil!
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very ordinary version of The Three Musketeers. Film versions
of classic novels should at least bear some resemblance to the plot of
the novel from which they are adapted, even if they are just
pot-boilers intended for a family audience like this one, and not meant
to be taken too seriously. But this is a very loose adaptation indeed.

The acting is just up to the level required and the dialogue is a mix
of pseudo-17th century and contemporary Americanisms which fail to
convince the viewer that he/she is watching a picture set in 17th
century France. Though the production is quite a handsome one, with the
sets, locations, and costumes all nice to look at, the characters are
not well-drawn, in particular those of Cardinal Richlieu, portrayed as
an out and out villain, admittedly enjoyably, but with little depth,
and D'Artagnan who is played as naive, arrogant and pompous and not as
a particularly likable character.

Other comments stress that this is a Disney picture made for the
family, but that should not save it from criticism. Compare it with
Disney's Treasure Island, or Kidnapped, both much superior adaptations.
Nor have they helped children understand the novel. Because it is so
loosely based they would hardly recognise it as The Three Musketeers if
the characters' names had been changed, though I do agree that film
adaptations don't have to follow the source novel absolutely
faithfully.

But is it entertaining? Yes and no. The villains are hiss-able, Aramis,
Arthos and Porthos are sometimes entertaining, despite the questionable
dialogue they are given, and Richlieu, though often over the top, has
his moments. The action scenes are OK but not done with any great verve
compared with the Richard Lester version. Milady does not feature as a
really central character in the plot as she should and in fact many of
the novels' characters do not appear in the film at all.

Read the book and see the 1973 version and forget this one if you are
over 16.
<|_=00=_|>
This is what Swashbuckling is all about. It's not a book. It's
Hollywood and it's a cartoon. That's what the writer, director and
actors envisioned. It's what they portrayed. The basic triumph of good
over evil, of justice over self-serving malice. Escapism! And in that
light, it's brilliantly done. Come on, it's not a literary masterpiece,
nor was it intended to be. It's every child's vision of The Three
Musketeers. No different than Burt Lancaster in The Crimson Pirtate.
Just plain fun! Have you ever known any real heroes? The archetype is
men or women who laugh in the face of danger, give all for those who
are weaker and have an attitude of irreverence for all they encounter.
They don't think of themselves as greater than others. They just know
what their responsibilities are, and they execute them. Sheen, Platt,
Sutherland, and O'Donnell all act this out in expert fashion.
<|_=00=_|>
OK, first of all, you can't take this movie seriously. At all. I found
this on TV and though "wow, Keefer Sutherland, Tim curry and Charlie
sheen with swords, must be a cool movie." if you go in saying that, you
will be disappointed. However, me and my brother were laughing the
whole way through. The action is insanely over the top, the bad guys
make the funniest noises when they die!! Also, EVERY cliché is in this
movie. The harsh character who hates everyone and then has a stand-off
against the enemy allowing the others to escape and think he's dead and
then miraculously come back! Me and my bro were cackling as we pointed
out this and similar stuff. Tim curry is funny as heck too. it seemed
like he was thinking "I'm stuck with this, so why not have fun?" and
makes the main baddie, Cardinal Richelou the biggest perv the world has
ever known. This guy comes on to everyone in the movie who vaguely
resembles a female, that includes the young king, who looks a woman
disguised as a man disguised as Micheal Jackson. The dialog isn't
anywhere near the correct time period and while the minor characters at
least have accents (though often not necessarily french as they should
be) the three musketeers remain pretty darn American. So if you enjoy
movies that are side-splittingly bad, filled with cheesy lines and even
cheesier enemy death, this is the film for you!! Otherwise, keep your
sanity and stay away!
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie for its humor and tempo and of course because of the
nice actors, but what I discovered last vacation made my day. We
visited Vienna, Austria and we, my husband, my son Erik and me went to
see an underground lake close to Vienna in a town called Hinterbruehl
and they told us that this movie was filmed there and I saw the boat
used by Cardinal Richelieu(Tim Curry) There are also still prison
scenes where the musketeers run through following Richelieu to be seen.
Very cool.... It used to be an plaster mine that when it closed was
used in the 2nd WW for building airplanes. They still have to drain a
lot of water everyday to keep it a touristic attraction. You get a tour
in a boat and the water is very clear and cold, but very beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>

If you're looking for a high quality film that is full of intrigue, quality
writing, impressive acting and overall brilliance of production then please
may I direct your attention to "The Three Musketeers" (1973)directed by
Richard Lester. If you're looking for a fun adventure film full of action
and comedy well... that's still the Richard Lester version.

Still here?

This is a popcorn movie. You watch this when you don't want to be bogged
down by complex characters and twisting plots. It is a film full of obvious
cliches and key moments that, should you be at all familiar with movies,
are
neatly spelled out within the first 5 minutes. There isn't anything wrong
with that but lets not pretend that this is in any way a good movie. It is
a
mindless action flick made by Disney. If you like that, then yay and may
you
enjoy the movie.

Quick Guide to Understanding the Movie (minor spoilers):

The King and Queen are both extremely noble and deep down are very much in
love. They're just afraid to admit it. Sure, you might be asking yourselves
"where's Buckingham?" but we're supposed to forget he exists. So never let
it enter your pretty little heads that these people are anything less than
rulers by divine right because they're simply FABULOUS!

Rochefort not only betrayed the musketeers (he was one) but he also offed
D'Artagnan's father. You might be wondering where THAT one came from but it
looks more damn noble when D'Artagnan not only kills a baddie but also is
avenging the musketeers and his father at the same time. There must be no
ambiguous characters in this film. All of the antagonists here are REALLY,
REALLY EVIL!

Except maybe Milady de Winter. Why? Milady de Winter redeems herself.
Seriously. Why are you looking at me that way? I'm not kidding! Right
before
she's about to be hanged for her crimes she tells our heroes all about the
Cardinal's evil scheme and jumps off a well placed cliff. So she's redeemed
and kinda splatty.

The Cardinal is evil. No, not working for the good of France but from his
own (perhaps slightly warped) perspective. Clear cut, open and closed, baby
eating evil. Okay, he doesn't eat babies. That we see. But I'm sure he does
it! He's evil, he wants the throne (or the equivalent power) and he also
wants Anne (the queen). He REALLY wants Anne. Can I tell you all how much I
miss Buckingham?

If you're looking for depth, GO AWAY! Run, even. But if you're not then its
an okay film, I guess. It is pure light-hearted cheese but that can be fun
at times. Personally, this one was not my cup of tea. Oh, except for Paul
McGann being in it. If you're a fan of Paul McGann and you want a good
laugh, go see this film! He's a hoot as Girard (and Jussac).
<|_=00=_|>

This film is but a true fun adventure. It's not to be taken absolutely
serious. Nor a direct adaption of the classic book.
Has quite notable performances by Kiefer Sutherland, Michael Wincott,
Rebecca De Mornay, Gabrielle Anwar, and Paul Mcgann.
The cinematography as well is noteworthy, two shots that stand out, that i
always use in compilations, the shot of them riding across the plains, and
when they charge the castle at the end, with an army of musketeers behind
them; always takes my breath away.
This is a fun movie! Watch for an escape of reality.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a VERY underrated action-adventure story which revamps the classic
tale with a lot of top class young talents of the 90s.  The humour and
action fit together perfectly, and it features some very outstanding
scene-stealing performances; especially from Tim Curry (natch!) and Oliver
Platt.

<Spoiler Warning>

IMHO, Chris O'Donnell plays a young dashing hero very well in this (my fav
movie of his); and Platt, Charlie Sheen and Keifer Sutherland play the
classic sword-masters with a great mix of dash and humour.  Keifer's
dramatic undercurrent to the frivolity going on around him works very well,
and helps this from becoming too schmaltzy.  The highlight for me was the
the scenes where D'Artagnan accidentally arranges three fights with the
famous trio; as well as the final climactic showdown of
course.
