

I am an Eddie Murphy fan, but I did not go to the theater to see this
movie because of the horrible reviews that I read about it. My feelings
after catching this movie on HBO are clear, don't necessarily base all
of your decisions to watch a movie or not on highly publicized reviews.
The fact is, that I enjoyed this movie. I thought that the cast was
attractive and talented; and that there were some credible laughs. But
most of all, I thoroughly enjoyed the way the movie looked and how it
was filmed. This film was simply not as bad as the critics said it was.
It is possible that because the critics criticized the movie so much,
that when I finally saw the movie, and was not repulsed by it, that I
began to relax and enjoy it. I think that many of the critics were
expecting a Beverly Hills Cop-type laugh fest, but that is not a comedy
that's really an action-drama with a few laughs. This is strictly a
sci-fi comedy, as such, it does not take itself seriously; and neither
should you if you decide to watch it. Just see if you enjoy it. I sure
did.

<|_=00=_|>

This was a really cool movie considering no one makes cool sci-fi movies
much. It had a pretty good story, like a remake of a 1950's nightclub noir
film. It really had an early R. Heinlein or Phillip K. Dick feel to it,
sort
of. The effects were neat if not ground breaking and Eddie Murphy did a
credible job. Randy Quaid was funny and annoying at the same time. Also
had
a really funny cameo of Pam Greir as Eddie's mom. A nice, solid movie. Not
perfect by any means with lots of science mistakes but then Hollywood does
that a lot anyway. This movie reminds me of Total Recall if I had to put a
name on it.

The humor was much more sophisticated than I expected and there were no
Uranus jokes, contrary to other reviews. If you are going to lie, try a
little harder.


<|_=00=_|>
Randy as Bruno was awesome, Murphy was solid as always, the story was
fun and with music from outcast makes this just a great space comedy!
Best comparison is Fifth Element mixed with Total Recall but it's not a
rip, I get annoyed when people can't look at a movie and enjoy it for
what it is which is a fun family movie for everyone! Playing Frank
Sinatra was also adorable, love the touch and the hole robot theme. The
music is just great too, I love the sound track! If I would sum this
movie with one word it would be "Happy" because that's how I felt after
seeing it! =D Only negative would be the story as a hole but I figure
it's made for everyone including a young public and a bit predictable
but other then that there's nothing I can complain about.
<|_=00=_|>
I picked this up in a bargain bin, and was shocked. Nothing major is
wrong with this movie. It's not a great movie, but it is imaginative,
clever, technically head and shoulders better than most sci fi, has
great CGI. The set design was on par with Total Recall.

I'm not connecting with the criticisms at all. I can see it not winning
awards. I cannot see it garnering the universal criticism it did.

Someone called the action scenes weak and wooden. For 1/6 g? Have you
seen footage of the astronauts walking on the moon? I wouldn't even
call the plot weak. The twist ending was genuinely surprising,
certainly as good as Freejack.

In fact, the thing that bugged me the most seemed to be among many
people's favorite. I thought Randy Quaid's libidinous android felt
unrealistic, and marred the overall emphasis on a possible future.
Imagine Marvin the paranoid robot taking Data's place. A bit hard to
take seriously, no?

I'm glad I took the minor risk and made the purchase. I will keep the
DVD and watch it again occasionally.
<|_=00=_|>

It seems that a lot of people went into this movie expecting a
sidesplitting
comedy.  That was not the point of the movie.  This movie was rocking good
sci-fi action, with just enough humor to keep it fun without degenerating
into the usual slapstick retardation.  The plot was fun and interesting,
and
I really liked the way the movie had an atmosphere that melded the future
with the past.  Notice in particular the cool looking vehicles.  It was a
little like Total Recall, and also like The Fifth Element, but this
doesn't
mean it stole from either.  It was quite original I think.  I recommend
this
movie, it is fun and exciting.  Just don't expect a total comedy and lots
of
dirty jokes or you will be disappointed.  Expect some good science
fiction,
with some genuinely funny moments.  I enjoyed this movie a lot.  Give it a
chance, don't decide what it is and then think it sucks because it's not
what you expected.
<|_=00=_|>
3.7. A 3.7 out of 10. As I sit here, writing this review, this film has
a user-average rating of 3.7 out of 10. I'm going out on a limb here,
and assume that there are many people who blindly voted low scores to
bring down the rating, based solely on the negative publicity. Because,
I honestly can't believe that they all witnessed the same film I did.
(Not to mention, mass negative voting from people who haven't seen the
film is a problem here for movies with hype or notoriety.)

I knew the story, I heard about it all. The film was shelved for two
years, didn't get much publicity, and was released August of 2002.
Releasing a major comedy with a huge budget 2 years after completion,
with little publicity on almost the exact date of the 1-year
anniversary of one of the biggest tragedies to ever hit the US...
Seriously, did the studio even think when they tried to push this film
out? I can only assume not. Critics crucified it. Audiences ignored it.
It was a flop.

I went along, blindly following the notion that because it flopped, it
sucked. (Although, I have found out that many great films flopped,
among them "It's a Wonderful Life.") Finally a few months ago, a friend
of mine said: "Hey Adam, let's watch 'Pluto Nash'! It's on NetFlix!" I
scoffed, but after he persisted, I agreed.

I'm glad I did.

"Pluto Nash" was refreshingly entertaining, and in no way was it the
abysmal slight against cinema I had been told it was.

The film centers on Pluto Nash (Eddie Murphy in a fun performance), his
sidekick robot Bruno (Randy Quaid in perhaps my favorite performance in
the film) and Dina Lake (the astonishingly beautiful Rosario Dawson),
with numerous other actors in supporting roles. Nash is the owner the
nightclub "Club Nash", on the moon, some time in the future. He bought
the club to save the life of a friend (Jay Mohr), who has since become
a famous "singer" in a snazzy upscale part of the moon, leaving Nash
behind. Dina arrives, hoping to work for Nash in order to earn money to
buy her way back to Earth.

Soon, henchmen sent by the mysterious Rex Crater arrive, interested in
buying Nash's club. When Nash turns them down, they destroy the place.
Nash, Dina and Bruno vow to discover who this Rex Carter is, and stop
him.

And so begins this fun action/comedy/sci-fi feature. In all honesty,
the story is cliché, but it actually works quite well. This isn't
supposed to be a revolutionary masterpiece, it's meant to be a fun
good-guys-VS-bad-guys-buddy-movie type film, only set on the moon in
the future. The characters are quite endearing and likable as well.
They feel like people you'd want to hang out with.

The special effects (which were unfairly criticized at the time) are
surprisingly good, considering they were from 2000 (remember, the film
was finished but shelved for two years), and the direction of Ron
Underwood is quite nice. Visually, the film is a treat.

The cast works. Murphy, Dawson and Quaid are all great in their roles,
and supporting characters are played very well by some big names, such
as Peter Boyle, Pam Greir, Burt Young and even a cameo by Alec Baldwin.

The music is fun, the editing is great, the set design is exquisite,
the acting is generally very good, the direction is fantastic, the
story is decent enough. I really can't say much. The craftsmanship is
very competent. It's not a bad film by any stretch of the imagination
from any conceivable way you look at it. Is it a particularly strong
film? No. But is it a halfway decent film with some laughs and some
heart? Yes, it is most definitely. I also admire the fact that this
film isn't ashamed of being light-hearted and positive. A lot of films
(especially these days) try to be dark and gritty. It's nice to see
just a positive, fun film.

I honestly can't understand how this was so hated by critics upon
release, and so ignored by the general public. It's a very fun movie,
and I had a blast watching it. I will gladly be buying this flick
sometime soon, and sharing it with others, so they can finally see this
treat they missed out on.

I give "The Adventures of Pluto Nash" a good 7 out of 10. It's
lighthearted fun.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Adventures of Pluto Nash" has the same type of pacing, wit,
slapstick, and raging sidesplitting comedy- and and even bits of
Pseudoscience- as the Howard Hawks 1938 and also-not
appreciated-in-its-time "Bringing Up Baby". Perhaps not classic
material as the latter, but surely contains all the elements that made
Bringing up Baby the unstoppable string of events it is - And Pluto
Nash certainly is a nonstop romp through a fictional future. Some of
the gag elements - Including Hilary Clinton's face on a $10,000 dollar
Bill... This film has so many details like that, where you just have to
accept the incredulity of it all: And although gags like that were used
in films like 1990's Total Recall (Mars Today Newspaper rack on Mars)
and The 5th Element (Cigarettes that are 3/4 butt with a small amount
of tobacco), the gags do not take over the scenes, they just happen to
be there just to add to the general insanity.

Not being familiar with Director Ron Underwood other than 1990's
"Tremors" I watched this because I had to see Eddie Murphy working with
Randy Quaid, who also has a great sense of comedy (re: 1996's
"Independence Day"). Underwood has an impressive list of works
including "City Slickers" and "Mighty Joe Young". John Powell did the
soundtrack and it smacks of some of his other films, blending the pop
music of the soundtrack with his strains of heavy melodic beat.

Cameos by the great Pam Grier, Alec Baldwin, Illeana Douglas, John
Cleese, James Rebhorn as a crook and even other classics like Burt
Young and Peter Boyle... There is simply a lot of good talent in this
film, Rosario Dawson, Joe Joe Pantoliano, Jay Mohr, and Luiz Guzman.

I was surprised how much I enjoyed this, it is classic comedy, not
modern comedy- You don't have to think, the jokes are hand delivered by
Murphy and Quaid through most of the film, with Quaid almost stealing
the whole film and Pantoliano a close second. Eddie is simply Eddie,
and can make you laugh just by looking at you, nobody had to work to be
funny, it just is. The other players toss in their bit on cue. It is
simply set in a futuristic setting, and due to that, the gags are
unique and hilarious.

If only they could film on location in "Little America" on the moon,
perhaps in 2087, they will be able to do that.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie is fine for a matinee comedy ... the story's a little weak, but I
dare anyone who expects each action-comedy to be sidesplittingly funny to
check out some of the "classics" from the 70's, and not come away
disappointed.  In the hands of a better screenwriter & director who know how
to keep audiences from getting bored, this movie could've really had
potential.  As it stands, it's still better than most teen-oriented drivel
coming out.

Kudos to Randy Quaid, who's about the only one entirely believable in his
role (and to think he had the toughest part!).  Eddie Murphy does an OK job,
but its clear his best part is as a character actor, or someone a little
more interesting (like Jay Mohr's character).  Easily a 6, and I'll probably
vote a 7 just to balance out those cast votes to movies
sight-unseen.
<|_=00=_|>

Kids( 11, 9, 7 ) and I enjoyed this this afternoon and must agree with
others that tghe critics have this all wrong.  The special effects are top
class and the CGI workers deserve kudos.  Sure the plot was holywood boiler
plate but it really surpassed Total Recall and Mr. Murphy was still able to
project his exceptional talent and gift for dramatic comedy.  Why didn't
Warner Bros. plug this better?  Why the release delay?  Obviously putting it
on DVD/VHS there was somebody with brains, sense, and guts to know it had
quality.  Bad rap and poor business judgement are it's only shortcomings.
(7/10)
<|_=00=_|>
pluto nash is one of them movies, that was a box office flop, so people
like to jump on the bandwagon and say its rubbish, when it is far from
it, this is a great eddie murphy movie, and is funny, with a great
cast, and a sexy looking rosario dawson, thats a pretty sweet hour and
a half to me. most people that badmouthed the movie, didn't even watch
it, its just cool to say it isn't good, well let me tell you know, if
your a fan of eddie murphy, and why wouldn't you be, then you will
enjoy this movie very much, no it isn't one of the best movies of
alltime, it isn't even of eddie murphy's best but it is a great comedy,
that delivers some good laughs, watch it you'll be surprised
