
Why do I want to write the 234th comment on The Shawshank Redemption? I
am not sure - almost everything that could be possibly said about it
has been said. But like so many other people who wrote comments, I was
and am profoundly moved by this simple and eloquent depiction of hope
and friendship and redemption. 

The only other movie I have ever seen that effects me as strongly is To
Kill a Mockingbird. Both movies leave me feeling cleaner for having
watched them.

I didn't intend to see this movie at all: I do not like prison movies
and I don't normally watch them. I work at a branch library and one day
as I was checking The Shawshank Redemption out to one of our older
patrons, she said to me, "Whenever I feel down or depressed, I check
out this movie and watch it and it always makes me feel better." At the
time, I thought that was very strange. One day there was nothing on TV
except things I absolutely would not watch under any circumstance or
things that I had seen too many times already. I remembered what she
said, so I watched it. I have watched it many many times since then and
it gets better with every showing.

No action, no special effects - just men in prison uniforms talking to
each other.

The Shawshank Redemption and To Kill a Mockingbird are the best movies
I have ever seen. I do not judge it by it's technical merits - I don't
really care about that. I have read that Citizen Kane or The Godfather
or this or that movie is the best movie ever made. They may have the
best technique or be the most influential motion pictures ever made,
but not the best. The best movies are ones that touch the soul. It
takes a movie like The Shawshank Redemption to touch the soul.
<|_=00=_|>

Can Hollywood, usually creating things for entertainment purposes only,
create art?  To create something of this nature, a director must approach
it
in a most meticulous manner, due to the delicacy of the process.  Such a
daunting task requires an extremely capable artist with an undeniable
managerial capacity and an acutely developed awareness of each element of
art in their films, the most prominent; music, visuals, script, and acting.
These elements, each equally important, must succeed independently, yet
still form a harmonious union, because this mixture determines the fate of
the artist's opus.  Though already well known amongst his colleagues for
his
notable skills at writing and directing, Frank Darabont emerges with his
feature film directorial debut, The Shawshank Redemption.  Proving himself
already a master of the craft, Darabont managed to create one of the most
recognizable independent releases in the history of Hollywood.  The
Shawshank Redemption defines a genre, defies the odds, compels the
emotions,
and brings an era of artistically influential films back to
Hollywood.

The story begins with the trial of a young banker, Andy Dufrense,
victimized
by circumstantial evidence, resulting in a conviction for the murder of his
wife and her lover.  After a quick conviction, Andy finds himself serving a
life sentence at Shawshank prison, with no hope of parole.  He exists in
this prison only in appearance, keeping his mind free from the drab walls
around him.  His ability to do this results in the gaining of respect from
his fellow inmates, but most of all from Ellis Redding.  Ellis, commonly
referred to as Red, finds gainful use of his entrepreneurial spirit within
the drab walls of Shawshank by dealing in contraband and commodities rare
to
the confines of prison.  Andy's demeanor and undeniable sense of hope
causes
Red to take a deeper look at himself, and the world around him.  Andy
proves
to Red and the other inmates that in the conventional walls of Shawshank
prison convention will find no home in his lifestyle.

By creating the film's firm foundation, the meticulously chiseled
screenplay
paved the way for this film's success.  Frank Darabont outdoes himself with
the phenomenal adaptation of Stephen King's equally noteworthy novella,
Rita
Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption.  In this novella, King demonstrates that
he can break free from the genre he dominates and still create a marvelous
piece of modern literature.  Though the film mirrors the novella in many
ways, Darabont illustrates a focused objective of improving upon the areas
where the novella came up short, resulting in one of the best book to film
transitions ever.

While maintaining some of the poetic and moving dialogue of the novella,
Darabont also proves that a film's score can generate a great deal of
emotional response from its audience, as dialogue does.  He employs the
cunning Thomas Newman, son of the legendary Hollywood composer, Alfred
Newman.  Darabont shows recognition for the film's needs by employing
Newman, who makes the gentle piano chords whisper softly to the viewer, as
if a part of the scripted dialogue.  Newman lends himself to individualism
and tends to drive more towards the unique in the realm of score
composition.  His effort in Shawshank did not go unnoticed, as his score
received an Oscar nomination in 1995.  While unique and independent,
Newman's score never once intrudes on your concentration or distracts from
the film.

With work from vast array of talented scene designers, costume designers,
composers, cinematographers, and various other Hollywood artists, the cast
of The Shawshank Redemption had a strong foundation to work with.  The
marvelous cast of this film will dazzle you with some of the most
convincing
performances you will witness in a film.  While both Tim Robbins and Morgan
Freeman shine as Andy and Red, respectively, the true spectacle of acting
lies within the plethora of amazing supporting actors who easily disappear
into their roles.  Most noticeable of these, the veteran film star James
Whitmore, who portrays the elderly Brooks Hatlen.  Brooks, a man
incarcerated for an unmentioned crime for so long that he finds himself
attached to the Shawshank and the daily life he has lead.  Each of these
actors show a true dedication to their art, and a focused purpose in their
motivations, creating a convincing setting that never once caters to
anything unbelievable.

With all of the aesthetic touches and attention to cinematic detail, the
most beautiful part of the film lies within its thematic material, such as
its focus on the human desires for the most abstract concepts, like hope
and
freedom.  These themes, which concern things the human spirit undoubtedly
yearns for, seem so intricately woven into the plot that it easily draws
its
audience in to its story.  Though full of hardened criminals, your heart
will go out to these men as they display the most basic of human emotions,
and deliver some of the most quotable lines in a film to date.  Like a
great
novel, this film manages to succeed at greater things than simply
entertaining an audience.  Darabont tells his story most masterfully,
illustrating principles and inspiring his audience to think.  He leaves us
a
poignant film with a powerful message of hope, and redemption, something we
all seek.

This film manages to redeem Hollywood in the eyes of people who feared it
long lost in a dark sea of clichés and predictability.  Darabont shows us
that artists still work in the Hollywood studios and production facilities.
These artists show their capability to produce art; real art that inspires
you to look at the deeper aspects of life and the world around you.  The
Shawshank Redemption delivers much-needed breath of fresh air for anyone
who
realizes the capability of film.  It proves that masters of the craft still
live on this earth, and still bless us with timeless masterpieces that we
will never forget.

<|_=00=_|>

I have never seen such an amazing film since I saw The Shawshank Redemption.
Shawshank encompasses friendships, hardships, hopes, and dreams.  And what
is so great about the movie is that it moves you, it gives you hope.  Even
though the circumstances between the characters and the viewers are quite
different, you don't feel that far removed from what the characters are
going through.

It is a simple film, yet it has an everlasting message.  Frank Darabont
didn't need to put any kind of outlandish special effects to get us to love
this film, the narration and the acting does that for him.  Why this movie
didn't win all seven Oscars is beyond me, but don't let that sway you to not
see this film, let its ranking on the IMDb's top 250 list sway you, let your
friends recommendation about the movie sway you.

Set aside a little over two hours tonight and rent this movie.  You will
finally understand what everyone is talking about and you will understand
why this is my all time favorite movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In its Oscar year, Shawshank Redemption (written and directed by Frank
Darabont, after the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption,
by Stephen King) was nominated for seven Academy Awards, and walked
away with zero. Best Picture went to Forrest Gump, while Shawshank and
Pulp Fiction were "just happy to be nominated." Of course hindsight is
20/20, but while history looks back on Gump as a good film, Pulp and
Redemption are remembered as some of the all-time best. Pulp, however,
was a success from the word "go," making a huge splash at Cannes and
making its writer-director an American master after only two films. For
Andy Dufresne and Co., success didn't come easy. Fortunately, failure
wasn't a life sentence.

After opening on 33 screens with take of $727,327, the $25M film fell
fast from theatres and finished with a mere $28.3M. The reasons for
failure are many. Firstly, the title is a clunker. While iconic to fans
today, in 1994, people knew not and cared not what a 'Shawshank' was.
On the DVD, Tim Robbins laughs recounting fans congratulating him on
"that 'Rickshaw' movie." Marketing-wise, the film's a nightmare, as
'prison drama' is a tough sell to women, and the story of love between
two best friends doesn't spell winner to men. Worst of all, the movie
is slow as molasses. As Desson Thomson writes for the Washington Post,
"it wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance
of narrative exit points before settling on its finale." But it is
these same weaknesses that make the film so strong.

Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a
total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and
Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts
its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above
every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all
memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope.
It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of Zihuatanejo; "In here's
where you need it most," he says. "You need it so you don't forget.
Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of
stone. That there's a - there's a - there's something inside that's
yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan Freeman) doesn't think much
of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass o' milk with the silver
spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to crack. Andy says not a word,
and losing his bet, Red resents him for it. But over time, as the two
get to know each other, they quickly become the best of friends. This
again, is one of the film's major strengths. Many movies are about
love, many flicks have a side-kick to the hero, but Shawshank is the
only one I can think of that looks honestly at the love between two
best friends. It seems odd that Hollywood would skip this relationship
time and again, when it's a feeling that weighs so much into everyone's
day to day lives. Perhaps it's too sentimental to seem conventional,
but Shawshank's core friendship hits all the right notes, and the film
is much better for it.

It's pacing is deliberate as well. As we spend the film watching the
same actors, it is easy to forget that the movie's timeline spans well
over 20 years. Such a huge measure of time would pass slowly in
reality, and would only be amplified in prison. And it's not as if the
film lacks interest in these moments. It still knows where it's going,
it merely intends on taking its sweet time getting there. It pays off
as well, as the tedium of prison life makes the climax that much more
exhilarating. For anyone who sees it, it is a moment never to be
forgotten.

With themes of faith and hope, there is a definite religious subtext to
be found here. Quiet, selfless and carefree, Andy is an obvious Christ
figure. Warden Norton (Bob Gunton) is obviously modeled on Richard
Nixon, who, in his day, was as close to a personified Satan as they
come. But if you aren't looking for subtexts, the movie speaks to
anyone in search of hope. It is a compelling drama, and a very moving
film, perfectly written, acted and shot. They just don't come much
better than this.

OVERALL SCORE: 9.8/10 = A+ The Shawshank Redemption served as a message
of hope to Hollywood as well. More than any film in memory, it proved
there is life after box office. Besting Forrest and Fiction, it ran
solely on strong word of mouth and became the hottest rented film of
1995. It currently sits at #2 in the IMDb's Top 250 Films, occasionally
swapping spots with The Godfather as the top ranked film of all time --
redemption indeed. If you haven't seen it yet, what the hell are you
waiting for? As Andy says, "It comes down a simple choice, really.
Either get busy living, or get busy dying."
<|_=00=_|>
The reason I became a member of this database is because I finally 
found a movie ranking that recognized the true greatness of this movie. There 
is nary a word or scene out of place in the entire thing. Every element 
comes together to form an exquisite story for cinema. 

I believe that one reason that this movie is under-appreciated is that 
people have not seen it multiple times. On first viewing it is the story of 
Andy Dufresne and his struggle to maintain hope despite his circumstances. 

However, this is really a movie about Red and his struggle to find 
meaning and purpose. The final segment of the movie testifies to the fact that the final resolution of the story comes about only when Red is faced with the same fearful situation as Brooks. Because of Andy, Red can find a
different path-the path of freedom that is lit by hope.

Who is your Andy Dufresne?
<|_=00=_|>

I believe that this film is the best story ever told on film, and I'm about
to tell you why.

Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a city banker, wrongfully convicted of
murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison in 1947
and
receives a double life sentence for the crime. Andy forms an unlikely
friendship with "Red" (Morgan Freeman), the man who knows how to get
things.
Andy faces many trials in prison, but forms an alliance with the wardens
because he is able to use his banking experience to help the corrupt
officials amass personal fortunes. The story unfolds....

I was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal of
respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class. I have
never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe (e.g.
Seven).
The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a familiar feel, it
wasn't even slightly pretentious or cliched, it was original. The
cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real impression of the
sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.

But the one thing which makes THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION stand above all
other
films, is the attention given to the story. The film depends on the story
and the way in which it unravels. It's a powerful, poignant,
thought-provoking, challenging film like no other. If Andy were to comment
on this film, I think he might say: "Get busy watching, or get busy dying."
Take his advice.

Thoroughly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

One of my all time favorites. Shawshank Redemption is a very moving story
about hope and the power of friendship. The cast is first rate with
everyone
giving a great performance. Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman carry the movie,
but Bob Gunton and Clancy Brown are perfect as the Warden Norton and prison
guard captain Hadley respectively. And James Whitmore's portrail of an
elderly inmate Brooks is moving. The screenplay gives almost every actor at
least one or more memorable lines through out the film. As well as a very
surprising "twist" near the end that almost knocked me out of my chair. If
you have not seen this movie rent it or better yet buy it. As I bet you'll
want to see this one more than once.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the finest films made in recent years. It's a poignant story
about hope. Hope gets me. That's what makes a film like this more than a
movie. It tells a lesson about life.
Those are the films people talk about 50 or even 100 years from you. It's
also a story for freedom. Freedom from isolation, 
from rule, from bigotry and hate. Freeman and Robbins are
majestic in their performances. Each learns from the other.
Their relationship is strong and you feel that from the first
moment they make contact with one another. There is also a
wonderful performance from legend James Whitmore as Brooks.

He shines when it is his time to go back into the world,
only
to find that the world grew up so fast he never even got
a chance to blink. Stephen King's story is brought to the
screen with great elegance and excitement. It is an extraordinary motion
that people "will" be talking about in 
50 or 100 years.  
<|_=00=_|>
Misery and Stand By Me were the best adaptations up until this one, now
you can add Shawshank to that list.

This is simply one of the best films ever made and I know I am not the
first to say that and I certainly won't be the last. The standing on
the IMDb is a true barometer of that. #3 as of this date and I'm sure
it could be number 1. So I'll just skip all the normal praise of the
film because we all know how great it is. But let me perhaps add that
what I find so fascinating about Shawshank is that Stephen King wrote
it.

King is one of the best writers in the world. Books like IT and the
Castle Rock series are some of the greatest stories ever told. But his
best adaptations are always done by the best directors. The Shining was
brilliantly interpreted by Kubrick and of course the aforementioned
Misery and Stand By Me are both by Rob Reiner. Now Frank Darabont comes
onto the scene and makes arguably the best King film ever. He seems to
understand what King wants to say and he conveys that beautifully. 

What makes this film one of the best ever made is the message it
conveys. It is one of eternal hope. Andy Dufresne, played by Tim
Robbins, has been sent to prison for a crime he did not commit. But he
never loses hope. He never gives up his quest to become a free man
again. His years of tenacity, patience and wits keep him not only sane,
but it gives his mind and a spirit a will to live. This film has a
different feel to it. There has never been anything like it before and
I don't know if there will again.

I'm not going to say any more about this film, it has already been
said, but just suffice to say that I am glad that Forrest Gump won best
picture in 94. I would have been equally glad if Pulp Fiction or
Shawshank would have won. It is that good of a movie and one that will
be appreciated for years to come.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not your ordinary Hollywood flick. It has a great and
deep message. This movie has a foundation and just kept on being built
on from their and that foundation is hope.

Other than just the message of this movie the acting was phenomenal.
Tim Robbins gave one of the greatest performances ever. He was
inspiring, intelligent and most of all positive. His performance just
made me smile. Robbins plays Andy Dufresne who was wrongfully convicted
of murdering his wife and her lover. He is gets to life sentences but
yet never gives up hope. In he becomes friends with Ellis Boyd "Red"
Redding played by Morgan Freeman. Freeman who gives the finest
performance of his career has unlike Robbins lost hope. He is in deep
regret of the crime that he committed. His way of deflecting the pain
away is by trying to not feel anything at all. With his friendship with
Andy he learns that without our hopes and dreams we have nothing. Andy
also becomes friends with the rest of Red's group. James Whitmore also
gave a great performance as Brooks Halten who gets out of prison parole
but in the words of Red he has been "institutionalized". 

The directing by Frank Darabont was just magnificent. He kept this
movie at a great steady pace along with the writing and great
cinematography. He portrayed prison life in such a horrifying way, but
not in terms of the physical pain but the stress and pain that wares
mentally on the inmates, some of which deserve a second chance. 

Whatever you do, don't listen to the people who say this movie is
overrated because this is one of the most inspiring and greatest movies
ever. It has everything you could possibly want.
