
Ashaming that the Academy of motion picture arts and sciences has never
realized what a brilliant actor Jim Carrey really is. The is no
explanation for him not getting the Oscar for the Truman Show, there is
no excuse for not even nominating him for The Truman Show and Man on
the Moon. I like the academy Awards, most of the time it is a fair
thing, but in that year it was a disaster. How else can you explain
that in the year of Saving Private Ryan, The Thin Red Line and of
course The Truman Show the most boring and joyless film of all time
Shakespeare in Love gets eight, I repeat, eight Oscars and the Truman
Show gets none? I think it is because Jim has made so much Comedy,
nobody really knows what tough work comedy means. It is ashaming that
the Academy is sometimes still driven by outdated prejudices. For me,
Jim Carrey is the greatest and most versatile actor in the world! And
The Truman Show is The greatest performance by an actor I have ever
seen on screen. Finished!
<|_=00=_|>
Truman Burbank is an ordinary guy in an ordinary little seaside town of
Seahaven Island where nothing really happens. Everything is clean,
everything is perfect, he knows people but never really connects to
anyone. The one woman he ever really loved is not his wife and has long
since left for the other side of the world where he longs to visit but
feels he can never go. Paralysed by his fear of water since seeing his
father die on a boating accident, Truman still feels he is missing
something. A strange light falling from the sky, a man who reminds him
of his dead father, a strange radio broadcast and the feeling that the
world really stops when he shuts his eyes all combine to make him feel
something is wrong – but what is it that he seeks but feels he cannot
find?

When I first saw this film it was with my girlfriend (who would then
become my wife, then ex-wife!) and I remember how she and our friends
felt a little bit cheated by the film that they had expected to be yet
another wacky Jim Carrey comedy. In fairness to her and the others, it
was easy to do this at the time – who would have thought that Jim
Carrey would be able to act – certainly not the marketing department
that sold this film on the basis of it being a hilarious film as
opposed to the thoughtful and rewarding film it turned out to be. The
plot can be viewed on so many levels that it is honestly easier to
leave it to each viewer to take what they will from it. On the most
obvious level it satirises the media, the emotional façade of
television and (the increasingly relevant) look at reality shows. To
others it will say as much about God, the empty drone of life and the
things that we all desire. Of course to others it will just be a comedy
with general comments to make – and there is nothing wrong with that
whatsoever; in fact the multi-level approach works to make it appeal to
many audiences.

Starting as a comedy, I am always taken by how well the film moves to
become more and more interesting but yet never loses sight of those
audience members who have come for the basic story. Hence it delivers
an enjoyable and engaging central narrative that, plainly put, makes
for a comic and involving yarn – we grow to care for Truman and this
makes the ending an emotional and satisfying one even if some viewers
will bemoan the fact that (to them) it appears 'open ended'. That it is
also a very thought-provoking affair is only a bonus, with the satire
working on many levels. Of course by seeming to tackle so many subjects
and issues in such a short running time, the film never really gets its
teeth deep into any one of them but this is not a major problem because
it leaves us to do that in our heads after the film finishes.

The cast is roundly superb even if the majority of them are in minor
roles. Of course it is easy now to look back at Carrey and accept that
he can act straight but at the time it seemed so unlikely and few felt
it was a good casting choice. Of course, seeing the end result it is
clear that he can and he delivers such a great performance that he
really makes the film work.

He is comic but yet serious, sympathetic but not worthy of pity – it is
a great delivery and one that basically meant that I now look at his
Ace Ventura stuff as the 'other' category and see his acting as his
real work (6 years ago that was vice versa). Carrey carries the film,
being on screen for almost the entire film but he has good support from
Linney, Emmerich, Krause and others who play it well despite being
stuck in the necessary stiff and unreal roles. The controller etc roles
are all well played and feature a collection of well known faces
including a great support role from Harris through to roles for
Giamatti, Shearer, Baker Hall and a few others. It may be Carrey's show
but the support certainly helps.

Overall this is a great film that can be appreciated as much for what
it is on the surface (a great little comic story) as it can for the
issues that it hints at all the time. There was a time when some
viewers may have looked to a Carrey film to be a load of mugging an
crude, basic laughs but this was the film that saw that change. Thought
provoking, funny, entertaining, short, enjoyable and well acted
throughout – well worth seeing and well worth coming back to several
times.
<|_=00=_|>

I asked a friend to describe The Truman Show.  He said, "No, it's not a
comedy, well...not exactly."  I didn't quite understand until I watched it
myself.  Truman takes on a tone quite different than any parody/comedies
I've seen lately.  The point (the media and its destructive powers)  is
subtlely relayed through dark humor, and you don't feel like the director
is
smashing you over the head with his morals.  Peter Weir demonstrated his
artistic genius in Dead Poets Society and here as well.
The soundtrack is great, Ed Harris is stellar (what were they THINKING at
the Academy?) and for once I actually liked Jim Carrey. His performance
wasn't ribald for once.
The final scene--I will
not reveal it--is a majestic, long-awaited finish to an intellectual
movie.
Some people will insist that it was boring or pointless.  Those are the
same
viewers who prefer slapstick, obvious humor to the subtle layers presented
here.  This is a thinking person's movie.  If you can't see the underlying
message here, of course you won't like it!
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw 'The Truman Show' I came out of the theatre amazed. This is
your first clue that you are watching something
different from your normal Jim Carrey movie. I love the dialogue, camera
shot, performances, direction, music, and running time of this movie. There
is nothing I would do to change it. I came away from 'The Truman Show'
feeling inspired which is the goal of good filmmaking Jim Carrey was
outstanding as Truman, underplaying him, not making him too comic or too
dramatic, but
giving true sincerity when asked. He deserved an Oscar nomination. Ed Harris
has always been a good actor, but in this movie he's a great actor. He plays
Christof with such arrogance and bullheadedness that you don't know whether
he's helping or destroying Truman. He and the director, Peter Weir, deserved
their Oscar nods.

Weir, who directed the great 'Witness', uses different camera angles to make
you feel like you're actually watching 'The
Truman Show' and not a movie. He ends it before you get tired of the concept
and helped Carrey and Harris give immaculate performances. Andrew Niccol
script is a real star in the movie too because of it's inventiveness and
ingenuity. Overall, 'The Truman Show' is what I like to call a true American
classic.
<|_=00=_|>

When I was a young adult on the search for my true self, religion and God; I
found myself reading all kinds of books such as: Demian, Sidarta, Brave New
World, 1984, the works of Jean Paul Sartre and Simone de Bolvoir. The world
of Truman Burbank certainly took me back to those days. I used to look at
myself in the mirror and say out loud: "I wonder if I am me? I wonder if
everybody thinks the same shade of red when I say red? Why was I born? Why
are my parents my parents? Why did God create the world? Will I get punished
by God for thinking all these things?"
This is a deep movie, bound to become an art film.  Jim Carey did such a
superb job that it earned him a Golden Globe Award. This is definitely an
Oscar contender. It made me think! What a suprise! Movies do not make me
think very often. They are predictable to me now. Could it be age?

When the lady comes on the bike with the basket, then the dog and then the
yellow Volkswagen it reminded me of how repetitive life seems at times, when
we think that nothing is going to change and we want changes. The Director
was like God,  the creator,  although at times he was a mean guy, I think
that all of us have questioned God and have been angry at him. Truman's
world seemed so "perfect", no messy hair, no trash. Just phony! Our world
seems much like that, everything is a matter of perception.

The audience that watched the Truman Show in the movie was a hedonistic
audience of consumers who wanted to be entertained no matter what the cost
to Truman, reminded me of the soaps, of the Paparazzi, of how we like to
know about the celebrities, and ultimatly of how the product could be the
death of someone such as Princess Diana, or Truman Burbank.

Purchase the video and watch it many times and many other symbols will
come to mind. Like Jim Carey stated while he received the Golden Globe that
he would enjoy it down to the crunchy chewy part.

<|_=00=_|>

Although it sometimes seems that Hollywood is catering to the lowest common
 denominator of everything, The Truman Show is proof that there are great
 ideas that are able to be turned into great movies.  Jim Carrey plays an
 excellent role as a man with whom you can emphasize as well as be
 entertained by.  The film's surrealistic nature is frightening when the
 viewer realizes the legal feasibility in today's society, and it offers a
 great message about who or what we assume God to be and how He (he?) would
 react to our personal drives for discovery to challenge a world we treat as
 an aquarium.  Some things to note and ponder: The way the real-life viewers
 ignore the real lives of their compatriots and customers while focusing on
 a false life on screen; whose life is more real and whose is worth living? 
 Also, note that Christof does not have his name listed among the "real world"
 in the credits, but in "Christof's World."  His high-profile media-driven
life
 is no different from Truman's!
<|_=00=_|>

It's not often a Hollywood film arrives with such lofty ambitions as this. 
On one hand this is a high concept comedy in the vein of "Groundhog Day"
about an unwitting man whose entire life has been a TV show.  This is also a
Jim Carrey vehicle designed to display his charms.  On the other hand this a
very satirical look at the way the media manipulates our reality.  The film
also wants to take a philosophical look at free will vs. a higher power and
reality vs. fantasy.  It doesn't always work as the satire often keeps you
from thinking too deeply about the underlying themes and the philosophical
stuff keeps the satire from biting as well as it could.  Credit engaging
performances and solid and thoughtful direction from Weir for keeping things
afloat and entertaining.  There are some great cinematic moments here.  I
loved the "stolen kiss on the beach at night" and "Cue the
sun!"

In the end this film is closer in spirit to psychological dramas and sci-fi
movies where a person suddenly realizes they are the pawn in some grand
experiment or a prisoner in an alien world than it is to anything in our
current "reality TV" obsessed culture.  Eventually it touches on a very
basic conflict all humans must face (most people do so in childhood, some I
fear never do).  The universe does not revolve around us.  In the closing
moments we are excited for Truman because he finally realizes there is a
whole new world out there to explore, but also slightly saddened because we
know all to well that he will never be able to return to that idyllic
"childhood" existence.  How's it going to end?  Who knows...but things will
never be the same.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Truman Show" owes a lot to the direction of Peter Weir. Weir
refuses to pump out the movies in a search for extra dollars. Instead
he chooses wisely and directs brilliantly. Just by looking at a list of
his movies will surprise and even amaze you. So as you would imagine
"The Truman Show" is another success.

Truman Burbank has the perfect life, or so he thought until finally his
life long suspicions about his world begin to unravel. Even though the
idea for Truman is not totally original, it is thought provoking enough
and allows the audience to wonder, what if? If you think this couldn't
happen, just look back over the years at the stupidity of the human
race and think again.

Jim Carrey once again nails his role, as do the entire cast. It is rare
he fails to perform at a level that perfectly complements the movie and
its genre. This is something he does not receive enough credit for.
Acting for a comical role or a more dramatic role requires no less
effort for the performance to be spot on.
<|_=00=_|>
Life is starting to imitate satire. "The Truman Show" was only made
seven years ago, but it predates the current mania for so-called
"reality" television shows such as "Big Brother". The idea behind such
shows is that they present the viewer with a slice of actual reality-
real people in real situations with real emotions- rather than the
simulated reality of drama or the edited reality of documentaries. The
flaw in this idea is that nothing is more unreal than a reality show.
The presence of the cameras has a distorting effect, inducing
artificial behaviour patterns in those who appear in front of it, and
the sort of people who star in such programmes are almost invariably
eccentric exhibitionists. "The Truman Show" takes the central concept
of reality TV shows one stage further in order to overcome this flaw:
what would happen if we made a reality programme about a person who has
absolutely no idea that he is appearing on television? Truman Burbank
is an insurance executive, living in a small American seaside town
called Seahaven, and happily married to a nurse named Meryl. Or at
least he thinks he is. What Truman doesn't know is that he is the
central character in a soap opera and that his whole life is a fiction.
The company he works for does not exist. Seahaven, the island it stands
on and the surrounding ocean are all part of a gigantic set, specially
created for the programme and sealed off from the outside world in a
gigantic geodesic dome. Everyone in Truman's life- Meryl, his mother,
his colleagues at work, his best friend Marlon- are actors playing out
their roles in his drama.

For thirty years Truman has accepted his world unquestioningly, but at
the beginning of the film a series of incidents- a light falling from
the sky, the reappearance of his father, who was supposed to have
drowned in a boating accident when Truman was a boy, strange messages
picked up on his car radio- awaken his doubts. Although members of the
cast make strenuous attempts to dissuade him, he decides to try and
explore the world outside Seahaven; in particular he wants to travel to
Fiji where he has been told that his former girlfriend Sylvia now
lives. (Sylvia was written out of the show when the scriptwriters
decided that he should marry Meryl instead).

The film has certain similarities with another film from the late
nineties, "Pleasantville", which dealt with an inverted version of the
same idea; two teenagers from the real world are magically transported
into the world of a fifties television show. In my view, however, "The
Truman Show" is the better of the two. "Pleasantville" deals with its
political themes in a heavy-handed way with some very obvious
symbolism. "The Truman Show", although it deals with some weighty
issues, is never ponderous or excessively serious; indeed, it is often
very humorous. The main source of humour is the contrast between the
naïve, trusting Truman and the behaviour of those around him, all
living a lie and desperately trying to prevent Truman from finding out
that it is a lie. I had previously thought of Jim Carrey as a rather
annoying actor whose appeal was based upon the idea that manic
overacting is in itself funny, but here as Truman he is very good
indeed, both amusing and touching. I was also impressed by Ed Harris as
Christof, the show's enigmatic producer.

Another factor in the success of the film is its visual look. Seahaven
(like the town in "Pleasantville") appears as an eerily perfect,
not-quite-real version of the typical American small town, but was
actually filmed in a real place, the purpose-built village of Seaside,
Florida. There are similarities with the cult British sixties
television series "The Prisoner", which was also filmed in an eerily
perfect seaside village, Portmeirion in North Wales.

The film is obviously a satire on the intrusiveness and obsession with
celebrity of the modern media; added relevance was given by the fact
that it came out shortly after the death of Princess Diana. There is,
however, more to it than that. Much has been made of the film as
religious allegory; it has been pointed out that Christof whose name is
clearly, and quite deliberately, similar to "Christ", is a God-figure,
whereas Truman (the "True Man") is a symbolic Everyman. It has even
been claimed that the film is an anti-religious allegory, with Truman's
final escape from Seahaven symbolic of man's need to break away from
outdated religious dogmas. This is not an interpretation with which I
would agree- if one is trying to put across a "God is dead" message, it
seems odd to provide a God-figure who is very much real, not mythical
or illusory. The imagery of the final scenes – the calm after the
storm, the ascent up a flight of stairs into the sky and clouds- also
struck me as religious rather than secular. Moreover, the film seems
too complex to be reduced to any single allegorical meaning, although
it certainly deals with the relationship between man and God. It also
touches on man's need to explore- both to explore new places and also
to explore new ideas and to break away from established ways of life
and ways of thought- and on the nature of reality. Truman's world may
seem unreal to us, but as Christof says, "we accept the reality we are
presented with".

This is a brilliant, multi-layered film, part comedy, part satire, part
philosophical speculation, and in my view one of the two best movies of
the late nineties. (The other was "American Beauty"). I felt it should
have taken the "Best Picture" Oscar for 1999- "Shakespeare in Love" is
a good film, but "The Truman Show" is a great one. It confirms my view
that Peter Weir is one of the best directors currently working. 10//10
<|_=00=_|>

Having been bandied about the release schedules for the best part of a year,
Carrey's first semi-dramatic film finally got a UK release last October. He
plays Truman Burbank, a vaguely unhappy insurance salesman in the perfect
little seaside town of Seahaven. Following some strange occurrences, Truman
starts to think that he is being watched. Little does he know that his
entire life is secretly filmed, his town is a gigantic sound-stage, everyone
he has ever known was an actor and that his every waking and sleeping second
is broadcast around the world as a top-rated docu-soap.

Critics have been lavishing enormous praise on this movie since it opened in
America last June, and probably rightly so because it is a superbly crafted
piece of work. Weir's direction is outstanding, frequently viewing events
from the point of view of hidden spy cameras, such as the one in Truman's
car radio. One stunning shot has the town's main street full of motionless
extras, waiting for Truman to turn the corner. Jim Carrey's performance has
been singled out for particular praise, and though his acting is of a much
higher standard that his usual comedy antics, it is not exactly Laurence
Olivier. This said, an Oscar nomination would have been well deserved.

The setting of a chirpy small town from which escape is impossible echoes
cult 60's series The Prisoner, but the balance of reality and poetry is much
more restrained here than it was then. The opening credits are especially
clever, using those of the actual `show' (e.g. Truman Burbank as Himself).
There are, however, a few problems. The film is simply too short to
adequately explore Truman's situation, and the character of Meryl, his
`wife', disappears about half-an-hour from the end. This kind of slightly
sloppy scripting was not something I expected from writer Andrew Niccol,
whose previous film Gattaca, which he also directed, was such an immediate
classic. Gripes aside, this is an extraordinary and highly original film
that really is worth seeing several times to fully understand the director's
message. It doesn't even matter if you never liked Jim Carrey before. You
will now. 

