
In my opinion,Robin Williams is at his best when playing characters
much like himself.This film is based on the life of the real Hunter
"Patch" Adams,a man that Williams himself says that he closely relates
to.In the medical profession,it is easy to become hard nosed and so
wrapped up in treating the sickness that it is all too easy to forget
that there are actual people behind the sickness.We are taught by Patch
to treat the person first,because when you do so,treating the illness
becomes somewhat easier.Sometimes people don't get better,but treating
the soul to a laugh or two can lessen the pain and suffering.Sometimes
people die,and while the people that loved them suffer and grieve,the
suffering and grief are eased somewhat by the knowledge that their
departed loved ones no longer suffer.This role was tailor made for
Williams,and he is supported well,including another overlooked
performance by the late Michael Jeter as a squirrel fearing mental
patient.Thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I watched this movie, it was truly wonderful and has
been every time I've watched it since. "Patch Adams" delivers a
powerful message of how to just be silly and break the rules when it's
in the best interest of everyone around. He knew in his heart that all
the patients needed to laugh. Laughter is after all the best medicine
anyone could ask for. But Patch knew how to be serious and when to be.
How he treated all the other students, faculty, nurses, and patients
truly inspired more than just me, but many people I know. His way of
life is one that I recommend for anyone.

Robin Williams give a 5-star performance in Patch Adams. He is a genius
in creativity and comedy, but knows how to bring every aspect of a
person's life out on the screen. I know that he is just playing the
role, but he wraps you entirely into a movie and makes it seem like he
is the man.

I recommend this movie to all...young and old. It's a winner forever in
my heart.
<|_=00=_|>

Patch Adams is the remarkable true story about a man determined to become a
medical doctor because he enjoys helping people. The medical community
though do not like his methods of healing the sick patients, even though
everyone else appreciates and enjoys what he does as he is the only one who
can do so. Robin Williams stars as Patch 'Hunter' Adams and he does a
brilliant job as always. He's an amazing actor and *really* funny too. Other
good performances, come from Philip Seymour Hoffman and Monica Potter. Patch
Adams is a must-see and I give the movie a 10/10.

<|_=00=_|>
There are a lot of sugary clichés I use - in a nice way - to describe
this story about a doctor with a good heart who truly believes in the
healing power of laughter. Based on a real-life person (who looks a lot
wackier than Robin Williams, who plays him in this movie), the story
has its usual rebel fights-the- straight-laced-establishment cliché but
is a warm, sentimental film that can't help but make you feel really
good when it's all over. It's hardly all sugar, either, as there are
not only frustrations but an immensely-shocking tragedy in here.

For a nice "family" movie, the profanity and sexual innuendos are a
little much, so I don't think is one for the kids. (They wouldn't like
it anyway.) Adults shouldn't mind. The language isn't that bad, anyway.

"Patch's" remedy for not only sickness but to get-the-girl is humor. It
takes him awhile but he softens the hard-shell woman he's after (Monica
Potter) and even the super stiff-ass roommate (Philip Seymour Hoffman)
in the end. This film is tailor-made for Williams and his great sense
of humor and ability to ad-lib. He has a lot of funny lines in here.

There is one little kid in here who's smile is one of the best I've
ever seen on a human being, and I wish the boy had more scenes. The
touches of sentimentality he brings, along with the laughter, is
wonderful to see and heart- warming, to say the least. This is an
inspiring story with comedy and romance and drama. That's what makes it
so effective: a good combination of genres. One minute you're laughing,
a few minutes later you have tears in your eyes. 

A wonderful story, nicely acted and nicely told.
<|_=00=_|>

No one is more evangelistic than the newly re born. Beware the ex smoker,
the ex drinker, or the ex mental patient because he or she is likely to be
painfully over enthusiastic, especially to the yet to be
reformed.

Patch Adams is loosely based on a real character who, feeling suicidal in
his twenties, admitted himself into a psychiatric institution. He soon
emerged convinced that loving kindness will heal most ills, or at least
make
the disease more palatable.

The real Patch Adams entered and passed medical school in the 1970's and
opened an alternative medical facility called the Geshundheit Institute
which, if you can believe the film, offered free treatment of a sort; the
sort that uses drugs pinched from the local hospital.

Enter Robin Williams as Patch Adams. If laughter is the best medicine,
you're a bit of a Robin Williams fan and you enjoy a big dose of Hollywood
fantasy, then this film will please you greatly.

He begins the film bedraggled and of course much older than the real
Patch.
He's depressed and might kill himself so he puts himself into the hands of
the doctors.

He's locked into a room with a fellow patient called Rudy (Michael Jeter)
who is crouched on the bed terrified of imaginary squirrels. Patch blows
them away with imaginary machine guns and a doctor is born!

Cut to the medical school where an army styled dean (Bob Gunton, who
played
the warden in The Shawshank Redemption) is determined to turn his students
into doctors; creatures far superior to humans. The stage is
set.

This is classic Robin Williams territory. He plays the well meaning, very
funny, inordinately warm human being who bucks authority and who appeals
to
the better instincts of those insensitive individuals who are in power.
We've seen this before in Good Morning Vietnam, Mrs. Doubtfire, When
Dreams
Might Come and Good Poets Society; his kindly uncle persona. Williams has
made this territory his own.

Patch Adams works the magic well. It's laced with terrific Robin Williams
one liners which are often absurdly funny and lots of gently humourous
slapstick clowning, largely to do with props such as enema bulbs as false
noses or bed pans as shoes.

There are a succession of set pieces; the most unrealistic of which is the
crashing by Patch with student friend Truman (Daniel London) of a Meat
Packers convention; the most amusing of which is a wonderfully outlandish
welcome for a gynecological convention; the most annoying of which is the
wooing of a young medical student called Carin (Monica Potter) by the very
middle aged Patch.

A middle aged lover for Patch would have been a pleasing variation on the
old geyser gets young bird theme which is so popular.

And then there's even a court scene (in a hospital!) thrown in with an
appropriate audience of cancer patients and you can be sure that you've
been
asked to leap through just about all of the appropriate hoops, but so
what!
Robin Williams can make this sort of stuff work pretty
well.

Patch Adams is Robin Williams at his middle aged best. It's not as
anarchic
as Mork And Mindy, as energetic as Good Morning Vietnam, as sad as Dead
Poets' Society, as funny as Mrs. Doubtfire or as wishful as When Dreams
Might Come. But Patch Adams is pretty funny and reasonably
intelligent.


<|_=00=_|>

During a family day at the movies over Christmas weekend, most of my family
picked "You've Got Mail".  But I pretty much detest romantic comedies, so I
picked "Patch Adams" instead.  How much did I like it?  I went and saw it
again the next day, dragging the whole family with me this
time.

Don't let the previews fool you: this is not a comedy.  This is a very
moving drama based on the real life of Hunter "Patch" Adams and his trials
on the road to becoming a doctor and attempting to revolutionize the health
care industry by creating a free hospital in West Virginia (which has come
to pass and is presently being constructed, or so the overlayed tagline at
the end of the movie claims).

Williams delivers a stellar performance as Patch, who practices "Laughter Is
The Best Medicine" and entertains and amuses hospital patients in an effort
to befriend them and ease their pain.  So as you can imagine, Williams'
clownish personality and humor seep in and bring an incredible vibrance to
the character.  His performance alone is worth your ticket, but the
supporting actors (Philip Hoffman and newcomers Daniel London and Monica
Potter) also deliver great performances and add a lot to the story.  The
plot is well done (being partially written by Adams) and the story may
inspire you.

My only major complaint about the movie (and why I say it's a hair off
center) is the very stereotypical and uber-evil portrayal of the dean of the
medical school, who has a vendetta against Adams but for which a real reason
is never given.  (This could be attributed to Adams' hand in the scripting,
but I doubt it.)

Beyond that, this movie is very enjoyable, very touching, and very
award-worthy.  If it doesn't show up at least a couple times at the Oscars
I'll be very disappointed.  But just go see it for yourself.  And if you
don't cry at least once before the end, be worried; there is probably
something wrong with you.

If you enjoy the movie, you may also want to check out the book by the real
Patch Adams, entitled "Gesundheit!: Bringing Good Health to You, the Medical
System, and Society Through Physician Service, Complementary Therapies,
Humor, and Joy".  Amazon.com carries it (as should any other reputable
bookseller).
<|_=00=_|>

I think that the critics missed an important aspect of this movie, as
did many viewers who have commented before me.  Too many have claimed that
this movie was a drama full of comedy, or a drama that was trying to be
funny.  Whether the critics think it achieved that goal or not, they
missed
an important point.  The point is that Drama and Comedy are not two
seperate
things to be combined.  A movie shouldn't have to combine the two.  The
two
things are already combined.  This movie attempted to show that there is
comedy and laughter inherent in the drama of our everyday life.  If we can
find it, it can help us through the drama.  This is the reason we cry when
we are happy and we cry when we are sad.  All emotions are part of
something
bigger and they are more similar than we think.  I think that's part of
what
Patch Adams is trying to say. 
<|_=00=_|>

Perhaps Williams finest effort to date. I laughed till my sides ached, and
maybe even shed a tear or 2, but I won't admit to actually doing so. Liked
that big shock the film produced a little over half way through - totally
unexpected. If I had a problem at all with this picture, it would be that it
is a tad pat, but I still thought it was excellent. Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
"Patch Adams" is a movie so blatantly awful, so boldly outrageous, that
I find it much more offensive than even the most disgusting hard-core
pornography. This film is Evil, from beginning to end, and should be
avoided at all costs.

This is a feel-good true-story biopic, with Robin Williams portraying
the titular doctor... right? Wrong. This movie is "Robin Williams Goes
to Med School." Any attempt at portraying a real person is instantly
forgotten, as Williams' manic needy comedy overtakes every sequence,
from the absurd opening at the mental institution to the rebel without
a clue university years...

"Love ME!! Laugh at ME!! VALIDATE ME!!!" shouts Robin as he riffs his
way through classes... watch him light up the sickly faces of sick
children as he desperately searches for any device to elicit a laugh
from the audience. 'Medicine is important,' Patch postulates, 'but what
a doctor really needs to know is how to make his patients laugh.'
Bullsh!t. What can be said about a movie that makes a mockery of
doctors and nurses who spend lifetimes studying and toiling in
obscurity to heal and cure in order to praise a clown with an enema
bulb on his nose? The movie doesn't just ask you to love Robin
Williams... the movie insists you love NO ONE ELSE! Characters are
either ineffectual pawns (his Jewish nebbish of a best bud, the
patients) or villains (Bob Gunton) who stand in the way of Patch's
violent, oppressive comedy. A terminal cancer patient throws Patch out
of his hospital room, insisting he doesn't want to be cheered up, but
Patch will have none of it! He dresses as an angel and sneaks his way
back in and beats the man over the head with jokes until he finally
relents... Patch wins! This movie is all about hostility disguised as
comedy... you have to laugh or Patch will destroy you!

Smarmy, schmaltzy and sometimes infuriating, "Patch Adams" crosses the
line by sanctifying its subject and refusing to consider any other
point of view... Phillip Seymour Hoffman stars as Patch's roommate, a
serious-minded med student who wants nothing more than to study and
graduate. He has the best line of the film when he angrily declares:
"If I'm sick and I have the choice between a pr!ck doctor and a
clown... I WANT THE PR!CK!!!"

I do too.

GRADE: F
<|_=00=_|>

My husband and I loved this film.  We laughed, cried and felt warm and fuzzy
all over!  Very well made film.  Robin, as always did a great job with his
part.  His co-actor/actress were very good too.  The movie made us a part of
what was going on.  I want a doctor just like Patch.  To bad there aren't
more doctors like that.
