
From the excellent acting of an extremely impressive cast, to the
intelligently written (and very quotable) script, from the lavish
cinematography to the beautiful music score by Carter Burwell, Rob Roy
offers a rarity in movie going experiences: one that is nigh impossible
to find fault with in any area.

There have been several comparisons made with Braveheart, which came
out the same year. With all due credit to Mel Gibson, Braveheart struck
me as too much of a self-conscious and preachy epic to rival Rob Roy as
the kind of movie I would care to see more than once. While Braveheart
works hard to be a serious epic, Rob Roy just grabs you and absorbs you
into its tightly edited storytelling. Not a single scene is wasted.

Rob Roy contains the perfect balance of dramatic tension, action and
even occasional humor. The characters are well fleshed-out, perfectly
conveying vernacular and mannerisms that anchor them in their authentic
period setting.

Further, they are not caricatures of good and evil as we all too often
observe in even modern film.

For example, while we hope the heroic Rob Roy prevails, we realize his
predicaments are products of his own pride and sense of honor. Tim Roth
plays one of the most hateful bad guys in the history of cinema, yet
there are moments when we can understand how the events of his life
have shaped him into becoming what he is. Rob Roy employs a level of
character development that makes its story even more believable and
gripping.

Rob Roy is a delightful treasure, featuring one of the greatest sword
fights ever choreographed and a climatic ending worthy of all the tense
anticipation.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a strong movie from a historical and epic perspective.  While the
story is simple it is pure and straightforward.  In truth, it is the
standard story of a simple, honorable man whose honor comes into conflict
with the more educated and wealthier men of the period.

Poor vs. Rich, honorable vs. dishonorable, a classic but well-told tale
without much of the glitz of hollywood stinking up the
screen.

Extra points just because you can almost smell the people on the screen.
:)
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Caton-Jones's Scottish period piece bears little connection to
the Sir Walter Scott novel of the same name...

The film opens in the Scottish highlands, with Robert Roy McGregor and
his men hunting down a bunch of cow thieves who have stolen several
heads of His Lordship James Graham's cattle... The scene then switches
to a sword-fighting contest attended by noblemen with longhair wigs,
adorned shirts, soft colored coats, paleface make-up and conventional
gestures...

MacGregor lives under the protection of a local lord named Marquis of
Montrose... When he enters an ill-advised trade agreement with
Montrose, he innocently leaves himself exposed to the malicious plots
of Montrose's evil-doers... The unfolding of their perfidy is the most
creative and pleasant part of the movie, though it takes a repugnant
turn with a violent rape... When Rob Roy is finally compelled to rebel
against the English soldiers, the action becomes well understood,
ending with the predictable duel between him and an expert with the
blade...

Liam Neeson injects heroism and passion to his character... He is
intelligent, fair and virile... He carries his height with grace as the
Scottish chieftain of a small community... He is a loving father, a
passionate lover, and a noble husband, driven to desperate acts by
dastardly villains... He'd rather die than tell a lie or betray a
trust... 

Oscar winner Jessica Lange gives the film class as the strong robust
devoted wife, a proud peasant woman, brutally raped by an icy psychotic
aristocrat... Lange's lines are filled with dignity and integrity: 'I
will think on you dead, until my husband makes you so. And then I will
think on you no more.'

John Hurt brings his usual clever touch with character roles to make
Montrose something more than a greedy Marquis, ruthless with money and
tempered by the English court's fashion for foppery... He is a pompous
arrogant man with two villainous servants at his service... Honor, in
his view, seems a quaint notion... He has two objectives: ruin the
reputation of his rival, the Duke of Argyle, and to hunt down the
fugitive MacGregor... He sends his soldiers to burn the Highlanders'
homes, to kill their people and their livestock...

Tim Roththe perfect antithesis to the hero, is fearsome and strangely
an effeminate enforcer... He is a penniless British aristocrat, a nasty
'hired sword' wonderfully evil, ravishing and murdering his way through
the Scottish mist... His name is Archibald Cunningham... He turns out
to be a liar, a thief and a murderer... He dismisses himself as 'but a
bastard abroad, seeking his fortune and the favors of great men," and
therefore can't care about anyone else: "Love is a dung hill and I am
but a cock that climbs upon it to crow." He even jokes that he once
raped a young boy whom he mistook for a girl...

Cunningham seems pathetic... He smiles foolishly, and utters words with
affected refinement, but not terribly harmful-until a muscular
swordsman insults him, and we discover that he's a cool head and an
expert with a sword... He really does steal the film with a performance
that earned him a Best Supporting Actor nomination...

And while Brian Cox is suitably odious as Killearn, Andrew Keir is
Montrose's rival, the powerful local aristocrat, the Duke of Argyll,
one of the few trustworthy men McGregor meets outside his own family... 

Set in 18th-century Scotland, and with an atmospheric musical score,
'Rob Roy' is really a love story between a man and his wife, a
recognizably human story, unjustly dwarfed by Mel Gibson's
'Braveheart,' that does tell essentially the same story of provincial
resentment of overbearing English landlords...
<|_=00=_|>

**Attention Spoilers**

First of all, let me say that Rob Roy is one of the best films of the
90's.
It was an amazing achievement for all those involved, especially the
acting
of Liam Neeson, Jessica Lange, John Hurt, Brian Cox, and Tim Roth.
Michael
Canton Jones painted a wonderful portrait of the honor and dishonor that
men
can represent in themselves. But alas...

it constantly, and unfairly gets compared to "Braveheart". These are two
entirely different films, probably only similar in the fact that they are
both about Scots in historical Scotland. Yet, this comparison frequently
bothers me because it seems to be almost assumed that "Braveheart" is a
better film than "Rob Roy". I like "Braveheart" a lot, but the idea of
comparing it to "Rob Roy" is a little insulting to me. To put quite
simply,
I love "Braveheart", but it is a pale shadow to how much I love "Rob
Roy".
Here are my particular reasons...

-"Rob Roy" is about real people.

Let's face it, the William Wallace in "Braveheart" is not a real person.
He's a legend, a martyr, a larger than life figurehead. Because of this
depiction, he is also a perfect person, never doing wrong, and basically
showing his Scot countrymen to the promised land. When he finally does
fail,
it is not to his fault. Like Jesus, he is betrayed by the very people he
trusted most. He even goes through the worst kind of torture because he
wants freedom so much.

The depiction of Wallace is very well done and effective. But it really
doesn't inspire or intrigue me. I find human ambiguity far more
facinating
than human perfection. That is why "The Last Temptation of Christ" is a
better film than "King of Kings", and that is also one of the reasons why
I
think "Rob Roy" is better than "Braveheart". Rob Roy may be heroic and
brave, but he is far from perfect. He makes several mistakes that
affected
the lives of many of his loved ones. Now sure, not bearing false claim
against the Duke of Argyll was an act of nobility and courage, but it was
also an act of egoism and self centeredness. Let us not forget that the
kinfolk that he had claimed to protect were driven homeless by the end of
the film because of this act. But Rob did the best he could, and that was
all you could ask of him.

Rob's Wife Mary, is also a normal, ambigious person. Let us start though,
with how she looks in this film. Sure, she's beautiful, but she doesn't
wear
makeup and she basically allows her natural beauty to show. Compare this
with the two loves (or one, depending on your point of view) of William
Wallace in "Braveheart". Now these two ladies are hot, but hardly
indicitive
of how women looked at the time (especially the lay persons). Maybe not a
fair comparison, but just another example of how Rob Roy's attempts for
accuracy are far more effective.

Throughout "Rob Roy", Mary has to live with her vicious rape by the
dastardly carrion, Cunningham. She feels compelled to tell Rob of her
struggle, but doesn't because she knows that Rob must seek revenge for
her
rape. Such revenge would surely mean the death of Rob, and Mary is not
prepared for such a sacrifice.

The villains in "Rob Roy" are equally as compelling. Although the enemies
in
"Braveheart" are well written, they are hardly original. Robert the
Bruce, a
man both brave and cowardly, is plagued by moral decisions that are all
to
familar in the fictional realm. Should he take his claim as the king of
Scotland, or should he betray Wallace in order to ensure the safety of
his
family name? Bruce is the most ambigious character in "Braveheart", but
from
Brutus in "Julius Ceasar" to Fredo in "The Godfather Part II", these
types
of characters are hardly original. Longshanks, although a compelling
villain
in his own right, is very one dimensional. He is the epidemy of evil, and
his tyrant ways stand in direct contrast to Wallace's heroism.

"Rob Roy" has three villains that are wonderful in their chicanery. First
of
all, let's start with Marquis of Montrose. He is a man who is so obsessed
with his self image, that he's willing to let an innocent man suffer
because
of it. "See to it that I am not mocked" are his favorite words to his
"factor". He is a man obsessed with power, upset that a man of great
noble
bearing as the Duke of Argyll can be considered of greater providency
then
him. He is shamefully self obsessed and insecure. He is an evil
aristocrat,
but in ways that make him unique.

Cunningham and Callarn are the conspirators in "Rob Roy", and are also
Roy's
direct assailants. Callarn is so cunning in his cowardace that he is
almost
comical. He will do anything to maintain the good will of the Marquis,
which
includes backstabbing and trickery. Cunningham is a compelling character
in
that he seems to have been raised to do whatever he can to obtain status
and
the affection of the Marquis. He needs a father, little does he know that
the Marquis is his real father. Therefore, when the opportunity to obtain
wealth comes from Callarn, he grabs it without even questioning it. He is
very much like the evil of modern man, so self centered and vain that he
cares not about the consequences of his actions on others.

Many have criticized Tim Roth's performance in this film as overacting.
Hogwash I say. It is clear that Cunningham is not simply evil but also
psychopath throughout the film. In a world where a man and his stepson
can
go around shooting random people for amusement, is Cunningham too much of
an
unbelievable character? We live in a society where people seem to have
decreased the value of human life. "Rob Roy" simply teaches us that only
the
circumstances of this decreased value has changed. It is a problem
throughout human history that the vanity of the human heart will not
allow
for the capacity for compassion. Rob Roy and Mary give us hope that
goodness
will prevail, but snakes will always exist in our world.

Another character that I find fascinating is the Duke of Argyll. He is a
true
nobleman, and his values of honesty and courtesy are in direct contrast
to
the Marquis. He appreciates the bravery of Rob Roy and Mary, and has a
direct vexation for the Marquis and his factor. He gives the world hope
for
the people of power. Hopefully, people like the Marquis are an exception
and
not the rule.

- The final duel in "Rob Roy" is more exciting then 10 of the battle
scenes
in "Braveheart".

One thing I get tired of is people telling me that "Braveheart" is a
better
film because of the battle scenes. First of all, battle scenes are hardly
original. From "Spartacus" to "Gladiator", Hollywood has had a long
tradition of historical European battle scenes. "Braveheart" has some of
the
best battle scenes ever put on film, but they suffer from one important
problem. These battle scenes have no context except for the fight for
freedom.

Now, don't get me wrong, duels are hardly original either. In fact, there
are probably 10 times as many films with duels as there are with battle
scenes. But the context of the duel between Cunningham and Rob Roy is a
beauty to behold. It is one of the greatest scenes in film history. Let
me
explain why...

First of all, the fighting style and the bearing of the two characters in
this duel describe the characters perfectly. Cunningham is effette and
dangerous, Rob Roy is strong and courageous. Cunningham uses a fencing
sword
while Rob uses a broadsword. Cunningham fights with quick tricky
movements,
while Roy's fighting style is more obvious.

The whole film, from the deliberately slow first half to the exciting
second
half, is leading up to this moment. It is powerful stuff, and it is clear
that Rob must exterminate this menacing evil that has plagued his whole
world. When Rob finally gets the upper hand (literally and figuratively,)
it
is one of the greatest moments in film history. Rob wins because he has
more
to live for, and his honor is more powerful than 10 Cunningham's. The use
of
music is absolutely chilling in this scene. Good prevailing against a
real
evil is more powerful to me than seeing a dude get disemboweled just so
he
can yell "FREEDOM!". But hey, maybe that's just me.

- "Rob Roy" is more realistic than "Braveheart"

I don't know that people in the aristocracy or Scotsmen talked like the
people in "Rob Roy", but I do feel that it clearly an attempt to capture
their speech patterns. I feel that many people are bored by "Rob Roy"
simply
because they can't understand what the characters are saying. If this is
the
case, then read some Shakesphere, or put on the close-captioning. "Rob
Roy"
is actually one of the greatest written films of the 90's. Many of the
dialogue in this film is clever, but maybe you have to watch the film a
couple of times to understand it.

By contrast, the dialogue in "Braveheart" is hardly very interesting. Of
course, what do you expect when the main character is a Scotsman played
by
an Australian? This is a legend, and there was clearly not an attempt to
capture the speech of the times. This film takes place several centuries
before "Rob Roy", and yet they talk like the people today. Thus the
reason
that many people like it better. Audiences today have become increasingly
lazy, and they don't want to take the time or patience to understand
things
that are complex. Therefore, as with many epic films, they expect to see
the
villians speak a recognizable English accent while the heroes speak in a
vernacular not too far away from our American language. Sure, it is clear
that the Wallace is Scotish, but other than sounding like Scotty from
Star
Trek and a couple of "Aye"s for acknowledgement, the Scots in this film
fit
into the Hollywood tradition of how we believe Scots should sound.

So, do these descriptions prove that "Rob Roy" is a better film than
"Braveheart"? Hardly. But if it proves one thing, it shows that it is
hardly
common knowledge that "Braveheart" is a better film than "Rob Roy". To
put
simply, "Rob Roy" is a film that has themes that are very apropos in
today's
world. "Braveheart" is a film about a legend that is inspiring but hardly
realistic. You can make a decision on what you think is
better...

Grade - A
Score - 9
<|_=00=_|>

What can one say about a film that has one of the blackest, most
nihilistic, and occasionally  most weirdly -I wont say 'sympathetic'..I
will
say 'charismatic' villains in the history of the Cinema, and the best sword
fight since Flynn and Fairbanks were in their heyday? This is an epic about
a stubborn, sometimes foolish, incredibly courageous and honest mans fight
for his honor and freedom against tyranny. I loved it. John Hurt and Tim
Roth were great villains. Jessica Lange was very moving, tender, and
sensual. 
<|_=00=_|>
Overshadowed by "Braveheart" released the same year, the two costume
dramas beg comparison. I admit my bias against Mel Gibson, yet I
maintain a rational preference for "Rob Roy." Both "Braveheart" and
"Rob Roy" compellingly depict Scots history in bloody, romantic
fashion. "Braveheart" is an epic paean to individual honor and courage
and a fine revenge fantasy. It's also melodramatic, anachronistic and
maudlin. Note its cornball usage of slow motion filming. Its violence
is both ugly and glorious. It is the latter quality which makes it more
appealing to the adolescent mindset. While "Braveheart" surpasses "Rob
Roy" in sheer levels of carnage (not to mention its indulgent running
time), the latter film is ultimately more mature and satisfying. Its
action is more understated, yet more surprising and clever. Its sex is
less showy, yet more erotic. "Rob Roy" also has a better realized
romantic interest. Its dialog attempts to approximate the poetry of the
period. Its rotted teeth in the mouths of the actors attempt to
approximate the dentistry of the era. And Tim Roth is a superlative
villain. Also recommended: "The Last of the Mohicans" and "The
Patriot." You may find the latter more akin to "Braveheart" with its
emphasis on blood lust, with the former more similar to "Rob Roy" in
tone. All the of the aforementioned movies merit their R ratings for
violence.
<|_=00=_|>
MAJOR SPOILERS!! THIS IS FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVE SEEN THE MOVIE!!

Commenters have touched on the major theme of "honor" in the film, and
too many comparisons to "Braveheart." I'll point out a few things about
this movie that I have not seen other comments touch on:

This movie has a decidedly different take on abortion. The first
character to get pregnant is the villain's (Roth) girlfriend, and when
he coldly suggests an abortion, she states it is too late for that. The
shame of her situation ("I'm to have a bastard's bastard.") leads her
to commit suicide in a much later scene. The second character to find
herself pregnant is Mary, Rob's wife, after a rape by Roth's character
(and at least one sex scene with her husband, Rob). Late in the movie,
as Rob is leaving for a final confrontation with Roth, Mary asks what
she should do about the pregnancy of questionable origins, with a tone
hinting of abortion. Rob replies in a noble tone, "it's not the fault
of the child," and then states what he thinks the name should be, girl
or boy. I find this "pro-life" stance on the part of the hero to be
very un-Hollywood. Rob walks from the darkness of the house to the
bright outside to make this comment -- not coincidental symbolism.

Another related theme is Roth's character is a bastard, someone who
evidently does not know who his father was, and has few kind words for
his mother, though he wears a picture of her in a case hung from his
neck. Is it coincidence that Roth (devoid of family stability) is the
walking definition of psychopath, while Rob is the strong
husband/father figure, and of course the hero. In the final sword fight
between Rob and the villain (Roth), the former slices the latter deeply
across the chest -- the left side of the chest, over the heart. His
employer and pseudo-father figure (John Hurt character) holds the
mother's picture in his hand and gazes at it, before snatching it from
the neck of the dead Roth.

Also what I find interesting was the direction of the rape scene, which
was not quite graphic but neither was it off-camera and implied. I
found it surprising in it's somewhat matter of fact depiction, with
Mary convincingly showing the characteristics of someone going through
the ordeal, and subsequent post traumatic stress (as we call it now).
My point being that the rape was neither sensationalized nor just
implied, which I find an interesting middle road for Hollywood to take.

In the final fight scene, I have to correct an earlier commenter: The
weapon Roth chose was a rapier (or perhaps a short sword), the weapon
Rob chose was a Claymore. Someone was really doing their homework on
this entire scene. Roth would have the upper hand in such a situation,
but of course the Claymore is a distinctly Scottish weapon. What is
even more striking to me (as a fencer and someone who has read a bit on
the subject) is that this final sword fight is one of the most
convincing of any film ever made: The actors seem actually trying to
kill each other -- not the usual slashes to the opponents blade we see
in most movie fights (including the movies opening fight). Even more
true to history, Roth is seen several times using the rapier as a
thrusting weapon, which is it's purpose by design! (Rapiers were edged,
but primarily a thrusting weapon with the edges used mainly for
parrying an opponents thrust.) Rob uses the Claymore in broad slashes,
as it's design intent. The fight goes down as I would expect it to --
Roth effectively wins. Though Rob wins the day by grabbing Roth's
weapon (more symbolism) and striking him dead with a powerful slashing
cut.

Folks, it is RARE to see this level of historical accuracy in a movie
sword fight.

I'll also note that for whatever reason, I remember 1995 (the year of
release) distinctly as a time of distrust of the U.S. government.
Hollywood was obviously tuned into that, with the release of both "Rob
Roy" and "Braveheart," and I think the anti-government leanings are why
both films get so much comparison. 

I think the different perspective that this film gives is refreshing to
avid movie fans, tired of the same old, not so hidden messages from
Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one powerful film. The first time I saw it, the Scottish
accents made it tough for me to understand a lot and that ruined the
viewing experience. I gave up on it but then acquired the DVD, used the
English subtitles when I needed them, and really got into this movie,
discovering just how good it is. It is excellent.

The widescreen picture makes it spectacular in parts, with some
wonderful rugged scenery and the story reminded me of Braveheart, an
involving tale of good versus evil. Here, it's Liam Neeson (good) vs.
Tim Roth (evil). Both do their jobs well.

Few actors come across as despicable as Roth. Man, you really want to
smack this guy in his arrogant, irritating puss. (He is so nasty and
vile the sick critics love his character more than anyone else's here).
Neeson is a man's man and a solid hero figure as Gibson was in
Braveheart. Jessica Lange is strong in here as the female lead. The
movie draws you in and gets you totally involved, so prepared to have
an emotional experience viewing this.
<|_=00=_|>
This sweeping drama has it all: top notch acting, incredible
photography, good story. It is often compared to "Braveheart" because
both movies take place in historical Scotland. Even though I love
Braveheart, I think this is the better of the two films. Jessica Lange
gave an incredible performance (should have been nominated for an
Oscar). Liam Neeson is fantastic in the title role. Tim Roth plays one
of the most evil, despicable, characters in film history (he was
nominated for an Oscar). John Hurt is excellent as Lord Montrose,
another dislikeable character. I am always amazed at the incredible
range of characters that John Hurt can play. This is a story of a
dispute over money between Rob Roy and his clan, and Lord Montrose. Rob
Roy is a self made man, who will not solve his problems with Montrose
if it violates his sense of honor. Montrose, who, inherited his title,
has no sense of honor. And that is basically what this story is all
about; honor of the common man versus corruption of the nobility. This
movie is very entertaining, it should appeal to all. It has romance,
action, beautiful scenery, and has a exciting plot. One of my favorite
films.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very good, under-rated action/drama/and slightly historical
movie.

The basic story concerns Rob Roy's borrowing of 1000 pounds, its theft,
and the problems it causes for his family and indirectly his clansmen.

Cunningham( Tim Roth) is an amazing villain and character in this
story. Brutally cold and if you watch his face he seems to be able to
turn his eyes off and look completely evil.

Rob Roy (Liam Neeson) is excellent too, but i think the writers used
the word "honour" 1 too many times.

The rest of the cast is strong, and the whole movie is very well acted
and filmed.

The Action is exciting and the sword play very realistic, but not too
gory. The story is good and you really want Rob to win.

All in all just shy of a classic.
