
This bittersweet slice of magic realism had a checkered production
history (director/writer replaced) and tanked at the box office, but
it's a helluva film.

Elijah Wood and Joseph Mazzello are pre-teen brothers whose flaky mom
(Lorraine Bracco) shacks up with a mean-spirited alcoholic (Adam
Baldwin). During his drinking bouts, Baldwin physically abuses Mazzello
and manipulates him into remaining silent about his situation. But when
Wood cottons on to what's happening, the boys put their heads together
and hatch a fantastique solution to Mazzello's devastating dilemma.

I love films that mix fantasy and dark reality. They are rarely
successful financially ("Lawn Dogs" is a similar example), but they are
usually original and intriguing.

The drunk Baldwin is shot from a low, child's perspective and his head
is deliberately lopped off below the top of frame. This device allows
us to judge him purely by his actions and as a totally physicalized
beast. Both Wood and Mazzello are excellent, and they pull us
effortlessly into their dark, frightening world.

The "radio flyer" of the title is a small red wagon kids transport
their belongings in. Here it transports a dream.

Seriously interesting stuff.
<|_=00=_|>

Most people dislike this movie because of the ending. That is
because of their own limited imaginations, a point I think
Richard Donner was trying to make throughout the movie. They try
to criticize the film on their own miotic interpretation.
Americans aren't used to the subtle, especially from the Lethal
Donner. I think those people need to watch it again, and
especially pay attention to the narration. Truth is in the mind
of the beholder. The movie is about the innocence of childhood-
the grandness of being naive and imaginative-being ripped apart
by an abusive adult. Just as they never REALLY seen the boogie
man, Bobby never REALLY flew away. Mike deceived himself into
believing that his brother flew away to hide from the fact that
his brother died. Listen to his words, and watch his mother. It
is very subtle, and I have had this argument 100 times before
(see, I have only had it probably 5 times but I have deceived
myself into thinking it is many more). Don't feel bad. I have
found that only 1 out of 10 people that have seen the movie
<|_=00=_|>
In reply to "State of Confusion" The dogs injuries do seem to disappear
rather abruptly, but that may have only been an error in continuity.
But, as for the kids trying to build a plane out of junk, it's just a
simple matter of imagination. These are two very young kids who have
extremely active imaginations and they must rely on those imaginations
to keep themselves from being exposed to the reality of the level of
abuse that goes on in their home from their stepfather. As for the
stepfather, it's very interesting that the director chose to no show
his face. That makes him seem more monstrous. If you show his face,
then that character becomes a person and not just this "monster" who is
terrorizing the childhood of these two innocent children. By showing
only the concequences of his abuse and not focusing scenes on the abuse
itself, the children then become the main focus of the movie. This film
has no loose ends, but runs just as a father's tale to his children
would. It has embelleshments. This is a fine American classic.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was directed by Richard Donner, of SUPERMAN and LETHAL WEAPON
fame, but it couldn't be more different than those films. It's a quiet,
poetic film about two young boys (Elijah Wood and Joseph Mazzallo), one of
whom is being brutally abused by their stepfather (whose face is never
seen). 

The film was a commercial flop, and it received terrible reviews on its
initial release, but I think that was because most critics (and audiences)
didn't understand the movie. It features an unreliable narrator (played by
Tom Hanks) and several Fellini-like breaks from reality. Most critics harped
on the film's finale as a weak point, but I think it actually works
beautifully, if you approach it with the proper understanding.

SPOILER WARNING!!!

I don't think you can take the finale (wherein the younger brother flies
away in his rickety homemade airplane) at face value. This seems to be
another break from reality (like the sequences with the buffalo). Either
this is a fantasy way for the Tom Hanks character to deal with his brother's
death or, more likely, there really weren't two brothers at all. The older
brother invented the younger brother, who is contstantly abused, as a coping
mechanism for dealing with the fact that he HIMSELF was being abused by "The
King." The older brother survives and the younger brother "dies" when the
abuse finally stops. Or something. In any case, the ending cannot be taken
literally. And it's not really that important that we fully understand
exactly what happened. What matters is that we understand the emotional and
developmental effect these events had on the Hanks character.

END OF SPOILERS...

Back in the day, I was one of the very few critics who gave this film a
positive review, and I'm glad I did. I found it emotionally gripping and, at
points, almost too realistic to watch comfortably. It captures the joy of
boyhood and -- although I wouldn't know from personal experience, thank God
-- seems to capture the terror of abuse just as accurately. A very powerful,
rewarding film. 

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Everything about this film is simply incredible.  You truly take this
journey through the eyes and soul of a child.

I do feel it is important to note this tale is about child abuse.  Don't
rent it for your kids thinking it is a fun, disney-esque
film.
<|_=00=_|>

WARNING-SPOILERS!
Having looked over the other user comments, I find myself puzzled as to
why nobody seems to have come up with a most obvious interpretation of this
movie's ending.  There are, after all, some clues that so much of this
story
is only in Mike's imagination.  And yet people go on about how the ending
is
"unrealistic."  Well, DUH-UH!  (Major Spoiler and my own take on it.)
Bobby
DOESN'T REALLY EXIST!  He never did!  He is Mike's IMAGINARY PLAYMATE!  It
so happens that Mike must let his imaginary playmate go right at the same
time that the King is arrested, and so the two events come together in
Mike's mind.
Well, that's my two cent's worth.

<|_=00=_|>
Back in the dark days of 1990, the hoped-for Heir to the Spielberg
Throne (after the failure of supposed whiz-kid Phil Joanou) was
mistakenly believed to be pretentious Spielberg wannabe David Mickey
Evans. Evans managed to fleece the studios for over a million dollars,
suckering baby-boomer executives into believing his screenplay -- a
combination of nostalgic, 1960s references and a disturbing drama about
child abuse -- somehow equaled good storytelling, and a decent film. 

As Rod Stewart once sang, "look how wrong you can be."

But the novice's artsy-fartsy, "E.T."-inspired script convinced enough
people he was the next Chosen One -- the New Spielberg -- and so a deal
was struck to not only buy the script for more money than 99 percent of
the world's population will ever see in their lifetime, but for Evans
to direct the film as well -- even though he'd had never directed
anything in his life. 

Hey, how hard can it be to be another film-making genius, after all?

Two weeks into the shoot, Columbia found out. His dailies were called
"totally unusable" by the studio -- or at least those level-headed
enough to not to have fallen under the E.N.C. (Emperor's New Clothes)
spell. All his footage was scrapped and recycled into guitar pics.

So what's a studio to do after sinking 10 or 20 million dollars into
something they still believed represented the Resurrection of Steven
Spielberg? Hire Spielberg himself to save the day? Columbia probably
tried that.

Enter old pro Richard Donner. Hey, he may not be a cinematic genius,
but he gets the job done. "Superman" wasn't too bad, after all -- and
the first "Lethal Weapon" was pretty good.

So Donner steps in and grabs the directorial reins. Fortunately he
manages to convince Columbia that the worst of the film's insipid
fantasy sequences -- which would have played out like a ten year-old's
acid trip -- have to go. Unfortunately, he leaves in the Crying Buffalo
(ooh, how poetic) and the ridiculous, pseudo-Spielberg fantasy ending,
complete with Clueless Mom perfectly content for the rest of her life
to get postcards from her missing son as he circles the globe in his
red wagon. Right.

But Donner did manage to get a decent performance out of Elijah Wood.
And Lorraine Bracco as the Idiot Mom wasn't bad either. Maybe Donner
should be reevaluated. Maybe he's not such a phony Hollywood hack as
everyone has always believed.

The only reason I'm giving this over-baked misfire a 2 rating is that
someone was smart enough to cast the great John Heard (but in the wrong
part, of course). The kids do okay... though Tom Hanks' horrible,
overly-explanatory narration nearly destroys every scene it intrudes
upon.

One might think that after the David Mickey Evanses and Phil Joanous
and Troy Duffys of the world, the studios might finally wise up. One
might hope that these hype-driven film-making debacles might prevent
the Emperor's New Clothes syndrome from ever rearing its ugly head
again.

Doubtful!
<|_=00=_|>
Even though this was a well-told story, I found it too unpleasant. The
main subject is child abuse, which is never fun to see - a sordid
topic. Add to that a lot of profanity by the drunker-abuser husband and
a GD by a little kid, no less - and this movie turned me off as far as
ever seeing it again. 

Also portrayed in here were punks picking on the two little boys,
another unpleasant viewing experience. The realism of the story takes a
swan dive when one of the boys flies away on a home-made airplane! Give
me a break!

The only positive, enjoyable part of this movie is seeing the nice,
loving and touching relationship between the two young brothers, played
by Elijah Wood and Joseph Mazello. The latter became a familiar face in
the next couple of years with big roles in Jurassic Park, Shadlowlands
and The River Wild. Wood, of course, didn't hit it big until a decade
later but, he made it very big In The Lord Of The Rings trilogy. Those
two kids, and narration by an unbilled Tom Hanks, are the only facets
of this film I liked.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was great.  Elijah Wood and Joseph Mazzello were wonderful. I
watched this movie with tears in my eyes, hugging my two small boys and
wondering how someone could treat children the way The King treated those
boys, especially Bobby.

This film will make you laugh and cry, all within the span of about 10
minutes at the end.

WARNING!!!!! The following paragraphs contain SPOILERS to the ending.

I think many commenting on this film completely miss the point of the
ending.  To me, the ending seemed stupid until Tom Hanks explained to his
kids that "History comes from the mind of the one telling the story.  You
understand that, right?"  These were not his exact words but they are
something to that effect.

Bobby did not fly away.  Bobby died trying to fly away.  I think that both
boys knew Bobby's fate before they went up the hill, but they both realised
that this was his escape from the  abuse he would continue to suffer
otherwise.  Michael learned to cope with Bobby's death by making himself
believe that Bobby was still alive, flying around the country.

<|_=00=_|>

I'm not sure as to call this movie a children's drama or a fantasy
film.
When I first watched this I couldn't really make out the ending and that's
the only part of movie that's seemed to lack depth and left me a bit
depressed for awhile.
Then I watched it a second time and realised how great the acting was and
was clueless as to why it received the meager attention it did at the
time.

Unforgettable performances by the young Mazzello and Wood should have made
this film a classic.

Although the it was probably intended to be a fantasy/drama by the
original
writer/director (Evans), once Donner took over he presumably made it with
a
more dramatical outlook especially the ending, which left a lot to be
desired as to what really happened to Bobby - Was he killed?, did he
escape
& really do all those fantastic journeys?, or was it just an imaginary
story
woven by Hanks to prove a point to the kids?

But in all it didn't provide the closure of a happy ending that we are so
used to in a children's film. Perhaps it's because it's not just
that.

To see what may have been a more classical ending check out the Official
Elijah Wood Site where you'll find the First rough draft script of the
conclusion of the movie(presumably by the original writer)

Also a note of the music by Hans Zimmer which is one the best Soundtracks
I've ever heard, a mixture of childish and dark sentiments throughout the
movie. A great CD to get hold of if you can.


