

Three hours before his wedding and Roland is nowhere to be found.  His best
friends, Mike and Slim, are both stressed trying to work out where they
could be when they both get pages from his ex-girlfriend.  They go to her
house to find him drunk and experiencing doubts.  As they drive around,
sober him up and dry clean their suits for the wedding, they take time to
uncover why he has doubts and also take a trip down memory lane and where
they grew up in Inglewood.

Having seen several films on the trot where race is used to `comic' effect
in a string of endless racist jokes it was refreshing to sit and watch a
film where the cast were almost 100% black but the story was not told in
relation to the colour of it's characters.  Instead the story is a straight
story of childhood memories and it could easily have been any culture
telling it.  Of course there is a thread of black culture running through
the film but it is simply there as opposed to being the
focus.

The story is slight and not totally together but it is interesting.  The
reasons for Roland's doubts are not made totally clear by the end of the
film and there is a suggestion that it is really just a frame for the
memories to occur within.  This isn't too bad as the memories are really
more of the story than the modern day trigger is.  Both strands work quite
well as long as you don't expect too much, it has a gentle humour that is
pleasant and enjoyable and both strands seem to be able to carry it.  The
`to-camera' narration was a bit of a risk that I thought it didn't totally
carry off but, happily, after the first 10 minutes it is pretty much absent
for the rest of the film.  Some of the strands don't totally come to a close
and the fact that the main plot (Roland going missing on his wedding day) is
mostly a side issue is a distraction but not to a detrimental
point.

The cast are all pretty good.  Epps is a good lead and is a likeable
character.  Diggs is good looking but he doesn't act as well as he can for
much of the movie – his `drunk' acting is pretty poor although he gets
better as he sobers up.  Jones is a bit of a comedy figure but does his job
well despite being the least developed of the three.  The teenage actors all
carry themselves well, although in this modern tabloid world of hysteria it
is a little uncomfortable to watch two young teenagers have sex (although I
was relieved to find that the sexy one of them, Malinda Williams, was
actually 24 when she played a 14 year old).  The women are all very good
looking but have lesser roles as the males take the meat of the story –
Tamala Jones is good and Epps' co-star from Love & Basketball (Sanaa Lathan)
joins him for a brief role.

Overall it is a very light film that has a plot in a very basic sense but is
really more of a nostalgic trip down the teenage years that is told with
honesty and humour.  It may not resemble any life I ever had but there were
themes I could relate to.  Slight but fun and, after seeing National
Security, Undercover Brother and Bringing Down the House (where race is used
for humour, rather than being a side issue) The Wood was also a breath of
fresh air.
<|_=00=_|>

The Wood has not received very much attention and PR that many of the other
movies have, but it should.

The movie is about three best friends who grew up in Inglewood California
(hence the title - The Wood). The movie actually takes place on the wedding
day of one of the friends and two hours before the ceremony, the groom is a
no-show. The other two friends manage to track him down and proceed to
bring
him back.

As they bring the groom back to the wedding, the three begin to discuss old
times and throughout the movie, flashback is used to show these
experiences.
Younger actors are used to depict the current friends and their past
experiences are shown to the audience. The acting by all the characters is
superb and the flashback technique is used beautifully.

The movie shows the relationships develop over the years through the eyes
of
one of the characters (Michael) and the humor is sprinkled throughout the
movie in well placed and well timed deliveries. This is a very endearing
movie that everyone should see but unfortunately, in a summer of either
blockbuster or toilet humor movies, this one may get overlooked. For anyone
who gets a chance, see this movie. Overall rating 9/10.

<|_=00=_|>
This is the type of film that you can just sit back and enjoy. The male
leads(Diggs, Epps and Jones) have chemistry as well as their young
counterparts. The plot is simple and easy to follow. Roland(Diggs) is
about to get married, but chickens out and goes over an old girlfriends
house instead.Then Mike(Epps) and Slim(Jones) are sent over there to go
get him before the wedding. While getting him sobered up, Mike
reminisced on when they first met. This movie is better than movies of
the same theme(The Best Man, The Brothers, etc.) because the male leads
are more likable and less one dimensional, although Rolands reasons for
not wanting to get married aren't explained enough. Also, the girl that
plays young Alicia is way too old for the role.

Bottom line, the narrative by Epps is good and it's not riddled with
stereotypes. Also, the 80's soundtrack is great and this is an
entertaining movie. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

I had heard from several people before watching this movie that it was not
as good as Omar Epps' other work, movies like "Higher Learning" and "First
Time Felon". I wouldn't say it was as good as those two movies, but it is
definately worth while. A story we all can relate to, especially us men. The
story is about the trials and tribulations that a young man go through in
the hood, or should I say "the wood". The movie deals with how boys interact
with girls at a young age, and it does so very realistically. The acting is
impeccable, the characters are incredibly real and the way the story is told
is very charming. The movie has humor and drama mixed together beautifully.
I think this is a movie everyone should see.
<|_=00=_|>

The Wood starring Omar Epps, Taye Diggs, Sean Nelson, Melinda Williams, De'
Aundre Bonds and Antwon Tanner was a perfect positive black film that
deserves alot of credit.  Unlike The Best Man, it doesn't have a boring
pre-wedding story - actually it's a lot of fun as the three friends talk
about their fun childhood in 'The Wood' a.k.a Inglewood, California.  The
flashback scenes are done so nicely and the characters are written in
detailed fashion and come across very realistically.

When I first seen the trailer I was like it would probably be an O.K. movie
but it was alot better than I could possibly expect and turns out to be a
big winner, this is a sleeper for 1999

10/10 
<|_=00=_|>
I am searching for the soundtrack and a particular song which has a
refrain Higher. I thought it was by Teddy Pendergast but am not sure.
And I need to find the album which contains the song. The cast and
script was great for it showed how men grow up together and support
each other through some tough times. It also developed the character of
the parents,the bride and groom,and the close friends around the Wood.
Fortunately, the picture of the close families helps keep the movie on
track.The mistakes of the bride and groom seem normal in this modern
world.The forceful father made it far more realistic. The diting of the
scenes helped it move faster as it began to drag during the scene
outside the door when he is being held by the father with his head on
the door. At the end when the groom throws out the arm band it was well
done and effective.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is funny as hell and something that people living through the
80's can relate to growing up. The dumb stuff you do for the ladies, the
competitions among your boys, the fashion, and the music. The soundtrack
goes well with the movie. Nuff said.
<|_=00=_|>

When I saw this I thought "I hope this movie can relate to me and not insult
me at all!", and I was clearly wrong. This movie related to me a whole lot!
Just because I'm white doesn't mean I can't relate to this. I did in more
ways then one! I know how it feels to be left out like some of the
characters and growing up is a fact of life and I liked the way they show
their friendship growing by day. Taye Diggs was wonderful as the groom who
was having doubts, I liked his character a lot. I also loved the flashbacks
throughout most of the movie, it was interesting and I also loved the way
you knew a flashback was about to occur was when the record player would
start with a different record each time. I think everyone will relate to
this movie~ white, black, asian, or pink! Everyone needs to see
this!
<|_=00=_|>


The most refreshing aspect of this movie
is
the mere fact that
the three main African American characters
are not : drug
dealers, wise cracking officers of the
law,
pimps, womanizing
alcoholics, bums, etc.

However, they are also not annoyingly
wholesome. These three
guys are real people with real problems.
I'm not saying that the
previously mentioned stereotypes don't
exist, but I'm sick of
being beat over the head with stereotypes
while at the same time
being told how evil stereotyping
is.

This is the coming of age story of three
black kids growing up
in a suburb of Southern California. I
don't
know if Rick
Famuyiwa is black or not, but he can write
excellent black
dialogue. Contrary to popular belief, most
black people do not
say f*** seven times in every sentence and
this film
acknowledges and respects that fact. The
film does drag at
points, but there are definitely big
laughs
and the
flashbacks taking place in the mid 1980's
are beautifully done.
One almost feels that the film should have
been shot as one long
flashback sequence.

All in all, I feel that this is a great
movie for people of any color
to see. The movie is rated R, but it's
very
light hearted and
aside from some language that any child
over the age of ten has
been exposed to, and one very funny and
non-graphic sex
scene, there's nothing offensive. I
am
inclined to think that African Americans
have come to expect
nudity, explicit sex, and violence in
movies aimed at them, and
some might ironically be disappointed by
the cheerful mood of
the movie. I hope that I'm
wrong.

This is an American Pie-ish movie that you
won't be ashamed
to show your kids (or your parents) and a
Soul Food-ish movie
that your kids will actually enjoy. An
excellent first movie for
Rick Famuyiwa and a nice change of pace in
black cinema. 
<|_=00=_|>

I really liked this movie, and I think many teens and adults, particularily
African-Americans will like this movie.  All those young adults who grew up
will really like this movie, too.

I thought it was excellent, and many parts made me laugh so hard I cried.
All the actors did a very good job, too.
