
Passenger 57 is an enjoyable and rather underrated action film.
Although there is not too much of a storyline, the slick action scenes
combined with some very good performances from Wesley Snipes and Bruce
Payne kept me entertained from start to finish.

While Passenger 57 offers nothing really new to the action genre, it
does offer plenty of fast paced chaos and explosions and combined with
some entertaining hand-to-hand combat skills by Snipes, it is certainly
better than a lot of other standard action fares out there.

Snipes gives a very good performance as the lead and Bruce Payne is
brilliant as the mentally unstable villain. The other cast are somewhat
overshadowed by Snipes and Payne, but do an adequate enough job.

Overall I was very pleased by Passenger 57, so much so that it proudly
belongs in my DVD collection. A very good choice for action fans and a
must for Snipes fans. 8/10.

And don't forget...."Always bet on black!"
<|_=00=_|>
"Passenger 57" is one of the many films that followed in the wake of
the action film that re invented the genre, 1988's "Die Hard" with
Bruce Willis in the lead. When I first saw P57, rented on video in the
mid nineties, I wasn't expecting a re-run of Die Hard, but i was
pleasantly surprised at how enjoyable an action flick it was.

Wesley Snipes and Bruce Payne spark well off each other as the troubled
hero and psychotic villain. They are given competent support by the
rest of the cast, although one of my small complaints is how under
utilised the other actors are. That said, Ernie Lively does a nice turn
as the local police chief and Robert Hooks (father of director Kevin
Hooks) is good as an FBI Agent.

Essentially, Passenger 57 is a solid little action movie which is well
paced and has enough intriguing characters and good action scenes to
keep you interested right through to the finale. The story is perhaps a
little thin and the script could have used a bit more depth to develop
the characters, but it's very enjoyable none the less.

Don't view this expecting a great movie, but if you have an hour and a
half to kill this film is well worth a watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Of all the Die Hard clones there have been, and there have been many!
Passenger 57 may just be the worst. The story follows Wesley Snipes'
airline security expert John Cutter, who whilst undertaking a flight to
L.A. gets embroiled in a hostage takeover led by evil bad man with a
troubled childhood, Charles Rane. Cue quips, kicks and death defying
tricks as Cutter strikes one for the good guys. Kevin Hooks' film works
well enough on a very basic actioner level, due in the main to Snipes.
Snipes was six years away from his signature role in Blade, and for
sure he is a bona fide action star. As evidenced here, he has the
charisma and body motions to carry the film thru its turgid script.
It's a script that smacks of the writers sitting round a table and
suggesting they put Snipes in a number of tricky situations and used
that as an excuse for him to beat the crappola out of everyone. Oh and
lets not forget the forced love story waiting to happen as well.

Ultimately it's just a lazy film that is the cash in that many realised
it was upon its release. Bruce Payne manfully tries to make the
unbalanced Charles Rane truly evil, but doesn't succeed. Liz Hurley,
goddess of womanhood that she is, looks uncomfortable holding a gun,
while leading lady Alex Datcher is hopelessly out of her depth. While
the youthful looking Tom Sizemore and Bruce Greenwood also appear - but
both are throwaway characters that you end up wishing we had had more
of. Stanley Clarke's score is abysmal, it's the sort of score one
expects to hear in a soft core porno movie - you know the kind where
the protagonists are making love but they still have their underwear
on! Yes that kind. Poor plotting, poor scripting and just about poor in
technical execution. I don't ask much of the action genre, I really
don't, but at least give the film some soul from which to entertain the
popcorn masses. 3/10 for Snipes' fighting and Liz Hurley's legs.
<|_=00=_|>
This isn't a bad film but it isn't exactly a great film either; Wesley
Snipes does a good job as airline security expert John Cutter who is in
the wrong place at the right time, Bruce Payne is okay as the psychotic
terrorist and Alex Datcher is fairly forgettable as the feisty
stewardess. For a thriller this is also lacking in any twists
whatsoever. We are told who is bad and who is good almost as soon as
their character appears.

The film opens with Charles Rane in an operating theatre awaiting
plastic surgery, we know he is somewhat insane as he insists in having
no anaesthetic. Before the operation can start the police move in and
Rane attempts to escape but is eventually captured... now they just
have to get him to Los Angeles for trial. Obviously the best way to
transport one of the world's most wanting criminals across the US is to
put him on a commercial flight with a couple of marshals. Of course
Rane's people are on the plane amongst both passengers and crew and
shortly after take off they seize the plane. Luckily they hadn't
counted on John Cutter the airline's new security expert being on
board.

He manages to call the airline and alert them about the hijacking
before being briefly captured. He escapes his captors then flees to the
plane's storage area where he accesses the avionics bay and forces the
plane to dump fuel. This necessitates landing at a small airfield in
Louisiana where Cutter jumps from the plane and is promptly detained by
the local police who are stereotypical incompetent Southern yokels.
While the plane is on the ground Rane and some of his associates get
off the plane and flee to a local fair ground where after a bit more
fighting he is captured again. That isn't the end though as his people
still on the plane threaten to kill more hostages if he isn't freed.
Once back on the plane Cutter confronts Rane one last time with the
inevitable results on expects from this sort of film.

This isn't a film I'd go out of my way to see but it is okay if you
have eighty minutes to kill and want some fairly mindless action. I
wouldn't advise buying it unless you are a fan of cheesy action flicks
or of Wesley Snipes.
<|_=00=_|>
Airline security expert John Cutter(Wesley Snipes)is on a routine
flight when he must rescue hostages on board from a group of terrorists
led by mad bomber Charles Rane(Bruce Payne). Rane is so cold-blooded,
he asks a passenger if he had a family then proceeded to shoot him just
to prove a point to Cutter that he meant business! Luckily, Cutter and
flight attendant Marti Slayton(Alex Datcher)escape into the jumbo liner
to release the fuel forcing Rane to land it at a rural landing strip
near a fairgrounds while a carnival was taking place. Threatening to
kill passengers if the sheriff doesn't refuel the plane, Cutter is able
to escape, only to be momentarily arrested by police after being
knocked out by the concrete from a harsh landing. Agreeing to release
hostages if the fuel is brought to the plane, Sheriff Biggs(Ernie
Lively)will carry out his demand. While a flood of passengers storm out
of the plane, Rane attempts, along with a few of his henchmen, to flee,
making their way to the fairgrounds, with Cutter, after escaping from
the police subduing him, following in hot pursuit. With some hostages
still on board and Rane on foot through a fairgrounds crowd of innocent
people, Cutter has his hands full. A plan is in place and it's all
about Rane escaping the electric chair.

Boy, does this joker move fast! Like it's star, the movie barely
catches a breath, with a locomotive pace. Not a lot of original plot
here, to tell you the truth. It has the terrorism on a plane plot that,
even by 1992, had rather worn out it's welcome, but with dynamic stars
like Snipes and Payne, as the sneering heavy, they inject a little into
it's stale material. Funny how the film moves into a plane, out of it
temporarily, only to find both hero and villain returning for one last
round. It is essentially your typical cat-and-mouse game between Cutter
and Rane with precious, innocent lives at stake. As was typical in
action films at this time, you have to take a leap of faith and accept
what the script sets up regarding Snipes' abilities to take out the bad
guys, and thwart the evil psycho's plans.

This was during the time where Wesley Snipes was being groomed as the
next action star. He is in solid form in this movie, looking mighty
impressive in combat against Rane and his goons. Tom Sizemore has a
sizable supporting turn as Sly Delvecchio, Cutter's boss and friend.
Early role for a foxy Elizabeth Hurley as one of Rane's terrorists,
disguised as a stewardess. Bruce Greenwood is Sizemore's boss, Stuart
Ramsey, head of the airline for which they both work. Robert Hooks does
what he can with a small role as Special Agent Henderson, with nice
support from Lively as the "country bumpkin" Chief of Police who, as a
hostage negotiator, gets a bit too big for his britches.
<|_=00=_|>
John Cutter (Wesley Snipes) is an expert security agent who's still
mourning the death his wife . He embarks a large plane , L1011-500
"Tristar , assisted by beautiful air hostesses (two gorgeous flight
attendants : Alex Datcher and Elizabeth Hurley , one of the earliest
film roles). Then , he finds himself accidentally trapped into the
middle of an airline Jumbo hijacking executed by an arch-villain
terrorist (Bruce Payne) who previously committed numerous terrorists
acts . He hijacks the crew and seizes control of it . Cutter must take
action confronting the nasty criminal , developing a battle of wits
between two charismatic opponents . Meanwhile , Cutter contacts with
his airline chiefs (Tom Sizemore and Bruce Greenwood) who want to hide
the events .

The film packs nonstop action , suspense , tension , lots of violence
when the murders and fighting happen , being quite entertaining . It's
a run-of-the-mill action film in which from the beginning to the ending
the thriller and emotion is continuous . This film Passenger 57 (1992)
was scheduled to air on a Starz Entertainment Group channel the night
of 9/11 , what with the themes of terrorism on an airplane, the
broadcast was obviously cancelled . Wesley Snipes is top-notch as an
action hero , turning into tough action man in films of big budget ,
just like ¨Murder at 1600¨ , ¨Money train¨ , ¨US Marshall¨ and ¨Blade¨
trilogy ; however , nowadays , he only makes low/medium budget films as
¨Unstoppable¨ , ¨The detonator¨, ¨7 seconds¨ , ¨Chaos¨, ¨The marksman¨
, among others . While on the plane Wesley Snipes reads the book 'The
Art of War' ; Snipes later starred in the film ¨The art of war¨ (2000)
that was loosely based on the book . Bruce Payne is excellent as the
ruthless and extremely intelligent villainous , he plays -as always-
magnificently a megalomaniac nasty . 

Spectacular musical score by Stanley Clarke , being appropriately
adjusted to action . The motion picture was well directed by Kevin
Hooks -an usual TV movies director- . Robert Hooks, who plays FBI agent
Dwight Henderson in the film , is the father of director Kevin Hooks .
The film will appeal to action genre enthusiasts . It's a must see for
Wesley Snipes fans .
<|_=00=_|>
As I write Wesley Snipes is being indicted for alleged tax fraud. Well,
they got the charge a bit wrong - it's us the audience who've been
defrauded by this limp, lame excuse for an action movie. Although
Snipes himself is adequate in the lead, the rest of the acting is
humdrum at best, and, in the case of Liz Hurley, dire. (Will somebody
please tell me why that woman is regarded as a "celebrity"? To
paraphrase Walter Matthau, I have more talent in my smallest f*rt than
she has in her entire body.) The storyline is so thin it must have been
written on a post-it note, the script is terrible, the characters
cardboard cutouts who'd look underwritten in a toddler's pop-up book.

As for the improbabilities of plot. Don't even start to go there.

This film has one redeeming quality. It's very short. So short, in
fact, that you're actually pleasantly surprised when it ends. Surely
that can't be it, you muse for a moment, after Snipes has dispatched
the chief bad guy (a Brit, naturally - because of course all bad guys
are British in Hollywood). But yes, in an act of euthanasia for which
the producers should be highly commended, its life support system is
switched off and this turkey is given the quick death it so richly
deserves. Come back Arnie, all is forgiven.
<|_=00=_|>
"Everyone in the room is dumber having seen it." -Almost a Billy
Madison quote. This movie is dumber than dumb. Three hijackers "stroll
away" unnoticed from the airplane? The FBI suddenly taking their orders
from Wesley? Wesley runs around in a turtle neck, with a sweater on
top, and a leather jacket... while all the people around him are
wearing T-shirts!(see carnival scene) Stupid people, doing stupid
things, to further the plot of a stupid movie. I could go on for days
about the stupidity involved(plane fuselage crumbling while passengers
"woot"). Instead, I will go work on my jetski...

Liz looks great and earned the movie an extra point in my book.
<|_=00=_|>
Ladies and gentlemen. In the black corner we've got Wesley Snipes as
security expert John Cutter. In the white corner we've got Bruce Payne
as psycho criminal Charles Rane. Liz Hurley brightens things up a bit
as Sabrina Ritchie. So here we have the standard 1990s formula. Good
guys = black, bad guys = white. Total psychopaths = white British. If
we hadn't got the message already, Cutter tells Payne 'always bet on
black.' And when he pops up in the cockpit he announces 'I'm the good
guy.' 

I sort of lost interest half way through this. Real racist rubbish with
a big budget is still real rubbish. 

The music sounds like it came from a 1990s soft porn made-for-TV flick,
so Stanley Clarke gets a special mention for the difficult task of
making a rubbish film even worse.

Can't help thinking Bruce Willis would have done this better, with more
humour, and probably made it watchable, which this isn't.
<|_=00=_|>
Well,at least not according to his brief.Mind you,the completely barmy
Mr Rane was banging the brief's face on a desk at the time in a subtle
attempt to induce such a ringing endorsement.By anyone else's
definition Mr Rane is what the medical profession call a nutjob. "You
have blown up two planes this year already"says his brief in a non -
judgemental tone. "It's four,actually"Rane says proudly. With the help
from some henchpersons he escapes from his escort and goes mano a mano
with an ex - cop and airline security expert who,heaven be thanked,is
travelling on the same plane. Miss E.Hurley,who can't act for toffee,is
one of Rane's little helpers. So far - so appallingly bad. Mr W.Snipes
as the cop is a credit to his dentist. As cliché builded on cliché I
was forced to listen to the soundtrack as some kind of distraction.It
sounded as if it was written by a jazz musician who thought it would be
easy money to knock off a quick movie score.That couldn't really be the
case - could it? If you believe in watching movies with your thumb up
your bum and your brain in neutral "Passenger 57" might just pass
muster. If however you require a little bit of flair,just a smidgeon of
likelihood and some indication that it isn't all a cynical moneymaking
exercise....put it back in the "Special Offers" bin and walk away.
