

Blue in the face is a follow up to 'Smoke' a film which I saw recently and
very much enjoyed. I thought I'd give this one a try as well.

 Like the first film (even more so) this is a collection of beautifully
acted, largely improvised vignettes, involving the customers and general
passers-by of the Brooklyn based cigar shop run by Auggie (Harvey Keitel).
There is a lose storyline involving the relationship between Auggie and his
girlfriend Violetta (brilliantly played by Mel Gorham) and the troubled
marriage of Vinnie the storeowner and his wife. The store has been a part of
the local community for years and when Vinnie gets a very good offer to sell
up, it's bound to badly affect a lot of people.

 The best moments of the film lie in the documentary style rambling of
Brooklyn residents (including Lou Reed) as they describe what it means to
them being part of the city, and also the brilliant monologues that some of
the characters perform. There are moments of genius in this film. It is very
funny in a very understated way, the assembled characters are all eccentric
in their own way but totally believable. The dialogue is natural and you get
to know and feel for the characters very quickly in to the movie.

 I loved this film; I thought it was better than 'Smoke' a film I also
liked. 'Blue in the Face' might be harder to get in to for some people, it's
improvisational style and lack of structured story might put people off or
make  them think it's hard to follow, but it isn't. Don't try to make too
much sense of what's going on you don't need to. Treat it as a series of
snapshots in to the lives of a collection of colourful New Yorkers. Just sit
back and watch the characters play out their lives, you'll very soon be
engrossed by it.

It was an absolute delight to watch. Not for everyone maybe but definitely
for me!


<|_=00=_|>

This is a light and fun - although intelligent - movie, worth seeing, if not
for the whole marvellous opus of pop culture, for his cast alone: Harvey
Keitel, Roseanne, Victor Argo and precious appearances of Lou Reed, Jim
Jarmusch (as Bob, in my favorite sequence of the movie), John Lurie and
Madonna, to name a few. Soundtrack by David Byrne only adds to the mix.

´Blue in the Face´ cynically, cleverly and ironically chronicles the life
and the history of Brooklyn, NY. Watch it, it´s independent cinema at its
best.

<|_=00=_|>

Wang's followup to Smoke is a series of improvised scenes put together to
represent the diveristy of Brooklyn's culture.  Meanwhile Auggie is
struggling with Vinnie's decision to sell the cigar store.

The "plot" to this film doesn't really matter.  This was shot in the time
that was left over when Smoke wrapped earlier than scheduled.  In many ways
this is a much better film.  It's a huge amount of fun to watch and it all
ends in a street party - it all makes you want to live in Brooklyn and meet
all these weird and wonderful people that live there.  It's sketchy nature
can mean that it feels a little piecey but most of it is funny or
interesting and you may not notice it's lack of structure.  The actual story
is actually quite good - Vinnie's decision to shut the store is handled as a
threat to the friendships that exist around the story and also the
importance of such places in holding the community together.  It makes a
good point and, mixed with the humour, isn't hard to swallow at
all.

The cast are good - many of Smoke's faces are still there and are
complimented by famous faces.  Stars such as Fon, Roseanne, Madonna, Lou
Reed, Jim Jarmusch, Lily Tomlin, Ru Paul etc all make cameos - Madonna isn't
great but MJ Fox is really funny.  The remainder of the cast are made up of
real quality actors such as Victor Argo, Harvey Keitel and Giancarlo
Esposito to name a few.

Overall this is a light reward for watching the slighly heavier Smoke.  Both
films are good in their own way but this is the most fun to
watch.
<|_=00=_|>

I wish I could make a movie this funny and so easily. Five days,
improvisations, not a definite storyline and a great and funny movie is
born. I loved it, it still makes me laugh and will keep on making me laugh.
All the actors are great, but if I had to give an award to one of them it
would be Jim Jarmusch, with his "last cigarette" speech. Fantastic also is
Lou Reed, and his conclusions about life. The movie really benefits from its
addition of well-known stars, including a much-in-the-gutter character
Michael J. Fox, which is really funny. The film also includes some
curiosities about Brooklyn, and works not only as a set of vignettes but
also as an account of what's typical and traditional in that neighbourhood.
It has some cool moments and some touching moments, but overall it's a movie
to see and not to analyse. 
<|_=00=_|>

"Blue in the Face" was a fastly produced follow-up of director Wayne Wang's
and writer Paul Auster's 1994 art house hit "Smoke". While "Smoke" was
produced in the usual way with script, casts, etc., this movie was a quickly
shot within less than a month, just containing vague ideas, interviews and
improvisations with the same production unit and main actor Harvey Keitel,
but without a script and with lots of popular supporting actors who were
improvising their performance straight in front of the camera. And it
works.

Focused on Keitel's smoke shop in Brooklyn, his customers and visitors are
telling stories about their lives, views, ideas, dream, relationships and
carreers, all focused around the topic of smoking. Lou Reed can't remember
his first cigarette, but presents his self-constructed glasses, Jim Jarmusch
celebrates his last cigarette, Harvey Keitel reminds which war movie made
him a cigarette smoker, and there are several more famous guests in the
shop. Michael J. Fox plays a weird insurance guy, Madonna appears as a
singing telegram girl, and John Lurie, Mia Sorvino, Paul Keith and the whole
NYC artist's scene appear on the screen.

Although the pointless composition of independent scenes and interviews
might become a bit out of tune or boring sometimes, the movie works really
well. There are lots of interesting (real life?) stories told by the actors,
a great rare groove soundtrack that could fit into every Tarantino
production, and some really good jokes too. "Blue in the Face" become a
minor art house classic in Europe in the nineties, and one could wonder if
this movie would have been the same ten years later in the times of
anti-smoking laws and campaigns. Nice independent movie.

<|_=00=_|>

Blue in the face might be boring to many because it doesn't
follow a standard hollywood paradigm of rising action,
climax, resolve.  It is more documentary style, although
fictitious, and quickly jumps from story to story and 
character to character.  The editing is an interesting
component because it successfully brings together 
disparate themes and characters (who are improvising 
their lines and stories to some degree).  This and some
fantastical elements provide a very romanticized view of
Brooklyn.  Altogether a cohesive piece with some nice 
performances and some insight into what it is to growup
and live in a special loved place.
<|_=00=_|>
A companion piece to Smoke rather than a sequel, and as such it works
well enough, but the fact that it's made mostly of outtakes and
improvisations is easily detectable, and it feels far too disjointed,
while still trying rather feebly for a coherent storyline, especially
in the epilogue. However, the acting is good enough that many scenes
shine through, some of the cameos feel forced but most of them are
spot-on (brilliant appearances from Madonna, Roseanne and Jim Jarmusch
especially) and it's enjoyable for fans of the original Smoke as well
as Jarmusch fans, although all too often it feels like a Jarmusch
carbon copy that doesn't have Jim's unique spark and vision.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film twice. As a cinema lover, I perfectly know what Paul
Auster and, most of all, the actors, wanted to show in this movie. It's
just a global view of Brooklyn: what's good or funny or bad up there.
The story is alright. But that's not what disappointed me when I saw
it. What really bugged me was the way some characters were depicted.
The female characters,for example, ( Violeta !!) are really dire. They
are a summation of all "female" defaults: yelling, crying, spoiled,
selfish, and so on. What a pity...Though there are some funny scenes, I
must admit (especially the shots featuring Lou Reed). There are also
pretty great shots showing John Lurie (one of the best actors ever)
playing with his jazz band.
<|_=00=_|>

Most disappointing detail about "Blue in the face" is the regretful
fact that it's a sequel to "Smoke" - one of the greatest movies of the
mid 90's. I would instantly rate terrific "Smoke" 10 out of 10. I've
seen it a million times and I never get tired of enjoying it again. I
know "Blue in the face" is supposed to be a bunch of spontaneous
conversations but most of the stuff (Lou Reed parts, for example) are
just plain boring. Scenes with Jim Jarmusch and Michael J. Fox are
totally worth watching. I loved Malik Yoba's wristwatch selling rapper
too. If you liked "Smoke" you might want to check this out as well but
be careful and don't expect anything special.

<|_=00=_|>
i don't remember the movie at at all but i have taped this Madonna
scene: In 1995, it's already a couple of years that Madie just do silly
things and this guest starring is like this: sexpot, too much make- up,
bad manners, sure she couldn't be no more an inspiration for me and in
addition, she delivers the message to unpleasant, grumpy Keiteil: it's
not funny, not dramatic, it's just nothing... so really, this scene
would have been cut from the movie, it would stay the same... Enough of
those in between movies!
