

I won't lie to you-this movie is a CHICK FLICK!  Though I never saw it with
a guy, it is definitely a chick flick.  That said, it's a high-end chick
flick, which probably a few guys might enjoy, unless they happen to be the
exploding helicopter type^^;  This movie feels more like a modern day
adaptation of the classic romance "An Affair To Remember," and it keeps
referencing it too (In fact, the Cary Grant classic is very integral to the
plot).  Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan have great chemistry together, and they both
do what they're good at-Tom Hanks portraying the Everyman, and Meg Ryan
being cute and innocent.  I have to disagree with an earlier comment that
this film is unfair to guys-the way the characters are portrayed, I'd have
to say that in the reverse situation, I'd still feel the same way.  Meg Ryan
does not have the "evil woman" syndrome that popped up in later 90's chick
flicks (The most notorious of which was "My Best Friend's Wedding").  She is
very believable and actually does care about the feelings of her fiance. 
What I particularly liked is that the fiance was not portrayed as someone
who Meg would do well to leave.  Most movies fall into this trap-Someone is
about to marry someone who is horrible and find that someone else is better,
the viewer supposedly not feeling bad because the fiance was a jerk anyway. 
Tom Hanks really shines here as someone who has lost the most important
person in his life and is trying to rebuild again.  He always has a knack
for easily slipping into the roles he's given and making them really
convincing.  He does not fail here-you feel for him especially during the
sequences where he starts remembering his late wife.  The movie's plot
starts to stretch plausibility at the end, but not to the point where it
destroys the entire film.  The ending scene in particular is handled very
carefully.  You could have had a big, romantic, tear-jerking moment. 
Instead, the movie takes a more simplistic approach, and it succeeds-it
feels much more natural than the alternative.  Overall, if you're in for a
feel good romance, you should see this.  If you happen to be female, this is
DEFINITELY worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

	Regardless of how cyberspace has seemingly diminished it's size, the world
is still an awfully big place, and it's impossible for any one person to
occupy more than a minuscule portion of it at any given time.  So it's
imperative that individuals find that special niche for themselves, that
little piece of the world that becomes their own, where they can live and
love and engage in the pursuit of happiness.  And once that `perfect' world
is created, it's devastating when something upsets the balance, as in the
case of this film, the death of a spouse.  When the love of a lifetime is
abruptly taken away, how does one recover?  Can one recover?  How do you go
on when your heart has been removed?  All valid questions that are explored
and addressed in Nora Ephron's touching and romantic `Sleepless In Seattle,'
starring Meg Ryan and Tom Hanks.  The film begins on a somber note, with the
funeral of Maggie Baldwin (Carey Lowell), respectively the wife and mother
of Sam Baldwin (Hanks) and his son, Jonah (Ross Malinger).  Maggie was the
love of Sam's life, and inconsolable after her passing, he decides the best
thing for himself and his son is to move to another city and try for a fresh
start.  So they head west as far as possible, to Seattle, where Sam remains
unable to emerge from the funk of his loss.  
	
	Christmas and New Year's is especially tough on Sam and Jonah, and around
this time Jonah happens to tune into a late night talk show featuring Dr.
Marcia Fieldstone (Caroline Aaron), whose job is to help her listeners with
their problems.  Jonah calls her and tells their story, then takes the phone
to his dad in the next room, and in deference to his son, Sam consents to
talk about his situation on National radio.  In the Baltimore area, writer
Annie Reed (Ryan) is listening, and touched by the sincerity in Sam's voice,
she cajoles an assignment that subsequently takes her to Seattle, where she
attempts to hook up with Sam, a man she knows only as a needful, disembodied
voice from the radio.

	So begins a romantic odyssey that probably could only happen in the movies,
but it makes no difference because in Ephron's capable hands, this story
works, and it works beautifully.  There's a line in the movie, in fact, that
kind of sums it all up:  Becky (played by Rosie O'Donnell) says something to
the effect to Annie that, `You don't want love, you want `movie' love.  And
maybe that's why this movie is so endearing and enduring; it's about the
kind of love you find in a perfect world, the kind of love everybody wants
and needs (though few will admit it, even to themselves) but rarely finds,
and Ephron knows exactly how to make it connect with her audience.  It has
to do with understanding basic human needs and knowing how to translate it
all into a cinematic art form that will effectively reach those who see it. 
And Nora Ephron does it as well-- or possibly better-- than any director
before or since, and as she proved later with `You've Got Mail,' this film
was no fluke; she knows her stuff, and she knows how to deliver it.  It's
intentionally and shamelessly sentimental, but rather than maudlin, Ephron
hits just the right emotional tone, and it's perfect, from the romance to
the humor she injects at just the right moment to offset the drama, to the
music-- using just the right song at just the right time-- that does so much
to enhance the story.   

	Having a great cast, of course, certainly helped her in her endeavor,
beginning with Tom Hanks who, with his portrayal of Sam, demonstrates once
again what a consummate actor he is.  Few actors can step into any given
genre of film and create a character that is so complete and believable
every time out the way Hanks can.  Some of his characters may share some
traits and have similarities, but he manages to make each one unique, which
is quite a feat.  When you can watch Hanks and forget that you're watching
`Hanks,' you know he's accomplished something.  As an actor he is remarkably
giving, and so undaunted when it comes to using and exposing what he has
inside.  And his ability to circumvent any natural inhibitions makes him
great at what he does, and it's what makes a character like Sam so
memorable.

	Meg Ryan, as well, is an accomplished actor who can play drama as well as
comedy (check out her performance in `When A Man Loves A Woman'), but she
really sparkles in romantic comedies like this one, and she is absolutely
perfect for the role of Annie (just as she was for her role in `You've Got
Mail').  She makes Annie a very real person, and through her we can
empathize with Sam's situation, as she enables and allows the audience to
experience what she is feeling right along with her.  Ryan, through her
character, makes that emotional involvement possible, and it's one of the
strengths of the film.  And like Hanks with Sam, Ryan makes Annie a
character you're going to remember.

	The exemplary supporting cast includes Bill Pullman (Walter), Rita Wilson
(Suzy), Victor Gerber (Greg), Tom Riis Farrell (Rob), David Hyde Pierce
(Dennis), Dana Ivey (Claire), Gaby Hoffman (Jessica) and Rob Reiner (Jay). 
Essentially a poignant and heart-felt treatise by Nora Ephron on life and
love, `Sleepless In Seattle' is a film that offers a multitude of rewards if
you are simply willing to reach out and open yourself up to it.  All you
have to do is let it in.  Do it, and you'll be glad you did, guaranteed. 
It's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one 10/10.            

<|_=00=_|>
Annie Reed (Meg Ryan) hears, on a late night talk show, about a young
boy Jonah Baldwin (Ross Malinger) and his dad Sam (Tom Hanks) missing
their dead mother/spouse. Immediately Annie feels a connection with Sam
thinking he might be her soul mate. Problem is she's engaged to Walter
(Bill Pullman). Should she track down Sam and see...or stay with sweet,
dependable, dull, safe Walter? What do you think?

The plot is ridiculous but damned if it doesn't work! The film is chock
full of sweet, romantic songs and images. It all leads up to an
admittedly howler of an ending on top of the Empire State Building--it
was so over the top that, while they were shooting it, director Nora
Ephron was muttering under her breath "Can we get away with this?"!
Well...they did! I've got to admit I actually was getting a little
misty-eyed at that point. You really don't realize how silly the movie
is while watching it. The actors and the sweet, romantic tone of the
film really pull you in.

Hanks and Ryan were perfectly cast as the leads. They're both very good
actors and excellent comedians. Unfortunately, this movie was such a
huge hit that Ryan was type cast as a sweet, romantic woman. She's only
now getting rid of that image. Pullman is bad in his role but it is NOT
his fault. He doesn't have anything to work with--his character isn't
even given a last name! He's just there as a plot contrivance. Rosie
O'Donnell, however, provides excellent support as Ryans' boss. Also Rob
Reiner, Rita Wilson (Hanks' real life wife) and Victor Garber shine in
small roles. Also Malinger is very good as Hanks' son. The only thing
that bothered me was the constant references to the old Hollywood
weepie "An Affair to Remember". I HATE that film! If you hate romantic
comedies avoid this at all costs. But if you're a romantic, like me,
you'll love it! A definite 10!

Two great bits (among many):

An exchange between Hanks and a date on Hanks' son (who's being
obnoxious): "He's only 8." "He's very good at it."

And a hysterical discussion between Hanks, Wilson and Garber about
"Affair..." and "The Dirty Dozen"!
<|_=00=_|>

Another lovely film from Nora Ephron in the tradition of "Love Affair" and
"An Affair to Remember," with Hanks and Ryan, charming as ever, playing
two
people who fall in love, even though they don't meet until the final scene
of the film. And what a wonderful scene it is! Romantic fantasy, yes...but
an excellent film regardless. 
<|_=00=_|>
I see a lot of comments about romance... so a woman falls in love with
someone she heard on the radio saying he missed his dead wife and
decides to stalk him. And he sees her and she finds her pretty. That's
love.

I mean don't get me wrong, I liked how the movie started, but Annie
doesn't prove herself in any way. she has a fiancée that loves her and
who has some unconvincing quirks that make him the one that must be
dumped. i mean the guy does nothing wrong. Annie gets the idea that the
guy isn't good for her indirectly from her mother... and what does she
do ? She decides to break up and go meet a guy on a roof. and the
fiancée accepts like a good little puppet, because if there were any
heartbreak from his part, the movie would have went down the tube. the
movie is hanging on only a thread of optimism.

Of course, us, the viewers know that Sam isn't a bad guy and that he
deserves a decent relationship. Sam is sane, tries a normal way to see
if he can have a relationship. I like him. But if you cut out all of
his scenes Annie just seems kinda nuts. You can't see her relationship
falling apart. She just falls for Sam. And that stupid movie every
woman in the movie is crying about... so what ? Because somehow they
finally met in a similar manner makes it lovely ? Not really, no.

A movie for romantics? Sure. Just to remember that your girlfriend who
seems very much in love with you will dump your carefree, no
complicated past, caring, compassionate self for a guy with emotional
baggage, with a kid, who she only met. But he has a nicer name than
you.

The acting didn't impress me. I actually had hopes for this movie.
Shame. It gets a one because if it's a romantic movie it's crap.
<|_=00=_|>

The movies are full of alternate universes and maybes that make them a
great
escape. Sleepless In Seattle is a great romantic comedy. Tom Hanks and Meg
Ryan star in a movie where they are hardly onscreen together and yet we
feel
both of their characters infatuation. It's an amazing job that director
Nora
Ephron does in making us care about the relationship between these two
characters when their not hardly together onscreen. The movie also has
great
performances, from the leads and from supporting players Rosie O'Donnell
and
Rob Reiner, as well as a very goofy but sweet turn from Bill Pullman. This
movie will make you feel good.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie with characters and performances which are appealing,
and it is an old-fashioned, feel-good love story. The film also has a
bit of sadness in its early part, thankfully not overdone. The five
lead characters and the performances by their actors (Hanks, Ryan,
Malinger, Pullman and O'Donnell) are all engaging. 

The primary members of the support cast are also excellent (David
Pierce, Annie's brother; Garber and Wilson as Sam's brother-in-law and
sister; Reiner as his colleague/friend; young Gaby Hoffman; and Barbara
Garrick as Sam's brief girlfriend). 

The story, juxtaposed with the classic Grant/Kerr predecessor, could
have provided an excessive gimmick, but here it worked well. And I was
grateful for some things I didn't find in this flick. Although I
watched the program like everyone else, I found Rob Reiner's character,
acting and presence in "All in the Family" to be obnoxious and
annoying, ALL THE TIME, and watched the program in spite of his
presence. And I have found Rosie O'Donnell's presence to be the epitomé
of ANNOYING in every respect, every time I've observed her, previously.
But in this film, I enjoyed both of their performances completely.
Children in movies can also be an irritating presence, but Malinger and
Hoffman were delightful as son Jonah, and his little neighbor/friend.
Barbara Garrick, with a supporting role here (as in "The Firm") is an
appealing actress, for whom one would wish more prominent roles. 

Tom Hanks is one of the foremost actors of our time, but even he can go
a smidgen too far in a characterization (I thought he did so in both
"Forrest Gump" and "Philadelphia"). But he certainly didn't here.
Watch, enjoy, and feel good.
<|_=00=_|>
like this one, a 10 is all you can do. Tom is great, Meg the woman
plays the woman's role like nobody else could have.....If I get tears
in a movie, the movie is a m o v i e ........touching. Thank you folks
who did it, the folks who wrote this wonderful story. Am I sentimental?
Yess. And it feels good. Each turn of the story makes you wish, hope,
and finally no violence in a movie. What a relief. If you watch this
movie around x-mas, you probable get more sentimental than in a hot
summer night, I don't no. It took me 12 years to get to see this movie.
Heard so much and everything I heard was an understatement. Thank you
Tom and Meg and specially Ross, love you.
<|_=00=_|>

After his wife's funeral, Sam (Tom Hanks), an architect, moves from Chicago
to Seattle with his son, Johna (Ross Malinger) so he can stay away from all
those things that remind him of his beloved wife, which he just can't bear
any longer. 

In Baltimore, Annie (Meg Ryan), a newspaper journalist, is engaged to Walter
(Bill Pullman) and is looking forward to getting married. But when Annie's
mother talks about the 'magic' that she instantly feels when Annie's father
holds her hand, Annie cannot comprehend the meaning. One evening, Annie
hears Johna on a national radio show, saying his dad is lonely and sad,
still cannot forget his late wife and Johna thinks his dad needs a new wife
to make him happy. Thousands of women across the country write to Sam, among
them is Annie. Her letter in the rubbish bin is sent out by her good friend
Becky (Rosie O'Donnell).

So Annie travels all the way to Seattle in hope to meet Sam, but it doesn't
work out fine. However, when Johna reads the letter from Annie, he knows
she's the right one and he replies on his father's behalf for meeting each
other on the roof of the Empire State Building...

This is a refreshing, quite light-hearted story. It's slow but I'm sure many
people would like it. It's funny that, when Sam first sees Annie, he somehow
feels that he has met her before...rather funny, isn't it? Tom Hanks and Meg
Ryan are great on the screen together and the flick is perfect for relaxing.
With a delightful soundtrack.     
<|_=00=_|>

Tom Hanks is his usual steady, likable self in "Sleepless in Seattle," a
steady, likable movie that also benefits from one of Meg Ryan's more
restrained (i.e. less obviously, annoyingly cute) performances.

It's their talent that helped me overlook some of the film's more
noticeable
flaws, particularly its treatment of the eventually-to-be-rejected Other
Man
and Other Woman. Both Hanks' and Ryan's "unsuitable" partners appear to be
perfectly nice people, yet the movie casually dismisses them over one
little
flaw apiece--the woman laughs like a hyena and the man has terrible
allergies. Both characters behave very well, considering the way they're
treated by others. Hanks' girlfriend in particular desires a medal for
putting up with his brat of a son, who is rude to her at every
opportunity.

I also had difficulty warming to Hanks' son, although he is certainly
preferable to the young girl who keeps expressing everything in initials.

On the bright side, there are many engaging supporting characters,
including
Rob Reiner as a fellow architect. Also of note are the rich homeowner, the
dotty babysitter and Rosie O'Donnell as Ryan's editor and friend.
Thankfully, few to none of their scenes involve the annoying
children.

Many of the jokes are funny, the best coming when Hanks and a friend
ridicule the weepy reaction of many women to "chick flicks" by sobbing as
they recount the plot of "The Dirty Dozen."
