
This film was complete trash, but in a good way. I've always looked
upon Cuba Gooding Jnr as a semi decent actor but if this is the kind of
film he is going to be starring in, then I can see him descending the
same way as Charlie Sheen.

You can see from the outset that the makers tried to make one of those
high octane action thrillers, which are ten-a-penny these days. But
when you've got a budget that would struggle to finance an episode of
quantum leap, then maybe making a film of this kind wasn't such a good
idea.

They make use of computer graphics in a lot of the action scenes which,
to be honest, doesn't look the worst I have ever seen, but still
prompts you to snicker at how bad it is. The most ridiculous of which
occurs at the end of the movie, when a chemical weapon which we have
been told has the power to blow up basically a quarter of America,
detonates in a tunnel.

At this point we are subjected to rotten computer graphics which are so
bad that I instantly had flashbacks of Dean Stockwell and the
film-making atrocity that was the Langoliers.

But the story is complete nonsense, so even with a budget the size of
Lord of the Rings, there would be no way of making the whole thing
believable anyway. So you can perhaps see where the producer was coming
from i.e. lets make a cheap action thriller and we'll plaster Cuba
Gooding's face over the front cover and we'll maybe make some money.

It would've have been better if Eric Roberts had been given the leading
role.
<|_=00=_|>

Good action flick about regular guys turned defenders of the American
people. Cuba Gooding is great as an excitable type, while Skeet Ulrich is
the cool one. Once the story is set up, the action is non stop with a lot of
"Edge of your seat" scenes.
Cuba & Skeet deliver some good comedy lines to take a bit of the edge off
the intensity of this film. Their relationship as friends grows throughout
the movie so it gives you a good feeling & brings some believability to how
they react to each other in tough situations.
If you like fast, hard hitting action with a bit of humor thrown in, this
movie is for you!
<|_=00=_|>

The whole plot was tired and foolish, must of us know that. I myself
happen
to like cheesy and stupid action movies. Cuba was funny, as I thought he
might be, even Skeet turned out to have slight humor in his bones. This is
one of those movies where two guys hate each other at first, but end up
becoming the best of pals. If you like dumb jokes, and asinine plots,
you'll
LOVE this movie! 
<|_=00=_|>
A scientist (David Paymer) develops a biological lethal weapon and
accidentally kills eighteen soldiers in an island during the tests.
Colonel Andrew Brynner (Peter Firth) is the commander and becomes the
scapegoat of the incident. He is sentenced to go to the prison for ten
years. Along this period, he becomes unbalanced and decides to get the
bomb to sell to terrorists. He commands a group of mercenaries to steal
the bomb from the base where Dr. Richard Long is researching. He shots
the scientist but he flees with the weapon to the convenience store
where the clerk Tim Mason (Skeet Ulrich) and an ice-cream trucker
driver Arlo(Cuba Gooding Jr.) are negotiating. Mason receive this
weapon from the injured Dr. Richard Long, with an advice to keep it
below 50 F. they try to reach a military fort and try to escape from
the colonel's team that is hunting them down. 

"Chill Factor" is not a bad film; indeed it is slightly above average
for this type of action movie. There are some terrible cuts of the
scenes in the edition and the egocentric Arlo is annoying most of the
time. The deceptive conclusion makes this film forgettable. My vote is
six.

Title (Brazil): "Suando Frio" ("Sweating Cold")

Note: On 02 October 2015, I saw this film again.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is, I believe, a bit underrated. Cuba Gooding stars in this
action drama about a terrorist and a really nasty chemical weapon. In
my opinion, it deserves a bit more than the 4.8 rating that it has
accumulated. I gave it a 6. I found the interaction between the two
heroes, portrayed by Gooding and Skeet Ulrich, to be quite what I'd
expect from people under similar circumstances. There is intrigue and
lots of action, enough to satisfy any action film freak. The story is
decent and the screenplay is well-written. I thought the execution was
OK but nothing to write home about. All in all, a "Not Bad" action
flick that shouldn't disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>

Sure, this is supposed to be an action-packed buddy flick with nifty stunts
and jaunty banter.  Uh-uh.  This movie is soooo bad it's not even fun to
watch.  The plot is wretchedly implausible and the action scenes are just
dopey.  If the dialogue were a little better, we could call it trite.  One
wonders if the original script was substantially better than the finished
product.  What else could have lured respected actors like David Paymer and
Cuba Gooding Jr. to this project?  The mind boggles.

All this being said, this flick will always hold a special place in my
heart.  I saw it on a first date and he and I were united in our mutual
disregard for this clunker.  Reader, I married him.
<|_=00=_|>
Over the past few months, I've been taken in by some movies that have
been deemed 'cinematic masterpieces' by some. I've also had the
'pleasure' of watching TV-movies that can be found at the bottom of the
bargain bin in some video stores.

This movie is neither. It is not a 10/10 movie masterpiece, nor is it a
bargain-bin, third-rate, C-list, avoid-at-all-costs tape. It sits right
in the middle of the spectrum. It is watchable and entertaining, yet
not exactly worthy of the Oscar or Golden Globe awards. It was
action-packed, fun to watch and a great way to spend a Saturday night
at home, either by yourself or others.

Out of ten, I give this film a 7. It lost 3 points for the somewhat
hollow acting, but still, it was a fun movie, if you don't take it
seriously.
<|_=00=_|>
Repeat Review. Reviews #1-97:
http://www.imdb.com/user/ur3825387/comments 

Reviews #98-#100: http://www.imdb.com/user/ur5060215/comments 

Reviews #101-#104: http://www.imdb.com/user/ur5339193/comments 

---------- 

(Original Date of Review - August 26, 2004)

---Minor Spoilers--- 

Cuba Gooding Jr., and Skeet Ulrich star in this decent but funny
action/thriller directed by Hugh Johnson. Cuba plays an ice cream
delivery man named Arlo while Skeet plays as a connivance store clerk
in Montana named Tim Mason. David Paymer plays a role at the beginning
of the movie that lasts about 30 minutes and he plays the best friend
of Mason who is a scientist named Richard Long.

The movie starts on an island in which some sort of military
establishment is. Dr. Long is in charge of this radio-active bomb named
Elvis that he's been working on for a long time. Him and his assistant
decide to test it out but it goes all wrong and Long's boss comes in
named Bryner. If the bomb were to reach 50ยบ Fahrenheit, it would blow
up and massacre anything in it's 5-mile radius, that exact radius of
the island. The bomb reaches 50ยบ, which must be the CHILL FACTOR and it
blows up. 17 soldiers are severely killed and in the scientist shelter,
the military boss, Long, and his assistant survive. Next scene, the
boss is charged for all of it even though it was all Long's fault. The
boss goes to jail for 10 years. Next scene, 10 years later, Bryner
comes out and seeks revenge. Now in Montana, he assembles a small team
of smart assassins to travel with him to avenge what Long did to him.
Meanwhile, Arlo (Gooding) is doing a 4 AM ice cream shift and Mason
(Ulrich) is doing a connivance store night shift. The assassins invade
the research center of Long and he gets shot. Already some plot holes.
Long barely makes it to Mason's store, almost dead while Arlo is there
to deliver $400 worth of ice cream. Long tells his best friend that
he's about to die and that he needs him to bring the remaining
radio-active bomb that detonates at CHILL FACTOR to the military base.
This time, this Elvis is much more stronger than the 5-mile radius one.
Long said he needs Arlo's ice cream truck to keep the temperature down
on the bomb. Long dies, and Arlo and Mason are off to put the bomb in
its proper place with Arlo's ice cream truck while the assassins are on
him. Thus concludes the first 35 minutes of the movie. Note that Arlo
doesn't appear in the movie until 25 minutes in. The adventure (with
this twisted plot) is on. Tensions flare, in comedy as Arlo wants to
get the hell away from Mason and far away as possible but Mason
threatens him with a revolver forcing him to continue driving during
the early parts of they're trip. They soon find out that Bryner is on
their tail and they have to improvise or die.

Overall, Chill Factor is a decent action/thriller with good comedy in
it but somewhat fails to impress. Maybe it's the lacking, holed plot.
Good effort by Cuba and Skeet though. If you got some time and you want
a good buddy film, check this one out.

My Rating: 7/10 

Objectively: 6/10 

Subjectively: 7/10 

Eliason A.
<|_=00=_|>

Cheesy, predictable plot, with no movement.  Stereotypical from beginning
to
end. The lighting and camera angles reminded me of something from a made
for
TV movie.  While the movie tried to be funny, it was far from
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Thomas from the LA Times promises me on the back "A Roller
Coaster Loaded with Thrills and Spills". Kevin Thomas is an awful liar,
lemme tell you.

A dreadful action-adventure turkey, this starts out squarely on the
wrong foot: on some deserted island somewhere mad scientist David
Paymer is experimenting with some kind of superweapon he calls "Elvis".
(This joke will subsequently be rammed into the ground, covered up with
dirt, then dug up and rammed into the ground again as the movie
progresses.) Peter Firth is the good-guy American soldier who thinks
Paymer's out of control, Paymer pulls rank, does the test, of course
something goes wrong, most everybody dies and Firth gets shafted, sent
for ten years hard time in Leavenworth.

Got that? We cut to the present, Firth gets out and he's the bad guy?
(????) And Paymer's some kind of sympathetic hero? (??????) Huh? (I'm
gonna use up my ratio of question marks, you get the idea.) Anyway,
Firth, who now has a Hollywood-approved multi-cultural, fully
integrated team of bad guys, shoots Paymer while looking for "Elvis",
who he's gonna sell to the highest bidder. Paymer, bleeding to death,
improbably summons up enough strength to give it to Skeet Ulrich, who's
"the only guy he can trust". Ulrich (gamely trying for The Hero With A
Troubled Past, but really just reminding me of various convenience
store clerks I know) shanghais Cuba Gooding Jr.'s ice cream truck,
which conveniently happens to be parked outside (Gooding is doing The
Hip Urban Guy Whose Wisecracks Are The Comic Relief; it's an
embarrassing role for any actor, and Gooding does not enoble himself
here.) I personally was rooting for the bad guys throughout, which is
kind of a problem in these sort of movies. But anything to shut Cuba
Gooding up. Apparently they blew their budget on a few effect shots --
the schtik of the movie is that the bomb has to remain cold or it'll go
off, and you'd think there'd be a lot of sequences playing around with
that, but not really, and whenever it looks edgy there's always a cold
mountain stream or a handy fat guy with a case of beer in a cooler to
save the day. Most of it is a dull car chase around what looks like a
resort town in Montana.

My guess is that early versions of the script were much more of a
straight up black comedy, with two lunkheads saving the day for the
wrong people. "Bill and Ted meet SPEED". Something like that. But maybe
that's just my imagination: that'd make a good movie, though, huh?
