

When this movie was first released, I refused to line up and watch it. I
thought it was another of those simplistic and "popular" - love the
teacher,
fight delinquency - movies.
In fact I refused to be taken for granted by clever Hollywood people who,
usually, produce very "sweet" and "educative" movies.
Well, a couple of years later, while I was refurbishing my own movie
collection I stumbled on a special LaserDisc sale and bought this one as
well (just to see what all the fuzz about it was really
about).
First of all, I was amazed to know that it is based on a true story, just
like "Lean on me" and what caught my attention was that the teacher in
question didn't belong to that profession: she was a discharged and
unemployed USMC officer.
I expected a war between her and the pupils she would "drill".
What I received in return was an education on how one can be prejudiced,
in
more than just one way...
Having served in the Swiss Army and having been a teacher myself, I could
really empathize with the Character played by Michelle
Pfeiffer.
My first teaching approach, unlike hers, was disastrous to say the
least...
The entire movie deals with LITTLE, REAL, EVERYDAY problems and not with
the
big issues of life and this is probably why this movie was summarily
discarded as being second rate.
But when we consider how children consider and perceive our world
nowadays,
it's exactly what they expect us, the adults, to do as
well.
That's to say, take our time to explain to them the everyday happenings in
their little worlds. Why mom and dad went their separate ways, why do they
have to cope with homework they cannot understand and so on and so
forth.
This movie is a teaching lesson for teachers, not a moralizing or preachy
one.
It shows us how it should be done, nothing more.
In Drama one says "less is more", why shouldn't it apply to
life?
We always want to set standards and a higher example to the students we
are
supposed to tutor, but what about our commitment to give them what they
really want: lend them an ear when they talk, a heart when they feel
sorrow,
and sometimes, when required, a firm authority to look up
to?
Many colleagues I have met have forgotten what teaching is all
about.
It's not a simple profession to earn your life, it's much more than this,
it's a mission, a passion, a drive, a call, just like the one an actor or
a
director have.
In this instance in my own opinion, "Dangerous Minds" has amply achieved
its
goals.
For the detractors of this tiny movie I would suggest to take a better and
closer look, they might still learn something...
But please, take your time and concentrate on it. This is really not a
"Popcorn" and "Beer" movie.

<|_=00=_|>

One thing I've learned through th years is that use your own opinion when it
comes to movies. Just because someone says it a bad movie doesn't quite mean
you wont like it. Dangerous Minds is an excellent movie. I've read reviews
on this movie and saying that this was just another Hollywood movie. Their
wrong! I watched this movie and I was really impressed by it. For me it was
truly inspirational. Michelle Pfeiffer was excellent in this movie. There
are some who says that Michelle isn't  tough enough to play the character,
but sorry to burst their bubble but it's called acting. You can be the
weakest person on earth but if your truly a good actor then you can make
anyone believe your a tough guy or girl. The music was awesome.  The cast
was great. The Plot and script was exceptional. I recommend this movie to
anyone. You wont be disappointed. I sure wasn't. 
<|_=00=_|>

For anyone who's lived the life portrayed in this movie are the only one's
who truly know it's essence and value. For those who call it 'questionable'
apparently haven't lived life outside of a plastic bubble. Dangerous Minds
is an excellent adaption in its own and holds many memories for me and for
others as well. I can't imagine someone not taking to this film. and being
infinitely inspired. People tend to forget where movies originate from, they
mainly based on real events and real life itself and what life is really
about. I'll never forget what this movie has taught me and what it won't
ever let me forget. Dangerous Minds is about love, hate, fear, and strength.
Dangerous Minds is about life.
<|_=00=_|>
As a critic, I have no basis for saying a movie is aesthetically sound
or not. However, I believe there is a quality to this movie that
deserves to be acknowledged. The fact that so many people are willing
to trash the film based on the fact that an Inspirational Teacher Movie
just is not real. Says a great deal for the need of a few teachers who
fit that bill. Yes there are a few things that are old hat about the
movie but you have to appreciate the fact that this movie has an
honesty in its simple and basic statement to its viewers.

If you like the choices or not they have to be made. Maybe if a few
more people, not just teachers, realized that we don't all live in
Emerald City, of Wizard of Oz fame. Some of us actually survive each
and everyday. Only to do it all over again in the morning.
<|_=00=_|>
I had no interest in seeing this movie when it came out in 1995. It
just seemed to be another movie about angry inner city youth struggling
to graduate from high school. So running into this tonight, I finally
decided go give in and give it a watch.

My final assessment is that although this movie bears comparison to a
long list of great-teacher-inspires-kids movies, I now embrace the
movie because Michelle's portrayal brings it over the top, also, I was
positively impressed with Renoly Santiago's honest and sensitive
reading.

It is easy, as I am ample testament, to dismiss movies that appear to
be clones, but since this was reportedly based on a true story of an
ex-military woman, it either demonstrates that the story does not
emerge from the minds of banal-thinking writers, but from fact, or that
the stories like these repeat themselves daily in the fabric of America
and need to be told under as many guises as there are stories. WHY?
Because all of us need inspiration and hope in our lives.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie gives us a little hope that there are people in the world
prepared to go to extreme lengths for the good of others. This is a
heart warming story, and although at times it's quite tragic, it shows
a growing bond between a group of socially discarded students and a
very special teacher.

Michelle Pfeiffer's performance is simply wonderful, she captures the
passion and warmth of her character perfectly. The rest of the cast are
a little mixed, but there is plenty of strength in their performances
to cover any cracks.

Overall this is a highly emotional and educational journey, that is
enjoyable to watch.

8/10 If you enjoyed this watch 187, its even better.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not about to call this movie a "feel-good movie" or a
"coming-of-age-tale." What am I gonna do is call it what it really is - a
great movie.

Michelle Pfeiffer is at her best. She is absolutely fantastic in this movie.
The actors in the classroom hold their own against her as
well.

Basically, the plot is as follows: White teacher enters a mostly-minority
"alternative" (read: group of kids that act out) classroom and commands
respect. In turn, she changes their lives as they change hers. It's
basically the story of Raul, Emilio, and Carrie, and how they cope with life
as a result of Ms. Johnson.

The movie has some really good lines (my favorite: "You asked me how I was
gonna save your life. This is it. This moment.") and really good drama.
Sure, some of it is hokey-it-only-happens-in-the-movies, but the majority of
it is good. I'm a guy, and I shed a few tears.

Overall: 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I really liked this movie very much, even if its nothing new.  I think every
generation should have a movie in this genre - there have been so many,
going back to "Goodbye, Mr. Chips", that they must mean something to each
new viewer.  This is pretty realistic, too, although some of it is a little
sugarcoated, it helps to remember that it is a movie.  Pfeiffer is very good
as the teacher struggling with several different things all at once.  I must
also mention that I appreciate the fact that there was no obligatory love
interest for Michelle's character.  I read somewhere that Andy Garcia was
edited out of this movie, and as much as I like him, I was glad she didn't
have a Supportive Boyfriend Who Understands.  
<|_=00=_|>

Based on the non-fiction book "My Posse Don't Do Homework" (written by
Louanne Johnson), "Dangerous Minds" tries but fails to cut to the heart of
the social issues it discusses.  The main problem is that the script depends
too much on dramatic convention, and too often chooses to take the easy way
out rather than directly confronting the reality of it's premise and
characters.

Louanne Johnson (Michelle Pfeiffer) is an ex-marine who begins a teaching
career in a tough NYC inner-city school.  But she finds her pupils, from the
inner-city projects, to be a rebellious handful in need of guidance as much
as education.  She then decides to use her own methods to win them round to
learning, against the wishes of her bureaucratic superiors...

From "Dead Poets Society" to "Sister Act 2: Back in the Habit" this sort of
plot has been rehashed a thousand times before, and "Dangerous Minds" is not
brave enough to really attempt anything new.  The music (especially the
Coolio hit "Gangsta's Paradise") has more grit and originality than the
script.  Nearly all the stock characters from this sort of film are present
in one form or another: the gifted but reluctant star pupil, the tragically
flawed pupil, the resistant, reactionary parents, the list goes on.  The
ending, as expected, is the typical happy-ending copout.

The acting, however, isn't too bad and just about saves the film from
becoming a complete bore.  Pfeiffer struggles with the central role, failing
to give the part significant dimension or depth.  But she's well supported
by George Dzundza as a fellow teacher, Courtney B.Vance in an underplayed
turn as the by-the-book principal, as well as Renoly Santiago and Wade
Dominguez as two self-destructive students.

A missed opportunity as a movie, "Dangerous Minds" was later turned into a
short-lived TV series with Annie Potts taking over from Pfeiffer as Louanne
Johnson.


<|_=00=_|>
Well..for me it was very interesting to watch a movie like because it
shows how a bright person can change a ''dangerous mind'' and make them
active rather than rejecting them and drive them to the streets selling
drugs and the likes...the ideas is this movie were very awesome and
hitting on the core of the American society in the early 90's,so that
it criticizes the whole daily life in an inner city as a
prototype...family,relationships,fear,fights,power,those are some of
the crucial themes the movie .Actually, the teacher did a good job with
the collaboration and curiosity of those students,because they feel
that there is something special about the new teacher which they lacked
with the previous one and also because she gave them more freedom and
behaved toward them as friends not students,,,:) well done teacher!!!
