
I love the Avengers. Emma Peel was a hero of my childhood. I was
ridiculously excited for the arrival of this film and had nauseated all
my friends when the project was first announced about who was to be our
two spies. I was thrilled with the selection of Fiennes -- but Thurman?
I was hesitant. Then Diana Rigg passed on being in the film. Another
bad sign. Then, the television trailers, yet a third omen but I told
myself the movie could not possibly be that bad. IT was worse than my
wildest nightmares -- and I have an excellent imagination. Thurman was
as bad as I thought, Fiennes had nothing to play to. Macnee, oh, how it
could have improved if we'd seen him. I think this movie is terrible
because they didn't get the joke. The Avengers is cheeky, campy, fun,
and never without some form of the double entendre somewhere.
Apparently, the script writes never actually saw the series and didn't
get the joke. I beg, some British filmmaker somewhere give it a chance.
Make your own version. Give some dignity back.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie based on the popular British TV series is such a flop it
doesn't really deserve comment, but here are a few nonetheless.

This is the kind of movie making that really has you wonder if you
should ever visit a theater again, when you consider the waste of
millions of dollars on sets, special effects and high-powered actors
that could have been used for such better causes (such as, oh, say a
big-screen version of "My Mother the Car").

At any rate, the film got what it deserved by being universally panned
by critics and bombing at the box office. It was then rushed out of
theaters with the bad-film strategy that relative obscurity would
result in more bread at the video stores.

Considering that Ralph Fiennes (Schindler's List, Englsh Patient) and
Uma Thurman (Pulp Fiction, etc.) were at the top of their box-office
draw potential, and with the addition of the always popular Sean
Connery in a unique role as a villain, one would think that this movie
would have been a sure hit. However, the potential went lightning fast
down the tubes, greased by a stinky script, second-guessed editing and
incompetent direction.

The best elements of the original series, namely, its charm and style,
are absent. A lot of the charm came from the relationship between Steed
and Peel. But Fiennes' Steed is aloof and Thurman's Mrs. Peel is cold
as ice. The two appear to be sleepwalking through their respective
roles, with visions of fat paychecks dancing in their heads.

Ironically, an imprudent element of the TV series that was indicative
of its downhill slide after the departure of Diana Rigg (the original
Mrs. Peel), namely, the introduction of the silly character of
"Mother," IS included in the film. Go figure.

Connery 's performance as a mastermind who can manipulate the world's
weather falls flat. Like Fiennes and Thurman, he appears to be going
through the motions of a script he has no faith in.

Quirky aspects of the original series that were cute and amusing have
been replaced with gimmicks that are just unfunny strange and
head-scratchingly bizarre. For example: the requisite cameo of an actor
from the original series features only the voice of Patrick Macnee in
the role of an invisible man behind a desk. What this character has to
do with anything, other than adding to an already disjointed script, is
anybody's guess.

On a website competently dedicated to the series it has been speculated
that the director never saw a single episode of the TV Avengers. If you
were any kind of fan, you will immediately observe that there is a good
reason to believe this. Jeremiah Chechik's direction seems to lack any
instinct for the flavor of the original series.

At any rate, with this brand of TV series-inspired movie making, you
may find yourself yearning for "Return to Gilligan's Island."
Originally hyped as a summer blockbuster, the cinematic version of "The
Avengers" is only spectacular in its capacity to disappoint.
<|_=00=_|>

Frankly, when THE AVENGERS was released, I wanted it to bomb--I wanted
Hollywood to finally get the idea that ripping off old TV shows is
IMBECILIC
and almost never successful. Thus, I was happy that the movie did poorly
and
closed quickly. (I also took a trip to London just as the movie was
released, and if you think it was ill-received here, the British took it
times TEN.)

Ironically, though, it isn't that bad a movie. Not great, but certainly
not
the despicable mess that most others seem to think.

It's been called ridiculous, slow, talky, surreal. Well, what a shock, so
was the original series. I've recently viewed the entire 1967 season
(bought
all four boxed sets), and the show is all those things at times. It is
slow,
generally, at a very langorous pace throughout most stories. It is talky,
since most of the charm of the original was in the dialogue between
characters. It was surreal, even ridiculous (The Winged Avenger, anyone?
Eeee-urp.)

Uma Thurman does a passable job as Emma--she's no Diana Rigg, but who is?
She plays the character smart enough, although she doesn't quite capture
Rigg's regal command of situation. Ralph Fiennes, however, misses the
character of Steed quite a bit, playing him as reserved, without any of
Steed's charisma. Steed always had a quality about him that made you feel
as
if he woke up every morning feeling absolutely smashing--Fiennes seems to
miss that.

The problem the film faces is twofold: Those of us who have seen the
original will always compare the two, and a copy can't hope to compare.
Those who haven't seen the series have no grounds to assess it on--(see
some
of the above user comments which begin 'I never saw the original
series...')and since I think this series is not exactly vividly-remembered
by the majority of the population (particularly the 18 and under
movie-goers, who don't have much grasp of the nuances The Avengers
operated
on). Frankly, The Avengers was probably just a bad choice to try to
remake

(--LIKE ALL OLD TV SHOWS. Tell me one old-TV remake that has ever spawned
a
sequel (which Hollywood is always sure to do when something is a
success)--
only THE BRADY BUNCH...point proven?)
<|_=00=_|>
Is The Avengers a good film? No. Is it the worst film ever made? No. I
first saw the movie at the cinema upon its release and, at that time, I
did think that it was one of the worst films I'd seen up to that point.
I've watched it 2 or 3 times since then and my opinion of it has
improved, well, very slightly at any rate. Apart from a pervading
incoherence, I think the film's major problem is its slightness; it's
only an hour and a half long and the plot is very simplistic to say the
least. It's not hard to imagine audiences feeling a bit short-changed
when it first came out, especially as the film was a big-budget,
would-be summer blockbuster. Another big problem is the casting of Uma
Thurman as Emma Peel. Thurman has shown herself to be a fine actress in
movies such as Pulp Fiction but she just looks out of her depth here (I
never believed in her as a top-level scientist for a second) and her
English accent doesn't sound natural. Nicole Kidman, to whom the role
was first offered, would surely have been better, in particular, she's
displayed flawless English accents in films such as The Others and The
Hours. An English actress I also think would have made a great Peel is
Joely Richardson but the studio would probably have vetoed such a
choice on the grounds of her not being a big enough name. Ralph Fiennes
was a real enigma in this film - there was nothing wrong in principle
in casting him as Steed but he looks ill at ease throughout the movie
as if he'd rather be elsewhere. I can only assume he'd already twigged
that the film was going to be a turkey. What's worse, Fiennes and
Thurman have absolutely no chemistry between them, which wastes the
snappy dialogue they have with each other throughout the film. The
supporting cast fare a bit better with seasoned pros such as Sean
Connery, Jim Broadbent and Fiona Shaw making the most of their
underdeveloped parts. The retro-chic world of the original TV series is
nicely recreated and there's no shortage of nice cars, costumes and
locations but what's good about the film is easily drowned out by
what's bad; The Avengers is ultimately a shallow, rushed and messy
affair, severely hampered by the performances of its two leads. Handled
properly, the film could have been a wonderful success for all
concerned, the first chapter of an entertaining and lucrative
franchise, stretching well beyond the 1990s; instead it's one of the
most embarrassing flops of that decade. The original cut of the film
was apparently two and a half hours long but, following negative
reactions from audiences at test screenings, the studio hacked the film
down to its present one and a half hour length. This doesn't actually
come as much of a surprise as there is a lack of proper narrative flow
to the film suggestive of chunks of explanatory scenes having been cut
out. Just one example: towards the end of the film, just before they
enter Sir August's underwater lair, Steed and Peel enter a phone box
and Peel says "how now brown cow?" down the phone. The phrase seems to
be a password to enter the premises but how does Peel know it? There's
been talk here and there of the possibility of Warners releasing a
director's cut or special edition DVD, restoring the original two and a
half hour version. I think this would be a good idea and I'd definitely
be interested in watching the full version of the film. It's highly
unlikely to be any kind of masterpiece but it's difficult to imagine
that it wouldn't improve upon the movie as it stands. At the very least
you'd have to assume that it would be more coherent. Sadly I don't
think the chances of Warners going down this line are high; I have the
feeling that this is a movie the studio would rather forget about than
draw attention to.
<|_=00=_|>

Uma Thurman's catsuits aside, "The Avengers" is one of the flattest movies
to come down the pike in a long time.

The failing Sean Connery isn't really the villain in this movie, the true
villains are a director who thought he could "improve" on the original, and
an editor who really shouldn't have been let out of film school.

Fiennes and Thurman do an adquate job with what they were given, which wasn't
much, and then the editor took half of that away.

Connery got one half-choked off rant, (all of which you see in the trailer)
and then hid in the leftover set for the power supply from the floating
city in "The Empire Strikes Out" (Er -- "Back"). A pathetic effort from a
formerly stellar actor.

Eileen Atkins was rather fun as Alice, Steed's minder, and the guest
appearance by Patrick Macnee was somewhat amusing.

As for the writing, well....
I think (despite the credits) they actually gave the job to a couple of
public school lads who rather thought that they were being clever. 

Overall, not worth the money spent to make it, nor the $6 I paid to see it. 
One star, mostly for some rather nice, if somewhat generic, cinematography.

<|_=00=_|>

Warner Bros. fantasies have always had a certain memorable flare.
Dating back to films like "Superman" and "Blade Runner", a viewer could
always be guaranteed at least a ticket into another world. "The  Avengers"
would have been that next "big" thing for Warner Bros. had it not been so
shoddily edited at the last minute.
It should be duly noted, however, that this film had all the signs of
a
thanksgiving turkey: It's release date, which was moved from late June to
the dog days of August. Then the fact that no press screenings have been
allowed for critics. No good can come of these prophecies.

"The Avengers", which, at best, is a second rate version of the
original "Batman" has all the features of your top blockbuster: A Big name
or two, a plethora of explosions, and enough special-effects to put
"Godzilla" to shame. The Plot follows the exploits of the legendary secret
agents John Steed (Ralph Fiennes) and Emma Peel (Uma Thurman), as they do
battle with a maniacal meteorologist (Sean Connery) who has intentions on
controlling the world's weather. Simple enough. Or so one would have
thought. It would appear that some 25 minutes (!) was excised from the
film
as a result of poor test screenings. As history has told, no good comes
from
test screenings. As a result, the film becomes so utterly confusing that
the
viewer would sooner give up, rather than be insulted by a film that
insists
on staying one step ahead of you at all times. Only potentially good films
are butchered in an attempt to make the film more appealing to youngster's
attention spans. But make no mistake about it, this film is certainly not
for children. Perhaps the last half hour will provide enough enjoyable
action (and it does, believe me!) to distract them, but up until then the
film consists of awkward dialogue, inane action (Gigantic teddy bears,
anyone?), and an uncomfortable overdose of strangeness.

The cast, at one time, might have been game, but only once in a while
does Ralph Fiennes even crack a smile. Thurman has apparently got the
English accent down perfectly, but the only problem lies in the fact that
she forgets to give a performance worth remembering. And last, but
certainly
not least, Sean Connery. Sadly, he doesn't even look like he wants to take
over the world. Only once, in a mumbled rant, does he evoke some feelings
of
evil.
That being said, "The Avengers" is a technical masterpiece. Providing
the viewer with a universe of dazzling sets (that should at least be
nominated for an oscar), imaginative visual effects, and beautiful
costumes,
one almost forgets that England doesn't look like this anymore. Unless of
course, you live there. The score, composed by Joel McNeely proves to be
one
of the coolest scores ever produced. Inducing excitement, tension, and a
little smoothness, provided by some nifty jazz notes. All of which the
film
is unable to do itself. For those who won't enjoy this film, it is
mercifully brief. So brief to the point that it's strange. It jumps from a
one hour section of the beginning to a half hour of climactic action that
the viewer blinks and the movie might just be rolling into the credits.
One
can only hope for an improvement with a director's cut. Until then, this
film should gain cult status before it makes it's way to video. Which I'm
sure will be soon.

Out Of Four - **    
<|_=00=_|>

Oh, wait, that's from Get Smart, not The Avengers.

No matter.  As a longtime fan of The Avengers (since childhood), I will say,
right off the bat, that this movie did not fail on all levels.  If nothing
else, the makers of this film understood, at least, what The Avengers was
about.  This puts them head and shoulders above, say, the makers of The Wild
Wild West movie, who had only the most rudimentary (and faulty) knowledge of
what made that series an icon of popular American culture.

They might not have been successful in the execution, but they did
understand what made The Avengers tick, and if the studio heads hadn't
ordered extreme and desperate editing, we might have been able to see more
of what the filmmakers imagined.

Two scenes stand out as perfect examples of this understanding:  When Mrs.
Peel tries to escape by running endlessly down an Escher-like staircase, and
when Steed and Mrs. Peel walk on water in giant bubbles.  Sean Connery's
eccentric megalomaniac (so much more interesting than a serious,
conservative megalomaniac) fit right in with the The Avenger's roster of
enemies.

Whatever sense of fun the movie had (and The Avengers tv series never seemed
to take itself too seriously; does anyone remember Steed being shrunk to the
size of a mouse and jabbing a villain in the ankle with a fountain pen?) was
destroyed when the nut jobs at the studio fell for the old "edit out what
the test audience didn't like" trick, and put a botched film on the screen. 
Too bad these studio honchos have such weak nerves and such short memories;
will they never learn?


<|_=00=_|>

Well I don't know how this one slipped through the studio system but I'm
very glad it did.  When I heard about an Avengers movie I assumed we'd be
getting a bastardised Hollywood formula movie, and it would resemble some of
the recent Bond films more than the original series.  But I was thrilled to
find the film had the same wonderful sense of absurdity as the show.
:)

I think a lot of people are unaware this is a complete comedy.  This being
the case it's not surprising people think it's bad, but that's their
problem.  The comedy style is not a popular one, it's a particular style of
generally British humour, best described as complete and utter nonsense.  If
you have no appreciation for absurdity, then you will NOT like this
film.

Nothing in The Avengers should be taken at face value, it's all a load of
s***.  Steed and Peel are full of s***, that's the point.  No one acts the
way they do, they are both constantly trying to out cocky each other.  The
world of The Avengers is a place where "small things are taken with the
utmost seriousness and important things are not taken seriously at
all".

The Avengers purposely doesn't explain things, it's not supposed to make
sense, that would ruin it.  It's the little things in The Avengers that make
it shine.  Small asides from left-field that seem to go over most peoples
heads.

Fiennes and Thurman are different than Macnee and Rigg, but I'm not sure
they're much worse.  Fiennes could perhaps have been a bit more cheerful.
Thurmans whole screen presence is so vastly different from Riggs that it's
impossible to compare, but I did enjoy Thurmans version of the infalable
Peel.  Connery going nuts was fun to see too.  BTW Eddie Izzard not talking
was the point of him being there, get it.  Having Eddie Izzard in your movie
and not having him say anything is to my mind very funny.

It's very hard to explain to people who flock to films like The Waterboy,
why a film like The Avengers is so funny.  Most people I guess will just
never get it.  I got it, and I'm glad that there ARE plenty of other people
who did too.  Congrats to the makers for daring to be different and
convincing the studio into letting you spend $70 million.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
John Steed is an agent for the Ministry; he is trained to perfection
and one of the best despite his belief that the enemies of the past are
no longer relevant. When a research laboratory into a weather-based
defence system is blown up the main suspect is one Dr Emma Peel,
although Dr Peel is adamant that she is innocent. With her being their
only lead into the bomb, the Ministry assign Steed to work alongside
her and use her to get to the bottom of the mystery – well, after tea
anyway.

At the time of release I decided to give this film a miss as I felt I
had heard too much of the critics having a field day to really be able
to view it with a clear eye. Years later though I decided to give it a
go on the basis that each year will see a blockbuster getting a kicking
from all critics – sometimes deserved but at other time it is just a
poor film that critics jump on it. However by the time I had reached
the point where Sean Connery reveals his plan to a bunch of partners
dressed as day-glow teddy bears I realised that things were not going
to go well. Up till this point I had felt that the film was developing
a nice little sense of humour that spoofs the idea of the typically
English gentleman spy; however tongue-in-cheek humour is hard to do
right and it is very easy to turn the film into a very silly affair
that is not so much funny as it is embarrassing.

And so it was with The Avengers, a film that has some reasonable
moments but is generally an unengaging and rather silly mess that can
only be enjoyed as such. The problem is, this is a very expensive film
for one that is just meant to be silly and it really needed to be fun,
exciting and enjoyable as well, not just feature some silly points. For
me the bear costumes were silly but enjoyable (it is such a weird sight
that it stayed with me) but the majority of the rest of the film were
just plain silly. The weather plot was poorly done and it never engaged
me once.

The cast look good on paper but they are lost in the material and can
do little with it. Of course in the case of Connery, it may have helped
a little bit if he'd even tried, but he is poor throughout and just
looks like a man getting paid. Fiennes is well cast and he is very
English, it would have been a good performance had the rest of the film
got the tone even half right. Thurman is not an actress I really rate
and she has turned in too many average performances recently and here
is no exception. Fans may appreciate her squeezed into tight costumes
but for me that doesn't come close to covering a very poor performance
where she gets it all wrong. Support from Broadbent, Izzard and Macnee
sounds like a good prospect but really they have nothing to do and are
pretty pointless in reality.

Overall this is not a laughingly terrible film, it is just lacking in
any real, consistent value. Some bits are amusing but mostly it is all
misjudged with the humour being too silly to work and damaging any
dramatic value the film may have had. The actors are mostly poor,
thanks to the material and an apparent uncertainty about what they are
meant to be doing. It isn't the child of Satan or anything but I would
be hard pressed to give you one reason why you should watch this.
<|_=00=_|>
In London, the agent of the Ministry John Steed (Ralph Fiennes) and Dr.
Emma Peel (Uma Thurman) are summoned by the Mother (Jim Broadbent), who
shows a footage where the Prospero Project that controls the weather is
damaged by Dr. Peel. They head to meet Sir August de Wynter (Sean
Connery), who is a weather specialist, but soon they discover that he
wants to rule the world, using his machine that controls the weather. 

I saw "The Avengers" in the 90's and did not like this movie. Today I
have just seen it again on DVD and I found again a silly and boring
movie that wastes cast and budget. It is hard to believe that Sean
Connery accepted to work in this turkey. My vote is three.

Title (Brazil): "Os Vingadores" ("The Avengers")
