

If the writers of a movie don't care about the characters inhabiting the
world they create, nor the actors portraying them, or the director
ostensibly creating a dynamic, well it doesn't seem realistic the audience
will care either.  

To call this movie slapdash is an undeserved compliment--it's likely they
figured it was a lost cause and that no amount of work would improve it. 
That's probably true.  

Omar Epps isn't a very good actor to begin with, but here he's even worse
than usual, mumbling his lines without a clue as to what is going on in the
movie.  Giovanni Rabisi seems to have fun with his role, but playing one
imbecile after another, one gets the feeling he may not be so much acting as
giving a glimmer as to his real personality.  Claire Danes obviously can
act, as she showed in "Little Women", but here she's dreadful.  Dennis
Farina is good in just about anything, but here he's given absolutely no
help by the director or the other actors.

The movie quickly devolves into a series of music videos with bad seventies
music intermixed with more modern stuff.  And this squad is not very
mod--the opening sequence notes that mod means fashionably dressed, and
these guys look like they've been shopping by picking up things strewn on
the side of an interstate.  Go elsewhere for entertainment.

<|_=00=_|>

So many reviews I have read rail on the poor quality of the film. The two
biggest complaints are lack of adult dialogue and lack of action. Me, I
thought it was one of the best movies I have ever seen. They are kids, not
adults. That's the way kids talk. As far as action, I found the emotional
struggles to be far more compelling than the action scenes (which, do not,
BTW, define a good film). One user even commented that there is no way kids
could get around by themselves like that. I was a kid living on the streets
when I was younger, and what they accomplish in the movie is certainly not
the least of what I have personally witnessed on the street.

For those who think only kids like this movie, I am 24. I think this film
has been judged by all the wrong standards, and that not enough credibility
is given to this straightforward portrayal of kids in trouble.

If you think kids are incapable of these things, try watching the movie
"Kids."
<|_=00=_|>

So, it's Friday night and you want to go watch a movie...all you want is
something entertaining, not too artsy, or anything that might require a long
night of philosophical discussions.  So, you pay $10 to watch the Mod Squad.
The trailer to this movie should have tipped me off, but come on...it's
three of Hollywood's most beautiful people--eye candy.  But that's about
it...a string of moving Prada ads.  And what did Hollywood producers forget?
A plot.  Why are these kids running around the streets after some unknown
enemy?  Where are they?  But, don't worry, after a while, you'll just stop
caring.  I was on the verge of walking out of this movie, because I thought
sitting in my room and staring at the wall might have been more productive
(and free), but by that time, it was over (90 minutes--it's only saving
grace).  So, still willing to waste $10?  Go, get yourself a nice hot
meal. 
<|_=00=_|>
I must preface this comment with a sort of admission: I suppose I just
have a soft spot for the original 60s-70s TV series. I think the
filmmakers here blew it from the get-go as far as casting: in a
supposed remake, audiences would look for reflections of the hip,
athletic Linc (Clarence Williams III), or the cool, with-it Michael
Cole, and so forth. Instead, we get Giovanni Ribisi as a
poor-little-white rich boy who comes off as just pathetic, like he is
in all his roles (in the office I used to work in, I amused myself once
by creating a fake movie poster, casting various actors as members of
the office staff; guess who I cast as the dorky son of the company
President?). Danes does OK as the new Julie, but none of the characters
have much to do, as the story just sort of sits there, mired in
conventionality. So it's quite forgettable, besides. What was I talking
about?
<|_=00=_|>

The mod squad gets started 'after' the formation of the 'Mod Squad' without
even bothering to develop any of the characters or show us why anyone is
doing what they are doing.

Moreover, most of the events in the movie seem ancillary to the plot.
Without even a smack of character development, the plot meanders from Gen-X
club scenes to action scenes and back again.


<|_=00=_|>

60s and 70s television show remakes are everywhere. "Charlie's Angels" and
"Starsky and Hutch" are just two of the more profitable franchises (the
latter of the two bringing in $28 million in its first week). But both of
those series tend to have fun with what they're parodying, rather than
remaking. "The Mod Squad" is basically just a remake of the show of the same
title, minus any real sort of substance and humor, and only a low amount of
actual fun. It could have been a blast, but it's just rather
mediocre.

Three young delinquents (Claire Danes, Giovanni Ribisi and Omar Epps) are
recruited by a cop (Dennis Farina) to infiltrate many various operations
(prostitute rings, drug circles) that police could never get into. But after
their boss is murdered and they uncover a conspiracy, the three delinquents
take it upon themselves to find out the truth behind the
crime.

2.5/5 stars.

- John Ulmer

The plot is pretty weak, even for a 60s TV show remake. "The Mod Squad" ran
from 1968 - 1973, with somewhere in the vicinity of 120 episodes. I never
saw any, but I can't imagine this film adaptation does the show much
justice.

The cast is considerably OK. Danes is quite enthusiastic and pretty enough
for her sweet-blonde role, Ribisi is fine as a criminal and Epps is decent
enough, too. Farina ("Get Shorty," "Another Stakeout") is a good actor,
always very funny, but here his role is completely wasted (literally!) and
short on the sort of sly humor that would have been appropriate given the
actor behind it. 

The dialogue is really corny, and so are the characters' actions. Television
shows need not worry about smart dialogue or characters, because they're
usually 30 minutes long (sometimes an hour), and we just get "hooked" on
what's going on. Can you imagine if a soap opera made its way onto the big
screen? It'd completely flop. People watch television shows because they
like to see continuous stories with recurring characters they learn to love
over a certain time period.

You can't get any joy out of watching a bunch of actors try to grow on you
for 90 minutes. If "Alias" had ever started out as a big-screen movie, it
might have flopped, because let's face it: the show is not exactly quality
material. People watch it because they get hooked on it, and they enjoy
watching the stories and the revelations, like an old woman addicted to her
"General Hospital" episodes.

So here's proof that if "The Mod Squad" had originally been a movie, there
probably would have been no television show. Despite some rather bad
word-of-mouth, this movie isn't a terrible one. I've seen much worse, and
compared to big-screen disasters like "Freddy Got Fingered," or low-budget
ones like "The Blade Master," this is nothing very laughable at
all.

But compared to the fun factor of "Charlie's Angels" or "Starsky and Hutch,"
"The Mod Squad" falls flat on its face. It's not very funny, it's not very
fun, and it's not very original. It's a cash-in, which is something
Hollywood is not in short supply of right now. If you miss "The Mod Squad,"
you're not missing anything that hasn't been done before.
<|_=00=_|>

I was extremely disappointed with Mod Squad as
a  movie. There were a number of  points which were never explored
fully in respect to the character development.
The script jumped from point to point without ever clearly explaining
the real direction of   the plot or the characters. Neither I nor the
three people with me ranging from
18 to 85, could work out why the three young
'Mod Squad' members were recruited.
We had no idea what they'd done to land
themselves in hot water to begin with
so they could have been murderers (no sympathy
there). The action was minimal
the highlight being an old car crashing
through a metal door. "When was that film
set?"  my eighteen year old daughter asked me.
The clever young actor from the
"Other Sister" relied on the most basic of
performance tricks such as shouting, to
even be noticed. Long lingering shots of the
female lead became dull. The
young black actor had little to work on in his
scripted characterisation. I found
myself confused between the good and the bad
cops and why a call to the police
precinct, which had set up the criminal "bust"
finale , was so obligingly     received and acted on so promptly. The
police  were called to the scene as backup for    our hero who was then
an  escaped felon (or was he????). The  direction in my opinion     was
experimental to the point of distraction. One scene had  our three
protagonists in  the front seat of a car plotting their next move.
This was the bench mark. We saw the
camera pan left, right, right, left, right,
left then left again so continuously I
became dizzy. The recording quality of the
hand held reporters cassette recorder,
the contents of  which wrapped up the entire
Mod Squad case was "studio quality"   amazing!!! I  see a minimum of
sixty films a year. This was one of the least effective in a decade. my
vote is 2 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

Being a fan of the series I thought, how bad can the movie be? Well I got my
answer. Some movies should never be made. Why call it a remake of the series
when the only similarities are that there are three main characters. The
Pete character in the series wasn't a whiney little baby as portrayed in the
movie. The only good thing in this movie besides the music and that Clare
Danes is pretty was that it was short. What's with that dance scene??? The
only reason I didn't walk out of this film was because it was so bad it got
funny. Maybe that was the plan! It's really bad when a cheap 60's TV show is
better then a 90's 20 million dollar film. El Mariachi cost only $7000 and
is a much better film. Don't even waste your money when it comes out on
tape, it's not even worth renting. 
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not one of those folks who bemoans everytime a film based on an old TV
show comes out. Rather, I usually run out and see it (If I had watched the
show) and try to get nostalgic. But if anyone feels like running down films
based on old shows, this is exhibit A (So you can actually say something
more than just "McHale's Navy"). "Mod Squad" is dreary, tiring, and
lethargic. At least the original series was angst riddled long before anyone
knew teens could be so glum, making it groundbreaking. This is just tedious.
Claire Danes is nice to look at, but does nothing else but mood swing and
sneak around spying on the baddies. Giovanni Ribisi's acting extent in this
flick is that Droopy the Dog look for an hour and forty five minutes. And
Omar Epps looks like he wants to flee the set, but the script's
chlostraphobia has trapped him. Sure, the production is nice, with the now
seemingly obligitory "rave" nightclub opening action sequence and shootouts
galore. Oh, and the kids yell and get mad at each other and their superiors
a lot too. It's kind of like deciding to use the Scooby Doo Mystery Machine
to go on a family vacation to Hollywood with your teenage kids who you and
your spouse know need heavy therapy and prescription drugs. I really wanted
to like this movie, and there were promising moments, but the next scene
would suck the life out of it. You can knock  another Spelling remake,
"Charlie's Angels", all you want, but at least that film knew it wanted to
have fun with itself. "The Mod Squad" makes you wonder where the inspiration
from the original series went.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Mod Squad" is a motion picture update of the original TV series
which originally aired in the late 60s/early 70s.

The original "Mod Squad" featured a trio of college aged friends circa
1970 who had unofficial detective status with the local Los Angeles
police force and worked to solve crimes that were taking place among
people their age. The story lines frequently dealt with then-timely
topics of the counter culture, feminism, civil rights, racism, the war
in Vietnam, the (Baby Boomer era) generation gap, and more. Without
actually being cops, this was a precursor of sorts to the 1980s-era 21
Jump Street.

This film takes the basic, general concept of the Mod Squad, but
doesn't execute the story very well. The lead characters (played by
Omar Epps, Giovanni Ribisi, Claire Daines) all come across as sullen
twits who have had previous scrapes with the law as teens, but somehow
have come under the mentorship of a police Captain (played by a wasted
Dennis Farina.) **Major Spoilers** the death of the Captain early on in
the story prompts a revenge investigation by the Squad, but his death
puts a cap on finding out just why this guy was so committed to
mentoring these delinquents instead of just allowing the book to be
thrown at them, years ago.

The main plot has the team investigating a drug ring that heavily uses
young adults as mules/dealers. Of course, the main boss is anything but
someone their age, hence the "don't trust anyone over 25" attitude
among the trio.

Julie (Danes) has a cheating boyfriend, and in one sequence she sets
his car and clothes on fire in revenge. This comes only a few years
removed from a similar tactic seen in "Waiting to Exhale", so there's a
bit of anticlimactic context to it.

The villain is a generic mobster, and a sequence where he wants to
dance with one of the male Squad guys is played straight, but comes
across as an awkward gay-panic joke.

The theater audience I saw this with got more of a hoot out of Eddie
Griffin's cameo than they did out of Omar Epps' entire performance.

About the only role I envied in this film was Claire Danes' pants.
