

"Go" reads like a very very good sophomore offering by a very very good
up-and-coming director. You can almost see a bright future for everyone
involved in the film, from the director (Doug Liman) to the screenwriter
(John August) to all of the young actors. The script is clearly the winner,
with witty dialogue and a convoluted plotline (or plotlines, depending on
how you view it) centered around a dozen or so GenX-er Los Angelenos on
Christmas Eve. The film slickly moves you from one plotline to the next, as
you follow one minor disaster leading to other minor disasters.

The film being a "sophomore offering," of course, has some drawbacks. Yes,
it is tangentially derivative of "Pulp Fiction."  And yes, it does scrounge
a bit from this teen flick and that.  In some cases, certain plotlines wrap
up too neatly, and in other cases the plotlines don't converge nearly as
neatly enough. But what the film may lack in originality it certainly makes
up for with style and quirks.

The real discovery in all this is the cast. Sarah Polly stands out (listen
to her mild Canadian accent slip through once in a while) as the world-weary
checkout gal who's first and only foray into drug-dealing unleashes a legion
of trouble for her. Desmond Askew (wonderfully punny name) is this Pulp
Fiction's Tim Roth, glib and cocky as his well-ordered world whirls and
crumbles around him in a neatly choreographed disaster.  As the sinister
drug supplier, Timothy Olyphant is particularly menacing, exuding equal
amounts of danger and innocence, sexiness and insecurity. The characters in
"Go" never become cardboard parodies of themselves, and they never dissolve
into charicatures of themselves for the sake of plot or
atmosphere.

So watch the film, soak in the plot, atmosphere, and the characters.  At the
risk of sounding glib myself, by all means "Go." 
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best this year! A wild ride that is hard to not compare to
"Pulp
Fiction", but if you didn't like Pulp, you won't like Go. I loved both, so
this is a treat! Doug Liman had directed a worthy follow-up to Swingers,
in
the eyes of 7 kids and a drug deal gone way bad. The funniest moments come
from Desmond Askew and Taye Diggs in Las Vegas. Never once is this movie
dull. Watch with an open mind and a wild imagination!
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know what really makes this movie so great. It could be the
outstanding cast, the pitch perfect editing, the quick and funny dialog or
maybe some other feature of a movie one could possibly like.

The truth is this movie couldn't been done any better. When I watch a movie
I usually come up with lots of things, which could have been done better or
at least differently. This time I ended up with nothing.

What amazes me the most is how they manage to define all the 10+ major
characters so well, and they do it in what, less than 100 minutes. Most
movies featuring many characters, fall apart cause there isn't enough
screen
time to present the differences among them, which just leads to a smear of
unrecognizable faces. This doesn't happen with this movie for two reasons:
A) All characters have at least one scene to really define themselves. B)
By
dividing the the film into three sub-plots you can easily relate each
character to a specific sub-plot.

The tempo is very fast for 90% of the movie. There are two scenes, which
have a significantly slower tempo. Those are the two scenes featuring Katie
Holmes and Timothy Olyphant. First in the apartment and later in the
coffee-shop. In my opinion those scenes are the best, but there is a lot to
choose from so I'm not offended if yours isn't.

This movie really shows that even simple and straight forward stories, can
be both unpredictable and entertaining, if they are told the right way. Add
to this a pumping soundtrack, solid editing and an overall great production
in an unpredictably entertaining movie, you will agree with me that Go is
one of the best films ever made. 
<|_=00=_|>

This film has traces of Pulp Fiction embedded in it, but it's got a little
"Swingers" and other films to it as well. All in all it's an entertaining
movie which ends without epiphany for these characters (like .....). This
film has multiple stories but does not try to be alternative and cool. It
just wants to work! Sarah Polley (whom I never heard of at the time but
follow her work now) was great; Katie Holmes wasn't quite Katie Holmes - and
that was good; Fichtner's good; but my favorite was Timothy Olyphant who did
a kick-ass job of a charasmatic bad-guy (it was hard not to hate him by the
end). I've read the other comments and these people just take this thing TOO
seriously! It's not the movie of 1999, it's not "Pulp Fiction", it's just
"Go". I have this movie on DVD and heard Doug Linman's commentary: he sounds
like he had a lot of fun making this. I had a killer time watching this. I
guess if I came in with different expectations I would've hated it like
everyone else on this site! 
<|_=00=_|>
One of my favorite films of all time. Hip, like Pulp Fiction, it's just
crazy-insane fun. Not for everyone, due to language and drugs, but I
really LOVED it! There are also so MANY cameos of great actors we know
and love today. 

Director Doug Liman has gone on to do HUGE, great movies, such as The
Bourne Identity and Mr and Mrs Smith. Here we see some of his early
talent. 

Writer John August writes the Ask the Filmmaker/Ask a Screenwriter
column here on IMDb.com

Just a great, fun movie, that hasn't seen been seen by as many people
as it should.

3-14-06 

Walt D in LV
<|_=00=_|>

Go has not gotten even half of the praise it deserves.  The script is
genius
and the fast paced directing and cinematography are totally the reason to
see something in the theatre rather than video.  And this is not just
another "oh this is my favorite movie, so it has to be great" reviews,
there
are facts.  The epic Godfather, ranked as the best movie ever created by a
human being, is lucky if it goes for 20 minutes without having the sound
lose sync with the mouth movement.  Not that I'm totally knocking it.  And
also, everyone says, "oh Go is the son of Pulp Fiction", "a lesser Pulp
Fiction", but the fact is the it's structure has much more in common with
the other Tarantino great Jackie Brown.  Rent this to see what great cinema
is.  
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

I'm coming to this film late in the comment stream, which means that critics
and commentors have beaten to death the `Pulp Fiction' comparisons. Yes,
this has parallel stories, time folding (but not the time shuffling of
`Pulp'), black and white shuffling, guns drugs and ironic violence, diner
scenes and a hip perspective. But to me that is less central than the
relationship of the shape to the style.

Tarantino's method is from comic books, his manipulation of the narrative
deliberately has nothing at all to with the narrative itself. That's the
point, that emptiness. `Go' is the opposite. It takes much of the same
stylistic manipulation of narrative and turns it all to the service of the
movie: the film capriciously meanders like the small lives of these kids.
Now, that's not a very heavy notion to settle on, but it is cinematically
profound in linking the point of the movie to the unrolling of the
images.

In other words, if you love the visual grammar of film, you'll love this. If
instead you prefer using the art of filmmaking to display the emptiness of
film, you'll like `Pulp.' They are as different as can be. `Go' follows the
tradition of Hitchcock and Welles where the `story' is centered in the
images. `Pulp' follows a wholly contradictory world defined by the `new
wave' where every image is ironic and deliberately doesn't rest in the story
but runs contrary to it.

At some point, every serious film viewer will confront this choice. It is a
matter of whether you will let yourself `go' with the flow or always
maintain a smug distance.

The writer understands this, and makes it explicit with `story C' which
features two actors. They are enlisted in an enterprise of `moviedom' in
real life where they are wired for sound and videoed. More, their master
engages them in forced commerce. This is mirrored in story B with the lap
dance `show' and more faintly in A with the selling in the store and the
rave. All these kids are engaged in indentured but shameless sales of the
movie to us.

I have a very short list of actors who are worth watching regardless of the
context. Cate Blancett, Kate Winslet, and Julianne Moore are the actresses I
follow because of their ability to present more than one personae at a time.
Sarah Polley is close to being on that list, but not for the same reason.
She -- or her advisors -- has made some very intelligent choices, placing
her in central roles in some very alternative projects. These are films that
require -- even in the watching -- a deliberate shift in thinking about what
film is. In each, she has appeared with radically different acting styles,
always entirely apt. It shows that she understands what these rather
subversive projects are all about. Privately, her politics seems amazingly
unsophisticated, but her deliberate plasticity on screen shows a remarkable
ability.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 4: Worth watching. 
<|_=00=_|>
There are several kinds of movies that I like, but they almost all have
one thing in common: they have something special to offer. In this case
it is the way the story was brought to the audience. The story is told
over and over again, each time from the perspective of a different
character. The fact that the story is told over and over again in isn't
new. If you know the German movie 'Lola Rennt', than you've seen it
before. The main difference between these two movies is that this time
the story remains the same and the characters change, while in the
German movie it was exactly the opposite of that.

It starts with Simon Baines who wants to go to Las Vegas with his
friends, but who normally has to work in a 24-hour grocery store. His
colleague Ronna takes over his shift, when two guys, named Adam and
Zack, walk in asking to score some dope from Simon. Because Simon isn't
around anymore Ronna decides to sell them some drugs herself and asks
her friends Claire and Mannie to help her buying some stuff from the
local drug dealer Todd Gains. But the drug deal was set up by a
narcotics agent called Burke who forced Adam and Zack to cooperate.
Ronna soon finds out something is wrong and flushes the drugs trough
the toilet. Normally she would return it to the drug dealer, but
because she hasn't got it anymore she has to try to fool him with phony
drugs. In the mean time Simon's adventures with his best friend Marcus
hit an unfortunate turn during a trip to a strip club in Las Vegas and
Adam and Zack end up spending Christmas Eve with Burke and his wife
Irene before being able to drive to a rave, where Ronna is dealing some
more "drugs". When they arrive at the rave, the guys accidentally hit
Ronna with their car and leave her for dead. Nearby, Mannie nearly gets
an overdose and Claire gets more friendly with a vengeful Todd who is
now looking for Ronna.

At first I didn't like this movie all too much, mainly because I didn't
see the reason why so many information was left out. It didn't make too
much sense really. But I gave it a chance and watched it completely and
only then I fully understood the story. Even though it has some flaws,
I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. I loved the way the
story was told and the good combination of humor and crime. All in all
this is a movie that is worth more than just a watch. I loved it and
give it an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie well enough to watch it twice.  I waited 'til it came
out
on video, but made sure to see it, because it stars Sarah Polley, who I've
been a fan of since her "Road to Avonlea" days.
This is not a serious movie.  It's fun, upbeat, quick, and for those with
short attention spans.  I liked it.  I didn't think it was as incredible
as
some say, but enjoyable enough to watch it twice.
So many people have compared it to Pulp Fiction.  Frankly, the only
similarity I see between the two, is the "jumping around timelines".
Which
I like.
Good movie to watch, just don't bother trying to analyze it - you won't
come
up with much.
<|_=00=_|>
Go is a surprisingly engrossing, surprisingly nifty little
multi-stranded crime film running on inspiration from other crime films
of the era; a director's own, kinetic style and a central, focused look
at a whole range of troubled, often sleazy, young adults in a modern
world full of drugs; debt; dangers and the forced taking on of
responsibility. When I first saw Go, I liked it a lot; revisiting it a
few years later, I found it just as entertaining; just as interesting
and just as engaging as I did before. Everything about the premise for
Go screams that it doesn't have a cat's chance in Hell of working, but
the stylised energy combined with the tasteful handling of a lot of
different scenes and situations work surprisingly well, and blend to
create an experience which most certainly wears you out, but in an
oddly refreshing sort of way.

The film, in covering an array of different characters but never
bombarding nor overwhelming us, manages to deliver on a basis of both
narrative and character. It is seamless in its blending of elements of
the realistic with the surrealistic, all under a banner of raw energy
spanning several hundred miles of which the characters travel within
the picture. More recently, we've seen films which take a quick,
kinetic and relatively easy-going aesthetic and apply criminal activity
to it as a group of youths venture in and around contemporary America
in some form. An example might be 2007 film Superbad, which did nothing
but crack adolescent jokes, hate women and trivialise delicate and
often illegal situations for a crowd. Go knows its place and it knows
its genre as study, observations, the progression of character and some
pretty frightening scenarios all play out under this same umbrella.
Those that laugh at certain parts of Go have completely missed the
point.

The first of three stories, this and another two of which revolve
around those whom aren't usually explored in films of this ilk, sees
Sarah Polley's shop worker named Ronna heavily in debt; facing eviction
and desperate for money. Her story sees her involved in a drug deal
with two other young men and a much elder male, which grows
increasingly suspicious as she interacts with them, and eventually sees
her have to ditch the drugs she was meant to deal resulting in the
angering of dealer Todd (Olyphant), whom gave them to her. Ronna's
fearless and independent attitude towards the men in her story, in
particular Todd whom is financially better off and comes with a real
air of menace, presents positive characteristics for the female in this
role, as she descends deeper into a situation she brought upon herself
through desperation. Ronna's ability to defy her male counterparts in
doing what's best for her in avoiding the drug deal sting and being
able to fool the dealer as she pulls along a casual and inept male
companion, in Mannie (Bexton), who'd be lost without her, adds meat and
awareness to an unfortunate but otherwise familiar short story.

Continuing with the film's theme of debt, and relatively hapless young
adults getting themselves into hotter water than they'd like through
which they'll come to learn the harsh realities of life that comes with
getting involved in the sorts of activity they do, Simon (Askew), who's
one of Ronna's co-workers, and a group of friends spend some time in
Las Vegas. Again, the premise for the short with the accompanying
aesthetic suggest it ought not work. Indeed, the trip is given the sort
of leery and unnerving build when the group of four interact. In a much
lesser work, it would've fallen apart at the seams, but the facing of
facts that Las Vegas is a large; intimidating; confusing and dangerous
place is gradually filtered through the system of the four. While not
necessarily a demonisation of the place itself, it is certainly a
reality check for the attitudes the characters share.

The study begins with the character of Tiny (Meyer) telling a story of
himself to the others which transpires to have been untrue. He is
caught out, made to look a fool and the entire sequence sets the tone
for the narrow-minded, adolescent beliefs the characters have and how
they'll be caught out. From here, the videos telling the occupants of a
hotel room how to gamble downstairs comes across as arduous and
confusing, further suggesting that these guy's are out of their depth,
while the causality driven mishaps ranging from food-poisoning to
casual drug use that leads to hotel fires is apt. Later, theft;
misogyny and raging testosterone will put them in further jeopardy with
some local strip-club owners which is the climax of all this dangerous,
ominous build up.

The third story maintains the same consistencies the other two had in
terms of study and it's to the the film's credit that the film's
concept has not yet worn us out: we're ready for one more. The strand
centres on, like the first, usually somewhat marginalised characters
for the genre; in this case two homosexual male actors, named Adam
(Wolf) and Zack (Mohr), who go on a kind of odyssey which seems to be
about the revealing of true feelings and unexplored sexual appetites;
highlighted by the actions of a police officer and his wife when around
at their house as well as the revelations that arise when they have a
conversation with each other, which in turn pushes the film out into a
revenge piece of sorts. Go was made at a time when Doug Liman could
compliment his all-over-the-place approach to film-making with
character and substance; much unlike his 2005, fetishistic firearm
flick Mr. and Mrs. Smith; while his most recent work, 2008's Jumper,
did not garner much of a positive critical consensus. But Go holds up,
knowing what it is but additionally knowing how to explore the lives
and characters within without marginalising them nor rendering them too
weak, clichéd or unlikeable.
