
A stylish and haunting film-noir thriller, "Midnight in the Garden of
Good and Evil" is another lesson in peerless film-making by Clint
Eastwood. John Cusack makes one of his most positive performances and
skips the usual charming giddiness he is famed for. The storyline never
ceases to surprise you and neither do the characters. Spacey's Jim
Williams is one of the most fascinating villains ever and Spacey again
delivers a perfect performance. More solid work comes from Allison
Eastwood, Jude Law and Lady Chablis, the humorous treat of the film.

The most mystic and chilling scene is in the middle of the film, when
Williams and Kelso visit Minerva, the scene which gives the movie its
name. The climax is also incredibly well written and directed, one of
the most suspenseful ever. A bravura work from a man who has long since
learned how to make perfect film noirs. A highly enjoyable and
recommendable movie.10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Like "Citizen Kane" and "The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance," "Midnight
At The Garden Of Good And Evil" is a movie about a writer trying to get
a simple story, and finding himself with more than he bargained for.
John Cusack is the writer, John Kelso, and his explorations of
Savannah, Georgia offer some mystery and fun, though the result will be
flat for those who already know the story from reading the best-selling
book.

"Better to be on the edge of a party, don't you think?" a young woman
named Mandy (Alison Eastwood) asks Kelso at one point. It's a pertinent
question. Alison's father Clint and screenwriter John Lee Hancock try
to accomplish much the same effect here, dancing at the perimeters of
things, showing conversations where words can not be discerned. Many
times we see Kelso looking in on some social function from the outside,
like at a cotillion for black debutantes or bridge games at the Married
Women's Club, a bit adrift but interested in the games people play.

At the same time, Kelso becomes quite close to one Savannah resident,
Joe Williams, an art dealer whose homosexuality is an open secret until
he comes out of the closet by shooting his boy-toy. Kevin Spacey's
performance as Williams is rich and fun, his accent not note-perfect
but well-tailored to his polished delivery. The way he lazily smokes
his cigars as he moves through a party, dabbles in lowcountry voodoo
with Jesuitical zeal, or even eats gumbo in prison is a study in an
actor's sense of the wholeness of the role.

While many book fans savage this with the comment "It's not what I read
in the book," I take it in stride. John Berendt didn't carry this thing
down from Mt. Sinai either – most notably by presenting the killing as
something that happens after his arrival rather than before he played
with the facts in the book. So when the film gives us a romance between
Berendt's stand-in Kelso and Mandy or invents connections between the
Williams story and the others in the book so the secondary characters
can appear in the main story, it kind of works in an offbeat way.

What doesn't work is the pace. The film goes on for over two and a half
hours, and feels longer. Eastwood obviously approached this project
with enthusiasm for the book, and especially for the music of Johnny
Mercer which is prominently featured. But the comedy feels labored, the
depiction of Williams' trial too unshaded in its sympathy for the
defendant, and many of the performances, like that of Jude Law as the
dead loverboy, seem underbaked.

Two good performances are delivered by people who had real-life roles
in the book. Sonny Seiler, who defended Williams, plays the judge in
the trial and gets to tell himself when he's out of order. The Lady
Chablis, who I never cared for much in the book, has an engaging
vulnerability on screen. Even when the story screeches off track by
focusing on her character, she makes the logic gaps less bothersome
with her playfulness.

I even liked Alison Eastwood, who does a good accent, looks the part of
Mandy, and makes the film's most egregious detour from the book seem
less of a violation. Not a stunner, but her languid delivery and
drooping eyelids are very sensual in the everyday manner she presents
us with, a half-promise of something good reaching out to you in the
dark. In that way, she recreates the spirit of the book quite
wonderfully. Pity her father didn't always do the same, but this is an
entertaining film more often than not.
<|_=00=_|>

I am at a loss as to how anyone can not like this film.  It was pure genius.
Cusack plays a somewhat stereotypical character (which was very appropriate
for the movie, it created a perfect contrast between the cultures of New
York and Savannah).  Kevin Spacey was nothing short of amazing, better than
in The Usual Suspects, and almost as good as in American Beauty.  Lady
Chablis was also excellent.  I especially enjoyed watching Lady Chablis and
Jim Kelso's relationship mature and change throughout the film.  I have seen
the movie numerous times and plan to see it again.  Though, it is not for
those who wish to go to a movie to be simply entertained.  Highly
recommended....

10/10

<|_=00=_|>
Like every film Clint Eastwood makes, "Midnight in the Garden of Good
and Evil" is fascinated by the mystery of masculinity: what it means to
be a man, and what you have to do to be the kind of man you think you
need to be -- whether that's a father, a member of a cultural group, or
the ideal man in a certain social situation. Two highly-acclaimed
recent Eastwood films -- "Mystic River" and "Million-Dollar Baby" --
mildly disappointed me by sinking into oversimplification and
predictability. Possibly Eastwood's directing hand is more interesting
when less "self-assured," because 1997's "Midnight in the Garden of
Good and Evil" follows these questions down less well-defined, and thus
less predictable, paths. Maintaining a scrupulously neutral eye, the
film recounts a complex tale of murder, involving characters who are
recognizable types on the surface but carry deep difference underneath.
It unfurls a slow, rich, and troubling narrative which answers the
mysteries of its crime premise even as it opens much more difficult
questions about the very things that murder stories are supposed to
make simple: innocence, guilt, motivations, affection, and its
characters' so-called morality.

Thanks in large part to a literally mesmerizing performance by Kevin
Spacey (I'm riveted every time he appears on screen) and a well-
balanced turn by John Cusack as the sympathetic investigating reporter,
who charms us even as he maintains a total and focused receptivity to
new information and strange events, the movie fills its two and a half
hours with a slow-paced and carefully balanced story that brings us
into the suffocating green world of Southern Gothic, with its all its
mannered refinements, thick silences and passionate secrets. There's
something in this film that would have pleased Tennessee Williams or
Truman Capote, those cool-eyed investigators of the closeted South.
John Berendt's nuanced book, Spacey's restrained, smoldering
performance and Eastwood's lucidly hands-off direction have created a
strange, slow gem of a film. It's not a gem appreciated by everyone,
but two years before Spacey's turn in "American Beauty" struck a chord
that resonated with the wider public, "Midnight in the Garden" asks
similar questions in a context that is, at the same time, more precise,
more exotic, and equally American.
<|_=00=_|>

Sometimes, the measure of a good garden is the diversity of opinions it
attracts: looking back over other writers' comments, one is struck by just
how good this one must be. Some see weeds and disarray - a classic hothouse
garden gone to seed - yet others perceive an Autumnal garden: garish in its
primary colours of Fall yet splendid in its descent into decay. A splash of
brilliance before the inevitable passage into death of all living
things.

Luckily, I read Berendt's book before seeing the film, and realise just how
hard Hancock must have worked to translate it to the screen. It is also, in
my mind, one of Eastwood's best (if not THE best) directorial outings. The
casting is superb. Not a 'clunker' among them. As an evocation of the
decline of the contemporary South, I would offer that it is nonpareil: lazy,
sleazy, desperate at times, yet possessed of a dignity that is long past in
the rest-of-the-world. Whilst Savannah is not the Big Easy, as portrayed it
has much of its charm, artifice, and implied danger. And there's the rub
when becoming engrossed in this garden of smoke and mirrors. It appeals to
those of us who can only be outsiders looking in. 

The inclusion in the screenplay of Kelsoe's love interest (not present in
the book) was, for me, an acceptable complication. It juxtaposed the
"Yankee's" at times ingenuous fascination with all around him. His apparent
ambivalence toward the sexuality aimed at him by the central characters (Jim
and the Lady Chablis are obviously enamoured of him) becomes anchored in his
desire to be part of their world but on his terms. Thus the inclusion of a
heterosexual relationship which leads to his decision to stay.

I would offer, however, that one of the most telling scenes (at least in
exploration of Kelsoe's character) is his obvious pride in the 'overpaint' -
given to him by Jim - hanging on his newly-acquired wall as he tells his
'love-interest' that he is 'here to stay' for at least six months as he
writes his book. It is not the presented landscape itself which intrigues
us: it is the possibility that something more valuable resides beneath. A
mystery left unsolved. Just like Savannah, really. An excellent film. Enjoy
it for itself.          

 

   
<|_=00=_|>

I haven't read the book. Might have hated the film if I had. But I liked it.
I did read some reviews before viewing the film, and I was prepared to
dislike it. A lot of the criticism has some validity. The movie isn't really
a linear type of murder mystery. It's partly that and partly a quirky
travelogue of Savannah. The Lady Chablis character gets way too much screen
time, apparently because Eastwood thinks that it will entertain us. It does,
but only to a point. However, this is a different sort of movie, so I
understand why Eastwood includes so much of Chablis, and the voodoo woman,
and the fly guy. Also, John Cusack plays it with the same dead-fish
expressionlessness that he brings to most of his roles. This isn't really
bad, it's just that he's always the same. 

I had never seen one of Kevin Spacey's films before, and I am impressed at
how he really nailed the role. I thought his performance made this film.

A word or two about the accents. Most non-Southern actors really murder
Southern accents. I'm from Texas, not the Georgia coast, but I thought
Spacey hit the accent just right all the way through. It was always there,
but was never the focus. (Streepian in its apparent effortlessness) Jack
Thompson did his accent very well, also, particularly since I understand
that he's an Aussie. Some other cast members didn't do well with the
Southern accent, like Alison Eastwood. She overdid it. It seemed strained.
And oh, yeah, Cusack sounds like an accentless Californian rather than a New
Yorker. 

Overall, I guess I've written a lot more criticism than praise, but that
wasn't my intent. This was a good movie. Think of it more as an art-house
film rather than a mass-market picture, and you might have more realistic
expectations. 
<|_=00=_|>

It is 4 years since I first saw this movie (and commented on it before
reading the book on which it is based).  Having since read the book twice, I
thought it time to look at the movie again. I can now see why some of those
who had read the book are so dismissive of the movie.

I still think it is an interesting, well cast film - but it could have been
done better - and that is a pity.  There is of course no reason to expect a 
movie to be an exact replica of a book, but when it is such an excellent
book it is a pity that Eastwood chose to alter things unnecessarily.  Too
much of his daughter (charming though she may be), too much Lady Chablis
(fascinating ditto). These additions took up time and space where the actual
story could have been fleshed out more.

In spite of these minor quibbles, I still think it is an interesting story -
and to fans of the book I say - accept it for what it is - it is a
fascinating film, entertaining and well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

I got the chance to view this recently on video and to me it left me in
total awe. This is Clint Eastwood's best movie to date in a line of good
movies that include his directorial debut from "Play Misty For Me" to his
brandish westerns like "The Outlaw Josey Wales" to his Oscar
winning
"Unforgiven",to even his soft hearted material ranging from his military
drama "Heartbreak Ridge" to the emotional "The Bridges of Madison County".
But here "Midnight In The Garden Of Good and Evil" is astounding
entertainment and it features actor Kevin Spacey in one of his most gifted
role of his career. The movie focuses on the happenings of Savannah,Georgia
where the city of hot nights and cold-blooded murder all rolled into one.
Its a rarely do movies of this magnitude show so much of true southern city
they are depicting and basically get it right. It also shows in the first
half of the movie the that way these houses and the designs which are
depicted is incredible(yes,Mr. Eastwood
has a eye for good art)and they way details are properly set,especially with
the Christmas party dinner scene is perfect as well as the
overall
architecture of some of the most lavish houses ever bulit(if you ever
go
down to Savannah you must see this to believe it and its worth the
trip)
as well as the proper way to show courtesy of upright manners in front of
your guests where hospitality is always first rate. But as far as the movie
is concern(which is based on John Berendt's novel of the same title)what you
see is depicted throughout the movie and the overall beauty of the city of
Savannah. The people are so loving and caring that it makes you not only
leave,but stay here more to see what happens next.
I got the chance to read the book on this,but I take the book over the movie
as a tossup,but you will not be disappointed. A grand style of entertainment
at its finest hour. Thank you so much Kevin Spacey and director Clint
Eastwood.
<|_=00=_|>
You know, although I love the Lady Chablis a very great deal (when I'm
not busy hating her for wearing tailored skirt suits so much better
than I do), you know something is dreadfully wrong with a movie when it
has Kevin Spacey and Jude Law in the cast, and Chablis is the one whose
performance everybody remembers.

It is impossible to pour enough vitriol on the "acting" of John Cusack
in the ostensible lead, although others have given it a brave try. His
character is alleged to be from New York, but talks nothing like a New
Yorker, and worse, is bemused by everything. (This does make it
convenient for Cusack, who thus has to wear only one facial expression
for most of the movie.) He is first bemused by a man walking an
invisible dog -- when in the streets of his character's alleged
hometown, people hold conversations with entire invisible people daily
-- by the guy in the diner (pretty "fly" for a white guy), and then by
the concept that a zillionaire, especially in the South, would keep
loaded weapons in the house. Then, he completely misses the Lady's
reference to her hormone shots, and thus gets to be bemused by her
revelation, with which his line, "She's a he?", bludgeons us over the
head. I have been to New York, and I can tell you that no true New
Yorker would be even MILDLY startled that somebody born into a
male-sexed body can make an attractive and convincing female.
(Technical note: Chablis isn't pre-op, she's non-op. The book makes it
quite clear that although her sex and gender don't match, she has no
desire to undergo expensive, risky, and painful sex reassignment
surgery.) When Cusack discovers his book in Spacey's library, you're
not so much surprised that Spacey owns the book as you are surprised
that Cusack's halfwit character could write an entire book all by
himself.

So, let's see. What stereotypes and clichés do we have, in just the
first hour?

1. Southerners, when not merely eccentric, are outright freakish.
(However, unlike Boo Radley or Karl Childers from "Sling Blade," the
guy who commits the murder can at least keep up a veneer of
non-freakdom.)

2. Fat black women, when not feeding hordes of white people, are
practicing voodoo. 

3. All trans gendered women are entertainers, and have potty mouths.
(Sorry, Chablis. This one is at least in part your fault.) 

4. Anybody from north of the Mason-Dixon Line is going to be completely
stunned to discover that Southerners can be eccentric and freakish;
apparently they've never had to sit through any movies like this one.

I can't go on. You shouldn't, either. You should read the book, which
actually treats all of its characters as fully human, and doesn't labor
under the necessity of casting the director's daughter. I will admit,
however, that had I not done so, I wouldn't have come on here and read
the unintentionally hilarious review by the gentleman who complains
that the cast and crew are full of liberals (in a Hollywood movie?
Shocking!) who seek to "normalize" homosexuality (call me crazy, but I
don't think Spacey's character is ever intended to be seen as the most
normal guy on the planet), and then rants on in the next paragraph
about how the movie lacks "climax," and therefore he's "frustrated" and
"unfulfilled." Any Freudian implications in this are left as an
exercise for the reader.
<|_=00=_|>
A clever but flawed example of the black art of adapting a very
literary work to film. The plot has been streamlined (one trial instead
of four), some of the characters given expanded roles, others dropped
out, a fictitious affair inserted. However the essentially journalistic
narrative remains, and the theme remains – outsider tries to understand
an inward-looking society bent on preserving their environment and way
of life and resisting outside influence. Healthy decadence, if there is
such a thing.

The Jim Williams case is really just a framework for author Berendt's
enquiry into what makes Savannah tick, and the film tends to ignore
that, concentrating on the trial(s) and Jim's relationship with the
author figure, who is given a much bigger role than in the book. Hence
some of the color bits, Minerva the voodoo lady, Joe the feckless party
giver, even the Lady Chablis (played by herself) seemed kind of
irrelevant.

Some nice acting was evident. Kevin Spacey as Jim Williams in a silver
waistcoat and bushy moustache looked a bit like a riverboat gambler,
but he held our attention, if not our sympathy. Jack Thompson as his
lawyer showed his courtroom manner has come a long way since 'Breaker
Morant' and almost had me convinced he really was a good ole boy from
the American South instead of a Melbourne bred actor. The bulldog was
good too. 

Savannah is truly a cute town and deserves a visit; the film does not
really do it justice. It's done the tourist industry there some good
though. On a recent visit your correspondent was unable to get into
Clary's, a fairly ordinary diner made famous by the book and the film,
for lunch (they don't do dinner) due to the busloads of tourists that
had descended on it. Never mind, there's better food elsewhere - try
the deli on Drayton – Parker's, I think.
