
"Urban Legends: Final Cut" is a sequel to the 1998 slasher movie "Urban
Legend". The sequel concerns a group of college coeds, primarily lead
by aspiring film director Amy Mayfield. Amy is trying to direct a
horror film for her latest project, and is striving to be awarded the
Hitchock Award from her school. She introduces the idea of a horror
film based on urban legends, but after the crew of filmmakers begin to
shoot their project, cast and crew members begin to disappear one by
one. The more of the film that is shot, the more students begin to die.
Who is responsible for the killing? Could it be Travis' twin brother
Trevor? Or could it be someone else? Who knows? Who cares?

The original "Urban Legend" wasn't Oscar worthy but it had a
semi-original story, some horror clichés tossed in. But for the most
part, it was a decent slasher film. This follow-up is nowhere near the
first film. The story was somewhat weak, and it was as clichéd as could
be - bumps in the dark, eerie shadows, a misrepresenting interlude, and
a killer who can appear out of thin air. The ending wasn't as shocking
as the filmmakers were expecting it to be, and the little sequence
before the credits roll tied this film to the original, but for what
purpose? Reese, the female campus security cop from the original,
returns in this film as the a new security guard on this campus, and
does give a few laughs with her "Foxy Brown" imitations. The Amy
character, our leading woman, does make some smart moves in the film,
but all of the others make dumb decisions that cost them their lives.
The scene that stood out the most of the whole film was the infamous
"kidney" scene, which was actually pretty well constructed and was
disgusting enough. 

Overall, "Urban Legends: Final Cut" isn't anything great. The story
wasn't anything we haven't seen before, it's your basic "find out who
the killer is" horror movie. It serves well as a gory slasher flick,
but there is nothing new that it has to offer and very little surprises
at all. Put all that aside, fans of the first movie may want to check
this out. But, while the original wasn't great, I can confidently say
it was better than the sequel. 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Where to start? It is hard to describe how bad this sequel is. The
original
Urban Legends was okay- not great, just entertaining. But Urban Legends:
Final Cut is just plain stupid.

I don't want to spoil it for you, but only the first killing is related to
a
famous and spooky urban legend. Other killings are very unoriginal and
lame
(killing with knife, electricity and so on).
There are many suspects, everyone has their own reason for killing. Or at
least they all look suspicious. BUT the true killer is shown only a few
minutes in the movie- he is a mad professor with idiotic reasons for
killing. Now when I think about it, the whole story can be filmed in 5
minutes. The characters aren't related and the events aren't related. A
girl
shoots a movie, her friends are killed, a twin brother shows up and the
killer is beated.

This movie made me very angry. Angry, because I just can't imagine how the
directors of this crap even managed to get their job.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to ask myself why did I even rent this... an ex-girlfriend
recommended it so maybe it was all some sort of revenge...

Actually I really liked scream 3 so I was a bit hopeful in watching this
but
my hopes were mangled much like a fragile monarch butterfly caught in a
lawnmower. The story was just horrible; it made no sense just a stream of
unconnected gore scenes that don't build tension or suspense. The
Characters
aren't even amusing stereotypes, and not that the actors had much to work
with in the first place.

The central problem with movies like this...without good characters the
movie drags, the gore scenes become meaningless and we don't care who lives
and who dies.

The stolen kidney death scene was nice and brutal, and the campus where it
was filmed was really cool, that's about it on the good
points.

<|_=00=_|>
I'm just a sucker for a slasher! No matter how bad they are I usually
enjoy them all even "Halloween: Resurrection" was quite entertaining in
my book, although not needed one bit! "Urban Legends" was another
slasher I enjoyed and although I know it's nothing special, it's
certainly no "Scream", "Urban Legends: Final Cut" tries to enter the
"Scream" franchise but just simply doesn't have the same balls "Scream"
has.

Nevertheless it was entertaining and thoroughly enjoyable! It starts
out a little bit like Wes Craven's "New Nightmare" being set on a film
set, (also like "Scream 3"). If you have seen "Urban Legends" then you
basically have seen "Urban Legends: Final Cut" because it's more of the
same stalk and slash, only this time not all the kills are off-screen!
(That really annoyed me in the first one!) It follows the same formula
on the set of a top film college. Everyones trying to win the "Hitcock
prize" by making low-budget crap and a Kirsten Dunst look-a-like (the
real one was too expensive) is going to make a film about a killer
basing his murders on urban legends (de ja vu!) Only the film comes to
life and someone is killing off her crew.

That's the basic plot, it's simple and everyone can follow it. This is
the type of film girls would watch after "Twilight" on a sleepover
thinking its a really adult, extreme horror film after being mildly
scared by "Twilight". That means that for the rest of us, the scares
are minimal and the action is just enjoyable instead of heart-stopping!
However, what I did like was the way it used humour.

It was really funny in some places and the black security guard was a
hoot baby! So you can't say that this film wasn't fun. What was also
fantastic was the ending! I thought I was being very clever in sussing
out who the killer was but it took me completely by surprise! "Urban
Legends: Final Cut" is a wannabee "Scream" for a more miniature
audience (i.e. 12+) it tries to be clever and sometimes it is but it is
fun throughout and never dull. Just don't expect an out-of-this-world
slasher because you simply aren't going to get it. If you're not
expecting much then give it a try. I really enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>

(spoilers)
In a time when teenage slasher mystery thrillers are in tremendous
overabundance, the sequel to the fairly entertaining Urban Legend is
fortunately not a complete failure. I watched Urban Legends: Final Cut with
very low expectations, which were the result of having heard that the movie
was terrible, as well as my growing belief that a quality film in this
genre, especially a sequel, will probably never be created again. The magic
of the movies can only go so far. However, I was surprised to find that this
particular sequel did have its redeeming values, despite the fact that it
has the same old Scooby Doo ending, with the killer finally revealing
himself and basically saying that he would have gotten away with it if it
hadn't been for those pesky kids. 

The film starts off on the set of a cheesy movie, which seems to take place
during a drunken college party on an AIRPLANE (hence, `cheesy' movie).
Luckily, this is revealed to be a movie within a movie, so it didn't really
take away from the film as a whole, but Urban Legends: Final Cut definitely
had its share of stupidity. The security guard, for example, who we remember
from the first film, sure didn't seem to have learned anything from her past
experiences. Not only do we find her dancing to Pam Grier films while HORROR
movies are being made (the perfect setting for a murder to take place) but
she also does she not believe the girl when she tells her that she saw a
murder. 

And don't even get me started on the killer. Until the killer is revealed at
the end, he is exactly the same as the now-boring killers in countless other
rip-off films – everything from I Know What You Did Last Summer and I Still
Know What You Did Two Summers Ago to all of the Scream films, all of which
`borrowed' this idea from John Carpenter's horror classic, Halloween. Seeing
how Halloween was released about 23 years ago and has been ripped off in
record numbers, I think that it's about time to come up with some different
kind of villain. 007 movies always have these cool bad guys, but the teen
thriller genre always recycles the now boring ‘guy in the mask' routine. 

I didn't hate Urban Legends: Final Cut because there really were a few
scenes in the film that actually worked. For example, the scene when all of
the students were watching the rushes and they saw the blonde girl's murder
was actually pretty effective, in my opinion. Also, the scene with the
bathtub full of ice worked pretty well, despite its lack of originality. But
despite the unoriginal bathtub, the removed kidney was also pretty good, and
this even evokes a painful reaction from the audience as the killer yanks
her back in through the window by grabbing onto the freshly sewn wound
through which the kidney was removed. OUCH.

There was a lot of cheesy stuff in this movie, besides the tired inclusion
of the mysterious killer. Much of the garbage is dumbly thrown into the
dialogue in a number of wildly idiotic and clichéd lines – `This is my baby,
baby.' `I won't let anything happen to you. I'll be there.' But the story
was actually pretty good, at least some of it was. The twin brother for
example, keeps the audience guessing more than the killer does, because by
this point, anything else will command more interest than the old
who's-the-killer mystery. It turns out that he was telling the truth, but
for much of the film after his introduction, it is never really certain
whether the twin was really a twin, or if he was the same guy, in which case
he would probably be the killer. 

The end of the film is punctuated by a very welcome cameo from Rebecca
Gayheart, who should have played a substantial role in this film, given the
way that the original film ended. This obviously wasn't done because
everyone would know right away who the killer was, but there seems to be a
rough transition between the two films because of this. All in all, Urban
Legends: Final Cut is worth the time, but it is still not as good as the
original, which was also not even that great. But don't be put off by low
expectations, it's not THAT bad.

<|_=00=_|>

It's been awhile since I have seen a truly horrible movie, well, there was
Mission To Mars, but that doesn't even compare to Urban Legends: Final Cut!
I love watching horror movies, but I knew this wasn't going to be a "horror"
movie, but rather a "slasher flick", and there is a difference
between the two.  I saw the trailers and TV spots for the film and they
looked decent, so I decided to pay the 6 bucks and watch it, well actually
12 since my girlfriend was with me.

While watching the movie, I was wondering if it was 8:00 p.m. in a movie
theater watching a slasher flick, or if it was Noon in my house watching a
Soap Opera...The premise of the one guy getting his head blown off and his
twin brother comes back secretly......come on, these screenwriters are not
even trying!!!  Why not show the guy get his head blown off?  Why the twin
brother?  Why make a sequel?  Why even call it Urban Legends?!

I have to admit, watching the girl in the bath tub full of ice was a good
"Urban Legend killing", but then afterwards all of the killings have NOTHING
to do with urban legends.  Did they decide to have the sequel with the
characters just making a movie ABOUT urban legends, but not have the
actual movie about urban legends?  I would have rather watched the movie
that the film student characters were making rather than Urban Legends:
Final Cut!  This is just another victim of sequels being rushed.  And anyone
who rates this over a 3 must not be watching very many movies.....Even my
girlfriend, whose taste in movies are not wonderful, thought this movie was
horrible!  
<|_=00=_|>
"Urban Legends: Final Cut" is about as good or as bad as you'd expect
it to be. A sequel to 1998's teen-slasher flick, "Urban Legend," your
enjoyment of this film is hinged solely on how you view the original.
Personally, I felt the first movie was kind of flat and dull. Some
interesting elements, but overall, not the best of the late 90's
slasher craze. Enter "Final Cut." This film, on the other hand, is a
solid little slasher with a similar mindset to that of the 80's slasher
era. It hardly has the smarmy, self-referential winks to the camera
that it's peers in "Scream" and "I Know What You Did Last Summer" had
and despite some flaws, is a fun way to burn a couple of hours.

Directed by John Ottman – who is primarily known for his work as a
composer – and featuring a surprisingly extensive cast that includes
Hart Bochner, Eva Mendes, Anthony Anderson and Joseph "Whoa!" Lawrence,
this legend revolves around a film school where students are competing
for a prestigious award. The Hitchcock award, to be exact. When
innocent Amy Mayfield (Jennifer Morrison) decides to make a movie
loosely based on the events of the first film, her crew finds
themselves slowly being picked off one by one by a killer sporting
perhaps some of the most ridiculous garbs yet: a fencing mask and a
black rubber slicker. As in the first, he uses a few classic urban
legends to accommodate his dirty deeds, but like most villains in
sequels, he gets lazy and some of his kills are just straight-forward
and messy.

Surprisingly grisly and gory (especially in the case of the first
victim, who had no relevance to the rest of the film to begin with),
"Final Cut" is more cheap fun than anything. Although Ottman puts on a
good show, his references to Hitchcock himself hardly mean that there
is any genuine suspense to be found here. Instead, like the movies it
subtly pays homage to – such as "Friday The 13th" and "My Bloody
Valentine" – this little sequel is simply a fun, down and dirty little
romp that forgets it's a sequel and goes for the gusto. It's not an
amazing film by any stretch of the imagination, but far less
pretentious than other films of it's era, and certainly a mind-numbing
good time for genre fans who aren't afraid to slum it a little bit with
fare such as this. Fun to sit down with a beer and a pizza, nothing
worth taking too seriously, and certainly better than the first flick.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked the original "Urban Legend" and I liked this one to. It has some
suspense, and pretty much does what it's supposed to do. Another thing that
I liked about this was that it didn't bring back the killer from the first
film. It showed some originality by setting a "sequel" in a different
location and dealing with, mainly, a different cast. My rating for both
"Urban Legend" and "Urban Legends: Final Cut": 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
URBAN LEGENDS: FINAL CUT 

Aspect ratio: 2.39:1

Sound formats: Dolby Digital / DTS / SDDS

Several film students at an isolated university campus are targeted by
a serial killer who patterns his/her crimes after various urban
legends.

John Ottman's unnecessary sequel is a disastrous jumble of humor and
horror which isn't nearly as funny or frightening as the filmmakers
might have hoped, and the visual references to various classic movies
(most notably the VERTIGO-inspired climax) seem entirely superfluous.
Most of the murders are routine, except for a grisly decapitation
inspired by a similar sequence in Dario Argento's INFERNO (1980), but
the rest of the movie adheres strictly to formula, as a masked killer
strives to frame weak-willed heroine Jennifer Morrison for a series of
brutal crimes. Only two of the characters from the original URBAN
LEGEND (1998) have been retained: Loretta Devine as the campus security
guard whose aspirations toward COFFY-style bravery are finally realized
during a climactic confrontation with the killer, when he/she makes the
mistake of trying to punch her out (Devine retaliates with the best
line of dialogue in the entire movie!), and Rebecca Gayheart in an
unbilled cameo which should raise a smile amongst devotees of the
original film.

The supporting cast is handsome but interchangeable, including Matthew
Davis (TIGERLAND) as Morrison's potential love interest, Jessica
Cauffiel (VALENTINE) as a dizzy would-be actress whose final sequence
resembles one of the more famous set-pieces from PEEPING TOM (1959),
Eva Mendes (ONCE UPON A TIME IN Mexico) as a statuesque lesbian beauty
whose fondness for Morrison lands her in a whole heap of trouble, and
Hart Bochner (APARTMENT ZERO, SUPERGIRL) as an unlikely college
professor. Production values are polished, but the movie amounts to
little more than an uninspired rehash, and represents an inauspicious
debut for former composer/editor Ottman (THE USUAL SUSPECTS). Also
starring Joseph Lawrence, Anson Mount and Marco Hofschneider.
<|_=00=_|>
Music composer John Ottman and editor for Bryan Singer films, tries his
hand at directing and does a reasonable job with this entertaining
derivative meta slasher. The slashings and goings on take place at the
most prestigious and unrealistic film school imaginable and a fencing
masked killer is wiping out one film student after another. The whole
film is exceptionally dumb and doesn't really have anything to do with
urban legends, with the exception of a tacked on waking up in a bathtub
missing a kidney scene, but Jennifer Morrison is cute and does a good
job with this material. None of the deaths are memorable, but the film
has a cheesy playful side that knows it's B material and Ottman runs
with it.
