

Vincent Gallo's directorial debut is a powerhouse of fine acting, writing,
and direction, not to mention a showcase for some truly jaw-dropping
cinematography. Buffalo 66 is one of the finest independent films that I
have ever seen, and perhaps the most fascinating character study I have yet
to see on film.

Christina Ricci provides one of the year's best performances as Layla, the
odd but tenderhearted tap dancer who provides Gallo's Billy Brown with the
only true love he has ever received. Ricci's performance is brilliantly
understated, and she relays just as much heartfelt meaning in one glance of
her beautiful, dark eyes as Gallo does in his barrage of rapid-fire
monologues.

There are also fine supporting performances from Ben Gazzara and Angjelica
Huston, as Billy's utterly dysfunctional parents, Mickey Rourke, as a sleezy
bookie, Jan-Michael Vincent, as Billy's touchingly loyal friend and owner of
a bowling alley, and Kevin Corrigan, as Billy's slow but well-meaning best
friend.

Buffalo 66 is an incredibly moving and beautiful film. It provides some of
the starkest movie images of blue-collar society to come along since the
'70s. The on-location Buffalo, New York sites are haunting in their
bleakness, and the filtered photography emphasizes this all the
more.

On top of all of this, Gallo provides a mesmerizing performance as Billy
Brown-a man who has spent so much of his life pining for love and tenderness
that he doesn't know how to deal with it once it is staring him in the
face.

Simply put, Buffalo 66 is a staggering achievement. Vincent Gallo is a
fiercely talented filmmaker and a force to be reckoned with in the
future. 
<|_=00=_|>
Never even heard of Gallo: just happened onto this film on IFC one
night and totally loved it. The acting was superb, the story even more
so; and that camera work! Gallo's character, Billy Brown, was a picture
of hate and resentment due to his unfeeling, unloving parents who made
it clear from day one that he wasn't wanted, much less loved. This
pushing away by these heartless, empty people turned young Billy into a
introvert who was only able to find love within the confines of his own
dreamy mind. Of course, this was insufficient which drove Billy to
acting out in some bizarre and dangerous ways. Finally, when love does
come it terrifies him and causes him to push away this affection
continuing the cycle started by his parents. At times I found myself
rocking with laughter at the antics of these hurting and emotionally
scarred folks, but the tale was anything but comical. I wish there were
more pictures coming out as interesting and dramatic as this.
<|_=00=_|>

Buffalo '66 was really original in terms of both plot and style.  At
moments, the story of Billy Brown's life is so terribly tragic and bizarre,
you almost have to break the tension by cracking a laugh. In the film,
Vincent Gallo's ex-jail bird character, Billy Brown, kidnaps a young
tap-dancer named Layla, played by Christina Ricci, to pose as his wife on
his visit back home to his dysfunctional family.  The colors are
beautifully
bold and somehow elegant by being so far past tacky.  The film is really
great.

The story is actually based somewhat on Vincent Gallo's own traumatic
life. The Sinatra song that the Billy Brown's father sings to Layla in the
bedroom is actually a tape of Vincent Gallo's father, Vincent Gallo, Sr.  I
read in an interview that Vincent Gallo has scripted another movie he hopes
to direct and feature in.  He is trying to get enough money to do it all
himself.  I am curious to see how it turns out, since this film was
allegedly wound so tightly around scraps of his own life.
<|_=00=_|>

And he is. Being from Buffalo myself, this is the best portrayal of
Buffalo
culture
that I have yet to see in a film. Gallo got the accent, the attitudes, the
hand
gestures, the weather and the local obsession with the Bills down to a
science.
It's brilliant. I was particularly impressed by his not so subtle satire
of
the, for lack
of a better word, "Bills culture."

Angelica Housten's character's obsessive compulsive watching of games on

VHS, her listening to a game at her son's funeral, Gallo's character's
penchant
for blaming all of his problems on the Bill's kicker make perfect sense if
you
know first hand how the Bills' treks to the superbowl became focal points
for
hope in an increasingly economically depressed city.

Watching the scene where Gallo buys Ricci some hot chocolate and a heart

shaped cookie for the guy who's sitting there to give to his girlfriend
was
like
being home.

There's alot in this film you might not get if you don't know Buffalo. The
way
Gallo portrays his beautiful understanding and acceptance of his roots
puts

jokes-of-films like "Bruce Almighty" to shame.


<|_=00=_|>

buffalo 66 is a lot like its creator, vincent gallo: harsh, unkempt,
dangerous looking,a sure bet to be a miserable loser. at first glance this
film seems to have nothing going for it, but give it ten minutes and then
see if you can turn away.  a dissection of a loose circling collection of
emotional misfits, Vincent Gallo's creation (he wrote, directed, starred in
the thing and even wrote the original music for the film) of billy brown,
his parents and Layla, the girl who comes to love him is an amazing thing.
what at first sounds like annoyingly fake bravado soon reveals the tormented
souls beneath.  again and again the film confounds expectations morphing
into one of the most moving and convincing portraits of love and redemption
imaginable.  a justly deserving winner of its numerous art film awards
(especially those earned by former child actress christina ricci in a
devastated angel performance)buffalo 66 earns all the risks it takes and
reminds us that even the worst first impressions can sometimes be
wrong
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing this film for the first time I absolutely loved it! It was
only after I purchased it on DVD that I saw in the credits just how
much Gallo had to do with this film. He did just about everything major
to complete this movie...from the music to the writing credits.
Personally, I think that he did a fabulous job and I compliment him
highly on this piece of motion picture art.

I tend to take this story on a personal level. I have never been to
prison, but I know that I can relate to a lot of what Gallo's character
feels about his family. My family life was not too great whilst growing
up, but it really put things in perspective for me to see someone who's
parents are that oblivious to their son's most basic needs.

Some of the scenes may seem absurd and extreme as far as the
obliviousness of the parents, but in a sense I think that is what Gallo
was trying to get across to the viewing audience. This factor makes it
all the more pertinent as to why Gallo's character is the way he is. To
me this film is a reflection of an individual's life who has nothing to
lose and yet so much to gain. Everything from the cold and gloomy
atmosphere during the first half of the film to Gallo's character's
pessimistic demeanor and repetitiveness of phrases only emphasize the
aura of his life-long frustration and contempt for the world while
revealing his desperate and longing need to find something tangible for
once in his life...something that he apparently never had and that he
thankfully finds in the confidence of Ricci's character.

I could go on and on and on about how much this film meant to me and
how beautifully directed, written and acted out this piece of work is,
especially in the end since I have had thoughts and have considered and
contemplated such things in the past. I admit that the height of the
film's end freaked me out for a few moments, but left me feeling
overwhelmed with relief and joy during the final concluding moments.

To sum up: You HAVE TO watch this film. Period.
<|_=00=_|>

Vincent Gallo's has supplied us with more than just a powerful character
driven pic with the touching "Buffalo '66". Somehow he has managed to
provide a much needed counterpoint to another recent noteworthy effort,
"Good Will Hunting".

Instead of a pouting GQ-genius we get a main character much more common to
everyday life. A simple loser trying to claw his way out of a hole that he
never meant to dig for himself. A victim of circumstance who not only
dosen't but couldn't know any better. It's a simple tale of desparation and
lonliness that never shies away from cutting all the way down to the
bone.

Billy Brown is revolting. Greasy, unmannered, and fresh from jail, the
viewer is given no reason at all to care about him. He kidnaps Layla (Ricci)
in an effort to maintain the machinery of lies that he has constructed to
keep his nebulus parents unaware of his time in jail.

It becomes clear that she falls for him after meeting his parents and other
major players in his life. Billy didn't just get the short end of the stick,
he never even had a chance. At this point you are forced to ask why, instead
of trying to connect with him, she isn't running for her life from this
apparent maniac. But on closer examination you realize that you are also
sticking around. Not simply to see what happens but to make sure that Billy
turns out OK.

Gallo want's to make it clear that Billy was warped from the outside in.
 From the day of his birth he was hated by his psychotic mother, played
brilliantly by Anjelica Houston, because her going into labor prevented her
from watching the "Big Game" in which her favorite team triumphed in the
1966 Superbowl. And it was another pivotal Bills game that doomed Billy
Brown and sent him to jail for 5 years just as he entered adulthood. A stark
contrast to the scene in "Good Will Hunting" where Damon and Williams
charachters recount the famous Boston Red Sox victory and thereby establish
a deeper connection on the road to that protagonist's healing.

The road to Billy's wellness will have to be found elsewhere and with little
help from anyone at all. He is forced to configure his own compass to guide
him to the next step in his life and although it isn't pretty the result is
far more belivable than "Good Will".

Gallo used his microscopic budget well especially in the flashback and dream
sequences. This work resonates with some of John Cassavetes' tradmark
overtones without exploiting them. And I'm not just talking about the
presence of Ben Gazzara.

You can feel the cold of Buffalo seeping through every crack inside a given
scene. You can also sense that the actors were given plenty of latitude to
construct their charachters but we're directed with a special urgency. The
end result enables the viewer to be propelled through the film instead of
mearly left to watch it unfold before them.

The screenplay delves into territory where Tarantino and his like fear to
tread. A style of film making that depends more on raw performance than on
well laid plans and clever constructs. Gallo chose his team well and trusted
them to win it for him and they came through brilliantly.


<|_=00=_|>
Considering that Vincent Gallo made a film that i pretty much hated,
THE BROWN BUNNY, It's reassuring that he still has made this great
film. I really had a ball watching this one. From the opening sequence
of him leaving jail to the heartwarming, yet chilling ending scene,
this is a film with lots of great moments. A man has just gotten out of
jail and is to visit his parents, but first he needs a girlfriend and
decides to kidnap a ballet dancer and force her to role play as his
girlfriend. But when she starts to get too into the idea, the man shows
his limits in a series of comic events ranging from darkly funny, to
very inspired. And yet in between these events are moments of extremely
depressing and moody sort of moments that elevate the film into a truly
original masterpiece. A little bit brutal, a little bit surreal, and
very depressing, the film manages to strike a perfect balance of comedy
and drama and incorporate them into a truly original independent
classic. It's definitely not for everyone, as a lot of the films i
comment on are, but the audience that it is made for will fall in love
with BUFFALO' 66.
<|_=00=_|>
"Buffalo '66" is a different kind of low budget film. It is the kind of
film that most high budget films should attempt to emulate!

Tons of congratulations to Vincent Gallo. He wrote the story and screen
play, directed the film, and was the main star. People are always told
to write what they know something about. It is true. Vincent wrote
about Buffalo, New York, where he was born and raised. He even used the
same house he grew up in as well as local places in Buffalo for his
scenic backgrounds. I hear that the budget for this film was only $1.5
million dollars. It proves that a good story with good writing and
actors who are intensely dedicated to their craft can surpass even the
most expensive movie that is lacking in telling a meaningful story.

I won't retell the story as enough has already been written about it.
Vincent Gallo did a great job in his role as Billy Brown. Christina
Ricci plays a wonderful low-keyed costarring role as Layla. I was
pleasantly surprised to see Rosanna Arquette appear in a small role as
Billy Brown's school heartthrob, Wendy Balsam. Look for her to appear
in the scene at Denny's Restaurant. Anjelica Huston was wonderful as
the disinterested mother, Jan Brown, who seems to have spent her life
adoring the Buffalo Bills football team instead of being a loving
mother. Ben Gazzara played his mean and overbearing father, Jimmy
Brown. 

One actor who should have received film credit is Billy's only friend,
Rocky the Goon played by Kevin Corrigan. Kevin was excellent in his
role. Other notable surprises in this film are appearances by Mickey
Rourke, Jan-Michael Vincent, Kevin Pollak, and Alex Karras. A number of
small role performers seem to be local Buffalo citizens doing small
one-liner parts as the film progresses around the City of Buffalo. A
good move on director Vincent Gallo's part because using local citizens
in speaking roles assures that the script is believable and natural. 

Regardless of the comments Vincent Gallo made about himself in his
trivia section of his Internet Movie Database I think he deserves
credit for bringing this film to the attention of the movie world. I
would hope that Roger Ebert selects this film for one of his Overlooked
Film Festival viewings. The film is that good.
<|_=00=_|>

I fell in love with this movie.  Before I saw it, I didn't know much at
all
about Vincent Gallo.  I saw the trailer that was attached to "Out of
Sight"
and was like "well, that looks interesting. Maybe I'll check it out
sometime."  It took me a long time to track it down, but it was so worth
the
wait.  One thing I can honestly say, is that the trailer is NOT deceptive.
It pretty much tells you EXACTLY what you're going to get.  One thing I
wasn't expecting thoug, was the humor.  There were times in this movie
that
I had to rewind and watch over because I was laughing so hard from the
previous scene that I missed what was going on.  Despite the film's
depressing tone and deliberately grainy look, there are a lot of laughs
here.  Most of them come from the character of Billy Brown.

Never in my life, have I seen a more pathetic hero.  The guy is almost
totally unlikeable without ONE redeeming quality.  In the opening frame,
he's being released from Prison.  He's been there for something like five
years and it's obvious that he's coming out of there in the clothes that
he
was wearing when he went in.  His wardrobe is hilarious and his red ankle
boots are a laugh riot.  As are his pants that appear to be about four
inches too short.  You can tell when you first see him that this guy is a
real piece of work.  The first ten minutes or so focus on our new friend
trying to find a bathroom, without any luck. When he finally does find a
restroom, he is harassed by an obese homosexual.  This sets up a scene
that
is kinda sick but darkly funny.

Next thing, we learn the plan (part of it anyway) that Billy has up his
sleeve.  We meet his lunatic parents through a phone conversation and
learn
that they are clueless that Billy has been in lockup for the last five
years.  Apparently, they are stupid enough to believe that their son has
been working in a foreign country as a government agent.  They also
believe
that he is married.  So he has to find a girl to pose as his wife.    This
sets up even more hilarious scenes as he kidnaps a young tap-dancer.  I'm
not going to go much farther.  But the movie does get even funnier.  Not
only is it funny but it covers a lot of emotions. Here's a guy who's
clearly
been a loser his whole life, trying desperately to  impress his parents
who
could care less about him.  It sounds really depressing, but it's actually
inspiring and, because it ends on a high note, it's uplifting.

While it may not be for everyone, it's still a very entertaining and
rewarding film.  It's been a few years since Gallo has done anything, but
I'm really looking forward to his next project.

If anything, I'd say that this is a black-comedy/character study.  It's
probably the most original film of 1998 and it did take a lot of chances
with its unique style.  I have no complaints about this movie whatsoever
and
I'm giving it the highest score possible.  It's a 10+.


