

High school Jock Number One gets dumped by his prom queen to be! Doh! So
the
fool bets that he can make a replacement out of the geekiest girl in
school.

And this is one helluva geek. For a start, she DOESN'T LIKE DUMB MACHO
JOCKS. No, really! And listen, you're gonna love this - SHE WEARS
GLASSES!!!
I know! And the first time we see her, she TRIPS OVER ON THE STAIRS!!!
What
a total geek-of-the-week man-eatin' psycho Commie MUTANT, huh? Let's all
point at her and LAFF!

Luckily, he redeems her by making her wear contact lenses and pretty
dresses. Soon, she'll be just like everyone else. Hallelujah!

God, I hate my generation.
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw this film a couple of years ago, I was sixteen, I sort of
loved it. Seeing it again, not in my teenage years anymore, I realize
that 'She's All That' really is for teenagers. I still like it, yes,
but now that I have seen so many more movies there are a lot of
predictable, therefore lesser, parts.

For starters it is set on a high school but the characters seem to be
in their mid-twenties. Of course that is pretty logical since the
actors are in their mid-twenties. Well, Rachael Leigh Cook was only
twenty, and I have to admit that she is the main reason to see this
movie if you are a guy. Freddie Prinze Jr. is her love interest and
personally I think he is one of the most annoying actors out there, no
exception here.

The whole story is very predictable actually. Prinze is the most
popular guy on their high school, just dumped by his beautiful
girlfriend. Now he makes a bet with a friend: he can turn any girl into
a prom queen. The friend selects the girl and of course he chooses
Rachael Leigh Cook. Convenient for Prinze, since she already is a
beautiful girl. It does not really matter whether she wears glasses and
floppy pants. Of course he really falls in love with her, of course the
bet comes out, of course the girl is mad, of course the movie end on
the prom, and of course it will be a happy ending.

Yes, predictable it is, but also sweet, even with an actor like Prinze.
Sometimes it is funny and when you are watching a romantic comedy all
you really want, I guess, is the main characters get together in a nice
way. That sort of happens. A teenager will probably love it, but others
will not completely waste their time.
<|_=00=_|>
I'd actually recommend seeing it if you don't feel like a heavy movie
and just want to watch something fun. The movie is 'another teen movie"
but does have some unique aspects to it, some pretty funny quotes
("what is this, the dork outreach program?")and moments, but
unfortunately, a lot of that average teen movie drama and a few overly
two-dimensional characters (Zach's friends and girlfriend). Cool dance
scene though, and Freddie Prinze Jr. is bearable Rachel Leigh Cook is
likable (I personally thought she was pretty good in it) and notably
talented actors like Kevin Pollak, Kieran Culkin, and Anna Paquin give
the movie some supporting foundation. Not a bad movie, not a great
movie, just simply what it is:'another teen movie'.
<|_=00=_|>

When high school jock Zak is dumped by his prom-queen style girlfriend, he
rashly says that he doesn't need her and that any girl he dates will become
the prom queen.  A friend takes her up on the bet and picks geeky art
student Laney.  Zak tries to get close with limited success but gradually he
begins to get to know her and they become friends – now all he has to do is
get her accepted by the jet set.

How many teen movies do we need, with their similar themes of jocks and
geeks and the seemingly revolving casts?  Here we get yet another retelling
of Pygmalion except here it doesn't really convince as a comedy or a story. 
The plot isn't particularly imaginative and feels lifeless and a little flat
as a result like it has no spark of it's own.  The other problem is the fact
that Laney is actually quite good looking before `the change' – I prefer her
look before Zak supposedly made her better.

The film needs to pander to the teen audience so we get the obligatory
`gross out' comedy in a few scenes which are funny but outside of that it's
really very light melodrama between Zak, Laney and the
jocks/cheerleaders.

Prince is annoying but is actually alright here despite having a cardboard
jock character.  Cook is good as Laney but it's a shame that the film sees
some sort of victory of making this geeky arty girl into a beautiful Valley
girl type that conforms to the pack.  What message does that send out to
teenagers?  At one point Zak says that he'd rather work with fat or ugly
than Laney – but really she is only acceptable because she is pretty and not
fat or ugly.  The rest of the cast are a range of teen actors who you'll
recognise from other films who do nothing out of the ordinary.  Usher has a
cool cameo – but why did Lil' Kim take a role that was barely a support
character?  I hate Matthew Lillard with a passion but here he does a good
job sending up those reality TV `celebrities' and is very funny in his
handful of scenes.

Overall this is an acceptable teen film but really never gets to the point
where you could call it more than good.  The story lacks spark or
imagination and the comedy is either crude or too slight to be funny.  It's
watchable but it's not all that.
<|_=00=_|>
Loved this movie. Great for a date, good for a laugh, entertaining and
a sweet romantic comedy.

Yes, is a pretty predictable plot, but what teen movie isn't? It had
some unique aspects that I thought were creative and entertaining.

I thought it was well cast and well acted. The parts where I was
supposed to laugh, I found myself laughing. The parts where I was
supposed to get angry, I got angry. And the parts were I was supposed
to yearn for love, I yearned. 

Whoever rates this poorly, probably doesn't understand the PURPOSE and
MEANING of a romantic comedy teen movie... This one totally fits the
bill.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some movies that make me just stop what I'm doing and watch.
Braveheart, Clear and Present Danger, Casino Royale, Godfather I and
II, Goodfellas, Top Gun are just a few that come to mind. Not all are
classics, but all have _something_ to them that engrosses me. She's All
That is one of those movies.

Yes, Rachel Leigh Cook is so so cute. Fuggedaboudat. Watch her. See if
she delivers one line as if she memorized it, as if she's repeating
what someone else wrote. There's not one unnatural act or utterance
from her. She is completely believable, and because her character rings
so true, you cannot help but empathize with her, and that is what makes
the movie -- when she wins out in the end, you're happy she did because
she makes you care about her. She's as good as Kate Blanchett was in
The Aviator (completely different movies, completely different roles,
by Blanchett deservedly won an Oscar). She has that character
absolutely nailed, you won't see - can't see -- a better performance.

(And for what it is worth, this may be Paul Walker's best performance.
I credit the director for getting the performances that he did out of
cast of young actors not generally known for their talent.) As for the
rest of the movie, you've seen it before, but so what? Star Wars is
Battle of Britain, set in the future with a backstory, no one holds
that against it. The choreographed dance scene is great, and it IS well
cast and it IS well acted, clichéd or not.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm actually surprised at all the negativity aimed at this movie. But I
really shouldn't be, you know? It's a formulaic, stereotypical movie
about high school and teenagers. In short, it's another teen movie (Not
Another Teen Movie - get it?). But there is something disarming about
"She's All That." It's sweet, it's funny, it's cute, it's charming, and
it's kind of innocent (in its own unique way, of course).

OK, maybe I'm being a little hyperbolic with calling this movie
"innocent," but I'm making these judgments because this is a movie that
I've always admired since it first came out in 1999 - I was 14 and in
middle school that year, so I was definitely within its target audience
- and I eagerly rented it on VHS from Blockbuster Video after being
released on home video. Regrettably, I never really watched it again
after that for some reason; I really wish I could come up with a
reasonable explanation, but I honestly have none. (As an aside, a few
months ago I purchased the movie on Blu-ray DVD and I finally had the
opportunity to watch the movie in its entirety for the first time in 12
years.)

I personally feel that, unlike many of the teen comedies released on
the tail end of the oh-so-cynical seen-it-all '90s, "She's All That"
was one of the far better movies from that time. It was incredibly
well-acted (by its wholesome, good-looking leads, played by Freddie
Prinze, Jr. and Rachael Leigh Cook), well-written (by R. Lee Fleming,
Jr), and directed (by Robert Iscove). I felt that the budding romantic
chemistry between the two leads was real and believable. Additionally,
the characters, especially Cook's character, Plain Jane art student
Laney Boggs, seemed real, three-dimensional, and sympathetic.

I single out Rachael Leigh Cook because this was really her movie all
the way. In other words, she simply wasn't running her character
through the motions of Fleming's script, and she made Laney Boggs all
her own - a living, breathing human being and not a brown-eyed,
brunette-haired bombshell. She doesn't go from zero to 10 in the time
it takes for you to zip up your jacket, no (even though in the real
world, it would be utterly ridiculous for her to be considered, even in
her "ugly duckling" stage, anything less than "very, very pretty"; all
she needs to do is lose the glasses, do her hair, and update her
wardrobe and she's done - instant prom queen status). Her
transformation into a beauty queen is something that is seen as a
gradual process and is full of real effort on her part. In other words,
She really is All That.

At the beginning of the film, all-American jock - star soccer player -
and class president and essentially nice good-guy Zack Siler (Prinze,
Jr.) is publicly dumped by his shallow, self-absorbed girlfriend Taylor
Vaughan (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe) for an annoying reality TV star from "The
Real World" named Brock Hudson (Matthew Lillard, of "Scream"). Zack
bets with his best friend Dean (Paul Walker) that he can turn any girl
in the school into a prom queen in six weeks. Dean chooses Laney Boggs.
Predictably, Zack starts to fall for Laney - especially after his
younger sister Mackenzie (Anna Paquin) gives her an extreme makeover -
and soon finds himself questioning his bet with Dean.

As I stated earlier, there isn't a whole lot to the plot that hasn't
been seen before in earlier, better teen pictures (like, say, for
instance, 1987's "Can't Buy Me Love," which this film could be
considered in some ways a modern update of). But what saves it are its
performances from two real, likable characters who are given a chance
on-screen to really learn from each other, and learn ABOUT each other
and make some unique discoveries about themselves in the process. It's
just a quality that I wish more teen films shared these days.

"She's All That" - It really is All That, and then some more.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I just saw this movie for the sixth or seventh time on television and I
wondered what Rachael Leigh Cook was doing these days. So I checked the
IMDb and to my amazement I saw that this movie is rated with a
miserable 5.4! What the hell? In my opinion She's all that is one of
the best movies in it's teenager/highschool/romcom genre. The story is
comfortable predictable and all the performances (from Freddy Prinze to
Rachel Leigh Cook and even Matthew Lillard - who's pretty hilarious)
are great. We also find Paul Walker (pretty scary!) and Anna Paquin in
one of their earlier roles.

Director Robert Iscove also has some nice visual surprises in store for
us. The way he introduces the Florida flashback at the pool may be lent
from Tucker: A man and his dream, but it works very well. One of the
best parts is the dance scene to the music of Fat Boy Slim at the end
of the movie. The choreography is excellent and the camera-work first
rate. I think that scene is an absolute classic (especially since it
wasn't even planned to be in the movie).

All in all She's all that is pretty underrated, I think. It's difficult
to make a good romantic movie, I know. I love the genre, but the only
ones that really survive the test of time can be counted on one hand.
Rob Reiner's The Sure Thing and When Harry Met Sally are up there.
Garry Marshall's Frankie and Johnny, Ang Lee's Sense & Sensibility, The
Notebook and Simon West's Pride & Prejudice also come to mind.

She's all that may not be a classic like the movies I mentioned before,
but there's more to that movie than you would think after first seeing
it.

A miserable 5.4... Come on, guys! 8,5 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
I loved the movie it had a good plot and great acting. This movie was
so good it won like 8 awards. It is your average teen movie. Zach
Siler(Freddie Prinze Jr.) makes a bet that he can turn and unpopular
girl Laney Boggs (Rachael Leigh Cook) into prom queen after being
dumped by his girlfriend Taylor Vaughan (Jodi Lyn O'Keefe). The movie
has some aspects of a Rom com with the odd witty comments. Freddie
Prinze Jr and Rachael Leigh Cook play the characters amazingly they
give you a great impression of the character and how they react in
certain situations. If you have seen Not Another Teen Movie then you
will find the plot line similar thats because they stole It from She's
all that. This is a amazing typical romantic teen movie that will make
your heart melt and i strongly recommend it for girlie nights in.
<|_=00=_|>

While I would never put this film up with the contender teen flicks
(American Pie for instance), if there was a pick between this and Bring it
On, I'd go for the first.  The story follows a smart, preppy, and popular
teen (Freddie Prinze Jr.) called Zach who gets dumped by his girlfriend, but
then takes a bet the to turn a outsider art girl (Rachel Leigh Cook has some
great charm and sexuality) into prom queen.  While I wouldn't call this the
best idea to turn someone's mindset like that, the film makes it almost
work, and slightly (though never completely) makes Zach's lifestyle
apealing.  Sweet romantic comedy, though it isn't a quality flick. 
B-
