

               Every time I view this film, I enjoy the great photography of
Honk Kong, the beauty of the country, excitement of the night lights and the
forbidden areas of the dark back streets and its perils!    Claude Van Damme
(Alex Wagner) gave the audience a double take every time he made a fantastic
martial arts endeavor.  His great supporting actor was the veteran actor,
Geoffry Lewis, (Frank Avery),"Mind Games",'03, whose main goal was  to
protect the twin boys who were almost killed as infants and see that they
obtained the wealth that belonged to the both of them.  The gals in the
picture add some hot steamy scenes, especially in the Boiler Room!   If you
are not a Jean Claude Van Damme fan or do not like the great acting of
Geoffrey Lewis, this is not the film for you. You will probably like the
"Terminator Films"!
<|_=00=_|>

Double Impact is one of Van Damme`s finest moments on the actionfilm-arena.
It delivers what it must to succeed, namely tons of great fighting scenes,
which is what Van Damme-movies are all about(well, almost).  If you want to
rent an old action-flick, Double Impact is one of the best movies Van Damme
has ever done!
9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Double Impact is simply the Best Van Damme movie of his career. Van
Damme hasn't been making much great movies recently. I remember in my
school days, Van Damme was one of the favourites among the lads. Van
Damme has given us Great movies in the past. Kickboxer, Bloodsport and
Hard Target are some of His Finest Movies. I'm my opinion, Double
Impact is better then the mentioned movies in terms of Storyline.
Double Impact has great fight scenes including Van Damme against Bolo
Yeung, also in Bloodsport. It has Plenty of violence, packed with good
laughs. This was Van Dammes opportunity to act apart from fighting all
the time. Van Damme does a decent job playing two separate characters
Alex and Chad. It has a impressive storyline about 2 twin brothers
separated at birth, who link up when their older, to take revenge on
the Gang that killed their parents. This is a great entertaining movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Egos run wild as Van Dammage is given the double dosage in this rampant,
enjoyable thriller; hampered somewhat by the now two dreadful acting
displays instead of the one. Yet credit where its due, this is one of his
better outings, broadening his thespian ranges as well as stylishly
kicking
people in the head a lot. Revenge is on the cards again, playing both twin
brothers separated at birth and reunited 25 years later (one's a US
aerobics
instructor who wears the silk underwear, the other a tough cigar-chomping
gangster-type raised in the Hong Kong). Their parents, you see, were
hopelessly slaughtered when they were babies, and summarily they vow
vengeance. It's all laughable enough, as it should be: violent as hell
with
a Bolo villain and two Jean-Claude's causing complete bloody chaos - who
could ask for more?
<|_=00=_|>

This is joyously over the top and inane. This is classic Van Damme at his
absolute best. In yet another (well in fact the first) of his duel role
films, Jean Claude plays two twins separated at birth. They were separated
when both their parents were killed by vicious gangsters, including the
legend Bolo Yeung (Enter the Dragon).

What makes this film is the always-enjoyable combination of Van Damme and
director Sheldon Lettich. Lettich knows how to get the best out of Claude in
the fights sequences, with a liberal and entertainingly cheesy use of slo-mo
while Van Damme grunts and poses and jumps kicks his way through countless
foes. The fights are so entertaining, and they more than make up for the
wooden or ham-fisted acting of the cast, not to mention the brainless plot
and cheesy dialogue. 

This was written by Van Damme and really seems at times like an ego trip,
with some of the lines and actions that characters have. It is entertaining
in that sense. What is also funny about this film is the constant posing and
muscle flexing from Van Damme. This is one of his most enjoyable films,
because it is so fun, it brings back the fun feeling from his earlier film
Kickboxer.

Overall this is one to watch and the fight between Van Damme and Bolo is the
stuff of legend.  ***

<|_=00=_|>
Coming out during the twilight of Jean-Claude Van Damme's career, it
was something less than impressive. But a decent time-waster at best
and for the price of one we would get two Van Damme's on screen. Twins
unknowingly separated, to only meet up again 25 years later. Nice.
Where else could we see Van Damme beating himself up, feuding over
things and eventually teaming up to kick-ass. And there's a lot ass
kicking, as well gun blazing to go with the martial arts. That's John
Woo style. Slow motion galore. Bullets. Blood. Bodies piling up. Add
plenty of broken bones. And nose bleeds. The action is brutal and
high-energy. Van Damme cops a real work out. Where he has a whole bunch
of villains (a gleeful Alan Scarfe and spiteful Phillip Chan), their
henchman and Triad gangs to get through. He goes up against an old foe;
Bolo Yeung (of "Bloodsport" fame) and female athlete / body builder
Corinna Everson whose choice of fashion is almost upstaged by Van Damme
himself. Then we got a bodyguard who uses the spurs on his boot to
inflict pain. While stuck in the middle of the two Van Dammes is the
always enjoyable character actor Geoffrey Lewis and the ravishing
blonde Alonna Shaw. The simple plot (which was co-written by Van Damme)
is clean-cut by setting up the motivation at the beginning and then the
twins unite to seek vengeance on those involved in the murder of their
parents. Also for laughs there's numerous mistaken identity scenarios,
Van Damme's colourful fashion sense (the lover-boy one) and the macho
script likes to have people telling others to virtually get f**k. Set
in Hong Kong, director Sheldon Lettich (who directed Van Damme a year
earlier in "Lionheart") strikes up some local flavour, amazingly tough
action bursts and all at a reliable pace. Bold, but standard
Jean-Claude Van Damme 90s action vehicle.

"When you find them. Bring back their bodies".
<|_=00=_|>
OK, face it, Jean-Claude cannot act his way out of a wet paper bag.
That is not why we watch him. We watch for the action, and this film
has plenty of that.

No viewing of Jean-Claude's films would be complete without this one
where he plays both himself and his brother. Separated by 25 years, one
(Alex) stays in Hong Kong as a smugger, and the other (Chad) is a
fitness instructor in California. That's ladies fitness instructor in
pretty blue tights. Hmm, is there something to his role as "Gay Karate
Man" in his first film? California Jean-Claude returns to Hong Kong to
join Honk Kond Jean Claude to regain what is rightfully theirs.
Luscious scenery provided by Alex's girlfriend Danielle (Alonna Shaw).
Hot breathing brought on by action between Danielle and Kara (Corinna
Everson). The return of Bolo Yeung (Bloodsport) as Moon is a big big
plus for the film.

Lots of action, lots of laughs, and a good time for all.
<|_=00=_|>
The Muscles from Brussels takes a co-producer and co-writer credit on
this routinely plotted but agreeable action picture. Van Damme plays
twin boys, who were orphaned in the 1960s by thugs representing some
greedy white collar criminals. One of them, Chad, ended up in L. A.
where he got to live a fairly soft life. Alex, on the other hand,
remained in Hong Kong where he became a street smart smuggler. 25 years
later, their "uncle" Frank (Geoffrey Lewis) locates Alex and reunites
the boys so they can have a classic bit of revenge - and reclaim what's
theirs in the bargain.

All of the action is watchable if never truly inspired. There's a good
deal of hard hitting violence (the naive Chad takes his lumps before
the story is over), and plenty of effective squib action - not to
mention a hearty helping of explosions. The exotic Hong Kong setting
certainly helps a lot, as well. One sequence is particularly striking,
and you can see bits of that in the trailer. And there's a fairly
satisfying confrontation between Van Damme and martial arts icon Bolo
Yeung, who plays Moon, a goon who ends up with a fake eye and a nasty
scar due to Franks' intervention back in the 60s.

There's a certain degree of entertainment in watching Van Damme play
two distinctly different characters. Thanks to some reasonably
effective movie trickery - body doubles, special effects, and the like
- we get to see the twins interacting regularly. Philip Chan, as crime
kingpin Raymond Zhang, and Alan Scarfe, as the nefarious Nigel
Griffith, are decent action movie baddies in the classic tradition.
Both the blonde Alonna Shaw (as Alex's girlfriend Danielle) and the
athletic brunette Corinna Everson (as henchwoman Kara) add much sex
appeal. The eternally solid and reliable Lewis is a tremendous asset to
the story, lending it an appropriate amount of respectability.

"Double Impact" may not be memorable in the end, but it sure provides a
nice diversion for the better part of two hours.

Seven out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
"What a classic of B-movie cheese this is. In the first of Van Damme's
trilogy of twin movies (at least until he decides to use the idea yet
again), our boy Jean-Claude plays brothers who are separated when a
Triad hit team takes out their parents. Twenty years later, the "bad"
brother is a smuggler in HK, while the "good" one is an aerobics
instructor in Los Angeles, and they team up to take revenge on the boss
(Philip Chan) who took out their parents.

There's nothing really great about Double Impact, other than the
immortal tagline of "double the Van Damme, double the Van Damage", but
it is a solid low-budget actioner. The script and acting are average to
say the least, and the movie looks like it was made for fifty cents and
a case of returnable bottles, but when it comes to action, Double
Impact delivers the goods. The fights are among some of Van Damme's
best, with good choreography and tight filming and editing. Also of
note are the gunfights; I might be wrong, but I believe that this was
the first Western movie to have John Woo-style dual 9mms (complete with
slow motion). If you have a high tolerance for cheeseball antics (or
just like to make fun of them), there's some good times to be had with
Double Impact. I'm kind of sorry to say this, but given the current
anemic state of action films, even middling stuff like this is much
better than the crap that has been getting cranked out lately."
<|_=00=_|>
Double Impact could be one of Van Damme's best flicks. It contains
action, humor, and great martial arts. This movie came out when I was
in eighth grade, and it definitely brings good memories. Every one was
talking about it when it came out. It begins when a British businessman
and his wife are murdered by the mafia; the two twins are rescued by
Frank Avery (played by Geoffrey Lewis) who was the family's bodyguard.
Then the twins get separated, one is taken by Frank, the other ends up
in an orphanage. 25 years later Frank decided to tell Chad (played by
Van Damme) all about his parent's death, and that he must go back to
Hong Kong to find the killers. Chad meets with his twin brother Alex
(played also by Van Damme). One of the things that I love about this
movie is that Chad and Alex have totally different personalities; Chad
is more like a fly boy, and Alex is a street smart smuggler. The twins
are always having disagreements, and there's even a fight scene between
Chad and Alex, it was great. Also Bolo Yeung who's one of the villains
of the movie, he incarnates, Moon the right hand of Nigel Griffith
played by Alan Scarfe. The film is very entertaining, packed with great
martial arts action. So on a weekend, buy a pizza, some beers, and
invite some of your old high school friends, and enjoy this movie.
