
After I've seen this movie I find it hard to understand why so many
people seem to hate this movie. I'm not saying it belongs in the top
250 of all times, but in it's genre it is a great movie. I know, not
many people find it amusing to see how a legendary story like 'Robin
Hood' is turned into a comedy. Many people still seem to believe that
some things shouldn't be laughed with ... they are wrong. 

Mel Brooks has done an excellent job with Robin Hood: Men in Tights. I
have seen the original Robin Hood movies as well, but I never had such
a good time when watching them as I had with this one. It's just one
continuation of hilarious moments and parodies on famous people and
movies (Winston Churchil, The Godfather...).

I recommend everyone who wants to have a good laugh to watch this
movie. To those who think Robin Hood shouldn't be messed with, you're
wrong, but you better don't watch it because you'll probably be
offended by it. I give this movie an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember when I first saw this movie. I was babysitting for a friend of
my
mums, and one of the kids suggested we watch it. Thinking it was the
frankly
laughable 'Prince of Thieves' they were slipping into the video recorder,
I
was prepared for a few hours of boredom, What I got came as a shock, a
pleasant one I'll admit, but still a shock.

Now, you all know the Robin Hood legend don't you? I shall explain a
little.
Robin Hood was a Saxon criminal, nicking money here and there and giving
it
to people who needed it, all the while seducing the beautiful Maid Marion,
and vexing the Sheriff of Nottingham and prince john. That's the basics!
Now, on with the review.

This movie was released in 1993, and is a take off of the whole Robin Hood
legend and a p--- take of Prince of Thieves in particular.

Loosely following the legend, Robin of Loxley is first encountered in an
Arabic prison during the third century crusades, and together with a
'Moor'
as they were called in those days, he executes a cunning escape with a
cellmate, Asneeze.

After escaping, Asneeze beseeches Robin to find his son Atchoo, a foreign
exchange student in England and look out for him. This Robin vows to do!
Robin swims back to England.

He returns to his home, Loxley castle to find it being wheeled away on the
back of the cart by Bailiffs, and goes through he sorrowful revelation
that
his father, dog, cat, and even the goldfish are all dead. Desperate for a
familiar face, he finds the family's loyal blind servant Blinkin sitting
on
the toilet with a Jazz mag in Braille. The hilarity continues throughout
the
movie.

As with all Robin Hood stories, Robin must thwart the evil plans of Prince
John and the sheriff of Rottingham, who are wreaking havoc and charging
exorbitant taxes on King Richards's kingdom while he's
away.

Those familiar with the movies Mel Brooks has previously directed will
have
some small idea of what to expect. After all, this is the man responsible
for Dracula-dead and loving it and young Frankenstein. All the jokes,
which
range from visual gags to wonderful witty comments are in exactly the
right
places throughout the movie, with never more than a minute between
laughs.

Cary Elwes (incidentally the only English man to play Robin Hood in a
movie), who many of you will know from Princess Bride brings his cheeky
grinning twinkle eyed presence to this movie, and does a wonderful job.
From
outlandish heroic posturing, to a wickedly sexy glance, he really is
amazingly funny. And the man looks better in tights than I
do!

Richard Lewis is hilarious as the whiny, arrogant Prince John with the
ever-changing mole. He gets the sissy-boy behaviour down to a tee, and his
whinging American vocalisations are great. All the way through the movie,
a
mole on his face constantly changes position: it starts on his left cheek,
then over to his right cheek, then his chin, then his forehead, before
going
back to it's original place. This is a subtle joke based on the mole on
Alan
Rickman when he played the sheriff in Prince Of Thieves

Roger Rees as the sleazy sheriff of Rottingham is marvellously slimy and
nasty, and has some great lines throughout the film.

There are some faces here you'll be familiar with from other Brooks films.
For instance Robert Ridgely, playing the hangman in this film also played
the hangman in Blazing Saddles, another film directed by Brooks. He likes
to
add subtle references to his earlier films too; with several in this film
that die-hard Brooks fans will easily spot. Those who watched History of
the
World part 1 will recognise the music to the song 'Men in Tights'. Also,
when Patrick Stewart arrives and snogs Marion, Mel himself (playing Rabbi
Tuckman) utters the line 'it's good to be a king', one of his lines in
History of the world.

The whole cast is wonderfully comedic, even those with only a few lines
bring a great depth of warmth and humour to them

What makes this film so wonderfully warm and funny in my own opinion are
all
the improvised scenes. Although there was a script of sorts, some scenes
were completely improvised by the actors themselves, such as the scene
where
Latrine (Tracey Ullman) prays for Rottingham in her bed, and he falls
through the ceiling, landing right where she wanted him, which was totally
devised and thought out by the two actors.

There are few special effects, and those that are there are small but fun
moments of computerised camera trickery.

The soundtrack is memorable, with some very funny songs, and a couple of
cheesy love songs. You'll be singing 'Men in tights' or at least humming
it
to yourself, for weeks.

The rating is Pg, to which I say BAH HUMBUG. There is no bad language in
the
film, except in the use of double entendre, and one utterance of sh!t, and
violence is minimal. In fact I'd go as far as to say non-existent, apart
from a few comedy fight scenes.

A great fun film that adults and children alike will enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a funny film and I like it a lot. Cary Elwes plays Robin Hood to a
tee. This is, of course, the usual good vs evil with Robin against the evil
Sheriff of Nottingham. The humor is sort of in your face stuff for the most
part, but still works well. A comedy for a night when you don't want to have
to think much, it's well worth a rent!
<|_=00=_|>
Cary Elwes have to say puts on a better performance then Costner did in
RHPOT but anyhow.

Have to say this film it just makes me laugh so much mainly because the
actors seem really into what their doing and you just sit there and
thinking 'what the hell are they on' but in a very very very very good
way.The random outbursts of songs were brilliant and well and the
musical score used I really really liked.Great casting and as said
before everyone seemed so into their roles

10/10 from me defiantly

'Because unlike some other Robin Hoods.I can speak with an English
accent'
<|_=00=_|>
This is definitely one of the better Mel Brooks movies, along with
Spaceballs(although I will openly admit to not having watched many
others, at least yet). It's very silly and thoroughly funny, there are
hardly more than a few minutes throughout the entire two hour run-time,
where you aren't entertained. Almost all of the gags have a great
comical effect, few of them fall flat. I saw this movie right after
seeing and reviewing Spy Hard, and comparing these two spoof movies, I
realize exactly of how high quality this movie really is. It's funny
from start to finish, none of the comedy is overdone or boring. The
music is marvelous, as is the choreography of both dancing and
fighting. The acting is pretty much what you would normally expect from
this type of movie... Elwes is a great comedian, and makes a good
Robin. The plot is typical Robin Hood, more or less everything from the
legend is fit into this movie(and spoofed majorly). If you like Mel
Brooks, or you're just a fan of silly humor, or you're just dying to
watch a good parody of the legend of Robin Hood, this is definitely the
film for you. The HBO First Look special on the film is also worth
watching, and in that, you may want to keep watching throughout the
credits, too. I'd recommend it to any fan of Mel Brooks movies, and to
people who enjoy silly humor. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Like many a child born in the 1980's, I grew up on the Mel Brooks films
that weren't necessarily the 'racier' ones like Blazing Saddles and
History of the World part 1 (I saw those, of course, though not as
frequently as now), but the ones meant for the "whole family",
Spaceballs, and this film. I knew at the time I wasn't seeing great
art, but just a campy, goofy, though always laugh-worthy take on Robin
Hood and/or adventure movies. But calling it a family movie in quotes
means that a) adults really can enjoy it as much as kids, if not more
because of the little in-jokes and silly vulgarities, and b) once a kid
sees it, when he revisits it, as I have a few times, it's still as
fresh but with some things not quite understood the first time around.
It's a comedy that is not only filled with jokes at Robin Hood movies
and other movies (Godfather of course, as well as little mentions for
other movies of modern times), but one that references Brooks's own
movies as well; this is a filmmaker who isn't above poking fun at even
his own style.

Basic story- Robin Hood (Cary Elwes in one of his best turns) returns
home from the crusades to see things are in peril with King Richard
gone, and so goes forth to reclaim his land and to, naturally, rob the
rich to feed the poor. Along the way he meets Achoo (Dave Chappelle),
butts heads with Prince John (Richard Lewis) and the Sheriff, and of
course still pines for the love of Maid Marian. This, of course, is the
usual clothesline for Brooks to let the comedy run off into the scenes,
and while sometimes a joke may not work or might become stale on a
repeat viewing, so much of it sticks that it's hard not to chuckle. It
also helps that a couple of bits are some of the best in any
Brooksfilm, such as the Godfather bit (Dom DeLouise at his very best),
Brooks's own cameo as the Rabbbi, Lewis and Chappelle's acting turns,
and an endless slew of quotable lines and a couple of tongue-in-cheek
songs. Some of it is obvious, yes, some of it just takes right from the
pages of Blazing Saddles, sure, but is it a good time for the right
crowd? Definitely- and for parents who grew up on the 70's Brooks work,
it is a fantastic way to introduce the young ones to his work through
this (even the suggestive sex jokes and such are not R-rated, all in
good fun).
<|_=00=_|>
Robin Hood; Men in Tights is worth watching, I recently watched it
because I've just become a Cary Elwes fan, and this is one of of his
lead-roles. Some moments really made me crack up so hard! I didn't
expect them you know, it was so funny, Even the 2nd time around you'd
still fall off your chair The cast is great, of course especially Robin
of Locksley himself,Cary, but Blinkin and the Sheriff and Little John
(Don't let the name fool you, it's veryy big! lol) and everyone else!

There were some moments of course, the film tried to make a comedic
scene out of but you don't necessarily laugh at it,.... but OK.

This is the second time Cary Elwes and Patrick Stewart appeared in a
film together by the way, they both worked on "Lady Jane" in 1986, and
it was fun to see them, 7 years later, older, awwww.

It's definitely worth watching, quite hilarious indeed!
<|_=00=_|>
Robin Hood: Men in Tights (1993) was a much needed parody from Mel
Brooks. He has the assignment of spoofing the Robin Hood legacy and the
couple of movie dealing with the mythical honorable thief of English
folklore. Cary Elwes stars as Robin Hood. He's looking for a few good
men who'll join him in his quest to topple the evil sheriff of
Nottingham (Roger Rees) and win the fair hand of Maid Marian. Robin
also has to deal with Prince John (Richard Lewis).as well. Tracey
Ullman co-stars as Prince John's personal witch Latrine who has her
eyes on the Sheriff.

Will Robin find his merry men? How far will the Prince go to throw his
weight around in the absence of his father? Why does the Sheriff hate
Robin so much? To find out you'll have to watch ROBIN HOOD: MEN IN
TIGHTS!! Check out the hilarious cameo by Dom De Luise who plays the
Duke of Jersey.

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Actually, Mel's been here before.

Any of you remember a little TV series Mel wrote and created called "When
Things were Rotten", starring Dick Gautier as our man Robin?  I do, and the
series reran in my mind many times while watching Mel's big-screen
take.

I guess he had to do this to take a few shots at Kevin Costner's "Prince of
Thieves", but this one also takes aim at and makes points of reference to
"White Men Can't Jump", Bruce Lee films, Larry King, seders and even brings
out the reserves from Mel's projects of yore (McCann, Van Patten, De Luca,
De Luise).

Some gags work, some don't but as always, Mel tries.  Too bad he's working
under the restrictions of that darned PG rating.  What Mel could have done
in his heyday with an R rated "Robin Hood"!  Though admittedly, the finale
of Robin's (Elwes') serenade to Maid Marian (Yasbeck) earns big laughs. 
Loved finding out the first name of the Sheriff of Rottingham (Rees), as
well.  You will, too.

As I've said before, any Mel is good Mel.  If you've seen any Robin Hood
movie, good.  You'll get a lot of the references here.  Even with the Mafia
connections, hot tubs, and the new Club for horses.

Five stars.  Bless you!
<|_=00=_|>

This is a very funny Mel Brooks movie and probably stands as his last great
comic hurrah.Although not up to the standard of his masterpiece "HIGH
ANXIETY" it is certainly a better and actually more exciting Robin Hood
adventure than that soporific outing for Kevin Costner.It is worth noting
that Brooks had parodied Robin before in the short lived US TV series "WHEN
THINGS WERE ROTTEN." This is much better though and Cary Elwes scores as a
Robin Hood in the style of the great Errol Flynn.Look out too for Matthew
Porretta,former star of the excellent syndicated show "THE NEW ADVENTURES OF
ROBIN HOOD" as Will Scarlett O'Hara.All in all,a good fun
movie.
