

What can I possibly say?  This is no "Citizen Kane," but this is one of the
movies that sticks out in my mind the most.  It's a twisted, crude,
tasteless comedy but never ceases to bring out extreme laughter, even after
I've seen it approximately 200 times--give or take.  I just cannot get tired
of this movie!  There are things in this movie that cannot be understood,
like every Sandler flick.  What the hell was the deal with the penguin? 
However, it's a memorable moment.  There are so many memorable quotes from
the film.  It's one of those movies I can quote line per line off the top of
my head.  

Here's a share of my favorite quotes:

(singing) "Suntan lotion is good for me.  You protect me. 
Tee-hee-hee."

"O'Doyle rules!"

"It's too damn hot for a penguin to be just walkin' around.  I gotta send
him back to the South Pole."

"You're giving the company to Eric?  He is a bad, bad man."

Adam Sandler has that brand of comic genius in which you don't know what
you're laughing at, but it's damn funny!  You can't help it!  I can't rant
and rave about anything artistically brilliant about "Billy Madison."  Yet
it's one of my favorite movies of all time.  

It's funny, it's original, it's Sandler!  Nuff said.

My score:  8 (out of 10)


<|_=00=_|>

This is one of those lucky cases where the opening sequence of a movie gives
you an excellent idea of what you are in for.

If you do not enjoy Billy's sunblock song, or the bit with the penguin, then
you must turn off the movie and stop being such a nag about
it.

But for those of us who happen to enjoy movies that are silly and stupid,
this is one of the best ones out there.
<|_=00=_|>

Billy Madison in a landslide is Adam Sandler's best film.  I never laughed
so hard.  Maybe the humor is a little stupid, but that is because before
seeing this movie, you have to make sure your brain is not in Fellini mode
and in Sandler mode.

Story revolves around Billy Madison, who must go back to school (he is 27)
and graduate High School so he can take over his father's hotel ring.  His
whole odyssey is utterly hilarious from start to finish.  Especially because
he has cameos and stars like Norm MacDonald, Steve Buscemi, and Chris Farley
as a Penguin lover (that penguin hadn't made me laugh that hard since the
pee scene in Naked Gun).  Great fun (one of the best of 1995).
A++
<|_=00=_|>
If you want to see a movie that is fun, puts you in a good mood, and
never gets old, then see Billy Madison. All of you Sandler haters will
think this is stupid, but everyone who likes Adam Sandler, or doesn't
mind humor that is kind of stupid will love Billy Madison.

This is one of Adam Sandler's first movies, and it's one of his best
also. This is a movie that I've seen so many times, but I still enjoy
it every time. This is good to watch when you're in a bad mood, or if
you're stressed out, because it will perk you up quicker than any
coffee you can name. Other movies that put you in a good mood are Happy
Gilmore, Beavis and Butthead Do America, South Park: Bigger, Longer,
and Uncut, and Tommy Boy.

Overall, Billy Madison has a somewhat stupid sense of humor, but it
does make you laugh, and it's such an entertaining movie. If you
haven't seen this yet, see it now and see what all the laughing is
about.
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Madison is the type of mungo movie that leaves one speechless on
how it could have ever been made. The answer, of course, is because
that champion of dullards was involved - Adam Sandler, playing the
eponymous Billy Madison with every ounce of talent the Christian god
forgot to give him. A fine businessman he is; a writer and comedian
he's not.

In order to inherit his father's hotel empire, twenty-something
idiot-boy, Billy Madison must promise his father (Darren McGavin) that
he'll repeat grades 1 through 12 in six months and graduate, or the
empire will fall to a business acquaintance (Bradley Whitford).

We discover Billy can't even spell "rock." How then are we expected to
believe this imbecile who fills his days with "daiquiris, stroke mags
and Nintendo" can accomplish his task in six months? About now the
speechlessness starts. This is not an underprivileged person deprived
of getting the breaks and so therefore failing at life - Billy is an
enabled douchebag whose father paid off teachers to pass him and who
refused to educate himself, until his inheritance was at stake, at
which point he suddenly wants to turn over a new leaf only to inherit
the riches.

This is not a nice man. He is neither hero nor anti-hero. He is a waste
of space. And the directionless movie can't even make up its mind on
how to portray him, because even though it disparages higher learning
at every turn, the disparagement is in direct opposition to the plot of
the movie itself, where Billy needs to graduate, i.e. display that he
has learned, in order to claim his inheritance.

And the smokin' blond first grade teacher (Bridgette Wilson) – instead
of considering him the illiterate moron he is for trying to pass first
grade – falls for him. Well, we all know she's attracted to a
multi-billionaire's son for his personality, right? 

Directed nominally by Tamra Davis, from an unfunny script by Tim
Herlihy and Sandler (Herlihy would go on to write all Sandler's
"comedies" until 2002), Billy moves up through the grades via a
montage, not actually doing tests or learning anything, but through
attending camp, playing basketball, writing derogatory notes about the
ugliness of his fourth grade teacher and having lice exams.

Is it even worthwhile wasting my server space on this review, or you
frying your braincells reading it, or Adam Sandler pretending to act in
it? 

The answer is no.

(Movie Maniacs, visit: poffysmoviemania.com)
<|_=00=_|>
Billy Madison (Adam Sandler) is the selfish obnoxious heir to a
multi-million pound hotel chain that was set up by Billy's late mother
and his father Brian Madison (Darren McGavin). Billy's father is set to
retire soon and opts to leave one of his employees Eric Gordon (Bradley
Whitford) in charge of his business upon his retirement. Billy objects
to this believing that he should be placed in charge of his father's
business. Brian doesn't believe that Billy is responsible enough or
smart enough to run the business but agrees to give him full control of
the business if he can pass grades 1-12 in 24 weeks. Eric wants the
business for himself and will stop at nothing to ensure that Billy
fails this challenge.

Even if you're prepared to ignore the obvious flaws in the plot (a
father handing his business over to his selfish and obnoxious son who
has no business acumen and has had no prior involvement in running the
company merely on the strength of him graduating from school. A teacher
falling for a man-child re-running grades 1-12 who is even more
immature than the kids who he attends school with) then the film still
isn't very good. For the most part it relies on Sandler being in OTT
mode and doing his utmost to make his character as irritating as
possible. This is great from an 'acting' perspective, but ultimately
makes him difficult to endure across the running time.

The idea of Sandler graduating 12 years worth of school in a matter of
weeks certainly isn't a bad one and perhaps would have worked better if
more thought would have been put into the concept. I personally felt
that it would have been funnier if the film would have shown more
examples of Billy failing and struggling his way through school - I
found it perplexing that Billy was portrayed as being rather
simple-minded from the outset, but yet the film also represented him as
a bit of a smart-ass at times which was puzzling. He seems to get
through each school year far too easily and there also seemed to be a
big continuity gap as well (at one point he seems to jump about 4
school years in one go!!!!) I also wasn't impressed by the fact that
Sandler kept the majority of the focus on him (he has a whole host of
children as supporting actors, but gives them absolutely nothing to
do). It perhaps would have been better if he'd given a couple of the
youngsters more defining roles so that he would have had people that he
could have bounced off and built up something more in the way of a
rapport with some of the youngsters. It seems rather arrogant and
unfair for Sandler to give the rest of the cast so little to do (he
clearly thought at this point in his career that he was strong enough
to carry this sort of project on his own, but he simply can't and it
really shows here).

The film also substitutes intelligence and insight in favour of
Sandler's overacting to the ninth in a performance that was more
irritating than funny. He has a lisp in this film (like his character
had in The Waterboy) but in Billy Madison it seems to come and go at
will.

Naturally with this type of plot there has to be a bad guy and the bad
guy here is Eric who stops at nothing to prevent Billy from prevailing
at the challenge that he's been set by his father and naturally sets
about trying to scupper Billy's chances of succeeding. In this instance
it is the head teacher that is used as a plot device as Eric digs some
dirt on him (although the reveal here is imaginative it is utterly
ludicrous and not even remotely believable). There are also things in
here that feel a bit random - such as an impromptu sing-song which felt
more at home in a musical and a final act that again was more stupid
than funny.

The only scene I actually liked was the 'peeing in the pants scene' and
that was because that scene actually contained something in the way of
pathos and actually had something to say (it's a pity there were not
more examples of this in the rest of the film). I also thought Bradley
Whitford put in a solid performance as Eric and most of the time I
found him fun to watch. However, these are the only real positives I
could find in this film.

I'm not someone who is normally an 'Adam Sandler' hater (heck I'm one
of the few people who defended the first 2 Grown Ups films), but Billy
Madison is really lame and relies far too much on Sandler mugging and
being OTT which unfortunately isn't enough to carry the film or make it
worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
The great thing about "Billy Madison" is you're not suppose to take it
nor judge it too seriously. They knew while making it that it wouldn't
be an Oscar winner, nor would it be the next "Citizen Kane", nor is it
suppose to be some intriguing and involved plot, but it in return has
rightfully earned itself a major cult classic status among youth and
film lovers since it's release. It has also become one of the most
quoted and memorable films over the past 12 years.

It's about a 27-year-old man who makes a bet with his dad that if he
repeats and passes grades 1-12 (Where is K?), he will take over for his
dad's hotel company, instead of his dad's obnoxious and sociopathic
friend Erik (played to perfection by Bradley Whitford; despite Billy
not having any experience in the field at all...). The film from there
follows him in each grade.

Does that sound like much of a plot? No. It is inept, idiotic,
unrealistic and bizarre, but it is one of the funniest movies ever
made. It has endless amounts of memorable gags that will make you laugh
over and over again, it has the type of sense of humor that makes you
laugh because it is so damned strange and nonsensical. Most of its gags
rely on a hybrid of black humor and slapstick that produces hysterical
results.

I feel like I'm 10 years old quoting the movie to all of my friends,
but it's the type of movie that will make you do that. If you are in
the mood for a very good and thought provoking movie, this isn't your
movie, but if you are in the mood to laugh your ass off and not pay
attention to how good it actually is... here is your movie.

But that aside, "Billy Madison" isn't just awful like many other
goofball comedies of the 90's and 00's, it is very entertaining and
memorable... because it just manages to really make you laugh. And it's
not dumb characters making stupid mistakes (like Black Sheep for
example), just very weird characters making "What the hell was that?!"
situations.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay first off, I cant stand Adam Sandler, he's an annoying Actor. But
to give him credit he has done good movies and bad movies. Good movies
such as Happy Gilmore, Click, The Wedding Singer, I now Pronounce you
Chuck and Larry etc. Because he can do serious roles and also have the
comedy. But this film...makes me feel so dumb while watching it and at
the end I felt like i had to go back to school to be taught what GOOD
films to watch. The jokes are terrible, some scenes are completely
pointless. But there have been times when Sandler makes so much noise I
really want to punch him in his face. I give this film 2 stars because
it's bad but not the worst.
<|_=00=_|>
Boy, talk about a set audience. If one does not like the
incomprehensive, blundering, annoying and unimaginative drivel of Adam
Sandler's inhuman man-child shtick, you would not like this movie. I
never have, so it's safe to say, this was one excruciatingly painful
movie to bear.

That all said, I can see in a world that people flocked to see
Twilight, follow Kardashians or actually would vote for Trump, there's
something for everyone. Though, it would not be easy to block out the
obnoxious and high-pitched annoying voice of Sandler, the movie itself
is so formulaic, clichéd, obvious and felt long for even 89 minutes. Of
course, that falls in the "easy for people to like" category since
people tend to like sequels, remakes and films done hundreds of times
before.

I guess one can't really take anything serious here. Hell, Sandler
didn't even look like he did since he was completely inconsistent with
his own character…and I'm not talking about his predictable "growth."
Granted he was playing a spoiled young adult going on -2 who did
anything he wanted at any second of the day, but he would jump out of
character at odd times to play someone completely different throughout
the film. 

Throw in a bunch of other dumb and uncreative characters, and you have
a movie that solely relies on its audience liking the blabber of the
nitwit on screen. Like that, and you'll probably forgive everything
else. Don't and I just saved you 89 precious minutes you had no idea
you'd want to spend doing something constructive.
<|_=00=_|>

*** MAY CONTAIN A SPOILER OR TWO. HERE'S A TIP, DON'T BOTHER WATCHING THIS
TRASHY FLICK AND YOU WON'T HAVE TO WORRY ***

I cannot believe how bad this film was. I use the past tense since I
dropped
it in a bottomless pit and even that wouldn't touch it. In the end I threw
the video in a furnace and washed my brain out with industrial bleach. It
is
SO amazingly inept ; the characters are SO repellent ; the plot
contrivances
are SO nonsensical ; and the scripting is SO bad. It made me cringe. I
lied
to friends about watching it. I lost hope for humanity. Really, it's
horrific.

Going into this movie I quite liked Adam Sandler. 'Airheads' was fun and
'Happy Gilmore' was hilarious. Post viewing I realised there are basically
two types he could play : repressed romantic with a short fuse ('The
Wedding
Singer',
'Happy Gilmore') which is funny ; and irritating dimwit with a stupid
voice
('Billy Madison', The Waterboy'). The latter can be tolerable with a
decent
script but this abomination doesn't even make any sense.

Sandler is annoying, you just want his performance to end, the main
supporting characters are badly constructed and the situations rarely
raise
a laugh. Norm Macdonald, who sometimes raises a smile, is lost amid a sea
of
crap scripting. A musical number totally misses the mark and most
everything
else is bafflingly bad.

On the plus side, the ever average Chris Farley and Sandler's mate Steve
Buscemi put in quirky cameos in an attempt to save the film, and the early
scenes before high school are amusing, but to no avail. This is really bad
and even the funny parts can't stop the calvacade of detritus from pouring
down.

1.8 out of 5. Perhaps I'm being unfair but Adam can do so much
better.
