
I first saw "Anastasia" in the theatre the last day of November, 1997,
the year it came out. I was eight, the year she is in the prolouge.
Ever since, I have been interested in the story of Anastasia Nikolaevna
Romanov, her life, and her untimely death.

While I know the movie is not historically accurate, I don't care! The
movie is fiction after all- based on a true story (of Anastasia's
rumored escape and women who claimed to be her), loosely, mind you- but
perhaps it is not as unlikely as it seems: when the remains of the
Romanovs were discovered back in 1991, Alexei (her brother,the
Czarvitch) and one of the Grand Duchesses were missing. And with age
analysis of the bones, scientists believe that the missing daughter is
in fact Anastasia, and not one of her sisters, Olga, Tatiana, or Maria.
But who really knows what happened?

My opinion of the movie is that it is wonderful. It draws you into the
world of the lost Russian Princess, to a time that is "far away, long
ago", that doesn't exist anymore.

The music and animation are stunning, and the photo research of St.
Petersburg is amazing! Take the Catherine Palace and the magnificent
gate you see, as well as the city itself. The 3-D animation is amazing;
you look like you could reach out and touch it! The music is truly
magical; "Once Upon a December" (especially Deana Carter's version)

is haunting yet beautiful. I own the soundtrack- I listen to it
frequently

to help me relax.

But what I love best about the movie is the romance that occurs between
Anya(Anastasia) and Dimitri. It starts out as a con, a trick for money,
and turns into a love story. I think it shows that people really do
have good in them, and that true love really exists. It's also
heartwarming to think that a young boy who saved the girl he liked
(princess or not) later helps her restore her identity and find a true
place (in this case, happily together with him).

"Anastasia" is really my favourite movie of all time, even though now
I'm almost 15. I'd recommend it to anyone, and advise historical
literialists to look beyond the fiction and let yourself be taken on a
"Journey to the Past" with the romance, comedy, and magic of this
story.
<|_=00=_|>

The best way to watch a movie is with suspension of disbelief - Just trust
what the producers present you with and don't question it. With that,
"Anastasia" is one of the most delightful movies I've seen in some time.
It's like an old musical, with people spontaneously erupting into
choreographed dance, but with modern dialog (And funny, at that!), an
enjoyable romance, and action sequences to keep things moving. The music,
while nothing to remember to the point of distraction, was perfect for
humming, and even worked to advance the plot - Unlike so many animated songs
put in for the sake of having a song. So it wasn't historically perfect - if
it were, there'd be no story. Go ahead and feel smug that you know what
really happened, but don't turn to comment to your neighbor, lest you miss
one minute of the wonderfully unfolding plot.
<|_=00=_|>

Let others carp about the disservices to history:  this Anastasia rises
above its flaws to offer an engaging, emotionally resonant story of a girl's
search for identity.  Within its historical, quasi-factual context, the film
presents a situation almost everyone can relate to--that of trying to find
one's place in the world.  Orphaned Anya's quest for her past (and,
consequently, her future) strikes universal emotional chords:  singing
"Journey to the Past," she sets out with both trepidation and hope to find
her identity and her place in the world.  The haunting, poignant "Once Upon
a December" sequence, one of the finest scenes in any recent film, is
unforgettable, as we watch Anya's yearnings take the form of a ghostly dance
with memories of a vanished life.  And the final reunion where hostility melts gradually into acceptance, is one of the
most moving and satisfying moments in film.
Everything about the film bespeaks loving attention and quality:  the
magnificent animation and design re-create lavish Russian and Parisian
locations (complete with recognizable artworks and cameos by celebrities of
the '20s), and the screenplay balances action, humor, and genuine emotion.
Villain Rasputin is clearly aimed at children, and some of the repartee
between Anya and unlikely hero Dimitri may seem jarringly anachronistic, but
viewers of any age should still enjoy this timeless coming-of-age
story.
<|_=00=_|>
I absolutely LOVE this movie! I am a little amused by all the people
having a problem with this movie not being historically accurate. Need
I remind people that this is a cartoon, not a documentary? I was
actually impressed with the attention to details: Nicholas looks very
much like he did in life, Anastasia's little brother's sickness is not
overlooked (he is walking with a limp), 'Once upon a December's words
'Someone holds me safe and warm... ' sound so much like a Russian Gypsy
song! 

That said, I do have to say that there are a few things that could have
been prevented by hiring one Russian speaking person. Examples: When
Dimitry and Anya first meet, he has a problem pronouncing her name.
That would never happen. Anya is a very common name in Russia and would
not be mistaken for anything else. Also, when Sophie opened the door
she says something that IS NOT a Russian name, very silly. Another
example would be Anastasia looking through her family album, when they
make her memorize thing, remember the picture of uncle Vanya? ("Loved
his vodka, got it Anya?") Well, he just looks like a common peasant,
not a member of royal family.

Bartok. I wonder who thought of the name. It is not a Russian name
My guess is that it was meant to be 'BRATOK' which means 'little
brother', used to address a companion, a friend. 

So.. those are my thoughts. All in all, I highly recommend the movie.
Not as an educational historical reference, but as a wonderful
entertaining musical animated movie! The fact that is NOT Disney is
actually a big plus for me!

Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>

Some of the most beautiful animation and backgrounds in recent history are a
central ingredient of "Anastasia", a charming full-length feature based on
the famous title character and set against the period of the Russian
revolution. Expert vocal work by Angela Lansbury (Dowager Empress), Meg Ryan
(Anastasia), John Kusack (Dimitri) and many others, make the characters seem
more dimensional than in most animated features. Particularly Dimitri and
Anastasia, whose love-hate relationship seems startlingly real given the
superb animation.

The score is studded with some Oscar-nominated music and the sinister
moments have the kind of villain you love to hate (Rasputin). Some of the
scenes might be too intense for small children--as well as a realistic
railway scene on a runaway car--but all in all, should delight young and
old. Angela Lansbury's voice is especially effective as the Empress. The art
of animation doesn't get any better than this!
This Don Bluth/Gary Goldman production is as good as anything Disney might
have attempted.

<|_=00=_|>
Anastatsia is without doubt one of the best animated movies ever made,
for several reasons. It's an amazing story, filled with adventure,
romance, smart dialog and wonderful music. The story is set in Russia
and other parts of Europe, both in the wonderful palaces of the Czar
family and the french countryside. It tells the story of the lost
princess Anastasia, and uses the rumors that she as the only one of the
Romanov family survived the massacre during the Russian revolution.
Anya, a girl with no memory of her past, meets with two men of
questionable professions that promise to take her to Paris, if she's
willing to try to convince the Dowager Emperess that she might be
Anastasia... Unfortunately, the evil sorcerer Rasputin (the man who
killed the Romanov family) also knows that Anya is alive, and swears to
kill her, whatever the cost... So Anya is taken on a magical
adventurous ride through Europe, to find her family. 

One of the best things about the movie is the characters. They seem so
real, like real persons, not platonic, "a beautiful damsel in
distress", "a handsome hero" end of story... The music is wonderful,
better than in many Disney movies, and the story very good.

The only things I don't like about the film, is the things that's
dangerous about making movies about real historical events. The Romanov
Family weren't the innocents victims they're painted out to be, and the
fact that the story is based on that... But I've only started to think
about this now when I'm older, so... Anyone who likes a good movie,
rent or buy Anastasia. It's worth it. 

I should recommend the Swedish version, if someone here was to see it.
Helen Sjöholm is the singer of Anya's role, and she is one of the best
singers in Sweden...
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie (maybe a bit graphic for young children) was still
charming. It was able to make me laugh and feel with the characters
during the more heartfelt scenes. I thought the animation was
beautiful, and the storyline was well-developed.

There weren't gaps in the plot, leaving the audience to suspend their
disbelief and make up excuses as to what or why something occurred.

The music was not only memorable, but it had a range of style,
including haunting melodies and catchy beats. And the singers weren't
concerned with sounding like pop singers, taking the audience out of
the movie, which I appreciated.
<|_=00=_|>
The last time I saw this, I thought there were maybe too many songs in
it that distracted the feel from the movie. But now that I've seen it
again, it's clear that the songs are well written, along with the
storyline.

This is not based on a true story, only loosely on a few rumors that
the real Anastasia survived the killing of her family. The heroine Anya
is like a Disney princess who is desperate to find out who she is and
where she belongs, after suffering from amnesia following the
separation of her family. The villain is the brilliant Rasputin, back
from the dead, intent on extracting revenge on the Romanovs, thus
starting the Russian Revolution. Dimitri and Vladimir at first are
looking to find the ideal Anastasia look alike in order to get the
riches from her real mother in Paris.

A lot of Bluth's films revolve around a journey and a couple involving
some history on Russia. I really enjoyed the songs that played over the
end credits, "At the Beginning" and "Journey To The Past" sung in her
own way by Aaliyah, the beautiful angelic voiced R&B singer who left
way too soon.

Brilliantly animated for its time and enjoyable for adults, Anastasia
remains a classic family film.
<|_=00=_|>
This is my personal favourite of the Don Bluth movies. I also recommend
American Tail, Land Before Time and All Dogs Go To Heaven. Anastasia is
just beautiful, and was one of the most requested films when we had our
family cinemas. A couple of years ago, I got it on video, and all those
memories came back. I love this movie so much. The animation is
gorgeous. The characters are well drawn, and the backgrounds and
colours are stunning. There is a lot of wit between the characters. Not
to mention a truly sweet romance between Anastasia and Dimitri. Whoever
hated this movie, must be told, that this is so much more watchable
than Richard Rich's King and I. Anastasia herself is so beautiful. The
highlights were Anastasia's dream and the scene on the train. The songs
are what make this movie. My favourite is "Once Upon a December" as it
is so nostalgic, haunting and poignant. All the other songs are well
done and move the story forward. Even "Dark of the Night". As for the
story, yes it is historically inaccurate, but so is Pocahontas, and
this is marginally better. It was so well told. In some Don Bluth
movies, they lose the essence right from minute one, but not here. As
for the voice talents, they were all impeccable. Meg Ryan was suitably
feisty as Anastasia, and Liz Callaway did her singing voice
beautifully. John Cusack put an immense amount of charm into his
voice-over, although Dimitri was for me was the weakest character in
the movie. Kelsey Grammar has great fun as Vladmir, and also check him
out as Zozi in Bartok the Magnificent. Christopher Lloyd voices villain
Rasputin with over the top menace, and the villain loses his body parts
here. We have all had days like that. Hank Azaria is also great as
Bartok.Underrated Broadway actress Bernadette Peters has a great french
accent, and I had so much fun with her singing "Paris hold the key to
your heart." For me, Angela Lansbury provides a completely human and
poignant character in the Dowager Empress. Her prologue was so well
paced, and there was a side to the great character actress that I never
knew she had. In conclusion, a sweet and beautiful animation that is
essential to all animation lovers. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
I loved "Anastasia". It is easily one of the best movies directed by
the great animator Don Bluth, who also made classics as "The Land
Before Time" and "The Secret of NIMH". It has all the feeling of
classic animated films like "Snowhite" and "Cinderella", with gorgeous
animation, beautiful music, great voice performances and many memorable
sequences. Meg Ryan and John Cusack are great in their roles, while
Christopher Lloyd is great as the villain. This is a great for all the
family, and it is shame that there aren't very much animated films like
this in the recent times (The closest thing that I saw recently was
"The princess and the Frog" which was pretty good)
