

I just love to read some of the negative comments on a film like this.  This
is a movie about a Las Vegas headliner who is called to help deal with
unruly kids at a Catholic school. You were expecting maybe Schindler's List?
 When did it become such a crime just to enjoy a delightful movie packed
with talent all geared toward entertainment?

And what talent.  Whoopi Goldberg, Lauryn Hill, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Kathy
Najimy, Maggie Smith, James Coburn, Michael Jeter, and more.  It's adorable
and it handily meets its goal of being entertaining.  All I can say is that
I pity people who have become so jaded, or are so concerned with being cool,
that they can't enjoy such a funny and charming film.
<|_=00=_|>
SISTER ACT 2: BACK IN THE HABIT, in my opinion, is an excellent comedy
about sticking together. It really made me feel good and smile,
especially when Deloris (Whoopi Goldberg) performed her solo act at the
beginning of the movie. Also, the soundtrack is really good, too. The
best things about it, in my opinion, are the musical number. My
favorite song of the movie would have to be either "Ain't No Mountain
High Enough" or the St. Francis Academy's rendition of "Joyful,
Joyful." In conclusion, if you like Whoopi Goldberg films, I highly
recommend this movie. You're in for a good time and lots of laughs, so
see this movie today.
<|_=00=_|>

When the Nun's get sick of the unruly behaviour the kids display during
school, and the lack of work that is being done, Mother Superior (Maggie
Smith) calls upon Sister Mary Clarence, Deloris Van Cartier for help. So
she's goin' back to the convent. She's gettin' back into that uniform, and,
she's gettin' back in the habit!

While there, Mary Clarence (Whoopi Goldberg) manages to transform the music
class of non-listening, no attention-paying roudy little snots into a
magical choir with voices of gold. It is here, that they decide to enter the
regional championships for school singing (or something along those
lines).

However, one girl in particular, once a drop-out, with an awesome voice
(played brilliantly by Fugee's frontwoman Lauryn Hill), is not intially
allowed to go. Her mother (played by another R 'N' B singer Sheryl Lee
Ralph, also from 'Moesha') will not allow her to. So she forges her
signature and they head off to the championships.

Jennifer Love Hewitt stars here, as one of the singing kids from the music
class (bearing in mind, that she has since released 3 albums). Wendy Makkena
and Kathy Najimy reprise their roles as two of the most-mentioned
Nuns.

Once again, Whoopi manages to pull off another great movie, without a great
deal of trouble. Lot's of fun, but I enjoyed the first one, just a little
bit more. 7./10
<|_=00=_|>

I don't care what most people say...I loved this movie!! I thought it was
better than the 1st but I can see from reading the other comments not many
people agree with me, but that's OK.  I'll just be alone in this one.  What
makes it for me is the teenagers.  I love the kids in this movie.  Amual
makes me crack up every time I watch it and I think Lauryn Hill is fabulous!
 OK so the ending is very predictable but I think would have been
disappointed if they hadn't won.  Am I right?!  I love watching the ending
over and over, or when Amual hits that high note for their first concert. 
Anyways...I don't see how people don't love this movie, it's so fun and has
such a great message!  I'd much rather watch teenagers that I can relate to
in the sequel than a bunch of old nuns in the 1st Sister Act but that's just
me!  Guess I'm alone here!  

One thing I want to say though regardless of anything is that I think every
school choir should show this movie!  I'm in the choir at my school and
unfortunately we have very little spirit and most people in it don't care
very much.  I'm going to recommend that we show this movie to my choir
teacher.  It may not help but it can't hurt.  I recommend every choir see
this one just to show that a choir can dance and have fun while singing.  At
least show the ending if nothing else!  Ok there's my two cents!  Everyone
needs to see the movie at least for the music and to have a good
time!

I give this movie a 9.5/10!  
<|_=00=_|>
As someone who is more into edgy, thriller movies, I would just DIE of
embarrassment if anyone I know knew how much I love this film! I don't
know why, because it is an eternal cheese-fest, but it is such a
feel-good film. I love everything about it from the Whoopi Goldberg and
Lauren Hill to the corny storyline. OK, so it's certainly no
masterpiece, but it's also no Teenwolf 2 either. I think this is an
underrated gem and deserves more than the 4.5 rating it has received.
It's worth watching just to hear the amazing voices of some of the
individuals involved. I think everyone has a cheesy film they secretly
love, and this is definitely mine - just don't tell anyone!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
such a pleasure, albeit a guilty one! The original wasn't good enough
to warrant a sequel. Nonetheless, the choirs are so talented; their
acts never get tired no matter how many times this piece re-runs on
cable. Whatever her other pros and cons, Whoopi plays to the ensemble
in this one, never the scene hog. What a pleasure to see an icon like
Maggie Smith so thoroughly and obviously enjoying herself---ditto Mary
Wickes, after being such a steadfast fixture of a supporting character
on screen for nearly 70 years, her penultimate screen appearance.

and really that's the whole point here isn't it? simple enjoyment, by
actors and audience, in a meld of plots so familiar and comfortable,
especially at holiday time. Among them--- Hey Kids Let's Put on a Show
and Save Grandpa's Farm... Fish Out of Water Makes Good... Stick
Together and Win the Big Game...
<|_=00=_|>
It's one year later, Deloris has returned back to singing in Las Vegas,
mobsters locked up. Things are OK until she is asked a favor by the
head nun to return as a music teacher at the school the church runs.
Things don't start off correctly, a bunch of neighborhood students,
kids who have seen rough times, she tries to show them the talent they
have in their voices. But it is going take some time and patience to
prepare them for a big singing show. One day while practicing Deloris
discovers that the students have been invited to sing for the pope,
which we all hope it will go well. This was one of the best movies
Whoopi has done.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an acceptable though inferior sequel to ¨Sister act¨ , a
surprising box office hit ; it has a similar casting and set at an old
High School which is destined for closure . The club singer Deloris Van
Cartier (Whoopi Goldberg) is again asked to don the nun's habit to help
a Catholic school , presided over by Superior Mother (Maggie Smith) and
formed by charming nuns (Wendy Makkenna, Kathy Najimy , Mary Wickes,
among others). Friendly Deloris back and has to teach music to a bunch
of students in their parochial college which is fated for closure . She
creates a choir to participate in the state championship . A group of
stereotypical botcher monks (Barnard Hughes , Michael Jeter) and a
greedy administrator (James Coburn) attempt to detain them . However
,one of the girls (Lauryn Hill) , who is the most talented of the team
, is banned to sing by her mummy (Sheryl Lee Ralph) . Los Angeles
lounge singer donning nun's habit and organizing the convent choir
formed by sympathetic nuns who steal best laughs and including a
spectacular as well as amusing concert .

This entertaining film with some genuinely funny moments follows the
formula about a fish out water . Motormouth and kind Whoopi Goldberg is
pretty well as the vaudeville star become unexpected nun , she is a
complete show . Whoopi Goldberg was very unhappy making the first film
and made this sequel only after Disney decided to finance her dream
project, Sarafina! . Good performances from agreeable nuns , Wendy
Makkenna , Kathy Najimy , the veteran Mary Wickes and excellent Maggie
Smith who disapproves modern methods . Fine support cast , being this
the first movie for Lauryn Hill, Ryan Toby and Jennifer Love Hewitt .
And Whoopi Goldberg's daughter, Alex Martin, appears in this movie as
one of the classroom children . The musical numbers in 'Diana Ross and
the Supremes style', magical choreography and songs are catchy and done
with gusto . The movie is amusing and entertaining with enjoyable set
pieces but don't let it make you expect too much . Well-done musical
score with swinging tunes by Marc Shaiman and Miles Goodman ; including
colorful cinematography by Oliver Wood . The film is geared directly
toward Whoopi Goldberg fans and young viewers . The motion picture was
professionally directed by Bill Duke . Bill is a known and prestigious
secondary actor , usual in villain roles as Commando (1985) and
especially as one of Schwarzenegger's jungle commandos in Depredator
(1987). After cutting his directorial teeth on the small screen , Duke
directed his first feature film with the crime drama , ¨Rage in Harlem¨
(1991). This was followed by another impressive crime film ¨Deep cover¨
(1992), then made this comedy sequel , Sister Act 2 (1993). Duke has
since continued to divide his time between appearing both in front of
the camera and behind it , and remains a dynamic, stimulating and
creative talent in Hollywood.
<|_=00=_|>

Compared to most sequels, this is in the top 20.  But as for comparison to
the first, there is almost no relation.  The first was a good movie.
Sister
Act 2: Back In The Habit does not compare to most movies.  Some cheap
independent films, if well acted, are better.  But some commercial movies
are worse than this movie.  It had no great acting.  Some things were
funny.
But why didn't the nuns sing again?  That would seem most logical to do
in
this film.  And kids?  Ok, I guess.  But the story line could be changed,
and then everything re-vamped, without the practically psychotic men from
the monastery, and you have a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>
The original Sister Act was hilarious, great and just awesome but when
Whoopi Goldberg did the sequel she just topped her first performance.
It was not as funny as the first but the movie was more down to earth.
It gave us a taste of a up-coming beautiful, sensuous and gifted young
lady named Lauryn Hill. 

This movie is just a great family movie. Great music! Great Acting!
Great Movie! Whoopi has really outdone her self with this one. I
absolutely love this movie! With the combination of Whoopi Goldberg,
Lauryn Hill, Ryan Toby, Kathy Najimy and Maggie Smith and Jennifer-Love
Hewitt. This just an awesome movie. With all the hilarious parts and
great songs from the first original but just better. I strongly
recommend this family classic to your own private collection. I love
and adore this movie and I absolutely love and adore the soundtrack. It
just a great movie.
