
Mission: Impossible was a fast paced espionage thriller that actually
made you think, which is what I like in a movie. Since John Woo, who is
one of the kings of the action genre, took over for Brian De Palma, you
can expect Mission: Impossible II to be an intense action movie with a
majorly dumbed down plot. Everything to do with the plot is laid out
for us basically right away. Now, all there is to do is sit back and
watch those classic John Woo action sequences. In this movie, Ethan
Hunt is once again a secret agent, and he is sent on a mission to stop
a crooked agent from stealing a deadly virus for his own use.

I liked the first Mission: Impossible better because it had a more
advanced plot. This Mission: Impossible is just a bland shoot 'em up
action film. Now there's nothing wrong with that. The movie was still
immensely entertaining. It just didn't fit in with the first film. Even
the character of Ethan Hunt, though still played by Tom Cruise, is
different. In this movie he doesn't seem as serious about his job. He's
more cocky. However, I do like that the character now has absolutely
amazing skills in hand to hand combat.

Overall, if you're looking for a smart spy thriller like the first
film, this ain't it. If you're looking for a fun action film with
amazing action sequences, this is it.

6.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
Wow. I've seen lots of bad movies and lots of bad sequels, but this one
was just incredibly bad. I didn't even know it was possible to sink
that low. And it wasn't even bad in a funny way, but simply bad in an
extremely painful way. I don't even know why I watched it to the end.

The story is nothing but a series of clichés. The bad guys have stolen
a killer virus and are intending to let it loose to make a fortune
selling the antidote. Very predictable, eh? The characters couldn't be
more two-dimensional if they were in a Nintendo game. Being a tomboy, I
absolutely hate it when women in movies have no personality and are
just added in as a love interest. Nyah, the chick in MI2, is a perfect
example of this. She was the only female in the entire film and her
sole purpose was to be sexy (as is subtly shown by several pointless
cleavage shots). Sure, the movie wants you to think that she could kick
ass if she wanted to by making her a professional thief, but isn't very
convincing at that. In the end, while Tom Cruise is engaged in a very
unrealistic battle sequence on a beach, she roams around aimlessly,
considering the possibility of throwing herself off a cliff (which
would have been a relief).

I was going to talk about the extremely pointless car chase sequence
between the hero and the chick, in which they demolish their cars for
no reason whatsoever, but I don't really know what to say about it.

The only good thing about this film is that it was so boring that I
preferred doing the homework I'd been postponing for ages to watching
the dumb motorcycle chases.
<|_=00=_|>
I knew going into this movie that it was going to be easy viewing, but
I thought it would have more of a plot. Sure, the action scenes are
great in that classic John Woo, ultra-choreographed way, but the plot
isn't original or have much to it. Dougray Scott tries as the villain,
but he's not scary at all, just sort of mildly irritable. After all,
this is a villain who demands stock options as part of his bounty.
(Truly, a sign of the times, and the audience laughed at that one.)
Thandie Newton, who I had never seen before, is certainly beautiful,
but she carries two expressions on her face through the entire movie,
and resembles Ally McBeal in a tighter T-shirt. And then there's Tom.
His character is more of a James Bond clone than the character is the
original movie; I admire his guts and fearlessness for doing several
scenes (especially the opening one), and the truth is, he's not bad.
This just could have been much more. I did like Anthony Hopkins,
though. He brings class to whatever he appears in.
<|_=00=_|>

I thoroughly enjoyed the first Mission Impossible. It was probably the only
film that puts you into the mind of a secret agent as he tries to uncover a
conspiracy that wiped out his cohorts. It had excellent twists, who would
have thought that the hero of the TV series (Jim Phelps) finally turns into
the bad guy.

The sequel however has no plot, no interesting dialogue just mindless
shootouts that would leave Gun and ballistic experts laughing in disbelief.
John Woo is not a director he is a second unit director that got lucky. He
cannot control his cast, he cannot convey any plot and he cannot stage
believable action sequences.

Woo seems to be directing (if you could call it that) in his sleep. The
storyline seems to slightly mirror the original film in that a member of
IMF
goes rogue (not another one!!) and tries to release a Killer Virus called
Chimaera on an unsuspecting world.

Apparently IMF Boss (Anthony Hopkins) knows the whereabouts of the
Villain's
hideout and orders Ethan Hunt to plant the Bad Guy's Ex girlfriend in an
attempt to undermine him. (Wouldn't it have been better if they just
attacked the HQ with commandos etc)

In the original film Ethan Hunt gets promoted to Jim Phelps rank within the
organisation but in the sequel he is still a "Point man" jumping around in
commando gear. Ving Rhames and his Australian colleague seem to do
absolutely nothing in this film other than occassionally tap on a computer
laptop keyboard and try to look serious. By removing the "team" element
that
made the series so great it makes the whole thing look like James Bond
rather than Mission Impossible.

An interesting point to note is that since we know that Jim Phelp's salary
was 60K PA There is no way the Rogue IMF grunt in this film could afford a
massive private army along with a beach front Condo.

Some other laughable points in this film include:

The painstaking attempt by Hunt to infiltrate a building by bungee jumping
down a giant ventilator shaft while the Rogue IMF villain and his private
army gingerly stroll through the front door of said building.

The IMF villain must be unbelievably dumb to initiate a shootout (including
explosions) with Ethan Hunt in a deadly Virus/Chemical research
lab.

The Second Unit Director's (Woo) laughable obsession with White Doves that
seem to have more screen time than Anthony Hopkins.

The throat elastoplast that enables people to talk like other people
including perfecting their accents (South African, Scottish,
American)

And finally the car and motorcycle chases that seem to break the laws of
physics rather than breaking the monotony of the plot.

It is hard to believe that it took four years of rewrites and production/
shooting to create this sorry mess. Even the soundtrack by Metallica and
Limp Bizkit is absolutely Tuneless and irrelevant to the
film.

Although it made an impressive opening weekend this film got so slated by
critics and the media that it would be lucky to break even from box office
takings. So do not expect an MI3 so quickly.

This movie will have the distinction of earning a Golden Turkey award.

<|_=00=_|>
Well, this was a pretty poor excuse for a movie. I liked the first and
third but the second was awful. You would know John Woo was involved by
the inclusion of doves flying through the under ground lair shortly
after an explosion! I just don't get the dove thing.

It is a pretty straight forward, brain at the door action movie but the
real problem with it is the huge inconsistencies throughout the movie.
OK, the acting is a bit crappy, there's the token love interest and
everything else is pretty forgettable but its an action movie, thats
their nature sometimes.

The 'chase' scenes are awful to be fair to them, especially the
motorbike one. How is it that his bike doesn't explode when his gas
tank is hit but everything he shoots blows up? How can a bullet fired
almost directly at you shatter the visor on the bike and not hit the
passenger? Then to top it all off before duelling with there bikes on
the sand, the high performance road bikes take an off camera pit-stop
to change the slick tires to off-road. This brief rant illustrates the
stream of flaws through the movie and I think Mr. Woo should be
accountable. Tut tut John. If you want action try somewhere else
because this will leave you under whelmed. Try number III, its not all
bad.
<|_=00=_|>
The first 60 percent of this movie was pretty good; the last 40 percent
was mostly action and mostly so hokey, so stupid, it was an insult for
any viewer with a brain. Too bad, the first Mission Impossible was
excellent and I hear the third film was good. However, this second one
was a stinker by comparison.

I except most films to have that "Rambo mentality," as I call it, where
hundreds of bullets are fired - and missed- at the hero, while he or
she hits everything in sight. That was here but so overly done that is
was absurd and downright annoying after awhile.

Tom Cruise, our hero, should have been shot so many times I lost count.
This is director John Woo, for you, who always overdoes action and
sometimes makes it ridiculous.

The good points are slick photography, interesting characters, good
surround sound, low profanity and a very good soundtrack. Thandie
Newton is attractive heroine and Dougray Scott is satisfactory as the
main villain.

The movie plays more like a James Bond film, although it still has MI
touches such as the fake rubber masks we saw in the first film. More
realism in that 40 minutes would have made this a far better film than
it turned out to be. Oveall, a bit disappointing.
<|_=00=_|>
I really liked 1996's 'Mission: Impossible'. Now here is the antithesis
of the first movie: 'Mission: Impossible II'. The first film was a
tight, smooth thriller that barreled along at warp speed, and was a
nice break from conventional Hollywood action thrillers. 'II' pretty
much IS a conventional Hollywood thriller.

Almost nothing from the first film has been picked up here: Tom Cruise?
Yes, he's back, but he's not a spy anymore. He's James Bond, minus ANY
cool gadgets or charisma. The awesome theme music? Gone, replaced with
a horrible rock score. The action is typical Hollywood: Slow-motion
gunplay and martial arts.

Ugh, I hate this movie! The acting and dialogue is lame, the
techno-rock score even lamer, and the action scenes are mundane. Here's
hoping 'MI: III' won't be as cringe-inducing as this disaster.
<|_=00=_|>

If you sometimes go to the movies to be entertained by unbelievably daring
stunts, this is the movie to see.  From 
Cruise's incredible rock climb to nail-biting motorcycle
"joist"
this movie impresses with the stunts.  The plot could be written on the back
of a postage stamp.  However, that's rarely
what audiences go to see films like this for.  The performances
are above average, particularly Dougray Scott and Thadie
Newton.
A pity Newton's character is underused during the second half of the film. 
Besides being beautiful, this woman can ACT!
It is also refreshing to see a demonstrably romantic and affectionate
interracial relationship portrayed on screen in such a positive manner. 
Newton's race never comes up in the film.  Credit producer Tom Cruise for
this one.
This is one of those movies I'd rent to give my home theatre system a
workout.  This movie succeeds on its own level; however, I can understand
how others could be disappointed.
I gave this one a "7" on the IMDB scale.

By the way, it was a clever touch to have Cruise receive his mission
briefing via wrap-around sunglasses.  Kind of nice to
be reminded of RISKY BUSINESS.
<|_=00=_|>
Whoops! This appears to have been something of an oversight on my
reviews list, despite me having seen it the other day on ITV2. The
problem with this film is that it's one of those I assumed I'd already
written about, thanks to heavy TV syndication. After viewing the third
film the other day, I was reminded how little this had to do with the
original source material but was still an entertaining, if extremely
shallow, action blast with the old John Woo trademarks all present and
correct.

Tom Cruise returns as super-spy Ethan Hunt, who's rock-climbing holiday
is interrupted by his superiors at the IMF. Ethan is asked to recruit
beautiful thief Nyah Nordoff-Hall (Thandie Newton) to accompany him on
his latest assignment: to recover a deadly virus called "Chimera"
stolen by former IMF agent Sean Ambrose (Dougray Scott) in Australia.
As Ethan fights his growing attraction to Nyah, he in unable to prevent
her falling into harm's way and before long, Ethan is caught in a
deadly race against time to prevent the virus being unleashed and to
find the antidote to save Nyah's life.

After so much criticism of the first movie's overly-complicated plot,
it's no real surprise that "Mission: Impossible 2" is dumber than
lighting a match in a room full of dynamite. This has Woo's stamp all
over it, feeling like a wish-list of action scenes and death-defying
stunts crammed between slow-mo shots of doves and needlessly stylish
shots devoid of dialogue. It has nothing at all to do with the
"Mission: Impossible" series, something which parts one and three at
least attempt. Acting is adequate but no more - Newton feels the most
out-of-place - but it's the action scenes that rightly dominate and for
which Woo is known for the world over. But for Woo veterans, there
isn't really anything there you haven't already seen before. 

So basically, it's a disappointing action thriller that doesn't do
anything new. So why do I prefer this to the others? Maybe it's because
I'm a shallow kinda guy but I suspect the real reason I prefer this is
because it's a film aimed squarely at the audience and not at the
critics. Woo knows what the majority of pop-corn munchers look for in
an action movie and here, he delivers such a huge amount that there is
something for every action fan. The problem with that approach,
especially with this film, is that it couldn't be any more different
from what went before it. Imagine if one of the "Godfather" sequels had
been a romantic comedy instead of a mob flick - this is that movie. And
because it's such a wild change from the first, it effectively killed
off the franchise by stripping away its identity. Even J.J. Abrams
struggles to get the series back on track, despite mixing the action
and the intelligence into one film. "Mission: Impossible 2" isn't as
bad as some have claimed but it is proper movie Marmite - you'll either
love it or hate it with every fibre of your being.
<|_=00=_|>
In writing a story to fit the action in "Mission: Impossible 2",
Screenwriter Robert Towne brought nuance, complexity and irony to the
human interaction and to the characters So greed is the animating
force 

Being an amazing filmmaker, John Woo wanted "Mission Impossible 2" to
have a lot more emotion and romance A romantic interest that can
engage the hero emotionally, pushing him to exercise his skills In
this case, he's trying to save the life of someone he cares for and
lovesThe story revolves around three characters The good guy and the
bad guy in love with the same girl 

John Woo's sequences were highly developed, completely mind-blowing,
dangerous and exciting Woo really pushed his elements to the edge,
designing action that people have never seen 

Tom Cruise and Thandie Newton looked very charming, proving to have a
great chemistry with each other They also looked very natural I loved
the scene when they meet, and how they meet The opening scene came
from Robert Wise's "West Side Story" It is boy meets girl, girl looks
at boy No story telling was needed With high speed and the judicious
muting of sound, Woo made it a love-at-first-sight moment, isolating
our two heroes in a very lovely way 

Tom's character was a new kind of a hero A person who really cares
about people, and enjoys life He has a great passion about nature,
about love, about everything 

Thandie's romantic life was very busy She is involved with the
character played by Dougray Scott, Ambrose who's the key for the
Mission team He is the one with the information which Thandie's
character has to win back Dougray was a really interesting bad guy, as
complex a bad guy as you can get and with an impossible mission... 

Dougray's Ambrose becomes disillusioned with being in Ethan's shadow
In deciding to have more power, he turns to the other side He forms a
renegade band of ex-Special Forces people But Ambrose couldn't even be
himself He includes his identity into Hunt's, when Ethan was not
available So if he needed to be something, he had to be Ethan Hunt 

Ving Rhames' Luther was a balance in the team He's a computer expert
who brought the charm to his character Outside of Ethan Hunt, he is
the only returning member of the IMF team 

"Mission: Impossible 2" gave John Woo the ability to really use his
filming style, which is the slow motion on key moments You can see
Cruise slow-motion flipping through the air, walking through flames
with a white dove sending a message to the evil, running and jumping
out of a hole, climbing dangerous scary high cliff, jousting on a
motorcycle, trapped in a gun battle, Kick boxing, and having a really
sharp and pointy knife in the eye
