

Living the part of your life you wished were better is something that many
of us have wished we could do, but for Larry Burrows, it becomes reality
in
"Mr. Destiny."

Jim Belushi definitely played his best part in this well-done film about
second chances.  The character of Larry Burrows is believable and is like
many blue-collar workers in America.  Burrows is the kind of person that
lets everyone go ahead of him, with out trying to get ahead
himself.

The chemistry between Belushi and Linda Hamilton as Ellen is very
charming,
something that many loving couples have.  Michael Caine was also superb as
Mike, who actually creeped me out the first time I saw this, which was at
least 10 years ago.  It was amazing to see how contrasted his normal life
was as opposed to his "rich life."  People liked him in his ordinary life,
but he was feared and despised in his "rich life."

In my opinion, this film teaches a very important lesson: Life is what you
make of it, and one should be thankful of what they have, and what helped
them get there.  Destiny is what shapes us, and good things will
definitely
come our way.

RATING: ****1/2 out of 5.  Excellent!:)
<|_=00=_|>

I admit I have a weakness for alternate history stories, from ITS A
WONDERFUL LIFE to GROUNDHOG DAY to 12:01. Among those greats is this little
gem. It's pretty difficult to get through MR. DESTINY without giving a nod
of appreciation to each and every cast member, from the goodhearted James
Belushi to the murderous Courtney Cox. This movie lacks the gravitas and
scale to make it a great film, but it's a fine cheer-up on a rainy
afternoon. It's also a great rental for an inexpensive date.
<|_=00=_|>

Entertaining Jim Belushi vehicle, a modern cockeyed version of It's A
Wonderful Life.  Michael Caine plays a sort-of angel who lets Belush see
what life would have been like if he had "made it big".  Jim is at his
best
with a good story and supporting cast; seems like real chemistry between
him
and Hamilton.  Not an Oscar contender but good warm-hearted fun.

<|_=00=_|>

I just watched this movie yesterday on cable, and i really enjoyed
it.
Ok, it´s not the greatest movie ever, but i would recommend this movie to
everyone who wants to see a simple movie, wich in the end makes us think,
even if it is for a little while.
Everyone has thought even once what if we hadn´t choosed a particular path
in our lives, and this is what this movie is about. About the "IF" and
about
what might have happened.
This is a story about a guy, who thought a bad event from his teen years,
had ruined is entire life, then he is sent by some spiritual entity to a
parallel universe in which that bad thing never happened and he gets to
experience first hand what would have happened in his life, if his life
had
followed this other path.
After this he learns that, there are good and bad moments in every ones
lives independent of what lifes we live.

And so we have a very good movie.
This is one of those movies, that we watch, and quickly forgget, but
sometimes when somebody mentions it, we imediatly recall all the details.
It
is one of those movies that we always remember even if it is from time to
time.

Another peculiar thing is MR.DESTINY is filled with familiar faces in
every
corner. From James Beluchi and Linda Hamilton to Michael Cane ,and we can
spend the whole movie recognizing actors, wich is also
fun.

So i don´t have much more to say, except that i really recomend this
movie.

Very simple, but very good and very cute too.
It realy puts a smile on our face by the end of it.
So watch it, and be happy.

<|_=00=_|>

Everyone plays their part pretty well in this "little nice movie". Belushi
gets the chance to live part of his life differently, but ends up
realizing
that what he had was going to be just as good or maybe even better. The
movie shows us that we ought to take advantage of the opportunities we
have,
not the ones we do not or cannot have. If U can get this movie on video
for
around $10, it´d be an investment!
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, so it borrows a little from "It's a Wonderful Life", but that was 44
years prior to this film, so why not a new attempt.  Belushi is having a
rotten 35th birthday.  He didn't get his Wheaties, his coffee, and has lost
his job.  The capper is when his self described "big blue piece of sh**" car
breaks down at the end of the day.  He heads into an empty bar to call for a
tow.  While waiting, he's recognized by the bartender (Caine) as the kid who
lost the town's championship baseball game 20 years earlier.  This gets him
to thinking how life would've been if he had won the game.  He finds out
when, unbeknownst to him, Caine serves up a motion potion in a glass that
gives him a mansion, the prom queen (Russo) as his wife, and makes him
president of the sporting goods company he's been canned from.  Caine later
reveals himself as the one who's responsible for this change, but Belushi is
not entirely on board.  He never fully adjusts, and in a plot development
that doesn't kill the movie but is still odd, he tries to court his wife
(Hamilton) from his real life, who is now married to someone else.  The good
move is that they don't spend too much time on it, as basically they rip of
"Ghost", with Belushi constantly telling Hamilton things only she could
know.  It also brings in a hokey dramatic element, as two of his lovers
kevetch in the shadows, new wife Russo, and his unbalanced lover Cox.  But
the keys to the film are the somewhat lengthy beginning, and cheery end. 
Also good work from the big and recognizable cast, as Belushi is very
likable, VERY attractive ladies chosen, and Caine is perfectly easy going as
the title guy.  Strange that this was Belushi's second film of 1990 dealing
with him getting an alternative lifestyle of riches, which was found in
"Taking Care of Business".  Though similar, both films are on the same level
of laughs provided.  So check this out for a fun exploration of "what
if?"
<|_=00=_|>

getting to work on this film when it was made back in the summer of 1990.
Shot partly in the Biltmore Estate in Asheville, 
NC and the remaining parts in Winston-Salem. The massive offices of the RJ
Reynolds were used in several office scenes and 
places in around the beautiful city that is know as the tulip capital of the
world Winston-Salem! I enjoyed my work although 
it was exceedingly hard work building all the sets like the Golf of Mexico
where Renee Russo and Jim Belushi went on their 
date. I also had a big hand in decorating the bar where Larry encounters the
magical bartender Mr. Destiny. I tacked all those 
pics on the wall of sports heroes and decorated that phone booth where larry
makes a phone call for a cab. I even put my 
mothers photo at eye level so i could freeze frame it and show it to her
when we watched it. I remember dyeing the grass at 
his old house with green dye because it first had to be sodded(it was a new
house in a new development and I guess they leased 
it for the movie)..then I had to cut that newly laid sod to make it look
nice..man that was hard! 
As far as the movie, when we made it we had no idea what it would be like
but after seeing it i fell in love with it because 
really tells the story of "what if" as good as I ever had seen it, including
the great It's a Wonderful Life. I cried so many times

i can't count. I got to meet the wonderful actor Michael Caine while
shooting scenes at an old minor league ballpark where 
Larry's boyhood scenes were played and replayed. I remember after he had
done a take an was heading back to his trailer, I ran 
him down and asked him for a picture and he was quite amiable and said "why
not!" He is a good guy and a really natural and 
forceful actor. I can't say the same for Jim Belushi..he was so full of
himself, smoking big cuban cigars and talking loudly so

everyone in earshot could hear his every word. His career never did take off
but he has had a decent TV career recently.
I would say watch this movie if you ever get the chance. It's wonderful and
really heartfelt and real. You can feel Larry's pain 
after he enters into the new world Mr. Destiny gives him after hitting the
homer, and as he wants so badly for people to 
believe he is not this bad guy everyone thinks he is. They all think he
belongs in a nuthouse! But eventually he wins people 
over but by then he wants his real life back so badly, especially his
wonderful wife, played so beautifully by Linda 
Hamilton..and he wants his dog back! 
So see it.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of my favorites because it makes me think of all the
choices I have made and how my life would change if my choices had been
different. It plays right into the " Multiple Universe "
theory.

The only thing that doesn't ring true is how Larry Burrows ( James
Belushi)has such a hard time understanding what is going on, that
everything
has changed.


<|_=00=_|>
Belushi plays an average Joe whose bored with the simple life and his
uneventful existence. Convinced that his life would have turned out
better had he made a home run instead of a miss in a ball game in his
high school years, he gets the chance to see how his life would have
turned out had he hit that ball. And what a difference it did make.

A simple and charming little sleeper, Mr. Destiny plays it's It's a
Wonderful Life scenario in good fashion. James Belushi gives an
endearing performance and manages to keep his cool throughout. Linda
Hamilton and Michael Caine give good support and an array of familiar
faces (Rene Russo, Jon Lovitz, Courtney Cox, Hart Bochner) add to the
pleasure. Film is overall free of slapstick humor and plays it straight
and it does have some very humorous moments. And a good message as
well.

On the whole Mr. Destiny delights undemanding viewers who could do a
lot worse than this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Belushi at his most ingratiating and Courtney Cox before Friends has a
small role. I often think Belushi is under-used in Hollywood and this
film role is one of his best. For those of you who watch his TV show,
this is a very different and likable character. The movie itself is not
earth shattering, nor is the message new but rather it is sweet and
endearing. The supporting cast of familiar faces and unfamiliar names
is a perfect balance although Lovitz's whining can get tiresome, and
Michael Caine's charming spiritual guide has a slightly sinister if not
well-meaning edge. Hamilton, as Belushi's wife is unfortunately
two-dimensional and one wonders why he married her. In addition, Renee
Russo is wasted and not terribly convincing at the "prom queen" who got
away. Nevertheless, a nice way to spend two hours.
