

While most movies that pit humans against horrendous extra terrestrials
end
up being cheap imitations of the 'Aliens' series, Pitch Black stands as a
fine piece of Sci-Fi, and an excellent movie all around.  Perhaps my
favorite aspect of the film is the lighting.  This movie beautifully
employs
many different colors, shades and intensities of light which set the mood
and lend a unique feeling to the film itself, something different than the
'normal' movie lighting we are generally subjected to.  Vin Diesel brings
his character to life in an excellent manner, skillfully avoiding the
routine portrayal of the hardened criminal.  After all, the film is about
Riddick's (Diesel's character) personal journey, so thankfully Vin doesn't
drop the ball.  The remainder of the cast (with the exception of the
talented and gorgeous Claudia Black) were unknown to me but all turned in
marvelous performances, animating the diverse characters with unique
quirks
and mannerisms.  Pitch Black is a perfect example of making a great film
with out the resources of an excessive budget.  The special effects are
more
than adequate, but at the same time they are by no means the sole focus,
as
in many high budget 'blockbusters'.  It's a great movie because it uses
Science Fiction as a medium to tell an engaging, provoking story, rather
then telling a mediocre story to use the flash of Science
Fiction.
<|_=00=_|>

From the first 10 seconds of Pitch Black I was hooked.  I had walked into
this movie thinking that it would be just another cheesy sci-fi movie.
Instead I found a highly entertaining, on the edge of your seat, thought
provoking action film.  The movie goes beyond your basic special effects
flick. The actors are amazing, Radah Mitchell (High Art, Love and other..)
as Fry is truly a joy to watch on screen, while Vin Diesel as Riddeck is so
captivating that you are dying just to hear him speak again.

The look of the movie is breath taking, the contrast of blues, yellows and
oranges due to the three different suns is amazing. Followed by the complete
darkness of nightfall. I would truly recommend any lover of the ALIEN movies
or Radha Mitchell (which is why I went to see it) to check out this
film. I'm sure by the end you'll look at the dark in a whole new
way.
<|_=00=_|>
Pitch Black is a survival story. It's about how to survive in an
hostile, alien world against even more hostile enemies. The task gets
even more difficult when the nearest enemies can be found within your
own surviving group.

The plot of Pitch Black is quite usual and has been seen several times
before in different variations. But what makes this movie shine above
others, is it's well-written characters.

The group consists of very different people with few more interesting
than the others: Jack, a boy with a secret; Fry, a pilot having hard
time with her own conscience; Johns, a bounty- hunter with a
drug-habit; Imam, a holy man facing the fact that God is sometimes
cruel and Riddick, a convict and a murderer learning to value others,
not only himself. Characters start to live in the movie. They aren't
only paper like in many other movies of this genre. You start to care
for the characters, especially for Riddick though that feels quite odd.
He is supposed to be the bad guy. In this movie, the line between light
and pitch black is very thin. All characters are familiar with both.

Other thing that works in this movie is the casting. Rarely do actors
fit to their roles this well. Radha Mitchell is suitable for Fry. Cole
Hauser brings the right amount of cruelness and sense of responsibility
for Johns. But the most impressive work is done by Vin Diesel. He does
great job as Riddick. In his hands Riddick is quite creepy, definitely
very dangerous and also deep character, just as he is supposed to be.

So, how do you survive in Pitch Black? Keep your friends close and
enemies even closer.
<|_=00=_|>

The opening scene of this movie is pretty incredible.  I've seen a number
of
sci-fi movies with great special effects but my roommate and I looked at
each other after the opening sequence and he said plainly, "sensory
overload."  The plot of the movie is pretty simple but the nice thing about
this sci-fi movie is that it lets the audience figure out most of the
technology for themselves instead of wasting time to "subtly" explain it.
The creatures in this movie are also very interesting.  You don't get a
really good look at them until about two thirds of the way through.
Overall, a very entertaining movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I must say that I didn't expect much sitting down to watch "Pitch Black,"
but I got a lot back, in terms of excitement and pure fun. It's the type of
flick where you can just lean back, relax, and have a great time just being
entertained. This isn't a deep film by any means. Everything that it offers
is either recycled or ripped off of other movies such as "Alien," "Predator"
or such. But when I watch a rip-off, I want it to be good, and this rip-off
is great. 

It opens with a galaxy of stars. Some of the greatest films of all time open
with this type of scene - "2001," "Star Wars," "Alien," "Predator." A ship
is cruising through space when inside the entire cryogenically frozen crew
is awoken. The ship has been hit by something. They crash land on a nasty
little planet with three suns. Everyone flocks out of the ship when they
find that their prisoner transport, Richard Riddick (Vin Diesel), has
escaped confinement. They scan the desert planet in search of him and
eventually find him, but they have no way of getting their ship to fly
again. They search the planet for water and civilization but it seems that
everyone suddenly disappeared from the planet not too long
ago.

Then they find out that every 22 years the planets line up in a solar
eclipse and the entire planet turns pitch black. There also happen to be
hoards of aliens that thrive in darkness living on the planet - what are the
chances? They happen to be on the planet right as the eclipse happens - what
are the chances? And Riddick has a rare talent - he can see in the dark -
again, what are the chances?

There seems to be a lot of coincedence in this movie, but a film like this
isn't out to get Oscars for originality or believability. It's there to
entertain the audience - it does so with ease. Vin Diesel is a big gorilla
of a man with no acting talent whatsoever. But I've got to say if there's
anyone who can fit the part of a trashy, homicidal felon it is Diesel.
Listen to him mutter, "He did not know who he was fu**ing with." Great
stuff.

The aliens in this movie are a mix between hammerhead sharks, those from
"Alien" and Predators. They've got long, horizontal heads like a hammerhead,
the quick-moving agility of the aliens, and the stealth of a Predator. I
assume David Twohy (director and writer of the movie) didn't expect
audiences to believe his creatures were truly something never seen before.
At least I hope not.

"Aliens Redux" might be a better name for this movie, but then again, it is
better than both the second and third "Alien" films put together. In a time
when apparently ended series are getting revived - "Terminator 3," "Alien
5," "Predator 3," "Alien vs. Predator" - "Pitch Black" stands out as a new
series altogether. Two more sequels are planned. Let's just hope they don't
get carried away. I can just picture it twenty-five years from now: "Aliens
vs. Predator vs. Pitch Black Aliens: *The Fight of the
Year."

*Fight of the Year title may be shared with the upcoming film "Freddy vs.
Jason vs. Michael vs. Leatherface vs. Norman Bates vs. Alien vs. Predator
vs. Terminator vs. James Cameron vs. Barny the Dinosaur."

4/5.
<|_=00=_|>
As a zombie fan, I really love these types of plots where people end up
in strange places surrounded by wicked monsters! PB is also an
excellent tie-in to Chronicles of Riddick (COR). The gang has to run as
fast as they can away from darkness. There are so many metaphors in the
story! Riddick is this bad guy, but he's also the hero who tries to
save the slow-paced folks. The Muslim guy, Imam, relies on the sun's
positions for the five times a day prayers, but he is stuck in a land
where darkness will rule. Overall, I recommend this film to any sci-fi
fans. You won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
Let me waste a moment of your time to explain how I approached this
film. 1st I dismissed the trailers out of hand because the film
appeared to be an uncredited remake of Aliens, which I consider to be
one of the weakest films in the Alien series. Stupidly continuing to
dismiss the film after I heard positive things about it from people
whose opinions I trust, I missed the theatrical run completely. I then
became hooked on Farscape, in its 3rd or 4th season at the time, and
found Pitch Black on cable one night around bed time - so I said "oh
why not, at least it has Claudia Black in it." Soon, I recognized Keith
David, and began to realize that Vin Diesel, Radha Mitchell and Cole
Hauser could all act (why this should surprise me, I do not know). I
was captivated. I have now remained captivated for four years. I just
watched the film for the 3rd or 4th time, and I still love it.

This is not an art film, not an independent, and its not entirely
original, but where it fails to break a lot of new ground, it utterly
succeeds in providing interesting, realistic characters, hard-driving
action in the medium of a compelling but simple plot, and non-stop
entertainment; an absolutely beautiful environment with tastefully
rendered special effects. Sound to good to be true? Don't take my word
for it... see it for yourself.

The film also highlighted the charisma of the now somewhat iconoclastic
Vin Diesel, introducing the character of Richard Riddick. Diesel would
go on to star in the somewhat Riddick-ulous Chronicles thereof (which I
also enjoyed, though recognizing its rather huge flaws) and is now
something of a legend. Diesel is so charismatic, so big, and so
interesting to watch that it is easy to ignore the fact that he is not
only a talented actor, but a smart one too. Checking out the DVD
version of Pitch Black, with the audio comments on might just blow you
away.

The film is about the crew of an inter-system transport ship stranded
on an unknown planet after a crash-landing in which their captain was
killed. The new commander is inexperienced but bright and heroic
(Mitchell), but she is caught between two dominant and dangerous
personalities - a bounty hunter with secrets (Hauser) and a dangerous
criminal who has been surgically altered to see in the dark (Diesel).
Is that all? Of course not - the planet is inhabited, and the
inhabitants are hungry.

As unoriginal and improbable as some of this may be, Pitch Black is
beautifully filmed, well told, and very nicely performed. Don't expect
to learn anything, and don't expect to have to think a whole lot, but
do expect to have fun with this modern sci-fi action classic.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is about the crew of a spaceship who crash land onto a strange
bright planet with three suns.  Among the passengers is convicted serial
killer, Richard Riddick (Vin Diesel), and his nemesis, Johns (Cole Hauser). 
While the survivors of the wreck are getting their bearings, an eclipse of
all three suns happens.  Shortly afterwards, scary creatures begin to appear
and start to pick off the crew members one by one.  During the eclipse,
Riddick comes into his own, as his eyeballs have been surgically shined,
giving him night vision.  The crew have to rely on him to try to get them to
safety.

This is a very stylish film, with the colour of the sky changing scene by
scene, giving it a very strange look.  Vin Diesel is brilliant as Riddick,
truly menacing but forced to help people who otherwise would only see him as
a threat.  There is also an underlying humour in his performance as well,
which adds another dimension to the character.  This is the sort of role
that Vin excels in, the anti-hero, whos character is not as one-dimensional
as first appears.  I can imagine no-one else in this role, it could have
been written specifically for him.

Roll on Chronicles of Riddick!
<|_=00=_|>

This is without doubt the most exciting and satisfying film I've seen in
years!   The plot seen in print is almost banal- a ship crashes on a
desert
planet with three suns, the survivors have to adjust to the landscape and
each other, then darkness falls and the monsters appear.   Pilot Fry,
after
a moment of cowardice during the descent through the atmosphere when she
almost jettisoned the passengers, takes charge of the group and enlists
the
help of convicted murderer Riddick to lead them through the darkness to
the
escape ship - he's the one with surgically enhanced eyes that can see in
the
dark.   But it's really not that simple - every character is complex,
three-dimensional, with conflicting traits so you never quite know who's
good and who's bad.

The performances are uniformly superb - Radha Mitchell shows Fry steeling
herself for leadership, overcoming her own fears, and trying to prevent
further bloodshed, while Cole Hauser, as the man taking Riddick back to
custody, shows he has his own agenda and his own idiosyncratic standards.
But the film belongs to Vin Diesel as Riddick - he has the most magnetic
screen presence I've seen in years.   For much of the film his face is in
shadow, and he doesn't actually say a great deal, but he draws your
attention all the same.  Sometimes he draws your attention by not
speaking -
or by not moving.  And Diesel doesn't trivialise the character, as could
so
easily be done, by giving him a "heart of gold" - Riddick is still one
mean
and vicious man as they approach the ship - he just lets us glimpse those
first tentative steps from caring only for the self to caring for others.

Technically the film is very good.  The lighting effects are excellent at
both ends of the spectrum - the overbright triple sunlight and the pitch
darkness.   Special effects showing both Riddick's and the monsters'
points
of view add to the suspense, as do sound effects of the monsters flying
and
using ultrasound to "see" (the monsters themselves are anatomically
plausible and suitably frightening).  Editing is so tight it's almost
jarring at times - there is literally no padding in this film, no fades,
no
time to re-orient yourself.

From the opening shot to the end of the credits you have to keep your
wits
about you.   Every scene, every line of dialogue, every single camera shot
is important.   See it three times to understand it all.

My only caveat is about the science - the solar system as shown in the
model
is impossible (planets revolve around suns, not vice versa).   However,
that
doesn't affect the human story, so I haven't taken points off for
it.
<|_=00=_|>
I will admit, I was already a fan of Serenity, Riddick Chronicles and
all that, so I did go into this film with a bit of predetermined
anticipation. On the flip side, I'm not always that much of a Vin
Deisel fan, in that he is somewhat mono-dimensional in his range of
characters, but for the embodiment of Riddick, he does fit perfectly.
As for the story and how it plays out, the pace is good, not too
encumbered with gratuitous special effects and all that, but where it
does fit, the CGI is well done and appropriate.

The one really glaring technical defect in this story is how everyone
just gets out and starts walking around, breathing in the air without
the slightest concern for differences in the atmosphere, microbes and
so on, but this is a common flaw that is often somehow glossed over in
many such stories, so I can't harp on that detail too much.

As for Radha Mitchell, she is smokin' hot here, not in a ridiculous or
frivolous way, but as her tough, seasoned interplanetary merchant
marine ship's captain character "Fry", she nails it perfectly. If
anything, she very much reminds me of Andrea Osvart (see her as the
Hungarian assassin "Gilda" in the film "Two Tigers").

Now, if these two ladies ever appeared together in a film, I would drop
everything and go check that out in a heartbeat . . . but I digress.

In any case, I have no trouble with granting 8 stars to "Pitch Black".
