

I was amazed when reading so many bad reviews . O.K. there're no spectacular
Aliens and we're not blinded by non-stop special effects. The movie has more
realism than the traditional Holywood science fiction stuff. Many parts of
the Mars mission were based on the NASA reference Mars mission . The Mars
explorer spaceship is build in Earth orbit . There're 6 crew-members .
Artificial gravity to stimulate adaptation to Martian conditions . AMEE a
multi-purpose robot with aerial probe . Cushioned landing . Wearable
spacesuits . Other points of realism were the accurate 'fire in space'
sequence, and the computer technology used by the crew. Red Planet could
have been better, but it's decent compared to most  Holywood products.
Moreover,  real science fiction is a very small niche market and will never
draw nor encourage a broad audience.

If you're a fan of science fiction, looking for more realistic spaceflight
stuff, watch Red Planet .


<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why everybody rips this movie. The special effects are
very realistic, down to the pink-tinted Martian sky. The plot is
plausible (for science fiction), paying attention to many small details
that often make these kinds of movies farcical. Most important, it's
very existential; humans simply trying to survive against almost
insurmountable odds. As the struggle builds, the relationships begin to
gel nicely. This IS a movie about human relationships, not Star Wars
style hype. I know, there are some weak spots. The opening and closing
dialog, Val Kilmer whispering all the way through, some of the dialog,
etc. But overall, this movie doesn't try to do too much (unlike the
abysmal Mission To Mars), and that's what makes it a success.
<|_=00=_|>

I honestly loved "Red Planet." I thought that Kilmer did a great job
playing
the "rebellious yet skilled" character that he was so deft at in the 80's.
I
also felt that Moss added another good performance that was similar to her
"soldier yet woman" role from "Matrix."
The thought of not only oxygen but LIFE on Mars had not really been
touched
yet but it worked out greatly..think about it: the actors can actually do
their thing without having to wear a bulky space suit the whole time...it
adds a lot of fast moving action and real drama to the movie. I also love
Sizemore's performances. I guess if you like the actors and are open to a
new kind of sci-fi/action plot, you at least should give this movie a
shot.
I loved it!
<|_=00=_|>
I avoided most of the Mars movies when they came out in the past 4
years because the reviews were mostly bad and none of the trailers
inspired me. I eventually caught MISSION TO MARS on TV and I was glad I
didn't see it at the movies or even rented it. But now I rented RED
PLANET last night and I have to say that I liked it a lot. It's much
better than the hokey De Palma movie. There are a lot of weaknesses in
it but even with all it's faults, the whole package worked.

The problems with RED PLANET: Val Kilmer is miscast. He doesn't seem
interested in the story and his acting is lazy. He looks like a lost
surfer dude on Mars. They should have hired another actor instead of
Kilmer. Some characters were weak (Stamp and Bratt). The designs of the
ship's interior were a tad cheesy. The dialogue was sometimes terrible.
And the story had some major holes in it, like the idea that the ship's
censors didn't detect the breathable atmosphere on Mars.

But aside from those problems, the rest is fun. It's a straight forward
science fiction story. If you don't like that kind of story, you'll
certainly won't like this. It reminded me of ROBINSON CRUSOE ON MARS or
PITCH BLACK, in the way it respected the sci-fi themes and elements
without watering them down for the audience. Tom Sizemore and
Carrie-Anne Moss are excellent in their roles. Some of the
cinematography is excellent. And while the fx are uneven (sometimes
spectacular, sometimes obvious), the overall look of the film is always
credible. And the ending is thrilling.

If you like straight forward science fiction films like me, you'll
enjoy this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Whoa there kids!  Red Planet is just a movie and in my opinion a pretty
good
sci-fi picture.  Yes, it is not 2001: A Space Odyssey or Mission to Mars
(which I think was ridiculous).  It is not meant to be.  Maybe the
characters are not fully developed but name a science fiction movie where
the characters are completely developed.  The movie is called "Red Planet"
not "Who are the People Who are Going to Mars to Save Earth?" and we join
the action "in media res" which means in the middle of things so character
development is not stressed in the beginning.  Good grief.  People throw
around scientific, cinematic, and character development flaws with the
movie
instead of trying to enjoy the suspense of this movie.

You are stuck on the planet Mars.  No food or water.  Someone on the crew
is
already dead and another is a little sketchy.  You have a limited time to
get off the planet, your friendly neighborhood military robot has decided
to
play "Seek and Destroy", and something mysterious is happening on the
surface of Mars involving tiny, bio-luminescent aphids.

So imagine all of that and you will get an idea of what the writers and
director wanted to recreate for the audience.  I liked this movie.  I
recognize there are flaws in the movie and possibly the acting but honestly
I thought it was a great premise.  Reminded me of the Greek myth of Jason
and Argonauts on their quest for the Golden Fleece.

I would give the movie 4 stars out of a possible 5.  Before you write and
tell me how inaccurate or misguided a movie-goer I am realize I have read
the classic sci-fi adventures from the likes of Heinlein, Clarke, and
Bradbury.  They would recognize the film for what it was: a piece of escape
fiction that had its moments of comedy, intelligence, and
suspense.
<|_=00=_|>

"Red Planet" builds on an interesting premise - send bioengineered algae to
Mars to produce oxygen so that settlers can leave the increasingly polluted
Earth and preserve mankind.  However, the algae starts to disappear, based
on Earth measurements, so about 2050 a team is sent to Mars to find out why.
They encounter the mandatory storyline problems - a sunflare triggers a
burst of radiation which mainly disables the mothership so the crew has to
escape prematurely, but the captain (Carrie-Ann Moss of Matrix fame) stays
behind to try and salvage the ship, otherwise they are all doomed to be
stranded on Mars.

The 4 men make a very rough landing, and even with the balloons deployed,
the older one gets a ruptured spleen and stays behind to die. The others
make it to the home base that had been built previously, only to find it
destroyed and all supplies gone. About to die of oxygen starvation, Kilmer
opens his mask to find they can breath. 

So, the rest of the film is their dealing with one difficulty after another,
not the least of which is an ice storm with 115 mph winds and minus 53
degree temperature. One by one they expire, but Kilmer gets to a 50-year-old
Russian module that had failed to fire, and with a jury-rigged old radio and
50-year-old modem is able to download instructions to launch the ship.  He
gets into orbit, Carrie-Ann retrieves him, they finally
kiss!

Kinda cheesy in many places, most of the "science" is very shaky, some of
the funny lines are clever, others are stupid, but as a Sci-Fi film not to
be taken too seriously, it is fun entertainment, especially on DVD with a
good sound system. The Dolby 5.1 surround channels are used very well, and
the several blasts and explosions are very energetic. Carrie-Ann only does
one nude shower scene and it is near the beginning, about 8 minutes into the
film. 
<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

Why do you think she spends the last half of the movie running around
in a wet nighty? How about the shower scene? Her acting sucks badly.
That brain dead monotone like she is balancing her checkbook? In the
MATRIX, they poured her into that outfit for a reason, Carrie Anne
stunningly beautiful and commensurately devoid of acting ability. She
sounds so insouciant she could be Spock's wife. When Kilmer is biting
it, and he is signing off she sounds like her misandrist daily magazine
just went bi weekly. Please, who was the casting wizard who made her
lead actor in the movie. Put Kilmer in front, idiots, even Sizemore
towers over this Matrix midget. If you are looking for the number one
reason the movie went down the crapper take a good look; Carrie Anne
never was lead actor of another movie ever again. We saw this
replicated with SALT another box office disaster; sorry, the misandrist
demographic just not big enough to sustain 90 pound, muscle challenged,
bad acting leads. 

The script is just awful; it was the second reason it bombed. Let's
have them walk across the entire surface of Mars for the whole movie
chased by the most boring, non scary robot. Sizemore and Kilmer do
competent jobs, as I said if you had made one of them the lead, instead
of the undeserving Moss, who had made far less movies, the film might
have done much better. This boredom is not lightened by singing a
crappy Stones song, or showing us urinating in lower gravity. Thanks,
that is too much information. The drama, in the ship, with the fire
does not work because Moss cannot convey fear or any other emotion; she
is total insouciant boredom. We stop caring soon after the movie
starts. Everyone wonders about Stamp's character, they know they are in
trouble; hence, let's make him a philosopher to add some metaphysics to
this pile of crap. It does not work. 

The film fails because of the painful synthesis between a boring, slow
narrative on Mars blended with Deer in the Headlight's woman up in the
ship. Her acting has to be seen to be believed. The ending, where his
brain is without air for say ten minutes before revival, did not help
things. Hey, maybe he wrote the script? There was good chemistry
between Kilmer and Sizemore which makes us wonder if we had a better
actor as Captain, one who could act, what the movie might have been.
Like Salt, the PC agenda, you know we must all have our little red
books, just obliterates the movie; oh well, just so the right action
groups are appeased. This is why American cinema is so terrible. All
the ways reality must be bent to make sure our butts are not swinging
out there in the wind. 

The movie puts the B in boring. Yes, her body is hot but she was a
dreadful, untalented actress and she had no business being in that
role. I was glad the film bombed; I suspect the other actors behind her
that deserved that role, secretly, shared my enthusiasm. Let's give the
lead to the most talented actor regardless of the categories that must
be filled, shall we? I love when they do this and it bombs; go ahead,
we will not go to the movie, idiots.
<|_=00=_|>
What a perfect rivalry this film has with Brian De Palma's Mission to
Mars. Two films coming out in the same year, set on the same planet,
with the same production values and featuring casts of equal talent.
While both movies also feature numerous scientific inaccuracies and
stupidities, each has something different to offer. If you are looking
for mystique, try Mission to Mars, but if you want action or thrills,
then go with Red Planet.

Set in the mid twenty first century, Earth is dying, and humanity has
turned to Mars as a potential replacement. An unmanned terraforming
experiment has been attempted (according to the introductory narration)
Months later, it appears to have failed, so a group of astronauts are
sent out to investigate. They are surprised and excited to discover not
only breathable air but the existence of life on the barren cold red
world. When their space craft shuts down however, not only are they
stranded, but they become threatened by the malfunctioning of their
navigator droid 'Amee'. These few individuals must survive to carry the
news back to Earth which proves that man can live on the Red Planet.

I think the story works decently as a nifty sci-fi thriller. Mars in
this film looks quite convincing, because the terrain closely resembles
the photographs taken by the Pathfinder in 1997. The color scheme is
made up of browns and tans, rather than the over saturated red from
Mission to Mars. 

Ret Planet was received better than Brian De Palma's movie, and I can
see why. Although neither of them are examples of great filmaking, I
would recommend them both.
<|_=00=_|>

Looking at the other comments i think people really have a hatred to
sci-fi
films at the mo.  I know that Mission to Mars was bad, i'd be the 1st to
admit that......but that doesn't mean that all other sci-fi films are
going
to be bad.  Last year we had Pitch Black which i thought was
okay.........and we had Red Planet.

Red Planet came with a reasonably large budget, a really superior cast to
Mission to Mars and absolutely great special effects.  The main story line
in itself is not ground breaking, but the sub plots within the film give
the
film its real grip!

A crew of 4 astranauts and 2 science officers agree to board a mission
into
building a new home on mars through the aid of making it a breathable
atmosphere through the aid of planting algae.

Then in comes your usual suprises, the spacecraft that their in hits
critical conditions causing them to land on Mars earlier than they wanted
to
and therefore building a storyline of what they are going to do to get
back
to earth.

The sub plot involving the crews relationship between pentigill who was a
last minute choice for the mission is excellent.  Simon Baker plays the
character excellently and you never know wether to trust him or hate him.
The special effects on the robot AMEE were outstanding aswell, this
created
the suspence part of the film.

I gave this film 9/10 because i love sci-fi and i thought that it was well
acted and had a really decent storyline.
<|_=00=_|>

Movies like "Red Planet" remind me why I enjoy science fiction so much. Most
sci-fi films today put the special effects first before characterizations.
While that's not a bad idea (I have enjoyed several films in that vein such
as "Independence Day"), films can become too dependent on that and that's
when the fun drains away.

"Red Planet" is a film that has solid special effects, but also a strong
story and good characterizations. It was the second film released in 2000 to
have Mars as its backdrop, the first being "Mission to Mars". "Mission to
Mars", despite having top stars,master craftsman Brian DePalma directing and
phenomenal special effects, was a little too pat and resorted to cliches
(Not that I blame DePalma; he did the best he could with the script he had
and the film wasn't bad at all)

I didn't know anything about the plot and I think that helps with a film
like "Red Planet". It allows suspense to be created from the series of
crises that spring up on the astronauts and that's a benefit. But I will say
this: the marketing campaign for "Red Planet" advertises this as your
typical good guys versus evil aliens action fest. It is not. This is a more
intelligent and stylish film than given credit for. It owes more to "2001"
and "The Black Hole" or even the classic Republic serial "Radar Men from the
Moon" than "Alien". It is about ideas, not effects and I LOVE films like
that.

I know a great many people will hate this film. That is because popular
culture has brainwashed people into thinking mass entertainment revolves
around effects only. There are some flaws (mostly in technological
probability and pacing in the first 20 minutes)but writer Chuck Pfarrer and
director Antony Hoffman remember that great sci-fi is also about the story
and characters and the result is the best sci-fi film in recent
years.

***1/2 out of 4 stars

