

This movie is a little weird. It's very unusual to see a grown man playing a
10 year old boy. But it was funny. Martin Short is hilarious as a psycho 10
year old boy! Charles Grodin is funny as Hell as the psycho 10 year old's
uncle who tries to keep his nephew under control! I haven't seen a lot of
Martin Short movies but judging by this performance, he must be a very funny
comedian. I like how Clifford(Short) always calls Sarah Davis(Mary
Steenburgen) 'Miss Sarah Davis'. It's just funny the way he says it. Anyway,
I recommend this movie to everyone. It's hilarious and fun for the whole
family.

10/10 
<|_=00=_|>
In this funny, but slightly crude film, Martin Short uses his young
face and tricky camera angles, I think, to play the part of a ten year
old boy. What is really funny is that he is obviously not a ten year
old boy, yet he is perfectly capable of the role due to his bizarre
sense of humour. This film showed on a television station that normally
shows Disney B movies. Movies released in the 90's are not really my
thing, but this one was really cute! There were a few offensive words
and crude moments ( such as one reference to a "secret space" and other
jokes about pedophiles ) but if these go in one ear and out the other,
than it won't be a problem for you. Martin Short has the most hilarious
face, capable of contorting to give a weird, childish look that creeps
out even the on screen characters. The opening and closing shots
reminded me of "Boy's Town" and gives us a chance to see Martin Short
under layers of latex for his role as an elderly priest.

All in all, not a bad effort.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of the most disturbing movies I have ever seen. That makes it
just more than a bad movie. Martin Short could be seen, as Clifford, as an
incarnation of the devil. Clifford is so evil sometimes that it verges on
the scary. The look in his eyes is very singular.

My favorite scene is when Charles Grondin tells Clifford :

"Can't you just act like a human boy for a second here. Look at me like a
real person. You can't do it more than few second. Look at me like a human
boy!"

And Clifford that's not able to look human! AH!!! Pure
madness!

I really don't know why this movie was made, but I admire the crazy people
who dared to follow their weird instincs.
<|_=00=_|>
Am I one of only a handful of people who think Martin Short is
hysterical? The only way a goofy plot like the one in this film could
possibly work is if the lead actor was a true genius of comedy, a man
among Canadians, a charming elf-like creature I like to call Martin
Shortman. Martin Short relies heavily on facial movement and voice
tonal changes to make his character Clifford funny. Through the
annoyance of his dear Uncle Martin surely we all can get along and
laugh together as a family of opinionated movie viewers just looking
for a good time, a few chuckles now and then to make us forget that we
have low paying jobs and live in shoddily built ranch-style homes
overlooking well built but poorly placed sewage treatment plants.
Bottom line is that if you really like Martin Short then you will think
this movie is hilarious, if you don't then don't waste your time
because you can't have it back.
<|_=00=_|>

The thin line between insanity and brilliance often amazes me. On one hand
we have films like "Clifford," the 1994 box office disaster starring Charles
Grodin and Martin Short, that everyone claimed was one of the worst films of
all time. Then we have the "Being John Malkovich"es, that are so strange and
weird, yet everyone calls them masterpieces. What's the difference? One is a
comedy people went into expecting something straight-forward, and the other
is a piece of art? Puh-lease.

 The tagline for "Clifford" reads, "What's the difference between Clifford
and a pit bull? One will tear your heart out, scare your friends and wreck
your house. The other one is a dog." If you found that tagline funny,
"Clifford" is for you. If not, then it is not for you. Personal taste comes
into play here very much.

 I personally enjoy "Clifford." Call me a horrible filmgoer, I don't care.
It's just with all the crap I've seen in my days, "Clifford" is not only a
pretty good movie when compared to others, but also a refreshingly naughty
comedy. It unfortunately falls apart in the last ten minutes, really getting
crazy. But then again, so did "Malkovich."

 The film opens up in the year 2050. A young troublemaker is trying to
escape from a futuristic private school. He is stopped, however, by Father
Clifford (Martin), who looks like Dick Clark's lovechild
with...well...Martin Short. Anyway, Clifford sits the boy down and teaches
him a lesson. He tells him a story from when he was younger, and when he was
a practical joker. More like a homicidal maniac.

 Clifford's story begins in present day. Clifford is now a small boy, but he
is still played by Martin Short, oddly enough. At first he appears a normal
enough child, happy and bright and just a bit overly creepy. Clifford and
his parents are on a flight to Hawaii for business purposes. Clifford wants
to land in LA to visit "Dinosaur World," a theme park that I would have
loved to visit when I was a dinosaur-crazy kid myself.

 Through Clifford's evil, creepy and manipulative ways, he gets into the
cockpit and almost crashlands the plane. The pilot decides to land in LA to
make sure the aircraft is unharmed.

 In LA, Clifford's parents drop him off with his Uncle Martin (Charles
Grodin), an aspiring architect, busy with his fiancee (Mary Steenburgen) and
plans for a new Los Angeles subway route. His pesky boss (Dabney Coleman) is
always on Uncle Martin's case, so he has barely enough time to devote to
Clifford. Clifford's parents leave, they fly back to Hawaii, and Clifford
gets anxious. He wants - or needs - to visit Dinosaur World as soon as
possible, and Uncle Martin just keeps blowing him off. This makes Clifford
mad.

 You may be wondering what happens when Clifford gets mad. In all truth,
it's best not to spoil it. He doesn't turn green, he doesn't grow extremely
large and bear muscles - he just unleashes ultimate havoc upon those
opposing him. Take, for example, the scene where Clifford, mad at his Uncle
Martin for going back on his word (he said he'd take Clifford to Dino World
and didn't), puts hot sauce in Uncle Martin's bloody mary, so that when
Uncle Martin goes to propose a toast his throat gets a bit hoarse. Or when
Clifford pieces together recordings of his uncle to make it sound as if he
has a bomb planted under City Hall.

 Clifford is the ultimate pest, a spawn of Satan. Everyone knows someone
like Clifford, but Martin Short stretches his character a bit more. Clifford
is an odd child. He responds with gleeful joy and says things like, "Oh,
yes, my dear Uncle Martin!" We are supposed to sympathize with Clifford by
the end of the film, but the problem is that we don't know how or what to
sympathize with. Short makes Clifford more of a devil than a rascal, and we
never truly get the sense that he is a human. By the end of the film, we're
not all that sure if Clifford is human or not, or whether that evil streak
is gone, and that is one of the film's flaws. Other than that, it's a
general OK comedy. People don't seem to like it very much - at all - but I
have seen much, much worse, and in all truth I actually laughed at this
movie. More than once. Which is more than I can say for films like "Daddy
Day Care." Yep, "Clifford" is OK by me.

 3/5 stars -


<|_=00=_|>
This movie is definitely one in a million. I remember watching this
movie when I was a small boy back in the mid 90's. I was only five or
six years old but I loved this movie and continue to love to this day.
There is something about this movie that really appeals to the type of
humor and comedy that only a few people understand and enjoy. I am
lucky to be one of those people. This movie has been called one of the
worst films ever made. However I believe that it is only called this
because it is a movie that is different. It possesses charm and crazy
demonic humor all at the same time. If you get a chance to see this
film I would definitely recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is ingenious: an absolute masterpiece.  One of the smartest and
most original movies I have seen in a long time.  Martin Short in the best
role of his career playing a conniving, manipulative, all-around brat and
absolutely shining while he does it.  No one else could pull this off so
effectively and convincingly.  Charles Grodin and Mary Steenburgen are
also
excellent and at their finest.  A MUST SEE!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this movie on TV and came here to see what other people
think about it. I was very much shocked to see that the lead actor
Martin Short was 40+ when this movie was made. He is playing a 10 year
old brat in this movie and I got to say he has done very well at that.
Though he doesn't quite look like a 10 year old but he surely comes
close to it. This is a movie about a 10 year old boy, Clifford, who is
very mischievous and raises hell everywhere he goes. Sick of his
mischiefs, his parents leave him with his Uncle who is a middle-aged
man and is trying to convince her fiancée that he likes kids and that's
the reason why he agrees to keep Clifford with him. As the movie goes
on, Clifford completely destroys his Uncle's life with his pranks
because he didn't take him to the local Dinosaur Park. Although the
ending wasn't the best but most of the movie is really good. This may
not be the best movie you'll ever see but its a nice one to watch with
your family. I think kids will really like it. It is really hilarious.
I was very surprised to see the IMDb user rating for this movie being a
moderate 4.2 and that's why I thought I should stand up for this movie.
I think its far better than what the rating suggests.
<|_=00=_|>

While this wasn't quite the disaster that I was expecting, it is still a
weak comedy, and also a rather annoying film.  It was a competent film,
and
I can even admit that I laughed on occasion, but the negatives far
outweigh
the positives.  Martin Short was staggeringly hateful in this movie, and
even though I suppose that was the whole point, it really is hard to be
entertained when the main character is SO irritating.  Personally, I would
have loved to see his character get decapitated at the end, for it would
have turned the film into a feel-good movie.  Or better yet, he could have
been killed off in the beginning.  
<|_=00=_|>
Lots of funny scenes about a very self-centered boy who drives adults
crazy.

I am sure a lot of adults can see some familiar behavior in their kids
and themselves.

Some the funny things they show Clifford doing remind me of myself when
I was a boy; eating lots of sugar, watching videos of naked African
women; drooling over the chance to go to a theme park, trying to fool
adults and not getting away with it.

Martin Daniels is especially funny as a middle-aged bachelor who is
trying to convince his fiancé who wants children, that he appreciates
children, so he has Clifford at his place to prove that point to his
finance, in the meantime, Clifford ruins Martin's career, his house,
and causes the breakup of the marriage engagement.

Clifford is truly an evil menace, the bane of every adult, much worse
than Dennis the Menace.
