
In this fourth gripping installment of the Hellraiser series, we are
treated to the story of the Lament Configuration (or Lemarchand's Box
or whatever you call it). It involves demons, Pinhead, some French
people, architecture and outer space. Pretty good deal.

This film is my favorite in the Hellraiser series. By itself, there is
not much going on. I can understand why many think this film is weak.
If I just watched it without the entire series, I would be like, "what
the heck?" But I think this really ties the first four films together,
explaining how everything fits.

I have read reviews that say the film is inconsistent and that it does
not line up with the other films. I say hogwash. The film makes perfect
sense. And it lines up with the others just fine. I guess you could say
things like "how did the box get from x to y", but I think it is pretty
clear. The French guy had it, then it went into circulation, then the
Cottons had it in parts 1 and 2, then the news reporter in part 3, and
she buried it in the cement where it was pulled out this time. What is
not to understand? 

I could say the space aspect was cheesy. Leprechaun has been to space,
and later Jason Voorhees went to space. Others probably did, too, that
I cannot think of offhand. But unlike Leprechaun, this made sense... it
was actually central to the plot and could not have been done on Earth
in any conceivable manner. So the space thing is not so bad.

As I mentioned in my review for "Hellraiser 3", I dislike how writer
Peter Atkins introduced new cenobites. This movie has more, including
twins and a former demon (which really makes no sense to me). What
determines who becomes a cenobite? Pinhead? Maybe this will be
explained in a later film, but probably not, and it is not really
explained here.

The director disowned this film due to massive re-shoots he had no part
in. I, for one, would love to see his version. While I have already
said this is my favorite, perhaps the other is something worth checking
out. Also, it would stifle some of those critics who think it was
reassembled as a senseless pile of bangers and mash. I disagree with
those critics and would love to see them eat their words.

After seeing parts 1 and 2 (and presumably 3), watch this. Do not
listen to the nay-sayers. If you want to know how the whole Pinhead,
box and whatnot started, this is the film to explain it to you. (You
might ask how Pinhead got out before the box was created, but you would
be silly, because he was not born yet.) I support this one and you
should, too.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie succeeds if you're a fan of Clive Barker's comic book.  It
follows the mythos quite logically, and adds a good deal of conjecture to
the "reality" of the cenobites.  As a sequel this film fills a void.

As a film on its own, this movie should be watched.  Its engaging story and
thought-provoking plot is enough to keep any viewer entertained, not to
mention the violence and gore.  Not a bad movie or wasted
time.
<|_=00=_|>

The year is 2127, and a descendent of the maker of the box that opens the
gate to Hell is trying to figure out a way to open the box and trap the
demons that come out of Hell. He has commandeered a space station (that he
himself designed) for this task. He opens the box, lets the demons out, and
is detained (people begin to investigate his questionable behavior on the
ship) before he can capture them. Almost the entire film is told in the form
of a story which he tells the people holding him, in an effort to get them
to let him go so he can finish his work. Needless to say, it takes a lot of
gory deaths to convince them. 

There is a small bit of tension created by the fact that the entire time he
is telling the guards what is going on, the Cenobites are out and are on the
ship. However, this is largely forgotten about for the majority of the film
because so much of it takes place in 18th century France, the time when the
box was created. Basically, some toymaker makes the box, opens it, demons
show up, and they terrorize his family for generations. You'd think they'd
be grateful because he let them out into the world of the living. Anyway,
the guy in 2127 has taken upon himself the task of building a NEW box that
will be sort of an antidote to the first box, one that is designed so that
it can actually trap LIGHT inside. 

It's an interesting enough story, and it was actually fairly entertaining,
but the film itself was still somewhat lacking. The acting was pretty bad
(but at least Ashley Laurence was blissfully absent again), and there wasn't
much effort put into the directing. The movement back and forth from the
distant future to the distant past was also a bit detrimental at times to
the tension of the story, but luckily the film did present a few cool new
cenobites (one that was satisfactorily created out of a couple of idiot
security guards), and Bloodline also displayed probably one of Pinhead's
best performances ever. I would say that Bloodline is more of an
informational movie than a good Hellraiser movie. While it is interesting to
watch, it is almost more informational than entertaining. So even though the
movie itself may have been disappointing, I think that it is a good addition
to the series as a whole. It works better within the Hellraiser series than
it does by itself.  

<|_=00=_|>

I watched the whole Hellraiser series in a week. I had never seen one
before
but after seeing the first one i decided to watch the whole series. The
first one i just thought was bad but in a funny way. The second was much
better. The third was good but not great and then i got to the fourth. All
i
heard was negative things so i expected crap especially since it was said
that it was Pinhead in space. THis movie is not crap! Its actually really
good. It might be better then the second one. Good plot. Cool deaths
scenes.
Good movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Every bit as informative and cleverly done as HR3, only this time, the
point of interest is that box; that wonderfully treacherous darkly
intricate little box.

A second definitive film! Hellraiser 3 was the first in the
personalization of Pinhead's character. Hellraiser 4: Bloodline gives
us the history of the box, the curse upon the family of the one who
created it, and the fate of the descendant who created the UN-box; the
reverse to the original which will close the gates to Hell for all
time.

Some critics have given this movie low marks due to the "Pinhead in
Space" factor, claiming that it was unnecessary and that it lent
nothing but cheese to the story. Others have labeled the vehicle as a
"franchise contrivance." 

I must say that I agree with neither statement. Space was the ideal
place for this sequence to have occurred. The plot would have suffered
greatly had they tried this particular ideology on the Earth's surface.
Also, this was a hard movie to make and I found nothing whatsoever
contrived about it. It flowed smoothly and told the story beautifully;
albeit darkly.

This movie also faced some real editing problems while in production.
It seems the director had his name removed from this movie (or changed)
after scenes depicting a deeper story line and stronger ideologies,
were deleted.

I give this wonderful installment high marks! Rarely do the sequels
even begin to measure up to the original, much less surpass it.

It rates an 8.1/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
I've read the comments of this movie and I agree in most of the
observations made. I consider Bloodlines an explanation or "origin" of
the puzzle box. The first 3 talk about the Cenobites, PinHead and the
pleasures and torments the box and the cenobites bring. For me
Bloodlines tells the story of the puzzle box and for me as a huge Clive
Barker fan it resolves the questions: Where was the puzzle build?, Why
was it build? and Who made it?

The true Hellraiser movies are 1 and 2, the third one comes like a
baseball player sliding in to home plate just inches from being struck
out...but it works. And bloodlines totally compliments these, because
it's not just about Pinhead, the main character in this one is the
Puzzle Box.

That's my 2 cents.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay, I wasn't going to bother writing a review for this one and I
rarely take the time to write reviews here, BUT... Seeing this
undeservedly LOW score here made me feel that I really had to 'say'
something.

First off, YES, I am indeed a BIG fan of the first three films; before
these just recently came out on glorious Blu-ray, years ago, I even
sprang for the UK Puzzle Box set of the first three films (mainly
because at the time UNCUT versions were not available here in the
States and also for the full commentaries and the bonus DVD that came
with it : ) Now, I know it is hard to believe, but I just NOW for the
very first time saw this one, part 4; the reason being is that from
some casual stuff I had read, I was under the impression that pretty
much all the other 'HELLRAISER' films were not very good. Well... Let
me tell you, I was extremely surprised and impressed! As I said,
compared to all the REALLY AWFUL Horror films out there that are
excruciating and badly made, and that is most of them, I was surprised
that this one was made quite well. 

Okay, so a lot of the fans are sort of put off because it is really
different from the other films. Fine... Isn't the POINT to try to come
up with different angles and new approaches rather than just remaking
the same film again and again...? I thought it was genuinely very
creative and kept my attention very much so throughout the film. Sure,
okay, it starts in space and your rolling your eyes, thinking "Oh
great,'LEPRECHAUN 3'" :) well, it works; it really does. Obviously a
LOT of thought was put into the timeline and the mythology of the box,
etc., not to mention the follow through at the end. Sure, it wrapped it
up rather quickly and left it kind of ambiguous, but so what?! Yes, of
COURSE it doesn't have the intensity of the original or even the
complexity of the next two films, but to me I was mainly impressed by
their not only coming up with the new idea to show the origins, etc.,
but also I honestly felt that everything that made up the film was done
very well considering that it is a damn 'HORROR' movie! : ) I gave it a
good, strong '8' which it fully deserves considering the context and
type of film. I think that people get SO jaded and expect SO dang much
from sequels. I mean, C'mon, compared to what... 'WITCHBOARD' 1-9 or
whatever the hell sequel they're at now, this here is pure art!

Heh, if THIS one threw you, just wait until you see part 5! I just this
minute finished watching that one for the very first time also a few
minutes ago and that is a WILD departure from the early films. However,
it was made even much better than this one; the director was actually
very, very good!
<|_=00=_|>

Oh my! The dreaded space sequel. I must admit, I thought this would bump
three out of worst in the series, but I was dead wrong. The one thing I
found most appealing about this sequel, is the fact that it leaves room
for
more sequels, as long as the don't go past the year of Pinhead's final
death. Which I may say, they took full advantage of, in making Hellseeker,
and Inferno. I think that even though it was good, it still takes a
backeat
to the original two films. (Part two being my personal
fave)
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to clear something up here.

When a movie uses the name Alan Smithee instead of the real director,
it doesn't mean he wishes to disassociate him/herself from the movie
because it's bad. In fact, that CANNOT do that.

The only way a director can do it, is to prove that they no longer have
creative direction over the film, due to one reason or another -
usually political reasons within the film's money suppliers. Too much
interference.

The change has to be approved by the Directors Guild of America (DGA)
and Association of Motion Picture and Television Producers.

See the wikipedia article: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alan_Smithee
Now, this doesn't mean the movie is bad. In fact, it's possible that
the original director was making such a bad movie that people had to
intervene, and he/she didn't want to hear it. It's possible that the
movie may have been much worse. Or better. We can't know.
<|_=00=_|>
Bloodline is easily the best of the post-part III Hellraiser films.
Like many third sequels, it takes the path of going back to the series'
roots; thus tracing the origins of the central prop; the box that opens
the gates to hell. The film starts aboard a space ship, and we witness
the seemingly insane ramblings of a madman. He then tells the story of
the curse on his bloodline; starting off with the toy maker who made
the box and opened the gates to hell. The man plans to create a box to
counter the original, and send the demons back to hell. The rest of the
more modern sequels follow plots that have nothing to do with the
original films, so at least this one doesn't suffer from that. The plot
isn't completely relevant to the story of Frank Cotton in the first
Hellraiser, but at least it isn't merely another episode of Pinhead
taking some guy's soul. On the subject of Pinhead; this film takes
place in the time that he was still evil, rather than being a mere
shadow of the cenobite that we all know and love. Pinhead plays a major
part in this movie, and that's always welcome as far as I'm concerned.

Bloodline is more of a fan's movie than the rest of the series. That,
therefore, means that if you haven't seen, or didn't like the previous
three films; there really isn't much on offer here. Things that have
been explained in the first three aren't re-explained here, and
therefore it's really important that the other films are seen before
this one. Bloodline is surprisingly gruesome, and a lot of the film is
very dark and bloody. No bad thing as far as I'm concerned, as I go
into Hellraiser films expecting to see gore, and tend to be pleased
when they deliver. The acting here is largely terrible, with only Doug
Bradley saving the film in that respect. He only does what he's done
before - but it really does make the movie. It's surprising how much
this deviates from the original; but I'd rather see a sequel do
something a little different than merely retread the same ground, as
far too many do. That's the reason I aren't slamming this film like a
great deal of other's are. It may not be great, and doesn't change the
fact that the series dried up after Hellbound...but at least it's not a
total dead loss.
