
I remember how, after seeing this movie, everyone in my office was
talking about Catherine Zeta-Jones and how she was, arguably, the most
beautiful woman in the world. The women in the office went to go see it
after hearing all the fuss, many going just to confirm that "she isn't
all that." In a way, it's a bit of a shame because it's a decent heist
movie with a good plot and pretty good acting. Sean Connery was, as
always, excellent in his role and the cinematography. It all gets
overshadowed by the Catherine Zeta-Jones laser scene that guys will be
thinking about for days (Years?).

Does any of this make the movie any less entertaining to watch?
Probably not.
<|_=00=_|>
The action races from New York to London to Scotland to Kuala Lumpur,
while three intricately plotted and technically executed thefts take
place. The action twists and turns, the characters may or may not be
what they seem to be, and crosses follow double-crosses. Thus, there is
little time for the viewer to be bored or to ponder the implausibility
of it all. But, in a sleek glossy film such as this one, logic is not a
key factor, it's the look and the action that count, and both of those
attributes, especially the look, make "Entrapment" an entertaining
film. Sean Connery, who plays an aging master thief, can anchor any
film that he appears in, and this one is no exception. His presence
alone grounds the movie and nearly makes the implausible plausible.
However, while Connery is one of a handful of men who have retained
their looks and masculine appeal beyond middle age, the likelihood that
the luscious Catherine Zeta-Jones, who is at the peak of her beauty
here, would fall for him tests the bounds of credibility. Perhaps the
romance was written in as a fantasy for us near-codgers and to give us
hope. Besides the excellent cinematography of the human scenery, which
also includes the dependable Will Patton and Ving Rhames, the lush
photography of the Scottish Highlands offers an unsolicited
advertisement for the Scottish National Tourist Board. If rooms were
available in the luxurious castle that Connery uses in the film, this
would have been written there.

Thus, "Entrapment" seems to have everything: beautiful people, solid
performances, breathtaking scenery, suspense, and excitement. There is
definitely enough here to entertain a not-too-discriminating viewer for
two hours. Of course, afterward, one might ponder why all of the
expensive high-tech security systems that are depicted in the film
quickly fall victim to a pair of thieves who seem more amused with
themselves than intense and focused when they are stealing such
incredible sums of money. If theft were as easy and casual as Connery
and Zeta-Jones make it seem to be, we could all have a lot more fun in
life plotting and executing heists instead of commuting and staring at
computer monitors.
<|_=00=_|>

That was the coolest part of the movie. I mean, I'm not a guy or anything,
but I have to admit she does look sexy. I really enjoyed "Entrapment". It
had high action and intensity. I saw the film over HBO, I showed my mom and
she was in love as well. Although this is not my favorite Connery film, it's
still worth a look. The love story wasn't really needed. But you'll deal.
Over all, the film is good. It was well directed with some remarkable
actors. And remember LASER BEAMS! If you don't like the film, you will
definatly like LASER BEAMS! Hehe. I would recommend this to fans of Connery
or Jones.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is one of those that keeps the characters purpose twisting and
turning. You have to second guess the ending twice. The vivacious Catherine
Zeta-Jones plays a top notch insurance agent that specializes in art theft.
She takes on the mission of catching a master thief(Sean Connery)by
convincing him that she too is a supreme art thief.

Just enough action to keep your attention. Wonderful scenery and the more
than just beautiful Zeta-Jones makes for advanced heartbeat. The age
difference of the two stars fits the script like a glove and gives a
fleeting glimpse of romance.

Camera work is intense. The big chase/escape scene is awesome.

Also appearing are: Ving Rhames, Maury Chaykin and Will
Patton.
<|_=00=_|>

"Entrapment"
It's got two handsome stars, a smooth portrayal of
stealing, and just a hint of action and romance.
Considering that this doesn't end at the prom or a
warehouse, this is a breath of fresh air.
Director Jon Amiel has a very checkered past, but with
"Entrapment", I've never seen him so sure of himself. The
film glides effortlessly between some sketchily drawn
romantic inclinations to well-executed scenes of training
to actually exciting action moments of the heists.  It's a nice package.

The film is really about the art, or maybe even the beauty,
of stealing. A refreshing idea that hasn't been considered
in some time.  There is a giddy glee in just watching the
thieves use high tech mechanisms to outsmart the systems
that house the loot. It's a carefully paced film, so the
usual action-payoff-drama-action-payoff-drama form for
these types of movies isn't used here. It's entertaining as hell,
and the climax holds many thrills.

Like I said before, the two leads are some of the
finest looking in the film biz.  Sean Connery makes a
wonderful choice by playing off his old age.  As the
character, he seems overwhelmed by Catherine Zeta-Jones.
It makes for a few moments of sly comedy.  As for Ms.
Zeta-Jones, it has been said of her that she takes the
best close-up in current motion pictures. "Entrapment" proves
that statement time and again.  While she does struggle
trying to keep down her natural Welsh accent, Zeta-Jones
makes for a lively sidekick to Connery, and despite the
ballyhooed age difference, they work together just
fine.

Despite a lackluster and forced final, "Entrapment"
works better than you may think.  It's easy to get hung up on the
age difference or Connery's hairpiece, but the movie is too much
fun to be bothered with such minute details.  This is good
pre-summer entertainment.  I give the filmmakers kudos for keeping the
tone
light and the suspense on 11.------------ 8


<|_=00=_|>

The best aspect of Entrapment is the wonderful understated romance between
Sean Connery's "Mac" and Catherine Zeta-Jones' "Gin." I thought this was
far
more moving than many of the swoony full-blown love affairs I've seen in
other movies. Zeta-Jones is very glamorous and got to model a lot of
swanky
clothes. Connery is weary and reserved as befitting his age and that made
the May-November romance all the more poignant. Ving Rhames again was the
street wise tough, a role he has done many times before. The action
sequences while quite good are not as exciting or suspenseful as in other
movies of this type (ie. The Thomas Crown Affair). Still I enjoyed this
movie thanks mostly to the the chemistry and as I said understated romance
between Mac and Gin. Recommended, 7.5/10.  
<|_=00=_|>

I have to say that I liked watching Entrapment. It is a good,
entertaining movie. But what I don't understand is why this movie is
called a comedy? It didn't really make me laugh. It did make me smile
though and that is already a good thing. There were some humorous parts
in it, but in my opinion, that's still not enough to call it a comedy. 

If it isn't a comedy, what is it than? It's a well produced action
thriller which was able to keep my attention from the beginning to the
end thanks to the many twists and the good acting. You could say of
course that Sean Connery is still used to playing this kind of roles.
He wasn't James Bond for nothing. He still knows how to play a smart
gentleman who likes to play with a lot of gadgets and pretty ladies...
And what an opponent he has! Catherine Zeta-Jones is really nice to
look at in every way...

Connery is an art thief who is able to pass the best security systems,
stealing the painting and making fun of the security people by changing
the original painting with a picture of Elvis. Catherine Zeta-Jones
investigates the crime scenes for an insurance company and tries to
catch Connery. To do so she will try to convince him that she's a thief
as well, that she has planned a huge robbery but that she needs his
help to complete it.

Thanks to the many twists, this movie will keep you guessing till the
end who is what, who did what to who and why,... And the ending is, in
comparison to other movies of this kind, a pure surprise, very subtle
and truly original. That is why I reward this movie with a 7,5/10.
Truly a good job!

<|_=00=_|>

Entrapment beings with as a priceless Rembrandt is stolen from a New York
skyscraper in a daring and technically executed robbery, insurance
investigator Virginia Baker "Gin" (Catherine Zeta-Jones) begins looking
into
the matter and is soon convinced it's the work of master art thief Robert
MacDougal "Mac" (Sean Connery.) Gin thinks the best way to get the goods
on
Mac is to work her way inside his operation, so she locates him in London
and, posing as a fellow art thief, offers to work as his partner. While
Mac
is smart enough to not accept an offer like that from just anyone, most
thieves don't look as good as Gin does, and she soon proves an able
assistant in a shakedown robbery where they swipe a rare Chinese mask from
a
British museum. After this success, Mac agrees to join forces with Gin for
what is literally the heist of the millennium as Midnight rolls around in
Kuala Lumpur on December 31, 1999, the security computers in a major
multinational banking facility will be breached for a split second as the
computers roll over to a new program for Y2K. Entrapment may have been
pretty weak for a story, but the robbery scenes were very good. I liked
this
movie overall, I know it wasn't the best Connery, but I watched this for
the
sexy Zeta-Jones, I thought she was great.
<|_=00=_|>
I have this film two chances and liked it much better the second time.
I guess I expected more on the first viewing, but why not? Sean Connery
usually is good, Catherine Zeta-Jones was a hot, new commodity at the
time, and I usually enjoy heist films. 

This movie had not just one but TWO heists in it, so it should have
been really good.....but was fair, at best.

It just wasn't that entertaining, too flat in too many spots. Connery
looked at times like he was just going through the motions. His usual
spark was missing. It's not bad....so-so as a thriller goes, but really
not memorable and certainly not as dramatic as it should have been.
<|_=00=_|>
The heist caper genre, so popular in the '70s, rears its head with this
uninspired but fairly enjoyable 1999 flick. Sean Connery and Catherine
Zeta-Jones generate genuine sexual chemistry despite their age gap
(Connery was just shy of 70 when the film was made), and there are a
couple of suspenseful heist sequences along the way. Between the high
spots the film is rather bland and forgettable, with little of the
humour that made the heist movies of yesteryear such fun (try to
imagine The Hot Rock or The Italian Job stripped of their sense of
humour, and you'll have a fair impression of what this film has to
offer).

Virginia Baker (Catherine Zeta-Jones) works for a top insurance
company. Also, secretly, she is a master cat burglar who greatly
admires the audacity and criminal success of another thief, Robert
MacDougal (Sean Connery). Virginia double bluffs her boss, Hector Cruz
(Will Patton), into allowing her to track down MacDougal. Her official
brief is to become his partner-in-crime for a daring heist, after which
she is supposed to turn him over to the police. But in reality,
Virginia actually DOES want to be his partner-in-crime.... and has no
intention of turning him in whatsoever! Aided by MacDougal's buddy
Thibideaux (Ving Rhames), the thieving twosome complete their robbery
successfully. Later, MacDougal reveals his plans for an even bigger
job. With Virginia as his accomplice, he aspires to pull off the
near-impossible theft of $8 billion dollars from the world's tallest
building in Kuala Lumpur on Millennium Eve. By this point, Cruz has
begun to suspect that Virginia may not be working on the side of the
law any more. In a taut finale, MacDougal and Virginia attempt to
complete their ingenious crime before the security forces catch them
red-handed.

Entrapment is slick and effortlessly watchable stuff with little
discernible style of its own. Connery and Zeta-Jones, as already noted,
overcome their remarkable age difference to make for a rather
attractive pair. A good measure of any heist flick is whether your
sympathies lie with the crooks or the law. In this one, the burglars
win hands-down.... they are infinitely more charismatic than the "good
guys". The globe-trotting narrative provides some exotic locations in
which the stars can indulge in their posturing. Kuala Lumpur especially
comes across as an exciting and interesting locale, somewhat underused
to date in the movies. Entrapment has its share of silly moments,
including a gratuitous sequence in which Zeta-Jones trains for her
first robbery by writhing in a skintight cat suit through a maze of
wool (strung out in such a way as to replicate the pattern of an
infra-red alarm system!) Too many scenes also have Connery vanishing
into mid-air to avoid capture, a trick that becomes increasingly hard
to swallow and hampers the film's credibility. All in all, though,
Entrapment is a harmless time-killer that keeps you moderately
entertained, especially if you catch it in the right frame of mind.
