

highly underrated. spacey provides a top notch performance, as does the
rest
of the cast. there is a solid chemistry between all the players which far
outshadows any scripting weakness. this is a very good film, with several
plot twists and great pacing.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a film I thought was unfairly criticized by the national
critics. Panned by about everyone, I thought this thriller was pretty
good. 

Yes, there is one major credibility gap in a key segment which I, too
was ridiculous. (How can you make love to your neighbor, even in
darkness, and not know who it is?!) Also, there is a clichéd ending,
but that's not unusual in films.

Overall, however, I thought it was entertaining and nicely filmed. I'd
like to see this on a DVD with a better transfer. The main actors -
Kevin Kline, Kevin Spacey, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio - were all
interesting, especially Spacey's villain character. It was also
interesting to E. G. Marshall, who was a big star on television years
ago. I'm sorry his role was so short.

The film also had good suspense. All of these are why I think the film
is a lot better than it's considered.
<|_=00=_|>
"Consenting Adults" simply proves what a Hollywood screenwriter can do
when given a big budget, big stars and no imagination. Kevin Kline and
Kevin Spacey play suburban neighbors who become unlikely friends then
slowly descend into episodes of criminal mischief and debauchery.

The picture starts off well enough. We're introduced to Kline and his
wife (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio) and their musically gifted daughter.
He's a composer of commercial jingles who appears to be placid and
content in his boring, upper-middle-class ways. Then Spacey and his
stunning wife (Rebecca Miller) move in next door, and Kline's character
is suddenly awakened: Spacey is a real schmoozer, a "financial adviser"
with a sharp mind and an engaging personality; Miss Miller is a
bombshell, and one can sense that Kline wants a piece of her. The
tension and complications build until Spacey suggests to Kline a
one-night stand of wipe-swapping, each man accosting the other's wife,
half-asleep in bed, so they are unaware of the identity of the lover
(in theory, anyway). Kline refuses, but Spacey and the idea keep
gnawing at him, and eventually, craving a scrap of excitement in his
dull life, he gives in. The final consummation between Kline and Miller
is a lovely shot; his bare body caught in shadows in front of a
glittering window-dressing, partially lit by street lamps.
Unfortunately, that's where the movie ends.

A few hours later, Miss Miller turns up dead, bashed with a baseball
bat, and Kline, having had sex with her is cast as the murderer. From
this point, nothing in the story appears to make much sense; its as
though the screenplay was flowcharted by a computer programmer. This
happens, then this, then this. Human emotions are never considered, and
the movie becomes an acted-out cartoon, each actor assuming a
caricature of something that fits a framework; any chance for texture
in the performances is completely destroyed.

The plot is full of holes, and sometimes, in a truly suspenseful
picture, the audience is willing to overlook it. Not this time. It's
all so by-the-numbers, you can virtually guess what will happen next
even though you don't understand why. If the dead girl wasn't Spacey's
wife, then who was she? Why didn't Kline recognize her as a different
girl when he rushed into the bedroom? (Do all vapid blondes look that
much alike?) Why does Mastantonio immediately discount her husband's
plea of innocence? (so much for 14 years of marriage) If she's so much
happier with Spacey, why does she agree to play the tape? I considered
that she might toss it in the lake they were standing by, but I knew
she wouldn't. Then the computer program wouldn't run.

There's not much to like about the performances in this thing. Kevin
Kline, it's been my long-held opinion, is only good when he's acting up
a storm. When he plays a regular person, he's just boring, he radiates
very little presence to the audience. He's not a convincing Everyman,
as Jimmy Stewart was, he's just dismal and you don't really care
whether he clears his name or not. The boringness is not so evident in
the first part of the film (in fact, it fits), but once his life is on
the line and he has reach to down deep for some reserve of passion, it
isn't there. He's not compelling enough to be The Man Caught in the Web
(he'd be lost in a Hitchcock picture). Kevin Spacey is superb in the
early scenes as the sleazo Eddie, and he gives the picture its only
zing; he has the right admixture of charm and smarm to draw you in and
make you wary at the same time. But by the end, he's just another
psychotic killer and his eyes gleam freakishly like Nicholson's in "The
Shining". If there's such a thing as a cardboard cutout of a deviant,
this is it. Audiences may like Forest Whitaker's subdued performance as
a polite southern gentleman sniffing out the scam (he's like the Lovie
Smith of insurance investigators), but it belongs in another movie.

A good movie could have been made from this material. From the crucial
point of the wipe swap, it could have been a character study on how
lives are destroyed by this kind of self-indulgent behavior, or at
least a better thriller, with Spacey leading Kline into deeper and more
diabolical adventures. But "Consenting Adults" is straight from the
textbook, and a cursory-level high school textbook at that.
<|_=00=_|>
. . .but the weirdest thing is - it is eerily similar to the
Aykroyd/Belushi
film "Neighbors."  Heavily derided in it's time, it matters not whether
you
liked it, it had some really weird elements to it.  NOW - take out the
weird
elements and leave a basic plot:  "Exciting" guy with a bad bleach-job and
his sexy wife move in next door to thoroughly-mundane guy and his
attractive
wife; who, by the way have a sexless marriage.  Kline/Belushi are set up
as
"marks" immediately, and almost as immediately the new neighbors begin a
contrived "seduction of the innocent".  Soon, the mundane guy finds
himself
trapped in an existential hell of Blondie's making(Spacey/Aykroyd).
Well.
Consenting Adults is not a good movie - or even interesting.  Spacey gives
a
charismatic performance as usual, but the script lacks any originality.
This was another entry in the ". . .from Hell" high-concept series of
scripts from the early-90's.  Babysitter. . .Cop. . .Neighbor. . .Dentist.
..I wish I could say that the best parts of this film ended up on the
editing
room floor - considering the cast - but there's no way this script was
ever
anything but stale.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie had been in my Netflix Queue for sometime and I decided to
give it a watch after meeting Mary Elizabeth Mastrontonio in person
(very gracious lady). Anyway, I'd seen the film before, but it had been
many years. After viewing it again this time around, I came to the same
conclusion. The first half of the story is very engaging and
interesting. Kevin Spacey is brilliant in one of his early roles.
Mastrontonio and Kline are also very appealing. You like the characters
and you care about them. However, the second half of the film, the
"thriller" portion, is so lame and unrealistic that I completely lost
interest. It's as if the writers simply gave up on how to finish this
film off. They created very interesting characters, set up a nice
story, but the story didn't have anyplace interesting to go. I'd love
for someone to try a rewrite of this thing. Anyway, not much going on
here with this film. The only relevance it has is if you are a Spacey,
Kline, or Mastrontonio fan. Rating 5 of 10 stars and that is being
somewhat kind.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is both unlikely and unlikeable. It is unlikely that good
actors would sign on to such a ridiculous and implausible screenplay.
Perhaps neither Kline nor Spacey read the script before agreeing to do
this film. That seems the most plausible explanation.

At some point one would imagine that someone would have asked the
director just why the audience should give a flying flip about the fate
of the alleged protagonist. He is a man being framed for the murder of
his neighbor, when he was only guilty of raping her. (I should also
note that he had also arranged to have his own wife raped by the
husband of his victim, but that man, the alleged antagonist, did not
follow through. Instead he killed the woman Kline's character had
assaulted and set out to frame him for it.) The women in this movie are
as vapid as the men are vile. The framed character's wife ultimately
forgives him when he is cleared of the murder without any regard for
the fact that he had snuck over to their neighbor's house in the middle
of the night to have sex with another woman without her consent. She
also doesn't seem to mind that he had volunteered her for the same
treatment.
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS THROUGH:

I've seen this movie a couple of times and have to admit I moderately
enjoyed it even though it's got a lot of flaws. I think the all around
premise is intriguing enough and the cast is great but somehow the
movie loses it's way and doesn't make the impact it could, though it
always stays watchable.

The movie had several really good ways it could have gone. It could
have kept away from the whole thriller thing and just been a
relationship movie, concentrating on the couple swapping issue. It
could have also gone in the Noir direction but as a halfway believable
one. The problem with this movie is there are to many plot holes to
count AND it plays sometimes like a horror film with all the try to
scare tactics, numerous plot holes, and it just becomes to out there.
It's disappointing because the central premise is really interesting.

The cast is good with Spacey stealing the film and being the standout.
But ultimately the movie is disappointing because it starts out so
interesting, with such a strong hook, that it ultimately becomes a bit
of a letdown just when it reaches the pinnacle of being at it's most
interesting.

The focus shifts from the multiple relationships of the characters, and
becomes just another thriller with plot twists and plot holes that make
no sense. There's a point when one thinks they can actually start
counting the plot holes because there are so many of them. I'm not
saying the twists(or some of them) aren't clever, but things needed to
actually make some sense to make this movie go beyond entertaining
which it is, into being a really good movie and that never happens.

I could go into some of the plot holes but that would make this review
way to long. I will use one example though and that's when a certain
woman is supposedly murdered. Then a man is arrested for the murder. He
begins to suspect she wasn't killed and eventually finds out she's
alive, a "lookalike" is killed. He goes to see this woman. They speak.
Then she really IS killed. The same man is suspected of the second
murder. But how come the police don't express any surprise that the
second murder is the murder of someone who is supposed to be have
already been murdered way earlier? Wouldn't the police react to that?
Especially because the first woman who was murdered was identified by
her own husband? Is this making sense to anyone? That's my Point. It
still doesn't make sense to me. I actually did kind of like this movie.
After all, I've seen it more then once. But I couldn't help being
disappointed overall. I would rather have watched a movie about the
four characters and how they interact rather then just another
thriller. Consenting Adults is absorbing though, keeps one watching,
has a great cast and can even be watched more then once without losing
the element of intrigue. Spacey and the rest of the cast in general
elevate this and the writing, with all it's implausibilities, is
clever. Ultimately my vote is 6.5 and if one likes psychological
thrillers and doesn't mind implausibility, this is your movie! 6.5 out
of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Consenting adults has a strong cast, a decent script and a deeper than
expected story, that builds and sustains enough tension throughout;
without sinking into as much sexually explicit detail, as the title may
suggest.

Kevin Kline, Kevin Spacey, Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio and Rebecca
Miller all portray there characters well, with Spacey and Miller
stealing most of the credit.

Consenting Adults is a reasonably safe choice for most thriller fans,
it's not the best out there; but its entertaining and intriguing enough
to please.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Considering the acting talent and the late, great director Alan J. Pakula
you would expect "Consenting Adults" to be a top notch thriller. Think
again. It starts off well but then slowly descends into
silliness.

Kevin Kline and Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio play a happily married couple in
suburbia. In next store moves Kevin Spacey and his very sexy wife. As the
men get to know one another Spacey continually hints that maybe the couples
show switch for a night of wild sex. When Kline finally does agree Spacey's
wife ends up dead. So far so good. Then the movie stumbles into cliches,
predictability, and ridiculous scenes that make you wonder how the
screenwriter let the good idea get away.
<|_=00=_|>
Alan J. Pakula's 'Consenting Adults' is A Decent Thriller! It has some
catchy moments & convincing performances working for it.

'Consenting Adults' Synopsis: A man is falsely accused of murdering his
neighbor's wife.

'Consenting Adults' has its share of minuses, but what makes most of
the goings-on work, is its brisk Screenplay Written by Matthew Chapman.
It has some good, catchy moments, that are note-worthy. Alan J.
Pakula's is perfect. Cinematography is good. 

Performance-Wise: Kevin Kline is excellent. Has there ever been a
better scene-stealer? Kevin Spacey makes a good menace, although he's
been better. Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio is fabulous in a performance
that ranks amongst her finest to date. Rebecca Miller is highly
effective. Forest Whitaker is believable. 

On the whole, 'Consenting Adults' has merits.
