

`Originality,' is, almost by definition, a one-time thing.  In 1997, the
original `Men in Black' struck a nerve with movie audiences by showing that
even a big budget blockbuster, heavily loaded down with state-of-the-art,
computer-generated special effects, could still manage to seem light on its
feet.  The makers of that film pulled off this feat of gravitational
legerdemain by coming up with a concept and a script overflowing with
creativity, wit, imagination and a cachet of `hipness' to go along with its
tone of anarchic playfulness.

Well, five years have passed and we now have `Men in Black II' to confirm
what most of us suspected all along:  that works that rely on `uniqueness'
as their prime selling point are rarely ever able to duplicate their success
a second time around.   Five years can be a lifetime in pop culture and what
seemed `cool' one summer can appear decidedly `old hat' the next.  Without
that aura of cutting edge newness that defined the original, `Men in Black
II' seems like just another loud, over-the-top summertime
blockbuster.

Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones are back playing Jay and Kay, agents for the
government's top secret organization whose job it is to monitor the
activities of the thousands of aliens who have secretly infiltrated earth's
societies and to help protect the planet from any possible threat from
interstellar space.  Smith and Jones still appear to be quite comfortable in
their roles and they are aided by Lara Flynn Boyle, as Serleena, the baddest
alien this side of Darth Vader, and Rip Torn, delightful as Zed, the
slightly cracked head of the Men in Black agency.

Although the special effects in this film are, as one would expect in this
day and age, astonishing and virtually seamless, the same can definitely NOT
be said for the film's screenplay.  The story moves along at a fairly fast
clip, but it rarely makes us laugh.  In fact, the script comes across as
undisciplined nonsense, lacking both logic and coherence.  Unlike in the
earlier film, we get the sense that literally everything here has been
placed at the service of the special effects.  There's an awful lot of
running and bouncing around but rarely to any point or purpose.  Indeed, we
end up feeling at the end somehow more exhausted and drained than
exhilarated and euphoric.  It would appear that director Barry Sonnenfeld
thought that if he could just keep the thing MOVING we wouldn't notice that
he had nothing new to offer in this retread.   It doesn't work.  In fact, if
`Men in Black II' shows us anything, it is that just because something MOVES
doesn't mean that it can't bore us at the same time. 

 

<|_=00=_|>
Let me just start by saying that I normally like movies with Tommy Lee
Jones and / or Will Smith in them. They certainly don't belong to the
enormous group of average and unnoticeable actors, but have some kind
of style and presence that I really can appreciate. But I'm afraid
that's about the best thing I can say about them right now, because
what they did in this movie was nothing but a hasty
'grab-as-much-money-as-you-can' job and I really don't like to see
that.

"Men in Black II" starts four years later from where the first one
ended. Kay has given up life as an agent and has returned to civilian
life, working in a postal office, while Jay has continued to work for
the 'Men in Black'. While investigating what seems to be a routine
crime, Jay uncovers a diabolical plot masterminded by Serleena, an evil
Kylothian monster who disguises herself as a sexy lingerie model. With
their headquarters under siege and time running out, Jay must convince
Kay, who no longer remembers anything of his time with the MIB, to
rejoin the agency so they can save the Earth from being destroyed
completely.

I admit that some of the special effects were nice to watch, but even
that didn't always convince me. Some of the aliens were small
masterpieces, others however seemed like a hasty job, unfinished by the
people of the computer graphics department. The only possible
explanation for that might be that they wanted to save enough money so
the profit rate would be even larger. And the computer animations
weren't the only one to suffer from that problem. The script writers
didn't come up with any new things either. All they did was to repeat
what worked in the first movie. It even seems like they didn't have the
time to come up with a new and decent plot.

And yet not everything was that bad. The humor for instance worked, not
always perfectly but it worked. Jokes like "It came with a black dude,
but it kept being pulled over" when they talk about the automatic pilot
in the Mercedes were funny. I even liked that dog singing on the front
seat of the car, but overall it just wasn't enough to save the entire
movie. No, if you are looking for a spectacular new movie that is full
of great acting, a great story and some excellent computer animations,
than you'll be very disappointed by this one. It just seems like they
threw it together in a couple of weeks and that's why I can only give
it a 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

There is only one rule when making a successful sequel. That is, that the
sequel has has to be head and shoulders above its predecessor to be
considered good at all. It has to be fresh. The key to making a good
comedy
is to make the humor seem effortless enough so that the audience can enjoy
it without having to be told what is funny (this is why laugh-tracks on
sitcoms are the worst idea ever). The key to creating a good plot is to
give
it time to develop, and to let the audience enjoy its twists and turns,
whether they be good or bad.

<Warning: Possible spoilers ahead>

Sadly, Men in Black II accomplishes none of these. Aliens come to earth,
threaten to destroy it, yada yada yada, MIB has to figure out what's going
on before the earth is destroyed, yada yada yada, big guns, alien explodes
at the end, just in the nick of time, after being hit by the big guns.
Which
of the movies am I describing? Both of them. Far from being fresh, this
sequel is exactly the same as the original.

As for the humor... there was humor? Simply put, this movie had its
moments.
Unfortunately, they were few and far between, and, in any case,
significantly less interesting than the continual clashing of
personalities
in the first movie. This was due to the simple fact that in MIB II, Agents
Jay and Kay acted identically.

As for the plot, throughout the film, the characters were supposed to be
hunting down clues to the location of the light. Instead of getting the
feeling that I was watching the characters unlock a mystery, I get the
feeling that I'm watching a bratty teenager and his crotchety uncle
following a scavenger hunt to... who cares. The film never conveys a sense
of importance to the audience about what they are looking for, or why this
thing is so important. Not only that, but this wafer thin plot is crumpled
into an 88 minute timeframe, leaving, well, a mess.

Maybe the problem is that everybody involved was so determined to make a
good movie, that every idea from the past five years ended up getting
forced
into one movie. Or, everybody involved in the movie was so determined to
get
a big fat payday, that they didn't care about how crappy their movie
turned
out. There. That one sounds more reasonable.

I gave this movie a 3 out of 10. Not the worst movie ever, but definitely
not worth my time.

<|_=00=_|>

As funny as the original MIB was, the sequel proves that the same old thing
can get very old and very tired very quickly. I mean, how often can you
really find it funny to watch an alien grow its head back after having it
shot off? This was a cute gag in the original (and I think we only saw it
happen once if I remember correctly.) In this one, it happens over and over
again. HEY! AFTER THE FIRST TIME IT'S NOT THAT FUNNY! That's the basic
problem with this movie. It doesn't seem to have a lot to differentiate it
from the first one, with the result that it's just not that
interesting.

Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones reprise their roles as Agents "Jay" and "Kay"
respectively, and here was one element of the story that might have made
this a fun adventure if it had been developed. "Kay" is retired as this
movie opens, and he's been "neuralized" - his memory of having been an MIB
agent has been wiped clean. If the story had focussed more on "Kay" and his
attempts at re-integrating into the MIB agency, I think this might have been
a very funny movie. But "Kay's" re-integration just seems to happen far too
easily, and for the most part the focus of the movie is on Smith's "Jay."
The problem with that is that I just feel Jones is better suited to the
whole MIB persona, and I felt Smith quickly became tiresome without Jones
balancing him more fully. (And Frank the dog - another of Jay's "partners" -
just didn't cut it. I really wanted that dog to get eaten by the big worm or
something. A very irritating character, in my opinion.)

My advice: stick with the original.

3/10
<|_=00=_|>

Sequels are almost inherently inferior to their original films. The reason
that a sequel is ever made is because the original film was a huge success
and therefore people want to see more, but at the same time have developed
high expectations from the original film, expectations which are rarely if
ever completely fulfilled. In my opinion, every sequel has a right not to
live up to the original that it followed, but Men In Black II abuses the
privilege almost as much as Austin Powers has already done twice so far.
Roger Ebert makes an interesting comment in his review of Men In Black II,
stating that the original was so enormously successful because it was
unexpected and we had not seen anything like it, while the second one is a
rehash of the original, and now we HAVE seen something like it. The expected
result is that, like the two Austin Powers sequels, what we have here is
little more than an extension of the same jokes that we saw in the original
film.

The entire cast has come back, of course, since this is guaranteed to be a
hugely popular film (although at the same time guaranteed to be an artistic
failure), and we also see a few more introductions to the cast of actors and
artists with flailing careers like Lara Flynn Boyle and even Michael
Jackson, who embarrasses himself in the film by playing the part of someone
desperately trying to secure himself a position as one of the Men In Black
(`I can be Agent M! Pleeeeeeeeeease???'). Naturally, everything that got a
laugh in the original film is milked to death here, although not entirely
without effect. I thought it was really funny when K blows off Jeebs' head
(feeding off of one of the more amusing scenes from the original during J's
introduction to the aliens amongst whom he lives), and J asks him how he
knew that Jeebs' head would grow back if his memory had not been restored,
and K replies, `It grows back?' Not very creative, but certainly
amusing.

The movie has its strong points, I am not saying that it was a stone-faced
bore, but the problem is that it completely feeds off of whatever was
successful about the original film. There is virtually nothing creative
presented in this film, it is much talkier and drier than the original and
doesn't seem to have a personality of its own. MIB followed an alien
disguised as a redneck named Edgar as he tries to get his hands on a galaxy
that is small enough to fit on a cat's collar. In the second film, we not
only have a charm on a bracelet that is the most sought-after item in the
film, but we also catch a couple of overly brief glances at some tiny
populations of life forms that are able to fit into an airport locker but
are still not able to secure themselves a larger part in this film, which
chooses instead to entertain us with a talking dog. How's that again? Why is
it that there were so many interesting creatures in the original film but
this one gives us a quick glimpse of some fascinating creatures but then
tries to distract us with the talking (and sometimes singing) antics of a
tiny dog, which had just the right size role in the original film?

Things like this and the fact that the movie had nothing new to add to the
Men In Black story bring the quality of MIIB way down, leaving it to tag
along behind its predecessor like an annoying little sister. We already know
there is going to be a Men In Black III (hey, if they made a second sequel
after the ridiculous Austin Powers 2), so we can only hope that the
producers and director will take a little more time in deciding how to
entertain us and what kinds of life forms to focus on, because this was
entirely overlooked in this sequel. Even the enormously sexy Boyle was not
comfortable on her role and therefore unconvincing as an alien villain in
disguise (indeed, it was more convincing that the writers were so
unconfident in their script that they felt the need to gloss it over with a
sexy villain than it was that she was a threat to the MIB), and Mr. Smith
and Mr. Jones had little to nothing to work with in their roles. There is
still something left to be salvaged in the Men In Black story. Like the
story for Hollow Man, there are nearly endless possibilities, but they were
unfortunately largely ignored in this film. At least it's all uphill from
here
<|_=00=_|>

I loved "Men in black". I really, really, really loved it. It was definitely
one of the wittiest, craziest and the most successful movies of the late
90's. Movie history had never seen such an incredibly silly, senseless and
irresistible scifi action comedy before it. Every minute of "Men in black"
was marvelous fun. I would almost have to call it a masterpiece, in its own
genre that is. Therefore I was looking forward for the sequel and when the
wait of five years finally ended the theater called me. Unfortunately I
didn't get exactly what I was after. When someone tells you a really
hilarious joke you naturally laugh at it. When someone tells you precisely
the same joke again it's no longer that funny. This was the case. "Men in
black II" just seemed like it's a remake of the first flick. There was
nothing new, nothing fresh, and Tommy Lee Jones acted just like he's simply
tired and fed up with his character and he's in only because of the huge
paycheck. Even the script was somewhat confusing. Of course this movie was
very watchable and it was filled with wonderful moments and fabulous ideas
here and there but altogether it wasn't so good anymore. Still, go to
theaters and by all means watch "Men in black II" if you liked the first
one. Maybe you'll like this one too. All I can say is, if the sequel is ten
times worse but still ok, then how good can the original possibly be...?
Think of it.
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Not as wildly enjoyable as the first, but makes a terrific
sequel. 

Summer movie sequels are usually the victims of the "sequelness". Most
sequels to big blockbuster hits tend to simply repeat the success of
the first film, and simply recycle the formula of its predecessor. MEN
IN BLACK II (or simply MIIB) is no exception. It practically repeats
the formula of the first film: Aliens are out again, J (Will Smith) and
K (Tommy Lee Jones) are back as partners to fight against it and the
whole lot. The formula is copied, but the same cannot be said about the
rest of the film. There are new rabbits in this same bag of tricks.
Although most innovations are of special effects, MIIB provides some
new fun moments in a somewhat formula approach.

Like said, MIIB returns Smith and Jones as the dynamic duo out to stop
an alien, a creature called the Kylothian, who takes the form of a
lingerie model (Lara Flynn Boyle), who, guess what? Trying to take over
the world. of course. This is nothing new in comparison. It's mostly
just a retread of the previous film. But few of these "been there, done
that" sequels are fun in a different way. This one is, and it's
actually surprisingly entertaining. The new script by Robert Gordon and
Barry Fanaro contains a number of effective puns which elevates the
humor from other formula sequels.

Of course, there are new and colorful special effects from mostly the
same crew of the original film. The effects by effects house Industrial
Light & Magic and make-up artist Rick Baker are still outlandish and
imaginative. They still give us a host of aliens and creatures that we
can feast our eyes upon. Not much imagination went to the storyline and
characters, but a lot was certainly invested upon the effects and
visuals. Kudos for director Barry Sonnenfeld, production designer Bo
Welch and much of the special effects crew for providing a colorful
atmosphere that bursts with liveliness in an otherwise formulaic
episode of summer sequel season. It's the same old thing, but with new
fun.

Rating: ***1/2 out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
Men in Black II (2002)

* 1/2 (out of 4) 

Boring and bland sequel has Earth coming under attack from a dangerous
alien (Lara Flynn Boyle) so Agent Jay (Will Smith) must bring Agent Kay
(Tommy Lee Jones) out of retirement. I really wasn't sure what to
expect out of this sequel but the very, very, very last thing I did
expect was something boring. I must admit that I was really shocked to
see how bland and downright bad this movie was as sadly it's yet
another example of a sequel to a good movie being about nothing more
than money. The original film was smart, clever and funny in regards to
the subject matter but this sequel just lacks any sort of originality
and it's really nothing more than a copy of the original. What's so sad
is that there could have been so many good and interesting story ideas
but sadly we're just given a copy of the first film and we even get
many of the same jokes. It's funny to think that the jokes worked so
well the first time but here they're just annoying and unfunny. I think
the majority of the blame has to go towards the screenplay, which is
just a mess. It's never funny, never makes too much sense and sadly
it's clear that very little went into it. The performances outside of
Tommy Lee Jones really aren't all that memorable either. Lara Flynn
Boyle has no problems looking sexy but her character is bland. Rip Torn
isn't given much to do and the same is true for Johnny Knoxville and
Rosario Dawson. The incredibly bad love story with Dawson is just an
embarrassment. MEN IN BLACK II even features some very poor CGI effects
and in the end this is just a rather worthless movie that isn't worth
the trouble.
<|_=00=_|>
''Men in Black II'' is not fantastic as the first movie, but it is a
good and entertaining movie to be watched anyway.

It is so funny to see Michael Jackson as one of the aliens from MIB! (I
mean, let's be honest, the guy doesn't even need a make up to look like
one!)

One of the things I need to complain about this movie, is the fact that
we don't have the same good explanations as the first one. A lot of
errors are present, like the lack of story about Laura's life
explaining why she is the light of Zartha, if she is K's daughter with
Lauranna or not,as well as Johnny Knoxville's character just
disappearing without reason.

It has been five years since Agent K returned to the comforts of a
civilian life working as a mail man. Agent J, for the other hand,
continues to work for the Men in Black, but he never has success
finding a good partner to stay with him: all of them hated the life of
being an agent and were neuralized. Serleena, an evil Kylothian alien,
disguises herself as a Victoria Secrets' model while planning to find
the Light of Zartha, that will put the galaxy in danger once again. Now
J will need the help of agent K once again to save the planet,
specially because he is the only one who knows where the Light of
Zartha is.
<|_=00=_|>


This is quite possibly the worst movie I've seen in the last few years. 
There was no plot, and the acting was terrible.  Will Smith and Tommy Lee
Jones are capable of much better performances.

Lame.  Really lame.  I'm sorry to have spent $7.25 on it.

