

"The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas" is one of the poorest excuses for a
family film I've seen in a long time.

The original remake with John Goodman was at least decent, but this flop has
not only an awful cast, but awful dialogue, filming techniques, jokes...it's
straight out of a made-for-TV sequel. Only one thing: It's even
worse.

In this live-action prequel to the 1994 comedy hit, Fred Flintstone (Mark
Addy) and wife Wilma (Kristen Johnston) go to Rock Vegas along with the
Rubbles, Barney (Stephen Baldwin) and Betty (Jane Krakowski), where Wilma is
pursued by playboy Chip Rockefeller (Thomas Gibson). This is the setup for a
bunch of tiring gags that also have to do with a little green space alien
coming to earth to see how humans mate, or something as
such.

This has to be one of the worst comedies I've seen it a while. It was
actually painful for me to watch. There really are no redeeming values
whatsoever, and I don't think I'd like it even if I was a five-year-old. It
treats the audience like dirt, and it obviously seeing if there's any juice
left in the audience to pay for another "Flintstone" flick.

Instead of trying to improve upon the first film--which was a bit
underrated--this film seems to go for the bare minimum in an effort only to
draw money from the audience. I have to ask myself, if they knew the first
was so critically-declaimed, why release another awful flick? Try to improve
and get good reviews.

But nope, no luck here. Instead we are treated to a truly awful and
hard-to-watch comedy with no redeeming values whatsoever.

Avoid at all costs.

0.5/5 stars--

John Ulmer

<|_=00=_|>
This movie makes an awkward attempt to stay faithful to the spirit of
the cartoon. It has moments, but far too few of them.

The few things done right first: Jane Krakowski makes a wonderful
Betty; why couldn't she have been in the first movie? She makes the
silly dialog somehow sweet and fun. The dating sequence is cute and the
Vegas arrival scene has some clever sight gags, but these were fleeting
montages. Harvey Korman is wasted in a throw-away role with few lines;
instead of voicing Gazoo (as he did in the original cartoon), and the
guy they use for Gazoo sounds like slate grinding on bedrock.

Joan Collins is obnoxious enough on her own; this movie has her play a
wrenching stereotypical loudmouth mother-in-law who you want to feed to
the nearest T-Rex you can find. And the guy that plays Barney? What the
heck is he doing? His entire performance looked like a rejected
audition for a junior high school production of "Bill and Ted's
Excellent Adventure in Jurassic Park." Fred? The guy had a voice almost
as nasally as Joan Collins. Wilma is cast as a 7-foot-tall giraffe.
Fred goes gambling: Gee, what's gonna happen there? Fred and Barney
dress up as dancers: they even manage to ruin this classic comedy
routine. A poorly done triangle story falls flat.

This petrified fossil of a film does little justice to the Modern
Stone-Aged Family. Rent some of the original cartoons, instead.
<|_=00=_|>

Like its predecessor, "The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas" tries to be
likeable.  However, this film is not quite up to par with the original. 
This version deals with the way the Flintstones came into existence.  Young
dino-crane operators Fred Flintstone (Mark Addy) and Barney Rubble (Stephen
Baldwin) find true love in fast-food waitresses Wilma (Kristen Johnston) and
Betty (Jane Krakowski).  They take an expense-paid trip to Rock Vegas, but
the evil Chip Rockefeller (Thomas Gibson) has a plan to get rid of Fred so
he can have Wilma for himself.  That is about it for the near invisible
plot.  Once again the production values are high, but that does not save
this film from being a dud.  The casting is impressive, but there is nothing
for the cast to work with.  Basically the first film with a different
situation and different actors in the key roles.  2 out of 5 stars. 

<|_=00=_|>
I saw the 1994 live action "Flintstones" movie on video for the second
time in 2000, about 4 ½ years after I first saw it, and thought it was
great during my second viewing. That was shortly after this prequel,
featuring a different cast, came to the silver screen, and I remember
hearing about this film around that time. Since I was not nearly as
impressed during my last couple viewings of 1994's "The Flintstones"
(both many years after my second), I was in no hurry to see "The
Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas", especially since I knew it had an even
worse reputation than its predecessor. It's been over 2 ½ years since I
last saw the first live action "Flintstones" effort, and I've finally
seen this second one, which is unsurprisingly not good.

The Great Gazoo is an alien who is sent to Earth by his species to
learn about human mating rituals. Back on Earth, in the prehistoric
town of Bedrock, Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble are two best friends
who are both in search of girlfriends. They are the first ones Gazoo
sees after he lands on the planet, so he decides to follow them around,
even though he annoys them. Meanwhile, a rich young woman named Wilma
Slaghoople is fed up with the snobbish people around her, especially
her mother, and runs away. She goes to a restaurant and meets a
waitress named Betty O'Shale, and they quickly become friends. Fred and
Barney go to this restaurant and meet the two women. Fred gets a date
with Betty and Barney gets one with Wilma. When the four of them go out
together, Fred and Barney end up swapping girlfriends, but both of them
are successful with their romance. Both couples are invited by Chip
Rockefeller, Wilma's rich and arrogant ex-boyfriend, to his resort in
Rock Vegas, but what they don't realize is that this is just a cruel
scheme for Chip to win Wilma back! 

The main problem with the 1994 film is that it simply isn't funny, and
that's most certainly a major issue with this prequel as well. The only
part of this film I couldn't keep a straight face while watching was
the "I'm ignoring you" part. There's one memorably lame moment with a
farting dinosaur, and most of the other gags are just mediocre. I was
also not impressed with many of the performances here. Mark Addy may
not be bad as Fred, and I guess Stephen Baldwin isn't that bad as
Barney, though I definitely preferred Rick Moranis' portrayal of the
character in the first film. These performances certainly aren't great,
however, and I certainly didn't care for Kristen Johnston and Jane
Krakowski as Wilma and Betty respectively. Also, Alan Cumming plays two
characters, which are Gazoo and Mick Jagged (obviously based on
real-life Rolling Stones frontman Mick Jagger), and both his
performances fail, especially the former, I would say. At the
beginning, showing Gazoo with other members of his species on a
spaceship before he is sent to Earth, it already looks like this is
going to be a very unfunny comedy movie, and unfortunately, that
beginning sequence doesn't lie.

The first live action film adaptation of "The Flintstones" was a
critical failure but a box office success, whereas "The Flintstones in
Viva Rock Vegas" was both a critical AND box office flop. After
watching it, that doesn't surprise me. I can't really think of anything
wrong with the 1994 release other than the absence of laughs, but I
would say that REALLY brings it down if quality, since it is supposed
to be a comedy. Just like its predecessor, this prequel failed to make
me laugh even one time, but this second film of the two also has
inferior cast performances, and maybe a slightly more boring plot as
well (I'm not 100% sure about that, as it's been a while since I last
watched the first film), which makes it even worse. I only found it a
BIT worse than the 1994 film, and don't absolutely hate it like many
others clearly do, but some could find it a LOT worse, including some
of those who like the first film. If you don't like 1994's "The
Flintstones", you probably wouldn't like this prequel. If you do like
that movie, there's probably STILL a good chance you wouldn't like
"Viva Rock Vegas".
<|_=00=_|>
In reading a few of the negative reviews of this movie, I'm wondering
if certain detractors actually even watched it. It's too easy for some
people just to dis a flick because it is a sequel, or because it went
straight to video, or because it's expected to be bad, or whatever.
Don't let that happen with "Viva Rock Vegas": it is a fine little
movie: fun, funny and visually rich in cartoony colors, costumes and
sets. The acting (and voices) are top notch: Stephen Baldwin's "Barney"
and Mark Addy's "Fred" are just fantastic; voices, mannerisms, etc.
Jane Krackowski is spot on as Betty, (ditzy-ness and giggle-wise). Alan
Cumming as "The Great Gazoo" is perfectly sarcastic and wise-ass. The
CGI is very good, considering, as are the sets and costumes. The
storyline makes sense, is plausible, and even engrossing (again,
considering). For what it is, this is a great little movie, and
compared to the first one (sheesh) it TOTALLY rocks ("rocks". get it?).
I defy anyone who can actually tell a good movie from a bad one to
watch this movie IN FULL, ALL THE WAY and TO THE END, and tell me that
they weren't entertained by it.
<|_=00=_|>

I cannot imagine in a million years how this thing got the go ahead. The
first one bombed with major talent in it. So, why would you make a sequel to
a bomb with lesser actors? I guess they thought kids would like it. Well,
kids might be immature but they are not stupid. As foul as a dinasour terd,
avoid at all costs.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not only a bad movie based on a cartoon. This isn't even just a
bad prequel. This is wrong on one two many levels. The acting is the
worst I've ever seen. The story is so clichéd.You know Fred & Wilma
marry in the end just like in the cartoon. And Gazoo is probably the
"worst" character ever to be put in a movie. It's stupid as far as all
movies go. I hated this movie. That's right. This is worse than The
Last Airbender, Saving Christmas & Jack & Jill rolled into one movie.
Under any standards of movies, this is definitely on an insulting level
to not just me, but the movie lovers, Flintstones fans, & people that
just hate movies. Don't watch this movie. You're better off with The
Last Airbender, Saving Christmas & Jack & Jill. I'd give this movie a
zero if that was an option. Worst Movie Ever.
<|_=00=_|>
Words fail me. I do not possess the proper powers of verbiage to fully
communicate just how terrible this tripe is. If there are any saving
attributes, they are masked by the thoroughly inane entirety of this
mess.

There is little, if anything, that has the humor of the original
cartoon. The casting of Fred and Barney is, at best, awful. I suppose
the actors portraying Betty and Wilma are somewhat grace-saving and
Dino, well, what can you say about Dino that hasn't been said before.

Thankfully, Pebbles and Bam-Bam were not yet around to have to endure
this.
<|_=00=_|>

Way too many critical comments. This is a cute family movie with just enough
humor and tensions and moral to suit all viewers regardless of age. The
special effects are good and the cinematography is actually
interesting.

Some of the double entrendres are cute, but they harmlessly go right over
the kid's head. (Remember, the theme song says "...They'll have a gay old
time.")

There's a couple of clever buried jokes. (Did anyone else catch Gazoo's
"Klaatu berada niktor" comment?)

Also, Kristin Johnson is quite easy on the eyes.

Remember, it's a MOVIE based on a CARTOON. Set your expectations
accordingly. Enjoy.

<|_=00=_|>

Jeez, it ain't THAT bad! 3.8? Maybe the original, MAYBE, but this is a
substantial improvement over that, and the original has like a 4+ rating. I
don't really give this a 10, I give it more like a 7.5, but I gave it a 10
because I found the ratings to be well, WAY OFF. This one had decent
performances, really excellent art direction, and some really cool FX. I
especially liked the Bronto-bridge and the Great Gazzoo. Unlike the first
Flintstones, this prequel is smart, fun, and the actors truly become the
characters they play. The story? LAME. The first 60% or so of the film DOES
CLICK. But the rest, when they arrive in Rock Vegas, is pure dreck appealing
to the lowest common denominator. But the film is so fun to look at, you
really don't care. There are a lot of films to love to hate but this one
really is NOT it. It's an adult Flintstones, if you can imagine that, and
it's a small but cute treasure to behold.     
