

The first time I saw this movie, in the theater, I was too caught up in
the unexpected awfulness of Eve's situation to be rational about my
reaction. Only someone who has lived through an experience like this
could possibly understand her feelings about her father, her selfish
sisters, her truly horrible mother, while trying (unsuccessfully, but
sincerely trying!!) to maintain some kind of family life with her
husband and son. I loved the frequent flashbacks. I think this is a
movie for the over-forty audience, because I'm not sure anybody else
could understand it. The second time I watched it, I was able to
concentrate more on the story, and the story is a good one. Sure, it's
no knee-slapping comedy, but it never presented itself as such. It's
almost too realistic in parts, if you've ever had a parent in this
situation, you would understand. If you haven't yet reached that part
of your life, there is no way you could possibly understand. The
doctor's mother was a love of a person. I'd like to see her again. I
wish I knew her in real life. And, the soundtrack is absolutely
awesome. Jay McShann's "Once Upon A Time" is one of the most beautiful
songs I've ever heard. And when it was sung over the flashback of Eve's
mother and father dancing, I cried through the whole scene. If you are
seeking a comedy, seek elsewhere.

If you are at that stage of your life where you are seeking a great
mixture of comedy, tragedy, irony, and frustration (just like our real
lives!) then go rent this movie tonight. Have some Kleenex handy.

<|_=00=_|>
The best scene in this Diane Keaton-directed film has drunken dad
Walter Matthau showing up at a kid's birthday party bellowing and
vulgar, but it doesn't belong in a comedy. It's more like something out
of "Shoot The Moon", which Keaton starred in, and would fit much better
in a film with a darker tone. "Hanging Up" wobbles around in search of
appropriate emotions, but Keaton just can't get a consistent rhythm
going. Her performance as the eldest of three unhappy sisters is also
wan (she's winging it), however Meg Ryan as the middle sister has some
fabulous moments: she hugs a coffee machine, she tries to convince her
husband that driving a wrecked truck is going to work for her, she
tells off her father but cries because she loves him. This is a
performance well worth watching, but the picture definitely needed a
director with a tighter grip on the reins. **1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>

My main motivation for renting this movie was to see Walter Matthau's final
performance.  Matthau was one of our most talented, all-around actors.  It
was sad to see him go, but his performance in this movie was a fine
conclusion to his thriving career.  I don't think he could've picked a
better final role to play.  And being that Matthau played a dying father, it
was even more heartbreaking to watch.  I didn't break into tears any time
during the movie, but I came close to it quite a few times. 

First off, "Hanging Up" was pretty much marketed as a comedy.  A fluffy
romantic comedy, or chick-flick if you want to go with the stereotype. 
There are undeniably some very funny moments, but it's all done as comic
relief.  Overall, this is a sad, touching story that should hit home to many
people who've had--or have--severed communications with their siblings or
parents.  I personally don't experience that in my family, but I know many
who do.  The father-daughter relationship, especially between Meg Ryan and
Matthau, is brutally realistic.  It's very touching to see how the two of
them stick with each other through thick and thin, even through Dad's messy
alcoholic rages.  The other two sisters, Lisa Kudrow and Diane Keaton, have
grown distant from their sick, elderly father with Alstheimer's Disease. 
While Ryan uses every ounce of her free time to visit her Dad in the
hospital, the other sisters use their work as an excuse for never finding
time.  

I've heard people say that the scenarios in this film are unrealistic. 
Well, as far as I understand, the movie is based on the real life
relationships of the Ephron sisters (who wrote the screenplay).  Of course,
there's some witty dialogue and situations that were obviously thrown in for
entertainment purposes, but it's all based on real life.  Truth can be
stranger than fiction.  Besides, I wasn't once doubting the plausibility of
the film.  Maybe it's because I was so indulged in the characters and the
spirited performances, but whatever it was--it worked. 

I have to say, I never thought Meg Ryan looked really attractive, before I
saw her in "You've Got Mail."  I liked her "When Harry Met Sally..." and
some of her past movies, but she just had a conservative, housewifey
appearance that never really did anything for me.  Now she looks soooooooo
cute with her straight blonde hair.  Every minute she was on screen I just
wanted to run up to the screen and kiss her!  And may I say, she has a smile
to die for.  

Walter Matthau is both entertaining and touching in an understated
performance that he should be remembered for, not just because it was his
last performance (Hell, I loved John Candy, but I'm not going to say his
performance in "Wagon's East" was the greatest), but because it was a
brilliant one.  Not only does he make the funniest, sometimes vulgar and
off-color, wisecracks but he's so likable.  Yet he has an alcohol problem. 
Showing us that even the most likable people have their faults.  You do feel
the sisters' pain when (in a flashback) Matthau barges into his grandson's
birthday party, completely drunk, yelling obscenities, humiliating everyone
and finally destroying the party altogether and causing the kids to cry, but
you also feel his pain when his daughter's husband (Adam Arkin) chases him
out of the house and wants to make sure that he never sets foot in the house
again.  

"Hanging Up" has everything you can possibly want in a film:  humor,
romance, sentiment, drama, moments of truth.  Yet it's not delivered in a
schmaltzy, "Lifetime" Movie of the Week format.  And you leave with a good
feeling in your heart.  I definitely recommend this movie, especially since
it reached a very scant audience in theaters.  Just make sure you have the
phone numbers of your sisters or fathers handy, because you're definitely
gonna want to give them a call afterwards!

My score:  7 (out of 10)      
<|_=00=_|>

Some very good performances help this otherwise forgettable film about the
relationship between the three daughters (played by Diane Keaton, Meg Ryan
and Lisa Kudrow), of a dying man (Walter Matthau.) There isn't anything
particularly noteworthy about the story itself. Told largely in flashback
style, we see how the father-daughter relationship evolved over the years
from a happy, loving one through the breakup of the parents and into the
last days before Lou's death. The movie features fairly typical scenarios of
the types of things that might cause family breakdowns (divorce, alcoholism,
sibling rivalry, etc.) There are some humourous moments, but all in all I
found myself largely disappointed by the story.

As I mentioned, though, there were some good performances which lifted this
from a bad one to the ranks of mediocre to average. Meg Ryan was
particularly good as Eve, the daughter who bears most of the responsibility
for caring for Lou. She's guilty of a bit of overacting at times, but is
definitely worthy of the leading role. Walter Matthau played Lou very well -
but, of course, he should have been accustomed to playing crotchety old men
by that point in his career. There were some surprise performances as well.
Lisa Kudrow demonstrated more acting ability than I expected from her based
on having watched "Friends" a few times, and, in a very limited role, Duke
Moosekian was really quite funny as Dr. Omar Kunundar, whose car Eve manages
to damage in a car accident. On the negative side, I was also surprised by
what I thought was a very below average performance by Diane Keaton (who
also directed, and who, in my opinion, showed no great talent as a
director.) She simply began to grate after a while.

The best word I can come up with to describe this movie is bittersweet, both
in the story of how a seemingly happy family turned out to be so consumed in
anger and jealousy, and in the sense that the movie had possibilities,
particularly in the strong performances I mentioned, that just didn't seem
to add up to anything. Generously, I rated this as a 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Touchy subject matter is a slap to the face for the way many people treat
their dying senile parents,thus causing the typical masses to under rate
this film.Too much reality for mainstream taste.But for those few who have
MATURE INTELLECT,this film truly delivers.Heartwarming and bitter at the
same time,it shows us that we have to try our best to give time to our
senile parents no matter how close you were in the past.It also shows us
that we must also learn to cut off some things from our lives in times of
stress in order to deal with priorities.We must learn to compromise and
prioritise carefully to lessen regrets.Well acted and directd film despite
it's lack of story.Only for fans of drama and dark comedy who understand
life..... 
<|_=00=_|>
OK, so, a lot of people are saying that they were disappointed, that it
looked funny but wasn't, that there was more drama than comedy etc etc
etc. BUT, I just have to point out, this movie isn't just listed as a
COMEDY but also as a DRAMA, therefore, it is to be expected that there
is a fair bit of drama involved in this movie. Just a forewarning: if
you don't like flashbacks, don't watch this flick, it's full of 'em!
This movie really amused me, and if you get it on DVD, watch the
cutouts! I laughed myself silly.. the cast of this movie is brilliant
(even if you're like me, and aren't the biggest fan of Diane Keaton).
You have Meg Ryan, with another of her light comedies, Lisa Kudrow with
another ditzy roll (lol), Diane Keaton in a role I would expect her to
play in a comedy/drama and Walter Matthau, who always puts in a very
amusing performance.

It's a fun, light comedic/dramatic flick, full of flashbacks, with
hilarious cutouts. I'd recommend it to anyone.. Have fun :-P
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is so awful I don't even know where to start ripping it apart.
I
am starting to think that the Ephron sisters simply had a fluke in "When
Harry Met Sally".  With the possible exception of "Sleepless in Seattle",
their other films have been unmitigated disasters.  This film is no
exception.  It is simply terrible.  In fact it is worse than terrible, it
is
exceptionally frustrating.  The story, without giving away any of the
non-existent plot, centers around three sisters coping with their
relationship with their father.  They contact each other incessantly by
cell
phone, hence the title.  Halfway through the film, you just want to grab
their cell phones and smash them on the floor.  They interrupt whatever
they
are doing to answer their phones, and there must be 100 calls answered
during the 90 minute movie.

Meg Ryan is apparently trying to prove that she is a one-dimensional
actress.  She is, once again (ho-hum), playing the cutesy, bumbling, blond
that earned her fame in When Harry Met Sally.  This is a role that she
plays
over and over and over again, and it is downright boring now.  Diane
Keaton
is supposed to be her sister, there are scenes with the 3 of them playing
as
youngsters.  Diane Keaton is about 25 years older than Meg Ryan, without
even mentioning Lisa Kudrow.  Kudrow has of course, simply re-played her
character from Friends.

Please avoid this movie at all costs.  It is worse than John Travolta's
incredibly bad "Battlefield Earth".  It is even worse than the
up-to-this-film, worst-movie-of-all-time "Next Friday".  At least you
could
laugh at John Travolta and know that he had proven himself in other works.
But "Hanging Up" will leave you seething with frustration and unfulfilled
promise.  I gave it a 1 out of 10.  Truly awful.
<|_=00=_|>

The late Walter Matthau ended his long and illustrious career as a film
actor in `Hanging Up,' playing, appropriately, the dying father of three
adult daughters.   I wish I could say that the vehicle he chose as his
eventual swan song were one truly worthy of his enormous skill and talent. 
Unfortunately – or rather fortunately – however, this will not be the film
for which he is most remembered.

Like so many films, `Hanging Up' starts off with the most noble of
intentions.  Writer Delia Ephron and director Diane Keaton  have attempted
to come to terms with the most complex issue facing the aging baby boomer
generation:  how does one cope with ailing, aging and dying parents while
trying to keep a grip on one's own hectic life and personal commitments? 
And, to make matters more complicated, how does one expend the physical and
emotional energy needed for such a task when the parent himself is often
irascible, crusty and even downright unlikable in his behavior and nature? 
And, finally, how does a wounded child ultimately find it in his or her
heart to forgive the parent and arrive at that moment of reconciliation so
crucial when death finally comes?

When `Hanging Up' focuses on this theme, it achieves moments of point and
relevance.  All of us can identify with the main character, Eve (Meg Ryan),
a sweet, warmhearted young woman who, alone of the three daughters, has
unflaggingly dedicated herself to the care of a father who, more often than
not, strikes out at her in unappreciative scorn and anger.  Wearied and
harassed by the enormous burdens of her hectic life and her own inability to
say `no' to the people who demand so much from her, Eve emerges as a truly
winning and believable character.  Unfortunately, her two sisters, Georgia
(Diane Keaton), a magazine magnate, and Maddy (Lisa Kudrow), a soap opera
actress, come across as shallow, two-dimensional characters whose
self-absorption and seeming indifference are (ho hum) really masks for the
insecurity and hurt hidden deep beneath their composed surfaces. 

Somehow, however, for all its attempts to deal with a truly universal theme,
`Hanging Up' never seems quite real in its look and demeanor – it always
feels like a movie.  Maybe it is the overall slickness of the approach that
undermines the seriousness of the drama.  The actresses, good though they
are, seem somehow too glamorous, their careers too unrepresentative of most
of the people in the audience.  
Another problem is that the film can never seem to settle on an appropriate
tone.  One moment we find ourselves steeped in searing drama followed the
next by a scene of trivial slapstick.  Time and again, Ryan is forced to
trip over a discarded toy, tangle with an overgrown mutt or bang away at an
uncooperative coffee dispenser.  Such incidents end up reducing the level of
the drama to little more than sitcom status.

`Hanging Up' has, however, been blessed with a wonderful cast.  Ryan,
Keaton, Kudrow and Matthau pore on the charm and play off each other nicely.
 (And the film has some devilish fun playing up the physical similarities
between Matthau and Richard Nixon).  These fine performers obviously had a
terrific time making the film together.  That is why one regrets the fact,
that for all their hard work, the film they left behind is so lacking in
credibility and grit.  At the end of his career and life, Matthau deserved
better.


<|_=00=_|>
i thought this movie was an amazing drama. it expressed what it's like
to deal with the struggles of everyday life and also other difficult
obstacles. this movie was one of the ONLY movies i have ever seen to
truly express relationships between sisters. i loved it. i also thought
it was creative because it wasn't OVERLY dramatic to the point where
you lose touch with the reality of the situation. it just seemed like
real sisters, with a real father, living real lives and i love that. i
think the cast was amazing and they made some of the situations
comical, but they didn't throw it in your face. this movie made me
think, it made me cry, and it made me appreciate my sisters. i loved
it.
<|_=00=_|>
There are some movies that are based on books, and it's important to
read the book first in order to "get" the movie. Hanging Up is
definitely one of those movies. This problem is only made worse by
hiring four great comedic performers and marketing the film as a comedy
(it definitely is not). Most of the complaints about the movie could be
cleared up if people had read the book first. For example, there are a
lot of complaints about Diane Keaton playing Georgia, because she's
just too old. If you'd read the book, you'd know that Georgia and Eve
are not extremely close in age, and that Georgia has always looked old
for her age. This wasn't ever intended to be an ensemble show. For
those of you out there who feel like the story is supposed to be about
three sisters, but it focuses it on Eve too much, I'm serious, the
story is about ONE woman dealing with too much on her plate. Therefore,
great actors like Walter Matthau, Diane Keaton, Lisa Kudrow and Cloris
Leachman are playing supportive roles in varying degrees. Now that
that's out of the way... The story really is beautifully filmed and
edited. No, the script isn't all that great, but I have two sisters,
and the relationship between Georgia, Eve, and Maddie is very real. I
also really liked how Keaton stylized the sisters in different ways.
Any of the scenes with the sisters together emphasizes a sisterly bond,
but each one's individuality at the same time. For example, Georgia,
the CEO, has a black limo. Eve, the practical soccer mom type, drives a
family-friendly SUV. Maddie, the carefree soap opera actress, drives a
black sports car. A large portion of the book's plot is lost in
translation in the movie. Overall, though, it's not a bad movie,
especially if you have aging parents or love/hate relationships with
your siblings.
