

Michael Ende's lovely book is in two parts; Petersen's 1984 film is really
just the story of Part I.  It's very good all the same.  Admittedly it would
have been nicer if Petersen had made a four-hour film covering the entire
book, but Part I's story is complete enough and works on the screen. 
Besides, there's always the possibility of a sequel.

Which makes it all the odder that the sequel, when it came, did NOT continue
the story in the way that Ende had.  Oh, Miller and his writers mine what's
left of the novel for ideas; what emerges is a gross caricature of Ende's
work, a hideous, twisted, traducement.  Making the witch Xayide into too big
a villain is the central mistake.  In the book Bastian's problem is a deep
one: wishes take away his memories not because of the contrived plotting of
some super-villain, but because of the very nature of the world Bastian
finds himself in; because of the nature of wishing, really.  Xayide EXPLOITS
this fact; she does not create it.  (Note that in Petersen's film the
central villain also exploits rather than creates strife.)  Quite apart from
this Xayide is much more chilling in the book.  In the film she's a
cackling, cretinous vamp who wears ludicrous bird-of-paradise gowns.  She's
a stage villain of the flattest kind.

One small change is more damaging than you might at first think: in Ende's
book, Bastian doesn't leave Fantasia ("Fantastica" in the translation I
read) until the very end.  This makes more credible his chances of being
trapped there.  Bringing him back to our world for the start of the next
film is enough to make the entire subsequent story silly and enervating.  It
feels as if we have entered a sitcom: at the start of the next episode,
everything is as it was before.  In today's episode Bastian must learn a
Valuable Lesson About Life - coincidentally, the same one he learned
yesterday (and will probably have to learn again in the next sequel, the
dullard).  The first scenes of Part II are almost unbelievably bad.  I
almost admire Miller's willingness to ADVERTISE how bad his film will be. 
We open with one of the cheesiest sequence of allegedly humorous pratfalls I
think I've ever seen; in a matter of MINUTES, I lost faith in the film, as
had everyone I was watching it with.

And so much of the original talent is missing as to make the whole exercise
pointless.  The crew is almost entirely different; the cast - apart from
Thomas Hill as Cornelius, who puts in an appearance even though he now has
no role to play in the story - is different and vastly inferior, and all the
beauty and fantasy that infused Petersen's production design is missing. 
It's not that the special effects are TECHNICALLY deficient, although they
may be.  It's just that there's no vision to give them life.  When I see the
turrets and drawbridges I find myself think of garage roll-a-doors and
hydraulic lifts, for that is what they look like here.  The script is full
of such clunkers you'll be unable to avoid wincing ... unless you treat it
all as a joke, which, luckily, is my siblings and I decided to do.  Treat it
as a kind of "Plan 9" experience and it may be worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a bit surprised at the heavy criticism this film received. It
doesn't take a scientist to figure out that this sequel didn't live up
to its predecessor. However, it's not nearly as bad as it's made out to
be.

Before I continue, I should note that I have not yet read Micheal
Ende's novel, so I can only judge this film as just that, a film. Not
as an adaptation.

Many have complained that the personality of the characters from the
original movie were contradicted and the film had little continuity. I
disagree. In this film, Bastian is older and wiser, yet still has a lot
to learn. That is not a flaw. He is *supposed* to be this way. As for
his father, we didn't get to know him well enough in the first film to
understand his personality, so the audience needs to give him the
benefit of the doubt as well. Kenny Morrison was a fine Atreyu
replacement for Noah Hathaway and Xayade is a villain that you'll love
to hate.

This film goes the "Temple of Doom" route by offering a darker tale
than before. In fact, some of the scenes might be a bit frightening for
anyone at pre-school age or younger. I know that those giants used to
scare me when I first saw this film at the age of eight. There are some
humorous moments regarding the clash of cultures as Bastian and Atreyu
often find it difficult to understand each other's vocabulary. A few
thrilling moments, a dramatic twist mid-way through, and some nice
visual effects round out a solid film.

On the negative side, some of the humor seemed a bit forced at times.
*Cough* Spray can. *Cough* And while the dialogue was passable, it
often sounded too plain without any real motivation behind it.

On a final note, and this is overlooked by the earlier reviews, Robert
Folk's musical score is spectacular. It's a shame that it'll probably
never be released in the mainstream ever again. The score alone makes
the film worth watching.

All in all, this is an underrated film that needs to be viewed with an
open mind instead of a quest to find as many flaws as possible. It's no
fun using the latter way. It may not be the best sequel one could hope
for, but it certainly could have been a lot worse. Just watch
Neverending Story III to find out how.
<|_=00=_|>

The Never Ending Story 2 did not seem to be as good as its predecessor,
however this movie wasn't all that bad. Sure it would of been nice if it had
ALL of the original actors from the first one in it and that could be a
reason why this film didn't do as well. I bet we would of all enjoyed this
movie much better if it did have the original actors in it. I am a big fan
of the novel (greatest novel I have ever read) and that could be why I
happen to like this movie. This is actually the last half of the book when
Bastian visits "Fantastica" and meets Atreyu and all the others. However one
downfall was this film seemed a bit distant to the original making it seem
like they are two totally different stories when in fact they are one. It
just didn't seem to capture all the magic of the book. But all in all this
was a pretty good movie and it wouldn't hurt to get an idea of what the
second half of the story is all about. But the first film is the greatest
and will put its spell over your entire family!!!!!!! I give The Never
Ending Story 2; 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
The 1st "Neverending Story" was one of my favorite movies as a child so
naturally, I couldn't wait for the sequel. I was completely horrified
at the transformation of my favorite characters!! Although this one was
made in English and the first one German, at the very least they could
have done was get actors that resembled the original ones. I thought
Bastien in both movies was very annoying, but I was heartbroken that
characters were changed significantly. The magic and the fantasy of the
first film was ruined because the 2nd looked like a "Power Rangers"
episode. It was completely awful and I was disappointed in so many
ways. LONG LIVE THE ORIGINAL!! Do not waste your time with the sequels,
they don't have the emotion, fantasy or anything compared to the
original.
<|_=00=_|>

I am a fan of The Neverending Story the book.  This movie did not live up to
my expectations at all (when I saw it again recently)

The movie covers part of the book's story, with Bastian meeting Xayide. 
Although part of it is followed closely, Nimbly did NOT work for Xayide,
there was no Memory ball thing (AURYN made Bastian lose his memories on its
own) and the end was a cheesy replacement for the Fountain of
Life.

In the original story, there was much more substance.

And the thing that annoys me most: If Bastian met the Childlike Empress in
the last movie, why did she appear to him in this one?  If they had only
researched the story better, they would have discovered that you can only
meet the Empress ONCE.  No matter how many times you meet her, she wil have
no memory of you ever meeting her previously.
<|_=00=_|>
Just take a look at my summary and you'll get a great idea about what I
think of this movie. I wasn't originally planning to watch this, but I
decided to because it was in a day I had not much to do and so I did,
if only to see how weak this would be. I wasn't really expecting much
from it, but it turned out to be even weaker than I imagined.

But let's go by parts. "The Neverending Story II: The Next Chapter" is
a sequel to the original and much beloved 1984 film. Unlike the
original, this wasn't directed by Wolfgang Petersen, but by George T.
Miller. About the cast, with the exception of Thomas Hill as Mr.
Koreander, the whole cast is completely different. This already says a
lot. The original one has a cast you just gotta appreciate, but I can't
say the same about this one.

Bastian is now played by Jonathan Brandis, Atreyu by Kenny Morrison and
the Childlike Empress by Alexandra Johnes. Jonathan Brandis had a
tragic ending in real life. In the role of Bastian, he wasn't all that
bad, but we cannot compare him to Barret Oliver, the one and only
Bastian. Kenny Morrison is good as a Atreyu, but naturally not as much
as "the real Atreyu" - Noah Hathaway. Nevertheless, Kenny Morrison
looks a bit like Noah Hathaway, but with a stronger Indian-like
appearance. Alexandra Johnes really doesn't fit at all as the Childlike
Empress, unlike Tami Stronach.

The characters from the first movie we all love so much are not as
appealing here. Bastian has nothing to do with the loving Bastian from
the original and here he proves not to be very smart - including
whenever Atreyu warns him to be careful about what he's doing. Atreyu
is cool here, but not as much as the Atreyu from the earlier film. As
for the Childlike Empress, they really managed to ruin her image. Here,
she's just an ordinary-looking girl with freezy hair - she has nothing
to do with the angelical and innocent-looking Childlike Empress of the
original.

Falkor is not the same here. He looks quite artificial and ugly here,
while in the first movie he looks so real and perfect. Besides, is it
just me or did he become smaller in this film? Another equally bad
thing is his voice here. Golly, his voice here sounds awful! It's as if
he was talking with his mouth full all the time. And the same can be
said about the Rockbiter's voice here. Speaking of Rockbiter, now he
has a son? That Junior is a little annoying, isn't he? Mr. Koreander is
nowhere near as amusing here as he is in the first movie, despite being
portrayed by the same actor. Bastian's father is now younger? And how
come Bastian has a mother now, considering she's not alive in the
original film?

As for the visuals, only a few are still good, but aside that Fantasia
is simply not the same Fantasia I love so much from the 1st movie. The
gorgeous and fantastic landscapes seem to be gone. The magic and
special effects that give the 1st movie a feeling of something
out-of-this-world are missing. Besides, Fantasia is now a silver city,
which just doesn't please me.

The soundtrack is nothing special. Nothing to do with the wonderful and
inspiring soundtrack of the original movie.

Very little in this movie resembles "The Neverending Story". In fact,
this seems more like a mix of "The Lord of the Rings", "Star Wars" and
a Power Rangers episode, with its extreme darkness and mostly because
of all those horrible mechanical giants. I hate creatures like those. I
also hate the new villain, the sorceress Xayide. And that ridiculous
big bird...

As for the humor, nothing worthy to mention. Aside one or two very
small things, there's nothing to laugh in this movie. The original has
classic and funny humor.

So many things just don't fit in this sequel. Conclusion: this is a
shadow of the original and a mockery on the original. It is an easily
forgettable movie. Maybe kids will enjoy this, so I'd only recommend
this for them.

Just to finish, did anyone else notice that some scenes with Atreyu
riding Artax during the quest were literally taken from the first film?
I noticed that.
<|_=00=_|>
THE NEVERENDING STORY II is a wonderful and breathtaking familiar film
with adventures and imagination but inferior to excellent original. A
lonely and grieving little boy named Bastian(the sadly deceased
Jonathan Brandis substituting to Barret Oliver) is only living with his
father( John Wesley Shipp in similar role to Gerard McRaney)but his
mother has deceased.He seeks refugee in the library where meets a
bookkeeper and is taken a fantastic book .Thus, again he enters the
storybook world of Fantasia through the ¨Neverending story¨ tale . This
time Batian is really in the flick the complete time instead of outside
of the pages but happens that with each wish he lost records. There, he
goes to Silver City and he meets the young valiant warrior named
Atreyu( Kenny Morrison replacing Noah Hathaway)as he must save the
magic world of Fantasia threatened for the destruction by the advance
of Nothing that will eventually wipe out all the things and rescue the
imprisoned childlike Empress . She is detained by evil sorceress Xayide
(Clarissa) supported by his large mechanical beetles. Xayide has a dark
scheme for Fantasy world and the Childlike Empress. They'll have to
fight a magical army of giant bugs on two legs that threaten our
friends.

The story is an enjoyable fairy tale with great charm from the original
novel by Michael Ende,trying to incorporate too much dreamland with
fantastic beings like a giant bird named Nimbly, the large flying pink
poodle dragon named Falcor ,among others weird and bizarre creatures
.They have been made by big puppets and no by means of computer
generator effects but at the time had not been invented. The visual
beauty of the impressive scenarios give the movie a real sense of
wonder.The production design and sets are visually rousing and
appealing.The film contains an agreeable moral message about reading
books.It's followed by a new sequel, the third part titled: ¨Escape
from fantasia¨(directed by Peter McDonald)with Jason James Ritcher.
Besides followed by a Television cartoon movies. The movie contains
spectacular musical score by Robert Folk and colorful cinematography by
David Connell. The motion picture filled with imaginative moments is
professionally directed by George Miller though with no originality
because takes too many elements from previous film. Miller is an
Australian director usually working for television (Tidal wave, Journey
to the center of the earth,Attack of the Sabretooth) and occasionally
for cinema ( The man from Snowy river Zeus and Roxanne,Robinson Crusoe
). Rating : Passable, acceptable, 5,5.
<|_=00=_|>

**POSSIBLE SPOILERS FOLLOW***

The Neverending Story II is a good second installment of the series. As
someone who has never read the books, I don't have the fixation of some of
the other posters here ("They changed the book! WAAHHH!!"). To me, it's
not
about whether it was like the book or not. Another example of this
phenomenon is Starship Troopers. Great movie, but I haven't read (and
don't
care to read) Heinlein's book. I'm judging the movie on its own
merits.

Neverending Story II is another beautiful glimpse of Fantasia. Though new
actors play Bastian Bux and Atreyu, they are quite good for the most part.
Clarissa Burt (looking a lot like Christine Baranski) does a super job as
the witch Xayide, alternately vamping and chewing scenery. Falkor and
Rockbiter return, and some new creatures, like the Giants and the birdlike
Nimbly, appear.

The plot is - for the most part - tight, the effects are improved over
part
one, and the atmosphere and music both equal the original.

The ending is superb. I really enjoy how we are left with many questions,
especially regarding Xayide (who nearly steals the picture). Where did she
come from? What did she have against the Childlike Empress? Where does
Xayide take herself after Bastian uses Auryn to give her
emotions?

Perhaps some of these questions will be answered on the new TV
series.

All in all, I give Neverending Story II an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit I was actually looking forward to seeing this film,
especially since I had seen the first Neverending Story when I was a
little
kid.  It was undoubtedly one of my favorites; it was filled with fantastic
characters and a storyline that didn't talk down to me.

Then I saw this movie.

I have never been a big fan of sequels in the first place, especially if
the
first story didn't have an ending.  This sequel was one of the worst I
have
seen by far.  It is overly simplistic, and I felt no sympathy at all for
this new and older Bastian, who seemed dumber than rocks before the evil
witch/queen/woman-with-weird-eyes started stealing his memory away.  It
wasn't even the same Bastian.  Come to think of it, not one of the
characters was played by the same actor.  I get the feeling that they,
even
if they were out of work, wanted absolutely nothing to do with this
hack-job
of a film.
<|_=00=_|>

There are so many things wrong with this movie its hard to pinpoint.  I
myself am one of the biggest Neverending Story fans around, both of the
book
and the 1984 film.  But while that film didn't stray from the book much,
this movie simply takes characters and puts them in entirely new
situations.

The aesthetic complaints I have about this movie are further.  Bastian and
Atreyu look completely different (I know the original actors had aged),
Pyorncrachzark (Rock Biter) had a child, and shots from the original film
were used for horse-riding sequences.  The childlike empress is older as
well.  She can't age!  This truly is a children's film, whereas the
original
was a truly beautiful movie.
Shortly, avoid this movie and see the original again.  Wambos can jump in
the Nothing.
