

This is the sort of movie I can watch over and over. In one word I would
say
it is clever. A combination of mystery, suspense, drama, and Allen's
ingenious humor, Manhattan Murder Mystery is my favorite Woody Allen
movie.
Perhaps my favorite movie - period. The plot was fresh, and having such
humor with suspense is just too good. Another quality I enjoy in this
movie
is how Allen avoids an "over-polished" look. For instance, the scene where
a
neighbor in the hallway asks Paul about a rent increase. The actor appears
to stumble for the right word, but Allen let the scene go that way giving
it
a very natural look. The restaurant scenes also portray realism with
multiple conversations at one time; a quality I love in all of his movies.
This makes reviewing the movies interesting- you pick up something new
each
time you watch it! Woody Allen's style is definitely an intelligent
humor.

<|_=00=_|>

No one took this film seriously when it came out earlier this decade. Most
people thought it a fluffy, trifle of a film. And it is certainly
light-hearted compared to some of Allen's weightier fare (see Husbands and
Wives, his best movie of the
past decade). But having watched this film again recently I think it is a
stunning achievement in comedy. Allen and Keaton have great chemistry as a
couple in a humdrum marriage who stumble on to what turns out to be a
murder
cover-up. Watching all the people in this film try to figure out how to be
detectives based on stuff they've seen in movies and read in books is
hilarious, not to mention smart. The latenight dinner conversation among
Allen, Keaton, Alda, and Huston is some of the best, sharpest, funniest,
fastest dialogue ever written (or ad libbed). One of the best comedies of
the 90s. frink-3
<|_=00=_|>

  This is my favorite Woody Allen movie and right up there with Annie Hall
and Manhattan as one of his best.  Woody is at his best when he has Diane
Keaton by his side and this proves it.  A lot of his more recent movies
haven't been good, because he is pairing himself with much younger actresses
who aren't as good at this type of comedy or who aren't good at all in the
case of Helen Hunt.  This movie is hilarious even if you are my age (20).  I
think it's refreshing to go the video store and rent a comedy that isn't
either a stupid spoof, or a teen comedy that plays like a rated R sitcom. 
This is a comedy that actually has a story, and Woody has the best lines. 
If you don't like Woody's style though you won't like this, but if you have
seen Annie Hall or any of his other movies and liked them then you should
love this one.

Zoopansick
<|_=00=_|>
This is a nice and light Woody Allen comedy about a death in a building
that could be a murder. At least Diane Keaton's character thinks so,
without really having a reason for that. She plays Carol Lipton,
married to Larry Lipton (Woody Allen). They have just met their
neighbors Paul (Jerry Adler) and Lillian House (Lynn Cohen) when
Lillian dies. Because Paul is not that sad and is too ready to move on
Carol becomes suspicious. When she is realizing certain strange events
that has occurred her suspicion grows. Larry thinks it is pretty stupid
but when a friend named Ted (Alan Alda) does believe her and helps her
with the investigation he gets jealous and offers to help after all.

Whether a real murder has committed is not the point, I guess. Allen
gives us standard movie situations, ridicules them a little, and
betters them then. There is a scene where Allen and Keaton go from an
elevator into a basement when the lights fall out. It is completely
dark, something we have seen more in thrillers, and for some reason
Allen is able to make this cliché thriller scene suspenseful. There are
more of these moments. Since this is an Allen film there are a lot of
links to other famous movies (the script itself is a little like
Hitchcock's 'Rear Window') and famous scenes, the ending in particular
does a terrific job in reliving one of the most memorable scenes out
there. (It has to with mirrors, I guess you know what movie I am
talking about). This light Allen comedy is a terrific mystery story
with brilliant touches that will be liked not only by Allen-fans, but
by everyone who loves either comedy or mystery suspense.
<|_=00=_|>
Manhattan Murder Mystery is a terrific Woody Allen film whit a
wonderful mix of murder, mystery and comedy. With an all star fantastic
cast; Woody Allen, Diane Keaton, Alan Alda, Anjelica Huston and Jerry
Adler.

The reunion of Keaton and Allen together was such a delight, the
chemistry between Allen and Keaton, is truly top-notch, remind me of
Annie Hall.(Diane Keatons role where actually intended for Mia Farrow,
but as most of you know Woody Allen was going through his off-screen
scandal at the time..). Like the most of Allens films this also have a
witty dialog and excellent character development. And the murder
mystery is very intelligent, fun and stylish mystery-comedy. Whit
Manhattan Murder Mystery Allen also reunites with writer Marshall
Brickman, they wrote Annie Hall and Manhattan together, Like those
films, this one contains some very funny one-liners.

Manhattan Murder Mystery is one of Woody Allen's most wonderful movies.
9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Woody Allen and Diane Keaton reunite in this fine film, and both are in
top
form.  Although it largely abandons the angst-filled themes of many of
Allen's earlier films, it replaces it with a playfulness and sense of fun
which elevates the film above your standard comedy or mystery.  Alan Alda
is
notable for his fine performance, as well.
<|_=00=_|>

Manhattan Murder Mystery (1993) Dir: Woody Allen
Supposedly Miss Keaton (never married by the way) only did this film as a
favor to Mr. Allen who was enduring some rather unsavory press at the time
concerning his breakup with actress Mia Farrow and his ensuing love affair
with Miss Farrow's adopted teenage daughter.  Because Allen needed a quick
hit, he asked Keaton to help him out by starring in this murder mystery
comedy.  Luckily for Allen (and for that matter, Keaton) the movie was a
hit. 

Allen and Keaton star as husband and wife in a New York City apartment who
suspect that their neighbor killed his wife!  Angelica Houston and Alan Alda
provide additional comic relief as friends helping the couple solve the
mystery.  Although the film takes its structure from Rear Window, Allen
chose to end it with an homage to Orson Wells's classic mirror sequence in
Lady From Shanghai. It's a very funny movie allowing Keaton and Allen to
showcase their by now perfected New York City type characters.

<|_=00=_|>
Couple Larry and Carol Lipton (Woody Allen and Diane Keaton) get
involved with a complicated murder (they think) when their next door
neighbor's wife dies suddenly. Her husband seems strangely calm about
it and then Carol sees the dead wife alive and well on a bus...

This was a return to comedies after Allen had made a string of dramatic
movies. Most people believed he couldn't do comedies anymore. It turns
out he hadn't lost his touch and turned out one of his best movies.
Seeing Keaton and Allen playing a couple was great (they always worked
so well off each other) and, for once, Allen isn't the neurotic
one--Keaton is! It was fun seeing him play the strongest partner in a
relationship. The dialogue is hilarious--one good line after another
and the murder mystery itself is very intricate and interesting. Also
there are a number of great old songs playing in the background that
perfectly complement the movie--especially "The Big Noise from
Winnetka" (for when they drive across the bridge at night). And I loved
that homage to Orson Welles "Lady from Shanghai" at the end.

The acting is almost all great. Allen and Keaton are just
wonderful--right on target and acting (and speaking) like an old
married couple. Alan Alda pops up as Keaton's best friend. I never
really liked him but he's OK here. Anjelica Huston (looking incredible)
also pops up and gives a very strong (and very funny) supporting role.
Also look for Zack Braff (from the TV series "Srubs") in his very first
role as Keaton and Allen's son (!!!)

My only complaint--the jerky, hand held camera-work. It worked fine in
Allen's dramas but is just out of place here--the camera should move
fluidly in a comedy. That's a small quibble though. This is WELL worth
seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
One of Woody Allen's winners from the 1990s (albeit on a minor scale)
reunites him quite snugly with Diane Keaton. Allen and Keaton have such
a lived-in rapport (with plenty of jabs but no fatigue) that the sight
of them together again in a comedy is an automatic uplift. They portray
the Liptons, a regular N.Y.C. couple who suspect foul play from the
elderly man in their building whose wife has suddenly died. Smooth,
smartly assembled nuttiness with sensational support from Alan Alda as
a playwright (with a crush on Keaton) and Anjelica Huston, putting off
terrific comedic heat as a novelist. Wrapped up wonderfully with an
homage to Orson Welles' "The Lady From Shanghai". Great fun! *** from
****
<|_=00=_|>
In Manhattan, Carol (Diane Keaton) and her husband Larry Lipton (Woody
Allen) are coming home late night when they meet their next door
neighbors Lillian (Lynn Cohen) and Paul House (Jerry Adler) in the
elevator. Lillian and Paul invite their neighbors to drink coffee with
them in their apartment and Lillian shows her treadmill to Carol and
Paul shows his collection of stamps to Larry. While drinking coffee,
the elderly couple tells that they have been married for twenty-eight
years and they have a twin tomb in the cemetery. Lillian tells that she
is in good shape and uses her treadmill everyday.

On the next night, Carol and Larry go to see The Flying Dutchman in the
theater and when they come back home, they learn that Lillian has died
of heart attack. A couple of days later, Carol and Larry meet Paul on
the street and Carol believes he is too perky for a widower that has
just lost his beloved wife. When Carol accidentally finds an urn with
Lillian's ashes in Paul's kitchen, she suspects that Paul has killed
Lillian and comments with her friend Ted (Alan Alda). They decide to
investigate her neighbor and Carol steals the keys of Paul's apartment
from the super. She finds that Paul will travel to Paris and not to
Caribbean as he had told to Larry and she, with a woman called Helen
Moss. When Carol sees by chance Lillian alive in a bus, her curiosity
increases and she decides to go further in her investigation. 

Yesterday I was setting in order and cleaning my films on the shelf,
and I decided to see again the VHS "Manhattan Murder Mystery". Last
time I saw this film was in the 90's and I did not recall the story in
details. Woody Allen is one of my favorite directors and actor, and
that is the reason why I do not dare to say that this film is one of
his best films because I love practically all his filmography.

"Manhattan Murder Mystery" has mystery, suspense and the refined and
witty humor typical from Woody Allen. One of my favorite moments is
when Larry compares the need to Carol returning to her shrink with a
GM's recall. Another very funny moment is when the clumsy Larry plays
the wrong tape during the phone conversation with Paul. If the reader
wants to spend 104 minutes laughing, watch "Manhattan Murder Mystery"
since this film is funny even for those that are not fans of Woody
Allen. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil):"Um Misterioso Assassinato em Manhattan" ("A Mysterious
Murder in Manhattan")
