

L.A. Confidential is, without a doubt, the best film of the 1990s, and
quite
possibly one of the best films ever made.

As with any great film, it all starts with the writing.  The story is
riveting, the dialogue is smart and quite funny, and the characters are
written in three dimensions.

The acting is phenomenal.  Perhaps a bigger tragedy than L.A.
Confidential's
loss to Titanic in the Best Picture race is that none of the three lead
actors even garnered nominations.  Russell Crowe, Guy Pearce, and Kevin
Spacey are absolutely phenomenal; it is their characters that drive this
fascinating story about police corruption in 1950s Los Angeles.  We get to
know these people, to understand who they are and why they do what they do,
and to root for them to overcome their imperfections.

The directing is fantastic.  Curtis Hanson doesn't shove anything in the
audience's face; instead, he allows the audience to discover the film's
nuances on their own.  (That makes this an excellent film for repeat
viewings, you truly catch something new every time).  1950s Los Angeles is
reproduced beautifully.  The editing is quick and seamless, the music is
perfect for the film (Hanson should teach other directors how to do a
montage effectively), and the cinematography is great.

I can't find a negative thing to say about this film.  It's truly a
masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>

Six years ago, a director by the name of Curtis Hansen came out with a small
time film named L.A. Confidential. Though the movie garnered several big
nominations at the 1997 Academy Awards, the nation had been swept up by the
gigantic and romantic blockbuster, Titanic, thus shrinking the chances of
this brilliant movie from garnering any real awards. 1997 completely screwed
this phenomenal film, in which three brilliant actors gave the performances
of their careers.

Russell Crowe plays Detective Bud White, a tough L.A. cop who bends the
rules in order to bring justice to the city. He is ruthless, and unforgiving
of anyone, which brings him into direct conflict with Detective Lieutenant
Ed Exley, played by Guy Pearce. Russell Crowe became with this role a full
pledged character actor,: the cop with a steel physique, and a vulnerable
heart. He becomes so believable and real to the audience, you can not help
but sympathize for his character under the circumstances.  From this role,
Crowe went on to garner three best actor nominations, winning for his role
in Gladiator.

Guy Pearce, the little known Australian body builder, became the character
known as Ed Exley, a straight, uptight detective trying to live up to the
legend his father created before him. Exley has so much to prove to the
LAPD, trying to show them that he is just as good, maybe even better, than
his father. He plays the politics in a corrupted police department very
well, and is able to use these skills in solving the corrupt and mysterious
case of the Night Owl murders. This film officially put Guy Pearce in the
big leagues of film, making his next appearances in Memento and The Count of
Monte Cristo. He is a severely underrated actor who deserves better than
what he has been getting.

Finally, the ever wonderful Kevin Spacey. Spacey plays Lieutenant Jack
Vincenes, a cop who gives a popular LA police show, Badge of Honor, real
solved cases in return for money. Jack sees his life as an ever going soap
opera, until he comes across a case that somehow has a connection to the
Night Owl murders. Kevin Spacey has proved time and again his abilities as
an actor, and he continues with this performance. 

Curtis Hansen does a wonderful job bringing this story to the big screen.
His talents, although recognized, have not been awarded as of yet. I can
only hope that someday, someone will give this amazing director something
worthy of his talents. 

Highly Recommended. 

MJR

<|_=00=_|>

L.A. Confidential most likely falls into the category of one of the best
movies of the past twenty years. The complex story line seemed to burst at
the seams with intelligence.  I found the complexity of several different
sub-plots working together challenged the intellectual part of my brain
while the intense action through out the entire movie satisfied the
craving
of the not-so-intellectual part of my brain that enjoys seeing a good
brawl
followed by a good shoot-out.  Brian Helgeland and Curtis Hanson did and
excellent job of combining many elements of several different kinds of
films
into one.  They seem to have made this movie with several different
audiences in mind.  I for one, as I have mentioned, enjoyed the
intellectual
aspect as well as the action, while my wife enjoyed the combination of a
love story with drama.  It really has something for everyone.  Bringing
together all of these elements into one film sets it apart from many
others.
Of course the best aspect of L.A. Confidential is the way that not
everything is as it seems, and then, in an instant, all of the plots are
sprung like a trap and come together for a grand finale.  Overall L.A.
Confidential is an exceptional film that contains something for everyone.

<|_=00=_|>

"L.A. Confidential" is brilliant.  The screenplay and direction are
second-to-none.  The performances by the ensemble cast are also superb.
Kim
Basinger stands out the most with her Oscar-winning role.  Kevin Spacey,
Russell Crowe, Guy Pearce, James Cromwell, David Strathairn, and Danny
DeVito all have their moments as well.  The film deals with the seamy side
of Los Angeles in the post-World War II 1950s.  Los Angeles is a place of
shady dealings and police corruption.  To add to those problems is the
creation of the smutty tabloid.  Multi-layered and smart, "L.A.
Confidential" will be the greatest survivor of the films released in 1997.
5 out of 5 stars.   
<|_=00=_|>
Although this movie 'flopped' at the box office at $53 million, this
just may be one the smartest movies you haven't seen. With great
performances from an ensemble all-star cast and a clever script, the
dramatic tension of this modern film-noir classic is an absolute
must-see! Told through a variation on the theme of "good cop, bad cop"
with an overarching corruption angle, this film cleverly deals with
issues of racism, social justice and ethics in a non-discriminatory
manner. Character development is well-done and the dramatic tension is
superb. If you are a fan of crime-drama and detective stories, you
won't be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
When a film evokes an era as well as L.A. Confidential does, people take
notice. It could be argued that it is easier to replicate the recent past
than the distant on film,  and in a sense this is true. Costumes, language,
and the necessary absence of the modern in "period pieces" make them
expensive and difficult to film. But couldn't it be argued that it is just
as difficult to make a film about more recent periods? I have no knowledge
of how a Victorian era table was set, or what a knight really spoke like;
we are subject to the directors view of reality. But what if a good deal of
your audience lived through the time you are portraying, as in the case of
the 1950's? I can even envision my grandfather coming back from WW2 to a
booming economy, and living in the world Curtis Hanson created.

The real genus of this film is that it creates not only a physical world,
but one with all the politics, corruption, racism and inequity of the time.
As a result we feel the characters motivations and understand their faults
all  the better; Bud White, Ed Exley, Lynn Bracken and Lana Turner all live
here. 

This film, like others that make us believe we are there for two hours (and 
$7.50), will endure. I was thinking a  perfect double feature would be with
Chinatown, another film that will stand the test of time.
<|_=00=_|>

L.A. Confidential is the most classy, intriguing, thought provoking and
sexiest detective movie ever to be made in the history of detective films.  

When you look back at it and see that Russell Crowe, Kevin Spacey and Guy
Pearce actually appeared in the same film back in 97 then you wouldn't have
believed it since they have all gone on to better things but before that we
had L.A. Confidential which was Crowe's and Pearce's ticket into Hollywood. 
Spacey had already made it with his Best Supporting Actor nod for The Usual
Suspects but what puzzles me is how everybody apart from Kim Basinger didn't
get any acting nominations at the Oscars.   James Cromwell is the most
chilled out villain you'll ever going to see in a film like this and has
been criminally ignored by the Academy.   Curtis Hanson was also someone who
had made some good films but no masterpieces till this came along.  

They all must have sold their souls to make this because when you get big
cast get together to make a Hollywood film then you become a bit intrigued
by it because if the cast is big then is the story any good?  In L.A.
Confidential's case it had both and a lot more to say the
least.

I still think that this is Spacey's, Crowe's and Pearce's best film of there
career.  Russell Crowe as tough guy but sentimental towards women Bud White
is flawless and is quite like the real Russell Crowe which is scary.  Guy
Pearce as the quick witted but dumb looking Ed Exley is someone one you
either love or you hate as the annoying rookie.   Kevin Spacey is just as
cool as anything that Bogart and Mitchium could have pulled off as Jack
Vincennes and there is the movie along with a great script by Brain Heagland
of Mystic River fame and Curtis Hanson himself who put together a great
script from James Elroy's novel.    

Kim Basinger is as sexy as she is going to get and her acting is very good
and well deserving of her Oscar if the boys were robbed.   I liked how we
had three different stories and one case that all had something to do with
another but were all separate anyway till the end.   It was like watching a
movie with three stories based on a trio of detectives.   L.A. Confidential
was a treat as far as storytelling goes because it enthrals you into the
film straight away as well as it being more exciting than a night out in
Vegas.

We don't see Detective films like this so we should be grateful that this
came along when it did. 

<|_=00=_|>

This is the ultimate movie on the corruptness of the police force during the
1950's.  No one is going to make a better movie than LA Confidential, the
cast is perfect, the direction is superb, the screenplay is amazing, the
choice of music, the graphic brutality, the not so fine line between good
and evil.

When I saw this in the theatres, I came out of the theatre and couldn't say
anything because I was awed. And I was amazed by how wonderful Russell Crowe and Guy Pearce were, I had never heard of them
before, so I didn't know what to expect, but now I have two new favorite actors.  And I couldn't believe
that Russell was a New Zealander and Guy was an Aussie.  They had great
American accents.  And of course Kevin Spacey was superb as always.

Any way, this is an awesome movie, go rent it if you have not seen
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Hands-down my favourite American film of the nineties. Curtis Hanson shocked
the world by proving to be not only a great director but an auteur with this
unbeatable adaptation of James Ellroy's terrifying novel about corruption
and crime among members of the LAPD in the 1950s. The hard-boiled detective
story angle is brought to life so beautifully, mostly because Jeannine
Claudia Oppewall's production design recreates the dark underside of the 50s
to such perfection that not even a Coke bottle label is missed. Add to that
Dante Spinotti's stunning lighting that rides the fine line between artistic
and believable comfortably (as all period camerawork should), Ruth Myers'
costume designing and a script by Hanson and The Postman scribe Brian
Helgeland (I know, I don't get it either) that pares down Ellroy's mammoth
plot about a multiple murder in a local diner involving a policeman with
suspicious ties without sacrificing the density of the story or the
spiderweb of events involved with it, and you have the best movie of 1997,
not to mention the most fascinating detective film ever made since Orson
Welles' Touch of Evil. The cast is all brilliant, most notably Kim Basinger
as a wordly prostitute who has not only a heart of gold but a mind of
steel--Basinger is so strong in her character's every nuance you'll find
yourself forgetting she's even acting--and Kevin Spacey as a Dean
Martin-esque detective who not only solves an important part of the puzzle,
he even discovers he possesses a soul beneath his flashy suits. I just can't
get enough of this film.

<|_=00=_|>
Give a collection of great actors a great story to work with and you
are likely to end up with something rather special. Such is the case
with L.A. Confidential. The boldface names jump off the page...Kevin
Spacey, Russell Crowe, Kim Basinger, Danny DeVito, James Cromwell and,
in his first big-time role, Guy Pearce. And none of these big names are
just mailing it in, here to collect a paycheck. They're all on top of
their games, undoubtedly helped to no small extent by the wonderfully
nuanced and utterly intriguing story.

This story takes place in 1950s Los Angeles but this is a side of L.A.
most people don't get to see. Behind all the Hollywood glamour L.A. has
a seamy side which will be the focus of this tale. At the heart of the
movie are three cops who ostensibly are supposed to be working together
but who go about the business of dispensing justice in very different
ways. Crowe plays aggressive hothead Bud White. Spacey is Jack
Vincennes, who takes more pride in his work as an adviser on a popular
television cop drama than he does in his actual police work. And Pearce
plays Edmund Exley, a young up-and-comer in the department who plays
things by the book. As we will soon see Exley is rather unique in an
LAPD which believes in doing whatever is necessary to bring the guilty
to justice. Even if it means becoming a little guilty themselves.

The movie really begins to move forward with a massacre at a coffee
shop. It seems a pretty cut and dried case but initial appearances can
be deceiving. Soon White, Vincennes and Exley will find themselves
caught up in a maze of lies, deception and mystery. It will be a great
test for these very different men as it appears they may well need each
other's unique talents to solve this puzzle. And quite the elaborate
puzzle it is. One important piece is Lynn Bracken, a high class call
girl played by Basinger. Tying together many of this complex story's
strands is gossip writer Sid Hudgens who is played with appropriate
sleaziness by DeVito. And in the background the whole time is the
somewhat mysterious Captain Dudley Smith, played by Cromwell. Here is a
man who believes in bringing the guilty to justice by any means
necessary. That's all well and good if you know who the guilty are but
in L.A. Confidential you're never quite sure who to believe. The viewer
is guessing right along with the investigators on the screen. And in
the end it all comes together and pays off brilliantly.

L.A. Confidential is first and foremost a great story, with many
fascinating twists and turns along the way. The film also serves as a
showcase for some of this generation's finest acting talents. Each of
the main characters is wonderfully unique and each of the actors
involved does a terrific job in bringing those characters to life.
These are complex characters in a complex tale. It's so involved that
the acting had to be stellar if this film was going to work and none of
the stars disappoint. Terrific storytelling brought to life by a
collection of inspired performances makes L.A. Confidential an absolute
winner.
