


With at least 12 `starring actors' in character and supporting rolls,
half of them legends or mega stars; this Tarantino tale defies a short
review.  The different levels on which this movie works are impressive.
As
a love story we begin to believe that the quirky `loser' couple is
unconditionally bound together.  As a pseudo `film noir' we begin to care
about the fate of the central characters.  In the suspense/thriller/crime
drama mode there are plenty twists and turns to push us to the edge and
pull
us back just in time.  The action scenes are deliciously violent and
unlike
most other films, this one gives us pinches of humor sprinkled in amidst
the
mayhem.   Even `the King' alter ego is woven in credibly enough to improve
our understanding of the Clarence Worley character.

The plot, albeit original, fresh and mesmerizing, seems somehow secondary
to the characters and the characterizations.  Any of several rolls could
have been performed over the top by what seemed to be an ensemble cast.
But
director Scott lets the talent go just far enough. Even the remainder of
the
supporting cast is wonderful; Saul Rubinek in particular does a terrific
job
as the puffed-up/ego-feeding movie producer.  Hollywood missed giving this
movie and its cast proper recognition.

With enough memorable scenes and talented stars to fuel a half a dozen
blockbusters, True Romance gives us the `best bang for our buck' in years.
The Walken/Hopper scene alone is worth the `price of admission' not to
mention the Gandolfini/Arquette and Slater/Oldman match ups.  This can
only
be described as a `wonderfully wicked movie' for its tantalizing content,
smart dialog and toothsome violence.

Put the kiddies to bed, be prepared for rough language, adult themes and
graphic violence and enjoy a `not for the faint of heart' masterpiece.


<|_=00=_|>

True Romance is a celebration of film.  It wallows in every possible
seedy contrivance of American crime/action cinema.  It is absolutely
shameless in its exploitation of excessive violence, over-acting,
melodrama, lurid sex, and rampant drug use...I love it.  Quentin
Tarantino, as I'm sure everyone knows, wrote the story, but it is the in
execution that this film pays off.
The cast, oh the cast:  The lynchpins are Christian Slater and Patricia
Arquette.  They both give solid performances, which prevents the film
from flying off the tracks; they serve as the pilot light.  The
supporting roles are the gas.  The Walken/Hopper show down has been oft
sighted as the film's best aspect, and this is, arguably, true.  Just
watch this scene and then watch it again.  Sparks actually shoot out of
the screen and burn people about the head and shoulders.  OK, you've got
Val Kilmer as the ghost of Elvis, Brad Pitt as a disgruntled pot-smoking
loser, Tom Sizemore & Chris Penn as cops, James Gandolfini
(pre-Sopranos) as a reflective hitman, and you've even got Bronson
Pinchot (from TV's PERFECT STRANGERS) for God's sake.
Did I forget Gary Oldman? Do yourself a favor and rent every single Gary
Oldman related project (they're not all good films, but...).  Why is
Gary Oldman not in every film ever made? Why? I ask you why?  He has got
to be the best actor working today, hands down.  As Drexel Spivey,
Oldman chews the scenery, digests it, and then expels it from every
orifice.  Keep in mind that he is an English actor with a normal
speaking voice at home in the Royal Shakespeare Company.  His
performance here is second only to his turn in LEON in blatant
over-the-top insanity.
Tony Scott, who along with his brother Ridley, has been known to
over-direct a film or two, here chooses wisely to basically set up the
camera and run.  The score by Hans Zimmer adds a bouncy xylophone driven
theme to the film and finds the right balance.
This a well made, balls-to-the-wall, popcorn throwing, cult classic.  In
a market dominated with stereotypical characters, this movie avoids that
trap by letting the stereotypes flourish with all the grotesque
absurdity it can muster. 9/10                     
<|_=00=_|>

"True Romance" is one of those few movies that has it all: Action,
romance,
drama and brilliant acting.  Not to mention TR has an all-star cast, but
many contribute their finest work in this film.  Oldman, Arquette and
Slater
arguably give their best performances.  Christopher Walken's scene is
nothing short of pure brilliance.  I loved him in "The Dead Zone" and "The
Deer Hunter" as well as his brief appearance in "Pulp".  I was happy with
the ending, and I'm glad it ended the way it did.  We've come to not
expect
that type of ending anymore.  This along with numerous other reasons too
long to explain here is why I truly believe "True Romance" is one of the
greatest films ever made. Period.
<|_=00=_|>

True Romance is my favorite movie of all time.  The reason I love it so much
is that you might think you know what is going to happen, but you are wrong!
 You don't know what is going to happen next.  You're watching this movie
and you're in a groove, when suddenly the movie takes a left hand turn and
you are heading in the completely opposite direction.

The acting and directing is fantastic.  This is a violent, violent movie,
but the violence works.  Patricia Arquette is wonderful as Alabama.  I am a
woman and I don't really want to see another woman's cleavage, but in this
movie, the cleavage works.  In other words, the sex and violence in this
movie don't feel gratuitous, but rather a part of a great
plot.

Christian Slater is such a great actor.  This is a star-studded cast,
including Christopher Walken, Brad Pitt, Val Kilmer, Gary Oldman and more. 
Most people watch this movie and don't even recognize Gary
Oldman.

I've seen this movie about 20 times now and, although I'm no longer
surprised by the plot twists, I am still fascinated by the cast, the music,
the direction.  I like this movie quite a bit more than Pulp Fiction.  This
film was written by Quentin Tarantino and directed by Tony Scott and came
out a few years before Pulp Fiction.  If you are really interested in this
film be sure and get the DVD with all of the comments from the cast,
producers, director, writer, etc.
<|_=00=_|>
True Romance is the work of two men, known for making movies (as TBS
would say) for guys who like movies, and have one of the pick of the
litter in the genre from the early to mid nineties. Quentin Tarantino
sold his script to fund Reservoir Dogs, and Tony Scott (Top Gun) got
picked up to direct. Some have complained that Tarantino should've
directed this film, that it's so much his (which I agree with
considering the story of the film was taken from his 1987 experimental
film My Best Friend's Birthday, which refers to Clarence in this film
going to the Sonny Chiba movies) that his own style as a director
would've complimented it. It's a nice thought, though that's not what
we as the audience are left with, and so with the final product there
is much to admire about the style that Scott uses in the film. He films
Tarantino's script (from a Roger Avary script originally) very much
like he's shooting a Hollywood movie (as he knows how to with DP
Jeffrey Kimball), with all the cut-aways and editing timing that is
expected in a conventional crime-drama-thriller, then by hearing the
snapping dialog from the script, and the cast performing them, Scott
does become an important piece of making True Romance a success.

The story is a throwback to the old 'lovers on the run' formula, among
others- Clarence (Christian Slater in one of his finest) is an employee
in a comic book store in Detroit, loves kung-fu movies and big guns and
such, who gets set up unwittingly with a call girl named Alabama
(Patricia Arquette). The two fall in love, and Clarence feels confident
enough by a certain voice in the back of his head (provided by Val
Kilmer) to go and free Alabama for good from her vile pimp and drug
dealer Drexl (Gary Oldman in one of the better villain roles of the
time). He does, and through a couple of accidents Clarence and Alabama
wind up with millions worth in cocaine, and high-tail it to LA to sell
it, as the original (mob) owners of the coke follow after, with
explosive results.

For fans of the actors, in particular the supporting cast, True Romance
is one of the treats of treats in modern movies, on par with Pulp
Fiction's roster of know-ables: Christopher Walken as a gangster (who
would've thought?), Brad Pitt as a stoner roommate, Tom Sizemore and
Chris Penn as cops, a few good lines for Samuel L. Jackson, an early
plum for James Gandolfini, and my personal favorite of the lot, Dennis
Hopper as Clarence's ex-cop father. Another thing that makes True
Romance one of the (dare I say) most accessible of Tarantino's works is
that a viewer who might not know this is his work on first viewing
(this was me a few years ago, sad to say) will stay tuned through the
whole thing if it's on TV just because of the star power; indeed,
before Oldman's Detrix is introduced into the film, TR seems to flow
like it'll be a romantic drama with light overtones. All I can say is
by the end of this film, you will see that good taste can prevail no
matter how much bloodshed gets on the screen, or how many obstacles get
in the way of love (and Elvis!).
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen Reservoir Dogs, I've seen Pulp Fiction & I've seen Jackie Brown,
but for me this is Tarantino's best crime caper.
Completely engrossing from start to finish, the story of the two lovers who
are on the run is not entirely believable, but seriously enjoyable. You get
your fill of guns, sex, style and pop-culture, and the usual array of
celebrity cameos in a film that seems a whole lot more 'close'. Whereas Pulp
Fiction felt like one long trailer, with every line razor-sharp and a load
of hip music that made the film go so quickly, True Romance offers you the
chance to savour every moment, as the film moves at a (slightly) slower
pace.
Enjoy the blazing finale, and just wonder how it might have turned out if
Tarantino had got his hands on the camera...
<|_=00=_|>

Cynical, seen-it-all-before smart ass that I am, I can't but help love 'True
Romance'! On paper it looks like a sure fire recipe for disaster. A
typically hip pop-culture saturated Quentin Tarantino script directed by
schlockmeister Tony Scott, the man responsible for rancid
Simpson/Bruckheimer "blockbusters" like 'Top Gun' and 'Days Of Thunder'. But
some how it really works! The movie is especially helped by a dynamite cast,
one of the most impressive in many years. Possibly only Julian Schnabel's
underrated biopic 'Basquiat' can rival its mixture of star power and cult
faves. Slater, Arquette, Walken, Hopper, Oldman, Kilmer, Penn, Sizemore,
Jackson, Rapaport, Gandolfini, Argo, Corrigan, etc.etc. These are many of
the finest actors working today. Add them to an electric story of love on
the run, jam packed with amusing, highly quotable dialogue and plenty of
action and laughs, and you have yourself a genuinely entertaining update of
a classic 70s drive-in movie. 'True Romance' is a wild ride not to be
missed!
<|_=00=_|>
Required viewing. A modern masterpiece. The scene between Christopher
Walken and Dennis Hopper is absolutely classic(the last last line is
what I quoted in my summary). A 'learn how to be cool' movie. It's
funny, thrilling, sarcastic. He's got an imaginary friend...and it's
ELVIS! The juice of Tarantino. The birth of Scaggnetti (and Tony
Soprano.)

Quotes are all over this flick. 'Do I look like a beautiful blonde with
big tits, and a ^$#%#@ that tastes like ice cream?.....then why are you
lying to me?" Choose a f$$$ing lane! Don't give me the finger,I 'll
have you f###ing killed!" 

"I always liked you Clarence...." "The first time you kill somebody,
that's hardest one....the second one ain't no f##### mardi gras, but
it's still hard. The third one....you level off. ...Now I do do it just
to watch there expression change.", James Gandolfini (Pre-Sopranos)
showing raw talent as a cold-hearted killer. Brad Pitt hitting the bong
and talking to shotgun wielding mafiosos with Soundgarden in the
background..."You wanna hit?"....chick-chick(shotguns) "Ok, Well, you
go down Santa Clara for a while, then turn left, and keep driving for a
while...."

It's true romance... He kills her pimp, and she takes a Royal beating
for him. BUT the movies's not over. You have to have pulled some crazy
s*** in your life to totally appreciate this movie, but it is awesome.

"When you get out in two years you'll be so in touch with wife needs
cuz you'll know what's like to get f##### up the a##!"...Scagnetti

"If it's anything this last week has taught me, is that it's better to
have a gun and not need it, than to need a gun and not have it."

"Tell me I'm the dumbest motherf##### you've ever seen, or I'm gonna
pump two into your face right now!" ...Clarence

Non-stop action. Ups and downs. Irony, and a realistic ending.
Cameos...up and coming actors... it's all here. And most of all, "True
Romance", which I believe is a totally accurate title. Absolutely
brilliant. A movie you can watch many times.

You have to see this outstanding piece of work.
<|_=00=_|>

True Romance has everything necessary to create art on celluloid. From the
writing expertise of Quentin Tarantino to Tony Scott's brilliant directing
to its cast of gifted actors, the movie is all that one would hope for.

Beginning in Detroit and ending in Mexico, a loner that never really made
his mark on the world meets a call girl who falls as deeply in love with him
as he does with her. Filled with drugs, gangsters, Hollywood and of course
romance, the movie's story becomes only stronger as the movie goes on.

With exceptional performances by Dennis Hopper and Christopher Walken (the
scene they share is without equal), Gary Oldman and Christian Slater, the
action and violence only help to develop the plot and accentuate it's
intricacies. Its superb ending has since been imitated - by Tony Scott's own
Enemy of the State for one - but never as cleverly.

A must see for any movie lover.

<|_=00=_|>

I cannot ignore the influence Quentin Tarantino's script had over the style
of direction in "True Romance". The scary part is, if Tarantino had
directed, it probably would have been even better. The sacrifice he made
ended out being well worth it though. The good acting from a strong cast
completed this great movie. 

Christian Slater's wardrobe however, steals the show. 

8 out of 10.
