
WTF is wrong with people? Predator-1 had more Arnie than Predator. This
movie simply has more Predator. It also greatly expanded the Predator
universe and franchise. It introduced a whole new bunch of Pred
weapons, tactics and behavior which never ever seemed out of place and
were perfect fits. It explored their race further. All these were added
to full effect in the AvP and AvP-2 PC games which were smash hits so
imagine how horrible it would be if this movie never happened? The
urban (steel jungle?) setting contrasts against the previous jungle
setting and is a major plus for this movie. This movie was also
extremely realistic and gory. All in all, this movie is fantastic and a
few ignorant critics just want to bring it down by comparing it with
the uniqueness of the original.
<|_=00=_|>

I just watched this movie again tonight for the first time in a long time,
and I have to say that this movie is GREAT!!!  I know I'm going to get hurt
for saying this, but I actually think I like Predator 2 just as much, if not
more than the original Predator.  I'm not sure, but I kind of think that I
saw Predator 2 first, which may be the reason, but I think the true reasons
are the following:

I loved that the Predator has more weapons, and the action sequences were
more interesting.

In this film they do a much better job developing and explaining the
Predator.  This isn't just a crazy beast that kills things left and right. 
This is an intelligent being that is looking for a good hunt.  I love that
the Predator doesn't attack anyone that he doesn't consider a threat or
isn't a challenge.  I LOVE that he has compassion and respect for an
expectant mother.

I have to say there are only 2 or 3 little things that I didn't like about
the movie, but they aren't anything I can't deal with.  I wasn't too fond of
the Predator being struck by lightning...sure, it looks cool, but don't you
think that would hurt him pretty bad?

All in all, I genuinely LOVED this movie!  I don't know what is is about
this movie that just doesn't sit well with a lot of the reviewers on this
site, but I loved it.  I REALLY hope that they go ahead with a 3rd
installment, but it won't be the same without Kevin Peter Hall (R.I.P.). 
Thanks for reading.

-Cortex
<|_=00=_|>
I've always loved this movie ever since I saw it way back in 1990 at
the theater. Predator is great, but part 2 is equally great. It may not
be quite as primal and fast paced, but it more than makes up for it
with well developed characters, a more detailed back story and
compelling setting, and a deeply developed story. If the predator
wasn't in this movie, the story set up would make for a great movie on
its own.

You may not realize it when you're watching it, but the climax of this
movie is nearly 45 minutes long! Starting from the subway shoot out,
the tunnel chase, the street-roof chase, the slaughter house fight, the
roof top fight that spills into the apartment building across the
street, the elevator shaft, and finally to the Predator ship itself. It
is a breathless series of action sequences strung together so well that
it's almost astonishing to look back on it and imagine such effort was
crafted to make this movie.

This movie would never be made today. A sequel without the main
character from the fist movie? A whole new setting? This would be seen
as too great a risk, but in 1990 movie studios were still run by
creative people, not accountants. This movie is a true, unsung classic
of sci-fi, coming from an age when great care was put into genre movies
that had strong stories, good characters, and dialogue that didn't
sound silly and forced. Lines weren't meant to become one-liners, they
were just so memorable that they ended up that way.

"You can't see the eyes of the demon, until him come calling." "Okay
P-ssy face, it's your move." "Danny Boy."

And of course...

"Want some candy?"

Granted, those aren't as good as the classics from the first Predator,
like:

"You son of a bitch!" "I ain't got time to bleed." "Knock Knock."
"Stick around." "If it bleeds, we can kill it." "You are one ugly
mother f---er."

and of course...

"AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAARRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"

Last but not least, the music score from Predator 2 is one of the best
ever. Alan Silvestri hasn't topped his work from this movie which has
to have one of the most complex, layered, and just flat out astounding
main themes ever composed for an action movie, or any movie.

And of course, it had the cameo that sparked the whole Alien vs
Predator phenomenon. If it weren't for Predator 2, god knows where we'd
be.
<|_=00=_|>
Series Note: Although this is a sequel, it's not strictly necessary to
watch this film after the first. I almost always to prefer to watch
film series in order, but as the Predator films are not constructed as
chapters in a novel, there may be some advantage to watching Predator 2
first--namely that the Predator itself is explained much better in this
film, so it might help viewers fill out unstated backstory for the
first film.

Set in a "future" 1997 (the film was released in 1990), we're shown a
Los Angeles suffering from both a mounting heat wave and mounting
anarchy. Lieutenant Mike Harrigan (Danny Glover) is a rule-breaking,
short-tempered downtown cop. He works closely with Danny Archuleta
(Ruben Blades), Leona (Maria Conchita Alonso) and recent transfer Jerry
Lambert (Bill Paxton), all eccentrics in their own way, and all but
Danny equally rule-breaking. The film begins with a Colombian drug gang
engaging in a shoot-out with the cops. The police finally manage to
defensively drive them into a building, but when they at last converge
on the gang, it seems that somebody, or something, else has finished
the job for the police. More drug gangs are attacked, and it seems as
if there may be some kind of vigilante on the loose. But when a
secretive government task squad, headed by Peter Keyes (Gary Busey),
enters the picture and takes increasingly odd actions, it seems that
something even more bizarre may be responsible (a fact also given away
by the film's title, it's relationship to the Predator series, and
obvious shots involving the titular character early in the film).

For my tastes, Predator 2 is an example that breaks the supposed trend
that "sequels are never as good as their predecessors". I think
Predator 2 is a brilliant film, better than the first film by two
points. This one is a 10 out of 10 for me.

Let's get the more obvious comments out of the way first. As a horror
and sci-fi leaning crime actioner, director Stephen Hopkins and writers
Jim and John Thomas have created a fast-paced, exciting, visceral film.
This is a story set against burgeoning anarchy and chaos is a
gang-filled urban environment, and Hopkins appropriately never
decreases the intensity of the film--we barely pause to take a breath.
While that may be exhausting to some viewers, and the rapid pacing
might lead some to confusion, anyone with a taste for action films
should love it, plus the genre-melding is accomplished without a hitch.

The cast is quirky and excellent. Keep in mind that I have a taste for
surrealism, camp, absurdism, and so on, so that makes me appreciate the
acting in the film even more. I'm a big Bill Paxton fan. His
performance in Predator 2 is a good example why. I also like Danny
Glover a lot, and he turns in a great performance. Additionally, we
have Gary Busey, one of the odder actors in Hollywood (just watch his
comments on the DVD extras)--a fact that to me always pleasantly comes
through in his characters, and the incomparable Morton Downey, Jr.,
basically playing his "real life" television talk show personality, is
even present as a "guerilla" journalist.

The music, special effects and every other technical aspect are also
excellent.

But what makes this film even better is the brilliance beneath the
obvious aspects. The Predator, because of his goals, is usually unseen,
hidden or camouflaged in his unique way, and most of the time he's
watching others. Thus, Hopkins permeates the film with images of
voyeurism, hidden views, reflections, veiled appearances, and so on.
There are tens of brilliant shots through windows and/or showing our
primary visuals through reflections. The heat, which not only amps up
the chaotic atmosphere of the film, also enables Hopkins to make
everyone sweaty throughout most of the film. The sweat creates
reflections. There is the regular presence of the media covering the
story, being voyeurs on the film's action. Sometimes we see things
through their cameras. There are a lot of televisions and computer
screens throughout the film. There is a subtle theme of voyeurism via
public display of personal snapshots. We become literal voyeurs, in the
sexual sense, by watching the film for one brief scene. The L.A. police
become voyeurs of the task force's actions. During the subway scene,
much of the action becomes hidden because of a marvelous strobe light
effect. I wouldn't doubt that if we watched the film with only this
aspect in mind, we would probably find it present in some way in every
scene, in nearly every shot.

I know this film is sometimes panned, but it would be undeserved. It
may be a case of the film being too hip for the room. In any event, you
shouldn't miss Predator 2.
<|_=00=_|>

Underrated, interesting sequel to the Arnold Schwarzenegger hit has
Danny Glover trading in his user friendly Roger persona to play a
rougher, tougher, more kick ass cop who fears heights and goes one on
one with a new Predator, who has some new tricks to share with the
world when he lands in LA during a wave of both crime and heat. 

Danny Glover may not be Schwarzenegger but he is quite good in his role
as the cop. 

The action is well mounted and the big difference of having the
Predator in a city VS the jungle makes for some very interesting
atmospheric moments and what not. There's also some SEX! Something that
was sadly missing from the first film. The first film is better but
this is still a worthy action film in its own right. 

"Seems he has a taste for beef." 

"I didn't think he was a vegetarian."

<|_=00=_|>

For many people who saw the first Predator movie and liked it, this might be
a bit of a disappointment.  However, for those of us who saw the first Pred
flick and loved it....this is another cool installment from the deadliest
alien to grace the silver screen.  This time his victims range from
Colombian and Jamaican drug lords to gang members to cops.  Equipped with
even more advanced weaponry, the Predator goes on the rampage in LA,
thrilling us with some great action scenes. The film also shows us the deadly
being has an honourable and sympathetic side to him....a truly great
hunter....Check it out, it's a good action movie with plenty of thrills and
spills.
(look out for the skull of an alien from the ALIENS movies in the Pred's
trophy cabinet)
<|_=00=_|>

Los Angles 1997. Gang warfare rages between rival drug gangs with the police
caught in the middle. During one shoot out the police led by Mike Harrington
(Glover) trap 6 men in a building. Before they can act the 6 are violently
killed and stung up by an unseen attacker. As more armed gangs are attacked
and killed in similarly unexplained ways the police realise that a new
element is attempting to muscle in on the existing gangs. Glover and his
team begin to hunt the new gang until they are joined by a FBI unit who seem
to know more about the gang than they let on.

This follows on from the first movie well - not a forced sequel picking up
from the last, but a different film that ties it's action in with previous
events. None of the original stars return but the cast is full of name stars
- Gary Busey, Danny Glover, Bill Paxton, Ruben Blades, Robert Davi. The plot
is basically the same as the first - an unseen attacker attacks armed forces
in the jungle - except here it's in the urban jungle, and it's actually
pretty good.

The plot has the core of the predator doing battle, but now has another
string of the FBI/Gary Busey conspiracy which makes the film much more
interesting. However all this is window dressing to the action scenes.
Unfortunately this doesn't have as much slow tension as the first film, but
rather has long raging gun battle throughout - this does tend to bring it
down to the level of a standard action movie but it does have some standout
scenes that lift the film. The strobing fight on the subway is the most
effective but the battles between police, gangs and predator are also very
well handled. Overall the action is great but could have benefited from more
slow, tension building. That said this sequel doesn't make the mistake that
other "creature-feature" sequels have made - this keep the Predator hidden
even though we already know what it looks like. For the most part the
Predator moves cloaked and we only really seek the consequences of it's
actions rather than the whole beast revealed. This keeps a certain mystery
and helps build a certain amount of tension.

The final battle between hero and Predator is not quite as good as
Schwarzenegger's confrontation with the alien, but is still a good finish to
the film. It's easy to believe that Arnie could use the jungle and stealth
to defeat the alien - but Danny Glover (Mr "3 days from retirement"?) taking
on the Predator in what is essentially an extended fist fight? Sorry - it's
fun to watch but a little hard to believe.

The performances are good, Glover gets to be a Riggs type rather than a
Murtagh/retirement case. Paxton plays the energetic side kick and continues
his killer-alien experience that he started in Aliens. Even Busey, now
almost completely bereft of his star status and wallowing in video
thrillers, is good here as a shadowy FBI agent. Sad to think that he got so
good at this role that he got regularly typecast and is now doing things
like Lethal Tender, Universal Soldier 2 and many others I've tried hard to
forget. The rest of the cast do well as fodder for the predator but it's
really all about the action.

The film contains some nice touches that develop the Predator in the same
way that Aliens took a step along from Alien. The feeling that the Predator
has hunted across all worlds (including the aforementioned alien) is cool as
well as some other things that you get from the ending that I wouldn't
spoil. But the attempt to give the Predator a sense of mercy is a bit
forced. In the first it wouldn't kill an unarmed person, i.e. it always
wanted sport. Here this extends to it sparing the life of an armed police
woman because she is pregnant, that just seemed a little out of character to
me, but I understand why they did it.

Overall this is a solid action movie with plenty of good scenes. When
compared to the first movie it almost holds it's own but it lacks the sense
of fear and being hunted that the first brought - this has tension but the
first film have tension by the bucket.
<|_=00=_|>
I found this sequel to be much more complex and also more entertaining
than the original. First of all the original revolves around Arnold
S.(although I still find it to be Arnold's best movie, and also like
Carl Weathers and Sonny Landham) who is this 80's action-man
stereo-type one-dimensional feel-no-pain killing machine who nobody in
their right mind can identify with and second the jungle is much too
obvious a studio set.

The second Predator on the other hand is set in an anarchic future in
the asphalt-jungle, midst a drug dealers-police violent confrontation(I
loved the war-zone-city vision), and hunted by government agents(this
being an excellent pretext to display some stylish shooting-techniques
and unusual angles, and also explain the creature's nature and motives)
who want to capture the beast(Gary Busey-another brilliant performance)
to study it for it's killing potential. The voodoo-gang's whole
mystique, the hard music score, the attention for detail - the
south-American influenced interior design of the drug-lord apartment or
the interior of the alien ship(there are some hidden treats for the
trained eye, like the alien skull and other interesting trophies) and
not at least the creature's design are just a few examples for the
stylish quality of this much better than the original sequel. Danny
Glover brings a touch of real to the tough but human lead character
while Bill Paxton(bad-mouthed as always-I just love this guy in
everything he's done), Ruben Blades and Conchita Alonso are the flavor
of this adrenalin ride. Keep out an eye for the color composition of
virtually every scene - a treat. There's no killing what can't be
killed...
<|_=00=_|>

Yes, you may not agree with me but I think that Predator 2 was as good as
Predator and it even had something the first movie lacked: more screen time
for the Predator. The Predator movies are a fan boy's dream come true as the
Predator is arguably the best alien on film. The Alien movies and The Thing
nonwithstanding. It's not Citizen Kane or anything but the film has plenty
of action, decent performances and plenty of the Predator, including the
showing off of a few new gadgets of his. I always liked the fact that
Predator 2 is set in an urban environment, the jungle is too remote. Not
enough prey you see. Although Los Angeles 1997 doesn't look like that then
or now,(most parts anyway), the movie does a good job of putting the
Predator in what I like to call a target rich environment. Danny Glover
isn't Arnold but he does a good job as the lead anyway. Arnold didn't make
the first movie good, the Predator did. I think a lot of you miss that. The
late Kevin Peter Hall does as well as you can ask from a character with no
lines or facial expressions to speak of. Bottom Line: A decent follow-up to
Predator. If you haven't seen it yet check it out.
<|_=00=_|>

                              Minor Spoilers

Predator 2 is a great sequel.There is nothing wrong with the movie.I am
satified on how they made it.Ofcourse Arnold is not in it but it would have
been silly if he was.But it has great cast in it.You got Gary Busey,Danny
Glover,Bill Paxton,Morton Downey Jr.,Maria Conchita Alonso,Ruben Blades,Adam
Baldwin,Robert Davi,and yes Thomas Rosales Jr. gets killed in the
beginning.But that is no suprise,he gets killed in just about every movie he
is in and that is alot!For example he got killed by the T-Rex in The Lost
World,got shot in Universal Soldier,got killed in Tremors 2,The Running
Man,John Carpenter`s Vampires,and Robocop 2 to name a few.I like to keep
track of his record!Anyway Predator 2 is as good as the first one and has
lots of action,violent parts in it so it is not boring.The predator has more
weapons this time around.Alan Silvestri`s score in this is great!Stan
Winston has done it again!If you like the 1st Predator you`ll love this
one.I sure thought it was good.

Notes:Some important information I spotted in the film.

1.Near the end when you see the Predator`s spaceship,look for a skull of a
alien(from Aliens,the second Alien film)in the trophy room.

2.Speaking of Aliens,I think Bill Paxton is the only one that can say I was
killed by the Aliens in the 2nd Alien film and by the Predator!
