
Dumb and Dumber is a stupid movie, but what some people don't
understand is that is what it is supposed to be! It's about two
completely pathetic, dumb, and hopeless guys who do nothing but make
complete fools of themselves. Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels give the
greatest comedic performances and form the best duo that has ever
graced a screen. Every scene, every sentence they speak, and every body
movement is pure genius. The way that each of them deliver their lines
makes this movie an all time classic that will never get old. I never
understood how someone could not like this movie. The only explanation
I could have is they think they are too "intelligent" for a "dumb
movie" like this. What they don't even understand that it's not the
jokes or gags that make this movie so great, it is all in the
performances. To those of you who do not like this movie please give it
another try and watch Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels play the roles that
they were meant to play.
<|_=00=_|>

For all of you that say this movie is not funny, you must be crazy, this
is
the best comedy ever, with the best performances in the careers for
daniels
and jim carrey if you haven't seen this movie yet go out right now and
movie
i promise it wont dissapoint
<|_=00=_|>
Best film ever... why;

Lloyd; That's a lovely accent you have. New Jersey? Lady at bus stop;
Austria. Lloyd; Austria! Well, then. G'day mate! Let's put another
shrimp on the barbie! 

Harry; Yeah I called her up, she gave me a bunch of crap about me not
listening to her, or something, I don't know, I wasn't really paying
attention. 

Harry; According to the map we've only gone 4 inches. 

Mary; So you'll pick me up tonight at 7:45? Harry; Well I got a few
things to take care of. So how about we make it quarter to 8? Mary;
Stop it Harry: Okay. 7:45 

Need I say more... this film has it all comedy comedy comedy... that is
all you need. I have heard people say that this film is just stupid,
well they are right it is about 2 stupid guys doing a stupid thing in a
stupid way and you just love them to bits for it... Okay it was not
Forest Gump in the way Tom Hanks played the slow guy come good with
what I would say was one of the best performances by any actor of all
time but it was very funny. I almost swallowed my tongue, spat out my
drink twice almost peed myself and watched it so many times I know the
script even now 10 years on I still laugh it my friends eternal Harry
and Lloyd...
<|_=00=_|>

From beginning to end, Dumb & Dumber is sheer hilarity. There is not a slow
moment in the adventures of Harry and LLoyd, two great but incredibly
unintelligent friends who decide to move to Aspen, Colorado to get out of
their dead-end lives in Providence, Rhode Island. Jim Carrey delivers a
side-splitting performance as Lloyd, the lovestruck limo driver who first
suggested the trip to Aspen ("We got no food, we got no jobs, our pets HEADS
ARE FALLIN' OFF!!"), mostly so that he can find Mary Swanson (Lauren Holly),
the woman he fell in love with after he drove her to the airport in
Providence.

Lloyd's and Harry's adventures on their trip are absolutely hilarious to
watch, especially their run-ins with the criminals who are chasing them,
trying to get the briefcase that Harry and Lloyd do not know is full of
ransom cash. One of the best things about this film is that it never strays
too far from reality. There is never anything presented that could not
possibly happen in real life. Also, the original and strikingly funny comedy
that was written for the film is great! I can't remember ever laughing this
hard at a movie.

Dumb & Dumber takes a good story, adds some tear-inducing comedy, some
endlessly hilarious dialogue ("I guess they're right, old people, though
slow and dangerous behind the wheel, can still serve a purpose. Don't you go
dyin' on me!"), and needlessly good direction and molds one of the funniest
films ever. Good for all ages, Dumb & Dumber is sheer unadulterated comedy
and is destined to become a classic.
<|_=00=_|>

When this first came out in 1994, wild horses couldn't drag me to the
theater to see it. Why? Preconceived notions. Thank goodness for Cable TV,
or I never would have seen this film. I like it, it makes me
laugh.

This is not a masterpiece. This is not an academy award winning film, not a
film of strategic plots, this is as sophomoric as it gets  -- and that's
fine with me. Sometimes, ya gotta escape. This'll do it.

The title says it all. Jeff Daniels and Jim Carrey are perfect for their
roles, every time I watch this film uncut, I am laughing. I was always
thinking, "How dumb can you get?" And in the next frame it gets
dumber.

This is one of those films you just have fun with. Either you like this kind
of humor or you don't. But the world is in such turmoil, this is a welcomed,
stupid, silly, break that hits just the right spot. I find it "stupid-funny"
beyond belief.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to find a Farrley's Brother which isn't funny, and this is
even harder to classify as, 'not funny'...because it is the funniest!

Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels team up as the not just odd, but strange,
weird and mentally disabled couple. 

After losing both of their jobs on the same day, Lloyd (Carrey), who
retrieved a bag which a woman he drove to the airport leaves in the
terminal, encourages his friend Harry to come with him to Aspen where
the girl flew to. They think that the gas company is after them since
they didn't pay their bill, but is actually the kidnappers of Mary
(Holly)'s husband, who were supposed to pick up the money where she
left it in the airport terminal.

From their start in Rhode Island, until they arrive in Aspen, the
kidnappers follow Harry (Daniels)and Lloyd, along the road. The script
is the most well-written comedy I think ever, because every thing that
they do in the movie, leads to something new and funny that ends up
happening to them later on.

Their are more than a few funny scenes, and the dialogue is always
right-on.

I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys Farrley Brothers' movies, or
anyone who likes Jim Carrey. It's a hilarious comedy and the two stars
were perfectly casted, especially Jim Carrey, of course.

And now, an excerpt from the film, 

"Skies, huh?" "That's right." "They yers?" "Yup." "Both of them?"
<|_=00=_|>

Destined to become a classic in its genre, DUMB & DUMBER reaches its
 objective of making people laugh off their seats, in a film that crowns
 Carrey as the modern Lewis & gives Daniels a great chance to show us his
 lighter side. 
    This is the kind of movie you want to see 100 times, with pranks & puns
 so silly you love to hate! high moments are Daniel`s bout with the toilet,
 the parakeet incident, and Jim Carrey`s love declaration to a schoolboy.
    If U R not silly and have no sense of humor, and basically are not alive
, don`t watch this movie...otherwise, rent the video, order some pizza &
 beer and prepare for 1999: Dumb & Dumber (The early years)       Two
 fingers up
<|_=00=_|>
This movie goes from joke to joke constantly and never misses a beat. I
could not stop laughing the first time I saw it, and the tenth time I
saw it, and the hundredth time I saw it. This movie never gets old.
There is not one single dull moment. The movie takes off and never lets
up, not even enough to let you breathe. There is something absolutely
mesmerizing and hilarious about Jim Carrey and Jeff Daniels'
performances as the lovable idiots Lloyd Christmas( Jim Carrey) and
Harry Dunne (Jeff Daniels).

The movie starts out in Providence, Rhode Island with two guys who are
down on their luck. They've just lost their jobs, are late on the gas
bill(again), and make the best of a bad situation by returning a
briefcase they've recovered to its rightful owner, an attractive woman
named Mary (Lauren Holly). And Lloyd(Carrey), has fallen madly in love
with Mary after driving her to the airport. It just so happens that
Mary lives all the way across the country, in Aspen, Colorado (or is it
California?) Sure its crazy and stupid, but they've got nothing to
lose, so they take off in their 84' sheepdog. And let's face it, if we
were them, we'd go too.

Dumb and Dumber was not pretentious, the actors never made you feel
like they were in on the joke. No, they played it with a straight face
the whole way through, and that's really the best way to do comedy.
Even when they aren't speaking, their body language alone is enough to
elicit huge laughs. The reactions and facial expressions are perfect.

The film wasn't warmly received by a lot of critics, but only because
they couldn't lower their snouts long enough to realize that this was
not another movie about dumb guys, but really a film about earnest
guys. And they are pathetically funny just being themselves. They play
stupid games in the car to pass the time, and sing aloud to keep from
getting bored, and have crazy dreams of one day opening up a worm
store.

The movie plays out with a high spirit and feel good attitude that
can't be matched. And the soundtrack is perfect; it really sets the
tone and never feels out of place.

Really, truly, without a doubt, the best comedy ever made. I will
treasure this movie forever, and even when I watch it the 101st time, I
know it'll make me laugh... and laugh... and laugh till it hurts.

The film is well paced and has a spontaneous nature that lacks in most
comedies. Behind all the stupidness, there is a real glow of
brilliance. The fact is, more than all the goofiness and crazy antics,
"Dumb and Dumber" is a film full of smarts, and that's what we end up
admiring the most.
<|_=00=_|>
Harry and Lloyd are not your standard comedy duo. After all these years
I still can't tell who's the brains of this pathetic operation: Harry
or Lloyd. Jeff Daniels has never portrayed an oaf as likable as Harry
Dunne before--all his character's were quite respectable and normal
prior to Dumb & Dumber. Carrey's been crazy--Ace Ventura, the Mask--but
never stupid.

This is the story about two dead-beat buddies that cannot maintain a
steady job. Lloyd falls in love with a young lady named Mary after
driving her to the airport. She leaves her briefcase inside the airport
--deliberately to pay a ransom-- and Lloyd snags it. The rest of the
movie is a road trip from Providence to Aspen to return it to its
rightful owner.

This is Bobby and Peter Farrelly's directorial debut; they do a
wonderful job. Years later they teamed up with Carrey again to film "Me
Myself and Irene," which was a great movie, but even though the movie
was nastier, even though it contained a chicken up a filthy pig's ass,
it still couldn't match the wonderful grossness Peter, Bobby, Jim &
Jeff provided in one of the funniest films in cinema history. 4 stars.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to believe this was out over a decade ago, but it was another
in a long line (past few decades) of crude comedies....BUT one of the
better ones regarding some laugh-out-loud funny scenes.

The "classic" of the funny scenes, at least to most men including me,
is poor Jeff Daniels on the toilet. No need to go into details! As
crazy as Jim Carrey got in some of his earlier movies (Ace Ventura,
Liar, Liar, etc) he's actually lower-key than in some of the other
stupid-guy roles he played, one reason because he's doesn't shout in
here. I didn't find the female lead in here, Lauren Holley, to be
appealing but that's just my opinion.

In modern-day slapstick, it means one basic thing: gross out your
audience, so that's what is attempted here. When it works, it's very
funny, such as that bathroom scene.. One thing for sure: the language
makes this an R-rated film, not PG-13. Speaking of jokes, that PG-13
rating has become a joke.

Anyway, you should get a lot of laughs out this: at least I suspect
males will more than females....and that's all it was meant for -
laughs, and nothing else - so don't trash the film because it wasn't
"intelligent" enough for you.
