

When I first saw "Point break" I thought that Kathryn Bigelow made the only
action masterpiece of her career but there she was only four years later
with a magnificent story written by James Cameron and an unforgettable
classic called "Strange days". Ralph Fiennes has never been as cool as he
was when the guy played Lenny Nero and Juliette Lewis was almost too sexy to
be true. The whole movie is a remarkable experience. I saw it couple of days
after the turning of 2000 and I was totally stunned because I expected a
silly little b-scifi flick. What I got was a powerful first rate mystery
thriller that kept me on the edge of my seat the whole bloody time. I just
recently watched it again and was afraid that the movie would let me down
when I've seen it once but on the contrary, like wine this one only got
better with age. What a shame "Strange days" never got the recognition it
obviously deserves. This is a cult movie, at best, but the fact that it
doesn't have a placing in the IMDb top 250 is a huge injustice. Definitely
the best of all millennium movies. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

The answer being, of course, yes I am impressed.

What a thoroughly enjoyable film Strange Days is. Fast-moving and
occasionally violent, it's not high art but then neither is it dumbed-down
fodder and it has much to commend it. The central plot revolves around an
ex-cop (Fiennes, doing a - to my ears anyway - convincing American accent)
peddling FBI technology on the black market. The SQUID technology (Super
conducting QUantum Interface Device) electronically absorbs information
from
the central cortex and allows users to experience the thrill of another's
sensations - be it murder, sex, robbery, etc. Of course, this central idea,
while fascinating, does derive pretty much directly from a Twilight Zone
episode. Were this a "classic" Zone episode from the b/w era, then people
would have picked it up straight away and the game would be over. As it is,
the inspiration comes from one of the colour Twilight Zone episodes which
had even less viewers than Strange Days and so the movie can rest assured
it
is safe in obscurity. (Give up? Okay, it was episode 23, season three,
1989,
"The Mind of Simon Foster". I'm an anorak, I know these
things).

But whether such were intentional is pretty much irrelevant as the magpie
technique of this film takes from many texts and builds something greater
than the parts. One of the two greatest science fiction films of the 90s -
the other being the excellent "Twelve Monkeys" - both have built-in sell-by
dates by fixing their time period in a very near locale. Hence while the
supposed date of Monkeys is long past at 98, this film now becomes a
historical document as of New Year's Eve 1999. But then does it follow that
we will stop watching 2001 in 2002? Hopefully not, and Strange Days is one
that too deserves to be revisited in years to come.

The reason why I commend it most is its rewarding political stance. The
development that gets adhered onto the "Squid" plot directly references the
beating of Rodney King. Such contemporary referencing may again date it as
quickly as the '99 setting, but then we also have Angela Bassett as a very
empowered, yet caring black woman. Note how she and Lenny have exchanged
traditional gender roles in this film, yet this feels not like some "macho
woman" schtick but genuine characterisation. Lenny is a likeable,
wisetalking street peddler who spends the film as a human punchbag. Gone is
the cliched jaw-breaking action man role for him, instead his only retort
to
violence is "I'll give you my Rolex". This sense of, if you like, PC-ness,
can also be evidenced with the lesbian couple kissing as the year 2000
breaks, or the (one scene only, admittedly) appearance of a disabled man as
a central character.

However, the boundary-pushing elements of this movie are tainted by the
appearance of Juliet Lewis in the film. A capable actress, her only role
appears to be as a receptacle for various men's sexual needs or to
gratuitously expose her breasts on multiple occasions. This is a great
shame, and a pity that a film which has such high intentions in almost
every
other area should fall back on unfortunate portrayal.

The dialogue is pitched just about right without being particularly clever,
though occasionally it stalls. "You're like a goddamn cruise missile,
targetted on making it", Fiennes tells Faith (Lewis) at one point, managing
to keep a straight face. Later, Bassett must endure having to say "These
are
used emotions. It's time to trade them in" and not use her gun on the
scriptwriter. When the credits do roll, it's perhaps no surprise that James
Cameron was the co-writer, as its slight perfunctory, by-the-numbers stance
often reminds one of the machinations of "Titanic". Tom Sizemore as Max is
every inch the one-dimensional Cameron "character", while plot twists
sometimes feel heavily engineered. Maybe Jay Cocks is responsible for the
script's more "human" feel, with particular note going to the moral debate
of whether or not to expose the LAPD's murder of an influential black
rapper. The two leads debate (internally, as well as verbally, a first for
a
Cameron movie) the implications and the possible consequences of such an
action. Despite its flirtation with the mainstream, Strange Days is a film
that dares to pervert the traditional course of Hollywood into a future
that
is worth seeing. Perhaps predictably, it made little impact at the box
office.


<|_=00=_|>

Strange Days is a truly astonishing science fiction offering, part scripted
by James Cameron and directed with relentless panache by maverick
lady-director Kathryn Bigelow. It presents a depressing and bleak, yet
worryingly probable, view of the near future, and hooks its story threads
upon the impending millennium eve celebrations. Although December 31st,
1999, has been and gone since the making of this movie, it is a credit to
the makers that this film still offers a plausible viewpoint about where the
world might be at in the next decade or so.

Ralph Fiennes seems initially miscast, but soon wins over the audience as
Lenny Nero, a sleazy racketeer who sells "memories" captured on some form of
disk, similar to virtual reality but recorded from real experiences rather
than computerised ones. He is desperately trying to get back with his
ex-girlfriend Faith (Juliette Lewis), but she doesn't want him as she has
hooked up with a music producer named Philo (Michael Wincott). Lenny
acquires two disturbing tapes, one showing the rape and murder of a woman,
the other showing a racially motivated slaying, and before he knows it he is
on the run from the culprits who want to kill him before he exposes their
crimes. The only person he can trust is his best friend, lady bodyguard Mace
(Angela Bassett). To complicate matters further, his ex-girlfriend Faith
seems to know something about the disks, and may either be involved in the
crimes or at great risk from those responsible.

Bassett is the real star here, in the role of a lifetime as a morally strong
and physically stronger heroine. Lewis plays the same old white trash girl
she has played many times, but at least she has the experience to bring
total conviction to the role. The production values are incredibly high,
especially the party at the end which seems to realistically convey an
entire city celebrating in the streets. The plot unfolds slowly, but this is
a strength rather than a criticism. Each new development slots into place
beautifully, and the audience is given time to get into the characters and
the situations (which, in too many movies, we are not allowed to do since
the pace is often too frenetic).

Strange Days is challenging and aggressive and frequently disturbing. It is
also inventive and exciting and ingeniously staged. It is simply a terrific
science film which any devotee of the genre absolutely must
see.
<|_=00=_|>

"Strange Days" literally has something for everyone.  Science fiction,
violence, peace, romance, comedy, tragedy, action, you name it -- it's in
this film, and it's done with class and intelligence.  I agree that this one
is destined to become a cult classic.  However, be prepared for one of the
edgiest, most violent and emotionally exhausting films you've ever seen (the
first three minutes of the film make it very clear what you can expect from
the rest).  There are at least five climactic scenes toward the end, which
must break some kind of record.  After the movie's over, you may feel like
you've just been cooked in a vat of boiling oil... but luckily, you'll be
perfectly well-done, not burned to a crisp.  10/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Unfortunately, this film failed at the box-offices, although it´s one of the
greatest masterpieces of the 90s. The first time I saw "Strange Days" was
about five years ago, and then over and over again. If you think Ralph
Fiennes is only able to play sensitive and problematic characters watch
this: it´s his most unusual, but one of the best performances in his career
- a performance of a coolness you only would expect from Samuel L. Jackson.
Angela Bassett is one of the toughest women cinema has ever seen and
Juliette Lewis, Tom Sizemore, Glenn Plummer, William Fichtner - every single
role is casted perfectly...

"Strange Days" is thriller, drama and big city ballad in one piece. I can´t
remember any movie that reflects the philosophy of life of Generation X
better than this one. Lenny deals with the "Squids" which are the
experiences and emotions of men saved on a mini disc. Emotions as a product,
a drug - a compensation of modern life for the growing loneliness and
anonymity. The only possibility for weak persons like Lenny to feel real. A
movie like "Fight Club" wouln´t have been possible without "Strange Days";
other releases like "The Cell" or even Scorsese´s "Bringing out the dead"
copied the incomparable make. Although this film is older than six years it
hasn´t lost anything explosive effects, what is connected with the video
clip style this movie has, which gives "Strange Days" a touch of being
ageless. The two most brilliant scenes are the opening sequence - the
robbery in the Chinese restaurant - and the showdown down in the streets at
the millenium party. Also the soundtrack (Deep Forest, Peter Gabriel, Skunk
Anansia, Strange Fruit...) is one of the best I´ve ever heard, what makes
"Strange Days" an unforgettable experience for every watcher.
(10/10)
<|_=00=_|>

Yep. It sure shows that Cameron has laid his hand on this film. It has a
superb plot, great timing and a spectacular ending - one of the best ever, I
might add.

Just about everything you see in this film adds to the momentum. Just look
in the background. There is always something going on, someone getting
arrested or stealing something or burning something... all of it enhances
the doomsday feeling you get when watching.

I also find Fiennes' acting just short of perfect. His face, his gestures
and his entire being reeks of the sordid life his character leads. To cast
him was genius. Lewis, Sizemore, Bassett and Wincott perform excellently as
well - but it's really Fiennes that just makes this film
happen.

Do you want to see something unusual for a change? Do you long to see a
believable sf-story for once, even despite the fact that the events of the
film took place in 1999? And do you yearn for a sensational film made to
make you really feel something? See Strange Days.


<|_=00=_|>

Strange Days is an interesting film, with a great premise. It also happens
to be well-executed, for the most part. The LA of the future (well, future
back when it was released in 1995) is quite dystopian in nature, and Strange
Days manages to present all facets of that using Taxi Driver-influenced car
rides through the city while observing the chaos on the streets. In many
ways, Strange Days manages to create a real-life and convincing future, and
it feels like a true place, with things going on independently of the events
in the movie, rather than feeling like a movie set. 

Atmosphere aside, though, the movie has many strengths. The plot is
intriguing, and it flows quite smoothly. A lot of the dialogue is really
quite interesting and gives the movie a nice feel (not to mention the actors
do a pretty good job with the material). The characters are three-dimension
and interesting. While the beginning parts were somewhat disjointed (at
least in terms of plot), they did serve as an excellent setup. When the
movie was its best (during the middle parts) there is a frantic sense of
urgency that really drives the picture along. It's a very entertaining
movie, and it managed to form an emotional link with me - always a good
sign.

Unfortunately, it kind of goes downhill after that. Strange Days ends up
resorting to awfully cliche ideas, complete with plot elements seen a
million times in movies before. All of this mars what could have been a real
classic film. It's too bad that Cameron and Cocks had to resort back to
this, since the movie has so many strengths and so many great things that it
could have built on. While the movie is still above average, it just isn't
as superb as it could have been. Nonetheless, Strange Days succeeds on many
levels and is well worth watching. 
<|_=00=_|>
I had no idea this film even existed until it showed up in my Netflix
'recommended' column, and I decided to give it a shot after reading
some good reviews on there. Wow, am I happy I did. 

This was a truly fantastic sci-fi thriller, with intense action and a
truly engaging story. The characters were very well constructed and had
a lot of substance to them, and of course the acting was superb. Who
knew Ralph Finnes could play such a good lowlife?

Set in an alternate (but totally recognizable) Los Angeles of 1999, the
world has seemingly gone completely to hell, due to rampant poverty and
class/racial tensions which are pushing society towards an all-out
state of anarchy. The authorities are barely maintaining order, despite
resorting to draconian measures to try and keep things in check. The
director does an excellent job of painting this picture for us through
fantastic environment and background shots which effectively build the
tension and make us fully believe what is happening. 

In this world, they have invented a type of virtual reality which
allows an individual to record everything they are seeing and feeling
directly through their brain, so as to then be played back later
through someone else's brain, which allows the user to then see and
feel exactly what was recorded without any danger (other than possible
addiction). So needless to say a huge black market has sprung up to
provide people with recordings of all kinds of illicit, criminal and
sexual activities that they'd never actually get to experience in the
real world. The plot of the movie builds from this technology.

However, other than this particular device and general state of social
affairs, the alternate 1999 is pretty much identical to our 1999 (very
much to it's credit). No flying cars, no wacky fashion, no aliens, no
laser guns or anything like that. It was a great decision by the
filmmakers to not bite off more than they could chew in that regard, as
it would have distracted from a very solid story.

The films weaknesses are few, but are there nonetheless. It was a bit
long... although I'm not usually one to complain about that kind of
thing, so long as the time is necessary to tell the story. In this case
an argument can be made either way, though I personally feel they could
have lost about fifteen minutes or so (but to me it's a minor issue).

The director also felt the need to very quickly explain the origin of
the virtual reality technology through a throwaway line of dialog,
which really added nothing to the plot, and honestly made no sense;
they said the technology was originally developed for the FBI so that
informants wouldn't have to wear a wire, which is just dumb. The device
is WAY more cumbersome and easily discoverable than a wire transmitter.
How about saying that the military invented it to train soldiers more
realistically? Or just leave it alone... true virtual reality is a
technological holy grail. I don't think anyone questions why something
like that would be invented in the first place, even if it's purely for
entertainment.

Additionally, in my opinion, a couple of the 'bad guys' could have had
their motivations fleshed out a tad better, but that is a also very
minor quibble. 

Beyond that, the look of the movie is quite dated, which could hinder
the enjoyment for some people. The 1990's did not age very well to our
eyes, and this movie is VERY much a product of that era. If you lived
through it, you know what I mean. Younger viewers may not fully get the
social and cultural allusions that this movie is built upon (Rodney
King riots, 90's hip hop culture, rave clubs... things like that)...
just something to keep in mind, although if you did live though it,
you'll appreciate the depth that these references add.

But really, I can't recommend this film highly enough. It's a
completely under-appreciated piece of work, and one of the best sci-fi
thrillers out there.
<|_=00=_|>
I've spoken before about how quickly sci-fi can date, bad sci-fi in
particular. Even the best sci-fi movies ("Blade Runner", "Metropolis",
"Terminator 2: Judgement Day", etc) have moments that weaken the film's
atmosphere due to hindsight whether it's the futuristic billboards
advertising Pan Am or John Conner's Public Enemy t-shirt. But this
film, which is almost two decades old, remains staggeringly fresh and
oddly believable despite the film being set at the very death of the
twentieth century. Maybe it's because the film isn't really about the
millennium at all. It's actually a sweeping and ambitious neo-noir
covering redemption, voyeurism, racial tensions and corruption. It
might not tick all the boxes but I believe this film should go down as
a stone-cold classic.

December 30th, 1999 and business is good for smarmy deadbeat Lenny Nero
(Ralph Fiennes). Ignoring the violence tearing society apart, Lenny
peddles illegal mind-taps which record the memories and feelings of the
person recording and allows users to replay them. But Lenny's position
of influence in LA is at risk when he receives a "blackjack" - a snuff
tape of a young woman being raped and murdered from the killer's
point-of-view. Persuading his cop buddy Mace (Angela Bassett) and best
friend Max (Tom Sizemore) to help him catch the sick killer, Lenny
fears his ex-lover Faith (Juliette Lewis) could be next but she wants
nothing to do with Lenny as she is busy cosying up to sleazy producer
Philo Gant (Michael Wincott) in order to get her recording career off
the ground.

I can think of few films as well-made as "Strange Days" which does an
incredible job of portraying a city where the plot is one of merely
many stories happening concurrently. You feel part of the crowd as the
streets explode into a vast party, ticker-tape raining down as cops
chase suspects and violence breaks out at the drop of a party hat. You
also completely buy into the concept of the SQUID device replaying the
experiences of different people - indeed, it's hard to believe that it
won't be long before it's patented in real life. Completing the film's
powerful grip on your attention are the cast - Fiennes is convincingly
slimy as Lenny, who'd rather offer his fake Rolex to avoid
confrontation. By contrast, Bassett acts as the true hero and she
displays an aura of confidence, determination and strength that Lenny
sorely lacks. It's such a positive and refreshing change to see a black
woman play the hero instead of the white male sidekick, something which
sadly still doesn't seem to happen that often in Hollywood. But for me,
the director Kathryn Bigelow deserves every bit of credit for a film
which seems chronically under-rated but remains a solid and impressive
piece of work.

The only thing I didn't like was the very graphic sequences when the
film switched to the brilliant first-person perspective and started
butchering people. Of course, we have seen scenes of violence in movies
for years but by bringing you into the action far better than a pair of
3D glasses ever will, the safety of the fourth wall has gone and it
does make you feel uncomfortable. But technically, these sequences are
a tour de force by Bigelow - utterly enthralling, brilliantly shot and
completely believable, leaving me wondering exactly how they shot them.
To be honest, I'm surprised no-one has thought of using the technology
for an entire movie by now. It also runs out of steam towards the end
and can't sustain the innovation throughout which is a pity, falling
into genre stereotypes too easily. But overall, "Strange Days" is a
truly magnificent picture. I'd forgotten how good it really is when I
caught up with it yesterday and even though real life has obviously
overtaken the events in the film, that shouldn't detract too much from
what is a dark, imaginative and stunning piece of science-fiction
cinema. And all this from the director of surfing bromance "Point
Break" - who'd have thought it?
<|_=00=_|>
Bombastic assault on the senses disguised as a "brainy" sci-fi action
film. Set in 1999, the film follows former cop turned fast-talking
street hustler Ralph Fiennes, who specializes in selling disks
containing the memories and emotions of people, which is apparently the
drug du jour. When he stumbles on a disk containing the murder of a
prostitute, he becomes embroiled in a police conspiracy, rape, murder
and assorted sordid elements in order to rescue former girlfriend
Juliette Lewis from peril.

The premise for the film sounds a lot better than the execution and
there is enough promise implicit in the material to give one the idea
of what may have been if it had a director who could fashion a coherent
narrative and sympathetic characters. As it stands, it is impossible to
tell which element of the film eviscerates it first, or whether it is a
cooperative effort. The film employs an ear-shattering soundtrack,
chronic noise and flashing lights, and assorted irritating visual
flourishes apparently believing that everyone in the audience suffers
from ADHD.

The storyline is convoluted to say the least and director Kathryn
Bigelow seems to be on only a nodding acquaintance with it. Bigelow,
whose entire directorial output could conceivably have been directed by
a testicle in the throes of puberty, simply does not exist in the same
zip code as logic or common sense, and often sacrifices it for the next
big bang, which is never as exciting as she apparently believes it to
be. She seems uncomfortable directing women and thus the misogyny is
laid on with a trowel. The female characters in the film are on hand
only to strip, be raped, be beaten or murdered. Even Angela Bassett's
tough chauffeur/bodyguard is subjected to a graphic beating, which
tastelessly draws parallels to the Rodney King beating of the era.

The acting is a real mixed bag. Tom Sizemore and Vincent D'Onofrio trot
out their stale sleazeball routines for another go-round. Fiennes, who
seems to be jacked up on too much caffeine, has rarely been this
aggravating on screen. Bassett fares best despite being badly directed,
but still cannot make the last act attraction between her and Fiennes
even remotely plausible. And just when you think things cannot get
worse, Lewis comes on screen with a teeth-grindingly wretched
performance that could single-handedly derail far better films.

Bigelow and company try to tie up the film's voluminous loose ends in
an unsuccessful final orgy of violence and exposition, but your
patience will have long vanished before then. Despite attempts by
Bigelow groupies to rehabilitate the film's image (it was both a
critical and box office bust at the time), it still remains a shallow,
unwatchable mess with entire passages so unappealing that your first
instinct is to take a very hot shower and scrub away anything that
might linger from having experienced it.
