
I went into this movie, half doubting I'd like it. 

My doubts were unfounded, this is not a "Slavery" movie in the
Hollywood sense. It is a moving allegory about people, who found
themselves... enslaved.

And it is so much more than that. It is a movie about brainwashing,
about religious dogma, about the use of religion to maintain an
otherwise unsupportable system. About group dynamics, and about music,
and about culture, and surprisingly, for a movie of such virulent
subject matter... it is about beauty.

It is one of the most lushly, and beautifully filmed movies you'll ever
see. It is filled with iconic, magical images. Because it is about
magic... the magical, the wondrous, the spiritual.

And it will leave you alternately stunned, horrified, and amazed. It is
a film of great... compassion. and great hope If you haven't seen it,
or been avoiding it because of the subject matter, I completely
understand. I did the same.

I'm not a big fan of films about falling down, I think looking at one's
feet can become a habit, rehashing abuse can be... its own abuse.
Especially when all that is portrayed... is the abuse.

It can be something of a self indulgence.

Look at our talk show society, victims happily paused, recounting
endlessly their victimization, unable to move beyond it. I'm even less
of a fan of films that marginalize the past, make it into this cookie
cutter one size fits all experience.

Alex Hailey's roots comes to mind, or Gone with the Wind, or any number
of Hollywood films about the west that typically just discount the true
meltingpot, sumptuous and magical founding of this still very much
troubled nation.

Discount truths, marvels, such as...

-Early inventors, inventions that launched the Industrial revolution,
from Elevator to Traffic Light to Gas Mask to Telegaph came from this
mass of wronged people. Early architecture, music. -The first cowboys
were Black, odd how that's completely forgotten. -The founders of
Chicago and LA, these Black scouts, these renaissance mountain men who
spoke multiple languages, these pioneers, who went where so-called
civilized men feared to tread, and made cities in the wild. -Fighters
in the revolutionary war... Black. -Fighters in the civil war... on
both sides... Black, yep... the south's answer to the North's military
ploy, the Emancipation Proclamation... was to promise freedom for any
Black and his family who put on the uniform... and fought for the grey.
Many did. Many died wearing the grey. 

Can you imagine it, that moment, a Black man wearing the Blue, and a
Black man wearing the grey, looking across their rifles at each other,
two sides of a war they never made, but that they would have to end.
Truly a war of Brother vs. Brother. 

That is the type of truth-is-stranger-than-fiction magic, that imbues
every second of the early days of this nation. And it is a wonder, and
an irony that very few films have ever captured that magic. 

SANKOFA is one of those few. 

There is a horror in the founding of this nation, this hemisphere, but
there is a magic there. And there is ugliness in the founding of this
nation, but there is great beauty there too.

They were magical people, these men and women and children, who
American history still would demeaningly classify as slaves, rather
than people who were enslaved, a seemingly minor distinction, but in
that distinction rests acknowledging the wrong done, and the people,
the people, not slaves, the people... it was done to. 

This film is about beauty. And it's about people, farmers,
seamstresses, griots, idlers, princes, paupers, masons, painters,
singers, cooks, who one day found themselves... enslaved. 

Sankofa is about the people we would call slaves, and their bloody
fights... for humanity and freedom, under an inhuman system. For
freedom, in a time of Holocaust. And it was a freedom no Emancipation
proclamation gave, but a freedom they won, the only way anything is
ever won, by making the days of slavery a bloody hell for slaver and
enslaved. 

By making the cost of blood... blood.

It is a film that remembers their... struggle. In a time when Black
children are taught by a euro-centric curriculum only enough to despise
their history, and themselves, and groomed to be only guard dog or
guarded, this film is an essential thing. 

It is about looking back to go forward. And honoring with every breath
you take, those who died by the millions, that you can have the
liberty... to live better, with more liberty, than they did. It is a
film that passionately... in a time where media, and environment,and
education have all betrayed these children... needs to be seen.

When so many have bought into the lie of their limitations, it is a
film , deeply beautiful, about living beyond... labels.

And it is a film not everyone will get, the bigots won't get it, and
the apologists won't get it, and the supporters of the status quo, and
the soulless won't get it... but we few, we happy few, children of the
Holocaust, we White children and Black and Native American, formed by
the mixing blood of our unruly ancestors, we children of their promise
and pain... for us the film is an ode and a debt... for what was done,
and what remains to do.

Essential viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

Na mate, in my usual style, I won't touch on the plot, characters etc
.. This is about me and 3 brothers who went to see this film.
Some of us were West African, some Horn African (Somalia,
Eritrea, Ethiopia etc), some Caribbean etc.

These usual jovial, come let we make jokes, guys went to see this
film. Throughout the entire film we did not look at each other
ONCE, at the end we avoided eye contact as we filed out. My jaw
was aching from how hard I must have had it clenched to prevent it
from opening and releasing floogates of emotions.
Those emotions... man, that film showed me just how much pain
there is in us, which we have not faced up to (before we were not
allowed, but now we can if we are Lion enough to).
I'd like to say we all got a wake up call from that film, and went on
to find out more about the middle passage which was
whitewashed outta of our schooling.
But no, interestingly enough unlike the film's shallow model  who
does face up to the enslavement  past, and grows from it. Some of
my friends did the opposite and remain just like the model was
like in the begining of the movie.
And After watching the film -- again and again -- I can understand
why.


<|_=00=_|>

A very compelling story of what slavery was really like.
The sometimes graphic but honest images left a very strong impression on
me. No happy go lucky Uncle Toms willing to cater to the Master in all
things. This film is one of my alternative favorites but is very hard to
find. It should be required viewing for American history courses.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film in Washington, DC in 1995 and have since purchased the
tape.
It is a blast of African pride and anti-slavery vigor from Ethiopian-born
director Haile Gerima.  Gerima is a professor at Howard University in DC
and
his films confront the issues of race, integration, and violence in Africa
and America.  "Sankofa" is available through Mypheduh films (Gerima's
production company) in DC.

The story begins and ends on a small island in West Africa, where 'Mona',
an
African-American fashion model, is in the present day.  The middle of the
film consists of Mona, through magic realism, being transported back to a
slave plantation in 18th-century America.  For those of you who wonder
about
what it was like to be a slave back then, under those barbaric and
intolerable conditions, this is your chance.  "Sankofa" is not for the
faint
of heart.  Yet its violent scenes are never overdone, and the film's final
'message' is a positive one.

It's a shame that this film at this time has an IMDB "rating" of only 5 or
so, because 31 of the 44 votes cast have been "10"s, including mine.  I
guess this film has alienated a few people, but most powerful films do
that.
A very important film from a gifted and underrated director.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is so complex. Never before had an African  writer/director
ventured into such unknown territory. This movie is incredible! A black
fashion model, who is posing for a fashion shoot amidst the beautiful
scenery of Africa, is transported back in time through an African slave
trade castle. Great cinematography and artistic creativity. This movie is
not only entertainment, it is an experience! 
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I heard of this movie was in College. I then purchased
myself a copy. This movie is Amazing, Probably the truest, realest
movie regarding Slavery. It told of the horrors and abuse African
people who were brought to this country endured.. I believe this is a
must see for everyone regardless of races..The strength alone of the
people, to deal with what they faced and to still rise above that is
absolutely Incredible. It is a shame that this movie got no recognition
in the US . I guess it would cause people to deal with the reality of
the horrific brutality human beings faced during this darkest era in
American History.
<|_=00=_|>

Hailes Sankofa is the first and best movie about slavery ever made. Forget
Amistad go see this movie if you can find it. The director of this movie
could not get funding for this movie as the content was considered 'too
controversial'. He made the movie outside of Hollywood and this resulted
in
a honest view on the history of slavery. This movie had bad distribution
and
no advertisement but it sold out at the box offices in
America.
The movie is named after the bird Sankofa. This bird is always looking
back
to where it came from. This massage is important throughout the movie; for
a
better understanding of the present and the future you need to know where
you came from and how history has treated you. 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie best depicted conditions of slavery that I have ever seen.
Hearing so many things in books and from school teachers dillutes the mind
a
little and makes it feel very mild from the way they speak. I was
especially
in awe how they made it so real yet didn't even hardly show blood at all.
I
watched it a second time to make sure; it doesn't!

If you are going to watch this on your own accord (i.e.- not in a class
where you can't get another copy), PLEASE watch it more than once. I've
heard this so many times about so many other movies, but it's awesomly
true
in this case! 'You can not POSSIBLY get everything w/ one
viewing'.

I'm off to write a paper about this movie, but I think I must rent it once
more before I get done with the paper to get even more info; there's just
that much.
<|_=00=_|>
There is no better movie on that period in history. It shows the
African spirit not only as passive and accepting or merely as a vehicle
to be brutalised by an antagonist who is given all the lines but here
the Africans are allowed to be people. We see a real portrayal of
people with feelings, emotions and lives.

It touches on some of the aspects of mental slavery that other movies
avoid, such as the biracial son of the master and a slave being
indoctrinated with the church to hate his black mother and her
spirituality. The scenes with him gazing longingly at white Madonna and
child imagery in a church being attended to by a white priest telling
about his wicked heathen mother really ring home.

From start to finish this is definitely the black perspective on
slavery. Amistad is nothing to this. Amistad was about a court case,
did nothing to the actualities of slavery or the deeper issues as
Sankofa did with panache and feeling.
<|_=00=_|>
Most older movies and many movies in general like "Song of the South"
and "Gone With the Wind" depicted Slavery as an okay instuition. In
those films Slaves are depicted as Happy in that institiution, but in
this film you see how Slaves really felt. Also you can see their
humanity and knowledge where in older films they were depicted as
ignorant.

This film is really, really neat for an independent film, and it shows
a real slave castle in Gahana. Sankofa is a term that... Well, get the
movie and you will learn more about it.

It does a good job of taking you through the film from a slaves point
of view. The film uses that interesting "lens" to illustrate just how
wrong slavery was. It also gives insight into the family unit among
slaves, which may explain the black family today in America.
Understanding the history of black families during slavery may be used
to help understand the black family today in it's struggles to have
cohesiveness.
