

Judging from the comments below, I guess being a hitman is not much to laugh
at...and the term 'black comedy' doesn't come to anyone's mind? Does that
extend to the fact that without George Raft going after Jack Lemmon & Tony
Curtis in "Some Like It Hot", they would have no reason to meet Marilyn, get
on a train to Miami, etc. etc. ??

Of course its not funny in real life that people get killed. But this comedy
starring Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry is very well done and had me
laughing about it even when it was over.  It was so over the top and so
overpopulated with killers and gangsters and contract killings that at times
its hard to remember what's going on and who is out to kill whom, but it
does not matter at all since its all in fun.

I do not like either of the leads, generally speaking.  I liked about five
out of all Bruce Willis' movies and Perry I've seen on his tv show and
enjoyed him but never really thought about him much.  In this they are both
very well cast and when they strike up a friendship, its believable.  Willis
does not do a 'goombah, fuggetaboutit' attitude or accent, thankfully, even
though his character has an Italian surname, and does not mug for the
audience at all. 

Amanda Peet is very funny as a wanna-be hitwoman and a fan of the real
killers, and Michael Clarke Duncan is also very funny. 

Only downside is Rosanna Arquette - bad casting choice here!  Maybe someone
owed her a favor.  Ironically, she is not one of the people who has a
contract out on her, though God knows she's annoying enough for one.

<|_=00=_|>
"The Whole Nine Yards" is surprisingly effective screwball comedy that
reminds me of such classics as "Bringing Up Baby" though with way
higher amoral body count. 

At first the actors seem to be each in a parallel movie, with Matthew
Perry doing physical slapstick comedy, Bruce Willis deadly serious,
Rosanna Arquette just nasty, Amanda Peet being her "Jack and Jill"
character (one of my TV guilty pleasures) and Natasha being like a
super-model.

Then something clicks in and it just gets funny and I couldn't help
laughing and laughing.

I hope Michael Clarke Duncan gets to keep those fancy suits, because it
must be hard to get ones to fit him; with "Green Mile," this
performance impressively shows his range.

(originally written 3/19/2000)
<|_=00=_|>

	Is a guy who has killed seventeen people necessarily a `bad' guy?  Not a
question everybody is going to have to ask themselves, to be sure, but what
if that guy moved in next door to you?  It's a situation that just may
induce an introspective moment or two.  Which is exactly what happens in
`The Whole Nine Yards,' directed by Jonathan Lynn and starring Bruce Willis
and Matthew Perry.  Hit-man Jimmy `The Tulip' Tudeski (Willis) ratted out
his boss in Chicago, and now he's on the lam.  He makes his way to Canada,
where he buys a house next door to a hapless dentist, Nicholas `Oz'
Oseransky (Perry), who is suffering from inherited debts and a shrew of a
wife, Sophie (Rosanna Arquette), not to mention a mother-in-law from Hell
(Carmen Ferland).  When he realizes who his neighbor is about to be, his
first instinct is to run, but Sophie has other ideas.  It seems there's a
price on Jimmy's head; one Janni Gogolack (Kevin Pollak) would like to take
his revenge on the guy who's responsible for his father going away for a
long, long time.  So Sophie squeezes Oz into a corner until he agrees to go
to Chicago and meet with Janni to put the finger on Jimmy.  Not a great
idea, Oz thinks, but it at least sounds like a nice vacation, so he goes. 
But, of course, he should have stayed with his instincts, because he soon
finds himself looking down the barrel of trouble.  And the only way out, it
seems, is down...

	What Lynn put together here is actually a fairly light-hearted, black
comedy; the nature of the story dictates that there will be violence in it,
and there is, but much of it is implied rather than graphic.  The pace is
good, and Lynn develops the characters enough to let you know exactly who
they are and what they are all about.  There's not a lot of depth, but it's
not necessary; the actors have each made their respective characters unique
to a point that puts them beyond stereotype, and it works perfectly for this
film and the story.  Some of what happens is inevitable, though not
necessarily predictable, and certain aspects will keep you guessing right up
to the end.  Typical of a comedy that leans to the dark side, nothing in
this story is cut and dried.

	Willis is perfect as Jimmy The Tulip, giving a rather reserved, subtle
performance that puts Jimmy's guarded but confident manner into perspective.
 Underneath it all, this guy is really rather cold-blooded (he has to be,
given his choice of employment), but his relationship with Oz gives it some
warmth, at least externally.  Like Chow Yun-Fat in `The Killer,' Jimmy is
likable, but when you consider at arm's length who he is  and what he is
capable of, it's a bit disconcerting.  And that's one of the aspects of the
film that is so interesting-- because you know who and what Jimmy is, you
never really know which way things are going to turn. 

	Perry is excellent, as well, as `Oz.'  Henpecked and in dire straits, he is
something of an updated version of the W.C. Fields character in `It's A
Gift' or `The Bank Dick,' although a bit darker.  Perry is charismatic, has
impeccable timing with his delivery and uses physical comedy to great
effect.  His reactions to Willis and the situations in which he finds
himself are brilliant and hilarious, and he seems to instinctively know just
how far to take it to make it work.  And it's the little, seemingly
insignificant things he brings to the character that give the film that
extra something and creates some memorable moments.

	The supporting cast includes Michael Clarke Duncan (Frankie Figs), Natasha
Henstridge (Cynthia), Amanda Peet (Jill St. Claire), Harland Williams
(Special Agent Hanson) and Serge Christianssens (Mr. Boulez).  It may not be
the most original movie ever made, but `The Whole Nine Yards' is funny, has
a great cast of actors who have taken characters you've basically seen
before and made them their own, and does exactly what a film like this is
supposed to do:  Entertain.  It's not going to make you ponder the universe
or the state of the world today, but it's going to give you a couple of
hours of laughs and some residual chuckles.  Which, when you think about it,
is not such a bad deal.  It's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one
7/10. 

	  

	

	 
<|_=00=_|>
I rented The Whole Nine Yards a few days ago, and just watched it this
morning, I'm such a huge Bruce Willis fan, I don't see him that often
in comedies, so I was curious how this would work. But after viewing
this film, I have to just say that this movie was just so funny! I
couldn't believe how much it made me laugh, I know it's such a dark
subject, but it was pretty cool how they just turned into a zanny
comedy. Bruce Willis and Matthew Perry were just the most perfect
choices, they were like ying and yang. Matthew as this guy who just is
scared of everything and finally has something at the end to say where
he has control and Bruce couldn't have been a more perfect choice as
the cocky and yet charismatic hit man who could be threatening but yet
the most likable guy in the world. The story was just very clever and
worked so well with the cast.

Nick is just your average guy, he is a dentist and a very likable guy,
but he gets walked on quite a bit, especially by his wife who he feels
like he owes her family, so he won't divorce her. But one day, a new
neighbor moves in, Nick notices him pretty much off the bat, it's Jimmy
"the tulip" Tudeski, the famous hit man who has killed 17 people and
also ratted out his boss. He's on the run from his boss in Chicago and
has a ransom on his head. Nick actually likes Jimmy, but his wife,
Sophie, says to turn him in and get the award. He goes to Chicago and
falls in love with Jimmy's wife, Cynthia. When Nick comes back home to
Canada, he learns from Jimmy that his wife has gone to hire a hit man
to kill Nick. But Nick also learns that Jimmy wants to kill Cynthia,
Jimmy's boss wants to kill Nick, Nick's receptionist is also a hit
woman, pretty much everyone wants to kill everyone.

That's pretty much the best way to sum up The Whole Nine Yards, but
trust me when I say that this is such a fun movie. I really had a good
time watching this movie, Bruce Willis was just so great. But I have to
admit that Amanda Peet's performance floored me when she was just
admiring Bruce's work and getting advice from him on what her first hit
should be like. She was just so adorable while being deadly. So please,
I would recommend this film, it's a dark comedy, yes, but it's all
good, just learn to let go and have fun if you're very sensitive on the
subject.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this one on the dish the other day, eager to see Montreal in
a movie actually playing Montreal, as opposed to masquerading as New
York or Chicago or some other city. Other than that, I really didn't
know what to expect.

I was pleasantly surprised in a few ways. Matthew Perry was playing his
usual goofy character, as a result of total lack of any acting ability
whatsoever. But Bruce Willis is always good, Amanda Peet stole the
screen in almost every scene she was in, and the plot line was just
quirky enough to be entertaining. Innovative and fresh, I found this
film to be more creative than most of what's currently out in the
theatres. It didn't have that formula imprint of so many Hollywood
films (i.e. take the comedy formula off the shelf and cast it by
Friday). I actually laughed out loud at a few moments.

The movie did go wrong in a couple of places. Being a Montrealer, I
noticed a few things that most viewers might have missed. For instance
that their obsession with Mayonnaise on hamburgers, which is integral
to the plot, isn't based on any reality that I know of as I have yet to
find a Montreal restaurant that puts mayonnaise on burgers. Rosanna
Arquette's French accent is even worse than mine, even though it's
supposedly her character's first language. Matthew Perry's love scenes
with Natasha Henstridge are so ridiculously unrealistic, even the
non-cynical will yawn. And the director seemed to have an obsession
with pointing out Montreal landmarks, even if they had nothing to do
with the plot.

Those are small things in the grand context of the movie, though. If
you liked movies such as The Big Hit, this is very similar. It's not
meant to be taken very seriously, so the plot turns are more for
absurdity's sake than for any kind of buildup of suspense. Still, if
you're looking for some lighter entertainment, it's a good choice.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one (if not the one) of my favorite movies. 

I just loved it, it has an excellent plot, perfect acting from most of
the actors, specially Matthew Perry... and it's just great when you can
find a movie nowadays where you can't predict the ending cause
everything is possible to happen.

It's very funny 

It's enjoyable 

It's a pleasure to watch, alone or even better with friends 

You're gonna be in for a real treat...

Although, if you like this one, don't get your hopes up too high...
Cause the second one "The Whole Ten Yards", is faaaaaar from this good.

Hope you like this movie as much as I did
<|_=00=_|>
Perry is an unhappy dentist stuck in a dead marriage and burdened with
financial problems; as if that isn't bad enough, he learns that his new
neighbor is in fact an infamous contract killer with reprehensible mob
ties. Against his better judgment, Perry decides to try and rat out the
lowlife for his own personal gain, but soon gets in over his head. The
film's humor is occasionally too silly for words, but the cast is good
and full of enthusiasm—especially Peet—and the script throws out a lot
of unexpected twists and turns at just the right moments. Surprising
and very funny, with a perfect part for Willis who finds just the right
tone for a gangster with heart. ***
<|_=00=_|>

THE WHOLE NINE YARDS (2000) ** Matthew Perry, Bruce Willis,
Natasha Henstridge, Amanda Peet, Michael Clarke Duncan,
Rosanna Arquette, Kevin Pollak,  Harlan Williams.

Matthew Perry is one of my favorite comedic actors in that he's
kind of a throwback to the light comedy fare of Jack Lemmon and
Tom Hanks: handsome, charming and an utter neurotic mess with
a sharp self-deprecating wit with his nonchalant sarcastic jibing
that is all play and totally harmless, with a twist of slapstick.  Here
all of that is on display with a finely tuned tailor made character not
unlike his tv alter ego, Chandler Bing (love that name!) from
`Friends'.

Oz Oseransky is a mild-mannered affable dentist whose life is in
flux when his trampy French accented wife Sophie (Arquette in full
blown voluptuosness) decides she wants to end their marriage.
But not by the usual traditional method of divorce or anulment;
instead she takes out a contract on his life
Enter newly arrived next-door-neighbor Jimmy `The Tulip' Tudeski
(Willis in barely restrained comic form) a hitman keeping it low
since there's a contract on him by a really ticked off Russian thug
(Pollak oozing Eurotrash unctuousness).  But when Oz's wife
approaches him he is hard-pressed to do what comes natural
since Oz turns out to be the good neighbor he never had and an
unlikely ally  as things progress in the plotline that eventually
involves Jimmy's estranged, va-va-va voom wife Cynthia
(Henstridge, best known as the sexy alien in the `Species' sci-fi
flicks) who wants a divorce but knows that it's more likely a hit
would be necessary.

Meanwhile Oz is struck by love at first sight when he meets Mrs.
Jimmy and winds up bedding her (in spite of the fact he knows
who Jimmy is after some hilarious reaction shots as the story
moves on with each new trickle of information on his new `friend'),
which only complicates things when Jimmy announces he is
going to `whack' her and
Janni, the mad Russian.

Perry is a marvelous reactionary actor and plays very well off a
unique ensemble including the babelicious Peet as Jill, his
receptionist- turned - assassin - wannabe , who has a knack for
displaying her natural assets to dissuade any potential violent
threat and Duncan (recently nominated for a Best Supporting Actor
as the gentle giant in `The Green Mile') has a sweet low-key turn
as the hulking pal of Willis who provides some funny sight gags
(including his first meeting with Perry  who literally bounces off this
wall of a man).

Yet no matter how game the cast is - including off the wall comic
Harland Williams as another seedy character who doesn't appear
to be who he claims to be - and the fast pace of the storyline, there
aren't that many memorable lines of dialogue or full grasp that a
lethal killer like Jimmy actually has a heart of gold for the likes of a
schnook like Oz.

It would be easy to blame the less than compelling story line on
screenwriter Mitchell Kapner (who gives an original spin on a plot
twist and complex scenario involving  dental records and  a
corpse) or director Jonathan Lynn (`My Cousin Vinny'), but  both
make the best overall.  It just isn't a fresh idea (think of `The
In-Laws' which set the high water mark for odd
couple/fish-out-of-water hybrid with a criminal element) that
seems to hook the attention of a much needed audience.  But it is
divertingly fun just to see Perry slamming himself silly like a
pinball.

<|_=00=_|>

From slaptickey sight gags and pratfalls to more
sophisticated humor such as Arquette's negotiation of a
hit
man's retainer at that moment during sex when he's most
likely to be agreeable, this nonstop barrage of humor has
something funny for all adults. Whatever this film may
be
lacking in quality, it makes up for in quantity. It's broad
comedic appeal may be it's greatest virtue.
<|_=00=_|>

Not much to say about this one.  It glistens with well developed characters
and painfully funny comedy.  It's simply MARVELOUS in it's writing and
never
looses a laugh.  Well executed, well filmed (for a comedy I guess) it's one
of those rare comedies that makes itself worthy of the money you pay to see
it in the theaters.  I'm already waiting for it to come out on VHS... it
was
THAT good!!
