

Martin Scorcese's filmography as director is one of the most accomplished in
modern film history.  While Cape Fear can't even hold a candle next to "Taxi
Driver", "Raging Bull" and "Goodfellas", it is still a fabulous remake of
the 1962 noir classic and it keeps the viewer on the edge right through
until the closing credits.

Robert De Niro (in yet another brilliant teaming with Scorcese behind the
camera) plays Max Cady, a psychopathic rapist who was sent to jail 14 years
earlier for such crimes.  He leaves prison with vengeance.  Not for his
victims or his prosecutor, but his defence councillor, Sam J. Bowden, played
by Nick Nolte.  It seems Bowden did not defend Cady to the best of his
ability.  Cady knows this and wants some payback.

Cady's initial return into Bowden's life could not have come at a worse
time.  Bowden has been forced to move his family to Florida after his
infidelities threatened his marriage and career.  His wife is distrustful
and worst of all, Bowden is on the verge of beginning another affair with a
female workmate.  Added to that, his daughter is at the difficult age of 15.

Almost by ozmosis, Cady understands these problems in the Bowden household
and acts on them.  He begins terrorising Bowden and his whole family, taking
it from one extreme to the next.

What makes Cape Fear such a good film is the rapidly increasing sense of
claustrophobia.  Scorcese makes a point of using almost only close up shots
towards the end of the film.  It is a great touch that makes the viewer that
much more scared as the film goes on.

Along with that, Robert De Niro is superb as Cady.  Only occasionally does
the role slip into parody.  Mostly he is expertly evil.

Nick Nolte is good if not great, the same for Jessica Lange as Leigh Bowden.
It seems as if they were void of any great lines in this film, which is
unfortunate given their immense talent.  Julliette Lewis is absolutely
brilliant as the young daughter, Danielle.  She slips effortlessly between
curious sexual awakenings, rebellious teen and straight thinking woman.  Add
in small roles for Robert Mitchum and Gregory Peck (the leads of the 1962
version) and you have a great ensemble cast.

So not the best Scorcese film ever, but some tight editing, great
camerawork, a haunting theme and devilishly over-the-top  acting help make
this a frighteningly fun movie to watch.  Strongly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
This brutal, violent and suspenseful thriller combines a scorching
performance by Robert Deniro, sumptuous location photography, and a
powerful script that raises disturbing questions about religion, sex,
and class distinctions in our so-called classless society.

At first glance Max Cady seems to be just another creep, a rapist and
convict out to torment and humiliate a nice, upper-middle class family.
"He's an ex-con," yuppie lawyer Sam Bowden smugly says, with fatuous
self-satisfaction. But gradually it becomes apparent that things are
not what they seem. The wholesome, "superior" middle class family is
rotten with corruption, while the vicious, "psychotic" ex-con is a man
of extraordinary courage, intelligence, and spiritual strength. Even
his most horrible acts of violence are connected to the corrupt and
self-serving behavior of his "betters." What makes this movie work so
well is that director Martin Scorsese breaks away from his usual mean
streets milieu. If Max Cady had been an Italian wise guy, the movie
would have made excuses for him. The outcome would have been
predictable. But here the great director remains an impartial observer
of criminal behavior, rather than a sentimental apologist for ethnic
violence. (As in GANGS OF NEW YORK.) Max Cady is pure evil, but he
speaks the truth about the evil of allowing class distinctions to
flourish in a so-called "democracy." When it came out, this movie was
reviled by critics, especially by effete yuppies like Terence Rafferty
at GQ and VANITY FAIR. Most of them whined about the violence, but it
was painfully clear that what really disturbed them was the possibility
that an ugly ex-con really could be smarter, tougher, and more virtuous
than a spoiled yuppie lawyer.

Shocking!!!
<|_=00=_|>

The climaxes are emblematic of the differences between Scorcese's version
and the original.  In 1962, Mitchum was ordinary, ironic, sneaky.  Peck
was
Peck.  And the climax was quiet.  Crickets chirped.  There was no wind.
Bodies crept around in black shadows or splashed together in shallow
water.
In this one, Nolte is a lawyer who has broken the code and DeNiro is his
nemesis, tatooed, obscene, half his face burned off, a raving maniac.  Not
sinister, just absolutely loco.
And the confrontation is situated in a howling gale, earsplitting noise,
rushing rapids, the groan of fiberglass hull splitting on rocks, blood all
over the place.

I don't know that one version is in any objective sense better than the
other, although I vastly prefer the earlier version.  I liked Mitchum's
character better.  He was quite ordinary in an extraordinary way.  But
from
the beginning DeNiro seems to overplay the role.  His accent, redolent of
grits and red-eye gravy, seems to sit uncomfortably on him (maybe he's
played in too many New York movies), whereas Mitchum's sly Southern drawl
comes out oh so naturally.  And that sinister grin of Mitchum's is worth a
dozen lessons at the Actor's Studio.

But there is one scene in which DeNiro outdoes Mitchum in terms of sheer
impact.  It's when the wrecked houseboat is being swept out into the
raging
river with DeNiro shackled to a stanchion about to be drowned.  DeNiro
launches into this fit of screaming nonsense and singing gibberish hymns,
insane in a way you'll never be.  It's an explosive performance.

Juliette Lewis is remarkable too.  Her "umms" and "ahhs" and other
hesitations fit her barely nubile personality exactly.  Her scene with
DeNiro in the mock Schwarzwald of the high school auditorium is impossible
not to admire.  Nick Nolte and Jessica Lange turn in professional
performances, as do the other principal actors.

I'm not sure why I like the earlier version better.  Maybe because it was
so
awesomely simple a story compared to this one.  There was good and there
was
evil.  We all know the world doesn't work that way, but it's fascinating
to
watch a simple-minded tale being spun out like a well-told fairy story.
This one invites us to think about things.  Unlike Lori Martin in 1962,
Juliette Lewis gets a temporary case of the hots for the well-read and
manipulative ex-con.  And unlike Peck in 1962, Nolte has committed sins.
He
held back information that might have helped his client, DeNiro, because
he
was convinced that DeNiro was guilty and should be put away.  I can't
figure
out what Jessica Lange or the dog did, but everybody has to be redeemed
anyway because of original sin.  Scorcese's Catholicism may be showing.

Overall, this is flashier in every respect than the original -- more guns,
more blood, more "force majeur" -- and maybe that's part of the problem.
At
times it looks as much like pandering to an audience of kids raised on
MTV's
quick cuts and sexy bodies and on Sly Stallone's action movies.  I mean
that
at times it felt like the movie was talking down to the audience.

Still, it's an interesting movie in its own right.  Not badly done.  But I
wish they'd stop pushing out remakes of classics.  Leave well enough alone
because otherwise you're liable to find yourself in Dante's Purgatorio.

<|_=00=_|>
You've pretty much read it in my comments, I am a huge fan of M.S. and
R.D. But honestly, I watched "Cape Fear" because I bought "The
Simpsons" 5th season on DVD, and I had no idea that the Sideshow Bob
episode where he tries to kill Bart was based on this movie. So, I knew
I had to rent this movie if it was good enough to parody on "The
Simpsons". And it was very disturbing to watch. Robert DeNiro is one of
my favorite actors, and he completely freaked me out in this film.
Especially the scene between him and Juliette Lewis. Even though in
some ways this film is done a little over the top, it all adds together
very well. I was very impressed with this film and would recommend it
to Martin Scorsesse fans of course. Even though I wouldn't say this was
his best work, it is one of his best thrillers though.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I have wanted to see this movie for quite some time, and I finally saw
it, and I thought that it was great. I am a huge Martin Scorsese fan,
and I would have to say this is one of his most true to life films,
even though its not his best film. The acting is great,and so is the
music. The film will send shivers through your body. This is also one
of DeNiro's most underrated performances and deserved more attention at
the time of its release. Its also great to see some of the actors from
the original version show up in cameo roles. If you like horror films
and thrillers, you will most likely enjoy this. ***1/2 out of ****. A
recommended viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

Robert De Niro is one of those actors that just melts into a role.  His
performance as rapist, convict, and all-around not-a-very-nice fellow Max
Cady is certainly one of his most memorable performances for its stamina,
strength, and excessiveness.  The film by Martin Scorsece is a remake of the
classic film starring Robert Mitchum and Gregory Peck.  Although Scorsece
keeps the spirit of the film intact, he does make some very modern changes. 
He changes the role of Sam Bowden and family from one of harmony to
dysfunction.  No character is the epitome of a universal good, but rather
flawed(very flawed) goodness.  Nick Nolte does a fine job as Bowden and
Jessica Lange and Juliette Lewis both give deep, emotional performances. 
The film is really a sea of emotion...most of that emotion being fear. 
Scorsece adds some arty touches with the camera, but it is his gritty style
that really dominates the film's impact.  Scorsece also is ever the
protector of film as he gives cameos to Gregory Peck, Robert Mitchum, and
Martin Balsam(all in the original film).  The other acting standout goes to
Joe Don Baker as a hired private investigator.  But make no mistake....this
is De Niro's film all the way.  He has some of the best lines as he harasses
the Bowden family, terrorizes the Bowden family, and strips the Bowden
family of all civility, pretense, and dignity.  This film is definitely a
keeper!
<|_=00=_|>
To me, it's amazing that there's actually a place in North Carolina
called Cape Fear, but it provides the perfect setting for this movie.
Several years after attorney Sam Bowden (Nick Nolte) defended convicted
rapist Max Cady (Robert DeNiro), Cady gets out of jail and decides that
Bowden didn't do a good job defending him. After Sam and Max meet each
other a few times, Max starts getting crazier and crazier. After he
tries to enter Sam's house, Sam and his family go into hiding at Cape
Fear. Then, the terror really begins.

Martin Scorsese brought a unique intensity to movies like "Mean
Streets" and "Taxi Driver", but this is something completely different.
Whereas his earlier movies simply made you identify with the
characters, "Cape Fear" makes you both identify with the characters and
find them unpleasant. Not only Max Cady, but also the Bowdens. They are
never the "ideal American family", but Cady's threats against them make
them get progressively nastier in their attitudes towards each other
and to other people.

I think that it's safe to say that after watching "Cape Fear", you will
never look at any person the same way again.
<|_=00=_|>
Robert De Niro plays Max Cady, an illiterate criminal who has been 
imprisoned for fourteen years on rape and battery charges. Nick Nolte 
plays Sam Bowden, Cady's lawyer who intentionally buried a valuable 
document, which may have allowed Cady's prison sentence to be 
significantly shorter. Cady learns to read while in prison. He starts 
with 'See Spot Run,' then proceeds to study law books. Cady's rage and 
desire for revenge grows with each additional day that he is in prison. 
Although Cady's original prison sentence was only eight years, it is 
increased to fourteen years due to battery of another inmate. He 
memorizes the Bible and tattoos his body with scripture referring to 
vengeance. When Cady is finally released from prison, he immediately 
seeks out Bowden and his family. Cady has become a scripture slinging 
psychopath hell bent on revenge. The director Martin Scorsese is 
attempting to prove that everyone has skeletons in their closet. Bowden 
might appear to be a terrific lawyer and loving family man on the 
surface, but underneath the perfect image lies a cheating husband and 
corrupt lawyer. Scorsese also shows how powerful the emotion of revenge 
can be and how it can distort ones version of what is right and wrong. 
Scorsese demonstrates this by showing Cady's knowledge of scripture and 
his acceptance of the terror that he is inflicting on the Bowden 
family. Scorsese's use of cameo appearances by Robert Mithcum and 
Gregory Peck was brilliant. The fact that they played such opposite 
roles in the original film was an interesting twist. I enjoyed the 
original 1962 version more than this remake, but I feel that the blood 
being in color definitely added to the terror that this film inflicts.
<|_=00=_|>

Martin Scorsese takes his first whack at the horror/thriller genre with a
remake of the 1962 classic of the same title.  While I can not truthfully
say the original was better due to the fact that I never saw the original, I
have a feeling that Scorsese has brought his maestro touch to the film that
changes it slightly from the original to make it better, because this is
quite the suspenser.

Here, a very dangerous and evil man named Max Cady (played in one of the
best villain roles of the 90's by Robert De Niro) gets out of jail after 14
years of imprisonment, and decides to get vengeance on the lawyer (Nick
Nolte) and his family (Jessica Lange the mother and a young and supple
Juliette Lewis as the daughter).  At times the film is surprisingly slow,
but the film is never boring, and suspense is always in the air; the
climax/ending contains some of Scorsese and De Niro's finest work.  Also, De
Niro steals the show as the animal Cady by making the person who is supposed
to be the hero into a flawed character, thereby turning the film almost into
a Film-noir, which is quite a feat for Scorsese and company.  Not perfect,
but it shouldn't be.  Those are Scorsese's parents briefly buying fruit. 
A-
<|_=00=_|>
Even though Robert DeNiro was nominated for Best Actor for this Martin
Scorsese directed remake of Cape Fear, my heart is still with the
original. The multi-tattooed voluminous DeNiro is far less menacing
than Robert Mitchum was in the original.

One thing Scorsese did was change the billing to reflect the importance
of the characters. Mitchum was billed second to Gregory Peck, the
upright attorney who Mitchum threatened and stalked along with Peck's
family. Then again Peck was producing the original Cape Fear so of
course he was first billed. 

Part of the problem was that with some 20 to 30 minutes additional
running time Scorsese used it to make his characters a bit more
complex. DeNiro was a real basket case as Max Cady in this one whereas
Robert Mitchum was just plain no good.

Nick Nolte plays attorney Sam Bowden and he's also far more complex and
not such a good guy. In the original film Peck was an attorney, but he
was a witness in the trial that convicted Cady of rape. Here he was
Cady's attorney and he tanked the case because Cady was such a psycho
he deserved to be behind bars. Cady in fact does have a grudge of sorts
against him. And it's not good to get a psycho mad at you.

Also Peck and his whole family which consisted of Polly Bergen and Lori
Martin back in the original was your basic all American white bread
family. Their very wholesomeness made the scope of Mitchum stalking
them all the more frightening.

Nolte and Jessica Lange have marital problems and their daughter
Juliette Lewis is not Mary Poppins. Not that they deserved what DeNiro
was going to do to them, but it does blunt the impact of the scope of
his evil.

Gregory Peck, Robert Mitchum, and Martin Balsam from the original cast
all played supporting parts here. But while the film that Scorsese did
is a good one, their presence made me all the more hunger for the
original.
