

This is a poignant and powerful film.  It is the true story of Teena
Brandon, a young woman who is in the throes of a sexual identity crisis.
She cuts her hair and dresses like a man to see if she can pass for one.
What starts out as an experiment turns into a full fledged alter ego as she
is accepted as a man by a group she meets in a bar.  The story follows the
group's escapades, including Brandon's love affair with Lana, who falls in
love with Brandon, thinking she's a man.  It culminates with the discovery
that Brandon is actually a woman with a dramatic confrontation in the
finale.

This is film noir at it's finest.  A lot of people think that this is a
story about courage and lesbianism but it is really about neither.  It is
about the search for identity; not just sexual identity but the search for
a
deeper self .  All the characters in this film were lost and confused, but
Brandon was the only one who realized it of herself.  The rest were
basically playing out their despondent lives trying not to think of who or
what they were.  Here was a person they loved and accepted, but who turned
out to be the most heinous of deviants as defined by their own prejudices
and fears. This is why they were so fundamentally shaken upon the
revelation
of Brandon's true identity.  It left them to confront their own flimsy
identities.  They were left with no respite from the emotional vortex.
Brandon presented a terrifying threat to the way they viewed themselves.
They were compelled to change who they were or hate someone they had grown
to love.

This film was also about obsession.  Brandon takes extraordinary risks to
live the male role, not out of courage, but out of an obsession to know and
understand it, and to see if she can find comfort and a sense of belonging.
Likewise, writer/director Kimberly Peirce had been obsessed with this story
and researched it for five years before finally making the film.  Obsession
generally leads to one of two places: greatness or death.  For Peirce, at
least for the moment, it has lead to greatness in the production of this
film.

Strictly from a technical directorial standpoint there was nothing special
here.  The lighting was amateurish, the shots were mostly mundane. The sets
and locations were realistically trashy, but it is a lot easier to create
realistic trash than realistic elegance.  Peirce also bogs the film down
occasionally with excessive character development.  However, Peirce
captures
in the story and the filming, the essence of rural lower class crudenes,
bigotry and hatred and fear.  It is the raw emotion that reaches out and
grabs us.  Her lens brought into sharp focus the base reality of
inescapable
despair and deluded hope.  Reality often has fangs, and Peirce was
undaunted
in showing them and then ripping us to shreds.

As to Hilary Swank, I can only add one more rose to the bouquet of praise
that has been heaped on her.  If there was any courage in this story, it
was
the courage of Swank to take such a complex and disturbing role.  The
subtlety of her performance was astounding.  She needed not just to be a
woman playing a man.  She needed to be a woman playing a woman playing a
man, trying to look convincing yet insecure and unsure of how she was being
perceived by the other characters.  When in character, her many skillful
lapses into moments of femininity, only to snap back into masculinity were
masterfully done.  For Swank, this was a meteoric rise from obscurity.  It
remains to be seen if it was just the perfect alignment of actor and role,
or something more.  I hope for the latter and look forward to seeing her
next project.

Greatly obscured by Swankmania, was the performance by Chloe Sevigny as
Lana, Brandon's love interest.  She gave an outstanding performance in
another extraordinarily difficult role.  Her conflict over the implications
of her sexual and emotional feelings for Brandon were sensitively and
delicately portrayed.  She played the part with a tentative eagerness, just
as one would expect of someone whose sexual identity had been thrown into
upheaval.  It was also no easy career choice to be cast in a role with so
many explicit sexual scenes with another woman.

This film was stark reality with no holds barred.  The filmmaking was
technically unsophisticated (and I'm usually a real stickler about that),
but I rated it a 9/10 on pure emotional power.  This film is not for you if
you are offended by lesbianism, graphic violence or profanity.  But if you
are not intimidated by the naked reality of the darker side of life, this
is
a film you must experience.

<|_=00=_|>
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon.)

This movie really made me think about sexual differences and what it
means to have a sex change or to want one, or to be trapped in a gender
you don't want. It was very effective to have us see Hilary Swank (who
plays Brandon Teena/Teena Brandon) with short hair and male facial
expressions and gestures without giving us a glimpse of her as Teena.
(Actually we did get a brief glimpse in a photo.) Swank looks like a
boy, acts like a boy, in fact works hard to be a boy; indeed that is
(sadly) part of what this movie is about, what it means to be a boy in
middle America as opposed to being a girl. And then when we have the
scene with the tampons and the breast wrapping and we see her legs, the
effect is startling, an effect possibly lost on those who knew that the
person playing Brandon was a woman. It was when I saw her legs and
could tell at a glance that she was a woman with a woman's legs that I
realized just how subtle, but unmistakable are the anatomical sexual
differences, and how convincing Swank's portrayal was.

I was reminded as I watched this of being a young person, of being a
teenager and going through all the rituals and rites, unspoken,
unplanned, without social sanction, that we all go through to prove our
identity, because that is what Brandon was so eager to do, to prove his
identity as a boy. I thought, ah such an advantage he has with the
girls because he knows what they like and what they want. He can be
smooth, and how pretty he looks. It was strange. I actually knew some
guys in my youth who had such talent, and the girls did love them.

The direction by Kimberly Peirce is nicely paced and the forebodings of
horror to come are sprinkled lightly throughout so that we don't really
think about the resolution perhaps until the campfire scene in which
John Lotter shows his self-inflicted scars and tosses the knife to
Brandon. Then we know for sure, something bad is going to happen.

Hilary Swank is very convincing. Her performance is stunning, and she
deserved the Academy Award she won for Best Actress. She is the type of
tomboy/girl so beloved of the French cinema, tomboyish, but obvious a
girl like, for example, Zouzou as seen in Chloe in the Afternoon (1972)
or Élodie Bouchez in the The Dreamlife of Angels (1998), or many
others. Indeed, one is even reminded of Juliette Binoche, who of course
can play anything, or going way back, Leslie Caron in Gigi (1958).
Chloe Signvey, who plays Lana Tisdel, the girl Brandon loves, whom I
first saw in Palmetto (1998), where she stole a scene or two from Woody
Allen and Elisabeth Shue, really comes off ironically as butch to
Swank, yet manages a sexy, blue collar girl next door femininity. She
also does a great job. Peter Sarsgaard is perfect as John Lotter,
trailer trash car thief and homophobic redneck degenerate.

Very disturbing is the ending. If you know the story, you know the
ending. Just how true this was to the real life story it is based on is
really irrelevant. I knew nothing about the story, but I know that film
makers always take license to tell it the way they think it will play
best, and so it's best to just experience the film as the film,
independent of the real story, which, like all real stories, can never
be totally told.

Obviously this is not for the kiddies and comes as close to an "X"
rating as any "R" movie you'll ever see. It will make most viewers
uncomfortable, but it is the kind of story that needs to be told.
<|_=00=_|>

The most impressive aspect of  `Boys Don't Cry' is that it refuses to shy
away from the sordid details of much of its protagonist's life, yet manages
to convert her (or him if you prefer) into a sympathetic and comprehensible
figure. In our most honest moments, we can all acknowledge aspects of our
own lives and personalities that we don't understand, that we would love to
change and that often make us feel alienated from the `norm' of society at
large.  In the case of Teena Brandon – a young man `trapped' in a woman's
body - the anomaly happens to be a more pronounced and certainly less
socially acceptable one than most of us are forced to endure in our lives.
And she paid the ultimate price society demands from those it fears and does
not understand:  she was murdered in Nebraska in 1993, simply for being
`different.'

The film builds a convincing case for compassionate understanding without
converting Brandon into a saint-like figure.  Not only do we witness the
petty criminality of her life, but we see her propensity for duplicity and
deception, a personality trait that actually leads in part to many of the
troubles she encounters, playing a crucial role to a large extent even in
her death itself.  Yet, given society's out-of-hand rejection of
transgendered people, what real options but a life of dishonesty is Brandon
really given?  Similarly, Lana, the young woman with whom Brandon falls in
love and the one person who has ever accepted Brandon unconditionally for
what she is, suffers from a number of her own demons.

Credit writer/director Kimberly Pierce and co-writer Andy Bienen for not
taking the easy commercial path of reducing the moral complexities of the
personalities involved to a black-and-white world where good and evil are
displayed in neatly arranged patterns for our easy consumption.  There are
many times in this  film when literally none of the people we are involved
with are the slightest bit appealing.  The filmmakers, in their faith in our
maturity, ask us to go along on a pretty harrowing journey at times, but it
is one that leads us to a very rewarding destination.  The scenes in which
Brandon's companions expose her secret is riveting and terrifying in its
dramatic intensity and human sadness.  The utter humiliation Brandon is
forced to endure at the hands of the hooligans who are tormenting her
broadens to become a symbolic representation of every person who has
suffered such an injustice at the hands of unreasoning ignorance for
whatever reason.  It is a chilling reminder of the danger of the mob
mentality unrestrained by empathy and enlightenment.

Like so many of the best off-Hollywood independent productions,  `Boys Don't
Cry' finds its truth in two crucial elements:  the canny depiction of  the
bleak sterility and stifling provincialism of its Midwest setting  and the
uniformly first-rate performances by a largely unknown set of actors.

Hilary Swank, in her Oscar-winning turn as Brandon, and Chloe Sevigny as
Lana achieve a naturalism in their portrayals that neutralizes any
theatricality that might have robbed the film of its indispensable quality
of immediacy and believability.  They convert what might, in less capable
hands, have become little more than a sensationalized freak show into a
powerful and understandable drama about real, thoroughly recognizable human
beings.  For that alone, `Boys Don't Cry' becomes a cinematic experience
impossible to forget

<|_=00=_|>

Boys Don't Cry was a major success with the critics and the Academy
Award's,
so I looked forward to seeing it. Easily one of the best films of the past
year, Boys Don't Cry is a moving experience that deserved all the credit it
got, and then some.

The film takes for its source material the true story of Brandon Teena
(Hilary Swank), a girl who, well, just wants to be a boy. A sex-changing
(getting her hair cut and sticking a dildo down her pants) credit sequence
sees our hero(ine) at first on the pull, duping a local girl into a bit of
nookie, and then on the run, when the truth about her sexuality rears its
bizarre head.
A fugitive of the law, as well as a few irate townsfolk, a twist of fate
leads to her befriending a bunch of trailer-trash misfits and, temporarily,
enjoying a new-found freedom under her manly guise. Of course, it's all
going to go horribly wrong - particularly when she falls in love with the
local girlie sweetheart (Chloe Sevigny).

Chloe Sevigny, who plays the girl Brandon falls in love with, deserved to
win an Academy Award. Her performance still lives in my memory, and it has
been some time since I first saw Boys Don't Cry. Hilary Swank, who did
receive an Oscar, pulls off an absolute barnstormer of a performance as
Brandon Teena, it is easily one of the boldest and most memorable
performances I saw in the 20th century. Kimberley Pierce is also another
stand-out, she is in the director's chair, and she hardly got any praise
for
her amazing effort that she put into this film. I applaud everyone involved
in Boys Don't Cry, even the one's who got little credit, particularly
Brendan Sexton III (who plays a trouble-making misfit) and Andy Bienen
(co-writer).

Groundbreaking performances and a brilliant debut directing effort make
this
film unmissable.

I rate Boys Don't Cry 9 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>

After finally getting the chance to see this film, I have to say it was
worth the wait. Hillary Swank's performance was outstanding, she certainly
deserves the golden globe she's already won and the oscar, she's sure to be
nominated for. Brandon Teena was real, no questions. The director, Kimberly
Pierce deserves much credit for telling the story subtlety, no black and
white, he's wrong, she's right. I came away from this movie realizing the
courage you have to possess to be different, the dangers from it are real
and we must admire those brave enough among us to be.
<|_=00=_|>

I was stunned by the simplicity and power of this fine film. It tells the
true and tragic story of Teena Brandon/Brandon Teena, a woman living as a
man in a small town in Nebraska. No matter what your personal opinions may
be, this film does not preach. It tells the story in a matter-of-fact,
honest and gritty way, but leaves you shaking your head in shock that such
anger and hatred exists in these modern times, for someone who is
"different" merely because of their sexual preference.

Relative newcomer Hilary Swank gives a heartfelt and courageous performance
as Brandon. I say courageous not only because of the subject matter, but
also because she is able to strip away her youthful, movie star glamour and
become the character she plays. She is entirely convincing. Also, she shows
a tremendous amount of guts for being able to get through the
gut-wrenchingly violent rape scene. This was a brave choice, and a wise
one.

Chloe Sevigny plays Lana, the girl Brandon loves. She is the only person
who
truly understands Brandon. Brandon finds himself in a world of drunken
trailer trash and convicted felons. No one is free from guilt, but there is
always the unspoken sin of being different. Hilary Swank and Chloe Sevigny
play their tastefully erotic love scenes without seeming self-conscious. So
many actors of their generation might be afraid to tackle these types of
roles, but they do their jobs with aplomb.

The film was another that haunted me the day after seeing it. Kimberly
Peirce manages to make a simple film about a very difficult subject, and
she
doesn't resort to Hollywood gloss or preachiness. It is a risky film, very
difficult to watch in places, with several very violent and disturbing
scenes. It is a story that needs to be told, and with the two
Oscar-nominated performances from Ms. Swank and Ms. Sevigny, it
succeeds.


<|_=00=_|>

This is a very powerful, and in many ways very disturbing, film that
ultimately lingers with me not for its sensational subject matter but for
its tragic and rewarding love story.  Here we have two troubled strangers,
both horribly at odds with their surroundings, finding each other, falling
in love despite the many factors against them, and finally becoming the
victims of the perception of their love.  Like many others, I was
tremendously impressed by the performance of Hilary Swank  but I think the
glue that holds the film together and gives it amazing hope and humanity is
Chloe Sevigny.  She takes a role that could have easily fallen apart in a
lesser actress's hands and gives it complexity and depth that goes well
beyond the script. To watch her  is a breathtaking journey. Watch the way
she uses her face in this movie – this is an actress of remarkable
expressiveness and skill! Overall, it is a very fine film that merits any
serious moviegoer's rapt
attention.
<|_=00=_|>

For a movie to be able to start off a "little" (emphasis on little) slow,
and turn into a spectacle of both amazing acting, directing, and an amazing
script is not only a rarity, but is almost unheard of. "Boys Don't Cry" is
one of the most powerful films that I have ever seen. Ms. Hilary Swank
embraced her character with open arms, and turned him into a hero. A
incredibly hard task, considering a "few minor 'glitches'". The fact that
this movie is based upon a true story only emphasizes the themes it is
trying to portray. As a human race, it only makes sense that we should
strive to accept our originality and differences, and celebrate them,
rather
than diminish them, and look upon them as being "bad". This movie is one
that gives the audience the "complete package", and not just a pretty
actress or soundtrack. As an all encompassing film, "Boys Don't Cry" is
brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>

Title: BOYS DON'T CRY

Rating: **** (out of 4)

Review:  I wasn't able to see this film, unfortunately, until after the
Oscars when I was able to go back to the U.S. in April  of this year.  When
I had heard that Hilary Swank won the Best Actress Oscar for this film, I
had to put it on my must-see list.  As it turned out, the film came out on
video just three days before I had to go back to my station in Japan.  All
I
really knew about the film was that it was based on a true story about a
woman who lived his life and as a man and was brutally raped and murdered
in
1993.  That's all I knew, and after watching this film I couldn't believe
my
eyes.  Out of all the true stories that Hollywood has put on film, this
stands out, mostly because of its disturbingly honest presentation and
unforgettable performances that even the real-life characters that there
based on even said how real they were.  Like the same year's OCTOBER SKY
(which got #2 on my Ten Best List) the story is dramatized,
filmmaking-wise,
but it dare doesn't turn away from being an unforgettable potrayal of a
truly unique and unfairly misjudged human being.
The story originates in Lincoln, Nebraska, 1993 which is where Brandon
Teena came from.  We discover early on that Brandon is a female that
develops a "sexual identity crisis" and becomes a male, and eventually
becomes one of the most desired guys in Nebraska.  We also learn that
Brandon, under the name of Teena, has been criminally charged several
times,
most notably for grand theft auto.  Moving to Falls City, Brandon strikes
up
a friendship with circle of aimless residents, including Candice, a single
mother who works as a bartender, John Lotter and Tom Nissen, a couple of
guys who've served time for various reasons, and finally Lana Tisdel, a
girl
who Brandon falls in love with.  The bulk of the film showcases Brandon and
Lana's growing relationship, and first-time co-writer/director Kimberly
Pierce handles this so beautifully despite the addition of a graphic sex
scene, which the real Lana Tisdel reports never happened.  Eventually,
Brandon's new friends soon discover he is not who he says he his, and
eventually becomes the victim of a hate crime.
Pierce makes the story so compelling from the beginning that the film
doesn't become a simple cross-dressing tale but of a powerful examination
of
a human being who was just different and also of the friends that he made
who just wouldn't accept him for who he really was (all of them except for
Lana, who surprisingly does).   The haunting theme "The Bluest Eyes in
Texas," sung by Nina Persson and Nathan Larson, also adds perfect
punctuation.  Still, what really makes this sleeper praiseworthy are the
performances, starting with Hilary Swank's moving, perfectly tuned potrayal
of Brandon, who recieved the well-deserved Best Actress, as well as a long
list of other honors.  Chloe Sevigny, who I've fallen in love with in every
film I've seen her in (from her breakout role as an AIDS victim in the
controversial 1995 film KIDS, to her shy and smart lead character in last
year's underrated THE LAST DAYS OF DISCO)
shines as Lana, and has won a score of acting honors as well.  Peter
Sarsgaard and Brendan Sexton III are fine as the antagonists John and Tom,
and finally Jeanette Arnette is great in a smallish role as Lana's mother
who, of course, turns the other way at her daughter's new boyfriend.

Although some viewers may be turned off at the high volume of
profanity and rape sequences, this film should be given a chance if not
only
for the fact of it being a true story, but also for it's respect to a
unique
and unfairly misjudged human being who didn't live his life to the
fullest.
<|_=00=_|>
Teena Brandon (Hilary Swank) is a girl who wishes to become a boy…
Arriving in the small Nebraska town of Falls City, Teena binds her
breasts, cuts her hair and calls herself Brandon Teena… 

When Brandon meets Lana (wonderfully played by Chloë Sevigny), a love
affair develops in the course of which sexual identities and gender
stereotype is turned upside down… 

Eventually Lana comes to realize Brandon is anatomically female, but by
then she does not care… Brandon offers her a caring relationship such
as she has never known… Unfortunately, Brandon's secret is eventually
discovered by two young men, John and Tom, who have befriended him… The
knowledge that they have been deceived is deeply disturbing to their
male pride… 

The film is based on a true story, which also the subject of a
documentary, 'The Brandon Teena Story' (1998). But it is less its
status as a true-crime document, more its subtle power to subvert our
usual assumptions about sexuality that makes this a notable film, and a
key text of the so-called 'queer' cinema… 

Unlike militant films which proselytize for homosexuality, 'queer'
films adopt a more insidious strategy, seeking to undermine such rigid
categories as gay and straight… Thus Brandon, in Hilary Swank's
excellent interpretation of the role, alert to all the ambiguities, is
not a lesbian though he/she has sex with women… And while he/she has
adopted some of the physical attributes of a man (clothes, hair-style,
certain mannerisms), Brandon has retained a softness and sensuality
which implies a critique of conventional masculinity, and which is the
secret of his/her sexual success with women… No wonder he arouses the
rage of other men…
