

As a big auto racing fan, CART in particular, I awaited this movie since the
mid-90's when it was discussed as a Formula One movie.  However, Formula One
wouldn't allow the access that it did for Grand Prix in 1966, so the
director defaulted to the North American CART series.  CART allowed
unprecedented access to its venues, races, paddock, announcers, drivers,
sponsors, etc.  But this movie fails in that it is nothing more than an auto
racing cliché.  As a fan, it's hard to rebuff the blood sport aspect of the
sport to those who are not fans.  The crashes are incredibly unrealistic,
some of the tracks are non-existent and the drivers are paper thin.  The
scene near the swimming pool with the blonde vixen doing some sort of goofy
water aerobics is pathetic.  The part where Jimmy Bly steals a car (that
happens to be filled with fuel indoors and doesn't need an external starter
to run) and drives it through the Chicago streets with Stalone in tow is
just ridiculous.  And to they get arrested or even prosecuted for this
action?  No, they just are forced to convey one of the stupidest dialogues
in the history of racing movies.

The CART series is in serious trouble in real life.  A movie about the
excitement of the series, the strategy, the action and the pageantry of
racing could have boosted the series back to national respectability. 
However, this movie just hinders its descent into oblivion with the Can-Am
series.  It could have been so much more.

<|_=00=_|>

Hey, I didn't watch the film deliberately. I live in a house with two
batteries and one of them wasn't in the remote and if I ever find the
sod I'm justing going to dispose of it in a fire regardless of what the
instructions say.

You know how in real races they sought through the mangled wreckage in
search of the remaining bits of the driver after a crash? That's what
it's like trying to find a film amongst the last two hours of my
life... except in that this case if I find anything still moving I'm
going to hit it with a shovel. 

I've experienced pain in my life, I've experienced head injuries, and
oddly I suspect that those involved in making this film have too. The
only difference is I let my pain out in a long girlish shrieks and they
decide to bottle it up and then inflict it on others. 

Here is the plot *SPOILER* 

Things go in circles.

Not the cars, the plot. Well, the cars might have done but there were
so many random changes of camera angle that I was too busy having a
seizure and staining the carpet with my froth.

So basically the plot is goes as follows: Seizure, despair, seizure,
disbelief at plot, seizure, why has that man got a very odd shaped
head, seizure, someone almost does something of a social nature,
seizure, the first hour of the movie turns out to have no relevance to
the first hour, seizure, cars driving down street in a hilariously
homoerotic display of gurning and head wobbling, seizure, begging for
death, seizure, uncontrollable laughter at quite possibly the most
crack-inspired moment in film history, at which point I was too busy
crying to have any further seizures.

I should have stopped watching when my hand subconsciously began
crawling towards the jumbo bottle of sleeping pills, yet I became
strangely fixated by the horror...much like when you see a crazed but
very small dog attacking a pensioner. 

The level of testosterone displayed in this film makes Top Gun look
like The Muppets Take Manhattan. Eventually I cringed so much that when
they loudly announced they were going to "double-team the field" I
slipped a disc. Women are allowed to do two things in the movie, stand
there, and bend over. On a side note, neither of the two main ones seem
able to do this well for the five seconds of screen time they have
before it gets back to the seizures and I suddenly realize I have a
shotgun barrel in my mouth and my toe's heading for the trigger.

I'd like to comment more on the plot but after a while I started
drawing a more interesting film on my eyeballs with a pencil. Mine had
Godzilla ripping Stallone in half, their film had some car doing
something. Mine is better. Just trust me.

<|_=00=_|>

It's hard to know where to begin to review this movie. At first glance it's
harmless enough, but there was a lot about it that annoyed me. So rather
than waste a lot of time analysing the merits (or lack thereof) of this film
I'll be flippant with the following comments:

Things this movie taught me:

1. Young race car drivers are, apparently, so immature as to think that a
couple of drinks with a pretty girl means that she wants to have their
babies and are willing to get into fisticuffs to protect their (entirely
imagined) relationship.

2. If a driver is injured he doesn't need to see a trained physician to
certify him race fit. All he needs to do is hop up and down on a busted
ankle for the gratification of his sado-masochistic, wheelchair-bound 
boss.

3. If you're a naughty race-car driver you can drive your 200mph, non-street
legal Indycar on public highways and the only consequence of this
life-endangering stunt will be a small fine.

4. It is also perfectly acceptable to spin your race car 180 degrees and
drive the wrong way around the race track, endangering other drivers, so
long as you're doing it to save a friend from a horrible (but well deserved)
flaming death.

5. Wives, girlfriends and brothers of race drivers (or just about anyone who
knows them) can not only stand in the team control booth in a self-important
manner, but also give orders to the drivers as if they were the team
boss.

6. Tyres that come off cars in accidents can fly hundreds of feet into the
air, go over the safety fence, and fall amongst the crowd. But don't worry.
So long as you aren't hit when it lands you are safe. Rubber tyres
apparently don't bounce at all when hitting concrete bleachers.

All in all then, this movie is less than impressive. On a scale of 1 to
rancid this film gets a solid 4 and a half lard blocks (most of the lard was
on Burt Reynolds - will he never give up?)

Not worth the effort.
<|_=00=_|>

It's been often mentioned by other reviewers that the art of the cornball
must have been engineered by Sylvester Stallone;  it's just as often
forgotten that true tripe goes unwatched merely because it does not go into
wide, national release.  So guess which movies always receive the worse rep?

Having watched the trailer and anticipated this movie for a while, I knew
exactly what to expect beforehand: your typical good guy vs. bad guy, fight
for glory, 'win-all-lose-all final confrontation' fare.  Surprisingly, I
encountered something that attempted to be a little more profound, and while
it doesn't exactly hint at the meaning of existence, it explores a facet of
human relationships which not many other movies in this genre have touched.
The movie's tagline, "Welcome to the human race," does a nice job of
encompassing all that this film discusses.

The peculiar thing about the entire setup is that, unlike all other movies
in this genre, there are no defined lines.  There is no good guy, no bad
guy;  simply a race for perfection that alludes to the way that most of us
wish to live, though the path that we take is an altogether different
matter.  It's difficult to pick up on, but if enough attention is paid, the
idiosyncrasies of each of the characters in this movie speak far more than
what their dialogue brings to the table.

Where the film falters, and causes most of the audience to misperceive its
message, is in its presentation.  It's frenetic, loud, and highly
distracting;  and yet, tremendously appealing to this particular viewer.
The speed with which the director cuts between shots, pans, zooms, spins,
spirals, etc., go hand in hand with the feel of the sport in general, and is
indeed very creative -- but it is hard to keep up with what's going on.  How
are we supposed to know what each character is feeling when the scene cuts
away before the dialogue is even finished?  How are we supposed to be even
able to recognize what's happening on the screen when we're not given more
than a two-second break between blaringly obtrusive rock songs?  Once again,
the movie alludes to the sport itself with the commercialization of its
soundtrack.  And while highly kinetic, and emotionally involving at times
(the opening scene with the media was brilliantly executed for a Jimmy Bly
point of view), it's just hard to...keep track of everything.

But in the end, the main reason anybody is going to watch this movie for is
the racing, particularly the accidents that take place at excesses of 200
miles per hour.  And it delivers pretty admirably, truth be told.  There are
a lot of interesting camera positions and perspectives to make you feel a
part of the race, and the special effects could be considered top-notch.
Kudos to whoever decided to not give the CG cars and items the cheap,
laughter-inducing fluidity of movement that's to be found in just about any
other movie with computer graphics (though there were a few scenes with this
effect).  It's not necessarily realistic, and a little simplistic on the
artistic scale, but it reaches a satisfying level of subtlety--and at times,
it's fascinating to see some of the things that can be done.

The film is not without its clichés, it sometimes forgets about or fails to
discuss a few of its plot points, and the women appear to be portrayed a
little 2-dimensionally.  But when the crew is watching the race or practice
runs from the movie's dramatic camera angles on their small overhead
monitor, you simply don't care.  The movie takes itself seriously, but it's
also intended to be fun;  it's merely up to the viewer to interpret how they
wish to take it.  The first time, it may be a little difficult to swallow,
but with subsequent bites, you begin to grow accustomed and appreciate its
distinct flavor.

Here's hoping that Stallone sticks to it for a while longer.  I'm hungry for
more.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was so bad that the producers owe us another movie
just to bring the rating up to zero. It is an insulting slap in the face
to every race fan who ever lived and I would suggest that viewers
immediately initiate a class action lawsuit to recover the money
they wasted on this picture and compensation for the time spent
watching it. The ONLY technical aspect of racing that they got right
was the fact that the cars, at least SOME of the time, had four
wheels. Otherwise, it was obvious that the writer knew absolutely
nothing about motor racing. I would suggest that Sylvester Stallone
should have at least watched an Indy car race before he wrote this
piece of junk. 

The computer-generated images were so bad that they probably
set back the acceptance of CGI in movies another 50 years. The
acting was about as real as the cartoon-like car crashes and all
the actual Indy car drivers should have had their agents collectively
sue to have their names replaced in the credits by "Allan
Smithee."

I would watch this movie again only if forced to, and only for the
pleasure of walking out of it and demanding my money back
again.

<|_=00=_|>
If you're a die-hard racing fan or like to pick apart movies for fun,
this movie is not for you. However, if you like movies for sheer
entertainment, great soundtracks, and a deeper look at relationships in
general, this one is brilliant.

Taken at more than face value, the screenplay is brilliantly written.
Throughout the movie we see not just supporting characters, but every
character dealing with their own individual struggles. We see both
sides of every main character, whether it's icy Beau's vulnerability or
Demille Bly as part cruel manager and part loving brother. There is no
"flat" person in this story; at any time these could be real people at
any race track, driving because it's their life.

As far as the acting goes, strong performances from Burt Reynolds and
Robert Sean Leonard. Til Schweiger is also fantastic, effortlessly
portraying the snobby race-driver Beau Brandenburg. Gina Gershon is to
die for as the woman you love to hate, and Brent Briscoe always makes
you laugh as the hilarious Crusher. For Pardue, I loved this part for
him. Though he does slip up once, his role is absolutely believable
from start to finish.

The special effects are pure fun. Not all of them are realistic, but
the purpose is to draw you into the atmosphere, which they do.

Don't overthink it, just turn the volume up and enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>

All i've got to say is that i enjoyed this movie and found it entertaining
and an interesting insight into the competition between race drivers and
what they go through in a demanding profession. I do wish Estella Warren
had
more to do in this film, because she is just LUSH! and one of my favourite
models.  But it seems as though she has just been put in the film for the
eye-candy, which is great but she needs to do more because she deserves a
better chance to really make it as an actress.
But overall it is quite entertaining with the racing scenes and the
variety
of locations they go to. Maybe it would've been better if it took itself
less seriously.
A masterpiece it aint, but better than i expected and easy to
watch.
I say to all the people who are trashing this film, you are entitled to
your
opinion and so am i. My opinion is that you are a bunch of SNOBS!! Admit
it,
you are!

Rating- 8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

(spoilers?)

I see good points and bad points in this movie.  First the bad.  Outsiders
and people who don't know much about Formula One racing and their ilk might
not get the lingo. (Trust me, I consider myself an outsider but know enough
about racing to get drawn into the movie.)  Outsiders probably will shun
this movie and shut it off before it hits the end of the movie.  It'll
totally bounce off their brains.  Probably why this movie got so poor movie
reviews is because critics aren't racing fans.  It has the edge, but perhaps
it's that edge they don't like.

Second, Gina Gershon (sp?) for some reason wasn't made for this role.  She
just totally sucked in it.  She's been great in other movies like Bound and
especially The Insider.  But she's too snobby for her own good in this
movie.  She doesn't play the part of an a**hole very well.  Sure she was an
a**hole in The Insider but for some reason she pulled it off
there.

Third, some of the car accidents looked a tad overdone.  

Now for the good.  The dvd is totally rad.  51 minutes of deleted scene's. 
With Stallone commenting.  Who the hell can top that?  This is a speed movie
it'll catch you if your into that type of thing.

Recognizing actors in here was fun to.  Including the youngsters brother. 
Knew him straightway from Dead Poets Society.  The enemy (for awhile  :)
played a Replacement Killer in The Replacement Killers.
The actress who played Sophie looks alot like Jennifer Connelly.  Not
kidding.  You compare them and you'd swear they were twins. :)  Not that
that's a bad thing.

In the end, I like this movie enough to buy it.  (haven't yet, but wait a
few months and we'll see).  Like I said before though...outsiders beware...
racing might not be up to your stuff.

7/10

Quality: 6/10
Entertainment: 10/10
Replayable: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is stunningly bad.  Not just a poor movie.  This is a waste of
money.  A waste of time.  A waste of an opportunity whose time may not
again
come for decades.

Note that I did not say a waste of talent.  Of that there was none.  The
acting is unbelievably wooden.  Think back to the first Star Trek movie.
Yes, that bad!  Burt Reynolds in particular is incredibly
underwhelming.

The writing is unimaginably worse.  Something a sophomore would write, then
toss away.  There is no depth to any character, situation, or scene.
Whatever you see on the screen is it.  There is nothing more, and not even
much there.  Everything seems to have been shot in one
take.

Things happen for no apparent reason, then are immediately forgotten.  Race
scenes seem to be a mad mix of green laps, crashes, yellows, with no
pattern
or logic.

Oh, did I mention logic?  Please check it at the door because this film
exhibits virtually none.

We almost got tossed.  You see.. since the film absolutely sucked, we
reverted to the only thing left for a bunch of guys to do at a lousy movie.
We started counting sets of hooters.  The unofficial count was 41.  The
rule
was that to be counted the female could not be in a starring role, but had
to be photographed just to show off her chest,  just to get the movie to
the
next scene.

Thank you Bernie Ecclestone!   Thank you for not getting involved in this
mess.  One of my friends mentioned that CART management must have been nuts
to have themselves portrayed as poorly as this waste of film shows
them.

This film makes "Days of Thunder" appear to be fine art.

Hell, this film makes "Death Race 2000" appear to be fine
art!

I want to write Warner Brothers, not to demand a refund of my money (yeah,
if I had paid), but more to demand a refund of the two hours of my life
that
were wasted by this lox.

Dude.. this movie sucks.


<|_=00=_|>

(some spoilers)
I missed the flick in the theatres due to bad and unfair reviews so I
rented
it at the local videostore last week. I expected it to be a F1 movie but
the
story takes place in the CART milieu instead. As a big F1 fan I was a bit
disappointed but it turned out to be a very pleasant and impressive movie
with breathtaking race scenes, creative camera angles and stunning special
effects. Eventhough the race and crash scenes were not realistic it's still
very funny to watch (in a scene Memo's car goes airborne spinning through
the air for half minute before crashing into a lake!). In a real race Sly
would have received a time penalty or even a black flag for his blocking on
Brandenburg in his first race and another one in his desperate attempt to
overtake him in the final one. Moreover, due to the crashes the races would
have been stopped several times. I was also very surprised that there were
no safety cars in the entire movie But who cares ? If you want to see a
normal race turn on the tv on sundays ! Remember it's an action film and
its
purpose is to entertain. Here you get action, fun, a good score, nice
girls
and a thrilling chase sequence through the streets of Chicago(!). I really
do think that Renny Harlin and Stallone have done a great job and I'm
looking forward to watching the sequel ! 8/10 stars
PS : It seems that Burt Reynolds underwent some plastic surgery or
something.Weird.

