

"Fire in the Sky" can be appreciated only if you are into UFO movies, and if
you like scary alien abduction scenes.  The film is based on the allegedly
true story of Travis Walton's alien abduction.  After seeing the film, and
becoming extremely interested in the subject, I read the book by Travis.
Reading it, I found out that the abduction scene was changed in the movie.
Whether what happened in the book was real or not, the change in the film
was good, because those ten minutes of abduction scene are, quite possibly,
among the most frightening pieces of footage in film history!  I couldn't go
to sleep for a month after that.  It was tough to deal with.  I recommend it
because I know that there are some of you out there who like UFOs, and like
a good scare!     
<|_=00=_|>
FIRE IN THE SKY is a scary and involving sci-fi thriller about a
missing logger and his coworkers' attempts to explain what happened.
They claim a UFO abducted him. Law enforcer James Garner is just as
convinced they injured or killed him and left him behind in the woods.
Eventually the logger returns, naked as the day he was born and
babbling about alien abductors. The next section of the film take us
into the mind of the logger to recreate what he thinks happened to him.
It ain't pretty, and at this point the film becomes far too intense for
younger children. DB Sweeney plays the missing logger, and Peter Berg,
Craig Sheffer, Robert Patrick and Henry Thomas are his terrified
coworkers. Based on a popular book of the day that purported to be a
true story. The movie, while clearly a thriller, nevertheless leaves
things open to interpretation.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has a good plot, a good cast and a good feel to it. It is
obviously a low budget movie, but one done well. The story is about an
alien abduction, but instead of focusing on the aliens and what they
did, the focus is on the people involved and how do they react "under
fire".

You can call it a "TV psychological thriller" more than a sci-fi. I
expected something dumb, instead I found not a masterpiece, but a good
movie, one that was worth the watch.

James Garner had a really weird role, but he is old, so he gets what
they throw at him; Robert Patrick does a good role and, even if he did
play in some silly movies in his time, I think he is a good actor, one
that can surprise if properly cast.
<|_=00=_|>
After I watched this movie I took into perspective that aliens are
freaking Scary. This movie probably has the best Alien abduction that I
have ever seen.The aliens research on the man that got abducted was
petrifying and the aliens themselves looked as scary as heck. I think
this movie is Very underrated and should be seen by every true alien
believer or anyone that is in for a good scare, besides after you see
the movie i'm almost positive you will believe in them anyway. I think
this movie is just as good as any alien movie i've ever seen and is
sure as heck scarier.I definitely recommend this movie and if you like
scary movies this is a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
Not much to say about this one, i really really liked it. The hour and
a half prior to the money shot scene was worth the wait. I agree that
this would be the best X-files episode ever if it were added to the
series with Scully and Molder doing the investigating instead of the
sheriff.

I didn't read all the comments but if mine proves useful at all, i have
to say, the entire abduction scene was an accident. The writer and
director were pressured by the studio to put it in. It's beyond me why
they didn't want one at all. Tracy Thorne concocted the whole thing to
have a message that went deeper than aliens. It goes a little something
like "how would you feel if you were taken from your comfortable
lifestyle with your own species and subjected to cruel experiments with
no way of reasoning with your captors, being humiliated and borderline
raped with no reason of why" sound a little like when you used a
magnifying glass on a random ant? or like the experiments done to
animals for research? if we cant co-exist with our planets own damn
creatures than where's the logic in wondering about aliens? District 9
is a little less vague, but still a good example of human ignorance.

Best abduction movie to date! very scary, with a good message.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a true eye opener.  I remember seeing it with a few friends
and we all had the same reaction to it.  Especially in the scene where the
guy is used in an experimental manner by the aliens.  We were all scared and
appalled.  Could you imagine?  We all wondered and winced at the mere
thought of being used as an experiment, how awful and painful and traumatic
an experience that would be.  But take a closer look and when your eyes are
opened, what you may see is like looking into a blurred reflection in a
mirror.  And the question has to be asked.  What would we do if the same
situation occurred here on Earth.  What if we found an alien stranded here,
or better yet what if we kidnapped one?  Would we let it live a normal
peaceful life?  Or would we put it under the knife and do DNA testing, take
blood samples, urine samples, semen samples?  Would we do every possible
experiment to this creature as we possibly could?  You're damn right we
would!  And perhaps that wasn't the films intention ( to draw parallels to
us and them ) but then again maybe it was.  The problem though is that we
only see what we want to see.  But really, what separates us from them?  Our
humanity?  HA!  What is humanity?  It is being human, and sometimes that can
be more disgusting than being alien.  We don't know their intentions or
motivations, but we do know ours and that makes us inhumane for doing some
of what we do.  

Fire In The Sky is a frightening movie.  It is a frightening thought that
this could happen to us, and it is disturbing to think that this may have
happened to some people already.  I had clouded thoughts and opinions about
aliens before seeing this film.  But after the movie I was compelled to do
my own research about apparent alien abductions and such.  And there is a
lot of material that supports what this film has to say.  And that makes it
intriguing.  If you are curious about aliens the way I was after this film,
then spend some time on the net and look up some stuff, you'll be surprised,
but back to the film.

D.B. Sweeney did a great job especially when he had to show fear.  He makes
you feel that he was there and when you look into his eyes, you can feel his
fear.  And that was one of the great parts of the film.  The actors from
Peter Berg to Henry Thomas ( Elliot from E.T. ) do a credible job portraying
his confused and interrogated-one-to-many-times friends.  But what the real
strength of the film is, is the story.  It makes you open your eyes and ask
some tough questions.  The story seems plausible, the boys passed every lie
detector test, and there is no proof to say that they were lying.  So where
does that leave you, the viewer?  It sealed my opinion on the subject.  And
on that level it is a great film.

The only complaint I have with the film is that it seemed to end too
abruptly.  There were so many questions I had that I wanted answered, but
they just stopped.  And that left me frustrated.  I'm not sure if they did
that on purpose or if was unintentional, but it left me yearning for more. 
But that is the only glitch I had with the film.  If nothing else, it does
make you question life.  And any film that can pose moral questions to me
and not have me lose interest in the process has accomplished something. 

Do aliens exist?  I think so.  Watch this film and perhaps decide for
yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
A terrifying climax highlights this portrayal of the alleged 1975 alien
abduction of logger Travis Walton. Walton and fellow loggers were
driving one night when, the story goes, they spotted a mysterious
spacecraft hovering over head. When Walton is beamed aboard and
declared missing for several days, nobody believes his friends,
providing an interesting angle on the story. This element of the film
is particularly effective in building up suspense. Where is Walton and
what did he experience? A cast that includes D.B. Sweeney, Robert
Patrick and Henry Thomas (Elliot from E.T.) deliver quality
performances. It doesn't have the look or feel of a blockbuster (it
wasn't one), but this is a classic example of an overlooked gem.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of lumberjacks go out into the woods. A UFO appears. They run
away. One man (Travis Walton) is left behind. He is sucked up into the
UFO. His friends inform the police, who later comb the woods. They find
no trace of Travis. Travis' friends and family grow worried. The police
accuse the lumberjacks of murdering Travis. They deny it. They take lie
detector tests. They pass.

Several days later, a visibly traumatised Travis appears at the edge of
town. He is taken home. He recounts the story of his abduction. The
film ends with a 20 minute set piece in which Travis is abducted by
aliens, wanders about their space craft and is subjected to torture.

"Fire in the Sky" is a pretty simple movie. It's quiet and unassuming
and apparently based on a true story. Indeed, for its first hour,
"Fire" unfolds like a fairly low-key "X-Files" episode, content to
capitalise on the "UFO" and "gray alien" craze of the late 1980s. 

Interesting, the tone of the film then completely changes during its
last twenty minutes. Here, during an extended set piece, we watch as
Travis is captured and abused by a group of sadistic, monstrous aliens.
It's shocking sequence, not so much because it's graphic, but because
it's a complete contrast to everything we've seen before. The film goes
from a quiet, low budget character study, to big budget SFX horror
flick in the blink of an eye.

Of course this is a calculated move designed to add some spectacle and
titillation to what would otherwise have been a dull film. But the
scene nevertheless resonates thanks to actor D. B. Sweeny's sympathetic
performance as Travis, and thanks to some stunning (especially for a
film made in 1993) SFX work. 

Incidentally, this final act set piece was conceived and designed by
the same SFX team behind the Matrix movies. "Fire's" wire-work, alien
cocoons and gooey hibernation sacks would be reused a decade later in
the first 2 Matrix films.

8/10 - A quiet and well acted exploitation film, made memorable by a
single great set piece. As far as alien abduction movies go, it's
better than Christopher Walken's "Communion". Both films are inspired
by the Whitley Strieber and Bob Hoskin alien books of the mid 80s.
<|_=00=_|>
I realized, after watching this for the 5th time or so, that the reason
I keep returning to it isn't related to what it's primarily known for:
an alien abduction. I keep returning to this movie because of the
characters, because of the extraordinary performances put in by the
actors, and because the situation they find themselves in makes for
very good drama. It could as well have been Transformers as much as
aliens, or ghosts as much as aliens, or vampires as much as aliens. The
point is it's normal people up against extraordinary circumstances done
in a way which is forthright and respectful of their lives. How
exceptionally rare.

How many of the other types of movies noted have character writing and
performances as good as these? Almost none. Transformers. Nope.
Haunting in Connecticut. Nope. Underworld. Certainly getting better but
still not as good as this.

For me, the most interesting part is having a pillar of the
community,(Mike Rogers played by Robert Patrick) someone who people of
the community would've trusted their lives as well as their children
with, up against an event of questionable authenticity. Where do people
draw the line? Do they turn against their own, do they support him/her
despite the circumstances, or do they alternate between continuously
uncertain perspectives? You know the path that most chose. 

It's heartbreaking to see him try to hold on to his faith while people
have assembled in the local church to practically accuse him of murder.

"What are you doing!?" 

In the midst of overwhelming circumstances, Mike Rogers loses more than
the trust and respect of his community; he not only loses his best
friend; he not only loses his marriage; he not only loses his place as
the father of his children; he loses his trust and faith in humanity.
Robert Patrick's performance of this former pillar, this guy with
heart, decency, moral fortitude, and strength that is beaten down by
circumstance is the best of his career. When I think of Robert Patrick,
I will always think of this role. It's a grand freaking slam home run
performance. Don't miss it.

The end of the film is painful to watch. We see the physical impact
isolation has had on Mike: sideways glances, short curt answers,
questions answered with questions, lack of empathy, and of course, his
long hair and beard. We've all been there in spirit. Enter Travis
Walton (D.B. Sweeney, also in a very good performance) and perhaps in
the most moving way, the guy who was abducted and who probably has the
most right to shun society, instead rises above his own circumstances
and forgives his former best friend for any action (or lack thereof)
while he was being abducted. It's a testament to the power of
friendship, forgiveness, and humility, and is profound. It's despairing
for me to see others here say they hate the ending.

One can't forget the performances of the others in the film, Craig
Sheffer as Allan Dallis, one of the best of his career, and E.T.'s
Henry Thomas, also a great performance.

The score, written by Mark Isham, while not his best, is noteworthy as
it nicely contributes to the themes and atmospheres using traditional
symphonic notes, all the way to minimalist industrial tones similar to
that of Einsturzende Neubauten.

All in all, it's a sci-film with perhaps too much heart to appeal to
those who just want to see a cool sci-fi film. For the rest of us,
we'll continue to request (and enjoy) a little substance with their
saccharin.
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this was a decent film with above par acting (I am a huge fan
of D.B. Sweeney and Robert Patrick and thought they were great in this)
with an excellent, although somewhat exaggerated scene aboard an alien
craft, which I really would have liked to have seen more of. The film
is based on the true story of an alien abduction in Nov. 1975 of Travis
Walton (D.B. Sweeney), one of six loggers returning from a long day's
work who happen upon an unidentified object in the forests of Arizona.
Travis is the only one who gets abducted. When Travis does not return
with the other men they are suspected of murdering him. He does however
turn up five days later with his alien story in tow. As far fetched as
this may sound, when you watch this, it's hard not to support the fact
that Travis Walton was abducted by aliens. Although the film may have
embellished it a bit, there are too many facts too support his claim. 

I don't believe in U.F.O'S and after I watched this film I still don't
but it made me second guess myself, Did it really happen or was this
the best case of getting away with the perfect hoax ? Only the real
Travis Walton Knows for sure.
