

When I saw this film, I thought "Wow, this guy might be the next James
Cameron."
Perhaps a bit of an overstatement, but director Avi Nesher has a sharp,
distinctive action style, and a flair for technology and attention to
detail.
This is a rough, tough action film, with touches of science fiction thrown
in.
Performances are decent, although Michael Biehn still seems stuck in Kyle
Reese/Dwayne Hicks mode.
Unfortunately, Nesher went on to do a bunch of straight-to-video films,
the interesting "Doppleganger" and produced a batch, the only decent one
being "Automatic" which he didn't direct, but certainly has his style
imprinted on it.
I'm hoping he hasn't given up on his dream sci-fi project, "Hammerheads"
which I've heard about years ago. 


<|_=00=_|>
**SPOILERS** Living a quiet life in L.A as a mild mannered watch repair
man Eddie Kaye, Michael Biehn, one evening becomes Superman when he
rushes into a burning apartment building saving a mother and her infant
from curtain death. 

Eddie doesn't know it but he's really not Eddie Kaye he's Oliver
Dykstra and at the same time he was supposed to be dead for years but a
person watching the TV news that evening Col. Taylor, Richard Jordan,
does. He's was the one who had Oliver brainwashed and given a new name
and memory, as Eddie Kaye, and now realizing that he's still alive is
responsible for Eddie's being terminated like he should have been years
ago.

High powered action/thriller "Timebomb" lacks a cohesive storyline with
Eddie on the run with pretty Dr. Anna Nolmar, Pasty Kensit, his
psychoanalyst who he got to know while he was repairing her late
fathers expensive watch. Always on the run throughout the film the
couple are chased by Col.Taylor's mind-controlled goons from L.A to
Mexico to Arizona an finally back to L.A at the Duke Hotel for the
final showdown between Eddie and the entire Taylor goon squad.It turns
out that Eddie, or Oliver Dykstra in an other life, couldn't be
corrupted by Col. Taylor & Co. to murder innocent people who the
Colonel and his bosses high in government feel are a threat to
"National Security". 

Discarted and thrown away in a garbage dump Eddie miraculously survived
and lived a quite and uneventful life until he came to the rescue of
the woman and child in that burning building and since then he life was
never the same again. Escaping from Taylor's men to Mexico Eddie
realizes why he's a marked man when he sees a newspaper headline about
Dean Jordan, Harvey Fuller, who's running for Attoreny General of the
United States. Eddie then realizes that that's the main reason that
he's to be killed as soon as possible ;to stop him from preventing
Jordan's assassination at the Duke Hotel that coming Sunday. 

Better then average action sequences with a wild shoot-out in a
darkened and almost deserted porno theater with the porn flick still
being projected on the screen as the bullets are flying and bodies
dropping, what was the projectionist doing? was he asleep or on his
lunch break? The final scene at the Duke Hotel was really something to
see with all the light shut off as the assassin team with infra-red
eyeglasses zero in on the guest speaker, Dean Jordan, for the kill.

Eddie saves the day, and Dean Jordan's life, by taking on the entire
hit-team and slugging it out with them in the lobby and on the roof of
the hotel with L.A police detective Sanchez, Raymond St. Jacques,
coming to Eddie's aid just in the nick of time. The movie did touch on
things back in 1990 that are very real today about a out of control
government feeling that it's above the law and can do no wrong. As long
as it has the power to control and intimidate those who dare to
criticize or expose it. 

The one thing that really disappointed me more then anything else in
the movie "Timebomb" was the fact that Robert Culp, who played L.A's
communications chief Phllips, was given top billing yet Culp was in
less then two minutes of "Timebomb's" hour and a half screen time.
<|_=00=_|>
In this fairly straight forward, but pretty well done action film,
Michael Biehn plays a likable guy working in his own watch repair shop.
He suffers from amnesia and soon his past is about to catch up to him.
Predictably he wasn't a watch repair man is his "previous life" but a
lethal assassin.

The amnesia formula has been done many times, most notably with the
blockbuster Bourne trilogy taken from Robert Ludlum's novels, but
"Timebomb" has its merits. Michael Biehn is a good enough actor to play
a convincing human action hero and the plot, while quite routine,
delivers suspense and action. The mixing of science fiction into the
film is also pretty interesting as it provides a few twists. However,
there is enough cliché here to prevent this film from being anything
special. Fans of the genre will enjoy it for what it is, others
shouldn't even care to look. --- 6/10

Rated R for violence and profanity. Ages 13+
<|_=00=_|>

This is a pretty crazy film that combines aspects of Sci-Fi, cybernetics,
The Manchurian Candidate, and new world orders into a pastiche of overamped
fights, chases and gratuitous gunplay. The performances aren't that bad but
some scenes seem almost sped through with the need to quicken the pace and
get to the meat of the film. Some decent special effects. Overall, if you
see it in a vid store and the price is cheaper to buy it from the bargain
bin than rental, go for it. Better yet, if it shows up on cable watch it
rather than spend real money on it.
<|_=00=_|>

I am able to admit that the implausibility levels of this movie tend to rise
steadily through the entire film; but I enjoyed the chemistry between Kensit
and Biehn.  At times it also becomes suspenseful.  A lot of the scenes leave
you scratching your head or wanting more, but I think this film sets out and
does its job quite well.  It was also good to see Mike Biehn as I really
haven't seen him in anything else besides THE TERMINATOR, (I did see THE
LORDS OF DISCIPLINE; so so).  Other than that I can't say much more except
this movie reminds me of the good 'ol late night low-budget action flicks
they used to show back in the early 90's on CINEMAX like PRAYER OF THE
ROLLERBOYS or CLASS OF 1999!
<|_=00=_|>
It's a shame that this movie hasn't made it to DVD while so many of
Biehn's later movies have. This is far superior to "Cherry Falls",
"Jade", "Deep Red", and "Clockstoppers".

The plot is a tired one...deadly super-assassin gets amnesia and is
chased around by his former employers, while he is astonished at his
apparently innate abilities and deadly skills. It's like a dry-run of
"The Bourne Identity".

BUT...Biehn and the others do a good job with the material. The SFX are
decent for a low-budget flick, the villains are suitably creepy, and
the finale on the high-rise rooftop is reasonably satisfying.

Kudos to Biehn, too, for maintaining his innocence throughout most of
the film. He seems genuinely puzzled by his own actions, which makes
him all the more endearing to us as he blows away the bad guys.

Certainly one of Biehn's TOP 10 movies, though not up to "K2", "The
Rock", or "The Terminator".
<|_=00=_|>
The minute I saw Patsy Kensit's lips, I knew I had seen her before. It
was driving me crazy. I was thrown off by the Hungarian character she
played. I have to admit that she was the only reason I watched this
movie, and I wasn't disappointed.

She didn't give the full exposure reported in Angels and Insects or
Shelter Island, but we did get the view we saw in Lethal Weapon 2 - I
finally remembered that awesome performance as the South African
secretary! Michael Biehn (Aliens, The Rock, Terminator 2: Judgment Day)
was the simple watch repairer that didn't know who he was and why
everyone was trying to kill him. He did OK, but Kensit stole the show.
You've seen the basic script before in In the Line of Fire, done much
better by Eastwood.

Blue, Brown Redd, Green, and Grey were a little over-the top and no
match at all, but they provided some exciting moments.

I probably would have given it a higher rating had I just not felt that
I had seen it all before.
<|_=00=_|>

POSSIBLE SPOILERS:

The sound of this film intrigued me for some reason.  I can't remember why. 
It's a bit like TOTAL RECALL: a guy discovers he may have lead another life
as an assassin, but had his memory erased.  Now that he has resurfaced, he
is being chased by a team of assassins (including LOIS AND CLARK's Tracy
Scoggins and Jim 'CYBERTRACKER' Maniaci).  Michael Biehn is excellent in the
lead, his performance not faltering for a minute.  A man in his situation
would be as terrified as he initially is.  But he soon takes charge and
tries to uncover his past, and stop the baddies before they can carry out
their assassination attempt on the crusading new Attorney
General.

The action is brilliant as well, especially the showdown between Biehn and
Mr. Brown (kickboxer Billy Blanks).  Patsy Kensit is okay as the
psychiatrist, even though at the time she was really too young to be a
psychiatrist.

Richard Jordan once again plays a really hateful bad guy, who you're just
gonna want to see dead.  The tension barely ever lets up.  I must say that
it's a pity that this one slipped through the cracks when it was released
because it's very enjoyable.  The 'conspiracy' storyline may not be
original, but here it works.  Try and get ahold of this one if you
can.
<|_=00=_|>
The always reliable Michael Biehn plays Eddy Kay, a watchmaker /
repairman who, in a show of courage, rescues a woman & her baby from an
apartment fire one night. Unfortunately, when news of this act reaches
the airwaves, the wrong person finds out: government operative Colonel
Taylor (Richard Jordan), who promptly sends his henchmen - a tough lot,
but not a bright bunch - after the frightened Eddy, who finds that he
actually does have the skills to combat them. He takes it on the lam,
abducting psychoanalyst / customer Anna Nolmar (Patsy Kensit) to give
him some much needed help in finding out why people would want him dead
- and his true identity.

Writer / director Avi Nesher does a decent job with his premise,
utilizing what is a pretty familiar plot and injecting a sci-fi angle
as well as a "Manchurian Candidate" type story thread. The good thing
is that the movie is tautly directed and edited; it has a good forward
momentum. Its action scenes are intense enough that they do keep you
watching. Things do get a little creepy and bizarre in terms of the
brainwashing process. The movie does also have strong echoes of "The
Terminator" with Biehn. The main reason why it really works at all is
because Biehn is so believable. You can buy him as a normal, average
guy - or, at least, a guy who *thinks* he's normal and average - who is
overwhelmed at first but turns into a real kick ass hero. The pretty
Kensit is good in her part. Jordan excels in one of his loathsome
villain roles - he definitely overplays some scenes - and the under
utilized Robert Culp and Raymond St. Jacques also do well. Among those
playing Taylors' goons are super sexy Tracy Scoggins and none other
than Billy Blanks.

B movie devotees will likely find this to be agreeable enough.

Six out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
I really like this movie, I saw it when I was very young as I have
three older siblings who allowed me to watch 18 rated movies (whilst my
mother was at work) and it made a big impression on me. The pillow
scene is very intense and the action is great and what lends to the
intensity is the tension created by the fact that Michael Biehn's
character does not enjoy his new found role as an experienced killer
and 'freaks out' at various stages in the film. His character is not
easy to sympathise with, he's either a killing machine or a catatonic
freak or a timid watchmaker. HIs feelings of guilt, horror and anguish
are a refreshing contrast to how the 'heroes' in modern American films
seem to be able to kill at will or whim with no visible feelings of
regret. 

Also there's a great bit at the end where a 'bad guy' is thrown from a
roof to his supposed death, unfortunately the editor must have been
tired/on smack as the soft landing provided by a crash pad is clearly
visible.
