
James and the Giant Peach may not have the cult status of Nightmare
Before Christmas, but, aside from mixing live-action bookends with the
all-animated center of the film (not a great idea; should have been
all-animation), it's a faithful and wonderful adaptation of Roald
Dahl's classic dream-like story. The animation is superb, the voice
talent wonderful (Susan Sarandon's sexy Eastern European Miss Spider
takes the cake), and, as Time Magazine said, the film in many ways
surpasses the book. Though there are flaws in the screen story by Karey
Kirkpatrick, their effect on the overall emotional ride of the film is
negligible. After seeing it again recently (first time in several
years), I was amazed at what an incredibly beautiful film it is,
beautiful colors and design and effects like teacup clouds and the
cloud rhino. I especially loved the mechanical shark and the ships'
arctic graveyard sequence where Centipede redeems himself by diving
into the water to find a compass to get the peach back on course.
Overall, a great film.
<|_=00=_|>

There is sooo much I like with this movie. It has imagination, a sense of
wonder and characters you either love or hate. And the blend of live action
and stop-motion animation is a delight.
The songs incorporated in this story is not very memorable but sweet and fit
their purpose. And you simply have to love to hate Margoyles and Lumley in
their parts as the aunts from hell. They treat poor James so horribly that I
thought that "Cinderella had it easy"!
Compared to "nightmare before Christmas" I actually liked this movie better.
It has more of a heart even if the story itself may be just a bit less
interesting and inventive.
There are so many good scenes but among the highlights is the arctic
adventure and the New York sequence. But, mind you, the opening is very
deceptive and might scare younger parts of the audience.
Otherwise, a must-see!!!

<|_=00=_|>
What a pleasant feel good film this little gem is !

After the sugar and sweet opening, including a hair raising song in the
very worst Disney Style, Burton and Dahl break in and off we go, on an
adventure that is fun and cheeky and in which not all the sharp edges
have been blunted, thank Goodness.

Before we can go on a journey with the Giant Peach however, first
Little James have to be orphaned. And he is, in a matter of fact
voice-over that makes for a surprise element here. A bold way to get
the plot in motion, and it works ! Many keep on wandering what or who
that rhino was, that took the life of the parents just like that, on a
whim. Well, anybody can be swept away by the rhino in the sky, or so
the nasty aunties will have you believe anyway...

The visuals are stunning, the dialogues are bubbling fizzing electrical
fun and brought wonderfully and lovingly by a great cast, and direction
is clear cut, sharp and focused.

A lovely film, that makes you wonder what is Selnick & Burton and
what's genuine Roald Dahl.

A splendid film that makes you go out and want to read a great book
(again). What more can we possibly ask of a peach?

Hmmm, well ... about that Rhino in the stormy clouds ... Maybe ... If
it's based in Britain, couldn't we tempt it to take a holiday somewhere
in, say, Bora Bora or the Halls of Montezuma ? The English are quite
accustomed to their climate, but their rhino gives us, here in the
Lowlands, more than our share of rain and sleet too !!!
<|_=00=_|>
I was an enormous fan of Roald Dahl's books when I was kid. I think of
him as the Hands Christian Anderson of the 20th century. I didn't read
all of Dahl's books but I read most of them. I've also seen most of the
movies based on his books. Out of all the Roald Dahl books I read as
child I would say that 'Charlie And The Chocolate Factory' is my
favorite but 'James And The Giant Peach' is my second favorite. 

The reason why I would say these two books are my favorites is because
they're both about children who live miserable lives until a magical
experience changes their lives forever and both end up becoming the
luckiest kids in the world. For Charlie, his life changes with a tour
of Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory, but for James it's with a magical
giant peach and group very friendly creatures.

I first remember hearing about this movie back in late 1996 when it was
released in America during the Christmas holidays and I was very
excited about it, but unfortunately I had to wait until the Easter
Holidays before this movie arrived in Australia. I certainly loved it.
James's two horrible aunt's who are nothing except cruel and nasty. Are
as horrible in the movie as they are in the book.

I really loved the creatures from the peach which I remember (from the
book) James describing them as "The friendliest creatures in the
world". These creatures include Grasshopper, Earthworm, Centipede,
Ladybug, Spider and Glowworm. My two favorite character's are Spider
because her French accent made her a very smooth character and
Centipede because of his sense of humor. 

I also liked the songs. My favorite was "We're Family" which the
creatures use to express how much they love James. I certainly believe
these creatures are the best family any child could have. So for anyone
who loved Roald Dahl's books as a child, you must...must see this film!
<|_=00=_|>

I was surprised that people thought this film was average, or so-so.  I
found it to me a movie that was so much fun to watch.

Starts out live-action, than it seagues into stop-motion animation.
Some
of the scenes are very memorable (the pirate attack) and the voices are
delightful.  Not as good as Nightmare Before Christmas, but every bit as
imaginative.
<|_=00=_|>

As a child James and the Giant Peach was one of my favorite books, so it
was
interesting to see how it would be formatted into a film.  They actually
did
a pretty good job, although the book is much better.  The animation was
nicely done, and I liked  the way the characters changed from life form to
animated form- it gave the film a real surreal type of film.  The songs
were
quite poor, and were obviously aimed at the kids to 'liven' things up a
bit,
after all some may say the  story ventures on the dark side of things.
It's
nice to see a film aimed at children that can also appeal to adults as
well,
although it does help that many of us are very familiar with Roald Dahl's
stories.  In summary quite a good effort.
<|_=00=_|>

I really enjoyed it, and so did my 3- and 5-year-old (and yes, we read the
book). The animation and live-action scenes showed a lot of love. Though
elements of the story seemed a bit hurried or neglected, they weren't
anything a fairy-tale fantasy couldn't absorb in stride. The music works
well enough for this non-fan of musicals, and I prefer serviceable and
inoffensive tunes to the treacly jingles and melodramatic scores of the
usual Disney classics.

My only real complaint would be with the ending, as it really is unclear
how
the aunts drove across the ocean (did they obtain their own crocodile
tongues?), and the slice of NY upon landing has a grim, Munchkin-town
quality. Still, everything up to that point has left you with lots of
goodwill towards the movie's makers.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's another inventive film, based on a book by the famous author of
child books, Roald Dahl, who wrote "Charlie And The Chocolate Factory."

The animation, featuring stop-action stick figures, is outstanding, as
are the colors. Each character is unique, like none I've seen before in
other animated flicks. Not only the characters, but how they are
dressed. (i.e. long gloves and stockings on a spider). The aunts in
here are a real hoot to look at, particularly the one with the
pronounced teeth.

The storyline is simple and there is absolutely nothing offensive
including no typical Disney New Age baloney. The only warning I would
give is there is a bit too much violence for very small kids and the
ending is a bit silly for adults.

This is a musical, which I did not expect, and the songs are nothing
special. There are not a lot of them: five to be exact. In all, good
entertainment and a good visual and audio film for a nice DVD system.
<|_=00=_|>
James and the Giant Peach was for me one of the most magical animation
movie i have ever seen. I enjoyed every part of this film, the music
the dancing and most of all the unique voice of Ms. Ladybug she was the
best. Most of the times when i get sad i just play that first song that
James sang it truly lifts my spirit, even though it made me cry. I also
must say that James two aunts acted well in this movie even though they
where monsters i enjoyed them. overall this is a great movie for anyone
who likes adventure a family movie that brings sadness and joy
altogether. James and the Giant Peach i give it a 9/10 for its well
casted and well acted which for me made this movie a must see.
<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to watch this movie for a while. There are not many around
animated this way and I did love The Nightmare before Christmas and
Coraline. So, I finally gave it a try. I was not particularly
impressed. I found the story somehow bland and uninspiring. Also, any
little moral message in it is basically lost in a number of events that
I presume are supposed to be exciting but are rather dull. The songs
are not really bad, although they don't save the film. Perhaps I'm just
too old for this, although I still love other family films like the
ones mentioned at the beginning. I find this film just OK, I wouldn't
watch it again.
