

Cube is a movie that explores human nature and our instinctive urges for
survival vs our humanitarianism. Not a new concept, I know, however this
movie does it in style, with a plot so simple that it could only be the
work
of a conceptual genius. I don't intend to give too much away, as the power
of the film lies in it's mystery, but I will say that this movie could
almost be classified as disturbing, not due to its content, but rather the
thoughts that it instills in the audience. I found myself rather shaken as
I
left the cinema, feeling as though I had been exposed to an ugly, hidden
side of humanity and society. Don't get me wrong, this movie is definitely
worth seeing, I would even be so bold as to say that it must be seen! I
must
admit that there are few movies I have seen that have had such a profound
affect on me, and I don't think I am alone in my feelings.

<|_=00=_|>
It probably cost about half the budget of this movie, to make the
opening sequence, which successfully gets your attention. Once it has
your attention it simply refuses to let you go, it is compelling to say
the least.

The entire cast were pretty much unknown when the film was made (and
most still are), but they all gave fine performances throughout.
Without the successful casting this film could have easily been a
disaster, as it is almost entirely character driven. I'm glad to say
that definitely is not the case.

Despite the low budget and practically unknown cast, the film manages
to be clever, intriguing, thought-provoking and highly enjoyable.
sadly, this film is probably a one off, i can't think of another low
budget film that has half the impact of this one.

8/10 and worth every point
<|_=00=_|>

This film has more in substance than most big budget hollywood "event"
movies rolled into one. The film follows the perils of a group of canadian
civilians imprisoned in a futuristic "RUBICK'S CUBE" style jail from which
there is seemingly no escape. They have no idea how they got there, or who
put them there, all they know is they have to escape.....fast.  This film is
reminiscent of LORD OF THE FLIES, and how it showed mankind at it's worst
when things go bad. The film chronicles paranoia, suspicion and fear.
MAURICE DEAN WINT, gives a
brilliant performance. In fact, this man's acting ability, makes the film
worthwhile. The rest of the cast is fantastic as well.

The neat thing about this movie is that the makers did it for relatively
cheap (only having to make one set, that they constantly reconfigured) yet,
the film works on many levels. This
is without a doubt, a thinking persons sci-fi film. THE CUBE shows a level
of ingenuity, and genius, missing from mainstream American big budget fare.

<|_=00=_|>

If you were to think about what situation would terrify you the most, Cube
would be the ultimate challenge.  In a way, it is a predecessor to TV's
"Survivor" in which the people each have a skill that can help them survive
and possibly get them out.  It all comes down to human emotions and
confrontations that get in the way of progress.  It's a talky film, but
that's the point-- figuring situations and dealing with different
personalities is inevitable to any group.  The solving of problems becomes
very complex, but the viewer doesn't have to worry...let the characters
figure it out as we go along for the ride.  While so many sci-fi films want
to wow you with effects, this film
does something more challenging--it makes you think.  With its limited
budget and digital effects in use even before Titanic
glorified them, Cube still proves itself as one of the more original and
intelligent sci-fi films of the last decade, with a cult status already
going strong. It is truly a nail-biter.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best films I've seen in years.  Original, suspenseful,
frightening.  The idea and execution of this film is so simple yet it's
still a very complex and brilliant piece of work.  The acting is sometimes
a
little over the top but it still works.  The most amazing thing to me is
that the filmmakers only built one cube and made it seem like they made
several.  This is clever, clever filmmaking.  Whoever said there are no
good
ideas left hasn't seen 'Cube'.  Dig it.
<|_=00=_|>

Great. Another shining example of how my inadequacy in mathematics could be
the end of me. I used to skip math class. I took the bare minimum
requirement expected of me and passed with something less than flying
colours. The point is, math is all that separates our "heroes" from certain
death in this arena.

"Cube" is an innovative little thriller that can safely dodge accusations of
blandness or mediocrity. The premise is simple and the plight of the
characters is highly relative despite its surrealistic science fiction
setting. Six individuals find themselves trapped in a cube comprised of many
rooms linked together, with no readily visible way out, no rations, tools or
explanation for being there, with traps set up in some of the rooms. An
apparent experiment on how people think and react to certain situations and
the transformations they might undergo.

The simplicity of the film and the cube itself are the film's strongest
assets and can probably account for it's international success, notably in
Japan. It's low budget production costs came under $400,000. But they got a
really good bang for their buck with some help from special effects houses
that provided their services free of charge. As the director has commented
on the audio commentary track of the DVD, one aspect they were going for was
a way to have an action flick in one room. They pulled it off quite nicely.
Another interesting tidbit brought to light was that each character's name
is after a prison.

A curious aspect of this Canadian film was its surprisingly short run in
Canadian cinemas. In speaking with one of the film's producers, Mehra Meh, I
learned that despite it's award as "Best First Feature" at the Toronto Film
Festival of 1997, the film run in Canada came a year later and was just for
a few short weeks before it was yanked from theaters and then showcased
internationally. When time came for the DVD release, I found another
perplexing development. It was only available as an import. A Canadian film
only available as an import in Canada? It wasn't until months later that it
was released domestically.

In any case, the film is available now and worth checking out if you have
interest in the psychological thriller fare. Those who work their days or
nights (or both) in a cubicle may wish to pass on this one, as it just might
be too close to home. 


<|_=00=_|>

Vincenzo Natali. Funny sounding name right? Well just a little funny. Keep
that name in your mind though over the next few years. After this film the
Cube, Natali's follow up was the superb Cypher. He seems to be a master of a
difficult genre, Sci-Fi. In a genre that is primarily known for having a
high pap ratio, the fact that Natali's first two features have been cult
classic science fiction movies then bodes well for Sci-fi fanatics who will
eagerly anticipate his next movie.
The Cube is a superbly crafted low budget film. On a shoestring budget and a
dangerously basic premise full of intrigue, the film succeeds because of
imaginative effects and taut directions as well as a superbly written
script, delving into the human psyche in such an extreme situation. The plot
is basically thus: A group of strangers wake in a cube room. They don't know
where they are or how they got there but they know they must find a way out.
It also transpires that when they leave each room the enter another room
that is virtually identical in look. There will perhaps be a different
colour in the lighting. The must find their way out before they starve tp
death or go nuts, but to add to their woes, it seems that some of the rooms
are booby trapped, ranging from sound activated, to pressure activated
traps. They soon discover that each of them has a specific gift that can
perhaps hold the key to their escape. There is a maths genius who may hold
the key to discovering a way out. The rooms are numbered and the numbers
could signify the type of room but also a map.
The film is excellent and just when they think they have figured it out the
Cube bites them in the behind. The dynamic of the characters is excellent as
inevitably some go crazy. I do think that for a film shot for less than
300,000 dollars this is amazing looking. It works well for a film that is
set in the same environment for the 90 minutes of the film. I have to say
this film is one of those pleasant surprises that comes from nowhere and
when word of mouth finally gets to you, please listen!
****


<|_=00=_|>

This film is one of the most original films I've ever seen.  On top of that,
it is absolutely riveting and engaging.  It will have you thinking for hours
afterward.  I highly recommend it to anyone who likes intriguing movies. 
The acting is good.  Other than the girl who plays the student, I've never
seen any of the actors before, which makes the movie much harder to predict
than most.  

The air of mystery prevails throughout.  The pace is perfect, which
surprised me, given the limited amount the characters could actually do. 
And the ending doesn't sell out the rest of the movie, which films with this
level of mystery often do.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know about the rest of you, but I'm pretty tired of all these
wanna-be horror movies that are out now. All of those movies are rated PG-13
and can't seem to scare anyone. But right at the verge of these so-called
horror movies came Cube, a low-budget horror film with an original idea and
a good idea of how to execute it. It could have gone belly-up, but it works
for the most part and creates a suspenseful movie.

A group of seven people find themselves trapped in some sort of maze of
cubes. They're all different colors and to make matters more interesting,
some are booby trapped. They have no recollection of how they got there, nor
do they have a clue how to get out. It becomes a battle of wits to stay sane
and survive.

There's an overall sense of creepiness, doom, and claustrophobia that
overshadows the whole movie, not to mention the paranoia that sinks into
both the characters and you as you watch. You only know as much as the
characters-you don't know how they got into the cubes, what they're for, or
any of the typical exposition. And although most of the characters were
annoying, it put you side by side with them, which helped a lot. If you get
to be next to the characters, you can understand their actions more.
However, you do (somewhat) find out what these cubes were made for, which
kind of dampers the whole thing, but it's still very interesting to go
through.

But when the climax comes about, the movie descends into hokey B-horror
land, with a terrorized killer stalking most of the people. When the
original exploration of the cubes subsides and you get the people walking
around, also, the interest starts to wane. It's often repetitive, but the
booby traps are quite, for lack of a better word, fun. But that doesn't mean
that the original creativity has gone away, it's just not as interesting.
But I really liked Cube, and if you see it, you will too.

My rating: 7/10

Rated R for some strong sci-fi violence/gore and language.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, I didn't actually KNOW anything about this film, and it was showing
at
the Rialto (which is more foreign-filmish than mainstream). But I was
surely
not let down! I'm no film-buff, and I'm not experienced yet either (only 15
so far), but I definately recommend anyone to give it at least a chance!
The
fact that it's so low-budget, but doesn't really reek of it, and the
simplicity of the setting, is quite refreshing from the typical films of
today. At first I was rooting for the cop, since he had 3 kids, but...
well,
let's just say I didn't exactly want him to survive near the end (that
bastard!)
And also the actual scariest movie I've seen all year! I mean, actual
covering-my-face muttering 'No! God! No!', especially during the silence
scene... despite what some other people have said, I thought this movie
wasn't predictable at all (I was totally wrong about who was going to die
and what happened in the end). The ending was also perfect, and they should
leave it like that... I came out of the cinema, speechless, only thinking
'Wow! What a cool movie!', and satisfaction that you have got your money's
worth. The only thing that bugged me during the whole film was trying to
remember what other things the girl that played Leaven had been in
(Deepwater Black, and other sci-fi things - anyone else detect typecasting
here? ^.^) Go see it if you haven't!
