

A seemingly small movie yet it's beyond charming, it has heart. Don't
dismiss this as an expanded version of the TV series Jennifer is in, she's
what she is, yet she fits into this story so well, playing opposite Jay Mohr
and Kevin Bacon, with Ileanna Douglas as her best friend and Olympia Dukakis
as her mom – it's Jennifer Aniston perfect.

The heart may not be evident in the beginning, especially with Jennifer's
central character, but hang in there, heart becomes more and more ever
present as you follow the story closely.  My appreciation for the nuances of
this movie did not come deeper until I sat through it again on cable over
the weekend. I remember I liked the movie in general and that Jay Mohr gave
a very good performance – he's just as becoming as Jennifer is. They do seem
like a perfect pair.

This could be a date movie: especially for a single young woman with career
ambitions (here it is in advertising), who thinks she can be self-sufficient
without any ties or warmth from others, including mom. It is very much a
city woman movie. It is maybe for the 20 to 30 something's, yet there are
lessons in loving that anyone can take away with. Essentially, it is about
how we can take for granted the people around us and not realize the little
things in life that are free and in abundance for us to receive and enjoy –
if we would only open our eyes, pause - truly listen, and let the heart do
the rest.

Trivia: There was a play on the movie title as it first appears and appears
again. Ha! Have fun and enjoy.

<|_=00=_|>

There is quite a bit of divergence here with the Imdb comments for this
movie, which may reflect where people's hearts were at when they viewed
it.
This is not a block buster or Academy Awards winner, but I found it to be
very enjoyable and certainly agree with all of the positive comments
below.
Actually, I was surprised how I liked it, since I am a 50 year old man and
do not normally care for 'fluff movies'. The acting by Jennifer Aniston
and
John Mohr was very good, and the film gives an overall positive message
for
us all (Hollywood style, but it feels great). Watch it with someone you
love, or if you have a warm romantic heart.

<|_=00=_|>

Jennifer Aniston is not really her Rachel from Friends but she comes close
in Picture Perfect as Cate. I like her in Friends and I think because of
that I liked her in this film.

The story is even more predictable than movies as Notting Hill and Addicted
to love, but I did like it. It is simple, it makes you feel good, there's no
real bad guy or girl, there is some chemistry and we all know it will end
very happy.

You can like Aniston here, or may be you don´t because she is too much
Rachel. I liked her because she is. Kevin Bacon was a little disappointing
in a role that might be too easy for him and you will like Jay Mohr. If you
want to feel good and sleep with a nice feeling, you might want to watch
this. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>
I only saw this film because of Kevin Bacon and Jennifer Aniston both
being in it. Not a huge fan of either of them, but nevertheless I
thought it might be interesting to see Aniston (during the peak of
"Friends'" popularity) crossing over into mainstream film. For the most
part, it works.

She's basically playing Rachel, her character from the TV show, again.
Aniston's character is a shy, awkward business woman who isn't promoted
due to the fact that she is considered "unstable" - no husband, family,
etc. So she hires a fake boyfriend, Nick (Jay Mohr), to pose as her
lover. She ends up winning the affections of a man she has a crush on
in her office (Bacon), but then Nick begins to actually fall in love
with her.

The title derives from the fact that she works at a picture agency, and
that's where a lot of the film's scenes take place. It gets a little
weary after a while, and is very predictable - but if you're a fan of
the actors, it's reasonable to say you'll find something to enjoy here.
<|_=00=_|>
*** contains spoilers *** I watched this as an Instant Play on Netflix.
I enjoy the romantic comedy genre, so I gave it a shot.

I won't say that Picture Perfect was completely awful because I did
watch it all the way through. I will say that this film paints humanity
in an ugly light.

Kate is utterly self-centered, showing the total lack of awareness of
others. The entire film is predicated on the decisions she makes out of
her self-centeredness. Even the "happy ending" depends on Kate's lack
of awareness for anyone else but herself. It doesn't occur to her that
she's ruining a stranger's wedding because she can't wait 30 minutes to
get out her apologies. The film's writer insults the viewer by assuming
that because Kate manages a few tender moments while she's being
selfish, we then are supposed to be endeared to her.

Nick shows no dignity for his own self. The more he gets to know the
self-centered Kate, the more he falls in love with her?? She insults
him with her proposal, she is disrespectful and rude to him, she shows
weak moral character by her "affair" with a colleague who is using her
for thrill-sex... and yet, he professes that he likes her more and
more. The viewers are expected to endear ourselves to him too.

Kate's colleague, played by Kevin Bacon, only sleeps with women who are
married or otherwise committed. Enough said.

Kate's boss only shows his female staff respect based on whether or not
they are "stable", which in this case is determined by whether or not
Kate is showing signs that she's in a committed relationship.

Kate's friend encourages her to lie and cheat in order to fool her boss
into thinking she's "stable".

Kate's mom is portrayed as an overbearing mother whose self-worth
depends on the constant reassurance that her daughter cares about her.

Kate's other work colleagues are portrayed as gossip-mongering and
thoughtless.

Don't be tempted to watch this. Whether it's intended or not, the film
ends up being a commentary about the inherent selfishness of and lack
of self-dignity in humanity.
<|_=00=_|>

This is yet another romantic comedy that wants to get by on charm rather
than anything genuinely funny or romantic, but surprisingly, for the most
part, it does.  Part of that is due to the fact that everyone in the cast is
likable, particularly Jennifer Anniston, who I'm not a big fan of, and Jay
Mohr, who I like but aside from JERRY MAGUIRE haven't seen much of.  Also,
director Glenn Gordon Caron may be working with an outrageous concept, as
most romantic comedies these days do, but he tries to keep it grounded,
which is nice.  I'd recommend it more except I hated the ending; not for who
she ends up with, but how.
<|_=00=_|>
A consistent homage to all the 'values' that have brought the credit
crunch to the USA and UK.

Selfishness and shallowness portrayed as acceptable and lovable
characteristics.

The underlying theme being that it is fine to lie, cheat, get into
debt, deceive your closest friends and it will all work out fine - as
long as you really really want whatever it is you are prepared to lie,
cheat and deceive about.

A career woman, uses a nice person, a stranger she meets at a wedding,
shows no interest in him as a human being and despite saying 'I don't
want you to feel like a thing' goes on to treat him exactly as a
'thing'. A prop to help her get what she wants.

What she wants is to sleep with a serial womaniser, to get promotion
and higher pay and that's about it really.

Then when she gets them she decides they aren't as shiny as she thought
they'd be and wants the 'thing/stranger/wedding guy' to be her
permanent plaything instead.

She still has no idea about him as a person other than he took the time
to get to know her (and for some incomprehensible reason given her
behaviour and lack of any redeeming characteristics) and bought her a
watch to replace one she lost as a child.

Yet based on this tenuous reason she admits the subterfuge to her
bosses and risks her job. Given she has already decided the job isn't
all that great - it isn't that much of a sacrifice.

Then the 'new improved' female gatecrashes a strangers wedding, risks
the business of her intended 'plaything' by ensuring he will be
remembered as the guy who ruined his clients wedding by being stalked
by a nut job.

For some reason this selfish, irresponsible act endears the used,
abused 'plaything' guy so that he agrees to be 'the one' for her -
kiss, kiss, end of film.

The main guy character has in effect fallen in love with a selfish,
controlling, manipulative, scheming narcissist and signed up to be
treated badly until she finds something more shiny to distract her in
the future.

So given how stupid a lot of people are that bit is probably true to
life at least.

But touching, funny, heart warming - no it isn't.
<|_=00=_|>

(Spoiler)
This was a terrible movie.  Along with absolutely unrealistic characters
there was an awful plot.  The characters all were horrible people. The
main
character, Kate, was a very superficial, manipulative caricature of a
modern
working woman. The only "good" character,  Nick,was a nice person, but
completely spineless and gullible.  In what would have been the only
intelligent point in the movie, he backed down from doing the right thing
and wimped out. One of the worst parts was near the end when Kate totally
ruined a couple's wedding to apologize to Nick, who was taping the
wedding.
When she was done ruining the wedding, all of the guests and the people
getting married clapped for them!!! Now please tell me when this happens
in
real life! I wouldn't waste your time and money watching this movie,
unless
you like to see selfish people hurt other people's feelings.
<|_=00=_|>

Picture Perfect is my favourite Jennifer Aniston movie. Of course, we all
know her as "Rachel from Friends" and that's probably the way it will always
be. The same with the rest of the Friends cast. (There's absolutely nothing
wrong with that though. Friends is the BEST.) I guess, that's why she's been
type-casted for the last few years and why most of her films are of a
romantic-comedy nature. Still, even though not many of them do very well on
release, (That will change soon though.) she still does a good job in all of
them, including this one.

Picture Perfect is about Kate, (Jennifer Aniston.) a woman who really can't
find love. She does fancy her work colleague Sam, (Kevin Bacon.) but he
doesn't really seem interested in her, as she is with him. One day Kate is
at a friends wedding and she meets Nick (Jay Mohr.) who is there to film the
wedding. They have a chat, have there picture taken together and that's
about it. Until, one day at work, Kate's friend Darcy, (Illeana Douglas.)
tells everyone that Kate is engaged to Nick, so Kate can get promoted at her
work. Everyone obviously believes it, so now it's up to Kate to ask Nick, if
he can pretend to be her fiance, for a while and then later on in the
'relationship' they will have a break up in front of everyone . Nick agrees
to do this. The only thing is Nick ends up falling for Kate and whilst Kate
is 'seeing him,' she ends up sleeping with the guy she fancied in the first
place, Sam. He seems to want her now, she's with someone.

The story in the movie is a little unbelievable, but so what, it's a just a
movie and it's a very enjoyable one too. It has one of those stories, where
you can guess what's going to happen at the end straight away. Jennifer
Aniston, Kevin Bacon and Jay Mohr are all great here too. So, if you fancy
seeing a romantic comedy (If you've already seen, classic movies like,
Sleepless In Seattle and You've Got Mail, etc.) then Picture Picture is the
one for you. I rate Picture Perfect an 8/10. 

 
<|_=00=_|>
I watched Picture Perfect today. I was expecting an okay movie, nothing
special. But the movie I watched wasn't okay. It was GREAT. I'm one of
those people that usually stops a movie midway because I'm bored of it.
I didn't even want to get up because I was so into the movie.

The movie is basically about Kate who works for a advertising company.
Her boss basically says to her that she can't get this promotion
because she doesn't have a husband. So Kate and her friend created this
crazy plan to pretend that Kate is engaged to a guy she actually barely
knows. What happens after that is very exciting and you'll have to
watch the movie to find out.

Now I have heard a lot of people say that this movie was predictable.
During the entire movie, I had no idea what was going to happen. I
guess some people are just good at figuring out that kind of stuff?
Well this movie was very good. I recommend it to anyone. It's a great
Saturday night film. =)
