
I don't see why people are making so much noise against this movie. We
all know this isn't a history class. We all know this isn't realistic
in any way. It is NOT and it's NOT supposed to be! I've never heard
people say : "The musical version of The Three Musketeers with Gene
Kelly isn't faithful to the book". Frankly, who cares? If you want the
true story, the realistic story, get a book or a documentary. What we
have here is a true "popcorn movie", the kind of film you put in your
DVD player for a nice evening of "no thinking, just enjoying". This is
a Hollywood family movie, with 3 great stars, fancy costumes, beautiful
scenery and great music. To me, this is some of the best entertainment!
The kind of entertainment that cinema was invented for and that was so
successful in the 40s and 50s. It seems to me that people today just
can't enjoy that kind of entertainment anymore. And that is sad! So,
please, stop complaining and just enjoy for Pete's sake! (lol!)
<|_=00=_|>
Although many have criticised this film harshly, I believe it is
unnecessary. It is an adaptation of the myth of Arthur, and is
interesting. There is no magic, no Merlin :(, no Morgana, no sword in
the stone - in fact, no referral to Arthur's past. This obviously
changes the myth quite substantially. Merlin and the Sword were key
players in the typical Arthur legend, but this adaptation is good
because Morgana often confuses people.

It squashes what Camelot really is - an ideal - into about two and a
bit hours of movie. Richard Gere is charming as Lancelot, a roving
swordsman, and Lady Guinevere delivers an outstanding performance as
the young woman torn between two loves. Sean Connery, is as always,
fantastic. The best thing about this movie - to me - was that the love
story was sensible. Instead of Guinevere and Lancelot cheating on
Arthur, it becomes more of a love triangle, with deeper issues, as all
three love each other (in different ways.)

All this said, it isn't the greatest movie despite some excellent
acting - the movie had a weak plot and Maligant is not a very
convincing villain. But, if you're bored, home sick, or just want to
watch some light entertainment, by all means watch this film - just
don't expect Peter Jackson quality.
<|_=00=_|>
Mighty and pretty spectacle about Lancelot , King Arthur , Guinevere
and the famous romance in color magnificence . This spectacular
production from Jerry Zucker that gave you ¨Ghost and Airplane¨ among
others and only Columbia TriStar could bring it so magnificently to the
screen including a majestic soundtrack and splendid cinematography .
The classic story of romantic adventure come to life enriched in
glamorous color and with such great stars as Richard Gere (roving
spirit Lancelot), Julia Ormond (wonderful Guinevere), and of course the
great Sean Connery (upright Arthur) in the classic love triangle .
Restless Lancelot who lives by his wits falls in love with Guinevere,
who is due to be married to King Arthur . Meanwhile, a violent warlord
attempts to seize power from Arthur and his Knights of the Round Table
, as they set out in fight against the traitor Prince Malagant (Ben
Cross), a Sir Mordred-alike . Whilst in the meantime the bride
Guinevere and Sir Lancelot betray the king in their own way . Adding
the apparition of knights of the round table as Sir Kay (Christopher
Villiers) , Agravaine (Liam Cunningham) , Sir Patrise (Valentine Pelka)
and Sir Mador (McCormack) , though there doesn't turns up neither
Merlin , nor Morgana LeFay and all things supernatural are out of this
flick . This is an overwhelming tale with adventures, villainy,romance
and heroism in the grandeur of big screen although in television set is
lost its splendor .

This sweeping movie displays adventures , thrills , a romantic love
story , breathtaking battles and epic confrontation with a terrific
climax final for a mortal confrontation . Excellent main cast as an
attractive Richard Gere , a gorgeous Julia Ormond , and exceptional ,
as always , Sean Connery as Arthur , an aged and war-weary king who is
forced to go to battle one last time . Rousing battle scenes with
impressive production design by John Box , though is also used computer
generator . Excellent settings , the castles ,outdoors and tournaments
or jousts are well staged . Handsome story well written by William
Nicholson though contains some awkward narrative elements . Luscious
costumes and gowns specially suited for Julia Ormond . Colorful
wide-screen cinematography by stylish cameraman Adam Greenberg .
Emotive and sensational musical score by the classic Jerry Goldsmith .
However this epic film never takes off as it should despite of pomp and
circumstance showed . The motion picture is imaginatively directed by
Jerry Zucker working at the peak of his powers . Other movies on the
matter of legends of Arthur are the following : MGM's first wide-screen
film titled ¨Knights of the Round Table¨ 1953 ( by Richard Thorpe) ,
the musical ¨Camelot¨(Joshua Logan) , the fantastic ¨Excalibur¨(John
Boorman) and recently ¨King Arthur¨(Antoine Fuqua). The picture will
appeal to aficionados with chivalric ideals and historic movies fans ,
it is a fine production that will lose much on small television screen
. 

This spellbinding film is freely inspired on legends and supposedly
based on facts and famed personages . In spite of there aren't real
documents about legendary feats King Arthur , allegedly in VI century
he was King of Bretons and then were created in 12th century some
writings by notorious French authors who romanticized the legend as
Chretien of Troyes , Thomas Malory that wrote the Breton series with
their knights looking for the Holy Grail . Besides Godofredo of
Mormouth publicized in 1136 the History Regnum Britanniae and in XX
century John Steinbeck wrote about the events of King Arthur . The
story concerns when the Romans had withdrawn Britain and the Empire
dissolved into chaos,then rules the king Arthur, he achieved to
maintain the Christianity and civilization in the west of England
,though no exactly congruent with the VI century , time was presumed to
have lived but the film is developed in a high medieval panoply .
<|_=00=_|>
In 'First Knight' Connery has gentleness in his eyes, and embodies the
best aims of the founder of the Knights of the Round Table... Arthur
had his share of war... He had devoted his life to building a land of
peace and justice... He looks forward to quieter days... He asks
Guinevere to 'marry the king but to love the man.'

Julia Ormond glows and smolders to fine effect as the passionate
Guinevere who is confused about her feelings for the king and his first
knight... Guinevere tries to convince Arthur that her will is stronger
than her heart... She assures the king that she may look at him
differently but not with less love... 

Richard Gere lacks the heroic stance required for such part... He is
not colorful and flamboyant as Lancelot... He is simply Richard Gere...
He lives by the sword, and fights for money... He is introduced as a
wanderer, with no wealth, no home, no goals, just the passionate spirit
that drives him on... Lancelot had never dreamed of peace or justice or
knighthood... He rescues the Lady of Leonesse, and gives Arthur back
his life itself...

Ben Cross is arrogant as the powerful Prince Malagant, a former knight
of the Round Table, with hatred in his heart... He dares to kidnap a
lady who is almost a queen... Malagant doesn't care how many men he
loses so long as he wins... He offers the king what is not 'his' to
give.. 

In Jerry Zucker's film there's no Merlin, no malevolent Mordred, no
femme fatale, just the city of Camelot seen golden as ever, the knights
brave and loyal, the battles almost breathtaking in their ferocity, and
the scenic beauty so fresh, so pure, so green...
<|_=00=_|>
I have watched this movie countless times over the years and it never
fails to impress. Unlike lwjoslin, I don't purport myself as a
historian. But then, the story of Camelot, King Arthur, Guinevere, and
the rest are NOT historical figures in any true sense. They are all
fictional characters in a fictional setting.

So why write such a derisive review? To me, it seems clear that the
reviewer is incapable of simply viewing this as pure escapist fare. He
(or she, but I doubt it) most highly thinks very highly of himself. I
hope that people were not put off by his diatribe. He, and those who
may be influenced by his critique, need to remember that the entire
story is fiction. It is not based, in any way, on historical fact. To
make the comments he did, he must have forgotten that simple idea. It
is fiction, and the story has simply been embellished in a new way.

For me, this was a wonderful story of a wonderful time. It is a story
which has been told many times on film within the past century, and has
almost always been presented as a tragic event in an otherwise idyllic
time. Why does he insist on tarnishing this telling by citing
irrelevant facts? Do not be influenced by his trash. This is simply a
wonderful, new twist on an old story, and it's very well done.

Enjoy!
<|_=00=_|>
The Arthurian legend gets another reinterpretation in First Knight with
an impressive Sean Connery as King Arthur. The last time Connery was at
Camelot was his appearance as the Green Knight in Sword of the Valiant
back in 1984. Julia Ormond is a fetching and beautiful Guinevere any
knight worth his salt would saddle up and rescue her.

Richard Gere is Lancelot and try as he might he comes off as way too
American. This role calls for someone with the dash of an Errol Flynn
and I'm surprised no one ever cast Flynn in a Camelot tale. Gere is not
Errol Flynn, why was no one from across the pond cast? My first guess
would be that Gere was a box office name, but certainly Sean Connery in
the cast would take care of that.

Some elements of Knights Of The Round Table got into the plot here.
Lancelot who is kind of a medieval sword fighter for hire rescues the
evil Prince Malagant played by Ben Cross. He's the Mordred of this
story, not a believer in the ideals of Camelot by any means. His
philosophy is that Arthur is mistaken, men don't want brotherhood they
want leadership and he's just the guy to provide it. Cross is also
thinking in terms of real politik, Guinevere's domain of Lynness lies
adjacent to Camelot, good base for an invasion.

Gere joins the Round Table brotherhood in part because of sincerely
believing in the Arthurian ideals, but also to be close to Julia
Ormond. If you've seen any number of Camelot based films or have read
Thomas Malory you have some idea on how this will end. But in the case
of this particular film, not completely.

First Knight is not first by any means in Camelot films. But it's
enjoyable enough for the fans of the leads. And Ben Cross comes really
close to Stanley Baker's outstanding Mordred in Knights Of The Round
Table.
<|_=00=_|>

I am proud to say this movie is among my top 15 of all time, along with The
Godfather I and II, Shawshank, Amadeus and It's A Wonderful Life.  It is
not
a "chick flick", nor is it an empty-headed Richard Gere movie.  This movie
is a compelling love triangle between King Arthur, Guinevere and Lancelot,
while also being an exciting action-adventure involving a traitor to
Camelot
who threatens to destroy it literally and figuratively.

Sean Connery is perfectly cast and superb as King Arthur. Richard Gere is
often criticized as a poor choice for Lancelot because of his age, but come
on!  The whole story is a medieval fantasy.  If Gere is 8 or 10 years older
than he really should be in the movie, who cares?  We're not telling a true
story here.  He seems a little awkward a choice in the beginning but
ultimately gives a great, fantastic at times, performance.  Julia Ormond is
who really elevates this movie.  She is stunning and radiant as Guinevere,
the compassionate and brave Lady of Lioness.  Every medieval word and
mannerism she produces is believable.

Action fans will not be disappointed as this film has some amazing
sequences, especially when Richard Gere runs the gauntlet.  Zucker really
lets go in the battles, also.  Ben Cross plays a great villain.

The end of this movie is one of the more moving scenes I've ever seen.  The
performances by Connery, Ormond and Gere up to that point make what could
have been silly or forced seem touching and beautiful.

First Knight is a great and underrated film, not to be missed. It's a
simple
story that doesn't require a lot of analysis or understanding of folklore
and mythology to enjoy.  Give it a chance!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a regular Hollywood movie buff, and heavily rely on IMDb user
ratings, before watching any movie than relying on any other sources,
and I prefer to watch movies which are usually rated at least 7 out of
10.

So when I had a chance to see the movie First Knight, I was in a doubt
whether to watch this movie with a low rating of 5.6/10, even with
great actors like Sean Connery and Richard Gere, or to skip to some
other movie.

Luckily I decided to give it a shot, and oh what a movie it was. I
really love the medieval age and other historic movies, and this is a
gem added to the list. As reading some other reviews revealed earlier,
that this is an adaptation of Arthurian legend, and not a true story,
so I didn't bothered about the facts in the movie.

It scores really high in terms of acting, fight sequences, chemistry
between actors, and especially keeps you engrossed throughout the
movie. As a "movie", the story works well and has all the elements
balanced.

If you are a fan of historic movies, please don't trust the IMDb
ratings for this movie. Just sit and watch this movie on a nice
evening, and you won't repent it.
<|_=00=_|>

This film deserves recognition for what it is : a good interpretation of
part of a legend, with an excellent casting.

Who else but Sean Connery as an ageing and dignified King Arthur
?

Julia Ormond is a convincing and stunning princess with her graceful,
touching beauty; her looks are also refreshing and different from all the
ever-present boring blondes who get a part in anything because of their
hair
colour.

As for Richard Gere he is as handsome, charming and fearless as Camelot
would be.

This film is not for historians or purists nor does it claim to have a
documentary value. It has a sense of magic and the pace is well alternated
between romance and action. The emotion and intensity are present thanks to
the actors and the music, appropriate to all the scenes in the movie. That
is what matters.

Who cares about details such as a castle looking a bit dodgy, blue clothes
(we have seen much worse and tackier in cinema history) or the odd line or
fact. Never mind that. Just relax and escape : it is only entertainment at
the end of the day, not a time for History or Legend Reconstruction. You
are
better off going to a course or reading a book, do not rely on films to
educate you all the time.

Why comparing films ? Let's just say there are different approaches to a
subject, that is what makes the interest. Enjoy !


<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie!! Julia Ormand and Richard Gere don't disappoint in
this medieval action packed film. Love, Honor, Action, Suspense. I have
to watch this a couple of times a year, along with Princess Bride and
Braveheart. Julia gives an outstanding performance, every expression
she makes gives such depth to her character Guinevere. A Love story
surrounding the tale of the knights of the round table. There are also
plenty of swords and battles. Sean Connery rounds out the cast as King
Aurthur, a perfect match for his character. Richard Gere plays an
honest happy go lucky traveler that falls in love with Guinevere. This
is the only action film with wars and swords that my wife will watch
with me.
