

Firstly, let me say that the 1992 Batman cartoon series was the best Batman
cartoon series ever made. Just like the 1989 Batman movie it returned Batman
to his dark roots and was a fantastic series.

This was a great cartoon film. I haven't seen many great cartoon films but
this was one. It has an interesting storyline, an interesting villain (The
Phantasm), interesting subplot for Bruce Wayne and it's even got the
psychotic Joker as well.

The Phantasm is the most interesting cartoon villain in a long time and with
the Joker in this movie as well it makes for an exciting
movie.
If you want an intelligent and thought provoking cartoon film then this is
the one for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Out of all the Batman films so far, including all the live action
films, this one is still the only one to really explore the character
of Bruce Wayne/Batman and examine what drove him to becoming Batman.

It has a great story that flashes back to just before Bruce took up the
mantle of the bat and the woman he was involved with at the time, then
skips forward to an unknown assassin killing Gotham City's mobsters,
and we see how the 2 story's meet. The writing is top-notch, in no-way
predictable and the voice acting by Kevin Conroy as Batman and Mark
Hamill as the Joker truly amazing and bone-chillingly scary.

The only complaints is that the animation could have been better at
some points, but that is because it was originally meant to be a
straight to video release before Warner's saw what a masterpiece they
had created, and also it should have run for a little bit longer, but
oh well. If you haven't yet seen it i highly recommend it.
<|_=00=_|>
This is just one of the greatest animated movies of all time. No
exaggeration. From the almost poetic opening sequence, accompanied by a
great, great score till the very ending this movie will not disappoint.
A dark story, darker than in Batman Returns, but also an excellent
portrayal of Batman. The characters are nicely drawn (the female
character is very attractive looking) and the voices are perfect. The
origin of my favorite superhero has been overdone so many times and yet
the filmmakers easily succeed to bring new insight and depth to the man
that is the bat. I feel like I should write something more about it,
there's definitely a lot of stuff I forgot since seeing it, but this
was definitely an overlooked movie.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Ever since Phantasm came to the theaters, I was hoping that WB would put
another animated movie of that caliber on the big screen again.  Phantasm is
the essence of the true Batman.  No bogus sidekicks, the Gotham PD hunting
down Batman as if he were a threat, and a great interaction with Alfred.
For any die hard Batman fan this is truly a must.
<|_=00=_|>

Not only the best animated flick but one of the greatest Batman movies ever
made!

Alan Burnett, Paul Dini, and Bruce W. Timm are without doubt the best
creative team of any involved in a Batman film or/television show. In this
first animated film based on the animated series, the creative team does
both a prequel and a sequel to the show as it introduces the characters of
Andrea and Phantasm. Which both have an enormous impact on Bruce Wayne's
journey to becoming Batman. And the character of Andrea helps us understand
Bruce Wayne a little better. And know him a little better before becoming
Batman.

Inspired by Frank Miller's "Year One" comic and Tim Burton's 1989 Batman
film, Burnett/Dini/Timm create a magnificent Batman movie and a great movie
as well!

4(****)out of 4(****)stars

AN ANIMATED MASTERPIECE!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Mask of the Phantasm is one the best Batmans movies ever conceived. It
gives that dark brooding look of the batman TV show, throws in an
amazing original score, excellent voice acting, and a storyline that
encourages us to look at the Batman story in a more human and emotional
way. We have well established bad guys instead of just having a guy
escape from prison, we have strong inner-conflict dilemmas and very
well drawn action scenes. The only downside is that it could have been
longer, although the rather short (compared to most movies) length does
a good job of not making the flow feel dull or boring.

I highly suggest this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is incredibly cool.  It's the most accurate film portrayal of
Batman yet.  Not only is this movie well-animated, exciting, and
tautly-plotted, it's also refreshingly understated.  Unlike its live-action
cohorts (more specifically, the Schumacher duo), "Phantasm" does not rely on
splashy effects, ridiculous action sequences, and a hokey soundtrack to pull
it through.  As much as I love *Batman Returns,* I have to admit this is
probably the best-written of the Batman films.  And tell me you don't get
chills down your spine the first time Bruce Wayne puts on that cowl.  Awww
yeah!! 
<|_=00=_|>

This is easily the best interpretation of Batman I have seen in animated
form, and along with Tim Burton's sometimes unfairly maligned 'Batman
Returns', the best Batman movie to date. There has been a lot of speculation
in recent years about movie versions of Frank Miller's 'The Dark Knight
Returns' and/or 'Batman: Year One' (the latter being an obvious inspiration
for 'Mask Of The Phantasm'), I just hope that if either eventually get made
they are as good as this. The popular 1960s campy TV series was an absolute
hoot, but unfortunately has permanently coloured a lot of people's
expectations of Batman, a character generally a lot darker and more twisted
than most people expect. The animation in this movie is excellent, the
script isn't a masterpiece but it's very good, and the actors involved
include some great talents like Stacy Keach ('The Ninth Configuration'),
'Star Wars' Mark Hamill (as The Joker), John P. Ryan ('Runaway Train'), and
Roger Corman legend Dick Miller ('A Bucket Of Blood'). I think most fans of
Batman in any of his comic book incarnations over the years will enjoy this
one a lot. It's first rate.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie measures up to the first two Batman movies and surpasses the
last
two in quality and story telling. The animation was fantastic. It was dark
and mysterious, and that is way Batman should be done. Kevin Conroy's
voice
is perfect for Batman. Of course, when speaking of the voices for this
movie, Mark Hamill can not be ignored. He gives a great performance as the
menacing and hilarious Joker. My problem with this movie was the very
short
confrontation between Batman and the Phantasm. But the fight with the
Joker
makes up for it. This is a great Batman movie, even though this is
animated
and made for the kids.
<|_=00=_|>
Batman: Mask of the Phantasm stands on its own feet extremely well,
when at least compared to some of the lessor Batman animated movies
(Batman vs Dracula anyone?), and packs a good punch for fans so many
years later. The original series was in its own other region- taking
what more stories from the comics (if not overall style and atmosphere
like Burton or Nolan)- and was able to cover some fine ground with our
troubled hero the Dark Knight. This story tells of a character, not
ever quite named but called here as 'Phantasm', who is killing off some
of the high-rolling gangsters in town. Meanwhile, Bruce Wayne meets an
old love of his, Andrea, and old wounds are opened over a brief and
untimely ended engagement. And then there's also Andrea's father,
who... OK, not much to try and spoil here, lets just say at some point
the Joker gets involved, and everything jets into a 'laughing matter'.

Even as it was meant originally for TV, the directors Radomski and
Timm, through their writer collaborators, have applied a drawing style
that is distinctive amongst other cartoons of its ilk from the period:
very direct lines and sharp, jagged edges, lots of smoke at (specific)
times, the right blend of noir when it comes to revealing the caped
crusader when he enters a room in the dead of night. In a sense they're
stylists as are the (good) directors of the franchise live-action
films. Only here there's a catch: the running time is short (originally
the filmmakers thought it would be meant for TV before WB changed their
minds), so there's only so much time to dig into the dilemma Wayne is
caught in in the movie, where his identity is being cross-checked all
over as the killer of the gangsters, and then the personal connection
with Andrea and her father. Its some fairly significant probing into
the character, if not the deepest there's ever been.

But also, aside from the slightly darker impulses, Mask of the Phantasm
is a lot of fun, even up to a point if you didn't watch the series
much. Just seeing Hammil ham it up as the Joker is a blast, even though
he doesn't appear (almost, one might think, as a lark) until halfway
through the movie! But he (via the filmmakers trying their best to give
fans the best of the animated basics) supplies a hugely entertaining
climax, one which involves a big fight among an immense diorama of
Gotham City, rigged with explosives!
