
Wow, I am a little surprised by the rating. Only 5.3? Come on, this was
a good movie! Was it the best? No, but it's better than most I have
seen. If you were offered a million dollars, could the strength of your
relationship survive it? I really got into this movie, because I knew
how it would damage the couple's life. I think that they did deeply
love each other, but they mention how they were childhood sweethearts,
and kind of rushed into marriage. So, the point is, they've probably
never been able to question if they had feelings for anyone else.

Struggling financially is horrible. How far would you go to get some
money? People will go the distance and sometimes take a front seat with
the devil! "Indecent Proposal" goes all the way and shakes up human
emotions. I really felt that this was a very good movie and should be
watched. 5.3 is a little harsh, what was so bad about it? 

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Without doubt, the touchy theme makes this film worth watching.

However, your opinion of it will, very likely, be influenced by what your
own reaction to the 1 million dollar proposal would have been if you were
in
the same situation.

The film doesn't condemn anybody. It just reveals the fragility of a
relationship, despite the strong love that resides in it.

Does it really matters if this kind of indecent proposal is not a
realistic
scenario?
The millionaire willing to give a million dollars to spend one night with
someone else's gorgeous wife is a fantasy. The consequences are, however,
real.

The film uses an extravagant trigger to create a convincing emotional
crisis
that many couples will recognize.

The message is that at the end, true love wins; an attitude that I would
recommend to any loving pair, attained by jealousy and
resentment.


<|_=00=_|>
Adrian Lyne does what he does beautifully, whatever that is. The
gorgeous look of his films hide a serious lack of depth and a rather
Machiavellian knack for attracting us, the natives, with shiny pretty
things. We fall for it every time, or almost, we couldn't swallow
Lolita, oh no, he should have left Lolita alone and shouldn't have made
that outrageous statement, remember? "James Mason was all wrong in
Kubrick's version of the Nabokov novel" Do me a favor Mr. Lyne, stick
to "Flashdance" and suffer all the way to the bank. Sorry, I lost
myself for a moment. Where was I? Oh yes "Inidecent Proposal" Imagine
that premise in the hands of someone with serious intentions. A young
happy couple and the devil. The stranger who, incapable of bearing
goodness and happiness, decides to destroy it. Aware of their needs, he
presents a solution to their problems. He doesn't care for her, he
cares about their destruction. Juicy stuff. But, although Demi Moore
and Woody Harrelson are great as the perfect foil for the devil's
designs, the devil is Robert Redford. Mr. Redford is a personal hero of
mine, instead of resting in his laurels, Sundance, the environment,
Ordinary People, Quiz Show and so on and so on. But, I heard him say in
a Charlie Rose interview that he would like to play different
characters, dangerous, dark but nobody offered him that kind of part.
What about this one Bob? This was a part that could transform this
pretty candy floss into a classic. It needed guts. Where was the
darkness? I looked into Redford eyes and I saw Redford. I would have
gone with him for much less than a million bucks because in spite of
the fact that involved accepting an indecent proposal there was no
danger, really. He allows himself to be Redford all the way. The
indecency is in the title in the gimmick but not in the spirit. As a
result none of the promises are fulfilled and we're left with a pretty
inconsequential movie. Oh well, I hope Mr Lyne learned his lesson. One
never bad mouths James Mason, okay?
<|_=00=_|>

Indecent Proposal is not the worst film I've ever seen.  However, it is my
most hated film. 

Indecent Proposal could have been a very thought provoking look at the
struggle of love, fidelity and morality when money is offered, but in the
far from expert hands of Adrian Lyne it's become a biased look at
prostitution that's shot like an ice cream commercial.

Adrian Lyne is known for making films that involve some type of male to
female dilemma: 9 1/2 weeks, Fatal Attraction et al.  But, as in the two
mentioned films, he always seems to take the male point of view. Woody
Harrelson's character is the central character in this film.  After Demi
Moore sleeps with Robert Redford who does the film focus on?  Him.  We see
his despair, his pain, not hers.  She seems to take to prostitution like a
duck to orange sauce.  So what is Lyne saying? Is he saying its harder to
become a pimp than to become a prostitute?  That's the impression I'm
getting.  

Look at Demi's character before and after her night with Robert Redford.  In
all the scenes before she seems awkward and certainly not happy.  In all the
scenes after she seems to glow with confidence and contentment.  What is
Lyne saying here? Is it that money DOES buy happiness? 

Also, the casting is an expert exercise in marketing.  The concept of
sleeping with Robert Redford for a million dollars is definitely one of the
things that drew many women to this film.  I think many women would do it
for their taxi fair home and no complaints.  Demi and Woody are also
gorgeous enough to make it work.  Imagine if the couple were black, Hispanic
or any minority group and the rich man was some slobbish red neck - the film
take on a much darker tone altogether.

I can understand why so many women liked this film, but the chauvinistic
nature of this film is staring you right in the face.  I'd suggest people
watch the film again bearing in mind the points that I've
made.


<|_=00=_|>
David and Diana had been in love since college and married into a dream
life where both are happy and able to pursue their dreams together.
However they hit upon hard times when Diana's real estate work dries up
and soon the pair decide that the only option available to them is a
literal last throw of the dice with their last few thousand in Vegas.
Despite an early winning streak they end up worse than they started.
About to head off, Diana catches the eye of gambling billionaire John
Gage who uses her as a lucky charm to win another million or so.
Afterwards they get together to play some pool and Gage turns the
conversation to the idea of what money can and can't buy – specifically
offering the Murphy's a cool $1,000,000 for one night spent with Diana.

When this film came out, the basic concept was enough to give it lots
of free advertising by getting the nation asking itself "what would I
do?" and all the hype over that allowed the producers of the film to
avoid people finding out that there really wasn't much worth seeing
passed this question. It should have been so different though, because
it could have been a classic morality tale that went deep within the
characters to see what is there. However it doesn't really do this and
instead we are left with a rather vacuous affair that is given plenty
of gloss but is essentially lacking in interesting things to say. The
tensions between David and Diana never get beyond the level of strops
and it never even makes an attempt at moral debate.

The fact that the characters are so thin doesn't help either. David and
Diana are basic but the real failing is in Gage; he should be a rather
sinister figure who plays with people like he plays with his money but
instead he is just a twinkling eye and a sly smile – in fact, he is
Robert Redford. This is part of the problem because, although the
material is weak, the cast cannot do anything to improve the situation.
Redford is far too smooth and playboyish to really convince in the main
role – he cannot tap into any darkness or complexity and his failing is
just one of the film's failings. Moore doesn't help either with a basic
role where she doesn't seem to understand what her character is
supposed to be feeling and therefore cannot convince in many of her
scenes. Meanwhile Harrelson puffs and blows on cue but adds little. The
support cast features turns from Platt, Cassel, Connelly and Thornton
but aside from being recognisable faces they don't add much. Lyne
directs with typical glossy style but he has no clue how to get deeper
into the characters and story so instead just throws in lots of
exploitative but empty scenes in the hope of somehow emotionally
engaging his audience.

Overall this is not an awful film but it is so superficial and hollow
that it is just bland and glossy. It only is made worse when you think
of the potential it had to be a complex and insightful modern morally
piece. Those happy with the substance and complexity of a slushy music
video will enjoy it but the majority will leave it wondering what all
the fuss was about and how such an interesting concept was so
completely fouled up.
<|_=00=_|>
INDECENT PROPOSAL is a great example of a great premise for a movie -
Would you allow your wife to sleep with a complete stranger for one
million dollars ? and it's not too difficult to understand why this
movie was so talked about on its initial release . Well would you ? 

The one problem that the movie suffers from is that Robert Redford was
cast as John Gage , the middle aged billionaire who desires the company
of Demi Moore's character Diane Murphy . Robert Redford who aged in his
mid fifties looks about ten years younger and who still female fans to
this day . One can't help thinking that Adrian Lyne would have been far
better off exploiting the premise further by casting a much more
physically repulsive actor as Gage . Some defenders may claim that
Redford equals good box office and certainly this movie did superbly as
far as world wide receipt's go , but it's a movie whose main selling
point must be the simple central idea and would have perhaps ended up a
much better film . It's interesting to note that when women in their
late 30s to early 50s answer the question " Would you ? " they usually
end up replying " Robert Redford ! I'd go to bed with him for free " . 

INDECENT PROPOSAL isn't a great movie despite the great premise and I
found Lyne's directing style a bit too 1980s with a couple of scenes
that are a bit too pop video for my liking but despite not being the
greatest actors in the history of cinema both Moore and Woody Harrelson
do enough to make the audience feel for their characters who find
themselves in a dilemma . Yeah maybe it's Hollywood trash but it's
engaging Hollywood trash
<|_=00=_|>
Demi and Woody are married, but they're poor. They meet Robert Redford,
and he's REALLY rich. He takes a fancy to Demi, and since he's a
gambling man he makes the couple an "indecent proposal:" one million
dollars for a night with the little woman.

At this point you need watch no more of the film because you can put
the details together in your sleep. Of course Demi is going to accept
the offer. If she doesn't there's no first half of the movie. Of course
it will affect Demi and Woody's marriage. If it doesn't there's no
second half of the movie. And of course everything will turn out okay
by the time the credits roll. If it doesn't, there's no happy ending
for the sake of box office.

The absolute best thing you can say about INDECENT PROPOSAL is that
Demi Moore looks good in a black dress. As for the rest... The script
is incompetent, the direction amateurish, the performances negligible.
I suspect Redford, Moore, and Harrelson blush and change the subject
every time the film is mentioned. Do them--and more importantly
yourself--a favor. Unless some one offers you a million... Miss It!

Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer
<|_=00=_|>
SPOILERS THROUGHOUT:

Not good. The movie differed completely from the book(Not that the book
was exactly a classic but it really was very good.)

I guess Demi Moore was OK. Actually, I don't really remember to much
about her performance one way or the other. However the big
disappointment wasn't with Ms. Moore.

WHY did whoever did the rewrite decide to suddenly make the millionaire
have a heart? (I'm referring to him as "the millionaire" because he
also had a different name in the movie then the book version-just
another change.)

People who didn't read the book obviously won't know anything's
different but in the BOOK version this guy is much more ruthless as
well as complex overall. He is also fascinating. The fact that such a
big change was made in the movie alters the whole plot. It was almost
like seeing a completely different movie.

I know MANY movies vary widely from the books. But I also thought
Redford's character was a bit of a wimp. This ISN'T Redford's
fault(He's a great actor and could have played ruthless well) but
without those qualities he becomes just another dazzled man in love
hence the story becomes just another cliché love story involving 1
woman and 2 men. That wasn't really the point of the book.

This could have been a lot better. Even if I hadn't read the book
version I wouldn't have liked this all that much, but changing so much
around definitely takes it, for me, a few points down.
<|_=00=_|>

For me, one of the most memorable and poignant lines from a movie, is when
David brings the divorce papers to Dede at the auction and just before he
signs them he says to her, "I know now that people in love remember the
things they do to each other.  If they stay together, it's not because they
forget, but because they forgive."  

This movie explores what can happen to even the most rock-solid couples when
they allow money to make them do things they would never dream of doing
otherwise.  Somehow, when you're dealing with a monetary figure the size of
$1,000,000 it's easy to forget that what you're actually doing to get that
money is absolutely no different than what the girls on Sunset Boulevard are
doing.  For a much lower price yes, but it's still the exact same thing.  In
the movie, their love in the end was strong enough to overcome the damage
they'd caused each other by doing this heinous thing, but I don't know that
your average couple in real life could overcome it.  What they'd done would
always be between them.  

Powerful performances by Moore and Redford, but the best and most surprising
performance comes from Woody Harrelson.  I didn't know he had it in him to
show such a broad range of emotion.  Quite a departure from his bartender
role at Cheers!  I absolutely love the movie's very appropriate theme song,
"No Ordinary Love" by Sade.  

Great movie for everyone, but is an especially important message to be
obtained for those in love.   
<|_=00=_|>
Mind-numbingly boring, utterly predictable and in the end simply
laughable. That pretty much sums up the disaster that is Indecent
Proposal. Starting with a decent premise the whole thing just unravels
and becomes a complete mess. Basically the story boils down to the
question, "would you let your wife sleep with another man for one
million dollars?" Here of course the answer is yes because otherwise we
wouldn't have a movie. Quite frankly, we'd have been better off if we
didn't have a movie.

Our married (and financially troubled) couple are played by Woody
Harrelson and Demi Moore. They go to Vegas to get rich. Yeah, that'll
work. Anyhow, a billionaire, played by Robert Redford, takes a liking
to the wife and makes the million dollar offer. For one night with the
wife he will give them financial security. The aftermath of that one
night is what the movie is really all about. Unfortunately nothing in
that aftermath is the least bit entertaining. The script is so
predictable you can say the characters' lines before they do. The
performances leave much to be desired. Harrelson would be better off
sticking to comedies as this attempt at serious acting completely
misses the mark. Anguish is not something he seems capable of
portraying. And it is quite safe to say that Demi Moore will never have
to clear space in her home for any Academy Awards. Why is she a movie
star again? In a part that should be full of emotion she conveys none.
Only Redford escapes mostly unscathed. He's appropriately slimy yet
suave and clearly the best actor of the bunch. But he can't save this
film. Awful script, lousy acting, plodding pace, zero
entertainment...Indecent Proposal is downright awful.
