

In his career as a mobster, Benjamin Siegel acquired the nickname Bugsy, a
name he detested.  Barry Levinson's 1991 film, "Bugsy," never explains how
Siegel came to be known as Bugsy, but it does portray his annoyance at being
addressed as such.  Several folks get their faces smashed after using the
offending title, but though Bugsy, er Ben Siegel, is not above violence, he
is more concerned with self-improvement.  He repeats non-sensical phrases
meant to improve his diction, and applies cold creme to his face and
cucumber slices to his eyelids to promote a more youthful appearance.  And,
who knows, like his buddy George Raft, Bugsy, er Ben, thinks that maybe he
has what it takes to be a movie star.

Whether it's meant to report the truth or simply to inflate the legend,
"Bugsy," named best picture of 1991 by the Los Angeles Film Critics
Association, is a fascinating portrait of a superficial man, one for whom
money was "dirty paper" that could be acquired as easily as it could be
spent, and mug shots were shameful only if they didn't show off a tan.  As
played by Warren Beatty, Siegel's preoccupation with glamour and general
politeness come across more effectively than his occasional brutality, but
Beatty finds a proper fit all the same.  Also effective is Ben Kingsley as
Meyer Lansky, Annette Bening as Virginia Hill, the woman for whom Siegel
falls hard, Elliott Gould as a dim-witted and ill-fated friend, and, above
all else, Harvey Keitel as Mickey Cohen.  Less impressive is Joe Mantegna,
miscast as George Raft.  Mantegna is too soft in both voice and appearance
to accurately convey the street origins of the silver screen's coin flipping
tough guy, but this otherwise fine actor's poorly etched portrayal is too
minor a flaw to damage the movie.

Like Hitler, Siegel's insecurities led him to build monuments to his own
ego, as if intent on finding some kind of immortality.  For Siegel, the
monument was the Flamingo Hotel in the barren Nevada desert.  Siegel's
vision ultimately led to his death at the hands of his financiers who were
enraged at the escalating costs of his oasis in the desert, but it also, if
the film is to be believed, led to the birth of the gambling and
entertainment capital that Las Vegas would become.  There are those who
challenge this view, but, fantasy or fact, "Bugsy" is top-notch
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to say when I rented this golden-oldie which so happened to be
nominated for Best Picture at the 1991 Osars, I have to say, I wasn't
really expecting much. I heard mixed things about it, and the idea of
Warren Beatty playing a vicious mobster kind of seemed unbelievable to
me (he did a great job in 'Bonnie and Clyde' but that was a little
different.) In all honesty, I really found 'Bugsy' to not only be a
very entertaining and enjoyable film, but also very well-made and
Oscar-worthy one. Warren Beatty gives an unprecedented performance as
the tough mafioso, Bugsy Siegel, who first had the idea of putting
casinos in Las Vegas. Annette Bening in an equally brilliant
performance plays Bugsy's calculating goomar. The supporting cast is
very solid with strong performances from Elliot Gould, Joe Mantegna as
actor George Raft, and especially Ben Kingsley as the swift and smart
mobster with a heart of gold and Harvey Keital as the mean and ruthless
killer who becomes partners with Siegel to start up a hotel/casino.
Barry Levinson does a great job directing this period piece which is
true to the period (the 1940s), and the screenplay isn't half bad
either. Beatty, Keital and Kingsley picked up Oscar nods, along with
Levinson for Best Director and the wonderful Annette Bening was somehow
unfairly snubbed. If you want to see a cool mob picture that takes
place in the 40s, why don't you give 'Bugsy' a shot? It's worth it.
Grade: B+
<|_=00=_|>

A big elegant movie, beautiful in every sense of the word, a fascinating
story of the man who created Las Vegas and Warren Beatty is perfect in
this
movie. If you're not a huge fan of his, as I am not, you'll still
appreciate
the great talents of this star who is not necessarily known for his acting
prowess.
He is a joy to watch with the gorgeous Annette Bening Beatty. They have a
great chemistry and all the actors involved were fantastic, there were
many
oscar nominations for all aspects of this film, acting, costumes, best
film,
best director, but when I saw that that Elliott Gould was not nominated
for
his wonderfully moving performance as Harry Greenberg, I was very
surprised.
Maybe it was just too small of a role. But it's a movie to be savoured and
worth seeing on DVD, if anything just to appreciate the stunning
photography.
<|_=00=_|>

Barry Levinson's film 'Bugsy' should be considered one of the greatest
gangster movies ever made.  Combining a moving plot, first-class acting,
superb directing, and an award-worthy score, 'Bugsy' rises above both
period-piece movies and pointless gangster flicks.

The plot of the film follows the events in mobster Benjamin 'Bugsy'
Siegel's
life that culminated in both the founding of Las Vegas and his own death.
As the plot includes Siegel's relationship with Virginia Hill, it also
shows
his deteriorating relationship with his family (wife Esta and children)
and
associates (including Meyer Lansky and Charlie Luciano), and it also looks
at Siegel's fascination with becoming a celebrity.  Most prominently,
though, is his dream of creating something: that something which was the
hotel and casino Flamingo.  And it is this plot, which artfully switches
back and forth between Siegel's personal and business lives, that sets the
film upon a pedestal (so to speak).  It is this blending of personal and
professional which sets Bugsy apart from other gangsters by making him
human.  Yes, he may be a heartless killer, a faithless philanderer,
remorseless criminal, hopeless dreamer, but those very characteristics are
the same which make him more than the run-of-the-mill gangster.  The myth
dissolves as the man emerges; and the audience sympathizes with Siegel,
even
if they do not approve of him.

To say that the acting is excellent hardly does the actors justice.
Beatty
is a complex and intense Siegel, driven by his passions, weighted by his
faults, and, ultimately, just another flawed individual and not (as Siegel
once thought) indestructible.  Played by Bening, Virginia Hill is Siegel's
strong counterpoint whose own ambitious and self-interested exterior is
underscored by a caring and sincere interior.  Mickey Cohen is very
understated of character, sometimes communicating more than just his
words,
a feat performed flawlessly by Keitel.  Kingsley, as Meyer Lansky, is
touchingly caring of his friend Siegel, torn between their friendship and
his own professionalism.  And the rest of the supporting cast--including
Mantegna, Gould, Sarafian, and Graham--is talented, and each has an
irreplaceable role in the film.

Barry Levinson's directing makes the film all the more special.  The shots
and angles are all completely appropriate.  The style even seems to lend
itself to the feel of the era (with the help of great lighting and
costuming).  At times, the action moves staccato and sharp: all business.
And then the flow slows down to a more leisurely pace (like the era).  At
times, the directing is even elegant, as in the scene at Siegel's house
with
Virginia, where the camera pans to show the two's silhouettes on a
projection screen; or during their love scene, where the time progresses
as
the camera follows the trail of clothing to the bed, when it has become
morning; or two of the final scenes outside the Flamingo (one of Siegel
waiting for patrons who do not arrive, the other of he and Virginia united
for a final time) as the rain pours down from a night sky.  Levinson
covers
a tremendous amount of ground (due to the numerous sub-plots) while
keeping
the momentum.  And the score of the film, (deserving more awards than it
received) of 1940's songs (including 'Why Don't You Do Right (Get Me Some
Money Too!)' and 'Candy')and Ennio Morricone's original compositions, not
only sets the tone, but the time period.  'For Her, For Him' and 'Act of
Faith' in particular are simply captivating, but the entire score is truly
a
masterpiece.

For such reasons, 'Bugsy' is a pleasure to watch over again, and is
destined
to become a classic.
<|_=00=_|>

I personally thought "Bugsy" was the best film of 1991 and should have
beaten "The Silence of the Lambs" for Best Picture at the Academy Awards.
The movie looks great, has great acting all around and Barry Levinson is in
top form. Best of all, "Bugsy" avoids most, if not all, cliches that are
usually found in gangster movies. If you want a good solid film about a
real
life crime figure, this is the one. If you want hackneyed, worn out cliches
that go nowhere and leave a feeling of unsatisfaction, I would recommend
"Mobsters" or "Billy Bathgate".
<|_=00=_|>

Highly emotional and vastly outstanding film from director Barry Levinson
(Oscar-nominated) follows the true start of Las Vegas as a gambling mecca
due to the role of the titled character (Warren Beatty in an Oscar-nominated
performance and arguably his finest cinematic turn). The gangster is bad
news in the mid-1930s in New York. He takes a business trip to Los Angeles
and quickly falls in love with the weather, the surroundings and of course a
beautiful woman who is little more than a high-class prostitute (Annette
Bening). His wife and kids will just have to take a backseat now to his
new-found life. One day Beatty takes a long road trip to a small desert town
in Nevada called Las Vegas with Bening and West Coast mafia syndicate Harvey
Keitel (Oscar-nominated) to check on a nickel-and-dime casino and something
happens. Beatty gets a vision of something, something extraordinary. This is
the beginning of an idea to build the kind of gambling facility we think
about today. Beatty's dedication and want leads to the creation of The
Flamingo, but it comes at an astronomically high personal, economic and
spiritual cost. Beatty may lose it all, but then again he may do something
truly unforgettable. "Bugsy" is one of those productions that dominates due
to its unforgettable elements. This is an amazing love story that is
heart-warming, heart-breaking and heart-wrenching all at the same time.
Based on actual events, the film-makers took a few liberties in the
production but the majority of the running time is pretty accurate as to
what actually took place in real life. Supporting actors Ben Kingsley
(Oscar-nominated), Joe Mantegna and Elliott Gould all do good work in small,
well-calculated roles. "Bugsy" is one of the best films of the 1990s. It
stood tall in 1991 as it had more Oscar nominations than any other movie
that year. Beatty and Bening's chemistry is exceptional and their love for
each other in real life just seems to glisten brightly on the silver screen.
An excellent production that should be discussed and praised much more than
it is. 5 stars out of 5.    
<|_=00=_|>
After staying at the Las Vegas Flamingo, and spending a substantial
amount of time browsing through the artifacts of old Vegas at the Las
Vegas History Museum at the Tropicana Hotel, this is one movie I wanted
to watch when I got back. Not that I'm a fan of Warren Beatty (I only
watched his Dick Tracy movie), but I'm interested in the Hollywood
retelling of Benjamin "Bugsy" Siegel's story.

For the uninitiated, Siegel was a gangster, who loves his family, but
is as horny as he can get. He falls in love with the Hollywood glamour
and life, and comes to know his new mistress, a starlet called Virginia
Hill (Annette Bening), who's known in some circles as the village
bicycle - everyone's had a ride.

Seigel shares a love-hate relationship with Hill, and it is always
bumpy. And little does he know that this love will ultimately cause his
downfall and demise. Love aside, there's also plenty of scenes that
shows Siegel's violent nature (hey, he's a gangster), and scenes too
that highlights his disregard for money - he spends lavishly. There's a
subplot about Mussolini too, which highlights Seigel's eccentricity.

But he does have a vision, and that was having the foresight of
predicting how Las Vegas would become as important as can be, with the
erection of the Hoover Dam to provide it with electricity. He's the one
with the vision of creating something in the middle of the desert,
which we know today as the Strip, with casinos, hotels, and
entertainment from class acts. His vision started off as The Flamingo
hotel, which over blew its budget by almost 5 million dollars (at that
time). Of course, when you're dealing with mob money, you'd better be
careful, as they become impatient with his grander vision of
controlling a casino, city, state, and ultimately having the power to
influence presidential elections.

Directed by Barry Levinson, Bugsy is the tale of that one man's vision.
It's well acted, with a superb supporting cast. Keeping true to the
finale, watch out for that flying eye too. And yes, Beatty and Bening
met on set, and married thereafter.

Sadly, this Code 1 DVD contains no special extras.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed watching this movie. Of course, I like all the actors - not
the least of which are Beatty and Benning.

Possible Spoilers: I have a few criticisms. 1) It was too long. It
could definitely have been shorter and better. 2) I couldn't identify
with why Benning's character went ballistic as often as she did. There
was so little provocation when she did and yet, other times, there was
so much more reason she should have, but she didn't. That was a glaring
inconsistency. 3) I thought the lack of better "hands on" oversight by
the mob was not believable. There is simply no way on earth a $1M
investment would have ended up costing $6M without every penny being
justified. The fact that she made off with $2M is beyond belief. Also,
why on earth would they have let her live (if not before), then AFTER
they took care of Beatty's character. They would have tortured her to
get the money back. 4) How did Beatty get out of the murder wrap?? As I
recall, one minute he is in jail with no bail and the next minute he is
out prancing around. I may have missed something, but if I did it is
the movie's fault because it was too nebulous.

Despite those objections, I wanted to know what was going to happen
next. I think the main positive of the movie was that this was a true
story about a flamboyant, charismatic, dreamer. And, not just any
dreamer, but the person whose SINGLE, unilateral, dream eventually
became one of the greatest American success stories of all time. He
paid the ultimate price for his dream, but his dream ultimately came
true - in fact to a much greater degree than he even imagined.

Typical gangster movie in some ways - not up to the level of the
Godfather or Goodfellas or others, but stylish and enjoyable to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Winner of two Oscars (and nominated for many more), Bugsy is a tour DE
force in the area of biography on film. It is the definitive film of
it's genre for the 1990s and on.I love the biographical film genre for
many reasons. First of all, they offer a glimpse of what life was for
people we all know, and in many cases wish we could be. Secondly, most
of the time you know the outcome of the story. The main character dies,
makes millions, goes to jail etc. With out the pressure of guessing the
ending, the viewer is free to concentrate on the film as a whole, and
thus, enjoy it totally. Bugsy Seigel's world holds film appeal for two
reasons. First, and most obvious, is that he was a gangster. Gangster
movies have held the attention of the movie going public since the
1920s. Secondly,he was in Hollywood in the 1940's, possibly the most
glamorous decade Tinseltown ever saw.Director Barry Levinson managed to
take these two very different, yet very intoxicating styles and stories
to create a heady blend that produced what may be the best biopic made.
Levinson's and writer James Toback's genius was in the decision to
forgo the usual hodgepodge of life events, in favor of making what is
essentially a love story.The focus of the film is essentially the
tempestuous love affair between Siegel and Virginia Hill, with the
secondary plot being the creation of Vegas as we know it today from
Benny's vision of the Flamingo.The best acting by far was by Benning.
She was so into her character that if I had not known before hand who
she was, I would never had known. Her sassy,passionate and jealous
personality creates fireworks on the screen. It is easy to see that
this is where Benning and Beatty met and fell in love. They have a
chemistry that I have not seen equaled since Katharine Hepburn and
Spencer Tracy were still making movies. Beatty's performance is stellar
as well,he seems at ease in the personification of the first celebrity
gangster, and is completely believable in his desperation near the end.
All the supporting players, Keitel, Kingsley and Gould especially were
amazing as the famous crime figures they portrayed. My one complaint on
the casting side is Joe Montagna's George Raft. Why he is continually
allowed to appear as and thus insult the memory of famous screen
personalities is beyond me. (All though he is not nearly as horrible
here as he was as Dean Martin in "The Rat Pack"). To compliment the
intense fireworks both romantic and violent, a bright visual style is
incorporated. The sleek look is total 1940's, and the cinematography is
genius (notably the shot with Benny and Virginia's first kiss.)
Everything meshes together beautifully to create a gem among films.
This is a film about a man of extreme vision and passion, and it is a
must to see if only to appreciate the beauty of a job well done.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an exciting tale of how Bugsy Siegel started Las Vegas . As New
York gangster Ben 'Bugsy' Siegel takes a brief business trip to Los
Angeles. A violent and tough Siegel (Warren Beatty) doesn't hesitate to
kill or maim anyone crossing him . Bugsy meets George Raft (Joe
Mantegna) while is making a film (it is ¨Manpower¨ which co-starred
Edward G. Robinson) and the scene being shot where George gets into a
bar fight and hands a broken chair to an actress really does appear in
the actual movie . In L.A. the life , the motion pictures , and most of
all a second-range actress named Virginia Hill (Annette Bening) detain
him while his wife (Wendy Phillips) wait back home . Then a journey to
a run-down gambling joint at a spot in the desert gives him his big
idea , the Hotel Flamingo construction .

Enjoyable film based on the famous mobster that contains drama , real
events , thrills and lots of violence . The picture relies heavily on
the relationship between Bugsy and his lover Virginia Hill , and about
the luxurious Hotel Flamingo building in Las Vegas . Nice acting from
protagonist duo as Warren Beatty playing the sharp-dressing womaniser
with a foul temper and Annete Bening as the strong-willed actress .
After working on this film, Warren Beatty and Annette Bening were
married . They'd met several years before when she auditioned for
another Beatty production ; they met again when she was seriously
considered for the role of Tess Trueheart in Dick Tracy . This is one
of three movies released in 1991 that featured Bugsy Siegel as a
character , the other two were ¨The Marrying Man¨ and ¨Mobsters¨ . Good
production design by Dennis Gassner , most of the Las Vegas scenes of
the Flamingo construction were filmed near Palm Desert and La Quinta,
California, where a full-sized replica of the Flamingo was built .
Emotive and sensitive musical score by the great Ennio Morricone .
Colorful and evocative cinematography by Allen Daviau . The picture was
professionally directed by Barry Levinson .

The flick was well based on real deeds , these are the followings :
During adolescence, Siegel befriended Meyer Lansky (Ben Kingsley) , who
was forming a small crew whose criminal activities expanded to include
gambling and car theft . In 1930, Lansky and Siegel built close ties to
Charles "Lucky" Luciano and Frank Costello (Caridi), both future bosses
of the Genovese (Carrara) crime family. Bootlegger Siegel was also
associated with Albert "Mad Hatter" Anastasia. Siegel was also heavily
involved in bootlegging operations in various cities . During the
so-called Castellammarese War in 1930-1931, they fought the gang of Sal
Maranzano ; Siegel reputedly had a hand in Maranzano's murder and later
in the formation of Murder , Inc . Lansky and Siegel assisted with
Luciano's (Bill Graham) brief alliance with Dutch Schultz and killed
rival loan sharks Amberg . In 1937, the East Coast mob sent Siegel to
California to develop syndicate gambling rackets with Los Angeles
mobster Jack Dragna (Richard C Sarafian) . Once in L.A. , Siegel
recruited gang boss Mickey Cohen (Harvey Keitel) as his lieutenant.
Siegel used syndicate money to set up a national wire service to help
the East Coast mob quicken their returns . With the aid of actor friend
George Raft (Joe Mantegna) , Siegel gained entry into Hollywood's inner
circle . Siegel soon started an affair with Virginia Hill . The
Alabama-born Hill lived in a mansion in Beverly Hills that she rented
from Metropolitan Opera baritone Lawrence Tibbett . Siegel, Whitey
Krakow, and two other gang members killed Harry "Big Greenie" Greenberg
(Elliot Gould) . Greenberg had become a police informant, and Louis
"Lepke" Buchalter, boss of Murder, Inc., ordered his killing. Siegel
was arrested and tried for the Greenberg murder. Whitey Krakower was
killed before he could face trial. Siegel was acquitted on the
Greenberg murder, but his reputation was in ruins.
