
Yes, why? Among the filmmakers that came out in the 80's and 90's Gus
Van Sant is one of my idols. There are others, a few. Steven Sodebergh,
PT Anderson, Tim Hunter, Danny Boyle, Martin Donovan, Harmony Korine,
Wes Anderson. Idiosyncratic, infuriating some times, but consistent,
surprising, unpredictable. Their names make me switch on the TV, go to
a video store or even buy a ticket and go to a movie theater. Van
Sant's "Psycho" however, gives me pause. Why? I wonder. A shot by shot
massacre of one of the perennial classics. The color was jarring, the
performances, atrocious. What was Vince Vaughn doing? Was it a parody?
A bad joke? What the hell was it? Anne Heche as Janet Leigh? Who
dressed her? Viggo Mortensen with a cowboy hat. Viggo is a superb actor
but in this case he couldn't make us forget John Gavin and if Julianne
Moore had been introduced to the world through this performance there
wouldn't have been any "The Hours" for her, "The Minutes" maybe. So,
here I am, bad mouthing the work of one of my idols. The crashing
question remains: Why, Mr. Van Sant? Maybe, in the words of President
Clinton, because he could. I'm afraid that's no excuse.
<|_=00=_|>
Hitchcock's original classic benefited tremendously not only from the
performance of, but also the 'look' of Anthony Perkins. He projected a
kind of clean-cut innocence: a young teen-idol type of persona. He was
not an actor who had portrayed baddies before this; nor was he
physically suited to the role of what the public might have imagined a
psychopath to look like, especially in the 50's when this
ultra-chilling aspect of mental illness (split personality psychosis)
was relatively unexplored in film. Which is exactly why the casting of
him as Norman Bates was a slice of true Hitchcockian genius. Audiences
were taken by surprise to put it mildly.

That's why this re-make does not work, even a little bit, in spite of
trying to be an exact copy. Whereas Anthony Perkins looked like someone
you would never think of as being a serial killer, Vince Vaughn is
easily imaginable as one. He lacks the frail look of Perkins and his
acting chops are clearly inferior as well, at least in this role
(honestly - has there ever been an actor who could convey nervousness
as genuinely as Anthony Perkins?). While it was a pointless re-make to
begin with, the miscasting of the story's most important character
sucks this film down completely.

As a side note, I feel that Hollywood's propensity for re-making great
movies because 'young' people refuse to watch anything that's not
filmed in color not only stinks to high heaven of corporate greed but
is exceptionally disrespectful to the original work. As for viewers who
can't watch black and white - it's their loss. Hopefully they'll mature
sometime in the future and no longer require shiny colours to hold
their attention. When they do they'll discover that sometimes black and
white works far better. With the background muted, the story and
performances are that much more front and center. And in many cases the
mood or atmosphere created through black and white cinematography is
just not attainable in colour.
<|_=00=_|>
This is, per se, an above average film but why in the name of Bog was
it made? It's impossible to treat it as a thing unto itself because it
is an almost shot-for-shot remake of an Alfred Hitchcock classic of
1960. You can't watch it without the 1960 film nudging into your
consciousness.

What does the word "credit" mean? How can we credit Van Sandt and his
associates with anything except deciding to use different actors,
slightly different sets, and color?

Anne Heche is attractive but lacks Janet Leigh's stolid determination
to become a respectable middle-class woman. And Heche is younger than
Leigh, who brought to her fruitless attempt to marry and settle down,
the desperation of a woman facing forty. And Heche doesn't project
anxiety the way Leigh did. The scene with the CHP officer looking in
her car window illustrates the weakness in the role. In the original,
the officer asks, "Is there something wrong?" Leigh: "Of course not. Am
I acting as if something were wrong?" The officer hesitates before
replying: "Well, frankly, yes." That exchange is omitted from the
remake for the simple reason that Heche isn't nervous enough.

The worst change, without a doubt, is the substitution of Vince Vaughn
for Anthony Perkins. It may not be Vaughn's fault. Who could match
Perkins in the role? Perkins is twitchy, bird-like, long-necked,
cloaked in an externally charming exterior that masks an inner vacuum.
His every move (eating candy corn, with his adam's apple bobbing) and
every utterance, the faint laugh, the arid chuckle, is spot on. He just
can't be improved upon. Vaughn brings to the role the presence of a
short-haired beefy guy who was just discharged as a Lance Corporal from
the U. S. Army. To suggest his psychosis all he can do is superimpose a
maniacal giggle on top of what appears otherwise a perfectly normal
Norman in speech and manner. (Unlike the original Norman, Vaughn
doesn't even stumble over the word "fallacy" because it resembles
"phallus".) He could be just hanging around the motel waiting to hear
about his application for a football scholarship to UCLA.

The direction deserves a few comments. I don't see what it adds to the
story when we see Norman masturbating while peeping in on Anne Heche. I
don't OBJECT to it. I wonder why it's there, just as I wonder why the
rest of the movie is there.

And, I suppose in order to impress us with how much color adds to the
visual experience, Van Sant seems to have missed a bit of Hitchcock's
more subtle stuff. Heche is given underwear of all different colors --
green, pink, orange, and -- mango? Is that a color? If so, what the
hell color is it? Never mind. The point is that in the original, when
the traveling camera first peeks through the window of the Phoenix
hotel it captures Janet Leigh in bed wearing a pure white half slip and
a white bra. Later, after she has stolen the money, we see her in her
underwear again -- this time both her slip and bra are black. Tis a
small thing, but Hitch's own.

At that, the idea of shooting in color might not have been bad except
that the black-and-white shooting of the original was superb. The color
and odd lighting effects in this version turn the ordinary, dull, and
subliminally ominous motel into something that looks like it belongs in
the seedier part of Las Vegas.

Most of all, the 1960 film was shocking in more ways than one. I can
remember seeing it in a drive-in in San Diego and staring aghast at the
screen when it became clear that the central character was actually
DEAD -- half-way through the movie! Nothing like it had ever been done
before.

That murder in the shower, in both movies, was a big improvement over
Robert Bloch's original novel, by the way, in which the author writes
something like, "The murderer then entered the bathroom and cut off her
head with a knife." I'm not making that up. Well, not entirely. Even
here, Van Sant's movie gives us excess. There is more blood and more
bare flesh. And where Hitchcock closed in first on the blood circling
the bathtub drain and dissolved to Marian's blankly open eye, then
pulled the camera back slowly to reveal her face, he rotated his camera
from a slight tilt to the proper vertical, giving the viewer a sense of
not just disbelief at the murder, but a dizzying disbelief. Van Sant
doesn't tilt his camera a delicate 10 or 20 degrees as Hitchcock did.
He practically twirls it on its axis.

It won't do to call this a bow to Hitchcock because it's not. It's a
pecuniary plundering of Hitchcock's material (already ripped off in
"Psycho" I, II, III, IV, and "Psycho: The Beginning Years", and "Come
Into My Parlor: Mrs. Bates' Revenge," and "Hand Me That Knife, Would
You?: The TRUE story of Norman Bates.") A rehashing of and grinding
away at truly original stuff, a crumenal act if not a criminal one. And
that's not to mention the many homages in other films, especially the
French, such as the notorious "ocean of boredom" scenes between Marcel
Brulee and Jeanne Gateau in the much-admired "La Mere de la Nuit."
(Maybe I'd better add that that last sentence is a terrible attempt at
a parody of academic critics. And when a chicken's guts grind corn,
it's a "crumenal" act. I won't go on except to say these gags, shabby
as they are, are more fun than the movie.)

So who was it made for? I'd have to guess. Kids who are too young to
know about the original and who don't like movies in black and white?
Kids who are hoping to see another ordinary slasher movie? Chimpanzees?
<|_=00=_|>
19 years after the original shock of seeing one of the great Hitchcock
classics massacred by one of the greatest living directors, I sat to
watch it again. Surprise, surprise. Gus Van Sant's daring attempt could
have been another masterpiece if the casting of Norman Bates, in
particular, had been more visionary and less opportunistic. Imagine
what a break for an actor to re-invent that iconic character. Imagine
what Heath Ledger, Billy Crudup, Ryan Gosling or Guy Pearce could have
done with it. I'm sure that if you had been riveted rather than
embarrassed by that characterization, if Vince Vaughn was more of a
serious actor who understood the responsibility of his endeavor Van
Sant's Psycho would have been a triumph.
<|_=00=_|>
Marion Crane steals $400,000 and is escaping to meet her boyfriend.
When she gets tired during a stormy night she stops at the Bates motel.
When she goes missing her sister, boyfriend and a private detective
start to look for her. However the Bates motel run by Norman and his
mother is a place of many secrets.

Remakes are regular things nowadays, but carbon copies are rare. This
is a lift in terms of dialogue, shots almost everything at times. The
big question is why? As a film in its own right it's not terrible but
comparing it to the original it literally pales in comparison (despite
the colour!). Why did we need this – sure on some level it may reach
those who haven't seen the original and don't want to watch an 'old'
film. But really – why should we indulge the multiplexers who refuse to
watch anything made before 1991?

It's not bad – it's poor a poor relation of the original. In the UK we
often get 50th anniversary etc re-releases of old films nationwide
(admittedly not in all cinemas), in fact Psycho was out a few years
ago. So the idea that a cheap copy is good because it'll help open it
up to new audiences.

The cast are all OK – until you watch the original. Then Vaughn stands
out as doing a poor imitation, Heche is nowhere near Leigh and Julianne
Moore has too much 'strong woman' baggage from other roles to do well.
Admittedly the all-star cast gives weight to the roles that were
relatively minor – Macy, Mortensen, Forster, James LeGros, Philip Baker
Hall etc – although really the question is why they all queued up to be
in this toss!

Overall it's so-so as a film. However when you compare it to the
original it's really a poor show and, because it's a carbon copy, you
can't help but compare it line for line, scene for scene, actor for
actor.
<|_=00=_|>
This is easily the worst remake in film history. I have never
understood the idea of a remake at all. If a film, like Psycho, is so
good to start with why on earth do you want to try and improve on it?
If you insist on tampering with perfection, why then do you have to try
to recreate it in it's whole? There is nothing original here. Gus Van
Sant put nothing of himself into this film. They say imitation is the
highest form of flattery, but this is ridiculous. There are a lot of
sides to a character as complex as Norman Bates, and I suspect that
Vaughn may have wanted to explore them. Instead Van Sant forced him
into sticking to a cheap imitation of Anthony Perkins. Perkins turned
in a performance that lead to one of the most memorable characters in
film history and it would have been impossible for any actor, no matter
how good to recreate that. The rest of the characters are stuck just as
tight to similarly wooden imitations of the originals. It is almost
painful to watch very talented actors (namely William H Macy) have that
talent stifled. In the end, Gus Van Sant set out to pay homage to a
great film. Instead he cheapened it, and created a movie that is not
worthy of late night cable.
<|_=00=_|>

No matter what other people have said you can't review this movie without
comparing it to the original, if it existed on it's own it would be a 2-3
out of 5 film but it is a remake of a 4-5 out of 5 film and so has
standards
to live up to and we need to see if it reached those standards. If the
film
was a re-working or, as in Planet of the Apes, a re-imagining of the
original you would be able to look at the film in it's own right, only
referencing the original. Imagine it this way, if someone took the model
in
the 'Mona Lisa', posed her in a different way, and painted her you could
only compare the framing,concept etc to the original but if someone just
repainted her in the position of the original you would have to compare it
totally.

That said this film doesn't just fail to be as good as the original it
fails
spectacularly, like it or not the original was one of the best movies ever
made, the shower scene will never be forgotten, the remake was meant to be
a
celebration of Hitchcock but ended up actually degrading him and his
master
work.

The degrading aspects of this picture were Vince Vaughn and Anne Heche.
It's
nothing to do with wether they acted better or not it's that the
relationship between Norman and Marion in the original was really quite
innocent, Norman didn't really understand sex, he had hardly any contact
with the outside world and when he meets beautiful Marion and watches her
change you feel that he is partly doing it from fascination as he doesn't
really understand sex and his attraction to her,this makes Norman
sympathetic and almost an anti-hero, you are on his side because he
doesn't
fully understand the world and is constantly fighting with himself and his
'Mother'. In the remake that whole dynamic is gone, I must admit to Janet
Leigh not being my type but she is very attractive and you can see that,
Anne Heche is really unattractive and so Norman finding 'her' Marion
attractive is unbelievable if you add that to Vince Vaughn's Norman
masturbating whilst looking at her and you get a Norman that is just
waiting
for a chance to jack off at any naked woman no matter what she looks like,
who you feel absolutely no sympathy for, they further destroy Norman's
innocent nature by putting the porno mags in his room. It destroys a
character that we have come to like and feel sorry for, it's like
re-making
'It's a wonderful life' and having the main character a pimp, totally
degrading.

The only other character that I had problems with was Rita Wilson as
Caroline, Marion's workmate. In the original when Pat Hitchcock says the
line 'he must have noticed my wedding ring' it elicits a response of
laughter as she is absolutely kidding herself, when Rita says it it just
seems plausible as there really isn't any other reason why any man would
flirt with Anne Heche over her.

I'll admit that I am very biased, the original 'Psycho' is my favorite
film
of all time, had the film been a reworking, with a different angle, then
you
could have turned these characters on their heads and it would have been
perfectly acceptable.

Hitch famously thaught the film would be too gory in colour and made it in
black and white to lessen it. This also made the film more atmospheric and
frightening in it's own way and it gave it a beauty that could never be
captured in colour and it is a sad statement about how movies are
de-sensetising the public that people have said how the shower scene was
more frightening in colour. (n.b before people think 'he can't spell'
remember I'm from England and we spell it colour)

A remake should be just that, re made, this is a forgery, a complete copy
and a very bad one at that. I could go on comparing but there is no point,
almost everything is superior in the original. The only one thing that is
better is the performance of Viggo Mortensen as Sam Loomis, John Gavin was
very flat in the original (Hitch called him 'The Stiff' behind his back)
and
Mortensen gives a more believable if less likeable performance. William H.
Macy and Julianne Moore are the only other actors that hold up to the
originals.

Overall a movie that should be labeled 'Expensive Embarrassing Failed
Experiment. Only view if comparing to original or if original is unknown
to
you. But view original too' The movie would have got a 3 out of 5 if it
were
original or a reworking but as it is 0.5 out of 5 (for Macy, Moore and
Mortensen) 
<|_=00=_|>

First of all: To remake a Hitchcock movie is a really bad idea. Maybe if you
make another adaption of the idea behind the movie or something like this,
but to remake shot for shot is really a waste of time. This makes the movie
bad enough, but the director added some lousy actors to make this movie
really a stinker: Anne Heche will make you scream in pain! First of all she
looks totally unattractive with her ultra-short hair, her odd mimicks and
odd way of dressing in this movie. The actor who play Norman only gets on
ones nerve with his unbearable nervous ticks. The only good actor was the
guy who played Marions boyfriend (Vigor Mortensen I think was his name): he
is really hot-looking, altough his hairstyle is somehow unfitting. The
shower scene is simply boring, but the relief to see Heches last scene in
the movie is quite big. That they where to lazy to compose a new score and
just revamped the old one which only clashes with the new images, is also
quite ridiculous in my opinion. Avoid it, watch the original.

<|_=00=_|>
Well, I have to agree with the critics on this one, who all said "leave
it alone." Why they had to make this re-make of the 1960 "Psycho," I
don't know. My guess is they wanted to reach a new audience and thought
color and modern-day actors were the answer, since those were the main
changes. The dialog was the same and the story the same.

On one hand, I applaud them for not making this over with a lot of
profanity and nudity and making it a sleazy film. Yet, if they were
going to keep everything the same, why bother when you weren't going to
improve on Tony Perkins, Janet Leigh and the original cast?

Did they honestly think Vince Vaughn was going to be as good or better
than Perkins? Are you kidding? Ann Heche, with her short
mannish-haircut, is going to be better than Leigh? I don't think so!

Yes, the colors were pretty in here but it's the black-and-white
photography that helped make the 1960 version so creepy to begin with.
It's perfect for the story, not a bunch of greens and pinks! Once
again, I guess the filmmakers were banking on an audience that never
saw the original.

This was just a stupid project that never should have gotten off the
ground.
<|_=00=_|>
I know curiosity killed the cat, but I simply had to see the remake of
Psycho, especially after being on such a Hitchcok journey recently and
knowing his work. I've watched the original Psycho though since I was a
kid, I knew how to respect it and not only that, it was an excellent
movie! One of the best, in fact! The first thing I said when I heard
about the remake was "How do you remake perfection?". I stuck to that
as well, but I think I have a more open mind now and figured maybe it
was a way of introducing Psycho to a new generation.

But this turned into a total insult and slap to the face of the
original Psycho. I know this has been said, but I watched the making of
this film, and the director was like "Oh, I just want to update it and
shoot each scene shot by shot like the original"... what's the friggin'
point?! OK, but I want to judge this movie on it's own, despite it's
insulting blows the original. I mean, the acting wasn't up to par, but
honestly, it looked like the actors just watched the original and just
memorized the lines from there and made it their crappy own.

Watching the making of this film, I wanted to slap Anne Hasche, she
said "I've never seen the original, I just wanted to work with Gus."
Ooh, that made me angry, because frankly, it's not just that, she
really sucked in this role as Marian, she wasn't convincing, not to
mention her shower scene really was horrible. Vince Vaughn didn't
make... let's just put it this way, the film was horribly miscasted.
This was a sin against film and on it's own, this was actually a bad
movie. It was too much and destroyed what could've been a new
introduction for a new generation. But to Gus, leave the film making
the one's who KNOW WHAT THEY'RE DOING!

1/10
