

I nearly spit out my teeth when I saw how low Frankenstein (94) score was. 
This film is quite simply spectacular!  It goes in the same category as From
Hell, they are both too sophisticated and beautiful to be JUST horror films.
 The cleverness of this film and its sheer radiance must throw some people
off.  Robert De Niro is the creature!  De Niro gives the foul beast a soul
of his own.  De Niro's performance brings out genuine pity, sorrow, and most
importantly, fear. Kenneth Branagh has always added a bit of class to his
films, and his version of Frankenstein is no different.  A visually
brilliant triumph as a director. 

<|_=00=_|>

One of Branagh's more maligned works, though for the life of me I can't see
why.  Sticking closer to the book than to any preconcieved notions of Boris
Karloff (perhaps that's why), this injects true horror into the story of a
medical student who brings a corpse to life.  If you don't like melodrama
then maybe it's not the thing for you, but this deserves a far better
reputation than it has.
<|_=00=_|>

While many people seem to scorn this film, I found it wonderfully
enjoyable.  Like the great Orson Welles, He stars in, and directs, many of
his movies.  This one in particular shows some of his more excentric, if
not
marketable, passions in filmmaking that make movie buffs and connaisseurs
alike enjoy this stylized and emotional film.

Yes, it is melodramatic.  Yes, the acting is often over the top.  But
what many critics of this film fail to recognize is that this is precisly
the point.  By staying very true to the source material(until the
Elizabeth
thing) and the significant changes that WERE made are clear evidence of
this.  The book was melodramatic.  What Kenneth Branagh does here is stay
true to the spirit of the classic gothic novel.  The great close-ups
define
the characters, and through them you can understand them.  Do not mistake
stylization for poor film-making, because this is a wonderfully made and
presented film, that if understood captivates you from the first spoken
words(a quote from Mary Shelly, setting up the stylization) to the last
frame.

Know what you're getting into, a passionatly made film about what
drives one to both excel and what drives one to madness, and the dangers
of
excess beyond reason.  If you have read the book, regardless of whether
you
liked it or not,see this movie.  You will love what they have retained,
and
will embrace what they've changed.  this is not a film(not a movie, a
film)
for everyone.  But for those who are willing to have an open mind, it is
pure bliss!
<|_=00=_|>
I didn't appreciate this film until the second viewing, when I saw it
on widescreen. Three viewings later, I have nothing but the highest
regard for this Frankenstein rendition which is still, as other
reviewers have pointed out, the most underrated of movies.

One MUST see this on widescreen DVD to full appreciate the incredible
visuals. But this film is a lot more than eye candy. Supposedly, it was
very close to Mary Shelley's book, which is the best compliment you can
give it.

I liked the fact that the "monster" could talk and comprehend and,
frankly, I liked the revenge factor and fact the monster decided his
fate, not hysterical townsfolk as in the original Boris Karloff film
(which has a sadder ending.)

This version, in my humble opinion, also had a more appropriate ending:
the monster and his creator both dying together.

All the main characters acted the way you would think they would,
meaning there was no ridiculousness here, as so often is the case in
horror films. In other words, there was great realism put in a story
that is a famous far-fetched-type of tale. To be fair, there are some
scenes in which you wonder how the monster got where he did (inside
homes, etc.) without being seen....so, to say there weren't SOME
credibility issues would not be true...but overall, no complaints here.

I'd like to put a quick plug in here for the music, too. Wonderful
sweeping classic music complements the astounding visuals. Add an
involving story that is tough to put down once you start viewing, and
you have one of the most undeservedly-panned movies of our time.
<|_=00=_|>
(spoilers herein)

I saw this movie for the first time, in the dark solitude of my attic
late at night. (I was trying to create a scary atmosphere for maximum
effect) To my surprise, though, after it finished, I wasn't very
frightened, but very emotionally drained. I had expected Frankenstein
to be your classic, everyday, lame horror film which you only watch to
get some cheap thrills, and see some horrible overacting. I didn't find
it so at all.

This movie was, there is no other word for it, beautifully done - a
powerful, dynamic story of how man attempts to achieve greatness, but
ends up ruining their lives and the lives of others as a result. I have
not read Mary Shelley's book, but if it has half the emotional effect
of this movie, I'll consider it time well spent!

What really surprised me though, was that this wasn't a horror film in
the traditional sense of the word - it wasn't so that the monster would
jump out and the audience would scream. It was more about how the
audience would slowly writhe as they realize the tortured motivations
of the creature and what he's willing to do as consequence.

Kenneth Branagh brought this movie together wonderfully, with both his
directing and powerful, memorable acting as the tormented Dr. Victor
Frankenstein. Frankenstein is somewhat obsessed with death, after
losing his mother at an early age, so he attempts to create a new form
of artificial life, derived from various body parts of corpses: a life
which cannot be so easily extinguished, and is superior to normal human
life in every aspect. (except, perhaps, looking normal) However, he
soon learns that it's not good to muck around with creating life, when
his creation attacks him, and he abandons it. The creature, although
initially showing signs of being a sympathetic and caring soul, quickly
learns that the ways of man are harsh and judgmental, so he swears
revenge on his creator for bringing him into this world of isolation.

The 'creature', was played absolutely masterfully by Robert De Niro.
Before Frankenstein, the only movies I had seen with him were Analyze
This and Analyze That, and those were comedies, so it was difficult to
see his skills as a serious actor, but in playing Frankenstein's
creation he created a character that is confused, alone, hostile,
manipulative and clever: a very conflicted anti-hero. The scene at the
end at Victor Frankenstein's funeral left me in shock by the sheer aura
he projects - mixed hatred with compassion and confusion. In my
opinion, his best moment is when he meets the ship's captain who asks
him 'Who are you?' and the creature nods to his dead creator and
responds 'He never gave me a name.' If nobody felt the power in that
line, then I don't know what to say to them. I think De Niro deserved
an Oscar, or at least a nomination for this role.

The supporting cast is also very good, with Helena Bonham Carter doing
a wonderful and chilling job as Frankenstein's wife (another one who I
think should have gotten an Oscar nod), and John Cleese (in probably
the only downright serious role in his career) being very creepy as
Frankenstein's mentor, who realized before that the moral implications
of his kind of work cannot be lived with. Ian Holm as Baron
Frankenstein was also good, but sadly, his part was underused. It would
have been nice to see more of this great actor in this movie alongside
all these other great actors. This isn't really a problem for the film
as a whole: Holm played a relatively minor character, but I have a lot
of respect for his acting skills, and I would have liked to see more of
them in this movie.

This is probably one of the most powerful and draining movies I've ever
seen in my life; I was so impressed by it that I had to run out and buy
the DVD right away. I realize this film has many critics, who claim
that it is 'seriously flawed' - I really can't understand what they're
talking about. I guess some people are harder to please than others,
but I find it almost impossible to find anything wrong with this film.
Perhaps it was expected that it would be more your traditional horror
film, but it really wasn't a horror movie - it was a character movie.
It's true that there were some disgusting parts (I won't go into
specifics, but you can probably get the idea), but they seemed to
merely add to the mood of the movie, and increase your revulsion that
Victor Frankenstein would have thought of creating such a monstrosity.
For anyone who needs a good, powerful movie that'll leave you drained
and thoughtful, this is THE movie for you!

-9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Written by Steph Lady and Frank Darabont (who later disowned this film)
and ambitiously directed by Kenneth Branagh, Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein is a likable film which succeeds mostly in a refreshingly
old-fashioned, Hammeresque vein. (I think Christopher Lee hated this
movie and equally class-dripping Bram Stoker's Dracula because he felt
that they were competing in the same area.) There's the classic
monsters (Robert DeNiro!), the period sets, the lovely heroines in the
lovely period costumes, the beautiful and suitably turbulent score...
Certainly not a perfect film, but as a classy, gorgeous monster movie,
it is a woefully underrated one.
<|_=00=_|>
In the 90's there was a string of remakes following the classic
universal monsters: Dracula(Bram Stoker's Dracula), The Wolf Man(Wolf),
The Mummy(The Mummy) and Frankenstein(Mary Shelley's Frankenstein).
Sadly this is a more overlooked remake that I feel is a very strong
movie. Not to deny any praise to the original Frankenstein from the
30's, Boris Karloff's performance is still one of the best and it's
still a very scary movie. But there was no Frankenstein film to come
out that would remain true to it's original story. In high school we
read Frankenstein and it brought up so many interesting conflicts,
where do you draw the line between living and playing God? Was Victor
responsible for Elizabeth's death? Was the creature really a monster or
just a victim? Kenneth Branagh took on this story and did an absolutely
wonderful job.

Victor Frankenstein is the son of the wealthy Baron and Caroline
Frankenstein. At one point in his childhood Victor's parents adopted
Elizabeth, who would become the love of Victor's life. Years later
Victor's mother dies giving birth to his brother William. Sometime
before going off to the university, a grief-stricken Victor vows on his
mother's grave that he will find a way to conquer death. On the night
of his graduation Victor and Elizabeth promised to wed when Victor
returns from his studies. He finds a friend in Henry Clerval and a
mentor. Victor comes to believe that the only way to cheat death is to
create life. Victor spends months in his apartment working on creating
a living, breathing creature. Using dead body parts from various
sources, he begins piecing a creature together. Late one night Victor
finally gives his creation life, but he recoils from it in horror and
renounces his experiments. But it might be too late for him to take
back what he shouldn't have messed with in the first place.

Robert DeNiro did a great job playing The Creature, what a
heartbreaking role to take on and he plays it with such amazing
sympathy. He says to Victor "Did you ever consider the consequences of
your actions? You made me, and you left me to die. Who am I?" and you
seriously feel so much for him, he is the true victim. As in the book
and not in the original movie, Victor does feel like a God when he is
doing his experiments, but when he succeeds, he regrets it immediately.
Kenneth did a wonderful job taking on this complicated man who isn't
evil by any means but a victim of his own intelligence and wanting to
cheat death. The supporting cast is wonderful with Helena Bonham Carter
and Tom Hulce. The film can be a little over the top at times playing
like a soap opera, but when I read the book, that's how I felt about
the story as well. The sets, the costumes and the make are just
incredible. Frankenstein is an underrated gem and deserves a better
look. It's one of the most intelligent horror stories of all time,
Kenneth put a lot of love into this film and I think Mary Shelley would
be proud.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Not knowing what to expect, I was fascinated by this movie.  It offered a
great story, and finale which lacks in most movies.

I loved the Lon Chaney "Frankenstein", and loved this one too!  DeNiro was
interestingly cast as the monster.  Branagh as Dr. Frankenstein was the most
engaging of all, being devastated by deaths all around him and wanting to
stop death.  It's really a story of playing God, but also having the ability
and intelligence to do it ---- and to have the intelligence to see it was
not the greatest decision ever made.  It's just a love story, bottom line. 
Wouldn't we want to bring someone back from the dead so we can spend more
time with them?  

Branagh never got the credit he deserved for this movie.  He directed a
brilliant story that could have gone anywhere - yet he kept it within the
story of love.  Kudos Mr. Branagh!!
<|_=00=_|>
In 1794, in the Arctic Sea, Captain Robert Walton (Aidan Quinn) is a
man obsessed to reach the North Pole, pushing his crew to the
exhaustion. When his ship hits an iceberg, she is stranded in the ice.
Out of the blue, Captain Walton and his men overhear a dreadful cry and
they see a stranger coming to the ship. He introduces himself as Victor
Frankenstein (Kenneth Branagh) and he tells to the captain the story of
his life since he was a little boy in Geneva. 

Victor is a brilliant student and in love with his stepsister Elizabeth
(Helena Bonham Carter), an orphan that was raised by his father Baron
Frankenstein (Ian Holm). In 1793, Victor moves to Ingolstadt to join
the university and he promises to get married to Elizabeth. In the
school, Victor befriends Henry Clerval (Tom Hulce) that becomes his
best friend. Victor gets close to Professor Waldman (John Cleese) and
decides to create life to cheat death, but Waldman advises him that he
should not try this experiment since the result would be an
abomination. When Waldman dies, Victor steals his notes and tries to
create life. He succeeds and gives life to a strong Creature (Robert De
Niro), composed of parts of deceased persons. However he realizes that
his experiment is a mistake and he abandons The Creature expecting that
it could die alone. however The Creature survives and learns how to
read and write, but he is a monster rejected by the society and by his
own creator. The Creature decides to revenge from Victor killing
everyone that he loves.

"Frankenstein" is an underrated version of the classic story. Directed
by Kenneth Branagh, the dramatic story was not well accepted by the
professional critics and by many viewers. I saw this movie in 1995 and
I have just saw it again on DVD, and it is a great movie that has not
aged. Unfortunately I have never read the novel by Mary Shelley to
compare with this version that "is considered the most faithful film
adaptation of Mary Shelley's novel Frankenstein. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Frankenstein de Mary Shelley" ("Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein")
<|_=00=_|>
When Cinemafantastique interviewed Kenneth Branagh on his
recently-released version of Frankenstein, the writer asked Branagh to
describe his viewpoint, his thematic slant on the story. Quite a
natural question for a film maker to be asked, as the notions of theme
and point of view are not optional, they are mandatory. A director must
decide beforehand on the ideas he wishes to set forth, and craft the
means to set them forth clearly. When dealing with a classic,
oft-filmed work, he must choose a new slant, and exploit themes that
have not been emphasized before (at least, in quite that way), if his
work is to be at all original.

Branagh's breezy response was something on the order of, "I didn't
really have a theme in mind, I just wanted to tell a good story."

This is precisely why Branagh's version fails: is an unanchored,
misguided mess. Herewith is a barely coherent hash of styles, a series
of boneheaded choices (a snotty Helena B. Carter as the "liberated"
Elizabeth Frankenstein), a tangle of hanging threads -- beautiful
clothes with no one in them; beautiful sets that form a backdrop to
utter nonsense.

And it is dreadfully miscast. Branagh's ego trip as Dr. Frankenstein
aside, the worst performance of all is that of Robert DiNiro as his
creature. In this role, DiNiro proves that Pauline Kael was right all
along. For years, Ms. Kael kept telling us that this mediocre talent
was considered a great actor just because everyone said he was. In
other words, he had been in the right place at the right time, and had
stumbled into his undeserved reputation by pure chance. (Check out the
way he sleeps through his role in Casino.) The spectacle of
Frankenstein's creature mumbling in that repellent, thick New Yorkese
is really one of the sorriest moments in all of filmdom -- there is
simply no excuse for such a thing. Did anyone bother to tell him the
story is set in Switzerland? I saw this movie in New York, at an East
Side theater, and the audience was giggling nervously every time DiNiro
opened his mouth. Why nervously? Because they "know" DiNiro is a
"great" actor... Because they were embarrassed, pure and simple.

And they should have been. Branagh's desire to "tell a good story,"
while arrogantly disregarding the most basic elements of storytelling,
quite naturally produced the opposite effect. In short, it produced an
embarrassment.
