

Well, as you can see, everyone's favorite blue overalls-wearing
psychopathic
doll has survived for a fourth installment. An excellent fourth
installment,
at that. I was very impressed with this one, especially after the
"dullness"
of Part 3 that got me completely bored that I doubted that there would
even
be any more sequels. . . Boy, was I wrong. But it just seems that in
"Bride
of Chucky" you actually feel some chemistry going on between him and
Tiffany. Not only that, but it always seems that in the "Child's Play"
series you could never really tell if Chucky's dead or not, whether he's
shot in the heart, exploded into bits of pieces, or hacked up in a huge
fan.

This film also includes some memorable scenes, for example, the stunning
segment where that guy gets blown to bits by getting hit by that huge
truck.
Pure genius from the film's screenwriter, and creator of characters, Don
Mancini.

Yes, shocking was the movie, the ending especially. Some good dialogue, a
great plotline, pulse pounding suspense, and a hard-hitting soundtrack,
"Bride of Chucky" promises everything the previews do and may become a
famous pick-out in the horror genre. Highly reccomended for die-hard fans
of
the "Child's Play" series.
<|_=00=_|>
Chucky (the murderous doll from "Child's Play" and 2 crappy sequels) is
dead. But his ex-girlfriend Tiffany (Jennifer Tilly) gets his remains
and (using "Voodoo for Dummies") revives him. Then, through
circumstances too convoluted to get into, SHE is killed and has her
soul put into another doll! Together they fall in love and kidnap a
nice couple (Nick Stabile, Katherine Heigl) to take them to Chuck's
coffin to get an amulet to make Chucky and Tiffany real people again...

A lot better than it sounds. After the last two sequels to "Child's
Play" (both of which were horrible) I was expecting the worst, but this
actually was lots of fun. The movie doesn't take itself seriously for a
second (seriously--how could it?) and the lines and situations are
actually quite funny. Also there are a few VERY gory murders thrown in
to satisfy us horror fans and the film never stops moving. The movie
also has a few things usually not found in a horror movie--a gay best
friend (Gordon Michael Woolvett) who is intelligent and not played for
laughs and a sequence in which Stabile has his shirt off just to show
his muscular body. John Ritter has a nice cameo too as a sheriff.

The acting is good--Stabile is young, VERY handsome and likable; Heigl
doesn't have much to do but pulls it off and Brad Dourif (the voice of
Chucky) and Tilly are hilarious as the murderous dolls. My favorite
part is when the dolls have sex (don't ask) and she asks for a rubber
and he responds, "But I'm MADE of rubber!" The special effects are good
(no lousy CGI here) and this is one of the few horror films to mix
humor and violence in an entertaining way. Well worth seeing. I give it
a 9.
<|_=00=_|>
Well my opinion has changed for this one because if you remember last
time I gave this movie 3 1/2 out of 4, now it is up to the full 4. So
just why is this one the one sequel that I like out of all the others?
Well a lot of good reasons come into mind.

The film picks up about a month after Child's Play 3, where Chucky's
remains are stolen by Tiffany played by Jennifer Tilly and she takes
them back to her house and sews them together. When her wannabe goth
killer boyfriend comes over, Chucky comes alive and kills the boyfriend
in a very bloody death. It is revealed that Tiffany and Chucky were
dating before Charles Lee Ray was put inside the doll. They at first
are happy but Tiffany locks Chucky in a playpen because Tiffany was
under the false impression that Chucky was going to propose to her.
Chucky, Now raging mad, Kills Tiffany and puts her inside of a doll
body. They take a couple played by Nick Stabile and Katherine Heigel
hostage and plan to posses their souls.

The first good thing is the story. I really like how they don't really
go after Andy here and instead go after new people. However They at
least could have mentioned him more than they did, at least more than a
newspaper article. Also I love the idea of giving Chucky a bride so he
can have another doll to interact with.

The next is the Bride Of Chucky. Her character is really well done here
and I like how Jennifer Tilly does voice Tiffany. The look of the Bride
is pretty cool with the doll starting out as a wedding doll and then
transformed in this goth/biker chick look. Plus Chucky gets lucky,
twice. The first is, obviously when he gets married but the second is
when he really gets "Lucky" if you know what I mean.

The next is the special effects which are better than the last two.
Chucky is now all scarred up and this look is pretty frightening but to
be completely honest I found his appearance in the first film more
scary, But I do love the look they go with and this look does continue
into Seed Of Chucky.

The last is the acting. Stabile and Heigel do a really good job and are
believable as a couple, John Ritter, yes he is in the movie, does a
good job as a dirty cop. But I want to talk about the dolls. The voice
acting by Brad Dourif and Jennifer Tilly are great. Plus Jennifer Tilly
is hot. Both in and outside of the doll.

The Final Verdict for Bride Of Chucky is 4 Out Of 4 Stars. Great
acting, amazing special effects, also not to mention the movie is
extremely funny. My favorite quote is from Chucky and it was used for
the title of the review. Go out and watch this because it deserves to
be seen.

Rated R For Strong Horror Violence And Gore, Language, Some Sexual
Content And Brief Drug Use.

1hr 29min/89min.

15 uses of the F-word.

Cost: $25,000,000.

Box Office: $50,692,188.

IMDb Rating: 5.2/10.

Rotten Tomatoes Rating: 42% Rotten My Rating: ****/****
<|_=00=_|>
They obviously made "Bride of Chucky" with the aim of impressing only
people who really like slashers. It doesn't disappoint in that sense.
To be certain, they're clearly playing everything for laughs. As the
title explains, Chucky (voice of Brad Dourif) takes on a mate (Jennifer
Tilly)...and she's as much of a wise-cracker as he is.

Yes, these movies have no real point. They're just excuses to show
people getting killed. But they're so much fun! The best scene is
easily the sex scene. Number 2 is the glass scene. But whatever the
case, this is one movie that you're sure to enjoy - assuming that
you've decided in advance that you like it. Really cool.

Also starring John Ritter and Katharine Heigl.
<|_=00=_|>
Clever is the word that comes to mind when I think of the mixture of
horror and comedy that makes up a good deal of BRIDE OF CHUCKY, much of
the humor due to some good one-liners by Chucky (courtesy of BRAD
DOURIF's voice). And JENNIFER TILLY does an exceptional job as a
dim-witted, evil partner of the doll eventually turned into a doll
herself who is just as manic as her boyfriend.

NICK STABILE and KATHERINE HEIGL are the leads, the unsuspecting
victims of much of the mayhem, who have to confront the evil they're
dealing with which leads toward a cemetery in Hackensack where the evil
dolls hope to retrieve an amulet from a corpse that will restore their
original bodies.

It's photographed expertly, well directed by Ronny Yu and there's an
unusual amount of range to the expressions on both dolls that make them
seem eerily real. The final scene in the cemetery is guaranteed to give
you a final startled moment.

JOHN RITTER plays his role as Police Chief Kinkaid with some restraint,
but it's not much of a part until his gruesome demise.

Summing up: Not bad as far as these sort of horror capers go.
<|_=00=_|>

The soul of Satanic serial killer Charles Lee Ray is, by misfortune,
incarcerated in the body of a seemingly innocuous doll. Ray's long time
girlfriend, Tiffany (the seductive Jennifer Tilly) has found a book titled
"Voodoo for Dummies." Now, she has called on the spirits of Hell to revive
this left-for-dead doll...and to make him alive and well again!

When everything is botched in a misconstrued matter...Tiffany imminently
finds herself in the body of another plastic doll as well. The two
notorious
murderers, known for their multiple crimes, fall in love again...and the
world needs a prayer...

Yes, Chucky (voiced by Brad Dourif) the killer doll is back...and he's out
for anyone's blood! Chucky's new bride Tiffany has also found herself
enjoying all the twisted, creative murders Chucky has made. Chucky and
Tiffany have one goal: to retrieve the "Heart of Omzilla," an amulet that
will thus allow both of them to return to their former human selves...

You better watch out! Chucky is no more mister nice guy!

BRIDE OF CHUCKY is a sinister guilty pleasure! The Chucky franchise earns
its much desperately needed (and deserved) revision. Thanks to Ronny Yu's
(who has directed so many Hong Kong martial arts films) direction and the
wizardry of special FX make-up artist Kevin Yagher, Chucky is
livelier...and
deadlier than ever. Yagher does a great job giving Chucky such human traits
and attributes. Chucky is one demonic and realistic character whom I would
NOT like to run into in a dark alley! Chucky himself looks especially
deformed, with the appropriate stitches on his face and everything. For a
pint size villain, he packs one mean attitude! Also, the facial expressions
of the killer puppets Chucky and Tiffany are so bizarre, yet wonderfully
genuine. One fact for sure, I was impressed by all the elaborate special
effects... Hey, you must also adore the cogent and delightfully deviant
love-hate relationship between Chucky and Tiffany.

John Ritter (!) is excellent (though unusually cast against type) as an
uncompromising Security Chief Officer. Ritter should also earn an award for
the best (and most unpredictable) demise. He certainly knows how to be
dying
in style! Brad Dourif really knows this Chucky character inside out. He
delivers the wisecracks with impeccable timing before and after each
killing. Alexis Arquette (THE WEDDING SINGER) is in top form as a "Goth"
who
encounters the devil doll. Jennifer Tilly is one fantastic, nefarious
temptress.

There's plenty of bloodletting in this pleasantly entertaining (and sleazy)
thriller. Lots of gory murders abound to keep bloodhounds ingratiated. This
grotesquely violent and sanguinary film will easily scare away the
squeamish. In addition, there are lots of cool (and sometimes subtle)
references alluding to other horror flicks. I also learned from this movie
that a person should not take love for granted.

BRIDE OF CHUCKY is an imaginative journey into everlasting terror. You will
laugh and churn as you witness the brutal slayings as the consequences of
this couple's rampage. If you appreciate dark, macabre humor, then this
movie is perfect for you! By far the best film in this series. This movie
is
even better than the original CHILD'S PLAY ...

RATING: **1/2 out of ****.

<|_=00=_|>
Realizing he needs to turn back into human form, the killer doll and
his former lover, now a doll as well, enlist a couple to accomplish the
task but find their murderous personalities preventing it from
happening.

This here is one of the more impressive entries in the genre and one of
the better ones in the series. One of the main issues is the fact that
there's an utterly perfect balance between the horrific and the
humorous, as this combines utterly perfect laugh-out-loud moments, from
hilarious one-liners to sight gags and puns, mixed in with the horror-
centered areas present here. It's the comedy here that wins out for the
most part, from the failed ceremony, the continuous references to the
other toy dolls she has laying around and the utterly hilarious running
gag of everybody's reaction to Tiffany and Chucky dolls throughout the
film, though the greatest material is their quips and jokes to each
other. These are truly gut-busting as the dolls begin conversing about
being out-of-touch in regards to movie-killer practices and trying to
instill the need for variety in the kills to be committed or in their
relationship woes which sound like real, actual relationship arguments
but come off as hilarious due to the nature of being said by plastic
dolls. As well with the comedy, the horror elements here are wholly
impressive including the extravagant visual flair found in many of the
scenes here that readily turns this into a comedy, from the initial
attack in the trailer-park house that gets her into doll-form as the
distraction from the movie allows for the trap to be deployed which is
just suitably perfect here. The road-trip nature here allows for the
great traveling scenes as well, with the diner attack coming off nicely
with the explosive reaction and general panic or the utterly insane
kill at the motel which is really impressive here and gives this a
spectacular centerpiece sequence. Even the finale at the graveyard is
fun with the numerous stalking to get the upper-hand, the confrontation
over the grave is fun and there's a lot to like with the great action
in the big brawl here to finally end this. All of this means the pace
is perfect with tons of outstanding encounters to keep the pace going
strong with tons of high-energy action and plentiful gore provided by
the outstanding kills here. As well, the film gets an absolute ton of
positives from the stellar special effects work for the dolls, as this
is an absolutely amazing part of the film. Given that this one spends
as much time as it does here showcasing them on-screen, they need to
come off flawlessly and they manage to come across as realistic dolls
and puppets throughout here due to these perfectly conceived creations.
Mixed along with a return to the more horror-centric side of Chucky,
these manage to create an overall winning film. While there's a ton to
love here, there are a few small, near-inconsequential flaws to this.
One of the biggest is that it does tend to homage too many other films
at times and feel more like it's actively trying to be funny or clever
without doing anything important to the film trying to awkwardly shove
the reference into the scene. This also bleeds somewhat into the other
flaw, that the comedic one-liners are a bit much to get over and wear
themselves out somewhat. However, since this one doesn't have too many
real flaws there's so much to like here it becomes quite impressive.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, a shadowy
puppet sex scene and some drug use.
<|_=00=_|>

 From the opening with certain movie killers masks, glove-knife, and
chainsaw, to the final scene which looks like it could have been straight
from "It's Alive", this movie was camp all the way.

Good point: They didn't bring back Andy. New characters and new "homes" for
Chuck and Tiff brought a sense of freshness.

Bad point: John Ritter. Need I say more? (Although he DOES make a pretty
good Pinhead)

If you're looking for "The Shining" or the original "Psycjo", spend a couple
of bucks and rent them. If you want a good laugh mixed in with some gore,
then spend the money here. Just don't take your Siskel & Ebert mindset with
you. Sit back, relax, and enjoy the movie for what it is--self-depreciating
schlock.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this thing (movie) three times. Sometimes I thought it was the
worst piece of garbage I've ever seen, made by Satan himself; other
times I laughed my head off and thought it was one of the most
entertaining-yet-stupid films I'd ever seen. Finally, the first part
won out and I got rid of it....but it was fun while it lasted.

Jennifer Tilley, one of the all-time low-life-character-playing
actresses in Hollywood along with Jennifer Jason-Leigh, complete with
ditsy voice and humongous breasts with cleavage that meteors could get
lost in, is the star here along with the demonic doll "Chucky," who
never seems to go away. 

So.....a few questions: How many years now have we seen this little guy
and how many times does he have to die? In many movies does Tilley have
to use just for another chance to flaunt her boobs?

This movie is so bad it has to be considered "camp." It's more comedy
than horror, although both are there in abundance. You can't take any
of this seriously. 

The movie is simply incredibly sleazy and yet incredibly funny at
times, and dumb, and......you name it.
<|_=00=_|>
By far, the film was the most superior in the Child's Play Series. It
was amazingly hilarious and refreshing. Unlike Child's Play 3, we
didn't repeat the boring process of Chucky "Goes after Andy for revenge
and his body". We had a fresh array of characters, a brilliant
Cliffhanger and a new Killer Doll. The film really displays well how
Chucky, like the rest of us, can have an relationship, and how he is
still Human, despite being a Doll. Good examples of his Humanity are
when he listens to music in the car, treats Tiffany like a House-Slave
and has Sexual Intercourse with Tiff. These display that Chucky is a
Human being, and while some fans disliked this, I say the film was pure
comic genius, comedic and horrifying. Inventive new murders were used
such as the Champange Bottle and Celing Mirror, the Nasils in the Car
and the Bus hitting that poor fellow. The film ended amazingly as Glen
appeared to burst out of Tiffany's womb, leaving a good idea for a
sequel. That is until Seed came along.
