

The people who are stating that this movie is the worst sequel they've ever
seen obviously never saw "Hercules II" or "Jaws 3-D" or "Hellraiser II".
Now, I am not about to tell you that this is a great film, but if you set
your expectations low, you are likely to have fun. Despite the icky (and
variable in quality, though impressive in the last 10 minutes) special
effects and the large amounts of blood and t&a, the film never becomes truly
disturbing, because you're never meant to take it 100% seriously. Michael
Madsen understood that, to be sure, and thanks to his trademarked coolness,
he walks away with the picture. As for Natasha Henstridge, she has more or
less a supporting part, but one that is rather imaginatively linked to the
central story line. 

Overall, a movie with no artistic pretensions and, undoubtedly, many flaws
(someone else already mentioned this; why didn't her head explode when she
escaped from the lab?), but watch it in the right frame of mind and it's
quite enjoyable. Do you know any other movie that features sex between slimy
aliens?!?    (**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>

This was not a great movie. I mean for example, Even NASA (Never A Straight
Answer) wouldn't make a six month one way voyage to Mars to spend less than
two hours on the planet surface. The premise is hard to buy, but hey, it is
science FICTION. The effects are not bad, and the acting is fair. There is a
lot of gratuitous sex. Michael Marsden may be the bright spot in this
average sci-fi flick. I wouldn't pay to see this in the theatre, but on
video.... There are probably worse ways to spend an hour and forty-two
minutes.
<|_=00=_|>

Yup, it's a crapper.  Species I was adequate, but this sequel is not.  Bad
acting, strained and disjointed, and not much for effects, except for the
final several minutes where he and she mutate and do their thing.  I'll put
up with quite a bit in the interest of sci-fi, but this blows.  I'm trying
to think of something equally as bad, perhaps those Cyborg movies.


<|_=00=_|>

In scream 2 the "horror movie geek" has a formula which this movie follows
to the point. More blood, more gore, higher screams, more sex and more
killers.
I have seen only but a few good sequels in my time, unfortunately this is
not one of them.

A BAD MOVIE!

(But if you like Natasha H. there are more nude scenes with here in this
movie, but I hope that is not enough to make this a good
film.)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie sucks! The original was much better and even it wasn't that
good.
The only thing this has going for it is the scenes with sex and nudity.
Gore
fans might like this movie but if your looking for an amazing science
fiction/horror experience than watch the ALIEN films.
<|_=00=_|>

A lot of people must have needed to make house payments, their names
listed
at the beginning of this film as a testament. Put another way, one could
do
a Jeff Foxworthyesque comedy bit called "Your career might be in trouble
if..." and the answer is "You worked on Species II." I have never felt so
embarrassed for a group of actors as I had watching these thespians run
through painfully stupid dialogue. The script is so inept you have to
wonder
if it wasn't written by a committee - of middle schoolers. Except for the
sex and violence. Or, more succinctly the sexual violence. The filmmakers
have some definite problems with women. Unlike the first film, which this
outing makes to look like "2001" by comparison, here we only see women
being
ripped bloodily apart, usually during sex. There are bad movies that are
fun
to watch and laugh at. This turd is not one of them.
<|_=00=_|>
Of course, killing the alien was no reason to stop the producers from
making a sequel. The cliffhanger from the end of part one (a rat with
alien DNA might spread it like a disease) was completely ignored
though. Although we were told in the original movie, the alien DNA came
from light years away, it is now found on Mars (just around the corner
in astronomical terms), and astronauts take it home to Earth. Since
there was a bit of gore and sex in the first movie, there is a lot more
gore and sex in the second one, as if that could improve the quality in
any way. We get a lot of cliché characters, from the corrupt senator to
the uncompromising general, and the survivors of part one are treated
carelessly by the screenplay: Helgenberger lends a willing hand to
cruel experiments, Natasha Henstridge returns as the alien's latest
clone, but during the whole first hour of the movie, she has nothing to
do except sit around in a glass cage. Madsen just needs to run around
armed and look cool - he understandably gives a lackluster performance.
The sequel was definitely not as intelligent as the original and tries
to hide the lack of ideas with gallons of blood. I voted 8/5/6/7 for
the 4 parts of the series.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie definitely wasn't as good as the first one.

I thought the original was actually quite entertaining and had quite a
good story.

This didn't have an as good story and some parts seemed silly.

I didn't like the fact that it was the male astronaut doing all the
killing instead of Sil.

And that is was in Washington D.C instead of L.A. 

But the action scenes still entertained me and the monsters were pretty
cool.

I don't know how they got Michael Madsen and the now famous Marg
Helenberger to do this sequel ( and I don't know they got Madsen to do
the first one either) but there acting was good.

Overall I think was a reasonably entertaining movie but don't out of
your way to see it.
<|_=00=_|>
After returning from a mission to Mars, a team of experts' tracks down
the infected astronaut carrying a parasitic alien before he can meet up
and mate with a similar human/alien hybrid.

A very rewarding sequel to a fine original, this one turned out to be
very enjoyable. By adapting a more straight-up storyline instead of
dealing with all the science and facts, there's considerably more
action in this one in terms of splattered victims which seems to be the
main focus of the first half. With an increase of splatter, there's
some great kills and creature make-up used during those scenes, and the
tentacled beings covered in slime generate a lot of fun, especially
bursting forth from people's stomachs or chasing around the ground
which are good times. Several other scenes with the alien children
shooting their cocoons together and the effects work there allows even
more goopy, gory fun in conjunction with a continuation of fun kills,
miraculous healing abilities from both creatures and copious nudity.
There are some flaws here, though, namely the decision to allow the
captured male into the quarantined zone with the girl when there's
plenty of knowledge to indicate his goal is to mate with her, as well
as the film's rather tacky CGI during the finale when the practical
effects were working so well. It loses some steam in the middle where
they keep coming up short in the quest to stop him rampaging and raping
woman as they're always on the other end of it, but otherwise there's
still a lot to like here.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Nudity, several Sex Scenes
and attempted rapes
<|_=00=_|>
An astronaut gets infected with alien DNA during the first mission on
Mars and runs amok on earth. Preston and Laura team up with a peaceful,
genetically re-engineered Sil (Natasha Henstridge) to track the monster
down.

The first film became a cult favorite mostly because of the excessive
nudity, near as I can tell. The plot was pretty straightforward and it
does not stand out as one of those films that needed multiple sequels
and its own franchise. And yet, here we are.

Writer Chris Brancato was working with MGM and knew the studio was
interested in making a follow-up to Species. He pitched an idea to
executive Greg Foster where this time two hybrid alien women would
strike. Foster liked it, but once Brancato went to "Species" producer
Frank Mancuso Jr., he asked to "approach this from a different angle,
so that we don't have a tired retread of the original, as sequels often
are." So Brancato took inspiration from "The Manchurian Candidate",
where "somebody on a mission comes back, apparently a hero, but
actually with some terrible demon inside." 

We get much of the original cast back, and some really fine additional
casting, including James Cromwell and a memorable role by Peter Boyle.
We also get director Peter Medak on board, one of the great Masters of
Horror (given his background in Hammer and "The Changeling")... and
even aliens designed by no less an artistic authority than H. R. Giger.
In many ways, this film exceeds the original.

Having Medak on board brought a few key changes. When Medak was
approached by producer Frank Mancuso, a condition of Medak's agreement
was to hire on composer Edward Shearmur ("Die Hard"). Also, Peter Boyle
is a friend of Medak's and they have worked together many times since
the 1970s, so we have Medak to thank for this key bit of casting. Even
production designer Miljen Kreka Kljakovic came through Medak.
(Kljakovic is not a household name, but look him up -- from
"Delicatessen" on, he has made a long list of great films.)

And yet, the critics hated it and even the cast was disappointed.
Michael Madsen expressed his opinion saying, "Species II was a crock of
(doody). There are a number I'm not very proud of. The movie studios
can't mind that much, as they haven't contacted me to tell me off about
it. I'm honest - if I've made a bad movie, I want my fans to know what
they're letting themselves in for." (Regardless of what Madsen thinks
of the film, Medak loved working with him.)

I have to disagree with Madsen. The film is actually intelligent and
clever in a way. The special effects were ahead of their time, even if
they may appear dated today. The head regeneration scene is a bit
cheesy, but even that allegedly cost $75,000. So it was not a cheap
effect. I suspect when people look back now (2016), they will see this
is a better film than given credit for.

The Scream Factory disc has an old audio commentary ported over (and it
is as good as ever). We also have a new interview with Natasha
Henstridge, which gives us a bit of a rundown on her career and how she
transitioned from modeling to "Species". Oh, and don't forget new
interviews with the effects crew. Whether you think this is a good
movie or not, these interviews are valuable and really put 1990s horror
and science fiction in context.
