
Hey, I enjoy a good revenge movie as well as the next guy, even though
I know forgiveness is the better way. Revenge films satisfy base urges
in all of us. But, holy smokes, this crosses the line a little bit with
the glorification of such....at least with the ending (which I won't
give away but involves Sharon Stone's character).

Along the way is a fun ride as the revenge-obsessed Stone hires
Sylvester Stallon (The Specialist, a term for his bomb-making talents)
to kill all the people responsible for her parents' murder years
earlier.

The villains are over-the-top, to say the least. One almost has to
laugh out loud at one of them: James Woods. Few people in his era (70s
and 80s mainly) were better at playing despicable villains than Woods,
and in this film he plays that role to the hilt. He also rattles off
the best line in the movie when he tells some tourist to "get a new
shirt, too."

The other villains are played by Eric Roberts and Rod Steiger. Roberts
is nasty and arrogant all the way and Steiger - as he has so often
since the 1970s - appears cartoonish in his over-acting.

The film moves quickly which means it's very entertaining and some of
the bombing scenes are quite memorable, such as a chunk of a condo
building falling into the ocean.

Even though the villains are really nasty, there are no "good guys"
here, either. Everyone is seriously flawed, as is the message of the
film. I guess this is one of those "guilty pleasure" movies they talk
about, because I still enjoy watching it every five or so years.
<|_=00=_|>

* 1/2 out of ****

Arguably Sylvester Stallone's last box office hit (unless you count Cop
Land), The Specialist is not the typical Stallone testosterone fest.  In
fact, it remains a fairly atmospheric thriller revolving around obsession
and revenge.  But it's not as interesting as it may sound, thanks to the
generally lackluster script and mostly unlikeable characters. 

Stallone plays Ray Quick, an ex-bomb specialist who works for hire.  After
the movie's requisite prologue, he's in Miami working for May Munro (Sharon
Stone), who wants him to kill three mobsters, especially the head mobster's
son, Tomas (Eric Roberts), because they murdered her parents when she was a
little girl.  Quick contacts her only by phone, they are to never meet, but
he's admittedly intrigued by her and vice versa.  However, she's actually
working for Ned Trent (James Woods), Quick's former colleague who's out for
revenge.

Action fans expecting bombastic and over-the-top action sequences should
steer clear, this movie will be too sluggish for them.  The Specialist has
no desire to function as a typical Stallone actioner.  There are no
large-scale gun battles, fisticuffs, or car chases.  In fact, I gather
Stallone received the role purely on the basis of his box office clout (and
perhaps also his ability to brood and act generally depressed fairly well). 
 

So what is The Specialist, then?  Is it a thriller?  Yeah, sort of, there
are a few suspenseful moments, mostly pertaining to Stallone using his bombs
to knock off the mobsters.  Surprisingly enough, the twist of having the
hero kill the bad guys with explosives (Speed and Blown away came out the
same year) works well enough, mostly because the villains' impending doom
bears a certain inevitability that plays to the movie's advantage. 

But there's little else about the movie worth recommending.  The story
doesn't make much sense; as soon as it's revealed Roberts' murdered Stone's
parents when she was a child, I scratched my head in confusion.  He couldn't
possibly be more than a year or two older than Stone, meaning he committed
the murders when he was about, what, ten or eleven?  More likely, it appears
the filmmakers are trying to pass off Stone as a twenty-year old bombshell. 
Sure, Stone looks great (and I do mean great) in this film, but she can't
even pass for thirty.

The romance is unsurprisingly perfunctory and generic.  As soon as the hero
and heroine meet, they almost immediately tear their clothes off and go at
it.  This is neither romantic nor sexy, even with the undeniably hot Sharon
Stone as part of this tryst.  I've always kind of liked Stallone, subpar an
actor as he may be.  He's always had a fairly commandable screen presence,
though he has yet to translate that to genuine charisma (which is what puts
him considerably behind that other big lug, Arnold Scwarzenegger). 

Neither suspenseful nor exciting enough to recommend, The Specialist is of
little interest to anyone except for Stallone and Stone fans (and maybe
James Wood fans, who will either delight or wince at his maniacally
over-the-top performance).  I'm still waiting for Stallone to revive his
career with a big-budget action blockbuster, but I don't see it happening. 
Hey, I'm one of the few guys out there who actually liked D-Tox, so I
wouldn't necessarily say his career has gone down the drain.
<|_=00=_|>

The Specialist may not be great cinema, but it does offer some good
bang-bang explosives action and also some interesting characters. 

Sly Stallone is a former CIA-attached Army explosives expert, Raymond Quick,
skilled at focus detonations that blow up certain areas while leaving
surrounding areas unharmed.  In 1984 he and his partner, Ned Trent, must
blow up a bridge frequented by a Columbian drug lord, but a civilian bus
enters as the explosives are set to go off.  When Trent callously goes
through with the mission, Ray disarms the bombs, then beats up Trent before
having him discharged from the Agency.

Ten years later Trent now works as security chief for a Miami mafia chief
who years earlier had a former underling named Munro killed - in front of
the man's daughter, May.  May Munro now wants her parents' killers blown up,
and she wants Ray Quick for the job.  Ray is initially reluctant, believing
it to be a setup, but eventually accepts, and starts blowing up the three
thugs responsible one by one.  

But it is a setup - May Munro is in reality working for Trent, who is using
her very real desire for revenge to smoke out Ray.  Quick, though, is too
smart for Trent's traps - until Ray and May's passion heats up ad Trent gets
the break he needs to finish off the both of them.

The film's highlights are James Woods' over-the-top performance, the
explosion scenes, and also John Barry's haunting score, fleshed out by
Gloria Estefan's garish cover of Vicki Sue Robison's 1970s disco classic
"Turn The Beat Around."

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is, apart from the film music, as a whole a must-see for
action movie lovers with erotic scenes, built in smoothly. The double
role of May makes the movie richer: there IS a plot possible in these
kind of movies!. Action abound and well distributed over the time. Eric
Roberts and James Woods play their roles at the same high level as
Sylvester Stallone and Sharon Stone.I see originality, in the sense of
action: the highly developed explosive devices-do hey really exist?CIA
will know.. A flaw ,which i do not understand up to now, is that the
getaway boat from M&M seafood seemed to be so readily available. The
goofy trick with the telephone in the Fontainebleu Hptel as well, but
those are not disturbing details. The movie has a steady pace and ends
with the Miami Sound Machine!. Best scene is of course , the intimate
scene in the hotel. Superb entertainment! A 9. Will see it again.
<|_=00=_|>
The best thing about The Specialist is the performance of James Woods,
who really sinks his teeth into his villainous role and is enormously
entertaining. What he also does that is good is making his material
more interesting than it deserved to be, much has been said about the
scene with the shirt and for good reason. Eric Roberts is pretty good
also, he doesn't have anywhere near as much to do and his character is
rather one-note but somehow Roberts does bring some intensity and
menace whenever he appears. The scenery is lovely too, the sex scene
was appropriately steamy and John Barry's score is the other of the two
assets most worth noting about The Specialist. Barry was one of the
all-time great film composers and I have yet to hear a bad score from
him, and the music for The Specialist has his typical lushness,
beautiful harmonic writing and moodiness, these things may seem out of
place for a film such as this but actually it works. Unfortunately very
little else works. Sylvester Stallone is not the best of actors but as
an action star he showed great charisma. Here he is very wooden and
mumbles his way through his lines. Sharon Stone also flounders, Stone
has shown she can be good(she is brilliant in Casino) but she does look
awkward and there is the sense that her heart wasn't really in it,
which makes her character's predicament difficult to engage with.
Regarding the chemistry between them too, the only time where it works
is in the sex scene, everywhere else you'll struggle to find any kind
of passion. Coming off worst was Rod Steiger, giving a performance so
embarrassingly over-the-top it was like watching a cartoon, which was
completely out of kilter with the rest of the film. The characters have
no real depth and personality, the most colourful character was James
Woods's and his performance itself has a lot to do with it. The
dialogue has its moments, all of which with Woods again, but on the
most part it's very weak, often lacking sense and flow and often
aimless with far too much talk. Story-wise, the lack of originality
concept-wise can be forgiven(revenge thrillers often have that but it's
not always a bad thing) but for it to be plodding, laughably
implausible and at times incoherent is less forgivable, as well as
parts being so predictable any suspense and tension is severely diluted
and having parts that have little to no relevance. Other than revenge,
you don't have a clear idea as to what the heroine's motivations are.
The action sequences lack any kind of momentum or excitement and just
looks so awkwardly staged and passionless, a few are so ridiculous that
it brings unintentional laughter. The direction is flat and with the
vibe that he didn't know how to direct a thriller, and visually only
the scenery really impresses, some of the colours are nice but others
are garish and the film in terms of photography and editing does often
look like direct-to-video quality. Overall, Woods, the shirt scene and
the score are great, Roberts, the sex scene and scenery are good but
the script, story, leads and Steiger are just bad and the film on the
whole is mediocre. 4/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

Although I'm not really a Sly-fan I found this movie highly entertaining and
it made me laugh quite a lot. I totally agree with the comment of bensonl
who, in my opinion understands the value of entertainment. Right you are,
mate! I think it's silly to look for a good plot (is there one?) in an
action flick like this.
Anyway, who cares? If you're in for a plot go see 'Usual Suspects', I'd say.

By the way, if you're being led by all the negative comments, you'll miss
the chance of (yet again) seeing Sharon without clothes.....mmmm!
   
8 out of 10 to push up the score.
<|_=00=_|>

I know, if you read some of the other comments people have posted, they
say
that The Specialist is just a lame action movie.  Well, they're wrong.  IT
WAS A GREAT ACTION MOVIE.  But then again, what else would you expect from
Sylvester Stallone, the most entertaining actor in history.  Sly stars as
an
ex-CIA agent who is hired by a mysterious women (Sharon Stone)to blow up
the
men who murdered her parents.  The explosions are awesome, and the fight
scenes are great too.  Sly and Sharon both give great performances, and so
does James Woods.  Woods plays a phsychotic hired gun with a personel
vendetta against Sly.  All in all, The Specialist was a very entertaining
movie.  But don't take my word for it, go see it for yourself.  Trust me,
you won't be disappionted.
<|_=00=_|>
Although Stallone was already a big budget Hollywood star with many a
title under his belt with Sharon Stone who also had a few films (most
noticeably 'Basic Instinct') going for her and James Woods, again, with
some reasonably successful outings (most notably in my opinion a
'Simpsons' episode), 'The Specialist' fails to live up to its talent
hype and attempt as a film noir come action film.

What struck me upon looking this film up after seeing it was the
director. He'd had hardly any experience previous to this film and
thinking back to the film itself; it's no wonder it really turned out
the way it did. A big budget and a big cast with a screenplay that
wasn't terrible probably demanded a bigger and better director. I could
kick around a few names like 'John Woo' but I won't get too into that.

Fatally, The Specialist doesn't do right what it's supposed to do
right. The camera work is bad (I actually spotted one instance of
camera shake in this film), the fight scenes are poorly choreographed
and badly executed, the dialogue is a bit iffy at best and is rather
clichéd at times and the stereotypes of Colombian drug lords are
laughable. With the action scenes, the extras just sit up waiting to be
hit and are poorly put together in a way that you can see Stallone's
next move as he wins the punch-up from a beaten position. The dialogue
put across via the recorded phone messages feels forced and they snap
back at one another too quickly. The character played by Rod Stieger is
a little too stereotypical and his pronunciation of the word 'you' like
'jew' can only be taken seriously for so long before a serious scene
involving intense dialogue is broken up by a smirk here and there.

What makes the film also rather cheesy is the editing at some points.
Early on in the film, a character threatens Stallone at knife point and
asks him a question. Cut to a reaction shot of a silent Stallone and
immediately, the character asks the question again – not even giving
Stallone the time it takes to blink to reply. This was very noticeable
and good editing, as they say, is un-noticeable. One other incident is
where Stallone sneaks up on a pistol wielding guard during a hotel
evacuation and knocks him out from behind in the lobby area. We keep on
the same camera and pan as he runs away. From this, we see that for the
entire time, people (extras) have been running right past, merely feet
from the assault and don't even batter an eyelid at what just happened
as Stallone runs off in the OPPOSITE direction.

Every action film has its effects and this films' was poor. The blatant
blue screen effect of the water getting closer and closer via the
window as the suite breaks off the side of the hotel and falls to the
sea as a guy waves frantically at the camera crashing towards him
without trying to get away really brought out a long shake of the head
from me. The fact when one of the bombs went off in the room, one guy
fell down before the other was also laughable. These are the action
scenes of the film and should be suspenseful and nerve-wracking – not
humorous, instead.

If you're looking for a decent Stallone action-based film from the
mid-nineties, avoid this and see 'Assassins' instead. That film's
particularly large cast rivals this one and the direction and script
are a lot better.
<|_=00=_|>
Sylvester Stallone is without doubt still in shape, and if you have
previously enjoyed watching him on screen, you will surely like him on
this movie. Sharon Stone is also a good choice to play the girl, since
her and Stallone have good chemistry on the film. The mutual attraction
on both characters is divinely shown by the two actors. Although a lot
of people didn't seem to enjoy this film, or even think of it as
"acceptable" this movie is actually quite amusing. It is mostly to
divert yourself for a while, so don't expect a big film with deep
dialogues. But if what you're looking for is to have a good time
without having to think too much, this is what you want, since it is
indeed an agreeable way to entertain yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

As others have mentioned, James Woods is the only really entertaining
asset
this film has. Even a good dosage of Sharon Stone in the nude cannot
elevate
this film above the level of crappola.

The plot isn't worth commenting on. You just have a vengeful woman (Stone)
hiring Sly Stallone to blow up a crime family who killed her parents when
she was a child. By the way, does anyone else find it totally ridiculous
that Stone's character is a child when her parents are killed by Eric
Roberts & co., but now she's supposed to be all grown up and he still
looks
the same? Totally laughable.

Anyway, just watch James Woods do what he does best. He goes way over the
top with his portrayal of a former colleague of Stallone (in the CIA I
think) now trying to help mob boss Rod Steiger hunt him down. Woods easily
steals every scene he's in. He looks like he's having a blast with the
corny
dialogue.

My favorite scene:

Woods and some hit men are on their way up to Sly's hotel room to waste
him.
About four of them jump on an elevator, and just before the door is about
to
close, a couple of senior citizens try to get on with them. The man is
wearing a god-awful brightly colored shirt, and woods not only tells him
and
his wife to get lost, but also insults him about his shirt! You can just
tell Woods ad-libbed the line about the shirt just as the doors were
closing
on the old couple. Truly hilarious!

The rest of the film besides Woods is terrible. Stallone never knew how to
say no to a bad film, and that is why his career has bottomed out. Stone
bounced back with a big role in Casino the following year. Woods is also
in
that one, and once again, he steals every scene. At least Casino was good,
though!

The Specialist is worth about 4 of 10 stars.

So sayeth the Hound. 
