

Much like the candy that bears it's name, "Jawbreaker" is a sweet,
infectious dark comedy that wants you to enjoy it for a good, long time. 
Unfortunately, also like the candy, the film is a little hard to swallow,
and it doesn't last as long or come on as strong as it's name would lead you
to believe.  But even though you know that much candy is bad for you, you
still want to have it.

On her 17th birthday, popular girl Liz (Charlotte Ayanna, here as Charlotte
Roldan), a member of the "Flawless Four," is kidnapped by her best friends
Courtney (Rose McGowan), Marcie (Julie Benz), and Julie (Rebecca Gayheart)
as a prank, her screams muffled by a huge jawbreaker.  The prank goes
horribly wrong, however, when Liz chokes to death on the candy.  Instead of
going to the authorities, as Julie insists, Courtney devises a massive plan
to cover up the death, a plan discovered by the unpopular and awkward Fern
(Judy Greer).  To win her silence, Courtney makes Fern in her own image,
renaming her Vylette and allowing her to hang and commiserate with the most
popular people in school.  As Fern becomes intoxicated with her new-found
power, Julie becomes more concerned with her friend's death, and Courtney
spins a devious web of lies and trickery.  Enter Detective Vera Cruz (Pam
Grier), the only person who may be able to get to the bottom of the crime. 
But what does all this mean for the Prom?

Writer and director Darren Stein as obviously seen "Heathers" a good number
of times.  Like that classic film of teen angst, "Jawbreaker" is a dark
comedy set in a high school, featuring an accidental murder of a popular
student.  While "Jawbreaker" is certainly more colorful than "Heathers",
both in terms of set design and characters, it also comes off as a pale
imitation.  The students live their lives in near-vacuums, with parents
showing up only occasionally, and then only as ineffective or ignorant.  The
impact of their actions on the community at large is only hinted at, and as
a result, you never feel as if anything important in the reality of this
film has ever happened.

That being said, the movie is still pretty sweet.  Rose McGowan is cruel and
calculating villain, terrifying in her powers of manipulation and
contingency.  Julie Benz is the perfect toadie, existing only to buoy
Courtney's already swollen ego.  Rebecca Gayheart's warm-natured Julie is a
stark contrast to Courtney's "Satan-in-heels" persona, and Judy Greer is
wonderful to watch as she goes from under-appreciated geek to power-mad
diva.  Pam Grier is, as always, a pleasure to watch, even if her role seems
too small.  The interactions between her and Rose McGowan are some of the
highlights of the film.  A good supporting cast also deserves mention, most
notably Carol Kane as the slightly daffy school principal, Marilyn Manson as
a seedy barfly, and Ethan Erickson as the dumb jock being relentlessly
manipulated by Courtney's sex games.

While the script is full of caustic one-liners, it never succumbs to its own
hipness.  The characters are witty, but not nearly as unrealistically urbane
as the characters in movies like "Scream."  Some scenes and interactions
come off as gratuitous, and to be sure there are a number of times when
Stein really wants you to notice to how well he paid attention at film
school.  But there are a number of scenes that gain new meaning when
analyzed in the larger scheme of the movie, and a repeat viewing may be in
order to catch the full signifcance.  You may sometimes get so distracted by
the candy-colored schemes (McGowan's lips alone may send you into insulin
shock) that you'll forget about the plot.

Some may see the movie as derivative, and there are certainly a large number
of detractors.  But taken on its own merits, "Jawbreaker" is a fun, giddily
dark comedy that requires more than few licks to get to the bottom of.  Just
keep your consumption to a moderate amount, and you'll do fine.  7 out of
10.
<|_=00=_|>

What happens when you take the movie "Heathers", sprinkle on some
"Clueless", and add a pinch of "Carrie"?  Well, you get the phat movie
Jawbreaker, a good movie which really lets Rebecca Gayheart and Rose McGowen
shine like the stars they are!

The movie itself is somewhat true to the lives of teenagers---there was
always that incredibly exclusive group of kids that NOBODY but NOBODY could
be good friends with.  Well, this movie lets us see into one of these
groups...and what lies underneath is totally rotton.

Rose McGowen is a total witch, much to the dismay of Rebecca Gayheart...who
has to solve the puzzle of Courtney's scheme after her character Julie is
tossed from the clique.  The ending is pretty memorable...reaching back to
it's roots of Carrie.

Speaking of Carrie...P.J. Soles is in the movie, as well as the cool Carol
Kane (When a Stranger Calls).  I really enjoyed the movie as did my friends.
A laugh-a-thon that doesn't try to take itself TOO seriously, and
remembering that is a good thing.

Oh, and Rebecca Gayheart is grrrreat!

<|_=00=_|>

Courtney(Rose Mcgowan),Julie(Rebecca Gayheart),Marcie(Julie Benz) and
Liz(Charlotte Ayanna) were the most popular girls at school. But on Liz's
17th birthday, her friends want to surprise her and kidnap her. But that
plan goes wrong, when accidently, Liz chokes on the jawbreaker, her
friends
stuffed in her mouth to keep her from screaming. Everyone is totally
shocked, except the cold hearted Courtney, who just doesn't give a crap
about anybody but herself. Julie wants to go to the police right away and
tell them what happened but Courtney calms her down and tries to cover the
crime and make it look like somebody raped Liz. Suddenly, a geeky outcast
named Fern Mayo(Judy Greer) who has always admired Liz, finds out what
happened to her and is totally devasted. Courtney tells her if she keeps
her
mouth shut, she will make Fern something she always wanted to be.
POPULAR.
This was a very entertaining and fun dark comedy. I enjoyed it a lot. Rose
Mcgowan is gorgeous and does a great job along with the rest of the cast.
I
would give Jawbreaker 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Jawbreaker" has all the predictable, clichéd elements of past teen
comedies, but I can't deny the fact that I enjoyed it. I think part of
its appeal is that it's a darker comedy, like "Heathers"--though this
movie certainly isn't in the same league. Everybody in the cast gives
fine performances. Rose McGowan's is a little over-the-top, but I think
it fit the tone of the movie. The running time is about 85 minutes, so
it doesn't go on long. There are plenty of funny moments that keep it
entertaining. You can argue that the Karen Carpenter joke was too
cruel, but that joke alone didn't ruin the film for me. The ending is
certainly a cop-out. There could've been a MUCH better pay-off! But
despite the fact that "Jawbreaker" is undoubtedly a flawed film, it's
energetic and fun. There are much worse teen movies out there.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this movie was in TV and I liked it so much i
recorded it on tape. And watched it again and again and again and
again...till the tape was done.....so i bought it on DVD one year
later.... At the beginning i thought it's gonna be just "another teen
movie"... BUT IT'S NOT!

Jawbreaker is just the most funny,exciting,evil,mean teen-movie ever
made. I just love it. 

Rose McGowan is just awesome as THE MOST EVIL BITCH EVER Courtney
Shane.

This movie has everything you need: -) A REALLY FREAKY STORY -) MUCH OF
BLACK HUMOR -) A GREAT CAST -) AWESOME SOUNDTRACK -) REALLY GOOD JOKES

And what is also very cool are the Guest-Stars: Marilyn Manson, Pam
Grier, The Donnas,.....

SO WATCH IT!!!!!!!!
<|_=00=_|>
Jawbreaker is a copy of a copy. It takes plot points from Heathers,
Carrie, and uses some originals of it's own to create itself. It's not
a bad film. Actually one of the better teen films I have seen recently.
It reminds me of a much more recent film I saw a few months back called
Mean Girls. Of course that came five years later. This one has all very
beautiful, and perky actresses that flood the screen at one time, much
like Mean Girls. But Mean Girls was a film that was much more tame and
lit the screen up. This one falls under a dark comedy.

Let me just say I love Rebecca Gayheart. I had a childhood crush on
her, and she's probably the reason for my love behind Santa's Slay.
She's gorgeous, one of the most beautiful and underrated actresses in
the business today. She gets a promising, and an effective role in this
film. From her constant beauty on screen, to her sassy ways in the
later parts of the film, she finds ways to surprise me. Very worthy,
respectable part for her.

The plot is about three teen girls named Courtney (McGowan), Marcie
(Benz), and Julie (Gayheart) who, as a birthday prank, gag their friend
Liz with a jawbreaker, and throw her in the trunk of their car. They
drive for a brief time, before stopping at a diner, and opening the
trunk to realize she is dead. She had swallowed the giant jawbreaker,
and now the girls realize their stunt has gone wrong.

To avoid trouble, Courtney calls Liz in sick, and they go to school
like normal. Courtney (pretending to be Liz's mother) on the phone to
give one of the girls Liz's homework for the day. The principal gives
Courtney the homework, which she forgets, and another student named
Fern Mayo (Judy Greer), a nerdy bookworm, is sent with Liz's homework.
Fern absolutely adores Liz and her beauty, so upon arriving to Fern's
house and entering, she finds the girls trying to cover up Liz's corpse
with a faulty rape story.

Fern now knows a secret that shouldn't have been told. She has the
power of blackmail. Courtney assures the crew that Fern will become the
missing link in the "Flawless Four". They give Fern an amazing
makeover, which she quickly takes to her head. Who could blame her?
This is her first time she's been noticed. She's bound to let the newly
given makeover get blown out of proportion. In the meantime, Courtney
rejects Julie because of her wanting to do the right thing, and not
take Fern for granted. Courtney basically says "you're out bitch!" and
shuns her out of the picture. Courtney, Marcie, and Fern (now Vylette)
are on their own. Hiding from a dark secret.

Upon it's release, Jawbreaker was met with negative reception because
of it's dim-witted cast and copycat like plot. While it does sample
from other movies, like stated above, it finds ways to be unique and
clever. It throws in some original material of it's own. I love movies
about teenage girls. Not just coming-of-age films, but films where high
school girls are their own worst enemy. Where they are both the
protagonist and the antagonist. What fun these movies bring! Starring:
Rose McGowan, Rebecca Gayheart, Julie Benz, Judy Greer, Ethan Erickson,
Carol Kane, Pam Grier. Directed by: Darren Stein.
<|_=00=_|>

When you watch "Jawbreaker," you can't help but sense echoes of
"Heathers,"
"Clueless" and "The Craft."  So it is a bit of a derivative teen bopper
flick.  But it's not a total rip-off and does stand on its own two feet.

However, it's a fun movie.  And it has a great soundtrack, which I have.
I
love the use of the song "Rock Me Like a Hurricane" in the Marilyn Manson
cameo.  Pam Grier also had an interesting bit role, as a tough-as-nails
private investigator.  "Jawbreaker"  has its flaws, but it's fast-paced,
energetic and sometimes pretty funny.

The only big letdown was the ending.  Couldn't they come up with
something
more torcherous to do to Courtney?  Evidently, the writer Darren Stein
was
too anxious to complete the script and pasted on this snappy, thoughtless
ending.


<|_=00=_|>
Jawbreaker;; There's always that group at rule the school. At Reagan
High, it's the foursome, Courtney, Liz, Marcie and Julie. The plot is
set in motion on the morning of Liz's birthday, when Courtney, Marcie
and Julie break into her house, shove a jawbreaker in her mouth and
lock her in the trunk. But their harmless prank goes horribly wrong
when they discover Liz has choked on the jawbreaker. The rest of the
running time involves the girls trying to cover up the murder and
bribing a nerd to keep her mouth shut.

I am a fan of teen movies and black comedies. Assuming Jawbreaker falls
into both of those genre's I was expecting to adore the film. The
problem with 'Jawbreaker' lies in the fact that the conflict is set
into motion within the first 5 minutes, leaving the rest of the film
running of low gas. But it offers enough one-liners, laughs and style
to make up for the flaws.

Performances are good around, and a keen sense of the bitchy high
school girl stereotype is cleverly constructed here. After all,
everybody has a Courtney in their life. She's the girl who loves to be
feared, and MCGowen does a great job pulling her persona off.

3 from 4.
<|_=00=_|>
A group of ultra-hip teenage schoolgirls (from Reagan High!)
accidentally kill one of their own in a birthday prank gone awry; they
struggle to keep their deed a secret even after a nerdy student
discovers the truth. Darkly comic tale, brightly-produced yet full of
cynicism, has brief moments that go out on a limb, but is ultimately a
rather formulaic "Heathers" knock-off. Holds interest nearly half the
way, however the wrap-up is right off the assembly-line. It certainly
benefits from a good cast, with the central performances by Rose
McGowan and Rebecca Gayheart spot-on, however prominently-billed P.J.
Soles, William Katt and Marilyn Manson hardly appear at all. *1/2 from
****
<|_=00=_|>

As Heathers did, this film tries to do. It is supposed to be a clever
black
comedy that is twisted, sick, and you have a hell of a fun time viewing
it.
Jawbreaker succeeds in nothing. Absolutely nothing. I like Rose McGowan
but
as you're supposed to, you don't love her. Rebecca Gayheart is the one
you're supposed to root for, I couldn't stand her in this role. And the
rest
of the cast besides the school's principal, fell flat. That's not their
fault, it is the faulty script. Unwitty dialogue and unclever antics make
this film a downer. After accidently killing a friend they hatch a cover
up
scheme yet obviously someone is uncovering it. Now one friend must find a
way
to prove that her friend killed this girl. I didn't get that factor. It
was
an accident, yes it turned sick, but Courtney didn't actually,
purposefully
kill the girl. The ending is predictable, and there is crappy casting. I
say
this because Marilyn Manson is cast as a man that well... does... his
real-life love interest Rose McGowan. It's odd, unfunny, and with a black
comedy, it should be witty. This isn't.
D-
