
If one wants to remake a movie, the best option is probably to choose
and original that was good, but not a great classic. Clearly, any
attempt to remake a concept that failed first time around is fraught
with danger, but an attempt to remake a classic runs the risk that
one's film will be unfavourably compared with the original. The
original 1968 film of 'Planet of the Apes' is one of cinema's great
science fiction classics. More than an adventure story, it touches on
some of the concerns of the late sixties- the fear of nuclear war, race
relations- and also raises more fundamental issues about the
relationship between man and nature, the relationship between religion
and science, Darwinism and animal rights. It was therefore a brave move
on Tim Burton's part to try and remake it. 

The main concept of Tim Burton's film is basically similar to Franklin
Schaffner's. An astronaut from Earth travels to a planet ruled by
intelligent apes. Humans exist on this planet, but they are regarded as
an inferior species, despised and exploited by the apes. There is,
however, an important difference. In the original film, the apes are
the only intelligent and articulate beings on the planet. Although they
have only attained a pre-industrial level of civilization (they have
firearms, but no power-driven machinery, and no means of transport
other than the horse or horse-drawn vehicles), they are a far more
advanced species than the planet's human inhabitants, who lack the
powers of speech and reason and live an animal-like existence. In
Burton's remake, humans and apes have similar powers of speech and
intellect; it is only the apes' greater physical strength that enables
them to dominate the planet and to treat the humans as slaves. 

It was this ironic role-reversal, with apes behaving like men and men
behaving like beasts, that gave Schaffner's film its satirical power.
That film was advertised with the slogan 'Somewhere in the Universe,
there must be something better than man!', and the apes are indeed, in
some respects, better than man. Their law against killing others of
their kind, for example, is much more strictly observed than our
commandment that 'Thou shalt do no murder'. There is no sense that the
apes are bad and the humans good. Even Dr Zaius, the orang-utan
politician, is not a wicked individual; by the standards of his society
he is an honourable and decent one. His weakness is that of excessive
intellectual conservatism and unwillingness to accept opinions that do
not fit in with his preconceived world view. (In this respect the apes
are very human indeed). 

Burton's film takes a less subtle moral line. It is a straightforward
story of a fight for freedom. The villains are most of the apes,
especially the fanatical, human-hating General Thade. The heroes are
Captain Davidson, the astronaut from Earth, the planet's human
population who long for freedom from the domination of the apes, and a
few liberal, pro-human apes, especially Ari, the daughter of an ape
senator. The apes are more aggressive and more obviously animals than
in the original film; they still frequently move on all fours and emit
fierce shrieks whenever angry or excited. 

There are some things about this film that are good, especially the ape
make-up which is, for the most part, more convincing than in the
original film and allows the actors more scope to show emotion. (I say
'for the most part' because Ari looks far less simian than do most of
the other apes- Tim Burton obviously felt that the audience would be
more likely to accept her as a sympathetic character if she looked
half-human). The actors playing apes actually seem more convincing than
those playing humans. Tim Roth is good as the militaristic Thade, as is
Helena Bonham-Carter as Ari. Mark Wahlberg, on the other hand, is not
an actor of the same caliber as Charlton Heston, who played the
equivalent role in the original film, and Estella Warren has little to
do other than look glamorous. (Heston has a cameo role as an ape in
Burton's film, and even gets to repeat his famous line 'Damn you all to
hell'). 

Overall, however, the film is a disappointment when compared to the
original, a simple science-fiction adventure story as opposed to an
intelligent and philosophical look at complex issues. It tried to copy
the device of a surprise ending but failed. Schaffner's famous final
twist is shocking, but makes perfect sense in the context of what has
gone before. Burton's makes no sense whatsoever.

Tim Burton can be a director of great originality, but with 'Planet of
the Apes' he fell into the standard Hollywood trap of trying to copy
what had already been done and remaking a film that never needed to be
remade. It was good to see him return to form with the brilliant 'Big
Fish', one of the best films of last year. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Thank you Hollywood. Yet another movie classic utterly ruined by a cheap,
shallow, effect-heavy and redundant remake. The original "Planet of the
Apes" was an intelligent and thought-provoking movie with a very clear
message. It was a movie that focused almost entirely on dialogue, which
sounds very dull but was in fact very interesting. 

This movie, on the other hand, seems to have done away with pretty much ALL
the dialogues. Instead of a great movie we get an incredibly stupid two hour
chase movie. Dialogue has been reduced to a mere minimum, character
interaction and development are non-existent and most of the time it's
extremely hard to figure out what's going on. Instead, we get a bunch of
pointless action scenes, some marginally funny one-liners and some very
hollow quasi-intelligent conversations. 

The only thing worth mentioning about this movie is that it looks absolutely
fantastic. The make-up of the apes is magnificent, and the sets and
backgrounds are beautiful too. However, this does not distract from the fact
that "Planet of the Apes (2001)" is a very shallow and simplistic movie,
filled with paper-thin characters, stupid dialogue and a nearly non-existent
plot. Please Hollywood, stop ruining great movies by turning them into
senseless blockbusters.

Oh yeah, the ending did not make ANY SENSE WHATSOEVER.

* out of **** stars, mainly for the visuals

 
<|_=00=_|>

After seeing Tim Burton's excellent Sleepy Hollow, and superlative Ed
Wood,
I was expecting much more of a character driven movie, with the
characterization and spiritual philosopies that elevated the original
movie
out of the pure science fiction genre and into a cerebral adventure film
with acutely observed social comments.

Unfortunately, the film suffers from poor script and direction right from
the minute the astronaut crashlands.

They knew from the outset that they would never produce an ending to rival
the original, and any cinema-goer in their right minds would never expect
one.  But they could have at least got the beginning right.  Neither Mark
Wahlberg's character nor the tension is ever developed, so when he is
confronted by the apes: we feel nothing.

The humans, though they have the benefit of increased intelligence and
speech, are poorly utilized.  And Kris Kristofferson is criminally
wasted.

The make-up and effects are, as you would expect, fantastic.  However,
despite improved flexibility in the make-up, there is little warmth in
either the performances or direction that made millions of kids go
ape-nuts
in the seventies.  Bonham-Carter's Ari, whilst convincing, is not a patch
on
Kim Hunter's Zira.  Roth's quite brilliant performance as Thade virtually
carries this film and makes it the one reason to stick with it to the
end.

Did I say end?  Well, the less said about that the better.
<|_=00=_|>

Warning: Spoilers Galore!

Tim Burton remaking this sui generis movie is about as sensible as
remaking
Psycho - oh, that's right, some idiot already did that - I rest my
case.

Movie opens with chimpnaut blundering a simulation, proving he's not that
smart from the outset. Marky Mark appears in shot without his
characteristic
underpants showing, then is turned down by a plain woman who prefers the
touch of chimpanzees.

The perfunctory establishing shot of the space station orbiting Saturn
for
no apparent reason, interior of ship a-bustle with genetic experiments on
apes. Must we travel 1,300 million kilometers to Saturn to conduct these
experiments? The special effects team decrees it.

Marky's chimp gets lost in that staple of 60s sci-fi cinema - the Time
Warp.
Marky then demonstrates the space station's mind-boggling security
ineptness
by stealing a pod without anyone noticing, while simultaneously
demonstrating his abject stupidity in mounting a deep-space rescue
mission
into a worm-hole for an expendable test chimp, with a million dollar
vehicle
with limited fuel and oxygen supplies.

Before anyone can say `Pointless Remake' Marky has surfed the worm-hole,
crashed on an alien planet, removed his helmet without any thought to the
lethality of the atmosphere and is being chased through a sound stage
that
almost resembles a lush rainforest, if it weren't for the kliegs
backlighting the plastic trees.

Surprise! It's APES doing the chasing - or at least, it *would* have been
a
surprise if no one saw Planet Of The Apes THIRTY-THREE YEARS AGO.

Since Marky Mark did not get to show his pecs, take down his pants, or
bust
his lame whiteboy rap, he was characterless. Michael Clarke Duncan's
gorilla
teeth being inserted crookedly helped immensely in establishing *his*
lack
of character. Helena Bonham-Carter (aka irritating chimp activist), at a
loss without a Shakespearean script, did a fine job of outdoing both
Marky
and Clarke as Most Cardboard Cutout. Paul Giamatti, the orangutan slave
trader, secured the role of token comic relief and interspecies klutz.
Though I have grown bilious in hearing puns relating to this movie, one
review headline captured the essence of this Planet Of The Apes
`re-imagining': `The Apes Of Roth'. While everyone else minced about
looking
like extras from One Million Years BC or Greystoke, Tim Roth, as
Chimpanzee
Thade, chews massive amounts of scenery and hurls kaka splendiferously.
As
entertaining as his portrayal of the psychotic Thade was, his character
lacked a behavioral arc: Thade is mad when we first meet him... and he's
pretty much at the same level of mad at film's end. Nice
twist.

The original POTA (1968) featured a leading character, Charlton Heston's
Taylor, who was so disenchanted with mankind that he left earth for space
with no regrets - yet as that film progressed, Taylor unwittingly found
himself locked in a battle to prove mankind's worth - as their sole
champion! The original film was ultimately a tale of humiliation, not
salvation: when Taylor discovers the Statue of Liberty, he is forced to
realize that his species had NOT prevailed. Is there anything that
cerebral
or ironic to Marky Mark's Leo? Or Roth's Thade? No, but there's lots of
running.

The slogans cry: Take Back The Planet .but it's the APES' planet. In this
movie, humans and apes crash-landed here together, the humans having
degenerated to cavepeople, allowing the apes to acquire speech and
sensual
body armor; the apes DESERVED to inherit the planet! Along comes Marky
Mark,
in true anthropocentric arrogance, taking it for granted that humans HAVE
to
be the apex predators, simply because they're there.  `Taking it back' is
as
ludicrous as apes landing here in 2001, complaining, `A planet where men
evolved from APES??!!' and then causing trouble with their overacting and
hairy anuses.

Heston was cast in the 1968 POTA because he had established his
reputation
as a maverick: he WAS Ben-Hur, Michelangelo, Moses! To cast him as the
mute,
dogged animal in an alien society was to stupefy an audience's
expectations:
how crazed must a world be where Our Man Charlton cannot command respect?
Marky Mark has currently only established that he has tight
underpants.

Though Heston was denigrated constantly by the ape council, he dominated
the
screen with his charisma and stupendous overacting. When Marky Mark tries
to
instill fervor in the mongoloid humans, it's like that unpopular guy in
school suddenly being made classroom monitor, who tells you to stop
drawing
penises on the blackboard and you throw a shoe at him. Burton tries to
elevate Marky to humanity's icon, but he comes off as a chittering
deviant.
In the original film, the apes deem Taylor a deviant, yet he was, to
audience and apes alike, an icon of humanity. That irony again.

It was apt that a man who elevated scene-chewing to an acting technique -
Heston - should play the father of this film's primo scene-chewer,
Thaddeus
Roth. As Roth's ape-dad, Charlton utters his own immortal lines, turned
against the HUMANS this time, `Damn them! Damn them all to
hell!'

The movie gets dumb and dumber towards the end. While Thaddeus is giving
Marky an ass-beating lesson, a pod descends from on high with Marky's
chimpnaut in it. Apes demonstrate their hebetude by bowing in obeisance
to
this incognizant creature, while Marky proves his own hebetude by
muttering,
`Let's teach these monkeys about evolution.' Firstly, they're not
monkeys,
you ape! Secondly, it was genetic tampering and imbecilic plot
fabrications
which brought the apes to this point, not evolution. And what you intend
to
teach them by blowing them away with the concealed lasergun is called
misanthropy, not evolution.

Giving away the twist ending would only confuse viewers into believing
that
Estella Warren's half-nekkid role was actually integral to the plot (be
still my pants.).

No matter that he was humankind's last underpanted hope; in the end, cop
apes take Marky away to Plot Point Prison where he was last heard
ululating,
`It's a madhouse! A MADHOUSE!!...'

<|_=00=_|>
In the spring of 2001 audiences seemed eager to see Tim Burton's
retelling of the 1968 classic, "Planet of the Apes." By the summer of
2001 it seemed to be the movie everybody loved to hate. Were the
criticisms fair? Not if you ask me.

2001's Planet of the Apes' biggest downfall, in my opinion, is
unfortunately also it's biggest strength. Unlike many remakes which
often end up as nothing more than weaker rehashes of their
predecessor's this version of 'Apes' dared to be different. The plot
has been stripped down to its bare bones and then rebuilt into
something completely new. This is refreshing, if you ask me. Especially
when rewatching it now, because just a few short years after this film
came out we launched into sort of a remake renaissance, where half the
tent pole films that come out every year are the same lesser rehashes
that I spoke of a second ago. This film does take a moment here and
there to wink at the '68 original, but Burton and his merry band of
screenwriters has created a world completely original...it could be
watched next to any entry of that original series as a wholey different
film.

This is also the film's biggest flaw though, or at least financially
speaking, because the original 'Apes' franchise has a cult following
behind it that could almost rival that of Star Wars or Star Trek. The
core audience for this film really only wanted to see their favourite
story told with modern day effects and makeup. I don't think we needed
that, but I'm not sure how many would agree with me.

Now, if you want to compare the two films plots and decide which one is
stronger that's a whole other debate. But I don't think that's fair,
that's why I champion it for taking such a different approach. I don't
think this movie should be compared to any other movie and with that
mindset a much better appreciation can be found. To put it bluntly,
this movie ain't bad...in fact it's actually pretty good.

I won't deconstruct the plot for you...if you're interested enough to
be reading this you probably at least know the jist of it anyway. But
it's a solid and interesting plot that sets up a very fun and
entertaining action adventure flick. Visually its in many ways a
departure from typical Burton fair but his stamp is definitely evident
in its art direction, and the atmosphere he creates in this
jungle/desert/urban/high tech universe is really something to behold.
The apes are not only impressive in terms of makeup but they are also
creatively impressive from the choices of the species to match
personalities, the incredible costumes and simply perfect performances
by a cast who act through all that latex. And while I'm praising I'll
also throw up a shout out for Danny Elfman's great score, which just
might be one of his best.

The only caveat I'll lay on the movie is that the twist ending,
obviously conceived to rival the famous twist of the original, kind of
falls flat. BUT...considering how many instalments the original
franchise had I have no doubt that the producers had hoped to make a
sequel had this film been more financially successful, and had that
sequel been made maybe we would've learned the story behind this twist
and all would've been forgiven.

It's a little too late to say, 'long story short,' but I will anyway.
Give this movie a fair shot. It may not be without its flaws but how
many movies are? Try not to compare it to the original, just watch it
with a bowl of popcorn and have fun.
<|_=00=_|>

Tim Burton's new "Planet of the Apes" is actually a remake--excuse me, a
"re-imagining"--of the first TWO movies of the old series.  Its occasional
paraphrasing of lines from the original movie (devoid of any meaningful
context), and its cameos by members of the original cast (Charlton Heston
and Linda Harrison), only underscore that this new version isn't what the
original was, i.e., an original.  Mark Wahlberg, as Our Hero, has none of
the cynical, edgy complexity of Heston's Taylor, and is in fact the sort
of
can-do flyboy Taylor found laughable.  Much as I adore Helena Bonham
Carter,
her turn as Ari, a sultry, sexy, meddling, annoying human-rights activist,
is ultimately tiresome, and absolutely incomparable to Kim Hunter's brave,
brilliant, impish Zira of the old series.  The role is also a criminal
waste
of Bonham Carter's beauty, hidden as it is behind a bizarre makeup that
looks neither ape nor human.  Rick Baker's highly-touted ape makeups
(which
I've enjoyed since the days of "Schlock" and "Kentucky Fried Movie") are
highly uneven here.  Tim Roth's villainous Thade has the best, with most
of
the rest being just adequate and no particular improvement over John
Chambers' work in the original.  And the socko ending (keep reading; I
won't
spoil it for you) is simply tacked on: unlike the jolting end of the
original, it neither ties together nor arises from the movie's earlier
action in a way that Explains Everything.  Instead, it begs so many
questions (mainly "How the heck did THAT happen?") that it seems
engineered
(or contrived) solely to set the stage for more sequels.  All told, this
is
"Apes Lite," a comic-bookish caricature of the original, made for the
short-attention-span crowd.  It made me want to do something I hadn't done
in ages: fire up the VCR and roll the original again.  It's typical of the
1968 movie's gritty, clever irony that the first word of dialogue uttered
by
an ape--his entire line, in fact--is "Smile."  
<|_=00=_|>

This film is another of director Tim Burton's attempts to capitalize on a
familiar title to bring his `vision' to the screen.  He has done it with
`Batman', `Sleepy Hollow' and now this.  This is not a remake.  The only
thing it has in common with the original is that it has simians that can
speak (and Charleton Heston makes a cameo).  Burton has reconstituted the
entire story, watering it down for today's mass viewership.

The original Planet of the Apes was a product of its time.  During the
1960's America was struggling to redefine its civilization.  It was a
turbulent time of soul searching and rethinking social norms.  It was the
civil rights era where groups long considered inferior demanded to be
treated as equal.  In that context, POTA was allegorical, reflecting the
philosophical turmoil confronting the audiences of the day.  POTA was an
extremely intelligent film that broached difficult questions and elegantly
held the oppressions of American society up to scrutiny by making the
white
guy justify his intelligence to a species he considered inferior.  The
dialectic between Colonel Taylor (Charleton Heston), Dr. Cornelius (Roddy
McDowall) and Dr. Zira (Kim Hunter) was thought provoking and intelligent
with ironies both subtle and obvious.

Burton's version is as much a product of today's times as POTA was of the
sixties.  This is Apes for Dummies.  It is superficial and jejune,
substituting politically correct platitudes for intelligent dialogue and
focusing more on form than substance.  The `surprise' ending is utterly
incongruous and contributes nothing to the film except a cliffhanger that
sets up the sequel.  While the ending of the original POTA gracefully tied
everything together in a single powerful scene, Burton's ending simply
mocks
the audience, taunting, `I know something you don't know, and you are
going
to have to wait for the sequel to find out.'

From a technical perspective, as is always the case with Burton's film,
the
film is excellent.  The makeup is fantastic and Burton's camerawork is
outstanding (though I continue to dislike his dark look).  However,
thirty-three years of advancements in prosthetic makeup can not compensate
for the insultingly vacuous script.

The story has been reduced to a monster movie.  The humans band together
behind Captain Davidson (Mark Wahlberg) to fight the monstrous Apes, aided
and abetted by a few turncoats (notably Helena Bonham Carter as Ari).  The
presentation is formulaic and simplistic with plenty of violence, perfect
for today's fast food mentality.

The acting is mixed.  Mark Wahlberg is a fine actor who is simply miscast
in
this role.  Walberg is excellent at playing dark, sullen characters that
are
tormented but strong.  This part requires an inspirational hero, a profile
not in Wahlberg's repertoire.  Helena Bonham Carter is a brilliant actor
whose character is so far beneath her ability that the disconnect is
laughable.  She tries desperately to do something with the flimsy
character,
but her interpretation presents like a cross between a college peace
demonstrator and love sick teenager.

Then there is Tim Roth.  His is a virtuoso performance, single-handedly
saving the film from total ruin.  Roth is diabolically hateful as the
malevolent General Thade.  He creates one of the most villainous and
despicable bad guys I can remember in some time.  Additionally, his
physical
acting is superlative, rendering a chimp-man that is such a perfect meld
that one can almost believe that the species exists.

This film is a great disappointment.  It is decent entertainment, as long
as
you check your brain at the door.  I rated it a 3/10.  From a technical
perspective it is much better than that, perhaps a 9/10.  However the
story
is an insult to the original franchise.  It is simply another attempt by
Burton at self adulation, using a familiar title to attract throngs to the
box office so lots of people can see what a genius he is.  Of course it's
true, but it would be great if he used that talent to produce substantial
films, instead of simple minded pap formulated for mass
consumption.
<|_=00=_|>
If there's one thing that annoys me most in seeing a bad film, it's
seeing it done by experienced film-makers who ought to know better.
This "re-imagining" of Planet of the Apes could have used some
imagination, to say nothing of essential elements of character
development. Nova, the girl in the original Planet of the Apes, was a
better developed character than Daena in this version, for all that she
does not say a single word. One certainly expected a lot better from
Tim Burton, a man who has hitherto combined an incredible visual
imagination with intelligence, wit and humour, all of which were
notably absent from this production.

There were problems in basic plot development. The first big mistake
was allowing the humans to talk. This was the fundamental difference
between apes and men that made *all* the difference in the original
film. Even while he was mute, his ability to communicate was what
marked out Heston's Taylor as being different from the other humans. In
the current film, Mark Wahlberg encourages the (talking) human slaves
to revolt, but there is no overpowering reason for them to have not
revolted and reclaimed their emancipation already. They are dexterous
tool-users and have the ability to communicate in order to form plans,
something mute humans can't do. It needs no man to fall from the stars
to save them. Indeed, since he comes from a technological civilisation
and finds himself in a pre-technology era without (at first) any
gadgets to help him, it is Wahlberg who ought to be at a disadvantage,
not the humans who are used to living there.

It was sad to see Helena Bonham Carter working so hard to generate some
kind of spark between herself and that unresponsive brick wall Mark
Wahlberg. Her best scenes were with the villainous Tim Roth.

The humans were practically ignored until they were needed in the third
act, at which point Daena started showing some actual interest in
Davidson (Wahlberg), and a young boy suddenly changed from part of the
background to a feisty gung-ho freedom-fighter. This was poor character
development. (Estella Warren, in particular, looked as if she would
have been capable of a great deal more than she was given in the
script). Wahlberg's puzzlement at the end as to what these humans see
in him was certainly shared by me, as he has scarcely interacted with
the humans throughout.

Creating the apes: half a plus point and two minuses: Ape make-up was
excellent on the males, particularly Michael Clarke Duncan who has
incredibly expressive eyes (which was why he was so good in The Green
Mile), and the makeup design allowed him to use them fully. But the ape
females looked like nothing on earth, neither ape nor human. The
minuses were the ape jumps which looked about as realistic as Flash
Gordon's rocket: jumping apes looked as if they'd just been fired from
a catapult, they had none of the long-limbed grace of genuine apes.
Secondly, the poor sound mixing - when the gorillas roar it is quite
clearly dubbed from some animal, probably feline, making them sound
ridiculous and unrealistic.

In the original film, the various "human" things the apes do and say
are handled as light relief ("I never knew an ape I didn't like."
"Human see, human do!"). Here, the apes just talk matter-of-factly
exactly as 21st Century humans do, and there is no humour in it at all.
The only genuinely original idea was Ari writing with her feet.

Nothing made me cringe more than the "V-Ger from Star Trek" moment near
the end of the film. First of all, the apes had apparently been able to
read Roman lettering in the distant past, for them to know the name of
the Forbidden Zone in its partly concealed form. Secondly, the
mysterious inscription giving the name is merely covered with sand
which Wahlberg just brushes away, something any ape could have done
centuries ago. This moment was, for me, far worse than the
much-maligned ending of the movie.

Things of that nature, however, are typical of most science fiction
movies of today. Back in the '60s and '70s, they generally didn't have
the budget to make convincing futuristic sets, but they dealt with
genuinely original themes and ideas which were truly science fictional.
I'm thinking of 2001: A Space Odyssey, the 1967 Planet of the Apes,
THX1138, Soylent Green, Silent Running and the 1972 Solaris. The first
Planet of the Apes even utilised the only scientifically valid and
physically possible method of travelling forward in time. However, this
film includes just about every bad science fiction cliché going: space
storms, anomalies and worm holes straight out of Star Trek; the planets
of the solar system and their moons apparently all visible together as
large globes (in reality from any one planet, all other bodies, even
their own moons, are just points of light); a conventional rocket
powered shuttle travelling from Saturn to Earth in a matter of minutes
instead of years; two-thousand year old equipment firing up and fully
working the minute the hero presses the button. To say nothing of a
conveniently bulletproof internal glass door. In a contemporary
setting, you'd have to explain *why* it was bullet proof, but because
it's "science fiction" you don't have to!

Overall, Burton's most disappointing film.
<|_=00=_|>
Visually,this film is sometimes a splendor;the light falls on a
crepuscular world.The Apes' town is quite scary particularly when you
see it from a distance ,as it stands out against an ominous sky.In the
very beginning,the cast and credits are also successful,with an
adequate martial music.The first third has some funny,parodic and
sometimes politically incorrect lines.In the second third,the movie
begins to lose steam,although the discovery in the wrecked spaceship is
a rather good idea. But that's not all good news.First of all,the hero
lacks charisma and the apes and their sensational make-up simply
overwhelm him and drown him out.On the contrary,majestic Charlton
Heston,even when he was in chains,displayed a Shakespearian grandeur in
the first version.

The last third consists in battles,a "second coming" and the
"astonishing" ending without which..that would not be "planet of the
apes".Actually,the new ending was borrowed from Pierre Boulle 's
novel,but not without adding a mathematically unlikelihood which will
give you headaches if you begin to think too hard:the least they can
do:Everything ,even the proper nouns from the French writer's book have
been removed,even if some characters recall some of the Boulle/Shaffner
version.Shaffner had contented himself with changing the astronauts'
name(eg:Ulysse Mérou=Taylor) Hats off to Helena Bonham-Carter who
brings warmth and emotion in a rather vapid cast:in a part close to
that of Kim Hunter/Zira,she really asserts her distinctive identity.
Tim Roth is effective as well,but his part is less so.David Warner and
Kris Kristofferson are wasted.As a tribute to Shaffner(?)both Linda
Harrison (an unidentified woman captured with Leo) and Charlton Heston
(moaning his curse,which is,admittedly,funny)appear unbilled.

Tim Burton might be a director to remember.Although he has not made a
genuine masterpiece yet,his filmography is already rich:"Sleepy
hollow","Edward Scissorhands ,the marvelous "Ed Wood" (Martin Landau is
unforgettable).But redoing "planet of the apes " was a hard
task.Shaffner's movie followed a progression,it moved slowly,from the
long introduction showing the three astronauts making their way across
desolate landscapes to the stunning final shots with Heston and
Harrison 's roaming down by the sea.Remember how long it took Taylor to
convince Zira he was a thinking man!Here it seems natural to Ari almost
as soon as she sees him,that Leo is no dumb idiot animal.And that's the
last straw,even Tim Roth (some kind of cross between Shaffner's
Cornelius and a pulp fiction baddie)pretty damn quickly believes too
that that human is too clever for his own sake.

Tim Burton's so-so remake epitomizes the dearth of good scripts.Pierre
Boulle's book is a golden mine and one could have written a coherent
story out of it,different from that of the first version.Why not,for
instance,introduce the two "astronauts" whose scenes open and close
it,and turn Leo's adventures into a flashback?What about showing the
love between the hero and the woman-animal ?And the son they had?And
the menace this son represented for the simian race? All these ideas
were left over by Shaffner's script writers and could have built a
strong new tale.

The main flaw lies in the human beings:here,they speak -English!- ,they
can reason,they can swim (!),they are (except for bubble head
Warren)clever,so why the hell did the apes tame them?
<|_=00=_|>

Awhile back, I commented on the original 'Planet of the Apes' film prior to
seeing this remake at the cinemas. When I saw the original, I was fully
expecting the remake to kick some serious butt, and be far superior to the
1960s version. Why? Better visual effects being 2001 and all, one of my
favorite actors in Tim Roth starring in it, and a great director named Tim
Burton. Nothing could surely go wrong with Burton in the director's chair.
Granted, I was never a huge fan of the POTA films, but seeing the potential
here for a remake or revision by Burton made my mouth water. Then, in 2001,
I got advance tickets and I began to watch one of the most anticipated
movies for that year...

I left the cinema very disappointed! Disappointment can cloud criticism
though, and sometimes makes you bitter towards a movie and not see the
positives. So I tried to look at the good. The make-up was excellent, but
inconsistent in parts, but I still feel that area should have been nominated
for an Oscar. Okay, that's good! Tim Roth was amazing in his performance but
his character was not that great and seriously lacked depth. Helena Bonham
Carter was also fairly decent in this film. And, finally some of the
cinematography was fairly nice. 

What really let the remake of 'Planet of the Apes' down, was by in large,
Tim Burton. This is, without a doubt, his worst film that I've seen! I
cannot really compliment the direction of this movie, as it seemed
self-aware and indulgent in being the "remake". The script was awful, as
well as the integration of one-liners from the original films to this new
one. I groaned completely during Heston's cameo, particularly due the
referrals to the original film. The remake should have been a film in its
own right, and should have focused on creating a compelling story and
universe, instead of opting for lame jokes revolving around Charlton Heston
in ape make-up as Thade's father. The hero of the new film in Mark Whalberg
was one-note, but he was given such a boring character who just went through
the motions. Going to take a risk- check, gets sucked through a new
dimension- check, captured by Apes- check, escape- check and so on and so
on. I never felt anything for his character at all, and that was partly his
performance and partly the woeful script/direction. Estella Warren was
awful, and Kris Kristofferson played the obligatory predictable role of the
her father. Michael Clarke Duncan suited his part, but never became a well
established character, and Paul Giamatti was okay as Limbo, but was
obviously the comic relief. I also did not like the art direction was the
Ape City, and found the original far more convincing in look and as a story.

While, General Thade was certainly a memorable chimp because of Roth's
performance, it's a shame the character was wasted in an extremely formulaic
and cliche story! 'Planet of the Apes' (2001) is nowhere near the worst film
of 2001, it certainly was the most disappointing for me, considering the
potential it had with the dynamic vision of Tim Burton and the modern visual
f/x to create a film that stands out in its own right. It's just a pity Tim
Burton chose to make a Hollywoodized self-aware gimmicky version that ends
up being significantly inferior to the original film, instead of on par with
it! And yes, Burton's 'Mars Attacks' is also better than his remake here!
'Planet of the Apes' gets a reluctant pass for Tim Roth's performance, the
superb make-up and the decent cinematography, however that still doesn't
save it from silly mediocrity.

**½ out of *****!     
