
Rounders is I believe, one of the most widely underrated movies of our
time.

I first saw this movie as it was a 'bonus DVD' thrown in for free with
my DVD player back in 2000, so naturally I didn't expect much (as the
other bonus DVD's were very mediocre), but what I found was a very
enjoyable movie.

At that stage in my life, I had only played a little poker as a child
growing up, and never 'Texas Hold'em' so to be honest, a lot of the
terminology went 'over my head', but even so, the film became an
instant favorite of mine purely because of the performances.

The film has so much star power, and yet none of the fine actors try to
'steal' scenes. Damon, Norton, Malkovich, Landau ... and then the fine
supporting cast of Turturro, Jansen, and Mol.

In fact, there is a scene with Martin Landau and Matt Damon that is
perhaps one of the most beautiful performances I have seen in a long
time between two very fine actors.

So even if you're not a poker player, the story is tighter than a lot
of Hollywood 'pop fluff' and the performances alone can sell the film
as an enjoyable movie capable of multiple viewings.

But ... if you start playing poker and get really into what they are
talking about, and reading about poker theory (like Doyle Brunson's
book Super System) then the movie moves up to a whole different level.

A lot of the time, Hollywood will attempt to cover a specialized error,
and usually fail, or at best only partially succeed, whereas Rounders
managed to get everything 'spot on', just look at the US DVD, it has a
commentary track from 4 World Champion Poker players, if that's not a
stamp of approval then I don't know what is.

When you factor in how the film can be enjoyed by someone who has
little to no idea about Poker (as I did when I first saw the film) just
because of the tight story and stellar performances and also be
'immortalized' by poker enthusiasts as the best movie ever made on the
subject (and truth be told, a big reason why the World Series of Poker
has been doubling it's entries year after year) ... what you have here
is a true gem that works on so many levels and what I believe is, as I
said initially, one of the most widely underrated movies of our time.
<|_=00=_|>

There is a lot of good stuff in this film.  You have a great story, an
excellent cast, excellent directing, and a couple great games of
poker.

When I first heard about this film, I was a bit skeptical.  It's a game
about poker, how exciting can it be?  The fact that Edward Norton was in the
film was the prime reason I wanted to see "Rounders".  After seeing the
film, I couldn't believe how much I liked it.  The film flows very well from
start to finish and you can't wait to see what happens in the next scene. 
Also, the film is filled with interesting, well-written
characters.

As I mentioned above, the cast is fantastic.  You have Matt Damon, Edward
Norton, John Malkovich, John Turturro, Gretchen Mol, Famke Janssen, Martin
Landau and some small roles by Melina Kanakaredes (of "Providence") and
Goran Visnjic (of "ER").  Matt Damon is quite a good actor and this is just
another great film to add to his list of already impressive roles.  Edward
Norton is fantastic as "Worm", he plays a truly unlikeable person, but at
the same time you respect him for taking the fall for his friends.  John
Tuturro is excellent, as always, he has such a cool style about him.  John
Malkovich is superb in his portrayal of Teddy KGB.  And the rest of the cast
does a great job as well in their respective roles.

If you are a poker fan, then I recommend you see this film, hopefully you'll
enjoy it.  I myself am not a huge fan of poker, but I do play the occasional
game and I loved this film.  I loved the characters, the dialogue, the
acting, EVERYTHING.  I truly hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for
reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie: the plot line is pat and predictable as it effortlessly
unfolds; the characters are clearly defined and you know who to root for and
who to despise; and there are no dull scenes or dead end sub-plots. Matt
Damon is Mike, an affable law student with little interest in the law and a
passion for high stakes poker.  When he loses his shirt and promises his
girl friend (cute and perky Gretchen Mol) that he will never play poker
again, you know this pie-crust promise will quickly be broken.  And broken
it is when Matt picks up his former schoolmate buddy, "Worm" (Edward Norton)
who is getting out of prison and leads him back to the poker table and deep,
deep into debt and hot water.

As usual, Matt Damon is adorable as the talented gambler, flashing those
dimples and that Gary Cooper down-turned grin; John Malkovich is over the
top as cookie-munching Teddy KGB, and, yes, if you're familiar with Russians
just off the boat, you know they really DO speak like that and have a
natural flare for the dramatic; Martin Landau delivers another impeccable
performance as the aging, melancholic law professor whose family expected
him to become a rabbi; Famke Janssen is nicely understated as the errand
girl who has the obvious hots for Matt; and John Turtorro puts is solid as
Knish, the grinder.  Indeed, Mr. Turorro is becoming one of the most
reliable and dependable supporting players to grace any film in which he
appears.  When the time and the role are right, his time will
come.

But the real star of this film is Edward Norton as the low-life sociopath
who bears the appropriate sobriquet "Worm." Twenty years ago when I first
saw "The Onion Field," I thought James Wood had created the sleaziest
character ever to appear on film.  Jim, move over.  Norton is cheap, slimy,
and skinny, devoid of scruples and empathy, a little wise guy with a big
mouth and nothing to back it up. You just KNOW this scumbag neither bathes
nor brushes his teeth, and when the little rat gets the stuffings beaten out
of him by a group of off-duty cops whom he has cheated, you want to join in
and get in a punch.  Women will want to slap him.  In his first scene he
lets you know he's a hard-hearted louse:  told that he is being released
from prison in the middle of a penny-ante card game with his cell mates who
beg him to leave his cigarettes behind, he gathers them up and then
contemptuously drops them in the dumper on the way out. This is a cockroach
with no redeeming social value who lives to use and con and degrade
people.

It's no trick for an actor to make you love him; to make you despise him so
much you'd like to throttle him takes real talent. I've seen Ed Norton in
"Fight Club," "Primal Fear," and "The People vs. Larry Flynt" and this is
one young actor to watch. He's one of those natural actors who can be
whatever he wants to be and it will be sheer joy watching him grow and
mature.

"Rounders" may be short on originality, but it's long on suspense, action,
and entertainment and while not the best flick to come down the pike, it's a
wonderfully satisfying two hours.  I don't know much about the game of
poker, but I sure do know a good movie when I see one. I give it an 8 out 10
rating for human interest.

<|_=00=_|>
Rounders is nothing short of hypnotic. It is a film that introduced me
and many others to the surreal world of poker. High stakes, Texas Hold
Em, winner take all poker. For those unfamiliar with the game, not only
is this a perfect tutorial to understand the game, but this is a movie
that will entertain you right to the very end.

I like to think that this is just like Rocky. Matt Damon plays Mike
McDermott, just like Stallone played Rocky. He has all the talent in
the world but he needs to find a way to harness it and get the right
opportunity. KGB is a little like Appollo Creed and John Tuturro is
like Mickey in some ways. But enough of the comparisons of Rocky.

What makes Rounders so compelling is the interpersonal relationships in
the film, no doubt, but let's face it, what really makes the film as
vibrant and energetic as it is, is the poker scenes. We are introduced
to several games here, namely Omaha, Omaha Hi Lo, 7 Card Stud and of
course Texas Hold Em. According to Mike, Texas No Limit is the Cadillac
of all poker games. He of course got that info from reading books by
some of the poker greats such as Phil Helmuth, Amarillo Slim and of
course The Godfather of poker, Doyle Brunson. Great detail is spent on
the feel of poker in this film. When you are in the poker rooms, you
can smell the smoke, taste the mustiness of the air and you can feel
the emotions that the players feel. It really is a masterful job by
Dahl to convey these emotions. And full credit has to be give to the
screenwriters to know the lingo, to mollify us with terms like "flop",
"river", "rags" and "bicycle". Rounders helped introduce me to this
nefarious world and just like many others before me, I am hooked.
Rounders can take credit for that.

What also must be mentioned here is the performances. Like many of the
reviewers before me, I was awed by the absolute mastery of these
characters by Damon, Norton, Malkovich, Turturro and Landau. My
favourite performance is that of John Malkovich. He plays a Russian
mobster called KGB. He is a master poker player and in the beginning
scene, he takes all of Mike's bankroll as he hits a full house on
fourth street, to cripple Mike's smaller boat. Malkovich is a master.
He can play any role and he proves it in spades here. Think of his
performance in a film like In The Line of Fire or in Of Mice and Men
and this is about as diametric from those roles as you can get. There
is not one second in the film when you don't believe that he is a
Russian mobster with a propensity for gambling. If this film would have
been more recognized back in 98, he could have received an Oscar
nomination. He is that good. Matt Damon is really a fine actor and this
film, while not as known as some of this others, is really a layered
performance and one of his best. He plays the young prodigal son here
with absolute zeal. Damon has to be one of the best actors working
today and seeing as this was one of his first performances after Good
Will Hunting, you have to give him that much more credit for taking on
such an esoteric role. Kudos to him.

Rounders has grown in reputation over the years to the point where a
special edition DVD with the likes of Helmuth, Johnny Chan, Chris
"Jesus" Ferguson and 2003 WSOP champion Chris Moneymaker providing some
excellent and enlightening commentary on the track. If you love this
film, it is imperative that you pick up the SE DVD. It will enhance the
experience for you and will help you appreciate the film that much
more. It is fun and exciting to hear the 4 of them laugh when Mike
finally busts KGB using Johnny Chen's methods from his first win in the
World Series of Poker. Rounders is a fantastic movie and for those that
haven't seen it, you should.

10/10 One of the most under rated films of the last 10 years!
<|_=00=_|>

I knew "Rounders" had something to do with gambling, and that Matt Damon
stars in it, but not much more. So, when I watched it on DVD I was
pleasantly surprised how engaging a film it is.

I am not a gambler, so maybe that is part of why I found it so fascinating.
Basic story - Damon's character is a 2nd yr law student in NYC, and a good
enough poker player that he has aspirations of entering and winning the
million-dollar prize in the world series of poker in Lasvegas. However, Ed
Norton plays his good buddy just getting out of prison. Norton's character
is also a poker player, but also incorporates cheating because that just
helps you make money faster. This approach gets both of them in some pretty
hot water, and also deep in debt!!

Damon's character has a S.O. played by Gretchen Mol. Her distaste for
gambling puts a great strain on their relationship. Will she stay, or will
she move out??

And finally, John Malkovich does a wonderful job as the Russian gambler
nicknamed "KGB". John Turturro is perfectly cast as Damon's friend and
"street" advisor. 

I simply found myself caught up in this story, anticipating the next poker
game, wondering if they would all get whacked, or survive. Plus, Matt Damon
has such a relaxed acting style, with that great smile of his, which makes
all of his movies easy to watch.

I rate this one 8 of 10 for the well-done gambling drama depicted
here.
<|_=00=_|>

Have to first mention the great performances by Matt Damon, Edward Norton,
John Malkovich, and Martin Landeau.  Good story, although Worm was one the
biggest jerks I've seen interpreted on film lately.  Really liked the
narration of what's going on during high stakes poker matches.  Talked to
poker playing people who thought the game was represented well.  The
one-on-ones between Damon and Malkovich were terrific. 
<|_=00=_|>

This film is incredibly focused.  There is not one throw-away line or one
extra frame in the entire movie.  From the first establishing shot to the
final line, the production team plays it tight and aggressive.  I couldn't
help but think of "The Hustler" as I watched, and Damon more than survives
this comparison to a young Paul Newman. His swagger and charm and the even,
controlled truthfulness of his performance all serve to place him solidly in
the game with any of Hollywood's best.  Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
"Rounders" is about a straight-flying legal student (Matt Damon) who
leaves behind his gambling habits to satisfy his moralistic girlfriend.
However when his best friend "Worm" (Edward Norton) is released from
jail, the two embark on a cards-journey that leads them from success to
misfortune after Worm is caught cheating and the man who caught him
(John Malkovich) wants his money back.

Whereas Ben Affleck continues to go downhill after "Good Will Hunting,"
Matt Damon has striven uphill, taking on daring productions such as
"The Talented Mr. Ripley," "The Bourne Identity" series, and of course
"Rounders," which features one of his best performances. Damon has
become typecast as some sort of bad actor in the league of Affleck, but
he's much better than his pal, and films like this prove it.

Norton is once again superb as one of his characters you love to hate.
He's got the character of Worm down pat, and it really elevates the
acting (along with Damon) to a level of greatness.

The film is directed and written very well, offering realistic dialog
and gritty environments. However the flaws of the movie are its long
running time (two hours exactly), which could have been shortened, and
probably the fact that its card playing is sometimes a bit alienating
to the audience.

That said, this is still a very underrated movie featuring outstanding
performances and a unique spin on gambling flicks. Worth watching at
least once in a lifetime.
<|_=00=_|>

I have no idea if this movie is at all realistic (certainly so many people
inhabiting this strata of the poker world can be so good looking), but at
least it has the ring of verisimilitude. Not only does it show us the
workings of a somewhat exotic (to me, anyway) part of the world, but it
manages to do this stylishly while treating us to an interesting character
study and a clever plot.

The story is about a young "rounder" who is trying to go straight by going
to law school (although our first glimpse of him shows him losing all his
money in a high-stakes poker game with a Russian gangster). He quits
gambling for a while until a old friend (played by Norton) returns to his
life and lands him in deep trouble. What I especially like about the movie
is that is starts off as if this plot line is the main subject, when in fact
the movie is about this person learning important things about himself. And
there is a lot of information about poker...

Damon is especially impressive among a uniformly good cast.
<|_=00=_|>
This film was unjustly panned as lethargic and bleak without a purpose.
Considering how Hold 'Em has developed into one of the biggest social
fads in the last decade, I would say that this film captures every
emotional aspect the 'swings' of No Limit typically carry.

I had absolutely no idea how to play the game when I first saw this
movie about five years ago. The dialogue is wrought with jargon that
almost makes a mockery of itself. Especially since much of the movie is
done with voice-over, I can see where critics are coming from. However,
the viewer should not allow themselves to get bogged down with it all,
we get the gist with well-developed staging and performances.

Damon and Norton play off each other better than Damon and Affleck.
Though the story echoes in the wake of Scorsese's 'Mean Streets', the
performances seem more detailed than the Keitel/DeNiro combo. The
supporting roles add great depth to the film, and Tutorro shines as the
wise-old has-been that successfully provides Damon's character with the
cold-hard truth he never seems to adhere to (until it is too late).

Above all, we feel compelled to cheer for Damon's Mike McDermott the
ENTIRE time. He acknowledges his 'bad' play but constantly tries to
explain that this is a game of skill and not luck. This is an important
element considering the widely accepted belief that any success in
gambling is the result of luck. This may be true in the bloodsucking
casinos, but in Hold 'Em you play the chips AND the man.

Now that baseball is out of the Olympics, perhaps we will see a push
for a true "WORLD Series of Poker". Then again, I also wanted to see
'Four Square' made into an official event when I was 8, so maybe I'm
just talking out of my ass...

Should be commended as a precursor to a pandemic fad that is costing
teens (and their parents) millions daily.

*** (of ****)
