
I recently watched this movie for the first time, and as a 19 year old
black male it spoke to me. However, I can see this being a film that
everyone can appreciate. Especially now, with Lebron James and other
upcoming HS athletes, you really see the other side of life that only
they know.

This movie detailed the life of the #1 basketball star in HS, and the
issues he deals with before he announces his plans for the future,
further complicated by his father's contingent release from jail.

A GREAT movie, don't let the votes fool you, it's not a 6.5/10, more
like 8.5.
<|_=00=_|>

My two favorite Spike Lee movies are "Clockers" and "He Got
Game" and they share similarities: both are about  guys trying to
keep integrity amidst characters whose primary motives are to
persuade him to leave the path.

"He Got Game" gets the edge because I love basketball and
because I'm a sucker for well done father-son conflicts. The
basketball parts of this movie are absolutely brilliantly shot. Most
sports movies share two commonalities: completely ridiculous
storylines and actors who throw like sissies. He Got Game avoids
both.

Okay, some parts of the story are hoky, but allowable. But what
makes this movie work, similar to "Clockers" is that you get
sucked into a main character whose nobility is tested at every turn.
Will Jesus Shuttlesworth make it through the maze or fall prey to
it? And will he be able to recognize that his father is not just one
more flesh peddler? It makes for good drama. But above that, the
basketball scenes just completely rock. They're examples of
absolutely masterful cinematography and editing. In fact, the movie
has some of the best montage sequences every put on film.
Seriously.

Denzel is excellent in this movie. He plays a Jeckyll and Hyde and
plays both sides well. This conflicted character was very easy to
root for. (I can identify.) NBA perennial All-Star Ray Allen, while
more than a little stiff at times, holds his own as a non-actor in a
dramatic role.

He Got Game is a flawed piece of work: parts drag, it's not without
its hokiness, and the subplot with Denzel and Jojovovich didn't
quite fit. But the essential storylines work and play true: you believe
in a conflict between father and son and you root for a high school
basketball player who requires the wisdom of an adult to avoid the
flesh peddlers. Kudos to Spike for not trying to hit us over the had
with his message, but letting it unravel naturally.

<|_=00=_|>
Spike Lee's He Got Game is a beautifully shot and well-executed
exploration of the role that the sport of basketball plays in the
relationship between a father and his estranged son. At the outset,
having not seen very many other Spike Lee movies, I didn't really know
what to expect or what to compare this film to. However, I was
pleasantly surprised at the overall quality of the plot and the
cinematography that composed this film. Furthermore, I really liked the
definitive sense of Spike's style that was quite apparent throughout.

Told through flashbacks that reveal the plot throughout the course of
the movie, He Got Game is about Jake Shuttlesworth (Denzel Washington)
and his basketball-star son, Jesus (Ray Allen). Jake is in jail under
mysterious circumstances, yet can get out of jail if he is able to
convince Jesus to choose to play basketball at a specific school,
namely the state governor's alma mater. Released for a week in order to
complete the daunting task, he hounded by probation officers, and does
a lot of things that he couldn't do in jail, such as have a light
dalliance with Milla Jovovich's slightly-unnecessary prostitute
character, Dakota Burns. Denzel, as usual, excellently handles his role
as the intense father, and is utterly believable in both his
emotion-laden and his violent, angry scenes.

Ray Allen's portrayal of Jesus is also an interesting and well-played
usage of the strong dichotomy of masculinity in the sport of
basketball. He very clearly shows the purer and more tender side of his
character through his love for his younger sister, whom he lives with
and takes care of. Yet he is torn between that and the glittering,
vice-infested world that his ability at basketball brings him ever
closer to. At times he does even succumb to the cloying ploys of
others, and there is a particularly raunchy scene as evidence of this.
Allen carefully and quietly allows the audience to see the conflicts
between sensitivity and machoism that exist in his life, as a result of
basketball.

Probably one of the more interesting ways in which this film is set up
is through the use of comparative shots that allow the similarities of
Jake and Jesus's actions to show. Jesus tries so hard to distance
himself from his father, yet the shots and the camera framing show just
how alike they both really are. I also particularly enjoyed the use of
color and contrasts that appeared throughout. For instance when Jesus
and his errant girlfriend LaLa (Rosario Dawson) are talking at the end
of the film, both their faces vividly reflect a shade of jealous green
from the amusement park lights.

Overall this film is a very good spin on the basketball sports movie,
yet with no huge stadiums or big games to win the championship, like
what usually constitutes a basketball movie. Instead, the two main
characters go through much self-analysis and introspective maturing,
something that is quite rare for sports-playing men in film to do. I
liked the strong use of color and the well-framed shots, and especially
enjoyed Denzel Washington's brooding performance. A classic, must-see
movie for anyone interested in cinematography or film.
<|_=00=_|>

Denzel Washington has one of his greatest charcaters in Jake
Shuttlesworth in this compelling film by Spike Lee. Jake is a man serving a
life sentence for the accidental murder of his wife during a domestic
dispute. The dispute centered around Jake's aggressive coaching of his young
son Jesus who he is obsessed with turning into a basketball star. As the
film opens we learn that Jesus (effectively played by Ray Allen) has indeed
become a high school basketball star and is being now aggressively pursued
by University teams and commercial agents.
In a somewhat fanciful, yet unfortunately believable plot device the
Governor promises Jake early release from prison if he can convince his son
to go to Big State.  Much of this film is amazingly well executed my only
regret comes around some of the gender politics of the film (many of the
female characters are underdeveloped and/or cartoonishly stereotyped). This
is particularly unfortunate because the film has so much to say about the
intersections of patriarchy/economic injustice/racism that I wish Spike Lee
could have been a little more consistent with his development of the women
characters (one notable exception is a brilliantly realized performance by
Milla Javovich as a prostitute that rooms next to Jake). This said the film
is still an important accomplishment and should be seen.

<|_=00=_|>
He got game is an exceptional story about a basketball player who
quarrels with family issues and strives towards his dream. Directed by
Spike Lee, this movie takes an in depth look at exactly how many
variables are involved when being the MVP, and how a man can grow up
and assess these circumstances.

Ray Allen plays a character who's name is Jesus Shuttlesworth. At a
young age, his father pressed him dramatically to be the best he could
be. However by mistake kills Jesus's mother and is sent to prison. The
troubled child eventually grows up to become one for the best players
in the nation. Now the drama builds up. When the decision to go pro or
join a college team is just around the corner, Jesus's father (played
by Denzel Washington) is let out of jail to convert his son to a
specific school or else the father is returned to jail, it leaves Jesus
with a daunting task. The reconcile between the father and son is what
eventually allows Jesus to become a real man and face his problems.

The idea that a boy cannot live without his father plays a defined role
in this movie. Jesus grows up with the responsibilities of taking care
of his sister, who is several years younger than he is. While it
appears that Jesus has all of the support in the world, Spike Lee does
a terrific job of accentuating how they are really leeches. All the
people want are money, fame, and fortune; which is all possible through
Jesus. The reason the father plays such a key role is because although
he needs Jesus's help, he isn't interested in that. He really loves his
son.

Although Spike Lee did some amazing work with this movie especially
with the inner city sequences, as well as the use of colors and poetry
to his advantage for getting his ideas across to the audience, several
scenes were unneeded which seemed overly explicit. Although these are
truly issues that can ruin a famous person, they seemed almost too
graphic to be seen by a general audience. What Spike does so well is
keeping the real connections with the street, and enabling the audience
to see exactly what the character is going through by using several
techniques. 

Colors in the movie such as red, green, and black symbolize power,
pain, and respect between different characters. While Jesus hates his
name, his father named him that through a basketball player that was
how he put it, "the truth." This movie proves that in real life, you
can benefit more by forgiving, and not forgetting.

Overall I would recommend this film to anyone who wants to see a
unique, intellectual film that will make you think about your present
situation, as well as allowing you to know the difficulties that come
with fame.
<|_=00=_|>

We could see just one more story about a man who loves his son, but which
suffers from various handicaps, like being on parole and being watched all
the time, like having no wife anymore due to killing her, and like his son
being one of the most stellar basketball players of his time and this man
being truck-loaded with the burden of convincing him to go to college. The
film marches to the pace of the two leads, Jake Shuttlesworth (Denzel
Washington) and Jesus Shuttlesworth (real-life NBA player Ray Allen, which
makes a startling debut), as they have continuous face-offs: Jesus won't
accept that he has a father, and won't listen to him, being more interested
in becoming an NBA star, as the managers, the limelights, the fame and the
fortune keep calling him like the chant of the sirens. Jesus is a young boy
with a foot on each side. And he is facing options, choices he will have to
make, and traps he will have to avoid. As a friend of his says (in the
movie's most memorable quote) "How do you spell pussy? H. - I. - V.". This
could be one more tale of choosing between college or fame and fortune, ths
could be one more tale of a destroyed father-son relationship, but this is
Spike Lee, and the treatment is totally different. It starts with an
incredible hommage to basketball, shot like a picture poem, to the sounds of
Aaron Copland, whose music flows through the whole movie and makes it look
more beautiful and poetic. A characteristic Spike Lee movie, which
introduces us to a new way of facing sport dramas. To be
cherished.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to write a review for a sports movie, there's just a
different standard for them. Their plots are usually contrived to a
level of laser precision. They seem almost designed to make you feel
good, which while admirable in the scheme of life, just isn't good film
making.

For us sports fans, a sports film that comes across as 'above average'
instantly becomes classic. This hardly seems fair, just because the
film had some scenes of athletic competion doesn't mean it shouldn't
have to face the same standards as the rest of the silver screen.

But this is a movie that goes against that grain. It's sincerely good
by anyone's standards. The acting, even that of NBA Star Ray Allen's,
is on-par with anything else out there. Bonus points for any film where
Denzel Washington isn't playing Denzel Washington(even though I enjoy
many of those films).

Beautifully shot, the cinematography throws a pinpoint assist to the
script and makes normally great scenes memorable and occasionally
transcendent. The film hits with such power that it really exposes
other sports movies for the fluff that they really are. Spike Lee
manages to create a film that, while deep in the world of basketball,
still can appeal to a non-sports fan. Unlike the 2006 USA Team, this
movie is destined for gold! And, my apologies for the "Assist" thing,
there's really no excuse. Same the the "Gold" thing. Still, watch the
movie. 8 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

It finally happened, and the movie we 
all thought Spike Lee would make 
became reality. With Lee's own little foray 
into the basketball world, I always wondered 
when he would create a story which 
reflected his unique views of the game. 
While sometimes over sensationalized, 
he depicted a seedy world comprised 
of two-faced individuals all the way 
down to the seedy high school coach 
to the professional agent. I also felt it 
depicted some very frank images of the 
cultural aspects of athletics, the sex, 
the money and the little freebies. While 
the film didn't need the story between 
Denzel Washington and Milla Jovovich, 
it was strong in most aspects. It was a 
bit of a change of pace for Spike Lee, 
considering the graininess of the film 
stock and the rather mundane colors. 
Also, Ray Allen had one of the best pro 
athletes-turned-actor performances in a 
long time.
<|_=00=_|>

Jesus Shuttlesworth is the number one hope for college basketball and has
offers from colleges and sports agents ringing non-stop.  His father is in
jail for the manslaughter of his wife but is allowed out by the Governor for
4 days with a promise of further leniency if he can convince his son to go
to Big State University.  However Jesus has never forgiven him and this
pressure, on top of everything else, is the last thing he
needs.

I'm never too sure what I'm going to take away from this film each time I
watch it, as it does tend to try and cover a lot of ground.  Is the film
about father/son relationship?  Is it about the commercialisation of school
sports?  Or pressure on young athletes?  It's hard to be sure and I'm not
sure that Lee is totally sure either.  As such it often leaves me searching
for an adequate way to summarise what I just watched.  Regardless I do feel
that the film manages to cover a lot of bases well.  The stuff about the
sports system is well worked without ramming down your throat – the
exaggeration (or is it?) of the characters and scenarios is good and makes
for good satire of sorts.

The central relationship between Jake and Jesus is also worked well through
several key scenes throughout the film.  It leaves questions open during the
film and at the end, but I guess there aren't always answers for everything
and that's the way it is.  The dynamic between the two is good though and it
makes for an interesting plot – even though it does often feel like a
subplot behind the basketball stuff.  Other bits of the film don't fare as
well.  The two romantic strands are not as good as they should be –
certainly Jake's scenes with Dakota are less than inspiring.

The cast are all pretty good.  Allen does OK but occasionally looks out of
his depth with the talented cast.  The array of basketball players and
associates all add colour whether as themselves or playing characters. 
Washington carries the majority of the film and shows his ability in a
difficult role – he became the heart of the film for me even though I'm sure
the intention was for that to be Jesus.  Dawson plays well despite being eye
candy for the majority, she does have better scenes near the end of the
film.  The support cast have a few Lee regulars including an amusing
Turturro, a convincing Palagonia and a blink and you'll miss her Jennifer
Esposito.

Overall this is not a perfect film as it overstretches itself a little and
doesn't manage to deal with everything as well as it could have done. 
Ironically the overstretching is also a plus point as, every time I watch
it, it gives me something else to concentrate on.  Not Lee's finest work but
a good film about his other passion with plenty of other stuff thrown in
behind it.
<|_=00=_|>

I had to remind myself several times Denzel Washington was an actor and that
he was playing a character named Jake Shuttlesworth--his performance is that
good. I'd give him the Academy Award for Best Actor. I'm serious--he's
amazing.
In terms of the film, it isn't quite good enough to support his performance.
(We are expected to believe there's no one looking out for Jesus [everyone
in the film has an ulterior motive], and Jesus himself is too much of a
saint.)
Definitely worth watching, though--any Spike Lee film usually is. But I'm
annoyed at Lee: he's too good a director to insert the MTV-style shots in
this film. Unlike so many who have tried to cover basketball before,
however, Lee knows the game.
This gives (the all-white) Hoosiers a run for its money as the best
basketball film… of course, there isn't much competition.
