

First of all, Seven Years In Tibet is a very aesthetically pleasing film.
The snowy Himalayas, the Tibetan villages, and the amazing costumes and
religious ceremonies are all filmed beautifully, with rich colours and
lighting. The music by John Williams is also excellent, and it's fascinating
to hear how it blends with the unusual Tibetan music.

It's not all surface though, there's depth here too. Don't believe the
negative comments about Brad Pitt's acting. Admittedly his accent slips a
bit in places, but he does a great job as Heinrich, both the unpleasant,
arrogant character at the beginning, and the more gentle and wise man that
he becomes as the film progresses. His relationship with the young Dalai
Lama (a very impressive actor) is an unusual one and refreshingly
unsentimental. The film is well edited; scenes are not drawn out any longer
than they need to be. As a whole, it is fast paced but also peaceful, tender
and moving. You don't get bored but you're not bombarded with pointless
action scenes either.

It's a pleasant surprise to see a Hollywood film where women and other
cultures aren't treated as objects, and are allowed to be full, complex
characters. It could be argued that this film has a Western perspective, but
after all, it is adapted from a book written by a European living in Tibet,
and intended for Western audiences. It treats the Tibetan culture with a
great deal of respect, so I don't really see a problem with that. Similarly,
those who have complained that it doesn't tell you enough about the Dalai
Lama and too much about Heinrich, ultimately it is Heinrich's story, and
that is its strength: that it is one man's tale, and not a political
polemic. It gives you a great sense of how people's stories intersect and
how the whole world is connected.

Overall, an unusual film, very involving and emotional without
sentimentality, with wonderful music and outstanding cinematography. Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Seven Years in Tibet is to the true story what the Sound of Music is to
Maria Von Trapp's autobiography. Maria writes in the second volume of her
autobiography that she wanted to sue the film makers, and I wonder whether
Heinrich feels the same. I thought it was an excellent film that did a great
job of conveying accurately what Lhasa looks like, having earlier seen a
book of photographs from British expeditions around 1910. And I am glad it
generated some sympathy for the plight of the Tibetans. But having since
read Heinrich's autobiography, it appears that virtually every event in the
movie was made up, including the business with the watch. I don't understand
why, because the true story was fascinating, with lots of drama.  What is
wrong with the minds and egos of people in Hollywood? If they want to
completely distort the original facts, don't call it non-fiction.

<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film for the first time last night after hearing a great
many people recommend it to me. I don't know why I waited so long! This
is a soul stirring movie that is perfect in its simplicity. I don't
think it's the best performance Brad Pitt has ever offered, but he was
quite good. David Thewlis (an amazing actor who never receives as much
praise he deserves) gave a perfect performance. But the real beauty of
the film is the Tibetan people and their lifestyle. The cinematography
was breathtaking and perfectly matched the mood of the film. I loved
this movie so much that I'm going to buy it immediately. I love
uplifting epic types of movies and this is truly one of the better ones
I've seen in a while. In fact, it's one the better movies I've seen in
a while.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie has some of the best cinematography I have ever seen. The
movie does a great job of showing the Potala Palace and Jokhang Temple
in Lhasa as well as the rural villages of Tibet. Not to mention the
breath taking views of the Himalayas.

Yes, Brad Pitt's accent wasn't exactly his best but it's forgivable
when watching the movie. His acting was superb, portraying Heinrich's
transition, which is what the movie is all about.

The movie did lack qualities of the book, the ending was totally wrong
and somewhat disappointing. And the whole Nazi part in Austria was
completely unnecessary.

Besides a few minor details, the movie is well worth the 2 1/2 hours
especially if you are interested in the Chinese seizure of Tibet and
the Tibetan culture and people.

(Free Tibet!)
<|_=00=_|>

"Seven Years in Tibet"  was a pleasant surprise.  Sporting an
Austrian accent that got slammed by some critics, I thought Brad Pitt was
pretty good as an arrogant Nazi who finds himself captured by the British
during a failed expedition to the Himalayas and is later stranded in Tibet
after escaping from a POW camp.  He finds his humanity in the
forbidden-to-foreigners city of Lhasa, especially after meeting the 14 year
old Dalai Lama.  Echoes of "Lost Horizon," "The King and I" "Last Emperor"
and others abound, but the movie is "old Hollywood" in the best sense with
magnificent scenery (widescreen advised: the mountains and countryside of
Argentina and Canada stand in for Tibet).  The heart of the movie is the
relationship between the blond Aryan golden boy and the young "Kundun," with
a performance by the young Tibetan actor playing the latter that is so
charming he nearly steals the whole film.  An engrossing blend of fact and
fiction, the picture manages to avoid condescending to the Tibetans and
over-reverent preachiness.  Wrapped in an excellent production, this epic
story makes entertaining viewing.  One question:  how did the young Dalai
Lama come by his love of movies in that remote location?

<|_=00=_|>
This masterpiece, still makes me curious every time I see it. Brad Pitt
does an amazing job portraying an Austrian, even down to his accent.
The cinematography is extraordinary, and the direction is quite good. I
love watching it every so often, and learning new things that I missed
the times before.

The film has a great amount of interesting facts, and takes place in
the 1930's through '50's. There are times when it is; magical,
spiritual, enlightening, sweet, sad and poignant.

I recommend it to anyone who enjoys interesting and true stories. If
nothing else watch Pitt with his masterful portrayal of this real life
character, who faces hardships, physically, spiritually and
emotionally.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a panoramic film exploring the wilderness of Tibet through the
consciousness of an arrogant Austrian climber (Brat Pitt). As Pitt
challenges Nanga Parbet, the ninth highest mountain in the world and
one of the hardest to climb, the political chaos of late 1930's and
1940's, and his own demons, the nature of mankind is revealed as layers
of civilization are peeled to reveal an inner self paradoxically more
powerful and yet more vulnerable to the ebb and flow of inhumanity. His
own philosophical journey is a reflection of political machinations of
the time, the ontogeny recapitulating phylogenetic change of western
civilization resulting in a complex modern world forever coiled for
violence and warfare.

This film has a European pace unsuitable for those addicted to action
figure movies with huge budgets and high body counts. I recommend it as
a "good view" similar to a good read.
<|_=00=_|>
Tibet has certainly fascinated people all over the world. The hidden
land in the most forbidding place on the planet not at either pole. In
its day Lost Horrizon made quite a bit of money for its author James
Hilton. But the real story of Heinrich Harrer is better than anything a
fictional author could have thought up.

Brad Pitt is Harrer in Seven Years In Tibet and this has become my
favorite film of his. Heinrich Harrer, a world famous mountain climber
and Austrian national hero goes on an expedition in 1939 to conquer an
unclimbed peak in the Himalayas. While he's doing his mountain climbing
Germany of which Austria is now part of marches into Poland and World
War II begins. Harrer and his party are interred as enemy aliens.

In 1942 Harrer escaped and he and a friend played by David Thewlis make
their way into Tibet. The rest of the film is the seven years he spent
there, centered around the unique friendship he formed with the child
ruler of Tibet, the Dalai Lama. This in fact is the same Dalai Lama who
today is possibly the world's greatest and non-aligned apostle of the
gospel of peace.

Brad Pitt is never better in the film than he is with the three child
actors who play the Dalai Lama at various stages of his life. The
physical hardship that he and Thewlis endure just getting into Tibet is
adventure enough. But the spiritual journey he undergoes in his time
there makes this one of the most unique adventure stories of the last
century.

One thing I liked about Seven Years in Tibet is that no effort was made
to cover up Harrer's Nazi background. In an alternate universe one can
speculate on what might have happened to him had he actually had to
serve in the army in World War II. His internment saved him from
possibly being involved any number of atrocities. God, fate, some kind
of higher power saved him for something wonderful. 

The cinematography is breathtaking, this film had an incredible number
of locations. Note that it was shot in British Columbia, in Argentina
with the Andes serving as the Himalayas, Austria and even some
establishing footage was shot in Tibet itself on the sly.

Tibet's status is unique unto the world. It has been part of China
since the Ming dynasty. It's referred to properly as the autonomous
region of Tibet. China has given it autonomy in varying degrees over
the past several centuries, it's never been truly independent. The
Communist regime back in the days of Mao Tse-tung brutally asserted
it's sovereignty a few times, most notably in late fifties when the
Dalai Lama was forced to flee Tibet and live in Northern India where he
resides to this day. That is when he's not traveling the world as it's
foremost advocate of non-violence.

It is sad that this film did not get more box office than it did. Brad
Pitt, David Thewlis, director Jean Jacques Arnaud are all persona non
grata in the People's Republic of China for making this film. Quite a
market indeed to be shut out of for a stand for humanity.

It's to be hoped that one day the Tibetans will be free. Until then
they have their unique brand of Buddhism to sustain them and this
wonderful film to tell their story.
<|_=00=_|>

The main problem with this film, and indeed with many films set in the
outdoors, is that it's too long.  Maybe it's because I'm a product of the
city and the suburbs, but to me, most movies set in the outdoors that don't
use the scenery to advance the plot or set the mood, but rather just want to
gaze at it, bore me quickly.  It's like, "Yes, it's beautiful, let's move
on."  Also, though I like Brad Pitt, he doesn't always do the job with his
Austrian accent; even when he gets it down, you're always thinking, "That's
Brad Pitt doing an Austrian accent," rather than, "That's Heinrich Harrer."
And that whole subplot about Harrer missing the son he's never seen doesn't
work.

Still, there is much to like in this film.  In many of these "white men in
strange country" movies, the emphasis is on what the white man teaches the
people in the other country, and that's somewhat condescending; here, it's
on what the people in the other country teach Harrer, yet his story isn't
made more important than the story of the Tibet people.  Also, though his
accent doesn't convince, Pitt is convincing as Harrer in the physical sense;
he looks like a former skier and like the blond, blue-eyed ideal of the
Nazis.  And finally, he's convincing in taking us through Harrer's
transformation.

Two more things; one, someone in their comments wondered how the Dalai Lama
knew so much about Western culture.  According to the book, Harrer found the
Dalai Lama to be quite curious about the world around him, so he studied
what he could.  Also, the film meets head-on the controversy about Harrer
being a former Nazi; it doesn't soft-pedal his past at all, which makes his
transformation that much more convincing. 
<|_=00=_|>
While it take some time to get moving, this is a truly captivating
film. It's about redemption and pain. It's about true events which cast
the Tibetan culture against the Chinese's land grab. We have the
Buddhists on the one hand, and the godless hordes on the other. The die
is cast and all we can do is watch. This is a movie about a selfish
character and his comrade who find respite in the Himalaya's in the
temple of the Dalai Lama. The gentleness and trust of the people is
betrayed by one of them but it really wouldn't have mattered. There is
a nice relationship developed between the young Lama and Brad Pitt's
selfish, pig headed Westerner. Apparently there are elements of truth
to this story. One feels so helpless in a world like this with so
little one can do. It finally gets to what the Buddhists preach.
Absolute dedication to their beliefs down to the last person.
