

Another film that I liked a lot more than I thought I would. Drew
Barrymore
was as adorable as ever, even though she was playing a ditzy blonde.
Mary-Louise Parker really made this film. Her frail cuteness with the edge
of toughness when necessary was perfect. And Whoopi Goldberg played it in
an
understated way that shows her talent, that she can handle a lot more than
the over-the-top comedic roles that she is so famous for. Matthew
McConaughey plays a caricature, so there is really no indication of talent
there. The ending swims in poignancy, without getting (too) cloying. This
film is definitely worth a look. 
<|_=00=_|>

'Boys on the side' is a very touching movie that looks essentially at what
it means to be a woman, trapped inside a man's world. It also shows that
friends really do stick together, through thick and thin. With the three
leading ladies in roles that are really well written, here is a classy
'chick flick', that one guy really likes. It also looks into what it means
to be sick, which I have been no stranger too, either....

Three women sharing a car going west, team up in this winning celebration
of
camaraderie, caring and friendship which quickly becomes a family, in
'Boys
on the Side'. One is a wisecracking club singer, one is a finicky
real-estate agent and one is a free spirit. Each has secrets to reveal,
strengths to impart and vital moments of self-discovery awaiting. Now is
their time.

What a fine cast for such a dramatic movie. The three main girls in 'Boys
on
the side' include the 'lesbo' Jane (Whoppi Goldberg), Robin (well acted by
the talented Mary-Louise Parker), who is being helped to drive across
America by Jane, and the fun loving and partly liberated Holly (Drew
Barrymore). All these women are amazing in their roles.

I love how Jane stands up for herself and her sexuality, in addition to
the
fine music she can sing. Robin is a girl hiding a big secret, but we are
aware that her life has not been an easy ride, which seems ironic, because
of what the movie shows. Then what Holly is enduring, is quite staggering,
being involved with a brutal man, Nick (Billy Wirth), that no woman should
have to put up with. It is Holly's great personality and character that
turn
these best friends into a very close-nit family. Her situation is not as
easy as it seems either.

While men are not talked about in a very good light in the film, we do see
some men that are decent to these women. Robin admits to having a thing
for
barman, and on the road trip she meets up with Alex (James Remar) a caring
barman, who is really hooked on Robin. The way their relationship goes is
an
interesting aspect of the movie. James had an interesting character in
HBO's
'Sex and the city'. Holly, with such a bubbly personality meets a cop
cutely
named Abe Lincoln (Matthew McConaughey). He dearly loves Holly, wants her
as
his wife, so she can live a life that can be happy and trouble-free. I am
interested in seeing McConaughey's latest film, titled 'How to lose a guy
in
10 days'.

The director of BOTS was Hebert Ross (from the brilliant 80's movie, Steel
Magnolias). He is a very game sort of director, and does not shrug away
from
any of the important issues within the film. I love how he brought out the
movie's main themes of sex and sexuality (gay and straight), the
empowerment
of women, friendship, sickness, humour and what it means to be a family.

But the movie's story was also a highlight from where I viewed it. Written
by Don Roos, it was very touching and emotional, but also holds a large
amount of subtle, clever humour. The way he wrote the three main
characters
was terrific, with them all having very different situations for us to
learn
about. This I believe allows us to fall in love with each one of them. The
use of quick flashbacks is another aspect that was well written into the
screenplay by Roo's as were some of the lines in BOTS, which are
unforgettable. Lines like when Holly asks Robin at the dinner table,
`We're
you?' in reference to her and Jane having a sexual relationship, the next
few lines are great. The title of the film was well thought up,
considering
the line that Robin's mother says to her daughter, `You can't fight
nature,
God knows you women keep trying, treating your men like side dishes, stick
a
fork in when needed, just like men used to treat us.' That line is
basically
what the film is all about.

Another great part to this film was its soundtrack. It was not only clever
to incorporate it via one of the movie's characters, that of Jane, it
makes
the whole movie all the more compelling. Whoppi Goldberg and Mary Louise
Parker sing a fine solo of the Roy Orbison classic, 'You got it'. Then for
the movie to have another performer actually sing the song, I found to be
just original, as some films would just throw in the old song, but not
here.
Another ironic part of the soundtrack is a song written and sung by known
lesbian Melissa Etheridge, titled 'I take you with me'. I am sure that the
powers behind this movie wanted such a performer, considering one of the
main characters in the film was also gay.

I watched this film, just a few weeks after seeing a movie that I am sure
inspired the writer of the script, that being 'Thelma and Louise'. Parts
of
'Boys on the side' has a similar feel to 'Thelma and Louise' - that of
women
on a road trip, trying to break free of men's hold on them. While a lot of
the film is original, it has a very touching ending, to what can only be
described as a very emotional movie. I also feel that director Herbert
Ross,
allows us to experience what each character is going through in life and
does not shrug away from any issues that other movies might simply try and
avoid. With a cleverly incorporated soundtrack, 'Boys on the side', is a
movie that we can all learn from, to try and improve not only our
friendships that we have, but how we live our lives in a world that can be
cruel, harsh and unfair.

CMRS gives 'Boys on the side': 4 (Very Good Film)

<|_=00=_|>
Absorbing, funny and incredibly aware comedy-drama about three ladies
on a road trip: Whoopi Goldberg as a lesbian lounge singer, Drew
Barrymore as a pregnant, unmarried waif, and Mary-Louise Parker as an
uptight woman trying to loosen up (and suffering from HIV). Plot is
contrived, but the interaction between the characters is definitely
not. Screenwriter Don Roos writes vivid dialogue and touching scenes,
and the cast plays it to the hilt. Barrymore is at her best here,
Goldberg is outstanding, and Parker--while not a varied actress--does
solid work. Nice direction by Herbert Ross, who hasn't been this
focused in years. ***1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
Count the chick-flick conventions: The revenge on the abusive
boyfriend; the three so-different young women bonding; the
mother-daughter conflicts; the road trip; the scene where somebody
sings "Happy Birthday" to somebody amid much general rejoicing; the
adorable baby; the tear-wringing incurable-disease character; etc. It's
well-written -- Don Roos, who later wrote the superb screenplay to "The
Opposite of Sex," puts more curve on his dialog than most toiling in
this genre -- but as with many sisters-united-in-adversity epics, it
keeps wanting to yank emotions out of you rather than earn them
honestly. The three leads are good, a young Matthew McConnaughey isn't
yet annoying, and there are nice turns from Estelle Parsons and Anita
Gillette, a Broadway baby decades earlier who matured into a proficient
character actress. But Herb Ross is in his take-no-chances mode, and
too much of the picture feels programmed and rote.
<|_=00=_|>

I LOVE this movie. It's touching, funny, sad, heartbreaking and inspiring
all in one. I found Mary-Louise Parker's character so like myself that it
was hilarious! Drew Barrymore, lovely as ever in her role, provided the
much-needed sparkle to the movie. Some parts were a lot sadder and more
sinister than others, but Drew was always there to bring the sunshine!

It's so touching, it makes me cry every time. But I love it. It's not
perfect by any means, but it's definitely one to watch with the girls.
Boys
are on the side. 
<|_=00=_|>

Drew Barrymore really makes this movie what it is as the dizzy (blonde of
course) Holly, with her fresh and upbeat view on life.  The faces which
Barrymore pulls to dramatize her part will keep you laughing (e.g whilst on
the Greyhound bus, whilst in labor).  Moreover, this film shows that
Barrymore can not only play the slutty, seductive parts (e.g The Amy Fisher
Story, Poison Ivy) but a role which mixes both.    

What will surprise you about this comedy (and tear jerker) is that it's not
as predictable as you may except.  Although the story line is simple, there
are always the odd parts which you don't expect. The fight at the beginning
with Nick will keep you shocked and probably laughing. 

It's definitely a chick flick (although the guys may drool over a blonde
Barrymore.)  However the actor who plays Abe Lincoln is an eye
catcher.

This is not one of Whoopi Goldberg's best roles and I didn't think her part
as the lesbian was believeable, yet she did display both strength and humor
to keep you interested.  Mary Louise Parker was excellent and her
performance was on line with her part.

Definitely a movie for a Barrymore fan and if you need a heart warming movie
to keep you interested at night.  You go get it!
<|_=00=_|>

POSSIBLE SPOLIERS AHEAD!

Great movie about three women (Whoppi Goldberg, Mary-Louise Parker, Drew
Barrymore) and their various adventures as they travel cross-country.
Goldberg plays a lesbian, Parker plays a straight woman with AIDS and
Barrymore a pregnant, unwed woman.  All three are fantastic and the film
manages (more or less) to juggle many plot elements (AIDS, lesbianism,
pregnancy, drugs, violence, murder etc etc) and deal with them all
effectively.

Parker is probably the first woman ever to play a straight woman with AIDS
in a major Hollywood film--quite a feat.  Goldberg and Barrymore are just
letter perfect in their roles.  Also the unknown Matthew McConaughey
(absolutely gorgeous with a buff body and blue eyes blazing) and Estelle
Parsons (as Parker's mother) give strong supporting performances.  The
film
is long but never dull and it all ends to a very moving final sequence--I
cry every time I see it!

Two minor quibbles--it takes Barrymore over a year to have her baby and
there are obvious cuts in the second half of the movie (I assume this was
to
keep the film down to two hours).  But these are minor problems.  A very
funny, very moving film.  Don't miss it!

<|_=00=_|>
This is my favorite film of all time. It has everything you want in a
film.

It is funny and has plenty of action throughout. It is also so sad,
anyone who doesn't cry must be emotionally retarded. I especially love
Mary Jane Parker in this film even though all the actors are great.The
film has so many great lines in it too and who would have known Whoopi
Goldberg has a decent singing voice. 

I strongly recommend everyone to watch this. Its just a shame i cant
get this on region 2 DVD anywhere so i have to watch it on video which
is not great.
<|_=00=_|>

Cynics might say its a chick flick or a dyke flick.  Then remake me a
chick
or a dyke to get the kind of real, unbridled love -- romantic and platonic
-- that these women have for each other and their hetero
spouses/friends.

Mary-Louise Parker's character is so sad, yet so rich.  Barrymore's
fatuous
shenanigans in the bus window are hilarious.  Whoopie is no-nonsense, a
realist, a skeptic -- but not offensive or shrill.

Minor characters are great, too.

Fried Green Tomatoes goes to Arizona.

Sound track is to die for.


<|_=00=_|>
I wanted to like this film bit I really didn't. Maybe it's because the
above mentioned film is my all time favorite and this seemed a little
bit of a rip off-women. on the road together. wanted by cops. The
characters and the central plot maybe different then "T and L" but
there are a lot of similarities.

I think it looked better in the previews then it wound up being. Not an
awful movie but not one that I liked terribly. I did like the premise
because I'm into road movies. 

I know some people loved this. I just wasn't one of them. The whole
movie was very forced, a bit contrived and weepy. Not that there's
anything wrong with movies that have those aspects but after seeing
some really incredible road movies I expected it to be a lot better and
be a bit more original.

I will say, however, the acting was good-ALL THREE of the leads were
spectacular. That was the main positive. But Coming so soon after
"Thelma" it seemed like this was almost done to get people to the
cinema. Even the previews made it look so much like Thelma.

Or maybe I was spoiled by Thelma and Louise, to me no other female road
trip movie even comes close. Although I will say this was a tear jerker
with interesting characters and good acting(the much better then
average cast in my opinion is what saves this movie), on a whole I
found it to INTENTIONALLY sappy and unoriginal. My vote is 5 of 10.
