

I am a product of the 80's slasher film and the teenage film generation.
Films in the 80's like Fast Times, Wild Life, Revenge of the Nerds and
Ferris Bueller's Day Off and such, were films that may not have been
classics to the critics, but to a fifteen year old boy, they were our
Citizen Kane.  They taught us how to pick up women, how to attempt to have
sex, how to skip school and why to skip school.  They taught us that
parents
and adults really don't understand us and that kids really aren't that
bad,
we just want to have a bit of fun before life gets too serious.  We have
all
been through emotions and experiences like the ones that those movies
preach
about, so it is easy for us to relate to what those films are trying to
say.
And it makes it that much more fun to relive those experiences ten years
later.  Can't Hardly Wait is the closest to an 80's teen film that I have
seen in quite some time.  Compared to films like the aforementioned Never
Been Kissed and even She's All That, this movie is a classic.

The film was written and directed by Harry Elfont and Debra Kaplan, and if
they are not about my age ( late 20's ) they certainly are lovers of 80's
teen films, because it shows here that they did their homework.  Some of
the
scenes in this film are complete homages to great 80's films like Sixteen
Candles ( the two geeks on the roof ) Wild Life ( a huge party where some
of
the characters grow up and learn a bit about themselves and each other)
and
even Say Anything ( a not so popular guy in love with the school hotty.)
It
seems to me that Harry and Debra are lovers of the films that made growing
up in the eighties so much fun.

The story is about a party on the day of the completion of exams.  Here we
meet all the major players in the film.  And yes, they are all contrived,
but that is what a film like this is about.  They were not trying to
re-invent the wheel here, they were trying to stick to a formula that made
so many movies work.
You have Amanda Beckett ( Hewitt ), the prom queen that just got broken up
with by the star jock named Mike Dexter ( played with so much zeal by
Peter
Facinelli, look for him to have a future in Hollywood ).  Then you have
Preston ( Ethan Embry ) who is not necessarily a geek but he is far from a
popular jock, think of Dawson.  Anyway, he has loved Amanda for all of
highschool and now he is finally getting the guts to tell her of his
undying
passion for her.  You also have William Lichter, who is the school geek
that
comes of age in the party.  He does all the things that you would expect a
typically written geek in a film to do--- get drunk, have a public display
of wildness that gets people to see him in a new light, and of course, in
here it is his karaoking to Paradise City ( which is one of the film's
funnier scenes ) and of course get laid.  As I said, this movie sticks to
a
very popular formula.  Don't look for a film like this to say new and
something profound about today's youth.  This movie is here to entertain
and
that is it.  And it does that well.

Also you have Kenny Fischer ( Seth Green ) as a very white guy who thinks
he
is black to cover up his insecurities, and his friend from public school
named Denise.  Needless to say many issues are going to be raised at the
party and some of them are hilarious.

A great cameo is turned in by Jerry O'Connell who plays Trip McNeely ( the
ultimate jock name ).  He was idolized by all the cool kids when he went
to
their high school.  Now he is in university and according to him , in a
converstion with Mike Dexter, he tells him that " guys like me and you bro
are a dime a dozen.  Chicks are a lot different in college.  They care
about
the environment and things and they all date guys that are in pre-med. "
It
is a very funny scene.

What makes this movie so much fun to watch is that it is reminiscent of an
80's film.  And that is the highest compliment that I can give it.
Because,
just like they don't know how to make movies like Halloween and Nightmare
On
Elm Street anymore, they sure as hell don't know how to make films like
Breakfast Club, The Sure Thing and Secret Admirer.  But this film comes
really close to being like those.  And if you remember those ones as films
that were some of your favorites when you were sixteen, see this, it will
make you laugh and entertain you, and that is an accomplishment on its
own.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie was great. It's not blockbuster, but it wasn't made to be. It was
 something geared towards teenagers, so older folks beware. I would not go
 see it if you're out of your twenties. It was funny, it was sweet and that's
 about it. The two best performances were given by Ethan Embry and Seth
 Green. Ethan was male lead, Preston who convincingly yearned for Jennifer
 Love Hewitt's character, Amanda. Ethan pulled his role off wonderfully. The
 second awesome performance was given by Seth Green who was the local
 gangsta-wannabe Kenny. This one had me rolling on the floor laughing
 because sadly, most of the guys i know are just like him. So, if you just
 want something to entertain, make you laugh, and not think to hard, I'd go
 see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

While walking through my local video store, I have walked past this cover
box a trillion times and never really looked at it.  Then one day, I noticed
that Seth Green was on the cover, and since I became a fan of him during
"Buffy", I picked up this movie, thinking, "What the heck, it's free!" (I
had a Rent One Get One Free Coupon).  I took it home not expecting anything
but a few laughs from Seth, and boy was I ever shocked!

"Can't Hardly Wait" is not the greatest movie ever made, but I'll be totally
honest with you, it's the biggest surprise of a movie I have ever
watched.

I now own this movie, and it's one of those movies that, when I'm just not
in the mood to go to a "galaxy far, far away", (yes, sometimes it happens) I
pop this in and giggle hysterically.

Seth Green is wonderful playing the wannabe gangsta.  The members of
Loveburger are a riot.  And Jennifer Love Hewitt isn't even all that
annoying.

The soundtrack is quite amazing.  With a movie like this, you'd assume that
it'd be just Smash Mouth, Blink 182 & Third Eye Blind, and yes, those groups
are included, but during the party scenes, there are a number of classic
party tunes from Guns -n- Roses, Tone Loc and RUN DMC.  Not to mention the
whole Barry Manilow "Mandy" references.

No, this movie will not be re-released for a 20th Anniversary, but it's
definitely worth watching, and ranks far above all the other "teen flicks"
that are swarming to your local theater as you read this.
<|_=00=_|>

What a sweet movie this is! Predictable all the way, but saved by it's
extremely likeable cast: Ethan Embry, as the daydreamer nice guy, Seth
Green, showing off is talent in his part as a wigger and the photogenic
Jennifer Love Hewitt, who has the part of "perfect girl" down to
perfection.
(Is there any other way to describe it? She really is that good at
it.)

Like most good films in its genre Can't Hardly Wait has many witty
moments,
pace and charm. The parallels with Fast Times At Ridgemont High are
obvious.

Seth Green as a white boy who really would rather have been a black boy is
a
very funny and to the point social comment.
It's a shame, however, that the film can't break loose from the
stereotypes
that resurface in every teen comedy. There's the blonde bimbos who just
look
pretty and are armpieces to the jocks. There's the jocks who drink beer
and
pick on the nerds. There's the nerds who have big glasses and re-enact
scenes from Star Wars and the likes. Why don't producers seem able to
break
away from those stereotypes? The moments where these characters are
brought
into play, the boring slapstick they engage in... Those are the moments
where the film loses it's pace and that's why these films only brush upon
interesting subject matter.
This is also the reason why new generations won't be bored to watch until
the end of this film in twenty years time. I know I changed the channel 30
minutes into Fast Times...

Without the everlasting stereotypes and standard storylines (nice boy
wants
girl... nerd gets cheerleader for one night or forever more) this kind of
film might actually distinguish itself. As long as that doesn't change the
rating of this film is likely to remain stuck at 6.3, at which it is stuck
right now. That's where the genre deserves to be as it is. I rate this
film
slightly higher at 7.
<|_=00=_|>

Again, like the many, many teen comedies to come before it, CAN'T HARDLY
WAIT has you watching as the teenagers run around, crack jokes, yell at each
other, scream, drink beer, and kiss and fall in love. Yes, it's all very
mushy and romantic. Not so much in this movie...

Like 10 THINGS I HATE ABOUT YOU, this movie doesn't really concentrate on
the romantic elements until later in the film, which I like. It is more
original and gives the movie more flavor. This is why most of these teen
romance flicks are not really big at the box office. Its because they are
predictable, they have been done a thousand times before and because
everyone knows how it will turn out. That is why horror movies are always
big. Because at least with a horror movie you usually have to figure out who
the masked killer is or something like that. But with these boring teen
comedies, you always know how it will turn out. This movie is
different.

You never really know what is going to happen, because this movie takes the
honor of having a very large cast of characters and follows each of them
very specifically, developing a story and history for each of them. The cast
includes Ethan Embry, Seth Green, Jennifer Love Hewitt, Melissa Joan Hart,
Charlie Korsmo, Lauren Ambrose, Peter Facinelli, Jenna Elfman, Breckin
Meyer, Sean Patrick Thomas, Brandon Williams, Jaime Pressly, Liz Stauber,
Clea DuVall, Brian Klugman, and Jerry O'Connel have parts in this movie.
Many of these people only have small cameos, but all are hilarious in this
delightfully funny teen romp.

CAN'T HARDLY WAIT gets 5/5.
<|_=00=_|>

The plot was ok. I love the actors. Jennifer Love Hewitt was amazing. She
really pulled it off. Ethan, of course, was good. He made Preston Meyers the
person we all cheered for. Seth Green once again came through with his
humour and his serious side. The movie is a good movie if you want a laugh,
or if your a romance type person, it's also very good. Or if you just want
to relax and watch a pretty good movie, this is it. 
<|_=00=_|>
After a while, it's hard to remember back to that immortality of youth
that this movie captures in a very clever way. The number of now famous
actors and actresses who pop up in this epic is amazing. The characters
are well polished: The jerks are jerkier, the nerds are nerdier, the
jocks are even more jocked up, and as a boy who remembers what it was
like to love the most popular girl from afar, the pain you suffered
with that love was of a white hot intensity that the hero of this movie
could not let go, much to his betterment, and to my loss (I didn't go,
and she never knew).

Brilliant.
<|_=00=_|>
Yeah, yeah. It is the girl, it is the boy, it is the crazy one, it is
the geek, it is the popular one, it is the party. I know all those
things that most of the time come along in the package of a teen movie.
But this film is really one good piece. I can't say great, but I can't
also say bad.

Here, unlike many teen comedies, we get to meet the characters. To know
details and things about them, because they aren't comic creatures.
They aren't one dimensional, you know? It always happen that some
characters just got to be there, and don't have much development, but
some others do. And it's not easy to create much development for one
night only, because there is only a party.

This guy, Preston. He is totally mad for this girl, so that he thinks
they are meant to be. And maybe they really are. And this girl, is so
trapped in her world (no matter what that world is), that she's not
looking anywhere else. And if she looks, it might be too late. Jennifer
Love Hewitt and Ethan Embry are more than alright for this characters.
She (Hewitt)is gorgeous, and she doesn't need a lot of effort to play
Amanda's part. It's just the part of a gorgeous girl. He (Embry) is
impressive. In his eyes you can see that he has been left aside, most
of the time. Embry gives some kind of depth to his characters, even if
he doesn't have to. I liked him in "White Squall" and I understand him
here.

The rational character is Denise. She doesn't want anything to happen
but she hasn't even tried. Ambrose gives simply the best performance of
the movie. And Seth Green made me laugh. His character, Kenny, wants
anything to happen, but he has looked to much, and needs to stop a
little bit. As for William, well, he is that neutral character, he
needs some new things in his routine. His life has been the same for
too long. Many things could happen in this party.

All the rest of the cast is in and out, going and leaving, talking,
remembering. High School is ending, it must be enjoyed, I think.

Last, but not least: there's fate...
<|_=00=_|>
this movie was great! i first saw it myself and it was really boring,
but when i saw it w/ my friend it became my favorite. i guess this was
because u feel stupid to laugh by yourself, and this is a movie u need
to watch w/ someone. my fav character, like everyone else, is kenny
fisher played by seth green. sadly, i know a lot of people just like
him who are wannabe wangstas or wiggers. its hilarious. he reminds me
so much of my best friend who's like that. also the small appearance of
Jerry O'Connel was good. this is my fav Jennifer Love Hewitt movie, and
a lot of people i never even heard of did a good job. i also liked the
TINY roll of Breckin Myer who i think is hilarious. this isn't just a
teen movie because my parents loved it.
<|_=00=_|>

I think there is two kinds of thoughts of this movie, Hate and Love I
love it, i think this movie has everything that is needed to be
enjoyable, it has good acting, a good soundtrack, good characters, its
really funny, and it got Jennifer Love Hewitt, (a women that can make
almost every movie worth watching, because she seems to be one of the
sweetest girls in the world).

I think i don't need to say anything more. This is the best(and first)
college movie that is ever going to be produced, its miles before
American Pie 1&2&3 and other movies...

