

The trouble with making a children's film has always been to keep the kids
happy but avoid making Mum and Dad fall asleep. Disney have always stuck to
a solid "one cute song for every acidic aside" ratio which meant that the
over-15's got Robin Williams and Eddie Murphy doing a stripped down routine
whilst the 10 year olds got pretty pictures, cute animals and plenty of
slapstick. This is what has made the House of Mouse the dominant toon makers
but their mastery is under attack from Dreamworks SKG. While Walt & Co.
delivered Mulan, Mr. Spielberg gave us Prince of Egypt and though Disney
won, narrowly, the next round isn't going to be so easy.

Antz is brilliant. Don't let anybody tell you differently. We've got stunning visuals, great jokes, some brilliant scenes and some very likeable characters. What we have is a very smart film. Maybe
too smart. The jokes are funny if you're old enough to get them. The sight of a neurotic ant lying on a therapist's leaf complaining about his anxious childhood is hilarious. Especially when the
biggest neurotic in the world, Woody Allen, is delivering the lines. His timing, throughout the entire film, is exquisite and the script takes advantage of this at every opportunity i.e.:

Mandible: I like an ant that laughs in the face of death.

Z: Actually I stand behind Death and make belittling comments at its
back.

It reads like one of Woody's early, funny films (sorry, but I couldn't resist it) and the rest of the cast are good too but that's because the script takes advantage of their history. Weaver acts
like Stallone, Cutter acts like Walken and Barbatus acts like Glover. Anybody that's seen one of their films instantly recognises the voice behind the ant because of how they speak and act. They
also bypass the sing-along route and insert a grisly battle sequence similar to Starship Troopers. The adults in the audience will love it. Children may be a little underwhelmed.

How many kids have seen an Allen, Stallone or Walken film? Not many I
expect. How many kids have seen Troopers or Metropolis, (which is a big
inspiration for the visuals)? Very few. There are a lot of jokes they just
won't get. They may enjoy the pretty pictures but there's a distinct lack of
cuddly animals, obvious slapstick or happy tunes. Boredom may set in and
there may be a few cries during the battle sequence so be ready. Another
downside is a slightly weak villain. Hackman does well with what he has but
it's not much and truly cool bad guys like James Woods' Hades run circles
round him.

Despite that Antz is a blast. As funny and enjoyable for adults as a
child-orientated flick could be. It's not the best toon but it's a definite step forward. Maybe Disney have finally met their match.

<|_=00=_|>
I'm probably a weird guy, but I really appreciate a good animated movie
even though I'm no longer a kid (I'm 26 years old). What I liked about
this one is the great animation, the nice story, the humor... 

I haven't seen A Bug's Life yet, which makes it impossible for me to
compare both of course, but I really liked the style used in Antz.
Usually a Disney production gives me the feeling I'm watching a movie
which was intended for kids only (although A Bug's Life was created by
the Pixar studio's, which gives me a bit of hope), while Dreamworks
understood that adults too can appreciate this kind of movies, if only
they take care of the style and the story. Most of Disney's animated
movies are just too smooth, too perfect for me, and to be honest the
songs almost make me sick. 

The style in Antz is much grittier. It isn't as perfect and smooth as a
Disney production and the message is a lot stronger. The film is
probably exciting for little children, thanks to the humor, fantastic
images and action, but the underlying subtext and social commentary on
humans make this movie different from Disney's moralizing films.
However, the different message isn't the only difference between Disney
and Dreamworks. I don't think Disney ever risked to use very well known
scenes from other movies in their own films. In Antz you can find some
excellent scenes which refer to movies like Metropolis, Starship
Troopers,...

Some people have some critics on this movie because it doesn't show how
a real anthill is organized, how strong ants really are, that ants
don't look for a partner, ... Let me tell this to these people: I
respect you're way of thinking but I think you should have watched a
documentary instead of an animated movie. I sure hope you understand
there is still a big difference between a documentary, based on
scientific research, meant to teach people and a movie like Antz, who's
only purpose is to entertain people. Personally I liked the movie for
what it was and I give it an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

It's probably the first time Woody Allen is so much like himself when he
isn't at all. Ant Z, a neurotic, fatalistic, depressive, sorry ant with a
record low level of self-esteem transforms into a (part-time) content,
revolutionary hero of his utterly totalitarian and fascistic colony ever
imaginable.
Apart from the incredibly precise animation and "logical" fantasy, one feels
a bit distracted with the subliminal messages the picture tries to impose.
While it would be easy to reduce the moral to the frequently recited motto:
"think for yourself once!", there are too many of them to
ignore.
This definitely is not a kid's flick, it is meant for and appreciated by
adults, with many philosophical, psychological and social references and
conflicts.
One big "bravo!" to Dreamworks. I think they have achieved the point where
adults can actually enjoy animation movies while believing the whole stuff.
These insects are surely going to bite some Disney bugs.
<|_=00=_|>

You know, there was a time in which we didn't candy coat stories for
children. The Evil Queen in Snow White, for one, was forced to wear red-hot
slippers and dance to her death. Even in older Disney films like "Bambi",
the serious issue of death is broached.

Now, no one dies. It's too serious.

Horsehocky.

One of the best moments I had watching "Antz" in a theater was listening to
a mother explain why Barbatus died. Guess what? Death is a natural part of
life -- and to refute it exists is plain wrong. Or, as in the recent Disney
flick "Hercules", Hades, the God of Death is portrayed as evil. (What, are
people supposed to be immortal?)

While not appropriate for 4 year olds, I wouldn't think twice about showing
it to an 8 year old. Why must movies be dumbed down -- PG means parental
GUIDANCE. Any movie that forces you to talk to your kids after a movie is a
good one. Don't treat your kids like little morons.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this story. I thought is was a very intelligently entertaining
movie:- a good combination of interesting ideas mixed with great
visuals and broad comedy.

All the the voice casting was top notch; especially Gene Hackman,
Christopher Walken, Sylvester Stallone, Dan Aykroyd, and of course
Woody Allen. There was also great version of Neil Finn singing "I Can
See Clearly Now"; and the visual design and music score was
breath-taking and dynamic. Plus the storyline is more gritty with a
darker undercurrent, and would appeal to a more sophisticated audience,
which it is good to have. I'm not saying that cute fun stories aren't
OK too. In fact IMHO the wider the spectrum of stories we can get the
better we'll all be.

I personally think this is slightly ahead of the equally brilliant A
BUG'S LIFE; even though both are really top class storytelling. This
one wins by about half a feeler.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, so it's not War and Peace, but this film is about as dark and
meaningful as you could want a big-budget comedy animation to be. The
computer animation itself never ceases to be awe-inspiring and more than
compensates for the plot holes - I personally did like the style of the
characters themselves, although others have disagreed. The casting is
perfect, and Woody Allen as Z-4195 the neurotic worker ant complete with
impeccable one-liners is at times hilarious. Although the plot falls into
predictability, the communist metaphors combined with the basic
boy-meets-girl-above-his-station story make this highly enjoyable, and all
you could want as a 3D animation suitable for adults. A strong opening blow
in the Disney-Dreamworks rivalry swordfight.
<|_=00=_|>
Antz is an animated movie that wasn't appreciated very much. After the
family friendly movie Toy Story, I feel like people weren't ready for
something a little bit darker, and more intense. This movie has death
(and a lot of it at that), it has violence, it has gore, it has humor,
it has swearing, and it has alcohol in it... pretty epic huh? The movie
Antz which actually came out before A Bug's Life by about a month takes
the role of what ants do a lot more seriously. The movie A Bug's Life
really doesn't seem to understand what ants do or how their colonies
work, but the movie Antz does it all. There are the miners, the
warriors, the drones, the ones with wings, and others. The voice acting
is really good in this movie which really adds to the movie. The
animation was also pretty advanced for its time, because it did many
things that were hard for that time: Water, large amounts of moving
objects, realistic face movement, and realistic body movement,
lighting, and many others.

The nice thing about this movie is that it doesn't pretend to be a kids
movie. Ants swear in it (the word b****in is used once) and as
mentioned there is a lot of violence. Like a very epic scene where the
ants are trying to fight a termite colony and the ants are getting
attacked by acid, are getting decapitated, and dieing brutally. The
thing is that this movie doesn't cover up death. When someone dies, the
movie won't hide it. Honestly this movie was really good, it has a good
story, it has good characters, it is realistic, and has nice action.
One of Dreakworks' best.
<|_=00=_|>

From what I have read, DreamWorks got the idea of an insect animation film
from Disney, rushed to market before the Disney version was released, and
that they think this will enable them to compete against Disney in the
animated film market?  I think some reevaluation is in
order.

ANTZ is not bad, far from it.  The animation is very well done (to this
untrained, unschooled eye) and the voices well-acted (and maybe Woody wasn't
so much acting as being Woody).  The feel-good plot was well......very
Disney.  Certainly worth the price of a rental.  And I mean this for adults.
 I can't comment of the movie being too dark and violent for small children,
well maybe very small children.  

Nothing earth-shaking or leading edge, but good ol' entertainment.

<|_=00=_|>

Antz is a charming romantic comedy that is better appreciated by adults
than
children. In fact, there are some scenes that may be a bit too violent or
gruesome for small children.

All of the actors perform brilliantly with an excellent script even though
the plot is a bit trite. All the actors excel in their roles even the
usually bland Stallone and Lopez who are more animated in this film than
in
most of their other roles.

I found the move to be appealing visually. Apart from some of the
backgrounds that seem to be hand painted, the animation is
superb.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not a kids movie. I hesitate to even call it a family movie. I
think that an adult would get more out of the movie. It's about the
structure of society and it also discusses the subject of war and it's
quite a lot of death in the movie. It also explores individualism. The
voice work is great but what else can you expect from Hollywood legends
like Christopher Walken and Sylvester Stallone. The stand out being the
great Gene Hackman as the villain. It is not a movie you should show
your kid they will either be bored or confused. Many of the jokes will
also go over the children's heads. But that doesn't mean this is a bad
movie. It a very good movie smart and well-written. Chris Weitz, Paul
Weitz and Todd Alcott has done a good job and Antz is well-made.But
don't bother to show this movie to your kids and if your kids doesn't
speak English or can't read subtitles really don't bother to showing
this movie to your kids half of the fun comes from the celebrity
voices.
