

It's been a while since Body of Evidence was released to theaters and
rejected by critics and the public.  But I'm not at all ashamed to admit
that I still get kicks out of popping this film into the vcr and getting
completely entangled in the story.  It's thought provoking.  Can someone
literally be, umm, sexed to death?

And why do people think Madonna did such a bad job in this film?  She was
perfect in doing exactly what she needed to in order to develop her
character--the sultry Rebecca Carlson.  I mean, come on! Who else could
look
so sexy as the mega bad girl delivering a line like "I f***--that's what I
do."  Madonna is superb and I think she really proved critics wrong when
she
won a golden globe for Evita a few years after Body of Evidence was
released.

The plot of this movie is one of the most interesting story lines I have
ever known.  Is Rebecca a out of control dominatrix who really did sex her
much older lover to death?  That's what the prosecution tries to prove as
they charge her for murder after her wealthy older lover is found dead.
Throughout the film, the plot thickens and you're not sure if Rebecca is a
murderous bitch or not.  And the sex scenes in this are highly erotic!
Madonna, come my way with that candle wax any day of the week!  And the
look
in her eyes as she teases her lawyer by shoving her fingers down her
panties---Geez, that look is classic!

Body of Evidence may not be Oscar caliber, but hell, was Titanic?  I don't
think so.  But if you're in for a sinful delight, you should go rent Body
of
Evidence right now.  
<|_=00=_|>
Beautifully filmed, Madonna never looked better. This campy thriller
gave Madonna fans some of her most famous lines--"Men Lie", "Have you
ever seen animals make love", That's what I do, I", and a few others.
Her clothes are incredible and Julianne Moore is very pretty too. Now,
the problem lies not so much within Madonna's acting but timing...the
film was released 3 months after her SEX book pictorial was released.
The public just didn't know what to think, and I do think her constant
blinking of the eyes can become very irritating. The sex scene in the
parking garage is beautifully filmed and Madonna does kick some butt in
the sex scene department. If you think about Sharon Stone's icy
performance in Basic Instinct and Madonna's in this--they're really
about the same. But a major Madonna backlash had begun by the time this
film was released and was labeled a turkey. As a Madonna fan, I LOVE
IT--as a regular viewer, ITS PRETTY GOOD. No, I can't lie-- I love it!
Sorry, I really do! Campy and fun! NOT to be taken seriously!
<|_=00=_|>

I couldn't tell you the plot of this movie. Actually, I don't know if this
movie had a plot. What I do know is that Madonna is in it and boy or boy,
is
she ever.
Another courtroom drama without the drama, the only reason one will watch
this movie is Madonna. The passion between Dafoe and Madonna is the only
thing worth watching. That and the nudity and strong sexual acts, Body of
Evidence is a left over movie stolen from the Basic Instinct genre. The
courtroom and crime scenes is just background to what the movie is,
Madonna
in the bedroom.

<|_=00=_|>
It was only a matter of time that by 1993 Modonna one of the worlds
most recognized woman and #1 sex symbol was to showcase her enormous
and natural talents on the big screen for all to see.

"Body of Evidence" is a story about greed lust murder and betrayal
where Madonna, Rebecca Carlson, is accused of murdering her rich and
elderly lover with the most potent and deadly weapon at her disposal,
her body. The lurid and sensational trial that followed left the quiet
and sleepy little city of Portland Oregon so shook up that it still
hasn't recovered from the shock that hit it after all these years. 

Portland Millionaire Andrew Marsh, Michael Forrest, is found dead of a
heart attack in his mansion with his hands tied to the bed and a video
tape of him and Rebecca Carlson having sex still playing on the VCR.
Before long the DA has Miss. Carlson indited for his murder and the
evidence against her is almost air-tight and a conviction seems like a
forgone conclusion.Miss Carlson was to inherit $8,00,000.00 from Marsh
after his death. Attorney Frank Dulaney, Willam Dafoe, takes the case
for Carlson's defense and it turned out the be the biggest mistake that
he ever made in his entire life.

The movie goes from the ridiculous to the sublime and every thing else
in between and by the time the movie is over you feel like you went
over Niagara Falls on a surf board. You have to say one thing about
"Body of Evidence" it's not at all boring and Madonna dose have acting
talents with her very effective portrayal of the sexy and over the top
Rebecca Carlson, even though she was obviously playing herself. Willam
Defoe was very good as Rebecca's lawyer who was manipulated by her like
all the men that she manipulated in the movie; you couldn't fault him
for that once she turned it on the poor man was a goner. 

Anne Archer, Joanne Braslow, was tragic as well as sympathetic as
Rebecca's rival for the dead millionaire Andrew Marsh's affections as
well as money whom to no one's surprise lost out to. Joe Mantegna was
as good as ever as the hard driving DA, Robert Garrett out to convict
Rebecca for Marsh's murder. 

The movie has a number of shocking and explosive surprises that will
keep you guessing until the final credits start to roll and is much
better then you would expect from all the negative comments that it got
at the time of it's release. Madonna's acting surprisingly evoking
sympathy as well as outrage during the entire movie, Madonna was very
good in the scene where she was on the witness stand, that even rival
her scenes in the buff, which was the real reason for most people
seeing the film, that gives the audience and extra bonus.
<|_=00=_|>
Trashy sex-melodrama might have been much more fun had it the slightest
sense of humor; alas, all the laughs here are unintentional, and the
straight-faced actors just end up looking foolish. Willem Dafoe seems
on auto-pilot throughout, cast as a defense attorney opposite Madonna,
playing a woman who is suspected of killing her wealthy older lover
with too much rough-housing in the bedroom. Grubby nonsense with a
cliché-ridden script, B-movie characters, and a silly finish. For
camp-addicts, a hoot; all others beware. Released to video in R, NC-17,
and Unrated versions, none of which managed to improve on the ludicrous
screenplay. *1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>
(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon.)

Not that there is a TV version.

We could also call this 'Madonna on top' or 'Madonna in charge' or
maybe 'She can show you the power you can have from the prone
position.' The one thing about Madonna, other than having no shame (and
I admire her for that) is that she can crawl and not feel the slightest
bit reduced.

She's not especially bad in this mediocre thriller, nor especially
good. The script is ridiculous and the treatment without a hint of
nuance or subtlety. William Dafoe and Joe Mantegna seemed to be acting
on rote and Anne Archer was a wash. The problem is the movie is so
obviously fake that it's like watching bad TV. There's no point other
than kinky sex. I'm not sure why Madonna agreed to do this. I can't
believe she needed the money, nor can I believe she didn't care about
her reputation as a performing artist. I think her appearance here
exposes her weakness: simply put, she has bad taste because this could
not in any way further her career.

On the plus side I saw the unrated version and she was very sexy.
<|_=00=_|>

First thought that popped into my mind when 'Body of Evidence' began was
that this had the potential to be a bad episode of 'Law & Order.' Who knew
that it would be much worse? The script and direction is absolutely
horrible, hands down. We all know what we came to see and an interesting
movie is not it here.

Can you fornicate someone to death? Strangely enough, Madonna is on trial
for committing such a terrible act!

I cannot completely hate the movie for some nice scenes between Dafoe and
the 'Material Girl.' But if you can think of any other reason to watch this
tripe, be it for pitying Julianne Moore as one of her earlier works or for
just plain abusing your life, please do tell! 'Body of Evidence' should
simply have been called 'Madonna's Sex Movie.' Could have done better with
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Certainly not a great film, but not as bad as it has been made out to
be. Madonna's acting is OK, and I suspect the "woodenness" of her
performance was largely what the director wanted. Her character's
passion was limited to the bedroom (and elevator, and stairs, and
parking garage, etc.) and never extended to her daily life. And, by the
way, I had forgotten how pretty she could be back then. Anne Archer
looked awfully good as well, even while being weepy and not completely
hinged. The rest of the cast put in good work, with a special
commendation for Julianne Moore. Frank Langella was suitably creepy,
and Joe Mantegna suitably industrious. Some of the dialog didn't
completely work, but if you watch this without preconceptions, you'll
find it OK.
<|_=00=_|>

Because the critics gave this such a panning, I didn't bother to watch it
for a long time.  Now that I have, I'm surprised by how much I enjoyed it. 
Amazingly, I thought it was better than Basic Instinct, the film that
everyone said it was simply a poor copy of.  The storyline is tight and
engaging, Madonna much better than usual, the sex scenes good, even if
Willem Defoe appears more comfortable in the courtroom scenes, and the
ending brilliant.  A greatly under rated film.
<|_=00=_|>
This was an interesting period in Madonna's life. She had released her
album, "Erotica," her book, "Sex" and this film, "Body Of Evidence.

Watching this movie is like watching an incredibly brutal train wreck.
You can't help but look, even though the outcome is tragic. Madonna
plays Rebecca Carlson, accused of murdering her lover by sexual means.
In other words, her body was the murder weapon. Willem Dafoe plays the
lawyer hired to save her bod, but you can tell what will happen a mile
away. The sex scenes between the two of them become a rarity: it's not
sexy.

The plot is ludicrous and the ending is just dumb.

However, if you have to watch it, watch it as a double feature with
"Showgirls." The reason? Just 2 good examples of when sexiness turns
viewers off!
