

If you like serial killer films that like to tax your brain, you should
probably give this movie a look (exactly the reasoning I was following when
I picked this up at a video store). Chances are, you'll be entertained by
what you see. Just don't expect this one to be a nailbiter like Silence of
the Lambs or Se7en. This one comes across as more than a little forced, at
times, something that can't be levelled against those two superior
films.

The plot setup is as follows. A forensic psychologist (whom we get to see in
action in an unrelated case, as an introduction), Dr. Alex Cross (played by
Morgan Freeman), is placed in a personal position when his niece disappears,
among 8 other women -- two of which are soon found dead in a forest, clearly
brutally raped earlier. Cross, a clever guy, soon determines that the other
six are probably alive out there somewhere, including his niece. Meanwhile,
a young doctor named Kate (Ashley Judd) is herself captured by the
rapist/murder/etc. (we see the events unfolding from her perspective). She,
however, manages to escape. Dr. Cross and she then try to solve the case, so
that Cross's niece may be rescued.

From here on, we get standard cop thriller fare -- and I'm not saying that
as a bad thing, as such stories, when well crafted, are inherently
interesting -- with a clear bond (not a romantic one) forming between Cross
and Kate. Of course, plot twists abound (you get plenty of surprises about
who the killer might be), until the inevitable (and a bit predictable)
violent conclusion. Of course, the serial killer seems to be pretty kinky
(an important element for a film like this); his depravity is, unfortunately
(or fortunately?) never fully fleshed out.

Through it all, Morgan Freeman does an admirable job. You feel the weight of
his intellect and emotion, as he goes about this personal case, even when
the script doesn't project this weight itself. It's fascinating to see a
professional transcend this material so easily. Freeman makes this film,
100% -- he's not only realistic but also heavily charismatic (without
seeming forced, as Al Pacino on late-career-autopilot seems to be). Ashley
Judd does a good job, as does the supporting cast (well... the serial killer
isn't that great...), though a certain scene where she emotionally tells her
story to Cross is way forced.

There are times, however, when great acting just can't make up for a
mechanical script. It's not that the plot is bad itself, it's that it's
exposed somewhat mundanely. It seems as though whenever a plot point is
determined by the characters, they dwell on it for a bit, until it becomes
uninteresting, and then the next plot point is delivered to us. The method
of delivery never seems to flow out of the film's preceding movement, and
often defies common sense (why would a psychologist be able to pick up a
medical reference and easily pick out the drug used on a victim, when the
actual medical doctors could not? it's possible but seems a bit too
convenient).

The film's handling of the script is good. It looks good, and sounds good
(in 5.1 surround). I still couldn't help but notice that all the tricks one
normally sees that are supposed to increase tension and drama are used in
this film, too, even when the script just doesn't provide the same tension
and drama. (For instance, when Freeman makes a solemn pronouncement about
some trait of the killer he randomly decided on, because he's so good.) When
this happens, it feels like the movie is going through the motions (no
matter how hard it tries, it's just not as hard-hitting or dark as, say,
Se7en). Often enough, though, the cinematographer's and director's work fits
the screenplay perfectly, especially during the action at the end. The
experienced movie goer, however, will probably detect a moment of randomness
(watch the camera work during the bar scene with the three detectives, after
Jeremy Piven asks Ashley Judd to stay still) -- I'm probably nitpicking
here.

Well, there you go. It's a good movie, but quite cliched, and too often it
just doesn't feel right. But if you use it to admire Morgan Freeman's work,
you will be entertained. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
This suspense thriller is every bit as good as James Patterson's fine
novel and has great chemistry between Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd.
The sole plot is Freeman's search for two serial kidnappers and killers
who snatch beautiful and accomplished young women, including Freeman's
niece. The two killers try to outdo each other as they seize and
destroy their trophy captives. As with most mysteries, this one has the
usual red herrings, false leads and dead ends. Freeman is excellent as
Alex Cross and heroine Judd is a study in grit and survival and is very
effective in a finely nuanced role. The supporting cast is also great
in a movie that has a leisurely pace and several great action scenes as
it peaks towards its conclusion. The North Carolina location lensing,
music score and cinematography are all very good.
<|_=00=_|>

A serial killer is collecting strong and attractive young women. He is also
attracted to their talents and wisdom. It may be that he is holding his
living trophies in underground cells. It may be that he is stalking on both
coasts; in South Carolina and in California. Does this diabolical deranged
man have a partner in crime; or does he have a copy cat competing with
him?

One of the victims manages to get away. The lovely Ashley Judd is a doctor
that studies kick boxing for a hobby. She ends up helping Morgan Freeman,
who plays a forensic psychologist and special criminal investigator. Judd
and Morgan work very well together and make the sleuthing as tense as
holding forty bumble bees in a soup can. The scenes in the woods brings
anxiety to a boiling point.

If you liked BONE COLLECTOR or just a fan of chilling, action mysteries;
this will not disappoint you. Also in the cast are: Cary Elwes, Roma Maffia
and Alex McArthur.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is not among the best but still has more to offer than the
average thriller. This is mostly due to its cast and fine thriller
concept, that however doesn't always gets handled well.

Not all plot-lines get handled and wrapped up properly and the movie
leaves some loose ends. The movie also picks some not so likely
approaches with each story sometimes, which goes at the expensive of
the credibility- and therefore also the tension of the movie.

It's a movie that had the potential of becoming a real dark and eerie
thriller, I mean the concept of the movie would definitely allow this
but the movie gets somewhere stuck between its successful and not so
successful thriller moments.

Guess Morgan Freeman wanted to make another "Se7en" like thriller.
Well, it's not completely fair to compare this movie to "Se7en" but
because Morgan Freeman is in it and it's from about the same period,
it's easy and tempting to do so. Also with some imagination the plots
and approaches of both movies show some similarities. But unfortunately
"Kiss the Girls" is nowhere in the same league as "Se7en" but fans of
the genre will still find plenty to enjoy in this movie.

The movie features all of the right required thriller ingredients. So a
psychopath, a cop trying to solve the case and of course a couple of
plot twists. It also has all the right looks for a thriller. The movie
has the right sort of dark undertone and handles some of its moments
effectively.

The movie truly benefits from its cast. Morgan Freeman is an
experienced actor and always good in these sort of roles. The movie
also among other features; Ashley Judd, Cary Elwes, Bill Nunn, Brian
Cox and Jeremy Piven.

A better than average thriller.

7/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
With established stars that I like - Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd -
and a different story angle (two killers operating in tandem, one on
each coast) I keep thinking this thriller is better than what it is,
and each time I watch I am disappointed. After three viewings, I've
finally had enough. I should have quit while I was ahead.

I'm not particularly a proponent of "edgy" films but this needs more of
an edge. It doesn't have it and it falls flat in too many spots. There
also too many scenes that, if you analyze them, couldn't or simply
wouldn't happen. These mount up after awhile and about 3/4ths of the
way through this, you wonder why you're wasting two hours on a movie
that SHOULD be better. 

In all, it's a poor film for actors the quality of Freeman and Judd to
be associated with, and a poor rendition from a fine, best-selling
book. No wonder you get find this DVD for $5 at Wal-Mart. It is worth
one look, but that's all.
<|_=00=_|>
Detective Alex Cross is an experienced, astute forensic psychologist.
He's brought in to aid in the investigation of a slippery criminal
mastermind with a track record for abducting young women who are both
beautiful and talented. The case becomes personal for Cross when one of
the women abducted is his niece, and he enlists the aid of local doctor
and former victim Kate McTiernan (Judd) who escaped from the same
perpetrator and is the only living person who can identify him.
Stylish, atmospheric, well-crafted thriller has a story that holds your
interest, with some effective twists and strong performances from
Freeman and Judd, but it all builds to a climax that doesn't quite
payoff. Still, a respectable showing for all those involved. **½
<|_=00=_|>
Lets start with the positive - Morgan Freeman did a great acting job,
but that alone was not enough to save this film from the trash heap.
There are so many unbelievable elements to this film, I just don't know
where to start. Heres a few: Are we meant to believe that half a dozen
women are being held captive and the local police are doing nothing to
find them? The idea that Freeman and his buddy from Washington DC take
on the enquiry all on their own and don't tell anyone they are staking
out this suspect is daft. The real killer turns out to be a detective
working on the case - just how did he spend all the time with the girls
when he was also working full time on a murder enquiry? The murderer
has distinctive writing and sent Freeman a note which is so easy to
match up with the detective's handwriting it's just not believable!

Some tense moments in the film, but if you choose to watch this, be
prepared to suspend disbelief!
<|_=00=_|>

Pretty good thriller. Lots of twists and turns to keep your attention.
Great
performances from Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman.
The story is Washington DC detective Dr. Alex Cross (Morgan Freeman)
travels
to North Carolina to investigate the apparent kidnapping of his niece (Gina
Ravera). Aided by escaped kidnapee Kate McTiernan (Ashley Judd), Cross
hunts
down the kidnapper, who operates under the pseudonym "Cassanova".
Pretty good watch, nice performance by casanova all up a good movie.

<|_=00=_|>
Kiss the Girls (1997)

Not a bad film, "entertaining" in the sense of sitting back and
watching an episode of Bones or CSI. It has more development and higher
production values, I guess, than television, but really it is a routine
film hardly worth thinking too hard about.

Ashley Judd and Morgan Freeman have been together for three movies, and
they work together well. I'm not sure I see any special chemistry
there, and for my money, it's a Morgan Freeman film. He plays a
Forensic Psychologist and is all business, not swayed by stupidity.
Judd plays a victim at first, and then in an unlikely twist, joins the
investigation. The plot is frankly a little predictable, and you keep
thinking there will be this giant twist, but there isn't. You simply
don't know exactly who the perp is.

Ah, well, it propels itself all the same, a fun distraction.
<|_=00=_|>
Cary Elwes does an incredible job as Nick Ruskin. He acts with perfect
emotion for every particular scene and brings a unique feel to the
character portrayed in the book. Elwes does superb acting in this film,
and really displays his range. After reading the novel, I was surprised
by Freemans casting. He impressed me with his comittment to the
character, however, during the film he seemed over-dramatic taking away
from the realism of the story (what makes the film and novel so
terrorizing). Ashley Judd played Kate McTieran well and portrayed
Pattersons heroine with the courage and bravery expected. Where the
movie falls short is in the script. The adaptation leaves out numerous
key elements to the story. What makes the plot so riveting is the
psychological trauma Cassanova and the Gentleman caller force onto
their captives. With brief scenes portraying the womens captivity, they
film takes away from the character development of the murderers and
focuses too heavily on superfluous tidbits not necessary to the story.
If you are seeking a true thriller, you may want to choose another
movie. Although the film is entertaining and the acting decent, the
novel is much better and the thriller genre is better utilized in other
films.
