

It's hard to understand why this film doesn't get better reviews.  Yes of
course it's a reflective arty film where evoking feelings is more important
than narrative drive.  The amount of nudity, though in keeping with the
story, does perhaps hinder its being taken seriously by
some.

Surely though it succeeds as well as any film has in painting a cinematic
picture of the experience of being a stranger in a strange land?  The
cultural barriers, dissonances, language, the maze of similar streets -
everything comes together to create the feeling of utter helplessness Kit
experiences when she tries to get help for the ill Port.  The confusing
weird relationships, often only partially depicted in the film heighten the
sense of being adrift in life.

Together with some of the best ever desert cinematography rivaling even
Lawrence of Arabia, North African music, noises, characters and colors this
film is a rich feast for the senses indeed.  And what a wonderful final
voice-over, one of the most deep and thought-provoking lines in all the
movies.
<|_=00=_|>

Port and Kit Moresby are travellers who come to North Africa to spend a
year
or so.  With them travels a friend, George Tunner.  Their journey hides
the
gradual breakdown of their relationship - a fact that is only highlighted
when Port visits an Arab prostitute and Kit sleeps with Tunner after a
drunken train journey together.

Before you sit down to see this film, you really need to have asked
yourself
what sort of mood you are in.  Are you looking for a fast film, something
entertaining and slick to distract you from life, or provide background
noise in the room while you iron? If you are looking for such a movie then
there must be thousands of action movies and comedies that you can watch.
If you are in a contemplative mood or are able to accept the story that
comes at you no matter how slow or difficult to get into then you may as
well give this a stab.  The film focuses on the relationship between Kit
and
Port, a relationship that has been crumbling for many years before we are
brought into the story.  The film then uses the journey as a journey of
them
both and, ultimately, Kit to find more about themselves, each other and
their lives.

If this sounds straightforward then forgive me, for it is not.  The film
doesn't help; it is difficult to get into the story because at times it
doesn't seem to really be about anything.  It is not so bad for the
majority
of the film, but Kit's wander in the last 30 minutes is difficult because
it
seems to be going nowhere and not be connected to the emotions that we
only
assume she might be feeling.  This is the main problem with the film - not
so much the slow pace but the fact that it could be running but it
wouldn't
matter because it would still feel like it isn't actually going anywhere.
It is possible to take something from this film but the actual intension
was
lost on me - when the final lines of dialogue came I hoped they would be
as
a torch in a dark room - but they only served to lose me that much more.
I
hate arty films when they seem to revel in their sheer impenetrateability,
sadly that seemed to be the case here.

Malkovich and Winger are both very good; they acted wounded and hurt very
well within their veneer of respectability and normalcy.  It's a shame
that,
although their performances help us get into Kit & Port's relationship,
they
are unable to help us understand (or care) when the film begins to become
`deeper' than that.  Scott is quite interesting but underused, although
Spall and Bennett are reasonably good.  The star here is the desert, and
it
looks great.  For all his faults as a storyteller here, Bertolucci can
frame
a shot, producing a great sense of place as well as some really gorgeous
travelogue moments.  If that's your thing (a `deep' and beautiful film)
then
you'll be OK, but I needed some emotional buy in or at least something
approaching a narrative that could be easily followed with a bit of
thought.

Overall this is an interesting but ultimately frustrating film.  It looks
great and it all seems very worthy, but where it goes was beyond me.  I
enjoyed watching it as it forced me to think instead of just vegging out
(like so many other films do) but at the end of the day I was left
wondering
if this was artistic posturing on a big scale or if it really did have an
emotional core that I just couldn't reach.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one of my all time favorite movies. But... and this is a major
but... at least part of my appreciation stems from the fact that I watched
it several times and that I've also read the book (by Paul Bowles) two or
three times. So both works of art (since the book is most definitely a work
of great art) tend to blend together in my mind.

I started by watching the movie though, without any previous knowledge on
the novel, nor on Paul Bowles. I was impressed by the powerful imagery
(theater! not dvd) and chilled by psychological the harshness of the plot. I
was charmed the first time I saw the film but I fell in love when I saw it a
second time, which was after I'd read the novel. Maybe this means that the
film doesn't 'make it on its own', but to me that's not a problem. And if
you are, like me, gripped by the movie I can really recommend the novel for
more 'in depth' .

Some people here seem to think that there's no plot or just a very thin one.
I disagree. It's not directly on the surface though. You'll have to
concentrate and pay attention to dig it up. If you don't like that or feel
that a movie should just willingly present itself to you, than this is not
your movie.


<|_=00=_|>

Please do not read this review if you have not yet seen the film, because I
find it necessary to discuss elements of the film which reveal the
plot.

The whole film was for me a long introduction into the silence of myself. I
like the desert a lot, am not afraid of the void, when the mind can finally
be still. Port also actually came home to Africa.  He was ready to die,
ready to leave behind his intellectuality, to get rid of the inner mess
that
was himself.  Although he seemed unconscious of it, his inner soul brought
him by force to his own roots. When in delirium his hands dance happily,
demanding the music to continue, to push him through and out of this
existence, Kit is left aside and alone, madness kissing her forehead for
the
first time, unable to stop the approaching avalanche which will sweep over
both of their lives, leaving one dead.
Kit, ...how one must feel going to a foreign country to mate again with the
mate with whom you, through so many silly, careless incidents, have lost
essential contact - and to suddenly find him dead and silent lying in front
of you in the vastness of an indifferent desert.  The desert we all live in
unawares.  "Oh, God, what have I done, how could I have allowed this to go
so far?" Suddenly she wakes up to notice the immense impact of nothingness.

Her mind broken, she goes off with a Bedouin, and this is actually what I
like most about the film. It allows me to let my mind break too, traveling
with her through the desert, mostly listening to the silent sound of camels
and bells and voices crying out in a strange unknown language.

Some of the professional critics didn't to go down that path. They need
their thoughts to run incessantly, .. for them it must have certainly been
a
threatening movie, or so their comments would suggest.


<|_=00=_|>
"The Sheltering Sky" is a road movie and a love story Its real subject
is very simple: Is it possible for two people to share the same dream
and to exist as a couple? It's a simple story of two complicated people
who love each other deeply, but can't be happy in love So in the first
part of the movie we see how the joy of life vanishes, and in the
second part how the joy of death begins 

Debra Winger identifies with lead "Kit" passionate and seductive
character She, at least, feels the need to communicate At times she
feels undesirable, even unwanted and unloved But this isn't easy to do
with Port Malkovich has a completely different approach to Port He
simply falls into the character In his dark eyes we can see clearly
the suffering of the memory and the pain of remembrance Port's illness
is an unspeakable solitude He doesn't need anybody or anything to face
the challenge of life He feels he's sufficient to the task but we
clearly feel his strong attraction to nothingness Kit and Port know
that they dearly love each other, but they just feel condemned,
condemned to be together forever 

Bernardo Bertolucci planned the film in two sections: The solar part
belongs to Port and the lunar connected to Kit
<|_=00=_|>
At some point in the last 100 years.....there is one film that is
likely to stand out as truly exceptional. Not surprisingly, such a film
might not be well received by the critics or even be a great success at
the box office. True brilliance finds its own place in people's hearts
and this film has every ingredient to make it the kind of film people
will talk about in a hundred years time. Unlike so many films "created"
today with lacklustre characters and inept and one dimensional acting -
the sheltering sky is moving and funny and ingenious because it offers
true artistic and moving portrayals of the ending of a long term
relationship amidst the kind of locations the most adventurous
backpacker might not know about. Every film is about human meaning and
should guide us to know what the author felt and experienced. Somehow
the sheltering sky reaches into your heart by honestly portraying the
emotions of the complexity of loving another human being. It isn't
pretentious or dull as dishwasher art house cinema. It belongs in a
category of its own and to anyone who loves beautiful art and poignant
and moving story's that go beyond the solar plexus: you will truly love
and treasure the experience of this work of art that so many failed to
"get". Yes....good films happen. Great films occur from time to
time....but the Sheltering sky is neither of these two things....it is
the most honest and beautiful and emotionally mature work of cinema
that I have ever seen. This film makes us feel good about being
human...because it shows us how flawed and wonderful we are despite our
lack of honesty even with ourselves. The sheltering sky will break your
heart and and bring you to life. It will lift you and make you feel
like repainting the cistine chapel. It is a brave and noble friend of a
film...that wants us to see beauty and pain in all its glory. If you've
never seen it......I wish I were you watching it for the first time
again. Go get it.! Robert. ps. if you've read the book....don't watch
it! no film is going to match your own interpretation of a favourite
book...but this movie stands on its own two feet and with some grace at
that.
<|_=00=_|>
Bernardo Bertolucci co-wrote and directed the film of the classic post
WW2 novel by author, Paul Bowles, who also narrates. 

The opening shot (after the credits roll over 1947 New York City and a
ship disembarks from its port) is of Port's (John Malkovich) face as he
awakens in a North African hotel room, the same scene that opens in the
novel. Debra Winger is her most attractive as his young wife,'Kit.'
They are accompanied by a randy travel companion, 'Tunner.'

The "casbah" atmosphere of the Moslem city's narrow stone streets,
flooded with Arab denizens, camels, livestock invites the viewer in.

As soon as the odious "Mrs. Lyle" and her sweaty, overweight son came
into the fly-ridden hotel lobby in the hot sultry desert nowhere, I
knew I'd love to hate them. 

John Malkovich is seduced by a street-smart, young Arab who beckons him
to follow through dark streets into a girl prostitute's desert tent.
(live chickens inside are a wonderful touch.) 

The Sheltering Sky is a good representation of the novel. The book's
narrative of setting, characters, and plot is dramatically envisioned
and colored by the reader's point of view and imagination. We literally
make the story ours; so when we watch the film version, we tend to
judge the director's interpretation seriously.

Bertolucci's vision was entertaining and realized well, especially the
lead character: the vast Sahara Desert, and exotic ambiance; the
cinematography was beautiful. i look forward to watching it on DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I always wonder what it might be like to have a film set in a location
that is explicitly specific, with this film, as example, the Sahara
desert and outlining areas of North Africa, and to not have some kind
of Lawrence of Arabia kind of epic story attached to it. It's a
challenge for a filmmaker to attempt, and Bernardo Bertolucci did
attempt it in 1990 with the Sheltering Sky, based on the book that
seems to be massively popular (though un-read by me). Whether he
succeeded completely or not will depend on how much the viewer can take
seeing characters sort of engulfed by the director and
cinematographer's own adoration of the strange and bizarrely exotic
locales. 

The story is boiled down, probably more-so than was in the Bowles
novel, about a husband and wife (Malkovich and Winger), and their
friend (Scott), who go to "travel" in North Africa. For what precisely
is uncertain, but it is clear that the focal point is that of their
marriage failing after years together (both sides sleeping with others,
distanced, not altogether honest in conversation).

But this changes, of course, once Paul gets typhoid and has a fever for
the middle chunk of the film. After this, when a change of events
occur, The Sheltering Sky gets even more surreal and sensual then
before, if still slightly obtuse in how to really relay a good story.
And it's not that Bertolucci is whacked out, like with La Luna, as a
storyteller per-say. He actually progresses what there is involving the
characters pretty well, and Malkovich and Winger are up to the task of
playing people who are sort of bourgeois malcontents who get their
respective states of mind altered through their travels of the
fly-ridden villages and poor towns in the Sahara region. 

But it seems like material, even for someone who hasn't read the book,
to be more evocative as prose then as filmed, and the many customs and
many little details of the villagers are left as more-so poetic
aspirations than things relevant to the narrative. This all being said,
The Sheltering Sky may possibly be Bertolucci's most astoundingly shot
feature, with it coming right behind Goodfellas as the best
cinematography of 1990 (via the great Vittorio Storaro). Shot after
shot looks like it could come out of a truly exquisite book, and the
dedication to compositions and long shots and how a close-up can be
just as meaningful cinematically as a view of the desert, is the best
that Bertolucci has to offer.

But then again, like with Antonioni when he's at his most scatter-shot,
without characters who even subtly convey a lot, or with strong enough
themes aside from the despair amid an alien environment (to the
characters), it becomes the textbook case of style over substance. I'd
recommend it, especially to fans of the director and DP, but I can
understand the dismay that fans of the book had at the adaptation,
despite the convincing performances and (as a given) the wonder of
seeing places not seen before, like the not-filmed-before-this-film
location of Niger.
<|_=00=_|>

Bernardo Bertolucci does not really make fast-paced movies, let's face it.
But very often (The Last Emperor, Last Tango in Paris, La Luna,) they're
beautifully crafted character studies set in amazing landscapes.
Bertolucci
also handles his cast with great talent and the performances delivered by
actors in his movies are always intense. Here Debra Winger is captivating,
and aptly supported by John Malkovich and a strong supporting cast. The
story slowly unfolds itself, and the nuances in the script, dialogue,
cinematography and acting are splendid. The throughout subtle presence of
Paul Bowles adds great melancholy.
When I first saw it on the big screen, I left the theater in a state of
total despair, because the characters are so miserable.

<|_=00=_|>
The Sheltering Sky is frankly a psychological masterpiece and one of
the densest books I've ever read, but it has a fairly simple plot. The
film adequately reenacts the plot. but can't really convey what it is
that makes the novel so exquisite.

That's not to say Bertolucci and his contributors, especially
cinematographer Vittorio Storaro, don't deserve a lot of credit for
their work. This should probably be accepted as the industry standard
for filming the scenery of North Africa. The title alone should tell
you you're in for rich cinematography and in my opinion this is
absolutely necessary to the telling of the story, but the scenery does
tend to overwhelm the story at times.

Malkovich and Winger both give credible performances, but they seemed
like strangers to me compared to the characters in the novel. Likewise
the casting of the Lyles was excellent, but their role seemed
abbreviated. I found Paul Bowles himself to be a captivating screen
presence, though he's only on screen briefly as the narrator.

Ultimately the film is worth watching but constantly reminded me of the
discrepancy between the two media, which isn't exactly an endearing
quality.
