
John Woo knows, if anybody, how to make good, stylish action. And
that's exactly what this film is; good, cool, stylish action. The plot
is great; fairly psychological and quite interesting. It has a fast(and
remarkably even) pace, I don't think more than 30 minutes passes at any
point in the movie without a giant action scene. All in all, I'd guess
there are about four or five major shootouts, and two chase scenes
which are each several minutes long(without getting repetitive,
fortunately). The acting is excellent; every single major part is
well-played. John Travolta, Nicolas Cage, Joan Allen, Alessandro
Nivola, Gina Gershon, Dominique Swain... all give great, entirely
believable performances. The best are definitely Travolta and Cage,
though; fantastic, truly stellar performances. The characters are all
well-written and credible, right down to the most minor one. The action
is cool and very stylish, in every single action-scene. The theme of
the film is great; of course, the story is completely unlikely, with
the face-switching and all, but once you get past that, once you
suspend disbelief, you'll most likely enjoy the film thoroughly. The
script is excellent, plenty of action, drama, and thriller parts. Also,
you gotta love the sharp contrast 3/4's into the movie, with the kid
listening to sugary pop-music, while people are shooting intensely at
each other. Great film. I recommend it to any fan of John Woo, Nicholas
Cage, John Travolta and action films. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Face/Off" is an excellent movie that will never get out of your head,
it's that memorable. I saw this movie probably 6 or 7 years ago and I
still think about it and finally bought it the other day.

The performances, this is it, folks. We have two of the finest and very
popular actors: John Travolta and Nicholas Cage. These two are amazing,
to transfer back and forth. John had to go from this kind, loving, and
very sensitive man to a looney, cold-blooded, heartless maniac.
Nicholas went from being the scary and perverted psycho to a helpless
and struggling man trapped in this killer's body. My kudos to Nicholas,
that was a tough performance to capture. I felt his pain, no one would
believe that he was Sean Archer, who would after all? His body has been
kidnapped from Castor Troy who is now playing around with his job, his
daughter, and his wife. I felt so scarred for him, because I cannot
imagine in a million years what that must feel like, the isolation, the
abuse, and the feeling of utter helplessness. In my opinion, these are
one of the best performances in 1997. The supporting cast of: Joan
Allen, Gina Gershon, and Alessandro Nivola add so much, you get into
the film entirely.

This is a very scary movie. This is identity theft gone terribly wrong
and beyond any borders. I loved this movie and any other film fanatic
will definitely enjoy it as well. It has great action, drama, romance,
and dark comedy that bring together a terrific film.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
I consider John Woo to be one of the greatest action movie directors in
the world,and "Face/Off" proves just that.However,the element that
makes this film one of the most intense and spectacular action movies
to ever come from Hollywood is the presence of two tremendously
talented actors,both of whom are my favorites.Yes,when you have John
Travolta and Nicholas Cage together in a movie ,the results are bound
to be over the top. John Travolta plays Sean Archer,a dedicated FBI
agent who survived a murder attempt by notorious criminal Castor Troy
six years ago. However,tragically his son died instead of him and since
than Archer is relentlessly chasing Troy.Nicholas Cage plays Troy,and
the film begins with a spectacular chase where we see the sheer
intensity generated by both these great actors,and you realize that
this is not going to be just another action flick. Troy escapes,but his
younger brother Pollux Troy(played by Alessandro Nivola) falls into
Archer's hands,along with a floppy that contains the blueprint for a
bomb to be detonated in downtown L.A. Pollux refuses to reveal the
location of the bomb and then a desperate Archer is given an option
that is so spine-chilling that Archer refuses immediately.Realizing
soon that he has no other choice,he decides to do what he is asked
to-to exchange his face for Troy's, and what's more,to alter his entire
physical attributes,so that he can go to the prison where his brother
is being kept,and fool him into believing that he is Troy and get the
location of the bomb from him.The plan seems to work until the moment
Castor realizes what has happened,puts on Archer's face,and sets out
for revenge.He fools the FBI,fools Archer's wife and sleeps with her
and just when one thinks that this is too much,the real Archer escapes
prison and it's payback time. Both Travolta and Cage play their roles
perfectly,and they do a fantastic job playing each other too. The rest
of the cast simply fades away in comparison,and who cares ? Dominique
Swain as Archer's rebellious daughter looks good on screen-but that's
about it.Joan Allen as his wife is not too impressive either.Gina
Gershon as Troy's lover seems much more real in comparison.John Woo
provides the film with a novel and flawless script,and some of the best
action sequences ever filmed.This film is an absolute must for any
action fan,and definitely the best Woo ever made.
<|_=00=_|>
FACE/OFF 

Aspect ratio: 2.39:1 (Panavision)

Sound formats: Dolby Digital / DTS

This magnificent thriller represents director John Woo's triumphant
return to the kind of hyperkinetic, emotionally charged film-making
which made him such a hot property in the first place. Following the
artistic bankruptcy of his first two Hollywood projects, this one is a
marriage of high-octane movie-making and mind-twisting narrative
complexities. It's also one of the few American action movies which
manages to strike a balance between crowd-pleasing set-pieces and
domestic interludes, and renders them equally important. John Travolta
and Nicolas Cage are perfectly matched as hero/villain (and vice
versa!), whilst heavyweight theatre actress Joan Allen provides the
narrative with much of its dramatic backbone in the role of Travolta's
wife (the scene in which she is first confronted with her husband in
Cage's body is almost identical to a similar scene in Terence Fisher's
FRANKENSTEIN MUST BE DESTROYED [1969]). 

Technically, the film is a blast, and Woo stages the action highlights
with a visual grace and dexterity that is often breathtaking to behold.
The climactic speedboat battle is probably the finest set-piece of
Woo's career to date, and the script is overflowing with visual and
thematic ironies that underscore the action highlights. In fact, the
production has arguably more dramatic resonance than any other
Hollywood blockbuster of the 1990s, but the dictates of American
commercialism mean that Woo is only able to skate over the emotional
surface of his characters and their moral dilemmas. The two main
protagonists are much too cold and heartless to fully engage the
audience's sympathies, and there's nothing here that matches the
scorching human drama of, say, BULLET IN THE HEAD (1990). But for all
that, FACE/OFF dares to go deeper than your average Hollywood action
picture. It's clever, witty and thrilling, and it manages to accomplish
the difficult task of feeding the brain whilst entertaining the eye.
<|_=00=_|>
From director John Woo comes this exhilarating action movie that takes
a deadly cat and mouse game to the next level! A tortured federal
agent, haunted by a painful tragedy and obsessed with catching the
slick sociopathic terrorist who's eluded him for years and years, is
forced to take the face of his mortal enemy in order to acquire vital
information. The daring plan quickly goes awry when he loses his own
identity in the process, and discovers his arch-enemy is cohabiting
with his family. Film's enjoyment depends on the viewer: you'll either
condemn the film's story as absurd and far-fetched, or you'll buy into
it and go along for this supercharged, over-the-top action
extravaganza. Travolta and Cage are both extraordinarily good, and with
Woo at the helm you know that you'd better hang on for dear life!
Occasionally silly, with a plot that tosses credibility out the window,
but still lots of fun. ***
<|_=00=_|>

Face/Off is amazing because it mixes an outrageously cornball plot with some
of the best acting in an action movie.  How John Woo pulled it off is beyond
me.  His visual imagery is flamboyant and decorative, yet never fails to
deliver the goods.  There is always a flurry of images to grasp our
attention.  Granted, his typical trademarks are here, but never does the
script suffer from the same problems as in his other works.

Nicolas Cage and John Travolta are phenomenal in their dual roles each.  The
rest of the cast isn't very deep and is more filler than anything else.  The
editing job feels underdone, particularly when the action sequences get to
the "overcooked" staged.  Still, how many speedboat chases or airplane
crashes are you going to see in a slow-motion?

Overall, a summer action movie that delivers in acting, directing, and most
other departments.  4 out of 5 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

"Face/Off" is a somewhat complicated action thriller which involves an
obsessed FBI agent (John Travolta) who decides to become a comatose criminal
(Nicolas Cage) by literally trading faces with him.  The purpose in doing
this is to learn where a bomb is by going undercover in a maximum-security
prison and getting the information from Cage's brother.  When Cage's
character comes out of his coma, he decides to take Travolta's face.  Still
with me?  In short Travolta's FBI agent is now Cage's crazed criminal and
vise versa.  What follows is a wild and crazy thrill ride that is a bit hard
to keep straight, but ultimately fun to watch and quite satisfying.  Overall
a really good film.  4.5 out of 5 stars. 
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I saw this movie I thought to myself "hey, this is
pretty exciting." After the first fight scene it quickly dawned on me,
however that the action in this movie is all the same and none of it
makes any sense (like every John Woo movie). First of all, lets examine
the movie's main premise. Taking a face from one person and grafting it
on another will not make them look exactly like them: there's their
entire facial structure underneath to consider. The movie tries to
briefly explain this and their two very different body types but it's
very sketchy. Also, apparently medical science has progressed past
scarring and major surgery patients can drive themselves home from the
hospital the very same day.

Then there's the action. There are like three scenes where bad-John
Travolta is in a 20 x 20 room with good-Nicholas Cage and both fail to
shoot the other even with automatic weapons, yet John can kill 4 cops
while simultaneously driving a high-speed boat. I understand that the
good guy has to make it to the end, but the shootouts are so poorly
coordinated that it's hard to believe a cross-eyed kid in a wheelchair
could have fired as much as our two stars and failed to hit someone,
especially when the squibs go off directly behind the person being shot
at. The end seals the ridiculous deal: after missing with about 1000
gun shots, good-Cage finally finishes off his foe with the second of 2
harpoon guns that happened to be on a private leisure boat(why?), but
only after John exerts about 500lbs of force with his hand on the gun's
springs and staves off death for another few seconds. In conclusion,
this movie is a bunch of cliché action that is too ludicrous to be
entertaining. Don't waste your time with this or any other John Woo
movie unless you enjoy seeing people not get shot and plenty of doves
flying.
<|_=00=_|>

This is simply the best action movie I have ever seen.  Very few movies come
close, but don't overtake, this masterpiece.  John Woo has unleashed an
action movie that all should see at least once.  And all action fans should
own.  The action scenes are fast and furious, the script is great, and the
story is pretty good, and John Travolta and Nicholas Cage give excellent
performances.  See this movie now if you haven't already, or if you just
haven't seen it  recently you will not be disappointed.  This movie would
get 10 out of 10 from me.
<|_=00=_|>

This one has a tough job of convincing the audience that the main
characters, Travolta and Cage, could swap faces via plastic surgery and
still be convincing as one another. It works! Woo has a certain style
down-the long flowing robes, slow mo shootouts, orchestral hype in the
background, furious shoot outs, explosions, etc.  Essentially a more stylish
Bruckheimer movie if ya think about it.

I have always liked the Bald guy and Gina Gershon here the most from the
supporting cast, and enjoyed the way both the leads got to 'understand' the
others' family, way of life, friends, etc.  You have to like how Castor gets
Travolta's girl to learn knife fighting, for example, or seeing the
camaraderie of Cage's group. 

Good shootouts and action, sometimes the conceits here are quite far flung,
but you can live with that as an audience. I sure did, and so give
this...

*** outta ****, it's quite good
