

What an incredibly brave and honest look at relationships. I've have never
seen a film so precisely and brilliantly capture this kind of emotion and
transfer it to the screen the way Before Sunrise does. What a crime that
neither Ethan Hawke or Julie Delpy was nominated for any major acting
awards, actually screw that! What a crime it was that they didn't both sweep
every major acting award altogether and that Richard Linklater didn't get
any recognition for the screenwriting or brilliant directing of his
wonderful actors! Loved the ending (as much as it pained me at the same
time), loved how after it all they go back and show every location that the
couple shared together. Loved how the dialogue never wavers, never
addressing the relationship directly but allows us to indirectly see a
geniune bond forming through the body language, facial expressions, and the
dialogue, ooooohhh the dialogue. Every bit of it plucked right from those
top ten late night conversations we've all had with close friends whether it
was serious or in jest. And respect to Linklater for keepin it real, the
movie was rated R cause of a couple minor swear words? Could of easily been
removed without really desecrating the film but he keeps it in anyways.
Screw you hollywood, your 'romantic comedies', your Freddie Prinze Jr.'s,
your 'take the glasses off the girl and now she's pretty' movies. This is
real romance! This is what I come to the movies for, to think, to be
provoked and to be swept away by the magic that only cinema can provide.
Before Sunrise has single-handedly reminded me about why I goto the
movies......

<|_=00=_|>

   This has to be one of the most sincere and touching boy-meets-girl movies
 ever made. While "Rebel Without a Cause" and "Say Anything" deliver nice
 portrayals, this movies strips down useless subplots and Hollywood
 divergences. This movie focuses purely on watching the budding of a
 beautiful romance. You never doubt for a second that the film will lead
 towards the romantic pairing of these two people. You almost immediately
 sense the synergy and the chemistry between Jesse and Celine, and it is
 simply pure joy to watch them find it. This movie is mostly all dialogue
-based. But, every conversation between these too is greatly intriguing.
 What makes this pairing so romantic is how real it is. How in all that
 conversation, while often having no real bearing on anything critical, you
 can sense the nuances as these two become more fond and trusting of each
 other. This is exactly they way you would dream that you meet that special
 someone. And what makes it so true is that it is not even too fantastic to
 believe. This could be what would happen if you had been confident enough
 to strike up a conversation with that person you noticed somewhere random.
 And what puts the icing on this film is the magnificent backdrop of Vienna
 in which this film takes place. It just adds to the feeling of romantic
 nirvana that the film suggests. And no matter how many times I watch this
 film, I don't think I will ever tire of that.
<|_=00=_|>

'Before Sunrise' is not a film to be scrutinised, nor studied. The absolute
beauty of it lies in its perfection as a simple love story - of two lives
suddenly thrown together in the midst of reality, and the ensuing night of
simple love that follows.
Every individual at some time in life dreams of the connection that is
portrayed in this film between Jesse and Celine, and few ever find it.
'Before Sunrise' simply and elegantly demonstrates how the most fundamental
passions of human emotion can envelope two complete strangers.  The beauty
of this film is that the story is the most important element. The ending is
both provocative and emotional - scenes of the night previously seen in
darkness are now portrayed in lonely daylight as the sun rises and the story
closes on these two characters.

I saw this film by accident one night late on television. I have never
forgotten it. So well is it made that the audience never question if this
could ever really happen in life, reality being so absolutely characterised
in it.

'Before Sunrise' is simply the story of two strangers bound in Vienna's
lonely night splendour - one night of love in all its glory, one superb
piece of film making.
<|_=00=_|>
Before Sunrise is romance for the slacker generation. Richard
Linklater's romantic drama is an offbeat telling of a dream come true
for most people. The film depicts romance in all it's glory, but
without any of the pitfalls that befall most couples; and in short the
film is about two people that have a relationship that's as close to
perfection as relationships will ever come to - with just one problem,
the problem of time. While most relationships wind down with time, this
one keeps going strong throughout and time itself is the only thing
that wears out. Before Sunrise is certainly not the typical sentimental
'Hollywood romance', which is another aspect that puts this film
leagues ahead of the pretenders. The story follows two people, Jesse;
an American and Celine; a French girl that meet on a train into Vienna.
They instantly connect, and after telling her his awful idea for a
television show and almost getting off the train, Jesse asks Celine to
join him for the day in the picturesque city of Vienna...

Before Sunrise works principally for two reasons - realistic acting and
an immense script that builds the characters through their thoughts and
feelings and thus allows us to get to know them as we do the people in
real life. This allows the characters to be free, and it's easy to
believe that these are real people and not just actors working from a
script. This also allows us to feel for the characters for who they
are, and not merely because they're the protagonists. This kind of
realism is hard to capture as, at the end of the day, we as the
audience know that they're watching a film and not observing real life;
but Before Sunrise represents one of the truest to life exhibitions of
realism ever to be seen on screen. A truly great script cannot work on
it's own, and needs great actors to deliver it to an extent that does
it justice, and although I'm not a fan of either Julie Deply or Ethan
Hawke; on viewing this film, there is nothing you can do but give them
both respect. I don't know whether they were in character or just
playing themselves, but when a film is this good; it hardly matters.

In a film like this, it is the writing that's the most important thing,
and contained within the script are several observations about life,
most of which I personally could relate to. This represents what
Richard Linklater has achieved with this script as not only does it
create and build the characters, but it also manages to expose what
true love is, along with several other aspects of life. The fact that
not all the anecdotes are relatable to me personally again represents
the brilliance of writing. Everyone is different, and so different
parts of the script will appeal to different people. There could be
certain aspects about one person that one person loves and another
hates; and that's the case with the musings in this script. Adding to
the beauty of the film is the city of Vienna. The city itself isn't
really important to the film as this is a story that could have taken
place just about anywhere - but it makes for some lovely visuals and
the upbeat, energetic romance that blossoms throughout the movie is
matched by the beauty of the location.

Before Sunrise is simultaneously beautiful and captivating. Richard
Linklater has created something that is rare in the world of cinema; a
film that captures the beauty of life without ever going over the top
or being overly sentimental. Before Sunrise is what it is. And what it
is, is pure cinematic brilliance.
<|_=00=_|>
I want Céline and Jessie go further in their relationship, I want to
tell them that they were made for each other, that in a lot of moment
in the film we want they to die for each other. Their story is what we
ever wanted and probably most of us never reached. This is about love
but not stupid things like in "notting hills" or those kind of movie.
This is life and i did believe in them, i did believe they were
falling... This was so clever and touching. I have just finished to
view it a minute ago and i m still there... I want to go to Vienna. I
want to see them as soon as possible again.

I have to say i was now becoming misanthropist and felt like if love
was just a fake, a concept, but with this movie i realized that maybe
somewhere, somehow and some when, something could really happen.

I'm french and didn't know very well July Delpy despite Kieslowski
"three colors : white"... Now i have to see her other works because she
looks like an angel and got a perfect acting.

i saw "before sunset" (the sequel in Paris) a few days before i saw
"before sunrise" and their is no matter. They are both masterpieces.
proof that you don't need to impress the eyes with technology to get
pure feelings. I'm sorry for my English which i m trying to best.

Franck in France
<|_=00=_|>
While traveling by train through Europe, the American Jesse (Ethan
Hawke) and the French Celine (Julie Delpy) meet each other and decide
to spend the night together in Austria. On the next morning, Jesse
returns to United States of America, and Celine to Paris. 

"Before Sunrise" is one of my favorite romances, indeed one of the most
beautiful love stories I have ever seen. It is a low budget movie with
a very simple and real storyline, but the chemistry between Ethan Hawke
and Julie Delpy is perfect, and the dialogs are stunning. The direction
is amazing, transmitting the feelings of Celine and Jesse to the
viewer. I have just completed my review number 1,000 in IMDb, and I
choose "Before Sunrise" for this significant number because it is a
very special film for me. I cannot understand why this movie was not
nominated to the Oscar, with such a magnificent screenplay, direction
and performances. Yesterday I have probably watched this movie for the
third or fourth time, and I still love it. My vote is ten.

Title (Brazil): "Antes do Amanhecer" ("Before Sunrise")
<|_=00=_|>

"Before Sunrise" is a wonderful love story and has to be among my Top 5
favorite movies ever. Dialog and acting are great. I love the characters and
their ideas and thoughts. Of course, the romantic Vienna, introduced in the
movie does not exist (you won't find a poet sitting by the river in the
middle of the night) and it isn't possible to get to all the places in only
one night, either (especially if you're a stranger and it's your first night
in Vienna). But that's not the point. The relationship of the two characters
is much more important and this part of the story is not at all unrealistic.
Although, nothing ever really happens, the movie never gets
boring.
The ending is genuinely sad without being "Titanic" or something. Even if
you don't like love stories you should watch this film!
I'm a little skeptic about the sequel that is going to be released in
summer. The first part is perfect as it is, in my opinion.

<|_=00=_|>
I had never heard of this film before a couple of weeks ago, but its
concept interested me when I heard it: an American man meets a European
woman on his last night in Europe and they spend the night together
talking. It sparked my interest, but I never expected it to be this
great. Before Sunrise is a masterpiece, and it's also one of the most
romantic films on record. To my surprise, it completely lacked the
cynicism of the 1990s. It's impossible to really talk too much about
it, since there is no real plot, so to speak (although there are plenty
of thoroughly interesting things you could talk about; it is sort of
like My Dinner With Andre, where there is a conversation, but it's not
JUST the conversation that matters), but let me just say, see it. SEE
IT!
<|_=00=_|>

If you are a traveller, if there is a fire burning into your heart, if
you'd
call "home" every place on earth, but none of them can give you
enough, if you are always looking for the next thing and if you
believe the other part of your soul is somewhere out there, see this
movie and you'll find out a little, but wonderful, piece of life sitting
next to you.
<|_=00=_|>

                 It was by accident that I was scanning the TV channels and
found this wonderful film about two beautiful human beings who become
attracted to each other in a very innocent and virgin like approach to each
other.   Ethan Hawke (Jesse) "Tape" '01 and Julie Delpy (Celine) "ER" 94 TV
Series (Nicole).  This gal and guy, will warm your very heart and soul and
make you think deeply into your past relationships and how you really wish
you had followed your hearts strings with a guy or gal you deep down loved
and lost track of over the years.  Jesse and Celine have great conversation,
and deep eye contact with a great magnetic explosion between the two of
them.  I am looking forward to the SEQUEL to this film in 2004 and if you
have viewed this film, you will feel the same way.
