
The only thing i can say is that when i left the movie theater then i
had no comment to give... This movie got to me deep! I was 14 and now i
am 25,and still i remember it so well and i still watch it sometimes..
Brandon Lee did a great job as an actor like everyone else, but the
story about his death is totally insane, which made me worship the
movie even more. What an irony. I like the movie cause it's dark, but
also lighted up with true emotions..there is action, horror, love, even
poetry for god sake! I have never seen so many genre's in one movie.
Anyway for me it has been one of the best movies i have ever watched.
And one more comment, lots of of other movies got ideas from The Crow,
meaning the setting, the action, music, whatever it is the crow was
their start up. I am not going to name them, Crow fans probably know
what i am talking about.. My favorite quote: "Can't rain all the time"
By the way the soundtrack's are awesome, The Cure's best song ever made
is in it! P.S. The Crow II and III sucked, i hated it. They just ruined
the conception of the first one.. totally..
<|_=00=_|>
This is one amazing film, with a mesmerizing performance from Brandon
Lee!. It's visually appealing, extremely well made, with amazing
performances all around!. Loved the score, too, it fit with the film
well, and there's plenty of action to go around as well. Michael
Wincott is, very menacing as the main villain, and was perfect for the
part. The flashbacks were very cool, however i wished, i could see more
of Shelley's character. The Directiing is outstanding!. Alex Proyas
does an outstanding job here, creating lots of, dark atmosphere, great
use of the rain machine,cool visuals, and keeping the pace,action
packed, and engrossing all the way!. The film is very violent, but not
all of it is bloody. We get several knives in the chest, knife in the
hand, lots of gunshot wounds, some bloody, some not, hole through hand,
2 slashings, slit throat,2 bloody impallings, sword in the neck and a
crow pecks a girls eyes out. The Acting is WONDERFUL!. Brandon Lee,
gives an Oscar worthy performance here, he is completely mesmerizing,
creepy,kicks that ass and, just thought he was too cool, his AMAZING
AMAZING performance here, will always be remembered, what happened too
him was a tragedy, and i for one will never forget him!. Rochelle Davis
is awesome here, and is very likable,her and Brandon, had very good
chemistry and is one of the best kid actors out there!, especially
since she hasn't acted since then!. Ernie Hudson, is terrific as the
Sgt., very likable, and very convincing. Michael Wincott, is great as
the main villain, i loved his voice, and he was very menacing!. Sofia
Shinas, is very good as Shelley, however, she didn't have much screen
time, but was great when on screen. Overall a MUST SEE at all costs!.
***** out of 5
<|_=00=_|>

The Crow is an excellent tragic film made even more tragic by the real life
tragedies surrounding the film (Brandon Lee's death during filming, and the
fact that the story is a result of James O'Barr's personal loss of his
fiancée). Based on a very dark comic book, the film has the same dark feel.
The movie does deviate from the comic book in some points, but in general is
fairly faithful. If you can get it, I would recommend the DVD Collector's
set with the 2 DVD version of The Crow (just to see the interview with James
O'Barr is worth the price).

The story is a basically about revenge from beyond the grave, and how true
love is forever. The movie has a good (but fairly basic) plot, excellent
action sequences, and very good casting. Brandon Lee gives a good
performance (not excellent, but good), as does Ernie Hudson. The supporting
villains are excellent in their villainy, and you do feel better when they
get it in the end. But the real star of this film is the mood and the feel.
It feels gritty, bleak, and depressing, but surprisingly uplifting at the
end. Alex Proyas did an excellent job of transferring this feeling from the
book onto celluloid. All in all, one of the best comic book to film
translations I have ever seen.

You do not have to be familiar with the comic book to thoroughly enjoy this
film (like you do with some other comic book adaptations).

Rating : 4.5 out of 5

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is fantastic. plain and simple. Brandon Lee delivers his
lines to the point they were instantly memorable after seeing the film
only once. The casting of both Michael Wincott and Tony Todd was
inspired as these two guys have two of the most instantly recognisable
voices in the movie industry. If i could ever be a movie or a lead in a
film this would be it. I was initially put off the idea of the movie as
i am a big fan of the graphic novel and there was an awful lot of hype
around this film on its release. this proved to be my loss as i have
only seen the film on the small screen. however i now have the 2 disc
special edition DVD and watched it 3 times in succession the day i
bought it and must have watched it at least 100 times since. my own
personal opinion is that a movie should suspend disbelief, capture the
imagination which this does in spades. it is truly a film that you can
lose a couple of hours watching and at the end feel like you have spent
a worthwhile couple of hours. would recommend this to anybody.
<|_=00=_|>

I approached this film after reading the hype and controversy surrounding
its making and release, not really expecting very much.  Surprised to find
it an intelligent, beautifully-filmed, engrossing and touching thriller. 
I'd recommend it to anyone who has a fondness for weird gothic mythological
stories.  I didn't find the horror aspect overdone - in fact it was
believable, and the script was superior to other films of this genre I've
seen.  As for Brandon Lee, this really was a superb performance and it is a
terrible tragedy that his life ended so abruptly.  This film is a fitting
memorial to what could have become a major star.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is so amazing, I can't remember how many times I've seen it.
You don't have to be interested in a particular genre of film to watch
it, because there is something for everyone in this film. Romance,
action, gory bits, humour, drama- you name it, The Crow has it. The
tragic circumstances surrounding this film and Brandon Lee also add to
it's allure.

Basically, it's about a rock star named Eric Draven, his fiancée
Shelley Webster and the little girl they take care of, Sarah. When a
ruthless gang of thugs viciously murder both Eric and Shelley on the
night before their wedding, Eric comes back from the grave to avenge
his fiancée's death by going after each member of the gang that killed
her, and to say a final goodbye to Sarah.

An extremely moving film that I would recommend to anyone who has a
heart.
<|_=00=_|>

Alex Proyas milks the plot for all its worth and  places The Crow beyond an
average thriller and into the realm of motion picture brilliance. A heart
warming tale backed up with enough gore and action to keep hard core
violence fanatics interested. This stands The Crow as a masterpiece of
cinematic wizardry, that is sure to impress even the most critical of
viewers. 
<|_=00=_|>

THE CROW, like 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY separates those who see from those who
do not! (who CANNOT). Alex Proyas will never achieve anything close to this
masterpiece again and if Brandon Lee HAD to die, then there could never have
been a better time and place (do not misinterpret my words or meaning here).
Personally, I shall for ever be indebted to him for what he has left...a
performance in a film that challenges, implores, conjures, paints. A surreal
landscape of good and evil in almost equal proportions.

I am no Goth, have never read the original comic strip, nor do I wish to. I
simply regret watching the unspeakably pathetic and inappropriate
sequels...do not make the same mistake!

For all its grotesque violence, seediness and Gothic degeneracy, THE CROW is
a pure love story, so pure, that even immersed within the blackest of adult
fairy-tales its power cannot be dampened or lessened. Eric Draven's
spiritual pursuit of those who murdered his beautiful girlfriend is less of
a revenge story and more a reminder that karma balances out in the end.

Perhaps the best performance, other than that of the crow itself, is from
Michael Wincott, a very underrated actor, as the incarnately evil gang
leader. It is the role of a lifetime for him.

If I were in a position that I could see only two films again for the rest
of my life, they would be 2001 and THE CROW. At no stage would I ever
subsequently be able to say that I had seen EVERYTHING that either had to
offer.


<|_=00=_|>
In my opinion, The Crow is the greatest movie of all time. Brandon
Lee's death had absolutely nothing to do with it, although it was a
tragedy. That movie contained everything. Action, suspense, romance,
horror, sci fi. It could literally fit into any category (accept for
maybe porno). The diverse cast helped a lot showing that any one can be
a bad guy. If you look at it, the character of Eric Draven is
everybody. He's just your average Joe Shmoe who was scraping to make a
living. There wasn't anything special about him until after he died.
While Crow movies after this one may have had better special affects,
or been less family friendly, there was a magic that these people
brought to this movie that will never be recreated. Brandon Lee's death
did not sell this movie, a story that everyone could relate to did.
<|_=00=_|>

Comic book movies have always fascinated me. I don't whether it's their
visual style, the special effects, the performances of the actors as
compared to the comic itself or the interpretation of the graphic novel's
storyline by the filmmakers that interests me the most, but I've always
been
enthralled by a bleak story that places a tragic hero in the midst of a
towering city, whose choices and actions determine the fate of himself and
those around him. Often a comic book can provide the bare essentials for
an
excellent story, but more often, the filmmakers or producers scrap the
idea
of a storyline and aim primarily for the explotation of special effects.
In
the case of "The Crow," this is not true: this is the only film that has
ever captured the true essence of the comic book it's based on, expanded
upon its virtues and added its own style to complement the base storyline
of
the film.

On October 30th, a night that has come to be known as "Devil's Night," in
reference to the hundreds of fires set by dangerous gangs, Eric Draven
(Brandon Lee) and Shelly Webster (Sofia Shinas) are brutally attacked in
their downtown apartment. Shelly is raped by the gang and Eric is thrown
out
of a five-story window, dying almost instantly. They leave behind a close
friend and younger-sister figure, Sarah (Rochelle Davis), endless rainy
nights in the city, and infinite sorrow on those who knew them.

Their deaths left a score unsettled, and as a result, an ancient legend
becomes reality, as a mystical crow descends from the Heavens who normally
carries souls to the land of the dead, brings Eric Draven's soul back to
life so he can exact revenge on the men who killed him and his fiance. He
dresses himself in torn black clothing, boots, and paints his face like a
sad clown. He is invincible, for he is already dead, and sets out on a
quest
for retribution, seeking out each one of his murderers one by one. He is
helped along the way by two people, Sarah and Officer Albrecht (Ernie
Hudson), who stayed with Shelly until she died, against an army of
arsonist
gangsters led by the mysteriously incestuous Top Dollar (Michael Wincott),
who is the orchestrator of Devil's Night, and inspires his troops with
quotes and dialogue from Dante's "Inferno" and "Paradise Lost." With the
crow leading the way, Eric Draven sets out to redeem his soul and regain
his
justice in a city that has never stopped raining since his
death.

From its opening shot right to its final seconds, "The Crow" is a
depressingly gripping film. A truly fantastic and faithful adaptation of
James O'Barr's comic book series, this film draws its inspiration from
both
the comic book and earlier films such as Fritz Lang's "Metropolis." The
story is set against the backdrop of a broken city ruled by an underground
society of arsonists, where the police can do nothing to stop them and the
children run wild in the streets. The buildings tower high over the urban
streets, overlooking a sad foundation without law, justice or order - you
know everything about this world with one shot. The production design and
cinematography combines to create an atmosphere in a society without hope,
accentuated only further by a Middle-East inspired score by Graeme Revell,
and choicy tunes by Nine Inch Nails, The Cure, Stone Temple Pilots and My
Life with the Thrill Kill Kult.

Director Alex Proyas claims he has never seen a sequel to his film on the
basis that no one could do justice to the main character like Brandon
Lee...
I agree with him. Lee's performance as the vengeful soul is one of the
greatest I have ever seen on film. He exhibits confidence, cunning and
menace, while at the same time communicating just enough pain and
depression
to stay true to his character. You know what he's capable of, and at the
same time his emotional weaknesses. If I can think of any flaw to this
film
I would mention the incestuous relationship between Funboy and his sister.
It was not a subplot, thankfully, but it didn't seem necessary in a film
that was already disturbing enough.

Made with passion, performed with intensity, designed with precision and
influence, "The Crow" is an unheralded masterpiece of the 20th Century. It
is heartbreaking to think that this film almost dodged release - if that
had
happened, no one would ever have known the degree of Brandon Lee's acting
capabilities. The man had a fiery presence and was articulate and powerful
with his delivery - indeed, with one great film, he has become a martyr
for
the exposition of this character. 4 1/2 stars on a five star
scale.

