

Directed by Academy Award nominated Argentinian-Brazilian writer-director
Hector Babenco and co-written by a longtime Luis Buñuel collaborator Jean
Claude Carriere this is a breathtakingly beautiful, masterfully directed
film, that features a story of two protestant missionary couples from a
small town in U.S. that come to Amazonia with an intent to preach to the
wild Indians of the area and an American pilot, wonderfully played by Tom
Berenger, who feels atracted to the way of life of the Indians and joins
and
lives with them.
Following the life of it´s protagonists in Amazonian forest, the film
explores many subjects, such as: religious fanaticism and intolerance,
ecology, destructive external influence on an unique Indian culture and,
of
cause, lust and greed.
It´s slowly paced and has a duration of over 3 hours but it never became
boring, at least for me.
I was surprised to find that this film has an average rating of only
6.3
here on IMDB. It certainly deserves much more. 8/10 
<|_=00=_|>

In "At Play in the Fields of the Lord", the remarkable Hector Babenco
(Pixote, Kiss of the Spider Woman) paints a portrait of disillusion and
despair on a canvas of sun-dappled green.

This is no mere tract on the consequences of cultural imperialism, but an
examination of the myriad ways in which human folly, ignorance and
arrogance
(with an assist from the heedless juggernaut of Nature) conspire to
overcome
idealism, innocence, and the fragile constructs of civilization. This is
not
a "feel-good" flick, but it is a powerful and affecting
one.

The actors involved--including Tom Berenger, Aidann Quinn, John Lithgow
and
Daryl Hannah (!)--all give intelligent and well-modulated performances.
And, once again, the astonishing Kathy Bates blows everyone else away with
her wrenching turn as Quinn's reluctant (and ultimately devastated) wife.

The film is long, dark and stubbornly pessimistic-- but also visually lush
and emotionally cathartic; ultimately, the viewer will find it
unforgettable.  
<|_=00=_|>
The time is during the Depression Thirties and some new Protestant
missionaries are coming to an area way up in the Amazon headwaters
where only 20 years earlier, a former American president named Theodore
Roosevelt nearly lost his life exploring some of this very area. With a
positive attitude born of faith and a certain smugness because the
previous Christian missionaries there, the Roman Catholics have given
the place up, the group goes into the jungle. The trip changes all of
them and not for the better.

One of the catalysts of change is Tom Berenger who plays a half
American Indian pilot/adventurer living in one of the last settlements
containing some of civilizations amenities. The Brazilian government
wants him to drop some bombs on a tribe called the Niruna who are
sitting on some valuable land. Gold is reported there and to a country
like Brazil which was still in a frontier stage just like America was
in the previous century it can mean jobs and prosperity. Not for the
Niruna who are hunters and gatherers from the stone age. 

Of course if the missionaries can covert the Niruna and persuade them
to go than annihilation won't be necessary. It's why the government is
so accommodating to the Protestants. The evangelical team consists of
married couples John Lithgow and Darryl Hannah and Aidan Quinn and
Kathy Bates. 

Missionaries have played a double edged role when dealing with the
non-Christian world. No doubt they are the most insidious of culture
destroyers, yet in many cases they've put themselves on the line to
prevent some of the worst depravities that civilization brings.

John Lithgow and Aidan Quinn offer two contrasting examples. Lithgow
just hasn't a clue as to what's happening here. He just sees a group of
converts aching for Christianity. When the natives don't live up to his
expectations, he takes it rather personally.

Aidan Quinn is filled with same missionary zeal and he suffers the
cruelest loss in the film when his and Bates's child dies of blackwater
fever. Yet when the time comes Quinn steps up to the plate and he and
Berenger form an unlikely alliance on behalf of the Niruna.

You have to be made of stone to not be emotionally moved by the death
of the child. In fact he turns out to be the best missionary tool they
have. With his childhood innocence he bonds with the native kids in a
way the grownups are incapable of. Too much of civilization's baggage
to unload. Maybe the missionaries should have remembered all those
gospel verses about little children. They seem to fit here.

At Play in the Fields of the Lord is one powerful film. Shot on
location in the Amazon headwaters by acclaimed Brazilian director
Hector Babenco, it's got a powerful message for today's world, poised
on the brink of religious war. 

Babenco did the film Pixote a decade earlier which was a view of Brazil
from a different angle. This time with gorgeous color photography and
some professional actors in his ranks, he's created a masterpiece that
ought to be required viewing for policy makers in all parts of the
globe
<|_=00=_|>

I fell into this movie, broadcast by Belgian 2, in the scene where the
evangelists travel up the river. The cast immediately caught the
attention: what are all these actors, who usually don't play adventure
type characters, doing in the Amazon?! Then Berenger is shown in a kind
of nudity I thought US/Hollywood culture forbade. This absence of
hypocrisy combined with quality actors made me sit straight. I had
already missed a lot, but there was plenty of great and convincing
story telling left. People struggle, try over and over to keep on going
when things go wrong. Cultures try to interact but fail in different
ways. Several of the main characters die of unexpected but reasonable
events. And everything is so well set, framed and timed that it keeps
watchable. The scene where Bates, dressed as a native exorcist, dances
on her grief over a horrible loss was beautiful. There's MAYBE one
scene just a bit artificial, where Hannah has pulled up a leg to hide
some of her nudity for The Camera: it contrasts with her subsequent
confrontation with Moon where she doesn't show any embarrassment.

The supporting acting by natives (mostly people who had only just
adapted 'civilization' and who could still remember village life) is
surprisingly good. The native language that was created sounds really
well, not like any language I've ever heard, and it is spoken
consistently as far as I can hear. The final shot is impressive, and
the accompanying music sublimely subtle. I really must see the first 30
minutes some time!

<|_=00=_|>
I purchased the video of this film after it passed through the theatres
so fast I was unable to see it. I had read and reread Peter
Matthiessen's award winning book and still gift it to friends and
family. The film remained true to the novel. No film can truly portray
in three or even in five hours all the complexities that a good writer
can express. This film did however do an exceptional job for the time
it had.

Some have said this film is anti Protestant, or just anti missionary.
That is just too simplistic and misleading a label for this story.
There is far more to digest than those labels could ever suggest. Here
is the deliberate forced movement or destruction of a tribe to gain
gold mining opportunities. This is happening with local government
officials looking the other way ignoring current federal obligations to
the native population. There is a built in irony that Moon (Tom
Berenger) is part Cheyenne Indian. The current South Dakota
reservations came about by our government reneging on deals in order to
get access to gold in the Black Hills. The result was an ecological and
cultural disaster for the Sioux nation.

This film was as about the symbiosis of culture and environment.
Missionaries in Micronesia told the islanders in Yap that taboos on
fishing were just superstition. An island bio-system that could once
support 10,000 people can now not even support 1, 000. Missionaries
tell South American tribes that their occasional drug inspired journeys
are pure evil. There are ways these ancient cultural traditions can be
kept without any threat to Christian doctrine. Instead, especially for
western protestant missionaries, conversion is often more about
cultural than religious conversion. This results in the ultimate
economic and ecological destruction that follows.

Everyone should see this film, and better yet read the incredible book
that inspired it.
<|_=00=_|>

A late adaptation of author-naturalist Peter Mathiessen's 1965 novel about
missionaries in South America (Aidan Quinn and John Lithgow), their wives
(Kathy Bates and Darryl Hannah, respectively) and their chance encounter
with an American Indian (Tom Berenger) who is trying to exorcise the ghosts
of his life on the reservation by joining a stone age tribe that the
missionaries are trying to convert.  This is a remarkable cast for a movie
with such intense, personal themes, and each of the actors delivers an
excellent performance.  Berenger was perhaps an odd choice to play an
American Indian, but he does the best that he can with the
role.

Mathiessen is one of the great writers of the late twentieth century--an
American answer to Graham Greene or Joseph Conrad, perhaps--whose literary
canvas is literally almost the entire world.  This is an appropriately
challenging and demanding interpretation of his always challenging and
demanding (though under-appreciated) work.  
<|_=00=_|>

The length of this movie is possibly a detriment, however it is worth the
time in most respects.  One of the main issues explored is age-old in
terms
of how religion is brought to people that the civilized world sometimes
arrogantly considers are "savages." Another issue is the finding of one's
own identity. The main characters in the story, mostly missionaries from
the
United States, seem to each represent various perspectives and viewpoints
that people can bring to living in another place and culture, in this
story
it is the Amazon and the Indians that live there.  The acting was good --
not great great -- but good enough that you believed the character's
various
dilemnas. Adian Quinn did quite well in his role as he struggled with
trying
to understand the minds of the Indians and their concept of a god and
blending this with his own Christian perspective.  Tom Berenger's role was
more complex and his acting was subdued. The other actors such as Darryl
Hannah and John Lithgow had somewhat difficult parts that were handled
competently. Kathy Bates, as always, added flavor as did Tom Waits.

<|_=00=_|>
I don't really have a problem if a reviewer, that is, a Siskle or Ebert
type wants to give this a bad rating. That's what they are paid for -
to find fault in movies.

But everyone I know loved this film, well, maybe loved isn't the best
word. It was at times painful, but it was very beautiful and very vivid
and one of my favorite films.

I was surprised when I looked for this on Netflix and it wasn't
available. With all the junk on DVD, this is a beautifly filled,
intense movie with a real story. I don't know why it doesn't have more
recognition.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm watching it for the third time on TV. I'm glad there are no
commercials
[with a film of this length it helps to have no interruptions; the
narrative
is also much easier to follow].

It's true that it is not a feel-good movie; but it is profound,
illuminating, and with humorous moments. It seems immensely true to human
nature in the ways I know it--interpersonal, native & religious. Some
characters are a bit too stereotyped, but how long would the movie be if
they were drawn more slowly?

A comparison: I couldn't watch the movie "The Mission" three times. To me
that seemed only painful.

The only nudity I had a problem with was Daryl Hannah's--it seemed a bit
gratuitous.

Great acting in many quarters. The Indians were superb. I liked Tom
Berenger
better than in any other of his movies. I liked the use of the setting,
the
camera work, the editing, the soundtrack...

I want the DVD!


<|_=00=_|>
Savagery accelerates. It took European immigrants several centuries to
"pacify" - convert, slaughter and segregate - the native populations of
North America, but Brazilians have accomplished the same feat in less
than 50 years. It is estimated that by the end of the century not a
single native in the state of Amazonia will be living under traditional
conditions. The issue is almost academic: Thanks to European-introduced
diseases, forced relocations and outright genocide, relatively few
natives will be around to live under any conditions.

That's the subject of At Play in the Fields of the Lord, adapted from
Peter Matthiessen's prescient 1965 novel, and it's an extraordinary
one, but Brazilian director Hector Babenco's three-hour, $36-million
morality play trivializes it with caricatured performances and
crowd-pleasing comedy. Babenco, best known for Pixote and The Kiss of
the Spider Woman, has said that Matthiessen's novel was "critical and
intense" when dealing with two white missionary couples, the Hubens and
the Quarriers, but that the Indians, a fictitious composite tribe
called the Niaruna, were "cartoonish." Hence, Babenco has evened the
score: in his film, the natives are presented with intensity and the
missionaries are cartoons.

Although put into production before Dances With Wolves and Black Robe
were released, At Play combines their story lines. The Dances With
Wolves scenario is played out by the half-Cheyenne mercenary Lewis Moon
(Tom Berenger); hired to bomb the Niaruna, he instead parachutes into
their compound and becomes one of their near-naked, idyllically happy
number.

Meanwhile, the missionary couples enact a Protestant version of Black
Robe. Leslie Huben (John Lithgow) is a ridiculously rigid martinet who
dismisses the Catholic Church as "the opposition" and even tries to
wrest a statue of the Virgin Mary from the arms of a native convert.
His wife Andy (Darryl Hannah) has no personality - she appears to be
present to give voyeurs in the audience something nice to look at. But
toward the end of the epic, she goes skinny-dipping and then - still
starkers as the day she was born - sticks her tongue into the mouth of
the now thoroughly native Lewis Moon, who has conveniently popped up to
ogle her long-limbed nudity. (In the concupiescent camp sweepstakes,
the scene rivals The Blue Lagoon.) The embrace has dire consequences.
It gives Moon a minor case of the flu, which he in turn passes along to
the Niaruna, who have no immunity to the disease. Talk about kiss of
the Spider Woman.

The other couple, Martin (Aidan Quinn) and Hazel Quarrier (Kathy Bates)
, have other problems. She is a puritanical hysteric - "Everything here
is dirty," she screeches of a town on the border of the wilderness, as
if a would-be missionary would expect anything else - who is anxious
that her child, Billy (Niilo Kivirinta), retain his Midwestern mores.
Her husband, however, is a somewhat sensitive true believer (like the
priest in Black Robe) who is anxious to help the natives without
harming them. This is the single complex character in the film, so it's
no surprise that Quinn gives the single multidimensional performance.

Babenco's attitudes toward Hazel Quarrier, as a character, and toward
Kathy Bates, as an actress, are inexcusable - Bates' weight and Hazel's
hysteria are callously used for comic relief, even after Hazel
undergoes a nervous breakdown brought on by grief. Compared to what
Babenco does with her, director Rob Reiner treated Bates as a sacred
object in Misery.

At Play in the Fields of the Lord is not without rewards. The aerial
Amazon vistas, shrouded in mist, are startlingly beautiful; the daily
life of the Niaruna is depicted with a glossy, picturesque clarity that
brings to mind National Geographic; and the sequences in which the boy
Billy goes native are sweetly humorous. But the tribe remains an enigma
- we understand far more about the 17th-century native cultures in
Black Robe than we do about these contemporary people. With the
exception of the inappropriately Christological conclusion (I am being
deliberately vague), we are never encouraged to understand the
missionaries, only to laugh at, detest and feel superior to them.
Surely it's not that simple. Endeavouring to bring salvation, they
brought only suffering; there should be a tragic human drama there.
Endeavouring to bring insight, At Play in the Fields of the Lord brings
only obfuscation; there should have been a great movie there. Benjamin
Miller, Filmbay Editor.
