

This is as bad as you've heard.  Insultingly stupid. I really only watched
it to see Josh Hartnett, who mercifully was spared a lot of the
embarrassment.  

Then again, there is so much to be embarrassed about, so much to go around,
he could have taken some on to ease the burden for all the 'adults' who are
on display dishonoring their craft. 

Diane Keaton should have the most explaining to do, as she sleep-walks
through her part.  She also has some difficult-to-hear dialogue, some of it
involving husband Warren's endowment. 

No, scratch that...Charlton Heston, as a character who has no business in
the movie in the first place, has the most to explain.  The scene where he
threatens a party with a gun made the NRA also require an
explanation.

No, wait... the trio of Jenna Elfman, Andie McDowell and Nastassia Kinski,
as the women in Warren's life..they appear at will or when the situation
calls for something illogical to happen. 

I guess I should settle this by giving the award to Warren, who still has
'Ishtar' to apologize for.  Its obvious in some ways its his movie, as the
majority of the cast has worked with or for him before.  What a great friend
you are, Warren!  Good thing for us you're not an agent, then good actors
would do garbage like this more often.  

1/10, needless to say.  Avoid the pain.  


<|_=00=_|>

This thing was beyond crap, and I don't use that word often.  I had heard
it
was bad, so I rented it for dud night, and called my sister to come watch
it, because we need to bounce our comments off each other.  Well, she
left
halfway through, vowing to watch Lord of The Rings, to try to cleanse her
brain.  I'm going to use a toilet brush on mine.

I should have known it wasn't an ordinary bad movie in the first scene.
There's Grampa, aka Warren Beatty, sitting in a bed, trying to cover his
wrinkled shoulders with the sheet.  Talk about stomach-turning.  That's
the
plot in a nutshell, old Warren pretending it's 1966 when swingers like
him
hopped on the nearest woman as regularly as they hopped on a plane.

Seriously, there is no plot.  Every washed-up actor or actress in
Hollywood
is invited to drop by to make an ass of him (or her) self, including
Charleton Heston, who must have already been in the grip of his
recently-announced Alzheimer's Disease.  I know rents are high in Los
Angeles, but how badly do these people need money?  And did any of them
even
get any?  This stinker can't have made a nickel.

I can't summarize this mess because there was no rhyme or reason
anywhere.
I can't describe the wild over-acting, except to call it amateur night.
All
I can do is recommend that nobody, and I mean nobody, watch this thing.
Don't inadvertently let your dog or cat see it. It's so bad you can't
even
make fun of it.  That's how bad it is.   
<|_=00=_|>

Warren Beatty is one of those Hollywood icons that has had an inconsistant
career.  For every Bonnie and Clyde he has made, he has also made Ishtar
(which I think is better than this movie).  This movie is by far his worst. 
It feels like a desperate attempt by Beatty to make him feel young by having
him sleep around with so many women.  The whole cast feels lost in this
movie.  The characters are all unlikable, especially Beatty's.  Why would I
sit through a "comedy" where we don't want to be around these people?  The
usually charming Goldie Hawn and Diane Keaton are rather shrill in this
movie.  I say read articles about this movie's troubled production.  I think
that story would be up there with the story of "Heaven's Gate," "Ishtar,"
"Bonfire of the Vanities," and "Waterworld" as the behind the scenes story
is more interesting than the movie itself.
<|_=00=_|>

"Town and Country" is a critically panned but mildly amusing flick which
tells of the marital misadventures of two of middle aged couples
(Hawn/Sanders, Keaton/Beatty) who split up over reasons of fidelity. The
flick is top heavy with talent on the audience side of the lens with no
evidence of same in screenplay and direction.  Fraught with meandering
repartee, comedic situation which come off like bad improv,  a jerky flow, 
lack of cohesion, no center of gravity,  etc. "T&C" isn't as awful as it is
an underachiever. Okay for hard up sofa spuds.
<|_=00=_|>

"Town & Country" is a comedy that is neither amusing nor funny.  With more
than its share of ineptly written dialog and clumsily staged scenes, it is
atrocious.  "Town & Country" is suppose to be a humorous look at the upper
middle class and the sexual misadventures of two "happily" married couples. 
  There are too many superfluous scenes that should have been edited out of
the movie because they go nowhere.  Then there are the sequences in which
one immediately knows what will happen, but seem to be interminably
stretched out as aggravating time filler.  

If Warren Beatty wanted to look like a nincompoop, he has succeeded.  "Town
& Country" feels like a retread of past comedies, but very poorly imitated. 
As the jilted spouses, Diane Keaton and Goldie Hawn come off fine.  Andie
MacDowell's character manages to pad at least another twenty minutes to the
film.  She displays the amazing eyesight of an eagle because, while riding
in a ski lift, she can spot Warren Beatty's character from at least thirty
feet away when he is dressed as a fly fisherman with a floppy hat covering
all of his hair and obscuring his face, reminiscent of Jack Lemmon in
"Grumpy Old Men."  

Nastassja Kinski, as a cellist having an affair with Beatty, received sixth
billing and more than holds her own and is one of the few bright spots of
this film.  The opening scene has Warren Beatty watching her play the cello
with her completely naked.  He simultaneously confesses in a voice over that
he is not interested in classical music and that he is making a mistake. 
The initial shot of Nastassja is from behind her in which we see two musical
clefts symmetrically painted onto her naked back - except that this is a
credited cello body double.  The closing credits list the actors in order of
appearance so that Nastassja Kinski is listed second after Warren Beatty -
very clever on her part.

"Town & Country" was a box office dud that can best be appreciated if one is
drunk.  
<|_=00=_|>
It seems that the people behind this drudge of movie took all their
cues from Woody Allen's movies during the 1990s. What I mean is, "Town
& Country" is about a bunch of rich New Yorkers cheating on each other.
I'm sure that everyone involved in it must be embarrassed beyond
redemption for having gotten involved in it (and I don't just mean
because of its abysmal performance at the box office). The only good
character is Charlton Heston, basically spoofing himself. And how could
a great screenwriter like Buck Henry have written this? He should have
known MUCH better, given that he wrote "The Graduate".

All in all, terrible. Fortunately, the cast members have all done good
work since. At least I think that they all have.
<|_=00=_|>
I remembered seeing the advertisement for this movie at my local
theater when it came out. But I was unaware of the nightmare it was to
film it & release it; all I did know was that it was in & out of the
theater faster than COOL AS ICE. I had no idea this movie even existed
until I read James Robert Parish's book FIASCO, which has a chapter on
the making of TOWN & COUNTRY...and which, rest assured, is more funny &
believable than what shows up on the screen.

After searching relatively high & low to find this movie (it was
released on DVD, but logically, stores do not exactly keep a copy on
hand), I watched it knowing about its history & that chances are, I
would likely want to throw things at the screen. I am glad to say I
made it through the first viewing alive, but will start by saying that
no, this movie is not a winner in the slightest. Yet is it an
all-around creative bomb? Not so fast.

Starting to film without a complete script was the oldest mistake in
the book & they made it. Yet while it may have been a patchwork effort
without much rhyme or reason, some lines were funny & rather inspired
(most of them coming from Garry Shandling, who almost walks away with
the movie, such as it is). Maybe having mature, veteran actors mouth
some of the more scatological dialogue (as if this was supposed to be a
senior's version of American PIE) was not wise, but that is often funny
to watch in itself. Diane Keaton's line near the end, "Is there any
women in this room you haven't slept with?", could easily be what
audiences have been wondering for years. 

The only thing the script missed was continuity & structure, and all
that showed on the screen, resulting in a film that looked & acted
choppy, with many characters played by big names being reduced to
glorified cameos, making you wonder if there is a lot left on the
cutting room floor (but we cannot blame the editor for all that, seeing
as how they did not have much to work with). 

The producers should have been well aware that working with Warren
Beatty, a famously noncommittal perfectionist, was not going to be
clear sailing. Part of (if not all) the script problems can be laid at
his door, since he kept insisting on changes to the dialogue, taking up
time & (most obviously) money. And of course, Warren was in his early
60s when he made this movie, playing the same old Casanova he always
did. Audiences, most especially the young people who make up a large
part of who goes to the movies, are not going to buy that anymore, or
are unwilling to try. The studio should have saw this in the beginning
& realized the chances of a box office success were slim to none, and
thus rein in the budget before it went haywire.

After reading Parish's book & seeing just how things went bad with TOWN
& COUNTRY, I rather think a movie about the making of a movie like TOWN
& COUNTRY would have been better (and with all the same actors). What
went on behind the scenes was funny & screwball in itself, and most of
all, it was not even scripted at all. There was potential for a movie
like TOWN & COUNTRY, but if a script had been agreed on before the
cameras started rolling, then the financial fallout would not have been
so large. As it remains now, it is one of the biggest box-office duds
in Hollywood history, and the chances of it ever turning a profit are
almost nonexistent (just think about inflation).

Final thoughts: For what it was worth, the actors gave it their best
shot with this movie, never once placing tongue firmly in cheek with
their parts (though, by all accounts, that would have improved things).
I am not sure if anyone of them knew they were making something
special.

A good portion of the script was actually funny, but whenever it tried
to get serious & make some kind of statement about infidelity &
morality, it went downhill from there. Even the much-bandied-about
ending is so artificial & predictable, you can see it coming from a
mile away. More of a cop-out & a feeling of "Let's just finish this
thing already!" 

Most of the people involved in making this movie have survived
professionally, but only time will tell how Warren Beatty fares (that
is, if he makes another movie again). Hopefully, the TOWN & COUNTRY
incident awoke him to the fact he needs to finally revise (or abandon
altogether) his stock character if he ever wants to work regularly & be
taken seriously again.
<|_=00=_|>
If you like watching Warren in a wrinkled skin costume with harshly
penciled eyebrows and tinted hair, then watch this movie. If you would
rather remember him in his youth and glory, pick up the film "Roman
Spring of Mrs. Stone" and luxuriate in his former beauty. It's sad when
people age and refuse to accept who they are. Grandparent material, all
of them! These people are probably typical of the wealthy, vapid folk
who do populate T& C magazine, but they are boring without any help
from the script. What a waste. If you paid good money to see this at
the cinema, poor you! If you heard the news that Beatty and Keaton have
lost their pizazz ages ago and smartly didn't go to this film, good for
you!
<|_=00=_|>
Just a terrible mess of a movie that has only the most tenacious plot
line running through it. Stories are picked up and dropped willy nilly
adding up to pretty much nothing. This notorious flop reportedly cost
many, many millions of dollars but they certainly don't show on screen.
Diane Keaton and Goldie Hawn try to do something with their parts
although they are ill served by the script. Everybody else goes down
with the ship, poor Charlton Heston and Marian Seldes are made
ridiculous in yet another totally needless subplot. A perfect example
of a director and studio lucky enough to gather a great group of talent
and then squander them totally.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was BAD!! It had a totally incoherent plot that was doomed
right from the get-go. The movie felt so choppy and badly edited
(considering it was re-edited and rewrote many times). Characters went
from one place to another without any reason. I mean, one minute Porter
was in bed with a lady (he met just a few "movie minutes" ago)and then
he was back home again. I couldn't understand what the hell was going
on in the movie most of the time. The only saving grace that kept me
from totally tuning this film out was when Jenna Elfman came on screen
but her role was so miscast and she didn't fit in at all with the dumb
story. This movie made little sense and was way too serious to be
considered a comedy. There wasn't much at all funny about this. I
probably laughed maybe twice, and they weren't even good laughs either.
Town and Country spent 3 years gathering dust on the shelf before it
was pulled down and finally finished, and the result was this fiasco.
There was a great cast of actors and actresses who all had successful
careers before this film; three of them won Oscars. Now after this
film, some of these people are struggling to find work such as Warren
Beatty who hasn't been in a film since this one. Others have been more
lucky such as Diane Keaton and Elfman and the director managed to stay
a float as he did some other films that weren't exactly home runs
(Hannah Montana: The Movie), but fared far better than T & C. 

The only thing I got out of this movie: A man cheats on his wife, pays
the consequences, another man does the same thing, then comes out as
gay, and a man comes in with a shotgun. Oh, and the polar bear scene
that was rather strange and kind of funny. The movie's dumb, cheesy
ending didn't give me any bit of hope that I would like to come back
and give this film another shot to try to make some sense out of it. I
kept on checking the time to see when this train wreck would end. It
really did feel like the cast and crew had to find a way to end the
nightmare so the ending it was.

I expected this movie to be a disaster based on what I read about it
being one of the biggest box office flops in American film history and
reading reviews. It exceeded my expectations.
