

This film was a good portrayal of the real Newton boys...i am a Newton from
Texas, and unfortunatly connected to this Newton clan...the true story in
brief is that they were "kicked out" of the family for some kind of wrong
doing by their parents...no other Newtons were farmers...mainly insurance
salesmen, that kind of thing...Matt DEFINITLY looks like a Newton in this
film...he looks almost identical to my great uncle John Newton when he was
in his mid-20s...i was suprised by the acurracy of the
film...
<|_=00=_|>

What makes "The Newton Boys" so interesting is that it is based on a
predominantly true story. Lead by Willis Newton (Matthew McConaughey, a
Texan) who had big dreams of drilling for oil in the boom years after WW I,
the 4 brothers used explosives to crack open safes all over the USA and
Canada and robbed the banks. Willis' rationale, "We're helping to keep
insurance companies in business. If there are no bank robberies then there
will be no need for insurance." For reasons I don't understand at all, round
safes cannot be opened like rectangular safes, so they eventually had to
resort to train robbery. They were eventually caught, tried, and convicted.
After serving a little time (max. 5 years) most of them retired to Uvalde,
Texas, a small town west of San Antonio and in the "texas Hill Country" so
popular with motorcyclists. Most of them lived long lives and died in
Uvalde.

Julianna Margolies was excellent as Willis' love interest. They eveidently
stayed together into old age, even though they never married.

Pretty good film.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was much better than I expected. Interesting true story told of
a
band of unusual bank robbers. Almost gentlemen bandits, if you will.
McConnaughey, Ulrich, Hawke, and D'Onofrio do a great job with the
brother's
characters. The end credits are definitely worth watching this
for.
<|_=00=_|>
Though not on par with some of his more noted works such as Dazed and
Confused or Before Sunrise, The Newton Boys is still a noteworthy film
by Richard Linklater, focusing on the all-to-real story of the four
Newton brothers from Ulvade, Texas who ended up robbing over eighty
banks and a train in just four years before finally being arrested and
imprisoned in 1924.

What Linklater does here that is most interesting is his use of music
and detached style of shooting. Nearly all of the music on the
soundtrack consists of blues-infused, upbeat country style which is
consistent with the setting of this movie but not necessarily the tone.
There is a dark underlying element to this story, most notably in the
evolution of the main character Willis, played so wonderfully and
engagingly by Matthew McConaughey it makes one shake their head as to
why he would continue to make useless romantic comedies these days.
Willis begins the film as bright, optimistic, a loyal son and brother
but upset about the way justice is mistreated in south Texas.
Determined to right this wrong, he becomes enamored with the idea of
robbing banks, justifying it by claiming that the banks are the real
thieves and his form of stealing would simply be a little thief taking
from a big one. 

Though many of the subsequent scenes are nothing original in this
genre, simply derivative of Bonnie and Clyde or Butch Cassidy and the
Sundance Kid, the four leads are all very engaging and likable,
especially McConaughey and Ethan Hawke. Linklater keeps the audience at
a distance with the use of the awkward music and the lack of character
depth. In many cases, the supporting cast is simply that rather than an
opportunity to reflect the brothers' view of their lives and worldview.
Nevertheless, the film is as a whole better than the most recent of its
kind. It has an innocent-like quality to it thanks to the fervent
belief of Willis Newtown: doing this was simply a way to make money and
for that reason there was no reason for them to stop.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this on DVD because it was recommended by Jonathan Rosenbaum
on his ten-best list for the year, and the cast interested me,
especially D'Onofrio and Skeet Ulrich. This confirms my admiration of
the under-seen Ulrich, who's the doubting, conscience-stricken brother.
His uneasiness stands out against the tedious good-old-boy jollity of
the others. That shtick is a little too easy to do, and I don't think
it gets the Twenties quite right, really. Rosenbaum is a great film
critic but his end of the year recommendations are not always to be
trusted, which makes you wonder about how written-in-stone his 1000
films list is. He also said that since the expansive images were a big
part of the pleasure of the movie he didn't know how good it would be
on DVD.

Gosh, was it really so easy to rob a bank in those days? The way some
of the robberies go makes it look like it was all a cinch, but surely
they'd be scared sometimes because you still stood to go to jail for
it, maybe for a good long time. Actually it was easy to robe banks with
square-doored safes, and it isn't so hard to hold up a little bank
today.

This is surprising from Linklater not only because of the step into
genre, but because of his willingness to glorify and simplify his
good-boy/bad-boy crew. Where are the tormented and confused guys of his
stoner movies? Matthew McConaughey certainly does rise to the challenge
with a spirited and enthusiastic performance, but all his moments are
still clichés. Hawke similarly grins and giggles in a quite shallow
way. His character is not well defined and D'Onofiro, arguably the best
actor of the bunch, is wasted. Statistically the Newton bank robbers
were remarkable, but Ebert may be right that they are less famous than
Dillinger or Bonnie and Clyde because they were too "respectable,"
i.e., dull. The screenplay lacks an angle, other than the glib one of
boys on a lark, which fails to convince, and even when things go wrong,
lacks a tragic dimension.

The action is desultory, lacking a strong focus on character or action
or any guiding principle. Hence comparison with 'Bonnie and Clyde,' or
more dashing adventures in the same vein like 'Butch Cassidy and the
Sundance Kid' or 'The Sting,' simply isn't really possible. This isn't
in the same league. It utterly pales in comparison to European robbery
films like 'Rififi' or the recent 'Mesrine' gangster epic starring
Vincent Cassel. Only the few moments with Dwight Yoakam as Brentwood
Glasscock, the brothers' explosives expert, provide a welcome
'Rififi'-like hint of bank-robbing as a challenging activity requiring
certain skills and techniques.

This is not to say you can't have fun watching. These young actors are
in their physical prime, and that includes the ladies, notably the
handsome-looking Julianna Margulies as McConaughey's girlfriend. The
period flavor is sometimes ripe and tasty. The production is very
good-looking, and there is some nice cinematography: a silhouetted
image of the mail train the Newton brothers are about to rob is
particularly cool. The whole cadre things are set in, including the
jaunty music, is conventional, but it's undeniably fun. The movie's a
little long, but the climactic later scenes are involving. But still,
this is very far from Linklater at his best, and Rosenbaum ought to
admit he erred in ranking it so high.
<|_=00=_|>

In a way, it seems like a waste to gather Matthew McConaughey, Ethan Hawke,
Skeet Ulrich, and Vincent D'Onofrio for this movie, because they should've
been able to do something great, although, if it weren't for them, it would
have been boring.  It is a straightforward assembly of the facts of the
incredible run of 80 bank robberies by the Newton brothers. Then they go for
the big one, a train robbery of Federal Reserve funds.  It is entertaining,
but I was most entertained during the running of the credits. Over to the
left, they show clips of Joe Newton at about age 79, on Johnny Carson's
Tonight Show, interspersed with film clips of an interview with Willis
Newton in his 80's, both giving their views of what it was like and how they
felt about what they had done.  After seeing Hollywood's version of their
lives, it was interesting to see what they were like in old
age.
<|_=00=_|>
This was loosely based on the "most successful bank robbers of all
time". It was one of the many collaborations Matthew McConaughey did
with director Richard Linklater. Much like all the film versions of
Dillinger, The Newton Boys has car chases, bank robberies, explosions,
partying, love triangles, etc. All the elements that add drama and
excitement to a film that I enjoy. Again, this film was panned
critically and commercially, but again I don't care. Everyone I've
introduced to the movie too, has enjoyed it. There is a cool scene
during the closing credits too which shows miscellaneous interviews
with all the Newton Brothers featuring one with Johnny Carson and the
youngest Newton Boy and the last living at the time of the interview in
the early 80's. Reviewed by AN/NR 11-14-11
<|_=00=_|>

How Richard Linklater made this film on such a small budget is a miracle in
itself; the casting was inspired; but the inclusion of the clips of the real
Newtons was pure genius. I read Richard's script a year or so before the
film went into production, and I felt that this movie simply had to be
made... I was right. With a little advertising money from the distributor,
the film could (and SHOULD) have been a blockbuster. This is the film that
defines the Texas film industry, and as a Texan, I'm proud of Linklater's
effort. 
<|_=00=_|>
The Newton Boys tells the story of Willis, Joe, Jess and Dock Newton,
four brothers who become some of the most notorious bank and train
robbers the history of America has ever seen. And they're based on real
life events and people, making it all the more exciting.

What really keeps this movie afloat are the actors. McConaughey,
Ulrich, Hawke and D'Onofrio are all versatile and personable actors,
breathing life into their characters by their sheer presence. The story
is told largely from McConaughey's point of view and it's actually one
of his better performances and fits his usual mannerisms perfectly,
unlike in some other movies where they are somewhat distracting.

The plot is also entertaining, though because it's based on real life
it ends up being somewhat repetitive until the final third when the big
twists start rolling. Not that the first two acts aren't interesting,
but they don't raise the stages the same way a fictional story would.
It's not a huge problem, but it's noticeable, especially if you've seen
a lot of gangster films.

In the end The Newton Boys is well worth a watch if you're into the
idea that sometimes real life is more exciting than any movie and/or if
you're looking for a good gangster/robber movie to check out.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Newton Boys" begins as an old movie, with old wasted colors, kind
of black and white. This is the way we meet the players (what actually
are the actors), and together with a very happy music (that also seemed
old), the credits are simple; maybe boring. "If the movie is in black
and white, I won't watch it", said my friend Matías. In fact, the movie
started and it was in colors, and very nice colors by the way.

We see Willis Newton (Matthew McConaughey) and before we notice we are
in Texas; with the horses, ranches, and the cowboys that always seem
good people when they mostly do bad things. Maybe it is because we love
to hear them talking, and the cast of this movie is very convincing in
that aspect. Soon Willis encounters two younger guys, riding some
difficult horses. These are Jesse and Joe Newton (Ethan Hawke and Skeet
Ulrich), also cowboys and Willis' brothers. Now we're living the true
story of the Newton Brothers.

With the help of Brentwood Glasscock (Dwight Yoakam), alias Glass, and
later with the last brother Dock's (Vincent D'Onofrio) collaboration,
Willis and his gang robbed a lot of banks and one train that got them
to their end. Well, not their end because, unlike any regular cowboy,
the Newtons reached ages surpassing the 70 years.

With his writing partners, director Richard Linklater created his
adapted vision of the story, located in the pages of Claude Stanush's
book. His own vision of these enchanting cowboys that made up stories
to beautiful women, drank a lot and lived a full life. Stanush,
Linklater and Clark Walter achieved something wild in terms of
screenplay, because I'm not sure if a man could live the situations
these characters experience, but who knows? In other cowboy movies like
"American Outlaws" these things occur, and it's all about the
characters. In "Outlaws" it was the excellent Colin Farrell, now it is
a whole talented ensemble.

I'm a fan of Richard Linklater's work. And admirer of his camera,
settings, colors...The respect he has for his colorful characters,
without caring how surreal they can be at times, when he is telling a
real story. Led by McConaughey's Willis (who makes a more charismatic
leading man than Farrell), usual in Linklater's filmography, Ethan
Hawke follows, in good shape as always; he commits more with Linklater
than with any director. Then we have a gifted Skeet Ulrich in one of
his most natural and charming performances; he isn't getting many jobs
today, but here it was a great work. As always, Vincent D'Onofrio
sticks to what is requested of him. It is also to notice Dwight
Yoakam's efforts, in his most remarkable appearance; now I won't forget
about him. Everyone else fulfills, and the women I was talking about,
Louise Brown has an important part, played convincingly by the always
good Julianna Margulies.

It was some weeks ago, that a friend of mine told me he did a work
about a director's filmography. He had chosen Woody Allen. I hadn't
done the work, but he asked me: "Who would you choose?". "Richard
Linklater", I answered.
