

Someone said that this movie was too cerebral for horror fans who live for
drivel like "From Dusk 'Till Dawn", and too much of a horror movie for
people who look (or at least pretend to look) for meaning in movies --
pseudo-intellectuals. That person couldn't have been more correct. I'm not
a
horror fan, I'm not an Anne Rice fan...I'm not even fond of Tom Cruise,
Brad
Pitt, and Antonio Banderas. But Interview With a Vampire was a movie that
excelled my expectations.

I refused to see this film for 3 years because I believed it would be what
I
perceived it to be: glitzy Hollywood garbage geared toward adolescent
girls
with posters of the 3 main actors all over their walls. I finally broke
down
and rented it, and I was astonished by the incredible performances
delivered, the thrilling dialogue and the way it was delivered by the
actors, the scenery, the plot, the score...everything. I never thought
that
Brad Pitt or Tom Cruise could act, but their performances made their
unbelievable characters a reality. However, the true star of the film was
Kirsten Dunst. At 12 years old, this girl was able to hold her own against
her co-stars, and often stole the scene (particularly the incident in
which
Claudia tries to cut her hair and subsequently Lestat discovers the corpse
in her bed.)

You don't want to look for the meaning of life in this movie. It's a
story.
The plot is basically the history of a vampire's life, and I don't
understand why people are compelled to trash a movie because of its
simplicity. Look at the title. That's all it is, and if you expect more
you're setting yourself up for disappointment. It's not the deepest of
movies, that's why it should be enjoyed for the intense dialogue and the
great production that went into it. Others trash the movie because of its
homoerotic undertones. This aspect is so fleeting that it's ridiculous to
dwell on it, and if you dwell on such an insignificant aspect of the movie
then you were obviously looking for something to bother you. One
additional
thing: to even suggest that the violence in this film could be responsible
for incidents such as the Columbine High School killings is beyond
moronic.

This isn't the greatest movie that has ever been made, it's certainly not
a
complex analysis of life, or a parable with a moral dictating the
enjoyment
of life. It's a brilliantly produced gothic tale of a vampire, nothing
more
and nothing less. In respect to the book, I've never read it and I don't
particularly care to read it. But for all of you who have been complaining
about the movie not living up to the novel, here's a clue that might prove
useful in the future: the book is ALWAYS better than the film. Don't waste
your time complaining about something that is understood.
<|_=00=_|>

 I, like Anne Rice, was initially dismayed that Tom Cruise had been cast as
Lestat. But when I saw the film, I had to admit that he absolutely nailed
the role. I had always thought of Cruise as a pretty boy, and not really a
serious actor, especially since he failed in his attempt at a Streepian
accent in "Far and Away". However, he perfectly portrayed Lestat for what he
is, a monster with a monstrous ego. 
 I think that this was the first film I had seen with Brad Pitt, followed
shortly by "Legends of the Fall" so to me his acting credentials were
impeccable, in spite of my female friends swooning over him. The rest of the
cast was excellent as well, with the only minor quibble that Antonio
Banderas was too old for the part of Armand. Kirsten Dunst was adorably
evil. The cinematography was beautiful, considering that almost all of the
film (of course) takes place at night. 
 One note on the supposed "homo-eroticism" in the film. I have the
advantage, having read Rice's books, so here is the deal on that. In Rice's
world, the vampires are absolutely sexless. Therefore, gender has no meaning
to them. When a vampire loves another, or a mortal, it is truly from the
heart, as no sexuality of any kind ever enters into it. The only thing to
them that is close, is the kill. Killing is highly "erotic" to vampires.
However, this too is really asexual, and so again, gender has no bearing on
the eroticism of the kill. I think that some elements of this, which
apparently came across as homo-eroticism, were included in the screenplay
just to emphasize how different, how non-human, that vampires are. 

<|_=00=_|>
'Interview with the Vampire' is an atmospheric, highly gripping "film
involving vampires" - not a "vampire movie". Whilst the latter would
describe a film that focuses on its vampirism and might be judged on
the sharpness of its fangs, this "film involving vampires" has all the
merits of the very best cinema, and at its core is nothing but a
fantastic story carried by compelling, believable characters.

For those who may not be able to overlook the vampiric content, look
again. The vampirism herein is a plot device, a way of presenting
characters who cannot die or age or be harmed, so that the
philosophical questions of life itself can be explored. But equally,
for those who will be interested in the vampiric content, this film
presents a rich mythology backed by a trilogy of books, which fleshes
out the concept of the vampire in a much deeper way than any other
production.

Every person has their own world view, their own way of living and
thinking. People can be brooding, contemplative, cautious, reasonable,
carefree, hedonistic, optimistic, emotional - and every shade in
between. But these are all world-views based on the knowledge that life
is short. What would happen if told their lives would never end? Who
would be happiest? What would they do? How would eternal life affect
each person? And most importantly, if a way of living was bringing
meaning to a person's life, would that still work once life was
infinite? All of these questions help us explore philosophical ideas as
old as time, and that exploration is the focus of this film.

The story is propelled by vampires Louis (Pitt) and Lestat (Cruise),
each representing a different take on life. Whilst Louis, who began as
a depressive wanting to die, thinks of eternity as an extended curse;
Lestat, who seems to live every second as it comes, barely even
considers the future three minutes hence. Told from Louis' viewpoint as
he struggles to find some meaning in a life he knows will never end, we
are taken on a ride across the centuries, as Louis' outlook and
happiness undulate whilst characters and relationships come and go.

Alongside Louis' turmoil in coming to terms with his (now eternal)
life, a secondary theme is explored, which is the notion of survival.
Even though Louis is clearly dissatisfied with life, he never attempts
to end it, despite this option being open to him. In other words,
surviving, in and of itself, was a motivation that outdid any other.
Most importantly, survival outdoes Louis' trouble over the fact that
his only source of nourishment is now the blood of living animals,
preferably humans. Despite attempting abstinence, and then attempting
to drink only the blood of rodents, this basic feeding instinct proves
too much for Louis. And yet, as Lestat points out, what is the problem?
The fittest always survives, and whoever is lower down the food-chain
will be eaten. Humans eat animals, and vampires eat humans - it's all
natural. But nonetheless, are there moral limits? Even if you have to
kill a human, is there a more moral way to do it? "Monstrous," Louis
exclaims, as he watches a group of vampires murder a defenceless girl.
Yet might survival require the forgetting of moral consciousness, like
Lestat?

'Interview with the Vampire' explores all of these deep, important
issues whilst delivering an incredibly powerful story populated by
charismatic characters, haunting and diverse settings and immortal
dialogue. Gripping from start to finish, you will be enamoured at the
vampire-world opened up to you; and by the end, you are left wondering
what choice you would have made, given the one that Lestat never had...
<|_=00=_|>

I have a passion for films with dark settings. What's even better is when
the film is not only dark and dismal but also deep and engrossing. With a
combination of Anne Rice's script and Neil Jordan's direction, the
overlooked Interview with the Vampire not only looks great but contains
good
material. Most of the time when a film is based on a novel it will try to
capture the themes of the novel by choosing areas to work from. Luckily
Anne
Rice also writes the screenplay and understands more than anyone else what
areas need addressing, providing the backbone to the dialogue and
plot.

Set in 1791 Orleans and progressing through different periods of time,
IWTV
is technically excellent and aware of its surroundings. From the first
moment your eyes are fixed on the screen. This is the sign of great art
direction coupled with costume design and set pieces that are more than
pleasing on the eye. Far from in your face the film allows a taste of each
period with a mixture of light and colourful scenes to the more prominent
dreary settings it encompasses. Moonlit streets, abandoned plague ridden
residential and underground gothic architectures all add to the great
detail
that has been taken in creating a believable and picturesque look to the
films periods it contains. Helped also by a musical score that really
lurks
in the background, depicts the time and in some areas the feeling aptly.

The story, told with a mixture of narration from the protagonist (Brad
Pitt
in this case) and a screenplay with enough room for all the stars makes a
tight little package. At just over 2 hours long though, this may put off
the
viewer looking for an all out action vampire piece or those with little
patience. Interview after all is a drama at heart with horror elements but
what sets it apart from others is the humane way in which it's dealt with.
A
point in the film that leans on stereotypical vampire views sets the tone
of
the film perfectly, fiction aside Vampires aren't so unlike humans which
is
portrayed through the emotions (or rejection of them) throughout. One of
the
key players in such a task is surprisingly Tom Cruise as the bad influence
Lestat. In one of his more challenging roles, Cruise conveys a charm that
fits the theatricals of his character perfectly. Through excellent makeup
and clothes from a period he refuses to break free from, Cruise is less
distinguishable but all the more better for losing the usual side of him
that may have been too familiar. Left only with a look of ferocity and
impertinence Cruise works his role to a brilliant combination that really
brings out the character of Lestat making him extremely fun to watch.
Lestat's mood swings and cruel insinuations really spark the film up,
stealing every scene he's in.

What makes the film interesting is how every character has a background
and
each character has different things that make them tick. Along for the
ride
with Cruise and Pitt is a very young Kirsten Dunst as the disillusioned
vampire child Claudia. It seems that Jordan is a good director for getting
performances as Dunst gives a fine performance at such a young age,
definitely showing more promise than the usual teenage focal points she
has
set herself on since. While Lestat is the most enjoyable character and
practically the teacher, Louis and Claudia are the key elements to a story
of self-discovery concerning the dark world they have joined. Other than
this Christian Slater and Antonio Banderas share little screen time but
enough to make their characters wholesome enough.

One area that I applaud but others may disclude is the vivid scenes of a
gory nature used profusely throughout. Jordan, going for realism and with
blood being an important part of vampire life includes graphic details..
and
with no holds barred. Jordans realistic touches add only to the
plausibility
of the vampire way of life, emphasising the grotesque way of living they
are
lumbered with for eternity. Such a eternal damnation is one of the main
themes of the film exploring the depreciation of Louis and Claudia and how
they come to terms with their new life. It would seem that such a serious
tone to a fictional tale would make it hard to enjoy but with a mixture of
dark humour throughout the film knows not to take itself 'too' seriously.
The end clearly establishes this fact nicely.

Minor quibbles aside like some hokey dialogue from time to time and
despite
Pitt underplaying his performance a little, among the Vampire genre and
even
as a drama this is a classy piece of work from a intelligent director with
a
flair for dark style (in most of his other films too), and more
importantly
produces a epic tale with sturdy direction. If you have the interest for a
drama, specifically based around vampires there is little other choice
than
this. Through its fine performances and stunning look one things for sure,
you wont forget this one easily.

7.5 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
When you ask someone to name the best movies to come out of the
early-mid 90's, not many people would mention this movie. That's too
bad.

It isn't American Beauty deep, but the film presents real human
emotions through the surreal notion of vampires. Cinematography, set
design, and score are top notch. It doesn't look dated at all,
particularly in this day in age of CG, blue screen galore.

The acting....i hate to admit, because i'm not by any means a brad pitt
or tom cruise fan....is pretty darn good. This was the first film I saw
tom cruise in and thought (gee...the pretty boy can act), the other
coming to mind being Magnolia. Brad Pitt isn't as great, but holds his
own and it's a quiet, somber Brad Pitt, which is a good change to the
normally twitchy, over-the- top characters he portrays (fight club, 12
monkeys, ocean's 11....even se7en to a certain extent). and of
course.....kirsten dunst....who's best role in her career is this film.

I haven't read the book, so i am writing purely on the film. Apparent
by the other reviews here, there are people who really like this movie.
It's a shame that more people haven't given this movie a chance.
<|_=00=_|>
INTERVIEW WITH THE VAMPIRE: THE VAMPIRE CHRONICLES 

Aspect ratio: 1.85:1

Sound formats: Dolby Digital / SDDS

17th century New Orleans: The relationship between an ancient vampire
(Tom Cruise) and his bloodsucking protegé (Brad Pitt) is tested to
destruction by a young girl (Kirsten Dunst) who challenges their
established dynamic, leading to betrayal and murder.

A doom-laden meditation on life and death and the nature of grief,
based on Anne Rice's bestselling novel (written as a response to the
death of her beloved daughter), and featuring two of contemporary
Hollywood's most recognizable stars (both astonishingly beautiful here)
as vampire and willing victim, remaining eternally young as the world
evolves around them. Cruise plays a seasoned killer who revels in
bloodthirsty excess, while Pitt is a conscientious objector who balks
at the prospect of drinking human blood, until Cruise creates a
'companion' for Pitt in the shape of a little girl (Dunst) who refuses
to grow old gracefully, with tragic consequences.

Scored with melancholy grace by composer Elliot Goldenthal, and
beautifully designed and photographed (by Dante Ferretti and Philippe
Rousselot, respectively), the film is epic in concept and execution,
spanning the social upheavals of 17th and 18th century America and the
horrors of 19th century Europe, where a nest of ancient vampires (led
by scene-stealer Antonio Banderas and a miscast Stephen Rea) wreak
terrible revenge on those who transgress against vampire lore. But, for
all its spectacle, director Neil Jordan (THE COMPANY OF WOLVES) -
working from a script credited to Rice herself - maintains a leisurely
pace and never loses sight of the characters. The movie contains some
beautiful, transcendent passages, including a breathtaking transition
from 19th century Europe to modern day America via the introduction of
motion pictures (everything from SUNRISE: A SONG OF TWO HUMANS to GONE
WITH THE WIND and SUPERMAN!), and an incredibly moving sequence in
which a once-proud vampire is discovered in exile, laid low by his own
vanity.

The film's delicate tone is upset by a trick ending which comes
completely out of left-field, though Jordan has denied any suggestion
of studio interference. And, as with the novel, the homoerotic
undercurrent is mere window-dressing, an unconsummated tease which the
filmmakers (and Rice herself) refuse to explore in any detail, lest it
frighten the mainstream crowd. Sadly, the movie is dedicated to the
memory of River Phoenix - originally cast as the interviewer who
provides one half of the film's title - who died of a drugs overdose
during pre-production; his role was taken by Christian Slater. Followed
by QUEEN OF THE DAMNED (2002).
<|_=00=_|>
A man (Brad Pitt) who turned into a vampire way back in 18th century
New Orleans tells his life (and afterlife) story to a skeptical
modern-day journalist (Christian Slater) in novelist Anne Rice's unique
take on the famed supernatural creatures of the night. Pitt goes into
major details on how he became a vampire (thanks to vampire loon Tom
Cruise in a wickedly wild over-the-top turn) and his run-ins with
others like him (a very young Kirsten Dunst and a then-unknown Antonio
Banderas). Opulently realized schizophrenic exercise that has a little
bit of something for most audiences. Pitt is focused, Cruise is unbound
and Dunst arguably does the work of her life. Director Neil Jordan (who
is best known for films of similar style like "The Crying Game") knows
exactly which buttons to push and when to push them. While flawed in
many areas, "Interview With the Vampire" is still nevertheless a fun
and entertaining venture that definitely has blood, teeth and wings. 4
stars out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>
I am a vampire lover and this is the ultimate vampire movie (second
only to "Bram Stoker's Dracula") consisting of the two sexiest male
vampires ever created- Tom Cruise and Brad Pitt. I must admit at first
I thought Tom Cruise was a touch too 'apple pie' for this role, but he
ultimately knocked my socks off! In fact, he is my second favourite
vampire ever, second only to the incredible Gary Oldman in "Bram
Stoker's Dracula". And Brad Pitt - oooh Brad Pitt - is hands down the
most gorgeous vampire ever. And he played the role of Louis
convincingly... but in my eyes would've suited the role of Lestat as
well. If you love vampire movies, violence and gore, with a touch of
romance and sadness then you will also love this film.
<|_=00=_|>

Although Neil Jordan's "Interview with the vampire: The Vampire chronicles"
definitely has its own devoted fans (7.0 out of 10 can't be a bad
average...) it's still unfortunately maybe a slightly underrated movie - at
least among professional critics. I haven't read Anne Rice's famous novel
but it doesn't seem like the most logical vampire book to start with since I
still haven't read Bram Stoker's "Dracula" either.

I've seen this movie couple of times and I have to admit that I enjoyed it
very, very much. And why not? Tom Cruise was quite excellent as his rather
unusual role of Lestat de Lioncourt and Brad Pitt was just brilliant like he
normally is as Louis de Pointe du Lac. Antonio Banderas and Christian Slater
were good too, can't deny it either. The story was dark, peculiar and it had
some really twisted humor.

This hasn't got much to do with the actual film but being a big Guns n'
roses fan "Interview with the vampire: The Vampire chronicles" has a special
place in my heart. The Rolling stones cover we hear during the end credits
("Sympathy for the devil") was the last single Gn'R released with its good
old line-up. This movie is one of the best vampire flicks. Not the best,
though. Nothing can beat Roman Polanski's "Fearless vampire killers". But
like I said, one of the finest of this genre.
<|_=00=_|>

Neil Jordan who is masterful with small intimate
films,
served up scrambled eggs on this picture where budget was
no object. There is an entire hour missing from all the
released
versions because in 1994 Geffen/Warner Bros. didn't believe
a
film audience would sit through a well paced, well told story
for
three hours. No one in charge had seen Apocalypse Now.
Perhaps someday it will be reedited and my work and the entire
hour withheld will be added.
