

I rented Kundun to further my quest to see all the Scorsese movies I can.
I
never expected such an incredible movie. I didn't want this movie to end.
It's really difficult to describe how I feel about this movie since I have
only viewed it once and was completely blown away, it left me in complete
awe.

Like most when I first started watching Scorsese I thought that he did
brilliant gangster films and that was his thing, but I have recently
discovered that this couldn't be further from the truth.  Fist seeing The
Last Temptation of Christ and now Kundun I wouldn't care if Scorsese ever
made another gangster film.  It is easy to see that he is an artistic
genius, the acting in the film was great, but I could have watched it on
mute and still have been amazed.

If, like I was, you are unfamiliar with the Buddhist religion and the
Chinese takeover of Tibet this film has even more to offer.  Scorsese's
risk
of using real Buddhists to do all of the acting payed off better than I
ever
expected it would, the fact that we are hearing the story through the
people
it affected adds another level to this movie.

I cannot believe that this film only has a rating of 7 on this site.  If
you
are a fan of Scorsese and are not sure you are going to like this just give
it a chance, it deserves at least one viewing, if you give it that I am
sure
you will be amazed as I was.  Scorsese's vision's in this movie are unlike
any of his films, not to mention a great score by Phillip
Glass.


<|_=00=_|>
I was rendered speechless by KUNDUN when I first saw it, and subsequent
viewing have only confirmed my impression that this is one of
Scorsese's finest films. Yeah - it's slow and elegant. So what.

I've long held an admittedly superficial interest in Buddhism, and also
been a fan of Scorsese, liking most of his films quite a bit, so I went
into this with some biases, but with every viewing this seems like a
richer film. I also think that Scorsese was in some ways far more at
home with this material than he was given credit for being. The
cinematography and performances are excellent - the cast of mostly
non-actors is surprisingly good, and much of KUNDUN is staggeringly
beautiful to watch.

It has also struck me that this film isn't as much of a departure for
Scorsese as it first may seem - this film works well as something of a
companion to LAST TEMPTATION OF Christ in that both pictures examine
great faiths through spiritual figures in a way that personalizes the
divine. This simply literalizes undercurrents running through a number
of Scorsese's other films, which often turn on themes of loyalty,
conviction and ethics (like the self-assurance, against massive
obstacles, shown by Alice Hyatt in ALICE DOESN'T LIVE HERE ANYMORE).
All evidence a worldview where some form of redemption or transcendance
is possible. In their own ways, several memorable Scorsese characters -
Sam Rothstein (CASINO), Henry Hill (GOODFELLAS), Rupert Pupkin (KING OF
COMEDY), Paul Hackett (AFTER HOURS) and Alice Hyatt attempt this, some
in ways that are desperate, comically misguided or just plain wrong,
but they're all human, driven by some redemptive impulse nonetheless.

The Catholicism of Scorsese's youth places great value on the
importance of ritual, which is also true of Buddhism, which is depicted
in a detailed and respectful fashion here, and the rhythm of KUNDUN -
where the chronology of events isn't (or at least doesn't seem) forced,
but are instead allowed to unfold in a more naturalistic and lifelike
fashion also seems to mirror Buddhist ideas admirably.

This is a far more complex film than it first might appear to be - far
from being a simple biopic, KUNDUN is much much more. Definitely one of
Martin Scorsese's least appreciated films.
<|_=00=_|>

"Kundun" is one of those rare masterpieces that unfortunately might  be run
over by more Hollywood acceptable films like "Titanic" and "Seven Years in
Tibet" (both films that I still admire).  While these films were great,
their primary purpose seemed to be entertainment alone.  Scorsese creates a
work out of the bounds of traditional films;  "Kundun" is at once a
spiritual journey, a compelling story despite its downplayed action, and a
delight for the eyes and ears.  It is both entertainment and art.  The
audience isn't captivated by dramatic action, but simply because it is so
beautiful.  At the same time, it doesn't produce the slightly sleepy
sensation other artistic works like "The Last Emperor of China" can, despite
their beauty (I personally loved "Last Emperor").  Not once was I tempted to
turn away from the screen.

Scorsese mixes symbolic images and a subtle yet emotionally stirring
soundtrack into a non-traditional plot structure, creating an exotic and
spiritual vision meeting the demands of its eastern inspiration.

I am not a historian, so I cannot speak about its accuracy, though from
what I can tell, Scorsese did his homework.  Even if that were not true,
this film is not meant as a documentary.  It has the same emotional power of
the finest art, with a simplicity and directness which keeps it from being
pretentious.  If you add to this historical accuracy, all the better.  But
it is not meant to influence via facts but via emotion.

Even those viewers who don't normally sit through credits will most likely
do so, simply for the chance to let the film soak in.  You need the time to
digest everything you've been shown and to sit in contemplative peace.  This
is a film that inspires and delights.  It is the film I wish I could have
created.  Scorsese has certainly produced the best film of the year, if not
more.
<|_=00=_|>

I was very pleased to discover that this film wasnt the Scorcese dud some
of
the user comments and critics had suggested it to be. While I am no expert
on Buddhism, I know enough about it to see how brilliantly Martin Scorcese
and Melissa Mathison weaved the core  philosophy into this tale of the
Dalai
Lama's formative years. They did it without succumbing to ostentation,
sentimentality, or populist good vs evil film dramatics. And yet it showed
us how human the child was--laughing as the monks meditated while a rat
drank the ritual offerings; being frightened in the dark monastery; taking
on the  very great responsibility of leading a truly wise, noble and
compassionate religion while being confronted by the threats of the modern
world. I appreciated how they didnt portray the Chinese as simple
villians--by including the scene where he dreams the army personnel are
explaining to him why they embrace Mao's communism. And they also presented
enough of the Buddhist ritual and way of life to show us how alien it is to
western religions(the scene where they cut up the body for the vultures
comes to mind), though they dont gloss it over by excluding comments about
the Lama's isolation and loss of childhood or the corruption surrounding
his
first Regent.
It was also quite moving to observe the devotion of his monks and people.

Scorcese really demonstrates here that he is a true film artist and master
storyteller. I wholeheartedly concur with the commentator that compared
this
film to the Last Emperor--despite similar story frames and lengths, this
motion picture doesnt drag at all. If this had been say, Steven Spielberg's
project you  would have expected to see some manipulative melodramatics and
insincerity. And how can one not be impressed by the performances he got
out
of mostly non actors! That alone was amazing. The film maintained its pace
from the early years to the Lama as an adult. From what little of the man I
have seen on tv, his humor, and wisdom was conveyed remarkably well by
Mathison's script and the actors chosen for the role.

Finally, his comment to the Indian guard near the end after being asked if
he was the Lord Buddha--encapsulates the wisdom and the humility of its
spiritual leader perfectly.


<|_=00=_|>
I live in South Korea, so I didn't think I would get some insights
about buddhism from a Western movie. But this movie shocked me a lot.
Very beautiful and meaningful visuals, quiet but spiritually forceful
atmosphere every single moments are in the movie, I could hardly breath
during playing. This movie is not just about one man, but about the
pain of all mankind and the way to transcend the pain and sin of ours
in a very buddhist direction. China in this movie got a bad part.
Ironically they were also victims of imperialism but learned the exact
way to extort, destroy the property and beliefs of others by the power
of machines. It was just sad to watch. But as Kundun implied, those
violence's are in the shadow of our minds which should be overcame by
the power of spirit. For me, this movie tells that.
<|_=00=_|>

As "The Last Temptation of Christ" showed, Martin Scorsese is not a filmmaker
interested in playing it safe when it comes to religion.  Instead, he wants
to get into the heart and soul of it.  While that film was obviously closer
to his heart, since he was raised Catholic, this one burns with the same
conviction and passion.  The difference is he and writer Melissa Mathison
adjust themselves to the way of storytelling needed to tell the life of the
Dalai Lama.  Unlike say, "Little Buddha", though, where Bertolucci seemed to
have no sense of distance from his subject, Scorsese does, so we are allowed
to come to our own conclusions rather than having them shoved down our
throats.

Visually and aurally, this is also a real treat, with the images being more
powerful than anything Scorsese has done before.  And while the music here
is old territory for Philip Glass, he produces a stunning score which should
have won the Oscar.  The mostly non-professional cast(I did see a familiar
face here and there, but I can't remember them) also does good
work.
<|_=00=_|>
I have reviewed this film several times, and find new details I missed.
How did they film this, and using non-professional actors, as well?
Mysterious, magical, educational, and dazzling to the eye and ear.
Seems much careful planning went into this production, a labor of Love.
The Dali Lama, must be grateful his story, can now reach the world and
his personal mission, may be recognized and possible fulfilled in his
lifetime?

Like the "Last Emperor" and "Little Buddha" this "slice of the
metaphysical river", is breathtaking in its visual beauty. A story that
grabs your heart and soul, and you find yourself, thinking about it
weeks later.

Now I have a "Free Tibet" sticker on my Pathfinder, out of reverence
for this tiny country, raped by the political powers in control of
China.

Bravo to the cast, and film crews.
<|_=00=_|>
"Kundun" is Martin Scorsese's most underrated film. It's something
quite fantastic to watch such an amazing film about the early years of
the Dalai Lama and the plight of Tibetan Buddhists knowing that it
comes from a man who has long wrestled with his own religious ghosts
(witness the still hotly debated conundrum that is his "Last Temptation
of Christ"). With probably only "The Age of Innocence" to compare to in
Scorsese's now hallowed canon, "Kundun" is a breathtaking work of
art--visually sumptuous (with beautiful work from cinematographer Roger
Deakins), hauntingly transcendental, and deeply symbolic.

As an outsider looking in, Scorsese manages to create an intimate level
of detail that someone who lives and breathes Buddhism might have
overlooked. Many rituals and practices are presented exactly as they
are with no attempts to explain their purpose or translate their
meaning to Western culture. This allows them to keep their rich
symbolism, which translates perfectly to Scorsese's visual palette.
From the rich colors of meditative sand art to the bright red blood
spilled during China's unlawful occupation of Tibet, everything takes
on a deeper meaning that leaves much to the imagination and higher
mind.

Wisely, Scorsese follows the same template of Richard Attenborough's
equally resonating Oscar winning epic "Ghandi" by adapting a straight
forward approach to his presentation of the Dalai Lama's most
tumultuous years. Except for a few dreamlike vision sequences, he stays
mostly out of the man's head, and instead shows his power through his
actions and dedication to his people and the practice of non-violence.
"Kundun" is as near perfect a biopic as one can make.
<|_=00=_|>
I feel I owe a debt of gratitude to Martin Scorsese for making this
extraordinary film. Especially in light of it's controversial content.
Here is a story that must be told and is so remarkably entertaining
while being so deeply informative that I hesitate to make any comments
at all. Why why why has this director NOT received the recognition he
so richly deserves for his work, especially with this epic that out
"performs" any epic extant, including the likes of "Cleopatra" "The
Godfather" and so on. Are awards for honest brilliant work politically
motivated? This film may be the watermark for all ambitious film makers
in the future. Keep it real.
<|_=00=_|>
Tibet. The young boy who shall become the 14th Dailai Lama is
discovered and trained. At an early age he has to deal with his
country's invasion by the Chinese and is ultimately forced into exile.

Those expecting a Martin Scorsese film will be disappointed. This is
not his typical kind of story and - fittingly - neither does it bear
his typical direction. Using a cast of non-actors for the most part and
opting for a more artful photographic style (kudos to DP Roger Deakins,
veteran Coen collaborator, for his mesmerizing work here), Scorsese
gives a truly spiritual film revolving around one of History's great
tragedies. It is a feast of sights and sounds that succeeds in making
Tibet alluring and makes for even more of a heartbreak for the viewer
when this country is violated and destroyed. Perhaps as important as
any other collaboration - if not more so - is the score by Philip Glass
providing unusual but haunting melodies and depth.

Kundun is regarded by many as a misstep. It does wander a long way from
the gangster territory and the familiar NYC surroundings Scorsese
usually plays with. In truth, that such a comfortable veteran director
might take such an artistic and financial risk is both surprising and
inspiring. This will never gain the popularity of "Raging Bull" or
"Goodfellas", because it speaks of a world that disappeared.
Nevertheless, it might just be, with "Last Temptation of Christ",
Scorsese's deepest and most important film.
