

As those who can personally relate to this story well understand, not all
stories about damaged families can have resolution and closure. The Myth of
Fingerprints is quite honest in that regard. The story provides some
explanation of what happened but not why, much like real life. What we do
get is richly painted characters provided by strong performances, good
writing, and good direction who tell us their story and allow us to draw our
own conclusions. It's well worth the effort for those who appreciate a drama
that doesn't take short cuts and permits the characters to tell their own
stories instead of spoon feeding the audience and neatly wrapping everything
up like an unwanted birthday present.  
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, in all I loved this movie.  I kept returning to a comparison of
the
other kids come home for another painful thanksgiving with the people you
feel you have outgrown movie, Home for the Holidays.  The Myth of
Fingerprints was much darker, and in that way a little more real.  No slap
stick or cotton candy can be found in this film.  However, this can also
be
looked at as a detriment.  Other than an old movie shown twice in the film
we see no evidence that this family ever liked, or even had any sort of
playful feelings for each other.  The joking atmosphere that mists about
most families is conspicuously absent in this movie.  So much so that you
are nearly shocked to see Warren (Noah Wylie's character) attempt to
comfort
his sister Mia (Julianne Moore)when she is so obviously upset by
something.
You expect him to do as the rest of the family did:  leave her
there.
They try to be a family.  Warren, Leigh, and their mother (Blythe
Danner) are the most accessible of this wacked out crew seeming to be the
most feeling and tender.  The father, Hal, and Mia are emotionally
unavailable and distant, but Mia shows glimmers of hope every once in a
while especially in her exchanges with her brothers and childhood
sweetheart.  Hal on the other hand remained a complete mystery to me.  We
see him trying to steal his son's girlfriend in one scene and watching
home
movies getting teary eyed at the sight of his young children in the next.
I
was barely aware that the eldest brother Jake was in the film, he was of
little consequence but for one scene with Mia which is cut short in favor
of
sex with his girlfriend.
They were all such very different people with one important thing in
common.  They loved their family and had no idea why.  I think that's what
it comes down to for all of us.  After leaving home the first time we come
back we look around and think, "Who the hell are these people?"  I don't
know if we ever figure out the answer to that question ever again.  But I
do
know that one day, years after we asked it for the first time, we realize
that whether we know who they are or not they are part of us and we love
them.  Even if we have to confront them, dislike them, or are forced to
sever ties with them.  It's just the way it is.  "You have to remember the
good things.  They remind you of who you are." - The Myth of
Fingerprints
<|_=00=_|>

I would recommend this film; I was drawn in by the cast, particularly
Julianne Moore and Blythe Danner.  It's a typical situation...tense family
angst around the Thanksgiving table.  But this time, it's not played for
cuteness (i.e., Jodie Foster's "Home for the Holidays").  Dad (Roy Scheider,
giving a really icy performance) is seriously unstable, as is the eldest
daughter (Julianne Moore).  Mom (Blythe Danner) and the baby of the family
(Noah Wyle, also a producer) are more likeable -- this being an indie, it
also means they're less interesting.  The other two children are pretty much
ignored by the script, though Hope Davis as the eldest son's romantic
interest gives the picture a lift whenever she appears on screen.  There are
a few amusing moments and clever lines of dialogue, but it's not a Woody
Allen comedy/drama -- this one is more raw and probably more honest.
Definitely worth a rental.  You might love it or hate it, but it will
assuredly affect you one way or the other.
<|_=00=_|>

For all of the movies I have been forced to accept and comprehend, _The
Myth
of Fingerprints_ is far and away the one that I most wish that I could
have
had a part in.  It flows over a holiday visit like the cold breeze out
their
Maine window.  The characters are more real than human beings could hope
to
be; some are willing to disclose who they are, and others leave us with
only
a trace understanding.

I could not hope to make a movie this sincere and beautiful; it achieves
in
an hour and half more than I could hope to see in a lifetime.  Let's hope
that Bart Freundlich can top this one.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Myth of Fingerprints" promises reality and the audience is in fact
confronted with a wave of honest, hurting, wonderful, banal, outstanding and
intense situations. Everything turns out to be the pure essence of life.
During the whole movie the spectator is looking for an extra-ordinary action
that makes sure that "The Myth of Fingerprints" is a film, a visualized
story, an artificial product but the expectations are again and again
reduced to absurdity. Because life doesn't mean to immediately commit
suicide when something does go wrong, real life is far away from having
responses to all asked questions. Life is often quiet and simple with some
beautiful, warm and grand moments. "The Myth of  Fingerprints" is life
projected to the screen: authentic and beautifully simple. The cast is
brilliant and Julianne Moore, as always, gives a wonderful performance
showing the versatility of a disillusioned character that though is still
desperately looking for love, sympathy and understanding. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>
Thanksgiving is that time of the year loved by movie makers as it
presents an opportunity to bring together families, even dysfunctional
ones. Bert Freundlich sets "The Myth of the Fingerprints" in such a
setting. We saw the film it during its initial release, we thought it
was a good effort for a young man starting his career in films. On
second viewing, the other night, the film, although enjoyable, did not
have the same effect as when it made its debut.

First of all, some of the relationships don't ring true. That is the
case of Mia, the oldest of the girls. We watch as she and Elliott
arrive by train while they are involved in a quickie before getting
home. This action of being seen in public in such a compromising
position, is completely out of character with the Mia we get to see in
the scenes that follow. Right after they get to the family home, we get
the impression these two are as compatible as oil and vinegar. What is
she trying to prove? She goes into town with an attitude of a city
slicker, when she meets Cezanne. She reacquaints herself with the boy
that had a crush on her, but she has erased from her mind, to the point
of appearing this guy was from Mars. This, we didn't buy. Her eventual
involvement with Cezanne is something Mia, who hates the rural setting
of her youth just doesn't make sense after her haughty demeanor and
city ways.

Then there is Warren. He still pines after the loss of Daphne, the
beautiful former girlfriend who comes to see him when he gets home.
Daphne obviously has not stopped loving Warren, but there is an
incident that happened some time before during a party. When she tells
Warren about it, it becomes plain he had witnessed the incident, but
didn't do anything to stop it from happening.

The seemingly contented parents are also a puzzle. The father, Jake, is
an enigma. He is a taciturn man who doesn't interact with his children
well. Lena, the mother, seems to know much more than what she led us to
believe about her marriage and her relation with Jake.

The acting, in general, is good, no small feat to achieve by someone
without much experience under his belt, but Mr. Freundlich succeeds in
getting some inspired appearances, especially from Noah Wyle and
Julianne Moore. The cast is young and do ensemble work. Hope Davis,
Blythe Danner, Arija Baeikis, Michael Vartan, are seen among the
supporting cast.

Bart Freundlich showed a promise with this film, and has continued to
be among our best young directors since this effort.
<|_=00=_|>
I just watched this film, and I came on here to see if I'd missed
something that I really should have paid attention to! I really cant
help but think 'Geez, that's an hour and 40 minutes of my life that
I'll never get back!' 

I must admit that I think the acting was great, Juliana Moore was
amazing and so was Noah Wyle, but what was the point of the sister and
the other brother? What was going on with the brothers blonde
girlfriend? she was perky and had some personality but it went
nowhere... the story was just so slow and - how do I put this? non
descript! 

If you want to see a film with a dysfunctional family, inappropriate
relationships, humour and an answer to the questions posed during the
movie, then watch The Family Stone...now THAT'S a movie worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Myth of finger prints is truly an interesting film with great
performances by the cast and a great screenplay. It is worth buying the
DVD. The film its self can tell a thousand words so i just summarized
the good things about it. 1. Great directing 2. Outstanding cast 3.
Intelligent 4. great cinematography 5.great editing 6. Just a great
movie and the standards of movies or films must go higher to be able to
beat how great this movie is. The greatness of this film just glows
already when you are only holding the DVD.Julianne Moore throws to us
an outstanding performance which of course will not be forgotten and i
believe that a book that talks about the greatest films ever made this
film will be in it.
<|_=00=_|>

Greetings again from the darkness.  Caught this one on IFC and was really
impressed with the ensemble cast.  Especially great work from Julianne
Moore, who's role in lesser hands would have crushed the film.  Beautifully
shot in Maine, the scenery and warm home almost lull you into normalcy. 
However, the characters shock you into the ultimate dysfunctional family. 
No warm holiday fuzzies here.  A couple of great scenes with Noah Wylie. 
First, with him alone in bed, while everyone else in the house is
"intimately involved".  Also, a flashback scene showing a moment of true
weakness with his father, and the subsequent 3 years of guilt he carries. 
Good stuff.  My tidbit on this one involves the tangled web of the cast and
crew.  "Roseanne" series ties together 3 of the actors, while Julianne Moore
and Laurel Holloman worked together on "Boogie Nights".  Also director Bart
Freundlich and Moore parented a child together.  Aah, the close knit fabric
on independent filmmaking! Worth a rental.
<|_=00=_|>

Working within a tired construct, this movie puts stereotypes and
almost-characters in painfully self-conscious "real-life" situations
within
which they ape human reactions. Although the plot is reliant upon a
buildup
of tension, no such progression comes, and nothing changes for any of the
(mostly inexplicably) bitter characters who congregate in the family home
for a supposedly revealing and explosive holiday reunion. This profoundly
irritating story is clumsily written, poorly shot and populated by dull,
unsympathetic and self-involved characters. Its 90 minutes felt like
days.
