
I wouldn't have been too surprised if Merchant and Ivory had attempted
to suit up Anthony Hopkins as Thomas Jefferson or perhaps even fitted
Hugh Grant with shoe lifts and an ersatz Viriginia accent for the role.
Instead they went with Nick Nolte - who at first glance seems an almost
equally unlikely choice. However the casting proved to be inspired for
Nolte does a remarkable job of capturing Jefferson during his stint as
U.S. ambassador to France on the the eve of the French Revolution.
Nolte effectively projects Jefferson's pride, intelligence and
intellectual curiosity............ and human frailties.

Most of what I read and heard about this movie led me to believe that
it was chiefly concerned with Jefferson's relationship with Sally
Hemmings (Thandie Newton) - However, there are other threads running
through that take up as much time and attention in this film. If there
is a central theme here it seems to be an examination of some of the
failures of Jefferson as a man of principle. Both Jefferson's public
and private ideals are put to the test during his stay in Paris. And
he, arguably fails on every count. However, somehow (at least for me)
he remains a sympathetic character-even with his many faults.

Early on in the film Jefferson is called to account by the liberal
French aristocrats that he associates with regarding the failure of the
American Revolution to address the issue of slavery. Jefferson admits
that slavery is evil (he even tried to have an anti-slavery clause
inserted in the Declaration of Independence) -but he has no answer when
the Frenchmen assert that the American Revolution was "incomplete". 

The question of slavery also figures into Jefferson's rather ethereal
romance with the wife of an English painter (Mrs Cosway played by Greta
Scacci). When questioned about the matter he is only able to put her
off by simply saying that it would be impossible for a foreigner to
understand slavery as practiced in the American south.

Gwyenth Paltrow gives perhaps the best performance in the film as
Jefferson's troubled oldest daughter (Patsy). She sees her close
relationship with her father threatened by both Mrs Cosway and then
later by Sally Hemmings' appearance on the scene as the nursemaid to
Jefferson's younger daughter. Jefferson puts Patsy into a convent but
is later taken aback when she evidences an interest in converting to
Catholcism. The Mother Superior (Nancy Marchand) of the convent taunts
Jefferson, when he comes to retrieve his daughter. by pointing out that
freedom of religion is an idea (after all) championed in the U.S.
Constituion. The idea here, of course, is that Jefferson is being a
hypocrite once again by denying his daughter her own choice in the
matter. I must say though that the Mother Superior's jibes ring rather
hollow to me in as much as an 18th century Catholic nun would not be my
first choice to represent the voice of conscience regarding the
promotion of human liberty.

Thandie Newton may have the most difficult job here in so much as so
little is known about Sally Hemmings (We do get a couple scenes of
ineffective exposition in the guise of Sally's son (James Earl Jones)
being interviewed seventy years later). Newton chooses to play the
character very broadly and she comes across as quite believable in both
reflecting the speech and manners of a 15 year old slave girl fresh off
a Virginia Plantation (all the more remarkable since she is a 22 year
old Englishwoman---her accent only fails her in one scene I think). The
character of Sally Hemmings stands in sharp contrast to the almost
painful sophistication exhibited by the French nobility that Jefferson
associates with. I note that some posters on IMDb criticize Newton's
portrayal as lacking depth and even sinking at points to the
"stepanfetchit" level. I disagree. Newton- is showing us a confused
girl-far from home--and certainly a girl at times who has her own
agenda--however naive.

It is obvious here that Merchant and Ivory are attempting to get us, at
every point in the picture, to question the character of
Jefferson--However,- the way the affair between he and Hemmings is
handled speaks much to the limit of how far the film-makers were
willing to go. The affair itself is still clouded by controversy but in
almost all circumstances, a 50 year old man having an affair with a 15
year old girl must be considered, at least, culpable if not criminal.
There really is no such thing as consensual sex between a slave and a
master. Since nobody really knows the hows and whys of the affair,
Merchant and Ivory had free license to present it in any light that
they wanted---and they chose to make (unrealistically in my view) Sally
Hemmings the sole initiator of the affair -- In fact, it's difficult to
picture Nolte's Jefferson as initiating the affair--much less forcing
it. I think that this version of events rather begs credulity.

As usual, Merchant and Ivory, have produced a movie that has wonderful
period details - the costumes and sets are at the very top of the line
in every way. The building storm of the revolution is set as the
backdrop to all that happens in the film. Mob scenes are inserted
between views into the luxury and leisure of the French nobility in an
effort to remind us that many of these extremely glib and well dressed
people will be without heads in the near future.

"Jefferson in Paris" offers a little something for everyone---History
-Romance----class and race conflict----take your pick....It's a movie
well worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

Although I have been interested in Jefferson for many years, I put off
seeing this film for some reason, and only caught it recently on
cable.

I give it mixed reviews, generally favorable.  Ivory/Merchant have again
fashioned a lavish tableau, and the sets, costumes, props, etc. are first
rate.  

The cast is solid.  I was afraid Nolte would be a little too rough for my
image of Jefferson, but that played out all right.  

What made this film interesting to me was certainly not whether it was
accurate in a historical sense.  How could it be--not nearly enough is known
of that situation.  The question is whether or not the film is plausible and
"honest within itself," i.e., whether we can accept the story as having
something to tell us, if what is depicted is historically true or
not.

To me, the movie is about freedom, and the contradictions of freedom. 
Jefferson, freedom's advocate, is ensnared within the institution of
slavery, and that ends up torpedoing any mature romance with Maria Cosway. 
Jefferson is also in his own life quite rigid, pulling his own daughter back
from possible conversion to Roman Catholicism.  His granting of freedom to
James and Sally Hemmings has limitations.

What bothered me some about the movie was its use of the backdrop of the
coming French Revolution--by itself a commentary on the limitations of
freedom.  To the filmmakers it seems "the Terror," two or three years in the
future, is the definitive statement and stage of the revolution.  The movie
even seems soft on the ancienne regime, which over time killed a lot more
people than the Terror.

These muted investigations of freedom in the film move very slowly, but
still hold interest--they are thoughtful, probing, and, to a degree, don't
pass simplistic judgements on people.  

Cerebral film, but then Jefferson was a cerebral guy!

 
<|_=00=_|>

This is a screen account, directed by James Ivory, of a fascinating
historical episode - Thomas Jefferson's period as US ambassador in Paris for
the five years leading up to the 1789 revolution. Many Americans may be put
off the film, because they do not accept its assumption that Jefferson was
the father of children born to his young slave Sally Hemings. Non-Americans
may be less interested in this arguable relationship than in the undoubted
fact that Jefferson - a passionate believer in individual liberty and
draftsman of the Declaration of Independence with its ringing references to
equality and inalienable rights - was a slave-owner, and that he could
justify his two-way stance (at least to himself).

Jefferson also displays double-think when, though a fierce defender of
religious liberty, he stops his pious, dutiful daughter Patsy (Martha) -an
admirable portrayal by Gyneth Paltrow in a difficult role - from converting
to Catholicism and joining a convent. Overall, Jefferson does not come out
of the movie too well. In addition to revealing him as a child-molesting
hypocrite, Ruth Jhabvala's scenario allows Nick Nolte to convey the
tentative and observant side of Jefferson's character, but gives him scant
opportunity to bring out the depth and breadth of Jefferson's mind or his
political philosophy.

In addition to the visual delights of costume and setting that we have
learned to expect from Merchant-Ivory productions, the most successful
aspect of the movie is the all-but love affair between Jefferson and witty,
charming Maria Cosway - the wife of a foppish English artist (Simon Callow
in full make-up) - a role in which Greta Scacchi lights up the screen. By
contrast, Thandie Newton has been criticised for her awkward hamming as
Sally, but it should be remembered that she is  playing an uneducated 14 or
15 year old girl.

Perhaps the movie's worst features are the "framing" sequences set in the
late 19th century, where a Jefferson/Hemings descendent (James Earl Jones)
relates his family history to a newspaper reporter. If these superfluous
scenes had been cut, perhaps there would have been time to go deeper into
Jefferson's politics, which after all is why the man is remembered today.


<|_=00=_|>
So many of the negative comments seem to be reactions against either
downplaying or overemphasizing Jefferson's relationship with Sally. It
strikes me that this is a reasonably balanced presentation of what's
been learned in recent years. Other negative critiques are the
disappointments recorded by patriots expecting some grandiose pageant
for Fourth of July consumption. But this is all-in-all a less
pretentious and better film than the typical celebration of Americana.
Nolte presents Jefferson as an idealistic but very human being. Paltrow
is very persuasive as Patsy, and many of the rest of the cast present
excellent (or well-proportioned) characterizations. Except for some
trivial inaccuracies, this is a richly textured reconstruction of
history as it may very well have occurred. I find that I look in on it
just about every time it pops up on cable--and I'm always rewarded.
<|_=00=_|>

We are invited here to see some of the more infrequently discussed aspects
of the multifaceted Thos. Jefferson: architect, scientist, horticulturalist.
Less of these perhaps than we might like, but more than we usually receive.
Jefferson the scientist is mostly implied -- he witnesses one of the early
Montgolfier ballooning experiments, for example. 

The primary focus is on the contentious matter of Jefferson's affairs of the
heart. These include, most notably, a speculative miscegenetic one, but
there is a second one, better documented, for contrast. Even if one suspects
that the decision to direct attention here was primarily a commercial one,
those portions of the film are well enough executed, while the creators,
Prawer Jhabvala and Ivory, do provide us with a little seasoned food for the
intellect, both here and elsewhere.

"Jefferson in Paris" does contain a few speech anachronisms but otherwise
seems to have found the flavour of the period. Altogether, not an
exceptional film, but one which has much to recommend it.

<|_=00=_|>

My interest in seeing this movie was to compare it with the recent CBS mini
series, "Sally Hemmings," which I recently saw and enjoyed. This movie was
slow moving and not nearly as interesting as the mini series but it did
provide some supplementary information about Jefferson that was not in the
mini series. The movie, of course, was written from Jefferson's perspective
while the mini series was written from the perspective of Sally Hemmings.
The photography in the movie was wonderful as well as the acting. The last
part of the movie,  was by far the best.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched this movie last night. Unbelievably, Channel 4 (tv channel here
in
the UK) scheduled it at 2.15am - right in the middle of the night! Who on
earth is likely to watch it at that time? I just hope some people decided
to
record it & watch it later.

I think its a great film. I couldn't stop watching it. It gives you an
insight into Thomas Jefferson and his personal life, and into the French
society of the time. The film is also visually great.

But, as with any movie, it has its flaws. My main criticism is that it was
too much like an historical documentary. It didn't have the courage to
speculate more about the relationship between Jefferson and Sally (the
black
slave girl). Jefferson must - in real life - have displayed more emotion
with the slave girl than is depicted in this film, especially behind
closed
doors. Yet we don't see it. We see Jefferson being more affectionate with
his daughter (Jefferson hugs her at one point in the film), than with
Sally
the slave girl, and yet he is supposed to have been passionately involved
with Sally & fathered her children. Therefore it has a documentary feel to
it, without any fictional element, which leaves the viewer somewhat
detached
& disconnected.

But credit to the maker's for tackling the subject, and it's certainly
made
me interested in learning more about the man. 
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie, because I am a complete sucker for movies set in the
18th
century, and this is exceptionally well done.  Nick Nolte is the most
extremely unlikely choice to play Jefferson, but somehow he and the
director
make it work.  The extensive selections from Jefferson's letters as he
watches things unravel in France add a great deal to the entertainmnet
value.

Most people think that TJ signed the Constitution, when in fact he was US
ambassador to France.  From a costume point of view and in terms of
certain
vignettes, this movie does a marvelous job of debunking that notion.

Now to the Sally Hemmings thing.  DNA evidence does not lie, and it is
now
clear that he did indeed father her children.  But I have a problem, and
I'm
not sure if there is any historical resolution to it.  In the movie, she
is
a "massah, how's you feelin' today" type slave.  I'm willing to accept
that
they fell mutually in love, but I'm still having a hard time dealing with
her not having more class.  It is a mistake to believe that slaves of
relatively enlightened owners (yes, folks, I know what I'm saying) had no
sophistication.

Dumas Malone, the great biographer of Jefferson, would go into an
apoplexy
if you raised the possibility of this affair being real.  Now that we
know
that it was, I might be his unworthy successor in suggesting that a man
like
Jefferson would not simply take a steppinfetchit slave girl to his bed,
but
would rather seek comfort in the arms of someone whom he could respect,
however questionable the situation looks in a modern light.
<|_=00=_|>
Jefferson promised to his wife on her deathbed that he would never
marry again. It turns out that Sally Hemings and Jefferson's wife were
half-sisters ... they had the same father. It has been noted that
Jefferson's older daughter knew of the relationship but of course it
wasn't discussed in their presumably polite household. I just got a
tape (that's the only format available today) and I haven't looked at
it yet. Since I saw the film only when it was released, and I've
learned a lot about Jefferson since then, I'm looking forward to
finding free time to just sit and watch. I'll be back and possibly
change my rating, but I remember wishing for a more dynamic actor to
play Jefferson.
<|_=00=_|>
I have viewed this movie numerous times and find the story profound.
The acting supersedes the actual script, but this is why I rate this
movie so high. Thandie Newton as Sally Hemming is as good as portrayal
as any I've seen. Her naivety, yet bountiful charisma lingers in your
mind for days and even now I can see her frolicking, sweet character.
As for Nick Nolte, he IS Thomas Jefferson: stern yet generous,
political yet extremely intelligent. And, unlike other Gwyneth Paltrow
roles, she CAN play vindictive and succeeds wonderfully. Her contempt
for her father's relationship with Sally, her slave/maid, coupled with
her religious beliefs only compliment the main plot line. Her angst
over joining the nunnery or continuing on to care for her father,
provides the overall story with some depth. This helps suggest a theme
of moral temperament and uninhibited enlightenment over issues of race
and religious convictions. Although the movie drags at times, the
acting shines through as superb.
