

The Two Jakes and The Godfather 3 were released in the second half of 1990
and both films proved that sometimes it's best not to tamper with classics.
This is not necessarily because sometimes a sequel can't compliment a
classic, but because no matter what you do, there's no way to avoid
comparing the new versions to the old. And the final chapter of the
Godfather trilogy is vastly inferior to the first two. And Two Jakes is
vastly inferior to Chinatown. But since Chinatown and the first two
Godfathers are among the best films every made, that's a pretty pointless
comparison. Just as The Godfather 3 stands on its own as a very sturdy and
interesting piece of filmmaking, Two Jakes also works on its own merits.
It's confusing, overlong (a full ten minutes more than the original), and
never fully gels, but it's also passionate, intelligent filmmaking. Go
figure.

In his autobiography, producer Robert Evans refers to Robert Towne's script
for Two Jakes as basically only half-finished. It was half-finished when
they started shooting, half-finished when they made it half-way through the
shoot, and it pretty much feels half-finished in the final product.  This is
a movie where characters wander in and out and a full two-thirds of the
storylines go essentially unresolved. The grand climax of the film (and
trust me, I'm not spoiling anything) is an evidentiary hearing, for heavens
sakes! And I couldn't really explain the plot if I wanted to, but here's the
quick summary: It's fifteen years after Chinatown and Jake Gittes Jack
Nicholson) has become older, fatter, and a good deal more bitter. He's now
an Investigator respected throughout LA, but he's still haunted by his
experiences with the Mulwrays, especially the late Evelyn. The film begins
with a jealous husband, Jake Berman (Harvey Keitel), storming into a hotel
room and killing his wife's lover, with Jake listening in the next room. Of
course, you know the crime probably wasn't entirely about love or lust and
that money probably had something to do with it. Money, history, and oil,
actually. And it spins in circles from there. 

It's easy to notice that the film slacks off at around the half-way point.
It's then that you realize just how tight Robert Towne's Chinatown script
was. Even at a shred over two hours, every word counts, every gesture, every
twist. Two Jakes is flabby in comparison. The dialogue is pleasantly
hardboiled and the actors enjoy delivering it, but the resolutions of the
various mysteries mostly fall flat. You either see them coming, or don't
understand when they arrive. It's to Towne and director Jack Nicholson's
credit that the film ends on a number of satisfying grace
notes.

Nicholson's direction is almost never the source of the film's flaws. And
this is legitimately high praise in a film as twisting and convoluted as
this. Of course, he again makes you appreciate the brilliant economy of
Roman Polanski's direction of Chinatown, a film with an immeasurable amount
of class. Nicholson produces several wonderful moments including a beautiful
pull shot from the ocean to a teatime conversation with Kahn (who Chinatown
fans will avidly remember). Nicholson and director of photography Vilmos
Zsigmond capture a Los Angeles of burnt out dreams, on the brink of
overdevelopment and overexpansion. The film has noir stylings but it
respectfully looks different from Chinatown.

Nicholson's performance is more a study of what has happened to the actor
since Chinatown, rather than what has happened to the character. Because
Jack was less of an icon when Chinatown was made, the original Jake Gittes
is one of his least iconic performances. By the time he won his Oscar the
next year for One Flew Over The Cuckoo's nest Nicholson had already become
JACK (in all caps) and he hasn't looked back. In Two Jakes, Jake Gittes has
become JACK. There's no getting around it. However, there's also no getting
around the fact that Nicholson is a great actor and even if his performances
are frequently variations on a theme, it's a pretty super
theme.

Two Jakes is peppered with supporting performances of varying degrees of
depth. Harvey Keitel has never been better as the second of the two Jakes.
His character is emotionally complicated and perhaps the only person in the
film (besides Gittes) who gets to go through a character arc.  He plays it
wonderfully. The femmes fatale in the film, as played by Madeline Stowe and
Meg Tilly are less and more complicated than they seem. Ruben Blade, Richard
Farnsworth, and Eli Wallach provide capable support when they're given
anything to do.

The fact is that like the Godfather 3, if you came upon Two Jakes with a
completely open mind, you'd find it a complicated thriller, vastly more
substantial than most films of the genre. The fact that it's got its flaws
that it'll never compare to Chinatown are the basis for a 7/10
rating.
<|_=00=_|>

Jack Nicholson is certainly one of the greatest actors of this or any
generation. Chinatown is perhaps his greatest film and he certainly should
have won an Oscar for it. Sam Spade and Phillip Marlowe certainly have
nothing on his Jake Gittes! The only problem with this sequel is that it
came out many years too late. I read that Robert Evans originally wanted to
make it in the 1980s but legal problems held it up. The Two Jakes was pretty
much ignored at the box office and got some awfully bad reviews. I could not
understand why because I thoroughly enjoyed it. So many films that come out
are geared towards kids and make you feel like a kid again when you see
them. Thats okay, but this film made me feel like an adult seeing it. The
film is as good as Chinatown in so many ways. I love the props and the
ambiance of the 1940s that they use. Jack did a great job directing this
film and he deserves a lot more credit.
<|_=00=_|>

Most reviews  pull The Two Jakes to pieces, except for a very
well-considered one by Roger Ebert (find it at the Chicago
Sun-Times).

Of course, it's not the classic Chinatown is, but it's a damned good movie.
It's about the past, how it pervades our lives for the rest of our days,
and
how we assimilate it into our futures.

Many have complained that the film is convoluted, that when the key
revelation comes (I ain't givin' that away) you miss the impact of it. I
strongly disagree with this. I for one had actually figured out the
revelation before it happened - this didn't bother me because I wanted so
much for it to be what I had thought it was going to be. And when it comes,
it's so subtle you could almost be forgiven for missing it. It's lovely, so
comforting in a very ironic way.

All I'll say is, pay attention to the scene where Jake (Nicholson) goes to
see Kahn (the unmistakable James Hong). Something about the
flowers...

Anyway, I'm drifting. The Two Jakes is subtle, well-crafted, and  when all
is revealed, so very simple. The 'convoluted' events in the plot serve to
illustrate what a single, simple desire can cause.

Just watch it. Bear in mind the events and characters from Chinatown, but
only so that you have a backstory for these characters and not a standard
to
which they should be compared.

"It never goes away..."
<|_=00=_|>
Most reviews pull The Two Jakes to pieces, except for a very
well-considered one by Roger Ebert (find it at the Chicago Sun-Times).

Of course, it's not the classic Chinatown is, but it's a damned good
movie. It's about the past, how it pervades our lives for the rest of
our days, and how we assimilate it into our futures.

Many have complained that the film is convoluted, that when the key
revelation comes (I ain't givin' that away) you miss the impact of it.
I strongly disagree with this. I for one had actually figured out the
revelation before it happened - this didn't bother me because I wanted
so much for it to be what I had thought it was going to be. And when it
comes, it's so subtle you could almost be forgiven for missing it. It's
lovely, so comforting in a very ironic way.

All I'll say is, pay attention to the scene where Jake (Nicholson) goes
to see Kahn (the unmistakable James Hong). Something about the
flowers...

Anyway, I'm drifting. The Two Jakes is subtle, well-crafted, and when
all is revealed, so very simple. The 'convoluted' events in the plot
serve to illustrate what a single, simple desire can cause.

Just watch it. Bear in mind the events and characters from Chinatown,
but only so that you have a back story for these characters and not a
standard to which they should be compared.
<|_=00=_|>
This sounded pretty good... Nicholson is mostly fun to watch, and I
enjoyed Chinatown immensely(Towne returning to write this sequel was a
treat, as well). I enjoyed it for a while, but not too far past the
half-way point, I realized that it had run out of steam... the film
kept rolling, but it no longer kept the viewers' attention. Jack
Nicholson is no director, and it shows... while he is a skilled actor,
he should stay in front of the camera instead of trying his hand behind
it. The cinematography is close, but doesn't quite make it to being
good... we have shots that linger, and wasted opportunities aplenty.
Polanski's loose, involving camera is sorely missed here. The pacing is
also off... the film ends up seeming heavy as a result. The writing is
quite good. The acting varies, but is mostly on the positive end. The
tone isn't entirely sure what it wants to be, but does create some
great "noir" moments. Jake's monologues are occasionally spot-on. The
mystery varied some... parts of it, I had figured out before the lead,
whereas others only became clear to me just as they were revealed. This
is a hit and miss scenario... and unfortunately, it misses more than it
hits. This is worth watching as a continuation of Chinatown for those
that want more of the plot, and can compromise with the drop in style
and finesse of the film-making values. I recommend this to big fans of
Jack Nicholson and those interested in seeing what occurred after the
events of Chinatown. 6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Being a "sequel" to "Chinatown," I had high expectations of this film.
I even gave it two looks - one on VHS and then one a few years later on
DVD - because I wanted so much to like it....but it stunk each time.
What a waste of money.

The only thing going for it is the beautiful film-work and the great
1940s atmosphere, as "Chinatown" had some 16 years earlier when that
film came out. (Kind of long wait for a sequel, anyway, don't you
think?)

If ever a movie could be called "convoluted," it's this one. It made
Chinatown as simple as "Bambi." Even the mainline critics all agreed
this was incoherent in its storytelling. It's less confusing, but not
much, if you know the characters from Chinatown since there are
references to "Kathryn Mulray." However, it's just too frustrating to
watch and try to follow what's going on.

I know lots of people who loved "Chinatown" but not one who likes this
film.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Two Jakes" is the sequel to "Chinatown", a film that really did not
need another chapter.  However, with that said this is an above average film
that works most of the time.  Jack Nicholson returns and is sucked into
another web of deception and corruption.  He is hired by Harvey Keitel to
follow his two-timing wife (a very sexy Madeleine Stowe).  Just like before,
the more Nicholson learns about his case, the stranger and more complicated
it becomes.  Everything will lead to fireworks which involves a housing
development and oil-drilling in the Los Angeles area.  Like "Chinatown",
"The Two Jakes" is multi-layered and somewhat confusing at times.  It will
likely take multiple viewings to get the full effect of this film if you are
unable to get it on the first try.  Robert Towne's screenplay is smart, but
Nicholson's direction lacks the creativity and overall brilliance of Roman
Polanski's.  Meg Tilly is adequate in the film.  Ruben Blades and Richard
Farnsworth both do good work, but overall nothing in this film can match
what was accomplished 16 years earlier with its predecessor.  3.5 out of 5
stars.   
<|_=00=_|>
Knowing this Chinatown sequel's detested reputation, I was too
interested in seeing a movie directed by Jack Nicholson to turn away. I
was surprised to find that it is very under-appreciated. Nicholson is
quite an inventive, if a little show-offy, director. His confident
helming of the very late sequel to a highly revered contemporary
classic is full of interesting shots and his performance realistically
portrays an older, wiser Jake Gittes who has been seasoned with
philosophies on the pain and importance of the past.

It is not simply on account of Nicholson. Robert Towne's own
continuation of his predecessor is quite creative. Harvey Keitel plays
the second Jake, who has hired the initial Jake to catch his wife
cheating on him red-handed. In the course of the sting, Keitel up and
shoots the adulterous lover, who turns out to be his real estate
partner. Nicholson is now under intense scrutiny for his unwitting part
in the crime and has to figure out if it was justifiable homicide or
straight murder. The case proceeds to elude to California's booming oil
industry as well as his own past after he stumbles upon a wire
recording during the investigation that mentions the daughter of Faye
Dunaway's ill-fated character in the last film.

The Two Jakes, to me, can stand on its own with Chinatown. Polanski
directed the first film much much differently than Nicholson addresses
this follow-up. I don't believe in the case of Chinatown a sequel needs
to be a comparable continuation. Making a second installment sixteen
years later allows a lot of license for it to be its own beast. Some
such sequels done that way are disasters. The Two Jakes stays afloat.
And Madeleine Stowe remains the most insatiably attractive woman of any
superlative comment that I've made within the past month, at least. And
I've made a lot.

The film's theatrical trailer is actually incredible. It's narrated by
Gittes, telling us how the war was good for Los Angeles in so many
different ways that contribute to his business, as extremely dry bits
of humor throughout the film punctuate it here and there and
provocative, often voyeuristic shots from the movie are included.
<|_=00=_|>
In "The Two Jakes" (just as in "Chinatown"), private investigator Jake
Gittes (Jack Nicholson) finds himself in a tight spot after having been
misled by one of his clients. The deception in "Chinatown" related to a
client's identity whereas in this case, it's hidden motives that lead
to big problems for Jake. The subsequent investigations in both movies
soon mushroom into something far larger than originally anticipated and
eventually uncover serious corruption involving California's valuable
resources.

The similarities between the two plots are not untypical of what's
normally seen where a successful movie is followed by a sequel, but in
order to establish its own value convincingly, a sequel needs to
provide something different or better than the original. In this case,
something different is attempted as, due to the passage of time since
the original film, Jake has evolved significantly as a character and
his preoccupation with past events fills him with sadness and regret as
well as a profound sense of loss.

The events in "The Two Jakes" take place in Los Angeles in 1948. Eleven
years have elapsed since Evelyn Mulwray was shot in Chinatown and Jake
is now considerably more prosperous. His business has expanded and been
relocated to an impressive new building and despite the often sleazy
nature of his work, he's gained a certain degree of respectability as
well as some extra weight.

A property developer, who's convinced that his wife is having an
affair, approaches Jake with what appears to be a routine job to gather
evidence against her. Jake supplies the recording equipment and cameras
to record what transpires when he and his client, Jake Berman (Harvey
Keitel) go to the motel where Mrs Berman (Meg Tilly) is expected to be
with her lover.

On the night when their plan is put into action, Berman breaks into the
motel room and on finding his wife with another man, simply shoots him
dead. Jake is shocked to discover that the dead man is Berman's
business partner and his wife, Lillian Bodine (Madeleine Stowe) thinks
that what transpired was a planned murder. Furthermore, Lillian's
attorney Chuck Newty (Frederic Forrest) tells Jake that it appears that
he was an accessory to murder and that unless he can prove that Berman
planned to kill his partner, he will see to it that Jake is sued and
financially ruined in the process.

Mysteriously, the recording made at the motel included a couple of
mentions of Katherine Mulwray's name and Jake decides to find out their
significance as well as pursuing his investigation into what lay behind
the killing of Mark Bodine (John Hackett). He discovers that Berman and
Bodine were involved in selling houses in a subdivision of the San
Fernando Valley and that, in the event of Bodine's death, Berman and
his wife would inherit the whole business. As it seemed possible that
there may be oil deposits on the land, the business could, in fact, be
more valuable than first realised and in that case, whoever held the
mineral rights could potentially become very rich. Jake pursues the
various strands of his investigation with limited success until he
eventually finds the answers to all his questions from someone who,
like him, is haunted by the past.

An important prerequisite for fully understanding and enjoying "The Two
Jakes" is an ability to recall the complicated plot of "Chinatown" and
the names of its various characters. As this sequel was released 16
years after the original film, it's obvious that a high proportion of
cinema-goers at that time would not have been able to appreciate it
sufficiently to enjoy it themselves or to recommend it to their friends
and consequently it's also not surprising that it wasn't a box office
success.

In a very empathetic performance which is both measured and subtle,
Jack Nicholson conveys just how jaded, world weary and cynical Jake has
become since his experiences in Chinatown and also how deeply he's
haunted by the past. The remainder of the cast also contribute strong
performances with Keitel, Stowe and Tilly being particularly good.

"The Two Jakes" falls short of the brilliance of its classic
predecessor but there's still much to commend it. Its story of
adultery, greed, blackmail and murder is intriguing throughout and
extremely well written. The inclusion of Peggy Lee's song "Don't Smoke
In Bed", some eye-catching art deco surroundings and Vilmos Zsigmond's
stunning cinematography also contribute immensely to the wonderful
atmosphere of the piece which seems to evoke late-1940s L.A. so
convincingly. The only caveat, however, is to make sure to see
"Chinatown" before watching this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Long-delayed follow-up (of sorts) to 1974's "Chinatown", which was
directed by Roman Polanski and featured Jack Nicholson as 1930s private
detective J.J. Gittes. "The Two Jakes" was written by returning
screenwriter Robert Towne and directed by Nicholson himself, who also
stars, but--despite a certain patchy swagger and style--it's a let-down
for admirers of the previous film, and a yawner to latter-day Nicholson
fans who might be expecting some combative, belligerent fireworks.
Jack's gumshoe delves into an infidelity scandal which quickly leads to
dirty doings in the oil business (it was water the first time).
Confusing and deadly slow, with the irritating, gravel-voiced narration
by Nicholson failing to supply the proper mood. There are a few arty
camera set-ups and good players in the cast (including Meg Tilly,
Harvey Keitel, Eli Wallach, and a nice 'bit' by Faye Dunaway), but it
fails to intrigue even on a nostalgic level. * from ****
