

Yes, you read that right.

Emily Bergl is this films greatest asset. She can actually act and looks
sincere. The only problem is that she's far too good looking for the role.
That may sound shallow, but throughout the movie, we're supposed to get
the
impression that she's "ugly" and because of that, she's an outcast.
Contrast
this to Sissy Spacek in the original who looked plain enough to carry out
the role of "ugly duckling". It was only her talent that let Bergl carry
(pun not intended) out the role convincingly.

The antoganists are unusually shallow, especially when presented against
the
more modern bad guys in horror films, at least where you can see the bad
guy. Though at least one of the bad girls is convincing as Rachel's new
friend.

Jason Landon does an amiable job as Rachel's boyfriend and lends a lot of
credibility to the final scene which, I must say, is a refreshing change
from the hand coming out of the ground scenes popularized by the original
Carrie.

All in all, a refreshingly entertaining and, dare I say, well done
show.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this late last night on Channel 7. I first noticed that that
was this hot goth-like chick playing the title role and there were
people I'd seen before like Jason London, that idiot form Home
Improvement Zachary Ty Bryan and Mena Suvari who had a busy year in
1999 with American Pie and American Beauty.

I think critics had a go at this film, but in my opinion this was a
very worthy sequel to the original. For starters, it stayed true to the
idea of having actors who are in their 20s playing teenagers (that was
a joke) because Sizzy Spacek was 26 when she played Carrie in the
original and we've got a 24 year old playing Rachel Long in this film
here as well as a few 27 year old people playing some of the jocks.

I just loved seeing those jocks and back-stabbers getting what they
deserved. They acted so well to get you to hate them. You could feel
Rachel's pain and the evil within her and what she was doing...
although it was so brutal and Satan-like... it was something you could
somewhat cheer for. It's an amazing scene with all the glass
shattering. Incredible!

But never mind that - the acting is very good in this film. The
storyline is a little bit thin at times but on top of all of that it
still is rather original. Some good special effects, some pretty good
comedy from that American Pie nerd guy (you know who I am talking
about) and it's a lot better than most modern day teen horror schlock!
I put this film alongside Freddy vs. Jason as one of the most
surprisingly good teen horror films of the last decade. All those
Halloween sequels, and Scream if you know what I did last summer crap
as well as those films that try to take the mickey out of teen horror
films are worthy of more than enough Razzies when compared to this
film. 

I'm so glad this film wasn't nominated for Razzies.

I can't believe Emily Bergl is 30 now! She deserves more roles in
movies because she is a bloody good actress with an original and unique
look about her.

The Rage: Carrie 2 deserves so much more respect than it has been
given.
<|_=00=_|>
Katt Shea is a brilliant director. She has a way of making even the
goriest, disturbing and often mundane things look beautiful and
interesting. Katt's style is hypnotic but at the same time she uses
this to her advantage. The scary parts are that much more jarring when
they do happen because she rips you out of a trance!! I'm not the type
to get scared in films but I must admit I jumped a few times! There's
no director that can make a woman falling off a building look more
glamorous than Katt Shea! I didn't expect to enjoy this film as much as
I did. The script didn't have the greatest/most realistic dialog or
serious character development but it was campy fun! However, I found
the character of Rachael much more realistic than the original Carrie.
I thought it was tremendously well cast. Moreover the set decoration
was very clever and added a deeper understanding of the characters.
Bonus points for having Danny B. Harvey and Billie Holiday music in it!
It's hard for a sequel to really be taken seriously because people get
so damn nostalgic for the first- but you should really check this one
out! I actually enjoyed it more than the first Carrie. The Rage: Carrie
2 is highly entertaining!!
<|_=00=_|>

Carrie 2 - The Rage, was nothing like I expected.  I went into the theatre
expecting to see a cheap imitation of the first Carrie...but I was wrong!
The Rage was excellent!  Although the first Carrie is a classic cult horror
movie and can never be topped, The Rage did a good job living up to the
standards set by the first.  Newcomer Emily Bergl did an excellent job as
the enraged Rachel.  Amy Irving returns as Sue Snell, and this allows the
The Rage to be connected to Carrie.  A series of flashbacks and many
connections to the first Carrie, help The Rage succeed.  Everything is well
explained and you leave the theatre very satisfied.  There is some gore and
scary parts that may not be suitable for younger viewers that have watched
the first (and much tamer) Carrie.  Overall I believe this film was an
excellent sequel to Carrie and although not a Stephen King novel, as the
first was, I think the King of horror would have been impressed.  A must see
for horror fanatics or anyone looking for a good scare!!
Boo!!

On a scale of 1 - 10, 1 being yawn! and 10 being bed-wetting
nightmares......I give THE RAGE - CARRIE 2 an 8!!
<|_=00=_|>

The Rage: Carrie 2 - being more a remake than a sequel of the 70ies
classic
- is a good film for chilling out after a week of work or something like
that. The creators were able to transport the basic ideas of the Stephen
King novel (teenage problems)into this sequel. Only this is a reason to
call
this a good movie - because I think that Stephen King fans had to see much
bad adaptions of the master´s work in the past. Another reason is that
this
movie is much better than all the other teen-horror-movies of the last
years
like I Know What You Did Last Summer (of course I could never say
something
bad about the first two Scream movies - seriously!). Carrie 2 handles
teenager´s problems and conflict much better than other films and I think
that it is a much better film to identificate with for young people. The
"new Carrie" is - once again - a true outsider and not one of these upper
class all-american teens like the ones in I Know...etc. The movie shows
its
sympathy for this outsider (a nice detail: in some scenes you can see the
Marilyn Manson-poster at the wall of Rachel´s room - the icon of all angry
outsiders). Another point: the horror violence is much harder than in the
other teen movies, too. Everyone who likes gory horror should like this
movie
All in all, I could not say anything bad about this movie. Just take a
look.
8 out of 10 
<|_=00=_|>

I rented this expecting the absolute worst. It's a sequel and a horror film,
and usually horror sequels suck.

well, while being far from a great film, this sequel to the original Brian
DePalma classic was a notch above what i was expecting. it's basically the
same plot but modernized for the '90's.

There's more blood and gore, and the graphic violence is a bit more in your
face than the relative restraint shown in the original.

while nowhere near a classic, it's above average and worth a look for a few
cheap thrills.

rating:6
<|_=00=_|>
Admittedly, "The Rage: Carrie 2" can't equal the quality established by
its predecessor. But it's better than I expected it to be. Portraying
an outcast high school student (Emily Bergl) discovering that she has
telekinetic powers - don't worry; it gets explained - and using them to
get revenge on her tormentors, it mostly repeats everything from the
original. But the good aspect comes from how they set up some scenes
and shock you (I really liked the shattering ball). Finally, the party
at the end just might make your blood freeze.

Overall, this is a movie worth seeing, if only once. Of course, you'll
have to see the original first, so as to understand everything that
happens in this one. Also starring Amy Irving and Mena Suvari (right
before she played Kevin Spacey's sexual fantasy in "American Beauty").
<|_=00=_|>
I know this movie's almost a decade old, but I only just became a
member here at IMDb, so I wanted to drop a comment on this amazing
horror flick.

This movie has quite a bit to offer fans of just about any kind of
movie: horror, suspense, drama, a couple of laughs, and some romance
all set within the template of the modern age teen movie - and it works
out beautifully. Emily Bergl and Jason London star as Rachel Lang and
Jesse Ryan, respectively. Making her cameo/return from the first film
is Amy Irving in the role of Sue Snell, the sole survivor of the
original massacre. Amy Irving, while not seen very often in the film,
does a fantastic job of showing that the character is indeed still very
tormented by that fateful night (it all just comes flooding back to her
when Rachel breaks the snow globe).

One of the best scenes in the movie is when Sue Snell takes Rachel
(very distraught over the suicide of her best friend) back to the
location of the original massacre, where the remnants of the desecrated
high school still stand. It is also this scene that tells us how Rachel
got her powers - she's Carrie's half-sister by way of a shared father.

That brings us back to Rachel and Jesse. These two become attracted to
one another as the film progresses and eventually go out on a couple of
dates. Let me just say something here. The romance between these two
was done amazingly well, aided by the on-screen chemistry between Bergl
and London. I was so taken by it all that I actually hurt for Jesse
when Rachel died.

In the end, they end up getting a little too close for the comfort (and
over-inflated ego) of Jesse's ex-girlfriend, who subsequently plots
revenge with her friends, as well as the other football players that
Jesse rightfully dissed earlier in the film, completely unaware of the
grizzly fate that awaits them all. It all goes down at the post game
party at the rich football player, Mark's house. Inevitably, they go
too far and end up pushing Rachel off the deep end...and into a
seething ocean of rage. The party-goers all die in particularly gory
fashion - to include a girl being riddled with CDs and a jock being
pinned to a door (and Ms. Snell) by a fireplace poker. The jock, Eric
(played by Zachary Ty Brian) - also the guy responsible for the death
of Rachel's best friend - certainly gets it worse then anyone when he
is castrated with a harpoon gun.

In the end, mirroring the first film, Rachel exacts her revenge and
kills herself in the process, leaving a very heartbroken Jesse the sole
survivor.

This was such a great movie for so many reasons, and I truly recommend
it to any fan of the horror genre.
<|_=00=_|>

The Rage: Carrie 2 was a great sequel at my opinion.
Emily Bergl played her role excellent, and Amy Irving (Sue Snell) is back at
her old character from Carrie.

Unfortunately this film has been undervoted.
There is a good storyline in it, which most people probably don't like,
there had to be more action??, well, the way it is makes it a real sequel to
Carrie.

I really don't know what makes Carrie 2 so poor for most
people.

Carrie 2, 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

The only partially amusing portion of this film was the last 15 minutes when
the new Carrie started killing her classmates.  This sequel had none of the
inventiveness or spookiness of the the first film.  Nothing was scary about
this film except how painfully boring and out of touch the movie was.  Like
Sam Jackson in Deep Blue Sea, I am sure Mena Suvari was more than glad to
exit the film early.  In the period of particularly bad teen horror films,
Carrie 2 out does them all.
