
Making a valiant stab at becoming an action figure, Geena Davis plays
Morgan Adams, a wily, rough & tumble pirate woman who lives for
adventure and the like. When her evil Uncle Dawg (Frank Langella) turns
on her and her dad, it's a race against time for Morgan as she tries to
piece together a map that will lead her to Cut-Throat Island, where
unimaginable wealth in stolen pirate gold resides. Along the way she is
pursued by an evil British officer who goes into cahoots with
treacherous crew members and Dawg, aided by a pretty boy
Jack-of-all-trades thief named William Shaw (Matthew Modine), and
confronted with a series of wildly over the top set pieces that no
human being could possibly survive. 

One of the most expensive flops ever made, this overlong but endearing
and even occasionally exciting film deserved much better than what it
got in the summer of the mid-90s. Not quite as funny as "Pirates of the
Caribbean" but still fun. 

Already a cardboard cut-out role to begin with, Geena Davis struggles
to overcome her natural aura of motherly warmth to play the roughish
Morgan, but she plays the part well enough (she really does come across
as somebody's mother, albeit the kind of mother neighborhood boys
fantasize about). It's easy to imagine her in the ring with Keira
Knightley - who played Elizabeth Swann in "Pirates of the Caribbean" -
and to have Geena walloping Keira's waif like frame. Matthew Modine has
his moments as Shaw and Frank "Dracula/Skeletor" Langella is enjoyably
hammy as Dawg.

If nothing else, rent it for the expensive sets, fancy costumes, and
elaborate, over the top stunts - many of which Davis and Modine did
themselves.
<|_=00=_|>
The film opens in Jamaican coast in 1668… 

While the Port Royal governor wants so badly the lady pirate, Morgan
Adams, and will pay well for her, Dawg Brown (Frank Langella) was
grabbing Morgan's father Black Harry (Harris Yulin) to take the first
piece of a map (split into three separate pieces) to Cutthroat Island,
where a treasure of a Spanish gold ship is said to be buried there… 

Each of the other sections of the map is held by Morgan's two uncles:
Dawg—the bad pirate who doesn't want to share the treasure—has the
second piece stolen from a now-deceased brother, and Mordachai holds
the third at Spittlefied Harbor… 

So to seek the Spanish Treasure and to avenge her father's death,
Morgan (Geena Davis) has to join with her uncle Mordachai and fight her
murderous uncle to obtain the third part of the map… 

The governor of the island (Patrick Malahide) offers Morgan two
alternatives: One, an ignominious death on the gallows or she might cut
him in for a share of her grandfather's treasure… 

At the slave market, Morgan was looking for a man who can read Latin…
So she picked a handsome convict who passes himself off as a physician
with a natural pitch for music and a perfect taste in wine… His name
was William Shaw (Matthew Modine). 

If you enjoy Seventeenth Century pirate movies, and like to see how 92
million dollars were spent in sea-battles, rope-swinging, slow motion
swashbuckling action, cannons with many explosions and many fires,
plenty of rum, cove and cliffs, lots of treasure, the destruction of
two Jamaican towns, gorgeous ocean vistas and breathtaking visuals …
don't miss this one!
<|_=00=_|>

Cutthroat Island is a movie that you can just sit back, relax and watch it
with a big goofy grin on your face.  Sure it tanked at the box office, but
don't disregard it totally.  It's entertaining as hell.  Geena Davis is rather
engaging as a female pirate and Frank Langella seemed to be enjoying
himself.  Most people will say that this movie can't hold a candle to the
pirate films of Errol Flynn, and they're right.  But for a rock em sock em
pirate adventure with more explosions than the high seas ever saw, watch
Cutthroat Island.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was responsible for the bankruptcy of the company behind it,
Carolco. Which is a shame, but the film is not as bad as it is rumoured to
be. Far from it. It's above average oldfashioned entertainment.

The soundtrack alone is a standout. Sweeping and powerful, it serves the
plotline well and it's a joy to listen to on its own.
Although the characters aren't among the most complex and well defined in
movie history, they work (with a couple of exceptions, among them Maury
Chaykin as John Reed, whose acting just doesn't match the tone of the
film).
And then there's the beautifully reconstructed pirate ships, well
choreographed action sequences and terrific special effects.

In short this is a film that has an unfair rep and it is really worth your
time. A great warmup for Pirates of the Caribbean (which hasn't opened yet
in this neck of the woods).
<|_=00=_|>
I bought this on DVD not having heard of it or read any reviews so I
watched it with an open mind. It is for me a good, fun to watch, action
movie which entertained me - so I don't care if it wasn't (or ever will
be) Oscar material - it just entertained me and that is why I watch
films. The locations used in the film are first class as are the
costumes. The fact that many of the stunts in the film were performed
by the actors and not stunt doubles seems to add an immediacy and
credibility to the film. There is what I would call "non-nasty"
violence in the film (think of the A-Team) and occasional language
which although again not really nasty, could deter parents from
allowing the younger members of the family from sitting down and
watching this as a kind of family matinée film.
<|_=00=_|>

This is certainly a controversial film, with some who dislike it. And
one also cannot ignore that the film has lost a lot of money. However,
I was one that actually enjoyed the film - a lot. It was a good film
for me to just simply "enjoy". And that is one great reason for
watching movies in the first place.

I did like Geena Davis in the main role. In fact, the two roles that I
liked her the best in were Cutthroat Island and Last Kiss Goodnight. I
would have loved to see her do more of these action type roles. She is
certainly good in other roles, but I prefer her in the action roles
such as this one.

I was indeed surprised when visiting the Guiness Records building in
Hollywood California, and learning that this movie was the largest box
office loss. My feelings on learning that were "but, I liked it".

<|_=00=_|>
Who says women can't be good pirates? Being a woman certainly doesn't
stop Morgan Adams (Geena Davis) from plundering and "manning" the high
seas. Sure, she's a bit incredible at first, but this movie is more
about the classic treasure-hunt adventures of Robert Louis Stevenson
than any life realities. Just look at the success of Pirates of the
Caribbean! At least this movie is far more realistic than that, without
any curses and such and...sadly, without the prizewinning role played
by Depp. 

Davis does manage to lend credence to the part of a strong woman who
still maintains some rules and beliefs in her pirating. She is the
daughter of a pirate captain. Her father is murdered by her uncle, Dawg
(Frank Langella), in his search for a mysterious treasure. Apparently,
several of the family members each carried a piece of the map to this
treasure but none of them wanted to share it and thus, it has remained
unfound. Morgan begins a journey to get that which is rightfully her's
and her shipmates, all while being pursued by the British navy, her
uncle, and amorously pursued by a professional thief, William Shaw
(Matthew Modine). Cutthroat Island is a new tale of a pirate classic!
8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Despite being fun to watch and very entertaining, this is not a film
that draws me back for many viewings. Maybe it's too absurd: a
beautiful woman pirate "Morgan Adams" (Geena Davis) punching everyone
out at every turn can get a ridiculous and tiresome after awhile. It
just an excess of everything, almost cartoon-like.

If you haven't had enough action in first hour (and you do), the last
half really goes crazy with a non-stop battle scene that goes on and on
and on.

Nevertheless, there are some good things to watch in here besides Davis
and her pretty face. the movie was filmed in Malta and in Thailand and
features some beautiful island photography. The ship is magnificent and
when two ships are side-by-side firing cannons at one another, it's an
awesome sight and even more awesome sound. You really need to watch
this with a good stereo system to appreciate the great audio work in
here.

Frank Langella also makes for an interestingly effective villain ("Dawg
Brown") while Matthew Modine ("William Shaw") chips in with a co-star
and male companion for the good guy, er good girl , Davis character.
<|_=00=_|>

I was pleased to see all the good things other users have had to say about
this super-charged pirate action adventure.From the moment we are introduced
to the character of Morgan Adams and the roistering score booms out we are
set for two hours of rollicking good entertainment and a movie that was
inexplicably damned by critics all over the world.I think they disliked the
admittedly huge cost of the project rather  than the movie itself and maybe
Renny Harlin did go over the top in this respect, but when what you are
seeing on the screen is as exciting as this who cares.Frank Langella made an
excellent villain and his comrades were as black hearted a bunch as ever
sailed under the skull and crossbones.Matthew Modine was a bit weak as the
second lead although he visibly tried hard."CUTTHROAT ISLAND" rightfully
belongs to Geena Davis as she swashes her buckle with abandon throughout.One
thing though,I fail to see how anyone could call Geena Davis a beautiful
woman;indeed she is positively ugly here.For a truly beautiful female
swordfighter check out Maureen O'Hara in 1952's "AT SWORD'S POINT" ("SONS OF
THE MUSKETEERS" in the U.K.).Ignore nit-picking critics,sail to "CUTTHROAT
ISLAND" and join Morgan Adams in her audacious adventures.
<|_=00=_|>

One film I added to my "Best Films of 1995" list!!

I still don't know why this film was never a hit.  I mean it was no Best
Picture contender, but it was a great action film and it was Renny Harlin at
the top of his game!

Geenea Davis never looked better and director Renny Harlin has never made a
more action packed film since Cutthroat Island or after Cutthroat
Island!

I saw the film 2xs when it first hit theaters, then bought my copy as soon
as it it video (this was before DVD came into play then I up-graded my copy)
and I loved it then and I still love it!

It's just a great ol' adventure story about a female pirate (Geena Davis
looking really good) and her companion race against their rivals to find a
hidden island that contains a fabulous treasure.  Whats up against her
besides her nasty uncle is a crew that is sceptical of her leadership
abilities, so she must complete her quest before they mutiny against
her.

I think the reason so many critics hated it was because it was a woman doing
what men only thought they could do and a woman doing it
better!

The plot had strong action, great lines and a strong plot with a fiery
woman's point of view, with lots of action and romance with that ol' B movie
adventure fell that still to this day keeps me on the edge of my seat no
matter how many times I watch it!

Bravo Renny Harlin and Geena Davis!!

Who knows with a stroke of luck and a few movie buffs like me who love this
little undiscovered lost treasure of a film it may just one day see the
light of day as a un-song hero of pirate films and become a cult
classic!

One can only hope!
