

I predicted the "critics" would review this film poorly, and I was right. If
I were a professional (paid) critic, I'd feel obligated too. But as a fun
film to watch for sheer entertainment, my wife and I thought it was a hoot.
The plot isn't terribly important, but it involves an FBI agent (Prinze)
trying to solve a diamond smuggling crime ring while falling for a pretty
art restorer (Potter). It would be a very straight and un-funny film without
the four models!!

Potter's character needs a new place when she finds her boyfriend cheating
on her, so finds what amounts to a large closet with a window for rent at
$500 a month ("cash, please, if you can") in a luxury apartment that is
given to four models. They like to rent out the "extra room" for a little
spending money. But these models are funny, say the darndest things, fall
over things, into things, and generally make the slapstick part of the film
work. Along with a Great Dane that runs and knocks Potter down every time he
sees her - except the last time!

None of the acting is great, but it is all OK. The dialog is snappy and
funny most of the time. Film fans who enjoy "Dumb and Dumber", "Happy
Gilmore", and "High Heels and Low Lifes" would probably also enjoy "Head
Over Heels."  I rate it "7" of 10 for sheer fun.
<|_=00=_|>

I knew absolutely nothing about this film when I walked in except that it
starred Freddie Prinze Jr., and I wasn't really looking forward to it.  I'm
happy to say that it was a pretty entertaining film and I have seen much
much worse...

There are some genuinely funny parts and the "stereotypical" models provided
the most laughs.  It shares a lot in common with Miss Congeniality in how
the pretty girls are depicted as ditzy and just all-out stupid...obviously
it's not supposed to be a realistic portrayal, but you can't help but
laugh.

A lot of people seem to be paying this movie out big time, I just wanted to
add a positive comment.  It's fluff, expect nothing more.


<|_=00=_|>

I'll admit it: it's utterly embarrassing to watch this movie with another
human being.  I was embarrassed when I laughed uncontrollably at things
numerous reviews had told me were idiotic humor.  Well, this movie is
idiotic.  It's also adorable romantic comedy, with a funny and somewhat
original premise . . . at least, it's cobbled together from original
premises, like the "Rear Window" setup where Amanda thinks she witnesses
her
obsession across the street, Jim, murdering someone.  Freddie Prinze Jr is
completely irresistible, and Monica Potter's somewhat one-note nice-girl
cuteness is made palatable by the insanity of her four supermodel roommates
and her practical lesbian friend.  Watch this, laugh hard and don't be
embarrassed, because this movie, even at its most poorly scripted moments,
is earnestly trying to make you laugh, unlike most of today's prefab
romantic comedies, whose earnestness is sheer manipulation.  Plus, only a
small percentage of those have Freddie in them.
<|_=00=_|>
Oh, come on, people, was it really that irritating to you? Now, I
admit, in no way is this movie Oscar material or the best movie of
2001, but learn to have a little fun. Are you really telling me that
you couldn't laugh at the models? They took the movie and made it into
a fun ditzy comedy. Basically, it's incredibly predictable, but Freddie
Prinze, Jr. is a "fashion" business man who falls for Monica and she
does as well. But as she states that she has bad judgment of men, there
is a terrible thing she witnesses in an apartment with her "model"
roommates and see him commit a murder! Together they investigate to
find out if she is going to have a murderer boyfriend or live happily
ever after, you make the guess.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>

The title says it all.  I felt like crying out in the movie theater, "Help,
help - I'm drowning in bad dialogue".  Whoever penned the script should be
ashamed of themselves.  The directing was something out of a middle school
play.  I really wish I were kidding here.  While the two leads MAY have an
ounce of skill, the directing quashed it altogether.  The rest of the
actors... well, let's just hope they didn't quit their day jobs for
Hollywood.  It scares me that people pay money to see movies like this
repeatedly.  Anyone who enjoyed this movie needs to seriously re-evaluate
their tastes.  For a better time, sit in the movie theater lobby and listen
to other people's conversations.  At least you'll get some decent
dialogue.
<|_=00=_|>
this is one of the better romantic comedies i've seen in a while.for
one thing,it has quite a few laughs.but i think that's because it's
also a farce and a screwball comedy.i liked the slapstick scenes they
threw in.i thought they were very effective.the dialogue in the movie
is also great.there are some very witty scenes.it's also a mystery
movie of sorts.Monica Potter and Freddie Prinze Jr.play the two leads
in the film.both are instantly likable,(at least in this movie,at any
rate)as are their characters.i don't feel this is your standard
romantic comedy.it has other dimensions to it,which you'll notice when
you watch it.i expected the movie to be average,mildly amusing
fluff,but i'm glad i was wrong.there are a few moments where it is a
bit slow,but for the most part,things flow along at a decent enough
pace.for me,Head over Heels is a 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
HEAD OVER HEELS, in my opinion, is a heartwarming, hilarious, romantic,
and touching romantic comedy. If you ask me, the way that Jim (Freddie
Prinze Jr.) and Amanda (Monica Potter) met was pure magic. This was
because they were walking along and minding their own business. Plus,
it was love at first sight. A lot of people have said that this is one
of the worst movies they've ever seen, but I strongly disagree. This is
a great movie with terrific performances from very talented actors and
actresses. Before I wrap this up, I'd like to say, "This is a perfect
movie to see with the one you love!" Now, in conclusion, to all you
Freddie Prinze Jr. or Monica Potter fans that have not seen this
heart-warming, hilarious, romantic, and touching romantic comedy, I
highly recommend it! When you see it, prepare to laugh and have a good
time.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a sweet romantic comedy that keeps u guessing all the way
through.It has charm as well as many other things.It's an average
romantic comedy that adds 4 models a one rude,one dumb as dirt,one that
actually acts like a normal person,and one that's obsessed with
diamonds.A girl Amanda moves in with and when everyones out of the room
she thinks she sees a neighbor she likes killed someone.Her roommates
and her go through all kinds of obstacles trying to find out if the
neighbor killed someone or not. I loved this movie like I said before
it's charming as well as funny. I recommend this to Freddie Prinze Jr.
fans. Also to people who enjoy a good laugh.
<|_=00=_|>

Freddie Prinze Jr. & Monica Potter play "normal" people falling in love,
amidst NYC's fashion scene.  He's a fashion consultant & her new roommates
are 4 up-and-coming models.  Yes it's definitely a chick flick, but the
movie is actually VERY funny.  The models: Shalom, Sara, Ivana, & Tomiko
play it way over the top and it works.  I laughed out loud so many times,
the people behind me kicked my seat...        Freddie Prinze Jr. redeems
himself, you don't catch him acting in this. I'd see it again in a
minute!!

<|_=00=_|>
I picked this up from a free trial of a movie channel on a random
Wednesday evening. I thought it was perfect.

The film has a wide range of comedy from witty sarcasm to toilet
humour. The characters (especially the models) are blatant stereotypes
but they are not portrayed in a malicious way allowing you to get
attached to them. The plot is fairly basic ( a mix of 'Shes all that'
and 'Rear Window') but has just enough substance to keep you from
drifting off.

Sterling performance from Monica Porter, production, lighting, sound
track etc. all to standard.

Don't expect to have your mind blown or injure yourself laughing. Do
expect a good solid rom-com you can relax and grin too.
