
Finally, a movie worth the full price of a ticket! Almost Famous is
Cameron Crowe's semi-autobigraphical story of an aspiring rock
journalist who goes on tour with a band in the 1970's. If it sounds
familiar, it's probably because the story is hardly new. There have
been dozens of movies made about the rock and roll lifestyle: the
drugs, the sex, the fights, and all the bumps on the road to success.

So what sets Almost Famous apart? The acting, for one. Frances
McDormand was brilliant as William's (newcomer Patrick Fugit)
well-meaning but overbearing mother. Fugit, for his part, had a
convincing performance as the shy, awkward teenager struggling to be a
journalist but at the same time aching to belong. Kate Hudson, in her
breakout role as groupie "Penny Lane", gave her character depth beyond
what might have been a limiting role. And Billy Crudup, as band
Stillwater's charismatic lead guitarist, shines. Jason Lee is always
good, and as Stillwater's lead singer, this role is no exception. And I
can't review this film without giving a shout-out to the chronically
and criminally-underrated Philip Seymour Hoffman, who steals every
scene he's in with his portrayal of legendary rock journalist Lester
Bangs.

The writing in the film also contributes to its effect. Many of the
great lines belong to McDormand but there are plenty of others to go
around. In addition, the music of the era can't be beat. Everything
from Simon and Garfunkle to Alvin and the Chipmunks shows up at some
point in the movie's extensive musical score.

The plot may not be particularly original, but it rings true. I of
course am approaching this review as a music fan and someone interested
in the industry. Nonetheless, I believe that even people who couldn't
care less about rock music will enjoy this movie, since it's not so
much about the music as it is about life. A central theme is the
conflict of William: Should he remain a detached but lonely outsider so
as to be an impartial journalist, or allow himself to make friends with
these people and feel like he belongs? Aside from bringing up questions
of journalistic ethics, this dilemma mirrors much of what people in all
wakes of life deal with daily.

Almost Famous is realistic, funny, touching, and one of those rare
movies that makes you feel like you've gained something just for having
seen it. It's too bad that they say rock and roll is dead, cause we
could sure use more movies like this one!
<|_=00=_|>

There's a (by now) well-known scene early on in ALMOST FAMOUS when William
Miller is poring through the records his older sister Anita has left behind
for him since she ran off from home.  Inside the album cover of The Who's
TOMMY, she leaves William a note, telling him to listen to this with a
candle lit, and he'll be able to see his future.  He puts on the record,
"Sparks" comes on, and the look on his face as he listens is the look every
rock fan will recognize.

There's been tons of stuff written about rock-n-roll music, from those who
think, like William's mother Elaine, that it's a corrupting influence(or
those who go even farther and consider it "the devil's music"), to those who
insist the music is meaningless and to take it seriously smacks of
pretension, because it's "only music."  And then there are people like
Cameron Crowe, who recognize rock-n-roll, and the music which came in its
wake, is the shared experience of many people starting from the 1950's, in
the way maybe that plays and earlier types of music were in centuries
before.  Sure, there's television and movies as well, but rock music is
shorter and more direct.  And sure, it can just be fun and a way to cut
loose once in a while, but it's also something which can speak to what we
love, what we long for, what we're afraid of, what we think, what wounds us
inside, and so much more.

Because Crowe is a fan, he's able to capture all of this in his movie.  It's
not just in the obvious moments, like the people on the tour bus singing
along to Elton John's "Tiny Dancer," which lifts them out of their black
mood, or singer Jeff Bebe leading everybody into singing "On the Cover of
Rolling Stone" when he learns he and his fellow bandmates will be on the
cover.  It's in the wild spirit of people like Sapphire, one of the
Band-Aids(read: groupies) who follow the band Stillwater and others as they
tour the U.S., or in the more tender spirit of someone like her sister
Band-Aid Penny Lane, who believes she and the other Band-Aids serve as a
muse to bands like Stillwater, and who soaks in all of her experiences like
a sponge.  It's also in William, who tries(like Crowe did) to balance
reporting with his very obvious love for the music.  And it's especially in
the line I quoted from at the top, which Sapphire says to Stillwater
guitarist Russell Hammond late in the movie.  To be sure, the road of
rock-n-roll isn't all covered in roses.  There's outrageous behavior(like
how Russell treats Penny, or William losing his virginity to three of the
groupies), drugs, excess, and yes, pretension(like when Jeff lectures Penny
about the power of rock-n-roll and then adds, "And the chicks are cool,
right?"  But those who wanted this to be more like THIS IS SPINAL TAP are
missing the point.  This isn't a movie about the obvious problems and
silliness in rock music.  It's about what still draws people to it, and
though Crowe acknowledges these people's faults, he still loves them for who
they are.

Of course, there's a lot more reasons why ALMOST FAMOUS is a great movie
besides its love of rock-n-roll.  It's well acted across the board(in
addition to all the performances mentioned several times, I'd like to
highlight Fairuza Balk as Sapphire; not only does she get the best line in
the movie(along with Frances McDormand's "Don't take drugs!" and "Rock stars
have kidnapped my son") with that line about music(I also like what she and
the other groupies yell as they're about to deflower William, "Death to
Opie!"), but she also captures the carefree spirit of the time.  She may not
be important plot wise, but if you took her character out, the movie would
be missing something), it's a terrific coming-of-age story, it's a
bittersweet love story, the dialogue is great, and it looks terrific.  But
it's Crowe's obvious love for the music, and for the people who love it,
that makes ALMOST FAMOUS the best thing I've seen so far this
year.
<|_=00=_|>

I've seen a few coming-of-age films, and a few prodigy-cum-genius type
films, and of course more than my share of romantic comedy stuff.  This
film
skirts between the lines of all those possibilities and somehow manages to
find its way to the viewer intact, deftly and with a whole lot of
old-fashioned charisma.

The acting was honest, true to how people behave without getting schmaltzy
or over-dramatic.  Cameron Crowe gets these actors to all project a belief
in themselves and bring that across in a way that we care about what
happens
to them.  I particularly liked the rendition of William Miller by Patrick
Fugit, who steals the show as the precocious rock-n-roll journalist.  He
evokes visions of a young Matthew Broderick or a wide-eyed Michael J. Fox
without ever getting corraled into being the "cute but troubled young
kid".

Frances McDormand is amazing and well-cast as Elaine the Mom, someone so
wrapped up in creating a safe, healthy environment she drives both her
children far away from home.

Billy Crudup & Kate Hudson create the tension filled romance that drives
the
story along; both did a great job & were adroitly evocative of those fast
times in the rock & roll fantasyland of the 70's.  Billy, as Russell
Hammond, teeters on the edge of fame, not wanting to leave his
long-suffering bandmates behind but being courted as the band's star by
the
record company, is palpably torn.  He carries William through the
whirlwind
of emotions and music along with him, showing him a world that is
desperate
and lonely, even with the whole world seemingly vying for his attention.
His casting is also very clever, seeing as how Billy Crudup also sits on
the
brink of his own stardom & acclaim in real life.

Lester Bangs is William's 'guru', played to perfection by Phillip Seymour
Hoffman.  A walking oxymoron, he exudes a callous arrogance and at the
same
time expresses genuine affection for the up-and-comer, sometimes giving
William the exact advice he needs to get him through the toughest moments
as
a rock critic & dealing with the love/hate relationships they seem to
engender with everyone in their world of music.

I can't say enough about the awesome casting job, as well as the very
detailed set design, costuming & realism to the times.  Period pieces are
usually difficult to do well; Mr. Crowe did this one genuine and good.

A truly great film, one that I'd heartily recommend to all but the most
jaded rock critics.
<|_=00=_|>

On a rating scale of 0 to 100; I gave Almost Famous a score of
95.

One of the most critically acclaimed movie experiences of the year 2000,
Almost Famous is the second feature film to come out Cameron Crowe, and he
beats his first effort, Jerry Maguire by a mile. Almost Famous is a
stunning, thought-provoking film that comes at you directly from the eye of
the camera and hits you with a hard bang. It's a movie not only for people
who love 70's rock bands, but for all movie-goer's who really love the
feeling of coming out of the cinema feeling totally fulfilled.

A 15 year old boy named William Miller (Patrick Fugit) gets an opportunity
to travel with a rock band, Stillwater on a 1973 tour. As a younger boy,
his
sister (Zooey Deschanel) and his widowed mother Elaine (Frances McDormand)
had fought about the mother's control over the family and her denial of
rock
music. The sister leaves home and leaves the young boy her record
collection, which immediately seizes his attention. As a teen, he makes
record reviews for an underground newspaper. He submits those to Creem
magazine writer Lester Bangs (Phillip Seymour Hoffman) and gets his
attention. The two become fast friends and Bangs acts as his mentor as
Rolling Stone magazine comes calling. Slipping into an inner group
connected
with Stillwater, Rolling Stone agrees to bankroll him on a trip with the
group. There he meets the "Band Aids", a group of girls that refuse to be
called groupies because they are dedicated only to specific bands. "Penny
Lane" (Kate Hudson), the Band Aid's leader is enamored with the group
leader
(Billy Crudup), but befriends the teen. He responds with complete
infatuation with her, but he is equally enamored with the charismatic
guitarist. While accepted by the band (other members are Jason Lee, John
Fedevich and Mark Kozeleck), they nonetheless refer to him as "the enemy -
a
rock critic".

The film is classically cool and endlessly enjoyable, making it by far one
of the top 5 movies of last year. The film boasts absolutely incredible
performances, Patrick Fugit is a newcomer and has terrific potential,
Frances McDormand is emotionally stunning as an over-protective mother and
Billy Crudup, who I underrated at first, gives a performance of
believability and power. However, it comes as no surprise that the film's
acting star is Kate Hudson, daughter of Goldie Hawn. Hudson gives a
masterful performance as Penny Lane, she pulls off all Lane's facial
expressions effortlessly brilliantly, and God knows she is one of the most
stunning young performers of her current time, and she gives one of the
most
memorably exciting performances of 2000. Cameron Crowe gets a big pat on
the
back too for arranging the movie delicately and with absolute
dedication.

Cameron Crowe's instant classic is a hard one to beat, and is surely the
closest thing we have to a perfect `rock movie' these days. Absolutely
unmissable.   
<|_=00=_|>
There was a time in the US rock circuit before music videos and online
marketing. That was the time when several little-known bands toured all
over the country... accompanied mostly by drugs and groupies.
Writer-director Cameron Crowe takes us to that infamous scene of sex,
drugs and rock n' roll in the 1970's with this semi-autobiographical
work, which is not only equipped with his brilliant direction and
screenplay, but also by decent performances by some relatively
lesser-known actors.

Here the introduction of a not-too-famous band, an imaginary one called
Stillwater, was important. In that sense, Stillwater is a perfect work
by Crowe... with a volatile relationship between the vocalist and the
guitarist, with a noncompetent manager and everything that comes with.
There were also the groupies, who became a matter of substance in
Crowe's point of view. But the most extraordinary thing that Crowe did
is the image of himself as a 15-year-old writing prodigy, rock
journalist William Miller. The viewers watch the movie through Miller's
eyes. The character is extremely well-designed and reserved by Crowe.
Miller's the one who becomes able to attach all the parts into a
complete movie alone.

Billy Crudup was probably the best among the actors as guitarist
Russell Hammond. It's true his role was not a tough one, but he's the
one who made it look so easy. Young Kate Hudson, as Penny Lane, is
perfect and very adorable. She showed her potentials in this movie
which seemed even better than her mother, Goldie Hawn. All she needs
are decent roles in future. The other actors, namely Jason Lee as
vocalist Jeff, Frances McDormand as Williams's over-protective mother
and the other band-aids (with Oscar-winner Anna Paquin) performed also
quite well. And newcomer Patrick Fugit, as Miller himself, is really
brilliant. Gaining more screen time than anyone else, it was a tough
test for Fugit and it is all praises for him.

The soundtrack was very good with some fine original songs. There may
be some minor flaws in the movie, like some unnecessary sequences, but
all over this is a quite masterful work... a feast for the mind and
soul, both for a hard rock n' roll fan and for casual viewers.
<|_=00=_|>
"Almost famous" is so great that I don't know where to begin. It means
so much to me; personally, cinematographically, visuallyIt means so
much when it comes to acting and wonderful performances, when it comes
to fantastic original screenplays that come from a person's mind
without being taken from anything we already know.

This was probably one of the first movies to ever blow me away. When I
was getting and idea of what cinema meant and which where the good
films; this one left me impressed for more than a week. The same
occurred later with "Traffic", "The Truman Show", "Big Fish" and
others. It was with this film that I understood that to like a movie it
has to mean something to you; besides meaning something for the ones
who did it or the ones involved in it.

It meant something for me mainly because of the music. It was during
the main credits written by hand in a paper that I felt something, but
then, when William's (Patrick Fugit) sister Anita (Zooey Deschanel)
leaves the house to become a stewardess, and tells him: "Look under
your bed; it will set you free"; I was introduced to a new world.

William's mother Elaine (an excellent Frances McDormand) raised him and
her sister forbidding them to use bad words, making them go to school,
making them religious, but most importantly not letting them listen to
rock music. This all changes when William plays The Who's "Tommy" a the
light of a candle. Some years later he is writing rock articles and he
knows enough to talk with the best music critic in the United States:
Lester Bangs (a brilliant and Oscar-caliber supporting performance by
the great Phillip Seymour Hoffman).

They talk for a while and the critic says: "Well, I've got to go; I
can't spend my whole day talking to my fans". But then, with a lot of
intelligence, a camera shoots a restaurant, and they are both still
talking. Bangs gives the kid an assignment: to write about Deep Purple.
The kid goes to the concert in his home town and tries to enter
backstage saying he's a reporter of "Creem".

His multiple attempts fail and he is called by some girls who are
laughing constantly. These are the Band Aids, and that is the moment in
the film during which I fell in love with Kate Hudson. She plays Penny
Lane (although that's not her real name), the girl who said women
should be with musicians just for the love of the music, not sex or
free rides.

She plays her as an enigmatic and mysterious person who actually is
lost and doesn't know or have another place to be in. And I'm talking,
personally, about one of the best performances I've witnessed in my
whole life. This personal list of best performances is short, and
Hudson's Penny Lane is in it, and she deserved an Oscar for it; and
many will agree.

Because of how life goes, William stays alone outsideUntil Stillwater
arrives, the kid uses his musical knowledge and he is inside backstage
before he knows it. Then, before we know, he forgets about Deep Purple,
he is touring with Stillwater and writing an article for Rolling Stone
magazine that could be considered for the cover; and William is only 15
years old.

During the tour I felt what they called the "buzz". It was very
inspiring to watch the band, each of its members, all the time with a
guitar in their hands. Sometimes they were playing together; sometimes
each of them was doing his own things. There were pianos and keyboards
in each room they stepped foot in; there were good and bad live
moments, just as good offstage moments and horrible fights; probably
mended with just singing "Tiny Dancer".

Music is the main factor, as this band travels through the country. All
of the members of the band we get to identify, but the one that
obligatorily highlights is the guitarist Russell Hammond, played
superbly by Billy Crudup. The lead singer is also important and he is
played by a long-haired Jason Lee, with the guts of a rock persona.

The regretful moments we can't be without...Like Russell's party in
Topeka and his last lines if he would die: "I'm on drugs"; or the plain
about to crash and confessions like: "I'm gay". This was all perfectly
crafted by the hand of Cameron Crowe's peaceful camera and the
fantastic screenplay he wrote going back in time to his own similar
experience. The man got the best from Tom Cruise, that's already a lot:
and "Almost Famous" is his legacy; a gem and one of the best films I've
seen in my life.
<|_=00=_|>

As I exited the movie theater after viewing Cameron Crows latest adventure,
I was struggling with what to say to my date. As I didnt want to just sit
there and say nothing, I was forced to due to so many feelings and thoughts
about Almost Famous. Luckily, she felt the same way and so for a few
moments
we just sat there, staring off into the screen, wishing, wanting, and
feeling for that movie.
It was so nicely done. From the acting, brilliantly handled, to the
directing, never camrons problem, down to the sets, costumes, audio, and
other wonderfully placed visuals. Not only was the movie well thought out,
but it became one of those rare films in which everyone, boy girl, man
woman, could feel for at least one person, part, event.
I would reccomend anyone I know to see this movie. It was a chance to
take yourself away from your own problems and let you watch someone elses
moving you all the way through.
****/****


<|_=00=_|>

There are two things that make this film one of the best made in the last
few years- characters and music.  I am personally not a big fan of 70s
music, but it is used very well in this film, most of my favourite scenes
are made all the more memorable by the music, which includes America
(Simon
& Garfunkel), Tiny Dancer, Mona Lisa's and Mad Hatters (both Elton John),
River (Joni Mitchell) Paranoid (Black Sabbath) and Feel Flows (The Beach
Boys)
Most of the actors and actresses in this film give the performance of
their
lives, Frances McDormand being especially comical as William's mother,
and
many of the best moments are all hers.  William himself has an endearing
quality about him to the audience, and I'm surprised I haven't seen
Patrick
Fugit in any other films since this one.
A great film, and the Directors Cut DVD is well worth the money,
especially
for those of you (like me) who had previously only watched the UK
version.
<|_=00=_|>
William has an overprotective mother, and his sister has already been
driven away by her refusal to accept her children's ambitions and
interests. William finds solace in his sister's music collection and
begins to dream of a life as a rock journalist. At 15 William manages
to land a assignment with Rolling Stone Magazine to interview an up and
coming band called Stillwater, and he quickly finds himself immersed in
the life his mother so desperately wanted to protect him from.

And so the story begins, as William tours with the band, we are taken
on a journey of mistrust, discovery, deceit and disappointment;
interlaced with the hard truths about the bands lifestyle of drugs,
alcohol, sex and music.

Almost Famous pulls no punches, and is a deep insight into the dream
that became an ambition, that became a harsh reality.

Packed with top class performances all round and great music score
Almost Famous delivers, and delivers with attitude and realism that is
rarely captured on film.

A must see for Fans of the genre, but there's certainly enough here for
everyone.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

This film may have just one flaw- it aims too high.  But that doesn't matter
in this world.  Here, we see the autobiographical tale of Cameron Crowe
(writer/director and co-producer of this film) in his days as a young writer
for Rolling Stone (one story I think) as seen by William Miller.  He follows
a rock band called Stillwater (much to mom's dismay played well by Frances
McDormand) on a Almost Famous tour with rockers, groupies and bandaids. 
Real sweetness comes when the worlds of Miller and the band combine and
dramedy kicks in.  Quite the Crowe picture, one of his best ones, that takes
a look at the days of rock when it was still cool to do drugs, have sex and
be cool singing Elton John in a bus (that scene was the highlight).  Band
members include Billy Crudup, Jason Lee and others including Fairuza Balk,
Anna Paquin, and in a exceptional performance, the free spirited Penny Lane
played by Kate Hudson.  This film is definately in my top 25 list of the
year.  A-
