

I suppose this is actually a B movie, but there's something about this movie
that keeps me coming back to see it again every few months. Maybe it's the
rather unique (for Hollywood, anyway) relationship between Meg and John. I
mean, they don't even so much as kiss each other and barely touch at all!
But I think they make the screen sizzle, nonetheless. 

I must admit I love the action in this movie, too. Every once in a while I
wonder how a small time forger learned to fight and shoot like she does, but
then I blissfully ignore it and just enjoy the movie.

Great action scenes, wonderful relationship development and great acting by
Mira and Yun-Fat Chow make this a movie I'm sure I'll see many more
times.
<|_=00=_|>
Wild and absolutely menacing thriller involving Chow Yun-Fat (in his
American film debut) as John Lee, a quiet yet resourceful hit-man who
along with a sarcastic forger, Meg Coburn (Mira Sorvino), become
involved when Lee refuses to take out someone close to a cop (Michael
Rooker), who shot and killed his mobster boss' drug-dealing son during
a drug bust and in the process, Coburn and Lee are also targeted by his
superiors.

It's a brilliant debut for Yun-Fat and director Antoine Fuqua ("Bait",
"Training Day"), both of whom show their skills with such respect. Some
of the shoot-outs that take place in some areas that you wouldn't even
think of (car wash, alley, movie theater, etc.). Plus, the
cinematographer Peter Lyons Collister and composer Harry
Gregson-Williams excell in making the movie even more entertaining. The
scenery has a very colorful and artistic look to it and the music
doesn't get too loud. I think of the movie as "Lethal Weapon" made like
in the style of John Woo, who is one of the film's producers.

"The Replacement Killers" certainly hits the center of the bulls-eye
with hair-raising accuracy.
<|_=00=_|>

This Hollywood debut for Hong Kong superstar Chow Yun Fat does no disgrace
to the image of the cool as ice heroic persona established in his Chinese
movies.He is not asked to do much here other than engage in long and
protracted but beautifully filmed gunfights which he performs with
consummate ease and establishes a persona which should serve him well in
subsequent projects.A memo however to stupid British movie critics who
called this a kung fu movie and referred to Mr.Fat as a martial arts
star.There is no kung fu to speak of in this movie and the star is not famed
for his skills in this field.Maybe British critics did not even bother to
see this movie but just pretended they did assuming that it was a chop-socky
flick.I wouldn't put it past them.
<|_=00=_|>

Wow, this movie just blew me away !!! I am a fan of the John Woo type of
action movies and I must say that even he was just one of the executive
producers, his mark is all over this movie!!!

The result is very good : Nicely paced action sequences, more story and
emotions than in your average Hong Kong action movie (But not as much story
development as in an American production, but in this genre this just isn't
needed that much, it would just slow down the pace), well acted , you kinda
start feeling sympathetic for the leads and you'll certainly hate these
villains. This is a thrill ride from beginning till the end. And this is
where I have my only point of criticism : The movie is way to short !!! 80
minutes and the credits start to roll!!! You'll almost start to beg for
more...  I'll best describe this movie as a cross between "Face-Off" and
"The professional" from director Luc Besson. A must-see for every action
movie lover. 
<|_=00=_|>
i think this movie rocks -- it is the best place to watch Mira Sorvino
be entertaining and hot. 

i just bought the DVD in a bargain bin and i can't stop watching it. OK
it's a bit of a TV movie script. but it's a year ahead of the matrix,
and i dare you to watch it without making production comparisons. in
fact, i can't watch the matrix any more. so much for movies with great
scripts. 

so much of the goodness of this movie relies on Mira Sorvino's screen
presence that it plays a bit like a bit music video -- it's just plain
fun to see her on screen. Chow Yun Fat is good, and this American
Chinese boy (me) likes seeing a hybrid movie like this... well, it's
fun to see the Chinese guy wear nice suits and kick some a$$ too. i
can't watch any of the crappy hong kong stuff that the other users seem
to think is superior to this. i can see how HK martial arts lovers
wouldn't like this -- it's a very different, very American movie.
personally, i'd rather see more clones of this movie than more jackie
chan. 

hey, did i mention Mira Sorvino is hot? i even like the relationship
chemistry that develops here -- sort of like the David Carradine
character wandering the desert in the Kung Fu TV shows -- he never even
gets to kiss the pretty girl who falls for his decency, but the mutual
respect is better that way. more movies need to take this route. 

i'm not a Mira watcher -- i've only seen her aphrodite and some awful
film school $hit i'm sure she wishes she never made, and her happy day
on the Oscar alumni stage. as a Harvard guy, i'm not sure i want to see
her in romy and michelle. this was simply a great role for a very
underutilized actress at the right time in her life during the era of
east-west action fusion. if i were producing movies, i'd kick myself
for not watching this movie sooner and taking advantage of Mira Sorvino
in her prime. it's not too late -- check our her recent IMDb pics. papa
sorvino was right -- his daughter is great, and anyone who says
otherwise should get a cap in his knee. this movie is the proof.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge fan of CYF - for almost 30 years now. His on-screen persona
is just the finest and he is one of the best actors out there!

But with other HK stars transfers to Hollywood - where the big wigs all
claim that they know what is best - I was quite concerned for his
debut.

Replacement Killers actually plays quite well!

Still carrying that 90's look, we are treated to 85 minutes of stylish
Hong Kong wanna-be shoot outs and angles that sometimes overdoes the
John Woo homages - some of which are pretty good, some that just ended
up quite slow.

Regardless, it was a great introduction to the US audience for HK's
coolest actor, and an enjoyable film nonetheless!
<|_=00=_|>
From the start of the film you know what to expect. This is Chow
Yun-Fats first film in America and I think he does a brilliant job.
Gets his character spot on. The directer Antoine Fuqua did a brilliant
for his first feature film and can't wait to see his films in the
future.

The shootouts he produced were brilliant and reminded me of some of
Chow Yun-Fats past films. They lasted a good time and were not boring
at all. Chow Yun-Fats movement with the gun is just like he did in "The
Killer". He moved like some kind of ballerina with guns which reminded
me of him in "Hard Boiled". I love shootouts and the ones in these are
some of the best I have seen. The shootout in the car wash was
brilliant. Loved the way the made it look in there.

The story was OK. Not great but OK. I no the story has probably been
done before but most stories have been. I liked the way they made Chow
Yun-Fats character to be caring person, not someone who goes around
killing people for fun. Mira Sorvino acted her role brilliantly which
showed she was a Academy Award winner.

Overall I really enjoyed this film and thought it was a brilliant
action film. I'm sure this will be a great film for action fans to
watch and also for you Chow Yun-Fat fans. The shootouts will blow you
away
<|_=00=_|>
Some may call this film "derivative" but many HK productions are about
revenge and/or organized crime. While it may not be as kinetic as other
CYF films like Hardboiled or The Killer, it also lacks the campy
moments found in those films. In this respect, CYF's performance is
slightly superior to his HK work because he is required to be far more
subtle than some of his more over-the-top roles. Heresy, i know, but
what many people might see as the film's vices could be considered
virtues: less action and fewer lines of dialog allow a more authentic
emotional story to develop and CYF to do more actual acting. The
opening sequence is brilliant as pure cinema and must be seen. The
relationship between John Lee and Meg Coburn is unique in this genre in
that it's basically a buddy situation with romantic undertones; it is
one of the best things about the film. (It's such a cliché when
characters just hop into bed 10 minutes after meeting.) Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

Those of you who desire a deep, thought provoking, plot.  One which leaves
you asking questions, after the movie is done.  Well, guess what?  This is
not the movie for you.  However, if you are seeking a high intensity, past
paced, exciting, action-packed, drama, stay tuned because the ride has just
begun.  This is the second time I have watched this movie.  I watched it
when it first came out and then again just last night.  I can't help it but
Chow Yun-fat is definitely the Sean Connery of our eastern
brothers.

I will admit that this movie is not for everyone.  Then again, you can't
make everyone happy all of the time. You can make some people happy some of
the time.  This movie made it's money's worth, so apparently it made most
people happy most of the time.
<|_=00=_|>
When the son of a powerful underworld boss, Mr. Wei, is killed in a
police raid he swears vengeance. John Lee is the hit-man assigned with
the task to carry out the hit, but despite a successful career as a
contract killer he finds himself unable to pull the trigger. Even more
upset, Wei sends in a duo of ruthless assassins, the replacement
killers of the title, to kill both John and carry out his assignment.

This is the first feature length film for a successful music video
director so it probably doesn't look so hot, but don't be fooled: this
is one terrific action movie. Antoine Fuqua serves up a very assured
and stylish direction while keeping the film going at an exciting pace.
The shootouts are spectacular and are among the most furious seen
outside of Hong Kong cinema. The film's performances are also strong
and while the action makes the film exciting, they make the film
involving.

The film is not to high on the originality scale as Chow Yun-Fat has
played the self-conscious hit-man going against a ruthless underworld
many times and the screenplay is for the most part predictable, but as
an action movie it works very well. 8/10

Rated R for intense violence, and profanity
