

This is the rarest of action films - one that engages your intellect not
just your senses.

On the seabed in mid-ocean a huge vessel is discovered.  A team is
dispatched to investigate - and what they find is beyond
belief.

Admittedly there were a couple of scenes which I felt missed the intended
realism of the film, and occasionally it seemed far too obvious what was
going on, but the ending resolved everything beautifully.

I suspect that fans of action films will feel let down by the thought
necessary to follow this film, and fans of science fiction may well feel
that after the first half hour there is a lack of a traditional sci-fi
element.  Many people I'm sure will feel that too little is explained,
but
the point of the film is that it doesn't need to be - the message of the
ending is strong enough that we don't need explanation.

I'd particularly recommend this film to anyone who likes psychological
thrillers.  I was fairly impressed by the action integrated in The Abyss,
but Sphere far surpasses it in terms of plot.  Most of all, if you like
films that simply entertain, this is not for you.  It's more about the
reactions it causes in you when you follow the story.  If you come away
from
this film unchanged, you've missed the point.
<|_=00=_|>

After reading many users' mixed comments on the movie..i can't help but
feel
that a majority have underrated the film. True it could have been better,
especially in the latter half, but having read the book first, i did not
feel it actually falling off midway like the way other viewers have
described it. People who have read the novel will acknowledge that the
movie
does follow the novel fairly closely. Thus comments about Hoffman's role
and
the ending are unfair, since i feel they are the closest big-screen
reproductions of one of Crichton's best works. I feel Stone's character
was
the role followed the weakest.

Definitely the giant squid thrills are insufficient (note that Crichton
devoted a good part of his novel describing encounters with 'the
monster').
I guess animation artists were short budgeted...though the film as a whole
still is a visual treat...and the atmosphere is rightly captured, with
nice
music.

Overall, I think the movie is worth watching and is definitely of a much
higher caliber than 'The Lost World'. It follows a
psychological-cum-sci-fi
thriller theme and i feel is better than the similar flick 'Abyss'. As
from
the novel's point-of-view...it could have been done better though. 8/10
stars!
<|_=00=_|>

Sphere represents a new standard in science fiction. With a solid plot and
 good acting, it proves itself to be better than the stereotypical childish
 effects films. Director Barry Levinson provides great visuals that make the
 spooky underwater environment come alive. The film is a psycological
 mystery thriller that keeps you guessing to the very end. It has good
 dialogue and is more concerned with characters and their development than
 with cool looking ways of killing them off. Based on Michael Crichton's
 book, Sphere is a breath of fresh air in a genre that really needs
 it.


<|_=00=_|>

Sphere is a science fiction film that starts off with a tremendously
fascinating story and ignores all of the possibilities that it entails. Four
people (you know the drill – a psychologist (Dustin Hoffman), a
mathematician (Samuel L. Jackson), a biochemist (Sharon Stone) and an
astrophysicist (Liev Schreiber)) are flown out to the middle of the ocean on
a top-secret missions (even they don't know where they're going). We would
be just as confused as they were about the details of their mission if we
had never seen the previews, but even though we already know what they're
going to find out there, it's just as interesting to learn about the details
of this ship that has been found on the bottom of the ocean, and that
appears to have been sitting there for 300 years (well, okay, 288). The
story keeps getting better and better as we learn that there is a hum coming
from the ship, indicating that there is still something running inside it,
and then even more fascinating revelations once we are taken inside the
ship. 

There can be no doubt that Sphere contains some truly interesting and
entertaining elements, and that things like the acting are just as superb as
we would expect from such a spectacular cast, but as the movie progresses,
we begin to realize how little the film is going to reveal. I can't say that
I wasn't completely enraptured for at the least the first hour of the film,
but there were just as many bitterly disappointing things about it as there
were good things. Dustin Hoffman and Samuel L. Jackson, in particular,
delivered absolutely brilliant performances in this film, delivering some of
the best entertainment in the entire film by themselves. There is a mildly
interesting but completely unconvincing ex-romantic tension between Sharon
Stone's character, Dr. Beth Halperin, and Dustin Hoffman's character, Dr.
Norman Goodman, that is there for little other reason than to complicate the
lives of the characters as they try to solve the mystery of this undersea
ship. 

(spoilers)
It's really too bad that the movie completely falls on its face in the
second half, because the first half of the film is excellent and undeniably
entertaining. There's nothing like a bit of time travel and the suggestion
of extraterrestrial life to keep you entertained, and it is definitely a
great scene when we find out that the ship is a human ship. This is one of
the many things in the film that really makes you think. The thing that
makes a great film is that it inspires thought. This is probably the one
thing that all of the great films have in common with each other. There are
surely a lot of things about Sphere that really make you think, which is
another reason that the first half of the film is so good. We see that it's
a human ship, which opens a whole new area of possibilities for the film.
Harry (Samuel L. Jackson) speculates on the fact that the last entry in the
ship's log is an entry into an `Unknown entry event,' indicating that they
will never reach the surface to reveal what they've found. 

There is also a possibly over-extensive excursion into the realm of the
psychological element in the film, as the characters are all made to face
their fears, some of which are not just your average fears, such as Harry's
strange fear of finishing 20,000 Leagues Under The Sea. The special effects
are definitely nothing to brag about, but there are some interesting scenes
that take place in the deep ocean, such as the death of Teeny Fletcher (hey,
she's black, she had it coming, right?) in the midst of a mass of strange
sea creatures, as well as the scene with the thousands of squid eggs. Weird
looking things, I've wondered since I saw the film what kind of props they
used for that scene. The conversation with `Jerry' is unfittingly childish,
but there is definitely a significant element of tension introduced when
Jerry gets mad, as well as the scene where Norman contemplated the
implications of Jerry's expression of emotions, indicating his ability to
get mad.  

There are undeniably a lot of interesting things about Sphere, and it surely
has the power to entertain, but it goes off the track later in the film,
maybe because it tried to answer too many of its questions. There are some
unanswerable things in the film, and the movie deals with them by having the
characters have a weakly-written discussion about their fears and questions,
and their ultimate decision to `forget' what they know using the power that
they seem to have gained from the sphere. While this answers the question of
how it could have been an unknown entry event when they all made it to the
surface, it's probably the weakest ending that the film could possibly have
had. 

As a strange twist on the science fiction genre, Sphere succeeds, although
only in the first half. Like Hollow Man, Sphere could have and should have
been a much better film. The unfortunate fact about the film is that it
contains a lot of very interesting and very entertaining things that are
surely worth watching, but the disappointing ending almost makes them not
even worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>

When the military discover what they believe to be a spaceship at the bottom
of the ocean they bring in Dr Norman Goodman who had once written a report
on the protocol for an alien encounter.  His report had named a team of
experts – this team is also assembled.  The team descend to the craft and
begin to find some astonishing things about the craft.  However when they
find a huge golden sphere they begin to experience problems.  Problems that
become worse when a storm traps them at the bottom of the
ocean.

With a cast like this – you gotta have high hopes.  With a director and a
writer to match you deserve something fantastic!  And for the most part this
delivers.  The build up is dark, mysterious and exciting.  However once the
sphere is found it goes downhill.  It still has some really good moments –
the jellyfish bit is scary and other actions bits are cool.  But it gets all
muddled up in what the sphere is and who is doing what on the base.  It
almost manages to hold together until the final half hour then it all just
collapses like a flan in a cupboard!  It's a shame because for the most part
it felt like it was building to something much better, but
no.

The cast promised much but didn't deliver.  Jackson was great, but I don't
think he can be bad – even in a bad movie.  Hoffman stutters around like he
doesn't know what he's doing.  I know he's meant to be playing a character
that isn't used to heroics, but he doesn't bring anything.  Stone is OK but
at times looks like she reading her lines off a board.  Coyote is OK and
Schreiber is understated by his own hammy standards.  It's also cool to see
Queen Latifah in a role.

Overall this is worth watching as for the majority it's real good.  However
you notice that the film has got 30 minutes left to go – make your excuses
and leave, by then you've seen the best it has to offer.
<|_=00=_|>
Excellent! I went into the film thinking it would be bad, since that is
what I had heard from someone before watching it.

However, I was pleasantly surprised at what a terrific film this
actually was. The only downfall to the film, was Dustin Hoffman. With
all due respect to one of the best actors ever, he just wasn't suited
for this particular role. He was good in it, but just not the right
person for the job.

The film begins with Dustin Hoffman flying over the Pacific Ocean in a
helicopter, going to a Submarine investigating a plane crash. As a
psychologist, he is impatiently waiting to speak to the survivors, and
after having been on the sub for over 3 hours, is upset with the
Capatain. However, the Captain informs him there was no plane crash,
but rather an arrival of some sort not quite 300 years ago, under the
Ocean.

Sharon Stone, Leive Shreiber and Samuael L. Jackson join Hoffman as
apart of his team, to go beneath the surface to discover and determine
what it is exactly that they have found under the Pacific.

With complete intensity and excitement non-stop throughout the entire
film, it will leave you feeling a little disturbed at times, and
perhaps a bit paranoid, also.

I would advice anyone who does not have a liking to intense sci-fi type
films...this is not going to be your cup of tea, but for those enjoy
good horror, intensity and a great story line, you will definitely
enjoy this flick!
<|_=00=_|>

As I've heard from other people, the first half of the movie is good, and
it
is. But that doesnt mean that the second half of the movie isn't just as
good.

The second half is only interesting if you are patient, listen and watch
carefully.

The story is really about how our society is far from utopia, regardless
of
how intelligent and cultured we are. It opens windows of answers to so
many
problems that our society is facing every day.
<|_=00=_|>

The fourth Michael Crichton adaptation in line is quite a good one. After
the blockbuster success of `Jurassic Park' and minor hits `Congo' and
`The
Lost World', `Sphere' matches up to theses levels. And with so much
talent
in store, it certainly is appealing. Academy Award winners Barry Levinson
and Dustin Hoffman (who coincidentally won Oscars for the same film) and
Oscar Nominees Sharon Stone and Samuel L. Jackson all headline the movie.

The end result is relatively good, but with so much talent on board it
could
have been a bit better. However, the film succeeds in what attempts to
do.
There are ample scarifying chills along with a high enjoyability factor.
The
haunting suspense is soon followed by an equally chilling action. This is
good because other chillers such as `The Sixth Sense' built up the
suspense,
but no action followed. For that film, the scares lost all their quality
the
second time round. But in `Sphere's' case, the suspense keeps its
intensity
every time.

The film starts out very well whilst on the surface, but gradually it
gets
worse only to amount to a satisfying conclusion. The middle scenes aren't
bad, but they're a bit too gloomy and eerie.  Another quibble is the
obvious
lack of originality. The main plot of `Event Horizon', which was made the
year before that, is quite similar to the plot of this. There are also
bits
and pieces of other science fictions such as `Alien' taken here and
there.
Luckily it takes the bests bits and leaves you on the edge of your seat.
But
the finished product isn't as nourishing as it should be. The plot can
get
complicated at times, but for the most part it's actually quite clever.

And the glamorous cast of familiar faces insures that the movie never
drags
on. Dustin Hoffman is well cast as the calm, stable psychiatrist and
makes a
suitable lead. It's not her most challenging role, but Sharon Stone s
believable as the kooky biochemist. She still hasn't received any tough
roles after `Casino' though. The most complex character in the film,
Samuel
L. Jackson drops the usual machismo for some convincing scepticism and
abnormal goofiness. The supporting cast including Leiv Shreiber, Queen
Latifah and Peter Coyote do their parts adequately, not that they can do
much with them.

The directing is good as expected by a great director. Levinson
beautifully
creates the required intensity and the visuals are very impressive
aswell.
The glistering shimmer of the huge golden sphere of the title is a
delight
to gaze at.

The stars flash and the plot sizzles. There are a few plot-holes that it
falls into along with a bit of a sag in the middle. Nevertheless,
`Sphere'
is an impressive sci-fi horror that succeeds on almost every other level.
My
IMDb Rating: 6.8/10.

<|_=00=_|>

Best movie I have seen in a long time. I first saw `Sphere' on the big
screen when it first came out and I have rented it a few times and then
went
out and bought it on VHS. A little bit of the story for you-Dustin Hoffman
plays the part of a psychologist and thinks he is going to counsel the
survivors of a plane wreck in the ocean. There is more to the situation
than
Hoffman knows. At the supposed crash sight Hoffman teams up with Sharon
Stone and Samuel Jackson as part of a top team of scientists assembled in
high-priority situations. While under water the team finds the unexpected
and their worst fears become reality. This movie is perfectly intriguing
and
very well written. The twists and turns in the movie fit together like
puzzle pieces that paint the best psychological thriller that I have seen.
Hoffman is of course at his best and Stone and Jackson are right there
beside him the whole way.

<|_=00=_|>
Don't bother.

The writing is terrible - the characters' motives and actions make no
sense whatsoever. As a viewer we are asked to accept so much incredibly
bad stuff . . . yeah, it makes perfect sense that an 'alien' would
communicate by mapping a keyboard onto a sphere and numbering the keys
in a spiral fashion starting from the center. Perfect sense. Or that
you could mistranslate 'My name is Harry' into 'My name is Jerry' but
not mistranslate anything else that he was saying.

Or how about the 'inevitable' conclusion that the fact nobody knows
what happens in the future means that everyone died? I'd say it's a lot
more likely that information of that nature would at the least be kept
confidential, or (as they weakly wrapped up the plot) simply not spread
beyond the surviving crew members Don't get me started on the other
plot holes. What the hell happened to the dark-haired woman? Oh there's
a noise outside. Huh, it's her dead body. What could have done this to
her? NOBODY EVER KNOWS OR BOTHERS TO FIND OUT.

And the dialogue was really awful too. 'You know me. I believe
everything'. There were very few lines in this movie that sounded like
a real person would ever speak them. Samuel Jackson's character was a
mishmash of weirdness - he spent far too much of the movie seeming like
some sort of evil agent of the sphere, when it turns out that he's just
a raging idiot. Well played.

What really bothers me is that underneath all this crap, is a halfway
decent idea. I have not read Crighton's novel, for all I know it is
tolerable or even decent. But whatever it is, this adaptation is
absolutely godawful. I feel stupider for having watched it; I feel
stupider for being a member of a race which has other individuals who
would rate this miscarriage of filmography as anything other than utter
dreck.
