
I cannot begin to describe how amazing this movie is. Suffice it to
say, anytime I'm depressed about how unfair or futile things seem, this
is the movie I go rent to put me in the right frame of mind. The
background music makes you realize the easiness of existence and how
simplicity provides for the greatest happiness. The Indian girl that
sings is but one example of a character in this film who does not try
hard, and is happy as a result. Persifina, the laundry co-worker of
Ruby's (Ashley Judd) is another=-her eyes and smile could make the
hardest person's day. I watch this movie and I dream of better days to
come or of a good conversation with friends, and I realize that being
alone--Ruby is alone quite often--isn't the same as being lonely.
Recommended for anyone who enjoys a thoughtful lull of a movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Very slow-paced, but intricately structured and ultimately very
touching. A nice, very true-to-life look at a small Florida beach town
in the dead of winter -- I've been there, and this is absolutely
accurate.

It's also the debut feature of actress Ashley Judd, and she makes a big
impression here. It's hard to believe this film is 12 years old -- I
remember seeing it in theaters, and I recently rented "Ruby" again.
Except for the 80's looking clothes, it has held up very nicely. Ashely
is so radiant and touching here, that it's hard to think of her
subsequent career without wincing. Boy, talk about failing to fulfill
your early promise! Anyone seeing Ashley here in "Ruby In Paradise"
would assume this elegant, natural beauty went on to all kinds of
interesting art films and serious acting -- instead she has become the
"go to" girl for dumb action films and slasher movies! Very
disappointing, but at least we have this lovely performance preserved
to showcase her early promise.

As some other commenter's say, this is not for everyone as it's very
slow paced. This is not an action film, nor is it really a romance. The
director (Victor Nunez, "Ulees Gold", another excellent character
study) treats this ordinary young woman's life with deep respect,
allowing her story to build slowly and with a lot of detail. In that
way, I think this is one of the most moving and respectful
coming-of-age stories about young women that I can recall -- it's not
about Ruby's sexual awakening or "how she lost her virginity", but
about her life choices and her growing maturity.

A lovely film, if you take the time to watch it...I think it would be a
really excellent film to show teens and young girls (or boys for that
matter) and give them a chance to think about and discuss it.

Particular kudos to director Nunez, who also wrote the script, which is
so realistic and nicely detailed that I assumed all through the movie
that it was based on a female-written novel or memoir, but in fact it's
Mr. Nunez's original work. Rated 8 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I remember 1993 as a year of great female performances.  You had Angela
Bassetts striking interpretation as Tina Turner in What's Love Got to Do
With It; Debra Winger as the dying American Joy Gresham in Shadowlands;
Winona Ryder manipulative as May Welland in The Age of Innocence; and the
silent power in Holly Hunters performance in The Piano.  But as great as
these performances were, no performance was better than Ashley Judds, Ruby
Lee Gissing in Ruby In Paradise.

What a GREAT film.

There are scenes in this film that ring a sense of truth to what we say
and
act on, in human nature, as "real" people and not of what Hollywood
synthesizes the fake emotions of what human nature should be like.  Take
for
example in the scenes where Ruby trying to be employed and make an
existence
for herself; trying to work for living.  If this was a big Hollywood
studio
film, her character would be receiving monthly support payments from God.
Ashley Judd, and director Victor Nunez, do a great dance of allowing the
character to make choices that are truthful and not false.

Other film recommendations on similar themes see Erick Zonka's Dreamlife
of
Angels.

<|_=00=_|>
"Ruby in Paradise" is a beautiful, coming-of-age story about a young
woman, Ruby Lee Gissing, escaping her stifling roots to become herself.
Although the title character is played artfully by the gorgeous Ashley
Judd -- in likely her first movie role, albeit one to be quite proud of
-- the emphasis is not upon becoming "somebody," a la the next Madonna
(whether Jesus' mother or the lurid, attention-hungry singer).

It instead emphasizes following ones' instincts and being somewhat
introspective about them, to grow into one's ideal, adult self. NOTE:
This isn't an action movie!!! It uses an occasional voice-over
narration (by Ms. Judd) while writing in her journal -- and oh, I see
I've just lost the male half of the readers out there. But be patient
with this beautiful movie, where we learn that one's bliss can be
discovered in -- oh, I dunno, carrying water and chopping wood.

Actor/director/writer Todd Field, who played Nick Nightingale in "Eyes
Wide Shut," co-stars as Ruby Lee's noble love interest, one who helps
her heal her idea of relationships implanted from youth.

But not even his character is the answer for Ruby Lee: There's no
external hero imposed upon her. The ultimate message is that we are
responsible for ourselves. Writer/director Victor Nunez, who also
wrote/directed "Ulee's Gold," did an amazing job showing a young woman
growing into herself -- confronting age-old challenges of good v. evil
along the way.

The supporting cast is also stellar, and the music used, particularly
the cuts by chanteuse Sam Phillips (whom I hear is the wife of T. Bone
Burnett), is right on -- most especially "Trying to Hold on to the
Earth." Now, when I hear the first few chords of that song, tears
spring to my eyes, Pavlovian and unbidden -- not sure if it's the
music, or the indelible connection to the movie's quiet, charming
message of empowerment.

This movie is highly recommended for any young person trying to find
his/her way. For any woman of any age, it is a must see! The downside:
It is NOT on DVD, except in Spanish. (We learned, however, that it is
legal to make one copy of a VHS version, which can be readily found
online. My beloved husband found someone with a VHS copy and got a DVD
copy made for me.) Although this treasure of a movie occasionally pops
up on-air – on an indie channel, usually – you can't count on that when
you might need it most as a tonic to soothe the pressures of the world.
So buy a copy for yourself.

This movie should have a major re-release, and it would, if I were
Queen of Hollywood.

-- Figgy Jones
<|_=00=_|>
This was the first movie I ever saw Ashley Judd in and the first film
of Victor Nunez' that I ever say, and boy am I glad I did. Its' quiet
tone, its' relaxed pace, its' realistic depiction of a young woman just
starting out in life, its' fine depiction of the struggles she has to
go through to make her mark in life, the decisions she makes based on
real things, the people she meets - there is nothing wrong with this
movie. It is as close to movie magic as I have ever seen outside of the
" Star Wars " movies, and, given what those films are like, that means
this film deserves a high rating indeed. Ashley Judds' acting, Mr.
Nunez'writing, and its' great simple worthwhile story make this a fine
coming-of-age story and a wonderful movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Though this film may seem slow and lacking situational problems that
perk up any other drama, this is as close to life as it gets. This film
looks inward on the character of Ruby... as a woman trying to get by
with what little she has in education and work experience.

People do leave the "hollars" of eastern Kentucky and Tennessee to head
for the Florida panhandle, a paradise to people from the two states
mentioned. The people, like Ruby (Judd), find only a change of scenery,
weather, and new people with their own similar problems. 

Judd discovers her life is not instantly changed. She finds herself
needing a man when she wants to make it on her own. No matter the man
she chooses to be with, they're not enough for her to progress in her
goals.

Judd is a superb actress in this film and it would have been hard for
another actress in 1993 to play this role in a film that would not be a
blockbuster.
<|_=00=_|>
In the sea of crap that Hollywood (and others) continue to put out,
this is one of those diamonds in the rough. A small, simple movie that
is very entertaining and leaves you with the feeling that you didn't
just waste an hour and a half of your life.

Ashley Judd is really quite amazing in this movie. I had never really
been a fan or had noticed her before but going back and seeing this
early performance of hers convinced me she's extremely talented.

Watching this film was an assignment in a college course for me so I
was skeptical I would even care. I thought, "Oh boy, some dumb chic
flick or feminist male-bashing indie crap..." I was pleasantly
surprised. Without analyzing the many relevant themes, I'll just say,
if you haven't seen it, do yourself a favor and check it out. Sometimes
the down-to-earth, slice-of-life movies are the best, and this is a
great one.
<|_=00=_|>

Ruby Gissing is a twenty-something young woman who makes her escape from
what we assume is an unfulfilling existence in small-town Tennessee. As a
child she holidayed once in Panmana City Beach, Florida, and from that time
has dreamt of that idyllic experience, and longed to translate those
childhood memories into her contemporary adult life. It's obvious from the
moment she arrives that PC is no paradise but just another seedy beachside
resort of souvenir shops and sleazy topless bars. Kids have a tendency to
see the good side of everything. But Ruby has made a commitment to a new
life and sets about establishing some sort of meaningful life in her own
brand of ‘paradise'. And what a woman Ruby is. She's prepared to give life a
go and chance her arm. Sure, she occasionally does foolish things but she's
no fool and she learns from her mistakes. Ruby's journey is a rocky one at
times and when the film reaches its conclusion the journey is nowhere near
over, but you get the impression that Ruby has turned the corner and taken
control of her own life. 
Ruby in Paradise is a meditation on one woman's path to self-realization.
It's the story of a woman and not just a woman's film. Ashley Judd's
performance as Ruby is very understated but from that restraint emerges a
tremendously powerful characterisation. She gets into the role of Ruby and
makes her a believable person, not some Hollywood creation. This is her best
performance and should have established her a star in the first rank. But it
takes more than just talent to get ahead in this world. Although the recent
Double Jeopardy will no doubt bring Judd more fame and better parts, she'll
not play a more complex and rewarding role than Ruby Gissing. By IMDb's
system of rating, 9 out of 10.

<|_=00=_|>
I totally agree with the main points of those who have already reviewed
Ruby in Paradise. After having spent time living in Florida, I would
just like to add that this movie does a fantastic job in creating the
mood and atmosphere of living in Florida. Businesses such as Chamber's
Emporium are everywhere. The invasion of tourists from spring breakers
to Canadian snowbirds is perfectly captured. The contrast between
Ruby's two boyfriends made the movie more realistic. Ruby's first
boyfriend was easily a mismatch considering he was more like the
boyfriend that Ruby fled from at the beginning of the movie. The brainy
boyfriend who looked down upon commercial businesses such as Chamber's
Emporium captured a feeling that many students expressed during the
Vietnam War Era of the 1960s. It was easily apparent that Ruby was well
above that type of attitude. I especially enjoyed this movie because it
did so vividly bring back memories of my time living in Florida. Of
course my stay in Florida would have been much better if I could have
spent time with Ashley Judd as her third boyfriend. Ha! Ha!
<|_=00=_|>
This will be a different kind of review. I've seen this movie twice on
TV and would like to have a copy because it talks about Panama City and
the beach in the winter time which is my favorite time to be there. It
was the first movie I'd seen by Ashley Judd and she was great and I've
enjoyed every other thing I've seen her in. Sundance's reaction made an
impression on me too, as did the director, Victor Nunez, who has
directed and written several movies about Florida. This movie speaks to
me and I've seen nothing with which to compare it. The plot speaks less
to me than the surroundings. Well, I told you it would be a different
kind of review.
