
I went into A Perfect Murder expecting to enjoy it, but I recognised
the fact that I wouldn't be in for a great film. To be honest, I love
thrillers like this as they offer a solid two hours (or so) of non-too
taxing entertainment, and what's not to like about that? A Perfect
Murder is an update of the Hitchcock classic 'Dial M For Murder', and
while the film doesn't touch Hitchcock's in terms of how thrilling it
is, this update has been well handled and despite losing things such as
the claustrophobia and the tight plot, A Perfect Murder still does what
you'd expect it to do. The plot has become more expansive for this
update, but the filmmakers have still managed to keep it tight so that
the plot is focused mainly on the characters as opposed to the actual
crime. The plot follows a rich man (Michael Douglas) who discovers that
his trophy wife (Gweneth Paltrow) is having an affair with an artist
(Viggo Mortensen). When his business affairs start to go awry, he
decides to commit the perfect murder so that he can inherit his wife's
trust fund. However, as all of us Hitchcock fans know; there's no such
thing as the perfect murder.

Michael Douglas was the absolute perfect choice for this role. He may
get typecast as the slimy businessman often, but he does it so well!
You can really believe that he wants to kill his wife. Gweneth Paltrow,
who is often solid but never outstanding; and Viggo Mortensen, who is
actually a good actor, join him and make up the three-piece central
cast. Mortensen's performance here isn't awesome; but it's good, and
hints at the sort of stuff that would be to come - such as a great turn
in David Cronenberg's A History of Violence. Like most nineties
thrillers, this one is very stylishly shot and there's a focus on the
more steamy elements of the story. The locations used aptly convey the
groups within society that the characters belong to and the film does a
good job of setting its scenes. The central set piece is well executed,
and the build up to it is well done also; but it has to be said that
the film starts to fall apart a little after that. Still, A Perfect
Murder never becomes boring and even during it's down time; the film
still manages to be thrilling. As mentioned, this isn't as great as
Hitchcock's version - but as modern remakes go - this certainly isn't a
bad one, and I recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good thriller.
<|_=00=_|>
The movie has a low rating because it's a remake. And because it's a
remake of a Hitchcock movie. It's kinda like when a rock band tries to
cover Stairway to Heaven by Led Zeppelin. Nobody will accept it, no
matter what it's like. It' doomed to fail. I saw this before I saw
Hitchcock's version and I really loved this movie. I'd say it stands on
it's own. The plot is not the same as in "Dial M for Murder", so should
be interesting also for those who saw the original. Dialog is witty,
the plot is complicated and full of surprises, yet it all makes sense.
Michael Douglas is terrific as this cynical, cold-blooded businessman
who decides to get his unfaithful wife murdered. Cheating is very very
wrong, so he has an understandable motive. It's not an excuse to murder
anyone, but Douglas's character believes he has this perfect plan, with
no risk of getting caught..

I really recommend this. I'd give it 7.5 but since there is no half
points in IMDb, I gave it an eight.
<|_=00=_|>

Micheal Douglas (Steven) and Gwenyth Paltrow (Emily) are a married
couple. Emily falls in love and has an affair with a young painter,
David Shaw (Mortensen). Hiding the affair and making a tense move,
Emily is put in the position to tell Steven or not. One way or another
Steven has a plan, a plan to murder his own wife....with a little help
from the someone else.

I really love this movie. I try to watch it as much as possible. In
this movie it is set to the level of Micheal Douglas's creepy and
insanity side of his acting. He scared me so much that I didn't feel
comfortable about seeing this for the first time. Gwenyth Paltrow on
the other hand, plays a very innocent and lovely role. She really
doesn't have a clue what Steven and David are up to in this twisting
thriller. Viggo is absolutely excellent in this movie. He gave an
outstanding role and put another character on my favorite list. This is
a very good movie and I recommend this movie to Alfred Hitchcock and
mystery/murder fans. I would rate this 10/10

<|_=00=_|>

I actually liked this movie, but the ending was bad.

Summary: Steven Taylor and Emily have been married for quite some time yet
Emily feels trapped and controlled by Steven so she seeks comfort in the
arms of David, a broke artist with a hidden past. Steven knows about the
affair yet Emily has no idea that he knows. Steven approaches David and lets
him know that he knows everything about David's past and then blackmails
him. He pays 100 grand and tells David he will pay another 400 grand after
the job is done. What job? Oh, for killing Emily, his wife. David accepts
and Steven tells him how to murder Emily and it sounds flawless until Emily
manages to kill the intruder in her home and at Steven's surprise, it's not
David!

In such cases as these where rich people get married, I understand why there
should be a pre-nuptial agreement! The movie is a great thriller yet it
lacks....something. Viggo Mortensen was David, the lover who does love Emily
but loves money more. Michael Douglas, the loving yet control freak husband
Steven, whose empire is falling apart and the only option he has is to kill
his wife played by Gwyneth Paltrow, who works for the UN, speaks a few
languages but is dumb as a doorbell when it comes to the men in her
life.

I rate this 7/10, the movie has lots of great twists and so on, but I saw
only Michael Douglas making a real effort in this movie. Viggo was great
too, but Gwyneth seems so confused through out this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

A Perfect Murder is a lot better than I thought it would be, probably
because of the smart direction from director Andrew Davis (The Fugitive,
Chain Reaction, Under Siege). Given a fairly involved script and an action
film, (never mind the dialogue, just cut quickly to the next scene) shooting
scheme, Davis has concocted a mainstream thriller that works quite
well.
A Perfect Murder is based on a middle rated Hitchcock film which was in
turn based on a hit Broadway play called Dial M For Murder. Steven Taylor
(Michael Douglas, in part revisiting Wall Street's Gordon Gecko) is in
financial strife and decides to knock Emily his wife off to grab her money.
She's played by the hapless Gwyneth Paltrow. Hubby blackmails his wife's
lover (Viggo Mortensen) to do the dirty deed.
This film is ferociously mainstream. The music chimes in just so. The
bathrobe disappears just so. Michael Douglas plays Michael Douglas to
perfection, Paltrow is protected from any line more than fifteen words long,
but still A Perfect Murder is never boring.
The original Hitchcock version starred Ray Miland and Grace Kelly. There
weren't any mobile phones and the wife wasn't screwing the killer. And then
there was Grace Kelly rather than Gwyneth Paltrow in that old  film. I
know who I'd prefer.


<|_=00=_|>

A stunning remake of the 1954 Hitchcock Classic ,"Dial M for Murder"-"A
perfect murder" is a brilliant piece.

Emily Bradford (Gwyneth Paltrow) is sleeping with Artist David Shaw (Viggo
Mortensen).Her husband,much older than her-Steven Taylor (played by Michael
Douglas) knows but is not letting on.
Steven hires David to kill her,and organises the perfect murder.However
David hires a hitman.

Things go wrong when the hitman is killed by Emily.Steven must find a way to
turn things to his advantage.But Emily is discovering things on her own and
David isn't helping.....

A thrilling piece of cinema-Paltrow,Douglas and Mortensen make this a
wonderful work-not to be msised.

If you've seen this,Dial M for Murder is not bad either.
<|_=00=_|>

   This is a good movie, the more I watch it the more I like it.  When I
first viewed this movie I thought it was ok, but when we bought the video it
began to grow on me.  The acting is excellent, and the story twists along at
a good pace.  Douglas is a good actor and his performance alone is worth
renting this film.
<|_=00=_|>

A Perfect Murder ( a loose remake of 혩Dial M for Murder ) is a

stylish thriller in its own right ,but doesn't come close to the

original. As I remember and not to give away any of the plot, 혩Dial

혩M' is all about the key. Where it is hidden, Who knew it was there,

and who finds it. This plot line is gripping, but in 혩Perfect Murder'

this whole part of the story has been overlooked. Having said that

the film still works quite well, thanks to Michael Douglas. He really

is superb. Gwyneth Palthrow looks stunning,  but David Suchet is

wasted as the detective. But where the film really falls down is the

ending. In the original the last scenes are gripping in the hunt for

the key, but for some reason director Andrew Davis sees fit to end

with the standard formula of a shoot out. Having said that the film

is still worth seeing, but if you need to watch this story, I

recommend the original.


<|_=00=_|>

Hitchcock's DIAL M FOR MURDER was based on the Frederick Knott play of the
same name. A PERFECT MURDER takes elements from the play, makes alterations
in scenes and characters, changes the ending, and in attempting to modernize
the whole thing has added some extra gore to the proceedings so today's
audiences won't feel cheated. And yet, the result is not only distinctly
disappointing, but inferior.

Only fans of Gwyneth Paltrow and Michael Douglas will relish their
performances in this pale rehash of the original material. The complexity of
"the key under the stairmat" which was so effectively played out in the
Hitchcock film is entirely missing here.  The detective work so fascinating
in the original play and film is also gone despite the fact that he is
played by David Suchet (in a very underwritten role). In short: none of the
revisions are any improvement. Nor does Viggo Mortensen impress as Paltrow's
lover.

Those who haven't seen the movie or the play DIAL M FOR MURDER will no doubt
find some of this absorbing enough--but anyone able to make a comparison is
bound to be disappointed. I'll take Ray Milland-Grace Kelly-Robert Cummings
under Hitchcock's direction any day over
a misguided Paltrow and Douglas under Andrew Davis' direction.

As for the comments of the viewer who said, "Who's Hitchcock?",
please...spare me your review.

<|_=00=_|>

I found the film to be very interesting and smoothly executed.  The acting
of film veteran Michael Douglas was superb.  Paltrow and Mortensen were also
very smooth and a pleasure to observe.  My only problem with this film was
the way it ended.  An editing glitch? Maybe.  It was too abrupt.  But all in
all, a very entertaining film and an excellent use of a familiar
theme-plot.

It should also be noted that Novella Nelson, who portrays Ambassador Alice
Wills, is a noted songtress in her own right.  I have had the pleasure of
attending a few of her concerts and night club appearances in the 1970s.  An
excellent, sultry and sometimes fiery singer of jazz standards and
R&B.
