
Two scientists, Dr. Elena Kinder (Kathleen Turner) and Dr. Heep
(Christopher Lloyd), use genius-baby studies to fund BabyCo's theme
park "Joyworld". According Dr. Kinder's Research, babies are supposed
to possess vast, universal knowledge and speak a secret yet
impossible-to-translate baby pre-language called "Babytalk". At age
two, however, the knowledge and language are lost as the babies "cross
over" by learning how to talk. Most of the babies that were raised in
Dr. Kinder's vast, underground research facility were adopted from the
Pasadena orphanage, transformed into geniuses through use of the Kinder
Method, and then used in experiments to decipher the language used by
the baby-geniuses.

One mischievous toddler, Sylvester (AKA Sly), makes repeated attempts
to escape Dr. Kinder's research facility and one night, Sylvester goes
into a dirty diaper truck and he actually succeeds. The next morning,
Sylvester does not expect is to run into his twin, Whit, in a mall
playground. Although Sylvester and Whit share a telepathic bond, they
have no idea of each other's existence. While the guards from Dr.
Kinder's research facility capture Whit, mistake him for Sylvester, and
take him back to Dr. Kinder's research facility, Sylvester is taken
home by Whit's adopted mother, Robin (Kim Cattrall), who is Dr.
Kinder's niece. After Dr. Kinder is Horrified that Whit and Sylvester
switched at the mall, she decides to do a cross evaluation on Sylvester
and Whit. However, when she comes to Dan Bobbin's Place, she realizes
that Dan Bobbin can understand babies. After the attempts to retrieve
Sylvester fail, Dr. Kinder decides to move the research facility to
Lichtenstein So that they can transform Whit into becoming a genius
thanks to him getting bred by the Kinder Method (Thus erasing his
memories about his foster parents, foster brothers and foster sisters)
and use him as an experiment to crack the code to "Babytalk".

The babies at Bobbin's place hypnotize Lenny (Dom DeLuise), the bus
driver to drive to Dr. Kinder's research facility. Once at the research
facility, Sylvester goes to the control room to set the robots from the
theme park on the lab scientists. When the Bobbins return home, their
natural daughter Carrie tells her father that the children are in Dr.
Kinder's research facility. At the end of the fight Dr. Kinder captures
Whit and takes him to the helicopter pad on the roof. Robin and Dan
chase them to the roof, where Dr. Kinder reveals that she and Robin are
not related, and that Robin was adopted at age two. After Dr. Kinder
got arrested by the police, Sylvester and Whit come together on the
roof to cross over.

Dan and Robin adopt Sylvester. Dan is still curious of the secrets of
life, but as the twins have crossed over they no longer know those
secrets. Carrie, their sister, doesn't reveal anything (just gives her
dad a sly smile) because adults aren't meant to know their secrets.

Baby Geniuses Is So Funny,Quite Amusing & Impressive.Undoubtedly it is
one of the best family movies I have Ever Seen.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, let me just say that these comments are via my 7 year old son
who didn't appreciate the fact that Baby Geniuses was on the list of the
100
worst movies -- and he figured that the vote tally was largely a reflection
of adults who just didn't get it!

According to him, Baby Geniuses is funny and he likes funny stuff.  So it's
one of his favorite movies.  It's a good story.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't understand why people hate it! I enjoyed it! I thought it was
funny
when the baby did the Disco dance. I laughed! And i though SOME of the
effects were OK. Some were fake but I still enjoyed it. I would rate it a
4
1/2 out of 5, I thought it was a good family movie also.
<|_=00=_|>
Babies and film have a widely celebrated history together. One has to
look no further than the 1989 opus, Look Who's Talking, and subsequent
trilogy, to see how dynamic the formula translates to film. Ten years
later, this breathtaking film was released. Baby Geniuses is just that:
a genius work of film starring babies. From the hilarious in-your-face
comedy styling of triplet actors Leo, Myles, and Gerry Fitzgerald, to
the haunting performance as the Cruella-Deville-inspired villain Dr.
Elena Kinder, played by the venerated Kathleen Turner.

I'll admit I was skeptical. When I embarked on my initial viewing, I
had certain preconceived notions about the nature of babies and their
intellect that hindered my enjoyment. After my third or fourth
screening, I was hooked. It's all based on the ancient belief that
children are born with advanced conceptions of the universe that are
lost by the time they enter into the adult world. This long-held belief
by many Eastern religions has been shunned and avoided in film for
decades. Baby Geniuses, at its heart a social film about the nuclear
family and child slavery, confronts the issue head on. This fearless
script, endlessly researched, jumps from the actors mouths and rattles
the viewer to their core. What begins as an interesting piece of
humorous science fiction, ends with a death-defying, heart-pounding
final scene as actor Peter MacNicol, who performs all of his own stunts
in the film, dangles from the rope of a helicopter—every second
ascending, every second pulling him from a safe landing – a phobia that
millions of Americans struggle with day-to-day. 

I should also mention this film's ahead-of-it's-time visual effects.
With limited technology at their disposal, seeing that production was
completed in 1998, the team of computer animation experts were able to
truly wow me with the babies' seamlessly advanced dexterity and speech.
I'm not typically one to conjecture on movie magic and try to decode
how certain shots were pulled off, but I do believe that they must have
used some sort of puppets on strings and then digitally replaced the
heads of the characters, specifically in the now famous John Travolta
homage scene. The results are spectacular and will leave audience's 100
years from now scratching their heads at just how they were able to
pull this off. 

The film is a fun, energetic, twisted baby comedy-thriller that will be
revered for generations to come. A landmark accomplishment. Run, don't
crawl, to go see Baby Geniuses.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie changed my life. Right up there with American Psycho! There
is so much symbolism in this movie I had to watch it thrice just
understand it fully! When the one baby said "Don't have a cow Basil" I
thought wow, a reference to The Last Temptation of Christ" Humor,
intense plot, this babies got it all! All I can say is WOW! If you like
intense psychological thrillers than this movie is for you! The
switching of the twins was a total plot twist! I had no idea that would
happen! I even found myself mistaking the two Sly and Whit! Christopher
Llyods best performance since the powerful Angels in the Outfield!
Kathleen Turner delivers a moving and convincing performance as a tough
woman trying to succeed in a mans world. You go girl!
<|_=00=_|>
Baby Geniuses is one of the best films that i have seen in a long time.
It shows the true meaning of friendship and how we should not be
racist. I laughed every second of it. This jokes were not stop from
beginning to end. If you liked Old School or Wedding Crashers, then
this movie is for you. It has that kind of humor that only these actors
could pull off. I give it 10 out of 10 stars because its awesome,
entertaining, and action packed. There are some scenes that are very
emotional, but the rest is just complete laughs. If your looking for
just a non stop thrill ride, and one of the best comedic performances
of your life, then watch Baby Geniuses.
<|_=00=_|>

This is up there with Chairman Of The Board(1998) starring none-other than
Carrot-Top!  This is the funniest movie of 1999.  I love this movie.  When
a
weak 20lb baby can beat up a fully grown adult, you know it's going to be
a
great show.  I'm so glad this movie was made that I saw it four times in
the
theater, and as soon it came out, got it on DVD.  Greatest show
ever.
<|_=00=_|>
Wow what an excellent movie!. I could not believe why it has been
extremely under-rated. It is so amusing,funny and witty. Critics are
sometimes narrow-minded and unfair in their reviews. Most kids all over
the world will enjoy watching a fantastic comedy movie with superb
action and great cinematography.

Plot of Baby Geniuses: Two scientists, Dr. Elena Kinder (Kathleen
Turner) and Dr. Heep (Christopher Lloyd), use genius-baby studies to
fund BabyCo's theme park "Joyworld". According Dr. Kinder's Research,
babies are supposed to possess vast, universal knowledge and speak a
secret yet impossible-to-translate baby prelanguage called "Babytalk".
At age two, however, the knowledge and language are lost as the babies
"cross over" by learning how to talk. Most of the babies that were
raised in Dr. Kinder's vast, underground research facility were adopted
from the Pasadena orphanage, transformed into geniuses through use of
the Kinder Method, and then used in experiments to decipher the
language used by the baby-geniuses.

One mischievous toddler, Sylvester (AKA Sly), makes repeated attempts
to escape Dr. Kinder's research facility and one night, Sylvester goes
into a dirty diaper truck and he actually succeeds. The next morning,
one things Sylvester does not expect is to run into his twin, Whit, in
a mall playground. Although Sylvester and Whit share a telepathic bond,
they have no idea of each other's existence. While the guards from Dr.
Kinder's research facility capture Whit, mistake him for Sylvester, and
take him back to Dr. Kinder's research facility, Sylvester is taken
home by Whit's adopted mother, Robin (Kim Cattrall), who is Dr.
Kinder's niece. After Dr. Kinder is horrified that Whit and Sylvester
switched at the mall, she decides to do a cross evaluation on Sylvester
and Whit. However, when she comes to Dan Bobbin's place, she realizes
that Dan Bobbin can understand babies. After the attempts to retrieve
Sylvester fail, Dr. Kinder decides to move the research facility to
Lichtenstein, so that they can transform Whit into becoming a genius
thanks to him getting bred by the Kinder Method (thus erasing his
memories about his foster parents, foster brothers and foster sisters)
and use him as an experiment to crack the code to "Babytalk".

The babies at Bobbin's place hypnotize Lenny (Dom DeLuise), the bus
driver to drive to Dr. Kinder's research facility. Once at the research
facility, Sylvester goes to the control room to set the robots from the
theme park on the lab scientists. When the Bobbins return home, their
natural daughter Carrie tells her father that the children are in Dr.
Kinder's research facility. At the end of the fight Dr. Kinder captures
Whit and takes him to the helicopter pad on the roof. Robin and Dan
chase them to the roof, where Dr. Kinder reveals that she and Robin are
not related, and that Robin was adopted at age two. After Dr. Kinder
got arrested by the police, Sylvester and Whit come together on the
roof to cross over.

Dan and Robin adopt Sylvester. Dan is still curious of the secrets of
life, but as the twins have crossed over they no longer know those
secrets. Carrie, their sister, doesn't reveal anything (just gives her
dad a sly smile) because adults aren't meant to know their secrets.

Buy This DVD!. It is GREAT!
<|_=00=_|>
I love both movies baby geniuses 1 and super-babies baby geniuses 2 I
have both on DVD and their both excellent movies I watch both movies a
lot and their both really great movies sly and whit and Carrie are
awesome from baby geniuses 1 and in baby geniuses 2 kahuna is my
favorite character both movies are the best that the movie industry
ever came out with and I can't wait till they come out with baby
geniuses 3 that movie is going to be totally awesome. every on just
wait till baby geniuses 3 comes out I'm telling everybody it's going to
be the sweetest movie that they ever come out with I hope they come out
with three or four more baby geniuse movies after the third one.
<|_=00=_|>
What is wrong with you people!?!? This flick was a classic. Like you
never imagined crime- fighting babies. The bottom 100 is so harsh. The
film is about two evil doctors (Kathleen Turner, Christopher Lloyd) who
discover that babies are born with knowledge of the world but forget
everything when they "cross over"-learning how to talk, so they try to
crack the language. The only thing that stands in their way is a baby
named Sly, who escapes and makes their jobs harder. One day, Sly
escapes and is switches with his twin brother, Wit, he never knew he
had. Wit lives with a family where his parents (Peter MacNichol, Kim
Cattrel) run a day care. With Sly on the outside, he trains his new
fellow toddlers into exposing the evil ring and rescue the babies,
while Wit tries to get revenge and break out! Does this sound bad? I
think not!
