

Many of the titles featured in this Internet Movie Database represent
films
that for various reasons are welcomed with scorn regardless of the good
intentions of their creators. One such film is David Kirschner's "The
Pagemaster," created by him as a means to share with his two daughters,
Alexis and Jessica (both of whom, by the way, have cameos in the film),
the
wonder of reading.
The story was born out of a clandestine visit by David, Lexie and Jess
Kirschner to the New York Public Library's Center for the Humanities (the
Headquarters Branch). Both Kirschner girls were little back then, and Dad
ran Hanna-Barbera at the time. But what those two chldren took out of that
visit was a spectacular sense of wonder --- and, consequently, that's how
their father developed the idea for "The Pagemaster."

Some 3 1/2 years later, the result of David's concept stands as a
spectacularly imaginative adventure where the joy of reading is made
manifest within the simple space of 75 minutes. What a lot of people
grumble
about, as far as this film is concerned, is the fact that this was
Macaulay
Culkin's penultimate appearance as a child actor. There were many in and
out
of Hollywood who wanted to see his career implode; and part of that, as we
all know by now, was due to the bitter divorce and custdy battles between
his parents. That, more than anything, was the lynchpin of the disgust
most
of us had for this kid.

And what of the film itself? Well, the story of Richard Tyler still
enchants
me, if it doesn't anyone else. Who wouldn't want to have adventures with
three delightful book characters representing their namesake genres ---
Adventure (Patrick Stewart), Fantasy (Whoopi Goldberg) and Horror (Frank
Welker)? Not only that, encountering both Jekyll and Hyde (Leonard Nimoy),
Captain Ahab (George Hearn), Long John Silver (Jim Cummings) .... and a
fire-breathing dragon --- and taking them on any way you can is perfect
fodder for an 11-year-old constantly fearing the world around him.

One particularly funny line in the film comes in the live-action prologue,
co-starring Ed Begley, Jr. and Mel Harris as Richard's parents. Alan, the
father (Begley), recalls to his wife Claire (Harris) the day he signed his
son up for Little League Baseball: "...he drove everybody crazy with
statistics about how you can get a blood clot just by being hit on the
head
with a ball. 'Did you know that shin-splints can lead to blood clots in
the
legs?' Claire, he brought in a medical journal! Nobody wanted to play
after
that! And now, I'm building him a treehouse in a tree he refuses to
climb!"
Looking back, it's not how Begley utters that line, but rather, it is the
way he delivers it that makes me laugh.

And then, there's James Horner's delightful score, punctuated by the
central
theme tune --- recorded as a single by Capitol recording artist Wendy
Moten.
Entitled "Whatever You Imagine," the song, with lyrics by the
indefatigable
Barry Mann and Cynthia Weil, was even nominated for a Grammy, which, alas,
it didn't win. But the tune was eventually embraced by yours truly; and
has
since been adopted as Blackwolf the Dragonmaster's personal
song.

These are just some of the special memories I have about "The Pagemaster."
But of course, it is the Pagemaster himself, voiced and spoken by
Christopher Lloyd, who drives home the story's central point. It is he,
more
than anyone else, who gives Richard Tyler the strength he needs to
confront
his own fears, regardless of the world around him. The result, of course,
is
that, by the time our tale ends, Richard becomes a stronger and better
person --- all thanks to the magic of books. I sincerely believe that,
given
the current popularity of the Harry Potter and Lord of the Rings books,
the
wisdom of the Pagemaster is paying off, long after the film has been
forgotten. After all, without books, we couldn't take on the imagination
in
our own way fearlessly. And that, I think, is as much reward as a young
person needs in this world. 'Nuff said. 
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, in 1994 I was obsessed with Macaulay Culkin. When I saw a trailer for
this film, I couldn't wait to see it. When I went to see it though, my
family and I were the only ones in the theatre! The same thing happened to
my aunt and my cousins. I remember loving the film. I wanted that awesome
bike he had. I got the videogame, and I got my copy on video. AND JAMES
HORNER'S SCORE WAS AMAZING! I thought it was a good movie that had all the
genres, even cooler that it was live action/animation. It's sad about it's
bomb at the box office. It's quite a forgettable film, but I love it and I
still do. Don't forget that Joe Johnston who is now quite acclaimed directed
the live action scenes. Great for him. 
<|_=00=_|>
The Pagemaster in my opinion, was a wonderful film, and I do think the
4.8 rating is too low. I have seen much worse movies, that are rated
higher than that. Sure it's not Disney, but it is a good family film
that I guarantee if you give it a chance that the whole family will
love. The animation is not so bad, perhaps a little dated and rushed,
but I've seen worse, and the dragon was excellent. The music by James
Horner was beautiful, very fitting with what was going on on screen,
very reminiscent of Land Before Time and Once Upon a Forest, and
Whatever You imagine was amazing. The story tells of a young boy named
Richard, who is serious and fearful of everything, until an unexpected
visit to the library changes his life forever. I loved the story and
the clever and diverse references to the literary giants, like Treasure
Island, Jekyll and Hyde and Moby Dick, and the message of the film
about facing your fears that doesn't preach. Macaulay Culkin is
excellent here as is Christopher Lloyd, and Patrick Stewart (rousing
and witty), Whoopi Goldberg (sugar and starch) and Frank Welker (in a
fine Igor impression) expertly bring the snappy screenplay to life. I
loved the witty banter between Adventure and Fantasy, and the
librarian's rant about the different literary genres. And I don't think
it is Macaulay Culkin or Christopher Lloyd's worst film, Culkin's was
Richie Rich, Lloyd's was My Favourite Martian. All in all, a terrific
film, with a 10/10. Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
It's a great movie. This kid, Richard Tyler, played by young Macaulay
Culkin, is really paranoid, and always talks about injury-related
statistics. During a frightening storm, he takes temporary refuge from
the rain in a library, run by the eerie Mr. Dewey, played by
Christopher Lloyd. Richard is instructed to find a pay phone so he can
tell his parents where he is.

In the middle of the library, there's a huge ceiling painting of Dr.
Jekyll, Mr. Hyde, Long John Silver and his crew from Treasure Island,
Captain Aham and Moby Dick, a fierce dragon, and in the center, an old
man with a long white beard and nobleman clothes holding a scroll. The
ceiling starts dripping paint, and the globs are transformed into a
huge dragon, which transforms everything it touches into animation.
Richard, now a cartoon, meets the old man, the Pagemaster, who tells
him that to get out of the library and return to normal, he must past
three tests, described only as adventure, horror, and fantasy.

Soon, he also meets three hilarious talking books. The first,
Adventure, played by Patrick Stewart, is probably the funniest guy in
the movie. The second, Fantasy, played by Whoopi Goldberg, is also
funny, but it's because of her attitude. The third, Horror, played by
Frank Welker, is a brain-dead coward who looks like Frankenstein's
Monster. With his three new friends, Richard has to pass the tests to
get his normal form back, admittance to the exit, and most of all...the
courage he never thought he had.
<|_=00=_|>
The beginning of this movie is excellent with tremendous sound and some
nice humor, but once the film changes into animation it quickly loses
its appeal.

One of the reasons that was so, at least for me, was that the colors in
much of the animation are too muted, with too little contrast. It
doesn't look good, at least on VHS. Once in a while it breaks out and
looks great, but not often Also, the characters come and go too
quickly. For example, I would have liked to have seen more of "Moby
Dick." When the film starts to drag, however, it picks up again with
the entrance of the dragon and then the film finishes strong. 

Overall, just not memorable enough or able to compete with the great
animated films of the last dozen years.
<|_=00=_|>
- It's in the middle, by the waterfall! - No, it's East.. by some
broccoli.

I'm sorry. But I absolutely love this movie! I remember it so well from
when I was a kid, how I watched it over and over again, never getting
tired of it. For years I have been wanting to see it again, but I
couldn't remember what it was called. And when I Finally found it, I
was a bit scared to actually see it. I mean, whenever you have had so
high expectations on a movie (especially one that you've seen and loved
as a child) you always in some way get more or less disappointed. But
this time I have to say I didn't! 

Sure, the colors and contrast isn't as powerful as it could be and the
part where he gets chased by the color isn't half as realistic as I
remembered it too be, but for a 4-yearold (which I was at the time this
came out) it's more than enough to get the engines running! This movie
is partially responsible for my massive interest and collection of
fantasy-books and movies at home, as well as my ridiculous fear of
thunder. I mean, come on, it's really nicely put together! It's got it
all! Plus, even if they are only in there for a short period of time,
you build up an interest for all the stories you come across throughout
the story, like Moby Dick and Dr Jekyll. And that was the intention of
the maker of this move, right? To get the children into reading. At
least I remember asking my mum to read all those stories to me after
seeing this! 

Okey, maybe I'm letting myself get a bit carried away.. I'll be honest,
If I hadn't seen this as a kid or had kids myself, I probably wouldn't
think that much of it. It's a bit dated which we all can tell and with
todays technology you could make this 10 times better . But setting
that aside, this is a timeless story! And I hope that when I have kids
myself, this movie will help them get their lazy asses away from the
computer and into the library.

In the end I will not rate this movie from an adult living in our
time's point of view, but from the heart of a little girl. And never
the less, this adults heart still beats hard for this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this movie as a kid, and hell, I STILL do. Some of the cgi
doesn't holdup as well, but then again, this is 2010 and that was 1994,
so I'll cut that some slack. Yeah, maybe from an adult's POV this movie
isn't so incredible, but then again, this is a movie made for kids, and
I liked it as a child. It was a lot of fun, and It's still, easily, my
favorite animated (slash live-action) film of all-time. I knock it down
from a 10 because of the running time (about 75 minutes) but other than
that, I see nothing bad about this film. A fantastic ride from start to
finish, this epic tale of a young boy who is way to afraid of
everything who's path leads him to courage is one I'll never forget. A
Truly underrated movie.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The Pagemaster" may have been the only really good movie that Macaulay
Culkin ever did. Playing accident-obsessed youngster Richard Tyler, who
goes to the library and gets transferred into a world of horror,
fantasy and adventure, he makes the most of the role. Patrick Stewart
(a pirate-like book named Adventure), Whoopi Goldberg (a fairy-like
book named Fantasy) and Frank Welker (a maladroit book named Horror)
show themselves to be as adept in these kinds of movies as they are in
their normal roles, as does Christopher Lloyd (the librarian and the
Pagemaster).

All in all, this movie really shows you how much there is to read. I
think that my favorite scene was the whole Jekyll and Hyde sequence -
although the dripping painting was also pretty impressive. A very well
done movie. Also starring Ed Begley Jr., Mel Harris, and the voices of
Leonard Nimoy, Dorian Harewood and Phil Hartman.
<|_=00=_|>
Just because something is part of my childhood doesn't mean it's good,
and this movie is really not a great animated film. It's got a nice
message, and it looks good, but the premise of jumping from storybook
to storybook gets tiring by the end.

Richard Tyler (McCaulay Culkin) is a scaredy cat who's always getting
picked on. On a stormy night he gets stuck in a library, and ends up
animated with several book friends. He meets Fantasy (Whoopie
Goldberg), Adventure (Patrick Stewart) and Horror (Frank Welker), and
he goes through many famous books. The plot is very slim, and kind of
just jumps around from book to book, but it actually works very well.
This also has a great musical score and it manages to make the movie
sad at times. Unlike many animated films, you actually come to like the
characters by the end, and that's hard to do.

"The Pagemaster" is a very underrated, good animated movie that will
appeal to kids and will amuse adults.

My rating: *** out of ****. 70 mins. Rated G
<|_=00=_|>
I only review the movies I really adore, some will slip that I don't
adore but this one isn't one of them, it seems that over the years
people have lost a lot of imagination, it seems as we go through the
future we realize what cannot be true is so phony, but as I see it
people will return to it one time, I am still a really liker of
imagination, but people today don't wanna believe the things that no
one can believe, so because of that this movie haven't got a lot of
good reviews, I want to do this movie justice...

The pagemaster is made for kids and adults who still dreams, it isn't
the most serious movie at all but it does have some spots that has
deemed it serious, mostly it is a movie that should be taken lightly.

This movie wants us to be taught something like many others of its
nature, in this movie we are taught two major things first 1. to take
choices and not be afraid, to do things we normally would be a afraid
of as a child, second 2. it teaches us the main thing, to believe,
simply just to believe, we all know none of this is real but why do we
have to disband these movies, they are imagination, fantasy something
many today could need a whole lot more of.

This movie is also done very good by the actors, they chose the right
actors for every voice in the movie, but my favorite is of course
Christopher Loyd as the Pagemaster, the one who granted a single wish
for a kid who were afraid of everything.

The music is perfect in this movie, as it is a fantasy music like this
is needed, this is something people and companies have at least kept
forever and haven't still forgot, now if only they would do the same
for fantasy, for imagination, we all have a child in us, why grow up so
fast, we get to be mature but that doesn't mean we have to let go the
things that made us into what we are today, many of these movies have
been forgotten but they will always stay inside us, so now it is time
to say that this movie is all that it is a classic, a classic people
just forgot.

As I said above I only do reviews of movies I like, not movies I don't
like so of course this is one of my favorite, I grew up watching movies
like this, enjoy it, and for do yourself a favor and watch it again,
slowly fall inside imagination, just one more time, it is worth it...

"Shh I have a talent for guessing what people need"
