

I really don't know what is so horrible about this film.As of this writing
On Deadly Ground is on the IMDb bottom 100: #99 and that is just sad.On
Deadly Ground is a very decent film. I admit When I first saw it when it
came out I didn't appreciate it but after a recent viewing,that has
changed
one hundred percent!The movie has got it all!A great story,great
action,and
one heck of a cast!Look, you have Steven Seagal,R. Lee Ermey,Michael
Caine,Joan Chen,John C. McGinley,and Billy Bob Thornton!Plus Sven-Ole
Thorsen and Jules Desjarlais,Mike Starr,Nils Allen Stewart,and even Irvin
Kershner!Ermey's character was neat and he acted very well!Seagal's
direction is good and I loved it when he showed up for his first scene in
the movie.The film is really good in My opinion and at the end when
Seagal's
speech came up it was really deep and seeing those real clips of animals
was
sad.For those who have seen it before just give this film another try and
for the people who didn't see the film also see this film if you like
Seagal
and the above mentioned cast and action movies. I am sure you will
disagree
with the others and like the film like I do. I recommend
it!
<|_=00=_|>
At the height of his fame Seagal was allowed to direct this monstrosity
about evil Texas oil Aegis company polluting Alaska. With no prior
experience in directing Steve stampeded his way into this movie with as
much subtlety as a brick in the face. Originally called 'Spirit
Warrior' and hoping to cast loads of English baddies (among them
Anthony Hopkins and Jeremy Irons) the film is a horrid example of far
too much creative control given to one man too blinkered by his own
agenda to bother giving us anything resembling decent storytelling.

There is nothing significant or exceptional about Seagal's direction.
Nor is the action very well done. It's cut too lazily and not shot for
maximum viewing clarity. But what reeks about the story is that some
big oil magnate called Michael Jennings (a completely hammy Michael
Caine) wants to build a really shoddy oil rig in Alaska made out of
dodgy parts because the rights to the land are about to revert back to
the Eskimos after 30 years of non-use. So why wait 30 years to build
the bloody thing?

Seagal plays Forrest Taft, an oil rig fireman who suddenly develops a
conscience and is promptly eliminated from the payroll by way of being
blown up. Only he is rescue by the Eskimos and, this is where the film
just goes insane, goes on a spiritual journey in which he wrestles
bears and turns into eagles and stuff. I mean, what the hell is all
that about??? Don't even get me started on the scene where he makes a
fully-grown hard-ass redneck cry in a bar full of similar stereotypes
when the philosophy touches his soul. Then he gets his old self back
together and sets about righting all the wrongs of Aegis Oil and saving
the environment by littering it with dead bad guys. 

Jennings hires a bunch of mercenaries (including R. Lee Ermey and Billy
Bob Thornton) to take out Taft but of course they all prove to be
useless since Taft is revealed to be an ex-CIA Agent (oh dear
God..)Nothing much really happens apart from shooting and dying and
Seagal beating up nameless extras. We've seen all of this before and
it's no different this time round.

I do appreciate his environmentally friendly attitude but it could have
made it a little less obvious and campy. Seagal's tacked on speech at
the end originally ran for 30 minutes (Jeezuz sufferin') but Warner
finally stepped in and said a big no-no. 

We could have had an Oliver Stone or Insider amount of paranoia and
conspiracy but this just ends up as the worst of Seagal's Hollywood
movies.
<|_=00=_|>

What drew me to On Deadly Ground was that it had a few new ideas in its
locker that I hadn't come across in many other action movies. The
setting was Alaska, which sounded intriguing. The action was backed up
by an environmental message, which also sounded intriguing. The hero
was played by a wooden martial arts "actor", while the villain was
played by a prolific, Oscar-winning superstar, which sounded like an
irresistible pairing (just for the novelty value of seeing them on
screen together). Add to that the fact that the music was by Basil
Poledouris (whose scores for Conan the Barbarian and The Hunt For Red
October are all-time great pieces of film music). On Deadly Ground
seemed to have the promise and the potential to be something pretty
interesting. Alas, the film fulfils very little of its potential. It's
a particularly inept action flick.

Troubleshooter Forrest Taft (Steven Seagal) works for an oil company in
Alaska fronted by the unpleasant Michael Jennings (Michael Caine, not
in his worst ever film but certainly providing his worst ever
performance). Taft gradually begins to realize that the company he
works for is responsible for appalling environmental damage, but he
can't get them to approach their business with a more
environmentally-friendly outlook.... so he does the next best thing -
he kicks some butt! Taft goes on a worthy crusade against his callous,
single-minded bosses. Hired mercenaries are brought in to stop him, but
Taft either evades or kills them in the Alaskan wilderness, and
ruthlessly closes in on Jennings.

Seagal made a major mistake in directing the film himself. He lacks
fluency as a director and has little grasp of how to link scenes
correctly. Nor does he seem capable of coaxing decent performances from
his surprisingly good cast. The film stumbles with near-random
carelessness from one badly-acted scene to the next, diverting
occasionally for the odd expensive-but-totally-soulless set piece.
There are flashes of pretty cinematography, and in parts the action is
crisply and competently choreographed, but generally the film is a
disappointment. After the roasting that it received, Seagal's box
office appeal took a permanent dip and Michael Caine stopped
prostituting his talents in every film that was offered to him and
actually started looking for scripts worthy of his ability.

<|_=00=_|>

Hilarious, though unfortunately takes itself seriously.  (I hope Steven
Seagal doesn't come looking for me for this review.)  Alaskan stoners who
were actually familiar with the bush watched it just for the laughs.  A
great ethnic Alaskan Native cast including Japanese, Chinese, Samoan, Plains
Indians, etc.  There actually are some indigenous Alaskans in roles as
extras.  Seagal asks his Chinese co-star, "Can you ride a horse?"  "Of
course," she says, or something like that, "I'm an Indian." Almost nothing
fits, even the scenery. This movie is amazingly consistent. The plot,
acting, direction, locations, screenplay, stunts, etc., are all equally
ridiculous.
<|_=00=_|>
I hate to see bad reviews written by people who do not like the type of
Steven Seagal movies to begin with. Than just Do Not Watch Them..

For fans of good action movies, this is a rather underrated movie which
gets better the more times you see it. It didn't have the box-office of
Seagal's most successful movie "Under Siege", but it is one of his
better ones. The story is interesting because of the environment
message and the fact that Taft(Seagal) initially works for bad guy
Michael Jennings(Caine). Alaska is an amazing country which is shown in
beautiful images. The cast is way better than your average action
flick: One of the best performances from Seagal. Joan Chen is gorgeous
and her character is well written. Michael Caine really enjoys his over
the top bad character with his crooked laugh. John C. McGinley (Point
Break, Set It Off, The Animal) has some amusing dialog and quotes. R.
Lee Emrey is amazing as ever(Full Metal Jacket, Se7en, Texas Chainsaw
Massacre 2003 and 2005) and very fun to watch as Stone, head of the
mercenary team assigned to take out Seagal. At one point
Stone(Emrey)asks Jennings(Caine): "How do you want him delivered ?" The
look of Caine at that moment is unforgettable and hilarious. Just like
the scene where John C. McGinley has a "chat" with the Hugh Palmer
character. (There is no I in Team "!!) The fight sequences are short
but very effective with some extreme hard action. The explosions were a
thrill. There was a big budget available for this movie which really
shows on screen (just like Under Siege 1 and 2). I already saw this 20
times or so but it gets better every time. For those who never saw this
one, give it a try, you won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, as the IMdB reviews show, not everyone is a fan of this film.  It's
true that the philosophising and Eskimo mystique in the mid-section of the
film do slow it down.  It is also true that the closing environmental speech
may be a tad heavy-handed.  Yet I find it refreshing to see a large-budget
action movie that actually tries to be about something.  To his credit,
Seagal's films have generally struck an anti-Establishment tone, in contrast
to the complacent Republicanism of Schwarzenegger.  Of course, having said
all this, the tactics of Seagal's hero Forrest Taft, in blowing up large
quantities of Alaska, are not perhaps what Greenpeace would recommend!  As
to the qualities of the film, there are some strong, savage action scenes, a
stylish if over-the-top villain in Michael Caine, and wonderful photography.
 After all those "Die Hard"/"Under Siege" efforts, with characters running
around claustrophobic buildings in semi-darkness, the panoramic views of
Alaska make a nice change.  Another good score by Basil
Poledouris.
<|_=00=_|>
Good action but cheesy writing and mediocre direction by Mr. Seagal
himself doesn't exactly add up to mega-blockbuster hit but if you're a
fan of the man, the king of the karate cheeseballs, you won't be
disappointed. It "delivers" in a very Seagal way. And there are lots of
familiar faces here too, to add to the fun.

This movie is tons of fun but only if you're looking to have some fun.
Don't buy into the enviro- hype and you'll get some good entertainment.
I personally love Planet Earth but I don't look to gain awareness on
any issue through a product of Hollywood.

I give this one 6/10, perhaps a point more if you're really a fan of
the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
On Deadly Ground is one environmentalist's attack against a bully oil
corporation who puts profits in front of environmental concerns. This
is the bottom line of the movie. It has it's good points as well as
some weak points but I commend Seagal for putting this issue out there
for all the world to see. That in and of itself should be applauded.
Its unflinching and honest, especially at the end with his
environmental speech with the Native Alaskans. Sure, to many it may
seem over the top, but we could all learn something about the
preservation of our environment from careless corporations. The film
was made at the height of Steven Seagal's success in the movies. He had
free reign to direct and deliver not only an action movie but to
incorporate his political beliefs into it. It is, without a doubt, a
movie with a chip on it's proverbial shoulder. Environmentalists will
no doubt love to see Seagal kick some corporate butt, which he does a
good job of... Those of you who are positively steamed with the
corporate scandals of today, Enron/Worldcom to name a few, should take
a look at this movie, it may just give you peace of mind. If your
simply a Seagal fan like I am and you enjoyed watching this film for
the action only, then I would recommend watching the following films:
"Marked for Death" and "Out for Justice" two of his best!
<|_=00=_|>

The film where Steven Seagal proves that he's much more than just a
lousy actor he's also a lousy director. 

Where to begin? There's a nice mix of action star self-indulgence and
political commentary on the evils of oil. Seagal is Forrest Taft (?), a
no non-sense renegade who plays by his own set of rules for some sort
of oil rigging company owned by some guy named Michael Jennings
(Michael Caine playing a character who is so evil, that he has jet
black hair!). That is, until Forrest's friends start accusing him of
turning his back on the environment. Forrest doesn't like that much.
Nobody calls him a 'whore' and gets away with it. 

After twenty minutes, and a random bar fight, Forrest reads a fourth
grade-level computer screen that pretty much spells out how
economically dangerous oil rigs can really be and how his boss is
making sure that silly things like the environment don't get in the way
of a profit. Rather than develop complex protagonists and antagonists,
we get a clear black and white split: Big corporations and oil
companies are evil and Eskimos are good-as they help Forrest become
spiritually reborn as a 'man-bear' and regain his sights on kicking
ass.

Chances are, you weren't watching for plot anyway. But the guilty
pleasure parade just keeps on going: dialogue that'll make you smile
(best line: 'You didn't find Flint, but you managed to kill an unarmed
Eskimo!'), lots of explosions, horrible supporting actors, and a chance
for Steven Seagal to play 'the slap game' with one of his judgmental
oil workers. "On Deadly Ground" gives Seagal plenty of opportunity to
kick ass and arch his eyebrows in a suspicious manner, but the same
can't be said about poor Michael Caine. As the film's antagonist, Caine
turns in a two dimensional performance that may have been modeled after
a villain from "Captain Planet." There's something sad about watching a
two time Oscar winner grit his teeth for two hours of screen time. Just
laugh at him. He sleeps on a nice pile of money. 

All and all horrible film that will keep you laughing with it's
misguided attempts to make an action film about more than just
explosions.

I, for one, would suggest that Seagal update this film to reflect the
events of the Iraq war. He could start off as an Iraqi, hiding the
weapons of mass destruction. Then realize Weapons of Mass Destruction
cause harm to society. And along the way, get really p***ed off when he
finds out it was all about exploiting the Iraqis out of oil. 

Summary: Come for the heavy handed ecological commentary and laughable
acting; Stay for a wonderfully over-the-top Michael Caine.

<|_=00=_|>

I can't understand why people are so against this movie.If Seagal wants to
spread a message about the environment then let him;as long as he
accompanies it with as much thrilling action as this movie possesses.The
final half hour when Seagal punches,kicks.shoots,slices and dices anyone
foolish enough to stand in his way as he destroys the huge complex that is
Aegis Oil's headquarters is why movies were invented in my opinion; that is
to see a great action hero strut his stuff in a way most of us would love to
emulate but never could.Seagal is one of the greatest in a long line of such
icons and to see him do what he does best is worth putting up with a bit of
PC moralising for as long as it does not encroach on the mayhem which it
does not here.The British action movie magazine,the otherwise impeccable
"IMPACT" disliked this movie immensely and every time they refer to it they
call it "ON DUDLEY MOORE".That is a pathetic "joke" and only serves to
pointlessly prevent gullible readers from seeing what is,along with Seagal's
following film "UNDER SIEGE 2",the American action movie in
excelsis.
