
Everyone has their opinion, and mine on this particular film, is that
it's one of the best to have ever graced the screen of my TV.

I'm from typical small town America, and to quite a degree,Gilead
depicts this sort of life. Clannish, and less than trusting, when it
comes to new folks, but what impressed me as much as anything was the
unbelievable authenticity of Alison Elliotts southern accent. I had to
look her up on the net to see if she was from the south, or not. She's
not, but I am, and being familiar with my own accent, I can tell you
she did it perfectly.

I've watched it about six, or seven times, and will likely watch it
that many more before Let it rest for a while.

If you like beautiful scenery, small town life, and folks who are just
a little short of being odd, you'll love this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the reviews below states "I notice most of the negative reviews have
been posted by men who obviously have no sensitivity."  Well, as a 51 yr old
man, I can tell you that I really loved this film and it did touch my heart
and spirit.  One of the best films that I have seen!

The three lead actresses were superb, especially Alison Elliott as Percy. 
It was all so 'real', and portrays small town life in an authentic,
respectful manner. Everything was refreshing, including the deeper messages
about life's struggles regarding relationships and inner psychological
problems.

"Why aren't more films this good?"  Indeed !!

For me, this film is better than "Fried Green Tomatoes" since it is not so
blatantly anti-male (think about this!). 
<|_=00=_|>
This is an excellent "chic flick". Have the Kleenex box close by, it's
a real tear jerker. The movie takes place in a small New England town.
It's social comment is: "Don't judge a book by it's cover." Poor Percy
was jailed for the crime of killing her tormentor. She did her time and
paid for her crime but not everybody felt that way. Nahum, in
particular, had a rough lesson to learn about judgement. What Percy
doesn't know is that she is going to be the catalyst to ignite growth
again in the little town of Gilead. She helps every "townie" in one way
or another with her simple, uneducated truths and her honest and open
view of the world. She's a breath of fresh air this town needed if it
was going to grow and mature. Take a look at this movie. You will find
it gets under your skin and you are rooting for Percy to make this her
home, this little town named Gilead.
<|_=00=_|>
Spitfire Grill does a wonderful job capturing the small town New
England landscape. The setting for the movie is important as its
characters. Both begin to blend from the start of the story. Alison
Elliott is by far terrific. At times, Alison Elliott resembles a young
Jodie Foster as she plays this innocent, yet troubled youngster as she
tries to start fresh with a new life in a new town. At times, the story
takes on a biblical tale of forgiveness and loving thy neighbor. A
perfect movie about respect and acceptance, The Spitfire Grill takes on
a life of its own as the story builds and builds with more secrets. A
nice ending that brings everything together and answers all the
questions. Alison Elliott is great.
<|_=00=_|>

Go rent or buy this video!!! I didn't recognize many of the actors, but
they were Award quality. Of course, I know Ellen Bursten but the main
character was soooo good and perfect for this role. I love the story of
the son, "Johnny B"...very moving. The talents of this character are
remarkable...the things he makes out of nature. It makes you feel like
you are in this small little town, getting to know all the people. I've
never lived in a small town, but this is like Hometown America. It was
tragic, funny, sad, romantic, and just the place you would want to
visit. I watched this movie over 6 times already and I will never get
tired of it. A classic to be sure!

<|_=00=_|>
This movie got pretty bad reviews from the Hollywood Hype-mongers. I
suppose because it didn't have a lot of flash. All it had was a
well-written original story and superb acting with real characters.
Anyone who has ever spent time in a small town can identify with nearly
all the characters. I could practically name them all in the town I
grew up in. I'm sure the only people who would NOT enjoy this movie are
the ones who grew up in Hollywood and believe everyone is like them. If
thats not you, rent this movie for a truly enjoyable evening. But you
might want to bring tissues. It's a very warm and often funny movie,
but it's also very sad in some places. Will Patton is incredible and I
honestly don't understand why Alison Elliott hasn't been used more than
she has since this movie. Ellen Burstyn was glorious as ever :)
<|_=00=_|>

I just loved this movie. Perfectly cast. What a sleeper.
Alison Elliott should been cast as the replacement for
Jodie Foster in the Silence of the Lambs series. 
SEE IT!
<|_=00=_|>
As the first scene unfolds we see women apparently working in a travel
office, giving information to those who call. But as the camera pulls
back, and we see bars, we realize it is a prison, and the inmates are
unusual employees of the state of Maine.

Set in Gilead, Maine, Percy Talbot (Alison Elliot) is being released
from 5 years behind bars and travels here to pick up her life, and in
the process helps heal a small town. Originally from Ohio, nothing has
gone good for her yet. Now, in town, the local sheriff forgot that he
was supposed to see about her. But nice older owner of the Spitfire
Grill, Hannah (Ellen Burstyn), takes Percy in and puts her to work. In
this very small town everyone is curious about Percy, but none as much
as Hannah's nephew, Nahum (Will Patton), who has taken it upon himself
to watch out for Hannah. He simply does not trust Percy, even though
she is a model employee. Marcia Gay Harden is good as Nahum's simpleton
wife, Shelby.

Hannah unwisely uses a chair at home above the grill to get something
high and falls, breaking her leg. Percy and Shelby share duties to keep
the grill running somewhat smoothly. But Hannah decides she needs to
get rid of the business and Nahum has not been successful selling it
for her. Percy had once heard about someone holding a contest, told
Shelby about it, who suggested it to Hannah, and off they were, to the
consternation of Nahum. The inmate friends of Shelby got the notice in
newspapers all over the USA, and entries rolled in, with $100 bills
included for the entry fee.

The contest was successful beyond their dreams, pulling in so many
entries that all the townspeople had to pitch in, reading essays and
helping pick the winner. But Nahum became very nervous about all the
money, still not trusting Percy.

MAJOR SPOILERS. To be on the safe side, Nahum sneaked into Hannah's
place at night to get the money and put it in a cloth sack to carry it
to a safe place. However, Percy came in at that time to gather the food
items for Hannah to put out each night for the mysterious man that she
came to call "Johnny Bee" (from Johnny Be Good), used the sack not
knowing money was in it, and put it out at the usual place near the
wood pile. The next day when it was discovered that all the money was
gone Nahum could have done the right thing but played dumb instead,
everyone was chasing Percy, who was looking for "Johnny Bee", spooked
by all the cops and dogs. Percy was trying to cross the river to get to
him when she was swept away and over some rapids and drowned. At her
funeral Nahum admitted his role, and took responsibility for Percy's
death.

MORE SPOILERS. "Johnny Bee" turned out to be Hannah's long lost son,
who was never the same after the war. Police found the money at his
campsite in the woods, he had begun to use some of it to make artistic
designs. In the end he came back to be with his mother, having been
shown some hope by his interactions with Percy. We learn that Percy had
been sexually abused from the age of 9 by her step-dad, who impregnated
her when she was 16. He also caused the death of her unborn baby, and
she killed him because of the abuse, but still got 5 years' prison
time.

The movie ends as we see another new face in town, a 20-something young
lady with a small son, the winner of the essay contest and new owner of
the Spitfire Grill, so named for the WW2 fighter plane that Hannah's
husband had been fond of. We hear her essay in a voice over, her
wanting to make a new start for her young son.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was written and directed by a MAN, Lee David Zlotoff, whose only
other major film contribution was creating the MacGyver TV series. How could
such a MAN convey the deep sensitivity in 'Spitfire Grill'? Percy's
boyfriend, the sheriff, and Ely all are portrayed as sensitive and caring
MEN.  Isn't it strange that some of the MALE film critics could not feel
this film with their hearts?

MacGyver director-writer Zlotoff was honest enough to show the faults of
MEN, and woman as well. Tremendous care and perception was needed to
successfully convey the multi-layered messages in this film. Not only did
Zlotoff  do justice to MEN, but to women as well. The themes of Love,
Suffering, and the Truth were all superbly enacted.

Bravo !

<|_=00=_|>

"The Spitfire Grill" has got to be among the most moving films I have ever
seen. It shows that there is always a chance for redemption, no matter how
grueling or nefarious your past was. The acting was so dexterous, and the
characters were very well developed. Rather than passing judgment over Percy
for being incarcerated, the movie conveys a genuine compassion for her and
makes an effort to expose her lovable, affectionate side. I felt I could
identify with her, because I know what it's like to be judged, condemned,
and ostracized. The ending almost brought me to tears, and it's difficult
for a movie to do that. Certainly deserves a 10 out of
10.
