
First of all, this final episode in the Jurassic series did not deserve
all the bad reviews it got when it was released. In fact, it was a lot
more enjoyable than the stupid second JP. Did it equal the first? No,
of course not. The original story was easily the best of the three, but
I found this an enjoyable movie and far better than what I had been led
to believe.

The filmmakers were smart in making this a short film. People had seen
plenty of the dinosaurs by now so let's no overdo it...and they didn't
with an film just under an hour-and-a-half (not including the final
credits.).

That made this short-and-sweet. We saw some new reptiles, had a few
scares, enjoyed the beautiful jungle scenery (filmed in Hawaii) and -
bang - it's over. The characters were fine, nobody totally annoying as
in the second film. The lulls featured a family getting back together
and finding their missing teen. Nothing wrong with that.

A good story unfairly maligned and nice, short evening of
entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie reminded me a lot like a basic porn movie. It was short when
compared to the first two Jurassic Park movies; only 90 minutes long
like most sex flicks. There was basically no plot, no character
development, and no Jeff Goldblum. It really reminded me of a porno,
because the characters would talk alittle bit, and then get chased by
dinosaurs for a long extended period of time. Now, if you just replace
the aspect of getting chased by dinosaurs with some hot guy/girl,
girl/girl, guy/guy, guy/gerbil, or dino/dino sex action; then you
basically have the same movie. This movie is terrible compared to the
first JP, and bad when measured up to the sequel. Now JP2 was no
masterpiece either, but I will take very cheesy T-Rex smashing through
San Diego any day, before hearing that damn cell phone go off again. Am
so glad that JP4 is currently titled "The Extinction", because after
this installment this franchise needs a nice big fat Hailey's comet to
smash right into it leaving every dinosaur/character dead expect Jeff
Goldblum. Goldblum is the man!!!! Anyway, you will get some
entertainment value from the dinosaurs, but don't except much. Just
turn off your brain, and enjoy a semi fun ride which includes getting
chase by dinosaurs, getting chased by flying dinosaurs, getting chased
by more dinosaurs, and yea thats about it. I should have probably have
given this movie at least a five, for its effort; but the ending was so
stupid and abrupt that I had to dock it a point. Its worth one viewing,
and one viewing only.
<|_=00=_|>
I am just going to quote Devindra on the /filmcast and what he said
about this movie "Seeing Jurassic Park 3 made me realize how dreams
could be shattered"

This just sums up the whole movie. People exaggerate how bad the
Phantom Menace is but this movie is impossible to exaggerate how
horrible it was. The original Jurassic Park was pure gold, the second
was not a good sequel but an OK movie but this movie will rape your
childhood up the ass till you cry.

Please no matter how interested you are in returning to Jurassic
park...DON'T. This film does not even take place in Jurassic Park and
the only thing really connecting it to the original is Sam Neal and
that is it.
<|_=00=_|>

What was the point of doing another movie.  You could also say what was
the
point of me seeing that movie, at least it was a cheapie
night.

The plot itself is really ridiculous and the acting about the same, except
maybe for Sam Neill who is not bad in his character. It would have made a
nice tv movie but that's about it.  There is no really original or
exciting
moments in the film, and not a lot a scary parts.  The only time i jumped
is
when one of the character stepped on a staircase and almost fell.

The special fx are ok but nothing ground breaking.  And what is this...
talking raptors??!!  Next thing we'll see is a movie about talking
apes....
(oops!)

The movie may be fine for kids or teenagers( i'm sure McDonalds will sell
a
lot of happy meals), but if you want a minimum of a good time, avoid this
one, go see shrek for a second time.
<|_=00=_|>
It's hard to really put this movie down cause despite it's problems and
there is many, it has it's heart in the right place. The aim I guess
that the people behind the scenes were aiming for was a family movie
with a bit of suspends and while there is a family movie to be had
here, it also tries to be a Jurassic Park film and unfortunately it
fails as both to a degree.

It fails as a family movie cause the script is not strong enough to
support the story. Despite the venom thrown at William H Macy and
especially Tea Leoni, both are very appealing actors and they do work
hard to make it all work but the script just handicap their efforts to
make it possible. It fails as a Jurassic Park film cause it lacks the
tension, suspense and the story points that made the first two films in
the series ( Jurassic Park And The Lost World) so well made and
memorable. Not to mention the fact that they felt like fully formed
movies with a beginning, middle and end. Jurassic Park 3 just feels
like a Saturday morning serial. Not bad but nothing like the other
films in the series. There is one scene in the film that almost manages
to bring a little tension which is the bird cage scene but even that
ends up flat compared to any of the scenes in the other films of the
series. The other major problem is the fact that While Sam Neill works
his ass off to make this film watchable, the script does the most
disservice to the character of Alan Grant, whose happy ending from the
original Jurassic Park was not only ruined thanks to this movie but has
his character dumb down in order to fall for the dumb stuff that
happens in this film. Despite all of this, Sam Neill is working
overtime to make you care. Too bad the script did not.

As I said before, it has a lot of heart thanks to it's actors but
thanks to a bad script, Jurassic Park 3 is with out a doubt the weakest
entry in the series.
<|_=00=_|>

I went to see JP3 last night to vet it before I take my 6 year old
daughter.
She is desperate to see it having seen JP and the Lost world and generally
loving dinosaurs. I am a great movie fan so have my own opinions on the
film
but first I'll address the suitability of this movie for young viewers.
The
original film and Lost World are true 'family movies' containing elements
for everyone - decent story, good acting, great (groundbreaking) effects
and
humour etc. There's nothing wrong with kids being scared periodically,
being
scared is part of the whole monster movie experience. All that said, JP3
is
too 'full on' for one as young as 6 and I think I'll try to get her to
wait
for DVD, to tone down the whole experience. She saw the first two at home
and wont be expecting the sheer sound and visuals of this movie at the
cinema. I would advise other parents the same, at least with kids this
young.

As for my opinion of the film - well, we've seen it all before. I've read
many comments and agree with most. Its lame storyline is its down fall and
this could've been so much better. In my opinion a far better film would
have carried a 15 certificate at least. One they could have made for
adults
only, and really explored new territory and therefore could not be
compared
to the previous two.
A huge audience loves scary films and monster movies so why not go for it
with a proper modern day horror. Throw in a good conspiracy theory plot
about INGEN and some realistic profanity and gut wrenching effects. In
short
give people what they really want. JP3 does niether for either age
group.

For your children, I reccommend the BBC's series 'Walking with Dinosaurs'
it's informative and has near the same quality of effects.

See for yourself.

<|_=00=_|>
Why did Sam Neill return to the beasts? Why did Spielberg? Schindler's
List: The Return would make more sense. Sly Stallone has nothing on
this bazillionaire.

And perhaps worst of all is the totally unimportant score of Williams.
Williams can write the occasional catchy tune, especially if it's
supposed to be in the spirit of that great soul and blues man John
Philip Sousa, but ask him to write incidental or a love theme and you
go turkey. In fact it's a good guess that Star Wars I and II foundered
as bad as they did because the score enhanced this empty stilted
feeling.

If one thing remains - even subliminally - after JP3 it's the totally
spiritless and uninspired score. Why the rest of that crew - Sam what
were you thinking - would return to the big bugs is beyond
comprehension.

Rent Rocky XXXIV instead.
<|_=00=_|>

Jurassic Park 3 was a shorter and less entertaining of the three. I thought
this sequel might be good because JP2 was good but I was wrong! I have
picked some notes while watching this movie. Usually Jurassic Park films are
2 hours long, this one is some 40 minutes less! and does not quite contain
the same fun and horror it did on previous jp's. DR. Grant returns which is
a suprise. It didn't have it's entertaining parts though i must admit. JP3
had amazing special effects, most probably the best out of the three. I have
heard that Jurassic Park 4 will be released in 2004. Should I say this one
will be a bad sequel as well? 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie did only sell because it has Jurassic Park in it's title. If
this
had been just another action dinosaur movie, then it would be forgotten
within a year, but now JP is a trilogy with a very, sub-par third
movie.

The film is more or less non-stop action, so if you like that you're in
for
a hell of a ride, because it does deliver that. But, if you like more
thought provoking, 'intelligent' movies, don't bother watching this. I saw
because, I'm sorry to say, it had the JP title. I loved the first movie in
the series. Liked the second one, but I think this one really stinks. The
cast is great. Sure. Who doesn't like Sam Neil? Laura Dern is only
featured
a total of 5 minutes in the movie, so she doesn't bring much to the over
all
experience.

My final verdict is that this is a movie that you can stay away from. Even
if you do like the previous JP movies.
<|_=00=_|>

This is one terrible, terrible movie, every thing that can go wrong in a
motion picture of this size goes wrong with a savage gusto that can be
attributed to the fact that no one working on this film wanted to make a
quality film. The actors themselves look like they don't want to be in
this
film, and the direction of the film look too disjointed to be taken
seriously. The screen play feels like it was written by a five year old
and
judging by the ending of this fluff piece, it looks like the five year
old
just gave up and went to sleep.

The real sad part about all of this is the fact that it's a sequel to two
much better movies (Jurassic Park and The Lost World) that had a lot of
quality to them. Judging by the way this was handle, it looks like Steven
Spielberg is finally getting too big for his own head and not to mention
too
lazy to care if the movies he's making are even good or not.

