
Although it took four viewings before I finally lowered my rating of
this from "9" to "8,", I suspect I will still watch this lame-brain
action flick a few more times and enjoy it. That's because it offers a
great mixture of fascinating fighters in the tournament that covers
most of the final 40 minutes of the movie; is a modern-day martial-arts
action film with almost no swearing and no sex; and offer some
tremendous scenery in the first half of the film as Jean Claude Van
Damme and company travel to the Far East for this "World's Greatest
Fighter" tourney.

That tourney is a lot of fun to watch except that it got carried away
in the final bout, of course, that went on almost as long as all the
preliminary bouts! However, the filmmakers were smart to make all the
contestants totally different with different styles, making each one
fun to watch. You didn't see the same thing each fight. There was
everything from a huge Sumo-type wrestler to a little guy who imitated
a monkey and a snake jumping and slithering around the ring. By the
way, these were real guys, not actors imitating fighters.

The photography is magnificent, far better than you would except. The
colors are beautiful and the Thailand scenery spectacular. The movie
benefits from a classy actor like Roger Moore joining the cast, too.
Yeah, it's stupid in parts, but it's fun and highly recommended for
first-time viewers who don't know the outcome of the bouts.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is Van Damme's first effort as director, and he is surprisingly
good in his task!The Quest is, of course, a simple action film, but it has a
lot of good intentions and the story, written by Van Damme, is good-hearted.
The star plays Chris Dubois, a man who is saved by a group of mercenaries
led by a smooth and charming thief (Roger Moore, who brings a little bit of
comedy and softness to the story), and this guy takes Chris to the Lost City
to fight in a highly dangerous tournament. The winner takes home a
beautiful, enormous golden dragon. This isn't the best film of Van Damme's
career, his best phase was with the Chinese directors (Hard Target, The
Colony), but The Quest isn't a good film for those who want to see
explosions, Van Damme blowing people's heads off and those kinds of thing.
This is an adventure, the type of film that, if we were now ten years old,
would love!you don't have violence, shootings and explosions, if you want to
watch something like that rent Hellbound Hellraiser 2, this is a
Raiders-of-the-Lost-Ark kind of film. If you want to give the movie a shot,
try to forget your grown-up side and watch it as if you were ten years old
again. Then you will love it!it's a simple, entertaining and very good
movie!
<|_=00=_|>

I am a Jean-Claude Van Damme Fan and have to say this is a 'Damme' good
film. Doesn't the film remind you of 'Bloodsport'? Well this has a good
story about Chris who wants to get the golden dragon and ends up in a
tournament for the dragon. The fight scenes aren't that violent as most
people would want to see. But it is an Epic, with a dramatic story. Roger
Moore even acts in it gives a 'Bond' type entrance to his name. Overall
this
is a great film which shall not be missed by all fans. Van Damme is the
man!
<|_=00=_|>

This film is a lot better than I expected, and much better than the other
imdb comments would imply.  You can essentially split this movie in half,
with the first half being an adventure movie and the second half being a
fight competition.  I actually liked the adventure portion a lot more than
the fight competition, which is surprising since I like stuff like
Bloodsport (the fight part of The Quest is essentially a higher-budget
version of Bloodsport).  At any rate, this movie is great visually -- it's
filmed in a lot of exotic locations.  I also thought the direction was
great...there were some interesting shots that really impressed me for Van
Damme's first directorial effort.  The story kinda moves along too quickly
and there are a couple parts where this strains the believability of the
story (such as how easy it is for Van Damme to get the fight invitation/map
from the boxer), but these are easily overlooked and don't really detract
much.

I went into this expecting it to be low-budget and fairly dumb, but I was
surprised at the lavish production and the fact that it has an actual story
which I find more interesting than the fighting.
<|_=00=_|>

It really get son my nerves when people criticize some films that are
actually good. This film was great. It is in my opinion the best Vand Damme
film ever. It has story/action/heart and mystery and the highlight of the
film were the last battles which showed different fighters from the whole
world (ala streetfighter 2) all showing off their capabilities. this movie
also has an EPIC feel to it and I don't know what people mean by 'poor'
movie cause this looked pretty expensive to me. Roger Moore was cool here
too. SO was the babe. Give this a chance people.
<|_=00=_|>


The Quest is certainly one of JCVD's best. It has a quite good epic story
and style which generally you cannot see in a martial arts movie. Come on
people, this is action and so evaluate it in its genre. Emancipate
yourselves from "film d'art" complexes. Give its right, this is an
exquisite
"film d'martial arts".. 
<|_=00=_|>
The Quest is a surprisingly decent Jean Claude Van-Damme movie.

Quest is a period piece, and a pretty well-done one at that. Taking
place shortly after World War I, Van Damme plays Chris Dubois, a humble
indentured servant figure with Rocky-like ambitions to become a big
fighting champion. Dubois has set his sights on some very elite and
secret tournament in some mystical forbidden city, to which only the
best fighter in every country of the world gets an invitation.

To get into the tournament, Dubois enlists the help of a mischievous
figure, Lord Dobbs. In one of the many parts of the plot I was unable
to follow, Lord Dobbs owes him some unknown favor so he buys his
freedom and makes arrangements to get the kid to Beijing, with the aide
of an attractive blonde newspaper editor, Carrie Newton (Gunn).

Dobbs is played by seven-time James Bond alumni Roger Moore, who I'm so
used to seeing as Bond that I half-expected him to, at a crucial point
in the movie, bag the attractive news lady, beat someone up, or use
some cool gadget. Sadly, Moore only accomplishes one of these three
things (uses a cool gadget) and fails miserably at it. However, Moore
does carry one James Bond-like trait to this part which is being a
smooth talker which gets Dubois in trouble in the first place.
Apparently, Dubois was never really entered into the tournament, so he
must win over the guy who's slated to fight for the U.S. and get his
invitation, which raises the question, isn't Dubois French?

Anyway, there's no reason to fret over little things like that, because
considering the plot is secondary to the action, it's pretty
well-thought out, and besides the action doesn't disappoint.

The tournament where most of the actions scenes come from is probably
my favorite thing about the movie because the single elimination
bracketed format has the same thrill as watching something like NCAA's
March Madness. The only difference is that except for rooting for your
favorite colleges, you root for Industrial Era superpowers. The other
plus of this was that the clashing of such a diverse array of fighting
styles (sumo wrestling, Scottish fist fighting, Brazillian street
fighting, and the like) led to some great action scenes.

My main complaint about the action is that Van Damme's fight scenes
attempt to create suspense by him being knocked down and then
supposedly against our expectations, getting back up and winning. This
just becomes predictable, and besides, because the Master of Ceremonies
usually hits the gong after a guy gets knocked down, Dubois would have
realistically been out in the second round after getting the crap beat
out of him by the Spaniard. Even if he did get back up, he wouldn't
have been able to overpower the other guy after having taken so many
hits. If he is such a skillful fighter, why doesn't he just win the
fight efficiently without all the drama? He reminds me of the
present-day LA Lakers who slack off the entire regular season, knowing
that they only really have to work during the playoffs.

This gag would have been an effective if it was restricted to only
happening in the film's climatic finale. Instead, to top the earlier
fights, the tournament's final match really got to be a disappointment.
The master of ceremonies was incredibly generous with the gong,
deciding to let the fight continue even after Dubois got knocked down
twice and kicked out of the ring, where he is beaten up some more and
magically throws in a couple kicks at the right moment and walks away
with the medallion.

Anyway, the film is a decently played out story that has its moments.
<|_=00=_|>

The Quest is an odd mix of martial arts and epic adventure. Its running time
is too short for it to be deemed a true epic, but the panoramic worldwide
locations hint that Van Damme was trying to give it the flavour of an
epic.

It's a painfully simplistic story. Young American pickpocket Chris (Van
Damme) has to flee from New York in the 1920s after a botched robbery. He
ends up on a pirate ship headed for the Orient. Soon, he is rescued by
another ship (another pirate vessel, this time captained by gentleman
buccaneer Roger Moore). Moore drops him off on a Thai island where young men
are trained as fighters, and before long young Chris is a very handy fighter
indeed, with aspirations to win an ancient golden dragon in a fighting
competition. The final third of the film is comprised entirely of fight
sequences in which competitors from various nations combat each other in an
effort to take the ultimate prize.

The film marked Van Damme's directorial debut, and he gives it a lovely
sense of scale and period but can't wring much out of the thin and obvious
story. The backdrops pictured in the film are beautiful. Some of the martial
arts moments are well choreographed. Roger Moore gives a surprisingly
thoughtful and moving performance. Beyond that, it's very childish and
simple-minded and doesn't contain enough memorable moments to be anything
other than a passable time filler.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was directed by Jean-Claude Van Damme. Do I need to say
anything more about it?

Okay, if you insist.

The Quest is about a man who journeys across the world to take part in
a martial arts tournament to crown the world's greatest fighter. I know
that describes several of Van Damme's films, but this is the one set in
the 1920s. Chris Dubois (Jean-Claude Van Damme) is the acrobatic and
not-at-all-child-molestery leader of a gang of street urchins. Chris
decides to use his young followers to steal from the Mafia, which is
possibly the worst idea anyone has ever had. When the gangsters try to
get their money back, a kid gets shot and Chris flees from the police.
He runs because another kid tells him the cops will blame him for the
shooting, even though that doesn't make any sense given how it
happened, but Chris being highly suggestible is a recurring theme
through this story.

Chris winds up a stowaway on a ship, forced to work in chains, until
that ship is attacked by the forces of Lord Edgar Dobbs (Roger Moore).
A pirate, con man and all around scalawag, Dobbs sells Chris into
slavery on an island of Muay Tai fighters. 6 months later, Dobbs runs
into Chris at a Muay Tai fighting match and Chris insists that Dobbs
help him enter a secret combat tournament in Tibet, not so Chris can
win but so they can steal the winner's giant gold dragon prize. Oh,
Chris and Dobbs also join up with a female journalist named Carrie
(Janet Gunn) and I sure hope Van Damme was banging this chick because
there's no other reason for the character to exist.

Tagging along with Maxie Devine (James Remar), the American heavyweight
boxing champion invited to the secret tournament, they make their way
to Tibet. After a scuffle where Chris literally kicks Maxie once and
punches him once, Maxie decides that Chris is the better fighter and
offers him his spot in the tournament.

Then we finally get to all the fighting, which turns out to be
disappointingly brief and generic. Except for the Brazilian fighter and
the Chinese fighter engaging in a dance off, the Japanese fighter
demonstrating the martial art of being morbidly obese and a Spanish
fighter apparently trained in the deadly skill of flamenco dancing,
there's nothing at all interesting about the combat. The designated bad
guy turns out to be a Mongolian (Abdel Qissi), of all things, who
glares a lot and kills somebody that was supposed to be a friend of
Chris', even though the two characters barely said 6 words to each
other in the entire movie. Chris and the Mongolian fight and Chris wins
because this film was not directed by Abdel Qissi.

The Quest is bad. I know that's not exactly a surprise, but Van Damme's
ability as a storyteller is so derivative it's not even interestingly
bad. Instead of doing some howlingly incompetent stuff, Van Damme is
just mimicking things he's seen in other films, including what I
believe is an homage to Clint Eastwood's Every Which Way But Loose. The
script is written at the level of a 10 year old and the direction looks
like any other terrible Van Damme flick.

If this thing had been hilariously awful, that might have somewhat
redeemed it. Instead, it's just another crappy step on Van Damme's
career trajectory from nobody to action star to living joke.
<|_=00=_|>
Set in the 1920's, Chris Dubois (Van Damme) is a street performer who
wears clown makeup, a funny hat, and walks on stilts for a living.
Adventure finds him when he ends up a stowaway on a boat heading to
mysterious Muay Thai Island. There he learns martial arts, and, later
in Tibet, meets the charming Lord Dobbs (Moore) and his assistant
Smythe (McGee). It is around this time that Chris seeks to be involved
in Ghan Geng, a secret underground fighting tournament. The winner gets
a huge golden dragon, so Dobbs has a stake in Chris winning, as he
wants the Dragon. Fighters are invited from all over the world , and
America is represented by boxer Maxie Devine (Remar). Chris must take
his place in the tournament and defeat the sinister Khan (Quissi) to
win it all. Also, there's some mild romance with the prerequisite
female reporter Carrie Newton (Gunn).

Van Damme does a solid , professional job with his directional debut.
Having co-written the film with Bloodsport (1988) dude Frank Dux, you
pretty much know what to expect- but this movie is rated PG-13, so it
was clearly trying to bring the Punchfighting genre some mainstream
acceptance. With its slick Hollywood look and booming, sweeping score
by Randy Edelman, the final product is perfect for 13-year olds,
presumably its target demographic.

Interestingly, the movie is a period piece, and plays like a prequel to
Bloodsport. Instead of The Kumite, It's Ghan Geng. Van Damme tries on a
number of personas from "Old Man Van Damme" to "Van Damme The Clown"
and many things in between. The presence of Roger Moore adds class and
respectability to the proceedings, and James Remar of Quiet Cool (1986)
fame stands out as Devine. He's always worth seeing. Janet Gunn from
Night Of The Running Man (1995) and The Sweeper (1996) is the eye candy
but not much else.

It's important to remember this was when video games like Mortal Kombat
and Street Fighter were at the peak of their popularity. So when the
Ghan Geng section of the movie begins (pretty much the last half)- the
plot just STOPS. It's just one fighter from one country facing off
against another fighter from another country. It gets repetitive and
pretty numbing after awhile. Other Punchfighters don't do this. They
vary the Punchfighting scenes with other plot-based stuff. Not so here.
Plus the fact the movie is kind of on the long side doesn't help
matters. What The Quest should have been is an 80 minute R-rated
Punchfighter. Simply cutting the length but adding more violence would
have helped immensely. But they weren't going for that audience,
unfortunately.

The Quest is more of a big "adventure" film where characters are
seeking a "lost city" and many countries and time periods are
represented. This might be a good way to start younger viewers on a
career of watching Van Damme movies\action movies\Punchfighters but for
adults. Only Van Damme or perhaps Roger Moore completists need apply.

For more insanity, please visit: comeuppancereviews.com
