
I'm really glad this movie was able to find its audience on video,
because it deserves recognition. This is a damn good film! The
unfortunate thing about a movie like "PCU" is that the "Animal House"
comparisons are inevitable. But there's no point in comparing. "PCU"
stands on its own two feet. "Animal House" is one take on college
fraternities and "PCU" is another. It's like comparing "The Naked Gun"
to "In the Heat of the Night," because they're both about cops. The
characters and plot in this movie are in no way derivative of "Animal
House." Jeremy Piven was a great choice for the lead. I've always been
a fan of his, but he always gets stuck with supporting roles. In this
case, he proves that he has the confidence to carry a lead role. His
laid-back sense of humor makes the jokes all-the-more hilarious. I'm
often more appreciative of comic actors who don't try to hammer a joke
to death with mugging and wacky inflections. Piven delivers a joke the
way it's supposed to be delivered--in a straight fashion. We don't see
enough of that nowadays. And I can say the same about most of the
actors in the film, with maybe the exception of David Spade. He's the
type of actor, who can either be sarcastically funny or sarcastically
annoying. He doesn't exactly provide the film's funniest moments, but
he plays a moderately small role and doesn't get much of a chance to do
any annoying shtick.

In the DVD commentary, Jeremy Piven mentioned that the actors weren't
allowed to improvise, and he was very disapproving of director Hart
Bochner's choice to follow the script verbatim. Luckily, that didn't
exactly hurt the film, since the actors were working with a solid
script. The point is the movie doesn't look scripted. Whether or not
they actually were, the actors seemed comfortable with the material and
delivered every gag with great precision. Besides, when you let actors
improvise too much, that can also hurt a film. I liked the "Rush Hour"
movies, but at times it's so evident that Chris Tucker was stepping out
of character to make the audience laugh that there were parts where I
was taken out of the movie. I certainly can't complain too much,
because the comic style of "PCU" had a uniqueness to it that really
stood out for me. After watching Hart Bochner's extremely broad spoof,
"High School High," I wasn't exactly sure he had a knack for directing
comedy. But in this case, he proved me wrong. The gags here are nowhere
near as broad, and it helps that the actors don't act like they're in a
comedy. Plus, there are very few cheap shots. Very few jokes about
bodily functions of genitalia. In other words, the humor had a certain
intelligence--something I DEFINITELY can't say about most comedies
nowadays. This is not one of those comedies aimed at a teen to young
adult audience, where you're allowed to have an I.Q. of 10. As you can
tell from the memorable quotes section, there are plenty of great
lines. "You're gonna wear the T-shirt of the band you're gonna go see?
Don't be that guy." By the way, that's the only line Jeremy was allowed
to improvise, for all you trivia buffs. The most memorable gag, in my
opinion, is the one involving the sign language interpreter, who has to
translate phrases like "butt pirate" and "pillow biter." No one can
deny that gag was classic.

Another way cool thing about this movie: the gorgeous Megan Ward. I've
never seen her look hotter. She has such a gorgeous girl-next-door look
that when Chris Young's character got to kiss her, I felt his
happiness. There's a great shot of her from behind, where she's wearing
low-cut denim shorts. Very nice! So many elements of this movie just
click. I loved the soundtrack too. The songs played over the opening
and closing credits are both way cool, and plus you're treated to the
great sounds of George Clinton during the film. It was an original idea
to choose George Clinton, since you'd expect to see a hard rock or
heavy metal band in a film of this sort. All in all, go see this
overlooked gem of a movie! You won't be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
One of the best attempts at recreating the legendary iconography that
is Animal House. This movie is full of quotable quotes and less than
known actors at the time. Check it out if only for Jeremy Piven, Jon
Favreau and Jake Busey in an amusing cameo as a stoner/ultimate Frisbee
player. Favreau and Piven's interaction recalls old comedy schtick but
in a very endearing way. The appearance of George Clinton makes the
movie worth watching if only for the party scene. And if you didn't
already think the soundtrack to hell was going to be Starland Vocal
Band here in lies a scene to convince you otherwise. David Spade should
not be overlooked in his role as a preppy frat boy wanna-be and his
rant about all of the PC sects at the end of the movie is completely
priceless. This movie though much overlooked is a cult classic and
should be well recognized in the pantheon of college themed flicks.
<|_=00=_|>

For anyone who has attended a liberal arts college in the last 10 years,
this film is for you.  While I find it very cool that the Wesleyan College
people take credit for the film (in the same way that Dartmouth folk take
pride in their own "Animal House"), I don't think you needed to have
attended that school to identify with this one.  The wymynists, the stoners
(playing "disc"), and the overzealous administration trying to rid the
campus of any semblance of tradition or spirit are unfortunate but all too
common themes on campuses across this country both large and small.  The
situations about the social, academic and the extracurricular were all
right
on.  Very funny movie.

But this film is much more than a spoof commentary on today's PCUs.  It's
an
entertaining film.  It's just plain funny.  Come on, who didn't know
someone
in college trying to prove a thesis as ridiculous as the Caine-Hackman
theory?  I went to an Ivy League school and there was the urban myth about
the guy writing the thesis explaining why the bubbles in a 12-ounce plastic
cup of beer always form the same circle formation at the top of the cup.

David Spade was great.  Jeremy Piven and John Favreau were excellent before
they were famous people.  Overall, an awesome movie.  And by the way, to
anyone who makes comments like: this wasn't a funny movie and would only
appeal to "frat boys": they made this movie because of people like you.  To
everyone else, take this movie for what it was, a satire and a good one at
that.

<|_=00=_|>

A shame this little gem didn't get the broad appeal of other movies that
simply copy it or wimp out on the jokes. This is a movie that I can watch
every year and always fully enjoy it.

The George Clinton song at the end truly rocks and may be the first true
foray into GC's funk that most suburban under 21's see and hear.

I recommend this movie highly.
<|_=00=_|>

Funny college comedy in the "Animal House" vein, with Piven out to save his
dorm from being turned over to the young Republican legion led by David
Spade.  The film's gimmick has the school's last party dorm constantly under
attack by women's libbers, radical black nationalists and vegetarians (who
get raw meat dumped on them in the film's opening scenes, sure to weed out
anybody who really shouldn't see this movie anyway).  Above average laughs
and sincerity for this kind of fare.

I liked seeing George Clinton in the film, too; I'm a big fan so I'm sort of
biased, but I thought he and the guys and gals of P-Funk brought a lot to
the film.  In fact, several young people (I'm 27 myself, all you old
Maggotheads) have told me they first heard of Parliament Funkadelic from
this movie.  That's great, but I sure wish they'd picked something better
than that insipid "jump jump" song they used.
<|_=00=_|>

Hit Me!!!

Jeremy Piven really is impressive in this role, which frankly gained my
attention. This really makes the film..... HE IS THE FILM, well
almost.

Is It For U?

Hate over glossy hollywood productions?
prefer smaller budgets and original acting?

So....

This is PCU, a college film unlike Road Trip or American Pie
1,2,3,126,5002,
whatever... Some gloss, great acting(my god it really does make the
film!),
good setting, good script, no great script!!!

However...

Two points though... the plot is not the most complicated ever.... the
characters are sometimes stereotypical and predictable... but thats
college
movies... how else can it be done..

Trust me.... this made my year! BB
<|_=00=_|>

I'm sorry, maybe it's because I attend ultra-liberal UC Santa Cruz, but let
me tell you I love this movie.  I see people like this on a daily basis, and
this movie hits it right on the head.  I think Animal house is better
overall, but I gave it a worse score because PCU just clicks with me.  I can
relate to it really well, and this is almost 10 years after it's release. 
The line where the school president is asking about the future of the
academics programs is hilarious and is close to being true.  It
goes...

"I think bi-sexual Asian studies should have it's own building.  But what
goes?  The math department or the hockey team, I say hockey."

That's not exact but VERY close and very funny.  If you are going to college
these days you MUST see this movie, I think you will laugh even more then
you do at Animal House!  Spade is brilliant as ever too.

Zoopansick
<|_=00=_|>

A MOVIE TO WATCH IF YOU WANT TO LAUGH

Gutter and Droz will make you laugh and it doesn't need raunchy scenes to do
it. It is just in your face funny. There are a very good number of positive
postings about this movie so I know the DVD release is because this is a
cult classic, and it will become a much bigger one if more people actually
knew about the movie. I only believe that there has been one college movie
released before or after PCU that compares to it and that is Old
School.

As far as Animal House goes don't get me wrong, awesome movie. But it is
overrated because it was the trend setter in this kind of movie which in my
opinion doesn't make a movie great.

I have little faith in the DVD having great behind the scenes or deleted
scenes but if it has one cool thing on it i think it is worth
it.

F- this 5.8 rank. I find it funny that according to the poll's description
men over 45 give the movie an average of a 3.8 vote which is by far the
worst. WTF, I don't watch movies in the 70's that i don't understand and
give them a rank of 1/10. So, F- these people that bash what they don't and
can't understand. So if you have seen it and love it vote and help up the
rank so more people have more of an incentive to watch this great
movie.

-ding ding ding, Gutter tell her what she's won :)

<|_=00=_|>
The movie features an incredible cast with Jeremy Piven anchoring the
lead role, and featuring David Spade in a usual tie-wearing, brown
nosing politician egocentric.

The movie from beginning to the end was fun and funny, yet doing their
part to point out the vast political correctness and sensitivity
society is in these days. The only thing was it felt like a ripoff of
Animal House (only a PG13 version). The fraternity on campus that
causes problems for the university...the dean trying to run them out of
the school...the alcohol...the parties and the dean's personal student
monkey.

But for those that could care less about originality...this movie is a
must-see.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was more than the sum of it's parts.  It included the
proto-modern
gross out comedy, the college comedy, the P.C. comedy of errors, and the
fish out of water.  But still, thanks to smooth transitions, an even script
and likable characters, it managed to be funnier, better than most
moviegoers could have expected it to be.

The main thing is that the cast was all so unknown at that point, that they
seemed happy to be working, but were professional enough that they didn't
make overzealous rookie mistakes.  Basically, they knew that they were
making a funny, small movie, and didn't push it.  And that kind of
restraint
is admirable/refreshing, considering how many movies we're surrounded with
now that are box office obsessed.

"PCU," much like "Dead Man On Campus" a few years later, was content to
entertain.  And so it did.
