
Have you noticed? Lloyd, Kevin Spacey's character in "The Ref" is
closely related to Lester, Kevin Spacey's character in "American
Beauty" if you see both movies, back to back, you'll notice the
astonishing similarities between the two. Twins? Maybe. If they are, or
were, poor Lester, a lot of things will become immediately clear. To
start with, he had Glynis Johns for a mother. Miss Jones creates such a
frighteningly funny portrait of a castrating mother that Lester's
emasculation is perfectly explained. Not to mention their choice of
spouses, time bombs Judi Davis and Annette Bening This little piece of
trivia will add, to the considerable pleasures of this delightful and
underrated Ted Demme's dark fairy tale. The opening at the marriage
counselor's office is just superb, I can see it endlessly, it never
fails to make me laugh. Kevin Spacey and Judi Davis are a couple part
Edward Albee part Terence Rattigan. They are priceless. Dennis Leary's
energy is contagious and relentless. His best part to date. The clunky
sub plot involving their son and, what it appears, like a hurried
ending, doesn't spoil the fun. The writing by the brilliant Richard
LaGravenesse and Marie Weiss is pure joy. Ideal to see with a bunch of
friends.
<|_=00=_|>
The 1994 film 'The Ref' is absolutely hilarious.

Denis Leary is great as Gus, a burglar who takes Lloyd Chasseur (Kevin
Spacey) and Lloyd's wife Caroline (Judy Davis) hostage in their own
home at Christmas, to hide himself from police. Unfortunately for Gus,
this couple aren't exactly the Leave it to Beaver family. They rant and
rave the whole way through the film, even though Gus is holding a gun
to their head. Of course, we know Gus is would never hurt anyone but
it's still funny because Lloyd and Caroline don't! 

The acting is superb, and the ending is hilarious. The whole Christmas
dinner scene is possibly the best in the film. Spacey and Davis sound
like a real squabbling couple, and their character's son Jesse (Robert
J. Steinmiller Jr.) is a teenage rebel, who causes Gus even more
trouble. Not only does this film serve for side splitting laughs, but
also for additional fun, because you can always point out that Lloyd
and Caroline sound like you and your spouse! (Actually, no, not a good
idea!) 

Overall, I really loved this movie, and think it's a sadly forgotten,
underrated comic gem. You won't be disappointed!
<|_=00=_|>
This is an all-time classic movie, and one that my wife and I
traditionally watch every Christmas. I know it's not your typical
holiday film, but it is extremely funny, and because it is set around
Christmas, we always try and watch it this time of year. Kevin Spacey
before he hit it big, Judy Davis is incredible, and I simply love Denis
Leary's work. Also Christine Baranski being very annoying/funny. Not
for the easily offended for sure, but I am part of the generation that
has grown up watching movies meant to shock you (Pulp Fiction, Starship
Troopers, etc), and this one has plenty of shock value from the wit and
vulgarness. I always laugh when I hear the banter between the main
characters in the movie, plus a nice mix of physical comedy as well.
Like my summary says, it is my all-time favourite comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
My favorite line of all time is from this movie- when Lloyd tells his
mother next Christmas he's going to buy her a big wooden cross, so
anytime she feels unappreciated or un-loved she can climb on up there
and nail herself to it! This movie is definitely on my top ten list.
The acting is awesome! The timing and delivery of lines is right on! It
may not be everyone's cup of tea, but for those of us who love this
kind of humor its a sure classic! The casting was superb! I cant see
anyone else playing those parts. This is the movie that turned me onto
Kevin Spacey- and he is still my favorite actor ever! This is also the
funniest movie I've ever seen Denis Leary in. His brand of humor
combined with Kevin Spacey's wit is the stuff dreams are made of.
<|_=00=_|>
I enjoyed the Ref immensely. It is an off-beat change of pace from most
Christmas feel-good movies, yet it still comes together in the end.
Denis Leary is very convincing as the successful cat burglar caught in
the wrong place at the wrong time. Christine Baransky plays a
delightfully deranged sister in law who is more interested in money and
appearances than in family or Christmas. Kevin Spacey proves that he
can play any part from milk toast nagged husband to serial killer.

One caution, though- if you are offended by cursing, then this movie is
not for you. There is a great deal of cursing in it. If you've seen any
of Denis Leary's stand-up, then you know what to expect, but if you
want a Christmas movie to watch with the kids, go find A Christmas
Story, Eloise at Christmastime or It's a Wonderful Life. Anything but
this one!
<|_=00=_|>

I laughed like hell during this movie.  Judy Davis and Kevin Spacey fit
their roles perfectly and their first scene, with B.D. Wong, gets the movie
off on the right foot.  It only gets funnier after that.  This is the only
movie I can tolerate Denis Leary in; I find him very annoying and smug
normally.  This movie should be on television every Christmas!
<|_=00=_|>
For years now, I have been able to rely on a twisted programmer at
local station CFTO for the perfect antidote to a Christmas overdose to
show up, right on schedule, Christmas night, or, at worst, Boxing Day
Night.

This movie probably isn't as funny if you aren't already full up to
your eyeballs with stockings and chestnuts and carols, but on Christmas
night, this movie will have you in stitches.

The lengthy set-piece when the family finally sits down to Judy Davis'
traditional Scandinavian Christmas feast has me laughing out loud every
time I see it. Think: Long Day's Journey Into Night on coke. Seriously.
(But in a funny way.)

Plus: Any movie that contains the line "I just punched out Santa Claus.
Don't f**k with me," or words to that effect is a movie with it's heart
in such a very wrong place that you just have to love it.
<|_=00=_|>
My absolute favorite dark comedy. All the adults in our family will put
this one on after the tykes are put to bed on Christmas Eve.
Side-splittingly funny, bitingly tart fun. Anyone that was raised in
suburban America will be able to relate the characters to family,
friends, and neighbors. Great early roles for Kevin Spacey, Judy Davis,
and Christine Baranski, and the deliveries are spot on and maintain the
dark comic tone throughout. First-time viewers might cringe a little at
the tone early on, but will quickly warm up to it; initial "oh my's"
will soon enough surrender to hearty laughter. If the holidays get ya a
little overwhelmed or uptight, this will bring great relief!! Consider
it a nice stiff egg nog compared to the rest of the seasonal hot cocoa.
Favorite line from Christine Baranski: "Sex and drugs, and women
getting set on fire ?!?! What kind of Christmas is this?"
<|_=00=_|>
i think that this is one of the most hilarious Christmas movies i have
ever seen. 

first, it is a perfect role for Denis Leary, who really runs with it.
Second,the dysfunctional couple, Kevin Spacey and Judy Davis are
fantastic, battling back and forth, the whole movie, as their lies and
secrets are slowly unveiled, with help by Leary. Finally, Glynis johns,
as the mother would make you long to be an orphan. Although she does
not have much screen time, some of the funniest lines in the movie
happen at her instigation.

And i like the movie ending better than the one Dehme originally
planned(with Leary being caught by the police.)
<|_=00=_|>
In what may be his funniest role to date, Denis Leary plays kidnapper
Gus, who takes wealthy Connecticut couple Lloyd (Kevin Spacey) and
Caroline Chasseur (Judy Davis) hostage one Christmas Eve, only to have
them drive him absolutely nuts due to their bad marriage! As Gus puts
it: "I kidnapped my f--king parents!" We might say that Spacey's role
here was a predecessor to his character in "American Beauty" - I can
certainly see a similarity - but that's missing the point. The point is
to watch how the people here go from one embarrassing situation to the
next. The dinner scene really blows everything out of the water.
Overall, "The Ref" is looking at the falsity of the suburban lifestyle,
but they do some hilarious things to show it. I would say that "The
Ref" and "Gremlins" are my two favorite Christmas movies ever.

Also starring Glynis Johns and Christine Baranski.
