

this film is ridiculously unbelievable, thin on plot, shamefully
predictable, historically inaccurate in so many ways...yet it all works! The
combination of modern music to medieval setting should be awful, but no, it
works! The costumes are totally wrong for the period (on purpose I'd hazard
to guess - at one point Angelina Jolie lookalike Shannyn Sossamon is wearing
a hat & dress outfit that looks startlingly similar to a costume Julia
Roberts wore in Pretty Woman...) but it works! Heath Ledger is an Aussie
(what happened to the black hair he had in 10 Things I Hate About You! I
didn't recognize him!) and Alan Tudyk is a Texan, so their accents should
have tanked! But they didn't, just a few slippages a la Mel Gibson in
Braveheart or Jonny Lee Miller in Hackers...

This film is funny, fast-paced (certainly didn't *feel* over 2h...), well
constructed, hilariously tongue-in-cheek (From the We Will Rock You opening
scene to the Nike swooshes on the armor I couldn't stop laughing!) It
certainly has its problems (including some *horribly* cheezy lines - most on
purpose but that doesn't make them any less horrible! and an evil Hollywood
ending - including a Bravheart-like scream of defiance in the final joust
that made me cringe...) but those problems are overcome by sharp wit and
consistent amusement. The actors were obviously enjoying themselves, and the
action was beautifully blended in with the rest of the film. None of the
jousting scenes were too long (like, say, the race in Phantom Menace...) and
all were shot in such a way as to make them really exciting!

And I have to laud Paul Bettany who was an incredible and incredibly amusing
Geoffrey Chaucer...even though he looks eerily similar, IMO, to Thom
Yorke...)

Kudos to anyone who recognizes Laura Fraser (the blacksmith) from Man in the
Iron Mask...

Overall: A great watch. I went in expecting little and came out extremely
satisfied. Not the best film of its kind, but a head above most. And the
blending of contemporary style and music and characterization with the
medieval story/setting is really well done. It really shouldn't but it does
work! 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This comment is to counter those who have issue with modern rock and
other time problems being in this movie. This movie was designed to
entertain. It was NOT a historical piece and nowhere does it claim to
be one. This is the story of a boy who aspires to be more than what
society set out for him. The movie uses odd references to history's
great figures and humor to bring its story across to the viewer. So I
say that, for those of you who cannot enjoy a piece of entertainment
due to its well placed use of anachronisms, I strongly suggest you stay
away from any of Shakespeare's works. (Not to say that this movie was
on level with Shakespeare...) The makers of "A Knight's Tale" set out
to entertain, and did so dutifully.
<|_=00=_|>

As soon as I saw the fans singing and clapping to "We Will Rock You" I
thought "this is not very realistic".  Of course, that was when I had gone
in expecting a film like Braveheart or The Patriot, with real historical
lessons.  A Knight's Tale was nothing like either of those. After you get
past the first one or two scenes, everything really grows on you.  The
humor
is, yes, cheesy at times, (the Nike armor) but I still laughed.  Chaucer
was
great, the villain was definitely evil, and the jousting/action scenes were
very well done.  Put all that together with some other funny sidekicks and
a
little romance and you've got a pretty good flick.  Definitely a must see
more than once, and a must buy video/DVD when it's out!
<|_=00=_|>
Totally unbelievable. 

Chronologically, historically and geographically incorrect.

Full of innumerable inaccuracies and made up of a cast who talk as
though they are not from the same continent, let alone the same
country! What more can I say?

I tell you what I can say, I thoroughly enjoyed it!!! I laughed from
beginning to end and was enraptured by the sense of friendship that
these people displayed.

I only wish we could all be like them!

I loved it.
<|_=00=_|>

The first time I saw A Knight's Tale (on cable, missed it in theater), I
had
the same reaction as many of you - Queen? David Bowie? In a movie set in
the
middle ages?

But I stayed with it, and I'm glad I did. Once you get past the glaring
anachronisms (put in the film on purpose, of course), you find the movie
is
actually quite true to its period.

The presence of Chaucer in the film, combined with some of its details,
leads me to suspect that Brian Helgeland has read "Chaucer's Knight" by
fellow filmmaker Terry Jones (of Monty Python fame). The book
deconstructs
the knight in Chaucer's "The Knight's Tale" in a totally unique way -- he
is
seen NOT as the flower of medieval chivalry (as most scholars have
interpreted him), but as a mercenary out for nothing but money and blood.
The character in the film Chaucer would have written about, then, is not
Sir
William Thatcher (Heath Ledger), but Count Adhemar of Anjou (Rufus
Sewell).

The part of the film in which this connection "clicked" for me was the
scene
where Count Adhemar is called away to his command in a "Free Company" --
a
particular stain on the reputation of knighthood which Jones talks
extensively about in his book.

Jones' book made use of extensive research into medieval history, and
Helgeland's film obviously does, too.

Chaucer was a master of satire in his day. Helgeland's use of modern
conventions in a period film is a conceit of which - I believe - Chaucer
would definitely have approved.

I gave "A Knight's Tale" 9 out of 10 - it's not perfect, but I like it so
much, I try to watch it every time it comes on (it's been on HBO and
Cinemax
pretty regularly for the past several months). Check it
out!
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw "A Knight's Tale" by chance.  A few of us had decided on an ad
hoc visit to the local cinema and selected "A Knight's Tale" simply
because
it sounded the least "teen" movie on the bill.  We slapped down our cash
and
took our seats.

The movie began...

A crowd of peasants are assembled to watch the jousting.  And they're
singing "We Will Rock You."

My initial response was "God, this is going to be bad."

But as the movie continued, it suddenly dawned on me - I wasn't hating the
movie at all!  On an intellectual level, I should have been booing and
throwing stuff at the screen but there's something about the sheer verve
and
energy of "A Knight's Tale" that just drags you in on an emotional level.

A clever script with many modern references, a good cast of likeable
characters and a fantastic soundtrack (the reveal of "Golden Years" is
particularly good) all add up to make "A Knight's Tale" one of the most
entertaining mainstream movies I've seen in a long time.

Normally I hate "popcorn" movies - not because I consider them "low brow"
or
an insult to the intelligence, but because they're shallow, tired and lack
soul.  Yet "A Knight's Tale" is different.  No, it won't change your life
and it won't make you ponder your place in the universe.  But it will
entertain you.

If you're looking for an "old fashioned" good vs. evil movie with a twist,
or your copy of "The Princess Bride" is wearing thin, check out "A
Knight's
Tale."

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This wonderfully uplifting little film has a great big heart, good
humor, and a classic message about love and honor, and the rarity and
preciousness of those who practice both with style. I went to see this
with my spouse and a good friend of ours because THEY (the spouse and
the friend) wanted to see it. I am a non-fan of comedies, and had been
annoyed by the stream of trashy Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's
Court films that had been coming out since the 1980s. My spouse had
also informed me that I would be seeing Jousting performed to Bachman
Turner Overdrive. My reaction was to reach for the nearest bottle of
hard liquor. I didn't need it.

I've now seen this film about six times, and though I can't say that I
see something new in it every time (it's just not that complicated), I
can say that I have enjoyed it each and every time. The characters,
though relatively uncomplicated, are very lovable and the casting is
quite excellent all around. Before Brokeback Mountain, William Thatcher
was Heath Ledger's most memorable role. He's a poor boy from London's
Cheapside who wants to change his stars and to become an honored
knight. Travelling from tournament to tournament with his fellow
indentured servants, his liege passes on, and William seizes the moment
- taking his armor and his horse to become Sir Ulrich Von Liechtenstein
of the Gelderland. 

He is joined by the other now-free indentures, and eventually, by
Chaucer and a female Farrier played by the wonderful Laura Fraser.
Eventually, William falls in love with a princess and is challenged by
a rival for her affections with a lot more experience, money and
political clout. The love story, which could have easily become a
distracting annoyance, in fact, comes to dominate and drive the story
very nicely.

Special kudos to Ledger, Alan Tudyk, Rufus Sewell, Paul Bettany and
James Purefoy for their awesome performances. And extra special kudos
to Director Brian Helgeland for pulling off an impossible task - taking
a fairy tale, making us want to believe it, and yet retaining some
wonderful elements of silliness often missing in the fairy tale genre.
This would make a wonderful romantic living-room double feature with
The Princess Bride.

Recommendation: Definitely worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
A story about jousting but this old knight's tale is anything but old
because it mixes in satire of today's modern sports-audience age with
some funny bits. Those include the overly dramatic public address
announcer (boy, that's even more so since this film came out), rock
music blaring out as the contestants do battle, etc.

The main characters are nicely varied with distinct personalities.
Shannon Sossamon, however, was not quite up to leading-lady status and
hasn't had a choice role like this since, either. I would have rather
seen her "assistant" in this film, or the blacksmith woman, be the
lead. Anyway, even though it's a bit long at 132 minutes, it's still
entertaining most of the way, with some of the funniest bits at the
beginning. However, it's just as much a romance (with Heath Ledger as
the male lead) than a comedy.

What also is good is the sound and visuals in here: all high-class. The
lance hitting an opponent made an interesting sound each time. The
surround sound in here was good, too. 

It's a film most people would like, and I recommend seeing it.
<|_=00=_|>
"A Knight's Tale" is a wonderful story of a group of friends who fight,
train, and love as they are led by William (Ledger)in his quest to
"change his stars" and become a knight. Tongue-in-cheek humor is
administered throughout, much of it appropriately timed. The cast is
superior (observe Bettany's mastering of his craft), as they are
believable and likable. Casenove's performance as John Thatcher is
superb and touching. Not to be taken too seriously, this movie will
please if viewed for what it is- an action comedy. Keep watching after
the credits for a funny clip ;). Also recommended: First Knight, King
Arthur (2004), Rob Roy, Braveheart, and Monty Python and the Holy
Grail.
<|_=00=_|>

Fun little tale of a dirt poor lad willing to go all out for his lady love,
his honor, and to prove he is as good as any other warrior. Plenty of laughs
from a zany character or two and a grand adventure with plenty of old world
jousting, pageantry, and costumes. Loved the way the producers wove hard
rock tunes and today's lingo into the show's fabric and made it seem,
usually anyway, as thought it fit that time span. Cool
flic.
