

There's one thing about Hollywood - you can't stop the hype. I think it was
the hype that gave this movie the bad reviews by some IMDB users, as let's
face it, it can totally ruin a movie for some people.

In "Good Will Hunting", you have to look past the hype and Oscars and see
that it really is a gorgeous film written by two very talented young men,
and acted out by proficient actors such as Robin Williams and Stellan
Skarsgard. Personally, I thought the plot was an excellent idea - maybe
someone else could have thought of it, but could they have provided the
great script? And as for the profanity - yes, there was a lot, but I don't
give a damn! This is real life! People swear! Deal with it!

Anyway, what I really enjoyed about "Good Will Hunting" was the
psychological aspect - very believable. Here you have this "typical" 21 -
year - old, drinking with his friends, getting into fights, etc etc, but
you
look below the surface and there's a lot more to him. I think this really
tells us a lot about the people around us and makes a point about looking
below the surface. This aspect of the movie also revealed a lot of
sociological issues - yes, it IS believable that there is a genius in a
rough suburb of Boston, repressed by his upbringing. (Hey, my mum even says
so, and she teaches sociology!)

I enjoyed the acting a lot, especially by Robin Williams - I had been too
used to seeing him in cutesy films, so this was definitely a refreshing
change. I feel he plunged right into the part and relished it, although
something told me his accent wasn't quite right! Will's relationships with
the people around him are wonderful to watch, especially with Skylar
(Minnie
Driver) - there was real chemistry between them. I also liked to watch how
Will behaved around his buddies; the four guys really seemed as if they had
known each other all their lives.

Overall, I thought this movie was believable and touching, without your
typical ending. Matt Damon and Ben Affleck really have done themselves
proud. My advice: Forget the Oscar nominations, the rave reviews, the
famous
faces, and sit down to watch this movie with a completely impartial
attitude. You will see that it really is beautiful.

By the way, I very VERY rarely cry at movies. But if there's any scene that
will have me in tears, it's the one where Will finally breaks down and
starts to cry. That's saying something!
<|_=00=_|>

Sure, this film's plot is fairly predictable. Sure, if you boiled it down to
its essential components it wouldn't amount to much. Sure, Will Hunting's
genius is profoundly unrealistic.

Yet I'm giving this one 10 out of 10.

I don't know whether Matt and Ben have ever been in therapy, but they
certainly understand a lot about the human psyche, how it ducks
responsibility, and pushes blame onto others, how it dismisses the real
gifts it has and concentrates on running itself down. How many of us suffer
from the same problems as Will? Only those who deny their own vulnerability
will remain unaffected by this film.

Not only is the script powerful, but the dynamics between the characters -
all of them selfish, even Skylar - is vividly and plausibly executed. The
film just about manages to avoid easy answers, preferring to acknowledge
(indeed, highlight) the complexity and pain of personal growth and
self-realisation.

You could read a lot of self-help books, but they won't bring across to you
as powerfully as this film what it's like to be scared, what it's like to
experience loss, how difficult it is to shake off your old ways of thinking,
how important honesty to yourself is. If this is the kind of revelation Matt
and Ben are going to come up with, I look forward to their future
efforts.

The first time I saw it, I felt moved as the credits rolled. On my way home
from the cinema, I felt sombre. When I got home, I finally burst into tears.
This film burns slowly, inside you.

As cinema, it's fair to middling. The performances are all first class. The
script is a jewel. As wisdom, it's second to none. A fine
achievement. 
<|_=00=_|>

It appears the jury is hung... many people either loved or hated this movie.
I can tell you why I loved it. First of all the script. I think it had a
real slice of life, and brilliance in it. Sorry, but some people do use 4
letter words to express themselves. And no, it doesn't mean that's because
they lack intelligence to use anything else. I can rise to the occasion any
time I need w/out profanity. But it is how I think & speak in my day to day
life. The language shouldn't even be an issue. If that's all you heard, you
weren't listening! The brilliance in it is everywhere. For example,
William's character putting Damon's character in place by noting that he
sneers at things that he has no real life experience with. I know people
like that. Then moments when he (William's character) says gems like, "I'll
save you the suspense sport- she isn't perfect & neither are you- the
question is whether you are perfect for each other." I'm paraphrasing of
course. The question of relationships, and life career decisions- the
courage to risk and overcoming whatever your background is, are all a part
of real life. This isn't supposed to be about genius or some "white trash"
as someone else said (some people might say the kids in this movie aren't
trash, just normal hard working, middle class guys) - it's about love, life
and courage- courage to ante up & try again, no matter how many times life
knocks us around. The acting, direction and script are wonderful. They
definitely deserved the Oscar for this. It has soul. It has meaning & I am
sad for the people that didn't get it. As the movie "American Beauty"
said... LOOK CLOSER.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of things have been said about this fantastic movie, and I only
hope to add a few more praises.

The fact that it was written by Ben and Matt was a shock to me, I did
not expect any strong writing and a solid script, but boy was I wrong.
The movie lasts for 2 hours, and every minute of it I couldn't even
focus on anything beside the incredible world of Will Hunting.

Matt plays Will Hunting, who is a brilliant young man who denies his
unreal intellect. Will has had a very abusive childhood which hurt him
mentally to a point where he can no longer let anyone close to him
aside from his best friend who is played by Ben. That is until a
professor at one of the top colleges finds Will's talent and helps him
out of trouble with the law. Robin Williams later comes in as a
therapist to Will, he is the only one who can really stand up to Will's
intellect and manages to break the layer of distrust that Will has
developed over years of solitude, and the two develop a bond beyond
friendship.

Yes there is a girl, but this is not a romantic movie. There is more to
life then what we are taught and what we have to show for it.

The writing is witty, brilliant and hilarious at times, both Matt and
Robin Williams preform wonderfully from both a comedic and theatrical
prospective. Matt's best work since Dogma and Williams best along side
Dead Poet's Society.

If your looking for a typical Hollywood movie with a Hollywood ending,
then do not bother spending two hours on this movie. This movie is
ahead of it's time, and lands an easy 10 out of 10.

This one is a keeper in my movie library.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the best movie I have seen since the Godfather.  Matt Damon and Ben
Affleck make a great team...not only as actors, but more impressively as
co-writers.  Add Robin Williams in perhaps his best role ever (too close to
Good Morning Vietnam for me to make the call), and you have a wonderfully
entertaining movie.

Ben Affleck is convincing as the best friend to a genius, able to
effectively play the joker and the friend who would "lay down in traffic for
you".  Matt Damon's portrayal of that genius realizing that life has
something more to offer than batting cages and bars is equally stunning.
And Robin Williams certainly leaves nothing to be desired (except maybe a
beard trimmer...).

The most amazing thing about this movie is the writing.  Even if the acting
were not terrific, this movie still would have made my top ten list.  I was
captivated from beginning to end.

If you've not seen it, Good Will Hunting is without doubt a "renter", and I
think after seeing it, it's one you'll want to own to watch again and
again.
<|_=00=_|>

While everyone took sides with L.A. Confidential (for it's Old Hollywood
flair and tight-as-a-girdle plot arc) or Titanic (for it's generally
inescapable, juggernaut-like aura) as the Best Picture of 1997, it seems
that too many people overlook Good Will Hunting for what it was:  a
timeless
little opus that managed to make South Boston look romantic and happened
to
make Ben Affleck and Matt Damon some of the most deserving superstars in
recent memory.

Because before they were anybody, they were just the writers of this tale
of
a reluctant human being named Will Hunting, a mathematical genius who wore
the guise of a hoodlum, and all of the sudden obstacles he had to take on
to
truly step in to manhood.  Among these obstacles were a straight-forward
shrink who outright dared Will to bulls*** him (played by Robin Williams,
who got his overdue Oscar for it), a brilliant M.I.T. professor who felt
it
his own personal redemption to put Will's mind to great use somehow
(Stellan
Skarsg책rd, who never fails to steal nearly every scene he's in), and a
girl
who doesn't understand why the boy she loves so much cannot love
her.

It was these obstacles that made Will Hunting such a complex character:
while he was a genius at the definite (math), he was a bit of a moron at
the
indefinite (human relationships).  His rough-edged exterior was simply a
cry
for help, and the process of which the obstacles in his life realized that
and attempted *to* help him was nothing short of extraordinarily
touching.

<|_=00=_|>

I am totally dumbfounded by some of the reactions to this film.  I'm
imagining that the people who call this film boring are of the frame of
mind, that unless a film has at least three explosions then it's not worth
the price of a cinema ticket.  Then there are the people calling it
unrealistic.  Now forgive me but I come from a similar background to the
central character Will and I believe myself to be intelligent, but I didn't
use my intelligence until very recently.  Instead I took to taking drugs and
drinking and swearing!  Only a few years ago I was working as a cleaner, but
now I'm studying programming and media technology at the best technical
University in the UK.  Now if I can identify with this film's realism (and I
live in England) why can't so many others?
This film is a veritable jewel.  The script is one of the best I've ever
seen.  The way it mixes thought provoking ideas and witticisms with the kind
of colloquial dialogue which we have read in things like 혩The Catcher in the
Rye'.  Now I agree with the sentiment that some people have put across, 혩get
in touch with your inner Robin Williams'.  But thankfully the script or Gus
Van Sant or whatever prevented it from going over board.  Look at the final
scene where they're hugging and saying their farewells.  Now this could have
overlapped into a typical slushy moment, but no the lines `Doesn't this
contravene the Doctor, patient relationship?'  `Only if you grab my ass'
were uttered so as to diffuse it.  Then bear in mind that you never actually
see the reunion between Skylar and Will!  I could go on forever arguing
against people's criticisms.  But what's the point if certain viewers can't
appreciate the subtly evocative direction of Van Sant, the quick fire script
and the superb performances by the cast.   It's these same viewers who
shall, until the end of their days sit and watch the vacuous outpourings of
Hollywood mainstream.  Let them watch this 혩chewing gum for the mind' and we
discerning few will lap up the droplets of quality cinema.  I think a quote
is in order here directed to all you viewers who deemed this film boring or
unrealistic `If ignorance is bliss, there should be more happy
people.'

<|_=00=_|>
The name of the film always put me off watching it. Ever so glad i was
convinced in to it. 

Only the fact that there is so much bad language and for Titanic being
released in the same year this would have swept the boards in the
Oscars!

I hate Robin Williams as a comedian, but i was in tears after watching
his timeless performance. I love most of the classic movies but this is
definitely the best film i have ever seen

Mat Damon played a great part, showing the full spectrum of emotions in
his role.

I've ever gone out and bought the soundtrack to the film, i've watched
it half a dozen times and always go right through to the final credits.

Pure brilliance!
<|_=00=_|>

I first saw Good Will Hunting in February of '98.  It blew me away.  I
happily disregard comments by people who say: "The probability of something
like that happening..."  This film is bold in that giving Will such a mind
colors outside of the lines.  It simply aims to tell a story.  It is a
beautiful story told in a magnificent manner.  Robin Williams was superb in
his role, his effect on Damon electric.  Minnie Driver and Matt Damon's
on-screen chemistry was undeniable.  More films like this one are needed.
And yes, the ending was predictable.  That made it perfect.  I wouldn't have
had it any other way.
<|_=00=_|>

Matt Damon and Ben Affleck scored quite a success with their interesting and
entertaining script.  The introduction and exposition sections are
enormously engrossing, after which script peaks and rather coasts along the
rest of the way.  Yet, the casting is so well done, and the acting at such
good level, that interest is nicely maintained.

What "Hunting" essentially consists of is some two dozen conversational
scenes, bridged together with short transitions of physical activity.  What
is rather remarkable is that one isn't aware of the dramatic limitations
comprising the structure.  This is a real tribute to the cast, director, and
of course, the script.  
While the basic situation is really quite far-fetched, it is made to seem
plausible--again, the mark of good, convincing writing.  The story behind
getting the script sold and produced on the terms of the writers'
preferences is fascinating.  Still, one can't really call it luck, for both
Damon and Affleck "paid their dues" -- and success did not just fall into
their laps.  These are two talented young men, with perseverance; and how
wonderful for them to have achieved such success while still youthful and
full of vitality. 

"Good Will Hunting" is a good production, with solid craftsmanship in all
departments -- thanks to the  creativity of Damon and Affleck.

