
Now I'm a huge Don Bluth fan, so it's no wonder I love all of his films
to death, with the exception of Rock-A-Doodle-Doo, which had potential
but dived like a nailed duck than sang like a rooster. 

Back on topic, I felt that "Penguin" is a vastly underrated film. The
basic story is that Hubie, our shy, lovestruck hero, must make his way
back to his love Marina after being left for dead by the jealous Drake,
whose also got his eye on Marina. Accompanied by the strong and
hyper-active Rocko, Hubie braves the waters to make the 3000 mile
journey and give her his unique "engagement pebble" before his love is
banished forever.

The adventure itself is everything I want in this type of movie:
Action. Hubie and Rocko's flights from the numerous seals and whales
who see our fair duo as an appetizer are always enough to hold my
attention, because it was fast. And the faster and livelier the
animation, the better for me. 

But of course, the slower moments made me like this movie also. In
these scenes, we see the birds' true personality emerge. Hubie is this
shy and timid thing in the beginning...Quite lame actually (Who calls
anyone a "big bully" anymore?) And in the end, he's brave and not
afraid to speak his mind. In fact, he learns to fight and defend
himself, taught by the tough-guy Rocko, who begins showing compassion
and friendship for Hubie as the movie goes on. He also shares his dream
with the penguin: To be the first penguin to fly, a cute little
personality quirk to this diamond in the rough.

It has your typical Bluth animation: Fluid, bright, lively, and
Disney-like, and that's the main thing I've come to love from animation
produced during the bygone era. Just plain beautiful in all aspects. 

The songs are pretty charming... once they wear on you. After all, this
is a movie intended more so for 7,8,9,10 year olds, so these songs
aren't "Lion King" material. But I've come to find something I like
about each. For instance, Hubie's jokes in "Looks Like I Got Me a
Friend" are lame... but I've come to love that about the cute lil'
penguin!! All songs are acceptable, excluding "Misery." Waaaay too
childish. But the score was absolutely breathtaking. 

To me, this movie only had one setback: Drake, the aforementioned
villain. He's not the most likable villain at all and only held my
attention with one or two threats, and a few lines from his song "Don't
Make Me Laugh." He's more annoying than anything else, and made me all
the more happier Hubie kicked his white-and-black behind. 

In conclusion, "Penguin" has been adored by me since the first time I
laid eyes on these quirky birds. Given this is a children's movie
really makes me appreciate it even more. The music, main characters,
action scenes and character development of Rocko and Hubie were
perfect. The villain and a few songs were the only drawback to a
wonderful movie. Don Bluth is one of the best, independent animators of
the 80s-90s and he has kept his rep very well.
<|_=00=_|>
As others have said before, this a movie you watch when your seven, and
then you don't remember a thing about it until 10 years later. That's
true for me. This was possibly my favorite movie at the age of 6. Then
I didn't even think about it for 10 years until March of the Penguins
came out. I was watching a commercial for it and thought 'Wasn't there
a cartoon about penguins?' and then I remembered. I sent my brother to
Hollywood Video to get it immediately.

When I first put the DVD in I was scared that what used to be my
favorite movie would suck. But I enjoyed it, possibly, more than I did
when I was little. I was able to appreciate some things I used to be
too young to see. When I was young I found the romance scenes quite
"icky". But they were actually pretty gosh darn sweet. And the humor
still amused me greatly.

The plot is simple enough for any child to an adu.lt to get into: The
story's about Hubie (brilliantly voiced by Martin Short), the lovable,
stuttering hero. He's shy when it comes to the ladies and has little
confidence in himself. He's in love with the beautiful Marina
(vocalized by Annie Golding) who he's never even spoken to before. But
that all changes one day when he stumbles down a hill into her. Their
relationship blossoms and he takes her to a place where he opens his
heart in a very sweet song but doesn't get far enough to tell her he
loves her. Hubie then decides to find the perfect pebble for Marina and
ask her to be his. The penguins have a special ritual in which the male
presents the female with a pebble expressing his love for her. If she
accepts, they mate. Hubie is heartbroken when no good pebbles are left,
when suddenly a green pebble falls from the sky (corny yes, just play
along). He immediately starts looking for Marina. But there's another
penguin in love with her. Drake (another awesome performance by Tim
Curry), wishes to make Marina his. He's everything Hubie's not: big,
strong, and handsome. He sees Hubie as an obstacle, so he disposes of
him by throwing Hubie off the ice structure. At sea, Hubie gets lost
and is picked up by humans who are taking him to a zoo. While trying to
figure out how to escape, the humans bring down another penguin, Rocko
(done by Jim Belushi), who is feisty and determined to escape. Hubie
realizes he only has 10 days left to get home and convinces Rocko to
help him. Together, they escape and end up on a beach. Rocko then
decides it's best if they go their separate ways. Quickly thinking up a
lie, Hubie tells Rocko about a penguin named Waldo who can fly. (Rocko
earlier expressed his dream of wanting to fly) Rocko wants to meet the
nonexistent Waldo, so he agrees to help Hubie find his way home. Hubie
and Rocko face many adventures on their way back, from sea lions to
killer whales. Rocko and Hubie build a great friendship, and Rocko even
helps Hubie learn to fight and build self esteem. When close to home
Hubie believes that Rocko has been eaten by a whale. Revengeful, Hubie
sets out after Drake. After a fight scene with Drake, Hubie recovers
Marina and is relieved to see Rocko alive. Drake's lair begins to
crumble, leading to Hubie and Marina falling to their doom. Rocko leaps
to save them and begins to fly! His dream has been fulfilled. Rocko
takes them back home and Marina and Hubie get together.

The vocals are great in this movie. They choose such a great cast of
actors! Martin Short, Jim Belushi, Annie Golding, and Tim Curry. You
can't beat that, can you? They're all so great at what they do, and
they're all great singers too.

The score is absolutely breath taking. Short and Belushi make a very
comical duo in Looks Like I Got Me a Friend. You grow to love Hubie's
lame jokes. Now and Forever is fantastic; I found myself swaying along
with the penguins. But the songs that really blow me away are the two
Sometimes I Wonder songs. The Sometimes I Wonder Reprise actually
managed to make me cry. Marina's heartfelt cry for her lost love is so
moving. Hubie's Sometimes I Wonder is so cute I couldn't stop
squealing. Martin Short makes the cartoon come to life in this one
scene. I love how Hubie's so shy and unsure of himself at the
beginning, but in the middle he just opens up and doesn't even realize
what he's saying. My only wish is that he actually told her that he
wanted to be with someone like her instead of stuttering off.
Otherwise, the rest of the score makes up for Good Ship Misery and will
make you want to get the soundtrack.

Now, my review has been good the whole time. Sadly, here must come the
bad. The animation, unfortunately, was a bit choppy. I've heard rumors
of why, and don't really know what to believe. The song Good Ship
Misery isn't good. I wanted to fast forward through it, but I refused
to. The other thing that made me angry was Drake. Not Drake in general,
he was the perfect example of a true villain. But his dea.th, I mean he
can fall down nearly a 100 foot drop and still live, yet he dies
immediately when the hideout caves in? I just found that sort of
wimpy...

Otherwise, I love it. As corny as people may say it is, I think it's
sweet and a great family film. Children 5-9 are sure to get a kick out
of it and adu.lts shouldn't have too much trouble sitting through it.
It's great, and I recommend it to everyone.
<|_=00=_|>
Genre: Penguins, animation.

Main characters: Hubie, Marina, Rocko and Drake the penguins. I feel
for most of these characters and I like them very much indeed. I also
like Drake, the baddie – but I do not feel for him.

Actors: Martin Short (Hubie), Shani Wallis (Narrator), Annie Golden
(Marina), James Belushi (Rocko) and Tim Curry (Drake). 

What happens: All of the Adelie penguins on a big iceberg are ready to
mate, finding their pebbles to give to the penguin they love so they
can mate. There is one rather clumsy and dreamy penguin called Hubie,
who is in love with one particular penguin – but someone else loves her
as well…

Message: It's not the gifts that you give your love that matter, but
the giver.

My thoughts: I like this film rather a lot. I like the actors, the
animation, the characters, the songs and the adventure of the story.
The jokes are also amusing and I wouldn't be surprised if at least one
person who didn't like this film liked at least one joke from it. The
actors are well-picked and many people may like this film JUST because
of them – as there are many famous ones (including James Belushi and
Tim Curry). The animation is good, I especially like the backgrounds –
sometimes it seems like you are going across the sea with the penguins!
The characters are very lovable and have distinct personalities, not
subtle though, which is one slight problem with this film. I especially
like the characters of Hubie and Rocko, some may think otherwise. I
also really like the songs, there is an amusing one, there are two
romance ones and there is one "bad guy song" that we all have to have
in a children's film! Well, we don't have to, but "Don't Make Me Laugh"
is fun anyway, good singing from Tim Curry. The adventure of the film
is very engaging and it keeps you focused on the film. 

One thing I am not so keen about this film is that it's pretty average.
Average acting – and the plot is quite average. Otherwise – I think
this is a very good animated family film! 

Recommended to: Families who would like to sit down to a cartoon film
(maybe over some Haribo or a box of Popcorn), children who like
penguins and cartoon and grown-ups who like penguins and cartoon films.
Enjoy! :-)
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why the rating is so low. This is a beautiful movie, that
only has a couple of flaws. It is not as good as An American tail and
Land Before time, but way better than Rock A Doodle Doo and Troll in
Central Park . I really don't understand the criticism that it is
unimaginative, with Rocko flying. Hello? Elephants can't fly, and look
what Disney did with Dumbo! The songs and musical score are lovely,
especially Now and Forever and Sometimes I wonder. The only song I
didn't like was Good Ship Misery, because it was badly sung. The
animation generally was good too, the highlight being the killer whales
scene. True there were a lot of colour changes and some animation
errors(Good Ship Misery), especially in Drake's song. And unlike some
people I thought Marina and Hubie's romance is very sweet. The worst
character animation was that of Drake. Nobody would draw a penguin like
that. The voice overs were what made the movie, and they WEREN'T
racist. Shani Wallis is lovely as the narrator, accompanying the
beautifully-animated Antarctica-landscape beginning, certainly an
improvement on the narration in Rock a Doodle Doo. Martin Short
portrays Hubie's nervousness with such conviction, and James Belushi
steals the show with a hilarious characterisation of Rocko. Annie
Golden made me cry with her beautiful singing voice, her rendition of
Sometimes I Wonder is heart-rending and Marina is such a cute and
beautiful penguin, and Tim Curry voiced Drake beautifully, even if he
got a tad annoying. In fact, Don't Make Me Laugh is special to me
because that is the best I have ever heard Tim Curry sing since Blue
Money.And by the way, Curry is the most experienced singer on the
soundtrack, so I was shocked by the comment that compared the singing
to howling monkeys. Barry Manilow and Sheena Easten's duet at the end
was sublime too. All in all a beautiful and imaginative movie, if a
little on the short side. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
Don Bluth made some wonderful films (Secret of NIMH, Land Before Time,
An American Tail, just to name a few.) But as he went on with success,
he suddenly tossed out some really STRANGE films. And I'm talking
strange. These films are Rock-A-Doodle, Thumbelina, A Troll in Central
Park, and Pebble and the Penguin.

So, Pebble and the Penguin is what we're looking over today. If it's
apart of the "Strange" family, then we're gonna be in some trouble.

PatP is about a penguin named Hubie, who is in love with the penguin
Marina. He wants to propose to her, but the evil penguin Drake wants
Marina for his own. Hubie finds a beautiful stone that he can use to
propose to Marina. But Drake almost kills him and Hubie sails away on
an iceberg where he meets Rocko, a tough penguin who constantly tries
to escape the S.S Misery. The two penguins manage to escape, form a
friendship, endure some enemies here and there, and finally get back to
Antartica to save Marina from marrying Drake. That's the plot, ladies
and gentlemen.

What do I think of it? I was watching it the other day, and every
twenty minutes or so, I would just stop the movie and change it to
something else. I couldn't take it. I don't know what it really was at
first, was it the voice acting? The annoying characters? The plot? I
couldn't put my finger on it, but as I turned it on again, and after
about fifteen minutes, I turned it off...I figured it out.

The MUSIC.

The first song is practically NEVER-ENDING, and you just keep asking
yourself "Are they still SINGING?" The second song is boring, can't
capture the rhythm of anything, and is even a bit obnoxious. The third
song, sung by the penguins on the S.S Misery, is just disgusting...and
I'm being nice when I call it disgusting. Really. Listen to the song
and see how you react. It's badly sung to the point of wanting to rip
your ears out. I think the only song I could tolerate was "Don't Make
Me Laugh", sung by Drake...and well, I think I know why: because it's
Tim Curry. And Tim Curry seems to steal the show often with song. It's
because he's an AMAZING singer. I have to ask how he agreed to do this
film, though...maybe to show us that he can take a bad movie and make
it better with that song.

I also highly dislike the main character. I understand they're taking a
clumsy guy and turning him strong, but seriously, this GUY is annoying!
And he also lies, too. Every kid wants to look up to a liar, right?
There are also a bazillion things never explained. For example, how on
EARTH can Hubie suddenly see what Marina is doing with his pebble? Is
it suddenly a crystal ball? It's never explained! If they said
something like "Oh, this is a magic pebble that acts like a crystal
ball." then I would leave this alone, but it just sort of...happens!
There were FEW parts I enjoyed...like the part where Rocko is
strangling Hubie.

Overall....a movie that is slightly below average, with terrible music
(except Tim Curry's song!!), and many things NEVER EXPLAINED. I think
kids will like it, but that's it. Kids. This film was made for kids, so
they don't have to point out the big mistakes in this movie. If you're
older than about seven, you won't like this film.
<|_=00=_|>
Looking back at Bluth's previous entries from the 90s, I was beginning
to think about what I think about this one. Well, just say that when I
was a little kid, I seemed to enjoy it, but as a young adult, I'm gonna
call this movie decent. So, some of you are wondering why a 80%? Here's
the reason why.

Here are some letdowns.

Letdown #1: The story was just... weird for a movie about penguins
despite it's credit for a romance between two main characters. There
were some things that were unexplained like "Why do penguins have
clothing and hands to begin with?" and "Where did the three non-penguin
birds came from?".

and Letdown #2: The songs made by Barry Manilow (despite it's decent
music score from Mark Watters) weren't that bad. "Now and Forever" (pop
song included), "Sometimes I Wonder" and reprise, which was
hear-rendering, and "Don't Make Me Laugh" were enjoyable, but "Good
Ship Misery" was badly sung, although "Looks Like I Got Me A Friend"
has a decent melody.

That's it for the letdowns. Now for the highlights. The animation is
very good, the character designs aren't that bad, and the voice acting
is entertaining with the likes of Martin Short, Annie Golden, James
Belushi, and Tim Curry. The characters are likable too. Hubie is great
and his romance with the beautiful Marina was so sweet and cute
altogether. Rocko never fails to amuse me with his comedic moments and
his comic-relief voice and the villain named Drake is great and I think
that he totally frightened me the first time I saw him as a kid.

So, is this movie weird? Well, kind of, but once you compare it to A
Troll In Central Park, it's not a bad movie. It's just a decent and
very cute penguin movie and it's worth watching for kids who like
decent entertainment.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This Don Bluth film concerns a penguin named Hubie who is in love with
Marina and at first the movie starts off with a bright musical song Now
and forever that follows their giving of pebbles to their loves for
being mates with one another. But an evil penguin named drake is
jealous over Hubie for taking the most beautiful girl penguin in the
colony of penguins. So he manages to get rid of hubie by throwing him
in the sea with a blood thirsty Leopard Seal. Hubie jumps out of the
water onto an iceberg and is swept far away from Antarctica and is
captured by humans on a boat to take them to zoos. But then he meets up
with a tough penguin named Rocko who he escapes with when he realizes
that there only ten days left to get back home before the full moon
mating ceremony. He and rocko on the way to Antarctica don't exactly
get along at first but before the end he convinces him to like him as a
friend. Rocko accepts Hubie for who he is and he teaches hubie how to
fight to defeat Drake before it's too late. Then Hubie fights drake and
he falls into the pit of his lair and he manages to get back up and the
gets smashed by the rocks that crumble on him and Hubie and Marina
nearly fall to their death when Rocko saves them and he sees that he
can fly like his dreams that said to him.To me that sort of reminds me
of Dumbo in some ways. Then at the end Hubie and Marina get married and
have a few kids and live happily ever after.This has got to be one of
my favorite Don Bluth films even thought it didn't do well at the box
office it still remains to me and a lot of people a Don Bluth Classic.
<|_=00=_|>
i believe that this movie is the best ever!! i remember watching it
when i was a child but when i watched it just the other day i saw just
how much better it was!! the whole story line of loving people for who
they are and not what they have is the best lesson for little kids to
learn! i know that i loved the way the most beautiful penguin went for
the fat penguin that no one thought had a chance it was so cute! Rocko
just made the movie!when he gave the pebble to him at the end was so
cute! i couldn't have thought of a better ending!! i love the singing
it just makes the movie i always sing the songs, sad i know but thats
how much i love it!! ahahhahaha over all its the best movie and i love
it very much!! thanks for making it guys!!
<|_=00=_|>

Let's face it, a lot of the reviews that 'The Pebble and the Penguin' has
gotten here at IMDB are right that this movie's pretty bad, but trust me,
there's worse ones than this. 'Rock-A-Doodle' without question is the worst
of Don Bluth's movies (though I haven't seen it in years, I remember it
being hideous), and although I haven't seen 'Thumbelina' all the way
through, I know that it's worse than 'Pebble and the Penguin' too (the few
minutes I saw of 'Thumbelina' were just too painful).

Anyhow, 'The Pebble and the Penguin' is a bit of a mess. As you may know, a
shy penguin named Hubie is hell-bent on getting this strange green pebble to
his lovebird, Marina. This could have been pretty good, but you can tell
that they really rushed it. Then there's Drake, the most annoying villain...
ever. In order to have a really good villain, he/she has to be somewhat
likeable as well as sinister. But Drake's not likeable by a longshot. Tim
Curry did voice him beautifully, though, so I've got to give that fact some
credit.

The only great character is Rocko. Now HE has some personality going on.
Hubie and Marina are okay, but Rocko's the one who steals the
show.

One of the most glaring things about this movie is the animation. But I
wouldn't entirely blame Don Bluth for this. I think he left this movie
before it was finished, and who could blame him? There's a lot of odd
coloring here, and the animation can vary from good to unbearable. And
somehow the penguins in this movie just didn't look 'penguiny'. They just
looked... wrong. Chilly Willy is more accurate to looking like a real
penguin than any penguins here.

Don't expect much for great songs either. The only nice one is "Now and
Forever" at the very beginning. The rest will give you a chance to go to the
bathroom.

And I'm fed up with writers thinking the only way to defeat the antagonist
is to beat the tar out of him. What kind of message is that?

I think if they spent some more time on this movie it wouldn't have been too
bad. In fact, it could have been good. Still, it's better than some other
late movies of Don Bluth's.
<|_=00=_|>
The Pebble and the Penguin is a fine example of animated film at its
best. Hubie, the endearing penguin, illustrates perseverance in its
finest form, and his tenacity is something to be admired. This timeless
story is delightful to audiences of all ages. In today's world, where
divorce and unrequited love run rampant, this simple story inspires and
reminds everyone that true love is possible. In order to find the
perfect pebble for Marina, Hubie searches the world. The emotional
turmoil that Hubie subjects himself to on his quest is akin to the
interior tumult any human being feels. This film captures the essence
of human love in a captivating and moving way. The musical talent of
Barry Manilow only adds to the quality of this film. I think that this
animal story offers incite to one of the most pivotal moments of human
life: engagement. Everyone should watch this classic tale.
