
Written by Thomas Ian Griffith. Doesn't that just say it all? Thomas
Ian Griffith plays Terry McCain, a cop out to bring the local mob, run
by Sal DiMarco (Burt Young), to it's knees! But Terry McCain uses
EXCESSIVE FORCE to meet his needs, and in the beginning of the movie,
we hear Terry lambasted for his use of EXCESSIVE FORCE. The chief of
police, Devlin (the always-brilliant-in-not-so-brilliant-movies Lance
Henriksen), tells McCain that he's out of line! He's a loose cannon!
When the mob kills McCain's partner, he's out for JUSTICE! And he'll
use EXCESSIVE FORCE! And KARATE KICKS! 

I laughed pretty hard at a lot of the lines and scenarios. We learn
early on that not only is McCain an ass-kicking martial arts master,
but a jazz aficionado and an expert piano player! He's also good
buddies with Jake (James Earl Jones), a jazz bar owner. Jake and McCain
bring the voodoo! That's character development only the great Thomas
Ian Griffith could come up with! Griffith plays McCain like you'd
expect, with less acting and more stuntwork. Tony Todd is charismatic
as Griffith's buddy Frankie, but his screen time is pretty limited.
Both Burt Young and James Earl Jones look embarrassed, and the former
phoning in his performance to the least of his ability. This leaves
Henriksen, whose every line as the crooked police chief was taken out
of the book of lines for the crooked police chief, but he delivers them
in a completely untypical way. His first appearance is when he informs
Griffith that he's a loose cannon, but he does it with such class
you'll almost forget you're watching a movie called "Excessive Force".
Then the camera pans over to Thomas Ian Griffith. Henriksen goes the
extra mile in his performance by making Devlin truly an unlikeable bad
guy in a movie with really lame good guys. If good acting in a bad
movie is not enough for you, there's a point when he casually remarks,
"Well boys, looks like we're going to have to kick some ass." That this
line was written is bad, but the way Lance breezes through it, without
a smirk or hint of embarrassment? Alone, it's worth your money. Give
this man an honorary Oscar, already.

It shouldn't be any surprise that Henriksen carries a bad movie, and
this is a bad movie, no doubt about it. Every line, plot twist, and
character is taken right out of the book of Seagal. So is it
entertaining? Of course it is! Henriksen gets a lot of screen time, the
action sequences are in abundance, and the writing is terrible. It's
not quite the unexpected masterpiece of Hard Target, but if you watched
Hard to Kill and giggled like a school girl at the line "I'll take you
to the bank... the blood bank", then this movie's worth your 90
minutes.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an awesome martial arts Movie. The action is fast-paced, the
plot is intriguing and original. Great cast, direction and editing are
perfect. The fight scenes are very realistic. The acting is all very
good as you'd expect from a top notch cast and there are plenty of
fight scenes to keep the pace up. 

Lance Henriksen is great as the corrupt Police Chief and you will throw
things at the screen while he's being evil.

it's the kinda cop movie we don't see anymore with plenty of fights,
nudity and electric guitar music..

"Excessive Force" is a 90 minute visual feast of pure adrenaline! A
must-see film for any fan of good cinema.
<|_=00=_|>
Terry McCain (Griffith) is a Chicago cop who is pretty much on the
edge. A member of the Tactical Narcotics Unit, he's obsessed with
taking down the slick mobster drug dealer Sal DiMarco, who, like John
Gotti, seems to be made of "Teflon" and always manages to avoid jail
time. During a shootout with the DiMarco mob, three million dollars in
a suitcase goes missing. Naturally, DiMarco wants it back, and he
assumes McCain and his team are behind the missing loot. So now the
mobsters are after the cops, and McCain and his girlfriend (Lewis) must
go on the run. Luckily Police Chief Devlin (Henriksen) has given McCain
a wide berth to go off on his own (not necessarily "rogue") and
catch/punch/kick/kill the baddies. After some mild twists and turns in
the plot, we see who is the true dispenser of EXCESSIVE FORCE.

The good news is, this is a movie that lives up to its title. There's
some hilariously, unnecessarily brutal violence, as if the writer
(T.I.G. himself, interestingly enough) felt he HAD to live up to the
title. Like he thought, "well, I already spent all day coming up with
this title, better make sure the movie has an excessive amount of
force". Well played, Mr. Ian Griffith. Well played.

The real reason to watch this movie isn't Thomas Ian Griffith's
constant roundhouse and jump kicks, but the killer cast! For starters,
what is James Earl Jones doing here? This might make an action movie
first: a Shakespearean actor on hand to play Jazz with Thomas Ian
Griffith! Terry McCain is a pretty in-the-pocket Jazz pianist, just so
you know. (McCain also has an earring, so you know he's cool, long,
greasy hair , resembles Christian TV evangelist Joel Osteen and might
be a member of the Trenchcoat Mafia. Research is still being done).

Then we have Lance Henriksen, doing his best as Devlin, Tony Todd as
Frankie, again, struggling against some potential mediocrity and coming
out quite well, the awesome Burt Young doing what he does best - being
Burt Young. The movie could have used more Burt. The presence of
Charlotte Lewis as the model Anna Gilmour was appreciated. And of
course all the lesser-known names in the cast performed admirably as
well. Additionally, the Martial Arts Technical Adviser on the film was
Benny "The Jet" Urquidez. Sadly he doesn't appear on screen. So you
have a much better than average cast for this sort of thing, which is
nice, and they help to sell the more inane aspects of the plot without
you even realizing it, because that's what good actors do. And, yes,
this movie is riddled with clichés, but for the most part they are the
FUN clichés you want (You mean Terry McCain's use of excessive force is
always getting him in trouble? No way!). Amazingly enough, this movie
went to the theater! It never would today. Maybe the cast is part of
the reason why.

But the movie is enjoyable, if not groundbreaking, and, yes, much of
the brutality is fairly unwarranted, but this is EXCESSIVE FORCE
people! While not nearly as violent as, say, Wardogs (1986), perhaps
Griffith felt he went too far and didn't want to be pigeonholed, so the
follow-up, Ulterior Motives (1993), is less impactful. 'Motives does
not consistently and strongly follow up Excessive Force properly and a
lot of steam was taken out of the T.I.G. train. That might explain why
he isn't really a household name, even among action movie fans.

For a fun beat/shoot 'em up, try Excessive Force.

for more insanity, please visit: comeuppancereviews.com
<|_=00=_|>
Thomas Ian Griffith (who was introduced to film audiences as the slimy
Terry Silver in The Karate Kid part III) wrote, produced and stars in
this action flick about Terry McCann, a Chicago cop with a short fuse
(and one hell of a kick) who becomes engulfed in an inside plot to
steal $3 million in mob money from a crime scene. They don't like that.
He now has to unravel the plot before it gets him killed and those he
loves around him.

I really enjoyed Excessive Force (1993). Griffith is a very likable and
watchable action hero. The plot isn't the most original thing going for
it but it moves fast and has good energy. An interesting cast was
assembled for the film which included genre fave Lance Henrikson,
Vader's voice James Earl Jones, Candyman himself Tony Todd, Rocky's
brother-in-law Burt Young and the exotic Charlotte Lewis. The cast I
think is what saved it from becoming standard action fare.
<|_=00=_|>
At first I thought this was a generic 90's Segal/Van Damme wannabe
production and only looked at it because Charlotte Lewis graces the
screen. She's of Irish/Iraqui/Chilean heritage and is quite the exotic
looking hottie. So I thought I'd spend some time fast forwarding
through a lame actioner looking for a little Carlotte Lewis sugar. But
something surprising happened, the movie was actually good. It has
several strong points not he least of which is that in addition to
setting the movie in Chicago, the creators actually shot in in Chicago,
as opposed to Toronto. I love playing the "Guess where they shot that"
game. EXCESSIVE FORCE shows off the Windy City in its best and worst
lights. You get the beauty and the warts. I think viewers get a feel
for the city. 

Charlotte Lewis is of course beautiful, exotic sultry and just about
anything you could want in an action star's girlfriend. She even gets
to use an Uzi and that scene will get your heart rate up. Thomas Ian
Griffith turns in a more intelligent script and performance than I
thought him possible. Really pleasantly surprised. he also seems to
know the city a little more than the usual Hollywood writer and that's
always good. His script even has a little texture to it. You've got a
great supporting cast too what with James Earle Jones, Lance Henricksen
and Burt Young all turning in their usual solid performances in
whatever roll it is they were playing. Ian Gomez, who was pretty funny
in The Drew Carey Show has a bit role too. 

What you have here is a surprisingly good movie that has plenty of bone
crushing action and is just good looking enough and just smart enough
to raise it above the howling pack. I wish Griffith would have kept
making movies because he could have turned into a really solid lower
budget action movie creator. So too paraphrase old Tymie British poet
Robert Herrick, "Gather ye Thomas Ian Griffith movies while ye may".
<|_=00=_|>

Terry McCain and his team of Chicago police officers bust up part of mob
boss Sal DiMarco's operations.  The trial falls through due to the use of
excessive force, but $3000000 from the bust goes missing.  When DiMarco
kills both McCain's partners in an attempt to get the money back, McCain
goes after him but decides to spare his life.  The next day DiMarco is found
dead and McCain realises that there are crooked people around him who are
using him to do their dirty work and that they'll soon need to kill him to
tidy it all up.

Seeing the cast list in my TV guide I assumed that this would be a classy
little thriller so I decided to give it a go.  When the opening credits made
it look more like any one of a million `straight to video' martial arts
films I realised that I had been duped a bit, but decided to give it a go
anyway.  The plot (written by Griffith himself) is basically the normal one
for this type of thing – cop is framed and must fight an army to clear
himself and take down the bad guy.  It is delivered in quite a good way so
it never feels as lame as it is if you actually think about it later.  The
`twists' are expected – or at least you know there will be twists as there
always is in this type of thing.

For an action film I must admit that I found the action scenes to be quite
workmanlike and even dull at times.  It is evident that Griffith had been
watching the films coming out of Hong Kong at the time and had wanted to try
and emulate some of that.  This can be seen in the two handed gun play he
does as well as the scenes in the jazz bar (both of which show that he had
seen John Woo's Hard Boiled at least).  Sadly without the same style he
never gets close and most of his fights are good but far from anything
impressive or spectacular.  Despite these influences the film still falls
into the old clichés, so we have a few scenes of T&A (both actually quite
nice – Lewis is better looking that she appears and Cruzat only input is to
wear very small underwear and walk across a room - yummy!)

Griffith actually struggles to carry the film and I didn't feel that he had
the screen presence he needed to do it.  At the start of the film I didn't
think he had the looks of a leading man and looked more like a support bad
guy – nothing in the film changed this view, although he did do quite well
with some of the more `emotional scenes'.  Happily the support cast is full
of familiar faces, although why they all signed up for this is beyond me! 
The famous support is split into two camps – those that make the film better
and those who seem to be slumming it.  James Earl Jones and Burt Young are
definitely among the `slummers' and seem confused as to how they signed up
for this.  In the other camp Henriksen raises every scene and is better than
his stereotypical role should have been, while Todd (Candyman) is lively and
enjoyable.  Charlotte Lewis used to be in Grange Hill as a youth but her
English accent doesn't get in the way – and the T&A clause in her contract
shows her to have grown up nicely!  Sadly she has little to do but be naked
or be saved by McCain!

Overall this is not an awful film but it is a very ordinary one.  If you
have a choice between a blockbuster and this then I'd be tempted to pass on
this but, out of a like for like choice this is actually pretty much par for
the course.  Not great in any sense of the word but just about has enough
going for it to justify watching it if there's nothing else on
TV.
<|_=00=_|>
This is an AWESOME and underrated martial arts flick. The action is
fast-paced, the plot is intriguing, and Thomas Ian Griffith shows off
some impressive martial arts talent. The film has everything you want.
From classic one-liners to over the top shoot-outs! If you are a fan of
Van Damme or Seagal movies, you better check it out. Thomas Ian
Griffith could of had a great career, too bad he never got another
chance. The film also has an amazing supporting cast and direction and
editing are perfect. A rare gem! I've seen the film over a dozen times
and it never gets old...highly recommended. One of the last good 90's
action kick 'em ups.
<|_=00=_|>
i liked this movie.sure ti's your typical action/crime drama film,but
Thomas Ian Griffith makes a pretty credible action star.plus Burt Young
was very convincing as a mob boss.there's certainly plenty of action
here,but it's not too over the top.i thought the fight scenes were more
realistic than in most movies of the genre.Griffith displays some great
moves.which suggest he is very skilled in fighting himself,or the fight
choreography was very well done.what's refreshing is there are no
flashy camera tricks this time around.the movie moves at a good
pace,and there are a few twists and turns,which make it more
interesting.it is unrealistic at times,of course.Griffith is basically
a one man army,against what should be overwhelming odds.other than that
this is an entertaining 95 minutes.i give Excessive Force a 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Excessive force is the only way for Thomas Ian Griffith! Who can forget
Griffith's laughable villainous turn from "The Karate Kid part III",
but on this occasion "Excessive Force" would redeem that and be an
action fans delight. A special police investigation unit orchestrates a
bust on the Chicago mob, where 3 million dollars goes missing. Thinking
that the cops stole it, the mob go about trying to retrieve it, but
things are not quite what they seem and detective Terry McCain finds
himself caught in the middle. Griffith would star / write and
co-produce the film. But the thing that stands out, because really this
is your palpable run-of-the-mill, b-grade action crime pulp. Is that
you can't go passed the outstanding cast it bestows; Lance Henriksen,
Tony Todd, Burt Young, James Earl Jones, Ian Gomez and the gorgeous
Charlotte Lewis. These names attached only enhanced the production's
quality. Griffith in the lead role made for an agreeable hot-headed
maverick cop, perfectly balancing those martial art abilities (that
jump-kick!) along with some admirable piano playing. It's a good all
round performance. Then you get the ever-cool presence of Tony Todd as
a fellow detective partner and a sturdy Henriksen (a part made for him)
as the stern, but cooperative police captain. Young lives it up as a
big-time crime boss and Earl Jones gives an easy going performance
(like if he just wandered onto the set and went might as well).
Director Jon Hess pumps up the predictable material with gritty,
full-on action set-pieces filled with cold-blooded brutality and sweaty
get-up-and-go choreography. This is where Charles Bernstein's
sweltering music score comes to the foray. Punchy, direct and
simmering. Going down well with the humid, brooding and seedy urban
Chicago backdrop. It's an exciting barrage when it gets going,
especially the final smack down tussle that goes out in a spectacular
way. The script keeps it tough, raw and hardboiled with enough quick
witted replies for its characters and while the plot is conventional
(one man to foil the crooked plan) it's confidently drawn up. A very
well put together and entertaining Thomas Ian Griffith action vehicle.

"We'll get them next time".
<|_=00=_|>

Thomas Ian Griffith seems to be a better actor then screenplay writer,
because the story is somewhat forgetful, the story centers around Terry
McCain, A tough Dirty Harry like cop. who beats a confession out of witness
in order to put a mob boss(Burt Young) away for life. But the mob boss, gets
off due to Terry's excessive antics on a witness. But the heat really gets
turned up on Terry, when the mob boss turns up dead, and Terry becomes the
main suspect. Thomas Ian Griffith may seem like another Steven Seagal, but
unlike Steven Seagal, Thomas Ian Griffith is an action hero who can act, and
unlike Steven Seagal's characters, Thomas Ian Griffith made the character of
Terry McCain, more human then one dymentional. Despite good acting by Thomas
Ian Griffith,and good martial arts scenes. The story is very
forgetful.
