

The Malone family move to a military base to help contain a toxic spill. 
Many of the soldiers and families are behaving strangely but is it the
toxins or something more sinister?

I'm not a fan of remakes, many try to just copy the success of other films
while some lift the original scene for scene to poor effect.  However this
at least tries to do something slightly different with it by setting it in a
military base and bringing the drama into the family setting.  In fact this
setting creates some of the best scenes – my favourite being where Carol
tells her daughter Marti that `there's no one like you left'.  The greater
effects are good but really I preferred the paranoid tension of the 50's
original rather than the horror of effects.

However I still think this is a very workable horror from a good director. 
Of course it suffers with comparison with the original – that's because the
original is a sci-fi classic.  But as it's own film it is pretty good. 
Indeed the ending is what director Siegel intended – but he was forced into
having a more hopeful epilogue ending.  Naturally it has it's weaknesses –
the effects overpower the story at times but really I found this to be
enjoyable as a horror.

The cast are one of the weak links.  I love Kinney because I'm a big Oz
(HBO) fan, but here he doesn't really make a mark.  Tilly has all the good
lines and she is actually quite good.  Anwar is also very watchable.  But
Ermey is type cast in his usual military role and Whitaker is far too calm
and reasoned to do the job – he needed to be more like McCarthy in the
original.

Overall, this should be watched and not compared.  In it's own right it is a
good horror with only a few weaknesses that spoil it slightly.  And if you
do want to compare it to the 50's version then please remember than this is
the type of ending that Siegel wanted and to me is one of the strengths of
this film.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, the 1956 original paved the way and has to get the credit for that,
but from an objective point-of-view, both the 1978 and this 1993 remake are
better, scarier, more developed. In comparison to the second version, this
one has a nowhere nearly as brilliant, rather disappointing ending, but the
pacing is must faster. Abel Ferrara keeps the movie running for only a tight
85 minutes, and pushes all the right buttons along the way; the horror
ranges from the gory (the melting heads) to the supremely subtle (the scene
in the classroom, where all the kids draw the exact same picture, except for
one, who naturally realizes that something is wrong - the teacher seems to
want to punish him for being different). This is a spine-chilling,
absolutely terrific little picture - but even if it wasn't, it would still
be worth seeing just for Meg Tilly's exceptional performance - her "where
are you gonna go?" monologue is as scary as anything in say, "Psycho" or
"Rosemary's Baby".    (***1/2)
<|_=00=_|>

Normally, I try never to watch any remakes before I had the chance to see
the originals...So, watching this movie really was an exception for me since
I never saw Don Siegel's version from 1956 and neither did I had the chance
so far to catch the Philip Kaufman remake from 1978 starring Donald
Sutherland. But this movie came on TV the other night and I watched it
anyway. Besides, there were a few very interesting and respected people
involved in this production. First of all, there's director Abel Ferrara of
course. He already delivered a few true masterpieces before and some of them
are personal favorites of mine ( like Driller Killer, Bad Lieutenant and The
Addiction ). But I wasn't completely convinced about watching this movie
before I noticed that both Larry Cohen and Stuart Gordon took part in
writing the screenplay. All three are very talented and influential men in
the field of horror and I figured a collaboration between the three of them
could only lead to something good. 

Well, it certainly is a decent movie and it provides the viewers with
several scares. But - in general - I have to admit that I expected a bit
more of it. The whole movie looks "unfinished" from time to time and the
basic plot-idea isn't explained well enough, I think. I also had the feeling
that everything moved too quick...Body Snatchers only lasts 87 minutes and
that's a bit short for a rather complicated story like this. I would have
preferred it to be a little longer and more detailed. Because of the fast
storytelling, the ending also looks really fake and too abrupt. That was my
biggest disappointment about it, I guess. Nevertheless, Body Snatchers
contains multiple memorable scenes and it actually has the ability to raise
the hair on your arms...That's quite an achievement too, I may say.
Especially the sequence where both the daughter ( an adorable Gabrielle
Anwar ) and the father ( a terribly boring Terry Kinney ) are being
"body-snatched" is really frightening and a beautiful example of
suspense-cinema and building up a tight atmosphere. This terrific scene ends
with a powerful monologue by Meg Tilly's character. The entire movie is in
fact recommended if it were only for this scene !! 

The further cast of Body Snatchers also contains a washed up Beverly Hills
star ( whose name I don't remember ) and very enjoyable little roles by
first class actors like Forest Whitaker and R. Lee Ermey. I guess this last
one is doomed to play the authority figure ever since his outstanding
performance in Full Metal Jacket but what the heck. He's brilliant every
single time. In conclusion, Body Snatchers contains a few very bloody and
explicit sequences so horror fans won't be disappointed completely. It could
have been a lot better, that's a fact. But on the other hand..it could have
been a lot worse as well.
<|_=00=_|>
The teenager Marti Malone (Gabrielle Anwar) is traveling along her
summer vacations with her father, the EPA inspector Steve Malone (Terry
Kinney), her stepmother Carol Malone (Meg Tilly) and her young
stepbrother Andy (Reilly Murphy) to a military base where her father
will inspect some toxic products. In a gas station bathroom on the
road, she is scared by a soldier that advises her to not sleep, because
they get you when you sleep. Once in the base, she becomes friend of
Jean Platt (Christine Elise), the daughter of the general in charge of
the base, and the helicopter pilot Tim Young (Billy Wirth). Marti and
her father see that people are acting strange, and sooner they find
that aliens are cloning the human beings in the base and invading
Earth.

Abel Ferrara's remake of Don Siegel's 1956 "Invasion of the Body
Snatchers" is more violent than the original movie, but is also very
good. There are three particular moments that I like very much: the
first one is certainly when Marti throws Andy from the helicopter. I
believe very few directors would have the courage to make such scene.
The second one is the scary screams of Carol and Jean later. Last but
not the least is the scene in the hospital when Gabrielle Anwar is
naked and partially shows her breast. Although the end of this version
is happier than the original one, it is open with the helicopter
landing and Carol's voice saying "Where you gonna go? Where you gonna
run? Where you gonna hide? Nowhere, cause there's no one like you
left." And then, "THE END" is highlighted with uppercases, probably
meaning that Marti and Tim would be the last human beings on Earth. My
vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Invasores de Corpos – A Invasão Continua" ("Bodies'
Invaders – The Invasion Continues")

Note: On 05 July 2015, I saw this movie again.
<|_=00=_|>
Acceptable Sci-Fi picture which achieved a moderated success on its
appearance and dealing with a teenage girl and her father discover
alien clones are replacing humans on a remote U.S. military base in
Alabama . This is a passable rendition starred by a good cast such as
Forest Whitaker , Meg Tilly, Terry Kinney and Gabriella Anwar . It is
an average budget version , though sometimes slow-paced and including
some jolts of horror . Science Fiction , military and fantasy is
presented in its most horrifying form . A genuinely frightening ,
chilling exercise in nightmare dislocation in which hideous creatures
from outer space arrive on Earth with plans of conquest by means of
pods and being freely based upon a novel by Jack Finney . There are not
monsters only the residents of a military headquarter , as their wills
, minds and bodies taken over by a weird form of life from outer space
. This is the third adaptation , still very scary and creepy about a
vintage novel deals with some military residents who are being replaced
by duplicates hatched from weird pods . It creates an altering the
human behaviour in the new invaders . As a doctor (Terry Kinney) must
protect his daughter (significant role for gorgeous Gabriella Anwar)
and her new stepmother (Meg Tilly), and soon aware that pods from outer
space are duplicating and menacing everyone there . Meantime , the
teenager daughter befriends a handsome attack helicopter pilot, Tim
Young (Billy Wirth) and a young girl named Jenn Platt (Christine Elise)
, daughter of headquarter commander (Lee Ermey). The doctor may hold
the means to avoid the extraterrestrial invasion as he discovers their
friends are being taking over by cold human-duplicates , as one by one
are turned into aliens . While examining specimen, Doctor Malone is
approached by angst-ridden Major Collins (Forrest Whitaker), who asks
him about psychological effects particularly narcophobia . The
mysterious epidemic from outer space is spread along military camp ,
everybody are being taken over by emotionless , cold behaving beings .
The strange seeds from outer space are growing and destroying a little
base at an alarming attack.

This scary Sci-Fi displays a tense screenplay freely based on Jack
Finney novel titled ¨Body snatchers¨ that can be considered truly
disturbing . Packs eerie suspense , chills , thrills , spectacular
scenes , chilly events and pretty turns and twists . A ceaselessly
inventive , ghastly rendition of the alien take-over paradigm ,
including a a nice built-in paranoia about a small military base is
infiltrated by pods from outer space that replace and replicate human
beings . It profits from an intense acting by Terry Kenney , Forrest
Whitaker , R. Lee Ermey along with an enjoyable Gabrielle Anwar ;
furthermore , a right direction by Abel Ferrra who proved himself
master of the eerie clutch at the base of one's spine . Appropriately
exciting and frightening musical score by Joe Delia , though composed
by means of synthesizer. Atmospheric cinematography and evocatively
eerie ambient by cameraman Bazzeli , this was the first film shot with
Arriscope anamorphic lenses, which were created for Arri by the German
manufacturer Isco-Optic. Adequate production design and considerable
visual and special effects . The motion picture was professionally
directed by Abel Ferrara . Director Ferrara brought an entirely new
approach to the Sci-Fi field to a well known story that has been shot
various times . He filmed an attractive tale and it has emerged as an
acceptable Sci-Fi thriller that brings astonishing nightmares . Lovers
of the thriller/chiller should no miss this considerable Sci-Fi ,
everybody will have fun being scared by this expertly crafted film . 

Other versions about this known story are the following : a
post-McCarthy paranoid fantasy epic titled ¨Invasion of the body
snatchers¨ (1958), stunning and frightening adaptation which emerged as
a cinema classic which achieved tremendous and unexpected success on
its appearance , so well tuned for the times that some saw it a parable
Communist Witch Hunts ; being compellingly directed by Donald Siegel
with Kevin MacCarthy , Dana Wynter , Larry Gates , Carolyn Jones , and
Sam Peckinpah ; 1978 new version also titled ¨Invasion of the Body
Snatchers¨ , one of few instances where a remake is an improvement on
the original , directed by Philip Kauffman with Donald Sutherland ,
Brooke Adams and features cameos by Don Siegel and Kevin McCarthy from
the original , realized with great originality in spite of being a
remake concerning again about mysterious seeds duplicating people .
Lately recent version that results to be the least satisfactory and yet
another inferior titled ¨Invasion¨ with Daniel Craig, Nicole Kidman ,
Jeffrey Wright and directed by Oliver Hirschbiegel , this so-so take on
, it takes advantage of the advances in FX , sound technology and some
interesting visual effects .
<|_=00=_|>

Everyone knows the plot of THE INVASION OF THE BODY SNATCHERS because they`d
already been two adaptations before the 1993 remake . The same basic plot
had also been done in the 1955 television serial QUATERMASS 2 which was also
remade by Hammer films in the late 1950s and we`ve seen DOCTOR WHO stories
like Spearhead From Space that uses a very similar premise . In short the
idea had been done to death by the 1990s 

On its own BODY SNATCHERS isn`t a terrible film , it is moody and dark as it
should be , but it does have a rather mechanical script with a scene
featuring some teen angst followed by a mysterious scene followed by a scene
featuring teen angst followed by a mysterious scene followed by a scene
featuring teen angst . Everyone knows that the plot revolves around alien
infiltration so do the audience get to find out why the aliens come to Earth
? Not really , unlike the 50s original there`s no real ambiguity as to the
aliens motive or subtext either . I should also point out that aliens taking
over military bases makes perfect logical sense if they want to nullify
humanity but unfortunately setting the story on a military base where
through necessity human individuality is disallowed and where the newly
introduced protagonists don`t know the other characters means we have a
story that lacks compelling and terrifying drama . We find it somewhat
difficult to care about the people involved because they lack individuality
to begin with .

As I said it`s by no means terrible but BODY SNATCHERS  fails alongside the
1978 version which I rate as the greatest paranoid thriller ever made

<|_=00=_|>
In this remake of a classic, they used Bad Lieutenant and King of New
York director Abel Ferrara, and cast the young beauty Gabrielle Anwar
(The Librarian: Return to King Solomon's Mines) and "thirthsomething"
Terry Kinney in the leads.

Kinney went on to do The Laramie Project later and was fantastic. 

If you want conformity, then setting your movie on a military
installation ensures that you have an easier time of it. Younger people
will love this version, but just updating to modern techniques and
special effects doesn't always make for a better picture. 

Skintastic Moment: Great view of Gabrielle Anwar's ta-tas waking up on
a stretcher.
<|_=00=_|>
Greetings from Lithuania.

"Body Snatchers" (1993) is probably the best flick from these so called
"Body Snatchers" movies. I saw 3 of them probably, but this one always
was my favorite (the one with Donald Sutherland was also pretty good).
It has good acting for this material, a very spooky mood, good
direction and script. It's not particularly gory, but it has it's
moments (make-up effects were very solid). The ending was very good and
creepy - that last screaming sound was chilling.

Overall, although "Body Snatchers" isn't very original or highly
entraining or even a great art, it does exactly what it promises - it's
has some scares, some thrills and a great feel of uncertainty which is
always was a driving force in this so called franchise. This is a very
solid genre movie and if you like the genre and premise, you will
definitely going to like this flick.
<|_=00=_|>
Abel Ferrara is a talented and interesting director. He's made some
great films ("bad lieutenant", "china girl") and he always seems to
bring out the best in his actors. With "Body Snatchers", Ferrara
tackles the task of directing a big budget, studio sci-fi film. And for
the most part, he succeeds. Ferrara injects the film with tight
closeups and experiments with tilted and off balanced framing. Making
the viewer feel like something in the film is off and eschewed. But the
film just isn't that exciting. It's more of a slow burner. It never
really lives up to it's own potential sadly. But the effects are solid
and some of the semi-transformation scenes are disturbing.

The acting for the most part is solid with Meg Tilly giving the best
monologue in the film. Gabrielle Anwar is gorgeous to stare at and
Billy Wirth (Lost Boys) plays the chopper pilot hero. It could have
been a better film, but "Body Snatchers" is entertaining, well-acted,
and often creepy. I'm always surprised that an independent director
like Ferrara was the guy chosen to helm such a big budget studio
film...
<|_=00=_|>
~Spoiler~

Body Snatchers is the second attempt at updating Jack Finney's classic
tale for a new generation. Let me preface this review by saying both
the original film and the 70's remake are haunting pieces of cinema.
Body Snatchers '93 doesn't quite live up to its predecessors. It's not
a bad film per se, but with the pedigree it sports it should have been
much better. Some of the names credited with the story and screenplay
are Larry Cohen, Stuart Gordon, and Dennis Paoli. Those three names can
be seen on some of the most famous horror posters of all time. And with
a director like Abel Ferrara the film should have been more
interesting. This time the invasion takes place solely on a military
base witnessed through the eyes of outsider Gabrielle Anwar. Forest
Whitaker is playing the paranoid role and Meg Tilly is the main "face"
of the aliens. There are some good moments to be found and the pod
effects look good because they are still practical at this point. The
problem is once the pods become people. The aliens are supposed to be
completely devoid of emotion yet I think they show a lot in this film.
I also think they blew the "scream" out of proportion for this one.
It's not nearly as haunting as the previous film. I still think it has
its own merits and is far superior to the latest Nicole Kidman retread.
