

Why the poor box office performance?  Why the bad reviews?  Why the bad
word
of mouth?  I really didn't see anything horrible about this movie!  First
of
all, it's a character-driven story.  There's little subplots involving
jealousy and philandering, but it's not handled in a soapy fashion.  I
didn't feel any of the characters were one-dimensional.

Of course, Mike Myers steals the show as the homosexual club owner Steve
Rubell.  I don't know the real Steve Rubell, so you be the judge whether
or
not his performance was accurate, but I have to say that Myers did an
incredible job!  And I'm not overstating the least bit!  You watch him in
this movie and you totally forget that this is the same guy who played
Austin Powers.  Not to say I didn't realize Myers had talent prior to
watching this film.  He has definitely proven that he has talent as a
comic
actor, but I didn't know he had the chops to pull off a straight, dramatic
role.  Even his accent sounds real, not the least bit phony.  I'm
surprised
Myers didn't even get an Oscar nod.  He should've at least gotten the
nomination for Best Supporting Actor.  Trust me--you will be blown away by
his performance in this movie!

The music is great.  It's always great to reminisce to the great songs
from
the seventies.  Mark  Christopher nicely captured the whole rebellious
atmosphere of 54.  We're given a taste of the drug addiction and even the
sexual promiscuity that made the place famous--there's a scene where a
couple shamelessly pounds away on the balcony.  I read one person's
review,
saying that this movie should've been an hour longer.  I find it ironic
that
people watch movies that are two and a half to three hours long and
complain, "Oh, this movie dragged!  Oh, this movie needed more editing!"
Yet they watch a succintly timed film like this and complain it's too
short.
This may not have been the most thorough examination of the famous
nightclub, but I think it got to the point.  No reason why we have to go
into every tiny detail.

This is a serious, dramatic film but it's also very entertaining.  I
actually had a smile on my face when the movie ended.  It ended on a happy
note without having that forced, schmaltzy Hollywood feel.  Plus, I really
like that song "Knock on Wood" that they played over the credits.

My score:  7 (out of 10)   
<|_=00=_|>

One does not usually expect a popular movie to be much good, namely because
it caters to the tastes of a crowd, which are notoriously un-demanding. 
Rarely, however, one finds a film which delivers on its promises.  This,
fortunately, was one of these films.
The acting was the high point of the film.  Mike Myers wore his role like a
skin, naturally and easily.  Ryan Phillippe proved that despite occasional
bursts of negative popular opinion he is more than a simple dime-a-dozen
pretty boy, and possesses both skill and talent, both of which are put to
good use.  (And he is good looking, which despite all else, never hurts. 
But, let's not belabor the obvious).  The filming was excellently done, with
a good eye towards shock and an occasional shot of strangely unexpected
beauty.
The only real objection one could put to this film is that it was far too
short.  Several sub-plots came up which were either abandoned or
underdeveloped, and the ending, while highly effective, had a slight air of
"deus ex machina" about it.  On the whole, though, a talented, unusually
intelligent film with excellent actors and direction.  Well worth
watching.

<|_=00=_|>
When "54" got released, many critics claimed that it was just another
attempt to get into the '70s nostalgia that had swept the country. It's
more than that. The movie shows New York's Studio 54, an unusual club
where young people danced to disco and could meet celebrities, as seen
through the eyes of employee Shane O'Shea (Ryan Phillippe). At the end,
he talks about, how after the government closed the place down, a
corporation took it over and did what corporations always do: make the
place safe and sterile. Steve Rubell (Mike Myers) built it up into a
most unique hangout, and the corporation drained the life out of it.

So don't trust the critics. This was a really good movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This is, by no means, going on my 1998 Top Ten list, but I'm willing to cut
it some slack. I thought it told the story quite well, and captured the rise
and fall of Studio 54 wonderfully. The performances were all good,  but it's
Mike Myers that impressed the hell out of me. In this film he proved himself
to be an actor, and a damn good one. Although I anxiously await the new
Austin Powers flick, I hope that Myers keeps taking roles that force him to
stretch his limits.  
<|_=00=_|>

While the acting is pretty dull in this movie, Mike Myers proved that he can
handle serious drama. Shortly after this movie came out, it was rumored that
Mike Myers would receive an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor for
playing the Studio 54 owner. I would have strongly agreed with this
nomination, and I only recommend 54 to anyone curious about the serious side
of Mike Myers.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was great. Not only did it have a wonderful star studded cast,
but it managed to make a well known story very origional. Ryan Phillipe in
the lead role was brilliant not often have i seen him act up to his
potential like he did in this movie (Movies he did that sucked: I know what
you did last summer, Nowhere)Mike Meyers also stunned me showing is
versitality in one of his few serious dramatic roles. Breckin Meyer was
great (Big step up from Dancer TX Pop. 81) Selma Hayek was great. My only
complaint was Neve Cambell, I just think she could have done better. Great
Great movie!! A must see for those who are nostalgic, or those who want a
glimpse of the era we barely missed.
<|_=00=_|>

It's unknown to me why this movie got such a bad review from critics. There
are alot of factual errors about the club, yes. But this seemed to be a
great movie. Mike Myers was an excellent pick for Steve Rubell, he had the
same personality as Rubell in the movie. 

Another thing is the story is so interesting about Studio 54, it was a fad,
hip, and unusual place for it's time. Not only that, the story of the
controversial club is one that really is unknown to some.

The story might not be dead on accurate, and some of the characters might be
factual, and there could be alot of mistakes in the movie, but it's still a
great one to watch when you get past it. 

I would suggest watching VH-1's Behind The Music on Studio 54 first before
seeing the movie, for a clear understanding on the club. That way you don't
get freaked out. 

<|_=00=_|>

Studio 54 was a swift, colourful flick that showed us the true ins and outs
of the seventies.  The only difference is that the writers remembered the
seventies .. thus, they obviously didn't really live the seventies
atmosphere to its fullest.
Mr Ryan Phillippe, in my opinion, took on an enormous task in performing
this role ... I mean who else could you get to wear tight clothing, push
pills, make drinks, take sexual harassment from a male employer, and still
look pretty?  Ms Campbell' purpose in this movie showed young girls that you
can get somewhere with talent and not just looks.  Basically, the script was
compelling, the acting was sought as half way and ended up getting three
quarters ... so overall I say that this isn't that bad of a flick if you are
looking for something out of the everyday norm.  I gave this movie a rating
of a "9" because it is a personal favourite of mine, and the casting was one
of the best combos, for my taste in movies.  - David Wills christian
11/01/99
<|_=00=_|>

Studio 54 was the center of a universe that revolved around sex, drugs, and
a pantheon of ephemeral pop culture gods who presided over a world of
decadence and music.  Long before the neanderthal "disco sucks" mob
convinced the world to stop dancing, every possible indulgence was explored,
and then surpassed, in clubs like this one across the country. Well, if
there had been clubs like this, but there was only one
54.

The story mirrors the lunatic time warp within great dance clubs.  There was
a cast of characters, you kind of knew them, and you knew some of the
details of their lives outside the club, but make no mistake, the real world
took place under the seductive lights, and everything else was just
backstage preparation.

You might say that the myriad subplots that ran through 54 were not
adequately explored by the movie, but that would be naive.  Nobody at the
club really knew Warhol, Jagger, Grace Kelly, Capote, or any of the
luminaries, famous or not, who inhabited the club like ghosts.  We drank
from their lives from dusk till dawn and hibernated in the so-called real
world until the stars came out at night.

Mike Meyers is beyond fabulous as the complex and tragic Steve Rubell.  If
Ryan Phillippe is no Oscar winner, you might recall that the real busboys
weren't usually National Merit Scholars either.  They were beautiful, and
that was all that mattered.

The giddy yet tragic abandon of the Disco Days has never been captured so
perfectly.  Everyone knew it couldn't last, but we all stuck it out to see
who could make it till last call.  An era as beautiful and optimistic as the
hippies and flower children of the 1960's drowned under the weight of the
resentment of those who couldn't make it past the velvet
rope.

This movie is the absolute best of its genre, and unflinchingly reveals the
darkness that lay under the glittering veneer of 54.  If you weren't there,
you won't understand.  If you were, there is no better way to remember. 
Brilliant, tragic, and most of all, fabulous.  
<|_=00=_|>

What could have been an intoxicating, unforgettable film is instead reduced
so pretty people like Ryan Phillippe and Neve Campbell whining and posing.
The REAL story of the REAL "54" is Steve Rubell and the shenanigans and
illegal activities that took place in AND out of the club....as well as the
entire disco era. Actually, aside from some great music from the period, the
viewer doesn't get much of a feel for the late 70's. And frankly, it's a bit
hard to because of the VERY 90's faces in the film. It would be okay if some
of them could actually act...

The only thing this film has going for it, besides the music, is a stellar,
surprising performance from Mike Myers as Steve Rubell. The filmmakers blew
their chance with this movie...the REAL story of Studio 54 with Mike Myers
in the lead role would have made a phenomenal movie. Instead, we get a soap
opera with bad acting and Myers reduced to a thankless supporting role.
Overall, "54" isn't terrible and it does have it's moments. It is just very
disappointing, because the REAL story would have been so much more
fulfilling.
