
Although certainly the writer of this film owes much of his inspiration
to Steinbeck and Depression-era authors, it has more than enough
substance to stand on its own. In hindsight, Airborne is more than just
a high-flyin' roller-blading epic—it is a depiction of the culture wars
that exist in our society today. Mitchell represents the coastal
"corporate" American coming to the Midwest to pillage its' resources
(in this case Cincinnati's finest ladies). Augie is the repressed
commoner, perhaps a factory worker, who resents Mitchell at first
because of his pedigree and obvious social graces. Wiley is the guy who
is striving to make it out his internal strife anyway he can, and
shrouds his blatant homosexuality in clever retorts and hooded
sweatshirts. Jack is obviously the old farmer, who has seen it all in
his day and now is bitter that time is no longer his friend.

However, the "Preps" represent something far more imposing than
anything Mitchell brings to the table. They obviously represent
Communism. If the Cold War taught us anything, it is that Communism can
only be contained by a roller-skating race through Cincinnati that ends
at the birthplace of democracy, Riverfront Stadium. No wonder Jack
Black jumped at the chance to make this ambitious film. The subtle
nuances of this cultured classic cannot fully be appreciated in two or
three sittings. Nay, the marrow of this film must be sucked dry before
you can truly see the vision behind this movie. Step aside
Shakespeare...
<|_=00=_|>

Airborne is mostly a teen movie marketed back in the early 90's when the
rollerblade craze was starting to catch on. It's like the rollerblade
companies needed some more exposure, so they gave these guys a bunch of
money and said "hey, make the kids crave rollerblades". With all that
aside,
it is a rather enjoyable movie. Shane McDermott plays Mitchel, a surfer
from
California who must move to Ohio for a couple months. His performance
reminds me of a teenage version of Keanu Reeves in Point Break. Seth Green
plays the comic relief hapless friend, and Seth's parents are played by
Edie
McClurg(secretary from Ferris Buehlers) and Patrick O'Brien. The parents
in
this are hilarious and they work very well with the rest of the cast. The
moviesfollows Mitchel as he tries to adjust to the very different
Cincinatti
atmosphere. He quickly becomes a heartthrob thus alienating him from every
guy in town. So he pretty much spends the next hour trying to avoid
trouble,
but at every turn it seems to find him. In the course of this he ends up
playing ice hockey/roller hockey and then rollerblading. The major flaw of
this movie is the motive and identity of the villains. You see very little
of them throughout the movie, and their dialogue is terrible. There is
also
a huge disparity in the look of the males and the females in this movie.
Most of the male cast looks and are well into their 20's (with the
exception
of the Shane and Seth).. The girls in this movie look like a bunch of 12
year olds... But since there isn't a lot of interaction between the two,
it
doesn't detract from the movie too much. All in all, I enjoy this movie. I
really like the approach they have taken with the Mitchel character.. He's
just a young surfer dude who is a vehement pacifist. He is very cool and
very not violent (hero's always breed violence in modern movies).. He also
makes a couple of Zen-like observations which are fun to watch. The movie
ends with a rollerblade race through downtown Cincinatti with the hero's
facing the "Preps". The rollerblade race is the best part of the movie,
and
it is very well played out. This movie isn't oscar material, but it is
much
better then any other "roller-skating" movie, sport genre movie, and many
disney-teen movies.. Jack Black also play's a small role in this, and is
fun
to watch.  I give this 7 out of 10 stars. 
<|_=00=_|>

Almost every movie you see nowadays there's a fight or someone getting
shot. In this movie Mitch plays a kid who is not afraid to say "I won't
fight
you." Instead when he is forced to fight for the girl, he uses his wit and
skills. Everyone in this movie does a great job especially Seth Green.
Nobody
plays the misunderstood kid better than he does. Airborn has drama,
action,
and a whole lot of comedy.
<|_=00=_|>
I was watching this flick in a hotel room on HBO early in the morning
and thought that it was some sort of parody at early 90s B comedies.
Then I thought "there is no way that this is actually an early 90s
comedy. They are beating me over the head with plaid and rollerblades
and other 90s clichés." The I realized Seth Green and Jack Black were
in it and I realized that it must in fact be a parody. WRONG! 1993
baby. This movie is so campy, but is so damn entertaining. It's like
one of those songs that no one wants to admit they love, yet everyone
loves it. Like "I Saw the Sign" or something. Check out this flick at
the very least to see Green and Black early in their careers.
<|_=00=_|>

Is it just me, or has everyone seen this movie about a hundred times on
cable?  Call it a guilty pleasure, but every time it came on, I just had
to
watch.  I think it must be Seth Green's "Wiley Man" (Which I'm sure had a
throwaway line homage in Austin Powers during the counseling scene).  I'm
glad to see him make it in the business.

The movie itself?  A California surfer pretty boy tries to fit in at a new
school and wins everyone over (including the school hottie) by skating.
Tres deep.

6 out of 10, but you just gotta watch it again and again.
<|_=00=_|>

If you don't go into this movie with overly high expectations, but just go
with the flow, this movie can be very enjoyable. So it isn't Academy Awards
material. How many movies are? Anyway, for a teen high-school love story,
this isn't bad. I enjoyed the skating, even though I have been to Pittsburgh
enough times to recognize most of the streets, and certainly the skyline. I
am more bugged by the movies made in Canada that try to pass themselves as
U.S. locations (that tax credit must be a real biggie!)

If you like fish-out-of-water movies or H.S. love interests, give Airborne a
look.

I hope Mitchell eventually made his way here to O'ahu and surfed our waves!
Now there is Airborne! (especially the latest thing, Kite
surfing!)

Laters brah
<|_=00=_|>
A handsome LA surfer teenager is sent to stay with relatives (Aunt,
Uncle, and Cousin) in Cincinnati while his parents are away to study a
special wombat in Australia, encountering bullies and a potential
romance in this breezy family film. 

Shane McDermott is Mitchell Goosen, with a charming smile and positive
attitude, who finds his Ghandi-type pacifism challenged by
oh-so-serious Jack (Chris Conrad) and his city school hockey buddies
who find this "pretty boy" a nuisance. It's your usual
fish-out-of-water culture clash teen dramedy where an outsider must
endure certain hardships because he is so different than those around
him.

Seth Green gets the chance to play the comedy foil, as Mitchell's loser
cousin, Wiley, the little man subject to much bullying from his school
peers. Jack Black, in an early role, is Jack's clownish pal, Augie,
who, like his best friend, has a certain contempt for Mitchell.
Mitchell, who has never played hockey before, is chosen to participate
in a big game where the stakes are important to his team because they
have lost three years in a row to their rival school. He makes the
mistake of scoring a goal against his own team, earning the angered
scorn of his teammates who treat him with constant pranks as a result. 

Mitchell—the kind of guy with a laid-back personality who would rather
get along with everyone and "chill"—has a hard time adjusting to his
harsher environment, particularly when so many, like Jack, always want
to push his buttons and demand altercations to prove himself in a
fight. Mitchell meets a nice, pretty girl, with a knock-out smile,
named Nikki (Brittany Powell) who is perhaps the first good thing to
happen to him while in Cincinnati, but soon learns that she is Jack's
sister, creating obvious complications along the way. Owen Stadele is
Jack's nemesis, Blane, who becomes a thorn in Mitchell's side when he
attempts to provoke a fight over Nikki, which ultimately leads to a
street hockey game and the eventual epic rollerblading challenge down
"Devil's Backbone". 

The plot is basic teen fodder, with the rollerblading finale the reason
to check out "Airborne". The cast is fine all around with some familiar
faces before they would become more famous. This fun cast includes
Jacob Vargas as streetwise tough-guy, Snake, Daniel and David Betances
as twin hockey players who are part of Jack's team, Alanna Ubach as
Gloria, Wiley's love interest (set up blind by Nikki in a double date)
who would've preferred to stay home but soon grows fond of him despite
herself, and, especially Edie McClurg (Planes, Trains, & Automobiles,
always a scene stealer, including this film) and Patrick Thomas O'Brien
as Aunt Irene and Uncle Jack, Wiley's square parents. Devil's Backbone
is essentially a race throughout the city of Cincinnati, quite
thrilling in that the danger is always present as the rollerblading
teams have to dodge cars and winding curvy roads. We often see members
of both teams taking tumbles and sent flying through the air bound to
land with a hard thud. During the finale, "Airborne" allows McDermott's
character (not just here, but in other portions of the movie when
Mitchell shows out for the local skateboarders and bikers) to perform
magnificent feats like leaping completely over a moving vehicle and
jumping from a bridge, onto a truck, and safely to the street without a
scratch. The movie is harmless, really, with standard teenage
melodramatics you have seen in countless movies with high schoolers
regarding burgeoning love and friction that derives from being in a new
place, with new people. Plenty of rollerblading action to keep the
adrenaline pumping, along with Mitchell's Zen-philosophical outlook on
life, earning the ire of many who find him annoying.
<|_=00=_|>

"The French Connection of Rollerblade Chases", a quote that may attract a
wondering teenage eye to the front cover in the video store, hopefully the
shop will be closing and they may reside to taking this to the counter.  I
would then hope they had the same experience I did. From perfectly
selected
music to skating scenes to make exercise look more than just burning
calories, this film couldn't be more perfect. The protagonist Mitchell
Goosen, woke up from a Californian Dream to find his self in the Winters
of
Cincinnati, with no use for a surf board other than as an ironing board.
Mitchell's Zen like attitudes aren't favoured at the local school and it's
not until he puts on a pair on Rollerblades is it you see the power in his
stride. Not forgetting the appearances from a young Jack Black and Seth
Green, the story moves the watcher with the a light hearted portrayal into
teenage romance and angst.  Five Star   
<|_=00=_|>
Hey Huffman, if you recognize the streets and the skyline of Pittsburgh
in this movie you must be toking the Maui-wowie. The movie was filmed
in Cincinnati-check the credits, and by the way, they only mention the
fact that the kid has moved to Cincinnati about a million times! If you
have other doubts, watch the movie again-the Krohn Conservatory in Eden
Park and Riverfront Stadium might help sort things out for you. By the
way, the movie is wicked awesome and I recommend it to everyone. Viva
Cincinnati-and for those of you who haven't been, it's not as lame as
it's made out to be in the movie. Us native Cincinnatians frequently
rollerblade down "Devil's Backbone" and beat the snot out of each other
on the hockey rink-it's a happening place.
<|_=00=_|>

I'll have to admit I was pleasantly surprised with this movie.  It's not the
greatest film ever made, but I doubt that is what the film makers were going
for.  Instead this surfing/roller-blade romp is an entertaining, fun and
realistic story of teenagers coping with peer pressure–something we can all
relate to.  Shane McDermott is well suited for the "kid out of water," and
his way of handling the "bully" situations is a lesson to be learned by all.
 The roller-blade sequences are fantastic to watch, even if you're not in to
that sort of thing.  Seth Green is perfect as the geeky–but cool–cousin
that's always picked on; Green's performance is definitely a precursor to
his talent as Kenny in Can't Hardly Wait.  Two other reasons to like this
flick are the always delightful Edie McClurg and Stewart Copeland's
rhythmically exciting music.  Check this one–you won't be disappointed!  

