

In what can only be described as the worst movie made in the past decade,
Dungeons & Dragons will leave you begging for mercy.

Hands down, the biggest contributor to the demise of this movie was the
script.  It was litterally the most insulting, inane dialogue I have ever
been treated to in a movie.

Props arrive next in an extremely close second.  The 35 Million dollars
used
to make this film must have been used on late night taco runs, because the
quality of the props is abyssmal.  The "prized artifact" of the movie
looks
like it fell out of a box of cracker jack, while some of the armor and
backgrounds are straight out of the Bargain Bin at your local toy store.
Better attempts at fantasy film making have been shot on camcorders across
the globe in people's back yards.

The acting was terrible all around.  The few, and I mean FEW, attempts at
serious dialogue were crushed by the worst script ever.  The only remotely
cool character in the entire proceeding was Demadar, who was still pretty
goofy.  I guess if I was 8 or so, I might have thought he was creepy.  The
notably great actors in this film should have balked the moment they saw
the
script/quality of filming, and their presence on the screen only adds to
the
insult.

Th producers of this movie should be ashamed of themselves.  Hundreds of
thousands of loyal D&D fans have been waiting for over 25 years for a
great,
inspiring movie from their hobby.  D&D has a prodigious level of material
written about it, and any one of it's 100+ books would have made a better
movie if read aloud by Pee Wee Herman.

This horror show of a movie will no doubt ensure the demise of a great
hobby
in the public eye for at least the next 10 years.  Any potential fan of
the
game will be unable to forget this awful movie experience.  Consider
yourself warned, and never, EVER see this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

It is unbelievable how this movie could have been created with such good
actors and so much money, but such a bad script and directing.

Dialogues are painfully bad in this movie, as is the story
itself.

The acting is also below any standard you would expect from such an
expensive movie. Jeremy Irons was especially shocking, his performance was
very pathetic and flat, as if this would be a bad movie for three year
olds.
That was not acting, that was a torment ! I cried every time he appeared
on
the screen.

Thora Birch was also far, far below her level in 'American Beauty',
obviously unable to tell how one should put a little life into her bad
dialogue and flat character, and somehow even thinking that that was her
own
fault.

If at all, the thief Snails (Marlon Wayans from Scary Movie) had quite
some
good moments in his slapstick scenes, the only good moments in the whole
movie. Unfortunately they don't last long. Wayans seems to have a talent
to
shine even in the worst movies, however.

The performance of the main actor was also bad. His dull and cheap
sunnyboy
behavior really nerved me, and I saw absolutely no reason for his 'being
special', but far more for 'being untalented'.

The effects where better than the story, but really not that exciting
either.

Some people say fantasy is about stereotypes, but that doesnt mean you can
forget all rules how to make up a good story ! This story was not worth
getting on the screen. This story was also not worth getting such good
actors and effects. This story was nothing but crap !

And I can't believe that Jeremy Irons and Thora Birch are such bad actors,
they have proven they can do far, far better ! I can only guess it must
have
been the director who forced them to do such bad performances.

Definitely not recommended for anyone except maybe children below ten. Oh
wait, they're not allowed ? No loss.
<|_=00=_|>

If there hadn't been a "Battlefield Earth", this movie probably would have
gotten my vote for worst movie of 2000. The only way it is (slightly) better
than that movie is the (very) occasional good set or effect.

I could write for hours about what's wrong with this movie, but this is what
comes to mind immediately

(1) The horrible acting. I honestly can't understand why someone so talented
as Jeremy Irons would be going so over the top. It's clear, however, that he
isn't enjoying himself in the movie, so maybe he's getting revenge against
the movie by acting so terribly

The most annoying performance goes to Marlon Wayans. His shrieking, cowardly
character uncomfortably brings up images of stereotypes from the 1930s. At
least he doesn't say "Feet, do your stuff!" - though he sure comes close.

(2) The bright, glitterly look of every scene. When you think of sword and
sorcery, I think we all think of things rough and with grit. Not
here.

(3) The movie constantly rips off from other (better) movies, most notably
from the four STAR WARS movies

(4) The characters. Why the hell were the dwarf and elf in this movie? They
could easily have been written out without consequence. And the main thief
hero is one of the blandest heroes I've ever seen in the movie.

(5) Virtually all the special effects, sets etc. are AWFUL. Sometimes they
look even worse than those seen on the Xena and Hercules shows! (Though
those two shows at least have the excuse of having lower budgets - and they
make up for the cheap effects by having better scripts, characters, and
acting!)

(6) And speaking of scripts...thos script is terrible! Mainly it's because
the story itself hardly makes any sense!
<|_=00=_|>

For me, enjoying a movie can be achieved by properly managing
expectations;
if I expect Shakespeare, and I see Shakespeare I'm happy. Now, don't get
me
wrong - I liked Army of Darkness, like the rest of you. If I expect to see
a
dumb, camp, action flick and I see a dumb, camp, action-fest, I'm happy.
With the D&D movie, I expected a dumb, camp, action flick, and I received
something that was so unexpectedly foul that it caused me to write the
world
about it. How did this movie even get made? Now, I play D&D ( admit it,
y'all do too ) so don't fault me for 'not understanding the genre'. The
movie had too many characters, some of which disappear inexplicably during
the course of the movie. The plot made no sense; the twists at the end
came
from nowhere. And don't get me started on Marlon Wayans's character - you
mean to tell me that in the fantasy world of D&D, a black man can't get a
role other than the Black Buddy Cop stereotype?

Pure crap, plain and simple.
<|_=00=_|>

...the ENTIRE audience cheers at the death of one of the main
characters. And tries to warn the poor saps standing outside the
theater afterwards to run! run away!

I started playing D&D several years ago, so I'm not some snobbish
player from the days when the source books were chiseled on stone
tablets. My friends and I got a group together to go see the D&D movie
as a lark. It was the worst waste of my time and money. The acting was
horrid, the sets cheesy, the special effects amateurish, and the story
juvenile. My DM's 10-year-old son could come up with better.

Oh, and after getting home, I discovered that I was allergic to
something, and my arms and legs were covered in huge, itchy hives -- my
fiancé maintains to this day that I was allergic to the awfullest movie
we've ever seen.

This movie would possibly be viewable through a drunken haze, except
for the possibility that it would make you throw up.

<|_=00=_|>

I have just watched this film for the first time, & can confirm it is worse
than what I had heard it was. Now as a rule I don't always take note of
reviews of films, even if they are bad, as certain films can be bad & still
quite enjoyable, even if the acting & plot are okay. Unfortunately, this is
not only all the above, but also pretty tiresome & downright tedious as
well.

The main unknown (to me anyway) leading threesome are all dreadful & from
this showing awful actors as well. Justin Whalin is just laughable & one of
the worst heroes in a long while. Probably since Val Kilmers appalling
performance in The Saint. Zoe Mclellan is pretty enough (which probably
explains away her deficiencies amongst other reviewers) but is still
dreadful. The worse though is Marlon Wayons, whose performance is not only
awful & completely unfunny, but also of a racist nature. The rest of the
actors are also bad, but at least the likes of Jeremy Irons, Bruce Payne &
Thora Birch, know they are only slumming it, & are at least decent actors
if
the material is there.

The plot is also weird & ridiculous, with no explanation of what is going
on, & the upsetting thing was that the poor dragons couldn't have snacked
on
the lot of them, which would of at least made it a happy ending, for us &
the dragons anyway. If you want to see a well acted & well made fantasy
film
watch Lord of the Rings instead.
<|_=00=_|>
Ridley and Snails are thieves in the underclass of their world.
Breaking into the magic school to steal they are captured by Marina
but, when her master is killed, the thieves find themselves drawn into
an attempt by the evil Profion to use the power of a lost sceptre to
seize control from Empress Savina, who is trying to reform and make all
men equal.

It is hard to really judge the plot of this film because I'm sure it
could have been a rollicking, engaging "swords & sorcery" affair and it
is only the delivery here that has turned it into a massive, insulting
pile of rubbish. The way that the characters have to explain every
single action in BIG LETTERS for the audience was something that grated
on me and took me from thinking of it as lazy writing to finding it
offensive that the writers thought I was too stupid to follow the story
myself. Instead of being a strong narrative the film is just a basic
adventure for kids, with effects and noise to keep them distracted. As
such it is still only so-so because even children might struggle to
care about the unimpressive CGI backgrounds and action set pieces.
It'll please the very undemanding genre fan under 12 years old but
unlikely many others.

The characters are another major failing – who thought that writing
obnoxious, annoying or smug characters across the leads would cause an
audience to be engaged by them? With this to work with, is it any
wonder that the cast are roundly poor? Whalin must have thought his
luck was in when he landed this role, but he messes it up with a
performance that shows he is out of his depth and unsure of himself.
McLellan is bland and quite irritating for the majority of the film but
her faults pale in comparison to a trio of performances that stick in
the mind as the worst of the film. Irons hams it up with all the
carelessness of a pro who knows an easy payday when he sees it – he is
hilariously terrible at times. Payne's blue lipstick seems to have
affected his voice and every line is delivered as a sneer – it is never
menacing and quickly becomes tiresome. However the worst performance is
form, surprise surprise, Wayans who made me understand what Spike Lee's
Bamboozled was getting at. He is a shrieking, mugging ethnic cliché –
even worse than he usually does and even more annoying. The odd cameo
from O'Brien or Baker do nothing to stop the rot and the cast add to
the impression that this was cheaply made without much love.

Overall a poor film that will probably only appeal to kids. The plot is
badly delivered and the effects are not as impressive as director
Solomon was clearly banking on them being. The cast are lost in the
middle of it all and not a single on of them gives a performance that
you could call "good", all in all producing a pretty poor attempt at a
blockbuster.
<|_=00=_|>
As a D&D role player and obsessed fan I couldn't wait for this movie to
come out. Expecting Lord of the Rings, I was hoping to find a fantasy
prelude in D&D: the Movie. I had to see it twice, first time I couldn't
believe how bad it was. I thought I had missed something but it turns
out the makers of this movie missed a lot. They missed the D&D part,
this movie only makes a mockery of the game and any plot imaginable.
There is no acting, no plot. The very spirit of D&D is completely
trashed. One of the worst parts is this Wayans guy who plays a Brooklyn
rogue wannabe which is pointlessly killed in the middle of the movie.
The characters are hardly believable (how stupid must the two rogues
be) not to mention the entire action and party ("Only you were meant to
pass"). A dwarf that barely has a role, a cute drow which also has no
point in being there ... The movie barely adds up to 1 out of 10 and
that's only because the dragon fight in the end is almost nice to
watch.
<|_=00=_|>
Why can't I give this zero out of ten? I can honestly say that this is
without a doubt one of the biggest pieces of crap I have ever watched
in my entire life.

The cast for a start! I know...let's get Jimmy from the new adventures
of superman to play a lead role! WRONG! Oh...you know who is really
funny? Marlon Wayans! WRONG! I think the biggest injustice in the film
is the ruining of Jeremy Irons career. I literal felt it being flushed
down the toilet while I watched it. I tried to keep watching in all
honesty, but I kept on vomiting blood from its sheer awfulness.

The dwarf keeps disappearing, the orcs don't attack anyone, there is a
big slow guy walking around wearing blue lipstick, Richard O'Brian is
forced into a camp off with said blue lipstick wearing man, it was far
too long (by too long, I mean it exists in our time and space), in one
scene Jeremy Irons looks as though he is mounting the guy with the blue
lipstick...why oh why oh why does this film exist? For those of you who
have seen this...I pity you. For those of you who haven't or have
considered doing so, save yourself some time and just ingest bleach.
It's equally as fun.
<|_=00=_|>
I couldn't agree more with what the majority of reviewers have to say
about this film, it was the biggest pile of crap I've ever been cursed
to see at the cinema. The acting was especially shocking and horrific,
Jeremy Irons's acting was very bad, from this film alone you'd think he
was an amateur and had never made a good film in his life but the truth
is, aside of this farce he's a great actor, which is why it was really
shocking to see him camp it up as the way over the top villain. Anyone
who praises this rubbish as a good film needs their head examined, and
I personally thought even the plethora of cgi effects were pretty lame!
The amount of other fantasy films it rips off is incredible, but The
Lord of the Rings and Stars Wars seem particularly prevalent for the
movie to plunder it's ideas from, and the resulting effect is merely a
travesty of those classics.
