
I believe everyone has a right to their opinion about films or other
topics. However from a lot of the comments I have read about this film,
I do not think many got the gist of the message from the author and the
film maker. This film is a great modern fable, a fable in the
dictionary is defined as a brief fictitious story that teaches a moral.
There are many morals defined in this film but foremost is integrity
and a simple goodness.

I have a half brother who grew up in the Southern U.S. and on one
occasion we were discussing this film and he said he felt it portrayed
Southerners as dimwitted. I disagreed with him and informed him that
the author himself was a native Southerner. The setting is central to
this story in that it lets the tale unfold tying in factual events with
the fable before us.

The film is wonderfully directed by Robert Zemeckis, the film is his
opus and is acted by a great cast on all levels. From the children who
were Forrest Gump and Gump Jr. by Haley Joel Osment. Say what you want
but I feel Tom Hanks deserved the Oscar award. Gary Sinise is
synonymous with Lt.Dan whenever you hear those words. Sally Fields is
the loving dutiful mother in her challenging situation. Mykelti
Williamson as Bubba gives you a real sense in the story that Gump had a
genuine friend, he moves you with his character. Words don't grasp the
full performance of Robin Wright Penn as Jenny. Jennys' tenderness and
pain are palpable as exhibited by Wright.

I feel that much of Gumps' appeal is his downright sense of doing the
right thing regardless of the people and situations around him and we
see that in this film. That being the case maybe we all wish we could
be just a little more like that, trying to maintain innate goodness and
not the trade-offs we often make as we go down lifes highways.

The movie has it all too,drama,comedy and it challenges societal norms
as well. Then there are the almost endless quotes from the movie that
have slipped into everyday speech. They are too numerous to say at this
point.One of the toppers for me in the movie is when Forrest is in a
quandary about life and wondering as Lt.Dan said we all have a destiny
and his Mom says it is where we are all just floating around like a
feather in the wind. Forrest's character terms it very well with this
quote,"I think it is a little bit of both." From my experiences in life
it does appear to be that way. So if you have not seen the movie,see it
soon you are in for a real treat. If you did not like it, give it a try
again and hopefully you will see it for the great story it is!
<|_=00=_|>
Quite simply, the greatest film ever made.

Humour, sadness, action, drama and a Vietnam film all rolled into one.

I'm not a stone cold, heartless villain, but it takes a lot to make me
cry when I watch a movie. Bambi's mother, I couldn't care less. Jimmy
Stewart in, "Oh, what a wonderful life," - yeah right! The Lion King,
when Mufasa bites the big one - on the verge.

But seriously - I bawled my big brown eyes out, on several occasions in
this film. A real tear-jerker, and a wonderful character, played to
perfection by Tom Hanks. Every bit as worthy for the Oscar as Rooney
was to win the Premiership in 2007.

I cannot say it enough: This is THE film of all time. Watch it, and
you'll see.
<|_=00=_|>
When I first saw this movie I didn't appreciate it like I do now. I
think it may have been because I was so young when I first saw it. Just
recently I saw the movie again. What an amazing story and moving
meaning. That movie teaches you so much about life and the meaning of
it. That life isn't as bad as most people make it seem. That an
innocent man can impact so many lives with his innocence. The meaning
of the movie to me is that everyone needs to have a better outlook on
life. That we need to appreciate more of the little things and not let
the big things hold us back. That truly although life may throw us
trials and tribulations like a box of chocolates but that we have to
just bite into it and get through it even if we don't like it. That we
all need to hold true to our values and not sink into a place that
feels like there's no hope... I just love this movie. And anyone who
hasn't seen it or who thinks that don't like it I seriously suggest
seeing it or seeing it again. It truly is amazing...
<|_=00=_|>
What I find completely ridiculous is why this movie, in my opinion one
of the best ever, has such a low rating, so I've tried to figure out
what some found against it.I noticed that the haters of this movie who
make it have a lower rating than it actually deserves mainly argue that
it promotes the government's politics of submission: the idea that "if
you're an idiot but you do what you're told then you will be rewarded,
but, if you experience life then you're going to die a miserable
death." I'm not an American myself so i don't have any intention to
defend the government or anyone else, but I think that the political
events witnessed by the character in the movie make many miss the whole
substance of the film. I think these bits of history only add to the
magic of the film, making Forrest part of a fantastic world that seems
so incredibly real though. 

How can somebody say that Forrest is just an idiot, an ordinary person
who does everything that he is told to do? It appears to me that in
fact,in his innocence, Forrest does what he feels he has to do,no
matter the situations and the people around him, lead only by an inner
sense of right. So what actually seems to be special about Forrest is
that, regardless of his intelligence, he has the capacity to discover
simple truth and life values that all the others around him miss: he
tries to save Bubba endangering his own life, he gives Bubba's family
money and mainly displays simple goodness in everything he does. 

So if you haven't yet seen the movie or you were disappointed by it,
try watching it without analyzing things that much and just open your
heart towards that world. The brilliant humour, the hilarious yet
touching acting, the special effects and the uplifting message are
totally rewarding.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a powerful yet charming movie; fun for its special effects and
profound in how it keeps you thinking long after it's over. Like
others, I've seen this movie more than once. One comment I've never
heard is that Forrest's simplicity is almost zen-like. I should read
the novel to get the author's intention (I remember some people
preferring the book and complaining that no one at the Academy Awards
gave him any credit.) But rather than an implication that you should do
what you're supposed to do and believe in God and you'll win in the
end, I see it as zen-like, i.e., living in the moment and not having
expectations or particular cravings (other than his loving Jenny.) So
he ends up just stumbling into all the major historical events of the
time. Granted, he achieves this only because he doesn't have the brains
to think otherwise and actually have expectations, but so many of our
problems are because we do have higher intellect and desires, which
ironically makes us unhappy because we know what we are missing. We
love our cats and dogs for the same simplicity and always being in the
moment. There's a line in the movie wondering if everything is
predestined or happens randomly or it's a combination of both. It is
something to mull over for a long time.
<|_=00=_|>

I have seen this movie easily a half a dozen times, and I find that the
beauty of the film is how Forrest Gump not only shares his innocence
and purity with others, including the audience, he also manages to
retain that innocence and purity through some very difficult times. As
a Viet Nam veteran, and a college graduate of the late Sixties, I could
of course personally relate to the various periods that Forrest Gump
endures. I would only mention that the skillful and seamless blending
of music, action, and period costume was enthralling. And yet it was so
perfectly understated that Forrest Gump's travels through thirty five
years of the stormiest and most meaningful years of American history
only became clearly defined for the viewer. Even more so than the well
known chocolates quote as a metaphor for life, I felt that the remark
that stupid is what you do is probably more workable for most of us.

<|_=00=_|>
"I've made about 20 films and 5 of them are pretty good"-Tom Hanks.

"Forrest Gump" is one of the best movies of all time, guaranteed. I
really just love this movie and it has such a special place in my
heart. The performances are just so unforgettable and never get out of
your head. The characters, I mean the actors turned into them and
that's what got to me. The lines are so memorable, touching, and
sometimes hilarious.

We have Forrest Gump(Tom Hanks), not the sharpest tool in the box, his
I.Q. is right below the average scores. But his mama(Sally Field)
believes that her boy has the same opportunities as anyone else and
lets Forrest know that there's nothing that could hold him back. As a
boy he is put into braces for his legs since he has a crooked back and
really doesn't have too many friends. When he gets on a school bus for
his first day of school, NO ONE will let him sit next to them. This
scene is so heart breaking until you hear a little angel's voice "You
can sit here if you want". Jenny, Forrest's best friend and crush, she
looks so incredibly innocent and you love her because her and Forrest
are like pea's and carrots. But we find out that there is an extremely
unfortunate side to her life, she has a father that's "always kissing
and touching her and her sisters". Forrest just assumes that it's a
father's love since he doesn't have a dad that could show him that it's
wrong.

Forrest and Jenny together walk every day from school and when these
kids start throwing rocks at Forrest calling him stupid, Jenny just
tells Forrest "Run, Forrest! Run!". He miraculously breaks the braces
off his legs and run like the wind blows. Forrest meets many
celebrities from his life that just happened to be there: Elvis Presley
visited his house before hitting it big, President Kennedy honored him
with a all American football award, President Johnson who honored him
with a medal of honor for his actions in Vietnam, President Nixon(in
which Forrest happens to discover a problem in the Water Gate Hotel
because some people seem to be flashing lights around), and John Lennon
through a talk show to talk about his medal of honor.

Forrest meets some interesting people along the way too that are even
better than these celebrities combined; Bubba his Vietnam war friend
who dreams of owning a shrimp boat one day and was born with big gums.
He is just so wonderful and charming and won't stop talking about
shrimp. Luteniet Dan, a leader of Forrest's army in Vietnam who gets
saved by Forrest during a huge attack and looses his legs as a result.
Luteniet Dan was by far my favorite character, he has so much pride and
wants to die in Vietnam due to his family history tradition of dying in
every single American war. He and Forrest make quite a pair. And of
course there's Jenny, a very tragic figure, she gets more mean as she
grows up because she knows that Forrest loves her, in some ways you
can't blame her really. She was obviously abused and I think she felt
that Forrest was too good for her or that he couldn't really give her
the love she wanted. Robin Wright, what a beautiful and wonderful
actress.

This movie is incredible and should be seen by everyone. I am not
kidding, "Forrest Gump" is a remarkable movie and inspires everyone.
It's not just about someone stupid who happens to be in great places
and historic events just because of being in the right place at the
right time. This story is beautiful and will inspire everyone to go the
distance and see the world like Forrest did and will never give up on
their dreams.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Starring: Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Sally Field This was
flat out one of the best movies of 1994. It won best picture for a
reason, along with a few other Academy Awards. I think one of the tag
lines for the movie was, "The world will never be the same once you've
seen it through the eyes of Forrest Gump." How true. The movie is
basically one simple man's journey through life. And what a journey.

The movie opens with Forrest (Hanks) sitting at a bus stop, waiting to
go see Jenny (Wright) after being apart from her for years. Who is
Jenny, you ask? We'll get to that in a minute. Forrest strikes up a
conversation or two with the people that come and wait for the bus with
him. Or, more accurately, he keeps talking regardless of whether
anybody is listening or not. The movie plays out as a flashback, with
Forrest taking us through all the major events of his life and
narrating them.

The flashback starts when Forrest is a little boy, about six years old
or so, just at about the age where he should be starting school. We get
to take a look at Forrest's childhood as he gets leg braces to
straighten out his back, as his momma (Field) fights (and does a few
other things) to get him into public school, and as he meets for the
first time the love of his life. Jenny. He meets her on the way to
school, sitting next to her on the bus, and they strike up a friendship
immediately.

Eventually we progress to the point where Forrest and Jenny are in high
school, and we travel along with Forrest as he makes it onto the
football team and gets to go to college. Forrest and Jenny never date,
but he's always there to protect her. Anytime he thinks she's in
trouble, he rushes to the rescue, ready to beat the ever-loving snot
out of anyone who even looks at his Jenny wrong. I think one of my
favorite scenes in the movie is when someone is dumb enough to slap
Jenny. The film goes slow motion, Forrest's eyes go wide, and he starts
charging at this guy like a runaway locomotive, and has the striking
force of one too. Watching him beat the crap out of that guy is
hilarious.

As Forrest grows up and goes through school, college, the army, a
Vietnam tour, becomes a ping pong celebrity, a shrimp boat captain, and
eventually one of the richest men out there, he also gets to take a few
stops in history as the filmmaker gives us his own spin of how he
thinks history would have happened if Forrest Gump were there. He gets
to meet the President three times, he's the man who exposes the
Watergate scandal, he's at the school doors when Governor George
Wallace tries to get some Negroes into a white school, and so on and so
forth. It's really funny the way they manipulate historical footage to
insert Forrest into the events of the past.

This is truly a great movie. You'd be a fool to miss it.

Bottom Line: 4 out of 4 (own this movie)
<|_=00=_|>
FORREST GUMP (1994) **** Tom Hanks, Sally Field, Robin Wright, Gary
Sinise, Mykelti Williamson. Brilliantly directed and inspiring comic
drama about the truly extraordinary life and times of mentally
challenged Forrest Gump (Hanks in the best role of his career won his
second Best Actor Oscar in back-to-back winning roles), a simple,
honest, and decent man whose childlike innocence is his lucky charm
through his altering experiences that span the past two decades
flawlessly. Mind-boggling Oscar-winning computerized effects by
Industrial Light & Magic has Gump meeting the famous and infamous.
Hanks is a wonder (dare you not to get a lump in your throat when it
finally registers that he has a child {yes, that's Haley Joel Osment}-
watch his face!) and gets fine support especially Wright as the love of
his life and Sinise as his best friend (Best Supporting Actor nominee)
superior adaptation of Winston Groom's novel by Eric Roth (also an
Academy Award recepient) that truly captures lightning in a bottle.
Oscars also went to director Robert Zemeckis and for Best Picture. ***
One of my all-time favorite flicks. I still cry, particularly Forrest
telling Jenny why he loves her so much ("You're my girl!") and at the
gravesite when the birds fly overhead.
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen most of the top-voted 30 or 40 movies here at IMDb, and
Forrest Gump probably wins my vote for the single best movie ever made.

This is not a conclusion I came to the first time I saw this film, or
the second. The more you understand about this movie, the more you like
it. And in terms of understanding it, my wife and I both were still
gaining new understanding the 5th or 6th time we watched it. (For
example: Why does Jenny behave exactly as she does throughout the
movie? It'll take a lot of thinking to =fully= understand her.)

Just the fact that we've seen it at least half a dozen times says a
lot. There are few movies that I ever even give a second viewing. 

Like many of the truly good movies, there are people out there who see
it once and consider it to be a waste of time. Such people are usually
just looking for the most "action," gore and sex they can find, and
haven't a clue about films that actually involve thought, ideas, and
life.

Did I mention the script is absolutely brilliant? There are a lot of
=truly= funny moments. And the music rocks. But those are only specific
aspects of a movie that has just about everything else right about it
as well.

See it, enjoy it, think about it, see it again. Think about it some
more. Forrest Gump is one of the greatest movies -- if not THE greatest
-- ever made.
