

Actually, the above poster is incorrect. Reeves is a machinist in this
movie who is helping the scientists build the parts not a scientist.
And that matters in this movie because Reeves actually does pretty well
for once as an actor. 

The concept of the movie isn't a new one, an industrial-military
conspiracy to control technology because the masses aren't "ready" to
deal with it yet. Freeman actually played the most interesting
character. He kind of flip-flops throughout the movie and you're not
sure what to think of him until the final scene.

Regardless, it wasn't the best movie nor the worst movie ever made.
Reeves acted pretty well and the writing was semi-believable. If you're
looking for a fast paced movie that you don't have to think too much on
- this movie isn't a bad rental to see.

<|_=00=_|>

Has the same improbability clause of other flicks in the same genre.
Notwithstanding, Chain Reaction has excellent lighting and set design. There
is overall a strong dependency on team acting and multiple scene rotations.
This gives the film a docu-drama effect in the beginning. The fast paced
scenes may obscure the plot for some. For me the cinemagraphic effects and
acting are A-1. Obviously the writing and direction are good, or this film
would not hold together at all, and it does. Because there is little
character development, the focus is on scene development and approaching
plot. This sort of editing technique and direction does not happen by chance
and must be recognized as a valid concept. Most certainly a film with
character and merit which can be enjoyed by those looking beyond a
breadcrumb plot and a gingerbread house script. Good music score (odd, but
good) with good sound effects. Forget the trailer, which has little or no
correspondence to the film itself, or maybe it does. This is a rather
strange film where one has to believe a group of people with unique ideas
came together and produced a rather odd film with value. I enjoyed
it.
<|_=00=_|>

Eddie (Keanu Reeves) works on a scientific team that is searching for
low-cost energy sources that are good for the environment, too.  One day, it
seems that such a discovery has been made.  Soon after, however, the chief
scientist is murdered and the invention stolen.  Eddie and fellow team
member Dr. Lily Sinclair (Rachel Weisz) are suspects in the murder and are
forced to go on the run.  Naturally, the police and the FBI are in hot
pursuit.  Another team member Paul (Morgan Freeman) may have some secrets to
hide as well.  Will the truth come out and will the fleeing duo be
captured?

This movie is mostly a chase picture and a moderately successful
one.
Much of the action is centered on the capture of Eddie and Lily.  There is
an impressive scene, for example, where Eddie is trying to avoid seizure by
climbing a raised bridge.  Unfortunately, not all of the scenes are as
effective.  The scientific elements are quickly rushed over, causing some
confusion as to what has transpired.  As for the romance between Reeves and
Weisz, it is nicely subdued.  It's there but only manifests itself in a few
embraces.  Although the ending is quite exciting, the overall effect of the
movie as an action flick is only partly realized.  There are some missing
plot elements that would have raised it to a higher level.  Recommended as a
fairly good action motion picture; Reeves fans, certainly, will enjoy
it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Man and woman against the world!!"  Okay, maybe it has been done into the
ground, and it is the basis of today's and yesterday's rehashed thriller. 
The welcome difference that "Chain Reaction" gives is in its cast. 

Morgan Freeman, Keanu Reeves (who's at his best in action) and Rachel Weisz
make this film much more engaging to watch than it should be.  Reeves and
Weisz look fine together as Eddie and Lily, respectively, who are two
college students accused of murdering one of their colleagues and stealing
their economically and ecologically-friendly fuel project.  They must run
from the Law AND those who have framed them, or are they the same
people?

Good on action!

 
<|_=00=_|>

After viewing this film on homevideo,i decided for myself that this
fugitive
style film was worth adding into my personal collection of fun films.All
action nuts should get a kick out of chain reaction mainly because this is
what the film was made for and not to be correct in all of what goes
on.Keanu reaves is a student machinist at a chicago university who is
working with a genius of a professor that is finding a way to extract
energy
from plain water thru process of hydrogen.Keanu finds the frequency that
makes the process work by mistake one night at home.After having a small
celebration back at the university,he escorts his tipsy assistant Rachel
Weise back to her apartment,but like the gentleman he is,he dosent take
advantage of her and puts her to bed.Once he returns back to the building
where the experiments were conducted,he finds utter chaos with the
professor
dead(suffocated) and the hydrogen machine going haywire.He finds a
explosive
device ready to go off at any minute,so keanu bolts away and heads for his
motocycle.After only getting a few miles away,the bomb is detonated and
takes out five city blocks in the process.Naturally,since he was the last
one at the scene,Keanu is the prime suspect in the sabotage case.His only
allies are now Rachel Weise and the mysterious business man portrayed by
Morgan Freeman who no one can figure out which side he is really
on
Purist and filmstudents could pick this film apart as they usually do
by noting a few continuity glitches and questioning how keanu could survive
the explosion that took out five city blocks,but if he were to perish then
and there folks,there could be no further development and the film ends
there.Keep in mind this was made for the action buff and you wont mind the
few glitches that occur in this film which i deem quite enjoyable by all
but
the picky few who dont really watch films for enjoyment and
escapism.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is fast and exciting. The story is about a scientist working at a
University lab. to make renewable energy out of water. Upon succeeding, the
plant explodes but not before Reeves returns to find one of the top
researches suffocated. Upon investigation Reeves and Weiss are set up and
the FBI are on their case. In seeking to find the truth, they uncover an
undercover agency established by the Government that is so secret that top
Officials at the White House are unaware of its activities, the FBI are
unaware and the is no paperwork of its existence.

This film really gets you hooked and makes you think about what does really
go on in the world.
<|_=00=_|>
Keanu Reeves is a machinist working on an experimental project for
clean renewable energy when all goes horribly wrong. There is a big
explosion, people die and suddenly he and Rachael Weisz get framed for
it all and find themselves the most wanted fugitives in America, and so
the chase begins...

Did someone say fugitive? Hmm.. yes I kept getting flashbacks form "The
Fugitive" when watching this. Not surprising as the similarities are
startling when compared. The same Director, the same basic premise(ie.
someone innocent getting framed, running away from law enforcement,
uncovering the truth ext.), a number of plot points that coincide,
several supporting cast members(bit roles mostly)are the same. This is
in essence "The Fugitive" remade with a sci-fi twist.

The character of Dr. Lily Sinclair played by Rachael Weisz seems to
serve little purpose other that a stray puppy for Keanu Reeves'
character to look after. Now don't get me wrong - I love Rachel Weisz,
her character here was just a little wooden. Almost an agitator
character if you will, giving Keanu the motivation to advance the
story. Flimsy but functional writing.

Morgan Freeman gives his now trademark "I know more than you do, and
you know it" performance as the mysterious benefactor who clearly has
his own agenda.

Nothing wrong with this film, at least nothing critical, but it wont be
at the top of too many must have lists. So yes this movie does what it
was meant to do : entertain you for just shy of 2 hours. Keanu Fans
will enjoy it as should fans of the general chase movie genre, with a
bit of (questionable)sci-fi thrown in for good measure.
<|_=00=_|>
Simply put, one of my favorite movies of the 90s, because I'm a big fan
of the Fugitive. This plot follows it adds a bit of a new age spin on
it. Enjoyable flick with very good actors and a cast that features
Keanu Reeves, Morgan Freeman, Fred Ward, Brian Cox, Rachel Weisz and
many others, highly recommended if you're a fan of the Fugitive or U.S.
Marshalls!

The story is about a chemist & his friend suspected of murdering their
mentor and Reeves & Weisz receive help from a friend of their fallen
colleague and they try and find out who is trying to frame them for
murder. Much like The Fugitive, which ironically is done by most of the
same crew and features some of the actors from that film, it's a great
flick to pass the time on.
<|_=00=_|>

Gee, I guess considering the reviews and the displeased comments, people
didn't like this movie. Well, I did. 
Okay, (and there may be a spoiler or two) so movie fans out there have
already seen this story line before: The Saint is one that easily comes to
mind. And yes the plot and the ending are predictable, but it had a few
twists and turns. We need the action and the explosions cause this is an
action film. Now the love interest story didn't have to be used but, we
always need a girl. But under the circumstances of the story, there was no
time to establish the love story.

This movie for me was a character study. The characters in this film were
well developed and convincing. The ambiguity of Morgan Freeman's character
was interesting.  For instance, I never knew where Morgan Freeman's
character was coming from or what his intentions were with Keanu. And the
elevator scene close to the end shocked me. And he was smoking his cigar the
entire time.
 
 I liked seeing Keanu play a simple guy. Being a hero accidentally fell on
his shoulders to me. When he and Rachael are running from the bad guys
(whoever they were) and they go on the ice sled machine, he starts the
machine up and it goes out of control for a minute. When she questions him,
he replies "The best I can". Now I don't know about you but that's
impressive for a man to be real and unsure of the shaky circumstances that
were dealt.  

Its rare seeing a hero in films react like that, just real and honest. They
need to do a chain reaction of real non-macho protagonist characters like
that in more films.    
<|_=00=_|>
A lab technician (Keanu Reeves) and a doctor (Rachel Weisz) are framed
for the murder of a scientist who develops a ground breaking pollution
free energy plant. On the run for their lives, they meet a seemingly
sinister tycoon (played to perfection by the incomparable Morgan
Freeman) whom they can't seem to figure out whether or not he will help
him of belongs on the team against them. For the year in which it was
made, this is actually a very decent action thriller. The plot is solid
and the twists and turns are completely welcome and fit in perfectly.
Reeves who often fails prey to bad criticism actually shines here and
is complimented perfectly by the flawless Weisz.
