

The story of a reluctant Christ-like protagonist set against a baroque,
MTV
backdrop, The Matrix is the definitive hybrid of technical wizardry and
contextual excellence that should be the benchmark for all sci-fi films to
come.

Hollywood has had some problems combining form and matter in the sci-fi
genre.  There have been a lot of visually stunning works but nobody cared
about the hero. (Or nobody simply cared about anything.)  There a few,
though, which aroused interest and intellect but nobody 'ooh'-ed or
'aah'-ed
at the special effects.  With The Matrix, both elements are perfectly en
sync.  Not only did we want to cheer on the heroes to victory, we wanted
them to bludgeon the opposition.  Not only did we sit in awe as Neo evaded
those bullets in limbo-rock fashion, we salivated.

But what makes The Matrix several cuts above the rest of the films in its
genre is that there are simply no loopholes.  The script, written by the
Wachowski brothers is intelligent but carefully not geeky.  The kung-fu
sequences were deftly shot -- something even Bruce Lee would've been proud
of.  The photography was breathtaking.  (I bet if you had to cut every
frame
on the reel and had it developed and printed, every single frame would
stand
on its own.)  And the acting?  Maybe not the best Keanu Reeves but name me
an actor who has box-office appeal but could portray the uneasy and
vulnerable protagonist, Neo, to a T the way Reeves did.  But, come to
think
of it, if you pit any actor beside Laurence Fishburne, you're bound to
confuse that actor for bad acting.  As Morpheus, Mr. Fishburne is simply
wicked!  Shades of his mentor-role in Higher Learning, nobody exudes that
aura of quiet intensity than Mr. Fishburne.  His character, battle-scarred
but always composed Morpheus, is given an extra dose of mortality (He
loves
Neo to a fault.) only Mr. Fishburne can flesh out.

People will say what they want to say about how good The Matrix is but the
bottomline is this: finally there's a philosophical film that has cut
through this generation.  My generation.
The Wachowski brothers probably scribbled a little P.S. note when they
finished the script saying: THINK FOR A MOMENT ABOUT YOUR EXISTENCE.  What
is the Matrix, you ask?  Something that's closer to reality than you
think.

Either that or it's my personal choice for best film of
all-time.


<|_=00=_|>
Writing a review of The Matrix is a very hard thing for me to do
because this film means a lot to me and therefore I want to do the film
justice by writing a good review. To tell the truth the first time I
saw the film I was enamored by the effects. I remember thinking to
myself that this was one of the most visually stunning films I had ever
seen in my life. Also having always been a comic book fan and a fan of
films that were larger than life, the transitional element of the story
was very appealing to me and this probably heightened my enjoyment of
the film very much. It wasn't until some time later (and after having
seen the film a few times more) that I started to think about the film.
I recognized the Christian elements quite quickly but it wasn't until I
wrote an actual 15-page essay on the film that I tapped into some of
the philosophical and religious elements and that made me appreciate
the film even more. I won't say that I have recognized all elements
because the film is quite literally packed with them.

Acting wise the film works excellently. I won't say that there aren't
any issues because there are but overall the acting is pretty flawless.
Keanu Reeves plays the main character, Neo, or Thomas A. Anderson and
while he is not the perfect actor I think he does a pretty good job in
The Matrix (and the sequels). He doesn't have the longest of lines
which was probably a deliberate choice from the directors and it works
because this gives him a better opportunity to work on posture and
facial expressions and I must say that overall his body language is
very good. Very clear and well defined. Laurence Fishbourne plays Neo's
mentor Morpheus and he does an excellent job of it. His lines flow with
a certain confidence and style that makes his character somewhat unique
and interesting. Carrie-Anne Moss does a good job as well and succeeds
in looking both cool and sexy in her leather outfit. Joe Pantoliano, a
critically underrated actor does a brilliant job of bringing his
character, Cypher, to life. I can't say much about him because his
character is pretty essential to the plot and I certainly don't wan't
to spoil it for anyone. Gloria Foster appears in a relatively small
role that will have greater significance in the following films and she
does a very good job. The best acting is provided by Hugo Weaving,
however, in his portrayal of Agent Smith. It is really something to
watch him act out the changes in his character. Agent Smith gains some
human traits like anger, sense of dread, hate and eventually even a sly
sense of humor (mostly in the sequels). Two thumbs way up to Weaving
who has created one of the finest screen villains of all time.

Effects wise the film is simply stunning and it deservedly was awarded
the Oscar for best effects (and was regrettably cheated out of a
nomination in the Best Film category) ahead of even Star Wars. The
reason that I think The Matrix deserves the Oscar for best effects is
simply that the effects in The Matrix are more innovative than the ones
in Star Wars. Just take a look at how many times the effects have been
spoofed and you'll probably agree. The effects also help in the
symbolism of the film and in creating a very dystopian atmosphere not
unlike the one seen in Blade Runner and this works brilliantly. The
film looks beautiful at all times and today 6 years later (my God has
it already been 6 years?) the effects still hold their ground against
new science fiction films. Add the effects to the brilliant editing and
you have a visual masterpiece on your hands. Very well done.

The reason that I think The Matrix is more reviewable than pretty much
any other film is the story and the philosophical and religious
elements of the story because with every viewing I catch something I
didn't see the previous time I watched it. Without spoiling the film I
think I can mention a few of the more obvious elements. Obviously the
film draws on the Messiah myth as Neo is a clear reference to Jesus
with the analogy of his name (Neo = one, as in The One) but also hidden
in his other name, Thomas A. Anderson. The first part of his last name,
Anderson comes from the Greek Andros meaning "man" and combine this
with the second part of his last name "son" and add a little creativity
you will come up with the combination "son of man" which was a title
Jesus came up with about himself. Also the first time we meet Neo a man
calls him (and I quote): "You're my Saviour man. My own personal Jesus
Christ." It doesn't get any more obvious than that. Aside from the
Christianic elements the film also gets its inspiration from Budhism,
Gnosticism (Gnosis = knowledge) but is also inspired by Plato and his
analogy of the Cave and Jean Baudrillard's essay, Simulacra and
Simulations. Explaining these elements would make this review go on
forever so aside from mentioning them I will not comment on them
further.

To all the people who doubt the profound nature of The Matrix I can
only give one advice: Free your mind and watch the film again. You
won't regret it. If I had to choose a favorite all time film my choice
would probably fall on either The Matrix (obviously I don't expect
people to agree but if they do thats great) or The Lord of the Rings:
The Return of the King and I recommend it to all fans of sci-fi and
people who like philosophy.

10/10 - on my top 3 of best films.
<|_=00=_|>

The Matrix...when I first heard about it, I expected just another sci-fi
action thriller.  Good and filled with insane stunts, but not terribly
intelligent.

Boy, was I wrong.  Oh, the stunts are there in spades, all right, and yes,
they are awesome.  And the special effects are absolutely amazing (even if
similar ones have been used in other movies as a result- and not explained
as well).

But the movie has plot as well.  It has characters that I cared about.  From
Keanu Reeves' excellent portrayal of Neo, the man trying to come to grips
with his own identity, to Lawrence Fishburne's mysterious Morpheus, and even
the creepy Agents, everyone does a stellar job of making their characters
more than just the usual action "hero that kicks butt" and "cannon fodder"
roles.  I cared about each and every one of the heroes, and hated the
villains with a passion.  It has a plot, and it has a meaning...and lo and
behold, a plot does help the fight scenes!  Just try it, if you haven't seen
the movie before.  Watch one of the fight scenes.  Then watch the whole
movie.  There's a big difference in the feeling and excitement of the
scenes- sure, they're great as standalones, but the whole thing put together
is an experience unlike just about everything else that's come to the
theaters.  Think about it next time you're watching one of the more
brainless action flicks...think how much better it COULD be.

All I can say is WATCH THIS MOVIE.  If you haven't, you're missing out on
one of the best films of all time.  It isn't just special effects,
folks.
<|_=00=_|>

It's been a while since a movie has generated enough interest in me for me to
watch it.  "The Matrix" looked exciting enough in the trailers, so I decided
to give it a look.  What I found was an amazing movie, with some of the
greatest special effects I've ever seen.  The camera angles really work for
the action sequences and the choreographed fight scenes made me yearn for
more.  Say what you want about Keanu Reeves' acting.  He may not deliver the
best dialogue, but his look can carry a film.  He was a great choice for the
role of Neo.  Carrie Anne Moss was great as was the underrated Laurence
Fishburne.  I highly recommend this film for those who are a fan of visually
stunning movies.  It will blow away your senses...

<|_=00=_|>

The Wachowski Brothers vision of a possible future takes the visual and
sound aspects of filmmaking to a new high. Incorporating older still
photography with computer enhancement to the degree that appears on the
screen has raised the genre to a level that will be very hard-pressed by
filmmakers for a number of years. Acting was wonderful, script, visual,
sound, everything about this film is a tribute to a usually overlooked
genre.
<|_=00=_|>

The Wachowski brothers really did excel themselves with this movie. It's a
brilliant movie on a number of different levels - the directing is
excellent, the camera work is great, the visuals are stunning, the kung-fu
is A+, acting is executed with style and conviction, and the plot is truly
inspired. It's really hard to use enough superlatives on this
movie!

It'd be a 10/10, except for the ending. Having Neo do what he does at the
end really lets it down, in my opinion. However, there's a couple of
sequels
on the way, so let's see what the Wachowskis can do to make up for
it.

Other than that, (and like I said above) the movie is operating on so many
different levels that each time you watch it, you pick up something new...
this isn't by accident, either. The Wachowski brothers had the actors read
a
number of definitive works (Simulation & Simulcra was one I believe) in
modern literature and psychology, and applied liberal dashings of aspects
of
the major religions to provide the best sci-fi movie of the decade, if not
ever.

I'm yet to meet somebody who hasn't enjoyed it. It's my favourite movie to
watch on a good cinema system, too.
<|_=00=_|>
** May contain spoilers **

There aren't many movies I watched in the theatre twice – let alone on
the same day - but immediately after the credits had rolled (and still
pumped up by 'Rage against the Machine'), I queued up for the next
screening of 'The Matrix'. I was so blown away by that film, I feared -
and probably rightly so - that I hadn't caught every detail of what I'd
just seen. I later found out that many of my friends had had a similar
reaction to the film, and I know virtually no one who liked the film
and didn't watch it at least twice. It's simply one of those rare films
that are so rich you just have to watch them several times.

In structure, style and concept, 'The Matrix' was ground-breaking; it
marked the first time the visual style of Manga comic books and Anime
such as 'Akira' or 'Ghost in the Shell' had been successfully
translated to a live-action film. Apart from 'Blade Runner', which has
a totally different mood and pace (but is also a masterpiece and
visionary film-making), there simply hadn't been anything even remotely
like it. The jaw-dropping action sequences have such a raw, gripping
energy they feel like an adrenalin overdose, but unlike most action
films, they never overshadow the story; on the contrary - they enhance
it and make complete sense within that universe.

As for the story itself, I think this is one of the most original,
fascinating Sci-Fi tales you'll likely ever see on screen. Clearly
inspired by Japanese Anime and Manga yet also by authors like Isaac
Asimov or Philip K. Dick, the story about humanity's war against its
own creation, machines of an artificial intelligence that have evolved
to the point where they have become the dominant 'species' and vastly
superior to their creators, could take place in the same world as
'Blade Runner' or 'The Terminator' - albeit several hundred years
later. But there is also a mythical, even religious undercurrent to the
story; the themes of a prophecy, a "liberator" or even a "messiah" make
'The Matrix' transcend the Science-Fiction genre and become even more
unique.

'The Matrix' was a watershed moment in filmmaking – in every respect –
and even though two inferior sequels have left a bit of a stain on the
film, they can't distract from what an uncompromising and hugely
influential masterpiece this is. Sci-Fi movies that were released after
'The Matrix' have tried very hard to achieve a similar look and tone,
but the original still owns them all. 10 stars out of 10.

Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/

Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/

Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/

In an ideal world, movies would be made without the aim for a certain
rating. This article sums up why this is so important:

www.the-fanboy-perspective.com/the-importance-of-the-r-rating.html
<|_=00=_|>


Who is to say what is real or not? We are defined by our view of reality,
no matter how twisted or demented it is in comparison to 'normal' people.
*evil eye* Yes, I see you all, looking in the mirror, trying to decipher
whether or not your view is the reality we all share.

The Matrix not only supplies the world with a whole new level of special
effects mixed with style and substance, it also brings a whole new meaning
to the word 'paranoria'. This is one of those great epics that becomes a
milestone in our present day world, a mark for which just about everybody
can appreciate. Not since the original Starwars trilogy has a science
fiction film reached across almost the entire population and gripped it
with
awesome special effects, great sound, and a overall feel of ground breaking
movie making magic. It also serves up a good dose of paranoid delusions we
all need in our lives every now and then.

With that, I leave you with the fact that I've seen more different types of
people liking this one film than most other films to date. Move over George
Lucas, you may have just met your match... :)
<|_=00=_|>

You walk into this film not knowing what the Matrix is. You take your seat
and watch the trailers. The green Warner Brothers (green? you ask) trademark
comes up, and without warning you are thrust into the Wachowski brothers
grand vision. 2 hours of excitement later, you stumble out of the cinema,
knowing what the Matrix is.

This is one great movie. Keanu Reeves is cooler than cool as Neo. The
Wachowski brothers skilful direction is brilliant. The special effects
sequences will blow you away, did I mention the government lobby scene?

The film starts off with a 'what is real?' first half, and then the first
kung-fu sequence makes way for an action- packed, John Woo-esque second half
with slomo and style cranked up all the way to the top. Did I mention the
government lobby scene?

Keanu becomes Cool Keanu, Carrie-Anne Moss is a real find and Hugo Weaving
is perfect in his against typecasting role as the evil Agent Smith.

You may notice in this review that I have not revealed what the Matrix is.
Like the trailer says, 'You have to see it for yourself.'

Excellent. Best film of '99. 9/10. 
<|_=00=_|>
In the year 1999, "The Matrix" and "Fight Club" were undoubtedly the
best films of the year. The Matrix was truly revolutionary in special
effects, specifically in CGI (Computer-Generated-Imaging) technology.
The still cameras that were used to capture multiple angles of a single
shot, in bullet-time technology, was a creative new approach. The film
is initially suspenseful with people not knowing quite what was
happening until Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) reveals that Neo's (Keanu
Reeves) reality was actually a fabricated world that is an elaborate
simulation created by machines. Neo and the majority of the world's
inhabitants have been stuck in simply a mental simulation prison. 

The magnitude of philosophy in sync with special effects make "The
Matrix" a one-of-a-kind movie masterpiece. College classes show this
movie in their philosophy class, and at the same time can prove to be
one of the best special effects movies ever. Supplementally, "The
Matrix" also provides endless action and a pretty solid storyline that
influences the philosophical ideas in the movie. 

There are so many great things in this movie, it is just crazy.

The color palette along with the time and effort put into stunts also
accelerates this movie on all filming levels. "The Matrix" leaves the
viewer a sense of pride in the world he/she can live in to just know
that people are capable of creating at this level. Unfortunately,
monetary and timing motives offset the potential quality of the
sequels. "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions" were just a
waste of time and weren't carefully thought out, as was the first
Matrix. 

10/10
