
Okay, so maybe I'm a little biased by the fact that I'm in my late
teens, but personally, I wasn't a big fan of this movie. Very
unrealistic, cartoony...in short, standard Disney live-action material.
As adult fare, it definitely doesn't get a high rating in my book. BUT,
the movie does have its merits. Specifically, like all Disney movies,
it has an ability to enchant just about every young child under the age
of 12. I saw it while keeping an eye on a group of 9-year-olds, and
while I found myself glancing at my watch to see if the film was almost
over, the children (boys AND girls, I might add!) were sitting on there
seats watching in rapt fascination, wishing that they could BE the
Deedles. I had the same experience recently when I watched in on TV
with pair of 11-year-olds I was taking care of for the evening...they
loved it! So, in short, I'd warn adults away from it, but don't ban it
from your house, as it could come in handy if you have some unruly kids
around!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie served its purpose.  It was incredibly ridiculous, fun to
watch,
and had Paul Walker shirtless in it.  It is obviously a movie targeted at
5th graders, but die-hard Paul fans won't be disappointed.  I hate to be a
typical teenage girl about this, but who wouldn't want to see a movie w/
Paul Walker shirtless? This movie by no means stresses his acting ability,
but he looks great. Warning: Some scenes involving AJ Langer will make you
want to hurl. But of course, that is what the fast-forward button is for.

I recommend it for Paul Walker fans and immature people.

<|_=00=_|>

This is simply just another of those predictably lame "family" movies that
makes a huge effort to be hip and cool. It will come as no surprise to
those
familiar with such high-budget / low-ambition junk to learn that this film
is neither hip or cool. The two lead characters, the "Deedle's" of the
title
are a pair of nimrod's who's constant stupidity is neither amiable or
endearing it's just damned irritating and the allegedly comical scrapes
they
get into are too improbable and silly to ever raise anything more than a
half-forced smile. Being a horror fan it was inevitable I would dislike
this
movie. The only reason I bothered watching it is because it features the
mouth-wateringly sexy A.J Langer, who also starred in Wes Craven's
excellent
"The People Under The Stairs". She is the only real reason for watching
this
film. One to avoid on practically all levels.   
<|_=00=_|>
"Meet the Deedles" is a relatively unknown film with Paul Walker in a
lead role early in his career. My kids and I enjoyed watching this
movie together several times when they were young (ten and under). A
lighthearted family comedy, it's both silly and sweet, with a number of
memorable funny phrases that still make us laugh over ten years later. 

"Meet the Deedles" includes positive messages about taking
responsibility for yourself, learning to be independent, having goals,
working hard, and being close with family. While it may not be Academy
Award material, "Meet the Deedles" has a certain simplicity and
innocence that is refreshing--including a happy ending, which is really
nice for a change.

While still feeling shocked and saddened by Paul Walker's recent death
at such a young age, I am thankful for his contribution to this film
and hope more people will now watch and enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Well, I think the common theme from the reviews I've read is that kids
love this movie. Which is not surprising since I believe that is what
Disney's target market is.

And if you are a Paul Walker fan like myself, you will watch and enjoy
the movie just for the eye candy.

This film is brainlessly funny or funnily brainless. Whatever. I got
what I wanted from this film. I enjoyed it.

I knew that there will be slapstick comedy. That the humor will be
childish. But I don't care.

I recommend this movie for those who felt like their brain has just
been bludgeoned after a long hard day attending meetings, discussions,
brain storming sessions, analyzing and calculating numbers... you get
the picture.
<|_=00=_|>

As another reviewer said; "I recommend it for Paul Walker fans and
immature
people." Being both these things I was wetting myself laughing at a fair
few
points of the film. Mainly because I find farts very very funny indeed. I
had a rip-roaring hangover this afternoon and decided to put on a film
that
was so simple it required no thinking whatsoever to watch. This was the
ideal thing. It's cringe worthy and very tacky at times but that doesn't
mean it's absolute rubbish. Worth a watch if you're into tacky comedies
that
rely heavily on bodily function jokes or if you want to see Paul Walker in
a
wetsuit. I'd like him to put a Deedle in my haystack.......
<|_=00=_|>
"Meet the Deedles" is the ultimate groovy 90's filmography dude! Well,
not really. It's one of those movies that wants to be like "Wayne's
World" and "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure" so bad that it becomes
like a fossil in cinematic history. The film might have had an audience
once, but those were all 11 to 17 year old boys growing up in the
1990's and have since grown up. Just look at the cover of that VHS
tape, and you'll immediately know that this is going to be irritating
and not the list bit funny. It's as ridiculous and stupid as you can
expect from a title like "Meet the Deedles".

It's about two surf-loving free spirits that reject authority, Phil
Deedle (Paul Walker) and his brother Stew Deedle (Steve Van Wormer).
After being kicked out of school for what they perceive as being "Too
Cool", they are sent to a boot camp to be straightened out. Instead,
their vehicle takes a wrong turn and they end up In Yellowstone
National Park! From there you can see where everything is going to go.
They meet the authority figure of the park, they run around him while
he screams impotently. If this movie follows formula, they're going to
screw up something big, like destroy Old Faithful, but prove to
everyone that with surfing and the power of being an awesome slacker
with no real responsibilities, you can make everything go right in the
end. Tell me when my prediction turns out to be off.

Looking back at this movie fills me with shame. I was the target
audience for this film when it came out. I was 11 years old in 1998 and
you bet if I had seen the film at that time, I would have thought it
would have been hilarious! Thankfully, I've grown up. Nowadays I
empathize more with the people who want to destroy these fools than the
surfers themselves. It's almost funny in an ironic way, like watching a
map of the earth as the center of the universe, and a flat earth at
that! The difference is that this movie lasts 93 minutes and looking
back and laughing at our ancestors, that takes just a few moments.
Without any brains, Interesting twists on the formula and a fair bit of
annoying moments, "Meet the Deedles" is best left forgotten. (On VHS
January 31, 2012)
<|_=00=_|>
Meet the Deedles (1998): Dir: Steve Boyum / Cast: Steve Von Wormer,
Paul Walker, A.J. Langer, Dennis Hopper, M.C. Gainey: Disgusting
juvenile comedy where the heroes cram worms into their mouths. Throw in
a bear with human characteristic and a witless plot and you have the
bases of stupidity. Two moronic surfers are sent to camp after missing
class for the umpteenth time. They are mistaken as park rangers, which
means that they will spend the remainder of the film trying to conceal
their identities and go with the flow. There is a scheme by an old
ranger who uses prairie dogs to do his bidding and the rangers are
enlisted to deal with the problem. Director Steve Boyum creates a
shameful mess that wouldn't hold interest on a half hour slot on prime
time television. The production couldn't have been any worse than if it
was done by a kindergarten art class. Steve Von Wormer and Paul Walker
act pre-school foolish with A.J. Langer as a female ranger who is there
to be hit on and have a tomboyish sexual appeal. The fact that she
would even consider dating one of these morons reduce this garbage to
total fantasy that goes beyond the prairie dog subplot. Dennis Hopper
should fire his agent after this. It is disappointing to see an actor
of his potential wasting time on garbage such as this. Pointless Bill
and Ted clone show that should be thrown to the dogs. In this case,
prairie dogs. Score: 0 / 10
<|_=00=_|>
I am heartened to see that, for a change, most others agree with me on
the dopiness of this flick. Therefore I shall simply add that this has
nothing to do with Yellowstone National Park. The "filmmakers" knew
nothing about it but that Old Faithful is there and knew nothing about
national parks but that rangers wear uniforms. I watched this to see
how goofily unrealistic the geysers and hotsprings would look.
Surprise, there aren't any, besides a spout of water in the background
(Old Faithful) and a love scene in a hot-tub (the hidden hotspring).
Disney couldn't even be bothered to make some plastic scenery! Yes,
along with each other Hollywood film, they simply set everything in the
studio's grassy fields with California's generic mountains in the
background. The park's geology and animal-life are joyfully manipulated
by the HEROES as the SOLUTIONS to the villain's evil actions. To the
filmmakers, the only difference between commercial tourist attractions
and national parks is that national park employees wear ranger
uniforms. And these are the same people getting worked up over global
warming? For sure. But any film with A J Langer is worth at least 3
stars.
<|_=00=_|>

It was OK, my little brother seemed to enjoy it. It had some laughs, but it
was dumb, stupid, no plot-line, but it was funny in parts, and had some good
"stunts".
5 out of 10 or ** out of ****
