

Finally Disney has created an animation that isn't sugar-sweet!

What usually bugs me about Disney's films is the constant bursting-into-song
sequences that clog up the stories, and the comic side-kicks that keep
making bad jokes. No such thing in Dinosaur! It's a serious movie that is
very sad and partially cruel: a wonderful tale of courage and survival, told
with respect for the audience, with unpresidented animations. The dionsaurs
merge seemlessly into the real surroundings, and they move and look
absolutely real. Finally, computer animations have reached the stage where
it doesn't look animated anymore!

I was also very touched by Aladar's attempts to save the old dinos, and
although I'm a grown-up, I jumped in my seat when the carnotaurs emerged.
There was violence in this film: cruel battles between carnivores and
herbivores. And surging through it all there is a feeling of sadness and
loss, for a world that is about to fade away into the pages of history.

Thus, it's not for the smallest children, but it's a great story that treats
it's audience with respect and pays homage to that great lost Earth that was
buried in the dust millions of years ago.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was shear pleasure to watch. The movie looks visually
absolutely stunning and the animation is done nicely. It's true
eye-candy and entertaining as well.

The movie has a typical adventurous story and feeling and is at times
spectacular as well. Especially the beginning is impressively
spectacular. There are some nicely done action sequences that are at
times tense as well. My only true complaint of the movie are the
characters. There isn't really any character development in the movie
and we never really get to know the character or care much about them,
this is probably mainly due to the short running time of the movie.
Also of course the story itself is somewhat predictable but that
doesn't take away any of the fun or entertainment value of the movie.

Dinosaur fans will enjoy this movie as well, unless you're one of those
persons who complains about the accuracy of the movie. This movie is
entertainment, not a documentary.

The musical score by James Newton Howard fits the movie like a glove
and in my opinion he delivers one of his best and moving scores, in his
career.

There is much hate for this movie but quite frankly I can't see why. If
you simply take the movie for what it is, you'll have a good time
watching it. It's beautiful, adventurous and at times truly
spectacular.

8/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
This was yet another example, when it came out in 2000, of the latest
strides being made in animation, computer-or-otherwise. At the time, I
thought to myself, "Man, this just gets better and better all the
time." Six years later, I am still saying that but with newer animated
efforts.

Some of the scenes in here look so real you wouldn't know they were
drawings. The colors are particularly good in the opening minutes. They
are just stunning at times.

The story is pretty interesting, too. It's not great, but not boring,
either, and not too kid-oriented. Adults can enjoy this. In fact, I was
surprised at the amount of violence. That, and some of the jokes
actually make this more for adults than kids in many spots.

I recommend the movie for its story and innovative techniques.
<|_=00=_|>
I am quite surprised at so many negative comments people have made.
It's just a movie and one that is sheer entertainment. People seem to
have a problem with the way violence is portrayed but I liked how the
directors portrayed the brutally and the honest way death was
portrayed. Thankfully, it's not excessively sugar-coated and there are
some very sad scenes but it beautifully ends on the note of hope. I
liked the way Leighton and Zondag told Enriquez's written story but I
thought that some of the situations weren't developed. For example, how
does Aladar adjust to the lifestyle of the dinosaurs considering that
he was raised by lemurs. Most likely it may have been due to time
constraint but nonetheless the current adventurous story of migration
and survival is engaging and moving. Aladar's selfless attempts to save
the dinosaur's are touching to watch as it reflects how the
kind-hearted Plio raised him. The characters are enjoyable and the
voice cast, that includes talents like Alfre Woodard, Joan Plowright
and Ossie Davis do a fine job. D.B. Sweeney too does a very good job
voicing Aladar. The animation is very detailed, giving the characters
and setting a very authentic look. Even though the slight stop motion
takes away from the realism, this is only a minor quibble. Newton
Howard's score flows well with the story. 'Dinosaur' is sheer beauty
and a pleasure to look at. It's a dinosaur classic and it's become one
of my favourite dinosaur films.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film that will delight viewers time and time again.

It's terrific family entertainment that isn't afraid to venture into
darker territory. There are carnivorous dinosaurs chasing herbivores
and a giant asteroid that crashes towards earth. As tense as these
scenes can be, it's okay. This is a Disney film that shows us in the
end we can get through things by sticking together. Ultimately I feel
that is the moral of this film and it's a good one.

The music by James Newton Howard happens to be one of his best. It's
beautiful and adventurous with themes that evoke a sense of wonder.

The look of the film is fantastic. The dinosaurs look quite real and
the scenery is nothing short of breathtaking.

It's a film that contains all the right elements for a family
masterpiece. Perhaps, my only wish is that it was a bit longer, but it
is what it is and I am more than happy with it. It's a film that earns
it's place along the great Disney classics such as The Lion King, Toy
Story, Mary Poppins, and all the other classics.

Bravo Disney!
<|_=00=_|>
When i heard that the original screenplay o this film planned no
dialogue at all for the characters, i became even more disappointed at
the end result. While a very good film Dinosaur certainly is, it could
have been incredible. The visual effects alone are a sight to behold,
never more so than in the opening sequence. This is probably the best
stretch in the whole film for me; it's unsanitised by talking animals
and genuinely feels like a prehistoric world (ignoring the multitude of
historical inaccuracies like grass in the Mesozoic era, particular
dinosaurs living side by side). Once the animals start to talk the film
is bogged down by the shortcomings of the script, which is idealistic
and morally exposition heavy, for the sake of the target audience. It
also detracts from the illusion the film so effortlessly produces on
the screen at the start; it all just becomes so standard an routine
when it seemed to be so much more. With a weak script, the visuals no
longer arrest like they did before and would have done had nobody
talked. Without the amazing cgi, this could have almost been straight
to video.

I say almost because despite the shortcomings Dinosaur is a good movie;
it's at times thrilling, exhilarating, touching and surprisingly
intense, for a movie with a such a routine story. Had it had a better
script it could have been great. Had it had no dialogue at all it could
have been a classic and perhaps one of Disney's finest. The era of risk
taking and inventiveness for the company seems to be at an end, or at
least under suppression. Damn you Eisner! They were onto something this
time.
<|_=00=_|>

Some of the complaints here are nitpicky things that kept me from rating
Dinosaur a 14, but most are missing the point.

This is a Disney movie.  Disney plots are straightforward, to reach the
very
very young as well as the rest of us jaded postadolescents.  Disney movies
have talking animals in them.  And Disney characters use contemporary
language.  Sometimes, they're downright hip.  Remember The Jungle Book?
Louis Prima in the part of the orangutan, King Louie, singing, "I'm the
king
of the swingers, ohhhh, the jungle V.I.P."  It don't get hipper than that.
And Robin Williams' Genie in Aladdin...  I mean, if this is your gripe,
then
you just don't get Disney movies.

Despite what you read about the animation getting old after the first
sequence, it never lets down.  Disney's Tarzan was complex, but Dinosaur
is
insanely complex.  Plot points depend on shots that demonstrate heretofore
impossible techniques.  And novel animation touches appear right up to the
end.  (Anyone who complains about Earl sticking his face in the lens just
didn't get that, either).

This is absolutely a must-see--and must-see-again--film.
<|_=00=_|>
My Take: Terrific special effects make this film worth a million bucks. 

Through their discovery of the magic of CGI, Disney has brought their
own expensive big-budget CG spectacle called DINOSAUR in 2000. Although
CGI has already brought to life dinosaurs before in JURASSIC PARK and
its sequel THE LOST WORLD: JURASSIC PARK, sometimes DINOSAUR has
certainly improved from which it started from. The special effects in
DINOSAUR are truly spectacular. What's fantasy and what's reality is
now indistinguishable.

In terms of plot and story, however, DINOSAUR is still not well
developed. The story is nothing new and for Disney, that's quite a
disappointment. Disney, a master in both animation and storytelling, is
now lacking in a new story to show. Still, nonetheless, DINOSAUR is
still a wonderfully good-looking fantasy that appeals to kids and
adults.

The story is nothing original, as Disney simply owes from other
animated movies, some of which is their own. The plot that dinosaurs,
after a meteorite strike, creates a large famine leading to a search
for a valley of fertility is recycled from both a segment in Disney's
FANTASIA called "The Rite of Spring", as well as Don Bluth's animated
THE LAND BEFORE TIME. The lead character, an Iguanadon named Aladar, is
separated from his mother, who is supposedly dead, is like the
character of BAMBI in Disney's own animated film of the same title. The
rest of the characters aren't new with any zing.

Still, the film is an enjoyable showcase of fine special effects and
excitement. It's still good as visual entertainment. A lot more fun to
look at rather than to think about. I liked just looking at the very
colorful effects, showing us numerous sights of dinosaurs of all shapes
and sizes. The opening scenes were the most colorful, where we are
taken to flight in the wings of a flying Pteranodon, switching from
various scenery that is a breathtaking sight. There's a lot of
imagination that went to the effects, and the heart is not forgotten.

Rating: **** out of 5.
<|_=00=_|>

My first glimpse of this film was an extended trailer (which is
essentially
the first 5 minutes of the film) in front of The Phantom Menace a few
years
back.  Everyone in the audience was stunned at the incredible visuals.
And
when it was over, there was a simultaneous "Whoa..." from everyone in the
theater including myself.

Then there was all this hoo ha about the inappropriateness of a Kate Bush
song so the movie was re-edited and when it finally did come out, it came
out rather quietly so I never got around to seeing it in the
theater.

I just caught the end of it tonight broadcast on the Disney Channel while
doing some channel surfing.  They were gracious enough to show it 2 times
back-to-back so I sat there and watched it all the way through on the
second
run.  I'm really mad at myself for forgetting to go and see it in the
theater.  Broadcast cable television quality is garbage and what I saw on
my
television tonight blew me away - I can just imagine how it must have
looked
in the theater.

Is this story a rehashed mix of Tarzan with a dinosaur and a pack of
lemurs,
and Land Before Time?  Yes.  Does it use the same technique of meshing CGI
and live action backgrounds as Discovery Channel's Walking with Dinosaurs?
Yes.  But given it took 12 years to make this film, I would believe that
it
was Walking with Dinosaurs that copied from this film.

I am a big fan of CGI animation and I have to say that the first 20
minutes
of this film that are set in mostly lush, tropical settings are some of
the
most impressive CGI / live action scenes I have seen yet.  It looks so
real
that I found myself having a hard time trying to figure out which elements
were CGI and which were live action.

Just as James Cameron's Titanic was a visual masterpiece, so is Dinosaur.
If you'll remember Titanic won tons of awards for special effects, set
decoration, and music.  'Best Background' if you will.  The story was
predictable and boring (and I'm not talking about the fact that everyone
knew the ship was going to sink either) and the dialogue was flat.  Same
thing with Dinosaur.

Just as Michael Bay's Pearl Harbor's attack scenes were visually
spectacular
and the rest of the movie pretty much was a waste - the same could be said
for Dinosaur.  I really like the middle hour of Pearl Harbor (from where
the
Japanese fleet attacks to shortly after they withdraw).  I don't bother
watching the rest of the movie.  With Dinosaur the first 20 minutes are
incredible up until shortly after the asteroid hits and the last 10
minutes
are also visually impressive.  Skip the middle.

If you are looking for a perfect movie - this definately isn't it.  But if
you are looking to see some incredible animation, there's a good 30
minutes
of jaw dropping visuals that every CGI animation fan must
see.

Watch only the first 20 minutes and the last 10 minutes and this is a 9
out
of 10.  Watch it complete and the middle drags it down to about a
5.

The visuals were so good, I'm on my way to buy Dinosaur on DVD first thing
tomorrow and have no intention of watching the middle hour of
it.
<|_=00=_|>
Dinosaur has great graphics: When I think of all animation movies I
already watched, this one can be easily in the top5. Of course I cannot
compare the dinosaurs from this movie to the ones of Jurassic Park,
since they are very different from each other, but I can say that they
both look very real. But this movie, in my opinion, has more points
because of the animation then the story itself. It's cute, but with a
very ordinary story; besides, there are some important errors here,
specially in the beginning in the part of the meteor, when everything
is destroyed in the Plio's island: That Impact would kill not only the
lemurs,but also many of the dinos. And by the way: Lemurs and primates
in general did not co-exist with dinosaurs!Even kids know that, come
on. I will try to be less critic about this kind of errors,but taking
them off, the story is cute.
