

"Dennis the Menace" is unique in its own way because it's observant.  This
movie made me laugh at stuff i've always laughed at and things i'd never
thought I would laugh at.  The film can be surprisingly innocent at times
and sincere and heartwarming.  And the kid who plays Dennis is a way better
actor than Macaulay Culkin.  I liked the film for its imagination and
humor.  A good film.  I also liked how they showed Dennis trying to resist
the temptation to do something bad but can't resist.
<|_=00=_|>

How can this movie get such a low rating? It is really well made, has some
very funny moments and the casting is excellent. Dennis is cute as a
button
and totally believable, his parents are.. well, just perfect and mr Wilson
is the best mr Wilson you could wish for. The same applies to many of the
smaller roles. And then there is Christopher Lloyd in one of his best
performances ever. I loved this movie, both the first and second time I
saw
it. It deserves at least an 8, so I gave it a 9 to boost the
score.
<|_=00=_|>

I feel really badly that this movie is on the list of worst according to
average vote.   If you consider that it relies very much on slap-stick
humour, which does not appeal to everyone, that might explain its poor
showing.

The movie is best compared to "Home Alone."  I feel it is by far the better
of the two movies.  Dennis is wide-eyed and innocent and the slap-stick
scenarios are 'accidental' rather than contrived as in "Home Alone."

This is a movie that elderly parents can watch and be guaranteed to have a
good time.  It is also a movie that kids will love.  If those in between
can't appreciate it, that speaks a lot for their loss of
innocence.
<|_=00=_|>
This is far from a perfect family comedy, but I consider it one of the
most underrated ones. Amy Sakasitz as Margaret Wade is rather annoying
and the usually excellent Christopher Lloyd is sadly over-the-top and
distracting as Switchblade Sam complete with a subplot that was a
little too violent and doesn't fit with the overall tone of the movie.
However, Dennis the Menace despite what its reputation and rating
suggests is actually very entertaining and does a pretty good job with
the transition from comic to movie. It has been criticised for taking
too much ideas from the Home Alone movies and I suppose that's true
with the sight gags, but I personally think the sight gags are funny.
The cinematography is good, the soundtrack is fun, the story while
predictable is well structured and interesting, the pacing is brisk and
the direction is efficient. And the acting with exception of Lloyd is
not bad at all. Mason Gamble thankfully isn't the annoying brat I was
expecting prior to seeing this film, instead he is cute and funny as
the mischievous yet well-meaning Dennis, while Walter Matthau from the
facial expressions to the delivery of the dialogue is brilliant as Mr
Wilson. Joan Plowright is also very touching and Lea Thompson and
Robert Stanton also do well as Dennis's parents. In conclusion, it is a
decent and entertaining film. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>
For whatever reason, this film has been somewhat underrated since its
release in the early nineties. I suspect that much of the apathy stems
from the fact that audiences at that time had reached the saturation
point with "Little kid outsmarting the bad guy" slapstick (Home Alone 1
and 2, The Three Ninjas series, etc). Still, this version of Dennis
Mitchell's escapades is well worth a look, and is certainly holds its
own against other John Hughes films with a similar (ok, "identical")
premise.

The highlights of the film include winning performances by Mason Gamble
and Walter Mathau as Dennis and Mr. Wilson, respectively. Mason Gamble
was one of the more talented child actors to grace the screen at the
time- if you're able to see more than a 'cute kid' and listen to his
inflection, he's actually pretty funny. Mathau, of course, is Mathau
and brilliant. It's somewhat annoying that the film decided to go 'PC'
in portraying Alice Mitchell as a career woman, but other than that,
the casting of the parents and Martha Wilson was perfect. The musical
score was also excellent- whimsical, nostalgic, without coming across
as cloying.

There were only two problems with the film, but they were big ones.
First, the director did not adequately develop Wilson's friendship with
Dennis, which makes the end scenes seem forced and trite. The only
recollection I have of Wilson even speaking civilly to Dennis before he
'ran away' was when he briefly explained why he kept his coins in a
safe. Other than that, their relationship was nothing but snarls,
grumbling, and apologies. Secondly, the introduction of Switchblad Sam
was a typical (and oh so tired) Hughes device, although it was
surprisingly violent compared to his other films (watching a cute
little five year old force feed and then accidentally set a villain on
fire was slightly disturbing, to say the least). Christopher Lloyd's
performance was over-the-top and distracting, taking away from what
could have become a semi-classic children's film.
<|_=00=_|>

This film had a very good point : it stands on something
solid, like the old TV serie and the comic strip. Some
similar
films don't have this, like these awful Home Alone movies.The
film can also count on the talent of Mr. Matthau. He's
ideal
for playing Mr. Wilson. And the kid is very alright. Another
good point is that the film do not have a great success
and
it provides us from those ugly sequels. Sometimes a bit
violent, but in a comic strip way. Good fun!
<|_=00=_|>
There are some things that went wrong with this film and I never read
the comic strip, but I don't think it's as bad as everyone says it is.
I'll start off with the positives.

The acting on the whole isn't that bad. Walter Matthau did a good job
as Mr. Wilson as did Robert Stanton, Lea Thompson and Joan Plowright,
but I think that Mason Gamble steals the show as the most likable title
character who got the personality and characterization right. Even his
chemistry with Walter Matthau was decent. Also, Christopher Lloyd was
very sinister as the main villain and he steals the show as well. The
scenery is nice and it has some nice cinematography. I also liked the
music from Jerry Goldsmith. Not the best here, but still worth
listening.

However, the story, while having its nice moments, falls into the
predictable zone and the script feels flat and would've been so much
better. Some of the humor gave me some chuckles (Dennis causing some
trouble to Mr. Wilson and the baked beans farting scene), but some of
them lacked wit and the pacing was very mediocre.

Overall, uneven with it's story and pacing, but not as bad as some say
it is. I'm giving this a 6/10 because of it's likable cast and some
nice scenery.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is without a doubt identical to the comic strip.  The characters
look exactly alike, especially Dennis's parents.  And I don't think anyone
could have played a better Mr. Wilson than Walter Mattau.  This is what
makes the movie so good.  Another familiar actor is Christopher Lloyd (from
the "Back to the Future" trilogy and "The Pagemaster) who plays the robber. 
I remember when I rented this at my local grocery store, I saw the scene
where the robber kidnaps Dennis and ties him up.  Then Dennis tells him the
only right way to tie him up so that he won't be able to get away.  The
robber has handcuffs and the key falls into the beans he's cooking.  Dennis
is forced to feed the robber beans in order to find the key.  After this the
robber farts in the fire.  This scene was cut when shown on TNT.  Watch this
movie and see for yourself how wonderful it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Mr. George Wilson (Walter Matthau) is a retired postman with loving
wife Martha (Joan Plowright). He is tired of the irreverent boy living
next door, Dennis the Menace. He is hosting the party for the Garden
Society and desperate to show off his flower. Dennis has loving parents
(Robert Stanton, Lea Thompson) who treat him with kid gloves. He hates
being forced to spend time with Margaret Wade. It's an idyllic town
life until the arrival of Switchblade Sam (Christopher Lloyd). Dennis'
parents go away for work and the Wilson has the babysit the Menace.

I love Walter Matthau and the kid is rambunctious. I like Dennis'
family. I love Margaret and the other kids. Switchblade Sam makes no
sense being in this movie universe. I think John Hughes is trying to
recreate Home Alone. It's a big mistake. The movie is split in two. I
find the parts without Switchblade Sam fun especially with Matthau.
It's got a childlike innocent tone with a splash of modern irreverence
and that's what so great about it. Switchblade Sam has no place in that
world.
<|_=00=_|>
Cash-grab adaptation of Hank Ketcham's comic strip centered around a
"mischievous" ("annoying" is a far better word) boy Gamble and cranky
next door neighbor Matthau. Although one can find many issues with
Gamble's portrayal of Dennis Mitchell—one being that the character just
doesn't seem like a little boy of the 1990s—he and Matthau end up
making a pretty decent duo; while Plowright, Stanton and Thompson all
fit nicely into supporting roles. Perhaps the greatest thing about this
movie is the chillingly disgusting drifter, played excellently by
Christopher Lloyd, who creeps slowly through the cookie-cutter town
like a python in a rose-garden. Lots of dull jokes, but the movie never
ceases to be boring. Very anti-climatic. Followed by direct-to-video
sequel and Saturday morning cartoon.

**½ (out of four)
