

I applaud John Singleton for being brave enough to film "Poetic Justice" --
it's a real triumph in presenting a story that looks beyond Hollywood's
usual stereotypes of urban youth.  If you are looking for a typical
gang-bangin' shoot em up angry urban film...look elsewhere, because that
genre is miles away from Singleton's storytelling.  This film has precisely
what black audiences say they are looking for - depth, real characters with
a number of real layers....and yet people say they cannot get into this
film.  I say watch it and simply feel the messages being conveyed through
the hearts of the characters.  Tupac Shakur's performance saddens my
heart....because he had so much potential as an actor as proven with his
performance here.  I was fortunate enough to actually meet and compliment
him on this performance, which is at turns skillful and all his own.  He
had
that quality that film actors envy in that the camera loved him. Janet
Jackson gives a skilled performance as well, and the two have a natural
chemistry that works here.  This film is worth watching...it's one of my
favorites.
<|_=00=_|>
Poetic Justice is the type of film that will sneak up on you. Some
parts of the movie are a little slow, but as a whole the movie is very
good. Director Singleton is able to bring a certain mood to this film;
wavering between dark, funny and compassionate. Justice (Janet Jackson)
is a directionless and lost female who expresses her wants and sorrows
through poetry. Because of deaths in her family she is alone.

She reluctantly agrees to go on a mail trip with a friend (Regina King)
and her male comrads. Little does she know that she would find her
diamond in the rough in Lucky (Shakur). Although Lucky has a very hard
exterior, Justice; through many trails and tribulations locates the
good in him. It turns out that they (Justice and Lucky) are just what
each other needs. Some may not be able to relate to this film, but if
you can chances are you will really like the movie. This movie was not
really made for mainstream audiences, just for certain people. I am one
who was taken in by it, and it is one of my favorites. Great movie
which probably appeals more to demographically urban viewers. Regina
King and Joe Torry do a good job of providing support to the lead
actors throughout.
<|_=00=_|>

Poetic Justice is an urban film but within this catgory it stands out from
alot of them in its own way.  The movie uses some very interesting elements
that I was familiar with and like most urban films they use realistic
characters.  The camerawork is nothing new but some of it is really good to
look at.  Janet Jackson is good as the somewhat uptight poet/hairdresser who
is mourning the loss of her lover while on a night out with him as is Tupac
in a rather different role from the ones he has in Juice, Bullet and Above
The Rim.  Not only is the role different but as a man it's impossible to not
relate to him as you see his struggles in his life including one powerful
scene in which he catches his baby's mother smokin' crack and having other
men in his daughter's presence - I thought this worked great because I know
how I'd feel if I had a kid and my baby's mother is bringing other men
around my kid: I wouldn't be too happy.  The road trip is where you begin to
see all the characters(Pac Shakur, Janet Jackson, Regina King and Joe Torry)
develop and John Singleton wastes little time doing that during that
time...

Poetic Justice is a movie deserving alot more credit than it's getting but
too bad there are people out there with stupid stereotypical assumptions so
idiotic it can get someone angry

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
I read the other review and simply had to comment on it. This was a
great movie. Perhaps not filled with action. But it takes the poetic
point of view and happily surprises you. It's in my DVD - shelf at
home. Janet is showing a great acting and so is Tupac. My boyfriend
weren't that crazy about it, so I've come to realize that it take a
special kind of person to want to see and understand the movie at it's
fullest. Since i write poetry in my spare time maybe that explains my
passion about this movie. In all, I think you should rent it if the
review at the back cover tempt you, it's pretty much what you get.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film after becoming addicted to 'Boyz n the hood'and 'Higher
learning', I think John Singleton is one of the greatest filmmakers
working today and Poetic Justice is a great example of a truly
dedicated and talented filmmaker. The story starts off with Justice
(played brilliantly by Janet Jackson, what a surprise)who witnesses the
slaying of her boyfriend at a movie, justice becomes very depressed
with life and feels nothing but loneliness. She expresses this by
writing poems in a notebook to reveal her pain for her lost love and
for the pain of living in America's South central l.a district. Lucky
(again played greatly by Tupac Shakur in i feel his most personal and
greatest role from 'Juice' right up to 'Gang Related')is a postman with
nothing to look forward for in his life except to look after his
daughter and a dream of rapping his pain for the hood. Together they go
on a road trip with two other friends and learn on how to live again
and to find their way in life. The performances are great, Singletons
direction is wonderful. If your a fan of other 'hood' movies than this
you might find a little different from the others. But nonetheless a
deep hearted gem. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Poetic Justice is a great movie. It's not the follow up that wasn't as
strong as it should have been for someone of Singelton calibar but it's
still a good movie. Jackson and Shakur made their mark in this movie and
keeps your attention. Check this out with Sineglton's other films in the
ghetto trilogy, Boyz N The Hood &Baby Boy.

<|_=00=_|>
After making the effective tear-jerker Boyz N The Hood, John Singleton
returns to the field of film with Poetic Justice. While this one is
significantly different from that masterpiece, it still has its perks
and a solid message to add to its formula of an urban-drama. It is the
second film in what Singleton has branded his "Hood trilogy," but yet,
it is definitely the weakest of them all.

The plot: Justice (Jackson) is a young woman who lives in South
Central, Los Angeles, and is still grieving over the loss of her
boyfriend who was murdered during a silly confrontation. Justice writes
numerous poems, and narrates them throughout the film. The actual poem
were written by writer Maya Angelou, but the authenticity of the
writing is the least of our concerns.

Justice works as a hairstylist, and one day, a mailman named Lucky
(Shakur) waltzes in one day trying to flirt with several women, when
Justice and her friend play a mean joke on him. Karma has its way of
reuniting the mailman and the stylist when Justice's friend Iesha
(King) forces her to come along on a trip to Oakland with her boyfriend
Chicago (Torry) and his coworker Lucky. Justice needs to go for a hair
show, so reluctantly agrees to hitch a ride in Lucky's mail-truck.

From then on, the film plays like a buddy road-trip film lacking the
buddies. These characters must tolerate each other to survive the trip,
but social and emotional conflicts continue to get in their way. Some
of these situations feel genuine, but others feel contrived and meant
to happen only so the film can advance.

Poetic Justice is very distant from its predecessor, with the only
similarities being the setting and the fact that Lucky's uncle, seen in
the end of the film, looks a lot like Laurence Fishburne's character in
Boyz N The Hood. I can't quite figure out why this one is inferior to
them. Maybe it's because the characters aren't as well developed and
dripping with charisma, maybe because each one of the characters can be
bitter and selfish at points in the film struggling socially, or maybe
it's just because.

In Boyz N The Hood, Cuba Gooding Jr. was extremely developed to the
point of almost going overboard. In Baby Boy, Omar Gooding was
extremely developed. But in Poetic Justice, about a chunk of Janet
Jackson's personality is almost snatched away. Same with the ending
being a little perplexing and open for explanation.

But this can all be overlooked by two things; the writing and the
acting. John Singleton manages to squeeze the premise dry in terms of
character dialog. It feels like real discussions being had by real
human beings. And Tupac Shakur's acting talents are definitely the
strongest point in the film.

Poetic Justice has three meanings when I look at it. It describes
redemption for one's previous actions, the character herself in the
film, and what the slick writing achieves in this picture.

Starring: Janet Jackson, Tupac Shakur, Regina King, Joe Torry, Tyra
Ferrell. Directed by: John Singleton.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, I'll be the first to admit that this is nowhere near as good as Boyz
in the Hood, however, it's not as bad as some make it out to be.  The
acting
is somewhat lacking, but the story as a whole is moving. If you're a
diehard
Singleton fan, or are just in the mood for a pretty decent movie, go for
it,
you've got nothing to lose.
<|_=00=_|>
the only reason i don't rate this film higher is because i always
thought it was a tad long. john singleton, i love your work! like spike
lee ( with a lot of his films) and ice cube (with 'friday' and
'barbershop') you've caught a time and place that's only clear to those
that have lived it, or at least have knowledge of its existence. all of
you capture black young'uns (east and west coasts) as they were lived
during the times depicted in the films. wonderful stuff! great acting,
solid story, everything is more heartfelt than not, it's why i go to
the movies! i hope u and spike and ice cube and tyler perry (silly as
he can b!) and the whole slew of other black filmmakers continue for
many years to come. i love your work, your honesty and your sincerity.
this is good movie-making, maya angelou's poetry is a plus and a
bonus!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I am a white man over the age of 50, so this film wasn't really made
for me. That doesn't mean there wasn't anything here, and I could see
that this was a quality production.

This film had occasional laughs, which was good because it could get
very depressing at times.

I really liked the family reunion, where the movie's main characters
pretended to be part of the family just to get some free food and found
themselves being accepted rather than questioned. I got the impression
they might come back someday just because they liked being with these
people. This is also where Maya Angelou delivered an elegant
performance. Yes, this film was worthy of her, and she added something
to it.

As for her poetry, not my style. Janet Jackson did a great job reading
it offscreen, but again, not by sort of thing. For many people, this
will be a wonderful part of the movie.

One of my favorite parts of the film was the scene at the gas
station/convenience store, one of the few places I heard recorded music
that appealed to me (Tammy Wynette's "Stand by Your Man").

Actually, a lot of the background music was smooth jazz with violins or
synthesizers that pass for violins. It was actually kind of pleasant
compared to the rap and other styles the main characters liked.

Family was important here. Although Jackson's character didn't seem to
have anyone except her cat, at least she had friends and a job. I did
like the cat and its friends, in the one scene.

Chicago was probably my favorite character. He was funny and likable,
most of the time.

Janet Jackson has a nice smile and she can have a nice personality when
it is called for. Sometimes here, she had to be depressed or angry.
That's fine. She did it well.

And this is my third or fourth time seeing the talents of 2Pac, who was
taken away too soon. Although it was not necessarily his finest work,
he did a good job here.

I mostly know Regina King from "227". Has it really been that long? She
was so much older even here, but she did a good job. 

Beautiful mountains and magnificent bridges added to the scenery. Some
scenes, and not necessarily pleasant ones, let us enjoy these longer.

These people live hard lives and have tragedy all around them. That's
why this is not an easy movie to watch. But having family around means
a lot.

It may not be for you, but if you need to get outside your comfort
zone, this will be a worthwhile experience.
