

Just as I disagreed with the critics whom universally panned
DELIRIOUS,
I must disagree with most IMDB reviewers.  I believe this is a
genuinely
funny movie, quite original and inspired.  Sure, there are more than a few
things in it that don't work (particularly the casting of Mariel Hemingway
as the love interest); but, what writer hasn't a fantasy
of
being a part of his creation?  The high point of the movie is the "guest"
appearance by Robert Wagner.  The big surprise is how funny
Raymond Burr turns out to be.  Despite her "spoiled brat"
vixenishness,
I would still take Emma Samms over the awkward, nerdy Miss
Hemingway.
The cruelist humor in the movie is the disintegration of Samm's
brother.
It's also probably the funniest thing about the film.

DELIRIOUS may not be to EVERYONE'S taste, but I happily purchased
the
laser disc a few years back.  I watch it about once a year, and call
it
my "writer's fix".  Enjoy it if you are a mind to...

<|_=00=_|>
This is a much more watchable film than many of the lightweight
vehicles Candy took part in in his post-SCTV career. His part could
have been played by any number of comic actors, but John steps in and
gives it his best shot. He's always fun to watch on screen, and he has
a good time here without going over the top, which he tended to do.

DELIRIOUS is a weird mixture of Groundhog Day, Soapdish, and various
Rod Serling scripts in which the characters in a story are being
controlled by someone at a typewriter. It's a workable premise, and the
actors make the most of the stock soap opera characters they play.
David Rasche, Emma Samms, Raymond Burr et al were well-chosen for their
parts. Bit parts by Robert Wagner and Marvin Kaplan (the voice of
Choo-Choo on TOP CAT) are also memorable. Mariel Hemingway takes some
flak on this comment board for her part, but she seemed suited for the
role and moved smoothly from her gawky character to the soap opera
"devil woman." This is a pleasant comedy but not as consistently funny
as SOAPDISH. The script by veteran writers of Gilligan's Island and
Bewitched suffers from a lot of unnecessary "language" (for what could
otherwise be a family film) but moves along at a brisk pace (except for
the longish horse-riding scenes).
<|_=00=_|>
That's John Candy's dilemma in Delirious. Candy's a writer for a
popular television day time soap which seems to bear more resemblance
to the night time big budget soaps so popular in the Eighties. Anyway
after some creative differences with fellow writers Jerry Orbach and
Renee Taylor, Candy gets into a nasty car wreck and when he wakes up
finds himself in the hospital of his own show being treated by a couple
of the characters of same, doctor David Rasche and nurse Andrea
Thompson. 

After seeing this, I see where the creators of Pleasantville got their
idea. Pleasantville of course was a bit more serious in its subject
matter. Delirious was a good idea that didn't quite come off although
the players do give it a good try.

Part of the problem is that even in the fantasy Candy's thinking with
his hormones. He's got it bad for his show's star Emma Sammes who is
doing a nice Joan Collins impersonation. There's good girl Mariel
Hemingway who is auditioning in real life for a part on Candy's soap
opera and she shows up in the fantasy as well. 

I have to give special kudos to Raymond Burr who plays the family
patriarch of this soap opera with tongue firmly in cheek. Burr's
occasionally flashes a twinkle which you have to be sure to catch just
to let you know how much he's enjoying this. Nice he took time off from
Perry Mason here.

Sammes and Burr are the real treats of Delirious. It could have been a
lot funnier, but I think someone like Mel Brooks should have directed
it.
<|_=00=_|>
The all time best line in the movie -- John Candy rescuing Emma Samms
on horseback -- "This stranger knows no danger!"

A bit spotty -- can't maintain a high comedy level throughout but
nonetheless is enjoyable and a vehicle for John Candy to demonstrate
comic range. Excited he will get to spend a romantic weekend tryst with
Emma Samms (and misunderstanding her feminine wiles), he finds himself
lugging umpteen of her suitcases to the taxi cab, then knocks himself
out with the trunk door as he tries to load the suitcases. Wakes up in
the pleasant little village where she reappears as new character,
daughter of Raymund Burr, along with others in town, Mariel Hemingway
et al. Plenty of lines for Candy in trying to write the new soap opera
about family conspiracies with a stolen formula, and the rapid
disintegration of Emma's brother while none in the family seem to
notice or care. Again the highlight to me was the rescue chase by Candy
when Emma's horse took her on a wild ride and Candy rides up and self
congratulates later as modern day Zorro or Lone Ranger. All in all,
enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>

 John Candy made this film.

The story involves a soap opera writer (Candy) who gets knocked out, and
enters his own, type-written, created world, where all the characters are
alive and playing their roles - or so he thinks. They are actually living
them.

 So, Candy finds that whatever he writes on the 'ol typewriter happens in
the world he's in, because, after all, he created it on the typewriter,
right?

 Built off the same foundation as "Groundhog Day," Delirious is by no means
great, and not John Candy's best, (I give that to Planes, Trains and
Automobiles) but it does have an actual soap opera feel to it - that cheap
feel - and has some laughs along the way.

 Not great, but worth watching. Candy was one of the best comedians of his
time, God rest his soul...

John "Candy" Ulmer
<|_=00=_|>

I can watch this movie over and over and never get tired (then again, I
haven't ever tried watching it 10 times in a row in the same day)... Candy
does his own sort of persona with his trademark charm without getting
annoying, and the way the film turns constantly as he tries to solve his
dilemma is great (particularly when he starts to write while drunk).  Not
a
masterpiece by any standard, but a fun flick...
<|_=00=_|>
A soap opera writer (John Candy) gets hit on the head and wakes up as a
character in his own show.

I have to say I am not generally a fan of John Candy's films. Some are
better than others, but I never think of his as a starring role kind of
guy. This film was different. I guess it flopped, but I am not sure why
-- it is clever, charming and an overall fun little film. I would
recommend to friends and family.

The whole concept of a writer being able to write his world is awesome,
and while it has been done elsewhere, I am not sure it has ever been
done with such wit as it was here. I mean, really... cold deer?
Hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>

Delirious is a creative and funny master piece.  I enjoyed every minute
that
I watch of the show.  It was very nonpredictable and suprised me many of
times.  The writers of this show wrote this movie with style, and having
John Candy, the greatest actor in the world, made the movie that much
better.  It was enjoyable and fun to watch.  It is even a great show to
bring your kids to.  i would recommend this show to anybody who likes
comedy
and likes John Candy.
<|_=00=_|>
Slightly along the lines of My Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter but the
other way around and with fantasy rather than contrivance, with similar
comedy and cheesy soap opera acting/story lines. It's silly, ridiculous
but typical of soap opera shenanigans and it's quite a good spoof in
that regard. John Candy is typical John Candy and everyone else is
over-the-top, including Robert Wagner as himself and Raymond Burr in a
comedic role, and Jerry Orbach too! 

Delirious is a crazy romp set in a fantasy town created by a lovesick
soap opera scriptwriter. In a concussion-induced delirium Jack Gable
(Candy) thinks he's inside his own soap opera and uses his writing to
make himself into a dashing hero. It's Hollywood schmaltz but rather
enjoyable and good for silly giggles. Lots of silly stunts (pretty
impressive horsemanship) but shockingly bad sound/dubbing and there's
lots of holes in the production. Overall a nice rainy afternoon watch.
Wouldn't recommend it or necessarily watch it again although I really
like John Candy, however, this was by no means Uncle Buck.
<|_=00=_|>
This John Candy movie had potential to be a really funny comedy,
perhaps one of his best movies where he is the lead star and there is
not a Steve Martin or Dan Aykroyd to back him up. However, the film
just is not funny enough in areas of this film and it can not seem to
build up any steam so I have to say this one pales to another purely
John Candy film "Who's Harry Crumb" as that one may have been sort of a
"Fletch" copycat still maintained the laughs all the way through the
film while this one just loses its luster by having one to many unfunny
scenes. The story is about a writer on a soap opera who is obsessed a
bit with one of the star attractions going on a trip with said star.
She is basically playing him because at this point he is the only real
reason she is still on the show as the makers of the soap wanted her
killed off long ago for being so difficult. Well an accident happens
and when Candy's character comes to he is actually in the soap opera he
writes for which makes for some funny stuff. Unfortunately, the
character he yearns for is seemingly headed for death, but Candy's
character quickly realizes that with a typewriter he can make things
happen to his liking in this strange world he has entered. Like I said
at times this movie is really funny and it is nice to watch Raymond
Burr in one of his final roles, but to many times this film is just not
all that funny.
