

It's the kind of movie they don't make any more.
Packed with testosterone and huge loads of male pride, Harley and Marlboro
set out to kick some ass.
I really love this movie because it shows like friendship between men works
or at least how it is supposed to work. Even though the two main characters
haven't met for years, they know where the other one is and when they come
together again it's like they never were apart.
They also help each other regardless if it will cost their live because in
their mind "It's better to be dead and cool, than alive and uncool."
(Harley
Davidson)
Of course this attitude brings them nothing but trouble but those two take
it the macho-way and stand to whatever comes up.
And for those who only think it's a modern macho western: "Back off!!" Take
a closer look and you will see that there is a lot of soul and spirit
hidden
between the macho talking and behaviour.

<|_=00=_|>

This was a typical late 80's early 90's action flick....but its memorable
for the title alone...just like all of these action movies THE PLOT IS
EXTRA! the dialogue is head and shoulders above anything Stalone or Segal
ever said...and the bickering between Johnson and Rourke is genuinely
funny....
Above Average Action; Very Good Dialogue (for an action
movie)
<|_=00=_|>

This is my ultimate guilty pleasure.  All my critical faculties tell me it's
a trashy action flick with no particular value.  But critical faculties
don't mean a thing when chemistry is as kinetic as that between Rourke and
Johnson, who for my money have Newman and Redford beat by a mile in one of
the best "buddy" teamings ever.  Moreover, the movie is beautifully cast
down the line and the pace is always great.  Everything from the costuming
of the lead characters to the atmosphere in the bar to the performances by
Tom Sizemore and Daniel Baldwin are right on target.  But mainly it's
Johnson and Rourke's connection that makes the movie.  They're terrific. 
I've seen this movie several times and it never loses me for an instant. 
Yeah!
<|_=00=_|>
Two biking buddies team up to help a friend save his L.A. nightclub
from an evil banker who wants to replace the beloved bar with an
impersonal high-rise. The ensuing plot has the two bikers repeatedly
confronting the banker's cold blooded, robotic henchmen, who make quite
a fashion statement with their slicked-back hair, their blank faces,
and their irritatingly hip, long black coats. The numerous
confrontations between the two bikers and the thugs culminate in
explosions, fights, and gunfire.

The story is standard Hollywood fluff, aimed at kids, young boys in
particular. Except for the unique "airplane graveyard" setting, the
plot is mostly a dud. Fortunately, the characterizations of the two
leads rescue the film from banality.

Harley (Mickey Rourke) and Marlboro (Don Johnson), swagger, posture,
and strut their macho stuff, as you would expect, for two bikers. They
swear. They fight. And, of course, they follow the babes. Underneath
the public toughness, however, are two nonconformists, and each has his
own brand of insecurity. And, they have a conscience. They want to do
the right thing. It is this textured characterization of Harley and
Marlboro that makes the film worth watching, especially in the first
twenty-five minutes, before the action plot interferes.

The is a working man's movie ... with all the gritty realism of urban
street life. The film's first half features some good cinematography,
sultry music and atmosphere, great production design, and costumes
suitable for the most hip biker bar. The best approach to this film is
to ignore the silly action plot, and focus instead on Harley and
Marlboro, and their unorthodox outlook on life.
<|_=00=_|>

Good buddy movies don't have to have to seem real. The more far-fetched
the
better, And not many movies stretch as far as this one. The combined
charisma of Rourke and Johnson make up for the questionable story. Tom
Sizemore is a great villain, and Daniel Baldwin is not half bad as his
cold
blooded henchman. The other thing that stands out about this film is the
futuristic feel to the movie. It was made in 1986 and the movie was
supposed
to take place in 1996, so it guesses as to what changes would be. It's
another corny, but fun touch. Top that off with a gorgeous cameo from Tia
Carrere and you have all the trappings of a great, cheeseball buddy-movie.

<|_=00=_|>
This is a great movie and a true 'cult classic'. Yes I realize it's a
spin on Butch Cassidy but it's a good one and it works. Completely
overboard action sequences, cheesy and campy humor galore.

I'm sick of people giving this movie a bad rating because the action
isn't 'believable'. It isn't SUPPOSED to be believable. Is a movie
about gigantic, talking, transforming, sentient robots doing battle
with each other 'believable'? Give me a break that movie was one big
long commercial.

If you're a fan of 'cult' flicks you will like this one. If you'll take
the time to check out the profiles of the people leaving bad ratings,
most of the bad ratings are coming from British people with awful taste
and even worse teeth.
<|_=00=_|>
Look, this movie is one of the most fun movies I've ever watched. Its
not some heady uber intelligent movie for one to contemplate and
discuss afterwards what the other possible motives might be in the
characters. Its for quoting not discussing. Its a buddy movie, its fun
and it was in my opinion well done by all with good performances from a
majority of the cast. If its on i cant help but watch it if only to see
a couple of the great quotes in it as well as the action. I hope Mickey
doesn't truly feel like a sell out for this movie because it was in
fact a very well done movie and something that was a great deal of fun
for many people that were even already fans from as far back as 9.5
weeks.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a loose remake of Butch and Sundance.
The jokes are funny as hell when you know the Newman/Redford
classic.
Many of the scenes, many of the lines, are directly taken from
it.
If you know that film, you will appreciate this one much
more.


<|_=00=_|>
Spoilers Ahead:

First, this is as close to being a purely man's movie as one can
achieve. The movie resonates for all the fellow Lone Wolves out there
of every Dasein or being there. Philosopher, scientist, explorer, in
this case, single guys. This is such an easy movie to review for you;
the movie splits viewers into two groups. Those who love the friendship
between two men who will never fit into one of society's boxes of
domestication will adore the movie. Rourke and Johnson's friendship is
the star of this movie; the heist strains credulity and generates the
low rating you see here. Their friend, who owns a restaurant, is losing
it to the bank. He is being pressured by the bank's hired goons to sell
out. Harley and Marlboro concoct a scheme to rob an armored car and get
the requisite money. The unlikely following events are entertaining if
you turn your brain off like all action movies. This is not why I own
the movie; I am one of the delineated types of Lone Wolves that the
movie echoes existentially with: The Philosopher. Harley makes no
attempt to connect with that life he will never fit into. Marlboro
painfully wants that life but just cannot fit in. He is at the end of a
relationship with a female cop whose patience for his existential nomad
life is at an end. The best scene in the movie is where he returns and
she has a police captain in her bed.

They say good-bye and the anguish on his face at wanting to be what he
never can be speaks to every man in the audience who is in one of my
delineated categories. I like two other submerged aspects of the movie;
The closeness to God and the freedom from fear. Harley speaks often to
Marlboro, to his great irritation, of there being 'something more,'
'I'd like to meet Him.' This ontological separation free from its
mountain of worries about kids and wife does lead one closer to God.
Yet, it is honest about the dark side also. There is this greater
recklessness and risk-taking; it is viewed as phony by people not
living inside of a Dasein where Death is a constant companion as are
thoughts of it always. So, if you are not a lone wolf, if you were
lucky enough to find a partner, my honest advice is to avoid the movie.
It will do what all things that conflict with our Path do: annoy or
anger you. I love the movie for it reminds me I am not alone. Their are
many like me who must walk alone. Their friendship, with great humor,
lightens the darkness. If you choose to watch it, do not expect a
realistic heist, pursuit and escape. 

This part does work for a handful of people; the vast majority I know
hate the movie for its lack of verisimilitude. The friendship is the
star of the movie and its delineation that speaks to all who must walk
life alone. In its defense, yes, both aspects are true: Closer to God
and, concomitantly, nearer to Death. Behavior does tend to be reckless,
impulsive and carefree just as you see them behave. Harley is at peace
more than Marlboro. Yet, the love he cannot have has been sublimated
and now it is towards God. Marlboro's painful realization that he
cannot hold on to a beautiful woman who wants a family, this is the
deep pathos of the movie. Believe me, the earlier the existential
realization, the less suffering you will endure. The acting between the
two is excellent; their friendship, with its deep sadness, will stay
will you. I often re-visit the movie and draw comfort from it. There is
great humor mixed in just see it for what it always has been: Two men
who will never be domesticated whose friendship provides the only true
warmth they will find in this life. A Pensive Beautiful Movie. Q.E.D.

"To Live Is To Suffer, To Survive Is To Find Some Meaning In The
Suffering." Nietzsche
<|_=00=_|>

No big action stars here. Nor any super fantastic effects. Nope, it's just
good, clean fun from start to finish. This is one of the reasons why
'Harley
Davidson & The Marlboro Man' is one of my fav movies. The casting is fine
&
the movies moves along well. Not to mention a great soundtrack to go along
with it. When Harley comes back to town & finds out his favorite
bar/hangout
is going to close due to not being able to renew the lease, de realizes he
has to do something about it. Him & his buddies decide to get the money,
but
robbing an armored truck. But that's when all the problems begin. Great
fun!
