

A dazzlingly complex film, `Traffic' takes a hard, unflinching look at the
so-called `war on drugs' that is perfectly clear and uncompromising.
Director Steven Soderbergh takes the various viewpoints of the drug culture
-- the users, the dealers, the police, and the politicians -- and weaves
their differing stories together into a single story that is both deep in
its ideas but very simple to understand.  In terms of story, direction, and
characters, `Traffic' is easily Soderbergh's best film to date, and one of
the best films made in recent years, period.

`Traffic' takes a look at the world of drugs through the stories and lives
of different characters.  Some are loosely connected to one another; some
are not.  There is the story of Javier Rodriguez (Benicio Del Toro), a
Mexican policeman struggling to keep his distance from the corruption that
seems to follow him everywhere; there is the story of Ray Castro (Luis
Guzman) and Montel Gordon (Don Cheadle), two DEA agents trying to turn the
low-level drug dealer Eduardo Ruiz (Miguel Ferrer) against his drug cartel
boss; there's the story of Helena Ayala (Catherine Zeta-Jones), the
unsuspecting wife of the drug cartel boss who suddenly learns who her
husband really is and what he does for a living; and then there's the new
head of the DEA, Robert Wakefield (Michael Douglas), a man so wrapped up in
his mission to stop the war on drug, he fails to notice that his own
daughter Caroline (Erika Christensen) is becoming addicted to crack.  Much
like in the real world, the events of each story directly or indirectly
affect the events of the others, leaving all the characters to consider
their roles in the drug culture . . . and what, if anything, they can do to
change those roles.

In terms of story, `Traffic' is absolutely brilliant.  I'm still amazed
that
the film could cover so many plotlines and dozens of characters so
effortlessly.  Each story -- whether it's Helena assuming the role of her
drug-dealing husband, or Robert canceling DEA meetings so he can deal with
his drug-addicted daughter -- is powerful and brutally honest.  `Traffic'
isn't afraid to look at tough or uncomfortable issues.  `Traffic', somewhat
surprisingly, never preaches, either -- while it's safe to say that the
message of the film is essentially anti-drug, it never comes out and
outright says that message.  A lesser film would've had some grandiose
speech imbedded somewhere in the film denouncing the use of drugs -- not
`Traffic'.  It's wise enough to let the viewer take what messages they want
from the film, without ever preaching.  (A minor quibble -- did Michael
Douglas' character really have to be the new drug czar of the United
States?
The fact that he was the top law enforcement drug official in the U.S.,
and
that his daughter was addicted to drug . . . well, it seemed a little too
far-fetched, and a little too movie-like.  If Mr. Douglas had been playing
ONE of the top drug officials in the federal government, instead of THE top
official, I would've found his character to be infinitely more
believable.)

Soderbergh's also at the top of his game with his direction of `Traffic'.
The film is virtually filmed entirely with hand-held camera, giving each
and
every scene an up-close-and-personal feel.  There's also a distinct lack of
background music, which lets the viewer feel like they're eavesdropping on
real-life scenes, and not just watching a movie.  These techniques make for
a very personal, intense experience.  Soderbergh also uses a technique he's
used in some of his other films (Out of Sight, Erin Brockovich) -- certain
scenes are filtered a specific color, to heighten a mood or a sense of
awareness of what's about to happen.  The scenes in Mexico featuring the
Mexican detective Javier, for example, are all filmed in a very bright,
almost disorienting yellow.  It's a technique that can be irritating at
times, but for the most part, it serves a bold purpose that truly adds to
the film.

As for the characters, and the acting . . . jeez, `Traffic' is without a
doubt one of the best-cast films of all time.  I mean it.  There are no
weak
links, no poorly written characters, and no badly played characters.  Each
and every character adds something significant to the story in `Traffic',
and each and every actor is outstanding.  Kudos must go to possibly one of
the best ensemble casts of all time.  Three actors in particular stand out,
though -- Benicio Del Toro (who won the Best Supporting Actor Oscar for his
performance), Don Cheadle (who was actually slightly better than the
brilliant performance of Mr. Del Toro, IMHO), and Catherine Zeta-Jones.
I'm
normally loathe to use the word `flawless' when describing a film, but the
casting of `Traffic' was indeed flawless.

`Traffic', with its unflinching look at drug use in America today, can be
uncomfortable at times to watch.  It certainly can't be termed a `happy' or
a `feel-good' film.  That doesn't change the fact that it is an amazing,
thought-provoking, powerful film -- and without a doubt the best film
released in the year 2000.  I can't recommend this film enough.  Grade:
A
<|_=00=_|>

No compromises here.  Traffic takes a long, hard look at the narcotics
industry in North America and manages to entertain at the same time. The
triple plot allows you to see the whole industry with multiple
perspectives.
The movie is visually stunning, loved the different filters for the three
locations.

That the war on drugs cannot be won, and is hypocritical to boot, is a
message that needs as much air-time as it can get.
<|_=00=_|>

The film more than delivers on every level and is certainly a lock for Best
Picture of the year. Soderbergh has been on an astonishing roll,
demonstrating exceptional versatility in his choice of genres and tremendous
agility in balancing artistry with entertainment. He's been America's most
consistently brilliant and unpredictable filmmaker for the last decade, and
Traffic is the culminating work of his career. First and foremost, it's a
richly entertaining epic that recalls the great works of the 1970s, when
directors like Robert Altman and Francis Ford Coppola engaged mass audiences
with works of genuine substance. Soderbergh works on a larger canvass than
he's ever done before, bouncing several characters and plot-lines against
and off each other, so that images and themes rhyme and echo. Although the
subject matter is drug trafficking, this is not an "issues" movie per se.
Instead, it's a profoundly affecting dramatic thriller where the destructive
forces of drugs cut across different sections of society. What's most
impressive about the direction is how Soderbergh manages to avoid both
sentimentalizing and moralizing about drugs. As with Erin Brockovich,
there's a graceful absence of self-importance and bombast in the
presentation. However, this doesn't mean the film lacks a strong point of
view.

Stylistically, this film represents a major breakthrough. Soderbergh shot
the film himself (under the pseudonym Peter Andrews) and Traffic takes all
of his past experiments with color, available light, and hand-held work
light-years beyond The Limey and Out of Sight. He has created a brilliant
style that could best characterized as expressionistic naturalism. His loose
hand-held style lends the film an extremely spontaneous realistic tone, but
the modifications of color amplify the drama. Each storyline has its own
distinct look that accentuates the emotions underlining the film. (The
Mexico story involving Benicio Del Toro is told in earthy saturated yellows,
the story of Michael Douglas and his daughter Erika Christensen is told in
an aquarium blue, while the Catherine Zeta-Jones, Luis Guzman-Don Cheadle
story gets a natural available light look). In addition to being visually
striking and cool in a completely unpretentious manner, Soderbergh's camera
technique transcends mere virtuosity and actually becomes another character
in the film. As usual with Soderbergh, the film is edited with musical verve
and skill, where time is collapsed and expanded, and characters are seen
reflecting on past actions.

I've been remiss in not discussing the acting earlier. This film has an
amazing ensemble cast where everybody is working at the top of their game.
However, Benicio Del Toro definitely stands out with the breakthrough
performance. I don't think it's accidental that the movie begins and ends
with shots of him. He plays Javier Rodriguez, a Mexican police officer
caught in a futile and corrupt system, and it's as compelling of a character
as Michael Corleone. Del Toro is exceptionally relaxed and subtle, keeping
his thoughts and feelings private from the other characters in the films,
but sharing it with the camera. Del Toro navigates the audience through a
world of impossible choices and moral corruption, quietly simmering with
intense conflict just beneath the surface.  Benicio's been an indie stalwart
for years, but this film should shoot his stock through the roof. If there's
justice in
this world, he'll be rewarded with Best Actor Awards aplenty.

Michael Douglas is also terrific, adding another strong performance to his
gallery of flawed men in power. He shows genuine fear and vulnerability in a
harrowing scene in which he searches for his daughter in a drug dealer's
den. I've never seen Erika Christensen before, but she makes an impressive
debut.  Don Cheadle and Luis Guzman (they should star as a team in every
movie!) are as loose, limber and spontaneous as ever, providing plenty of
comic relief as well as keeping it real. Catherine Zeta-Jones takes a
complete 180 from her past roles and admirably plays against her looks,
appearing very pregnant while thrown into gritty surroundings. Dennis Quaid
is appropriately slimy as a corrupt lawyer.

Anyway, film geeks and anybody else starved for a genuine piece of
filmmaking should breathe a sigh of relief and give thanks that Soderbergh
has come to save the day.

<|_=00=_|>

It certainly has been a good 12 months for director Stephen Soderbergh,
hasn't it? Erin Brockovich, probably the most underrated film of last
year,
eventually got the recognition Soderbergh, Roberts +Co deserved, as did
this
film, a chilling account of drug trafficking in North and Central
America.
As seen in 'Erin Brockovich', Soderbergh often deals with people under
immense pressure, and this is quite evident here, telling the story of a
new
US drug control officer (Michael Douglas) whose daughter is rapidly
becoming
a drug addict (Erika Christensen). It also shows us the struggles of a
drug
trafficker's society wife (Catherine Zeta-Jones), whose husband is facing
a
conviction, and also that of a cop accused of corruption.
The direction is superb throughout, speaking in tones, very believable
tones, and contrasting atmospheres. The portrayal of Mexico, as a
behind-the-scenes nightmare world of seediness, humidity (you can almost
FEEL the heat) and as a place where one murder matters not, is handled
excellently, Soderbergh quite cleverly using sepiatones to convey the
mood.
This high standard, which is often difficult to maintain in a movie of
its
length (2 ½ hours) is maintained, and while at times it borders on arty,
it
is done thoughtfully, incisively and effectively, the scenes of
importance
delivered in tense, muted tones.
Javier Rodriguez's (Benicio Del Toro) character and personality is both
strong and incredibly well-acted - the quiet, thick skinned yet
razor-sharp
mind suiting his environment perfectly, and his acting is often crucial
to
the moods set in the film, for example in creating the tense, unearthly
atmosphere of Mexico.
This quiet confidence is also a key part of one of the film's many
underlying messages, namely a study in resourcefulness and where it gets
us,
particularly in Catherine Zeta-Jones' character, a trophy wife of a drug
trafficker who is under arrest. Resourceful as she is, it takes her down
the
darkest and lowest moral alleyways, and this can be compared to 'Erin
Brockovich', where another stressed woman used a different kind of soul
and
fighting spirit to get results.
This film also deals with family life, and the movie cliché of 'daddy
never
being around' is handled exceptionally well. This time the daddy is the
newly-instated drugs officer (Michael Douglas) fighting drugs on two
fronts:
the Mexican Border and his own home, as he struggles to keep his
adolescent
daughter on the straight and narrow.
The characters are all strong and well acted, I can't put my finger on a
single bad performance, but Benicio Del Toro is by far the best on show
and
his Oscar was well deserved. Michael Douglas proves again that he's a
class
act, as does Catherine Zeta-Jones and strength in depth is clear all
round.
All in all, then, a great film, combining good acting, clever
psychological
undertones and classy direction, which particularly stands out. Combining
an
ability to keep us interested with the snappy, modern style which he has
brought to the movies today - this film is a gripping account and a very
comprehensive display of Soderbergh's impressive arsenal of film
knowledge,
understanding and talent.

<|_=00=_|>

Early in the year 2000, director Steven Soderbergh's film, Erin Brokovich,
sizzled at the box office  (bringing in over $130 million) while receiving
critical acclaim.  Now, with the release of his latest film, Traffic,
Soderbergh stands to earn Oscar nominations for Best Director and Best
Picture for both of these movies.  It's no wonder, either, as Traffic is
one
of the most gripping films to hit theatres in 2000.

Traffic takes on the complex issues involved with the war on drugs in the
United States and Mexico from the view of these nations as a whole to the
very personal level.  In the film, three  stories unfold to illustrate the
near impossibility of ever stopping the drug trade, despite the billion
dollars that the US spends each year for just that cause.  While the tales
are related, the characters rarely, if ever, cross paths with one another.
This is one of the elements that allows Soderbergh to deliver his message
so
effectively.

The first story features Benicio Del Toro as Javier Rodriguez Rodriguez.  A
cop in Baja, Mexico, he enforces the law and allows the wheels to be
greased
from time to time.  After pulling off a huge drug bust on the Juarez drug
cartel, the powerful General Salazar swoops in to confiscate all of the
drugs and the credit.  Later, Javier and his partner are recruited by
Salazar to fight the war on drugs by aiding him in bringing down the
Obregon
cartel that has plagued Tijuana for some time.

Meanwhile, back in the States, Judge Robert Wakefield (Michael Douglas) of
the Ohio Supreme Court is about to be appointed by the President as the
nation's new leader in the drug war. For the judge, the drug war is about
to
become more personal than he could ever have imagined.

In San Diego, Monty (Don Cheadle) and Ray (Luis Guzman) are two federal
agents perpetrating a drug bust on a slimy drug supplier named Eduardo Ruiz
(Miguel Ferrer).  The events that follow lead them up the drug food chain
to
Carlos Ayala, a well-to-do suburban man who has been smuggling illegal
drugs
into the country from Mexico.   His arrest leaves his pregnant wife, Helena
(Katherine Zeta-Jones, who was really pregnant during the film), to fend
for
herself while taking care of their son, court costs, and a $3 million
dollar
debt to the drug lords in Mexico.

Traffic, written by Simon Moore (the writer for the British miniseries,
Traffik, upon which this script is based), is superbly crafted and woven.
We learn just enough about each character to give us some insight into
their
motives for the courses they choose to follow.  By the films end, matters
are not neatly wrapped up; there is not a fairy tale ending.  This simply
adds to the realism of the issues presented within the movie.  Furthermore,
the intertwining stories drive home the fact that drugs are closer to you
than you think.

The script is bolstered by the phenomenal, ensemble cast.  Zeta-Jones and
Del Toro have both received Golden Globe nominations for Best Supporting
Actress and Actor in a drama for their roles in this film.  Don Cheadle is
superb in his role.  Michael Douglas gives his usual performance while
Erika
Christensen does a good job as his daughter.  Topher Grace (of TV's That
70's Show) is excellent as her upper-class, druggie boyfriend.  Dennis
Quid's character, while played adequately, is underused.

The stories were shot using various filters and lenses, neatly separating
them as the film went from one to another and adding to the viewing
pleasure
of the movie. Mexico is filmed through a hand held camera and yellow lens
to
give it a dry, grainy, shaky look that heightens the feel of unrest
involved
with Del Toro's situation.  Douglas' story is initially filmed in a hue of
solemn, comforting blue.  Zeta-Jones' story is filmed without the use of
lenses, suggesting that her situation and actions are the most realistic
and
achievable of all those presented.

Despite some dialogue that spouts off statistics and seems a bit preachy,
Traffic ranks among the top ten films of 2000, surpassing even Soderbergh's
other venture, Erin Brokovich.  Don't be surprised if this film picks up
the
Oscar for Best Picture.

By film's end, the message is clear and powerful. The fight against drugs
is
a long, uphill battle, but it is better than no battle at
all.

<|_=00=_|>
Yep, I'm on a full Sodebergh binge. I've been crazy about him ever
since "King of The Hill" and he, very rarely, lets me down. I couldn't
say that about many people including siblings and lovers. "Traffic" is
not a departure for Sodebergh, all of his films are. He is an artist
with a golden touch. He can travel through opposing universes with
amazing ease. In "Traffic" the universe is uncomfortable, muddy, almost
ugly and yet, it fascinates and attracts with the power of a magic
magnet. Benicio del Toro and Erika Christensen are the two inhabitants
of this peculiar universe that get under your skin and carry with you
as if they were part of a personal experience. No, not if. They do,
they are, they become part of a personal experience. The film allows
you that. It makes you learn without preaching. How many films today
manage that?
<|_=00=_|>

TRAFFIC / (2000) ***1/2 (out of four)

	"Traffic" caught some of the most gratifying praise in the year 2000. Does
the production live up to its expectations? To some extent. It is not a
movie to take the family to on a Sunday afternoon, nor is it an
"entertaining" popcorn extravaganza. "Traffic" is one of the best films of
the year, but it is not a movie for everyone. I had my fair share of
disappointments, and I think many audiences will walk away unsatisfied by
its documentary-like style and unusual structure. "Traffic" is still a great
achievement in filmmaking and visual style-worthy of some, but not quite
all, of its great acclamation.

	The movie's director, Steven Soderbergh, won Oscar nominations for both of
his movies last year: "Erin Brockovich" starring Julia Roberts, and this
epic about the never ending war on drugs. That first film is entertaining
and charming, but this is far more complex in its story. There are actually
three separate plots here, the first detailing two Tijuana cops (Benicio Del
Toro and Jacob Vargas) who find themselves in the middle of a corrupt police
force, working for Gereal Arturo Salazar (Thomas Milian),  Mexico's top drug
aggressor who wants to shut down the Tijuana drug cartel by capturing a
notorious assassin (Clifton Collins Jr.).

	The second story has Michael Douglas as a conservative Ohio State Supreme
Court Judge turned nation's new drug czar. He has a savage job, as we can
see, but it is even more difficult being the father of a 16-year-old
daughter (Erika Christensen), who gets straight A's in school, but uses
heavy drugs and eventually prostitutes herself for them when the supply runs
low. Amy Irving plays her mother whom herself tried every kind of drug in
the market when she was young and thinks her daughter should be given more
freedom in this area of maturing. Her husband strongly
disagrees.

	 The third story is a bit more complicated, dealing with the reactions of a
typical pregnant homemaker, Helena (Catherine Zeta-Jones), when she finds
out her husband, Carlos Ayala (Steven Bauer), is not an executive, but a
high-powered drug lord. He is taken into custody when undercover DEA agents
Montel Gordon (Don Cheadle) and Ray Castro (Luiz Guzman) crack a
disreputable drug cartel led by Juan Orbergon (Benjamin Bratt). Helena, with
the help from her attorney (Dennis Quaid), must deal with the pressures by
her husband's demanding enemies, as well as the DEA. Miguel Ferrer plays the
middle-run drug dealer who is captured by the DEA agents and wants immunity
for 
testifying against the high-powered bosses for whom he works.

	 "Traffic" does not have the harrowing, compassionate, hard-to-watch tone
that "Requiem for a Dream" had earlier last year, which also contained three
different although parallel stories.  That film depicted drug use as
personal success followed by desolation and punishment. "Traffic" doesn't
really make drugs personal, although the plot featuring Michael Douglas'
drug addicted daughter touches on the idea, and the actors do a good job of
making the character's attitudes hit home, but the film is more about the
war on drugs within America as a country, and how it is a battle not likely
to be won anytime soon. The picture does not capture the feeling of the
characters like "Requiem for a Dream" did with its highly elaborate styles
and camera effects. "Traffic" just isn't as emotionally profound as the much
more worthy "Requiem for a Dream."

	Steven Soderbergh does manage to capture an inciting style with grainy,
high contrast photography exploring the atmosphere of Mexico. He pays
attention to even the smallest scenes. Take a scene where the Benicio De
Toro character encounters a young married couple who complain about their
stolen car. Many directors would have left this scene on the editing tables,
or paid less courtesy to it because it is not as important as many other
scenes.  He gets the right mood, confusion of the characters, all while
furthering the development of De Toro's character. Each individual scene
here is interesting on its own merit. 

	A top notch cast contributes superb performances in "Traffic." We expect
and receive good performances from actors like Michael Douglas, Amy Irving,
Dennis Quaid, Benicio Del Toro, and Albert Finney, but there are also some
newcomers who shine with their material, including Erika Christensen and
Topher Gracer. The actors really hold our attention, and with a running time
of nearly 150 minutes, that is imperative. This film is greatly constructed
and perfectly cast-it is the kind of movie in which you walk out of the
theater wanting to discuss your opinions about it.

<|_=00=_|>

Traffic is an incredible movie. The director, Steven Soderbergh (sex, lies
and videotape, out of sight, erin brockovich, etc...) has created a film
that combines elements of Hollywood and independent filmmaking. On one
hand,
he has created an epic that has a very wide scope and has used some famous
Hollywood actors. On the other hand, as the cameraman for the film, he has
shot it with a handheld camera and and makes the film visually very
different from traditional films. He presents the drug war in the United
States from three perspectives. The first is of a police officer (superbly
played by Benicio del Toro)in Tijuana struggling with the difficult
situations that such a job creates in the center of drug trafficking from
Mexico to the United States. Catherine Zeta Jones plays the wife of the
leader of a drug cartel in San Diego who gets arrested. Once naive about
his
business, she takes charge of the operations. The third story deals with
the
appointment of conservative Ohio Supreme Court justice Robert Wakefield,
played by Michael Douglas, to the post of drug czar. This occurs while his
daughter Caroline, portrayed emotionally by Erika Christensen starts
descending into a world of drugs thanks to her boyfriend Seth Abrahams.
(Topher Grace from "That 70's Show" plays Seth) These three stories are
distinguishable visually. The Tijuana story is shot with different tones of
yellow, giving everything that goes on in the story a feel similar to that
of a hot desert. The San Diego story has warm soft colors, representing
Helena Ayala's (Catherine Zeta Jones' character) once peaceful social
soccer
mom life. Finally, Cincinatti and Washington, D.C., the cities where the
story of the drug czar takes place is shot in a cold blue, giving it an
emotionless feel. Despite the importance of the visuals, what makes this
film that much better is the fact that Soderbergh does not moralize. There
is not an anti-drug stance but there is also not a strong advocacy of
legalization. Traffic shows a problem with no current solution. The viewer
has to decide for himself. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Traffic (2000)

Like an abstract expressionist master, Steven Soderbergh
stands in the center of a canvas that stretches from
Cincinnati to Tijuana. He mixes materials and splashes
colors with the dash and power of a Jackson Pollock. His
materials are skillful acting, lively editing, a dynamic
music score, and an unflinching camera. (He did his own
lensing, under a pseudonym). The artist's aim? To paint
a picture of our country's drug problem.

Scripted by Stephen Gaghan, "Traffic" has its roots in
a 1989 British television mini-series, "Traffik," which
followed the drug trade from Pakistan to Britain. There
are three loosely related stories, each with its own
color coding--and as with Pollock, there is nothing
random about where the paint splashes upon the canvas.

Blue hues bathe blue bloods in Cincinnati where an Ohio
Supreme Court Justice (Michael Douglas) is flattered into
taking a job as national drug czar, just as his bright
young daughter (Erika Christensen) is seduced into
addiction by her prep-school friends.

A rich golden-yellow surrounds San Diego where a comely
couple (Catherine Zeta-Jones and Steven Bauer) occupy
the upper links of the drug chain and spend ill-gotten
cash on clothes, cars and country clubs. They are pursued
by two undercover cops (Don Cheadle and Luis Guzman) who
spend most of their screen time cooped up in a
surveillance van.

In Mexico, a washed-out, burnished brown bespatters a
desert of desperation as two Baja policemen (Benicio
Del Toro and Jacob Vargas) pull off a major drug bust
only to be themselves busted, by a sinister general
(Tomas Milian) who notifies them that 'I will take over
from here.' Each color signifies its own impenetrable
culture, and when Douglas crosses into Mexico to meet
his counterpart, we know (but he doesn't) that his
fellow drug czar is really a drug lord.

The performances were exceptional, especially considering
that no one was given star treatment. Much of the film
was shot with existing light and Soderbergh kept the
composition wide, letting the actors create their own
space. Douglas was surprisingly believable as the would-be
czar and bookends an Oscar-worthy year with his scruffy
professor in the earlier "Wonder Boys." His real-life
wife, Zeta-Jones (carrying their child), gave a quite
credible performance as a society snob who turns ruthless
when her status is threatened.

Other stand-outs include Christensen's drugged-out
daughter, Del Toro's street smart Mexican cop and
Cheadle's dedicated drug buster. In fact, there was
not a weak performance in the bunch, including crucial
cameos by veterans Peter Riegert and Albert Finney. Real
people even play roles: Douglas's fictional drug czar
confers with real-life senator Orrin Hatch, while actual
customs officials relate their day-to-day drug enforcement
dilemmas.

Each of the three stories ends with a glimmer of hope.
But despite small battles being won, the film's verdict
is that the larger war is plainly being lost. As if on
cue, White House Director of Drug Policy, Barry McCaffrey,
has resigned effective January 6, 2001. The real-life
outgoing czar, a former general, has become a vocal
supporter of increased funding for treatment programs.

Like Pollock, Soderbergh continues to stretch the
boundaries of his art, as he did a dozen years ago with
"sex, lies, and videotape," and more recently with the
undervalued "The Limey." "Erin Brockovich" though fairly
conventional by his standards, nevertheless completes a
year any director would envy.

Rating:  3 1/2 stars out of 4


<|_=00=_|>

Director Steven Soderbergh's latest film, "Traffic," covers the US/Mexican
War on Drugs-specifically, cocaine-from several different angles.  Three
separate but interconnected storylines show dealers, users, cops, smugglers,
lawyers, government officials-everyone but the South American growers.

We get to hear the arguments on all sides and see the impacts on many
people's lives-innocent, guilty, and everywhere in between.  But in an early
scene when Erika Christensen takes her first hit of freebase, the look of
sheer bliss on her face sends the message that this war is already lost.  As
long as something can give people this kind of high, they won't care about
how much it costs them and not all the laws and governments on Earth will
keep it from getting to them.

The cast is large, full of good actors in juicy roles-Michael Douglas,
Benecio Del Toro, Dennis Quaid, Catherine Zeta-Jones, Don Cheadle, Luis
Guzman, Miguel Ferrer, to name a few.  Newcomers Christensen and Topher
Grace stand out as spoiled teenage cokeheads.  And if you look carefully,
you can spot brief appearances by Albert Finney, Salma Hayek, James Brolin,
and Benjamin Bratt.  There are also cameos at a cocktail party by a
real-life governor and five senators, at least one of whom (Orrin Hatch) has
since denounced the film.

Each storyline is photographed in a different style-all shot by Soderbergh
himself, with a hand-held camera, under the pseudonym Peter Andrews.
Cincinnati and Washington are blue, hard, and cold; Mexico is overexposed,
dusty, and brown-filtered; and San Diego is warm and soft-focused.  At times
I thought the jerky camera movement and jump cut editing started to get
pretentiously artsy and distracting, but the story and the characters always
pulled me back in.

The script by Stephen Gaghan-based on a 1990 British TV miniseries-may use
situations and character types familiar to us from years of TV cop shows and
other movies, but Soderbergh and the cast make them seem fresh and exciting
again.  For a change, style and substance work together, not against each
other.  It was like when I saw DePalma's "Scarface" or the series "Miami
Vice" for the first time.

The only time my credulity was challenged was when drug czar Douglas went
looking for his addict daughter in the worst-and apparently all-black-part
of Cincinnati, kicking down doors and threatening an armed dealer himself.
The guy's supposed to be a popular, hard-nosed, law-and-order judge.  Surely
he could've found some sympathetic cops to handle the rough stuff for him.
This, for me, was the only scene where the movie took a turn for the stupid.
And, to the film's credit, this stupid behavior almost gets Douglas killed.

Soderbergh got my attention three years ago with "Out of Sight" and knocked
me out again last year with "Erin Brockovich".  He fully deserves all the
nominations and awards he's been getting lately.  >
