

I know, I know. "The Rookie" is a critically lambasted action film, and from
what I've read from the other IMDb users, it's considered one of the worst
films since "Ishtar"! But, I'll cut "The Rookie" some slack, because I
happen to enjoy this flick pretty much. Yeah, the dialogue is a bit crappy,
especially by Pepe Serna's lines; he jitters while he talks most of the
length of time of the movie!

Well anyway, I thought it is a pretty enjoyable cop drama, due to the funny
chemistry between Eastwood and Sheen, who do great Mel Gibson/Danny Glover
impressions. The action is intense, and the suspense is quite strong, too.
"The Rookie" delivers the goods for fans of the action genre, but for those
who want a more logical movie, avoid "The Rookie".
<|_=00=_|>

"The Rookie" may not be heavy on plot or even very original, but it's a
blast!  Lots of cool action, lots of cool stunts and a consistently
energetic pace that never takes a beat.  Clint Eastwood and Charlie Sheen
make a great team.  Eastwood spouts great one-liners by the second ("If you
want a guarantee, buy a toaster").  One of the keys to a good action movie
is a good sense of humor, which this movie does not lack.  There's a
hilarious scene where Sheen points a gun at two attack dogs who were chasing
after him.  Eastwood comments, "Good job.  Now read them their rights." 
Raul Julia (who will be missed terribly) and Sonia Braga make a great team
of villains.  Basically, "The Rookie" is good, solid action entertainment. 
As long as you're not looking to watch "Henry V," you should be very
impressed!  To quote Eastwood's character, "Why the hell not?" 

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is a very standard cop buddy action film.  A veteran cop is
assigned to work with a rookie cop to catch a crook who killed the vet's
old
partner.  This is so standard of action film's but that doesnt matter, its
still good mindless fun.  I though the action was good in this film,
especially the opening car chase, and I thought Eastwood gave s good
performance and was even funny at times.  I am not a big Charlie Sheen fan
but I thought he was ok in this one, and Raul Julia was solid as the bad
guy.  3.5/5.  Recommended, even though its like so many action film's its
very enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
It's clear that upon watching "The Rookie" that Clint Eastwood's heart
simply was not with this project - either as a director or an actor.
Possibly he only decided to do this "commercial" project so that Warner
Brothers would green-light the less commercial "White Hunter Black
Heart" that came out the same year. Whatever the reason, Eastwood seems
to be going on autopilot in front of and behind the camera. His
performance here lacks conviction, and he comes across as a cranky old
man instead of a man with grit and determination. And as a director, he
slips up multiple times. The action sequences are dull when they should
be spectacular - the freeway chase, for example, is flat despite all
the vehicles that get destroyed. The night scenes and often the
interior scenes are dark and murky, making it hard to see all the
details about what's going on.

And what's the deal with the dream sequence at the opening of the
movie? In fact, there are a number of script boo-boos that make me
surprised that Eastwood didn't demand a rewrite. Why doesn't Eastwood
call for backup at the opening action sequence? Why is Raul Julia's
past and motives never properly spelled out, and why is Eastwood so
determined to bust him? Why do Eastwood and Sheen hardly have any real
conversations between them instead of clichéd "tough cop" talk? Also,
the slow-moving story at times feels like the writers were writing it
as the movie was being shot, instead of using a finished screenplay. It
might also explain why key actions and scenes seem to be missing from
the finished product.

What really annoyed me most about "The Rookie" was all the swearing.
Don't get me wrong - I use the same words in my private life, and I
have seen movies I've enjoyed with plenty of swearing. But here, every
curse word comes across as forced, as if a child was making this movie
and gleefully adding naughty language in an effort to appear tough.
It's simply not convincing. Maybe with better direction and a heavily
rewritten script, it could have worked. Those things probably would
have greatly improved the rest of the movie as well.
<|_=00=_|>
In The Rookie Clint Eastwood plays a veteran detective working in the
highly unglamorous unit of automobile crimes. He's got a lead on a
major chop shop operation in Los Angeles headed by an international
criminal Raul Julia and his killer girl Friday Sonia Bragga. When
partner Hal Williams is killed right at the beginning of the film,
Eastwood makes getting Julia a personal crusade.

But in the meantime Eastwood's boss Lieutenant Pepe Serna has given him
a new partner, rookie Charlie Sheen. Sheen's a rich kid who decided on
the life of a police officer as a show of rebellion against his father
Tom Sizemore. And the dangerous life of a cop has girl friend Lara
Flynn Boyle concerned.

Sheen's one major screw up and he screws up big time when Julia and
Bragga turn the tables during a bust and take Eastwood hostage and
leave Sheen for dead. After that Sheen magically transforms himself
into Rambo and the film takes on a non-stop Indiana Jones like quality
in terms of action.

The Rookie is not the kind of film you should not take too seriously,
the various players look they're having one great old time in
delivering some really hokey dialog. Eastwood in particular with that
ever present cigar in his mouth never cracking a smile.

The action sequences are well staged especially that final chase
through the LAX Airport. Most unforgettable in this film is Sonia
Bragga, one ice cold German princess, no doubt descendant from some
concentration camp matron. Her 'rape' scene of Eastwood is something
else. Talk about performance anxiety, YEEEEEEEEEEEESH.

The Rookie is not ever going to be one of the top ten of Clint
Eastwood's films, but it's certainly entertaining and enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
I honestly expected "The Rookie" to be one of my favorite films, it had
everything that I like about an action film. Buddy Cops, Clint
Eastwood, Charlie Sheen, action, bad cop, good cop...how can it
fail...but it does, it falls flat on his face and there isn't even
anything redeemable about it which is amazing to me!! 

The Rookie is about veteran tough guy cop Nick Pulovski. He has been on
the case of big time car thief Strom with his partner and now they've
finally caught up to him. Unfortunately Strom gets the drop on them and
shoots Pulovski's partner dead. Now Pulovski is hell bent on destroying
Strom but when he tries to pitch his plan to the Lieutenant, he takes
him off the case and gives him a rookie new partner, David Ackerman.
Uptight, perfectly controlled, by the book, the complete opposite of
Nick. Nick drags him around as they follow Strom and try to catch his
trail, against orders. When they think they finally have them during a
Casino robbery Ackerman hesitates during their capture and gets shot in
the back (fortunately in the vest) and Nick is kidnapped. Strom demands
two million dollars from the city in order for Nick not to be killed
and the city doesn't want to comply for fear of negotiating with
kidnappers. David has had enough and he breaks. Everything Nick has
shown him about being the tough cop who walks the line between good and
bad comes to surface and he turns over every bar, destroys everything
in his path to find out where Pulovski is. He even gets the two million
dollars from his wealthy father in order to pay the ransom. When he
finally finds Nick the two of them will stop at nothing to chase down
Strom and end it once and for all.

The special effects in this film are utterly and horribly deplorable.
Every time a gun goes off (which is a lot) it looks like mini
firecrackers. Even the car chase scenes which could have been cool are
not even remotely. The worst part Clint Eastwood who has always been a
great action star is horrible!! But it's probably more the script that
ruins it. Charlie Sheen who I always though should have been a bigger
movie star than what he turned out to be...shows me why I am wrong in
this empty and vapid performance as Ackerman. Eastwood and Sheen have
some chemistry for the buddy cop routine but barely enough for a pulse.
Everything that happens in the film makes no sense at all and is
confusing crap!! I can't get over how disappointing it is when the idea
has such great promise. The worst part is these two so called cops are
just as bad if not worse than the bad guys but in the end they are back
in their uniforms, one of them with a huge promotion despite the fact
that they caused innocent deaths and ran around blowing everything up.
I would say for campy fans to check this one out but it's not even
worth it. Even Raul Julia might as well have played Gomez Adams as the
bad guy it was that campy. Maybe it can all be blamed on the writers.
At almost two hours it's such a huge waste of time and I can't believe
Eastwood directed let alone starred in this enormous disappointment.
4/10
<|_=00=_|>
Clint Eastwood is in a class by himself. There are not many actors that
can act and direct. This movie, The Rookie, is a classical example of
Clint's ability to act and direct. Whether its a western or more urban
such as Dirty Harry in San Frsncisco or Wes Boc in New Orleans or a
Texas Ranger in A Perfect Day chasing after a hardened criminal, Kevin
Costner, who's kidnapped a 7 year old boy whose mother is a Jehovah's
Witness. 

To attack the script and the directing and using those as a means to
ridicule Mr. Eastwood as an actor and a director is wrongheaded
thinking. Clint Eastwood is an American Icon. By deriding Clint
Esstwood one is attacking a shining example of hard work and dedication
to ones work--in this case acting.

One should view this movie for the entertainment value that the actors
involved brought to us. The one actor who really struggled through this
movie was Raul Julie who was struggling with his liver disease. Actors
are professional and enjoy bringing us there trade for our enjoyment.
<|_=00=_|>
Not just another Clint Eastwood movie. Of course, Clint directs and
stars as Nick Pulovski, a veteran cop assigned to the auto theft
division. But his own agenda is to find the criminal that killed his
partner. To his dismay, Pulovski is given a new partner...rookie cop
David Ackerman(Charlie Sheen). The former homicide cop is still
marching to his own drummer and is perturbed that his young charge is
reluctant to stray from the rules. When Pulovski is held hostage by a
master criminal named Strom(Raul Julia), who is demanding a ton of
money...but would just be happy enough to torture and kill him;
Ackerman goes into super-cop mode and begins kicking some mean ass in
his search for his partner. Strom and his right-hand woman Liesl(Sconia
Braga)let bullets fly(definitely an understatement)before each meets
that clichéd bullet between the eyes.

Tom Skerritt plays Ackerman's estranged father, who on second thought
provides ransom money that actually ends up whirling on the ground at
the San Jose airport . Also in the cast are: Lara Flynn Boyle, Marco
Rodrigues, Pepe Serna and Donna Mitchell. Most impressive is Sheen
busting up the bar before setting it on fire.
<|_=00=_|>

There is simply no excuse for how bad this movie is. It would have to rate
as one of the worst of all time.
It is so bad, in fact, it is almost - but not - laughable. The fact that it
has a relatively accomplished cast makes this all the more diappointing.
Raul Julia as a German! That's just the start. Clint Eastwood's grip on
police reality is completely gone here, and Charlie Sheen is just way out of
his depth as a tormented rookie cop. Plus a sex interest that ain't sexy and
you wind up with 0. Which is almost what I gave this film. Whatever you do,
DO NOT put yourself through the torture of watching this movie - I was
begging for the end after 20 mins!
<|_=00=_|>

I stared at this movie on the shelf for about 4 weeks before I finally took
a chance with it.

Clint Eastwood who directed and starred in The Rookie, plays a cop who
looses his partner one night on a bust.  Eastwood, swearing revenge, goes
after the killers.  The next day, he is immediately partnered up with a
young and upcoming rookie (Charlie Sheen) and together the two set out to
find the killers.  The killers, a sneaky group of car thieves, is headed by
the late Raul Julia, who plays his role exceptionally well. 

Now the title of the film and the name of the director can be very
misleading.  The Rookie can lead you to expect something different from it,
but it turns out to be typical buddy stuff.  I think that Raul Julia is
totally miscast as a the villain.  It is kind of hard to imagine him as a
German.  

Is The Rookie all bad?  Naw.  There are quite a few good and funny action
scenes.  The funniest being Charlie Sheen's second venture into a biker bar.
 Seeing him constantly yell, "Come on, Motherf**kers, come on!" is
absolutely hilarious.  Also, the scene where Charlie Sheen drives his
motorcycle through the front door of his house to save his girlfriend from
one of the bad guys is pretty good too.

6/10 
