
Despite what you might think after reading my title, I quite liked Bad
Moon. It's good for a werewolf movie even though I sometimes had the
feeling I was watching an episode of "Lassie" rather than a movie about
a werewolf.

A man and his girlfriend, both American scientists on an expedition
somewhere in the jungle of India, were attacked by a werewolf. He
manages to survive the attack and knows to kill the animal, but his
girlfriend has already been ripped to pieces and died a horrible death.
Even though he survived the werewolf wounded him badly and now he's a
werewolf himself. Despite popular believe, the man doesn't only turn
into a werewolf at full moon. He becomes one every night and there is
no cure. His only hope is his sister and her son. He hopes that the
love of his family will cure him from his "disease".

As I already said Bad Moon is an enjoyable movie. Especially the
morphing technique (when you actually see him turn into a werewolf) is
cool to watch. The story may not always be the very original, it still
does the trick. The same for the acting. There is nothing spectacular
about it, but it is very decent and believable. I give this movie a
6,5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Bad Moon is a sorely underrated werewolf film that is like hidden
treasure for werewolf and horror movie enthusiasts.

I watched Bad Moon a few years back and did not expect it to become one
of my favorite werewolf films - but it did. Maybe it helped because I
like both Michael Paré (Eddie and the Cruisers) and Mariel Hemingway
(Star 80) but maybe anyone could have acted out the parts and I would
have still enjoyed Bad Moon anyway.

If you are looking for modern-day, high dollar movie with tons of CGI
effects - then this movie may not be for you. Bad Moon uses "old
school" special effects that I still love to this very day.

This is one of those movies I would enjoy watching again on a dark,
rainy night with popcorn in hand.

9.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
I was positively impressed with just how well done the transformation
into the werewolf was done. I am very familiar with werewolf movies
from the ones done by Lon Chaney Jr. to the present day and this one
was pretty effective. 

The plot was standard, but just how much can one change the werewolf
saga? A good man is against his will unfortunately transformed into a
murderous creature of the night, and even though he tries his best to
control his urges, it is all to no avail, and in the end someone close
to him has to end his bloody reign of terror. 

The acting by the principles was reasonable, and yes the German
Shepherd, Thor, did steal the show, but again, so what? I would even
enjoy watching it again!
<|_=00=_|>
Just as you shouldn't judge a book by its cover, try not to judge a
movie by its pre-credits sequence. I was actually groaning aloud while
witnessing the bad acting on display as soon as this movie opened. And
things looked like they were about to get a hell of a lot worse with a
sub-Showgirls moment of unerotic, sexual writhing. Then a werewolf
appeared and some blood was thrown around . . . . and my interest was
piqued once again.

Moving on from that, Bad Moon introduces the viewer to Janet (Mariel
Hemmingway), her son Brett (Mason Gamble aka the boy who was Dennis on
screen) and their loyal dog, Thor. Into this small unit comes Janet's
brother Ted (Michael Pare), the man involved in the opening unerotic,
sexual writhing and werewolf carnage. Thor doesn't really like Ted and
it's not too long until everyone, apart from those on screen, knows
exactly where the animosity springs from.

Director Eric Red is not a bad guy. He's provided those who saw it with
the brilliance of Cohen & Tate and he also wrote The Hitcher, a
long-time favourite of mine. But here, perhaps because he's adapting
from the source novel named "Thor" by Wayne Smith, he feels a little
boxed in and restrained. Seeing the title of the source material on
screen certainly prepares the viewer for the focus of the movie as the
brave family dog goes about the business of trying to keep loved ones
safe. The film plays out like some Joe Dante-infused blend of Cat's
Eye, Fluke and Silver Bullet which hinders it initially but then makes
for a snappy, and highly enjoyable, second half.

Acting aside, as it's frankly not worth mentioning anyway, we can judge
this first and foremost as a creature feature. In that respect, does it
deliver something worth seeing? I'd have to say that it does. Mixing
practical make-up, camera trickery and some nice little tricks and
cheats here and there, the main beastie is both handsome (in a beastly
way) and ferocious. It may not be up there with the best that this
particular subgenre has to offer but it's no pathetic piñata either.

So, in summation, the movie overcomes many faults to be something
enjoyable and worthy of inclusion in anyone's nostalgic list of movies
they inexplicably enjoy. Thanks to the creature design and one solid
performance from the canine lead it's a surprisingly sweet-centred
horror movie that, strangely enough, perhaps could have used a little
less blood on screen to gain some broader appeal (and I never thought I
would use THAT sentence in my reviews).
<|_=00=_|>
The problem with werewolf movies is that there's so few good ones.
Since the dawn of the millennium, we've had two good ones; Ginger Snaps
and Dog Soldiers, and then there's the 80's duo of An American Werewolf
in London and The Howling, not to mention the Universal and Hammer
takes on the legend...but seriously, the werewolf tale is a classic
story and it deserves more good films than just the aforementioned. Bad
Moon, while certainly not a bad take on the story, is hardly one to add
to the illusive list of good ones; but it's still an enjoyable ride for
the werewolf fan. It has all the elements to be a success; decent
effects, a change sequence, some interesting characters and even a bit
about the legend itself. We follow Uncle Ted; a man that has been
bitten by a werewolf and decides to go and stay with his sister and her
son, in order to beat the curse with family love. However, one thing he
hasn't counted on is the family dog; Thor, who could end up being the
family's one last hope of survival.

The special effects in a werewolf film are very important as the
monster is the centre of the tale, and bad effects can easily bring a
whole movie down. This movie is lucky enough not to suffer from bad
effects and while the wolf isn't exactly lifelike; it looks good enough
and it also appears in the film quite often, which is a nice bonus. The
change sequence is a little suspect and has nothing on the change
scenes in the werewolf films of the 80's, but it's always good to see
in a film of this kind. Aside from the werewolf element, Bad Moon also
draws on the idea of a strange uncle invading a film home for it's
scares, and the idea works quite well. Another idea that works better
than I thought it would is having the main hero be a canine. Dogs are
sensitive animals, and the film also draws on the idea of a dog wanting
to protect the family home from threats. It's also admirable how they
managed to get the dog to certain things for the camera, as I imagine
that sort of thing wouldn't be easy. While this film isn't a great
example of a take on the werewolf legend, it's entertaining and I
reckon that people who like werewolf movies will find lots to like
about it.
<|_=00=_|>
You have a good life. Nice home, nice yard. But one day a relative
comes to visit, and you know something's not right about him. You come
to find out he's a werewolf. The only problem is, you're the only one
who knows. And you're a dog.

Werewolves are one of those monsters that come and go in films. After a
decade which saw the release of many good werewolf films (the 1980s),
there just weren't many films about them in the 1990s. Bad Moon is one
of the few good ones that were made during this period. Not an
outstanding film by any stretch, but a fun film nonetheless. It
features an excellent performance by a German Shepherd as the
protagonist, Thor. Worth a look if you're a fan of the genre. Probably
not very exciting if you're not.
<|_=00=_|>
Wildlife film-maker Ted (Michael Paré) and his tasty girlfriend
Marjorie (Johanna Marlowe) are happily having it off in their jungle
tent when they are rudely interrupted by a massive werewolf that
proceeds to savage the naked woman with its massive jaws and slash at
the poor bloke with its razor-sharp claws. Too late to save his lover,
a wounded Ted grabs his shotgun and blows the creature's head off in a
welter of gore.

Sexy, bloody, and with one hell of an impressive looking monster,
writer/director Eric Red's opening scene to Bad Moon is a real corker,
which makes it all the more frustrating when the film settles into a
more mundane mode, Ted having a hairy time of it coming to terms with
being a lycanthrope while putting those he loves most in mortal danger.
Thankfully, a couple of cool kills by the gnarly werewolf keep the film
ticking along until the fun finalé, in which loyal hound Thor (talented
German Shepherd Primo, who puts in the best performance of the film)
risks his life to protect Ted's sister Janet (Mariel Hemingway) and her
son Brett (Mason Gamble) from being eaten alive by the beast.
<|_=00=_|>
The dog is really good; steals the picture.

The kid is fairly annoying but not worse than most child actors. Hiring
Miss Hemingway for a wolfman picture seems perfectly natural; with that
unibrow, she could have played the lead.

Michael Pare works constantly, and I always like him, even though he
never became a big star.

My one complaint: By time-honored tradition, we're entitled to a nude
scene for the actor playing the wolfman, every time he transforms back
into a human. There are two re-transformation scenes in this movie.
Michael Pare has no fear of doing nude scenes (cruise his credit list),
but we only get one. The first time, he's just shirtless. I call
shenanigans on that.

The movie is a bi t hard on tennis shoes. The scene where Pare gives
the dog some territorial payback is amusing; it almost makes up for the
cheesiness of the human-to-werewolf transformation scene. But then,
those almost always are cheesy, right?
<|_=00=_|>
I think this film fits somewhere in the top 10 werewolf movies(that
I've seen). One thing I really liked was they didn't ruin the werewolf
by making it with awful computer graphics(CG). Don't get me wrong, CG
is great as long as its good(eg.Lord of the Rings)etc. I also thought
the dog Thor made the movie even better. It wouldn't of been the same
without Thor. The movie seemed a little on the low budget side, but it
didn't matter at all. Where the film takes place, and the storyline of
the movie, they didn't need a high budget.If they would of had a higher
budget they most likely would of ended up ruining it. Get ready to jump
out of seat a few times. All in all it was a good flick.
<|_=00=_|>
How many good werewolf films were released in the 90's? Not many,
Right. Well this was one of the few.

The film begins with a very well done opening sequence in which a
fornicating couple is attacked by a giant hairy beast. The beasts head
us subsequently shot off. The man escapes with a few cuts but the woman
was savagely mauled to death. Later on we re-join the man as he has his
sister, nephew and their dog over for a visit. The dog is instantly
suspicious of the man (whom of course is now a werewolf after surviving
an attack by one) but the others don't suspect a thing. After some
mangled corpses are found around the mans house (trailer) he decides to
move to his sisters and thus begins the heart pounding tale of Dog VS
Werewolf! This movie isn't anything special and really isn't that great
as a movie in general but it's one of the better werewolf films around
and one of the best werewolf films out of the 90's.

The performances from Michael Pare and Mariel Hemingway as the werewolf
and his sister are both about average but the standout performance in
the movie comes from the Dog portraying Thor. Best canine performance
in werewolf cinema history by far! And I love the fact that the lead
character is a dog.

The werewolf itself is totally badass. Its head it quite obviously
robotic but it's still a great design. The eyes are downright
frightening and it's a hulking, hairy, wolf snouted beast as a werewolf
should be.

The attack sequences are savage and violent. The opening scene is one
of the most brutal werewolf attack put to film. There are also one or
two very suspenseful scenes with great atmosphere. The woods are rarely
as frightening as in this film.

It moves along at a very quick, breezy pace at only 75 minutes which is
a very good thing; this movie wouldn't have worked as well if it got
bogged down with silly subplots.

The film has its share of problems of course. When the dog and werewolf
finally do go head to head it just comes off as silly. The kid playing
the Michael Pares nephew (also known as Dennis the Menace) is just
plain annoying.

Overall: this is a good light horror film; I highly recommend it to all
werewolf fans. You might want to check out the book too; Thor by Wayne
Smith.
