

If you see only one Van Damme film...see Maximum Risk.  It is a decent
thriller, not just a martial arts flick.  Unfortunately, after seeing how
good Van Damme can be (yes, he can act - something we've yet to see from
Stephen Seagal who he's usually compared to) it makes you sad to see how
many bad films he's really made.
<|_=00=_|>

"Maximum Risk" is not just a good Van Damme movie, but it's also probably
one of the better action movies in the last few years. The story is well
written (for an action movie), and is fast paced. Director Ringo Lam ("City
on Fire") impresses the viewer with excellent action sequences. This is
definitely Van Damme's best turn as an actor. Natasha Henstridge does a
rather decent turn as the damsel in distress, and creates good chemistry
between herself and Van Damme. I don't see why this was a huge flop in
theaters; it's surely Van Damme's best and at heart an exciting action
flick.

<|_=00=_|>
This Jean-Claude Van Damme action vehicle gets good marks for sound,
low profanity, some very good action scenes and some interesting
characters that keep your attention. It loses marks for excessive
violence, too much "Rambo" mentality (good guys don't get hit despite a
barrage of bullets) and, yet, another modern-day film in which the FBI
is corrupt. 

This is also another of these action films that has TOO much action. It
would be better with some more lulls. It almost gets ridiculous in
spots. Nevertheless, some of the scenes such as car chases, fires and
explosions are so well-done you have to admire the great stunt work in
here. Man, those stunt men earn their money!

You would be hard-pressed to find two leads in any film with the bodies
of Van Damme and Natasha Henstridge and neither are shy about showing
them off, so you have the usual gratuitous sex scenes, but they are
brief, as is the profanity. This is a loud film. If you have good
speakers, be ready to have the room shake with lots of bass.

Overall, it's about 100 minutes of mindless but entertaining diversion.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie stars Van Damme who has been in many B-movies and is known
as a b-movie action star.I believe thats why this movie gets this low
rating. This movie is an a-movie and one of the best action movies and
one of my favorites.The rating is simply ridiculous.Van Damme may not
be a first rate actor but can he hold his own in this kind of
material.Everything else in this movie is first rate.The plot is
interesting,there are all kinds of chases and action scenes,All the
action scenes are terrific and there's plenty of them.The bad guy is
one impressive dude,makes for some really awesome wrestling scenes with
Van Damme. The girl is the gorgeous Natasha Henstridge.In my book this
is one fine action movie.
<|_=00=_|>
French Cop,Alain(Jean Claude Van-Damme)one day finds out he had a twin
Brother,travels to America to find answers about who he was,and who
murdered him.Running afoul of the Russian Mob,a Brian Bosworth Looking
Hit-man,and crooked FBI agents along the way in New York.He also finds
himself Protecting/falling in love with the dead bro's squeeze played
by Natasha Henstridge.All leading up to a big shoot out in an abandoned
Wherehouse...Sorta.This is not your usual Van Damme movie.

Matured Van Damme?Yep.

For starters Maximum risk is helmed by Asian-action-man,Ringo Lam.He
gives the movie a lot of atmosphere and style.The fight scenes are
realistic,gritty,and for the most part brutal.Notice Van Damme goes for
the Jugular here.Breaking bones as well as high flying kicks. The
gunfights are staged well.Some good chases.And a nice scene involving a
chainsaw.

The scenery is worth it too.We start out in warm,beautiful,summertime
France to Dead of winter, smelly, New York city.I think its a nice
contrast arc on the story.

Lam gets one of the very best acting gigs outta Van Damme Yet.He is at
his darkest and most volatile here.Natasha Henstridge is kinda wasted
to anything but eye candy.Zach Grenier and Paul Ben Victor are just
okay as the bad guys calling the shots.Trouble is they are not really a
physical threat for Van Damme.Stefanos Miltsakais as Redface fits this
bill very well.His 3 confrontations with Alain are worthwhile.although
its get to be a little tedious bordering on parody.

This would probably be the best Van Damme movie if it were not for the
slow pace and excessive dialog,which does serve a purpose.Its just we
get some flashy action.Then 15 minutes go by leaving us wanting
more.Then it starts up again.Brake.Gas.Brake.Gas.

The gunfights are good,but It seems Ringo was holding back a little
from his usual trademark stuff to pacify the suits behind the scenes.

If your looking for the usual from JC,then go watch the Quest.This is a
much more complex,adult-themed movie.
<|_=00=_|>
This has to be the best Jean-Claude Van Damme action movie he has made.
It has it all, and it has it in spades. This movie is 100 minutes, and
95 of those are pure action.

You have great car chases through the streets of Nice and New York.

You have a whole lot of people the Government is not going to have to
arrest and try because they will not be around.

You have three, count them three outstanding fights between Jean-Claude
Van Damme and the biggest, baddest dude you can imagine.

And, you have Natasha Henstridge in the bathroom making love and giving
us a view we will long remember.

What more can you ask for?
<|_=00=_|>
As a Van Damme fan when i saw this film i was instantly blown away.The
only thing i didn't like was the brother storyline again.How many
brothers has this guy got.But seriously this is an action movie from
start to finish.There is car chases, fights, and of course a beautiful
woman.What more could you ask for?.Well nothing really,this movie has
it all and to think it was from the start of Van Damme's drug taking
days.He must have been on drugs to make Double Team which is'nt bad
film ,just bad actors (Dennis Rodman).Any way Maximum Risk is a movie
that will have you on the edge of your seat from start to finish.The
fight scenes are great and well directed.And it has Natasha Henstridge
who acts well and puts on a decent performance.She is also easy on the
eye in more ways than one.
<|_=00=_|>

Maximum Risk is the second Van Damme-movie to be directed by a
HongKong-director(the first was "Hard Target" by John Woo), Ringo Lam
delivers stylish action as always, but this isn`t the same as "Full
Contact", but this is very good after American standards.  Van Damme
delivers his usual stuff.
Maximum Risk is great!
9/10


<|_=00=_|>
JCVD joins forces with another rising Hong Kong action director making
his American cinema debut. By this time Van Damme's career had started
a decline already.

JCVD plays Alain, a cop who finds out that he had a twin brother
Mikhail involved with Russian gangsters in the USA who have had him
killed in a hilarious chase sequence on a bike at the beginning of the
film set in the south of France.

Alain goes to New York looking for these Russian bad guys, he gets
involved with his late brother's girlfriend, a eccentric taxi driver
and crosses path with some dicey FBI agents.

The plot is mundane and too slow. The action scenes seem lazily staged,
JCVD fights the same henchman three times in the film. The chase
sequences look inept with explosions coming out of nowhere.
<|_=00=_|>
The behavior represented in this film, is at the maximum level of risk!
There is no level of riskiness that could surpass what is shown in this
film! Now, although the film did not explicitly show it, It is heavily
implied that the main character did wear a condom, throughout the
entire course of the movie. WOW, now that's what I call 'Method
Acting!'
