
This was satisfying to watch, just to see justice done to an evil
character (played well by Demi Moore). It's also refreshing - and
astonishing - to see the flip side of the coin: a man accusing a woman
of sexual harassment and proving it! What a unique twist, almost
unheard of in the Liberal world of mainstream films.

Michael Douglas co-stars with Moore and is good, too, but I found
Douglas' lawyer "Catherine Alvarez" played by Roma Maffia, to be the
most interesting of them all and making the most profound statements in
this tale of "power" (not sex).

Donald Sutherland gives another convincing performance as a "bad guy"
as well. That's a role he seems best suited to play. All the actors are
good on this adaption from a Michael Crichton book.

The radical feminists didn't like this movie, so you know the the film
has something going for it besides good acting and dialog. They want
everything slanted to them, but as it's pointed out in the film, things
can go both ways.....and what's wrong with an even playing field?
<|_=00=_|>

Tense thriller mixes legal suspense, gender-role debate and technology-based
action, with mixed results. In fact, its all good except for the computer
stuff. The firm which the film revolves around is Digicom (a bit too made-up
sounding for my liking), a computer technology firm. We're told at the
beginning that the firm is developing a new technology, which will be used
as collateral in the upcoming merger. They develop a sort of virtual reality
file-scanning system, which doesn't make file-searching any easier
whatsoever, but is more like an unnecessary toy for show - but it plays a
part late in the film that, for me, was my only complaint about the film.
All of a sudden, we go into the machine, and it just sticks out like a sore
thumb as being totally wrong for this movie - we're in a sci-fi movie all of
a sudden. Plus, it was totally unnecessary. In the scene straight after, the
character reports what they discovered in the machine, so it was more for
show than relevance - but it ends up hurting the consistency of the film for
those five minutes.

This film suffers a little from the same thing the Sandra Bullock vehicle
The Net suffers from - in hindsight, now that we've all just accepted the
internet and computers as a helpful part of our daily existence, all these
old fears we had seem slightly silly. Its a bit like looking back at those
Y2K scares and thinking how ridiculous we were to be so afraid. Unlike The
Net, though, technology-phobia is only in the subplot of this film. Its more
about what happens between Michael Douglas and Demi Moore late one night at
the office, and what happens afterwards.

Its very wordy - so be prepared for that. A couple of early dialogue scenes
should have been rewritten with the dialogue absent, and told with a couple
of thoughtful extended shots. But maybe i only think that because i've just
gotten into Antonioni. He really makes this movie look reliant on words.

The sex scene is so well choreographed as to feed an entire movie's worth of
plot. Its sexy - true, Demi Moore radiates sex appeal like you wouldn't
believe - its an incredible scene to watch. But its stict mechanics are also
very necessary for the rest of the plot. Its one of the most necessary and
justified sex scenes i've ever seen.

Overall, it works. Its a tense thriller with two really incredible
performances from the leads. I don't think its an essential movie, and its
not particularly pleasant, if that's what you're after, but if you want a
good tense thriller (which many of us do), this is worth a rental. Plus, we
feel for Michael Douglas and want things to turn out good for him. So in
that way, i think it deserves a workmanlike 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm really surprised that there are next-to-no comments on this excellent
thriller. It has been on ITV many times now, but I have only just caught it
now after reading a second-hand copy of the novel. This thriller deals with
the inequality between men and women in the corporate workplace brilliantly,
displaying the clichéd attitudes of so-called friends and colleagues. this
film has a real moral to it that rises it up from the blockbuster it is
intended to be. The plight of the man against the megalomaniac female
corporate boss seems quite desperate against the political correctness of
the 90's, but is also sadly realistic showing what an unphilanthropic,
complicated world this sometimes is. Especially in the ever-dominant world
of corporations, simple human empathy is lost against a backlash of other
most often selfish concerns. Michael Douglas as Tom was superb, although the
acting of Meredith was sometimes a bit too clichéd, although this of course
is what it was meant to be. All-in-all a very enjoyable, gripping thriller
with all the plot that only usually a novel adaptation can give, exploring a
real contemporary issue which other thrillers typically leave blank.

<|_=00=_|>

Sexual harrassment soars to new concepts in this compelling film based on
the novel of the same title by Michael Chricton.

Tom Sanders (Michael Douglas) is psyched up about his promotion at DigiCom. 
But, as he arrives at work that morning, he finds out that the promotion
never happened, but the position of Vice President was given to a woman.  Of
course, its not just any woman, its Meredith Johnson (Demi Moore), a woman
from his past.  Sanders discloses that he once was in a whirlwind romance
with Meredith, but they parted ways and he came to Seattle, married, and
started a family.  Now, she wants nothing more to rekindle their romance,
which Sanders doesn't want.  An after-hours encounter leads to Meredith
crying sexual harrassment, Sanders claiming he was the one who was really
harrassed. Now, Sanders must be able to push past her power and status to
show people what Meredith is really all about.

This was a great movie, based on an amazing novel.  Douglas as Tom Sanders
is what I expected, middle aged with a family, successful.  However, the
novel describes Meredith Johnson as blonde, while Demi Moore was not what I
really pictured.  However, her performance as "Super-Bitch" Meredith is
convincing.  She makes you hate her, no matter how much you like the
characters she played in other films.

The part where Sanders struggled with Johnson in her office was extremely
graphic.  My mom predicted that I would cover my eyes, but I was very
fascinated with it.  In the book, this particular scene was EXTREMELY long,
about 15 pages.

In conclusion, I thought "Disclosure" was a very well-done film with a great
cast.  Performances by Moore and Douglas were great, with a good supporting
cast to back them up.  It gives a good understanding of the American Legal
System and sexual harrassment, and proves that sexual harrassment works on
two levels.  Sex is truly power, and if you have it, you have it, and if you
don't...well, you'll have to work hard to prove yourself.  I highly
recommend seeing this film, but read the novel in addition to the movie. 
You won't regret it.
<|_=00=_|>
Michael Doulgas and Demi Moore head this fine piece of work based on
Michael Crichtons' novel. Douglas is Tom Sanders, a typical business
man working with a fairly normal company. He is dark horse in the
running for promotion, until Meredith Johnson(Moore) arrives. Meredith
is an old fling, and she hasn't forgotten the past. When a desperate
attempt to open old wounds, or relive steamy times goes awry, Meredith
is sickened by Toms' monogamy, and wants revenge! Director Barry
Levinson creates a brilliant conflict, which seems to grow heavy with
each scene. The entire cast is phenomenal. Moore and Douglas are
perfect in their roles, but the main attraction for my eyes, was the
quick, smart, catchy performance of Catherine Alvarez by Roma Maffia.
Film keeps a strong interest for the whole time, only lacking in some
possible slow moments. Part of why the film works so well is the fact
that Levinson keeps it intellectual, dealing with adults, and the way
they handle these situations. Sex is not a crutch to use for the main
stars, who, at the time, were rather big. Instead, sex is portrayed as
the key power in the situation. Catherine Alvarez states in the film
"Sexual harassment is not about sex, it's about power. She has it, you
don't". Pretty catchy way to portray sexual harassment. Technology is
later brought in as a power to...but why should I say anything more?
See the film for yourself.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a pretty good drama with an excellent cast of characters.  The story
centers around Michael Douglas, who plays a division head in a high tech
company in Seattle that is undergoing a merger.  Demi Moore plays his old
girlfriend, an aggressive corporate executive, who comes in and snatches
away the job promotion he was counting on, then failing to seduce him after
hours, files a false sexual harassment with the company in order to get rid
of him.

It's interesting that although the story revolves around Michael Douglas's
plight, it's the women who set the events in motion and who help the
protagonist resolve the problem he's presented with.  Female empowerment is
the main theme of this movie.

Demi Moore gets perhaps her best movie role ever by playing the sexual
predator to Michael Douglas's easygoing mid-level manager.  She knows how to
play the corporate game much better than him, and quickly boxes him into a
dicey situation.  How does a guy explain that it was his female boss who hit
on him and not the other way around as she claims?   Demi Moore controls the
situation well for most of the movie, and plays the villain so well that the
viewer really enjoys when she finally gets her comeuppance.

Roma Maffia does an excellent job of playing Michael Douglas's lawyer.  He's
lost on how to respond to the sexual harassment charges and what to do to
preserve his job, and she forcefully takes over his defense and steers him
towards a successful resolution.  She also understands how the game is
played and keeps her nerve when the company comes after her client. 

Caroline Goodall plays Michael Douglas's wife and displays a perfect
combination of anger and support while he resolves the charges against him. 
A lawyer herself, she understands the situation her husband has gotten into
much better than he does, and is there for him as both an advisor and
partner.  

Rosemary Forsyth plays another female executive at the company who, without
giving away the plot, mentors Michael Douglas through his dilemma.  She's
smart, but calm and principled, and in fact it is she, not Douglas, who
eventually gets the promotion to head the company.

Even though Michael Douglas is the protagonist and eventually overcomes the
crisis he's facing, his character is basically weak in the movie.  He's
carefree and unfocused at the outset, assuming the job promotion is his
because he's done a good job for the company, and is completely blindsided
when a woman takes it away from him and then threatens his career and his
marriage.  Douglas eventually takes charge and with alot of outside help and
some improbable plot twists gets the upper hand, but in the cutthroat world
of corporate intrigue, he's the little fish who gets lucky and swims out of
the net.

Donald Sutherland hands in his usual fine performance as the president of
the company.  Dennis Miller plays a computer geek working for Michael
Douglas and has a few humorous moments, but suddenly turns nasty in the
middle of the movie and then just disappears.  Dylan Baker plays a sort of
Mr. Smithers kind of character to Donald Sutherland's Monty Burns, and is
just egregious enough make you hate him, which is a good sign of a
performance well done.

There are a few plot twists that offend the viewer's senses and things are
wrapped up just a bit too neatly, but all in all, this is pretty good
entertainment from start to finish.  The movie touches an important issues,
sexual harassment in the workplace, and makes it more interesting by making
the woman the aggressor and the man the victim.  Not surprisingly, I noticed
that women gave this movie a higher average rating than did the
men.
<|_=00=_|>

'Disclosure' is not to be missed. The plot is well-known enough not to be
summarized here, but suffice it to say that this movie is loaded with
crackling drama, edge-of-your-seat suspense, witty and snappy dialogue
(best
line - Garvin, on transferring Sanders to Austin: "Making a lateral move
to
Austin is like a duck making a lateral move to 'a l'orange'".) and a
celluloid-melting seduction scene. Excellent acting all around (I like
Michael Douglas, I don't care what they say), and the movie captures in a
visceral way the high-powered, high-stakes, cutthroat world
of
business politics in the world of leading edge computer hardware and
software development. My wife and I both give this one a straight
'A'.
<|_=00=_|>
Even though I haven't read the book, if you ask me, DISCLOSURE is an
excellent film that is sure to keep you on the edge of your seat and
blow you away. Meredith (Demi Moore) kind of gave me the creeps. You'll
understand why once you've read the book and seen this movie. However,
I loved the way that Catherine (Roma Maffia) worked with Tom (Michael
Douglas). In my opinion, the performances were top grade, the direction
was superior, the costumes were perfectly designed, and the cast was
perfectly chosen. Also, the soundtrack is really good, too. Before I
wrap this up, I must warn you that this movie has some heavy sexual
content if you're going to see it, so viewer discretion is strongly
advised. Now, in conclusion, if you enjoyed Michael Crichton's title
novel or like Barry Levinson films, I highly recommend this movie. It's
sure to keep you guessing from start to finish.
<|_=00=_|>

I was very surprised that nobody else has commented on this movie.  It is
one of the better Crichton book adaptations (although it still varies from
the book a lot) and deals with an interesting (if not important) topic.  The
acting is good.  The film has serious, comedic, and other aspects (including
some computer and technical stuff).  It is not a great movie, but it was
well received and is at least above average.  Plus, it has the feel and look
of a good movie (it is not a waste of money). 
<|_=00=_|>

This film may not be exactly a thriller, but it comes close.  Michael
Douglas gives one of his best performances here as a man who is seduced by
his boss (Demi Moore who is hotter than hell) and she sues him for sexual
harassment.  Good dialogue (by author Michael Chricton) and good
performances make this watchable, and the plot is also kinda intelligent.
Dennis Miller has a small role as a co-worker.  A-
