
George Clooney stars as a self-loving whiter than white toothed lawyer
who is becoming bored with his never-ending success. A challenge comes
in the shapely form of Marilyn Rexroth (Catherine Zeta Jones) who wants
to marry (or preferably divorce) her way to riches. With Clooney hired
to represent her soon to be ex husband, he inevitably falls for the
gold diggers charms.

Directed by the Coen brothers, a directorial team who have helmed
oddball comedies such as 'Fargo' and 'O Brother, Where Art Thou?' this
is the team's first branch in to a high profile Hollywood film.
Clooney, as the sharp suited lawyer, is excellent. Like Cary Grant or
David Niven, Clooney is able to mock himself without compensating his
screen appeal. Catherine Zeta Jones as the money hungry Marilyn is as
sexy as her character demands from the scripted page. However, despite
the quick fire dialogue, Intolerable Cruelty is simply not as funny as
it thinks, it's cynical message of love and money taking away the
romantic push it needs to place it in the league of the Tracy/Hepburn
films the movie aspires to. Clooney's character also suffers from an
over enthusiastic plot that later drives his character to attempt to
commit a crime that totally contradicts the audiences perception of
him. A battle of the sexes comedy that has sex appeal but no romance,
Intolerable Cruelty is a film that reaches for the golden age of
Hollywood but only touches the bronze.
<|_=00=_|>

No one in today's Hollywood is going to truly outshine past pairings such as
Clark Gable and Joan Crawford, Cary Grant and Grace Kelly or even Rock
Hudson and Doris Day.  They simply had too much mystique and showbiz magic
behind them for the tabloid-ridden stars of today to compete with.  However,
based on what's out there today, Clooney and Jones make a delicious,
gorgeous pair.  In this frothy, sometimes manic production, Clooney stars as
an ace divorce attorney.  So successful is he that he can turn around even
the most airtight cases.  Yet he has it all and is bored.  After he pulls
the rug out from under one of his clients' wives (Jones), she sets out to
exact revenge upon him.  The two play a cat and mouse game of I-got-you and
you-got-me, with their actual feelings occasionally rising to the surface. 
Clooney is charm epitomized.  His jaw-dropping good looks are actually
beginning to show minor signs of wear (check out his cheek pores in that
opening teeth cleaning sequence and note the onset of wrinkles and rasp in
the voice -- though he still looks like a god in kind lighting), but
thankfully, he's become such a decent actor that he should have no problem
continuing a strong career.  In this, he is comparable to Cary Grant, who
remained attractive right up until his death.  Unfortunately, he doesn't
have QUITE the skill that Grant had, but he'll do.  (Some of the lingo and
jargon that Clooney has to emit looks and sounds like it's over his head.) 
Jones is astonishing.  She has, without question, that old time glamour and
the finely honed talent to carry her roles.  Her face, clothes,
hair...everything is stunning.  Together, the two are blisteringly
attractive and charismatic.  The supporting cast is great here with Rush (in
a surprisingly tiny role) hamming it up well and Thornton presenting another
one of his oddball characterizations.  Also of note are Cedric the
Entertainer who is less annoying than expected and especially Adelstein as
Clooney's adoring, sentimental cohort.  (And it's fun to see Duffy get a big
screen role which beautifully utilizes her brittle, nose-in-the-air
persona.)  One of the funniest and most shocking moments in the film comes
courtesy of Keyes who plays an asthmatic hit man.  The whole film is
peppered with odd little characterizations, some funny, some intriguing,
some just bizarre.  (The diner waitress is hysterical.  The hunky pool man
is perfect.  Clooney's boss is unintelligible and just plain weird.)  The
film seems to take place in it's own little world, which can sometimes be
quite different from the one the rest of the audience lives in.  The
quirkiness and farcical nature of the film occasionally threaten to cross it
over into Zucker brothers territory, but ultimately it keeps it's feet on
the ground.  A couple of familiar or dull moments can't dampen the spirit of
the whole.  The stars are deliriously attractive, the story has a few
surprises along the way and the film is very easy on the eyes and often
entertaining to the ear.  There's also a delightful title sequence inspired
by vintage Valentine cards.  
<|_=00=_|>

Miles Massey is an amazing divorce lawyer who has a well-earned reputation.
When he takes on the case of Rex Rexroth, who was caught on video cheating
with another woman, he successfully wins the case and leaves the wronged
wife, Marylin, with nothing. However he also falls for her, but she is
planning his downfall in return for her losing everything she
had.

With a big name pair of leads, it does look very much like the Coen's were
looking for a big screen hit that would support their work to a greater
extent than the loyal fan base does. As that sort of film, it seems to be
doing OK, but, I wondered, at what cost to the product? The film starts well
enough with an interesting case which we actually see little of, however the
character of Miles is enough to hold the film together. The film contains
the usual mix of larger than life characters and quirky humour, but the
central romancing doesn't always hold true and there are stretches where the
humour dips away to find that there is very little left without
it.

Having said that, this doesn't occur often enough to be a problem and the
film is still pretty good fun. The characters are it's making and there are
enough of those to make it work. Clooney excels in the lead with a strange
sort of humour - the same sort of character he played in "O Brother" if you
ask me, but he does seem to have a touch for the comic stuff. Jones is less
assured and her character has less of the humour I expect from the Coens and
is more of a straight role. The support cast is all good as they provide
small snippets of humour, whether it be Wheezy Joe or the rude
waitress.

Overall it is not the cleverest film the Coen's have done, nor the funniest
or most satisfying but, as a multiplex pleasing romance with quirky humour,
it does work and should be enjoyed as that.
<|_=00=_|>

I doubt that there are two more strikingly attractive actors in movies today
than George Clooney and Catherine Zeta-Jones.  Zeta-Jones, in particular,
has the kind of classic beauty that puts her right up there with the great
screen legends of all time, women like Ingrid Bergman, Natalie Wood and
Audrey Hepburn, who, with their ravishing good looks and photogenic quality,
came to define the ideal of female pulchritude in their
time.

Credit the Coen Brothers, who made `Intolerable Cruelty,' with having the
good sense to know what they had in these two stars and for exploiting it to
the full.  They have allowed the actors to play off their good looks, most
especially Ms. Zeta-Jones, portraying an icy gold-digger who specializes in
marrying rich men with the express purpose of taking them for everything
they've got once the marriage is ended.  Clooney is the first-rate divorce
lawyer who finally meets his match when he falls under the spell of this
strangely bewitching woman. 

The major joy in `Intolerable Cruelty' comes from watching these two
tremendously attractive stars go at one another – be it in lust, passion or
anger.  Miles and Marylin are both seasoned game-players and world-class
manipulators who know how to get the better of the hapless victims who
stumble headlong into their paths.  Unfortunately, the film itself never
lives up to its promise of becoming a slashing satire on the mores of our
divorce-happy society.  The main reason for this is that the script often
shoots too low in its tone, opting for an overly broad, slapstick approach
when a slyer, subtler style is what's really called for.  It's not that
`Intolerable Cruelty' doesn't provide its fair share of laughs; it's just
that we feel there should be a whole lot more of them given the pedigree of
the film's makers and the high-powered acting of its amazingly gifted
cast.

In addition to Clooney and Zeta-Jones – who hit all the right notes in their
playing off one another – the lineup also includes Geoffrey Rush, Billy Bob
Thornton, Edward Herrmann, Richard Jenkins and Cedric the Entertainer, who
steals the few scenes he's in with his manic interpretation of a private
investigator who specializes in capturing wayward spouses in compromising
positions.

Perhaps, `Intolerable Cruelty,' for all its moments of mirth and fun, simply
doesn't go far enough into the realm of outrageousness to make the concept
really work.  The Coen Brothers, who have proven themselves masters of the
absurd in the past, for some reason seem to be holding back in this film,
going for the easy laugh and the easy sentiment when what we really want is
for them to cut loose and go for the jugular (as Danny De Vito did with
similar material in `The War of the Roses' so many years ago).  Maybe Miles
and Marylin need to be a little more nasty, a trifle more cutthroat in their
demeanor to bring it all to life.

`Intolerable Cruelty' offers some hearty chuckles and some definite
eye-candy in the person of Ms. Zeta-Jones, but, when all is said and done,
the film is mainly just promises and not enough delivery. 


<|_=00=_|>
I saw it recently for the second time, and even though the huge holes
in the plot are still there, I liked it much more than the first time.
Thinking of the holes, Coens are very talented artists - perhaps we,
the audiences are supposed to be smarter than Miles Massey (George
Clooney - perfectly cast) - the very successful, always victorious
divorce attorney for the rich and famous? Massey is the author of
unbreakable "Massey's Pre - Nup" but he is so bored and restless than
maybe he is waiting for someone who would be able to break it? Enters
cool and sensual Marylin Rexroth (who looks exactly like Catherine
Zeta-Jones), the woman who is after "wealth, independence, and freedom"
and who "eats the men like Massey for breakfast" with the glass of
French red wine Château Margot, 1954. Thus starts the game of wills,
wits and desires with twists in every turn. Some of them are surprising
and clever, some - predictable. "Intolerable Cruelty" may not be the
best Coens' film but it is enjoyable, stylish, and funny. At least two
scenes closer to the end of the movie are absolutely hilarious.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't see why many hated this movie. I thought the Coen Brothers look
at divorce court lawyers' lives in this comedy with a twist was
actually pretty interesting. Thte script was first-rate, they sure can
write, the direction was interesting for the most part, although film
did lose intensity at parts. I thought the acting was great, especially
George Clooney who i liked a lot in the lead, he was perfectly casted
for this role. Zeta Jones was decent, she pulled off her role, although
she still isn't a first-rate actress in my eyes. I thought Rush and
Billy Bob Thornton were great in their supporting roles. Cedric the
entertainer was wasted here. The film was decent, some good acting,
script, decent direction, and nice atmosphere. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

I had been slightly disappointed with the Coens'  previous  *The Man Who
Wasn't There* -- it was, in my judgment, their first non-masterpiece since
their apprentice-work  *Blood Simple*.  While all their films are
self-consciously derivative, *Wasn't There*  was derivative without the wit 
(though brilliantly filmed and acted regardless).

*Intolerable Cruelty*  is a return to a less fussy Coen style.  It's lean,
mean, to the point, no wasted scenes.  And it's very witty, featuring
dialogue and references that have clearly sailed over the average idiot's
head, as well as the fairweather Coen Brothers fan's head.  Joel and Ethan
remind us here that a mainstream IDEA for a movie is not equivalent to a
STUPID idea for a movie.  The movie mixes wild slapstick with delicious bon
mots.  There's always something going on.  And the picture looks fantastic 
(another triumph for DP Roger Deakins), showing us a shimmering, sunlit
paradise of an almost mythical Los Angeles.  The leads, George Clooney and
Catherine Zeta-Jones, are also shot to advantage:  neither have looked
better, and Zeta Jones in particular practically sucks your breath away
every time she appears in a different Rodeo Drive confection. 
Yowza!

The film failed, as almost all Coen Brothers' movies fail, at the box office
because, while delightful and funny, it's also ICE-COLD.  The filmmakers, as
they always do, distance us from the characters, inviting us to contemplate
them rather than to get emotionally involved with them.  This is a formula
for box-office disaster, especially for romantic comedy.  The
women-demographic who came expecting a chick-flick were turned off cold, and
the guys stayed away, anyway.  Coen Brothers  "fans"  once again proved to
be a fickle bunch, lambasting the film as too  "mainstream"  while utterly
failing to get the subtext.  These are the same  "fans", by the way, who
avoided  *Lebowski*  and  *Hudsucker*  and  *Barton Fink*  because it was
too  "excessive"  and/or  "weird".  Make up your minds, fairweathers.  In
any case, I'll be one of the  "I-Told-You-Sos"  when, a decade hence,
*Intolerable Cruelty*  will be regarded as one of the few intelligent
romantic comedies made in recent times.

Let me put it this way:  if you think a movie in which the two romantic
leads put a contract on each other is too  "mainstream", you've revealed
yourself as a poseur who should leave the amateur reviewing to the
grown-ups.  Have a nice day.
<|_=00=_|>
A surprisingly smart comedy from Joel and Ethan Cohen, INTOLERABLE
CRUELTY is a deft and entertaining comedy about the relationship that
develops between a fast talking attorney (George Clooney) and a
man-eating gold digger (Catherine Zeta-Jones)who pretty much eats
husbands for lunch. This delightful throwback to the Tracy-Hepburn,
Grant-Russell comedies of the 30's and 40's moves at a nice pace and is
anchored by a razor sharp performance by Clooney, who has rarely been
more appealing on screen. Clooney does everything right here and his
performance alone makes this film worth seeing, but Zeta-Jones never
allows herself to be overshadowed by him in one of her more venomous
characterizations. Worthwhile bits are also contributed by Geoffrey
Rush, Billy Bob Thornton, Richard Jenkins, and Edward Herrmann. One of
the most underrated comedies ever made which is a definite must-see for
Clooney fans.
<|_=00=_|>
Intolerable cruelty is possibly the best written romantic comedy of the
modern era. The script writers deserve much credit for this under rated
flick, as do Clooney and Zeta-Jones, who turn out their best
performances since the turn of the century.

On first viewing this movie can appear just another average comedy with
a few names but nothing special. Its what I thought. I even tuned out
for some period. But on my repeated viewing I picked up all the
delicate intricacies and humour. I now cannot watch this film without
feeling happy, it changes my mood. It has a brilliant balance of legal
proceedings, meaningless humour, character revealing humour, trait
development whilst raising some unavoidable issues about American
divorce proceedings. I highly rate this film and ask viewers to relax
and enjoy the humour but also pay close attention to the twists and
turns.

Also, I recommend Intolerable Cruelty to the education department as it
is ideal for students to study and analyse. It will keep them
interested and allow them understand character development at its best,
whilst giving them an insight into divorce law.
<|_=00=_|>
Miles Massey (George Clooney) is a divorce attorney whose clientele
consists primarily of the rich and powerful in the Los Angeles area.
He's well known for an "ironclad" prenuptial agreement named after him
and also known for taking his clients' spouses to the cleaners. But
when he works his magic against Marilyn Rexroth (Catherine Zeta-Jones),
he may have picked on the wrong person.

I didn't find Intolerable Cruelty very funny. I might have chuckled a
couple times. The dialogue was mostly affected and pretentious to my
ears. The story wasn't very interesting to me. I really couldn't get
myself to care what happened to Miles or Marilyn. I've liked most of
writers/directors Joel and Ethan Coen's previous films, but Intolerable
Cruelty seemed to me to have little of the inventiveness and cleverness
of their past efforts. I have also liked most of the past films that
George Clooney, Billy Bob Thornton and Geoffrey Rush have been in, but
here they seemed to be turning in just okay performances for bad
material. Heck, I even loved Clooney's turn at Batman (1997's Batman &
Robin), Thornton's portrayal of a rocket scientist in Armageddon
(1998), and Geoffrey Rush's eccentric millionaire in House on Haunted
Hill (1999), but Intolerable Cruelty just didn't work for me.

Still, I can't say the film was a complete failure. I'm giving it a 6
out of 10, which is equivalent to a "D" in my way of looking at
ratings. The performances might have been just okay, but they were
okay, not awful. The Coens managed some interesting shots, such as Rush
through the windshield of his car, where we mostly see a reflection of
trees. That was unusual, and effectively conveyed the heat and
brightness of a summer day the way a more traditional shot wouldn't
have. The opening scene had promise to me. The Wheezy Joe subplot was
fun. The slight suggestions of surrealism in Miles' boss were very
enjoyable, although on the other hand, I found myself lamenting that
surrealism wasn't the focus of the whole film.

Glancing at other reviews, obviously the film worked for some people.
Maybe if you're more in the market for a realist drama cum light farce
about divorce lawyers, you'd appreciate it more than I did. But for me,
it has me rethinking my desire to collect all of the Coen brothers'
films on DVD.
