
URBAN LEGEND 

Aspect ratio: 2.39:1

Sound formats: Dolby Digital / SDDS

A serial killer descends on a New Hampshire college where he/she kills
a number of students in the manner of various urban legends.

History has a habit of repeating itself. In the early 1980's, a series
of low budget 'slasher' movies emerged in the wake of HALLOWEEN (1978)
and "Friday the 13th" (1980), most of which were condemned as
substandard imitators by critics and horror fans alike. The same thing
happened in 1996, following the success of Wes Craven's SCREAM, a smug
reworking of genre clichés which allowed 'sophisticated' multiplex
audiences to indulge an attitude of superiority over those 'crappy' old
horror flicks and the 'unsophisticated' viewers who once supported
them. The subsequent wave of teenage horror pics were flashy, sexy and
ramped to the max, and - true to form - virtually all of them were (ho
hum) trashed by critics and horror fans alike. And yet, most of them
made a profit, perhaps BECAUSE they were flashier and sexier than those
earlier pictures, and because they were designed for a wider
demographic than 'mere' horror fans.

Jamie Blanks' URBAN LEGEND is a case in point: Most reviews ran the
gamut from harsh dismissal to faint praise, yet the movie is a visual
treat, as creepy and atmospheric as any of the films which inspired it.
Furthermore, Silvio Horta's unassuming screenplay confounds
expectations with its solid narrative arc, recognizable characters and
dynamic set-pieces, not to mention a climactic 'reveal' which offers a
robust motive for the killer's devastating onslaught. There are a few
embarrassing lapses along the way (such as the murder which takes place
in full view of heroine Alicia Witt, which she ignores because she
thinks it's a couple having sex!), and Horta can't resist a handful of
cop-out contrivances (eg. the killer slashes the wrists of a girl known
for her depressive tendencies, causing authorities to dismiss her death
as suicide, though a routine forensic examination would have revealed
the cuts were administered post mortem, AFTER she was strangled to
death!), but these occasional blunders are redeemed by the movie's
fast-paced editing, neo-Gothic visual scheme and clever plot
developments. Blanks orchestrates proceedings with consummate skill,
but he refuses to indulge the kind of transgressive gore that once
distinguished this downmarket subgenre (where's Tom Savini when you
really need him?!).

As expected, the talented young cast - including Jared Leto, Rebecca
Gayheart and Tara Reid - is pleasingly photogenic, and there are
lengthy appearances by TV favorites Michael Rosenbaum ("Smallville")
and Joshua Jackson (watch out for the terrific "Dawson's Creek" gag!).
Major co-stars include Robert Englund (Freddy Krueger himself!), John
Neville and an uncredited Brad Dourif, who features heavily in a
powerful opening sequence where Blanks and Horta pull a major
switcheroo on the audience (I'll say no more). Loretta Devine is
amusing as the campus security guard who views herself as a modern-day
Coffy/Pam Grier (her fantasy is rudely curtailed by a climactic
encounter with the rampaging maniac), and there's a brief appearance by
Danielle Harris, the former child star of HALLOWEEN 4: THE RETURN OF
MICHAEL MYERS (1988) and HALLOWEEN 5 (1989), playing an adult character
FAR removed from the angelic poppet of those earlier pictures!
Beautiful, fairy-tale score by Christopher Young. Followed by the
largely unrelated URBAN LEGENDS: FINAL CUT (2000).
<|_=00=_|>

I am so not into scary movies. The twists and turns of the story line were
edge of the seat watchable. The ending was the best. I recommend this to
intelligent movie goers. The murderer is not who you expected it be. As most
thrillers, go. Why give up who the "bad guy" really is? The first true scary
movie for me was Halloween when I was 13 years old. This one is no
Halloween, but it was able to make me jump at the right times. We all know
about those Urban Legends, but do we really believe them? Enjoy this movie,
don't pick it apart.
<|_=00=_|>

Yet another film to capitalise on the hunger for cynical, humorous
slasher
movies with whodunnit asides in the late '90s (started by Wes Craven's
Scream), Urban Legend is a fairly entertaining but wholly derivative
example
of the genre. The "murderer-at-large-on-a-college-campus" formula was
quite
popular during the original period of slasher movies in the early '80s
(movies like Pieces and Happy Birthday To Me spring to mind). This update
is
more polished, more logical and generally more watchable.

Violent murders begin to take place a college in North America. Many of
the
murders are based on urban legends (popular spook-stories bandied about by
word-of-mouth). First to go is a young girl driving her car through a
rainswept night. An axeman leaps up from the back seat and chops her to
pieces, in a terrific opening sequence which will have you checking the
back
seat of your car for the next month or two. From then on, it's generally a
downhill ride as more and more of the college staff and students are
picked
off by a hooded killer. A kid goes for a pee in the woods and is hanged
for
his trouble; a teenged DJ is hacked apart in her studio; the college
principle is run down by a car; the resident wise-ass has an unhealthy
variety of toxic products poured down his throat. You get the idea, I'm
sure.

Many films of this type are awful Where Urban Legend remains tolerable
lies
in its all-round competence. The scary moments are quite well filmed and
are
genuinely nerve-jangling at times. The mystery, though contrived, manages
to
keep you guessing as the finger of suspicion falls upon virtually every
character at some point. I must admit that the killer's identity is so
well
disguised that it caught me out (even though I usually figure out
whodunnit
in films of this type). Urban Legend is no classic, nor is it particularly
fresh, but it does what it does decently enough. It certainly beats the
hell
out of the excrutiating low-budget exploitation items from the early '80s
upon which it is based.
<|_=00=_|>

A local college is being terrorized by brutal murders. The mysterious killer
targets a certain group of friends who initially do not realize, or even
ignore, the upcoming danger and fall prey to   his clutches. They leave
their rooms unlocked or go alone in the forest at night. The killer's main
victim seems to be Natalie (Alicia Witt) a very typical gal, at least on the
surface. The killer stalks her and harasses her continuously and Natalie not
only tries to convince everyone about the danger in vain, but has to deal
with melanic issues from her past. People soon start dropping like flies and
Natalie and her friends are helpless before they all meet their fate. Many
years before the incidents the college was rumored to have been plagued by
an insane professor who flipped and invaded the students' dormitory killing
many fraternity members at one single night. One of the few survivors is
proven to be a sociopath weird janitor who is not willing to share his
traumatic memories in order to help solving the mystery of this new killing
spree. The murderer is much more than a freaked loser copycat who simply
wants to rekindle the horror on the 25th anniversary of the alleged
massacre, but has an obscure agenda.

Maybe all these plot elements sound stereotyped and nothing special. The
premise of a horror movie localized in a college is as old as it gets and
has been done to death (no pun intended). Nevertheless there is a special
originality in this film. The killer's modus operandi follows a unique
pattern of an urban legend methodology. You probably all know what an urban
legend is. Folklore stories which are always laying on the verge of reality
and myth. Usually they are scary crimes and everyone seems to know or have
heard or have read a similar crime although no one seems to have actually
enlisted specific names. Stories like these are usually typical frightening
tales. One example is the poisoned candy children are frequently treated on
Halloween by insane people. Another example is the seemingly normal father
who mysteriously brutally slaughtered his entire family over one night,
preferably by axe, and disappeared never to be heard of again. The
screenwriter plays cleverly with all the cliches and the fears of the dark.
The urban legends provide fertile ground for some genuinely original and
shocking death scenes.

 Urban Legend, despite an intriguing premise, cannot hide its  origin. It is
a typical 90's horror film mixed with a whodunit subplot, recognizable TV
faces and plenty of gore. The film succeeds in being a memorable and above
average effort but if you are set to watch it you are bound to find all the
stupid overused themes a teeny bopper provides (without nudity though: that
is the determinant between 80's and 90's). There are plot holes the size of
a volcano crater. For example the police officers are so dim witted that
they regard a clearly obvious strangulation which would probably have left
distinct bruises on the victim's neck as a suicide. Moreover why, oh why
don't they send officers during the climactic tragic events after all those
murders. I can accept the fact that the phone lines were dead but couldn't
someone just go and ask for help? When they do arrive it is far too late.
The cast was also over-crowded and it was obvious that the protagonists were
nothing more than screen fillers. It is too bad since their acting skills,
which seemed promising, were withheld. For example Jared Leto and Michael
Rosenbaum are Paul and Parker respectively. Although the film starts off
interestingly with equal screen time, Natalie soon wins the absolute focus
and their roles are so small that they end up being extras. Things are even
worse for Brenda (Rebecca Gayheart) and Sasha (Tara Reid) who also had
shrunken roles and are wandering pretty faces waiting in line to be sliced
and diced. Although the suspects are many, the final revelation of the
killer is weak, the motives even weaker and of course we have the inevitable
cat-lived nature of the killer-who-refuses-to-die escorted by the
predictable cliffhanger epilogue with the "TO BE SEQUELED" sign.

An extra detrimental element is the presence of Alicia Witt in an especially
important role. Her acting is not awful but it is definitely misguided and
fails. Witt is way too calm to convince as a realistic character. After a
certain point it is clear that her psychopath stalker has not only killed
her friends, but is after her, and she doesn't even show a trace of panic.
She DOES try of course to warn the bonehead authorities and she does a
little research on the urban legends. The bad thing is that even in the
gruesome finale she doesn't seem to fear the maniac even a little bit and
even worse she is not the willing-to-fight heroine that Sidney Prescott in
Scream was. Now I don't want to be misunderstood, I wasn't looking for Jamie
Lee Curtis's overblown vocal pipes but she could have more human reactions,
especially after the deaths of her friends. It's as though Natalie had read
the victim list and knew that she had a contractual commitment to survive
until the end. The only one of the main characters with some substance is
Joshua Jackson as Damon. This guy is a derivative from other horror films
and strikes as a cardboard cutout: a prankster who teases his friends and is
slightly horny. At least Damon has a certain and sensible persona and
Jackson is adequate. The funniest aspect of the film is that the cameos are
far more successful and memorable than the leads!! Danielle Harris in a
short role is the quite trendy Gothic young diva who is the incarnation of
the Lust sin, the aged John Neville is the strict and by the rules Dean of
the University and Brad Dourif gives an excellent performance in a role
which I won't reveal. The best of them is Robert Englund as the clever and a
bit creepy Professor who teaches folklore and introduces his students to the
urban legends. Professor Wexler seems to be the chief suspect for this
horrific situation and although there are sporadic hints throughout the film
which point to other directions, Englund virtually dominates the screen even
with his absence!!! Of course I won't omit Loretta Devine as Reese the
guardian of the University who is very funny and adds the necessary comic
relief. Who could have thought? A woman and indeed a black one as the
cop/protector. It is another attempt to break a few cliches. Well done
casting directors.

Apart from some good performances Urban Legend has many other assets. The
opening sequence alone was enough to keep me hooked on as I realized I would
watch a great film. The rainy frames and the professional shooting with the
distant take angles is enough to pose the threatening tone and warn us about
what is to follow. The introductory scene is a stand alone masterpiece. The
killer here doesn't have a costume but hides under a winter jacket with a
cowl and this gives a realistic touch and a difficulty in pinpointing the
culprit since many people have the same type of jacket. The best part of
Urban Legend is the setting and the cinematography. The university buildings
are bulky and old enough to support a medieval atmosphere which excites our
imagination. Further, these baroque aged buildings give a much more scary
climate and ensure that no matter how much they run, the protagonists will
never get away since the corridors are so long that probably no one is going
to hear them scream. But the greatest virtue is the photography which was
dreary and gave a sense of a documentary style. The best example to describe
the stigma the director tried to pull off are the library scenes. The leads
are in a situation reminiscent of the Name of the Rose (lacking the
religious undertones of course!!!) and are trapped in an infernal game they
cannot escape. The whole point of view of the movie is clearly cinematic and
the imaging techniques are much supportive. As I aforementioned the death
scenes are fascinating and catapult the adrenaline to heights. Although the
character development is bare you feel sorry for the victims (well, OK, for
most of them). One surprise follows another as the body count increases.

 It comes as a great disappointment therefore that after a chilling 90
minutes period, the last 30 minutes go downhill. The action is very weak,
the suspense retreats and we are left with overacting, inept and predictable
"plot twists," inadequate explanations and a rather disappointing climax . I
mean how could anyone not wonder why the maniac wouldn't just kill Natalie
and get over with this revenging mission instead of doing this wild carnage.
So be warned: the last half hour is extremely disappointing. Thus, if you
are a horror fan who wants an entertaining thriller Urban Legend is a good
shot. Despite some letdowns Urban Legend is yet another landmark in 90's
horror genre.

 URBAN LEGEND - 8 / 10

<|_=00=_|>
Slashers are never "good". OK maybe the first Scream but slashers are
never "a good movie". But there is a good slasher and bad slashers.
Prom Night, a very bad slasher. The sequel to this, a very bad slasher.
But I really like this one. I absolutely love the plot. The deaths are
awesome I still jump up in my seat when the principal is killed. I
didn't expect Brenda as killer when I saw it first. The plot works. The
death works. I didn't know who the killer was. I LIKED IT.

As a movie it not that great I mean. Critics are not gonna like it.
Movie fans are not gonna like it. Unless you watch with it in mind that
it is a slasher. As a slasher Urban Legend is perfect.
<|_=00=_|>
omg, this movie is one of my faves... a lot of people think it is just
another slasher flick, but i think the plot is really intriguing and
keeps you guessing until the end. i had no idea who the killer was, and
once i found out, i was totally surprised! although it is a bit scary
at times, "urban legend" can also be humorous. i love the soundtrack
too, and the cast is awesome. Alicia Witt was excellent as the heroine
of the story, and Rebbecca gayheart gave a stunning performance as the
psycho killer Brenda. she really knows how to act CRAZY (even if her
motives are a little odd)!! and Jared leto is hot (i just had to add
that). so if you love murder, humor, romance, and legends, "urban
legend" is the movie for you. trust me, i've seen it about 500 times to
date (and i first watched it last summer!).

and FYI, it's on abc family for the "13 nights of Halloween" thing next
month! i'll be watching it... will you??
<|_=00=_|>
Ah our precious 1990's, so many great things came out of this memorable
decade, including a streak of teen slasher films. Let's face it, after
the mega success of Scream which opened the doors once again after
Friday the 13th, Halloween, and Nightmare on Elm Street, we needed a
new classic. So naturally all the screen writers who were a bit scared
to present their ideas on the table, thanks to Kevin Williamson, the
clever writer of Scream and Dawson's Creek. After that, every teen
slasher film was released: the Scream sequels, I Know What You Did Last
Summer, I Still Know What You Did Last Summer, etc. But we didn't stop
at that, we were now presented with Urban Legend.

The film begins on a dark and stormy night as college student Michelle
Mancini realizes she is near empty while driving in her car. There's
someone in the back seat as Michelle drives, a figure in a dark coat
with a fur trim around the hood sits up in the back seat and, with a
swift blow from its axe, decapitates Michelle. The same night, on
campus, a group of friends listens to Parker Riley tell an old story
about one of the campus halls, Stanley Hall. According to the story, in
1973, an abnormal psychology teacher went crazy and killed all the
students living in an on-campus residence hall. Paul, a school paper
journalist thinks the story is bogus. Still, the story sticks in their
minds, especially for Natalie, and Brenda. The next day, the front page
of the campus newspaper has an article about Michelle Mancini's murder
written by Paul but the papers are quickly confiscated by school
officials. Later that night after going into a secluded area of woods
to talk, Natalie reveals to Damon that she knew Michelle, but they
hadn't spoken in years. Damon, playing on Natalie's vulnerability,
tries to make a move on her but she rejects him. Upset, Damon goes into
the woods to urinate but is attacked by the killer. He then is hung
from a tree in a noose with the rope attached to the bumper of his car.
The next day, no one believes Natalie's story due to Damon's penchant
for pranks and tricks. Realizing both Damon's death and Michelle's
murder closely resemble famous urban legends, Natalie goes to the
library to read up on urban legends. Not realizing the terror has just
begun to scare her and her friends even more.

Basically, Urban Legend didn't stand out against it's competitors, it
has every cliché in the book. Not to mention no memorable actors that
had the same chemistry as the cast of Scream. It's over written at
times and has every predictable moment: the friends don't believe in a
ghost story, a couple people get killed off but everyone thinks it's a
prank/fake death, a classic chase scene with a big breasted girl in a
skimpy costume, the creepy janitor, the smart girl that no one believes
is all of a sudden right about all the murders and of course a mega
twist ending that no one will ever see coming! OK, Urban Legend isn't a
horrible movie, while it has all these predictable moments and clichés,
it's still actually fun to watch and a good part of the memory of good
teen slasher films that came out of the 1990's.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Urban Legend is highly derivative, highly implausible and full of
stereotypes and overly complex death scenes. It's also highly
entertaining from beginning to end and rattles along at such a pace
that you can easily overlook it's many flaws for the duration.

At its very core you probably won't be at all surprised to know that
Urban Legend is all about a killer killing people a la various urban
legends. And that's the hook (pardon the pun) that makes the movie so
much fun. It doesn't really matter how ridiculous the killer's motives
are or how uncanny he/she seems to be at avoiding being caught, waiting
to see the next attempted kill is always entertaining.

The bright, young cast are all very watchable people doing a good job
with the material. Alicia Witt, Jared Leto, Rebecca Gayheart, Joshua
Jackson, Michael Rosenbaum, Danielle Harris, Tara Reid, etc were all
good names to use in the advertising of the movie at the time despite
the mixed fortunes that the future would bring. With small, but decent,
roles for Brad Dourif and Robert Englund this should appeal to fans of
the genre. It's only really Loretta Devine's character that doesn't
work but that's no fault of the actress, who acts gamely with what
she's given and wrings some entertainment value from it.

The script, by Silvio Horta, is decent. A lot of the urban legends are
referenced before appearing as death scenes or discussed afterwards, in
light of the cause of death, and the characterisations are all fairly
decent, if also a bit stereotypical at times (with the main offender
being Tosh, the sullen goth character played by Danielle Harris).

Jamie Blanks does well in the director's chair (this was his feature
debut, actually). The man has talent. I am one of the few who also
enjoyed Valentine and I encourage all horror fans to check out Storm
Warning, his little-known 2007 flick.

From an exciting opening sequence, that really puts a well-known urban
legend up there in all it's clichéd glory, to a fast-paced and
potentially grisly finale, Urban Legend races from set-piece to
set-piece and keeps you so entertained that it's only after the credits
roll that you start to pick apart every thread of it's frayed logic.
It's got a fun, if predictable, punchline too. Great fun.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie because I could see someone actually doing this.It
starts
off with them telling you an urban legend.As the movie goes on people
start
dying based on urban legends.There is a reason for this but you don't find
out till much later.But watch who you trust you might be wrong...

<|_=00=_|>

Unfortunately, Urban Legend suffers from a rather disjointed plot, and the
fact that as a pseudo-mystery, they've eliminated most of the suspects by
the end of the movie, so you pretty much know who is responsible.  The
murderer displays all the qualities of a more supernatural killer like Jason
or Michael Myers, such as superhuman strength and the ability to be
everywhere the plot requires him to be (like being across campus within
minutes of each murder).  Signposting some of the urban legends would have
been helpful (there's a urban legend about a DJ being killed on the air and
people thinking it was a hoax???).  The cast is likable enough, but only
Loretta Devine really stands out.  The movie could as easily have been
called "Horror Movie Cliche" as "Urban Legend" (or was that subtitle spoken
for by Scream?).  There are a few cute in-jokes (yes, one of the actresses
was in a Noxema commercial).  It's generally an entertaining way to waste a
couple of hours if you're a horror-slasher fan.
