
I enjoyed this film, but I was left a little puzzled at the end by what
I'd just watched in terms of what type of movie this is.

It starts off as a very Tarantino-esquire film, it's clear that he
wrote it as his famous dialogue is present. It's an enjoyable crime
thriller much along the lines of Tarantino's other works (such as Pulp
Fiction & Reservoir Dogs) but with a bit of Robert Rodriguez flare
shown during the action sequences.

Then with about 50-ish minutes left, the style film changes entirely.
It becomes another film, it goes from stylish crime thriller to random
vampire action movie. It's almost as if Tarantino left the room while
writing the script and somebody wrote the rest of the film for him, it
loses it's Tarantino charm and becomes a predictable, gore fest,
vampire flick.

I'm a fan of Vampire films, so I still enjoyed the movie, but I can see
why others don't like it. The acting is of high quality, especially
from Geroge Clooney who outdoes himself, and in parts saves the film.

8/10 - Watch with an open mind.
<|_=00=_|>
I loved this film for many reasons. For one, the switch from a crime
thriller to a horror thriller was seamless. I for one had not heard
much about this film before I watched it, and I assumed the TV Times
were mistaken in called this a gory horror thriller. To me, it was a
simple crime thriller, the norm which is expected from Tarantino's pen.
However, the switch was such a shock and so fast, that I didn't now
what happened I was amazed at this revelation, since there was no word
of any horror topics beforehand in the script. It was completely out of
the blue, and resulted in a pleasant surprise.

And the thing that's interesting is that BOTH halves to this film, both
the crime section and horror section are enjoyable. The first half has
less action, but tension does mount between Keitel and Clooney, while
Tarantino is in the back, paying special attention to Keitel's
daughter. A great premise with an equally great script in the first
half. The second section is also great because of the horrific violence
and as I heard mentioned before, the unique ways on how to kill
vampires.

The script is witty and full of dark humour, "I have 6 little friends
and they all run faster than you.", and the intro is certainly one of
the best I have seen in months. The characters are well established,
with Clooney as the 'gentleman' (well, not really) crook, Tarantino as
his psychotic brother (who, strangely, I found difficult not to warm
to) and Keitel is the preacher who has lost his faith, the hostage who
will help out later when the satanic hordes unleash themselves.

A special mention must go to Salma Hayek for that special dance. ;)
While this film was never made out of blockbuster material, it is still
very understated, taking a unique and perhaps surreal viewing on the
horror genre, all the while using horror stereotypes. As far as graphic
violence is concerned, it is on par with the likes of Evil Dead (well,
perhaps not THAT bad).

For once, this is a film which doesn't give the viewer all the answers
beforehand. You are in the same boat as the characters and you don't
know what's in store for them. If you hadn't seen this before, without
any knowledge of the movie, you'd be in for a huge surprise as I was.

An 8/10 for it's script (thanks to Tarantino) and the actors who, while
not trying too hard, make this an enjoyable horror flick with a
difference.
<|_=00=_|>
'From Dusk Till Dawn' is kind of brilliant, brutal, bloody, Tarantino,
horror, silly and funny. It is brilliant, brutal, bloody, horror, silly
and funny the way Sam Raimi's 'The Evil Dead'-series is all those
things, the twist here is a screenplay written by Quentin Tarantino.
This means the first hour is just brutal and bloody, sometimes a little
funny, in the 'Pulp Fiction' kind of way.

We see two brothers named Seth (George Clooney) and Richie Gecko
(Quentin Tarantino). They are bank robbers, although they do the
occasional killing as well. We learn they want to reach the Mexican
border. That the entire state of Texas and the FBI are looking for them
is a problem so they force the Fuller family to bring them across the
border with their motor home. Father Jacob (Harvey Keitel) used to be a
minister but gave up faith after his wife died in a car crash. He
travels with his adopted son Scott (Ernest Liu) and his daughter Kate
(Juliette Lewis).

So we have the first hour, filled with Tarantino-stuff in its dialogue
and references, and then the party arrives at a bar called the Titty
Twister. Not long after they are inside it is revealed that every crew
member from the bar is actually a vampire, feeding themselves on bikers
and truckers that visit the place. The Fullers and Geckos survive
together with a guy who calls himself Sex Machine (Tom Savini) and a
guy named Frost (Fred Williamson). Now they are a team and face
vampires as their opponents.

You see how this movie is actually two movies. Especially the second
part will find a smaller audience and in a way I was a little curious
how the first part would have ended if they kept it as serious as it
was. Still, because the movie shifts the way it does it becomes quite
original. We have a crime movie to start and a horror comedy, really in
the Sam Raimi way, to end. If you are able to take it the way it comes,
not too serious, there is a good chance you might like it. Even the
gore is presented in a silly way, making it less gory.

Clooney's cool performance, the fitting soundtrack, some hilarious
moments, Tarantino's fine touches all make this a highly original,
quite bloody, vampire adventure. If you are a genre fan don't miss it,
if you are not you might give it a try and be pleasantly surprised.
<|_=00=_|>
The first half of this film is like anything you'd expect from Quentin
Tarintino and Robert Rodriguez: cool 70's soundtrack, snappy dialogue,
really good editing, lots of violence, and a slightly unconvincing role
by QT himself. I thought it was disturbing, stylish and pretty good for
the first half, and was enjoying it.

And then they get to the Titty Twister, where there are lots and lots
of vampires and lots of blood and nudity, and lots of fighting, and,
for me, it just went completely downhill. It felt silly and just
inappropriate from what we'd seen at the beginning, and I actually got
a little bored.

That being said, I really liked Harvey Kietel's performance and George
Clooney was much better than I'd thought he'd be. Plus, Salma Hayek is
one sexy kitten.

So yeah, half a good film. If you love over the top vampire films
though complete with dated effects, then go for it, because you might
just like it
<|_=00=_|>

Anyone trying to do a 'serious review' of this movie needs to lighten up.
George Clooney and Quentin Tarantino are the Gecko brothers, two bad, bad
men on their way to Mexico. Along the way they pick up a preacher played
by
Harvey Keitel and his two kids. They're supposed to meet a partner at a
bar
called The Titty Twister, and once they get there madness ensues. From
there
it takes a turn that many seem to find infuriating but I personally find
highly entertaining. It's humming along like a typical Tarantino picture,
and then- BOOM. Out of nowhere, it becomes all too clear that these two
bad,
bad men are not by a longshot the baddest in *this* bar. All of this can-
and *will*, given the right attitude on the part of the viewers- read as a
loving high-five to 70s zombie flicks, a homage to the campy fun of those
movies. The tough guy dialog continues throughout, the gore level is
astounding, and we see via Kate- the preacher's daughter, played by
Juliette
Lewis- that sometimes a p***ed-off virgin with a crossbow can more than
hold
her own. On top of that, it has a hella-cool biker-bar soundtrack and
Salma
Hayek in a bikini. What's not to like?     
<|_=00=_|>

Critics of "From Dusk 'Till Dawn" often dismiss it as grade Z-slasher
tripe,
however the film is really two separate but equal genres (hard boiled
crime
drama and B-horror comedy) scotch taped together.  Definitely not
everyone's
cup o' cinematic joe, this movie has more energy, wit and style than most
high-budget Hollywood actioners.  Clooney and Tarantino
make a classic duo in two powerhouse and differing performances.  T-man's
script is crammed full of his usual over-the-top dialogue (if only
criminals
were really this interesting) and a lot of love for the conventions of B
flicks from his youth.  I give it a 10.  
<|_=00=_|>

Robert Rodriguez's From Dusk till Dawn combines vicious violence, Cheech
Marin vampires, and some funny humor from the cast into one big collective
film.  More than a basic horror movie, it has Rodriquez as a fine director
and Quentin Tarantino as a good screenwriter who bring to the screen basic
shoot em up fun.  Not all of it is for the people out there, but for thrill
seeking teens, it's worth a glance.

The story involves 2 criminal brothers (George Clooney and Tarantino) who
are part focused and part insane.  They kidnap a family (Harvey Keitel,
Ernest Liu and Juliette Lewis) and bring them to a bar called the T**y
twister while waiting for morning and their money prize.  But what ensues in
that bar is terrific fun in which all the members are vampires and are
relentless "from dusk till dawn".  Great fun, terrific violence (if not
disgusting) and cool quotes bring this film to a fine T.  Look for Tom
Savini as Sex Machine, Salma Hayek as a stripper and Cheech Marin who plays
3 characters.  A+
<|_=00=_|>
Directors Robert Rodriguez and Quentin Tarantino are probably the two
most recognizable faces of the generation of filmmakers who had their
start in the independent scene of the early 90s. Rodriguez had a
tremendous success with his western-inspired action movie "El Mariachi"
while Tarantino reached fame and glory after updating heist movies in
"Reservoir Dogs". Their friendship lead them to make movies together
starting with "Four Rooms", but together with make-up masters Kurtzman,
Nicotero and Berger the two young directors crafted one of the most
original movies of the 90s: "From Dusk Till Dawn".

The plot starts with the escape of two criminal brothers, Seth (George
Clooney) and Richard Gecko (Tarantino himself) and their effort to
reach Mexico kidnapping the family of a faith-less preacher named Jacob
Fuller (Harvey Keitel) who was traveling with his daughter Kate
(Juliette Lewis) and his son Scott (Ernest Liu). In their escape the
group will arrive to a Mexican strip club where nothing is what it
seems.

The story (by Kurtzman) is a very good mix of action, western and
horror cleverly put together in Tarantino's witty script. Rodriguez
direction gives the film the a 70s feeling that gives the movie a
Drive-In spirit pretty much in tone with the plot. In fact, at times
the film feels like an updated version of exploitation action films of
that era. This lack of pretensions makes it even more enjoyable as it
never tries to be something else than pure entertainment.

The movie is interestingly divided in two, the first half dedicated to
establishing the relationships between the characters, particularly the
complicated clash of the Geckos and the Fullers, in a typical Tarantino
style crime/drama fashion; on the other hand, the second half is an
action packed thrill ride on the style of 70s action movies that
clearly shows John Carpenter's influence over Rodriguez. While it is
definitely a tribute to their influences, the Rodriguez/Tarantino team
create a solid movie that stands on its own as a very original take on
horror movies.

The acting is very effective, with George Clooney carrying the film as
the cool-headed older brother who has to take care of his psychotic
younger brother. Tarantino is average, but he was certainly having fun
with the role. Keitel is terrific as always and is perfect as the
faithless pastor who doesn't trust in God anymore. Apearances by Salma
Hayek and make-up virtuoso Tom Savini have small but unforgettable
roles. Savini steals the film in his role as a biker that brings back
memories of his part in Romero's classic "Dawn of the Dead". All in all
is a very complete and solid cast that certainly gives the movie a very
special flavor.

The special effects by KNB are top-notch, but the CGI used in some
scenes is poor when compared to the traditional prosthetic make-up
employed in the rest of the film. While the violence is never intended
to be realistic, the poor CGI at times make it look more cartoon-like
than what it was supposed to be, but it is not a real damaging flaw and
the film is still highly enjoyable.

Rodriguez has always done films to have fun, and this is what has set
him apart from other filmmakers (Tarantino included). His lack of
pretensions and his dedication to his craft seem to transmit the fun he
has making movies to the audience who watches them. While his films may
not have an introspective depth or a high philosophical meaning, they
work perfectly as entertainment of the highest quality. This underrated
film is probably among his best and most enjoyable films of his young
career. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Although I am not AS lovestruck with this film as many other reviewers are,
I did find it an entertaining albeit conscience-churning experience.  From
Dusk Till Dawn really is two films in one.  The first part tells the story
of the Gecko boys(Not Geico) played by George Clooney and Quentin Tarentino.
 They are escapees from the law and have killed over a dozen people brutally
already by the time the film opens.  For me, this tale of how they kill a
gas station guy and finally abduct a preacher and his two children for their
RV is the most chilling part of the film.  Clooney plays a guy with little
moral conscience well.  Tarentino does a good job too and you can see his
wit throughout the script.  I found both men very despicable, so I guess the
acting was good.  The film falls into parody/farce, however, once the the
whole gang(the two Geckos and the preacher and his daughter and son)reach a
strip club/bar out in the middle of nowhere in Mexico.  What happens here,
to the uninformed viewer, will be totally unexpected.  Does it work?  To a
degree, however, the film really loses momentum and credibility it might
have had.  The acting in general is all acceptable.  Harvey Keitel once
again shows us why he is such a good actor.  Juliette Lewis is also very
good in her role as his daughter.  Nice to see guys like Tom Savini and Fred
Williamson too.  Oh, and Salma Hayek IS the highlight of the film. 

<|_=00=_|>
From Dusk Till Dawn is simply a fun movie. Not meant to be taken
seriously at all. If you're looking for a movie to sit back and enjoy
for brainless entertainment, get this. There is nothing wrong with the
acting, the music really good and the special effects are gross (but
great).

The first half of the story revolves around the Gecko brothers, Seth
(George Clooney) and Richie (Quentin Tarantino). They need to get past
the Mexican border to a bar named the "Titty Twister." Along the way
they take hostage the Fuller family, Jacob (Harvey Keital), Kate
(Juliette Lewis) and Scott (Ernest Liu). In the second part of the
movie they make it to the bar, unfortunately it is a bar run by
vampires and soon enough the feasting begins.

This movie is great in a lot of ways. First, the script is written
brilliant, it is darkly humorous. A lot of the lines had be laughing
very hard. The acting is good from all the cast and the special effects
are pretty disgusting. We have decapitations, limbs getting torn off,
throats getting ripped out and plenty of impalements. For gore hounds,
this movie is gold. This movie never really gets boring. This movie is
not meant to be anything groundbreaking, just entertaining, which it
is.

3½/5.
