

This is the real-life story of Oregon runner Steve Prefontaine who, despite
physical imperfections, draws on inner strength of character, to set
American track records, and race in the 1972 Munich Olympics.  As a runner
myself, I found this 1997 docudrama inspiring.

But "Prefontaine" is far more than a cinematic pep talk for runners.  It's a
character study of an extraordinary young man from an ordinary background,
his personal relationships, and his date with destiny.  It is a story that
has lasting value.

The film's visuals and music effectively convey the look and sound of the
early 70's.  The acting is above average.  Jared Leto is superb as Steve. 
Just as good is R. Lee Ermey as Steve's coach, the legendary Bill Bowerman,
a man who found a way to make running shoes with the help of a waffle iron. 
Ed O'Neill, Breckin Meyer, and the lovely Amy Locane are good, in supporting
roles.

Leto's acting, combined with a clever script, portrays Pre as gutsy,
determined, intense, charismatic, vulnerable, at times reckless,
self-absorbed, brash, and arrogant.  One of my favorite segments of dialogue
has Steve and his teammate Pat Tyson jogging along, and talking about the
great runner Jim Ryun.  Steve comments: "Forget Jim Ryun; he's done; I'm
gonna be the first Steve Prefontaine", to which Pat responds: "It must be
nice to want to be yourself".

Later, Pre frustratingly says to his girlfriend Nancy: "All of my life
people have said to me: you're too small Pre; you're not fast enough Pre;
give up your foolish dreams Steve."

Pre's story is told in another film: "Without Limits"; both now available on
DVD, and both good, though I prefer this Steve James directed
movie.

Often and rightly compared to other sports films, "Prefontaine" reminds me
of a film one might not think of.  Pre's life was similar in some ways to
another notable person from an ordinary background, one who set out bravely
on a personal quest, of sorts, and who, in the process, like Pre, made a
powerful and lasting impression: Karen Silkwood.

Coincidentally, Pre's fate and Karen's fate were tragically similar, and
only six months apart.  In both "Prefontaine" and "Silkwood", the message to
the rest of us ordinary mortals is: don't underestimate your life; do your
best; and make each day count.  You never know when "fate" may
intervene.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this last night on the BBC--I don't think it ever had a
theatrical release in Britain--and thought it was excellent. I remember
this film and its rival, Without Limits, when they were released in
1997 but never saw them. Users have commented on how much this film
resembled the '70's era, right down to the soundtrack and overall style
of the film, as if that kind of authenticity is to its detriment. It
does remind one of that '70's TV movie classic, Brian's Song, but then,
what other era should this film resemble?! It's no surprise that the
documentary storytelling style works so well since the director and
writer, Steve James, made one of the most acclaimed documentaries of
the '90's--the basketball flik, Hoop Dreams (highly recommended as
well). But shooting a documentary and recreating the style of one are
two different things and though they probably both have their perils,
recreating that style in service to drama must have much steeper
pitfalls. Steve James (and company) completely succeed here. Jared Leto
gives a compelling performance as Pre and forces the viewer to
sympathise with him in very unique ways. He's not immensely likable but
when he runs...one understands that great athletic performers, like
Steve Prefontaine, did not win races on personality alone. But it's the
way that the rest of cast responds to him, their admiration completely
palpable and on the surface, that moves the viewer to embrace him as
well. He's heartbreaking when he asks, "Do I look like a runner?"
American sports films usually obscure their central figures by ladling
on heavy doses of heavy-handed inspiration. Not so with this film. Pre
emerges a gifted, young, confused but determined individual who
inspires not through his athletic performances but through the strength
of his character and what he did for amateur athletics. The ending
doesn't so much jerk tears from the viewer as it allows them to flow
freely and copiously. An underrated, lost gem of a film.
<|_=00=_|>
I was a grad student at the University of Oregon in the early seventies
when Steve Prefontaine made his mark as a runner there. This film
captures his life and times reasonably well, and Jared Leto's
performance does a good job portraying the Steve Prefontaine the
general public like me knew, though Leto has more of a
preppy/Abercrombie & Fitch appearance than the somewhat craggier
Prefontaine. Those who knew him then personally can make a better,
further assessment. Despite the limitations of its budget (for example,
they shot the film in 16mm--Super16 actually), it's one of the better
sports films made and should have had a stronger theatrical run. If
memory serves, the release also had a woefully limited marketing
budget.

An athletic apparel store in Boston has a glass case which displays one
of Steve Prefontaine's running singlets. It made me pause to see it
there, an inanimate object which once clothed someone so highly
animated. This film does a decent job of bringing life to that persona.
<|_=00=_|>

As a runner, I cannot resist but love the story of Steve Prefontaine's rise
and fall.  He is an inspiration to all who lace up and head out the door
for
an hour long trek through the woods trails and roadsides.  The movie truly
captured the spirit of Pre and the emotions experienced by many athletes,
not just runners.  This was the one movie I watched on the bus ride up to
Vermont's State Track meet.  As I ran, my lungs and legs burned and all I
could think of is this one scene:  Pre running and all that can be heard is
his breath, the camera focuses on his chest, up and down.  When running, I
am in my own world, just as the movie shows, everything around me is just a
backdrop, a supplement to my race against myself, my own times, and my
fellow runners.  They push me, I push them, like Viren does Pre.  This
movie
captures all of the aspects of a race and the qualities of a true runner.
If you run for fun, your drive to strive will reach unfathomable
levels.
<|_=00=_|>

Steve Prefontaine was America's best long distance runner ever.  This
movie
shows how you can achieve your dreams and that anything is possible.
Prefontaine is filled with great action, that is if you actually enjoy
watching someone run on the TV.  After watching this movie you will feel
like going outside and running a five kilometer.  This is one of the best
movies ever made in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>
Since he was young, Steve Prefontaine was always too short, too skinny
or too slow to be the first choice for any sports – a thing that only
made him work harder to become whatever he felt he needed to be and to
make the most of any chance given to him. At age 16 he decides that he
is not only to be a runner but that he will be representing his country
in Munich at the 1972 Olympics. Training hard for the mile event, his
coach at Oregon State, Bill Bowerman convinces him to focus on the
three-mile and make the media interested in it. Keeping his goal of
getting three seconds faster every year of university, Pre gets closer
to his Munich date while his reputation as a cocky yet gutsy athlete
grows.

First of all, I, unlike many other thoughtless reviewers have put a
spoiler warning on this review because I, like countless others, had
never heard of Steve Prefontaine and therefore didn't know how the film
would end; didn't know, that is, until the very plot outline on this
site proclaimed it. Anyway, despite this I decided to watch it because
it didn't strike me as the sort of film that knowing the end mattered
(of course I would rather have been allowed to decide that for myself).
From the start of the film a picture is painted of Preforntaine as a
cocky but driven individual who worked to overcome anything that life
threw in his way but was ultimately (and untimely) beaten by the
obstacle that defeats us all. In telling this story the film tries to
develop a character while also making sure it delivers the basic
memorable moments in his career. As such it doesn't quite succeed but
then I suppose it depends what the audience is; if you know all the
milestones then it is likely that the film might bore as its focus is
really on the "what happened" rather than the "who". However for a
viewer like me who didn't know it then it does enough to be
interesting. The docu-drama approach worked better than I expected it
would and the film does have a good pace (sorry) to it and, because it
made Prefontaine an interesting character it actually made for a quite
emotional film.

The cast work pretty well; certainly Leto's presence had me worried but
he not only had a good resemblance but did well with the material he
was given. His character is not a complex person, but then with
biographical films it is always difficult to write such a character and
usually it is more effective to condense them down to the essence of
who they were. Ermey is good value here in one of only three films
where he doesn't play some sort of sergeant-major (I'm joking but it
feels like it could be true) and is a nicely grizzled character.
Support from O'Neill, Meyer and others is OK but really the film
belongs to the lead two and, although Leto is hardly the life of the
film, his character's story is worth the watch.

Overall this is a solid, if unspectacular film that may not win you
over if you have a working knowledge of Prefontaine but, for me, it was
interesting at the level that it was presented. An interesting story
that told me what I needed to know – could have been better but did
enough to work for me.
<|_=00=_|>

With so few films devoted the the unique sport of running Prefontaine is
a
shining beakon.  It is a runners movie that maitains mass apeal, so both
the
average man, and the avid runner will come away satisfied in the idea that
they just sat through a very good movie.
As a young runner I jad heard stories of this God this Prefontaine, but
to
me he was nothing more than a funny name with great times.  With this
biographical film I could see the enigma, a man I heard stories about but
never really knew.  With this movie a hero was born to a new generation, in
a portrayal that is so inspirational that after watching I just want to go
out and run my heart out.  This is the runner's Rocky.  A four star film
than unfourtunatly received little fanfare and has thus been forgotten much
like the man it tried to immortalize.
Over all I give this movie 8-8.5 definatly worth the rental, definatly
worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>

When 14 years old, I was glued to the TV set every night during the 1972
Olympic games. I remember well the 5000 meter race and Steve Prefontaine
and
it was a very exciting race. This movie greatly helps bring closure to the
Prefontaine phenomena by telling the story of how Prefontaine embraced
challenge and competition, propelled himself to the top, and then his
ultimate fate.

To measure a movie's success, I take note of my thoughts the following
day.
Anyone watching "Prefontaine" in 1972 run the 5000 could not help but be
inspired. And now in the late 1990's, the movie "Prefontaine" refreshes
that
inspiration. A very well done dramatization and documentary.


<|_=00=_|>

I was shocked to discover that 'Prefontaine' was made in the
90's.
It truly captured the essence of the 70's.  Everything,
including
the camera work, was so 70's it transported me back in time.
Every
bit as good as 'Without Limits'.  Excellent portrayal of
Steve's
obsession with winning, and the struggle to pick up the
pieces
after Munich.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was brilliantly put together and the end result is phenomenal.
Every scene in the movie is important to the overall end result and I
didn't
feel this movie was overly long at all and I don't understand those who
said
it was.  The movie deals well with showing Pre's determination to be the
best and the emotions of overcoming failure.  I wanted to buy this on DVD
only to find out they don't make it on DVD, and I couldn't understand why,
this is an amazing film and you don't have to know who Prefontaine was to
enjoy it, although you might appreciate it more.....
