

I had no high hopes when I walked into this film.  I like Will Smith, I like
Martin Lawrence, so I figured this film will at least be funny.  And it was
funny, and then some.  It was action packed, thrilling and a helluva good
time.  I came out of the theatre thinking that the guy who directed that
movie is going to be huge.

Michael Bay, former music video and commercial director, has made an
incredible directorial debut.  The film never stops.  When it isn't
action-packed, it is funny.  It is sexy, fun and always moving.  Christian
Wagner's editing is phenomenal.  I love action movies that really try to be
action movies.  A lot of action films know that they are action films so
they try to incorporate other genres to make the film more complete, but
they often fail miserably.  They try so hard to be something they are not
that they forget what they are in the first place. The essence of the action
film is the action. It is a necessary component, it needs to be there otherwise it loses its edge.
"Bad Boys" doesn't just throw in the occassional action sequence to meet the expectations of the
genre, but instead uses the action to help tell the story.  It is this use of filmmaking that allows
an action film to remain an action film and still go beyond.

Watch "Bad Boys" again and every time there is an action sequence, ask
yourself why that was there and what did it accomplish.  You will find that
each sequence took the film to another level; it introduced an new conflict,
it increased the present conflict, it eliminated a key character, it
introduced a new character, and so on.  There are a lot of action films out
there that sacrifice story for spectacle, and the audience notices this.  At
the centre of all films lies the story and if it comes to a halt so does
the interest of the viewers.

"Bad Boys" of course isn't the greatest story on film, or even in the action
genre, but what is so appealing and memorable about "Bad Boys" is that it
is just as entertaining with its story as it is with its action by combining
the two without sacrificing either.  Michael Bay understands the importance of
the story within the structure of the film.  He tells a visual story,
entertaining and complete, and leaves you very satisfied. Watch for Michael
Bay because he is here to stay.
<|_=00=_|>

The 'buddy comedy' genre is fairly well-known, there have been plenty of
them, all of them primarily based on the basic idea of having two main
characters who are, well, buddies; they act like friends to each other, they
get in fights, they help each other out, they compliment each other. It's a
fairly easy genre to master, and an easy way to make a good movie. This is
one of the best examples, since Smith and Lawrence really do compliment each
other so well; Smith's the sleek, cool one who is popular with the ladies,
while Lawrence is often nervous, and pretty much a direct opposite of Smith.
They have pretty good on-screen chemistry, too; you believe that these are
good friends and partners. My only real problem with the film is the way the
comedy almost all is generated by stereotypes, and, worse, the age-old
complications that arise from certain situations. I think that's a little
unoriginal, but, hey, that's the only complaint about it, and the film does
have some very entertaining comedy parts. The plot is pretty good, it keeps
the film going and supplies every single scene with comedy, action, or both.
It takes off immediately, and keeps a good pace throughout the 2 hour
duration. The acting is all pretty good. The characters are well-written,
well, for stereotypes at least(because, lets face it; they are). The comedy
is well-done and often made me laugh out loud, and, believe me, I am not, in
any way, shape or form, a Will Smith fan. The action was well-done too,
intense and exciting. The film, all in all, was pretty good, very
entertaining. For a buddy comedy, it's good. For an action comedy, it's good
too. I recommend it to all fans of action comedies, and buddy comedies.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Detectives Will Smith and Martin Lawrence have three days to find $100
million worth of heroin from a crazed drug-dealer in Miami in this
fast-paced and comedy/action thriller. The witness to a murder (Tea Leoni)
of one of Smith's best friends is also along for the frantic ride that is
fun, clever and highly entertaining. Watch for then-NBA star John Salley in
a great cameo as an imprisoned computer hacker. A rare winner from a
sometimes trivial cinematic genre. 4 stars out of 5.  
<|_=00=_|>
The honest and efficient Detective Marcus Burnett (Martin Lawrence) is
a married cop with three children, having difficulties for the payment
of his mortgage and for having sex with his wife. His partner is the
also honest, efficient and wealthy Detective Mike Lowrey (Will Smith),
who inherits a large amount from his family and although living like a
playboy, has not resigned to his position in the police department.
After a daring robbery of heroin from the police department stores, the
two detectives try to find some clue about the gang. The chance appears
with the hooker Julie Mott (Téa Leoni), the witness of the murder of a
'working girl' friend of her. The detectives are assigned to protect
her and chase the killers. Although full of clichés, 'Bad Boys' is an
excellent action movie, in the same line of 'Lethal Weapon'. There are
lots of funny parts, Martin Lawrence and Will Smith are excellent as
the two partners with different behaviors and Téa Leoni is gorgeous. I
saw this movie a couple of years ago, when Will Smith was an unknown
actor, and now I saw it again on DVD, with the intention of watching
'Bad Boys II'. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): 'Os Bad Boys' ('The Bad Boys')
<|_=00=_|>

This high-action crime drama stands out for me 
because it succeeds at doing what other movies* 
have tried and, in my opinion, failed to do -- 
integrate genuinely funny comedy into the mix.  
The success is attributable partly to the comedic 
talents of Will Smith and Martin Lawrence -- who 
have the ability to deliver crude, rude dialog such 
that it's funny nevertheless -- and partly to a story 
that combines suspense and humor into a believable whole. 

Our two heroes are police detectives Mike Lowry 
(Smith) and Marcus Burnett (Lawrence), who are a 
kind of tough-cop variation on The Odd Couple .  
Lowry is suave, slick, self-controlled, well-to-do, 
heroic, and a real ladies man.  Burnett, on the 
other hand, is an ordinary guy who manages to 
stumble reasonably effectively, if somewhat ineptly, 
through his work and his married life.

So imagine what happens when Burnett has to convince 
a key witness, Julie (Téa Leoni) that he's Mike Lowry
 -- not just for a few hours, but for a few 
days.  Furthermore, this is no pre-planned, 
well-orchestrated 
masquerade.  A large stash of confiscated heroin has 
been un-confiscated right from police headquarters, 
and both the heroin and the perpetrator must be found 
within four days, or Internal Affairs is 
going to take 
some big-time 
disciplinary action.  Lowry and Burnett 
are called in because 
they were the ones who captured 
the heroin in the first place, 
and because of the one 
trait they share -- a renegade approach 
to police work, 
which may not have their boss's approval, 
but which does 
get the job done (and at one point, causes a store 
owner to think they're out to rob him).  The various 
twists and turns of the investigation lead to Lowry 
getting knocked out of commission at the same time 
that Julie witnesses a murder and refuses to deal with
 anybody but Mike Lowry.  But Marcus 
Burnett is the 
only one available to deal with her, 
and since waiting 
for Lowry to recover isn't an option  

Subsequent events include Lowry's bachelor pad being 
invaded by Julie and her dogs, while Lowry stays with 
Burnett's wife, Burnett trying to keep his wife from 
finding out what's really going on, and Burnett and 
Lowry trying to find the heroin and keep Julie alive. 

For all you action movie fans, plenty of cars, plenty 
of buildings, and plenty of people get blown up along 
the way.  (Looking over this review, I see that I've 
belied the high level of violence, which I definitely 
should warn you against.)

BAD BOYS kept me both amused and on the edge of my 
seat throughout.  I'm afraid I did have two small 
complaints, however.  First, I wish the resolution 
of the Burnett-pretending-to-be-Lowry  story had been 
timed to coincide with the resolution of the main plot. 

As it is, the comic subplot ends, leaving the rest of 
the movie to proceed in a rather formulaic and 
pedantic fashion.  Second, I wish more time had been 
spent on Lowry's problem of stepping into Burnett's 
shoes.  The swinging bachelor having to play family 
man would have been good for a few laughs that we 
never got.

Aside from that, however, this is an action movie 
that stands out among the rest.

One final note concerning the DVD "Special Edition" 
release.  BAD BOYS was a movie in which the music 
was particularly effective, and the DVD actually lets 
you listen to the music track by itself.  I wish DVDs 
of other movies with great music had this option.

* Three examples that come to mind are 48 HOURS, 
KINDERGARTEN COP, and another Michael Bay film, 
ARMAGEDDON.  48 HOURS was grim enough to seriously 
stifle the humor, even with Eddie Murphy in the lead 
role.  KINDERGARTEN COP made me laugh, but the crime 
drama felt like an unwelcome intrusion.  
In ARMAGEDDON, I felt the stakes were high enough 
that humor didn't seem appropriate.

<|_=00=_|>
Michael Bay - just the man's name is enough to set some cinephile's
teeth on edge and to have people spouting such phrases as "downfall of
Hollywood", "all that is wrong with modern mainstream cinema" and even
"the lord of darkness". Not me though. I happen to enjoy most of his
movies on a basic, visceral, testosterone-fuelled level and this one,
his first full-length actual movie, remains a mindless pleasure.

Let's face it, it takes some doing to make Martin Lawrence actually
funny (I think it's been managed with this film, it's sequel and,
arguably, Wild Hogs so far) but Bay manages to do it through some
bizarre form of osmosis by placing him alongside the fantastic Will
Smith. Smith (in the role that really started his transformation into
the leading man moneymaker he would become) and Lawrence play two
detectives who may bend the rules now and again but always get the job
done. They ARE the bad boys, but in a charmingly cheeky way. Lawrence
is a happily-married guy while Smith is the very epitome of a single
ladies-man so some confusion arises when they have to swap identities
in order for Lawrence to bring in a material witness (played by Tea
Leoni) to a shooting that has been linked to a large drugs robbery.
Hijinks ensue along with some frenetic action sequences.

It's all really rather good but nothing spectacular, with the film
coasting along through some of the duller patches thanks to the
chemistry between Smith and Lawrence (and, enjoyably aggrieved in the
aggrieved captain role, Joe Pantoliano). Leoni isn't as irritating as
she can be in the damsel in distress role and Tcheky Karyo gives us an
enjoyably urbane bad guy.

The action, as to be expected from Bay, is good stuff with plenty of
bullets flying and explosive material just waiting to be lit up. It's
also worth mentioning that while it's, ummmmm, a little choppy in
places here there is nothing quite as bad as that eye-hurting car chase
in The Rock and no overuse of Bay's standard tricks while he gets used
to his commanding role.

Sit back, crack open a cold one and enjoy.

See this if you like: Lethal Weapon, Running Scared, The Rock.
<|_=00=_|>

Bad Boys is a great action comedy from producers Don Simpson and Jerry
Bruckheimer. It features Will Smith (in his breakout performance) and Martin
Lawrence, an unlikely pair who quite simply are the best movie duo I've seen
since Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker in Rush Hour. The film features
incredible action sequences (i.e. the Ether truck chase scene featuring
massive explosions and pervasive gun fights) which all lead up to the film's
action-packed climax which could only be done in a Jerry Bruckheimer film.
The film also stars Tea Leoni (who is pretty good in playing the damsel in
distress), Joe Pantoliano (whom we all know as Ralphie on The Sopranos, as a
police captain) and Tcheky Karyo as the villain. (He was also the French
officer opposite Mel Gibson in 2000's The Patriot) The movie features
comedic one-liners from Smith and Lawrence as well as a few by Leoni. It
also features a few sex jokes and just plain "disses". However, the
characters are so underdeveloped that all we are left with is action and
comedy. This formula is also seen in the recent summer blockbuster
Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, in which we could care less about the
characters and just look for the action. However, Simpson and Bruckheimer's
Bad Boys succeeds where T3 does not. By the end of the movie, we care about
the heroes because they are fun to watch. In T3, the great Ah-nuld is just a
figurehead for a movie romped with action-packed sequences and jaw-dropping
stunts. This is one of only three good Michael Bay films (right next to
Pearl Harbor and The Rock) and should seen by any action movie fan.

Lenny's Grade: B  
<|_=00=_|>
I'm pretty sure that BAD BOYS is the only film of Michael Bay's that I
like. Well, technically, while it is the only Bay flick that I like, I
can also say that I LOVE it, too! I know that it's supposedly a
mindless action buddy cop flick, but it is hugely entertaining and
extremely well done. THIS is the type of movie where all of the Bay
trademarks work: the driving musical score, the quick jump cuts between
and within scenes, funny dialogue (which actually is funny in this
film!), strong leads, some seriously sexy females, and characters that
sweat all the time (and there's a reason for it here: there in Miami!).

Actually, the jump cuts are a big part of why BAD BOYS works. They move
the story along nicely and are perfectly placed during the film. Also,
Bay does a great job with the camera angles, accentuating the scenes.
You don't have time to think or analyze the action, just enjoy. The
movie moves at a speedy pace, but not too speedy. And the scenes where
the film slows down are all very well done. A really solid action film.

The main reason to love BAD BOYS is the ideal pairing of Martin
Lawrence and Will Smith as Detectives Marcus Burnett and Mike Lowry,
two of Miami's finest undercover narcotics cops. Lawrence is especially
impressive as Marcus Burnett with his hilarious stand-up routine being
a part of his character, but that's a good thing. He's a laugh riot
throughout. But his stand-up act is actually toned down, believe it or
not, perfectly to satisfy the constraints of a film; they could easily
have screwed up his character, but Lawrence is extremely likable and
funny, without being too over-the-top. Smith is very good also as Mike
Lowry. He is so comfortable in this role that you could foresee a star
in the making based on his performance here. Both actors give really
solid performances and do a great job of carrying this film. I find
Smith (just slightly) more believable as a cop than Lawrence, but still
I go with it b/c the 2 have such great chemistry.

The story is moot: some bad guys confiscated drugs from the police
station. The cops have to catch the bad guys and get the drugs back.
That's the plot! Main reason to enjoy is the humor, fast pace, and
chemistry of the leads. Typical cop buddy stuff. Been done before and
to death, but it still works in this film. We've seen it in LETHAL
WEAPON, 48 HRS, STAKEOUT, etc. In fact, this may be the LAST really
good film of its kind.

Also of note are sexy Tea Leoni as an important witness the guys need
to help catch the bad guys (she and Smith should have gotten together
in the end!), Joe Pantoliano as the
basic-always-in-a-foul-mood-yelling-cops-boss, Tcheky Karyo as the big
bad guy himself, and a host of great supporting characters, most
notably Sanchez and Ruiz (the funny sidekicks to the 2 main cops),
Mike's doorman Chet (who almost steals the film!), and JoJo (Michael
Imperioli of SOPRANOs fame). 

The film also has working in its favor great cinematography showcasing
the sights of Miami, catchy 90s music, and a memorable score, all
driving the story along. Bay can hang his hat on this one! It's a
keeper!
<|_=00=_|>
This is the best Buddy - Cop Film to me, although only two it seems to
have a variety of different moods like others sequels. The second one
Is the LETHAL WEAPON Series and the RUSH HOUR Films come in at a good
third.

Mike Lowrey(Will Smith) and Marcus Burnett(Martin Lawrence) are your
average buddy cops, you know one's married and the other is a player,
but one thing they have in common is their bad altitudes for solving
cases and a lot of body bags. When one million dollars in heroin has
been stolen by a evil Frenchman named Noah(Tcheky Karyo)in their
prescient, a close friend of Mike dies and the only witness is named
Julie(Tea Leoni). The boys get set to handle this case with some very
violent and hilarious outcomes.

Now this movie has one of the best introduction to the main roles ever.
The action scenes are greatly handled and never blown out of
proportion. The acting is top notch and Martin and Will have what I
think is their best roles to date. Michael Bay may have also delivered
he's best film, next to CON AIR. Now part II is also great, not better,
but funnier.
<|_=00=_|>

And yet another movie no one really needs.
These comments do not contain spoilers. Feel free to read
on.

The first third of the movie started out very well. Okay acting, humourous
and not too bad action. But as soon as Mike and Marcus started swapping
their roles it got so bad - really bad. The story went nuts and made
absolutely no sense at all - there are so many storyholes and ridiculous
scenes, the acting got absolutely worse throughout the rest of the movie,
and in general nothing made sense anymore. Why the heck can't they simply
tell the truth? For example when Marcus got the witness in Mike's
appartment
- what the heck did he still play Mike there? And why can't this looser
Marcus tell his wife what's really going on? Who the heck wrote this cr*p?
I'm sorry. This is too sad. And what about that fact that two regular cops
are driving a Porsche there? A bad joke? Was Porsche sponsoring this
movie?
Tea Leoni was horribly miscast. In the end where everything's over already
you have the whole cavalry coming there. I've counted 8 police cars and
one
(or was it two?) helicopters. My god, this whole movie is oh so wanna-be
Lethal Weapon, it made me 1. feel disappointed (since the movie started
out
very well) and 2. puke (when the movie was over).

My ratings: cast 3/10 (bad bad... including Lawrence), action 4/10
(wanna-be
'we is teh cool' type of brainless action), story 1/10 (oh my...),
directing
6/10, camera 8/10. That's all I can rate because the rest was simply
ridiculous. Oh well, there might also be that one thing to mention: I
liked
the overall colour tones -- nice and intense warm colours in some scenes
(eg. club at Max in the beginning) and cold sterile ones in other scenes
(eg. drug labour). One thing for sure: I am definately not looking forward
to see Bad Boys II.

Overall: 4.5/10 - NOT RECOMMENDED AT ALL!

