

I get a lot of stick from friends for saying this, but: I really like
Twister. I enjoy a good thoughtful film as much as the next stuck-up film
snob, but I also love damned good action flicks. 

Twister is a big dumb summer blockbuster with no pretensions whatsoever. I
*like* the fact that the money is all up there on the screen - lots of
tornadoes ripping apart farmhouses and throwing trucks around. I *like* that
it's one long chase movie. I *like* looking at Helen Hunt's beautiful face.
I saw Twister twice at the cinema, and at least three times since - and I've
enjoyed it every single time. Can you get a better recommendation than
that?

Twister will never satisfy some people... in particular, those who watch it,
for some strange reason, expecting a cerebral masterpiece. Enjoy it for what
it is: One of the best summer blockbusters ever.

<|_=00=_|>
Twister, in my opinion, is a really good action thriller. Personally, I
don't know how people can bash this movie. I thought it was an amazing
film!! The acting is great, the special effects are excellent, the
action is intense, and this film actually has a great storyline to it.
To me, a 5.9/10 rating for this film is atrocious. I think this film
deserves so much better!! I was thinking of somewhere in between a 7
and an 8/10. But I have my opinion and other people have their own
right?? I just find it hard to believe that people don't like this
movie.

Twister has everything I like in an action movie. It has amazing
special effects, heart-stopping action, and a reasonably well written
storyline. It even has some heartbreaking parts which almost brought
tears to my eyes and I don't usually cry during movies. However I
almost cried during Twister. Jan De Bont has created a very enjoyable
that maybe doesn't come up to masterpiece material, but still is a
memorable action movie that won't be forgotten for a long long time.
<|_=00=_|>
Twister, one of the most successful movies of the 90's, mainly due to
it's special effects and a lot of people's want for a natural disaster
movie that is fun to watch, this was an extremely popular movie. I was
only 11 when the movie was released and I was absolutely in love with
it, in fact right after the movie was done, I wanted to become a storm
chaser. That's how much I loved this movie; I grew up and forgot about
the movie and decided on a new career. But I saw the DVD on sale and
thought about how much I enjoyed the movie when I was younger, I'm sure
it would be just as much fun to see it again. I have to say this wasn't
as awesome as I remembered, in the theater it was like "Oh, my God!
Look at that flying cow! A house just flew across the road! That is so
cool!", now on my TV screen I was like "Oh, wow, look at that cow. How
the heck does a house fly across the road? Why isn't this as cool as I
remembered it?" Not to mention that the story wasn't as good as I
remembered, granted I know that they had to fit in some kind of story
with the whole plot of the twisters, but a lot of this movie is just
plain unrealistic.

In June 1969 on an Oklahoma farm a tornado warning is issued, the
family seeks shelter in a storm cellar as an F5 tornado strikes.
However, the storm is so strong that the locks on the cellar door fail
and the father is caught up in the storm and killed as his daughter
struggles to catch a glimpse of the powerful storm. Years later, Dr. Jo
Harding, the father's daughter, is reunited with her estranged husband;
Bill Harding. Bill is a former weather researcher and storm chaser who
has taken a job as a weather reporter. He is planning to marry his new
girlfriend, Dr. Melissa Reeves, and arrives at Jo's research lab
seeking Jo's signature for the final divorce papers. Bill discovers
that Jo has built a tornado research device called DOROTHY based upon
his own design; the device is designed to release hundreds of sensors
into the center of a tornado to study its structure. The team later
meets up with Dr. Jonas Miller, a smug and unscrupulous fellow
meteorologist and storm chaser. When Bill discovers that Jonas has
"invented" a device almost identical to DOROTHY; he vows to help Jo
deploy DOROTHY before Miller can claim credit for the idea. Bill and
Melissa join Jo and her eccentric team of storm chasers. Tensions rise
between Jo and Bill when they have several close calls with dangerous
tornadoes as they try unsuccessfully to deploy the new device. 

So how does Twister hold up over these years? Not so well, the effects
are still amazing, but that's about it. I do have to admit, even though
it's a bad movie, I still enjoy it like crazy. I think because if you
let go of how unrealistic it is, you can just have fun with that want
of destruction and chaos. Granted I know this movie is a bit stupid:
our two leads, Bill and Jo, survive the impossible facing an F5
twister, the twisters always disappear as our "hero's" are in danger,
Bill's fiancé puts up with quit a bit before realizing that he is a
jerk for putting her through all the danger with him, Jo, a scientist,
thinks that tornado's are serial killers, and not to mention that this
was a record breaking day with numerous twisters. But still as bad as
the acting, as bad as the story, as stupid as some of these situations
may be, it's still a fun movie to watch and I think I wanna be fair
with the rating just because it is mindless entertainment. It's a
classic 90's disaster movie and besides, it has flying cows, what other
film will give you that kind of situation? But it's all good I think
they were taking the cows to McDonald's anyways.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Ever since this films release in 1996, its very title has become
synonymous
with Bad films. Its been labelled stupid, loud, dumb and every other
thing
you can think of. Whilst I admit that the script aint hot and there's no
real story in the film, the action is great, the special effects are
brilliant, the film moves fast and provides a slambang rocking good ride.
Im
sorry that more films like this are not made. I love this film. When i
saw
it at the theatre, i was blown away (no pun intended). Bill paxton does a
good job in the lead (yeah people have said that he is dull and that they
should have found someone with more charisma. PUHLLLEASSSEEE). I'll watch
this film a thousand times between now and the day I die. And for all the
geniuses out there who call this film Crap. I hope you all get swept up
in a
windstorm, I really do. GREAT JOB JAN DEBONT
<|_=00=_|>

Solid follow up film for former cinematographer (it shows) Jan DeBont
who's
previous film 'Speed' redefined the action genre and added, well, speed,
to
the mix. He has a talent for making films that are extremely kinetic and
seem to actually MOVE and Twister is no different.

The story is simple, we follow a group of storm chasers around tornado
alley
for 48hrs during the most active otbreak of tornao activity on record
(not
unlike what actually occured this past month in Oklahoma) all the while
watching an estranged couple played by Hunt and Paxton fall in love again
amongst the windswept action.

The tornados are awe inspiring works of digital wonder created by ILM and
really come across as powerful. They're not so much portrayed as ordinary
storms, but rather angry demons from above who wreak havoc on the
landscape,
they even roar like lions at times! Great film. And to those that think
this
film doesn't translate well to the home, you obviously don't have a Home
Theater set up with Dolby Digital and DTS 5.1! The film RIVALS what I got
at
the theater in my home!
<|_=00=_|>

I'm really shocked at how low the rating for this movie is on this site. 
What is wrong with you people?  The movie is awesome!  It's a fun movie with
excellent special effects.

Some people have complained about the story...I don't get it, the story
seemed fine to me, given the nature of the film.  The movie is about
tornados!!! It's not supposed to be a deep and thought-provoking film, it's
just meant to be entertaining, and it most certainly does that!!!  I thought
the story was excellent and really kept you interested in what was going to
happen next, the movie flows very nicely from scene to scene, from start to
finish.  Also, I have to mention (before I forget) that I loved Jo Harding's
(Helen Hunt's) group of storm chasers, they were a great bunch of
interesting characters!  I loved them all!!!

The actors all did a fantastic job and there were a lot of them that are
worth mentioning.  Bill Paxton does an awesome job as always.  Helen Hunt if
fabulous, and looks just as beautiful as ever.  Jami Gertz also did a fine
job and looked fantastic.  Philip Seymour Hoffman did a really good job,
this seems like such a different role for him and he nailed it!  Cary Elwes
is one of those few actors that can convincingly play a bad guy and a good
guy and is also just as good in comedy films.  He's a very talented actor
and did a great job in this film.  I won't mention all names, but all of the
storm chasers did a great job with their roles.  As for director, Jan de
Bont: Another great film to add to his resume!  I can't wait to see his next
film!  And, I have to mention writers Michael Crichton and Anne-Marie Martin
as well, they both did a great job with the story!

If you're looking for a fast-paced, energetic, interesting, fun movie with
some killer special effects, then this is the movie for you!  I would
definitely recommend this film to just about anyone.  There is rarely
anything objectional in the film and I would imagine that this would appeal
to a great deal of people.  I definitely think you should see this film.  I
really hope you enjoy the film.  Thanks for reading.

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>
Twister is a fun movie to watch. I think Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt
give excellent performances. This movie has a great soundtrack. I do
not know why people hate this movie. This is one of Jan De Bont's best
films. He also directed one of my other favorite movie Speed. Normally
I think all of Van Halen's songs are trashy except for the songs for
Twister. I like the sound and visual effects of this film. Not since
The Wizard of Oz have I seen better tornadoes. The first time I saw
this movie I was blown away. I actually like this better than
Independence Day. I really like the end song "Respect the Wind"
performed by Edward and Alex Van Halen. I wanna get the Twister
Soundtrack.
<|_=00=_|>
Did everyone feel the way I felt? I was rooting for the twister. I live
in Madisonville, Ky, where in 2005 we had the strongest tornado (F4 but
some say F5) in the country that year. Amazingly enough, we did not
lose a single life in that hellstorm. But...we did not have the bland
characters living in our town that live in this movie. And the final
scene? Where Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt strap themselves to the pipes?
Well...just so you know...a tornado of that intensity is going to rip
concrete from the ground, making you forget it was even there. It is
going to pick up combines and toss them like children's blocks. It is
going to suck their eyes out of their heads. It is going to strip the
skin from their bones. And that isn't even taking into account the
damage from the blowing debris! A piece of straw is going to be slung
at them at 150 mph. Sand is going to strip their clothes and flesh from
them. Sounds kind of biblical...but basically, remember, you are not
going to survive. For them to survive, and then just sit there and
*smooch*, well, it was sickening. If that had actually happened,
kissing is farthest thing from your mind--you want to know where your
change of pants is at...
<|_=00=_|>

Anyone who saw this movie in the theater or on a big screen TV will agree
with me that "Twister" is an awesome thrill ride from beginning to end. 
However, if you watch this movie on a regular TV screen, you definitely
don't get the full effect.  

Sure the plot is about as predictable as a Bugs Bunny/Elmer Fudd cartoon. 
And sure Bill Paxton and Helen Hunt weren't A-list stars when this movie
came out.   However, the special effects and uniqueness really make this
film worthwhile.  You have to remember that when this movie came out in the
summer of 1996,  it was a considered a big event movie.  Back then, a big
budget/big event movie was considered a huge risk(i.e. Waterworld) and only
came out about every 6 months.  Nowadays, it seems like every movie is or
tries to be a big budget/big event movie.  Back then, the special effects in
Twister were considered amazing and it was the first disaster movie to come
out in a long time.  Nowadays, most movies have some kind of special effects
in them and there are tons of disaster flicks made since Twister.  So,
Twister was a ground breaking film and it really helped pave the way for all
these high budget/special F/X films out right now. 
<|_=00=_|>
Being from the west coast I never had a whole lot of interest in the
natural phenomena showcased in this film. Where I live an inch of rain
is headline news. I had absolutely no interest in Twister until I saw
it was on late one boring night. Having nothing better to do, I obliged
the television and payed attention. I found Twister to be what I call a
nice bedtime movie. While it failed to anthropomorphize the tornado the
way Backdraft successfully did with fire, the characters were well
fleshed out, there was a healthy balance of comedy, drama and (at the
time) cutting edge special FX. I found that as long as the viewer came
in with no expectation, Twister would be a fun and easy to watch nappy
time movie, perfect for watching on a rainy day, curled up with a
blanket. So to sum everything up, don't expect an epic, emotionally
charged extravaganza, but if you are willing to accept a decently woven
story with reasonably believable characters, and have a rainy afternoon
to kill, check out Twister. You shouldn't be too disappointed.
