
Wow, this is an intense story that should keep you interested for the
full two hours. The five main roles are all men and they are pretty
interesting, led by Danny Glover's character, who is very, very creepy.

I'm hesitant to say much about this film for fear of giving anything
away for those who have not seen it. Suffice to say its a rough movie
in regards to language, violence and general attitude but the story
grabs you quickly and is tough to put down once you are into it.

One complaint I read said this film never made it big because it was
too convoluted a storyline. In fact, the story isn't really pieced
together until the last few minutes. Well, a lot of films over the
years were like that (Charlie Chan and Sherlock Holmes mysteries, just
to name two) and no one complained.

The fact that FBI agent Dennis Quaid would figure things out to the
exact minute does stretch credibility so don't look for a film that
makes a lot of sense: it's simply a very tense thriller that
entertains, so it serves its purpose.

Lee Ermey, the fanatical drill sergeant in Full Metal Jacket, also is
fun to watch in here. Jared Leto and Ted Levine also contribute nicely.
It's a man's film, for the most part and an effective diversion for two
hours.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this film for the first time on late night television after returning
from the cinema where I saw the disappointing 'Along Came a Spider'. There
are similarities, but Switchback is by far the better film. Jeb Stuart has
done a terrific job keeping us at the edge of the couch and there are very
few cliches around. Danny Glover and the entire cast are just right, and all
the characters, even the minor roles, are three-dimensional. The story
centres on a young handsome hitchhiker picked up and befriended by the
serial killer. But this is no ordinary serial killer -- he is Mr. Popularity
along the mountain roads where they travel in buddy movie-fashion. But not
for long. The killer isn't out to make new friends. What he is doing is
cleverly framing the loner-hitchhiker (finger prints on murder weapon etc)
so that the law will be searching for the hitchhiker, and not the real
killer. That is the killer's modus operandi.  So here we have this handsome
hitchhiker with a mysterious past (a doctor who ran away) and a killer with
a bloody past who is on the run. Enter an FBI agent (Dennis Quaid) who is
wanted by the FBI. The FBI want Quaid off the case.  But Quaid is a
determined man: the serial killer, who he has tracked for 18 months, has
kidnapped his son....All of these outsiders come through a small town where
the local sheriff loses the election by opting to help the truant FBI agent
find the real killer... Three quarters of the way through the film, everyone
is chasing someone and the tension keeps mounting along with the altitude.

The killer has left a note with a cryptic clue that Dennis Quaid must
decipher. But the key to his son's whereabouts lies elsewhere.....

This is a fresh breath of writing into a genre that has been abused and
neglected of late.  There are nice echos of our favourite films noir
(...the hitchhiker, the loner, the car accident.....the guessing came about
who is who...). There's a touch of The Fugitive, but not too much.  On top
of all the good acting, casting, plotting and suspense, there's nice
atmosphere and locations in the Rockies.  
<|_=00=_|>

Switchback was an enjoyable mystery/thriller with a few nice action
sequences.  Quaid's character seemed a bit cliche to me (like he was
impersonating a dour Harrison Ford) but Glover's character was unique and
interesting.  This movie didn't have a lot of surprises or plot twists, but
director Jeb Stuart managed to keep my interest high by using well drawn and
likeable characters and by keeping a lot of balls in the air from the
beginning of the movie.  With the exception of the serial killer himself,
the conflicting motivations of the characters played well with the story and
provided plenty of tension.  I especially enjoyed the portrayal of the
serial killer himself.  This is possibly the first movie I've seen where the
killer had a human face and was not a psycho mastermind genius or a low-life
loner with a chip the size of Manhattan on his shoulder.
<|_=00=_|>

As a thriller, this had some holes.  For starters, Stuart identifies the
killer too early (at least, I figured it out), so some tension is robbed).
The postcard thing never really made any sense to me.  And though it's clear
who the killer is, his identity raises questions about how Quaid's son is
kept without the authorities knowing.  But I can forgive a lot of that
because we care about the characters.  Quaid, Ermey, and Glover, are three
of our finest character actors, and they make us interested in their
characters.  Also, Ted Levine offers fine support, and Jared Leto creates
mystery in his role when there wasn't a whole lot written
in.
<|_=00=_|>
Exciting thriller plenty of suspense and action , dealing with the
kidnapping of a FBI agent's son and the desperate chase of the murderer
who has him . As a F.B.I. agent named Frank LaCrosse (Dennis Quaid)
goes home to encounter has been broken into and his son is missing . He
is following the clues of a brutal serial killer whose massacre
stretches nearly two years . Frank's relentless pursuit leads to
Amarillo , Texas , where two more victims have been found slashed to
death and the enigmatic series killer goes on his crime spree . As
Frank join forces with the local Sheriff named Buck Olmstead (R. Lee
Ermey) and his Deputy Nate Booker (Ted Levine) to search for his
suspect , elusive killer , and all of whom investigate the murders
before he disappears perhaps forever into the Rocky mountains .
Meantime , a drifting previous medic named Lane Dixon (singer/actor
Jared Leto) is picked up by an ex-railroad man , an African-American
named Bob Goodall .

This is a thrilling film that contains intrigue , noisy action ,
suspense , chases and plot twists . The highlights result to be the
train confrontation and the surprise ending . Interesting and thrilling
screenplay by the same director Jeb Stuart who debuts in this enjoyable
flick . Intriguing narrative is well developed , as we are interested
on the events are we are really cared what happens to this people .
According to an interview with Jeb Stuart in Premiere magazine, he had
originally intended to make this movie back in the early 1980's under
the title 'Going West in America', with Sidney Poitier, Robert Duvall,
and Kevin Bacon in the three main roles . Magnificent acting by the
protagonist trio as Dennis Quaid , Jared Leto and Danny Glover .
Excellent support such as Ted Levine as Deputy Nate Booker , Leo
Burmester as Clyde 'Shorty' Callahan , Walton Goggins as Bud , William
Fichtner as Chief Jack McGinnis and special mention to Lee Ermey as
Sheriff Buck Olmstead . Furthermore , a rousing and stirring original
musical score by Basil Poledouris . Colorful and evocative
Cinematography by Oliver Wood . The motion picture was well directed by
Jeb Stuart in his film debut . Stuart is a prestigious screenwriter ,
he wrote successful films such as ¨The fugitive¨, Die Hard¨ , ¨Another
48 hours¨ , ¨Lock up¨ , ¨Fire down below 2¨ and ¨Just cause¨ . He only
has directed two films ¨Switchback¨ and ¨Blood done sign my name¨ ,
both of them failed at box office ; however , ¨Switchback¨ is today
pretty well considered . The picture will appeal to Dennis Quaid and
Jared Leto fans .
<|_=00=_|>

I liked just about every aspect of this movie. The local police aren't
portrayed as a bunch of inbred idiots, the killer isn't portrayed as
maniacal and impersonable, and the FBI agent isn't just a suit with all the
personality of a tube of toothpaste. All of these combine to make a
refreshing murder mystery/thriller. This isn't the classic "who dun it?"
type of murder mystery; rather, it is more in the flavor of "Silence of the
Lambs", where we discover who the killer is long before the end of the
movie, and the suspense comes from anticipating the hero catching the
villain.
<|_=00=_|>

I was surprised by this film quite a bit. I thought it would be another
mediocre paint-by-the-number genre piece. To my amazement Switchback is a
taut and suspenseful film. Its fun to see Danny Glover cast against type.
By
no means a masterpiece, but well worth watching by thriller
fans
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of my favorite movies. A very menacing storyline if you pay
attention. Danny Glover is fully believable in the role of a serial
killer, Bob Goodall. His eyes and smile convey an extreme homicidal
persona one second, but just friendly and laid back the next. I have
never seen any actor portray this kind of character as well as Mr.
Glover. One of the most convincing scenes is when he follows the
attractive female clerk into the store room of a country store. His
demeanor, very understated, reflects a trusted friend until he enters
the room and says a few words to her and his facial expression, still
subdued, completely changes in an instant, going from friend to most
dangerous. Hard to describe, but his acting was superb as a psychopath
and I recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
Almost an oxymoron, isn't it? A well-done serial murderer story? Yet
they do come along from time to time. This one isn't as innovative as
"Seven," not as well observed, but it's still above average.

The killer, the affable Danny Glover, arranges to take the
hitch-hiking, unwitting Jared Leto on a trip through the Colorado
mountains in the middle of winter. Glover, whose identity is unknown to
any social control agents, is being pursued by a local police
department, R. Lee Ermey in charge, and a loose cannon FBI agent,
Dennis Quaid, whose son Glover has kidnapped and stashed away
somewhere.

Half the film has Glover driving his white El Dorado, festooned with
pics of Playmates of the Month, through a convincingly snowy landscape.
The other half deals with the reluctant cooperation between Ermey and
Quaid. Ermey finally decides to throw the law books out the window and
join Quaid in his personal quest. The climax brings Glover, Leto, and
Quaid together in the caboose of a freight train plowing its way
through a mountain pass and turns the movie into what is more or less a
formulaic bang up.

Two things contribute to the quality of the film. One is the location
shooting. Everything looks cold, bare, gloomy, and windswept. The
landscape seems to be hibernating and waiting for spring. The other
thing is Danny Glover's performance as the serial killer. He's great. A
Scatman Crothers whose big grin and avuncular manner barely manage to
mask the vicious psychopath beneath. Glover's character has worked
these mountain passes for the railroad before. Everyone in the small
towns along the route and on the job seem to know and love him -- and
he's a black guy too. It says volumes about our national change in
attitude that someone was willing to cast an African-American actor as
a charming murderer of white people, and Glover justifies the risk that
was taken.

Quaid is stolid, stuck in the humorless role of the anxious but
determined father. Jared Leto can't really act at all. And there are
clichés in abundance. The car that rolls off the road and hangs on the
edge of a cliff while its occupants try to crawl out of the wreck. It's
held up by a single tree, which cracks and allows the vehicle to plunge
into the valley, while Leto hangs onto some projecting roots by his
fingertips.

But it's Danny Glover who redeems the film. At the start, we only see
him as an amiable guy, and only gradually do we come to suspect his
identity as the killer. The first time he uses his knife, the victim is
an old friend with whom he has shared his childhood. It's a truly
chilling scene. Glover's friendly smile fades into a scowl while the
puzzled victim simply stares back at him. Then there is Glover's death.
He's knocked from a speeding train and does a series of somersaults
down a snowy slope, yipping and yelling along the way, like Major Kong
riding the catastrophic bomb in "Doctor Strangelove." What a job he
does.

At heart, it's just another serial killer story but -- here we must all
get on our knees and thank heaven for small favors -- the killer
doesn't leave puzzling clues behind based on "Alice in Wonderland" or
The Seven Deadly Sins or the first folio of Billy Shakespeare's works
or the seven levels of Inuit hell. There's only one teasing clue, and
it doesn't require a trip to the library to solve it. There's really
very little gore, and no violence except for a few minutes at the end.

You'll probably like it.
<|_=00=_|>
Switchback is one of my favourite 'serial killer vs. cop' thrillers of
the 90's, and has seemingly slipped through the cracks these days. It
has a special place in my heart, because as a kid my father would take
me to his office at work, where I would catch a lot of cool movies on
what was back then called 'TBS Superstation'. I once saw a few quick
moments of this one, and wondered for years what film it was. A couple
years back I tracked this one down because it stars a bunch of actors I
really like, and was pleasantly surprised to have my childhood memory
jogged, and finally find out what movie I had seen. It's got a solid,
able bodied cast that's speckled with both prominent, square jawed
leading dudes and some salty character actors as well, to spice things
up. The film starts off as jovial Bob Goodall (Danny Glover) picks up
mysterious hitchhiker Lane Dixon (Jared Leto) somewhere in the remote
northwest. The two strike up a rapport, but we know that one or both
will ultimately figure in the other half of the story, where things get
decidedly sinister. Many miles away in another state, renegade FBI
agent Frank Lacrosse (Dennis Quaid, turning off his smiling charm a
quiet, smouldering turn as a guy at the end of his rope) searches for
his infant son, who was kidnapped several years before by a dangerous
serial killer. His search leads him to Amarillo, Texas, where he's both
aided and stymied by local law enforcement. Kind, caring Sheriff Buck
Olmstead (R. Lee Ermey, one my favourite character actors) and his
deputy Nate Booker (Ted Levine, always reliable) do all they can for
him, but in the midst of a reelection, their efforts are somewhat
sabotaged by rival candidate Jack McGinnis (William Fichtner), causing
delay in the investigation. Meanwhile, Glover and Leto draw closer and
closer to a violent conclusion as the tension grows, inevitably tying
in with Quaid's story. It's a crisp, no nonsense thriller that wastes
no time bounding out of the gate, and yet never feels rushed. As Glover
and Leto travel we are treated to some gorgeous, snowy Colorado
scenery, captured nicely by DOP Oliver Wood. I revisit this one from
time to time and am never let down at its tension, performances and
skillful execution. A fair bit overlooked in thriller-ville as well, I
might add.
