
When I was a kid in the 50's and 60's anything connected with Disney
was by definition great. What happened? They are able to get any actors
and actresses they want, the best of their time. But somehow Disney
manages to screw things up in spite of their abundant resources.

Disney can afford the best writers, the best producers and directors,
but still...they screw things up! This movie is crap. The sad thing is
that I suspect Disney in their arrogance does not even know when a
movie is good or bad.

It is only due to the talent of the actors that I can even give it a 3
of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Boy, I can hear those producers right now: 
"That's great, a movie-version of My Favorite Martian... That calls for
computer FX! Get me those CGI-people!" 

The writers: "Well, we were hoping that the story..."

The Producers: "Yes, yes, yes! But enough with the story, GET ME COMPUTER
FX!!! GOTTA HAVE LOTS AND LOTS OF FX!!! KIDS WILL LOVE
IT!!!"

And thus yet another charming 60's TV-show was mutilated by
Hollywood.

This movie version is so loaded with pointless F/X they left no room for a
story, not to mention comedy! All though Jeff Daniels and Christopher Lloyd
try their best the story just ISN'T FUNNY. Not to mention that dreadful
ZOOT-character voiced by Wayne Knight: it ranks as one of the most annoying
film characters off all time, alongside the infamous Jar Jar
Binks.

One plus worth mentioning: the star of the original show, Ray Walston, turns
up and he is in surprisingly good form.
<|_=00=_|>
They totally ruined the concept for this story. The second the talking
space suit appeared, I knew this was going to be very bad. Too often
what happens is that the makers of some films get seduced with the
ability of special effects and forget the story. At that point, it was
no longer a movie of the beloved My Favorite Martian we have enjoyed
from the TV series but a cartoon. I highly recommend people watch the
old TV series when it is on in syndication or if its available on DVD,
because those shows focused on story and what little special effects
that were done in the TV series were strongly carried by the acting,
writing and direction.
<|_=00=_|>

We went into this movie because my husband had enjoyed the original version
of `My favourite Martian'. We had our 6 year old daughter with us. She
wanted to leave halfway through the movie which was fine with both her
parents! The parts we did see were only occasionally humorous, mostly either
too silly or gross. I would expect that this movie might appeal to kids
between 9-12, if that. It's definitely not suited for younger children. From
what I've heard the original series was by far superior and if you are going
to "relive the past" you'll probably be disappointed. 
<|_=00=_|>
Tim (Gary Daniels) wants desperately to break into serious television
reporting. When a job he begged for goes awry, he is fired. His
beautiful but empty girlfriend (Elizabeth Hurley) says sayonara, too.
Coming home, Tim is startled to discover his house has an uninvited
visitor (Christopher Lloyd) from the planet Mars! Calling him Uncle
Martin, Tim soon tries to help his new friend navigate life on earth.
But, Martin gets in trouble wherever he goes, from the bathroom to the
laundry room and more. Lovely Lizzie (Daryl Hannah) finally sees an
opportunity to make time with Tim but the course of true love does not
run smooth in this case, either. Soon everyone in television is
stalking Tim, hoping for a story about a true alien. What's a man to
do? For those who loved the old television show of the same name, with
Bill Bixby and Ray Walston, this film is not worthy to tie the
proverbial boots. Its truly, undeniably awful, with no plot and a
reliance on supposed special effects which fall flat, too. Daniels is
okay as the earthling but Lloyd is simply terrible as the alien,
overacting up a storm. The rest of the cast is adequate, as are the
costumes, set, and production details. Even if your children see the
cover and beg for this film, convince them to pick out another flick at
the video store. Be assured, kids and adults will find this movie a
colossal bore, so opt for A Night at the Museum or Around the World in
80 Days instead.
<|_=00=_|>

This was yet another big screen outing for a US TV show from the
sixties
It is amusing enough but was very much to formula.  Intelligent Martian
lands on Earth and meets the not too bright humans, in his
view.

The usual wackiness ensues with the human, Bridges, eventually bonds with
him and helps him to get home.  Along the way he also gets the girl,
Hannah.

This is a nice outing for some pleasant Hollywood stars who I had not seen
for a while.

Pleasant enough to pass some spare time if you have not got anything
better
to view.
<|_=00=_|>
Shazbot, is this embarrassing. In fact, here's a list of 100 that makes
up the embarrassment: 1.) a failed comeback for Christopher Lloyd. 2.)
Jeff Daniels basically playing the same role he played in the live 101
Dalmatians remake which wasn't too juicy to begin with. He sure has a
funny way of promoting his Purple Rose Theatre... 3.) Disnefluff. 4.)
another disappointing reminder that Wallace Shawn is to Disney what Jet
Li was to Bob Hoskins in Unleashed. 5.) Ray Walston, the original
martian from the TV series, played a bit part (read "cameo") in this
flick and died two years later of lupus. Coincidence? 6.) awful special
effects. Seriously - awful. 7.-100.) that damn talking, farting suit
voiced to an annoying degree by Wayne Knight ("Newman!"). My favorite
scene? HA! HA ha, ha! Ha ha ha ha ha... Whew!... Good one. You - You're
a joker. Okay, let's wrap up this review with a moment of silence for
this franchise's agonizing death, and if you would like, you can say a
quick prayer that Disney doesn't forget this travesty and do something
silly like a movie adaptation of "Mork and Mindy" starring Tim
Allen.........................................................
<|_=00=_|>

There is no possible reason I can fathom why this movie was ever
made.

Why must Hollywood continue to crank out one horrible update of a classic
after another?  ( Cases in point: Mister Magoo, The Avengers - awful!
)

Christopher Lloyd, whom I normally enjoy, was so miserably miscast in this
role.  His manic portrayal of our beloved "Uncle Martin" is so unspeakably
unenjoyable to be almost criminal. His ranting, groaning, grimacing and
histrionics provide us with no reason to care for his character except as
some 1 dimensional cartoon character.

The director must have thought that fast movements, screaming dialogue and
"one-take" slapstick had some similarity to comedy.  Apparently he told
EVERY ACTOR to act as if they had red ants in their pants.

Fault must lie with the irresponsibly wrought script.  I think the writer
used "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World" as an example of a fine comedy
script.  As manic as that 1963 classic is, it is far superior to this
claptrap - in fact - suddenly it looks pretty good in comparison.

What is most sad about this movie is that it must have apparently been
written to appeal to young children.  I just am not sure whose children it
was made for.  Certainly no self-respecting, card-carrying child I
know!

If they HAD to remake "My Favorite Martian", why didn't they add some of the
timeless charm of the original classic?  

Unfortunately, IMDB.com cannot factor in "zero" as a rating for its readers,
that is the only rating that comes to mind in describing this
travesty.

One good thing did come from this movie, the actors and crew were paid - I
think. 
<|_=00=_|>

All I can say is I'm glad I didn't pay good money to see this, I watched
it
on T.V the other night.  It lacked a decent script and had none of the
charm
of the original series.  The studio sacrificed plot and character
development for special effects and an attempt at slapstick.  Was very
disappointed in the end.
<|_=00=_|>

I grew up watching the original TV series in the sixties and one thing that
I can tell you right away, there is NO comparison. This film was totally
ridiculous with a flying suit that was alive. A martian that took different
shapes. Special effects that looked like something that a little child would
create. In contrast, in the original, characters were developed and the
viewers developed a feeling for Tim and Uncle Martin. The only highlight in
this film, yes, actually there was one, occurred when Ray Walston finally
made an appearance at the end. He wore dark glasses and made references to
living on this planet for 30 years as a sort of homage to the TV series. But
even the real Uncle Martin could not save this turkey.

