

Carlito's Way is an extrememely underated Al Pacino movie. This film is
probubly the best crime story ive seen, next to Goodfellas(1990), Pacino
gives another superb performance as well as the rest of the cast.  The story
in Carlito's Way is extremely compelling and can be very sad at times. 
Unlike Pacino's similar film Scarface(1983), Carlito's Way is not just a
blood bath without much of a story.  I dont know why this film fizzled at
the box office and failed to recieve any academy award nominations because
it sure deserved to.  9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Pacino and DePalma team up once again and the result is once again
triumphant.  "Carlito's Way" is an emotional and captivating story,
depicting the life of former trug kingpin Carlito Brigante (Pacino). 
Brigante's intention is to go straight, clean up his act, and make money
managing a sleazy nightclub.  David Koepp's screenplay has the depth it
needs in examining the intense struggle an ex-druglord must endure when
trying to escape his violent past.  Stephen Burum's nearly flawless
camerawork and DePalma's flamboyant and operatic direction are a visual
splendor that complements the emotional story.  This film is a highly
underrated work of art that needs to be appreciated.  Great supporting
performances from Sean Penn and Penelope Ann Miller should not go
unmentioned.  
<|_=00=_|>
Right well I can say this is one of my favourite gangster films ever,
and I truly regard it almost as highly as good fellas or the godfather.

This is simply because of the way the story catches you. Pacino
delivers an excellent performance (do you really expect any less from
him?) as the main guy Carlito who just wants out of the whole gangster
game. By his side is the almost unrecognisable Sean Penn. An afro
wearing cocaine addict who just seems determined to lure Carlito back
into the kind of world he is trying to leave.

This film is easy to enjoy with a great story and a great cast. And if
you look carefully enough you can see a young Viggo Mortensen (Aragorn
from lord of the rings in case you don't know) as a crippled low life.
Made me chuckle.

Anyways, i give this movie 10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Once again, one of the greatest actors of our time teams up with one of
the greatest directors. Ther combination must surely be as good as, if
not better than, Scorsese and De Niro. First the excellent Scarface,
and then Carlito's Way, a film that blew me away when I first saw it.

Pacino's portrayal of ex-gangland boss and drug dealer Carlito Brigante
is powerful, moving and at times very funny. Combined with great
performances from Sean Penn and Penelope Ann Miller, this film is a
roller-coaster ride of "will he, won't he" tension and heavy , though
not gratuitous, violence.

So swept away do we get in Carlito's struggle that we actually forget
that he's dying at the beginning of the film, and are praying that
he'll make it by the end. This is a masterstroke from De Palma and a
salute to the powerful and mesmeric acting of one Alfredo Pacino.

A modern classic - this film has everything you could want. Love,
loyalty, betrayal, sadness, comedy, and most importantly of all -
balls.
<|_=00=_|>

Carlito's Way (1993), is a brilliant cinematic work. Pacino's performance
as
Carlito Berganzi displays the duplicity and subsequent torment between his
reformed spirit, and the endless seduction of the street, embodied more
specifically as his reputation,legacy,those who know him, of him, and
those
whom he allows in his innermost circle.
Sean Penn is phenomenal as the lawyer representing Carlito, his
metamorphosis into character is testament to his depth of talent. Penelope
Ann Miller, as the long-suffering love of Carlito's life is dramatically
and
visually enchanting. The casting is perfect. The supporting cast superb,
perfectly augmenting the film. The script is alive with literary devices,
the story line(s), characters, dialogue, themes, sub-texts,etc., make this
an almost endlessly watchable film. Of this genre, Its all there, action,
suspense, violence, confrontations, chases,  prerequisite street and wise
guy character profiling with the right dialogue to make it work. Directed,
executed and rendered a cinema great.
Carlito's Way is atypical of the gangster genre, although it adheres to
certain basics. It is also  a love story, not boy meets girl, ad nauseum,
but real, destined soul mates, wrenched apart and thrown back together
five
years later by some abberation of fate. As one experiences spiritual,moral
disintegration, the other the anti-thesis. Carlito's Way is a mix of
genre's
veiled with diligent artistic discretion.
I even see certain thematic similarities to Casablanca.
Watching Carlito's Way I had the feeling that De Palma wanted to resurrect
and redeem poor old Tony Montana, Scarface (1983). Perhaps it was
self-redemption, or a means to a great film with a second view or maybe
the
fun of bringing back that great ensemble of talent, based on a similar
theme. A sequel of sorts, not to diminish either film in
anyway.
Released exactly ten years after Scarface, the comparisons are more than
obvious. Ten years later, De Palma and Pacino. Oliver Stone missing, but
another great script.
In Carlito's Way, Pacino again plays a Hispanic drug lord. Now Puerto
Rican
in New York City, before Cuban in Miami. Now drug lord repentant, whereas
in
Scarface, drug lord vehemently unrepentant and devoid of remorse, from
beginning to surrealistic end.
Instead of classic gangster genre prerequisites employed in Scarface, such
as, coming from the bottom, rising in status, trust and favour in the eyes
of the mob boss, eventually killing him, and gaining his empire his
woman(Michelle Pfeiffer). Love? Its not in the equation- Carlito only
wants
to unite with his TRUE LOVE. To redeem himself in her eyes, after causing
her the heartbreak of losing him forever.(Which it would have been, if not
for the quirk of intervention by Carlito's coke addicted, sociopathic
lawyer). Carlito seeks solely to prove to his love that he is truly
changed,
honest, sincere, and even has a plan whereupon they can live happily ever
after.
Carlito and his girl are likeable. Upon viewing this film one is compelled
to empathy, wanting them to escape insurmountable odds (the almost
onmniprescent serpent-like "street"), finding and deserving of happiness
as
long as they may live.
However, it is though The Angel of Death has been hidden somewhere in
every
frame of De Palma's film, casting a shadow, waiting patiently to put his
hand upon...

Even the ancillary characters from Scarface are brought back in legions
for
Carlito's Way.
Carlito's Way is Scarface with "feelings". Which is another similarity in
the two films, "feelings" is the Achille's Heel of both Carlito Berganzi
and
Tony Montana.
I also believe both films were vastly underrated and overlooked by the
mainstream media, but upon populist vote, they are both widely esteemed as
"classic".
I'd give Carlito's Way (1993) nine out of ten. If I saw a ten, it would be
a
life changing event.

<|_=00=_|>
"Scarface" was a great operatic film rooted in Greek tragedy, primarily
the downfall of its protagonist related to his own hubris and pride.
Its over-the-top theatrics and scenery-chewing acting complemented the
absurdist tone of the film; some carping critics complained it was "too
violent," but it was silly violence...and it worked.

"Carlito's Way" is considered by many to be a companion piece of sorts
to "Scarface" - but in its own ways it is vastly different. As
"GoodFellas" differed a great deal from "Casino" in its narrative
methods, "Carlito's Way" isn't as broad and theatrical as "Scarface."
Of course, it's still a DePalma film, and that means we get some
beautiful set pieces - but for the most part DePalma avoids his
excessive visuals and instead opts for a balanced mixture of both
storyline and directorial flair. It is not a sequel to "Scarface" - it
is an expansion, and it seems entirely apt that its narrative is more
mature, considering that Carlito Brigante (the main character) is wiser
than Tony Montana from "Scarface." Carlito is a Puerto Rican ex-con who
gets out of a thirty-year jail sentence based on a technicality after
serving a mere five years of sentence. Faced with a new life and fresh
horizons, he decides to heed the lessons he learned in jail and embark
on a new and honest lifestyle.

"Scarface" was Greek tragedy insofar as Tony Montana was doomed to a
downfall based on his own egotism and stubbornness. Like Oedipus in
Sophocles' classic story, Montana was too bull-headed to take the
advice of his wife and friends and was entirely responsible for his own
emotional (and, in "Scarface's" case, physical) demise.

"Carlito's Way" is the flip side of the coin. It's still Greek tragedy,
but it offers a new perspective. This time, the protagonist tries to
change his fate, but his life is doomed to its inevitable conclusion.
Carlito tries to change his ways, but - to paraphrase a character from
another film - there is only one guarantee...Carlito Brigante will
never see heaven. That's the fundamental truth of this movie, and
DePalma's less showy camera-work, and the more mature characterizations
by the actors, and the believable script, ensure that "Carlito's Way"
is an entirely human experience - far more so than "Scarface." (Which
is still a great film based on its own goals.)
<|_=00=_|>
Great movie..and I can see why it is underrated...possibly due to
obvious comparisons to Scarface (Brian De Palma, Martin Bregman, Al
Pacino team), which was much more brutal in its approach.

Al Pacino as Carlito, awesome as he is, is still much softer compared
to the sledgehammer Tony Montana. And then there is some romance mixed
in with the story of a gangster trying to reform himself.

I didn't like the romantic scenes myself...thought they interrupted the
flow of the story...hence I gave it a 9 instead of a 10! There is also
some clichéd dialogue. I happen to be a big Pacino fan and so I am
being a little bit (though not entirely) biased and am sidelining all
these things. If you excuse these small potatoes, this one is a great
flick from start to finish, very entertaining, with some fantastic
performances from the supporting cast, e.g. Sean Penn. Special mention,
also, of Viggo Mortensen who comes in for a short role, but plays the
part wonderfully.

As for Al Pacino in lead role, he makes sure he steals the show, as
usual. Brilliant!
<|_=00=_|>

What can I say about such a movie? Simply brilliant. I make a point of
watching this movie each year and every time I watch it I simply fall in
love with it even more. The direction is brilliant as is Pacino's superb
on-time acting. Al deserves an Oscar for this flick. As human beings, we
love story telling. It's in out nature, and this story is excellent. As
mentioned before in a previous review, Carlito's way is Scarface with
feeling. Simply involving. I would dare say it does leave you on the edge
of
your chair with great anticipation, probably due to Pacino's on screen
presence and experienced acting mannerisms. Penn, once again is brilliant
and shines through as the high-classed, cocaine addicted Kleinfeld. If you
have not seen this movie, do yourself a favour. Rent it out, dim the
lights,
snuggle up tight with your loved one and enjoy one of the greatest movies
of
all time. 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the two greatest works of a true master - Brian de
Palma. Just like it's "brother", Scarface, the movie gives us an
insight of a criminal world, with all it's cruelty, deceit, lies and
fatal decisions which can change ones life forever. As we observe the
last days of a retired gangster Carlito Brigante, it's hard not to
admire skills of the director, as a quite usual story of a good guy
trying to quit "the business" turns into an epic and a cult movie right
in front of our eyes. The movie also contains some important messages,
and one of the most important is: "Never give up your friends, no
matter what..." The movie has excellent cast (Pacino is great as usual,
and Sean Penn does an amazing job as a repulsive corrupted lawyer)
directing and soundtrack. 10/10, a true crime classics.
<|_=00=_|>
Al Pacino, Sean Penn, and Penelope Ann Miller create an artistic and
romantic twist to the gangster genre in Carlito's way, story of a
convicted gangster by the name of Carlito Brigante, known to his
ex-lover as Charlie, who manages to get his way out of jail thanks to
crooked drug-addicted lawyer David Kleinfield. After his release, he's
convinced himself that he's never going back to his life of crime, but
before he knows it, he's inevitably being pulled back thanks to his
corrupt friends and family.

While Scareface centered around the action and grittiness of the
gangster life more then anything else, Carlito's Way tends to lean to
the romantic side, giving the film an artsy twist. For example, in one
scene there is a close up shot of a revolver, the chamber slowly moving
to an empty slot. There is another famous scene with Carlito inside of
a dark bathroom, his back against a wall with a pistol in hand. The way
the camera is placed, the way Carlito is standing, and the way the
lighting reflects off of the wall and his leather jacket are all taken
in to account by De Palma. To make a long story short, Carlito's Way is
very beautiful, and this is all thanks to De Palma. He directs the
movie very well, you can tell that he put some true dedication in to
this film.

Needless to say, the acting is incredible, no matter what you might be
hearing. Al Pacino is as always great, and Penelope Ann Miller is as
well. But most of the time you'll find yourself deeper inside Sean
Penn's character then Pacino's or anyone else's. He's steals nearly
every scene he's in, if not then he steals all of them. He's almost too
convincing.

The scores are very, very strong and add on to the artistic feel to the
movie. Not only do they add on to that, but it adds to the tension, the
romance, and the tears as well.

To sum it all up, Carlito's Way is the best gangster film ever made. I
love it more and more every time I think about it.

*****/*****

Riveting.
