
Happy Texas is one of the greatest comedies you've probably never heard
of. Shot in just 29 days on a shoestring budget, this film's acting,
directing, script and comedic timing are so clever and incisive that it
has attracted an almost cult following, especially among Steve Zahn
fans.

There are plots within plots that all pull together in the end to make
a perfect film. Starting with escaped convicts (Wayne Wayne Wayne
played by Steve Zahn and Harry Sawyer played by Jeremy Northam) who
have to hide and steal an RV belonging to two gay pageant designers, to
discovering the gay lifestyle in a small Texas community (Happy), to
finding love in the arms of a doe-eyed banker (Ally Walker ...sorry for
the cliché, but she really does have doe-eyes), this movie hits on all
aspects of life and puts a hilarious spin on them.

The greatest things about this film were Steve Zahn's acting while
trying to teach pre-teen girls how to dance, and William H. Macy's
stunning performance as Happy's town sheriff who comes out of the
closet.

Always sharp, incredibly funny, superbly paced, this movie's small
budget belies its excellent acting and directing.

Few films will tickle your funny bone as perfectly as HAPPY Texas.
Watch it. Buy it. Live it!
<|_=00=_|>
Two prisoners (Jeremy Northam and Steve Zahn) escape their chain gang
when a fracas starts because of a road kill armadillo! They make it to
the small town of Happy, Texas where they discover that the gay beauty
pageant experts everyone is waiting for, won't be coming after all.
Figuring that they can hide in plain site with the right credentials,
the duo steps into the world of little-girl beauty contests. Northam
takes care of the behind the scenes activities while Zahn must teach
the little gals their big dance number. Their methods are, to say the
least, a bit unorthodox but the town embraces them mightily. However,
posing as gay advisers has its disadvantages when the town's banker and
the pageant assistant are both lovely ladies. How long will the
convicts be able to keep up with appearances? This film is a darling
and humorous gem. Zahn and Ilieana Douglas, especially, give all-out
hilarious turns as the pageant advisers. Northam, a distinguished Brit
in real life, charms the audience with his great looks and his
commitment to his role as a "screw-up" from Texas. Ally Walker and
William H. Macy, as well as the rest of the great cast, support the
principals nicely. The small town Texas setting, the clever script, and
the fun costumes complete one's fondest desires. Even if you've never
heard of this film, don't pass it by. Although its gay undertones may
be offensive to a few, its gleeful mirth and constant giggle-getting
scenes mean a good time will be had by all who watch the film.
<|_=00=_|>

A case of mistaken identity causes concern, conflict and consternation among
the residents of a small town in Texas, the results of which are often
unexpected but always hilarious, in `Happy, Texas,' directed by Mark
Illsley.  A comedy of incidents and errors, it illustrates what can happen
when trust is placed in the wrong quarter; and interestingly enough, the
good things just may outweigh the bad, depending upon which side of whose
fence you're standing on at the time.  One thing is certain, before it's all
over there are those who will know a lot more about themselves, as well as
some of the others in town, and one way or another Illsley makes sure that
there's plenty of laughs in it for his audience along the
way.

Harry Sawyer (Jeremy Northam) and Wayne Wayne Jr. (Steve Zahn) escape from a
Texas chain gang along with killer Bob Maslow (M.C. Gainey), to whom they
just happen to be shackled.  When Maslow takes it on the lam, Harry and
Wayne steal an RV that belongs to a couple of gay entrepreneurs, David (Tim
Bagley) and Steven (Michael Hitchcock), who are en route to Happy to produce
a beauty pageant.  For personal reasons, the couple do not report the theft
of their vehicle.  Meanwhile, as this pageant is a big event in Happy, the
local sheriff, Chappy Dent (William H. Macy), is on the lookout for David
and Steven, and when he spots their RV, he personally escorts them into
town, where Harry and Wayne (who quickly catch on and become `Steven and
David') are welcomed and handed some money.  It doesn't seem like a bad gig
considering the alternatives, so they take the money and go along; after
all, how hard can producing a beauty pageant be?  Suffice to say, being
perceived as `gay' is going to be the least of their problems over the next
few days.  And with that, the merriment begins.

Humor is the main course served up by Illsley in this rather off-beat and
quirky feast of funniness, which often takes the road less traveled to come
out a winner.  It's a comedy with a twist rarely associated with the
prevailing attitudes among the folks residing in the good state of Texas,
wherein `macho' holds sway and those who wear a badge must necessarily
conform to the shadow cast in the image of no less than John Wayne.  With
Illsley's offering, however, we get to see the other side of the coin, and
it's refreshing, as well as funny.  In the end we realize that `nature' will
have it's way in every conceivable way, shape and form, and there's no
getting around it; it's a little thing called `life.'  Illsley, though, is
not attempting to make a statement with his film, or even send a message of
any kind.  This is first and foremost a comedy; Illsley's intent is clearly
to entertain and to make his audience laugh, and in this he succeeds.  He
begins with an interesting concept, builds a good story and populates it
with some bona fide `characters,' brought to life by a solid cast of
talented actors.

William H. Macy just may be the best character actor alive, and his
portrayal of Chappy helps to make the case even stronger.  His resume reads
like a who's who of a cross section of the earth's population:  From his
memorable turn as Jerry, in `Fargo,' to `Mystery Men's' Shoveler, Walt the
director in `State and Main,' Lawrence in `Focus' to his poignant and
unforgettable performance as Bill  in `Door To Door' and everything
in-between, Macy makes whatever character he's playing unique, perfect and
interesting.  He's a star who can carry a film on his own, or give the kind
of support in a smaller role that elevates whatever project he's working on
to a higher level; and there are very few actors around who can lay claim to
that kind of range and success.  As he does with Chappy, he has the ability
to make his characters convincing and entirely real, bringing them to life
without any discernible trace of Macy the actor to be found.  Chappy Dent,
for example, is a sheriff in Happy, Texas, with no connection whatsoever to
a guy named William H. Macy.  It's the highest compliment one can pay an
actor, and Macy deserves it tenfold.

In the realm of character actors, it must be noted, too, that Steve Zahn is
well on his way to establishing himself among the best of the best.  Like
Macy's Chappy, in Wayne Wayne, Zahn creates a character with a decidedly
unique perspective on the world and his own place in it.  And, like Macy,
Zahn has the ability to disappear into a role.  Consider some of his
characters, from Lenny in `That Thing You Do,' to George in `You've Got
Mail,' Fuller in `Joy Ride,' to his role here of Wayne, and you would be
hard put to find any semblance of the `real' Steve Zahn.  He has yet to
establish his ability to carry a film on his own, but he has certainly
demonstrated how invaluable his presence can be to any film. 

Of the entire cast, in fact, it is leading man Jeremy Northam, known
predominately for period piece dramas (Mr. Knightly, `Emma,' Sir Robert, `An
Ideal Husband' and Ash, `Possession,' for example), who seems to be the fish
out of water here.  As Harry/Steven, however, he rises to the occasion and
gives a convincing performance that is yet another `plus' to the film.  it's
a role somewhat against type for him, but he pulls it off
nicely.

The supporting cast includes Ally Walker (Josephine), Illeana Douglas
(Doreen), Ron Perlman (Marshal Nalhober), Jillian Berard (Maddie) and Paul
Dooley (The Judge).  A feel-good film made for fun and frolic, `Happy,
Texas' may take a side door to the humor, but it finds it and makes good on
the promise of what `comedy' is all about:  Plenty of laughs.  8/10.        
  


<|_=00=_|>

HAPPY, TEXAS tells us the story of two escaped inmates, Wayne Wayne Wayne
Jr. (Steve Zahn) and Harry Sawyer (Jeremy Northam). They arrive in a town
called Happy in Texas and proceed to steal the RV of a young gay couple, and
are later forced to assume their identities as beauty pageant experts. Wayne
becomes known as David, and Harry becomes known as Steven. "Steven" works on
trying to avoid his feelings for the banker Joe (Ally Walker) and
"pity-dating" the town sheriff Chappy (William H. Macy) while planning to
rob the city bank, while "David" works on trying to teach a group of young
girls to successfully win a beauty pageant.

I expected this to be a pretty dumb film, but I was surprised in that it
wasn't. It was silly, of course, but not dumb. The plotline is ridiculous in
theory but is carried out quite well. In fact, I found this movie to be
rather sweet and charming, and very funny in parts. Not hysterical, but
entertaining.

The thing I was most surprised about while viewing HAPPY, TEXAS was how good
the acting was in parts. Every actor was good in both their comedic and
dramatic moments. Steve Zahn was hilarious as Wayne, while Jeremy Northam
was good in a mostly dramatic role. William H. Macy was excellent as he
always is, as was Ally Walker.

All in all, HAPPY, TEXAS is a pretty average comedy. There are some good
humorous moments, but they come somewhat few and far between. The pacing is
a little too slow and it gets a little boring at times, but it's a cute and
fairly original movie. Better than most of its kind and pretty entertaining.
7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Happy, Texas is one of these films that you know from the beginning will end
well, where everything work out, eventually, and nobody gets
killed.

But it sure ain't all sweet, as foul language and sex is comic parts of the
story, as are two supposedly gay men (they have stolen a camper belonging to
two gay mane, so they, two escaped convicts, have to impersonate these guys
for a  while), a gay sheriff and so on.

The acting is nigh perfect, the story ludicrous, and it is all a great saga,
but very modern at that. When Wayne Wayne Wayne Jr teaches the small girls
how to dance on scene is one of the funniest scenes I've seen for a long
time, and in all it outshines similar films by quite some
distance!

If only Stuart Little had some of this energy and love of life,
sigh!

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

This was not what I expected whatsoever - a thoroughly delightfully funny
little film that kept me smiling for a long time after leaving the
cinema.

Two small time criminals skip prison after their transportation vehicle
crashes and steal a motor home - however the motor home belongs to a pair of
pageant directors, and due to being accosted by the local sheriff they
assume their identities.

There are several brilliant moments in this film - not the least of which
being when the two find out they are supposed to be gay lovers, and that the
beauty pageants are for children rather than the models they were
expecting.

The local sheriff is the star of this film as he comes to terms with his
sexuality in red neck land, but this was just a lot of fun all
round.

Definitely a small time film, but one certainly worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILERS

Every so often there's a film you see advertised on video/dvd or see on
television which you've never previously heard of. It could be because
it's
a low budget piece which never made it to the cinema and if it did it was
for one week, or it could be because of something else. I'm not sure why
I'd
never heard of this film until it was on television tonight, but what I am
sure of is that it's quite good.

In "Happy, Texas" we're presented to the not so original chain gang
jailbreak. Two of the three escapees are Wayne Wayne Wayne Jnr (played in
usual standard by Steve Zahn) and Harry Sawyer (Jeremy Northam in an
unusual
comedy role). These two men steal a homosexual couples portable home and
eventually end up impersonating the couple in a small town called Happy in
Texas. The men are faced with the problems of keeping people believing in
them, dealing with their roles as organisers of a young girls beauty
pagent,
and avoiding falling in love with some of the women townsfolk.

This film is as to be expected really. In Zahn it has a daft, excentric
appeal to it, whilst Northam is also good as the more serious partner who
falls for the bank owner. Added to these an outstanding, if light hearted,
performance by William H Macy as the closet homosexual Sheriff who falls
for
Northam and we're presented with a happy comedy which might not win any
awards, but is going to make you feel good about yourself. Happy is a
place
named for a purpose. If you watch "Happy, Texas", you might not laugh too
often, but you'll certainly come away feeling good to be alive. One to
watch
when you need cheering up.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this film recently, for the second time, with a friend who hadn't
seen it before.

It has a solid cast, with roles all well-played, and all who are just a
bit shy of being on Hollywood's "A" list - but not because of any
lacking talent or appeal.

There are a lot of previous comments here, so I would just add that it
is a thoroughly enjoyable film, all the characters likable (even the
couple of "bad" guys, in their own way).

You are completely aware of the basic ending of the story from the
outset, and can pretty well guess most of the exact details as it moves
along. However, this isn't meant to be suspenseful, and, as a quiet,
modestly-budgeted presentation, it outdoes most of the "A-list,"
super-budget extravaganzas by a mile.
<|_=00=_|>

Whether you're a good guy or a bad guy, in Happy, Texas
you've
got heart.  Though the plot gets wacky, the "just plain
folk"
element keeps the craziness in check.  It's really refreshing
to
finally see a film with gay characters that aren't in drag or snapping
their
fingers.  It IS possible to have a funny gay character without being
flamboyant.  Sure, there is a lesson to be learned as in most films, but we
care about these characters
as they get deeper and deeper into trouble.  I had a big
smile
on my face after watching this film, and it stays with you a while.  How
many other films give you a gift like that?
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about 2 straight escaped prisoners having to pose as 2 gay
beauty pageant organisers to conceal their identities.

This film started a bit slow, but soon afterward it became very funny.
Steve Zahn did very well in his role, and he was very convincing as a
rough bandit. His solo performance on doing funny movements and pulling
silly faces was fun to watch.

I also enjoyed the subplot about the sheriff (William H Macy) and David
(Jeremy Northam) a lot. Wiliam H Macy gave a fine performance
especially in the scene where they went hunting for hares, and in the
scene where David refused him to enter the room when they were
preparing for the performance. I could relate to sheriff's character so
much that I felt his pain. My heart ached when I saw the sheriff crying
on the hill.

I do recommend this film, it is warm and funny!
