

Outside Providence seems like just another low budget, goofy high school
comedy from the preview, but it is really a good movie. Timothy Dunphy is
the lovable high school screw-up whose father sends him off to boarding
school after he is involved in an accident with a parked police cruiser
while smoking pot with his loser buddies. He develops an unlikely romantic
relationship with the stunningly beautiful Jane Weston (Amy Smart) at the
repressive school while fighting off the disciplinary excesses of the school
faculty. This seems like the premise of the kind of ridiculous high school
comedies that characterized the 80s (Screwballs, Ski School, etc.), but
Outside Providence works well because it has heart. 

Timothy Dunphy is sent off unwillingly to this hellish school, and it turns
out to be a really eye-opening experience for him. He develops a lot of
insight about himself, his friends, his romantic endeavors, and his family.
The story is not exactly something that is entirely original, but the
presentation of the film and the acting are extremely good, and the end
result is a great comedy. Alec Baldwin delivers a hilarious performance as
the emotionally closed-off father, regularly referring to his own son as
"dildo." He steals every scene he is in, and he should be particularly noted
for his ability to give such a convincing portrayal of an emotionless, macho
father and still be convincing in the emotionally tense scene between him
and Timothy where he describes Tim's late mother. That scene in particular
is unexpectedly intense.

Outside Providence is a good comedy. It does not resort to tasteless sexual
fourth-grade humor to pull it along (which is one of the biggest problems
with teen comedies lately - American Pie, Scary Movie (there was no hope for
that one from the beginning), There's Something About Mary, and Road Trip,
which should have been a great movie). Instead, Outside Providence focuses
on character development and a good story, and tops it all off with a
healthy amount of comedy in the form of the cast, the characters, the
script, dialogue, and pretty much everything else. Probably one of the best
elements of this movie is that it is not a relentless comedy. It doesn't
grab desperately for a laugh every second of the way, but instead it rounds
out the content with drama, romance, skillful comedy, as well as good
writing, directing, and acting. Outside Providence is badly underrated and
should not be missed.
<|_=00=_|>

The ambiguity of youth and the road to maturity are addressed in a
somewhat
stoically humorous manner by the Farrelly Brothers in the comedy, `Outside
Providence,' directed by Michael Corrente.  Set in New England in 1974,
the
story centers on Tim Dunphy (Shawn Hatosy), an irresponsible
seventeen-year-old who since the untimely death of his mother has lived
with
his gruff, blue-collar father (Alec Baldwin), his crippled younger
brother,
Jackie (Tommy Bone) and a one-eyed, three-legged dog.  Life is less than
idyllic for Tim, but it doesn't seem to make much difference as long as he
can live in the moment and get high with his friends.  In that respect, in
fact, life is pretty good.  Tim's a senior in high school with nary a care
in the world, until a car accident involving drugs and alcohol lands him
in
big trouble, and he avoids incarceration only by the grace and
intervention
of one of his father's `connected' cronies.  Instead of jail time he is
sent
away to the prestigious prep school, Cornhill, whereupon graduation his
offense will be expunged from his record.  All he has to do is toe the
line
and get through his senior year.  But that senior year can last a long
time,
especially after he meets Jane Weston (Amy Smart), the girl of his (and
everybody else's) dreams.  So what is a lad to do, knuckle down, follow
the
rules and put his life in order-- or follow his heart?  Or, as Tim replies
when a teacher asks him to name his favorite author, `Hamlet.'  To be, or
not to be.  And that is the question.

While not terribly original by any means, Corrente's film (which he
co-wrote with Bobby and Peter Farrelly, adapted from the novel by Peter
Farrelly) is funny and well presented, and has that quirky, recognizable
Farrelly Brother's touch.  There's even a poignant moment or two, and most
importantly, this isn't a `silly' movie, and though the characters are
fairly stereotypical, Corrente manages to give it something of a fresh
face
and allows the humor to evolve naturally, never fishing for laughs or
manipulating the situations purely for the sake of hilarity.  And it works
well; there are some genuinely funny scenes, some side-splitting lines and
one signature Farrelly Brothers scene that involves a flashback of the
traumatic `hazing' of a freshman named Irving (Jack Ferver).

Shawn Hatosy gives a believable performance as Tim, and though he's not
overly charismatic or likable, he does create a character with whom many
peers and parents will be able to relate.  Tim is a very real person
feeling
his way through a very precarious period of his life.  And beyond the
humorous aspects of the film, there is actually some very credible
character
development evident in Tim's behavior, and in the final analysis the
overall
picture not only aspires to a higher level because of it, but succeeds in
that regard.  Hatosy's Tim is very much the average kid who lives in your
neighborhood and works at the local fast food joint while he figuring out
what life is all about.  Without anything singular or remarkable about
him,
he is entirely true-to-life and honest.

As `Old Man Dunphy,' Baldwin gives a solid performance, and with limited
screen time manages to establish his character with astute precision.
Like
Tim, Baldwin's character is real, and serves as a kind of core for the
story, and that realism of the characters is one of the strengths of the
film.  The `Old Man' maintains a gruff exterior-- a bravura by which to
live, if you will-- but you get a sense that there is something deeper to
him, while at the same time you realize that what you see is very much a
true perspective of who he really is as well.  It's a matter of Baldwin's
ability as an actor enabling him to infuse some complexity into a
character
that could easily have been one dimensional in less capable hands.

The supporting cast includes Jon Abrahams (Drugs Delaney), Richard Jenkins
(Barney), George Wendt (Joey), Adam LaVorgna (Tommy the Wire), Timothy
Crowe
(Mr. Funderbeck), George Martin (Dean Mort), Gabriel Mann (Jack) and
Kristen
Shorten (Bunny Cote).  In a market veritably saturated for some time with
comedies about teen angst (most of which are silly, insignificant, devoid
of
real humor and not worth the film they're printed on), with `Outside
Providence,' Corrente and the Farrelly Brothers have to be given credit
for
delivering one that is truly funny while at the same time anchored in
reality.  There is, in fact, more here than meets the eye upon the initial
viewing.  Not only does it capture the essence of the era in which it
takes
place, but a sense of reality that in the end is definitive of it, as
well.
And it's done with humor, and without taking it over the edge, as the
Farrelly Brothers are often wont to do.  Ultimately, it's a satisfying
experience, and it's the magic of the movies.  I rate this one
7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

I overlooked this movie when it was in theatres and just saw it on video. I
was very impressed. It wasn't the dumb gross out movie the Farrely's are
known for. It had some laugh out loud moments, and some surprising tender
moments as well. Alec Baldwin was hysterical as Old Man Dunphy and the
supporting cast of friends like Drugs & The Wire were funny as well. This
movie is a lot better than you'd probably think. It certainly surpassed my
expectations. 
<|_=00=_|>

Wonderfully crafted and understated movie from the kings of gross-out
comedy.  Poignant and hilarious this film is a beautiful departure from
the
Farrely Bro's typical fare.  It follows the (mis) adventures of a 1970's
era
RI kid who runs afoul of the law and is sent to a stuffy boarding school.
It sounds like a fairly redundant storyline but the emotional
underpinnings
and underlying angst of the young characters are subtly, yet powerfully
displayed.  9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Peter Farrelly wrote the novel in which this film is based. This was a
change of pace for Peter and his brother Bobby, coming right after
their hit "There's Something About Mary". Although they entrusted the
direction to Michael Corrente, their presence looms large in the
background.

The film succeeds in presenting characters one can identify with.
Timothy Dunphy is a teen ager who has grown with his younger,
handicapped brother, Jackie, in a small town in Rhode Island. Timothy's
future is uncertain, at best. Coming from a working family, his
prospects for higher education are nil. Like other young men in his
area, he is aimless and the guys he pals around with, are not exactly
college material.

When Timothy is granted admission at the preppy Cornhill Academy, his
life takes a turn for the better. At first, Timothy fights the rigid
standards of the place. He doesn't like the atmosphere, but he is
completely won by a pretty co-ed, Jane Weston, a rich girl, way out of
his league. It's easy to see the combination will see trouble along the
way.

The best trait about Timothy Dunphy is his honesty that comes into play
right after Jane is caught with some boys smoking pot, and her ambition
to go to Brown University is doubtful. Timothy does the right thing in
going to the admissions dean at Brown to speak on behalf of the
innocent Jane, who didn't bring her fate upon herself.

Shawn Hatosy, an actor who is always effective no matter what part he
is playing, makes the most out of his Timothy. Surprising also, is Alec
Baldwin, seen as the older Dunphy in a sincere performance. Jon
Abrahams is Drugs Delaney. Amy Smart makes a valuable contribution to
the film as Jane Weston.

The teaming of Michael Corrente and the Farrelly Brothers show a
winning combination in an enjoyable film that will stay in one's memory
for quite some time.
<|_=00=_|>

Maybe some reviewers here have been put off by the fact that it's a
mingling
of different genres (romance/comedy). But I think the movie is vastly
entertaining and satisfying. There's more substance to this movie than
there
is to others of a similar vein -- "Detroit Rock City" or "Almost Famous" or
"Dazed and Confused." You're not supposed to cry and you're not supposed to
split your sides laughing, but you are supposed to enjoy it, and that I
did.
Plus, Alec Baldwin is truly excellent in his role as a gruff, blue-collar
dad.
<|_=00=_|>

Finally....we get to see a Mike Corrente film where he actually moves the
camera! Unlike Federal Hill and American Buffalo, Outside Providence has a
number of dolly and pan shots instead of keeping the camera still for 90
plus minutes. The film also had three montage sequences that made the film
move faster. The sound track of the film alone makes the movie worth
watching.

Any viewer from New England will be amazed to see Foxboro Stadium in the
film. I think its safe to say that Outside Providence is the first and only
film to shoot a scene at the not so famous stadium where the Patriots
play.

Overall, This was a great film ! Shawn Hatosy hit the Rhode Island accent
like it was his second nature. A new comer to the screen, a lot of us will
remember Shawn from the hit comedy   In and Out. 

Like Alec Baldwin, Shawn Hatosy gave a realistic and heart filled
performance. Outside Providence is a winner!


<|_=00=_|>
Director: Michael Corrente, Script: Peter Farrelly (Novel), Michael
Corrente, Bobby Farrelly, Cast: Shawn Hatosy, Tommy Bone, Alec Baldwin,
Amy Smart, Jon Abrahams.

Coming of age film about a group of stoner friends from the poor
neighbourhood in the blue collar town of Pawtucket, R.I. The film is
told from the point of view of Timmothy Dunphy, an underachiever whose
main goal in life seems to be how much dope he can smoke. His mother
committed suicide when he was just a small boy so it is just him, his
disabled little brother and his father. One night while high on dope
Tim smashes his car into a parked cop car! His old man has to bail him
out of jail. In an attempt to turn his life around, old man Dunphy
makes his son cut his hair and forces him to go to a strict boarding
school in Connecticut. So here we have a poor kid at a rich prep-
school. While here, he meets a rich, smart, preppy co-ed totally the
opposite of himself but of course, they fall in love! 

This film has many funny as well as serious parts. During periods
without dialog we hear many great rock songs from the 60's and 70's.
The film was set in 1974. The 'bad guy' in the film is Mr. Funderberk
(Timothy Crowe),the strict resident adviser or whatever you want to
call him. Although a comedy, the film does have elements of drama. The
scene with Tim talking to his old man about his mother is sad. His
girlfriend Jane (Amy Smart) gets accepted to Brown but she gets accused
of something she didn't do so her acceptance gets reversed as a result.
Tim goes to Brown University and tries to see the Dean but the
secretary told him he was booked the whole day and that he would have
to make an appointment. Tim manages to get into the Dean's office
through the window. He then proceeds to tell the Dean the truth about
Jane.

This movie was based on a semi-autobiographical novel by Peter
Farrelly. The Farrelly brothers are from Rhode Island and many of their
movies are filmed there. I wonder how close this film parallels his
real teenage years. It would be interesting to read the book.
<|_=00=_|>

One of the better films I have seen in the last ten years. A perfect
amount
of Comedy mixed in with just the right amount of Drama. The two leads do a
great job in the movie and become instantly likeable. Everyone was cast
well. Even Alec Baldwin shows up and does a good job as the main
characters
father. The story draws you in. One of the better coming of age movies
ever.
I definitely recommend this especially to guys.
<|_=00=_|>

"Outside Providence".  ***1/2. Timothy Dunphy (Shawn Hatosy) lives in
Pawtucket, Rhode Island.  He's 17. He and his friends are stoners.  They
hang out and argue the relative benefits of moving to California or staying
in Pawtucket after high school.  Their criteria for deciding revolve around
the potential quality and quantity of drugs and sex.  Dunphy lives with his
dad (Alex Balwin) and his younger brother (Tommy Bone).  Dunphy gets in
trouble. One of his dad's friends is "connected" and gets Dunphy's jail
sentence deferred if he enrolls and successfully completes his senior year
of high school at an exclusive prep school.  Dunphy moves from stoned fish
in a small pond to fish out of water. His ensuing adventures are predictable
but fun.  There is the geeky roommate, stoner pals, beautiful girl that's
out of his league, and the Dickensonian schoolmaster.  I enjoyed most every
moment.  No scene ever got too melodramatic or silly.  The stoner jokes and
other one liners are funny.  "Outside Providence" plays as a very good 70s
coming-of-age movie.  The writing credits for "OP" goes to Peter Farrelly of
the Farrelly Brothers ("There's Something About Mary", "Kingpin", and "Dumb
and Dumber").  Given the Farrelly connection, I was surprised by the
restraint and tenderness of this movie.  Very much worth the rental. 

