
I was impressed by this Disney film for so many reasons, too many to
list here, but I will go on the record as saying that Mulan has got to
be one of the best Disney female characters that ever saw production,
in the midst of a colorful and artistic film, that will resonate in
your memory.

Mulan sticks out in my mind for this reason. For once, we have a strong
female lead, or at the least, stronger than most of them. She isn't
counted among the Disney "princesses" line-up. She doesn't want for
herself, and she seeks to look deeper within herself to discover her
inner being. She isn't like Ariel, who wants to be someone else. She
isn't like Jasmine, who sits in luxury, waiting to be swept off her
feet by Prince Charming, just like Snow White, Cinderella, Sleeping
Beauty, and almost any female character that Disney brings to life. And
while she does share some traits among this list, she stands out
because she does something that these do not. She uses her mind. 

Mulan, in fact, has more in common with male Disney leads than the
female Disney leads. Mulan is a thinker, and a do-er. She's
resourceful, like Aladdin. She is quick to act, like Eric (mermaid.)
And she sacrifices herself for the sake of others, like Hercules. She
also speaks her mind, even in a culture that does not allow such a
thing. She doesn't waste time pining about "will I ever find true
love?" Indeed, we see that she has an attraction to Shang (as he was
her husband in the legends,) but we see her uncomfortable and unsure of
meeting the Match-maker. She begs for her father's life when Chi-Fu
came to the village. When you see her make her decision to take her
father's place in the army, she does so out of her love for him,
valuing his life above hers. She doesn't wish to become a man to see
what it is like or for a change. Only to save his life. She later
doubts herself and her reasons for going, but she did so because of her
inner strengths, something other female Disney leads too often lack.
(And it is these strengths that Shang is attracted to at the end.)

This movie also has a simple, but very effective villain, Shan Yu.
Though not as memorable as Jafar or Ursula, he is more effective and
more menacing because he is not fantastic. By that, I mean that he is
not magical, he holds no special power. He is portrayed as a man, and
as a man that could have truly existed, performing vicious acts that
men do. We see the destruction that his army lays to a village, and
when Mulan finds the doll, it shows that Shan Yu left no one living,
man, woman or child. This is what makes him so effective as a villain,
showing how truly human he indeed is. Granted, the producers did not
develop him in any great depth, but they showed enough of him to remind
us of his threat to China. Besides, sometimes the better villains are
the ones you don't know too much about, or see a lot of.

Of the rest of the supporting cast, I will only mention four of them as
being memorable in any real way. Chi-Fu, the emperor's consultant, was
a reminder of the way many men looked at women in this culture. He
thrusts his head up when Mulan begs for her father's life, and when she
is discovered to be a woman, though she is a hero, he is quick to
insult her, and to order her execution, simply because she impersonated
a man. The other three were, of course, her comrades, Ling, Yao, and
Chian Po. Though they were mainly comic relief (almost like a 3 stooges
set,) they remained loyal to Mulan and trusted her fully, even after
she was discovered. I like them, because they were not discriminatory
to her in any way, even trying to stop her execution. When Mulan told
them she had an idea to help the emperor faster, they were the first to
her side, even when Shang was still reluctant to do so.

Overall, a wonderful movie to the Disney list. If you haven't seen it,
then do so, you won't regret it.

And yes, Mushu was a cool character as well.

**** In Response to an earlier post by Phoenix-1 **** To expect any
movie to accurately portray history in any way is lunacy. Even those
movies that come close to historical accuracy are flawed in many ways.
This was a way of telling a story, as any movie is. It can be argued
that it tries to provoke curiosity in another culture, but it is also
meant to entertain. I would also like to point out that Mulan is really
not "historical," like Joan of Arc, but rather she is a legend, much
like Hercules and Aladdin, who also come from the realm of myth,
stories and legends. And while there is some difference between the
original legend and this movie, your examples of how Disney would
butcher tales of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln do not compare
to this story in any way. Your arguments for comparison should be
better applied to Pocahontas, as she was an actual historical figure.
<|_=00=_|>

Mulan is a young girl in ancient China. When the Huns start attacking the
country, the Emperor orders one member of every family to join the Chinese
Army and defend the country. The one member must be a man, but in Mulan's
family, the only male is her injured father. Not wanting to allow her father
to die, Mulan dresses like a man, and escapes into the night to join the
war. To protect her, the ancient elders of her family ask the great Stone
Dragon to watch over her. Unfortunately, the great Stone Dragon is destroyed
by the little tiny dragon Mushu (Eddie Murphy). So with Mushu and a small
cricket by her side, Mulan heads off to help destroy the Huns.

I think we can all guess what happens. Mulan, although a woman, manages to
save the day. The plot line isn't really a surprise when you break it down.
And the animation is, by now, expected to be great, and Mulan certainly
lives up to the great Disney tradition. It's the story and the feeling you
get that makes this movie so wonderful. Disney went through a lot to make
sure it's depiction of ancient China was accurate. From the decorations on
the walls, to the matchmakers, to the great honor in family, Disney manages
to show what the country of China was like, and in many ways, still is
today. Following the Disney tradition, there is a strong female character,
this time taking lead. There are the over the top bad guys, and of course,
the comic relief. Eddie Murphy was just down right hilarious in this movie.
I wish they had showed more of him. The songs were sort of a change of pace,
with Matthew Wilder and Jerry Goldsmith doing the honors, and not the
venerable Alan Menken. The music was good, but the lyrics in some of the
songs were weak. 

The reason I feel Mulan was better than recent Disney fare like Hercules and
The Hunchback of Notre Dame is because it had a much more lively feel to it.
Hercules was very dark, animation-wise. Everything was centered on the color
blue, so it didn't feel alive. And The Hunchback of Notre Dame was a more
adult story, and some of the scenes were very dark and broody. Mulan took a
simple plot, put it in ancient China, and made it very colorful and fun to
watch. It was light, and "Disney" enough for kids to enjoy, while still
being adult enough for the parents to enjoy. 

Overall, I'd say Mulan is definitely one to watch. Disney animation has done
it again. 


<|_=00=_|>
I have a 4.5 year old daughter who is going through the princess phase.
We read lots of fairy tales etc and its very difficult to find a fairy
tale where the princess is strong and resourceful. Most of the time
they are pretty passive and the worst one is sleeping beauty. I find
myself treading a fine line between letting her enjoy the fairy tale
and occasionally commenting on the fact that perhaps some of these
princesses just don't do enough to help themselves and how they can
help themselves a little bit more. I don't want to destroy her pleasure
in these fairy tales, after all, I loved them too. But it took me a
while as adult to see how the subconscious message of helplessness in
these fairy tales can reinforce the existing values of society and
parents that girls are meant to be saved. 

So it is a great pleasure to be able to show my daughter a story of a
strong and intelligent girl - Mu Lan and its great that Mu Lan and we
are both ethnically Chinese. Here is a heroine who is resourceful, uses
her brains, saves the Captain and China. We draw many discussion points
from the story, such as why it is that women were not allowed to join
the army, the value of trying hard and training and practising hard,
what is discipline and why it is needed to succeed, using your brains
and thinking of how to solve a problem, not just using brute strength,
etc. Even some politics - like why did the Hun king want the Emperor to
bow to him and why the Emperor wouldn't bow to him but would bow to
Mulan. My challenge is the explain things in a way which is both
accurate and yet understandable to a 4 year old. My daughter loves the
story because Mulan does a lot of "saving". 

My daughter has probably watch the movie only 3 times coz I limit TV
and video a lot. But she'll ask me to tell her the story in my own
words, based on the video. It works out great.

The fact that the movie Mulan captivates me as an adult also helps.
There's only so much I can enjoy of a barney video. 

I definitely recommend this movie to parents with young girls, as a
good place to start talking about being a strong and intelligent woman.
Another good one is Beauty and the Beast. I've not seen Pocahontas so I
can't comment on that.
<|_=00=_|>
There are too few "girl" heroes in stories. According to Chinese
legend, Mulan, the only child of an aging soldier, disguised herself as
a male to take her sickly father's place fighting evil invaders. While
in the disguise of a loyal soldier to the emperor, Mulan falls in love
with her commander, who does not suspect the deception. When Mulan
saves the entire fighting forces, what she managed to hide up to that
point is discovered: She is a girl masquerading as a man. Rather than
punish Mulan with death, the commander sends her away (presumably to
die). In the end Mulan is honored with a medal for bravery by the
Emperor himself. Although "only" a female, she had saved the entire
empire from certain doom.

The finest moment is the scene where her father says "I am proud to
call you daughter". Legend or history, this is a fine example of
telling a story centering around a girl, rather than the countless
tales celebrating boys as heroes. Like so many other recent animated
Disney features, this is yet another gem in the treasure chest of Walt
Disney Studios.
<|_=00=_|>

I can't think of a single animated feature film done by Disney that I don't
like. For some reason they never bore me and they never feel the same. The
classics like 'Snow White' and 'Cinderella' are great but I think I like the
newer ones ('The Little Mermaid', 'Beauty and the Beast', 'The Lion King')
even more. 'Mulan' definitely belongs to the best ones.

Mulan is a girl who doesn't do much right. For the honor of her family she
joins the army instead of her father. She takes his gear and runs off. She
pretends to be a man and does the training to go to war against the Huns who
invaded China.

With some nice new songs, great music by Jerry Goldsmith and beautiful
animations this is a real Disney. A little dragon called Mushu is helping
her on the way. He is send by the ancestors. The voice of Mushu is from
Eddie Murphy and he does a very great job. With a quick and good story and a
lot of funny moments this is a great movie.
<|_=00=_|>

There are two things I love about this movie, aside from its stunning and
beautiful animation.  One is that I love the fact that Disney is exploring
legends from other cultures and I am so glad it brought us this one.  The
other is that I just wanted to stand up and cheer at this great heroine.  I
am a huge fan of Disney movies, but most of the heroines, while spunky, are
still just your basic damsel in distress.  I loved Mulan's character.  She
was strong, she was powerful, she could do anything she wanted, and she
overcame much diversity.  I was thrilled to see the portrayal of a strong
female character surviving because of her own integrity and strength rather
than because of her looks.  Bravo, Disney, for bringing us this wonderfully
progressive Chinese tale.
<|_=00=_|>

Mulan is a tomboy of sorts - not something that is looked for in a
Chinese
wife, and she causes constant worry and dishonour to her family.  When
the
Huns attack China, the Emperor commands each family to put one man
forward
to fight.  With Mulan's aged father the only man of the family it looks
like
he must fight, but Mulan dresses as a man and takes his place.  With the
help of dragon Mushu, Mulan overcomes her status as a woman to help take
on
the Hun.

I wasn't sure I would like this film as I have grown a little tired of
the
Disney formula of `songs, romance and smartassed comedy sidekicks', which
Mulan sticks to pretty well, however I did really enjoy this film.  I
think
it was mainly because of the sweep of the story, the big battles and the
majestic feel to the movie.  The plot moves swiftly and felt like it was
all
over too quickly.  It has the usual mix of laughs for parents and kids as
well as having quite a good story behind it all.

The only major weakness is the songs.  I didn't exactly start tapping my
feet at any of them and, while they are not bad per se, they aren't great
and after a few lines I was wanting to skip past them (but couldn't - it
was
showing on TV).  Asides from these the film is funny and quite dramatic
and
is good fun to watch.  The cast are good.  Ming-Na is a good Mulan while
Murphy rehearses for Shrek with his smart mouthed dragon that gets plenty
of
good laughs.  DB Wong is a good actor but has a `straight' role and
doesn't
distinguish himself.  I was worried at first by the presence of Harvey
Fierstein, but he did good work and wasn't half as irritating as he
usually
is.

With colourful animation that is good without being Pixar, this is a good
cartoon that is fun, funny and, at times, dramatic.  I'm not a big fan of
Disney over the last few years but I did really enjoy this film and would
watch it again.
<|_=00=_|>

Now I must admit I wasn't sure about this one. MULAN seemed to break most of
my preconceived rules on Disney movies. These included the fairytale
element - a cross-dressing Chinese soldier doesn't have the same magical
appeal as, say, the son of the Greek gods searching for his birthright, etc
etc. Also, this verge towards realism meant that the bad guy would not be as
appealing - Disney villains are camp, over-the-top thespians by rule -
Jeremy Irons in
THE LION KING for example. I was concerned about the absence of
king-of-melody composer Alan Menken, whose wonderful songs encapsulate the
charm of Disney.

However, that said, I thought this film was wonderful. The characters were
well thought out and expertly drawn. Not enough songs were present for my
liking, but those that were fit perfectly with the story, and the chance to
hear the wonderful voice of Lea Salonga (Mulan's songs) is worth the price
of this film alone. Eddie Murphy has managed to be as good, if not better,
than Robin Williams as the comic sidekick. And the film's conclusion is as
genuine and as heartfelt as any adaptation of this story. The mountain scene
contains some of the best animation I have seen from Disney, and the rousing
score from maestro Jerry Goldsmith accompanies the action superbly.

This may not turn out to be a classic in the same way as THE LION KING and
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST, but I enjoyed it immensely. Go see it now!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Ok...
I've read through most of the posted comments posted before this about
this
movie; I find that some people love the music, but think the characters
are
thin; some hate Eddie Murphy's presence, and think the love story is
stupid.
Well, your experience with a film is individual, I guess.

That said, I'll follow the trail and state why I loved watching this movie
not once, but several times:

First of all, I'm far from being a fan of animated Disney classics. I'm in
that age between child and adult(currently 23), where everything is a
rebelry. Most of my viewing pleasures is action or its like.

My original incentive for seeing this movie was to please a friend of
mine,
who has a long-life fascination for oriental culture (read: karate
films!).
When Mulan was released in Denmark, a single copy with the original voices
track (usually all animated Disneys are dubbed into danish with good
result)
was shown in a local theater. Asking a couple of girls out, we went and
saw
it.
Ok, I was blown away. Before I had left the cinema that day, I too was
captured by chinese history and culture.
The singing and music I was prepared for; I knew The Jungle Book and
Aristocats from childhood. The songs didn't mean anything to me, other
than
that they were few - good for me. (Some of them do kling to the ear -
irritating for me!)
I quickly realised Eddie Murphy was on the voices cast. I started liking
the
movie right then. Some find him malplaced in a Disney epic, but fact is
that
the business of animating classics is profiting well these years in
bringing
in already established names to the animations; Tom Hanks in the Toy
Stories, Mel Gibson in Pocahontas, Robin Williams in Aladdin, and who else
I
don't know of. These names sell the film before the film have a chance to
sell itself. (The danish producers, by the way, have stolen this idea when
dubbing the films, using local media stars for the voice cast.) Well...it
did work for me.
Eddie Murphy is not as funny in this production as he is in others, but
what
the heck...he can't exactly use too much harsh language, it IS a
children's
flick. But with the room he got, his speedy tongue made me laugh again and
again. I have later seen Aladdin, and find Eddie Murphy's achievement as
funny as Robin Williams'. That Eddie Murphy chose this project was an
interesting and probably very clever career move.
Later, when I studied the rest of the cast list, I noticed a lot of
chinese
names. That very much pleased me. Who other than Chinese people to tell a
Chinese tale to Westerners?
I found some old friends, Soon-Tek Oh and James Hong, people who had
worked
with Chick Norris in the 80's. Pat Morita as the emperor made me smile.
B.D.Wong I remembered from Jurrasic Park, but Ming-Na was new to me (had
to
look her up in IMDB, was stunned not to have known her before (Ok, I went
wow!)). Harvey Fierstein as a ploppy little soldier and Miguel Ferrer as
the
Hun leader I found the perfect voice-choice for their characters...other
names rang also.
Anyway, a lot of the above have only value after you've seen the film.
When
you are an Atlantic ocean from most of the sales pitch, the film had to
sell
itself.
It did - for me, anyway. Before then, I knew little about China and her
history apart from things here and there (read: karate films!). Meeting
angient China like this totally threw me away. Wership of the ancestors,
the
power and position of the emperor, I found myself lost in the dream of a
world long gone; I loved the image of a China with different traditions
but
still found myself attracted to the pro-Disney story about a girl standing
up to a culture's sexist prejudice. (I do find the plot a bit silly,
actually, but I let myself be taken away...it's just a
Disney.)
Agree, the characters lack a little bit, the love story of Mulan and Shang
should perhaps have had a few more frames to play with. The project was a
little bit tuned down from the Disney board of directors, but honor to all
who worked with it: You people did a good job! The computer animation used
for the Great Wall and the attack of the Huns startles me again and again;
Not many live movies can do the job as good.

So that's what Mulan is for me...The dream of ancient China and Eddie
Murphy's speedy tongue. I accept the term classic.
I have the damn thing on video now (English language) and must prevent
myself from seeing it too often, in fright of one day getting tired of it.


<|_=00=_|>
One of the reasons why I like Mulan so much, is because she is
independent and braver than many of the female characters from Disney,
who looks always to be searching for a man to be the reason for them to
live or to be happy. Mulan is lovely, but also a tomboy what always
gives her problems. Since the story takes place in a China of more than
1.000 years ago, women from that time, more than in the present days,
needed to have an outstanding behavior all the time and with
everybody.Being the only kid her parents had in a time where women
didn't have many rights,Mulan is pressed to marry with a good catch.
One day, she is going to see the matchmaker but everything goes
wrong,since she is clumsy and not very graceful. Being accused that she
'' will never bring honor to her family'', Mulan stays sad and
depressed, and so stays her parents. But the chance to change that
awful prophecy comes quick when the Emperor's men started to call one
man from every family to serve in the Imperial Army: since Mulan's
father was no longer young and healthy, Mulan reported to the army with
a new name and looks. But she needed to make this a secret, because it
was against the Chinese laws to a woman be a soldier, so, with the help
of the dragon of the family called Mushu,one of the coolest adventures
from Disney's starts.
