

its one of those films that you discover when you cant sleep and then
switch on the telly at 3am , its really quite gripping , i love the two
crooked cops who try to make a few bob out of it then end up crashing
off the top of the car park , Dempsey once again excels at playing the
clueless geek and ken Pogue is the ultimate bad guy . The slightly
eerie small town Connecticut atmosphere is created really well in this
, i wouldn't say its a Hitchcock although i would defo buy the DVD if it
came out , some films just get a little cult following and this is one
! I'm with all those who like this one !

<|_=00=_|>

Read a couple of user reviews about this movie, and they say it was
forgettable pap. I disagree. Granted, it will not win any awards, but it's
an enjoyable movie.

Patrick Dempsey puts in a credible performance as a kid on the run. Some
complain that it's just one big chase scene. News flash! The name of the
movie is "Run"! You get what you expect to see.

Besides, if it's so forgettable, why are we talking about it 12 years
later?

-Dave
<|_=00=_|>
I would consider Run in comparison to an Anthony Michael Hall movie
called Out of Bounds and make the recommendation for the former if this
is the kind of movie that you're in the mood for. 

Out of Bounds, which I think came out in 1986, stars Hall as an Iowan
kid who goes to visit his brother in Los Angeles. Through a case of
mistaken identity, he suddenly finds himself in a world of trouble,
running from drug lords and cops, because (insert forced gasp here) he
picks up the same gym as another person who was smuggling dope. Well,
not to give away to much of the story, he finds this quirky girl to
help him out. 

Out of Bounds is very similar to Run in that, through mistaken
assumptions, a kid is on the run from both the mob and crooked cops. A
girl helps this kid out in his desperate struggle to escape a whole
slew of maniacs. Run and Out of Time are both basically films about
kids spending a whole movie trying to figure out how they're going to
avoid their doom. 

Run, however, makes for a much better movie than Out of Time, despite
people's inclination for early Anthony Michael Hall movies. In Out of
Time, he hardly acted like he wanted to be in the movie. Other than the
girl that helps him out, it is a whole lot of nothing and rather
predictable "coincidences." 

Though only a B movie, it Run is much more exciting with efforts in
acting as well as action scenes (such as the police car falling off of
the mall parking garage and the man dangling over the edge from his
pants leg). If you like Patrick Dempsey and Kelly Preston, you're
probably certain to enjoy this film. It's actually a good lazy day kind
of film.
<|_=00=_|>

OK, it isn't Lawrence of Arabia, but this film is a fun chase movie that
pits a college kid against the combined might of a small community crime
figure and many of his paid-off local cops. The ways Patrick Dempsey, the
hero, succeeds is a far cry from the super-competent methods of previous
and
more formulaic eras. There is just the right mixture of humor and suspense
that makes one enjoy this film in spite of knowing that it isn't exactly
high-brow entertainment.
<|_=00=_|>

I just checked this out yesterday on the Mystery channel, I expected it to
be a lame action movie.
But this 1 surprised me, I was entertained through the whole thing. Nice
action set pieces like the 1 in the bowling alley. & this is the best P.
Dempsey movie I've seen with him, plus he's Sean Penn's look-a-like in the
movie.
I was convinced that Sean Penn was in this movie cause Patrick looks so much
like a younger version of Sean.
I'm sure the plot has been mentioned b4, so I'll end by saying that this was
a great little entertaining action flick. Its worth seeing. 
:)
<|_=00=_|>
In Boston, the law student and lucky poker player Charlie Farrow
(Patrick Dempsey) works in a garage and is hired by his boss to deliver
a Porsche in Atlantic City. The car has an injection problem on the
highway, and while waiting the repair, Charlie asks the cab driver to
take him to a restaurant. The guy sees the fancy car and the
destination, Atlantic City, and wrongly decides to take Charlie to a
local casino, believing he is a millionaire. Charlie wins all the
gambles and the loser Denny Halloran (Alan C. Peterson) tries to hit
Charlie, but accidentally stumbles, hits his head on a counter and
dies. His father, the powerful mobster Matt Halloran (Ken Pogue), puts
a reward on Charlie, and the gangsters and dirty cops chase him along
the night. Charlie runs to save his life, with the support of Karen
Landers (Kelly Preston).

"Run" is one of the most entertainment chase movies I have ever seen.
The story is flawed, I know, but is also very charming and funny. The
lead actor Patrick Dempsey is perfect for the role, and his character
looks like a cat with seven lives, lucky to win the game, survive the
chasing and seduce the adorable Kelly Preston. Her astonishing beauty
is another plus in this underrated, amusing and highly recommended
action movie. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Fugindo Para Viver" ("Escaping to Live")
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie only once, on the small screen, but I put it in my top 10
of most anxiously awaited DVDs. A college student finds himself on the
wrong
side of town (intentionally), but ends up doing some very bad things (not
intentionally) that make him the subject of a man hunt by a mobster who
definitely doesn't respect a suspects rights. The kid has one choice --
Run!

A Great Non-Stop Adrenaline Rush!
<|_=00=_|>

In response to another person's valid comment about this movie, I would
like
to say that they are wrong to say this movie is Hitchcockian, the so
called
master director couldn't ever hope to make anything this
good.

Run, is as fast paced as its title suggests. A brilliant masterwork about
a
young, naiive man who finds himself on the run from about everyone within
a
community when he is wrongfully accused of killing a mobster's
son.

There is great support from all the cast, and it's without a doubt there
hasn't been a better cat and mouse thriller since its release. Underrated
actor Patrick Dempsey's second best movie since Can't Buy Me Love, which
by
the way is better than the more than adequately enjoyable, She's All
That.
<|_=00=_|>
"Run" is one of those underrated gems that you hope to find when you
take a chance and rent (or watch) a movie that you know very little
about. I first rented this in 1991 when it came out on VHS and found it
extremely entertaining...when the Mystery channel showed it again a
while back, I made a point of catching it, and was pleased to note how
well it holds up. This is the kind of movie where the performances are
'fat free' and underplayed and effective, where the stunts and action
pieces are inventive and inspired without drawing too much attention to
themselves, where the writing is economical and streamlined. 

Admittedly, "Run" is definite "B" caliber, with a pretty shallow plot
and cardboard characters, but within its parameters (action/crime
thriller with Hitchcokian elements) it does a wonderful job. Patrick
Dempsey is a completely believable 'everyman', a skinny nerdish type
who shows up at the wrong place at the wrong time and gets into a heap
of trouble. With corrupt cops and angry hoodlums chasing him, he has no
choice but to try to get out of a town that the Mafia seems to own from
City Hall on down. The screenplay is tightly plotted, with the screws
being turned tighter and tighter on poor Dempsey with each new
development, and his character's only advantage is that he is, well,
extremely slippery. 

Casting a skinny "geek" like Dempsey in this role was an inspired
stroke . Dempsey is no one's idea of a typical 'action hero' and so he
doesn't act like one...as a result his characters reactions are
extremely credible. He can't do an "Ah-nold" or shoot things out like
Dirty Harry - all he can do is squirm and wriggle and dodge his way out
of tighter and tighter situations. And boy, does he (or his stunt
doubles) wriggle. Action scenes and stunts in this movie are thus keyed
to evasion,deception and Desperation. Our 'hero' slithers down stadium
stairs and slides headfirst down bowling alleys and hurdles steeplejack
style over and under obstacles and in general just runs like a rabbit
from danger. Even at the climax, when he's finally been caught and
subdued and is about to be thrown off a rooftop, he squirms so hard and
frenziedly that the two hoodlums that were meant to toss him off end up
losing their balance and falling in his place! 

"Run" is very enjoyable for what it is, and can be enjoyed by any fan
of films like "The Man Who Knew Too Much". After a long slump, Dempsey
eventually went on to great success on television (most recently in
"Grey's Anatomy") and went from a skinny geek to something of a
"hunk"...that cheers me immensely...there may be hope for us all.
<|_=00=_|>

"Run" tells the story of law student Charlie Farrow (Patrick Dempsey) whose
working part time as a mechanic on a campus in Boston. His boss offers him
money to deliver the car to a man in Atlantic City. Unfortunately, the car
breaks down only half way to Atlantic City. Charlie leaves the car in a
garage for repairs and enters a casino/restaurant ran by the local mob. As a
lucky gambler, Charlie plays poker with the mobster's son who doesn't accept
failure and gets in a fight with Charlie. The guy accidently kills himself
in a bad fall, leaving Charlie as the only witness. The mobster sends his
goons and the police after Charlie who can't prove his innocence without the
help of a beautiful croupier who saw everything.

*SPOILERS*

I must say this movie contains some never before seen action scenes (to my
experience) in a movie. 1) Charlie is chased down a bowling alley. 2)
Charlie gets thrown of the top of a building but hangs on after a henchman's
pants. 3) Charlie kills the mobster with the "bait" used in dog
races.

A great performance from highly underrated actor Patrick Dempsey who has yet
starred in a big blockbuster. Kelly Preston is gorgeous and also gives a
believable performance. The rest of the cast is okay as well as the
direction and script. This movie is fast paced which makes it so
entertaining to watch more than once. I bought this movie and recommend it
to anyone who loves chase movies such as "The Fugitive", "US Marshals", "The
Hunted" and the new movie "Pressure" (which looks much like "Run"). Overall,
a nice little movie worth a least one watch and a 7 rating on 10.       

