
While on vacation, a single mother identified as Theresa discovers a
'message in a bottle' on the shore that has moving honest words of love
addressed to a woman named Catherine… 

The trail leads her to a sailboat builder named Garrett and also to his
father, Dodge in a small North Carolina coastal town… It turns out that
Catherine is Garret's deceased wife, and the intriguing letters were
written, two years earlier, after her decease… 

Some people find the one true love of their lives, if they're fortunate
enough… Luis Mandoki's film, in part, turns out to be a choice about
what occurs when a person finds that right kind of love, then when he
is faced with the impossible, and then when he is given the right to
continue with his life and is brave enough to love again no matter how
unpleasant his grief is… 

As a reclusive widower, Garret was still in deep pain, and entirely
devoted to Catherine's memory… He had hard time letting go of the past…
Catherine was dead but not forgotten and was simply everywhere… 

As a sailor Costner didn't inherit the charm of Newman… He was drawn to
Penn by her smile, her beauty, even her mistakes… 

Robin Wright Penn was beautiful, delicate and sweet as Theresa… She
soon insinuates her way into Garret's life… Her expectations were
always too high… Since the beginning, she just had to meet the person
that wrote those letters… Her life was changed by them… Eventually when
she met Garret that morning, she accepted, without hesitation, to step
aboard… 

Paul Newman as Dodge liked Theresa instantly… He saw in her the key to
his son's emotional recovery… 

With a very nice music, and a stunning coastal photography—also the
ocean scenes are wonderfully taken—"Message in a Bottle" is definitely
a weepy melodrama and a must see for those who believe, or don't, in
love…
<|_=00=_|>
I really enjoyed the peacefulness of the surroundings. The beautiful
foggy mornings near the ocean is an all natural calmer. Just overall a
wonderful movie. Very moving. Each of us Have loved or will have loved
so deeply as to make our very souls leap into unfathomable joy. This
movie grabs hold of the heart of the viewer and keeps you intrigued
from the beginning to the end. It engages the inner self to want to
reach out, take hold of life and love with the clarity to which we all
want to be loved. It reminds us when you love, let it be always
unconditional. Let it be forever. A well written movie. One, every
person should take time to see.
<|_=00=_|>

The pace is set from the opening scene: the ocean with its consistent but
gentle force splashing against the shore.  `Message in a Bottle' follows
this leisurely pace; it is not in a real hurry to give up all its secrets,
but like the ocean, will surrender all in good time.  So relax, and allow
yourself to enjoy!

Paul Newman (Dodge Blake) and Kevin Costner (Garrett Blake) both deliver
strong performances as father and son, initially content, though not really
happy in their current existence.  Both have lost their love, for one reason
or another, and are each other's companion and support.  Newman gets the fun
punch lines, Costner gets the woman.  `If I were about 150 years younger'
starts one of Newman's lines – it must be different for him not to play the
leading role.  Costner seems right at home playing a ship-building sailor
who is lost because of his lost love.

Robin Wright (Theresa Osborne) is equally strong, playing an independent and
patient reporter, who follows her heart, and decides to find the author of
the love letters from the ocean.  She gives Garrett distance gently when he
needs it, yet pushes back equally hard when she needs to.

Much of the acting relied not so much on the delivery of lines, as on the
body language, on looks, on the strained silence between a couple who is
unsure of each other, often unsure of themselves, yet strongly attracted to
each other.

Both Garrett and Theresa seem to struggle at conversation, both uncertain of
how to discover each other, yet each finding an attraction they can't seem
to deny.  Garrett is hanging on to the love he still feels for his wife, who
died too early.  Theresa is still recovering from a divorce, and the busy
life of a single parent.  Neither is sure they can be open to a new
relationship, nor are they ready to say goodbye to something that is
starting to feel so right.

The photography of the sailboats on the ocean were enough to bring out the
romantic in me.  What could be a more peaceful setting than a sailboat
anchored privately in a small cove of the ocean in the Outer Banks?.  We're
given just enough peek into the unfolding world of a couple discovering
love, without it feeling like an intrusion.

To talk more of the ups and downs would give away too many of the secrets
that only the theatre, the bookstore, or the ocean will release.


<|_=00=_|>
I generally like Kevin Costner movies, but had only moderate
expectations for this one. But after seeing it, I think it is one of
the best "love stories" I have seen. The pace of the movie, and the
dialog, are not rushed, some may even say leisurely. But that is a
welcome change from many of today's fast action, cut-to-the-chase
movies which neglect character development.

This movie developed characters. I found myself really caring for all
of them. The dialog between Costner's and Newman's characters, son and
father, is very natural and believable. The meeting and getting to know
one another by Penn's and Costner's characters is also very natural and
believable.

This movie could have taken the easy way out, with a neatly tied
together ending, everyone living happily ever after. Instead it takes
an unexpected turn but "love" is still the driving force, a strong
message about love, relationships, and living each day for what it is
worth.

Finally, the scenery and photography are wonderful. Definitely one of
the better "modern" movies I have seen. 

SPOILERS: He finishes his boat, named for his deceased wife, but
encounters a family having difficulty on their boat during a big storm.
He rescues the dad and small daughter but both he and the wife perish
when he has to dive in to try to save her. 

Update 2008: I saw it again after over 8 years, and my opinion has
remained the same. A somewhat underrated movie.

Update 2017: I watched it again after 9 more years and found it rather
fresh.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie has all the ingredients you need on a Sunday afternoon--it is
happy and sad, funny and melancholic, optimistic but realistic, expected but
unexpected, just what life is all about. Photography is just breathtaking,
and oh, Chicago looks fantastic. There are some witty lines. Paul Newman is
doing a great little role--Oscar? MUST SEE!  
<|_=00=_|>

I can't help but love this movie.  When watching this movie, I felt as if I
was right inside with 
the people and it was real life.  All the emotions that Kevin's character
goes through shows 
this sensitive side of him that is not always shown in his movies.  I cried
for his loss and 
cheered him on in finding another person to understand and love him for who
he is.  The 
depth of this film made me want to be in love and to share that experience
with someone.  
<|_=00=_|>

This is the movie that proves that most critics don't know what they're
doing. The critics shed their sentimentalism sometime in the mid-1960's, so
how could they know or care?

One must have a heart to enjoy "Message in a Bottle". It's a
treasure--beautiful, poignant, tragic. The cast is wonderful, and if you
don't cry at the ending, you aren't human (which most critics apparently
aren't).
<|_=00=_|>
Spread the message and let everyone know that "Message In A Bottle" was
an incredible sight to behold because it was the type of movie that
cleared my mind of everything else and allowed to relax in my chair.

"Message In A Bottle" along with the writers as well as Kevin Costner,
Paul Newman, and Robin Wright Penn swept me away to another place that
gave me the chance to watch a brilliant film with no worries and enjoy
an epic romance.

Costner, Newman and Wright Penn share the screen to tell the
incredible, emotional and powerful story of one reporter's mission to
locate the writer of three mysterious messages that turned up ashore.

The following events set off a tender and sweet romance between Garret
Blake played by Costner and Theresa Osborne played by Penn. Also, mixed
into this wonderfully crafted plot is Newman who plays Dodge, Garret's
father who acts as a calming effect for his son when trying to deal
with his newfound feelings about Theresa and those for Catherine, the
object of the mysterious messages.

The performances by Costner, Penn and Newman seemed so natural it was
enjoyable to watch actors not try so hard to do their best. I got the
feeling that the actors truly cared about making this film the best
they could for their fans because of the integrity and sincerity they
brought to their characters.

"Message In A Bottle" was a powerful and inspirational movie to watch
and will be treasured for years to come. In addition, it had two of my
favorite actors and it gave me the opportunity to watch a brilliant
actress come in to her own.
<|_=00=_|>

How private is a message set afloat in a bottle?  Not at all, according to
this film.  Finders keepers, and if it makes a good story, publish it on the
front page of the daily press.  Garret (Kevin Costner) loves Catherine
beyond the grave, and being a boat-builder, with the sea at his doorstep, he
sends messages to her in a sealed bottle.  Theresa (Robin Wright Penn)
relaxing by the sea finds a bottle protruding from the wet sand and is much
impressed by the expressions of love in the romantic message.  As a
newspaper researcher she seeks out the author and predictably they fall in
love.  I think this film would largely appeal to women.  The dialogue and
the romantic situations are believable as the story slowly but steadily
unfolds.  The photography of the seascapes and sunsets is very appealing and
the background music suitably romantic and never obtrusive.  The acting
throughout is very controlled.  The shy Garret devoted to the memory of
Catherine slowly changes as this new woman enters his life.  Theresa still
suffering from a broken marriage and still uncertain of her future is
beautifully played as the message continues to weave its spell.  Garret's
crotchety old father is played with all stops out by Paul Newman - a
rascally fellow with firm ideas about what is good for his son.  There are a
few noisy scenes in the film, and necessary, I think, because the overall
tenor of the film is somewhat subdued with the two shy central characters. 
Not a great film by any means , but the story has a certain charm.  I am
sure we would all like to find a message in a bottle - much more exciting
than receiving an E-mail - and I guaratee that, human nature being what it
is, we'd read it too.
<|_=00=_|>
Before I could scream, "My eyes! My eyes!" I realized I was basically
watching my love story unfold before me. You see, I married a widower.
I just hate it when people call my husband a widower. What does that
make me? Dead? I think not.

I was pleased that THIS movie somewhat shows what it like for the
unfortunate woman (or perhaps man) who thinks they are just falling in
love. My favorite quote in the whole movie was, "It's getting pretty
crowded in there." Because that's exactly how it feels.

The scene where they were christening the boat and she witnesses the
man she loves admit that he misses "Catherine" everyday. Funny, my
husband's late wife's name was, grrr, Kathryn.

So, even though it was painful to watch... I did come away with a new
appreciation of the fact that my husband didn't do the typical
"push/pull" thing that was shown in the movie. My husband realized that
I was someone he didn't want to lose, and he realized he wanted to live
for tomorrow instead of yesterday.
