

Every once in a while a film comes along that changes the way we look
at cinema. A film that redefines the art of movie-making and lives with
the viewer long after he/she has experienced it. You may hear the
critics mutter the words Star Wars, Citizen Kane or Gone With the Wind
but, obviously, they don't know Ice, they don't know him at all.

If ever there was a movie that proved the Oscars are a farce, it's Cool
as Ice. It clearly got snubbed and I guess we'll never know why. The
only reason I can fathom is the academy's fear of the Ice man's Day-glo
clashing with the red carpet. Clearly the better solution would have
been a Day-glo carpet.

Maybe I'm a little biased because I see so much of myself in Ice's
character and the personal journey he embarks on in the film. I, too,
am a complex, misunderstood white male, searching for identity and a
good lawn on which to do the running man. I also have a way with words
and a way with the ladies and, gosh darn it, I just love to impress
country folk with my fly threads and dope moves on the dance floor, yep
yep.

The script is a work of art and is destined to become a textbook
example for its conflict, character development and subtext. I can't
decide who the bigger genius is: The writer or Vanilla Ice, himself,
because let's face it it's not just the lines but the delivery of them.
"Lose the zero, get with the hero" - pure gold.

Do what ever it takes to see this film. Beg, borrow, steal or even buy
it. For all those who still wear Day-glo clothing or caps with polished
metal logos, who still shave lines into their eyebrows or just consider
themselves romantics, Vanilla will reinforce what you already know: You
are Cool as Ice. It's also a hell of a lot better than watching Vanilla
on Celebrity Boxing, no really it is.

<|_=00=_|>

I hesitate to call this movie a really poor film, though don't get me
wrong it is quite bad. But I believe it falls into a totally new genre
of "crappy cult classics". When watching a film like Cool as Ice, I
find myself asking over and over again, Are they serious? Who wrote
this film? When they were writing the screenplay were they thinking:
Yes, this is gold!

Now though this film is horrible, I find it very quotable which I
believe is a major factor in assessing the quality of a film. Lines
like "drop that zero and get with a hero" are unforgettable and
hilarious. This movie is actually better then 75% of the comedies that
are released in the movies today which sometimes even do well in the
box office. Such movies come stocked with cliché's and overused jokes
and though may be good for a few cheap laughs, are hardly worth seeing.
Cool as Ice however is humorous (though not on purpose) and I think can
be appreciated by anyone who was growing up during the early 90's. It
really sums up what early 1990's were all about. I admit that it may be
a little embarrassing if someone were to stumble across this title in
your movie collection but if you ever see this movie for sale at a yard
sale, I would recommend buying it for the full 1.00 price tag. It is
worth watching with friends for some good laughs. My friends and I
always mention this movie when discussing movie trivia and pop culture
of the last decade. It always makes us smile. And isn't that what you
hope for in a good movie?

<|_=00=_|>

This film can only be described as brilliant.  Cool As Ice is a
cinematic tour de force, and it resonates with unique passion and joie de
vivre.  Every character is brimming with both gritty realism and inspired
originality, while the script is simply the best to be penned since
Chinatown.
Expertly crafted with stunning visuals and sparse narrative, the film
presents a fascinating interpretation, through the use of archetypal
characters, of the age-old story of the uptown girl and the downtown man.
The cinematography is refreshingly restrained, with the intriguing
exception
of the use of Vanilla Ice's leather jacket as a narrative device.  The
fresh
threads contain numerous words, ranging from "Down by Law" (the name of a
punk band), to Yep (1/2 of Ice's catch phrase), to "Sex me up."  At
relevant
moments, the camera will dwell upon a particular word or expression,
enhancing the cinematic experience dramatically.  Although it is but one
example of the film's innovative technique, this device is representative
of
the consistently inventive, moving and magnificent film.  Already a
well-respected movie, Cool As Ice will inevitably enter the annals of
truly
great cinema after sufficient time has past to permit its canonization.

<|_=00=_|>

I recall one interview with Vanilla Ice where he claimed to be the "James
Dean of rap".  If you find that hilarious, you will love(hate) this movie.
Ice portrays a mentally retarded man who has delusions of being "cool".  I
won't go into details about the plot because there isn't one.  If you were
an adolescent in the late eighties this movie will bring back shameful
memories of dancing to "Ice, Ice Baby" at your Middle School dances.  I
give
this film a 1 out of 10, its awful!  But you should still see it for your
own amusement.    
<|_=00=_|>

I've read a few of the reviews about this film and most of them are
pretty spot on. As a film it truly deserves to be rooted in the worst
100 list, terribly acting by the two *bad* cops, worse still by
straight laced Michael Gross - and the less said about Vanilla's acting
ability the better.

Worse than the acting is the absolutely hilarious Cameo by Naomi
Campbell in the opening credits, who screams her way through a really
really hideous song whilst dancing badly and constantly trying to brush
her hair away from her face.

After this initial horrific all singing all dancing intro, some bint
gives Vanilla her phone number just so that we're reminded how great
Vanilla ice is, and then the film starts proper. At this point you're
just recovering from the awfulness of the dark warehouse intro, and
suddenly you're assaulted by the wildy vivid colours of... pretty much
everything actually, it's a constant throughout the film that
everything is just too vivid, its hard to explain, but once you've
noticed it, its actually quite amusing.

This is pretty much how the film goes, just as you think you've seen
the most awful scene in cinematic history, along comes another, worse
one that manages to make the last one look average. A great example of
this is the way that in the first couple of minutes, Vanilla 'bunny
hops' his 250kg GSXR-1100 over a 5 foot high fence. An absolute classic
moment in cinema which stays with you... kind of like syphillis.

But it's for all these reasons (and hundreds more) that you should
watch this film. I ABSOLUTELY LOVE IT. I've never really been an
advocate of the 'so bad it's good' school of thought, but I'll make an
exception for this film. Not only have I seen it many times, but I
bought it new from Amazon a little while ago so I can say I have an
original copy. In years to come it will be completely priceless, such
is the cult following of this shocking celluloid mistake.

I really would recommend that you see it, not because it's great, but
just so you can appreciate how bad something can actually be, and how
much of a complete freak of a movie this is. 

I've never witnessed a scene in a movie which can compete with the pure
hilarity of Vanilla dancing on his own, like a tw@t, outside the old
people's house in his dayglo pants wearing his stupid jacket. I
challenge anyone not to laugh outloud during this, and many other
classic moments.

Deserves both 1 out of 10 as a film, and 10 out of 10 as a must see
classic bomb.

<|_=00=_|>

For those too young to remember, Vanilla Ice was a malignant tumor growing
on the popular music scene ten years ago. Along with MC Hammer and Marky
Mark he pilfered and diluted black music to make it commercially acceptable
to middle-class white children. His flash-in-the-pan `attitude' eventually
fizzled away - but not before becoming the blueprint for every idiot bad-boy
pop star on top of the charts today.

Cut to ten years later, and the threat of an Ice comeback is unlikely. It's
the perfect time to watch COOL AS ICE. The film bombed on release, and
signaled the end was nigh for Vanilla Ice. Watching it today, the star
reduced to a relic of inane pop history, the film becomes a candidate for
the best worst film of all time.

Rebels and their motorcycles have a history on screen. They define the
times. Marlon Brando was the quintessential bad boy when he rode into town
as THE WILD ONE. Fast-forward fifteen years and history repeats: Fonda and
Hopper rewrite the Hollywood rulebook in EASY RIDER.

In COOL AS ICE, the bad boy of rap rides into the suburbs with his all-black
posse, ready to reap havoc on suburbia, right? Wrong. Ice's crew only
reappear when director David Kellogg requires a cut-away shot. Even then,
rather than scaring the local children, they're making peanut-butter
sandwiches and watching TV. They sit around, waiting for Vanilla to get the
girl.

The romantic sub-plot is a peach. She's the highest achieving student in
town, but will she risk her future for Vanilla Ice? He's a self-educated
poet of the street, although his actual words of wisdom somehow escape me at
the moment. The sub-sub plot involves her father, who we are led to believe
was the most honest cop on a corrupt force. Despite seemingly being
transplanted back into the same community, he doesn't mind going on
television so the bad guys can find him.

There's a few other sub-sub-sub plots of minimal concern, but no real story.
It's a star vehicle resting on the shoulders of a ludicrously vain idiot.
Fortunately, his fifteen minutes of fame and torture translates to a
typically foolish ninety minutes. The most vain ego exercise in Hollywood
history? Perhaps. All in vain? Definitely.


<|_=00=_|>

Right, I've seen this movie 10 times in one week, but i still dont get one
thing.....what does "shling a schlong" have to do with
anything?

And how did he jump the fence from a flat road?

And how does he keep changing jackets when he clearly doesn't take anything
with him?

And why are there turntables in a 70's music bar?

And how does he drive through the second story of a house from the opposite
direction on the ground?

Anyway, i have a lot more questions than this so to do me a service you had
all better go out and borrow this movie.....  You can see what production
values REALLY MEAN (hem hem).
<|_=00=_|>

This movie gave me a happy man from start to finish it was perhaps the
greatest movie of all time. I would credit this movie with curing my
cancer and bringing down communism in Russia. I think that if Vanilla
Ice make another film it may very well cure AIDS!!! Vanilla Ice is not
only a great musical artist but could be the next DeNiro when it comes
to acting.

I thought the movie was totally gerbilicous! I give it the Richard Gere
thumbs up! I have loved Mr Kellogs directing from his PLAYBOY work to
Inspector Gadget the man has an eye for directing great cinema. Forget
Spielberg, Kellog is the MAN!!!

<|_=00=_|>
So you've just picked up Cool as Ice in the video store and you're
thinking Vanilla Ice:The Movie...when you've stopped laughing,you'll be
like that must be SOOOOOOOOO bad,and you know what?YOu would be 100%
right,EXCEPT..its worse..it really is,even worse than the cover(see
above)gives away.What were the movie people thinking?? You can almost
imagine the conversation between the movie execs:''There's this rap guy
Vanilla something,and hes had a (dubious)hit record and wants to make a
movie,what can we do?'' ''I know,lets remake Rebel without a
Cause,throw in some (C)rap and have Vanilla play the James Dean role''
That must have been exactly what they said because thats exactly what
they did!!! This IS rebel without a cause,without the
style,class,direction or charismatic leading man.The acting,plot(??)and
overall quality of the film are all non existent.That said it doesn't
score a big fat(''drop the'')ZERO for a couple of reasons.....1)It is
VERY funny,if you've got the kind of sense of humour to find amusement
in cheesy things from the past,that and the ridiculous cliff/flat top
combination sported by Vanilla,with the ridiculous ''MC Hammer in a dye
factory ''pants to match.Class.Also it scores points for the
dialog,which is SOOO bad it is actually very funny,I'm still not sure
if this was meant as a serious movie or not!LOL.But check the memorable
quotes section above to see for yourself.Badly acted,badly scripted,and
badly dressed,the central character is basically Vanilla Ice.Why bother
giving the character or the movie a name,should have just called it
Vanilla Ice.At least then you would get an idea of how bad it is!
<|_=00=_|>
"Cool As Ice" is the work of art.

No, really. That's what the rap star wanna-be Vanilla Ice thinks when
he starred in this movie cluttered with the piece of dog dung script
from David Stenn. The movie showcases the atrocious acting by Vanilla
Ice who bolsters his ego to triumph over evil and injustice, and gets
to shag the girl of his dreams ("perverted fantasies" more like
describes his intention of establishing a torrid love affair). It's so
unbelievably bad you have to suspend the disbelief just to get the kick
out of making fun of Vanilla Ice as he attempts to act like he's going
to win an Oscar for Best Actor but ends up being an amateur, only
riddled with the terrible one-liners and smirk expressions so annoying
you want to punch him in his face. 

The plot is nondescript. It's too absurd and rather bizarre to
summarize, so I won't bother. The star Vanilla Ice leading a bunch of
poseurs to run the errand and falling madly in love with a pretty girl
and conquering evil is the plot I can think of. I must make a note of
complaint that "Cool As Ice" is grossly misrated PG because there's the
gratuitous use of the word "D***", some violence, the particularly
scary sequence and excessive sensuality. There are the scenes that
literally had me die laughing. So funny you'll ache your ribs and feel
the pain as Vanilla Ice intends it to become embarrassingly painful
when he saw the finished version for the first time and have hid in
oblivion since. 

Some particularly funny scenes (some may be spoilers):

After the opening MTV-style music sequence, it becomes obvious that
Vanilla Ice could not act when a sexy girl comes on to him

Jumping over the fence with the motorcycle and inadvertently hurts the
girl

Vanilla Ice stole the "black book" with the list of female friends and
looks like a pimp when he boasts to his poseur friends

Vanilla Ice walks around wearing an overinflated orange puff coat with
the bare chest and funky pants, shouting "Hey, yo! What's up?" in a
grating accent in the first half hour, made to look like the
gangbanging pusher

As the girl is about to enter into her house, Vanilla Ice grabs her
elbow and said "All right. I get it. Check this through. If you need
me, I'll be right over there" in front of her dim-bulbed frat
boyfriend.

A poorly choreographed fight scene between Vanilla Ice and the bunch of
jocks 

Vanilla Ice is a potential sociopathic rapist when he enters and lies
on the bed besides the sleeping girl without her consent/knowledge

The overindulgent erotic interaction scenes between Vanilla Ice and the
girl, and that includes pseudo dry humping and groping. If they
actually go all the way, Vanilla Ice would be guilty of statutory rape

The irony of Vanilla Ice wearing a black puff leather jacket plastered
all over with the words like "Sex Me Up," "Oh Yeah," and "Lust"

Gratuitous slow motion scenes and gratuitous sexual innuendoes

Michael Gross' one-dimensional character as the girl's strict father
and the attitude of Vanilla Ice when he had to leave at the insistence
of her father

Older couple dancing to the funky music. Utterly preposterous

Vanilla Ice's most unintentionally funny scene -- "You know something?
You don't know. You don't know me. You don't know me at all!" with a
cocky attitude in a sarcastic tone and then rides away with a
motorcycle

Vanilla Ice invades the girl's property and got sprayed wet by the
water sprinkler. In the next scene, he jumps the fence with the
completely dry clothes.

Vanilla Ice rides the motorcycle at over 100 MPH. So dangerous he
should have died in a tragic accident

Vanilla Ice's line of "It's fresh, man" in response to a stupid kid
brother's ridiculous hair

Vanilla Ice's line "I know that sound" when investigating the mystery
sound on the loudspeaker 

The audiotape about the kidnapping scheme is single-handedly the
funniest scene in the whole movie -- you have to see and hear to
believe it

The floating physics of Vanilla Ice's motorcycle gang crashing through
the wall on the second floor at the construction building. Truly a
laugh riot!

The violence at the construction site could be mistaken for the gang
hazing ritual

Vanilla Ice wears a ridiculous black wool hat and said the line,
"Imagine that." If you have the eagle eyes, it's obvious the stunt was
pulled off with a steel ramp mounted over the car to be followed by the
torturous closing music sequence.

All in all, the most unintentionally funniest movie I've seen -- and
I've never laughed frequently and harder AT a movie before with the
exception of "Project A-Ko" and "There's Something About Mary". No
doubt this is a huge embarrassment that led to Vanilla Ice's demise as
the hip-hop pop star and a movie actor. Highly ironic that Vanilla Ice
said at the end, "I'm...outta here!"

How David Kellogg got hired by Disney to direct "Inspector Gadget"
after this inane tripe that serves as Vanilla Ice' vanity is beyond my
comprehension.
