
Series note: Although the Die Hard films obviously follow one another
chronologically in the film's universe, they are not really constructed
as chapters in a novel. You could watch them in any order, but to give
the characters more depth, and make better sense of a couple minor
references, I would still recommend watching them in order.

In my Die Hard 2 (1990) review, I complained (although apologetically)
a bit about the lapses in internal logic. It ended up being somewhat
excusable, because I read Die Hard 2 as a satire of the genre as much
as a serious action film. With Die Hard 3, John McTiernan is back at
the helm, as he was for Die Hard (1988), and the result is once again a
more serious action film (containing some comic relief, of course) with
very taut internal logic. In fact, Die Hard: With a Vengeance is so
well constructed, so well acted and so well directed that I like it
just as much, if not better, than Die Hard.

John McClane (Bruce Willis) is once again separated from his wife, and
he's once again living and working as a cop in New York City. As the
film begins, he is on a temporary suspension for some never-specified
infraction (it works better that it isn't specified, as it enables us
to imagine all kinds of crazy things that this gruff character might
have done). After a bomb explodes at the Bonwit Teller department
store, a mysterious person calling himself "Simon" calls the police
taking credit and asking to speak with McClane--or he'll detonate
further bombs in crowded areas. They rouse McClane from the aftermath
of a drunken stupor. He shows up at the police station with a hangover,
looking haggard. "Simon" is fond of riddles and makes McClane engage in
a bizarre game of "Simon Says". The first task is for McClane to head
up to Harlem and stand on a street corner in his skivvies wearing a
sandwich board that says only, "I Hate Blacks" (using a more
inflammatory epithet than "blacks"). Of course, he almost gets killed,
but at the last minute, a reluctant savior in the form of a local
shopkeeper, Zeus Carver (Samuel L. Jackson), helps save his butt.
Unwittingly, Carver ends up embroiled in the Simon Says games with
McClane, with increasingly serious stakes. Just who is Simon? Why is he
toying with McClane? 

I should note that I was predisposed to like this film. I like Bruce
Willis a lot, but I especially love Samuel L. Jackson. The combination
of the two here is simply magical. They have remarkable chemistry and
the characters that scriptwriter Jonathan Hensleigh has drawn enable
both deep tension and hilarious comic moments between the two.

But the film succeeds on more than the charisma of its two principal
actors. Die Hard: With a Vengeance has a fantastic, intelligent plot.
Hensleigh ties his villain to the story of the first film in a
semi-satirical way that gives the motivation for the "Simon Says" games
great depth. The Simon Says games manage to be silly, smart, humorous
and great catalysts for dramatic tension at the same time. There are
subtle jokes about New York City, New York City cops, "reverse racism",
European opinions of American intelligence, and so on. And of course,
there are many edge-of-your-seat, nail-biting action sequences
involving a wide variety of environments in the New York City area. The
wide variety of environments was a nice change over the more limited
settings of the previous two films, and gives Die Hard: With a
Vengeance a feel almost like an adventure film.

It's remarkable that Hensleigh and McTiernan were able to sustain such
a high level of excellence throughout. If you look at Die Hard: With a
Vengeance from a broader perspective, the whole is constructed
something like one of Simon's puzzles. Every scene leads inevitably,
logically to the next scene, even though the film takes many "left
turns", and the solution of one dilemma to the next often involves
split-second timing.

It's often said that McTiernan and Hensleigh simply ignored Die Hard 2,
and in terms of direct plot and dialogue references, this may be true,
but they still give Die Hard 2 a nod by having an attendant
humor--often almost "goofy" humor--in many action scenes. One of the
most direct nods occurs with McClane "riding" something of an explosion
(of water this time). This is one of the more hilarious scenes of the
film.

As for subtexts, they are similar to those of the first Die Hard, with
some interesting additions. There is an intriguing parallel between
McClane's disheveled state, the typical New York City chaos, and the
attempts to further undermine stability from the villain. Focusing on
this aspect, Carver provides more of a dependable, even-keeled balance.

There are also direct references to very contemporary political
subtexts--with foreigners having in mind that the U.S. has
socio-economic power disproportionately in its favor. They claim to
want to redress the imbalance, although in this film, at least, the
claim may end up being a false representation--there appears to be
corruption undermining it. However, it's interesting that there is yet
another "twist" towards the end that shows the claim may not have been
as corrupt as we initially believed, even if it still seems a bit mad
and/or megalomaniacal. It's also interesting that the resolution is
reached on foreign ground.

But the subtexts in Die Hard: With a Vengeance may be even more minor
focuses than in the previous two films. Instead the focus is on the
spectacle of a tightly told, thrilling action/adventure story. That's
all the film needs to succeed as well as it does.
<|_=00=_|>

*** 1/2 out of ****

When one thinks of buddy action pictures, Lethal Weapon is immediately the
first film to pop into your mind, since it virtually birthed the genre. 
Another choice would probably be Midnight Run or Rush Hour, the latter of
which somehow took pop culture by storm (I recall my friends going around,
shouting "My daddy once caught a bullet...").  So often left in the dust,
probably because it was the third film of a trilogy and strayed quite a bit
from its predecessors, is none other than Die Hard: With a Vengeance which,
off the top of my head, is the best buddy action film I've ever
seen.

How can this be?  Better than Lethal Weapon 1 and 2?  Better than Rush Hour?
 Hell, I'll even say it's better than Die Hard and Die Harder.  Here is a
film that wisely knows, as a second sequel, not to simply repeat the same
material over again.  This has partially to do with the numerous Die Hard
rip-offs (namely Under Siege and Speed), so those hooks were gone, and I
absolutely thank God John Mctiernan and company didn't suddenly decide
"we'll do Die Hard on a plane!," which would eventually be done three times
(Executive Decision, Air Force One, and Con Air).  But what the filmmakers
have done here is ingenious, they've widened the setting to include all of
New York City.

They do this and still manage to retain the intense claustrophobia that
permeated the previous entries, doing so by displaying just how frantic
morning traffic is and just how BIG New York is.  As nonsensical as that
last statement may sound, imagine trying to get from point A to point B in
the middle of a traffic jam.  Mctiernan really knows how to let the tension
ratchet up from just the sound of honking horns.  

Then there's the case of John McClane himself.  This time around, he's at
the whim of a madman named Simon who requires him to perform certain tasks
or New York buildings will be demolished by explosives. In the first two
films, McClane was an everyman, which added much appeal, but he also acted a
bit too much like a superhero to work consistently as an everyman, so what
the filmmakers have done here is turn him into a jaded cop. He's seen this
stuff before, so he's not as scared as he was before.  Willis is great at
this role, too, seeing as he's done it before in The Last Boy Scout, but
takes it to perfection here.

Rather, who we now have as the everyman is Samuel L. Jackson as Zeus, and
he's a brilliant addition.  Not only is Jackson simply awesome in his role,
he's likeable, tough, and hilarious, but he's also easy to sympathize with
because he's not an action hero.  He doesn't know how to use a gun, he has
no combat training, and he's never had to take on terrorists before.  What
makes him so effective is his street-wise nature, and this quality of his
works perfectly with McClane's own street smarts AND action heroics, which
they combine in their day-long adventure.  These two have a chemistry that
at least equals Riggs and Murtaugh and if there's a Die Hard sequel, Jackson
needs to come back.     

Too many action movies give us poor villains who aren't menacing, vile, or
charismatic enough to make for effective antagonists.  Jeremy Irons' Simon
Gruber is an exception.  He is the best Die Hard villain, oozing charm and
snaky intelligence.  This was one of the last few roles of Irons' career I
could take seriously.  He's done what since then, Dungeons and Dragons? 
Pity how his career has taken such a downward spiral.

And last, there's the story and action.  The plot's a lot of fun, with
McClane and Zeus having to use both their brains and brawn to save the day. 
The contrivances in the finale (the scene with the handcuffs, the aspirin
bottle) aren't enough to bring the climax down, though it's true the
conclusion isn't as exciting as the rest of the film.  That's understandable
though, since the rest of the action is magnificent, particularly a car
"chase" through the streets of New York which is as unstaged as a car chase
can possibly look.  The film moves at a lightning pace that grips you from
the opening scene to the very last.  Die Hard: With a Vengeance is an action
flick that has it all.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie gets right to the point and starts off with an explosion. I
love that. A crazy guy named Simon (played very well by Jeremy Irons)
blows up a store, and asks to speak to John McClane, who is on
suspension. The cops grab McClane, who is by now a heavy drinker, and
put him on the phone with Simon. Simon makes him walk through Harlem
with a very offensive sign. Just when he is about to get beat down, he
is rescued by the racist Samuel L. Jackson, who plays Zeus. It seems as
though Simon wants revenge on McClane for something, but nobody knows
why. Now, Zeus and McClane are at the mercy of Simon, who meanwhile is
committing a massive robbery.

This movie is considerably different from the other two, which is
probably a good thing. Who wants the same thing three times in a row?
The plot has as many twists and turns as a snake, and the movie keeps
the viewer involved. Watching Zeus and McClane bicker is amusing as
well. Samuel L. Jackson pulls off the role of the "racist black man"
very well. I would highly recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
I like this one about as much as I like the first one. The first one
had a better plot and was more tense, but this one moves at a very fast
rate and it seems like it is over before it begins. A vast improvement
over part two, this movie once again finds McClane in the middle of an
emergency situation. This time, unlike part two, though it is very
reasonable that he is involved as Irons character is the brother of the
lead villain of the first Die Hard. Throw in a very funny Samuel L
Jacksoncharacter and you have the makings of a great film action wise
andcomedy wise too. This one centers around a mad bomber, threatening
to blow up several places including a school if officer McClane does
not play the game. McClane must do whatever the bomber says and boy
does the bomber do a lot to get our hero down. Great action is a given
as our hero desperately must try to find the bombs. Multiple car scenes
a cool scene on a boat, and loads and loads of gold thrown in for an
exciting ride. Irons is great as the villain, as was Rickman in the
first one. Truly this is one fast moving ride that will keep you well
entertained throughout.
<|_=00=_|>

Die Hard With A Vengence is a near-perfect summer movie. This franchise
effort is a gleeful no-brainer with nonstop action. It gives some additional
perverse pleasure, as we get to watch smartypants Bruce Willis get smacked
around for 112 minutes. In this third outing with John McClane, we are faced
with yet another mad bomber on the loose. Jeremy Irons plays Simon, a nasty
piece of Eurotrash who has a score to settle with Detective McClane. Simon's
bombing game comes complete with crafty riddles, which must be solved in a
specified time or everything goes boom. McClane has no choice but to play.
Along the way, he picks up an unlikely accomplice named Zeus (Samuel L.
Jackson), a Harlem shopkeeper. Together they tear all over New York trying
to head off disaster. Sure, it's all perfectly preposterous, but DIE HARD 3
has been directed with breathless intensity by John McTiernan, who certainly
has a way with wrecking things. Was he very destructive as a child? Loved
the spectacular subway crash, John. That hair-raising taxi ride through
Central Park wasn't bad, either. Don't forget to fasten your seat belts for
this ride.
<|_=00=_|>
This is definitely the grittiest of all the 3 Die Hard films. John
Mclane is now a drunk, he's separated from his family, living in New
York, and to make matters worse a terrorist calling himself "Simon" is
out for revenge on Mclane. Mclane, and everyone else, has absolutely no
idea why.

The first 2 films are superior to this one since this has a lot of
changes from the mood that made the others so great. First off, it's
not set on Christmas. No biggie though. Secondly, there are too many
complications and twists to the plot. You almost have to take notes.
And thirdly, the biggest change is that it's now turned into a buddy
movie to the style of Lethal Weapon, since Samuel L. Jackson as Zeus
unwillingly teams up with John Mclane. They're complete opposites, they
argue, and they become friends. That sort of stuff.

Die Hard: With A Vengeance still stays true to it's amazing action
scenes, though. There's plenty of explosions, there's floods, and
overall general destruction. It's a different kind of movie, yes. But
it's a good different kind of movie.

My rating: 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Die Hard:With A Vengeance deserves to be ranked in a top ten list of action
movies. The first two Die Hard movies were brilliant but this installment
just blows the first two out of the water.

Bruce Willis is back as police officer Lt. John McClane and in this movie he
teams with Samuel L. Jackson as Zeus Carver to stop the wicked Jeremy Irons
who is planning to cause mayhem and destruction around New
York.

If you're a fan of non-stop action movies like Speed, then this is the movie
with you. It doesn't let up for a second; it's one of those movies where
your heart beats as fast as the characters and by the end of the movie,
you'll be feeling like you ran round New York chasing a bomber. That is how
all good action movies should be.

I don't think it is any exaggeration to say that Die Hard:With A Vengeance
deserves to be rated one of the top action movies of the 1990's. All that
has to be done now is to make Die Hard 4 which I hope would top this
movie...although that would be quite a feat.
<|_=00=_|>

Regardless of what you might think of Bruce Willis, he really does excel in
this series of films and John McClane, the all action policeman is the
perfect role for him.

This time his sidekick is the guru of the action film, Samuel L. Jackson,
the owner of an electrical store, as he goes up against the ever excellent
Jeremy irons, who can play a bad guy like few others.

Irons is executing the greatest heist ever, and the shots throughout the
film are spectacular.  The lack of any half decent script is completely
masked by explosions, but what else would you expect?
<|_=00=_|>

Someone's got a thing for John McClane.  Bombs are going off around New York
and if McClane 
doesn't do what Simon says, more things will go boom.  Along for the ride
with the always 
watchable Bruce Willis is Samuel L. Jackson, a electronics store owner who
just happened to be 
at the wrong place at the wrong time.  These two are off all over Manhattan
figuring out 
Simon's little riddles.  Jeremy Irons is perfectly cast as the intelligent
Simon.  He's shrewd, 
charming and knows how to get a job done.  Back in the director's chair is
John McTiernan, 
overseeing the mayhem.  The action sequences are bigger, louder and wilder
than before.  Car 
chases, shoot outs, and a really neat sequence involving a ship, a bridge
and a truck highlight 
this action lovers delight.  So, buckle up, turn up the sound and get ready
for a hell of a ride.  
New York is about to go boom!                 
<|_=00=_|>

Someone calling himself Simon detonates several bombs in the centre of New
York City.  He then sets a series of dangerous tasks for Officer John
McClane to achieve or he will detonate more.  McClane sets out to meet the
demands of the terrorists with bystander Zeus Carver in
tow.

This is the third in the Die Hard series and it makes an immediate
improvement on the second by bringing back the original director John
McTiernan.  Here the film doesn't try to repeat the formula of the first
film (terrorists/wife/rescue) but instead takes on a whole new plot while
still tying it into the first film.  The second movie tried to repeat the
first film's plot but set in an airport, here the different angle makes this
feel a lot fresher and feel like a movie in itself.  The tie-in to the first
film is clever and not too much of a stretch of the imagination - happily
this is not the reason for the action itself - instead the terrorist's main
aim is the gold held in vaults in the Federal Reserve on Wall Street, but
the game with McClane is a special treat.

McTiernan was great in the first film, making everything feel tense and
claustrophobic.  Here he has the whole of NYC to run across and the camera
shows this new found freedom.  In action scenes the camera swings wildly
round and zooms into focus on the action.  During scenes set in offices etc
containing a lot of dialogue the camera slowly prowls round like it's dieing
to rush off to the next action scene.  It's the opposite to the style in the
first film and again makes this feels different enough to be a film in it's
own right.

Usually film series can get a lot of baggage (watch Lethal Weapon 4 for
proof), but here all the repeat characters are dropped, even McClane's wife
only features as a voice on the phone.  And that works well here and the
only characters that are brought back here are McClane (of course) and Hans
Gruber (in a flashback).  This frees the film up to basically go where it
wants without having to squeeze in old characters the way the second film
did.  However it links the films by having Simon Gruber taking supposed
revenge for the death of his brother.  The fresh active feel to this movie
really gives it life and lifts the series out of the hole that the second
film had threatened to put it.

The chemistry between Willis and Jackson is great and lends a lot of comedy
to the film, there's lot of racial humour between the two and Jackson is
more than the "black sidekick" that exists in many films.  Irons continues
the fine tradition of English actors playing Hollywood villains and is good
for the most.  His ticks and stutters stop him being anywhere near as good
as Rickman was in the original role but he's still good.  Willis gets good
support from the likes of Graham Greene, Larry Bryggman and Colleen Camp as
fellow cops but really him and Jackson carry the show.

Some of the scenes are a little forced and the plot doesn't always join
together easily (a scene where Willis is fired out of a water pipe just as
Jackson happens to drive by is a little too convenient) but many iffy bits
can be overlooked if you focus on the action.  The most effective thing that
returns from the first film is the musical score.  In the first film the
score used variations on Christmas music to dramatic effect, here the score
uses music well to add tension and comedy in a different way.  It's
difficult to put into words but this effect was missing from the second
film.

The film has a hatful of nice twists towards the end and the only problem is
that the conclusion in Canada doesn't feel like it fits in (the original
ending was changed following the Okalahoma bombing) but this is a minor
problem in a film that is a great addition to the action packed Die Hard
series.
