

Space Jam is a very enjoyable movie featuring probably the most popular
cartoon characters ever. The plot may seem rather weak to you and me, but
let's not forget that this movie was made for children. Space Jam has all
the humor of the classic shorts that made us love Bugs, Daffy and all the
rest. Michael Jordan actually wasn't that bad in this movie, considering he
is not a professional actor. Bill Murray was very hilarious. Thumbs up on
this one.

"That's all folks!"
<|_=00=_|>

If you're looking for intelligent, high-brow comedy...what is WRONG with
you, this is a LOONEY TUNES MOVIE!  Sheesh...this film is nothing
outstanding, but it is simply fun.  I'm sure that Michael Jordan enjoyed
star billing, but as is usually the case when your co-star is a cartoon
rabbit with more than 50 years of experience behind him (and one of the best
catch phrases in cinema), he is up-staged by Bugs Bunny.  Oh, not to say
that Jordan turned in a poor performance.  Thank goodness this guy at least
seems to have a good sense of humor.But there's some simple, pure enjoyment
in watching this film.  I got a kick out of the big basketball game, and
found the sequence with Bugs and Daffy retrieving Michael's lucky boxers to
be a riot.  Yea, the plot is pretty hare-brained ('scuse me,
Bugs...duck-brained;D), but it's nothing unworthy of Looney Tunes.  Don't
ever forget that-this is a Looney Tunes film.  They got away with using
anything for a plot, and this movie is in the same tradition.  It's like
asking a movie about Beavis and Butthead to be artful and dramatic.  Looney
Tunes represent the goofy side of animation, and this film adheres well to
that philosophy.  I recommend this for any fan of Looney Tunes...oh yea, if
your a sports fan, you should enjoy it too.  I, a mild basketball fan,
really enjoyed myself.
<|_=00=_|>

        I saw "Space Jam" the first day it was released in November of '96. 
I was eight years old, and of course like any child, I loved it.  I thought
Michael Jordan's acting was great and the film was a masterpiece.  Fast
forward to 2003, and I still love it.  Jordan's acting ain't that great but
nonetheless I can still sit down and watch the whole movie, and love every
minute of it.  What upsets me about this movie is that it is hard to find on
DVD.  I've been trying to look for it for years, but I just heard that it
will be released on a special edition DVD. When I get it, I'll probably
watch it everyday.  
        

This is a must for children and those Jordan freaks (like
myself)

*** out of ****

<|_=00=_|>

One of my earliest inspirations was Bugs Bunny and the Warner Bros. Looney
Tunes.  This movie brings back all the favorites.  And not just Bugs Bunny,
Daffy Duck and the other stars.  This movie features every character that
ever appeared in a Warner Bros. cartoon.  Your eyes are certainly kept busy
looking for each one!  Pairing the animation with Michael Jordan's athletic
abilities may seem a little mismatched.  But the game just becomes that
much
more enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was intended to be a kid's movie! And all of us MJ fans
alike respect the movie simply because he was in it. The acting wasn't
bad -- it was just on a children's level... of which it was intended! I
really liked Space Jam when I was younger, I still like the movie from
time to time, even. So saying it is like a Muppets movie is absurd! I
do agree that Marvin the Martian should have been the villain, mainly
because DeVito's character got on my nerves. I LOVE the fact that they
brought a girl character... and presented her as the best ball player
(aside from Jordan). During this time, we were all about political
correction! I think this movie suits its own time and appeals to its
intended audience.
<|_=00=_|>
I notice a lot of people have very few kind words to say about SPACE
JAM . I must admit that being a Scot I have little interest in
basketball and know very little of the career of Michael Jordan ( Who's
Michael Jordan ? ) but I still found this movie to be fair
entertainment . I guess a lot of people dislike this movie because Mr
Jordan played for such and such a basketball team 

A bunch of evil aliens invade Looney Tunes World and cast the cartoon
characters into slavery and it's left to a sports legend to save them !
Come on guys , plots don't come anymore original than that so what's
there to dislike ? We also have a subplot of the aliens interfering
with other basketball players which did cause some amusement to this
audience member . Also very enjoyable were the number of cameos that
crept up through the movie , most notably Bill Murray 

Okay I wouldn't say SPACE JAM is as great as WHO FRAMED ROGER RABBIT
but it's still an entertaining family movie regardless of how you feel
about sport . With this in mind I'm totally puzzled why my local ITV
station decided to broadcast it at 1.10 am !
<|_=00=_|>

A group of aliens arrive in Loony Tune world and challenge the inhabitants
to a battle for the ownership of that world.  Seeing the aliens are tiny,
Bugs Bunny decides a game of basketball should be easily won.  However the
aliens steal the talent from several NBA players and look set to win easily.
 However Bugs and Daffy kidnap Michael Jordan and ask for his
help.

At the time of release I must admit that I wasn't keen on seeing this film
as the whole merchandising thing had left me with a sour taste in my mouth,
putting me off the film.  Happy Meals and such were everywhere!  Later I saw
it on TV, away from all the hype and found it enjoyable but not great.  The
plot is silly, but who cares – it's a cartoon.  The comedy is good and has
plenty for kids with the cartoon characters doing cartoon things, but also
for adults.  The film is full of in-jokes for adults ranging from a 3 second
spoof of Pulp Fiction to some really funny lines – `oh great, no one told me
Dan Aykroyd was in this film' when Bill Murray makes an appearance, was my
favourite.  Also as a big basketball (and Knick) fan it was fun to have
tonnes of basketball stars make fun of themselves as well.

However it is a cartoon at heart and I imagine that those who don't like
pratfalls etc and aren't basketball fans won't be laughing all the time. 
Also, surprisingly for Jordan's first film, the basketball action is pretty
poor.  I know it didn't have to be realistic but the great man is amazing
enough in action without giving him amazing rubber arms etc with special
effects.

Jordan is good and is a better actor than others I've seen, but he is only
playing himself and not that naturally either!  The support cast is where
the money is and they all work well.  Whether it be the cartoon characters
or adults they all do what they have to.  De Vito is funny and Randle is
sexy but as usual Murray steals each and every scene he is
in!

Overall this manages to be more than a sales drive for Happy Meals (although
the McDonalds product placement is a bit tasteless – hey! Just like the
burgers!) and is an enjoyable film.  The kids will be happy with the cartoon
element and most adults will like the in-jokes and the NBA players making
jokes at their expense.
<|_=00=_|>
Movie about Michael Jordan and the Looney Tunes characters (Bugs Bunny,
Daffy Duck, Roadrunner etc etc). An evil animated monster runs Moron
Mountain--a planet with an amusement park. They need a new ride so he
sends five helpers to Earth to kidnap the Looney Tunes characters. Then
they can be used as a new act at the amusement park. Bugs and the
others agree--IF they play them in a basketball game and win. Bugs and
the others convince Michael Jordan to help them--but the aliens have
evil plans up their sleeve.

Michael Jordan meets the Looney Tunes. Sounds like a sure recipe for
disaster. I was positive this film was going to be a bomb when it was
released (with HEAVY publicity) in 1996. Yes--it's silly but if you
love Looney Tunes (like I do) you'll probably love this. The characters
are treated (more or less) respectfully and during the climatic
basketball game the stands are full of every Warner Bros. cartoon
character ever made. One small mouse character who talks nonstop I
remembered from childhood and I literally broke up laughing when he
appeared! The animation is just great, the merging of live action with
cartoon figures works and the script is fun. There are groaners and
stupid lines but, all in all, it was pretty amusing.

The debits: Michael Jordan just can't act. I'm sure he was a wonderful
basketball player but his acting was as wooden as a basketball court.
Also various other sports figures pop up and prove they're worse actors
than Jordan! Bill Murray (who can be good) is just lousy in a
supporting role. And Wayne Knight is just SO annoying. Also I could
have lived without seeing the Warner Bros. logo popping up everywhere.
At one point it's on Daffy Duck's butt...and he kisses it! And there's
a brief take-off on "Pulp Fiction" which isn't as funny now as it was
in 1996. So, these things lessen the movie but don't destroy it. Worth
catching if you're a Warner Bros. animation fan. Kids will love it. I
give it a 7.
<|_=00=_|>
GOOD - Simply an enjoyable movie; lots of fun to watch and highlighted
by a humorous Basketball game. Also, the surround sound is very good,
the colors are beautiful, the cartoon effects well done and funny. Some
of the humor is laugh-out-loud variety. As with a many good animated
movies, there is so much to see and hear it would take many viewings to
catch all the gags. With each viewing, you'll laugh at things you never
noticed before. 

As far as "live" actors working with cartoon figures, this was much
better done than the earlier "Who Framed Roger Rabbit," so progress has
been made in that area. While there is a lot going on, there are enough
lulls to give viewers periodic breaks. The basketball action is fun to
watch and I was surprised how well real-life stars Larry Bird and
Michael Jordan acted.

BAD - The story gets a little too juvenile in spots. The PC-minded
female character (rabbit) is overly feminist, to the point of
irritation and the occult gets far too much credibility in this story.
Also, there are a few sexual innuendos in here that adults would catch
but, hopefully, not little kids.

OVERALL, a movie that appeals to adults and kids. Basketball fans will
really enjoy it.
<|_=00=_|>
Arguably my favorite movie of All Time, Space Jam was an instant
classic from the first time i laid eyes on it as an Infant. Even though
you may not entirely understand everything that is going on in the
movie at a Young age, it is still pretty easy to get into the movie. 

Not spoiling anything in this movie in this Review..but i will say that
even today it is an entertaining Movie that i will pick up here and
there and still have a fun time watching. Such a simple storyline, yet
enjoyable down the years. Michael Jordan, Looney Tunes, and your
classic cartoon villains trying to take over. 

This is just one of the Movies that, well...got me interested in
movies. And that's why i gave it a 10. Not necessarily just because it
was my favorite....it had a lot of elements that i simply enjoy. And on
top of everything, its a movie about Basketball, which is something i'm
passionate about. 

In all honesty, when it comes right down to it. I can only say one
thing. If you haven't seen this movie yet, or even haven't watched it
in a while. Go pick it up. You'll find yourself having a very
entertaining time. Guaranteed.
