

In a time when Hollywood is making money by showing our weaknesses,
despair,
crime, drugs, and war, along comes this film which reminds us the concept
of
the "Indomitable Spirit".  If you are feeling beaten down, this movie will
free your mind and set you soaring.  We all know how tough life can be,
sometime we need to be reminded that persistence and courage will get us
through.  That's what this film did for me and I hope it will for
you.
<|_=00=_|>

Looking for a movie with cutesy talking horses that the kiddies will
love? Then Spirit is probably not the movie for you, it is instead one
of the nicest animated features to come along in a long time to not
have Disney written all over it. No, the horses do not talk and they
shouldn't as the whole story is told from a horse's point of voice in a
wonderful narrative. In fact there's not a lot of pointless dialog to
weigh down the movie at all.

Instead it's filled by a wonderful score by Hans Zimmer and songs by
Bryan Adams who admittedly I wasn't a big fan off except for
(Everything I Do (I Do It For You) and Star) but the songs he did for
this movie especially Here I Am, Get Off Of My Back, Can't Take Me,
Brothers Under The Sun and Sound The Bugle made me download the
soundtrack from Walmart.com the next day.

The main reasons I liked this move would have to be the beautiful drawn
animation, mixed with an endearing story with some comedy elements and
a wonderful soundtrack. Spirit is simply fun and enjoyable for the
whole family no matter what their age.

<|_=00=_|>

Spirit is a unique and original look at western life from the point of
view
of a wild horse, and native Americans. The film focuses on the friendships
and perils that a wild horse, Spirit, encounters during his
life.

Very well done in the presentation, using the technology available today
to
deliver stunning visuals that are breathtaking in their depth and
realism.

The music is fantastic, with songs by Bryan Adams, and music by Hans
Zimmer,
who also was responsible for the extremely popular music from the 1994
Disney hit, The Lion King.

The story is not very deep but the fact that it isn't quite as in-depth as
some movies doesn't in my opinion detract from the film as a
whole.

An excellent film which I enjoyed immensely, and that is suitable for all
the family. Not one to be missed. (10/10) 
<|_=00=_|>

I have probably seen this movie over fifty times by now because of the
kids
they just cant get enough of Spirit.
The best thing about the movie I think is that the animals isn't able to
talk, this makes the whole movie more honest and makes a better
impression
on both kids and the adults so 10/10 from the kids and me

<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie a lot.  The animation was well done and the romance was
cute.  I liked most of Bryan Adams' songs and the Hans Zimmer score was
excellent.  What a lot of people don't realize is how well it relates to
the
Heart of Darkness/Apocalypse Now themes (what happens when so-called
"civilization" invades someone elses home, what does it mean to be
"civilized" etc.). The opening scenery and music were very stirring. The
film is a lament to an America that was once beautiful.
<|_=00=_|>

SPIRIT: STALLION OF THE CIMARRON, the new animated feature from Dreamworks,
is an honest-to-God western. Some of you may be forgiven for thinking it
was
just a horse movie, a distinct and definable genre in its own right (e.g.
MY
FRIEND FLICKA), but I assure you this is a real, bonafide western, complete
with cavalry, Indians, Monument Valley and the building of the
transcontinental railroad. It's a familiar saga (to western fans) but told
here from the point-of-view of a wild horse. It just may be the only
western
that children in today's audience will get to see on the big screen. (And
it's perfectly suitable for even the smallest children.)

The movie has three selling points for people who are appalled at how
childish and inane animated features in the U.S. have been over the last
decade or so:

1) It's got a serious story.
2) The horses don't talk.
3) The horses don't sing.

The latter two functions are served by Spirit's first-person narration,
voiced by Matt Damon and told in the past tense as a reminiscence, and
several songs on the soundtrack written and performed by Bryan Adams.
Neither of these elements were particularly necessary and the movie would
have been better without them, although they aren't fatal. Hans Zimmer's
excellent music score does a far more effective job in conveying, in
dramatic and emotional terms, what the songs belabor. But, thankfully,
aside
from Damon, there are no other celebrity voices.

The other big selling point is the artwork. The background art and western
landscapes are stunning and offer a mix of painted scenes and
computer-created scenery, although everything seems computer enhanced in
one
way or another. Most importantly, the film gives us a chance to savor the
backgrounds. The characters don't zip around in constant frenetic motion
the
way they do in Disney movies. Although there are several chase scenes, the
characters are just as likely to pause and connect with each other in
movements reflecting naturalistic behavior. There are moments of
gentleness,
tenderness, curiosity, and discovery, so we get to see the space the
characters are in and get to connect with it ourselves. There's a real
palpable sense of environment and geography, of time and place, something
rarely found in American animated features.

The character design is also well-done. The human characters all have
solid,
expressive, recognizable faces, strongly differentiated from each other.
The
horses are well designed also, looking like horses, but anthropomorphised
enough to give them recognizable emotional responses. No character, human
or
animal, is exaggerated for cartoon effect.

I normally have problems with digital animation and computer created
imagery
and SPIRIT is, for the most part, computer created, although it replicates
the look of traditional 2-D animation. Still, if this is the wave of the
future, then SPIRIT shows us how it should be done. This is digital
animation at the best I've ever seen it (including the Japanese anime
features I've seen in the last few years). And combined with a good story
and clean concept that doesn't patronize its audience, it's created what I
think is the finest American animated feature since BEAUTY AND THE BEAST
(1991). If there is any significant flaw in SPIRIT, aside from the songs,
it's that the story falls short of greatness, undercut by the lack of a
sufficiently emotional payoff. Still, it's a better story than any I've
seen
in an American animated production since at least THE LION KING. Some
viewers may quibble about the politically correct aspects of the story
(cavalry=bad, Indians=good), but there is a moment near the end that
balances things out in an intelligent, dramatic way.

SPIRIT may suffer at the boxoffice because it doesn't have the
all-important
lowest-common-denominator touches that have so cheapened the animated genre
but attracted audiences looking for easy laughs (e.g. celebrity voices
doing
hyperactive genies, show-tune-singing meerkats and jive-talking jackasses).
But it should give a measure of hope to that small, passionate segment of
the audience that cares about animation as a medium capable in its own
right
of great storytelling and cinematic artistry.

<|_=00=_|>

Well, what can I say, this movie really got to me, it's not so bad, as
many say, I really loved it, although the idea seems so simple, and
rather boring, it isn't. First of all I enjoyed the soundtrack (Bryan
Adams), it really goes with the movie. Second the simple story, and the
drama of Spirit gets your attention. One thing I like the most is that
they didn't give the stallion a human voice to interact with the other
horses, it makes the movie more realistic, not many animations seem
realistic now do they ?, but... I don't know, making animals talk is
just so... lame.

One of the most beautiful animations of 2002 in my opinion, I recommend
it to everyone, not just the kids :), because it is very relaxing.

<|_=00=_|>
The horse is indeed a fine animal. Picturesque depictions of wild
horses and their grace could never have been more majestic in an
animation flick.

The animation is simply stupendous. The fine animation forms the
backbone of the beauty that the horses embolden across the flick. More
so when the stallion traverses diverse terrain, jumps across cliffs and
braves waters. 

Soundtrack too is very impressive. The wonderful instrumental music
lures you to appreciate the movie. 

"They say the story of the west was written from the saddle of a horse
. " huh? Well ,The story of a fine horse sure was written from the
saddle of the west .

All in all, this movie is clearly up there with the best .It is one of
the best animation flicks i have watched. Would be a very fine choice
on a lonely night. An easy 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

If only ALL animation was this great.  This film is classic because it is
strong is two simple aspects: Story and Character.  The characters in this
film are beautifully personified.  I felt for all of the characters, and
human-animal relationship in the movie works perfectly.  The beautiful
animation and 3-D computer animation hasn't worked better in any other film.
 This is a great movie for kids, and for adults who want a classic hero's
journey.  8 of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

It's said that when Disney first contemplated Dinosaur (2000), the idea was
to have the giant lizards play out non-speaking roles and that this was
eventually abandoned, principally through a fear of alienating a junior
audience. Asbury and Cook's Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron reverses that
decision, takes the braver choice and leaves the equine main characters mute
- though still subject to some restrained first person narration by Matt
Damon.  `They say that the history of the west was written from the saddle
of a horse - but it's never been told from the heart of one' he says and,
right from the start, it is clear that this will be a Western with a
different perspective. Animated Westerns are rare enough (the last one I can
easily recall is Fievel Goes West (1991)) and those told from an animal's
viewpoint even scarcer. Spirit is refreshing in that it carries off a
combination of these two challenges effectively, if inevitably somewhat
simplistically.

The stallion Spirit's indomitable nature is what shapes the narrative, and
is his most defining characteristic. His craving for freedom and
independence remain uppermost, even when eventually tempered by the
relationships eventually established with the mare Rain and the Indian
Little Creek. Strictly speaking, one might argue that Spirit: Stallion of
the Cimarron is less of a Western than a nature film, in which pastoral
ideals loom more important than the rigours of life at the frontier. As
such, it plays more like a cross between the pony paean of Champion the
Wonder Horse, and the pantheism of The Indian Fighter, than as a regular
film of the genre. The traditional Western often centres around the
establishment of civilisation, the drive West, the homestead movement, and
so on. The scene in which Spirit wrecks the locomotive, checking the advance
of the railroad, is at odds with a genre world view which, typically, has
seen the iron way's coming as a tremendous advance. 

Spirit seeks to keep the wilderness pristine, a place apart from the
footfall of white men, where foals can be brought up in peace and security.
Of course, his halt of railroad expansion can only be a temporary one, but
it is good enough in the meantime. It is as well that he acts when and how
he does too, for his friends the Indians are blissfully unaware of events,
and seem unable to act with similar determination. A far cry from the
marauding savages frequently presented by the Western in its heyday, the
tribe here are a peaceful people, somewhat enervated by the need to have a
strong animal lead and presumably the claims of political correctness.
Little Creek is the exception (although still open-mouthed at the stallion's
continued rebelliousness at the fort), even if his amazingly timely and
successful trudge to find Spirit down the tracks strains
belief.

First time co directors Kelly Asbury and  Lorna Cook have had some
involvement with successful animated projects in the past, such as Prince of
Egypt, Toy Story, and Little Mermaid. They've clearly learned from their
experience. Hans Zimmer's stirring score (which echoes his triumphant
Gladiator music at times) and Byan Adam's throaty warbling helps them along,
and the story of Spirit runs like clockwork, displaying none of the cutesy
parochialism which mars some of Disney's work. With no horse dialogue to
slow matters down, much is conveyed through meaningful neighs and equine
expressions, surprisingly effective in communication.

Some viewers have praised the quality of the animation, and while it is done
effectively enough much of the figure drawing has a stripped-down quality
which leads to a certain TV blandness (more noticeable in the pan-and-scan
video version). The most effective animation occurs during the dramatic
destruction of the railroad, but even here there's a suspicion that, had a
little more care been spent on light and shade (for instance), the results
would have been even more impressive. Least effective of all is the scene on
the train, when the despondent Spirit sees his family and friends imagined
in falling snowflakes, as the graphic visualisation is disappointingly
unsubtle. It's at times like this that the soundtrack proves its worth,
carrying the reader over such less effective patches with some emotional
charge.

When all is said and done of course, it's the target audience which matters
the most. The two junior ladies in my household have watched Spirit
repeatedly since it arrived at Christmas and would give the film a big four
thumbs up. No doubt the successful reception of the feature on the big
screen may encourage a sequel (the antipathy between Spirit and The Colonel
has been left unresolved, for instance) and in my home, at least, the result
of Spirit and Rain beginning a family would be eagerly awaited.

