

Scream 3 will not disappoint fans of the first two unless your expectations
are unrealistically high.  All the Scream movies follow a pattern - one of
the criticisms I read of Scream 3 was that it was a Xerox copy of the first
two - but all sequels are basically remakes of previous films that
preceeded
it e.g. the Bond series.  The success of the Scream films is that Craven
and
Williamson (and now Scream 3 scribe Kreuger) have blended the ingredients
differently each time - you'll definitely enjoy the "Hollywood" flavour of
this one!
<|_=00=_|>

SCREAM 3 / (2000) ***

Starring: Neve Campbell, David Arquette, Courteney Cox Arquette, Parker
Posey, Patrick Dempsey, Scott Foley, Lance Henriksen, Matthew Keeslar, Jenny
McCarthy, Emily Mortimer, Deon Richmond, Patrick Warburton, Liev Schreiber,
and Carrie Fisher
Directed by Wes Craven. Written by Ehren Kruger, based on characters by
Kevin Williamson. Running time: 116 minutes. Rated R (for strong horror
violence and language).

By Blake French:

	"Scream 3" is not as satisfying as the original horror masterpiece
"Scream," but what can we expect from the final chapter in a slasher
trilogy? The first film was a superior horror thriller--one of the most
loved slasher movies of the past decade. That was a picture with some hard
standards to live up to. However, Wes Craven, director of the trio,
accomplished another success with the sequel of "Scream." Usually this kind
of movie would fade into the Hollywood recycle bin by now. But "Scream 3"
still produces chills, thrills, and lots of surprises--even though we have
been receiving the same kind of story for the past four years. This film is
marginally passable, although the most flawed film of its series, that fairs
as recommendable, but not substantial in quality. 

	The film's opening once again provides the audience with a pre-credit
murder sequence that is almost the highlight of the entire production. The
"Scream 3" writers take advantage of one of the movie's old and important
characters to arrange this very effective, and scary, sequence.

	The setting is several years after the second film. The small college town
of Woodsboro is where we are placed. Neve Campbell again stars as Sidney
Prescott, a tormented young woman who was the target of the killing sprees
in the past. She has attempted to move on with her life with her father, and
has an anonymous hotline operation that offers assistance to those in need.
Also, television reporter Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette) has
experienced a big career jump, now working for a network called Total
Entertainment. While the wrongly accused murder suspect of Sidney's mother,
Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber), has his own trashy TV talk show.

	The central presence that connects the events here is the production of
"Stab 3: Return to Woodsboro," a movie the characters are creating that
follows a horror trilogy based on the terrors experienced by Sydney. The
masked murderer may or may not be found on the set. Besides police Detective
Kincaid (Patrick Dempsey), and the arrogant bodyguard Stone (Patrick
Warburton), concluding the list of suspects, there is Dewey Riley (David
Arquette), a former cop who is now an advisor for "Stab 3," Roman Bridger
(Scott Foley), the film's director, John Milton (Lance Henriksen) the film's
producer, as well as acting counterparts Sarah Darling (Jenny McCarthy), Tom
Prinze (Matthew Keeslar), Angelina (Emily Mortimer), Gabe Tucker (Deon
Richmond), and Gales's reciprocal (Parker Posey).

	Certain plot points lead our suspicion to believe one of several characters
is the killer. We are fooled again, however. But does the killer's identity
really matter here? As long as we receive a speech on why he or she is
responsible, we would be satisfied and any of the character's could have
been the killer. None of the characters have any shape or construction. We
care only about the order that the victims will be picked off at, not about
who hides behind the ghost mask. The identity is actually pointless when the
slasher is finally revealed. 

	Once again, a key success in "Scream 3" is the scary sequences that build
up momentum and thus work well, usually where the slasher kills his victims.
What makes these scenes so effective is how we know that characters are
three dimensional; they put up a firm fight for their lives, unlike victims
in most slasher films. However, the plot seems to revolve around the
murders, instead of the murders branching off from the story. "Stab 3" seems
to be a central presence to connect the film's somewhat desperate through
line. 

	Some of the plot points are fun and revealing. We see a videotape of a past
character describing the possibilities of the movie's final outcome. This
event programs our imaginations to suspect the unexpected. The plot does
desperately attempt to fill in missing pieces of the previous screams,
however, showing some signs of contrived foreshadowing. Each scene moves the
story forward, though, replenishing the plot with freshness and ability
around every abrupt corner. 

	"Scream 3" is a close call, and is given somewhat of a mixed review, but I
still am giving the movie a marginal recommendation. It contains more
startles, more surprises, and more effective scary material than most
slasher movies.  Although I believe it was a wise move to make this film the
final installment of its series.

Brought to you by Dimension Films. 


<|_=00=_|>

Welcome back Neve, David and my personal favorite, Courteney, to one of
the
best horror series ever to hit the big screen.  All three are back and are
in top form.  As a huge FRIENDS fan, it's always fun to see the
non-Monica,
Gale Weathers, and to see another side of Cox-Arquette's talent.

The finale in the Scream trilogy, and while perhaps not the scariest of
the
three, it is certainly the most funny.  That is thanks largely to the
brilliant casting of the satiric roles belonging to Parker Posey and Jenny
McCarthy.

Parker Posey playing Courteney Cox Arquette's "Gale" in the movie Stab 3
within this movie, Scream 3, was a stroke of genius.  For those not
familiar
with Posey's work I strongly recommend checking out "The House Of
Yes."

Another welcome attribute to this third and final (?) chapter in the
series
is the way in which they tie up the loose ends and allow certain
characters
a sense of closure.

You definitely need to view these 3 in order, but it's all scary
fun!


<|_=00=_|>

WARNING: PLOT POINTS ARE GIVEN AWAY, SO IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THE MOVIE OR
DON'T WANT TO KNOW, PLEASE DO NOT CONTINUE READING

As I've said before, I have little use for sequels, which was I was
surprised to find myself going to SCREAM 2, and even more surprised that I
enjoyed it.  Like the first one, it was fast, scary, funny, and took some
nice satiric jibes.  Even the much debated identity of the killer in the
second one made sense as a satiric swipe at horror movies, so it didn't
bother me.  I didn't know if they'd be able to keep it going for a third
movie, especially when hearing Kevin Williamson's involvement was going to
be minimal(he's a producer, and he wrote an outline which eventual writer
Ehren Kruger worked from), but I liked the first two, I was especially
pleased to see Scott Foley(from FELICITY) and Parker Posey in the cast, and
I was intrigued to see what happened.  In retrospect, I probably should have
waited for video.

Certainly the opening shows a little promise; instead of the usual celebrity
cameo, we have a spoof of that, with Cotton Weary(Liev Schrieber), who's now
a Geraldo-type talk show host, complaining about having to do a cameo in
STAB 3(the movie within a movie here), so we know it's spoofing itself.  The
problem, of course, is we know Cotton's going to get killed, but Craven is
able to draw suspense throughout the scene.  We also get the stated purpose
here during the phone call(which, also a bit clever, starts out with a
woman's voice before the familiar tone of Roger L. Jackson as THE voice
kicks in); the killer wants to find Sidney.

Sidney, of course, is living in seclusion, under a new name and barely going
outside the house(which, of course, is under heavy alarm), so at first,
she's almost like an afterthought to the movie.  Instead, the center is on
Gail Weathers, the tabloid reporter, now an entertainment reporter, who uses
her reporter skills to play detective when Cotton is killed, and she decides
to assist the police, specifically Detective Kincaid(Patrick Dempsey), in
the case.  Then there's Dewey, who's a technical advisor to STAB 3, the
movie, and they of course worry about what's going to happen.

There's all kinds of potential here, and it's directed well, but it isn't
written as well as I think Williamson would have done.  There are scares
which still work, and while the Dewey/Gail relationship seems a little old
hat, the two Arquettes obviously like working with each other, and their
familiarity with us helps smooth that over.  Also, while Campbell is
disconnected, she's still sympathetic, and while she doesn't have the same
fun with herself as she did in the first one, I understood that.  And there
is humor, most of it coming from Posey as the actress playing Gail in STAB
3; few actresses can make contempt funny like she can.  There's also the
standard satiric bite(the bodyguard who guarded Julia Roberts and Salman
Rushdie but ends up toast here).

But as I said, it isn't written as well, and the primary weakness is the
killer.  In some senses, I guess, having the director(Foley) be the killer
makes sense, because he has the technical expertise to handle things.  But
it seems to come out of nowhere, and perhaps to distract us from that,
Kruger gives us the idea of him being a long-lost relative of Sidney's,
which is ridiculous.  Perhaps because of that too, Foley goes way over the
top, which is funny at first, but then becomes tiresome.  Also, Kruger cribs
not from other horror movies here, but from the first SCREAM(the cloning of
the cell phone being a prime example).  And while Williamson's red herrings
were pretty clever, this one seems not thought out.  Emily Mortimer's
character(she plays the actress who plays Sidney) is a perfect example;
there are two indications she might be the killer(three, if you count the
woman's voice to Cotton), and yet she's killed off almost as an
afterthought.  Finally, as to compensate for all of this, there are a lot
more killings to cover up.  Which begs the question; if all he wanted was to
find Sidney(as stated early on several times), why not just take Dewey,
Gail, and Cotton et al hostage?  The first two movies mocked the Idiot Plot
Rule; this one mostly personifies it.

It's a shame, because there could have been something made from all this(oh,
almost forgot; Dempsey, who I normally don't like, is surprisingly good, and
also unrecognizable here).  But this certainly doesn't break any rules. 
Even the Jamie Kennedy cameo seems obligatory rather than fresh.  This
suggest they should have stopped at the second one.
<|_=00=_|>

Director Wes Craven and writer Ethen Krueger (taking over for Kevin
Williamson) helped make this film happen. This time we're taken to
Hollywood, California where Cotton Weary (Liev Schreiber) is now a talk show
host, Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox Arquette)is a t. v journalist, Dewey
Riley (David Arquette) is a technical advisor for the Stab 3 movie, and
Sydney Prescott (Neve Campbell) is under a different name in order to
protect herself. This time however there is a new killer(s) trying to get to
Sydney, but it someone from her mother's past can Sydney survive another
blood-bath as it seems the killer(s) is killing the cast members of the Stab
3 movie and won;t stop until Sydney is dead!
My thoughts a great ending to the trilogy it definately has a few good
scares and fills a lot of plot holes of why Maureen was killed. I won't give
anything away but the killer(s) was a big surprise.RECOMMENDED!
***1/2 out of ***** 
<|_=00=_|>
After surviving the second wave of ghostface killings, Sidney Prescott
has retired to the mountains to live in peace and work as a phone call
therapist. Sadly for her she is about to be dragged back into the
nightmare because the production of Stab 3 is rocked by murder and the
killer is leaving pictures of Sidney's dead mother at the crime scenes.

I have to admit that I once never gave this film much love, I loved the
first two to such a degree that I felt this third and final instalment
was way off being a fitting closure to what was at the time a trilogy.
Yet as time has wore on I have really grown fond of the film, Parker
Posey no longer annoys the hell out of me, the once jarring itch of
watching the makers kill off a fave character of mine in the opening
sequence is something I now view as a masterstroke, and the twisty
ending that was once an irksome pest has moved on to be the perfect
"trilogy" closure.

Scream 3 has its tongue firmly in its cheek, it's aware of its number
and it's aware of its formulaic root, so in spite of treading familiar
ground (I mean come on gang, have you not learnt nothing from your
previous experiences), the returning characters still have our
undivided attention. While the transporting of the story to Hollywood,
with its movie within a movie structure, is fresh and adds a new
dimension to proceedings. New additions to the scary fun are Patrick
Dempsey, Emily Mortimer, Lance Henriksen and the afore mentioned Parker
Posey, and all of them add greatly to the mysterious plot unfolding.

The death quotient is still high, and the Wes Craven school of
whodunitry is well and truly open, and I personally feel that this one
is easily the funniest film of the three, witness Jay & Silent Bob
turning up, a Carrie Fisher sequence that once heard will never be
forgotten, and a video appearance by passed on geek god Randy Meeks.
Scream 3 closes the "trilogy" just fine, it's got bags of energy and a
glint in its eye, now if only I could get a copy of the uncompleted
Stab 3 off the internet - and if only there wasn't to be a part 4
further down the line... 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

The movie begins with Cotton Weary driving in L.A. while talking on a
cellular phone.  And of course someone clicks in and you can only guess who
it is-thus begining the traditional Scream opening murder suspense scene.
Sidney Prescott has moved down to the Los Angeles area and has basically
gone into hiding, working out of her house as a crisis-hotline operator.
Gale Weathers is the same as always of course as a bitchy tabloid news
anchor.  She has written a new novel though which is what the movie inside
Scream 2 (STAB) is based except Stab 2 has already been released and they
are in production of Stab 3.  Dewey is also on the scene as a type of
helper
on the set.  One by one the cast of the film turn up murdered according to
script.  The old hollywood mansion as the final scene makes a great setting
as the surprise twist-final deaths take place.  Definately a satisfactory
ending that kinda wraps it all up, with some great cameo appearances
especially with the video of Randy that was a great touch to keep the
'trilogy-movie buff' type of thing in the movie. The movie goes back to its
roots and fills in all the little holes of the first one. Of course the
movie may have been a little better with Kevin Williamson's touch but
overall it was still great.  I went into the movie without having very high
expectations at all.  I am a very big fan of the original Scream, yet going
into Scream 2 I was expecting it to be very good and I was extremely
disappointed with the outcome.  So going into Scream 3 I just didn't set
myself up for the disappointment.  But I was very very pleased it was
AWESOME Go see this movie if you are a fan of the original.

I'd give it a 9.5 out of 10 
<|_=00=_|>
"Scream 3" takes us to the Northern California hills, where Sidney
Prescott (Neve Campbell) is living in seclusion and immense fear due to
the traumatic events that she survived in Woodsboro and at Windsor
College. Meanwhile, a Hollywood movie studio is producing a film called
"Stab 3", the third installment in a movie series based on the events
that Sidney has survived. But when cast and crew members begin to die
off one by one, it seems another killer has returned, and goes after
the fragile Sidney (who is having terrifying visions of her dead
mother). Sidney teams up with Gale Weathers (Courteney Cox) and
policeman Dewey (David Arquette), two people who survived the massacres
with Sidney, and try to uncover the new killers identity, which may be
linked to Sidney's past.

The last installment in a very popular horror series, "Scream 3" brings
this trilogy to end on an entertaining but rather weak note. The script
for this film is nowhere near as good as the other two, which is
unfortunate considering this film was the "finale" of the series. It
would have been nice to end the series with a better film - not that
this sequel is unbearably bad, but it could have been better. I will
admit there are some decent scare moments and a handful of suspenseful
scenes, but it seems to me that there's almost too much going on in
this sequel for it's own good. The script juggles the Sidney character,
Sidney's past, the Dewey/Gail relationship, the cast members of the
"Stab 3" movie, and more, and the jumping around hurt the film a
little. It didn't seem to have a central point within it, and that was
a problem, for me at least.

Besides the problems that it has, I still have to say that I enjoyed
this movie, mostly because of the entertainment factor. The writing
wasn't amazing, but it did manage to continue to have some nice plot
developments and a few good twists, plus some decent scares and more
slight mocking of the genre and it's rules. The setting is mainly
Hollywood, so this film has a completely different atmosphere than the
second or the first film. I'm not sure if it necessarily hurt the film,
but it seemed a little too "Hollywood" for me. The cast is good here,
with more returning characters and some new ones as well, mainly added
for body count, while the others do develop somewhat during the movie.
The twist-ending (which is the revelation of the killer's identity)
made sense in terms of the story, but I found it to be a little
unsatisfying.

All things considered, "Scream 3" is an enjoyable but problematic
ending to an above-average horror trilogy. You'll be entertained
undoubtedly, but this movie can't compete with the second or the first
films, because it just isn't as good. I enjoyed it for the most part
and I have trouble over-criticizing it, but most people will agree when
I say that it can't compare with the original film. 6/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Since I am a Scream fan, i no doubt, loved this movie. I thought the first
Scream was funny, original, scary, and witty. after seeing the first one
several times, I was so excited to see the second. But, i came out a
little
disappointed. There was no way, you could've guessed one of the killers. I
found that the killers were minor characters, as in Scream1 they were not
main, but have good screen time, and was not that scary. But, the more i
watched the movie, the more i liked it. So, by the time i heard about the
third in the Scream series, I was counting down the days till it came out.
I
ended up seeing it the day after it came out with my best friend. I found
that it was scary, original, and had some really good fight scenes and
unforgettable characters (PARKER POSEY'S "JENNIFER JOLIE"). The voice
changer this time was really unique and very clever. I also thought the
buddy/hatred-ness  between Courteney Cox and Parker Posey was hysterical.
Mainly i thought Parker fueled most of the movie with her comedic
preformances. I thought the ending at Roman's birthday was truly the best.
And i was also surprised to see Jenny McCarthy give such a good
performance
for just the short time she was in it. David Arquette also gave a good
performance, along with the rest of the cast.  Neve Campbell was great
with
her lines like "It's your turn to scream, ***hole!" and "You want me,
mother******, come and get me!" I found those to be effective if not
cliched. So, if you are a fan  (or not) of the Scream series, you MUST, i
repeat, MUST see this movie. I will guarantee you will have a good time
watching it, as i did. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, if you think I'm some twelve-year-old who thinks "Scream" is
the greatest horror series ever, you're wrong.  I'm a
twenty-three-year-old
who thinks "Scream" is the greatest horror series ever.  The first two
films
in the series were excellent, with the original being the best horror film
of all-time, and the third brings the series to a great finish.  The final
chapter of the trilogy takes a lot of crap from moviegoers all over the
planet, but "Scream 3" is an excellent film.

I love the fact that they left the school setting from the first two.
"Scream" took place in high school and "Scream 2" took place in college,
mainly because there is so much horror to parody from those two areas.  It
is no secret that K-Will looks very highly upon teens, so with him out of
the picture, the series could cover new ground.  One, they would finish
with
the third film to complete a rare horror trilogy, and two, the film takes
place on the set of a film based on the "real-life" events of Woodsboro.
This creates a movie within the movie storyline that proves effective.
The
film doesn't really improve upon the deaths, but the characters introduced
in this film are an improvement on the characters from the second film.
Well, at least Parker Posey's "Jennifer Jolie" was.  Anyway, a solid story
is developed around the set of the film and the actors in "Stab
3."

All of the loose ends from the first two are tied up with the revelation
of
the final Ghostface.  They chose the best character to play Ghostface, and
the selection makes the choices from "Scream 2" make a little more
sense.

Returning stars include David Arquette, Courteney Cox, Liev Schreiber, and
the voluptuous Neve Campbell, and Jamie Kennedy's "Randy" makes a special
appearance from beyond the grave, but none of those stars even compare to
Parker Posey, Indie Queen and the breakout star of the film.  Her
performance was the single best performance of the series, and it is her
work in "Scream 3" that enables me to give the movie a perfect
score.

"Scream 3" ends the best horror series of all time and is another
individually excellent film in the trilogy.  "Scream 3" receives **** and
Parker Posey deserves to be a headliner.  She is incredibly talented and
extremely attractive.
