
It runs for three hours but it feels much less, such is the power that
this documentary holds. Absorbing, you get sucked in and the film has
this grip on you.

If Reality TV is your thing, I'd seriously give this film a go, then
you can stop watching Reality TV and start to recognise, understand and
prioritise real-world situations that actually matter, like racism,
poverty, drug abuse, peer pressure and well, dreams.

You'll fall in love with the characters, and there's even a bad-guy for
us to boo. You can sometimes question the manipulative techniques on
display, but the film is actually not as guilty as some, the makers
have a genuine affection for their subjects and do as much as they can
within the rules of documentary to help them out without compromising
their objectivity.

Be that as it may, this film should be compulsory viewing for many
younger audiences, as it shows you exactly how real life differs from
the garbage that passes for representation of youth on TV and in film
today.

I really can't say enough about the need for more films like this, the
fact that the Academy Awards were changed because of the strength of
this film goes some way to showing you exactly how powerful it is.
<|_=00=_|>
Ten years after I first saw this film, based on the mention that Siskel
& Ebert made on their show, I am still blown away by it.

A good case could be made for this being the best motion picture of all
time. It is simply amazing. The characters (if I can call them that) in
the film will astound you with their depth, and this movie will suck
you right in... if not to the Cabrini Green projects, at least into the
lives of these 2 young men and their families. You will cheer for them,
feel their pain, their sadness, their triumphs... and their
determination to achieve something better for themselves and their
loved ones.

I bought the DVD the day it was released, and can give high praise to
the good folks at the Criterion Collection. The accompanying booklet
contains 3 excellent essays/articles as well as a complete list of the
people in the film. The extras on the DVD are well worth watching,
escpecially the commentary from Arthur & William.

To Frederick Marx, Peter Gilbert, and Steve James: Great job, guys.
Your dedication to this project, and your understanding of the subject
matter (that it was about more than mere basketball, from the
beginning) have made a truly excellent film. Thank you.

To Arthur Agee & William Gates: You are both exemplary men, and the
example of your lives, your perseverance, your awareness of yourselves
and the world you live in, should serve as role models for all of us,
regardless of age, color, or income. You are both heroes of mine, and
have been for more than 10 years.

To the Agee & Gates families: Thank you for allowing these filmmakers
access to your lives for so many years. I have wept at your hardships,
and screamed joyously at your triumphs. Your dedication and love for
each other is nothing short of inspirational.

If you are reading this and you have not seen this film, PLEASE go get
a copy and watch it. You will not have wasted a single minute of your
life by having done so.

A truly awesome film.
<|_=00=_|>

This film simply exemplifies the 
reason why I hate most Oscar voters. 
This movie didn't even get a nomination, 
and it was one of the most successful 
documentaries ever! This especially 
exhibits the encroachment of coaches, 
family and other parties when it 
comes to the well being of inner city 
kids, who just happen to be good 
basketball players. Considering the 
state of pro basketball now, this kind 
of shows how the downward cycle of 
basketball was seeking lower standards. 
Sometimes funny, often times sad and 
poignant, this film is easily one of the 
best documentaries of all time.
<|_=00=_|>

The filmmakers here show an admirable dedication to their art and to the
underprivileged, spending five years tracking two kids, Arthur and William,
and their dreams of basketball stardom. The two subjects and their families
are simple and somewhat naive, in an endearing way. Their struggles,
sometimes unflattering, are put forth for us to relate to, and we all can.
Of course this is about two kids and their love for basketball, and about
the "road to" that takes place as they try to get there, but it's really
about the way people in near-poverty live, the education system and its
downfalls, the manipulation of organized sports and tendency for people to
try and achieve their goals through others (Arthur's father, William's
brother), and the situation between blacks and whites in America. In one
scene, Arthur laments being around mainly white kids for the first time in
his life, and says it'll be difficult but he'll manage. That kind of relaxed
confidence is so rewarding to watch. The film has endless insights into the
black urban experience. Of course not every family in the ghetto is in a
position where a father is a criminal and drug user, but when two kids in
the same story are in that situation, it's got to be somewhat
prevalent.

It's the kind of movie that's sustaining, and there are so many
transcendent, revealing moments that stand out: Arthur's mother, such an
inspirational woman to watch, as she gets her nurse certification; Arthur's
family talking to another family in a cafeteria, with his mother high-fiving
an elderly white lady; the descent into and path out of drug addiction; and
a scene where the man who recruits these boys says that sometimes he has
doubts about himself when he sees the pain that's a part of these kids'
lives. Spike Lee makes a brief appearance giving a speech to the kids, and
his pessimism is the only sore spot in the film.

We don't have to work for any of this, we don't have to question it. There's
nothing to clean away before we can get to the real thing. This is the real
thing. A curious moment, however, is one scene where Arthur's mother
explains to us at one point she had her electricity cut off, which suggests
that the crew wasn't there to film that period. But the next scene has her
walking in the dark with a lamp, that seems like an undeclared "reenactment"
of something they missed, for editing purposes. But the criticism of
manipulation in documentaries is tired. Yes, the possibility of tricking an
audience into believing something with a documentary is greater, but unless
it's political in some respect it doesn't matter. Documentaries are supposed
to be presented how the filmmaker sees fit. With no license, we'd have
350-hour documentaries.

At one moment near the end, William's coach says goodbye to him and as he
walks out his coach mentions that that's the system: one goes out, another
comes in. It feels like we're saying bye to a member of the family. This is
a life-affirming experience, a family that should be visited again.
10/10
<|_=00=_|>

This gets my vote for the best movie of all time!! I know, it sounds crazy
to say that about a documentary, but to me, this film has more drama,
truth,
realism & emotion than a thousand Hollywood movies put together. I've seen
it over 30 times, and it never ceases to gladden my heart to see Arthur &
William's story. The scene where Arthur's mom receives her diploma from
nursing school has to be one of my all time favorites. For me, this is one
of the rare three-hour movies that I never wanted to end.
10/10.
<|_=00=_|>
At three hours, this is a long but interesting documentary about two
Chicago-area high school basketball stars, William Gates and Arthur
Agee, who try to make something from their basketball talents. 

Both athletes, of course, dream of becoming pro players some day. There
are hundreds of similar tales each season - of great players, mostly
black - who don't make it through college or even to college despite
their enormous talents and one can get idea of some of the obstacles by
watching these two guys.

Gates is recruited by St. Joe's, a powerhouse Catholic School which
claims Isaiah Thmas as it most famous cage alumnus. There, Gates plays
for a typically gung-ho coach and has a lot of ups and downs, both on
and off the court. However, he's a lot more mature than the other
subject of the documentary: Agee.

Agee also is recruited by the private school but can't pay the tuition
and is kicked out in his sophomore year. He then returns to his
neighborhood public school and eventually becomes a star.

Gates graduates and goes on to Marquette while Agee attends a junior
college. From that point, a summary at the end of the film brings you
up-to-date on what happened to the kids.

Thus, almost all of the three hours is devoted to these kids form
junior high through high school. The families and friends of these
athletes are interesting and the film really documents the different
lifestyles between blacks and whites in the USA.

It's a fascinating picture for people of any race. For non-blacks, it
shows them a window into a whole different world. This film is
obviously not just to highlight basketball players but to show life as
it exists with a lot of poor black families: the good and the bad, the
achievements and the big mistakes. I enjoyed it just as much the second
time as the first. It's one of the better documentaries I've ever seen,
so don't let the length of it discourage you.
<|_=00=_|>
"Hoop Dreams" is a film about real life, because that is what it's
exactly about, real life. I feel that I must put a stronger emphasis on
the word "real" to get my point across. This isn't some hokey,
Hollywood drama about living out a dream, but is about two aspiring
young athletes rising out of the dredges of the Chicago ghetto life and
into the flash and glitter of the NBA.

Though I'm not a hardcore sports fan, nor am I really into movies about
sports, but I really admire basketball, as I feel it has a kind of
grace and natural balance that's lacking in most other sports this
vigorous. That is why I like some of the film's exhilarating on-court
action that is interspersed evenly with the human drama.

Directed by Steve James and produced by Frederick Marx and Peter
Gilbert, "Hoop Dreams" originally began as a 30-minute documentary
about rising ballplayers, but the filmmakers quickly saw that 30
minutes was just too narrow a scope for their story. This realization
came when they witnessed two teens, William Gates and Arthur Agee, as
they both try to join the NBA, much like their idol Isiah Thomas.

In total, 250+ hours of footage was gathered over the course of a
five-year period and then edited into an engaging 171-minute
documentary, following the two teens (from ages 14-18), as they attend
expensive Catholic schools, go through the rigorous on-court training,
meet the demands of their coaches, and live out their dreams. (Director
Spike Lee also appears at a training camp and gives some of the
aspiring players some less-than-inspiring advice about what their
skills mean to the people at the top of the ladder.)

We watch as their poignant, real-life struggles unfold on the screen,
and watch as time after time they get stonewalled by the system of
bureaucracy and racism that's meant to be especially hard on two young
black boys from the ghetto. They have difficulty with making decent
grades, financial issues, preparing for the ACT, sports-related
injuries, and must contend with problems at home as well, including
trouble with family matters (Arthur's relationship with his father is
especially touching and sad; William welcomes a new addition to his
family while still in high school).

For years, success stories, such as "Hoop Dreams," have dominated
Hollywood cinema and have won over legions of audiences, but we've
never seen anything like this. Gates and Agee are both bright-eyed and
ambitious that they're embarking on something that's historically
significant to their lives and community.

This is the best movie about basketball and reality I've seen yet
because of the simple fact that it's real; no scripts, no phony
Hollywood theatrics, just "real" action, drama, and emotions.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

"Hoop Dreams" brilliantly follows multiple parallel stories, bringing the
viewer into the lives of two families of inner-city kids looking for a
chance at the "big time", their ticket out of the ghetto.  Although the main
focus is on William Gates and Arthur Agee, their "supporting cast" is
equally enthralling.  From William's jaded brother Curtis, sublimating his
own basketball aspirations to the reality of his blue-collar mailroom job,
to Arthur's indomitable mom Sheila, doing the impossible every day as she
keeps her troubled family together, there are a thousand reasons to cheer,
laugh, cry, and rage packed throughout this amazing, inspirational,
cautionary documentary.  

By examining not only the players but also their families and environments,
we are given a clearer view of their aspirations and motivations, what they
plan to achieve and what they wish to avoid.    

I will not summarize or elaborate further.  If you have not seen this movie,
put it on the short list.  9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

"Basketball is a ticket out of ghetto." (William Gates)

"... nobody cares about you. You're a black, you're a young male... The only
reason why you're here [Nike training camp] is so you can make their team
win. And if the team wins these schools get a lot of money." (Spike
Lee)

These phrases, which have persisted as common knowledge among the
African-American community during last several decades, have become familiar
to the non-hyphenated Americans in the 90s, thanks to the films such as Boyz
N the Hood and He Got Game. Among them, Hoop Dreams, a documentary that
follows two black youths during a five-year period, is the most objective
and the most quiet, but the most powerful statement to represent the
disadvantaged youth in urban America.

The film reveals the pattern they follow. Being deluded by the luxurious
surface of pro sports, they neglect education and then ending up going
nowhere. The community suffers the vicious cycle and their feelings that the
system exploits them remain.

Kudos to the filmmakers for their insane amount of work. They must have gone
through numerous negotiations to attend and film various scenes, such as
family's private events, classrooms, academic counseling, recruiting
sessions with college coaches, and surgery operation rooms.
<|_=00=_|>
I love this movie. Back in 98 I had the unexpected pleasure of catching
it on PBS. At first I casually watched it, having heard of it upon its
release a few years earlier. Not too far into the three hour running
time, I found myself going from casual onlooker to absolutely hooked.

The story is amazing in its scope. Four years of high school and some
brief college material are documented here. We hop on board the lives
of two high school basketball stars from Chicago, all but consumed with
the desire to play in the NBA. Both boys are similar in some ways, and
yet very different. 

As their story unfolds, you become very aware at how real this story is
for many young athletes. All Hollywood clichés are left in the dust and
the truth only a documentary can muster pulls us along for what seems
like a film that is strangely too short. Three hours have never gone by
so quick.

Your heart will cheer, break, and then cheer again for these two great
kids as they struggle with their dreams of reaching the ultimate level,
as well as their struggle to just find a way through their daily lives.
I won't do you the disservice of giving away anything. Just sit down
and watch a great movie, and find out for yourself. Good Stuff!

10/10
