

I saw this movie last night and went to bed without words. After having a
chance to sleep on it, it is now starting to sink in how truly amazing
this
movie was. You will be first blown away by the fact that this movie even
exists. It is truly unprecedented in every sense of the word. I don't
remember seeing anything like it, since maybe "Nanook of the North", which
would be a stretch.  Unlike "Nanook", this movie is shot from the Inuit
perspective, the characters are not looked upon as anthropological
specimens. They are people living in a fragile existence, where any wrong
move could mean sure death.

The actors are astonishing, and it must have been so terribly cold up
there,
that you know this was a labor of love for the production team. The
scenery
is astonishing. Almost everyone who participated in this production was
full-blooded Inuit. It is a beautiful story based on an Inuit legend that
exists on many different levels and subplots, etc. All told on the frozen
tundra without ANY indication given about the timeframe, or even century,
in
which it was set.

I am just astonished at the painstaking attention to historical detail. I
have read many books on Inuit culture, and most everything I have read was
visualized in this movie, the social structure, the power of the
patriarch,
the constant looming of starvation, the role of the hunter/husband, the
insubordination of women (pre-arranged marriages), the obsession with
taboo
and curses, the fine art of building igloos and staying warm in -60 temps,
and yet, through all the hardships, there was so much happiness. They even
showed how the dogs were handled and treated, even down to the way they
would slicken their sledge rails by spitting small amounts of water on
them
until a layer of slick frozen ice formed, which makes the sledges slide
easier over the pack ice. The one thing that I thought of today was how
the
movie was TOTALLY absent of the white, European influence. Their knives
were
made from caribou horns; they had no metal knives or metal cookware, which
indicates that the movie was purposely based on a time before the Inuit's
first contact with white men.

It has a slow start, it's only fault. You will be a bit confused at first,
trying to understand the characters and what exactly is happening, but
then
it starts to really suck you in, you begin to love the protagonists, who
are
physically beautiful people, and then you will grow to hate the
antagonists,
who are mean and undesirable. Afterwards, you will realize that almost all
of these people, cast and crew, were full-blooded Inuit. You will then
want
to immediately see it again and demand a documentary on the making of this
film. You will want to know who these people are, what they do in their
normal lives, because most of these actors are making their big screen
debut. The end of the movie gives you a quick behind-the-scenes peek, but
it
serves as only a small appetizer to a bigger feast. Most importantly, your
respect for their pride and perseverance of their culture will increase
ten-fold

<|_=00=_|>

Perhaps the word that best describes this film is 'remarkable'.  It is
remarkable that it was
made at all, by an Inuit film company, remarkable that it was shot on
location in the High
Arctic in conditions of winter and summer, remarkable for its absolute
authenticity, for its
faithfulness both to its subject and to the Inuit culture, which
transcends
remarkable.

I have been to the High Artic more than once.  I have sat in the great
silence of the north on
the late summer tundra when it turns purple and the winds begin to blow
across the
ground and make the cotton grass sing.  I have heard the snow squeak at
thirty-five below
zero, as it did in this film; filming in such conditions must have been a
nightmare.  Metal
does strange things at those temperatures; cameras freeze and film
becomes
brittle and
breaks into pieces.  Actors get cold and those just standing around get
colder.  There are
no local power sources.  And everything must be flown in by transport
plane,
including
everything needed for the film crew to live and eat.  There are no hotels
and no restaurants,
no pub of an evening and the daylight hours for filiming in February or
March are very
short.  And in the summer, there are the flies.

The use of Inuktitut, which is still a living language, preserves that
essential atmosphere of
complete authenticity; the building of igloos, the darkness inside the
communal dwelling
with only seal oil lamps, the use of bone and driftwood and dried seaweed
for tools and
fuel are absolutely authentic.  And yet not once did I have the
impression
of watching a
documentary.  These were real people, living real lives, using real
tools,
wearing real
clothing, relying on the hunt, on luck and on each other for
survival.

The story is set a thousand years ago. It is a legend, but one easily
sees
that it was a real
story, passed down through time in the oral tradition. As it plays itself
out - in the slow
pace of Inuit time, not the frantic, high-pressure pace of our everyday
existence - the rules
of survival become clear, family alliances, taboos, social practices.
Where
survival in a
lethal environment is moment to moment, social rules broken have
immediate
consequences not only for individuals but for the whole community, which
usually
consisted of no more than a dozen or so related individuals.  Jealousy,
murder, theft could
not be tolerated.  The story must not, therefore, be judged by our
standards.  The only way
to see this film is with complete openness; not only must you let the
characters tell you the
events of their drama, you must let them show you why those events were
so
destructive
and why their way of dealing with it was right for them.

This is about survival in a way that someone living in a city with a
supermarket down the
street, medical care and central heating can probably never fully grasp.
It
is not for the
small-minded, not for anyone who cannot see past his own prejudices or
narrow moral
concepts and it is not for the squeamish.  Survival is messy; it involves
animal guts and
blood and pain, it involves you in your own continued existence in a way
that we can no
longer experience in all our plenty and our ease.  This film is also
about
fierce love,
blinding jealousy, hatred, courage and abiding patience - all things we
share in our
common humanity.  But the filmmakers did not present the characters as
'noble savages'.
Life was about food, about having it or not having it, about hunting it,
gathering it,
bringing it home, preparing it, preserving it, eating it and then doing
it
all over again.  All
the time.  The Inuit are in no way 'primitive' people, whatever that
truly
means; this is how
they survived.  We couldn't do it - and perhaps that makes us the
primitives.

I was fascinated.  It takes a short while to become used to the
unfamiliar,
the setting, the
names, the culture shock.  After that, it is compelling, and very, very
real.  The events
unfold tragically and inevitably in a distressingly familiar, a
frighteningly human way.  And
you care deeply about the characters, about what happens to them, about
whether they win
out - because it is made very clear that they have every chance of not
surviving for any
number of reasons.

And it is gorgeous.  The Artic is immensely photogenic but the
cinematography was up to
the challenge.  The sounds are a whole new experience for those who have
never been
there - the wind, the squeak and crunch of the snow, the dogs, the
singing,
the drumming,
the rattling of bones, the sounds of the ice.

This film is an experience; if the Arctic has ever intrigued you, this
must
not be missed.


<|_=00=_|>
It tells a legend from the two thousand years ago, about Atanarjuat,
who incurs the jealous enmity of Oki when he marries Atuat Oki kills
Atanarjuat's brother, but Atanarjuat escapes in a stunning sequence,
running naked across the ice floes, outstripping his pursuers until,
his feet torn and bloody, he is taken in by a friendly sorcerer 

The motion picture concedes nothing in the way of authenticity, with
sequences that show in realistic detail the training of sled-dogs,
cutting up animal carcasses or making an igloo But the convincing
ethnographic elements only serve to intensify the compelling story and
characters, which take on a truly epic dimension 

If the purpose of a national cinema is to represent the culture of the
peoples it belongs to, then "Atanarjuat" achieves this victoriously,
both the content of the film and the manner of its telling being wholly
specific to Canada, yet in the process achieving a universal appeal
<|_=00=_|>

The biggest surprise about the for Inuit-produced feature is that you do not
need to be politically correct to like it. It is, besides a few excusable
flaws, just a great film. 
It is extremely difficult to transfer stories from foreign cultures and oral
traditions to the screen - the whole visual language of the media is loaded
with subtle assumptions on how stories hold together and characters should
act; and these assumptions mostly belong to "Western"-modern culture. I
think this films great achievement is to avoid much of it. One example: It's
not just due to the villainous character of some persons that they behave
badly - the conflicts are not just conflicts between individuals. It's
rather the entire community that is ill, due to spirit possession.

The film is told in a somewhat different visual language, and this is what
makes it so convincing; this is also what makes it difficult to understand
at times (particularly in the beginning), but this is the price to pay - it
is rather surprising how comprehensible it gets later. The film as a whole
is really exciting and touching. It's pace is slow (and I like slow-paced
movies). It's solutions for particular scenes are striking - the appearance
of the bad spirit in the end is eerie, and the effect is just done by the
camera position. On the other hand, there is a sort a documentary immediacy
to everything, as if the camera just happened to be in the right spot when
the story unfolded (I liked the burping and spitting a lot).

There are, of course, points that don't work out well: The music is the
usual One-World-Tribal-kitsch-mud, with didgeridoos and Tuvan
throat-singing, as if every "primitive" culture was just the same (an idea
originating from 18th century Europe and strangely enough professed by many
"tribal" activists today). But, well, it's pretty discrete...
<|_=00=_|>

This is a fantastic film made by Inuit actors with a will.  Unbelievable
scenes with wonderful photography and chilling (no pun intended) moments. 
The tale may be a bit hard to get into as the entire perspective is given
from the Inuit point of view from the get-go.  Many Western audiences will
just have to go along with a great leap of faith.  There is much that
serious film critics can frown at as many of the scenes are a bit jerky in
transition but the heart of the story and they way it unfolds in Inuit
fashion is there for all to see and partake in.  I sat spellbound for the
entirety of the film and wanted more at its ending.  As an anthropologist, I
certainly appreciated the faithfulness of the representation of Inuit
culture in terms of the ethnographic works I've read and as a movie buff, I
applaud a wonderful job of Inuit actors and film makers sharing their world
with us.
<|_=00=_|>

The atmosphere, the culture, the legend brought to life, the score, the
people,  it was magical realism done right.  I read a lot of insulting
reader comments on this film, and I am so glad I went to see it anyway.
It
was long, but it was in no way slow.  I was riveted.

True, it did have a documentary feel... but I like documentaries... you
could think of it as a documentary on Inuit legends and story telling as
seen by the story tellers and their listeners.  The effect was to allow
the
audience to share the feelings of persons in an alien culture.

The score was eclectic, effectively changing from Inuit chants to Gyuto
Monk
chants, and then to eerie Bulgarian choral music, and back to Inuit.
Again,
the effect was to blur cultural boundaries and move the viewer away from
the
familiar and into the Inuit.

If there was one small fault, the subtitles were done in white, which did
not always show up against the landscape.  Yellow might have been a better
choice.

I suspect that if you are a fan of Jim Jarmusch's "Dead Man" (as I am)
then
you will be one of this film as well.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a beautiful example of passionate film-making, and mesmerizes
from the beginning. As an American, I was COMPLETELY ignorant of the
Inuit, and decided to rent this film mostly due to word of mouth. Stick
it out through the first half hour: getting past the difficult names
does take some effort. But it's awesomely rewarded by the next two
hours. The landscape will take your breath away, and the story will
hold you captive. Underneath the sheer artistry, closely examine the
fight against "evil-spirits:" it's even relevant to today's struggle
against the so-called powerful. What struck me particularly was how
naturally the characters understood the razor-thin balance between life
and starvation.

Simply put, I was breathless after seeing this film.

I could recommend this film on the cinematography alone. Adding in the
screen writing, acting, and the simply groundbreaking aspect of Inuit
film-making, you cannot put off seeing this film.
<|_=00=_|>

Pretty well guaranteed to be the only Inuit film you will ever see.  This
is
the story of two brothers and the trouble caused to them by a neighbouring
family/tribe and some kind of evil spirit.  The mystical elements are
fairly
low key and the story revolves around the always popular themes of
jealousy,
betrayal, rivalry and love.

If the plot is nothing new, the people it portrays are.  As the story
progresses almost documentary like details of hunting, igloo-building,
celebrations and other aspects of life in the frozen north of Canada are
provided.  Much of the movies' strength comes the sheer originality of the
culture.  When is the last time you saw an Inuit man running naked across
the ice being pursued by murderers in seal skins?

The cinematography is particularly striking, with the powerful light of the
Arctic giving the film its own character.  Vast landscapes of snow and ice
are contrasted with the confines of the igloo and tent.  Very impressive
for
a first time director.

The film would probably have been improved by some judicious editing.  As
you enter the third hour your desire to see another set of feet trudging
through the snow is a little limited.

Well crafted, full of fascinating details and certainly one of a
kind.
<|_=00=_|>
For the longest time, I sort of avoided Atanarjuat: The Fast Runner, as
I knew the movie was a long one, and about Inuit legend, something that
really didn't appeal to me. But when the title became available, I
decided to, as they say, throw caution into the wind, and watch this.
After finishing it, I'm really glad I had the experience, as it's a
pretty amazing movie, both in it's story and the sheer fact that it got
made. The story is about one man, Atanarjuat, and his daily life in the
cold harsh arctic. He seems to get along well with the other Inuit, but
soon, a power struggle erupts, and soon he has to rely on the powers
within himself and others to overcome great odds thrown in his way.
Again, the sheer fact that this was made, and the fact that they found
actors in the caliber of performance that Natar Ungalaaq Pulls off is
nothing short of remarkable. I don't know the full story of how this
was made, but I am sure these are first time actors here, and they just
ace it. Probably because the story hits so close to home. The lead
actor, Natar Ungalaaq is to be especially commended for taking so many
acting risks as he did (running naked on ice floes??) The only problem
I have with this, and this seems to be a common complaint with people
who watched this, is that it's quite hard for the first hour or so, to
figure out who's who. But other than that, yeah, try to see this one if
you can, you'll be glad you did.
<|_=00=_|>
I don't recall a movie with such a basic storyline grip me for the
entire movie. I live in a very cold climate and my appreciation for the
Inuit (and other northern aboriginals) has magnified. This movie did
not get the publicity it deserved not even in its native country. I do
not recommend reviewing the extras on the disc before watching it, it
does have a slow start as you try to understand the hierarchy of the
tribe, but when it goes you are on edge. What amazed me the most is
that these UN-POLISHED actors did such a remarkable job especially in
their emotional display. Worth buying to keep, such gens don't come
easy
