

Anyone who finds pornography disturbing will find "Ken Park" disturbing for
both the wrong and the right reasons. 

Its not pornography, but it will be confused with it easily since it
contains many of the same powerful ingredients: nudity and explicit sexual
behavior. What separates it from pornography is that "Ken Park"'s intent is
not to arouse but to provoke an emotional response by placing these same
powerful ingredients within a troublesome relational context. Unfortunately
that's also the problem with "Ken Park". 

An average viewer can't witness explicit sexual behavior and be unaffected
by it. We are all sexual (mostly) and (most of us) respond to visual
stimuli. "Ken Park" demands that the viewer suspend that response, look
beyond any arousal or outrage generated from the explicit sexuality and
focus on the relationships in the film (of which sex is merely the
expression). This asks of the average cinema viewer much more sexual
maturity than most films ever hope to ask. 

We may demand more pressure on the envelope as a viewing public, but the
cumulative effect of pushing the envelope is still in the realm of
speculative sociolology. Also, the extreme youthful appearance some of the
characters in the film will cause some companies to avoid distribution
risks. Free speech is one thing; defending accusations of spreading
pedophilia is quite another, and few companies can afford that kind of
publicity.

Personally, I think that the Clark and Lachman have made a great film; its a
moral and compassionate statement. The characters feel very real; in their
banality there is real pathos. In fact, the bland dialogue and delivery
explains why sex holds such a powerful lure for these kids. They have access
to rare delight and comfort with sex and, weirdly enough, a sense of peace.
It rings true. The tragedy plays out that they are all compromised by
clueless or pathological parent figures and the sexuality reflects a history
of thwarted attachment. The final scene with the three main characters
together struck me as very bittersweet since it plays more as a fantasy than
a likely scenario.

Art enjoys such a complex, troubled relationship with the American public.
We are such a rapidly changing audience with a huge appetite for challenge,
yet we don't necessarily absorb the changes we witness. As an audience, we
expect far more cultural sophistication than our capacity for balanced
interpretation. "Ken Park" is evidence of that. 
<|_=00=_|>

Much has been made of this film's depiction of sex. Depending on who you
ask, the scenes in question are "brutally honest" or simply "disgustingly
pornographic". Both descriptions boil down to the same thing either way: you
get to see erections. And ejaculate. A shiver goes through the audience,
people shift in their seats - we are not used to seeing this in a
non-pornographic movie, and it kind of throws us off-balance for a moment.
But then, as it must, the film goes on and we are left to wonder what it was
actually about. The reason I dislike this film, as I did both Kids and Bully
(two movies that appear tame by comparison), is simply because once you take
away the shocking aspects of it - the violence, the no-holds-barred sex
scenes - it really isn't about anything much. 

What Larry Clark is apparently trying to say here, is the same thing he
tried to say with his earlier films: being a teenager stinks. Life sucks.
It's the kind of wisdom that depressed adolescents spray-paint on walls. In
the universe of Larry Clark, there are only two kinds of people: those who
abuse, and those who are abused, and those two categories may (and probably
will) shift in time. This film's defenders invariably use the same argument
sooner or later: "This really happens". And it probably does, but it always
happens for a reason. In Kids and Bully, there were no motivations given at
all for the character's deplorable behaviour. Rather, they were walking,
talking symptoms of an ill-defined social illness, and the movies were none
too enlightening for it. Here, Clark (and his co-director Ed Lachmann), make
a self-conscious effort at motivating the characters, by including their
parents. They're the ones to blame, apparently, all of them negligent of
their kids at best and downright (sexually) abusive at worst. Aah, but you
see, they too are only looking for love and can't find it. They were
neglected or abused by their parents as well, and are now continuing the
cycle. Deep, isn't it? In stead of spray painting "Life Sucks", one could
argue, that Ken Park as a movie might add the phrase: "And it does for my
parents as well". 

But there's no larger context given to any of this. We get to see the
seediness of it (plenty of it), but there is no real insight offered into
these characters. Why do these kids (and their parents) do what they do? The
only answer the movie seems to be able to provide is: "because they don't
get enough true love". Put this exact same message into any made-for-TV
melodrama, and people will rightfully spit it out as unbelievably
simplistic. We never really get to know any of these characters, much less
care about them, because all of them are solely defined by the various ways
in which their lives are messed up. We don't remember individuals, we just
refer to: "That kid who ate out his girlfriend's mother. That guy who
masturbated while choking himself. That girl who was into bondage." In a
sense, it becomes a freak show. What they think (indeed, whether or not they
think), what they feel, hope, want... It all remains rather vague, hinted at
sometimes, but never fully explored, because the movie has ever more bizarre
(and exploitative) sexual behaviour to get on with. 

Two kinds of people will go see this movie: those who live in the same kind
of circumstances, and those who don't. Those who don't, can go home with a
more or less secure feeling, because everything they saw had been
marginalized, put squarely within this box labelled: "The Lives And Times Of
Freaky People We Don't Want Anything To Do With". And those who do... What
will they take out of this? Nothing resembling even the slightest bit of
hope, since no possibility of salvation seems to exist - the kids of Ken
Park appear destined to become just as abusive as their parents, and the
very last scene has two of them not-quite-saying they'd prefer to have been
aborted. I read one reviewer who was apparently trying to earn a spot on the
video cover with the quote: "This is a voice that just wants to be heard. Is
that too much to ask?" No, of course not, but the voice doesn't have a lot
to say, I'm afraid.

Movies like this, which contain what might be described as extreme amounts
of either sex or violence, seem to have a built-in defence mechanism,
whereby if you didn't like it, or object to it, you are automatically
labelled a prude, who was enormously shocked by it and therefore stopped
thinking. Or even worse: a censurer, who would take all "art" he doesn't
like, throw it on a big pile and burn it. I assure you I'm neither. In fact,
given the amount of discussion about this movie's sexual content, I'd
expected it to be even more explicit than it was. And I would never want to
ban anything just because I didn't like it. But I also don't believe in that
knee-jerk reaction some people have of automatically praising everything
that seems to shock others. This is the kind of film that tries to bully you
into thinking it's actually about something. Five years from now, after all
the fuss has died down, Ken Park will be remembered - if at all - as a storm
in a teacup, one of those movies that come along every so often, that
everyone has something to say about, but when looked on soberly, in
retrospect, really wasn't worth the hassle. Pretty much the same has
happened for Kids, after all.

<|_=00=_|>
Reading the local (Belgian) reviews for this movie, you'd seriously
think we're moving back in time. Critics seem to be bending over
backwards in their defense of sexually explicit imagery (okay, there's
a little bit of what could be considered hardcore footage here, but
nothing on the level of, say, BAISE-MOI for instance), once again
trying to establish the thin line between art and pornography,
forgetting (conveniently, perhaps ?) to really focus on the film
instead. Could it be that Harmony Korine's razor sharp screenplay,
largely based on the personal experiences of some of director Larry
Clark's friends and models, actually hit too close to home for a lot of
people to admit ?

Though the sleepy suburb in this movie might qualify as quintessential
Americana by definition of many, I can assure you that the stuff that
happens over there takes place all over the world. A lot of things both
the adolescents and their parents go through were instantly
recognizable to me personally, and I'm a 35 (going on 36) year old
employee from that minuscule ant heap of a country called Belgium.
How's that for universal appeal ? 

Too many adult viewers would still seem to prefer to deny the very
possibility that their teen-aged children harbor strong sexual desires,
let alone the likely consequence that they've already acted upon them !
It may strike some as slightly unsavory that now 59 year old Larry
Clark addresses such issues (especially given the level of unflinching
honesty and carnal frankness demonstrated here), as he did in both KIDS
and BULLY previously, but nearly no one else apparently dares to come
anywhere near this topic as of yet. Much more than simply courting
controversy, Clark (and co-helmer Lachman) have crafted a beautiful,
funny, touching, heartbreaking and absolutely haunting (those final
frames with the titular Ken Park will be etched in my mind for life)
work of, yes, art.

A lot of older viewers have remarked that the film is somehow unfairly
slanted in favor of the young characters (compelling actors the lot of
them), rendering the adults as grotesque caricatures. As far as I'm
concerned, only very inattentive viewers could ever come up with that
assessment. Tate's grandparents may initially come across as whiny and
pathetic yet there's a sweet little scene later on that shows their
genuine affection for one another. It is both telling and sad that
their grisly fate apparently elicits far less shocks from its audiences
than those scant minutes of groin action. A world gone mad, indeed.

Claude's macho dad is another case in point. His ultimate transgression
towards his son manages to be both disturbing and weirdly touching.
Each adult character (let's not forget Claude's mom, engagingly
portrayed by the underrated Amanda Plummer) gets at least one scene
where the admittedly stereotypical surface is scratched away and
subtleties like a single wounded glance can turn the whole story on its
head. I sincerely love this movie precisely for doing just that.
<|_=00=_|>

Living in Australia, there has been a lot of controversy about this movie,
leading to the government banning it (and even forbidding it to be shown at
film festivals, to intelligent, consenting adults), so I had some idea what
to expect when watching it.

The thing that surprised me was that there was almost none of the "explicit
sex" that the tabloids and conservative politicians would have us believe. 
Sure there are a couple of shots of erect penises, but nothing most adults
haven't seen themselves.

The part that didn't surprise me was that the story was so good.  I have
seen all of Larry Clark's films, and this is by far the best.  A depressing
tale of kids who are beginning to realise that their parents, their biggest
role models, are not perfect.  Far from it in some cases.

I urge everyone who is interested in pictures that may not be light
entertainment (and who is not offended by the occasional sexual organ) to
try and obtain a copy of this - especially Australians.  Don't let the
government dictate what you can and cannot see.
<|_=00=_|>

I have no problems with the explicit content in the film, go ahead and show
whatever you like, just do it for a reason other than to push the boundries.
There's nothing less interesting than watching a movie that is based on the
premise of Let's Make People Accept Something New. That's lame. It's cheap.
The movie is not interesting in the least. It never goes anywhere. It seems
as though Larry Clark's ideas for characters were just him thinking he
wanted to push the limits of sex on film, and so that's what the characters
are doing. They are in no way representative of a real person as this film
tries to convince us. This film would be boundry pushing if it was able to
contextualize the behaviour and not just put it on a screen. At the film
festival Clark answered a question about the inclusion of the character of
Ken Park, who seemed to exist for no real reason other than to begin the
film with a suicide. Clark responded by saying that he wanted to deal with
teenage suicide in the movie, which is fine, but just showing someone shoot
themselves in the head is not dealing with teenage suicide. It just exploits
violence. There doesn't seem to be any thought, beyond the voyeuristic
tendancies of the film makers, in this movie at all.
<|_=00=_|>
In a city in California, the skateboarders Shawn (James Bullard),
Claude (Stephen Jasso) and Tate (James Ransone) and Peeches (Tiffany
Limos) are friends of the suicidal teenager Ken Park (Adam Chubbuck).
Shawn has intercourse with his girlfriend and her mother. Claude has an
abusive, violent and alcoholic father and a neglectful and passive
pregnant mother. Tate is addicted in masturbation and hates his
grandparents that raise him due to the lack of privacy in his own room.
Peeches practices kinky sex and has a fanatical religious father that
misses his wife.

"Ken Park" is a sad story of dysfunctional families and their
teenagers. Most of the characters have sick and abnormal behaviors, but
fortunately it is just a sample in the universe of director Larry
Clark, who seems to like this theme, and does not correspond to the
majority of the society. This uncomfortable movie is indicated for very
specific audiences. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "Ken Park"
<|_=00=_|>
This is a film about relationships. My congratulations to the people
responsible for making this film because I've never seen anything
remotely like it. Not even "Kids". Shocking, gripping, honest, mature,
in-your-face. "Ken Park" is the first film made that takes us into the
world of American families to show us what really goes on. Life is not
all sweet and charming even though we might wish it to be. Movies don't
have to be sappy and happy. There don't have to be car chases and
killings, cops and good-guys and bad-guys. To those viewers raised on
soap operas and "Friends", turn away because you won't find this film
funny.

A shocker for sure...banned in most countries tells you a lot about it.
When I see that it makes me WANT to see it. The sex is totally
credible. You don't have actors grabbing for sheets or towels to cover
up their bodies--hey just like real life!! The scenes are tense, the
technical side perfect. You are going to be exposed to some troubled
people and they're not only kids. Adults are having a hell of a time
getting through life too. Some want a lot more than the 2 point 3 kids
and a white picket-fence house in the 'burbs. They long for illicit
sex. But look for more, you'll find it in this film. These are
characters disturbed by life and not able to function, exactly like
your friends and co-workers and neighbors. Lots of people stumble
through life and don't have a clue how to behave, how to be loving or
tender. Relationships with some people are constant conflicts which
they don't even understand themselves. This film shows us some. The sad
part is most people don't even realize how screwed up their lives are.

I'm not going to review the plot. You just have to see it yourself and
form your own views. Because films have to be seen---that's the art
form. I'd also like to congratulate and thank everyone involved in this
production for having the courage to give us something worthwhile. In
the 1930's there was a film movement called surrealism which was
designed to shock people. It did, but today we don't get much shock
value out of those old films. "Ken Park" isn't surreal, but it really
does shock...maybe it's "hyper-realism". So real you feel totally
nervous, never knowing what you are going to see next. All the
green-screen and digital video effects dished out by Hollywood can't
compare to the plain, good, unselfconscious acting and direction. Every
character gets my "Oscar" and the direction and camera-work are so
incredible they defy description. Whoever wrote the script knows how to
write. Kids aren't as verbal as a lot of movies make them out to be.
That lack of dialogue is what always distinguishes a great film for me.
I'm not a big fan of voice- over to make plot points, but this film is
so outstanding in so many ways the short bits of narration do not
diminish it. Great work all around but if you grew up on "Disney"
forget it.
<|_=00=_|>
It takes a special kind of genius to make group sex, incest, suicide,
and murder quite this dull. That genius is Larry Clark. Overwhelmed by
exactly the fragmentary voyeurism that is the essence of his
photography, Clark is seemingly unwilling or unable to extend any of
the sensational moments he films far enough into either the past or the
future to give them meaning; they remain instead iconic snapshots of
Clark's private sexual obsessions. This means that while Clark is
clearly very excited to pose his actors, he doesn't trouble at all with
their characters, and this fixation on a physical presence
(specifically of willing young men) that the viewer can't access
becomes a black hole at the movie's centre.

Many of the things that happen - a young man who kills his
grandparents, a boy who sleeps with his girlfriend's mother, a young
woman forced to marry her insanely religious father - could have been
the basis of a really interesting film if only they were followed
through: each one is a beginning or a conclusion, but none is a
story.The characters don't develop or change, the situations don't
evolve, what occurs is without causes or repercussions. What happens to
the girl who marries her father? How does the boy cope with cheating on
his girlfriend with her adolescence-obsessed mother, and why would a
grown woman do such a thing? Why does Tate kill his grandparents, and
what happens to him? I'd be curious to know, but Larry Clark, clearly,
is not: greedily, he wants only each story's most climactic moment,
again and again, without context, without structure - and finally,
unless you share just his taste in sexual imagery, without interest.
<|_=00=_|>
**********SPOILERS************ This is an acted documentary, as it puts
unrelated characters next to each other (Ken Park, Tate). If you watch
the movie from that angle, it becomes less over-the-top, as I really
felt it was trying to put EVERY possible teenage drama (suicide,
incest, sexual abuse, killing grandparents (!!)) into one movie. Apart
from that it was all a bit much I really liked the style of the movie,
the characters and the plots on their own. In any case a movie worth
watching.

A word on 'pornography': Larry Clark really has to be praised and
admired for his approach to show detailed sex scenes in 'normal'
movies. Why not show on the screen what we see in our lives every day
(i.e. genitals and sex, which mostly includes erect male genitals)?
Nobody screams about heads blown off and bodies ripped apart on screen,
and how often do you see that in real life? IMHO, this is true
perversion, and it should be standard to show whatever you like of the
human body in 'normal' movies, because our bodies are normal and sex is
normal too, believe it or not.
<|_=00=_|>
ken park or krap nek as they say is basically four episodes with each
episode dealing with an individual's family situation or lack thereof.
These episodes are inter-cut within each other.

Though Larry's Clark's movies deal with very explicit, or "realistic"
subject matter his presentation is overwrought. Characters are more
caricatures than 'real' people. The zealot father, the aging housewife,
the weird kid, the father with unrequited love. The scenes with these
characters were hard for me to take in. The actions and reactions they
take seemed so hackneyed to me. Could it be that Larry Clark is
developing a "larry clarkness"? a style? As one who is purported to be
a breaker of styles and conventions this movie was shot pretty
conventionally with lots of sex. I wasn't too impressed with this
effort. Some shots, as Larry Clark says, are there for realistic
purposes but I just found it to be sensationalistic and unnecessary.

The cinematography was great that is probably due to the Ed Lachman.
The blue and red tinge really added to their respective scenes.
Probably use of tungsten for outdoors and daylight inside.

Correct me if I'm wrong but I could swear Larry Clark is moving from
realism to symbolism. In one scene he has the family gather together on
the front steps. Your good Ole' American suburban family, full of
deceit and infidelity but putting up a great face none the less. It
seemed like a tableau.
