

I'm rather pleasantly surprised after seeing Ghost Ship…I expected it to be
a lot sillier, more dumb and inferior than it actually is. Still a long way
from being a good horror film but a step in the right direction, to say the
least. Cast and crew paid attention to building up a horrifying atmosphere
instead of attacking the audience with lame and violent killing scenes.
That's an effort that gets my appreciation. The vicious opening sequence is
professional horror… a scene that grabs you by the throat and demands your
complete attention and curiosity for the rest of the movie. The high quality
level is held up a little while longer but unfortunately it loses his grip
during the second half. For as long as the mysterious, deserted ship is
portrayed as a complete riddle, the film is fascinating, interesting and
beautifully shot. As soon as a few plot-aspects are clarified, Ghost Ship
turns into a mediocre and predictable thriller…I'm convinced that, with a
slightly more intelligent script, this could have become one of the better
horror-thrillers since the new Millennium. Now, it's only regarded as a
reasonable and decent effort that lacks a bit of talent. Nonetheless, the
settings and decors make it worth watching. The graphic decorations aren't
overused, so it remains a beautiful experience to observe at least once.
Gabriel Byrne is acting far below his normal standards and yet he's still
great! All the other cast-members are pretty uninspired and forgettable. I'd
describe Ghost Ship as a nice waste of time. If you have the opportunity, I
advise you to search for an 80's horror title called `Death Ship'…a terrific
piece of trash of which Ghost Ship borrowed a lot of ideas.

<|_=00=_|>
The savage team of a tug is ready to rest after the transportation of a
platform. When they are celebrating in a bar, the plane pilot Jack
Ferriman (Desmond Harrington) offers them the chance of rescuing a
passenger vessel vanished in the oceans in 1962. Captain Sean Murphy
(Gabriel Byrne), Maureen Epps (Julianna Margulies) and the rest of the
crew, tempted by the possibility of a great reward, decides to risk one
more rescue operation before going home. Their greed leads them, of
course, to a ghost ship, where they are spooked and threatened by
ghosts. One of them, a little girl, shows Epps what happened to the
passengers and crew during the voyage in 1962. A horrible unraveled
secret will haunt the rest of the crew. 

Ghost stories usually take place in a haunted house. This one is in a
passenger ship. This movie is not in the same level of 'The Others',
'The Shining' or 'The Sixth Sense', but is also good film. The
screenplay play has some clichés and is predictable, but the cast,
direction and special effects work well. Probably, the fans of romances
will not like it, but those who like a ghost story will appreciate this
film. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Navio Fantasma" ("Ghost Ship")

Note: On 02 June 2017, I saw this film again.
<|_=00=_|>
The third movie produced by the production company "Dark Castle" and
managed by Joel Silver and Robert Zemeckis, "Ghost Ship" (2002) marks a
step forward and constitutes a neat improvement in comparison with the
two previous movies, "the House on the Haunted Hill" (1999) and "13
Ghosts" (2001). This can be checked at the level of a meticulous making
and quite outstanding special effects. It is all the more positive as
with "Ghost Ship", we deal with a B movie. Another good point: the
change of scenery. It is a judicious choice to have replaced the
threadbare topic of the haunted house by the haunted ship.

If the screenplay doesn't avoid all the Hollywood conventions, neither
all the clichés of the horror film, the director Steve Beck makes up
for it by shrouding his movie an atmosphere of mystery as soon as the
crew discovers the ship. He's also imposing (slowly but surely) a
progressive rise of the tension which reaches its climax in the end.
The result: we come in for a few real moments of fright and Beck, in
the long run puts the spectator in his pocket.

As far as the cast is concerned, there are two surprises. First:
Julianna Margulies who for once decided to give up scalpels in the "ER"
series and especially Gabriel Byrne. An ambitious actor who isn't
reluctant to sometimes act in a horror movie which is potboiler for him
like "End of Days" (1999) or "Stigmata" (1999).

It is a shame that the end isn't really satisfying and suits badly to
the whole. But no matter, "Ghost Ship" remains a nice little horror
movie whose main function is to make shiver. For this, it reaches its
goal. One last thing, if the movies that come out of the "Dark Castle"
production company keep on gaining in quality, maybe will they create a
masterpiece one day...

NB:it borrows a bit from "shining".
<|_=00=_|>

Now this I would call exactly an average film. For me, it landed precisely
at the very center of imdb's 10 point scale, right at 5.5. This means that I
found exactly as much to like as I did to dislike. There is a bit of
inspiration here, but just as much that's stolen from other better horror
movies. If it had opted for tone and real fear instead of cheap shocks, the
movie could have been great. The story is good enough that it could have
been great if handled well. But we do live in these times, and, although
there are scholars of the modern era who would try to have us believe that
the current generation consists of a bunch of kids who get everything
instantly and process it on a billion levels at once, the truth is indeed
the exact opposite. No, there is no subtlety here. It would go over your
average teenager's head in a heartbeat. Nope, better play it safe and
provide us with a gruesome scene up front where a couple of dozen people are
sliced in half by a loose cable during a ball. Gore is not scary. I did
however produce a dry heave during this sequence, which is more than I can
say for any other gore scene that I've viewed lately. As the gore
accumulates, I began to appreciate the artistry that was put into the
enormous number of deaths. These are some sickeningly creative people, let
me tell you. Unfortunately, the director (or screenwriters or whoever) ruins
any real potential by revealing every detail about what happened on the
titular boat in a fast-motion sequence accompanied by techno music! It's the
kind of moment where you just slap your head for the lack of talent
involved. And then there was more stuff I liked. For example, the art
direction is very impressive. The revelation of one character's identity,
while not particularly surprising, is at least somewhat new. I give this
film a 5/10, rounding down because I felt the final moment was a bit
groan-inducing. 
<|_=00=_|>
Sean Murphy and his crew are the top salvage experts in the land (well,
sea). They have just completed one big job when a pilot, Jack Ferriman,
comes tot them with a ship that he has spotted in remote, international
waters. It hasn't responded to distress signals and it seems fair game
if Murphy will give Jack a cut and let him come along. Murphy accepts
and they set off. The fact that the ship doesn't show up on radar
doesn't ring any alarm bells with the crew, who board the ship to find
a deserted vessel ripe for the pickings. However she has sustained
damage and has days before she will sink forever. Diver Maureen spotted
a young girl on board is only the first of several strange things to
occur and soon the crew find themselves in deeper than they planned.

Opening with a scene so brutal and gory (made all the worse for me
knowing it was coming) that I literally couldn't watch, this film had
me hooked at the same time as having me worried that this would just be
a big gore fest with nothing else to it. Indeed this is what I had
heard, having only read negative reviews for this film. However for the
majority it avoids this by being spooky, atmospheric and engaging. The
plot isn't anything amazing but it does the job. Many reviewers have
said it turns rubbish in the final thirty minutes but to me it was
still effective even if it did resort to genre by being gorier and more
obvious. It will never win any awards for originality or anything else
but it is an effective genre movie that avoids the b-movie schlock of
stuff like Deep Rising.

Because it is mostly about atmosphere, the cast are only so-so as they
are given little to do. Byrne is a good presence but is slumming it so
obviously that he should probably have had a slot in his character's
back with a studio exec feeding it every few minutes of screen time.
Margulies is better as she has more to do and is a more interesting
character; she can work at this level and does. Eldard has some
terrible lines but does OK with Urban. Washington is better than this
but is quite interesting and has a good screen presence. Harrington
plays it so obviously that it is hard not to see him coming, which was
a bit of a shame. The direction is good and the design/feel of the film
is probably better than the material deserves – nicely building up
tension and atmosphere as it goes.

Overall then a good genre movie. Better than b-movie stuff, it uses the
gore sparingly for the most part and builds up to things well. In the
end it may go just where you expect it to and not do anything that
special but I found it quite enjoyable for what it was and, in the
words of the advert, does exactly what it says on the tin.
<|_=00=_|>

Ghost Ship is by no means the worst horror i have ever seen in fact some
parts of this film are quite entertaining, the problem seems to be some of
the poor digital computer special affect that make this film look like a bit
of a B Movie.
Some of the affects are good expecially the opening scene where we see the
crewe of the ship killed by a steel rope.The acting is ok and the characters
are good so that when they are picked off one by one ,you
care.
There are a lot of question left unanswered though and in stages the scenes
apear to have been put in any old order .
If you like Horror and dont want a film you have to think about too much
then i sugest you give this a go.
6 out of 10. 
<|_=00=_|>
OK ghost story. The movie starts off with a VERY gruesome bloody
opening with a whole ship full of people being killed in 1962. It then
cuts to present day (well--2002) where a salvage crew is led to a
deserted vessel (the same one from the beginning) and find there's
something inside that wants them. Dead bodies are discovered, doors
open and close (and lock) by themselves and a creepy girl ghost watches
over all of it.

So-so. The movie LOOKS good (the deserted vessel is impressive) but the
story is slow and the characters are never fully realized. Also top
billed Gabriel Byrne (giving a terrible performance) is hardly in the
movie. On the plus side Julianna Margulies is good and a strong female
character (unusual in any horror movie) and Alix Dimitriades and Ron
Eldard are good as members of the crew. Desmond Harrington also has a
few good moments. But the slow pace and a predictable and stupid ending
sinks this (sorry). I can only give this a 5.
<|_=00=_|>

This films best bits are in the special effects and those moments when you
jump out of your seat.
The opening sequence lulls you into a false sense of calm, from then on its
guess the scenario.  The viewer is always two steps ahead of the actors but,
for the most, grips you nevertheless. The special effects are especially
good and the acting, although no top-notch stars are evident, is not bad.
The end is a real twist.
Better to watch this than many others I could mention, certainly worth the
video rental and a pizza.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoiler Alert!
I love Dark Castle entertainment, I didn't love 13 Ghosts, but I did
really
enjoy House on Haunted Hill. I loved the original HoHH, and I thought the
'remake' was inventive and had some unique parts to it. It wasn't
brilliant,
but the special effects were beautiful and the sets were magnificent.

As a technical theatre student studying everything from stage management
to
lighting design these films are wonderful exercise in how to create
atmosphere through lighting, sound & setting.

Okay so the film wasn't Oscar worthy, particularly well written or
particularly well acted, but it did create an atmosphere it did give us a
sense of setting and era... and to top it all off, everything was lush in
detail.

The special effects team had done their homework. During the opening
scene
where they're all cut up by the high-tension cable, not only was it gory
and
creepy, but it was accurate to a degree. The lighting effects with the
light
reflecting off the water, the dripping sounds and the sound track were
all
amazing.

I would watch this film again, but only the opening and the middle part
where Katie takes us on a journey through what happened. I enjoyed the
film,
and that's all films are really about - enjoyment. The background history
here was errie and disturbing, there was a definite sense of panic here;
made me think about how vulnerable you are travelling on board of a ship,
your fate put completely in the hands of total strangers.

A lot more could have been made of the film though. More exploration of
the
ship, discovery of more bodies or something to alert people that
something
wasn't quite right about this ship. More background story about the gold!
The dead captain told the live captain that they salvaged the gold from a
sinking ship, more background was needed.

After watching the film I was left with a feeling of wanting to know
'why'
it happened, rather than *what* was going to happen next.

Kudos to the special effects team, possibly the first time I've felt sick
watching a film. You knew what was going to happen from the camera shots
of
the tension cable, but I wasn't quite expecting that! Also kudos to the
actors who played the ill-fated passengers, especially to the little girl
and the dead captain!

I'd give this film at least 5.5 out of ten, it did what it set out to
do --
entertain me and that's good enough for me :)

<|_=00=_|>

I would have to recommend this flick.  Great idea, terrible script,
fantastic special effects/art direction/& editing, wasted cast, & one truly
excellent final scene:  such a dichotomy!  What they really should have done
was chop it down to about an hour (excluding virtually every line uttered by
the embarassing Latino stereotype called Santos for starters) and present it
as one of those "Outer Limits" episodes on cable.  It would then be a thrill
ride from start to finish.  Otherwise, it drags where it should accelerate. 
Rent it on DVD and fast forward thru the static parts.
