
Rush Hour 2 is one of those rare sequels that turn out to be either
just as just as much if not equally more hilarious than the first. This
summer, I had several opportunities to see this film and of course took
those chances because I just couldn't stop laughing at this film, no
matter how I knew what would happen in the next scene. It has great
humor and great chemistry that we haven't seen between two actors since
Mel Gibson and Danny Glover.

Carter and Lee are back and starting off where the first Rush Hour left
off and that's in China. Carter is expecting a dream vacation full of
"mushoo's" a.k.a girls! Lee is standing in the way of that though
taking on his old cases, including finding out about a counterfeit
scam, and finding out who killed his father. He fools Carter several
times, but together eventually team back to discover that you just
"follow the rich white man" back to America and end up working
undercover with the sexy Isabella Molina. But things get deeper as Lee
finds out that the counterfeit scam and his father's killer might to be
connected.

Rush Hour 2 is one of the funniest movies I have seen, not to mention
one of the best movies of the year! I was extremely happy to see this
movie and I cannot wait until the DVD! Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan are
just amazing and I cannot wait until the third Rush Hour release, I
just know it'll be a great one! 

9/10
<|_=00=_|>
I've seen this film a few times now and it always makes me laugh. It's
a great blend of action and comedy, and Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker
seem to work really well together because they act total opposites and
play really well off each other.

The plot's fairly basic with the standard sort of Hong Kong police
story about drugs and revenge, but the two fish out of water characters
(Chan in LA and Tucker in HK) just make it really enjoyable. The fight
scenes are pretty cool (I really liked the one with the locker doors in
the casino) and Tucker's jokes with that high pitched voice are just
really funny.

It's just a really fun action-comedy movie that is really enjoyable.
Can't ask for more than that.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw the first Rush Hour and didn't know what to expect when i watched it
at a friend's house. I watched it and thought it was one of the funniest
movies I have ever seen. I was glad that it was something fresh and new as
the Lethal Weapon movies (Which I also thought were excellent!!!!!!!) had
finished and i thought that it was even better than them. Then when i heard
that they were making Rush Hour 2 I couldn't wait until it came out, however
i was worried that it might not be as good as the first as very few sequels
are these days, but i was not disappointed in the slightest. I laughed all
the way through this movie and even more than the first one. Jackie Chan and
Chris Tucker are perfect for the roles and both are excellent throughout the
movie which has even more humor than Rush Hour 1. Rush Hour 1 is still
excellent but i think Rush Hour 2 has to be funnier having watched them both
hundreds of times. I cannot wait until Rush hour 3 comes
out!

I highly recommend this movie and Rush Hour 1 to all action/comedy fans out
there!
<|_=00=_|>
Maybe being Jackie Chan with one of the best Asian celebrities who
really make it big in Hollywood and really brought honours for us here
in Asia, I knew I was in for a great time when I first watched this
movie. Also when I was growing up, his movies were those which are at
times on the television here.

It was like four or five years back I saw this on an projector at the
school hall of my alma mater, as part of the school's post-exam
activities. Really, I almost laughed myself silly as I was watching
with my other peers then. Like many of us, we grew up watching Jackie's
trademark kungfu moves and his amazing stunts which often made us all
in awe on the movie screen.

Jackie and Chris Tucker's chemistry just clicked with each other. And
watching Zhang Ziyi playing a bad girl, it was like - whoa! Watching
some of the movie scenes being played out in Hong Kong somehow brought
back some memories for this person who grew up watching some of those
Hong Kong TV dramas (with subtitles and Mandarin dubbing) on the
television here. Looking at some of those scenes, at times I wondered
how really the western world will see Hong Kong. But given many knew
who is Jackie (he is from Hong Kong himself actually), I knew it's a
relief.

The two guys are just real funny between each other. But when it's time
for those kungfu moves and the stunts, it always excite me. It's always
like that.

Definitely really funny. Prepare to laugh in stitches.
<|_=00=_|>
A lot of comedy in this movie, which makes this movie so entertaining,
from the beginning to the end. Lots of action in such different places,
like Hong Kong, Los Angeles and Las Vegas. It is very interesting to
follow the storyline through those different cities. The LA's
skyscrapers are always spectacular in any movie. Jackie Chan is well as
usual and Chris Tucker seems to be inspired, except when he is talking
in Chinese language!

Chris Tucker is a great American actor and we like him as an example of
a good patriotic American.

Inspector Lee and Carter are an awesome duo, they seem to be the only
thing in this movie, but the kick in Carter's face from Hu Li makes
clear it is not so. Zhang Ziyi is a perfect complement to this couple.
John Lone is very credible in his role. And American actress Rosalyn
Sanchez is a stunning surprise.
<|_=00=_|>

James Carter comes to Hong Kong for a holiday with Inspector Lee.  However
at the same time a bomber is striking key American targets.  Carter and Lee
get drawn into an investigation into a counterfeiting ring run by Ricky Tan
and his new partner Hu Li.  Before long their up to their necks in trouble
again.

The story doesn't matter because basically it's this - Carter talks funny to
somebody while Lee is distracted, it then all kicks off and Lee does lots of
fancy moves, it then moves to a different location and the pattern repeats
again.  Essentially that's it - but it doesn't matter, it worked the first
time and it works again here.  The story is better than the first film's,
although the twists don't work as well as they think they
do.

The main improvement since the first movie is that there's more fighting
action.  In RH Jackie Chan's fighting was toned down to make room for
Tucker's comedy.  In RH2 Chan is allowed to have much more action and the
addition of Zhang Ziyi ups the ante all the more.  Tucker still gets to do
his big-mouthed comedy and have plenty of banter between him and Chan, be
sexual with girls and fight.  It's not breaking new ground but it's quite
fun.

Chan and Tucker are very good, mainly because they're having fun and
comfortable with each other.  Lone adds class and menace as Ricky Tan and
Sanchez adds spice as the beautiful Isabella.  The best addition is Zhang
Ziyi - she doesn't have any character but she can certainly move!  The cast
also has very funny cameos from Don Cheadle and Jeremy Piven - adding laughs
and class.

The only problem with the film is that it is so very formulaic and is just a
simple crowd pleaser.  Some of the banter is a few steps off racism (`I'll
kick you back to Africa') and much of Tucker's ogling is borderline sexism. 
However it's all so very polished that you don't notice.

Overall it's a very entertaining blockbuster.  The only problem is this -
the funniest bits are the outtakes, shouldn't it have been in the
film?!
<|_=00=_|>

`Rush Hour 2' is a highly enjoyable follow-up to the original 1998 box
office smash.  Like the previous film, this first of what will undoubtedly
be a long line of lucrative sequels combines sardonic humor with eye-popping
martial arts action sequences to entertaining effect.  Chris Tucker and
Jackie Chan repeat their roles as unlikely cop buddies, starting off the
film in Chan's home territory, Hong Kong, and finishing up in Tucker's, the
good ole US of A. 

Chan, with his sheepish deadpan delivery, makes a perfect straight man for
Tucker's fast-talking bad brotha wiseacre, whose mouth engages in more
heavy-duty action than Chan's karate-chopping hands and feet.  Much of the
humor is generated by Tucker's ability to seem totally unflustered by any
peril that happens to come his way, managing to sass talk his way out of one
dangerous predicament after another.  Moreover, Chan's ability to create
humor out of perfectly choreographed stunt sequences puts him right up there
with some of the silent comedy greats like Chaplin and Keaton.  The
split-second perfection of these scenes, combined with the balletic grace
with which they are executed, makes him one of the truly unique talents
working in movies today.   Luckily, in his move to mainstream American
filmmaking, Chan has been able to find behind-the-scenes talent good enough
to match his own.  The screenplay by Jeff Nathanson, though no world-beater
when it comes to originality or depth, does posses a playful spirit that
works well in the context of the genre.  Likewise, director Brett Ratner
keeps the action percolating along at a lively, often dizzying
clip.

As with most Chan films, however, `Rush Hour 2' seems to go on for about a
half hour too long – even though its running time barely clocks in at a very
short 90 minutes.  Perhaps this type of material really can't be sustained
much beyond an hour before the repetitiousness of it begins to take its
toll.  However, that is certainly a minor quibble about a film that, for the
most part, provides plenty of laughs, some kick-ass performances and action
sequences that, as per usual for a Chan film, will, quite literally, make
your jaw drop.  .

<|_=00=_|>
Action-comedy legend Jackie Chan teams up with the amusing Chris Tucker
in this off-beat sequel to the 1998 hit, Rush Hour. Both actors create
likable characters with slightly more depth to them than the average
comedic archetypes. Tucker is a loudmouthed clown from the LAPD, and
Chan is a quiet, methodical Chief Inspector from Hong Kong. Not just
racial stereotypes, their characters are developed just enough to make
you want more from them - particularly Chan's.

The plot begins to develop in earnest about 1/3rd of the way through
the film and takes a few predictable twists and turns until reaching a
climactic conclusion. John Lone plays Chan's father's former police
partner and the leader of the Triads - a huge Hong Kong gang. He plays
his character like a Chinese Chris Walken and, along with Ziyi Zhang,
his beautiful but psychotic partner, provides a nice dramatic balance
to the lunatic Tucker and straight-man Chan. The story evolves to
expose a counterfeiting plot in which the Triad, the US Secret Service,
and others are all somehow involved.

Chan and Tucker have great chemistry and, with a good supporting cast,
they make this sequel work. Rush Hour 2 is a fun, lightweight action
film suitable for teens on up.
<|_=00=_|>

Some might say, hearing about Rush Hour 2: ‘Not another sequel! / Not
another cop buddy film!' and so on. But with these kinds of films, it is not
so much originality at all. It is about being entertained. I mean going to
this film and wanting to see something original is like going to see The
Bridges of Madison County and rooting for violence, massive shootings,
flying body parts and intense profanity. Either way: THAT WILL NOT
HAPPEN

Almost all things being equal, there were only two things that could screw
this one up (actually three). The script or the actors. The third thing I
was talking about is actually something that was in the original Rush Hour
as well. Chris Rock. I have seen a handful of films with him now and find
him a bit annoying at times. but this time I did not feel like that at all.
Either I have become immune to his overdone behaviour all the time, it has
become less worse or I'm simply getting to the point in my life where I'm
accepting the fact that there are people like that in life. Either way, I
thought he was better than in for instance Money Talks (and maybe even the
first Rush Hour). Anyway the other two things that could have seriously
screwed up this film were the script and the actors, but I must say that
although the film was not too original, the story held up very well and so
did the actors. The reason for that is probably that the tone of the Rush
Hour films has (so far) been more comedic. It is not supposed to be serious,
it is supposed to be more like Die Hard, with a couple of big explosions, a
lot of fighting (less shooting than in Die Hard here) and jokes. Well as in
the first one the jokes were delivered well, from beginning to end,
including the bloopers. As far as the film went, I must say I thought the
ending was great and I also enjoyed the last two bloopers very much. This
film proves that, if the jokes and the acting are good enough they even can
make up for small losses in story quality and other bad things, like action
film clichés. It is kind of funny that there are films in which clichés can
be really disturbing and ruin almost your whole film experience. In others
however (like in this one) clichés are present, though they not ruin your
experience of the matter at all. I guess it is all in the approach of the
material and the cast and crew involved. 

Jackie Chan (as Inspector Lee) did was he is supposed to do in this film, be
funny and do a lot of fighting. There were a few difficult stunts here but
not one that really made my jaw drop to the floor. I  would never say this
was due to the ageing of Chan like others do, because I do not know whether
that is true and second of all, I did not mind that there were a few less
‘jaw dropping stunts'. It did in no way hurt the film.

To finish it all of, I have to give credit to Roselyn Sanchez, who did a
great job on this film. I could just not figure out if she was supposed to
be one of the ‘good guys', or the ‘bad guys'. It had nothing to do (at all)
with the fact that she is very pretty. By the way, was that really a Snoopy
tattoo??? I could really not tell and it wasn't because I was looking
elsewhere! No, it was just, that the cinematographer did not zoom in enough.
I wish he could have brought things to my attention better! Anyway, I really
meant what I said about Roselyn Sanchez, both that she could act (and
fight!) well and that she indeed looks very pretty. Talking about pretty
(yes, AGAIN), where the hell do those filmmakers get all those pretty women?
I mean if I would have been in the same situation as Carter (Chris Tucker)
in the film, when he was in the massage parlour, I would have probably done
the same thing. My eyes would have popped out (and probably my jaw would
have dropped and my tongue would have fallen to the floor as well). DAMN.
Really good of (actresses?????) people. 

To get back to the film, I would really appreciate it, if the makers could
bring back Roselyn Sanchez for Rush Hour 3 if they'll ever consider making
another instalment. Although I don't think they have to consider, Rush Hour
3 will definitely be happening. So, Jackie and Chris: BRING IT ON FOR RUSH
HOUR 3!

8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
If you liked the loud mouthed trash talking black guy and the smashing
stunt performing martial arts Chinese guy in the first film, then this
sequel's good too. Detective James Carter and Chief Inspector Lee
(Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan) return for a second rush, Rush Hour 2. A
deadly gang are destroying buildings with bombs, and Carter and Lee
(originally on vacation) are assigned to find the gang. Lee has the
past haunting him during the process, because the gang leader, Ricky
Tan (John Lone) killed his Dad. Carter is funny at being loud talking,
and Lee is good at all his stunts. Also starring Zhang Ziyi as Hu Li,
Roselyn Sanchez as Isabella Molina and Harris Yulin as Agent Sterling.
Jackie Chan was number 41 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars. Good!
