

I for one really like this movie for some reasons I'll go into late but I
want to touch on why I think people don't like it. First off, there are
people out there who just like to hate Tom Cruise. I don't understand it
really. Second, Cameron Crowe I think successfully p***es off two groups
of
movie-goers with this film. The casual, relaxed, "not looking to think too
hard" group of movie-goers are left confused when the plot takes a
complete
180 at the end of the movie. And the deep, philosophical, mystery-fans are
devastated when Crowe has one of his characters completely explain the
mystery.

This is a good movie. And Tom Cruise does a very good job in it. I think
it's probably his best performance from what I've seen all though I
haven't
seen all of his movies, or even a majority of them probably. The
supporting
cast is good as well. Penelope Cruz gives a solid performance and Jason
Lee
was enjoyable.

I like the story, and I think that's what Vanilla Sky is more than
anything.
It's a mystery, an adventure, and a romantic comedy, but it's mostly just
a
good story. And it has a lot of philosophical undertones to it, and many
similar ideas and stories like this occur in historical philosophy. David
Aames (Cruise) is the man that had everything he wanted, more or less lost
it, was given a second chance with a catch to regain it all back, and in
the
end facing his demons and the full scope of what is happening, chooses
reality, simplicity, and normality to see if he can finally find the one
thing he could never get a grip on: happiness.

Many people were disappointed that Crowe laid out the complete mystery at
the end. I think it's necessary. The audience then knows beyond a shadow
of
a doubt that David is aware of his circumstances and it makes the choice
at
the end all the more powerful.

And the music in the movie is great. It's probably what makes the movie as
enjoyable as it is. Particularly, "Njosnavelin" by Sigur Ros, which is an
amazing song.

All in all, I'd give it 3 out 4 stars. It's a movie with some substance
for
those who like to think things through, and a great story for those
looking
to relax. That "moderate" approach is probably why people dislike it so
much
because it isn't a full blown mystery, or a full blown love story. It
mixes
and matches different elements and genres. 
<|_=00=_|>
I had heard some not too good things about this movie and had probably
seen the low score here at IMDb and that's why I had avoided it. Today
they showed Vanilla Sky on TV and as I had nothing better to do... and
as it turned out, I would have had a hard time finding anything better
to do. Vanilla Sky is a frightening, sad and touching movie, actually
one of the best I've seen in a while. I was surprised by how I was
affected watching it. It's hard to explain, but during the movie your
feelings towards the characters and your perception of what is going on
changes and it's quite an emotional journey. Vanilla Sky really touched
me in a way that is very rare for a movie, or any media for that
matter.

I really recommend everyone to watch this movie. Regardless of what you
have heard about it.
<|_=00=_|>
Vanilla Sky is a 2001 remake of the great 1997 movie, Abre Los Ojos
(Open Your Eyes). And in my opinion, a much more human and emotional
version. Tom Cruise plays David Aames, a selfish egomaniac who takes
other people's emotions for granted, and thinks only of himself. Jason
Lee plays Brian Shelby, David's best, and in many ways, only friend.
Penelope Cruz plays Sofia Serrano, Brian's girlfriend whom accompanies
him to David's birthday party. Cameron Diaz plays Julie Gianni, David's
occasional bed buddy. Kurt Russell plays Dr. Curtis McCabe, a
psychologist interviewing David. All of their interactions, and the
consequences of them, make Vanilla Sky one of the most emotional, and
complex thrillers ever made. I won't explain anymore of the plot,
because it's far more compelling, the less you know. Ignore all people
that call this film too confusing to follow. If you pay attention, you
won't be confused. The film is very complex, but not confusing. And in
my opinion, one of the best movies ever made.
<|_=00=_|>

How strange the human mind is; this center of activity wherein perceptions
of reality are formed and stored, and in which one's view of the world
hinges on the finely tuned functioning of the brain, this most delicate
and
intricate processor of all things sensory.  And how much do we really know
of it's inner-workings, of it's depth or capacity?  What is it in the mind
that allows us to discern between reality and a dream?  Or can we?
Perhaps
our sense of reality is no more than an impression of what we actually
see,
like looking at a painting by Monet, in which the vanilla sky of his
vision
becomes our reality.  It's a concept visited by filmmaker Cameron Crowe in
his highly imaginative and consciousness-altering film, `Vanilla Sky,'
starring Tom Cruise and Penelope Cruz.  At the age of thirty-three, David
Aames (Cruise) inherits a publishing empire left to him by his father.
His
fifty-one percent controlling interest, however, has made him something of
a
marked man, as there are seven members of his board of directors, and each
deems himself more worthy than the young Mr. Aames of the lion's share of
the company.  And fueling the fires of discontent is their perception that
David lacks the focus the job requires.

Admittedly, David likes to play; still, he's in control of the business
and
does what he sees fit, whether the board (he refers to them as the `Seven
Dwarfs') likes it or not, and no one has ever had the courage to challenge
him directly.  But during a lavish birthday party in his honor, one of the
corporate lawyers, Thomas Tipp (Timothy Spall) warns David that the seven
are up to something behind his back.  At the time, however, it's the last
thing on David's mind; he's been having a casual affair with a friend,
Julie
Gianni (Cameron Diaz), but even that moves to the back burner when he
meets
a woman at his party that he can't get out of his mind.  Her name is Sofia
(Penelope Cruz), and after knowing her for only one night, she becomes a
pivotal part of his life-- which is about to be turned upside down, as on
the morning after his party he makes a decision that will change his life
forever.  And he is about to learn that sometimes, there is simply no
going
back.

Director Cameron Crowe has crafted and delivered much more than just
another film with this one; far more than a movie, `Vanilla Sky' is a
vision
realized.  Beginning with the first images that appear on screen, he
presents a visually stunning experience that is both viscerally and
cerebrally affecting.  It's a mind-twisting mystery that will swallow you
up
and sweep you away; emotionally, it's a rush-- and it may leave you
exhausted, because it requires some effort to stay with it.  But it's
worth
it.  Think `Memento' with a driving rock n' roll soundtrack and a vibrant
assault of colors proffered by the stroke of an impressionist's brush.
There's darkness and light, and sounds that pound and drive until you can
feel the blood rushing through your veins and throbbing in your brain.
And
all played out on a landscape of virtual reality swirling beneath that
ever
expanding vanilla sky.  Simply put, this one's a real trip; it's
exciting--
and it's a mind bender.

As to the performances here, those who can't get past the mind-set of Tom
Cruise as Maverick in `Top Gun,' or his Ethan Hunt in `Mission
Impossible,'
or those who perceive him only as a `movie star' rather than an actor, are
going to have to think again in light of his work here.  Because as David
Aames, Cruise gives the best performance of his career, one that should
check any doubts as to his ability as an actor at the door.  He's made
some
interesting career choices the past few years, with films like `Magnolia'
and `Eyes Wide Shut' merely warm-ups for the very real and complex
character
he creates here.  And give him credit, too, for taking on a role that
dispels any sense of vanity; this is Cruise as you've never seen him
before.
`Jerry Maguire' earned him an Oscar nomination, and this one should,
also--
as well as the admiration and acclaim of his peers.  Cruise is not just
good
in this movie, he is remarkable.

Penelope Cruz turns in an outstanding, if not exceptional performance, as
well, as Sofia, the woman of David's dreams.  There's an alluring
innocence
she brings to this role that works well for her character and makes her
forthcoming and accessible, yet she lacks any hint of mystery that may
have
added that special `something extra' to the part.  But Crowe knows how to
get the best out of his actors, and he certainly did with
Cruz.

He also knew what he was doing with Cameron Diaz, who is absolutely
vibrant
in the role of Julie.  She's never looked better, and fairly sizzles on
screen.  But make no mistake, this is no `window-dressing' part, and Diaz
delivers a complete package with this character.  The quality of her
performance can be measured, in fact, in the impact she makes with rather
limited screen time.  And it's the persona she integrates so fully with
her
innate beauty that makes Julie so unforgettable.  Overall, a terrific job
by
Diaz.

The supporting cast includes Kurt Russell (Dr. McCabe), Jason Lee (Brian),
Johnny Galecki (Peter), Armand Schultz (Dr. Pomerantz), Noah Taylor (Ed),
Mel Thompson (`L.E.' Man), Jean Carol (Woman in New York) and John
Fedevich
(Silent Ed).  About half-way through, this one may have you questioning
your
own sense of reality; but rest assured, by the end of `Vanilla Sky' all
will
be revealed.  It's a reality-bender, to be sure, and a wild one; but this
is
exciting entertainment that offers a satisfying-- and unique-- experience,
one you have to see to believe.  It's the essential, and absolute, magic
of
the movies.  10/10.


<|_=00=_|>

Recently the BBC in UK held a poll for worst film ever, and while Titanic
*won*, this came 4th.
I just don't understand how anyone can dislike this movie...

Vanilla Sky is a dark psychological drama about dreams, reality and 'what
might have been'.

Tom Cruise is Dave, a yuppie who has it all. He has a 51% stake in his
father's company, therefore the majority shareholder, and constantly finds
himself in a battle to main his control over the '7 dwarves' who make up the
rest of the board.
His personal life is a mess, with a shallow relationship with Julie (Cameron
Diaz) the closest he gets to love, while his best friend Brian (Jason Lee)
who adores Julie sticks by him regardless.

However, on holding a birthday party he's introduced to Sofia (The perfect
Penelope Cruz) and falls instantly for her.

This is all very well but the plot is parallel to a side story of Dave
wearing a white mask in a cell with Dr McCabe (Kurt Russell) who's accusing
him of murder and wants to understand why it happened.

Dave begins on a journey to make sense of his life.

I admit there is a 'Hollywoody' feel to this film, and given it's a remake
of a Mexican/Spanish original also featuring Penelope Cruz it's probably
disappointing to purists. But only viewing this on its own terms I
absolutely love this movie. It keeps you guessing, and the ending is very
conclusive.

It may not be to everyone's taste, but I loved it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Vanilla Sky" was a wonderfully thought out movie. Or rather, "Abre Los
Ojos" was well thought out. I watched that movie late one night,
excited about what was to come. I wasn't disappointed. By the end of
the movie, I was awstruck. I couldn't get it off my mind. The whole
idea of it just blew me away. The ending, was more of a surprise than
Shyamalan could ever do. The plot line was also something that kept me
interesting through and through. The cast, superb. It was an all around
wonderful movie. The kind of movie you can watch again and again and
always find something new. I've seen it four or five times and I'm
always finding something new. It's a movie to keep you interested
forever.

<|_=00=_|>
I could not agree more with the quote "this is one of the best films
ever made." If you think Vanilla Sky is simply a "re-make," you could
not be more wrong. There is tremendous depth in this film: visually,
musically, and emotionally.

Visually, because the film is soft and delicate at times (early scenes
with Sofia) and at other times powerful and intense (Times Square,
post-climactic scenes).

The music and sounds tie into this movie so perfectly. Without the
music, the story is only half told. Nancy Wilson created an emotional,
yet eclectic, score for the film which could not be more suitable for
such a dream-like theme (although never released, I was able to get my
hands on the original score for about $60. If you look hard, you may be
able to find a copy yourself). Crowe's other musical selections, such
as The Beach Boys, Josh Rouse, Spiritualized, Sigur Ros, the Monkees,
etcetera etcetera, are also perfect fits for the film (Crowe has an ear
for great music).

More importantly, the emotional themes in this film (i.e. love,
sadness, regret) are very powerful, and are amplified tenfold by the
visual and musical experience, as well as the ingenious dialogue; I
admit, the elevator scene brings tears to my eyes time and time again.

The best part of this film however (as if it could get any better) is
that it is so intelligently crafted such that each time you see the
film, you will catch something new--so watch closely, and be prepared
to think! Sure, a theme becomes obvious after the first or second
watch, but there is always more to the story than you think.

This is easily Cameron Crowe's best work, and altogether a work of
brilliance. Much of my film-making and musical inspiration comes from
this work alone. It has honestly touched my life, as true art has a
tendency of doing. It continually surprises me that there are many
people that cannot appreciate this film for what it is (I guess to
understand true art is an art itself).

Bottom line: Vanilla Sky is in a league of its own.
<|_=00=_|>
This film is one of Tom Cruise's finest films. He captures the
audiences imaginations with his role of David Aames. His character can
relate to us all in some way.The story line is very clever and keeps
the audience on edge throughout the whole film. I never really watched
Cruise movies that much before but after seeing this it shows me his
true talent. My favourite part in the movie is the end where it all
comes to a big conclusion and he find out the truth. If you have not
seen this yet you definitely should give it a try. It's one of those
films that once you've started watching it you just got to see it until
the end or it will keep you thinking and you will regret it. My opinion
is you should just go buy it and take a risk thats what I did and it
became one of my favourite films of all time. It's A* 10/10 I promise
once you watch it, it will stick with you and you will like it forever.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm from Romania i'll try to speak in English. All i want to say about
this movie is that it is and will be my all time number one. Seen it
above 30 times at least and will see it for many years now. It has all
the little things i like in a movie , it's very touching makes me cry .
Shows a whole lot of twisted love things and questions about love and
reality , and the true things that matter for different people. It so
happens that for me this matters the most , the love , the soul of a
man , he's inner being, and this i see in this movie. Perhaps for me
it's much more than a motion picture , it's a proof in my mind that it
could really exist and that you most make the best out of every moment
you live with your soul mate. It's a long way from reality to sci-fi ,
but .. what if. What if all the capitalism disappeared and economy
would go down , would fall? We would all be concerned about other
issues and my thought is that , on your death bed , the bigger thing
you remember , is not the wealth , not the adventure , not the
countries you visited and the people that remember you. But the true
friends and your true love and the hope that after you die , all will
be god damn perfect and people would be good and care more. WATCH THIS
MOVIE and probably it will guide you through your life like it did to
me :) Hail from Romania
<|_=00=_|>
"The sweet is never as sweet without the sour." This quote was
essentially the theme for the movie in my opinion. Tom Cruise plays a
young man who was handed everything in his life. He takes things for
granted and it comes around full swing in this great movie with a
superb twist. This film will keep you engaged in the plot and unable to
pause it to take a bathroom break.

Its a movie that really makes you step back and look at your life and
how you live it. You cannot really appreciate the better things in life
(the sweet), like love, until you have experienced the bad (the sour).
The theme will really get you to "open your eyes".

Only complaint is that the movie gets very twisted at points and is
hard to really understand. I think the end is perfect though. I
recommend you watch it and see for yourself.
