

Pay It Forward is a prime example of what films are supposed to do:  make
you laugh a little, cry a lot, and profoundly affect you in a way that
keeps
you thinking about the movie for weeks afterwards.  I saw it at a special
preview screening and was blown away.  My friends and I sat through the
entire credits because we were so taken by what we had seen.  Kevin
Spacey,
Helen Hunt, and the phenomonal Haley Joel Osment once again give
performances worthy of Oscars.  I only hope there isn't some "retaliation"
of sorts because of their previous wins and nominations because they
deserve
it again this year.  But the big winner here is director Mimi Leder who
has
moved from action films into great cinema.  She demonstrates the fine
tuned
skills she showed while directing ER.  As I sat there, one eye kept a
close
watch of the story while the other marveled at the beautiful direction of
every scene.  They have my vote for Best Picture, Director, Actor,
Actress,
Supporting Actress, and Screenplay.  Awe-inspiring!!!!

<|_=00=_|>
In our world helping other people is perhaps the most important we can
do. Children are the ones who often teach us how to behave in certain
unpleasant circumstances. It is not only a moving story but everybody
who sees this film stops for a moment or more and think over the
meaning of life. One of the best American films I have ever seen with
lots of good actors. Kevin Spacey and Helen Hunt are wonderful. In
secondary schools it should be a compulsory part of education. I am a
teacher and when I want to talk about this topic I always choose this
film and students find it a very good example, too. It has not got a
happy ending like it often happens in life. It is not a stupid story,
it gives us lots of extras. When I first watched it, at the end of the
film I was full of emotions and just could not sleep for a while. To
put it into a nutshell: Try it and pay attention to Pay it forward.
<|_=00=_|>

A deceptively dark film that seems light-hearted and somewhat fun on first
glance, but just keeps on twisting as it progresses. A badly burned teacher
(Kevin Spacey) wants his grade school class to come up with a project to
make a difference in the world. Thus young Haley Joel Osment comes up with
an idea to help three people in trouble and then have each of them do the
same for three others in order to keep paying it forward. Osment wants a
father and soon hopes that Spacey will fall in love with his mother (Helen
Hunt). He also helps a homeless man (James Caviezel) who just cannot seem to
say no to narcotics. For a while it appears that everything might actually
work out, but Spacey's sad life and the return of abusive father Jon Bon
Jovi (in a nice little supporting turn) just make Osment that much more
tortured emotionally. The love that grows between Hunt and Spacey appears it
will save the day, but sometimes nothing is the way it seems to be in life.
I did enjoy "Pay It Forward" very much. I liked the elements of the
production really more than I liked the entire movie as a whole. There are
some really wonderful ideas here and in all honestly there are really two or
three movies within "Pay It Forward". All the performers are right on.
Osment is the greatest child actor to ever live, hands down. Spacey is
always a guaranteed performance and Hunt has grown as an actress in just the
last several years. I was disappointed that Caviezel's (who struck gold in
"The Thin Red Line") did not have a little more time here. His character is
quietly deep and complicated beneath the surface. The tone hurts "Pay It
Forward". I really expected a somewhat light-hearted film at the start after
some situations that seem to be going for comedy. Some things just do match
up with other parts of the movie. With all that said, I still think that
"Pay It Forward" is a fine effort that stands a little taller than others
might believe. 4 stars out of 5. 
<|_=00=_|>
I remember leaving the cinema, feeling very much let down by the end of
"Pay it Forward". Watching it recently on television I find myself far
more forgiving since it's a movie with a sincere and important message,
expressed with conviction. The quasi-religious ending probably will
appeal to many, but from an artistic viewpoint, it seems unnecessary
and not entirely suited to the tone of the film up to that point.

Kevin Spacey is effective as the suppressed, sensitive teacher, while
Helen Hunt is terrific, despite the role being far too close for
comfort with her "As Good As It Gets" character. But it's Hailey Joel
Osment's wonderful portrayal that gives "Pay It Forward" much of its
power. He simply is perfect for the part. (Good to see Angie Dickenson,
braving it in the role of a homeless alcoholic).

At its best, this is a film which may just do the impossible: inspiring
one to good deeds, without expectation of reward or remuneration. That
alone is a substantial achievement.
<|_=00=_|>

Pay It Forward is a movie that is aimed at one particular audience. The
kind
of audience that expects to have their life changed as the minutes tick
by.

And as a film that provides profound, poignant and tear-jerking moments,
Pay
It Forward will be perfect for this manner of audience. Unfortunately,
harder, more expecting movie-goers will probably dismiss this movie as an
oversentimental and perhaps unrealistic film.

The film is centred around Trevor (Hayley Joel-Osment). An 11 year old
boy,
living alone with his dysfunctional, on-off alcoholic mother Arlene (Helen
Hunt). One day Trevor is set a homework assignment by his new Social
Studies
teacher, the mysterious, slightly disfigured Eugene (Kevin Spacey). Eugene
sets the class a difficult task; to think of an idea that will change the
world and put it into action. Et voila!! Pay It Forward is
born.

Trevor is played with an endearing maturity and at times, unstable
frustration by uber kid actor Osment. As an aspiring actor, I worry that
an
11 year old boy can grab hold of such difficult roles and make them his,
while I still strive to gain my Equity card!! What Osment promised in The
Sixth Sense, he shows again here with a more difficult and emotionally
charged role. Trevor is a boy not altogether happy with his life. He is
lacking in a father figure, his Mother struggles to have any impact on him
as she juggles two jobs to make ends meet, which leaves Trevor with
nothing
but his own intuition to drag him through life. For a child that can only
be
extatic and contented with HIS life, Osment does well to project such a
fragile character on screen.

Eugene is a character made for Kevin Spacey (although all his roles seem
perfect for him). Intelligent, compassionate, slightly bitter and at times
unpredictable, Eugene is a man that we, as an audience cannot help but
engage with. The dialogue written for Spacey is much better than other
characters in the film, and he puts it to good use. Spacey is at his best
when doing two things; calmly and charismatically attracting attention to
himself (Ordinary Decent Criminal, Midnight In The Garden Of...), and when
he bubbles just below the surface, inviting audiences in so that he can
devastate you with a single revelation (Seven, Usual Suspects, Swimming
With
Sharks). And his revelation in this film (he relives how he came to get
his
horrific scars), is so vivid, so intricately and harrowingly retold that
you
cannot help but feel a tear well up in your eye.

Helen Hunt is fantastic as Arlene. Managing to achieve a look that
bizarrely
mixes trailer trash, run down alcoholic with vulnerable cuteness. She
doesn't get the pick of the dialogue however, and the role aswell as the
whole film would have been a whole lot worse off had Hunt not been on top
form. You don't want her to be your Mother, but you really want to see her
happy and for her to do a good job at being Trevors.

The film falls short in little details. Supporting characters do little to
affect the story (Jay Mohr as an almost non-speaking narrator??) and the
whole thing feels flat if Spacey is off screen too long. Good actors like
Jim Caviezel go almost unnoticed and you can't help but feel that a few
more
juicy characters would help the story become a little more...cohesive.

The ending is a reinforcement of the atmosphere of the whole film. It is a
sequence that heightens our emotion and should set the tears rolling.

In short, see this film for three things; Haley Joel-Osment, Kevin Spacey
and Helen Hunt. All three are fantastic, and it's obvious to see why so
much
Oscar gossip was being spread.

If you like heart warming films with a little bit of edge, then watch on.
If
you're expecting an original, exciting, twisty or philosophical
film...watch
it anyway, at least the three leads are good.
<|_=00=_|>

Life is full of inconsistencies, and it is not without a sense of irony.
There are people that have tried to make a difference in life and some of
them have paid for it with their lives.  Some that come to mind are Martin
Luther King Jr, JFK, Gandhi and Terry Fox.  It's not easy to change the
world.  It takes a lot of hard work and determination.  And it doesn't
happen overnight.  But then you see a film like this and you begin to
question that rationale.  What if a concept like this really was
implemented?  What if every single person that had a favour bestowed upon
them was asked to pay it forward?  Is it possible that a Utopian world
could be achieved?  I doubt it, but it certainly would go a long way to
making this condemned world a better place to live.

I don't think this is one of the best movies that I have ever seen.  I
don't
think it is even the best film that I will see this year (although it will
make my top ten ) but the idea behind it is what has me intrigued.
Believe
me when I tell you this.  I don't think I have ever been as emotionally
galvanized as I was in this film.  There is a raw power, a truth that
rings
clear in Pay It Forward and if there was one film that I would want people
to see this year, it would be this film.  It is entertaining, it is
superbly
acted, and it the one true film, the one true idea that really could help
make a positive and tangible difference in our society and our
world.

In some circles this film has been criticized for laying on the fluff.  It
is too much like a soap opera.  And that is so far from the truth.  Let's
recount the issues at hand and examine them.  Kevin Spacey plays a burn
victim because of child abuse.  Helen Hunt plays a single mom that is
having
a hard time recovering from alcoholism and has a bad case of "can't get
her
ex-husband" out of her life and her bed.  Haley Joel Osment plays a wise
beyond his years son that had to grow up precociously because of his
mother
that suffers from the above.  Every character in this film, including the
bit players suffers from real problems.  If people have a hard time
understanding this then just go to an average suburban classroom in North
America and arbitrarily pick out ten kids.  Chances are you will find
cases
of alcoholism, child abuse, divorce and a plethora of issues that are not
conducive to a healthy environment for a child.  So this film is just
mirroring life.  That's all.

The performances by the three leads is nothing short of brilliant.  Not as
much can be said for the rest of the cast, but Spacey, Osment and Hunt all
could be nominated this year when March comes.  All three bring compassion
and depth to the three scarred people that they portray.  But especially
intriguing is Osment.  He doesn't need to say anything in order for you to
understand him.  It's a look, a twitch, a smile, a shiver.  Anything he
does
helps us understand who he is and why he is that way.  Osment is one true
gifted actor and I really don't think he is going to fade away in the
years
to come like so many other child prodigies.  This is the real deal.  By
following up Sixth Sense with a performance this real solidifies him as a
true thespian.

If you have not seen this film for whatever reason, and its box office
suggests most haven't, then do yourself a favour and take a chance on it.
Not only will it do you good, it really might help change you in some
ways.
And as Osment says in the film, maybe we may all see in some way that, "
the
world isn't really s**t."

9 out of 10 ( and bring lots of tissues )
<|_=00=_|>
In 2001 after the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centers, the
Pentagon, and the plane crash in Pennsylvania, my class and I talked
about it and what was disturbing to us. I mentioned how everyone thinks
it's impossible to make a better world, but is it? I told them that if
one person can do something wonderful for another person, that it could
pass on like a domino reaction. Everyone loved my speech and the
teacher even said that we could all do one nice thing, so for that day
after class we had to do something nice, hoping it would cause a
reaction. Didn't happen.

I recently watched Pay It Forward, watching it broke my heart because I
felt for Haley Jole Osmond's character, hoping your idea would work and
it didn't. Just wanting to make something better and you know it's so
hard but you just have to try. This is a terrific movie that deserves
more praise and I am hurt by a rating of 6.7. I think this movie is one
of the best movies of 2000 if not the best. We could all learn from
this film.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the most moving movies that I have seen in years. The
performances are excellent by all the cast members and the emotional
tie you develop with the characters is so amazing that you start to
feel what they are feeling and go through their good and bad times.
This movie is inspiring and heart driven. I really enjoyed this movie
because of the well written story and smoothly moving plot of this
movie. The movie does not leave you confused as to what is going on or
why. That's why I gave this movie a 10, because it is excellent. The
odd thing is about movies, the ones that aren't really that good get
the awards, yet the really good ones never get one. I have really never
understood that. This movie should have been given an award.
<|_=00=_|>
Trevor McKinney (Haley Joel Osment) is a boy troubled by the events in
his life. With a violent and Alcoholic father, who has left the scene;
and his struggling Alcoholic Mother (Helen Hunt), who is trying to make
ends meet, Trevor feels alone and is fearful of the future.

Eugene Simonet (Kevin Spacey) is his new teacher, who has a rare
quality of caring for his students. He sets an assignment for his
class, to come up with an idea of how to improve the world we live in.
Intended purely to may them think, Eugene never expected any results,
but Trevor has a revelation, a notion that that people are in essence
good and he could use this quality to better the world. And so Pay It
Forward is born, Trevor will do three favours for others and in return
they must do three favours for others and so on.

With a great leading cast and a good support from Jon Bon Jovi, Jim
Caviezel and Angie Dickenson, the movie follows the failures and
triumphs of Trevors idea and the life changing effect on both the world
around him and on those close to him.

A Journey of emotion and discovery, this tearjerker instills belief
that we can all do some good in the world, with a little effort and
commitment.

A Warning for new viewers, the end is quite simply heartbreaking, it is
incredibly sad, yet it does reflect how cruel life can be, and in my
opinion it was brave to use such a shocking ending, that leaves you
feeling down while at the same time adding an edge to the Film.

Overall it was a brilliant film, although it clearly will disappoint
those people who want a happy ending, but for me the ending was
perfect.

9/10
<|_=00=_|>

This was not a bad film; in fact, it was fairly well done, for what it was.
Unfortunately, what it was was emotionally manipulative.  Child abuse
survivors, cute kids, recovering alcoholic mom working two jobs, this movie
had it all.  Above all, the director's vision was muddled.  "Life is sh*t,"
says Trevor (Osment); by the end of the film, we can see that life is not
sh*t after all.  Or is it?  The dramatic twist at the end (I won't spoil it
for you) seemed to revoke the entire message of the movie.  It had no
apparent purpose, other than to lead up to the buy-the-world-a-coke,
faux-heartwarming finale.  The movie was not a total wash, however, as the
genuinely solid performances from everyone involved lifted it above the
sappy little mess it could have been.  Osment is a gifted actor who manages
to be a scared, vulnerable kid, without resorting to overt cuteness; he has
a wary toughness which makes his performances very believable.  Although I
am admittedly ambiguous about Helen Hunt, she did turn in a very strong,
thoughtful performance in a role that could easily have been one-sided or
overplayed.  Final analyss: If you like sentimentality, "Pay it Forward" is
worth the effort, but it falls far short of a classic.
