

OK, make no mistake, this movie was made to convey a message. If criticised
in terms of, say, similarity to "the Firm", or "yet another cyber
thriller",
then you really missed the point. The message is pretty blunt, and
guaranteed to anger a certain large corporation. (This is not an
anti-corporate movie, it is anti- a ~particular~ corporation, and if you
can't guess which one, maybe you should go back to exploring the Kalahari
or
whatever you've been doing for the last ten years.) This corporation has
been known to spend extraordinary resources on PR (including, for example,
bribing journalists and college professors), so almost certainly some of
the
comments on this message board will be produced by that corporation and
should be read in that light.

Second, while murder is a bit over the top, pretty well all the other
crimes
committed by the large corporation in this movie are things of which the
real corporation has been seriously accused, been found to be planning, or
in some cases, convicted; yet in every case managing to escape with fines
or
compensation payments much smaller than the profits they made from the
crime. That is why we hate them so much, and why this movie was made. It's
also obvious why the motif of murder was added: some of the technical
details of why their actions are pure evil are difficult for a non-techie
to
understand, so to make the movie accessible to a wider audience, they added
a more blatant crime (plus pyrotechnic special effects, a tense chase
scene,
love interest, etc).

Thirdly, it is not a futuristic movie, it is present day; nothing in this
movie is more than about 1 or 2 years in the future, at most, and most of
it
is happening now or happened several years ago.

Fourthly, technical realism: while some of the tech stuff is rubbish (hey,
it's a movie!), the effort put into realism is dramatically good compared
to
information technology in any other movie I have ever seen. When we see
IP's, they are actual IPs, but martian (I guess they don't want geeks going
home and whois-ing them!), the code is all real code: some HTML, some C++,
real scripting, but mostly VB (a language the certain large corporation is
known to use a lot). The algorithms they discuss improving are even
algorithms the product would really require! Not only that, the product is
frighteningly similar to the large corporation's actual current development
path!

So, if you walked away from this movie thinking "just for geeks" or
"totally
unrealistic", you need to give yourself a good hard slap, wake up and see
what is really going on in the world around you. This movie was about as
unrealistic and irrelevant as "All the President's Men".

Oh, by the way, I better say that all the above comments are only my
personal opinions, in case they try to sue me, because they do do stuff
like
that.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw the preview for Anti-Trust, I thought 2 things.  1) It
was
a not-so-disguised movie about Microsoft. 2) It was probably "The Net 2."
It looked like another computer-based movie that would be as realistic as
"Hackers," but with a more obvious plot.  From the first 30 seconds of the
preview you can pretty much tell that the open-source sidekick is marked
for
death and Bill Gates...I mean Gary Winston was a criminal mastermind who
will do anything to get ahead in business.  I'd happy to say that while
the
first half of the movie went without any surprises, there are enough plot
twists in the 2nd half to keep you guessing who's on who's side.  Tim
Robbins and Ryan Philippe both give good performances, and nobody seems
out
of place talking about technology.  It's not the best movie I've seen this
year, but it definately blew away my expectations.
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the few movies about computers, programming and those
that make it happen that actually demonstrates that at least a little
research was done by the writer/s. Not only is the script filled with
real technical lingo (IP addresses, LZ compression, etc), but it
actually uses it all in the correct context. (For examples of correct
lingo in incorrect usage, see films like 'Jurassic Park'). So in that
sense at least, the writer did their job.

Alas, in other areas they let the team down.

I like the basic premise. Tim Robbins (Gary Winston) as an evil Bill
Gates (Gary Winston = William Gates, GW=WG) is certainly an idea that
appeals to me (as a an anti-Microsofter from way back). There are even
a number of little in-jokes through the plot that pick out the
Gates-Microsoft connection (the artwork screens in Winston's house, a
character called Redmond, the Dept of Justice accusations, etc). And it
was so nice to see so many computers on screen, and not one Windows
window anywhere.

Into all of this comes Ryan Phillipe as a hotshot programmer - who, as
far as I can see, never actually programs anything. He stares at a lot
of code on screens, and types in some pseudo-unix commands, but I can't
recall him actually coding anything. As a geek he looks the part, and
certainly has the introvert/social inept bit down pat. But even geeks
have other emotions.

And how the hell does a guy like him get a girl like Claire Forlani??
Surely that must have sent alarm bells ringing for him early on? Yes,
even allowing for the plot twist half way through, guys like him just
don't get girls like her - because they're rarely out of the garage.

Rachel Leigh Cook - stunning, and wasted. There was so much more scope
for her in this. And the final twist with her character at the end just
was not believable. 

I'm glad to finally see a movie in which computers and computer
programming are an essential device actually treat them with some
accuracy. It's fantastic to have a fantasy in which an evil Bill Gates
actually gets whats coming to him. 

All it needed was a little more character injected into the three main
young characters and it would have worked perfectly.
<|_=00=_|>

I really enjoyed this film--it was exciting as well as thought-provoking.
If you enjoyed "The Net" and "The Firm" you'll probably enjoy a hybrid of
the two, although I found "Antitrust" to be more satisfying than either of
those.  Tim Robbins as always was terrific as the "Bill Gates" character
and
Ryan Phillippe was excellent as his genius protege.  "Antitrust" was a
great, entertaining way to spend an afternoon at the movies.

<|_=00=_|>

I praise Hollywood for creating a movie that does not have mass appeal.
Too
often movies of this type are designed to be for too wide an audience and
all credibility is lost.  This film avoids this, for the most part, by
primarily appealing to a core target audience in the 15 to 35 age range.

The credits sequence began and I immediately cringed and thought, "Hacker
2...ugh." but it didn't turn out that way, much to my pleasure.  Horrible
computer idiocy was kept to a minimum, and generally only used for
dramatic
effect rather than the "computerz r kewl" aspect.

The dramatic performances were very good in my opinion and the film was
superb in creating suspense.  The soundtrack is rather excellent as well.

By my guess, huge changes were made to this film (based on the trailer)
and
I look forward to seeing an alternate version or cut-scenes on the
DVD.

I definitely recommend this movie for anyone who likes technology and
computers.  For everyone else, I don't know if you would like it,
honestly,
but I can tell you it's not a whole movie about computers.


<|_=00=_|>
What kind of computer expert can I be that I had forgotten that I
submitted a comment the first tiem that I watched "Antitrust" - yet I
enjoyed it just as much the second time around. A great deal of trouble
was taken to ensure that the Computer Programming was authentic and the
planned Synapse system would ultimately be feasible - wonder if Ronald
Reagan ever watched it ? i take back what I said about the Male Lead,
he wasn't as wet as I first thought even though it only occurred to him
almost too late that both the Females seemingly attracted to him were
too hot to be true. And he hardly looked to be out of short pants. The
script made it quite clear that the Villain was not Bill Gates but a
potential competitor for him and Microsoft but the plot fell down over
the idea of being able to spy on LCD monitors from a relevant angle and
extract useful information off the screen (before having the owner
murdered in appropriate style). I'll let new viewers work out the
relevance of the Sesame seeds for themselves and the light pictures
which seemed to reflect the wrong moods for the characters nearest to
them - but a great idea for a potential LCD guard dog. But then have
the Israelis been working on this ? All in all a far more enjoyable
film than the previous reviewer suggested.
<|_=00=_|>
For once, a movie about computers where computers look real. The
display on the monitors isn't just some 3D animation that seems to
serve no purpose. You can recognize interfaces, or at least can imagine
that on a real computer monitor. The code on screen looks real (it's
either C++ or Java or some kind of C derivative), even though it
probably doesn't do what they pretend it does; they don't show it long
enough to figure out what it's suppose to do anyway.

Just some things I noticed: All IPs are 10.x.x.x, which is a range
reserved for local networks, it should not be accessible remotely, thus
would not be usable for a global system such as Synapse. But that is
probably done on purpose, just like they do for phone numbers in the
movies, all starting in 555-XXXX.

The networks seem to be freaking fast. In particular, for the data
transmitted through the satellites with just about zero latency.

The CD burner is quite fast, it can burn a CD in just 20 seconds.

The server which Synapse is being distributed from seems to be very
effective, taking millions of hits within hours. In particular,
considering that they have never seen that many hits.

Beside the technical details presented, good movie, good action, good
plot twists.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw "Antitrust" today the 1:15 matinee. I loved it. I became acquainted
with Tim Robbins through 5 copies of" Top Gun." I will not give away the
plot or read the last page of the book, but for those of you who like
"Arlington Road" ,"Antitrust" may be a good sequel. So this movie does not
win rave reviews. Movies are entertaining , some of them are informative.
This one says that without computer geeks not many of us could not enjoy
this modern day tool. Back in the 70's I thought the electric typewriter
with a ball going across the page was exciting.
<|_=00=_|>

I was genuinely surprised by how much I enjoyed this film.  Tim Robbins is
excellent, as always.  His uncanny Bill Gates like character will leave
true
computer geeks rolling in the aisles.  Geeks will get the inside jokes of
the film....but the script doesn't leave the computer illiterate hanging.
I
thought they did a good job of thoroughly explaining things to avoid
confusion.  Ryan Phillipe did a pretty good job...as did Claire Forlani.
I
gave this movie a vote of 9...I can't wait for it to come out on
DVD.
<|_=00=_|>

 I didn't expect much from AntiTrust, but I was surprised. The story was
fast-paced and exciting, it never really slowed-down. When the movie was
over I felt satisfied, it had a lot of what I look for in a movie. It
requires you to think about what is happening, even if sometimes it gets
un-realistic with plot twists.
 Good things aside, AntiTrust had its share of problems. There was some
techy-talk that went on too long, whenever something bad was discovered by
Milo(Ryan however you spell his last name) the camera would zoom in and then
shake around, and it got a little un-realistic in the finale.
 All-in-all AntiTrust was good, but I just found-out it opened it 12th
place. It deserves better.
