

I was not disappointed with "Coyote Ugly". It made me feel good and we
need this kind of film these days with all that's going-on.It was no
worse than "Flashdance" or "Footloose" which also had little storyline
and average acting. I enjoyed it and it was what I had expected.Many of
you gave it negative criticisms; what did they expect from a film about
a young girl coming to the city? This was a simple story about a young
shy girl with dreams trying to make it in show business; which is hard
if you don't have the right connections.The dance numbers and bar scene
were very realistic. As a New Yorker, I was happy to see that she
wasn't mugged or worse as many films about New York portray.I'd like a
sequel.

<|_=00=_|>

Based on the true story about the crazy female run bar in New
York City, Coyote Ugly becomes surprisingly believable despite the
usual Hollywood bits.  The story follows Violet Sanford (Piper
Perabo) as she moves from small town New Jersey to the city to
become a songwriter.  Through her misfortunes she meets
boyfriend Kevin O'Donnell (Adam Garcia) and the Coyotes and
learns from each of them to overcome the stage fright that
threatens to ruin her dreams.

Many moments are sappy or overly dramatic but the majority is
enthralling as all the characters are solidly built.  The girls all have
their own character but aren't so strictly chained to it that they
become merely symbols instead of people.  While the females
may be on the screen the most, the two supporting males Kevin
and William Sanford (John Goodman) provide the most
heartwarming scenes.  Goodman's performance provides subtle
humor while his character struggles through the conflict of his
daughter leaving and his desire to see her succeed.  For an actor
who has put in so many great performances, this one still
manages to be one of his best.

Coyote Ugly offers something enjoyable to everyone.  Guys
obviously will enjoy the attractive girls and the provocative dancing
while girls can enjoy the strong female characters, each of which
won't take crap from any of the men that surround them.  Parents
can enjoy the side story of the conflict between Violet and her
father.  Another feature to enjoy is the fabulous music with four
songs performed by LeAnn Rimes with some smaller groups as
well.

Coyote Ugly crosses the unusual boundary of being both an
exciting, fast-paced movie that gets the adrenaline flowing and a
sensitive story with strong characters and brilliant acting to get the
mind working.  The result is a thoroughly rewarding movie
experience.

<|_=00=_|>

Producer Jerry Bruckheimer seems to have an innate sense of what makes
money
in cinema.  He seldom makes a film that isn't profitable and has numerous
blockbusters on his resume over the past 30 years (American Gigolo,
Flashdance, Beverly Hills Cop, Top Gun, The Rock, Con Air, Armageddon).
Bruckheimer is a populist producer.  He is more concerned with giving
audiences what they want than he is about producing films of any artistic
value or substance.  In that regard, `Coyote Ugly' fits right
in.

This film is energetic, entertaining, scintillating and fun to watch.  The
story is "Flashdance" lite, and is reminiscent of the popular but vacuous
`Cocktail' with Tom Cruise, only with a decent plot woven in.  Violet
Sanford (Piper Perabo) is a young aspiring songwriter who leaves South
Amboy, New Jersey traveling to New York City to be discovered.  When
things
don't go as planned, she takes a job as a bartender in a raucous singles
bar
where the sexy female bartenders dance provocatively on the bar to the
shrieks of the rowdy patrons below.  Of course, there is a love story to
go
along with the quest for fame, completing the populist
formula.

Bruckheimer defies the conventional Hollywood big budget approach by using
an ensemble cast of veritable unknowns and a first time director.  Other
than John Goodman in a minor role, and supermodel Tyra Banks who hasn't
done
much acting, most of the actors have extremely short resumes.  This gives
the film a freshness and energy that comes from the cast's exhilaration at
just being on the set.

Piper Perabo is an incredible find.  She is not simply acting in this
film,
but living the role.  Just like her character Violet, this film is her big
break so her ability to understand the character and the role is implicit
(another stroke of Bruckheimer genius).  Perabo is an excellent actor with
tremendous ability and potential.  It is likely that this film will be the
launch pad for a bright career.  Maria Bello also gives a fabulous
performance as Lil, the tough and successful owner of the nightclub.
Australian actor Adam Garcia has great chemistry with Perabo as Violet's
love interest.  His pleasant demeanor and good looks have many people
comparing him with Mel Gibson, although it remains to be seen whether he
can
handle roles that are more substantial.  John Goodman provides one of the
film's best moments when he gets up on the bar and dances as Violet
auctions
him off to the screaming women in the crowd.

The DVD is packed with interesting special features about the making of
the
film.  It also includes a DTS audio option, which I like better than Dolby
Digital 5.1.  The soundtrack is pulsating and explosive and pumps the film
up with excitement.

This is not great filmmaking, but it is great entertainment.  It is an
amiable film that sparkles with energy and is easy to watch.  I rated it a
7/10.  Many people were surprised by how much they enjoyed it, but I'm
never
surprised when I like a Jerry Bruckheimer film.  He knows how to push our
buttons.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to say that when I saw the trailer I thought this was going to be a
film about some half naked women and some people drinking a lot. But, when
the film ended I have to say I was really surprised. A good surprise. Some
people will probably disagree with me but this is not a film about nudity or
something like that, it is a film about following your dreams, about leaving
home searching for something real. I think Piper Perabo is excellent in her
role as Violet, who actually sings some of the songs in the film. I'd
recommend it to everyone who wants to have a great time.
<|_=00=_|>

Not bad, not bad. I read reviews that criticized the cliche-ness of this
movie, and I can see their point. At times the plot made the characters a
little bit annoying. But hey-- story cliches often become that way because
they speak to universal "truths," or at least things that interest bunches
of people over of time.

This movie is interesting-- it is engaging, and even touching at times. I
DID care about the characters throughout the story. I wanted to see how
things would work out for them, and I wanted them to win. Sure, the plot is
kind of predictable-- but the energy kept the theme in the forefront, and I
AM interested in the theme presented here-- love, taking risks, courage, and
all of that. The women actors were wonderful-- hot, sure, but also
outrageous in an innocent kind of way. I had the sense that none of the
characters in the movie, even the raunchy extras in the bar scenes, was
belittled. I suspected the writers, director, cast, etc., had a basic
affection for their subjects and topic.

The dancing was great-- I noted "dancing doubles" in the credits for all of
the girls-- and the bar tricks and stunts were fun. I enjoyed pretending
that those stunts were even possible, and that they wouldn't have killed 7
people the first night they were tried in a real bar in real life. I gave
this one an "8" out of 10. Go see it-- you'll like it!
<|_=00=_|>
Producer Jerry Bruckheimer seems to have an innate sense of what makes
money in cinema. He seldom makes a film that isn't profitable and has
numerous blockbusters on his resume over the past 30 years (American
Gigolo, Flashdance, Beverly Hills Cop, Top Gun, The Rock, Con Air,
Armageddon). Bruckheimer is a populist producer. He is more concerned
with giving audiences what they want than he is about producing films
of any artistic value or substance. In that regard, 'Coyote Ugly' fits
right in.

This film is energetic, entertaining, scintillating and fun to watch.
The story is "Flashdance" lite, and is reminiscent of the popular but
vacuous 'Cocktail' with Tom Cruise, only with a decent plot woven in.
Violet Sanford (Piper Perabo) is a young aspiring songwriter who leaves
South Amboy, New Jersey traveling to New York City to be discovered.
When things don't go as planned, she takes a job as a bartender in a
raucous singles bar where the sexy female bartenders dance
provocatively on the bar to the shrieks of the rowdy patrons below. Of
course, there is a love story to go along with the quest for fame,
completing the populist formula.

Bruckheimer defies the conventional Hollywood big budget approach by
using an ensemble cast of veritable unknowns and a first time director.
Other than John Goodman in a minor role, and supermodel Tyra Banks who
hasn't done much acting, most of the actors have extremely short
resumes. This gives the film a freshness and energy that comes from the
cast's exhilaration at just being on the set.

Piper Perabo is an incredible find. She is not simply acting in this
film, but living the role. Just like her character Violet, this film is
her big break so her ability to understand the character and the role
is implicit (another stroke of Bruckheimer genius). Perabo is an
excellent actor with tremendous ability and potential. It is likely
that this film will be the launch pad for a bright career. Maria Bello
also gives a fabulous performance as Lil, the tough and successful
owner of the nightclub. Australian actor Adam Garcia has great
chemistry with Perabo as Violet's love interest. His pleasant demeanor
and good looks have many people comparing him with Mel Gibson, although
it remains to be seen whether he can handle roles that are more
substantial. John Goodman provides one of the film's best moments when
he gets up on the bar and dances as Violet auctions him off to the
screaming women in the crowd.

The DVD is packed with interesting special features about the making of
the film. It also includes a DTS audio option, which I like better than
Dolby Digital 5.1. The soundtrack is pulsating and explosive and pumps
the film up with excitement.

This is not great film-making, but it is great entertainment. It is an
amiable film that sparkles with energy and is easy to watch. I rated it
a 7/10. Many people were surprised by how much they enjoyed it, but I'm
never surprised when I like a Jerry Bruckheimer film. He knows how to
push our buttons.
<|_=00=_|>
I love "Coyote Ugly", even though it seems critics/reviewers had mixed
opinions. I thought it was the best bar-flick since "Cocktail". If you
haven't seen "Cocktail", it's a movie where Tom Cruise stars as a
bartender, and he swirls bottles around and other cool tricks of the
trade. In Coyote Ugly, you have Violet (Piper Perabo) who comes to NYC
to become a singer/songwriter. While Violet's there she finds that
nobody will accept her demos, so she goes looking for work and she
finds a job in a local bar called, "Coyote Ugly". The bar is owned by
Lil (Maria Bello), Lil is a hardcore chick who treats her bar like it's
her home. While Violet is there she also learns the tricks of the
trade, and she also dances on top of the bar. I'm not going to tell you
if Violet becomes a singer/songwriter or not, because that would wreck
the movie, but I am going to tell you that this is a great movie.
Personally, I would have to recommend this to anybody that has hopes
and dreams of making it big. I'm giving this a 8 out of 10, because it
has an amazing story, memorable characters and a lot of great lines,
but I have to tell you one of the best parts is the theme song, "Can't
Fight The Moonlight". So, if you love bar-flicks like "Cocktail" you'll
love "Coyote Ugly".
<|_=00=_|>
There are something like 3 years since I watched ''Coyote Ugly'', but I
remembered it of being a very nice movie! It was the first movie I
watched with Piper Perabo and Bridget Moynahan.(who, by the way, is the
same lady who works in ''I,Robot'' and I couldn't remember since she is
so different!)We also have the famous John Goodman playing Violet's dad
and Adam Garcia, who I already have watched in ''Riding in Cars with
Boys ''. The story of this movie is very simple, and it's about a girl
called Violet from New Jersey,who wants to be a singer and go to New
York to try her luck. Once in the Apple City, she has many problems
finding someone to be interested in her music, and goes to work in a
bar called ''Coyote Ugly'', where the girls (bar maids) besides giving
the clients drinks also do sensual dances. She also meets the charming
Australian Kevin, who she falls in love.
<|_=00=_|>

The rumor is true: girls like COYOTE UGLY more than guys. And the reasons
are obvious as soon as the plot is given. Jersey girl goes to New York to
become a song writer. And after initial frustration of having no luck,
overhears some girls partying about the $300 each they made last night. She
gets an audition at the bar they work at and surprise! The place is
completely full of "two year old toddlers" bursting at the sight of babes
dancing.

The story is not bad and some characters are likeable, especially Cammie
(the "fashion coordinator" part was cute) and the bouncer but let's face it,
the drama was horrible and completely laughable from the beginning. Violet
and her father looked far too ridiculous while they were relating throughout
the movie. And check out Violet too jamming on that keyboard with the break
dancer!

For the first time I could think of, how could the production be so
terrible? For a brief moment with this movie, Hollywood could stand on its
two feet and show a new low without any major public outcry without saying,
"You were warned!" Instead, it seems COYOTE UGLY has a purposeful intent on
trying to kiss every major rear in the world. Advertising babes in a bar,
but showing a paper thin "pursue your dream" story disappointed every male
teen you targeted!

And finally, the music. There was absolutely no break of music I found in
this movie, especially when it was needed (the hospital scene). Every scene
felt like some short music video you just wish would stop until the bar
opened. But the climax was an ultimate laugher: an '80s like song you would
expect Cyndi Lauper to jump on the stage and jam with Violet. Heck, I
personally thought Bon Jovi was going to jump out with the long hair and jam
too!

Other than some really smart camera work with the coyote girls when dancing
(especially the wet scene), and a couple cute cliches, COYOTE UGLY is
something to be purely embarrassed about. Whether you watched or made it, it
looked like nothing but time killing. Or wasting depending on how you look
at it.
<|_=00=_|>
Violet Sanford (Piper Perabo) is an aspiring songwriter from small town
New Jersey. She leaves her pizza joint waitress job, her father, and
her best friend to pursue her dreams in NYC. Only the big bad city is
getting the best of her. Down to her last few dollars, she tries out
for a surprising job at a bar called Coyote Ugly.

First, I don't know why she has to move to NYC to pursue her dreams as
a songwriter. I would think New Jersey is close enough to get rejected
by the music industry, and she could do a week or two. But as a
songwriter, why does she have to stay there? I think it would be better
if she's an actress.

Then the rejections are so silly and ham fisted. It had me rolling my
eyes, and hating the first act. By the time she gets to the bar, I
couldn't really stand the movie. Maria Bello plays the bar owner.
Izabella Miko, Tyra Banks, and Bridget Moynahan play the dancers. Other
than watching some hot actresses dancing suggestively, there isn't much
in this movie.
