

A mob enforcer goes back to his native Seattle to sort out the suspicious
death of his brother.

The original film is one of the best English thrillers of all time and
despite being made nearly thirty years  ago still packs a punch. Sadly this
film is not really in its league, despite a bigger budget and more ground
coverage. 

The main problem is that the authors clearly love the original and this
leaves so much of what happens as a question mark to the new viewer.
Characters are thrown in from nowhere and Carters involvement with his
bosses' girl is almost in another movie. Micheal Caine's small role (as a
barman) is funny in that he was the original Jack Carter, here reprised by
Sly Stallone.

While quick to admit this is mediocre stuff you have to say that you get
your share of car chases (well done too), fights, creeps, sleaze, family
bonding, shoot outs and even the odd bit of light humour. The fight between
Stallone and Mickey Rouke (here playing a buisnessman-stroke-creep) for
example.

This film features interesting cinematography, with strange forward jump
cuts (ripped off from The Limey), odd angles and the use of colour filters.
In short, the producers trying to make more out of the material than is in
the script. The choice of a wet Seattle is also curious and different.
Presumably the nearest to Newcastle-Upon-Tyne (the setting of the original)
that the producers could think of. 

So it is only an average product, but will see much worse than this in our
lifetime and it does move along at a fair and steady clip. People are
getting to knock Stallone for being Stallone, but he doesn't do bad a job
here, a stonefaced enforcer that is prepared to shed a tear when needs be!
Not great acting, but he looks the part.

Don't be put off by the low IMDB ratings, plenty of worthy films are two or
three points higher but are far more boring. Popcorn fodder it may be, but I
thought it was worth seeing through and even declared myself modestly
entertained at the end of it. Not as good as the original but not a lot
is.

Footnote: This is actually not the first remake of Get Carter. A
blackspolitation version was made in the 1970's called
"Hitman."


<|_=00=_|>
A remake of the 1971 film with Michael Caine.

Las Vegas mob enforcer Jack Carter travels to Seattle to investigate
his brother's mysterious death. Local crime lords want him out, but
Carter unrelentingly proceeds in finding the truth.

Starting with a promising beginning (though it remains amusing that
someone thought that Stallone can match Caine's acting) the film soon
slumps into a bad case of mediocrity. It has the same idea as the
original and tries to be as badass with its kinetic and almost
experimental direction, but ends up being just poor. Stallone's Carter
is given an almost soft side that goes complete against the character
from the first film. On top of that there are some enjoyable car
chases, but they serve as sensationalism that was critically lacking
from the first film.

Then there is the ending, which has some merit (since the film already
establish Carter as softer then the original), but even so, it is still
pretty stupid and leaves the film with little to say or resonate with.
That ultimately makes this is second rate crime movie that you might
enjoy, but don't count it. --- 5/10

Rated R for violence and profanity
<|_=00=_|>

For some unknown reason, the industry 'suits' have decided to black-list
Sylvester Stallone, not giving him large leading roles, and when they give
him a role, they refuse to heavily market his films.  This trend started, I
believe, sometime during the early 90s, probably after his last big hit,
"Cliffhanger."  Nevertheless, Stallone has continued to make films, most of
them actually pretty good.

That said, "Get Carter" is probably one of Stallone's better films of the
last ten years (I think it's second to "Cop Land").  He portrays his role as
the 'financial adjuster' (as he described it) Jack Carter.  The remainder of
the supporting cast, including Mickey Rourke, Rachel Leigh Cook, John C.
McGinley, Alan Cumming and Michael Caine, each deliver convincing
performances, conveying their characters' emotions with amazing
quality.

I really noticed the way the film's editing and photography changed towards
the end of the film, after beating up McCarty (McGinley) in the elevator. 
The way the film swiftly cuts ahead a couple of seconds is simply
spectacular to watch.  The many odd photography angles describe the
uncertainty of the scenes, and make me feel unsure as well.

Living in the Seattle area, seeing the great landmarks I see every day on
the screen is quite something else.  And for the record, it doesn't rain
nearly as much here as people think.

If you haven't watched this film and have heard all the negative reviews
given by the industry-paid critics, ignore them and rent it.  You'll be
pleasantly surprised.

<|_=00=_|>
The central figure of this film, Jack Carter, is a Las Vegas gangster
who returns to his roots in Seattle following the death of his brother.
This was officially reported as an accident, but Jack suspects that his
brother may have been murdered by members of the local criminal
underworld. The film charts Jack's attempts to find out the truth and
to take revenge.

This is, of course, a good example of Hollywood's cannibalising of the
British and European film industries in its endless search for a good
story. It is a remake of Mike Hodges's classic from 1971, one of the
few great British gangster films. That film was one that grew out of,
and yet at the same time transcended, a particular place and time, the
North-East of England in the early seventies. This was a time of rapid
social change in Britain, marked by increasing social mobility, growing
permissiveness and relative prosperity, elements all reflected in the
film. Like many of the best British films, it had a strong sense of
place. Its fidelity to a real time and place was not a weakness but a
strength, helping to establish it firmly in the realm of reality and to
convey its major theme, the sterility and futility of the criminal
lifestyle. Its view of the underworld acted as a necessary antidote to
the tendency, very prevalent in the late sixties and early seventies,
to glamorise criminals ("The Thomas Crown Affair), sentimentalise them
("The Italian Job") or mythologise them ("The Godfather").

Stephen Kay's film attempts to establish a similar sense of place to
the original; the Seattle we see has a bleak, forbidding atmosphere,
always shrouded in rain or mist. It has a much more star-studded cast
than the original, with at least one reasonably good performance from a
convincingly thuggish Mickey Rourke. Despite this, however, it is a far
inferior film when compared with the original. The main reason is the
way in which the character of Jack Carter has been changed. Michael
Caine's Carter was, for all his sharp suits and fast cars, no more than
a ruthless street thug, a poor boy made bad at a time when other poor
boys were making good. Sylvester Stallone's character, by contrast, may
have a rough exterior (Stallone plays him as outwardly impassive, with
a gruff, emotionless voice) but beneath it he is one of the good guys.
The plot has been rewritten to make Carter less brutal and ruthless and
to allow him to survive at the end. The original was a morality play on
(as another reviewer has pointed out) the theme of "those who live by
the sword shall die by the sword". The remake is simply a revenge
thriller with a hero whom the audience can root for.

This illustrates one of the perils of the remake. Kay's film has kept
the title, the bare outlines of the plot and even some of the names of
the characters, but completely fails to capture the spirit of the
original. Moreover, it is unable to replace that spirit with anything
new. If the film-makers had wanted to make an exciting
goodie-versus-baddies revenge thriller, they could have chosen a better
starting-point than the plot of a film made some thirty years earlier
with a very different aim in mind.

It has become something of a tradition for remakes to feature cameo
appearances by the stars of the original films. Martin Scorsese's "Cape
Fear", for example, featured no fewer than three actors who had
appeared in the earlier J. Lee Thompson version, Gregory Peck, Robert
Mitchum and Martin Balsam. That, however, was a rare example of a
remake that we as good as, or even better than, the original. Kay's
"Get Carter", however, is not in the same class as Hodges's. It was,
therefore, rather disappointing to see Michael Caine appearing in a
remake that can only diminish one of his best films. 4/10
<|_=00=_|>

I simply do not get what certain people have against this movie. Sure,
it's
not a cinematic breakthrough, but it is very sharp, smart and
focused.
Jack Carter's brother, Richie, dies under mysterious circumstances. Jack
goes back to his home town to check things out and perhaps find out the
truth. What he finds is not all that easy to get to grips
with.

This is not your usual run of the mill revenge movie. The story has some
layers to it and I am surprised to see that people did not appreciate
that.
Jack Carter is not a good guy. He is a bad man working in bad town doing
bad
things. Always was a bad guy. But he reaches a moment in his life when the
things that take place  between him and his boss's girl Audrey, the things
that he finds out about his brother and his brother's family, all of them
act as a catalyst. For once in his life he tries to set things right. How
does he do that? By doing what he knows to do. He does bad
things.
The guys he goes up against are a little a out of the reach of the law. To
wait for justice to set things right is not a concept Jack is familiar
with.
The only things he knows is to take care of his own dirty laundry. And at
the moment his life is his dirty laundry.
He was not there for his brother, for his niece and he missed some
oportunities...
Time to set things right. But he does only bad things in this movie. He
kills people by shooting them, by throwing them out of the balcony, by
beating them up in the elevator. WHY? Because these are the same things
that
would happen to him if he let his guard down.

Great acting performances form most guys in the movie. Stallone seems to
have found some serious acting genes within himself. This is some of his
best work and his best is very good. Not only for the genre. Although when
looking back at Oscar (his 1991 comedy), D-Tox (a very underrated movie)
and
Copland I have to say that this is not a one off. No sir. When the script,
the director and the rest of the cast are good he can act big
time.
Michael Caine made a very good movie called get Carter back in 1971. I
love
that movie and is always one of my favorites to watch on Turner Classic
Movies. The remake, I felt, is just as good. Sure it has the sort of usual
happy ending, but that is just the American Way of ending action movies.
They love a hero.
Mickey Rourke, Alan Cummings, Michael Caine and Rachael Leigh-Cook are
very
good in this one. Somehow Miranda Richardson seemed a little over the top
in
her angry widow/mother scenes.

Michael Caine acted in this one simply because he knew it was good. The
movie could have been done without him, without a doubt. But he did it
because unlike other remakes, this one is just as good as the original. It
has it's own style, a somewhat different story and a happier ending.
Otherwise, they are two very similar movies. And even if some consider the
original as better, they should not write this one off. The layers are
there, you just have to dig. And this only because the producers did not
get
this movie. The director, the cast, everybody got this movie and knew what
they were making except for the producers who seem to have been thinking
of
another movie. Michael Caine seems to have given his seal off approval to
Stallone's acting in this one. The producers wanted a classic 80's action
movie. At least that's what I feel.
So, this is a very good movie. Just as good (or almost as good, depending
on
how you look at it) as the original. It has great acting, sharp directing,
nice car chase scenes, nice action scenes, some great moments, some
wonderful music, a simple yet effective storyline that keeps you guessing
and wanting to see more. And as someone put it, crap like XXX, The Fast
and
The Furious (+sequel, at least is has some cars), Charlie's Angels
(+sequel.
could not even watch) and other such teen-hormone-slang-flash-driven
movies
have a higher rating, IT SIMPLY ISN'T RIGHT!!!!!!
7.5/10

<|_=00=_|>

CONTAINS SPOILERS.

As someone who ranks 'Get Carter' (1971) on my top ten list, I probably
should have avoided this, but curiosity got the better of me and I finally
got a copy of the re-make on VHS in a sale.

It started well and there were some nice nods to the original film, notably
Carter's traveling to Seattle by train, the theme music and of course
Caine's cameo.  Did anyone notice that the guys sent from Vegas came in a
Jaguar?  I assumed that Seattle was a good US version of Newcastle,
northern, wet and gloomy.

Unfortunately as the film progressed it became obvious that this was not in
the same class as the original.

In fairness, there was some good acting from Stallone and Rourke and the
action sequences were well-handled and stylish, particularly the car chase. 
Unfortunately, that wasn't enough to save the film.  The problem was that no
matter how hard I tried, I couldn't help comparing it to the 1971
version.

In the original Carter is cold and calculating beyond anything we have seen
before to the point of being irredeemable and it was this facet that shocked
audiences then and still does.  He only shows emotion once, when he sees the
'blue' film, but this only stirs him into violence rather than reason.  He
kills without compunction everyone he feels responsible for his family's
fate and those he can't kill he leaves open to the authorities.  He is the
ultimate 'hard man,' and when he says 'with me it's a full time job' you
know he means it.

Stallone's Carter should be in group therapy by comparison.  He comes across
as actually quite weak by the end of the film.  In the original we never
know for sure that Doreen is his daughter (rather than niece), but it is
signposted.  In the Hollywood version it is made explicit and the story
loses a lot of impact, replaced by some sort of father-daughter bonding that
is out of touch with Carter's character.

BIG SPOILER - YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED.

The ending really put the cap on things.  For those of you still reading
this who have not seen the original (you have been warned), Carter is shot
dead by a hit man after killing Paice.  The irony is that Kinnear has
ordered this not knowing that he is about to be arrested by the vice squad
for peddling under-age pornography.  All of this is lost in the re-make as
Stallone's Jack Carter drives off into the sunset, presumably redeemed by
his experiences.

And with that, a classic is reduced to a good, but not great
thriller.
<|_=00=_|>

By far, the most entertaining moment on the DVD of "Get Carter" is
the hilariously outdated 1971 theatrical preview for the original
version of the film, which starred Michael Caine. (Caine does
appear in this Stallone update.) Sadly, this update stinks.
Sylvester Stallone's Jack Carter, a Las Vegas button man, skips
town without his boss's permission and heads up to his old
stomping grounds in Seattle to investigate the mysterious death of
his brother, whom he hasn't seen in five years. That's the pitch.

The action is surprisingly restrained and impressionistic. For
example, when one of the minor bad guys gets killed, we see the
result of a headlong plunge but not the actual slaying. But this kind
of restraint doesn't dovetail with the promise of the previews: an
ass-kicking Stallone in a Rat Pack suit. The director tries to gloss
over the many plot holes with slick, faux-Fincher cuts and zooms,
but he's just covering.

Here's the tragedy. Action-thrillers don't require good acting, but
they sure are enhanced by it. Most of the actors in "Get Carter"
have the ability to far outshine this genre, much the way the actors
in 1998's "Ronin" did-within the context of the plot, the cast of
"Ronin" delivered their lines with utter conviction.

Not necessarily so here. Those stars in "Get Carter" who have real
talent weren't used enough, and those who don't have the
strongest dramatic chops were given boatloads of screen time. Sly
is wooden at times (as per usual), but has some fine moments.

Miranda Richardson, as Carter's widowed sister-in-law, is solid,
but underutilized. Mickey Rourke, as an internet porn purveyor, has
obviously been working out some more, but it's still apparent that
he peaked in "Diner." The big surprise was just how much actual
characterization they allowed Rachael Leigh Cook--as Carter's
bereaved niece--to show off. Any one of these actors, given
enough on-screen opportunity, might have saved "Get Carter" from
its ridiculous plot holes and incongruities. But they didn't. Do
yourself a favor: avoid this film.

<|_=00=_|>

    Approximately 1/10th as good as the original, this version of GET CARTER
doesn't even have the courage to use the original ending.  And it is edited
in today's hyper-trendy style using extremely brief shots edited together in
a welter of images hoping to create an impression of kinetic action. 
Instead, it's just indecipherable chaos.

     Stallone tries his best, but his mustache and goatee have the odd
effect of squeezing his lips together increasing his resemblance to a fish. 
He's also saddled with long, boring scenes with his niece (or maybe she's
his daughter) that really don't lead anywhere.  This has a different main
villain than the original, but it's hardly a surprise since Mickey Rourke's
character gives it away in his first scene.  (But what happens to Mickey
Rourke later?  If he's dead, why wasn't there some kind of reaction from the
numerous bystanders?)
   
    Stallone needs to forget about the audience liking him, and go for the
realism of the character, but he never, never will show that kind of
imagination and integrity.

    Showy, trendy junk.


<|_=00=_|>
In 1971, the first of these action, violence prone films was offered.
In the original novel, written by Ted Lewis, it was Michael Caine who
was the unstoppable, revenge filled Gangster out to discover who killed
his brother. In this updated version directed by Stephen Kay, we have
Sylvester Stallone playing Jack Carter. Both versions were very well
conceived. The updated film has added the blood, gore and non-stop
drama which is common with newer versions. The story remains the same
in that Carter (Stallone) learns his younger brother died under
suspicious circumstances and he is determined to learn why. Along the
way, he is met with business types who are not interested in helping
Carter find the truth. To that end, John C. McGinley, Mickey Rourke and
even Michael Caine get in the action. The movie is filled with dark
sequences, black violence and thrilling chase scenes, all of which add
to the final outcome. Great movie and a worthy successor to the
original. ****
<|_=00=_|>

Stay clear of this remake.  Two years ago I helped preserve the original
for
WB.  I had to watch the film several times and came to enjoy it.  I saw
the
remake this weekend and come home very p***ed.  Everything you liked about
the original has been removed and only the worse parts have been left and
are over developed.  The worst part of the charactor development is that
the
negative life that Carter has lived never really catches up with him as it
did at the end of the original.   The only saving grace for this film is
that smidgens of the original music sound track were used.  Save your
money and see the original even if only on video tape.
