
I thought this movie was actually good. It was everything I expected it
to be,funny and full of intense action. I do not understand why people
are hating on this wonderful film, but the jokes I guess could be said
that they have been done before. Either way the whole audience was
laughing in the theater I went too. It deserves be watched.

Jackie Chan's fights were cool too. His fights fall short compared to
other the movies he has done, but for a movie like this they are
considerably good. I thought the story was pretty basic though, but I
didn't go in expecting an epic movie like Lord of the Rings, Star Wars,
etc. I went to laugh and i did. Chris tucker just kinda does the same
thing like the movie. But isn't that why we love Rush Hour?
<|_=00=_|>
Rush Hour 3, the sequel I've been waiting for, it's been 6 years since
our last Rush and I couldn't wait to join Chris and Jackie once again
for their awesome comedy and action. I saw Rush Hour 3 a few days ago
and I have to say that while I was definitely entertained, this still
didn't feel the same as the previous Rush Hour films. It had great
comedy, don't get me wrong, Chris Tucker is still so much fun to watch
on screen. Jackie adds a little more comedic edge to his role this
time; but it seemed like Jackie and Chris are not clicking as well as
they used too. It almost seemed like they were meeting for the first
time watching them on screen. Not only that, but this movie seemed more
rushed and the story wasn't as well developed as the first two Rush
Hour films.

In the beginning it seems like Lee and Carter are not on good terms,
Carter seems to have broken off Lee's relationship to his ex
girlfriend, Isabella. After an assassination attempt on China's
Ambassador, Lee and Carter are about to face the Triads', China's
deadliest gang. They are looking for a list in Paris and Lee and Carter
are on the case to find a beautiful woman who might hold the secret.
Things get a little more tricky when Lee has to his own brother who is
the leader of the Triads'.

Rush Hour 3 is all in good fun, standing on it's own, if this was the
first Rush Hour, it would have been fine somewhat, but just comparing
it to the first two films, this wasn't as good. But that's just my
opinion. But I think if you loved the first two Rush Hour films, you
should see this, it's still a fun film and has great comedy, there is a
little less action, a warning in advance, but it's all good if you are
looking for a fun film for the end of the summer.

6/10
<|_=00=_|>
So again we are back with a sequel of the Rush Hour series. The first
two were pretty good comedy movies staring both Jackie Chan and Chris
Tucker as cop partners with a typical plot with good action mixed with
comedy. This one follows the same structure, but how does it hold up?

If you liked the first two, you'd probably enjoy this one. There's
quite a few decent action scenes and again Chris Tucker's character
delivers a lot of the jokes and Jackie Chan's still got the awesome
moves and stunts but is it just me or was the action a bit tamer
compared to the other two? Not that its much of a problem since I still
enjoyed it but just something I noticed. Anyway, usual plot including a
kidnapping and this time they go to Paris, and the two meet up with a
person who wants to be like a spy.

It was very good and I'm glad the series is still working but perhaps
the series should end here. It's hard to tell, but usually 3 movies is
enough and the first one started like 10 years ago so its a rather
large gap. The movie delivered a few laughs, some action scenes, and
for what it was I thought it stayed true to its previous movie
structures. I'm glad that Chris and Jackie still work well together,
but to be honest I think the series should end with this one before it
goes overload and loses what made it fun in the first place.
<|_=00=_|>
With all the complexities of the final installments of this years
trilogies, this should be a welcome change of pace. Probably the worst
of the series, but really not bad. Highly predictable were as I told
the people I was sitting with who was behind it all and who the
accomplices were. The movie in a whole is about an hour and twenty
minutes. It has pretty humorous parts throughout and some good action
scenes, but in all honesty, they could have been better. The chemistry
between the two leads is still there which makes these movies fun in
the first place. This was an unneeded yet entertaining entry into the
series, but it is basically the love child of the first two. The
outtakes as usual are the best part of the film. To wrap it up, if you
enjoyed the first two, you will probably enjoy this one as well. Sure,
you can see everything coming from a mile away but it still makes you
laugh and still entertains. Take this for what it is and you will have
a good time.
<|_=00=_|>
The Chinese Triads have a secret to keep n Jackie and Tucker sets out
to Paris to find what the secret is. This forms the pin-point juncture
of the movie surrounding which the plot revolves. Fun Packed, with a
large chunk of recycled jokes with too little of Jackie Chan action ,
thats what I felt of the movie from a totally neutral perspective.But
being a Jackie Chan fan that I am , the movie is an entertainer with
loads of fun n chicks. Rush hour 3 evolves on predictable lines ,but
still entertainment quotient remains pretty high throughout. The on
screen chemistry between Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker is simply rocking
. But for an avid Jackie fan like me nothing pains more than a movie ,
with him in the rolls and yet , not having the traditional breathtaking
Jackie Stunts. But for a man aged 53 Jackie is still more fast , agile
and flexible than most of his much younger co-stars. The last stunt
atop the Eiffel tower was a masterstroke with Jackie and Tucker defying
height and gravity to put up a creditable show .But yeah, the movie
ought to be a disappointment for those who expected a still young,
reckless and crazy Jackie running around and kicking arse of the
do-no-gooders. There is less of the traditional slap stick comedy that
one associates with Jackie Chan movies. On the whole, a must watch for
Jackie fans with a very high quotient of entertainment value .
<|_=00=_|>
I really hadn't thought it could be as bad as it was. I found it
downright offensive in a few points and the humor was weak at best.

Potential spoiler...

There's a scene where they force a French taxi driver at gunpoint to
sing the US National Anthem which made me spontaneously so ashamed to
be American I wanted to crawl out of the theater and apologize to the
rest of the planet. It was ugly to an extreme. I think the worst bit is
whoever wrote it likely thought it was funny.

I'm rather certain one could almost pick any other film showing and
have a better time. I wanted to walk out of the theater several times.
The only reason I didn't was that I had gone with a friend, and even at
that I considered leaving anyway.
<|_=00=_|>
Should movies make money, then the Hollywood rule of thumb is to make
another, and another, until the franchise runs out of steam. The
original Rush Hour was a Jackie Chan vehicle of sorts to break into
Hollywood, and it made a lot of money with the mis-pairing opposite
Chris Tucker in a buddy cop movie formula filled with action and
comedy. Rush Hour 2 was made 3 years later and made even more money,
but it took 6 years for the second sequel to be made, and 9 years for
the entire trilogy to be done (pray tell, will there be another
sequel?)

Is the franchise tired? Probably, yet probably not. Face it, it's
Jackie Chan, and most of his films (with the exception of missteps such
as Around the World in 80 Days) make Hollywood studios smile. You can
rely on him to deliver the goods in any action comedy, but age
unfortunately has caught up with him, not to mention as well the
safer-than-safe minimal risks that studios in the West tend to take
with its stars. The action sequences in Rush Hour 3 look a bit tired,
tame, and very uninspiring, and what Jackie Chan can probably still do,
has been whittled down to sequences that are just a pale shadow of what
could have been.

Which leaves us with the comedy, thankfully still having its moments
especially for those punchlines which deliver. Tucker again gets most
of the snarky lines, and a target for those politically incorrect
jokes, while dishing some of his own. If there's any hint of
rudimentary character development after these years, is that his James
Carter, besides having been relegated to traffic duties, managed to
"half-chinese" himself, and no longer is that helpless cop who without
his gun, can't kick a ball for nuts.

The plot is no rocket science, and in fact, the previous two movies
just had something which could coast along from scene to scene,
providing a platform either to get our heroes Lee (Chan) and his
brother-from-another-mother James (Tucker) into fisticuffs, or provide
something for laughs. The first had a kidnapping of a Chinese Consul's
daughter which the duo had to investigate in the US, while the second
brought them to Hong Kong on the trail of a counterfeiting scam. The
third pits the detectives against Triads, and brings us full circle
with the return of that little girl in the original movie, who's now
all grown up, played by Chinese starlet Zhang Jingchu.

Zhang Jingchu follows in the footsteps of fellow compatriot Zhang Ziyi
who starred in the previous sequel. But unlike Ziyi, Jingchu's role is
sans martial arts, despite her character being a kungfu instructor.
It's unfortunately a purely flower vase role, though she looks more
fleshed and healthier than her druggy role in Protégé. Yvan Attal's
supporting role as a French cab driver is actually more of a scene
stealer - listen out for those jibes at America, though it's a little
of a cop out how that eventually plays out. Some of the more totally
insane moments involve those deliberate lost in translation moments,
which are the more enjoyable moments in this movie.

Rush Hour 3 is similar in structure with its predecessors, and it does
seem a tad familiar at times in the way the story gets developed, with
only a change in locale, now set in Paris. It's basically an attempt to
reunite the two stars in order to make another dent in the box office,
so though they're back, this movie can't be taken all too seriously. It
plays out like a cartoon for adults, though the local distributor
decided to edit portions of the French revue scene to obta in a rating
that everyone can go to.

If anything, stay behind for the outtakes, which triumphs over the main
offering, hands down.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much from this movie, I decided to see this movie
with my friends.

Boy, this movie surpass my expectation (my expectation were low...say
at the level of Scary Movie 3 and 4 at best). So anyway, you've got
your B level action-comedy movie and it does it quite well.

Jackie Chan (Who plays as Lee) acts well as usual (have some problem
for pronouncing things but I didn't mind that) and Chris Tucker is
still hilarious and he's still loud as ever. The jokes were great and I
had my shares of laughs and chuckles, the only problem I have with the
comedy is that sometime they try to stretch it far to much and you're
ending up saying "We get it already", but the comedy succeed quite
well. The action scene were always a thrill and the car chase was very
fun (there was a bit of laughter in the theater).

There's a lot more comedy (which some jokes were cheesy) in this movie
than action, but in the end I didn't mind, I still felt entertained and
happy to spend my 15$ in this movie.

So this is the end of my simple review, go watch this movie with low
expectation and in a mood for some good laughter and action and you'll
enjoy it. I give it 7/10, it's not amazing but it's still quite
entertaining and worth your money.
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much walking into the theater. I mean, since it took
them six long years to come out with the third installment, you'd think
that this time around, the series has pretty much run out of energy.
Plus, all of the bad reviews that I read before seeing it, didn't
exactly make me feel that I was going to be impressed. 

On the contrary, I was surprised by the performances of both Chan and
Tucker. The story is fun, the characters are interesting, the comedy is
sharp, and the action sequences are well done. 

It was fun to watch the interplay between Tucker and Chan. Tucker being
the outrageous, loud, and amusing Detective James Carter. And Chan, the
straight-laced, 'good guy' Inspector Lee. The charisma is still there,
just like it was since the first Rush Hour movie. This one seems to
have plenty of more laughs and an even more exiting climax towards the
end of the movie than the previous two. I definitely recommend seeing
'Rush Hour 3', for the comedy and action elements, and especially for
fans of the series like myself.
<|_=00=_|>
Director Brett Ratner returns to his element, offering a third fun,
funny, and violent slapstick installment in the Rush Hour series.Rush
Hour 3 sees Inspector Lee and Detective Carter back together again,
trying to save the lives of a Chinese ambassador who may be on the
brink of cracking open a massive organized crime syndicate called the
Triads, the ambassador's daughter, and a woman with a very dangerous
secret. The biggest problem, however, is the return of somebody from
Lee's past with the potential to derail the otherwise stalwart
Inspector. Most of this takes place in Paris, providing a different
setting and a few opportunities to exploit cultural stereotypes that
are new to the series. 

The film is jam-packed with the wild, mildly provocative humor the
series is known for, and the silly but entertaining martial-arts
slapstick that is Mr. Chan's trademark. Chris Tucker gives his best
performance in the series, delivering a lot of comic punch and playing
a nice complement to Chan's sombre and serious Inspector Lee.

Rush Hour 3 delivers exactly what fans of the series look for - a
simple linear action-thriller liberally decorated with a lot of
cleverly written comedy and the amazing physical performance of Jackie
Chan. It is better than many of Ratner's recent efforts, and a worthy
entry in one of the very few comedy series I have enjoyed.
