

I'm perplexed by the number of people who seem to miss the crucial
element
of this film: that Oscar is not as mature as he thinks he is.  His "love"
for Eve doesn't feel real to the viewer because it's not.  His patter--at
tea, in the bar, and elsewhere--feels forced and self-conscious because
it
is.  Because he is very intelligent, he makes the classic adolescent
mistake
of overestimating his own maturity and the force of his own feelings.  As
Diane, Bebe Neuwirth points out that it's not his maturity that draws so
many women to him, but that he is still unjaded.  That is, his most
attractive quality is in fact the precise opposite of what he thinks it
is.
Eve's rebuff, though a bit ambivalent, forces him to reevaluate his own
feelings.  The film's only major flaw is that it leaves this process
underexplicated, but when at the end he is more responsive to his
classmate's overtures it becomes clear that he is starting to see the
light,
however vaguely.  The film's point is thus obvious: a crucial part of
growing up is realizing how much growing up one has left to do.  That it
makes this point in such a refreshing, funny, and absurd way is the
film's
charm.

<|_=00=_|>

I don't understand the attacks that have been made on this film - not just
on this site, but elsewhere on the web.

There are a few holes in the script, and the whole things is less
substantial than a soap bubble, but it's still charming, witty and very
funny. There are points where you feel they haven't followed something up
enough, or explained something enough, but this film has better developed
characters than almost any other romantic comedy you could name. Plus, of
course, explanation isn't everything. In fact, sometimes, you're better
off
without it. A film that requires you to think, speculate or assume what
might have happened between scenes - or before the film started - isn't
that
a good thing?

Much has been made of the DV look of the film, but I hardly noticed - and
I
like a well shot piece of celluloid as much as the next person. Sometimes,
though, you just don't need the gorgeous, sweeping vistas of Lawrence of
Arabia - and this is a small, independent gem. The use of DV is probably
rather more to do with budget than laziness. In fact laziness would seem
to
be an unlikely part of the equation, what with the film being shot in a
fortnight.

If the thought of a 15-year-old spouting Voltaire fills you with the urge
to
punch someone, this probably isn't the film for you. But how often does a
thoughtful, not formulaic, intelligent, witty film come along. My advice
would be to disregard the minor flaws and enjoy. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

I was lucky enough to see this film at the Cine Vegas Film Festival
last week and I must say that I am shocked at its low overall score
thus far.
The best part of this film is its screenplay.  Heather McGowen and
Niels Mueller did an wonderful job putting this story together.  If you
are looking for a film that knows how to develop its characters,
build suspense and most importantly can tell a story the way it is
meant to be told, then you need to see Tadpole.
The acting in this film was also excellent.  Bebe Neuwirth, John
Ritter and Aaron Stanford gave great performances.
This is a funny and touching film that anyone that is a fan of a good
screenplay will enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

I've read some other comments about the poor film quality/picture quality of
this low-budget, quickly done fairly short (77 minutes) film.  Frankly, I'd
rather watch Tadpole ten times than sit through the horribly boring
technically beautiful special effects of either StarWars I or II.  Tadpole
captures the essence of interesting film making by focusing on the
characters, the story, the situations; and it does so in a way that's
doesn't parrot yet another low-brow TV situation comedy.  Between the
inspired writing, the well nuanced acting on all counts (with nary a weak
performance anywhere), and the decent editing, I fail to see how one can
complain about this movie from the perspective of it being an enjoyable
mini-novella/romp through New York.  Comments I've read on the weak acting I
find unsupportable by any normative standard.  
<|_=00=_|>

Oscar Grubman (newcomer Aaron Stanford, who is really about 25 years old) is
a precocious high school sophomore. *Really* precocious. He regularly speaks
French in his normal life, and seems to always be reading Voltaire (the one
liners seen throughout the film as inter-titles are apparently Voltaire
quotes).

The film happens over a long Thanksgiving weekend in New York City. We first
see Oscar on the train on his way home, briefly talking to a pretty
classmate who seems interested in him. After she leaves, Oscar's friend
Charlie (Robert Iler from "The Sopranos"), who may be the sanest character
in the film, asks Oscar about her, and Oscar dismisses her by saying that
her hands are those of a baby. Apparently he appreciates hands that show
more character.

We soon learn that the hands he really likes belong to Eve (Sigourney
Weaver). She's a medical researcher, whose marriage to Oscar's father,
Stanley (John Ritter), makes her Oscar's stepmother. Oscar does not seem
deterred by this little obstacle. I can see his point, as I am also a huge
fan of Weaver's (even going so far as to see "Heartbreakers"), but the age
difference is pretty extreme, not to mention that little almost incest
issue.

Diane (Bebe Neuwirth from "Cheers"), is a chiropractor who is Eve's best
friend. *You might want to skip the rest of this paragraph if you don't know
much about the film already.* Oscar runs into Diane late at night after
drinking too much, and when he smells Eve's perfume on a scarf Diane
borrowed, Oscar "accidentally" ends up sleeping with her. This scenario is
of course reminiscent of "The Graduate," although Oscar's age causes some to
question whether this is comedy or statutory rape. I vote for the former,
and in fact Oscar's inexplicable ability to easily be served alcohol in a
neighborhood bar bothered me more.

Much comedy ensues. In fact, it occurred to me later that low budget
independent films are rarely comedies, and even more rarely this well done.
The writing was was only adequate to good, but the performances were very
good, especially from Bebe Neuwirth. And some of the wordless reaction shots
are priceless.

The film was shot on digital video and transferred to film for distribution
to most theaters. I have read complaints about the quality, but it seemed
tolerable to me, except perhaps in the opening shots from the train. What
matters is that it is not distracting.

I enjoyed this film quite a bit. It isn't life altering in the slightest,
but it isn't trying to be. It's definitely worth checking
out.

Seen on 8/31/2002.

<|_=00=_|>

I don't think I can give an intellectual critique of this movie, because
I reacted to it in a very emotional way: I loved it.  I laughed all the
way through.  The thing that struck me so funny wasn't the
dialogue so much as the facial expressions of the performers
(though I did laugh every time Bebe Neuwirth opened her mouth.)
The look on Charlie's face when he finds out Oscar is in love with
his stepmother, the amused look on Diane's face as she watches
Oscar panic during dinner at the French restaurant...I could go on.

Also, John Ritter performs the funniest choke take I have ever
seen, during the aforementioned French restaurant scene.  In
short, I enjoyed this movie immensely and have already
recommended it to all of my friends.

Finally, in response to the person who found the Voltaire quotes
pretentious: I agree, but I think that was the point.  After all, a 15
year old who reads Voltaire and thinks girls his age are beneath
him is pretty damn pretentious himself.

<|_=00=_|>

Oscar Grubman is a `40 year-old trapped in a 15 year-old's body,' a bright
prep school sophomore who prefers Voltaire and Henry Miller to icons of pop
culture and more `seasoned' women to girls his own age.  The problem is that
the woman he fancies himself in love with now is his very own stepmother, a
heart specialist appropriately enough named Eve. 

Despite the admittedly touchy subject matter, `Tadpole' exudes a great deal
of undeniable charm, thanks, primarily, to superb performances by a
first-rate cast and to the wry humor of much of the Heather McGowan/Niels
Muller screenplay.  Aaron Stanford and Sigourney Weaver are wonderful as
Oscar and Eve, two extremely intelligent people who know that in other
circumstances they might have been able to act on their feelings but who
have the wisdom and maturity to see things for what they truly are.  The
possibility of giving into a `forbidden love' can exert a powerful force on
an individual, and `Tadpole' does a nice job capturing that theme in a
lighthearted, non-threatening way.

Of course, `Tadpole' taps into that age-old fantasy of a young boy's
obsession with an older woman and one wonders how the audience would feel if
the situation were reversed and he were the 40 year-old and she the 15
year-old in the relationship.  I suspect, somehow, that a film on that
subject would carry with it a darker, more sinister tone than the one we
find in `Tadpole.'   Actually, there are a number of very funny scenes in
this film, with much of the humor deriving from the secrecy,
misunderstandings and double entendres that would naturally arise from such
a situation.  Indeed, some of the movie plays like classic Restoration farce
with an ersatz-incestuous twist.  A good deal of the humor arises from the
fact that the older women in the film see in this precocious teenager the
kind of passion, intelligence and sensitivity that they don't find in men
their own age.  

Director Gary Winick shot the film in a digital format, giving the movie a
slightly shaggy `independent' feel.   This heightens the sense of intimacy
and immediacy needed to confront this particular topic without seeming to
exploit it at the same time.  A slicker, more `commercial' look and approach
would most likely have made the film appear too sleazy, distasteful and
arch.	As it is, we are amused at the same time we are appalled. 

`Tadpole,' by lowering the protagonist's age and keeping the matter `all in
the family' so to speak, has brought `The Graduate' into the 21st Century.


<|_=00=_|>
With subject matter that many might consider offensive (fifteen
year-old boy in love with his step-mother and seduced by older woman),
TADPOLE manages to be a charming, witty light comedy with a sensitive
look at a controversial theme--a coming-of-age story with heart.

And its hero, a sophisticated fifteen year-old played by a twenty-five
year-old actor (AARON STANFORD), is a natural in the title role,
completely convincing as the impressionable youth living with his
step-mother (SIGOURNEY WEAVER) and father (JOHN RITTER) in a fancy New
York City apartment. Ritter plays the busy working father in one of his
rare serious roles and is excellent, as is Weaver as the woman who
discovers that her son has been having an affair with her best friend
(BEBE NEUWIRTH). Neuwirth makes the most of her sly comic scenes as a
temptress who awakens hormones in the teen-ager. A restaurant scene
with the boy and his parents is a highlight of the story, where her
deceptive conduct is exposed by Ritter's observation of an indiscretion
in a mirrored image.

Witty and humorous, never taking itself seriously, it's an amiable tale
told with deft touches and it moves briskly under Gary Winick's nimble
direction with some nice glimpses of Manhattan's upper east side.
<|_=00=_|>

I definitely liked this film.  I am not basing this off of any sort of
critical analysis of cinematography or directing or whatnot, except for
the
fact that I liked it, so I do think the acting was good.  I am basing this
off of the fact that when I left the theater, I felt good.  The end was
realistic, the movie wasn't fluff, and I felt content.  I don't know when
a
movie has made me feel this good, but it hasn't been since, certainly.
Also, being a fan of New York City and that it was filmed and set there
adds
to my enjoyment.  It was smart, witty, and if I may say so, I find Aaron
Stanford to be quite attractive.  It wasn't particularly deep, but who
cares, it was light and great.  If you have seen Lovely and Amazing or
Good
Girl, you know that these two movies are about older women who have
affairs
with younger men. Same with this one, however, those two, as realistic as
they are, are not light hearted.  So yes I enjoyed this movie, the other
two
mentioned are also good, just don't leave one feeling sublime.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was wonderous! Bebe Neuwrirth desirves an oscar for sheer charm
alone! There has been few rare occasions where I came out of a movie
glowing
(for example "The Royal Tenenbaums" and "Kissing Jessica Stein") and this
movie caused such an occasion. It has some of the best writing since
"Election". You must see this film!
"If we can't find something pleasant, at least we will find something
new..."10/10
