

Nobody goes to see an Adam Sandler movie for spiritual enrichment or
intellectual stimulation - let's get that out of the way first. Once you
accept you've paid your money to be mildly entertained in a lighthearted,
slapstick manner, strap in and enjoy the ride.

 I keep hearing Sandler is a major Hollywood player these days with an equal
footing as producer as he is actor (he has produced a considerable amount
with fellow actor Rob Schneider - the similarly inane but funny - mostly in
spite of yourself - Hot Chick being the most recent example, in which he has
a cameo role and indeed, Schneider helps Sandler out in Mr Deeds) so it's
hard to prove that Sandler is now typecast as a lovable fool, because it's
fairly likely he chose the part himself, possibly aware that Hamlet might be
a little out of his league. Sandler need only check his bank balance to see
that the lovable fool is certainly a lucrative one, having made an absolute
mint playing countless other characters blessed with naive charm and a heart
of gold.

 The story - we all know it's a remake of the classic depression-era
propaganda film starring Gary Cooper, designed to lift spirits and foster a
sense of community - centres around a picturesque New England town and its
perenially-cheerful, smalltown inhabitants, chiefly Longfellow Deeds
(Sandler), who inherits a fortune from an uncle he never knew, finds himself
at the helm of a media empire and heads to the Big Apple to find out more.
Here Winona Ryder steps in as the ambitious TV reporter determined to get
her big scoop and dupes the affable Deeds into falling in love with her. All
the time she's wearing a wire and a hidden camera to enable their courtship
and his antics, sometimes drunken, sometimes heroic, to be broadcast on the
evening news. Typically Deeds is the last to know and is appalled when he
makes the connection. By which time Ryder's character has fallen in love
herself, resigned from her job and is begging for a second chance.

 Deeds' only flaw is a short fuse and this is at odds with his generous
spirit, who at times could be George Bailey, James Stewart's kindly
smalltown character in Capra's It's a Wonderful Life (1946), but this spices
things up a little and allows the suspension of disbelief to continue a
little longer. The number of disrespectful, foulmouthed city folk he takes
out is entertaining, while not always convincing, but then times have
changed and these days your average bloke doesn't think of taking a swing at
a man for swearing in front of a lady (more's the pity I say).

 While you could aim criticism at this and jeer at the corny lines and
simplistic moral at the film's end, there is something to be cherished here.
The moral of course being that money is less important than being true to
yourself, and while you're at it, be nice to your neighbour. As Mother
Teresa once said, kindly words are heard once but their echoes are heard for
ever - Deeds' character and his deeds (pun definitely intended) themselves
are echoes of another, lamentably more innocent time and it's uplifting to
see this spirit so laboured in the film's remake. It's also refreshing to
see this bravely recreated by the producers, who have not shied away from
dealing with the film's essence in these cynical times.

 It's not all sentimental Queen of Hearts stuff though. There are some
hilarious, laugh-out-loud moments that counter the film's message
perfectly - the helicopter ride to Manhattan where the crew and Deeds are
singing 'A Space Oddity' complete with air-guitar springs to mind here - and
there is the usual dose of slapstick you'd expect from a Sandler picture.
The 7 flying cats rescued from a burning building by our hero is
particularly memorable and as I say, I was laughing in spite of myself.

 This humour compliments the film's slushy message and prevents any actual
retching in the theatre - leaving the cinemagoer shuffling out content, with
a smile on his face - definitely a feelgood movie. I just hope Sandler
doesn't attempt It's A Wonderful Life next, I don't think the world's quite
ready yet.


<|_=00=_|>
Mr. Deeds, the remake of Mr. Deeds Goes To Town, Mr. Deeds Goes To Town
is an old comedy that is personally one of my favorite comedies. It's
just a wonderful film that I highly recommend you watch if you get the
chance. So Adam Sandler decided to take on that classic and make it
into his film, which honestly isn't that bad, just in comparison,
believe me then you look at it as a horrendous film. It was just one of
those movies that really didn't need a remake. But Adam Sandler did
bring his own bite to the film and just updated the story for the
younger generation that obviously never heard of the movie.

After Preston Blake freezes to death at the summit of Mount Everest
with a triumphant smile on his face, a search for his heir for his
successful company begins. When it is found that he has a living nephew
named Longfellow Deeds who runs a pizzeria in New Hampshire, Deeds is
contacted and brought to New York City by attorney & businessman Chuck
Cedar. Plans are made for Deeds to sell his shares in the company to
Cedar and return home $40 billion richer, but he must remain in New
York for a few days as all the legal details are worked out. The story
is major news, and reporter Babe Bennett, who works for a tabloid show,
has a friend pretend to steal her purse in sight of Deeds, because
their research indicated Deed wanted to meet a girl by saving her, the
same way his father had met his mother. Deeds rescues her and she
continues to go out with him under the disguise of Pam Dawson, school
nurse. Though Pam initially hopes to just get a good story on the new
heir, she eventually falls for the kind-hearted Deeds while realizing
that all she's done is lie to him and wants to be with him. Chuck is
also up to no good in wanting to take over the company from Deeds and
doesn't have the best intentions.

Mr. Deeds has a few funny moments, even though it was incredibly
immature, I do have to admit that I got a kick out of the scene where
Longfellow shows off his frostbite foot and tells the servant to hit it
with the fire poker, and screams to freak him out, yeah, it's something
that most little brothers would do to their older sibling, but it still
got a laugh. Wynonia Rider was actually pretty good in the film, she
was very adorable, but her chemistry wasn't exactly on key with
Sandler, not her fault, just I wasn't feeling it too much in the film.
Over all the film is worth the look if you see it on TV, but otherwise,
I wouldn't recommend going out of your way to see the movie.

5/10
<|_=00=_|>
This, once again, has most of the earmarks of modern-day comedies: tons
of sexual innuendos, lots of good laughs but many of them out of
questionable lines or behavior, and a stupid, rushed ending that tries
to make all the good guys win and the bad guys lose. The latter is fine
- I want the good guys to prevail - but they way they go about it is
stupid.

I did think this movie had a little softer edge than most other
blatantly-low class "Something About Mary/American Pie"-type comedies
of today however. I guess what I am saying is this isn't as
in-your-face type offensive most of the rest are.

Of course, Adam Sandler is playing the low-key Gary Cooper role of Mr.
Deeds from the 1940s, so he's not the high-strung Happy Gilmore type
here, although he does get violent at times. Winona Ryder plays the
love interest, a tabloid low-moral reporter who is reformed by the
amiable Mr. Deeds. She's not believable at all and one can see one
reason she isn't much of star actress anymore. It isn't just her
real-life problems. She's pretty and she's okay in the role but
something's missing in her acting.

The real star of the film is John Turturro, as the Spanish butler. He's
funny in about every scene he's in and he's a guy everyone roots for
here.

In summary, it's a pretty nice film, with a number of laugh-out-loud
scenes, but it's still a long way from the Gary Cooper-Barabara
Stanwyck classic film version, at least in terms of an aw-shucks
wholesome hero. This film just doesn't have the heart and soul of the
original, because it's more concerned with cheap laughs than a moral
message. Still, it has its funny moments and I found worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers ahead, probably.  The movie is simply awful, diseased and ridden
with more fleas than Hennie Youngman's long dead one-liner underpants.
Al
Sharpton is hilarious to laugh at, except at the mercy of these writers.
HOW DO YOU MAKE AL SHARPTON UNFUNNY?  John Turturro, John McEnroe, Steve
Buscemi -- all talents (and funny!) drained by this vampiric script.
Death
reeks from every orifice here, from the greeting card "bits" (what else
to
call them?) to the hackneyed physical stuff.  Thoughts:

--what's with Sandler's dubbed voice over Murph?  when will someone tell
this idiot that he can't do "funny voices"?  HE CAN'T EVEN MANAGE HIS OWN
RIDICULOUS VOICE.

--get 40 billion dollars, toss $25k at a random couple in a restaurant,
$40k
for used bikes, rent MSG for a night:  the writers didn't even bother to
stop drinking long enough to come up with ONE cool thing to do with a
massive fortune.  HOW DO YOU MAKE BREWSTERS MILLIONS LOOK LIKE CINEMATIC
GENIUS?

--since when does nice mean RETARDED?

--if smalltownville is so great, why's it full of psychos, dullards and
freaks of nature?  (the self-defeating premise of doom)

--didn't realize Ryder couldn't act.  Hmmmm.  much like Sandler, has been
delivering the same performance again and again since onset of
career

--trying to show off how much you researched the bumblefunk towns of the
northeast?  WICKED lame.

--Stephen King is scary jokes?

--how tiny do you have to be down under to make yourself into a phony
physical tough guy in every movie?  i mean, does anyone actually believe
that sandler can "beat the crap" out of anyone else?

--on what network do you find a moustachioed limeystralian foreigner
hosting
an American television show?

--sandler and romance::pasta and nuclear chunks.
it's (unintentionally) funny that the premise also includes the phony
"sandler could get someone if he didn't have money subplot"...can this
guy
even get dates as a movie star?  THIS is a leading man?

--peter gallagher's eyebrows, bald guy's beard, everyone's performance --
SADISM.

--french fries and oreo's on pizza?  hooooeeee!   that guy is mad cap.
same
guy that gives the hero the turning point plot exposition in the end.
while
you're at it, why don't you land the helicopter at Wendy's?  yeee haw.
they're out of control.

--OMG the torrent of lost jokes on the JETS.  ye gods, what a real writer
could have done with them...

--Yes, like any sensible American, I found myself actually rooting for
the
ice on the lake to win after the egregiously fat woman didn't have the
cajones to finish the job

I am making travel arrangements to hollywood to personally get my money
back
from these thieves.  Time permitting, will torture them for 90-odd
minutes
by making them watch....well, Little Nicky comes to mind...
;)


<|_=00=_|>
I thought Mr. Deeds was absolutely hilarious, when I was a kid. It was
one of my favorite movies. Now that I'm older, and have a lot more
experience with comedies, I have to admit that it's not quite as
wonderful as I once thought it was. It's so-by- numbers and
unimaginative, that I can't imagine much passion or effort was put into
making it, at all. 

There are a few laughs to be had, but no more than any other typical
Sandler movie. The story is shallow and the characters are so
one-dimensional, that it's hard to really have much of an interest in
what's going on. Somehow, it seems like not enough happens to even
account for the relatively short running-time. I've simply grown-up,
and besides how pretty Winona Ryder is, nothing about Mr. Deeds is as
good as I remember.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is about a guy named LongFellow Deeds(Adam Sandler) who inherits
40 billion dollars from his late uncle. He goes to New York to collect the
money and a news reporter(Winona Ryder) want's his story(in order to keep
her job). From this point it gets very silly. Adam Sandler wasn't as funny
as he usually is. The story (actually a remake) is very boring and most of
the jokes are old. The only actor who made me laugh was John Turturro. He
plays a spanish butler with a twisted passion for feet. If you liked him in
"The Big Lebowski"(as Jesus Quintana) then maybe this is a movie for you. I
give this movie a 3/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Longfellow Deeds (Adam Sandler) is a small town guy who is taken to the
big city when he learns he has an inheritance of $40 billion from a
long lost uncle. He has to adjust to life in a Palatial Mansion with a
personal butler, and he meets a beautiful school nurse (Winona Ryder);
but its not long before the money begins to change everything, and he
learns things are not what they seem.

This remake is not without plenty of laughs, but it never quite manages
to do anything thats truly hilarious or new. For a bit of fun its worth
a watch, but it's one of those films that you will forget about pretty
quickly.

6/10 its just average i'm afraid
<|_=00=_|>
When this movie first came out, I was about 13 or 14 years old. I
remember I couldn't stop laughing every time I watched it. I was
literally obsessed with the movie. I would watch it through, then
rewind the tape, and watch it again. I spent most of my winter vacation
from school watching Mr. Deeds. I begged for the DVD for my birthday,
and by the time I got the DVD, I was so sick of the movie that I never
wanted to watch it again. I was just flipping through channels today
and it was on Comedy Central, and I was trying to figure out what
amazed me so much about this movie. It is corny, dull, and predictable.
The whole love story that develops throughout the movie has no
chemistry, and the actors cannot convince the audience that they really
belong together.

Despite all of the pitfalls of this film, I will admit that there are a
few points that do always make me giggle a little (i.e. "This was my
brother's room...my parents hated my brother."), so I guess that's a
credit to the quality of some of the jokes.

All in all, I would say this is a film worth watching at least once in
your life, but I wouldn't recommend buying the DVD or paying for it in
a theater.
<|_=00=_|>

Hmm... it seems I've seen this movie already, not because its a remake of
an
old Frank Capra movie, but because it's basically the same old Adam Sandler
schtick for 2 hours.  The only difference is this time it isn't very funny.
Basically, a variation on a Sandler plot- idiot savant gets filthy rich but
maintains his goofy (and humorless) innocence.  The Sandler persona wears
thin about 5 minutes into the movie and basically that's it.  You're stuck
with a mediocre movie that a chimp could have produced.  The one I truly
feel sorry for is Winona- first her shoplifting debacle and now this.  My
Personal Opinion: Avoid this movie at all costs. 
<|_=00=_|>
This Adam Sandler vehicle is a re-make of a classic Frank Capra movie
which originally starred Gary Cooper and Jean Arthur. Capra won his
second Academy Award for Best Director for the 1936 classic. Gary
Cooper received an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor for his
sincere portrayal of a simple man thrust into extraordinary
circumstances. As in many of Capra's films, Cooper's character, guided
by a genuine moral center and sense of compassion for those struggling
through difficult economic times (the Great Depression), fights against
the shallow, the insincere, and the corrupt.

This 2002 version of Mr. Deeds, directed by Steven Brill, possesses
none of the charm or drama of the original. The task of updating Robert
Riskin's and Clarence Kelland's Oscar-nominated script went to Timothy
P. Herlihy, who received his professional break as a staff writer on
"Saturday Night Live." The Oscar-winning Riskin also authored such
acclaimed screenplays as "Lost Horizon," "It Happened One Night," "You
Can't Take It With You," and "The Strange Love of Martha Ivers." In
contrast, Herlihy has no non-Adam Sandler big-screen credits, having
penned or co-authored the screenplays for "Billy Madison," "Happy
Gilmour," "The Wedding Singer," "The Waterboy," "Little Nicky," and
"Big Daddy." Herlihy's unfunny adaptation of the original script is
therefore not surprising. Unfortunately, the direction, the script and
Sandler's performance all make Longfellow Deeds' character look shallow
and the character's transformation into compassionate philanthropist
seems contrived. The result of this collaboration is a film which is
fundamentally insincere and lacking any charm.

Do yourself a favor, and rent the DVD of the original 1936 film, and
you'll see why Frank Capra and Gary Cooper were, respectively, among
the greatest American directors and actors of the 20th Century.
