

Independent filmmaking is alive and well and evident in Monster's Ball. 
This film had a minuscule $4 million budget, a terrific script and a
director not afraid to take some risks.  Billy Bob Thornton and Halle Berry
practically donated their time they were paid so little.  The result is a
powerful and disturbing film that walked off with a boatload of awards, not
the least of which was a best actress Oscar for Berry.

Director Marc Forster conjures a forceful presentation with stark sets, next
to nothing in the way of props and other set decoration, and a non existent
soundtrack.  Forster does it with innovative use of the camera, sharp
editing and most importantly excellent actor direction.  Forster could have
done better at character development and the ending is nebulous and
unsatisfying, but these shortcomings can be partially forgiven for the films
many assets.

This is an actors' showcase, with outstanding performances all around. 
Heath Ledger makes a short but intense appearance as the son that Hank
(Billy Bob Thornton) despises.  Ledger pumps the character full of repressed
anger and disappointment, simultaneously resenting him and seeking his
father's approval.  Peter Boyle is despicable as Hank's bigoted and self
centered father.  Billy Bob Thornton delivers his best performance since
`Sling Blade' with a complex character torn between his prejudices and his
attraction to Leticia (Halle Berry).

Of course the big story here is Halle Berry.  Berry shows once again that
she is not just another pretty face.  I first took serious notice of her
after seeing her performance in `Introducing Dorothy Dandridge', a little
seen TV movie in which she won both a Golden Globe and an Emmy.  After that
marvelous dramatic performance, I was surprised that she couldn't land roles
any better than `Swordfish' and `X-Men', which tapped nothing more
substantial than her looks.  

In this film, Berry is sexy and alluring, but these are only incidental
attributes.  She displays a full range of emotions from vibrant elation and
unbridled passion, to utter despondency.  She practically rips her heart out
and throws it at the camera.  She can convey volumes with a single look, or
come completely unglued with equal impact.  Her Oscar for this performance
was richly deserved and had nothing to do with her race as so many have
rationalized.  She just flat out won it going away.  As good as Nicole
Kidman was in `Moulin Rouge', it wasn't even close.

This is an excellent film that is worth seeing for the acting alone.  I
rated it a 9/10.  It is a compelling and deeply disturbing drama that
serious film lovers will surely enjoy.

<|_=00=_|>

MONSTER'S BALL / (2001) **** (out of four)

When I finish reading a great book, I don't close it right away. Treasuring
the story's emotional grasp, I just sit there and hold it for a minute,
enthralled, sensing the character's lives are continuing even as I put the
book away. 

"Monster's Ball" is a similar experience. The film contains so much truth,
vigor, and so many harrowing moments, I just stared at the screen through
the ending credits. Even after a second viewing the conviction did not
diminish. It really says something about a movie when you know what happens
and you're equally as mesmerized every time you watch it.

Most movies about depravity are really about entertainment, but director
Marc Forster avoids preachy speeches, big sappy moments, and melodramatic
music. Even during the movie's most important scenes, Forster does not
overplay the material. He knows that careful, quiet dialogue, and long,
silent pauses speak louder than lengthy emotional summaries.

Consider a scene where a character checks his father into an old folk's
home. It does not feature long good-byes or conclusive hugs. Instead, it
projects unflinching, raw emotion. "You must love him very much," reassures
an attendant to the character who replies, "No I don't, but he is my
father"

The character, Hank, is played by Billy Bob Thornton, who makes his Academy
Award-winning performance in "Sling Blade" look like SNL material. Hank,
bitter and racist, lives in a Southern country house with his son, Sonny
(Heath Ledger), and father (Peter Boyle). 

Hank and Sonny work as prison guards on death row. Sonny desperately wants
out of the family business, especially after an unpleasant emotional
reaction to the latest execution. When Hank explodes at him for his mistake,
Sonny teaches his father a lesson he will never forget. 

The film eventually becomes a story about the relationship between Hank and
the widow of the man he has just executed. She's played by Halle Barry, who
was paid an extra one-million dollars for doing an extended sex scene
completely nude. This is a gradual, yet sudden relationship that is not
based on physical attraction or love, but emotional need and depravity.

Forster makes interesting editing choices. During certain scenes, he cuts
back and forth between separate occurrences while the central action fills
the soundtrack. Especially unique is how he handles a sex scene. While two
characters engage in some of the most graphic stimulated sex of last year,
Forster flashes images of a caged bird before us. A metaphor of shattered
innocence or repressed emotion, perhaps?

Actually, Forster fills "Monster's Ball" with metaphors, including the title
itself. He even includes a moving soundtrack of timid rhythms and sudden
beats, symbolizing the characters complex states of mind. Forster's
haunting, daring feature reminds us why we all love the movies.

  

<|_=00=_|>

	It's very rare, but occasionally a film comes along that plays out so
realistically that it doesn't even seem like you're watching a movie, but
participating-- albeit as an observer-- in this particular drama of life
that is unfolding around you.  And so it is with `Monster's Ball,' a
riveting film, directed by Marc Forster, that is so real it transcends
entertainment and becomes a voyeuristic experience that leaves you with the
sense that you've been through everything that's happened yourself.  It's a
thought provoking examination of relationships and perspectives, including
the ingrained, subjective attitudes-- especially prejudices-- that have such
a profound and lasting affect on our lives, as well as the lives of those
around us.  It's a film that says so much about the way we respond to one
another, as well as certain situations, and why; in short, it's about the
world that we, as a society, have created and must live in together-- right
or wrong, good or bad, black or white.  And at the heart of the story is a
message that rings through loud and true; a perception that we can do
better-- and must-- if we are to survive as a civilized, dignified and
progressive species.  In the final analysis, we are, all of us, members of
the family of Man; and it's time we realize and acknowledge
it.

	After eleven years on death row at a Georgia State Penitentiary, Lawrence
Musgrove (Sean Combs) is out of appeals and is headed for the electric
chair.  There to make their final visit is Musgrove's wife, Leticia (Halle
Berry), and their son, Tyrell (Coronji Calhoun), while veteran corrections
officer Hank Grotowski (Billy Bob Thornton) oversees the proceedings.  Also
on hand is third-generation corrections officer Sonny Grotowski (Heath
Ledger), who during Musgrove's final walk discovers he doesn't have the
stomach required to perform his duties, which will later create some
conflict with his father.

	Bigotry, it seems, is something of a family trait;  Hank's father, Buck
(Peter Boyle), a retired corrections officer, is the product of a time when
African Americans `knew their place.'  But it's an attitude that's
apparently become somewhat watered down in his family from one generation to
the next.  Hank seems almost indifferent, even apathetic, when it comes to
race, though under stress, especially, he defers to his father's views. 
Sonny, however, has a mind of his own, and by nature is more willing to
embrace all of the myriad and diverse aspects of life as he sees it.  And
with the three generations of Grotowski men living under one roof, needless
to say, there is more than some tension in the household, which inevitably
leads to tragedy.

	Leticia, meanwhile, is riding a downward spiral in her own life, attempting
to cope with both her husband's situation and a problem with her son, while
having to make a living on top of it all.  And just when it seems that her
world is about to fall into total collapse, circumstances bring her into
contact with-- of all people-- Hank Grotowski.  Call it fate, or just one of
those things; but it becomes a turning point, not only in their lives, but
in the lives of a number of people close to them.  And very soon, for Hank
and Leticia, especially, the world becomes a very different
place.

	Working from a screenplay by Milo Addica and Will Rokos that is
intelligent, incisive and uncompromising, Forster delivers an emotionally
absorbing drama that is raw, insightful and presented with a subtle
intensity that is so thoroughly engrossing it becomes mesmerizing.  It's a
film that does not allow the viewer the luxury of casual observation or an
indifferent attitude; the story is told in terms that are so brutally honest
and starkly realistic that it does not provide for neutral ground or
ambiguity on the part of it's audience.  This is powerful drama, and Forster
makes sure that everyone watching has the sense of actually being included
as the story unfolds.  He makes you a part of this world in which Hank,
Leticia and the others live-- there's no standing on the sidelines with this
one.  As in real life, with this film you are confronted with situations
that demand resolution and force you to make decisions. 

	It takes a number of elements to make a truly great film, of course, and in
this one they all come together beautifully-- especially in the
performances, beginning with Billy Bob Thornton, who is without question one
of the best leading men/character actors in the business.  He's a true
chameleon who never ceases to amaze with his versatility and his ability to
create believable, interesting and memorable characters, from Karl (arguably
his most memorable) in `Sling Blade,' to Jacob in `A Simple Plan,' or
Russell in `Pushing Tin' to Hank in this film, whom he captures with
absolutely incredible subtlety and depth.  It's a terrific performance,
delivered with nuance and restraint, and it should have earned him an Oscar
nomination, as it was clearly one of the best performances of the
year.

	What really takes this film to a higher level, though, is the extraordinary
performance by Halle Berry as Leticia, in whom she creates a finely layered,
three-dimensional character that is singularly effective and entirely
believable and real.  In Leticia, you will find every conceivable emotion
woven around conflicts born of the definitive complexities of life, the
things we all experience in one way or another at one time or another, and
to which everyone will be able to relate on some level, according to
personal experience.  In this performance, Berry does it all and gives her
all, and it's work for which she deservedly was awarded the Oscar for Best
Actress.  When you come away from this film, it's with the indelible images
of Leticia and Hank burned into your memory, thanks to the talents of Berry,
Thornton and Forster.  `Monster's Ball' is compelling, unforgettable drama,
and an example of filmmaking at it's best.  10/10.
 

	

	  

	

	  

	

	

	

	

	

	          
<|_=00=_|>
This movie was not a big favorite with audiences and I figured I would
be among the majority on this one......but I wasn't - I like this film.
In fact, I liked it even better on the second viewing.

I found it to be one of those rare movies that deals with racism that
doesn't come on too heavy-handed with all the political correctness
nonsense. It handled the problem intelligently, I thought.

The cinematographer, Robert Schaefer, did a terrific job with this,
too, and that is another reason I have come to really enjoy this film.
The visuals - and the audio - are outstanding.

None of the characters are particularly likable but I thought Billy Bob
Thornton's "Hank Grotowski" was so interesting a character that I
concentrated more on that than whether I liked him or not. However, I
wound up liking him, anyway, and boy, did his character change in this
film. There is a steamy sex scene in here with Billy Bob and Halle
Barry that was quite the talk when the film was released. I didn't
think it was all that it was made out to be. I've seen steamier moments
such as Alec Baldwin and Kim Bassinger going at it in the non-rated
version of "The Getaway." 

Overall, this a rough film in spots but I think it is a solid,
underrated drama that offers far more than the "celebrated" sex scene.
This is a well-made movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Hank Grotowski (Billy Bob Thornton) is the middle generation of three
generations of prison guards. His father Buck (Peter Boyle) is long retired
and a near-invalid, using a walker and leaning on an iron lung. His son
Sonny (Heath Ledger) is a novice guard. Hank and Sonny work together on
Death Row and are among the guards responsible for the executions (Hank's in
charge).

The first thing that strikes one about this particular group of men is the
level of racism that's apparent in each one. Buck's the worst - he screams
at young black kids who happen to wander onto "his" property (all three
Grotowskis live together) and is liable to spout off some hateful rhetoric
at any time. Hank's not a lot better, but his feelings seem tempered in
contrast to Buck; he seems more weary than angry. And Sonny is actually
friends with that same neighboring black family whose kids come over every
now and then.

Thus the line of racism is significantly watered down as the generations
progress. This is not to suggest that Sonny is an angel, or that Buck is the
absolute devil. Sonny and Hank share the same hooker (though not at the same
time); all three men drink, smoke, and cuss like sailors. In short, they're
simply not nice folk.

While Hank and Sonny are transporting a prisoner to the electric chair,
Sonny takes ill and can't continue.  Because of this, the prisoner (who had
bonded a little with the compassionate Sonny earlier) suffers a little
during his execution. Enraged, Hank attacks his son in the locker room after
the execution, and the other guards have to separate them.

That's one relationship being examined - that of Hank and Sonny. The other
is the more important one, however. The widow of the executed prisoner,
Leticia Musgrove (Halle Berry), is trying to make ends meet as a waitress.
But her car constantly dies on her, and after being late to work repeatedly,
she's fired - shortly after her husband is executed. She has one overeating
kid to feed, too. She does get another job as a waitress, but has to ditch
the car when it dies a final time. Walking home in the rain, her son (who
has to come with her; can't leave him home to binge) his hit by a car. Hank
happens to be passing by, and with some reluctance (remember, he is racist,
if not as bad as his father), he stops to help. 

There's a wonderful dichotomy between the relationship between Leticia and
her son and that between Hank and his son. Milo Addica and Will Rokos, who
wrote the screenplay, weave a very effective tale that manages to keep all
of the characters interesting and relevant. What makes Hank act the way he
does? What are Leticia's motivations? And it would be very easy for the
actors to portray the characters as nothing more than stereotypes - Hank the
nasty, racist white male, and Leticia the vulnerable, victimized African
American woman. But both Thornton and Berry rise above their characters'
limitations - Hank's not the devil he might think he is, and Leticia isn't
the angel that a lesser actress might make her out to be.

It's also worth mentioning that each of the two leads has something shocking
and powerful happen to them near the beginning of the film, before they
really meet. These two events have a huge impact on the characters - you
might call the events "life-altering". The events allow us to see actual
change in the character. Not sudden change, which can be jarring and
unrealistic, but gradual, authentic, eminently believable
change.

The performances by the leads are nothing short of sensational. Berry won
the Oscar for Best Actress for her work here. Yes, you read right - Halle
Berry. She of The Flintstones, Swordfish, and being married to David Justice
fame. See, this is what happens when you give a good actress a great role.
The best actresses will rise to the level of the role; the mediocre
actresses will sink below it, collapsing under its weight.

Thornton has a tendency to pick offbeat, idiosyncratic roles, albeit usually
with a Southern twist. His Hank is not a carbon copy of your stereotypical
Dirty White Boy; he's a multilayered character with charm and evil mixed in.
The film doesn't make him out to be a complete hero; just a flawed one. By
the movie's end, he has come to grips (a little) with his failures and his
shortcomings.

Berry and Thornton have a great supporting cast in Boyle and Ledger. When
you think of a hateful, misanthropic, misogynistic demon, you don't think of
Peter Boyle, who's turning in great comedic work on the TV show "Everybody
Loves Raymond". But after this movie, you sure do. Great job. And Ledger -
well, I know him best from The Patriot, as Mel Gibson's oldest son. In that
movie, he was tough, but he was still a boy in a world of adults. That boy's
grown up, and Ledger proves his mettle as an actor in this
role.

There will be some who find this movie too slow; granted, if you're looking
for action, this won't appeal to you. But it's an excellent story, and not
as simplistic as it may seem on the outside. It's very well written (meaning
that there are few plot holes), and ably directed. You may be fascinated, as
I was, with the character development from beginning to end. Things are not
- pardon the expression - treated as black-and-white issues; there are
varying grays that are resolved and not resolved by movie's
end.
<|_=00=_|>
Monster's Ball wasn't made with a big budget by some very well known
director. And to make things "worse", it's controversial as well
because the story isn't exactly about a family living together happy
with more money than there is water in the sea. And they weren't afraid
to put a lot of racism in it, which was necessary to make this movie
believable, but for some "politically correct" people, already reasons
enough to say they didn't like it.

The movie tells us the story of Hank Grotowski (Billy Bob Thornton), a
racist white prison guard who works on Death Row and Leticia Musgrove
(Halle Berry), a black woman whose husband is about to be executed.
Hank lives with his father and his son, who he really hates, under the
same roof. But when a tragedy takes his son away, he starts thinking
about his ideas. In the mean while he has met Leticia, not knowing who
she really is and soon they fall in love with each other. This is the
start of a relationship based rather on desperation than on love.

Monster's ball doesn't use cheap Hollywood sentiment like you might
expect from this kind of movies, but is sincere and very compelling.
This is of course also thanks to excellent performances. Halle Berry
got an Oscar for it, but what I don't understand is why Billy Bob
Thornton wasn't even nominated. His character may not be as likable and
no he isn't as good looking as Berry, but his performance certainly
wasn't any less. In fact, the entire movie was more than just worth a
watch. It's very nice to see that there still are unknown directors who
can make good movies with a good story, some fine actors and a small
budget. I really enjoyed it and that's why I give it an 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>
Monster's Ball is a compelling film of family conflict, rage and
redemption. Halle Berry throws herself into this role like a
prizefighter who leaves it all in the ring, and wins by unanimous
decision. Billy Bob Thornton gives an electrifying performance as a man
grappling with his demons and wanting his better self to emerge
victorious.

This movie is a study in ambiguity. The characters are complex with
human imperfection, no one (with the exception of Hank's father, played
by Peter Boyle) emerging as completely likable or entirely bad. Hank's
son played by Heath Ledger fulfills the adage that no good deed goes
unpunished, and it's never clear that anyone truly gets whats coming to
them.

I'm not sure one should read too much into this movie as a study of
attitudes towards race in today's America, but as a portrayal of human
frailty and the continuing quest for hope and optimism, Monster's Ball
is a can't-miss film experience.
<|_=00=_|>
"Monster's Ball" is presented by Director Marc Forster as a dark,
dreary film-noir like drama involving the role of fate in bringing
together two different but distraught people from different races.

The film opens as preparations are underway for the execution of
Lawrence Musgrave (Sean Combs). Two of the prison guards are Hank
(Billy Bob Thornton) and his son Sonny (Heath Ledger). Musgrave's wife
Leticia (Halle Berry) and his obese son Tyrell (Coronji Calhoun) have
come to see Musgrave to say their final goodbyes. Hank and Sonny live
with the bigoted Buck who is Hank's father and who was also a prison
guard. We learn that Buck has apparently bullied Hank all his life and
now Hank is doing likewise to Sonny.

Following the execution, two tragic but unrelated events occur in the
lives of Hank and Leticia. Hank, fighting off the predjudices taught
him by his father, begins to fall for Leticia and eventually an
inter-racial relationship ensues. But what if she finds out that Hank
had a part in executing her husband?

Berry deservedly won the 2001 Academy Award as best actress for her
role as the tragic Leticia. She displays a wide range of emotions from
pity to sadness to dispare to ecstacy to happiness. Thornton is equally
good as the similarly tragic Hank who goes through much of the same
emotional changes. Peter Boyle is also excellent as the bigoted Buck.
Ledger, in an all too brief role, shines as the son who really doesn't
want to follow in his father's footsteps. Calhoun evokes pity and
sorrow as Leticia's son and the old Puffmeister, Combs gives a good low
key performance as the doomed convict.

An excellent film but be forewarned that there are a couple of graphic
sex scenes in the movie. Definitely not for the kiddies.
<|_=00=_|>

"Monster's Ball" tells of a white man and a black woman in the rural South
coming together through desperate human need; each suffering grief, guilt,
remorse, and misery. A slow, plodding drama with rumbling racial
undercurrents, the film tells a simple story, though not uneventful, with
finely nuanced performances, especially by Berry who earned her keep and
kudos. Recommended for mature audiences into serious drama.
<|_=00=_|>
"Monster's Ball" is the fourth of the 2001 movies for grown-ups about
adults dealing with death. Here the main characters find redemption
through personal relationships and provide hope.

While some in the audience complained it was too slow, the original
script by Milo Addica and Will Rokos feels like an expansion of a short
story, as the outlines of the plot are fairly simple and not all the
back story is explained, and riddled with coincidences barely made
feasible by taking place in a small town. 

Director Marc Forster finds a way to visually communicate the
difference between sex and intimacy.

But the actors fill the spaces of inarticulate characters with complex
performances, not just award-winning Halle Berry (a long way from "X
Men"). Billy Bob Thornton starts out slightly less laconic than in "The
Man Who Wasn't There" but very gradually finds the ability and a reason
to smile. 

Less attention has been paid to the excellence in smaller roles by
Heath Ledger (yes hunky Heath) and Peter Boyle. 

Country music is used in the background only when the radio is on; it's
a nice local station they got there that plays Jimmie Dale Gilmore.

(originally written 2/17/2002)
