
This was a silly kids' adventure story but still fun the younger ones
and for adults, thanks to colorful scenes, great special effects,
decent humor and a nice family tone to it. The kids are alright, except
the girl is a little bossy, and the villains aren't too nasty. This
also looks very good on DVD.

Included in the color and characters are "the thumb people" who were
especially fun to watch.

The only problem I found with it is the last 30 minutes in which it got
too silly and emphasized (typical Hollywood) how the kids can do the
job better than the adults, which a ludicrous film cliché. However,
overall "family unity" gets a big boost in this here, even in the end,
and that good message is probably a big reason this movie was such a
success.
<|_=00=_|>

Robert Rodriguez is not the first person you'd suggest to make a children's
film. As entertaining as 'Desperado', 'The Faculty' and 'From Dusk Till
dawn' are, you wouldn't line them up alongside 'Toy Story 2' and 'The Jungle
Book' for good, old-fashioned family entertainment. Yet, as this energetic,
light-hearted Bondesque spoof proves, Rodriguez has the talent to turn his
hand to just about anything, and inject it with the suspense and adrenalin
that are his trademark.

From the gloriously OTT opening scene (which tells the story of how two
agents sent to kill each other fall in love and settle down) to the last
second, 'Spy Kids' doesn't miss a trick. The obligatory gizmos, mad villains
and dastardly plot to take over the world are all there, along with a star
cast all playing their roles with tongues firmly in cheek. The action/humour
mix is extremely well-balanced too, with some hilarious visual gags sitting
within a sharp script and Banderas, in particular, revels taking a sly swipe
at his normal 'strong yet silent Latino' image. Yet, refreshingly for a
children's film, it's never patronising, never obvious, and genuinely
original in places (soldiers made of thumbs, secret agents transformed into
tellytubby-type TV characters - imagine Goldeneye-meets-Willy Wonka and the
Chocolate Factory-meets-Any Tim Burton film and you'll be close). In truth,
some of the surreal moments and the more graphic effects may get a little
too much for younger kids at times, but these moments are few and far
between. 

Ok, it's a 'U' certificate and you may well have to sit through the trailer
for 'See Spot Run', but don't let that put you off. This is one of the
better films you'll see this year, and the best out over Easter by quite a
way. Go and have some fun.

8/10

<|_=00=_|>

SPY KIDS / (2001) *** (out of four)

By Blake French:

	If James Bond married another secret agent, had kids, privately continued
his life as a spy, became captured, and left his rescuing to his offspring,
we would have the formula for Robert Rodriguez's new action adventure, "Spy
Kids." Rodriguez normally directs harsher, more brutal movies, like
"Desperado" and "The Faculty," but accustoms a slick style of adventure and
humor in this film that exceeds past the level of any of his recent work. 
"Spy Kids" really does belong in some kind of James Bond picture.

	As the film's writer, director, and co producer, Rodriguez does a lot more
with the material here than we expect. The film has a stunning array of
special effects, ranging from walking thumbs to a particularly imaginative
experience in the villain's headquarters. Even the introduction has zest and
intrigue: we meet a seemingly normal family of four, consisting of Ingrid
and Gregorio Cortez (Alexa Vega and Antonio Banderas), and their children,
probably middle school aged, Juni and Carmen (Daryl Sabara and Alexa Vega).
As the movie opens, Ingrid tells her children a nice bedtime story about two
daring spies assigned to kill the other, but fall in love, get married, and
retire. She prepares her offspring for bed and turns the lights off, walks
to her husband, and explains she thinks it would be a good idea to tell
Carmen and Juni their real identities as top-secret spies; the story Ingrid
enlightened her kids with was true.

	 Rodriguez quickly sketched his characters, but his method is surprisingly
effective; the movie starts out with fast-paced action and captures our
attention abruptly and does not really lose energy throughout its running
time. We learn the two married spies have retired from the business nine
years prior, but their fellow OSS agents are disappearing all over the
world, and thinks it to be the work of a kids TV show host named Fegan Floop
(Alan Cumming in a very whimsical, fitting performance) and his assistant,
Minion (Tony Shalhoub). The agents have been converted into clay-like
animated characters held captive at his mega tech laboratory.  Imaginative
and interesting, if a bit cheesy. 

	Ingrid and Gregorio call their "Uncle" Felix over to watch the kids while
they go out on their latest mission. Unfortunately, this mission could be
their last; they walk right into a trap and are snared from beneath their
toes. Felix receives a distress call, sends the kids to a "safe house," but
is captured himself, leaving the responsibilities to the younger members of
the family. 

	The story isn't cheap or silly, although some of the material tests our
tolerance for far-fetched science fiction. The underlying motives here are
also legitimate. The movie puts confidence in strong family values, honesty,
and trust, but does not preach, lecture, or on the other side of the barrel,
become lost in an utter mess of silly dog poop and passing gas jokes like
"See Spot Run." The movie takes itself seriously, and is well written. We
understand the character's motives. 
 
	"Spy Kids" gets one thing painfully right, and that is the

relationship of the brother and sister. Their relationship is all too
familiar in American households, where name calling and mean-spirited
behavior inhabit offspring of both sexes. The petty little conflicts they
feel strained and forced, giving this movie, otherwise somewhat mature, an
immature sensation. This familiar stereotype is profoundly irritating.

	"Spy Kids" is often exciting, funny, and almost always entertaining. It is
not the kind of movie that parents should just drop their kids off to,
however, but should stay for themselves to witness some of the most
effective family movie moments in quite a while. In a time when family
movies are completely disposable, "Spy Kids" proves itself to stand out from
all the others and provide us with a genuine spy movie experience.


<|_=00=_|>
Gregorio and Ingrid Cortez are ex-spies who were at the top of their
game until they met, married and decided to retire for their own mutual
safety. Years later they have normal lives and have children who know
nothing of any of this. When Gregorio learns of former colleagues
vanishing, he looks into it, only for him and Ingrid to be captured by
the evil Floop, whose children's television puppets are really mutants
developed as part of building a private army for Lisp. With their
parents gone and the alarm raised, Carmen and Juni learn the truth and
are suddenly faced with having to rescue their parents.

You shouldn't come to this movie expecting it to be serious or logical
because it really isn't. Instead it is silly, goofy and really very
daft but still quite good fun for slightly older children and also for
adults. The plot is pretty much summed up by the title insofar as you
really need to know what is going on because it doesn't make much
sense. The film is really about the kids becoming spies and playing
with gadgets etc on their way to becoming heroes of a sort. It never
takes itself too seriously and it draws humour from this approach well,
making it easy to relax and watch because, yes it's silly, but at least
it knows it is silly. The Floop creations are too silly to appeal to
adults but will probably provide some laughs for kids but generally the
film gets the tone right for both groups.

Rodriguez directs with his usual approach and I quite enjoyed the
effect it had here because it does suit the silly, hyper material
(which he also wrote). The effects are mainly good and it should work
for most kids in the way that older boys like their gadgets and fantasy
video games. The cast did it for me as well, featuring as it did a lot
of people who've worked with Rodriguez before. Banderas and Gugino are
both sexy and cool in the parental roles but it is Vega and Sabara who
lead the film. Neither of them are typically "cute kids" and it helped
me enjoy the film for them to be quite natural and buy into the
material. Support is surprisingly classy and most of them work. I
didn't like Cumming at all but that was more to do with his character;
Shalhoub was OK, Hatcher was fun, Cheech pops up briefly, Patrick has a
small role, Trejo is ever reliable and George Clooney puts in a small
but amusing appearance.

Overall this is not a great film because it all nonsense but then, as a
kids' film, it doesn't matter so much. The energy, pace and sense of
fun covers up for the daft central plot and nobody seems to be taking
it seriously. Surprisingly fun to watch, even for adults and worth a
look.
<|_=00=_|>

I took my two boys (7 and 10) to see Spy kids today. They were transfixed
and wanted to watch it again straightaway. Both are big James Bond fans
but
some of the content and dialogue of the Bond movies isn't suitable. Spy
Kids
fits the bill exactly for anyone under 13 who likes the Bond
films.
It came over to me as a blend of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory meets
Home Alone meets Bond. It was at the kids level without patronizing them
and
was believable enough for adults to enjoy too.
All of the acting was high quality and the special effects first class.

I shall enjoy it again in the future on video but it deserves to be seen
on
the big screen first.
Another bonus were the trailers for Lord of the Rings and Harry Potter and
the Philosophers Stone.
I often come away from Cinema trips with the kids feeling that we haven't
really had our moneys worth, but not today! 
<|_=00=_|>

This was a great movie. I particularly like the fact that a normal sibling
relationship was shown, the rivalry and disdain but still the reality that
blood is thicker than water and no matter if you think that your brother
or
sister is a twerp, you still do anything for them. The family sticks
together and although it is a very far-fetched concept, it was a movie
both
my children and I liked. It was filled with action and adventure but the
good guys come out on top in the end against overwhelming odds. I think we
could all use a little more optimism now and this movie delivers it.
Carmen
and Junie were not the impossibly perfect kids seen in most movies now.
Nor
were they brats who only care about themselves in other movies.  They were
too athletic to be real children, but I'd like to think that they are
showing the kids seeing the movie that they can do anything that they put
their mind to. Overall, a terrific family movie the kids will actually
like-even though their parents do too. 
<|_=00=_|>

Finally, a live-action family movie that entertained me and my wife
immensely, while my six-year old daughter had a blast too!

The most obvious (and fitting) comparison film is Willy Wonka and the
Chocolate Factory. Amazing fantasy world, some true menace, and a great
message about being true to yourself and your family.

Spy Kids as a family movie for the post-Matrix age. It's witty, but never
falls into that oh-so-hip faux-ironic self awareness that plagues so many
movies today. It hands you a fantasy world, and encourages you to believe
in
it.

It has a great deal of action and slapstick, but (thankfully) was
completely
missing the mean-spirited undertones of the slapstick in Home Alone.

Like all great children's literature or entertainment, Spy Kids doesn't
talk
down to kids. It assumes they're intelligent and can pay attention. Having
said that, there are sections of the film that are hyperkinetic, but they
flow naturally.

It has something of a similar vibe to the Pixar films (Toy Story 1&2, Bugs
Life), without as many in-jokes. There are some wonderful adult-only
laughs,
mostly stemming from the trials and tribulations of being a
parent.

It's PG for a reason. It's not for the youngest moviegoer. A mature 5 or a
six-year-old is about as young as I'd recommend. There are some scary
moments, ala Willy Wonka, or The Wizard of Oz. But that's "good scary" in
my
book, as opposed to needlessly scaring folks to death.

The message of family is delightful. The Cortez family is a *real* family.
They have disagreements, but they love each other. Thankfully, Rodriguez
avoids the sit-com smartmouth syndrome, and gives us kids we can
believe.

And I love the fact that Rodriguez never downplays the Latino heritage of
the family. Hey, I'm so Anglo I'm practically translucent, but it was such
a
refreshing change to not have typical whitebread heroes out to save the
world.

Not since Bob (Porky's) Clark pulled A Christmas Story out of his hat has a
director come up with such a pleasant surprise in a genre you'd never
imagine. Summary? A cup of Bond, a splash of Willy Wonka, and a dash of The
Matrix. Sit back and watch the fun!

<|_=00=_|>
This is a somewhat unusual film; it's a children's film, but it doesn't
talk down to its audience. And as an added bonus, it can be watched
even if you are over ten. As the far too little-known short Bedhead,
Robert Rodriguez has here created a film for children, featuring
children... which doesn't treat them with the lack of respect for the
smarts and sense of logic that they do already possess. Adults often
forget what children are like, and think of them as 'less' than the
grownups. Rodriguez gives them(and us) a film that allows them a
similar status to adults. The film has stuff that will appeal to
kids(spy equipment hidden in children's things) but it isn't offensive
to us who aren't. While it is more directed towards those of the
preteen persuasion, it doesn't aim so low as to feel stupid for us who
aren't of said persuasion. The plot is pretty good, though I guess it's
not all that original... and as usual with children's films, the kids
are the heroes, which puts too much pressure on them, as a Danish film
critic so perfectly put it. The acting is a usual high(as most of the
actors are quite talented), no performances really let you down, even
the (intentionally)overplayed ones. The characters, many of them fairly
clichéd and thin, are all credible. As with many(most) Rodriguez films,
pretty much all of those that he's written, himself... there are
subplots and such, many of which are either overly easily resolved or
not properly addressed. The humor is pretty good, I laughed out loud
several points, rather unusual for children's films, and I was never
insulted by the humor. None of it tries too hard to garner laughs,
either. The special effects are quite impressive, and though it's still
evident that it's Rodriguez' mini studio, it will fool you for the very
most part. The action is quite intense and exciting, and like the
humor, it's got Rodriguez' unique touch. Any fan of Rodriguez(such as
myself, which is by far the main reason I watched this very film in the
first place) will enjoy this, if maybe not to the same extent as one of
his typical films. I recommend this to any fan of Rodriguez or any of
the actors, and definitely most kids. Very much worth watching, even if
you've outgrown childhood. Indulge your inner kid. 7/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Spy Kids" was a big kids hit! I thought it was pretty cool that there
are these two kids Carmen and Juni Cortez who have to save their
parents from danger. But I think it could have been better. I didn't
really like how they showed how Carmen and Juni's parents got married
because seriously, lets get on with the movie!!! But I LOVED the cast.
Alexa Vega, i thought was the best one in the cast! She is a great
teenage actress and should go really far in the Hollywood movie making
business. Daryl Sabara was so cute playing Juni and should go far as
well. There was Also Antonio Banderas, and it was an okay movie, not
the best, but i expected better.
<|_=00=_|>

"Spy Kids" is one heck of a movie. Never have I seen a kiddie flick come
along which is so clean, and yet still so entertaining at the same time.
This odd blend of one of the best (The Matrix) and worst (Baby Geniuses)
movies of 1999 is surprisingly exciting for something so "PG", and director
and writer Robert Rodriguez (From Dusk Till Dawn) manages to create loads of
fun while still keeping the violence level down.

He manages to do all this by being incredibly inventive with his special
effects. "Spy Kid's" is a visual fun house of ideas which are all so
playfully intuned with kids and their level of interest. He comes up with
things such as movable thumb people and floors that fall apart like puzzle
pieces. Rodriguez also has a lot of fun with this topic, putting in loads of
high tech equipment and transportation, which offer kids and adults an
incredible ride which is most always played for humor and thrills.

The basic set up for "Spy Kids" is this. Gregorio (Antonio Banderas) and
Ingrid (Carla Gugino) were both spies working for different agencies, when a
"hit" put out on each other brings them closer together. They decide to put
away the spy work and live normal lives as husband and wife, and soon father
and mother.

But the perfect family they dream about is far from. Their kids are keeping
secrets from them, a trait from their former job that they feel they have
passed on to their children. Their daughter Carmen (Alexa Vega) is skipping
school, while Juni (Daryl Sabara) is being bullied at school and instead of
telling his parents, just makes up a couple of imaginary friends.

They see how their past lives have affected their children, but before they
can correct their wrong, their past catches up with them. They are thrown
back into the spy game to investigate the capture of several other spies,
but only end up being captured themselves.

The culprit also just happens to be Juni's favorite televison star, Fegan
Floop (Alan Cumming). Floop is after a brain prototype that Gregorio created
years ago. If he can implant that into the heads of his robot and mutant
henchmen, nothing can stop him from taking over the world and becoming the
number one rated show on TV. But his other human henchmen Minion (played
dastardly well by Tony Shalhoub) has other plans. Back home, the feuding
siblings must learn to work together in order to save their parents and the
world as they are tossed into the spy game as well.

It seems as if the best kids movies always have a family-like theme to them,
and "Spy Kids" is no exception. Much of this movie is exciting, but then
there are those other parts, which are to cuteness what Charlie's Angels was
to sexy clad women. Some may accuse Rodriguez of turning corny on us all of
a sudden, but luckily he is also working with some very funny material here,
as well as with newcomer Daryl Sabara.

His partner Alexa Vega also comes off very strong in her role as his sister.
Together they are a very good crime fighting team, and I look forward to
seeing them in upcoming sequels. Alan Cumming is also very good, turning in
an absent minded Willy Wonka style performance that also fits in very well
with Rodriguez's style for this movie, which seems to be based largely
around an amusement park surrounding a James Bond movie.

His film may be corny for older kids, but this is for the young ones and
chances are you will never find a movie as decent and fun for them as this
one is for a long time. Out of four stars, Spy Kids definitely scores a
three.


