

I must say that I consider myself to be a lover of horror, but much too
often, sex and gore is subsituted for real horror and you don't get that
feeling of genuine fear in the pit of your stomach.  Not so with "The
Ring".
Never have I seen a film that has affected me so.  The images seem to tug
at your subconscious, at the dark things we keep inside.  I haven't been
able to close my eyes without replaying bits of the film behind my
eyelids.
I have slept with the light on since I've seen it, and we can't stop
talking
about it.  Hands down, it was the best, the scariest, the creepiest, and
the
most intense horror film ever.  The audience in the theater all gripped
their armrests, breathed heavily and felt everything the characters were
experiencing.  It was excellent!  But beware.... don't expect to leave
"The
Ring" in the movie theater, it will certainly be with you for a long
time.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie makes you realize why so many other movies fail to be
scary...not enough psychological elements. What this movie does right
is that it skips the gore, and blood, and over-the-top overacting
crazed lunatics that seem the norm in horror movies.

I saw this with a friend in the theater and 10 minutes in we were
sinking into our chairs with fear. Not even the annoying teens making
their phones ring to scare their friends (when you see the movie you
will understand why) were a powerful enough distraction to undo the
terror we felt.

Definitely see it, make sure you have as big a TV as you can get your
hands on when you rent it, and that you watch it at night in the
dark...if you want the full effect. Also, make sure you rent it on DVD
and NOT cassette...you know, just to be safe ;)
<|_=00=_|>

I know there will be some misguided souls who stumble into a
showing of THE RING believing that it's either a film of Richard
Wagner's famous operatic cycle, or has something to do with
Hobbits. Needless to say, they will be in for a surprise.

Gore Verbinski's THE RING, based on an extremely popular
Japanese film and novel, is a creepy and disturbing thriller that
may do for VCRs what JAWS did for the ocean. After watching a
recent sneak preview, I couldn't help but imagine people all
across the nation going home and throwing out their
videocassettes and players, in fear that they might accidentally
watch the tape that's at the center of this movie.

The fast-paced suspense film begins in Seattle with an urban
legend-type set up: two high school girls - Katie and Becca - are
alone in Katie's home at night. Conversation turns to a videotape
that has a horrifying effect. Moments after you watch it, the phone
rings, and a voice tells you, "Seven days." And exactly a week later,
you die. Katie reveals to her friend that she watched that tape at a
cabin in the woods, seven days before.
In a brilliantly edited sequence that is sure to make you drop your
popcorn, Katie meets her fate, and we learn that the tale of the
tape is no mere kids' story.

Katie's aunt, a newspaper reporter named Rachel (Naomi Watts),
is asked by her sister Ruth (Lindsay Frost) to investigate the death,
and she soon finds herself drawn into a world that's as dark and
claustrophobic as the grave. Pulled in with her are former
boyfriend Noah (Martin Henderson), and their son Aidan (David
Dorfman).

We see the tape in question early on, and at first it appears to be
just a random series of weird images - a ring of light that looks
like a solar eclipse, dead horses floating in water, a woman
leaping from a cliff, a fly buzzing, a stone wall that encloses a well
- playing out like a home movie made by David Lynch and Luis
Buñuel. As the film progresses,
however, we learn that the eerie black-and-white vignettes are
clues to who made the tape and why.
I'd hate to give away too much, so I'll just say that the answer takes
Noah and Rachel to an island where a horse breeder
(marvelously played by Brian Cox, the original and best Hannibal
Lecter) seems to be hiding a secret that's by turns sad, and
horrifying.

The acting in THE RING is fabulous throughout, with the actors
stretching well beyond the caricatures all-too-often found in horror
films and creating realistic, intriguing people. I've met and
interviewed Naomi, and yes, she really is that beautiful and
charming in person, and here she proves once again that she's
an outstanding actress. Martin Henderson, another actor from
Down Under, is perfect as a videographer turned reluctant action
hero, and young David Dorfman and Daveigh Chase are
scary-good. Amber Tamblyn (daughter of multitalented
actor/singer/dancer Russ Tamblyn) and the engaging Rachael
Bella do a wonderful job of starting the movie off with a scream,
Lindsay Frost shines in a small but important role, and Jane
Alexander (an actor's actor) is fun to watch as a doctor who knows
more than she wants to. The direction is crisp, stylish, and
sure-handed (hard to believe that this is the same guy who
helmed MOUSE TRAP and THE MEXICAN). Even the lighting and
sound are beautifully worked out; those elements make a
sequence with a horse on a ferry especially chilling. Hans
Zimmer's soundtrack hits all the right notes, and the screenplay is
smart, original, and pulls no punches. It's worth noting that unlike
most modern horror films, you won't see people terrorized with
knives or other conventional weapons, and there's very little actual
gore. What you do see, however, as well as what's implied, may
give you the worst case of the creeps you've ever had.
I'm sure that some purists who've seen the original Japanese film
(which spawned sequels and a TV series) will pick apart this
version, but, for my money, this is one case where the remake of a
foreign film can stand on its own merits.

If you love being scared, grab a hold of Verbinski's THE RING and
hang on for the ride of your life.

<|_=00=_|>

I'm just as much a fan of gory, splatterhouse exploitation films as the
next
sicko, but when it comes to generating a chill down the spine, there is
something to be said for being as terse as possible with onscreen
imagery.
This is one of the chief reasons why The Ring--a film with a PG-13
rating--is so successful in its ability to leave an audience with
goosebumps
and nightmares.

The film is a remake of the 1998 Japanese film Ringu, itself widely
considered a terrifying piece of cinema, and aside from a subplot about
horses, the American version is very faithful to the original.

Now, being that The Ring is a remake, one may be tempted to dismiss the
power of the story and script as unoriginal. But as other films have
demonstrated time and time again, a remake, no matter how good the source
material, can just as easily fall flat on its face ("The Haunting",
"Psycho", etc.). So it's a joy to see that this remake stands out as one
of
the better films of the year despite emerging from the shadow of a great
and
recent original.

The Ring follows journalist Rachel Keller (Naomi Watts) as she
investigates
the mysterious death of her niece (revealed in the gripping opening
sequence). At the wake for her niece, she overhears some friends
discussing
the videotape that the niece and her boyfriend watched the week before
their
death. Given their cryptic description of the tape and the fact that the
boyfriend died across town at the same time as the niece, Keller decides
to
track down the tape for herself and watch it for clues.

She then begins to experience a number of strange coincidences, as she
sees
objects from the video appear in her every day life. When her friend and
son
watch the video as well and begin to see similar objects, she begins to
realize that the stories about the tape may be real. She is then led to a
small island off the coast to search for an answer on where the tape came
from and why it has the effect that it does.

Whomever it was that composed the actual videotape for this film (and the
audience does get to see the whole thing) clearly did a great deal of
research on disturbing imagery. It's grainy, monochromatic and at times
bordering on silly, but by the time it is shown you have become immersed
in
the story and it works; the images truly get under your
skin.

For fans of subtle, atmospheric and extremely creepy movies, especially
around this time of year, The Ring is a dead-on success. The brilliantly
understated story moves swiftly, is told beautifully, and enough
questions
are left unanswered to maximize the mystery of it all, yet not so many
that
the plot is left full of holes. The music is sparse and atmospheric, and
the
images are beautifully shot and edited, with great use of filters and
composites to give the appropriate washed out looks where necessary. The
effects, used minimally, are flawless and very creepy without seeming
garish
or overbearing.

As with classics like The Changeling and 1963's The Haunting, The Ring is
a
perfect example of how you can still muster a scare from a jaded populace
without resorting to cheap jolts and gore. More Blair Witch Project than
Sleepaway Camp, and thus far more impressive than most recent attempts at
terror. Now if I could just stop hiding from my television...
<|_=00=_|>
Before I saw The Ring, I used to think of horror movies as something
about a supernatural (sometimes not supernatural) force that gobbles up
people in bizarre series of deaths usually accompanied by blood and
gore. Maybe I ought to blame it on my own selection of movies. But I
realized that horror movies can have a deep and a decent story line
after seeing The Ring.

The Ring is an adaptation of the Japanese movie Ringu. Ringu is a well
respected horror movie. Rather than call The Ring as an adaptation I
would prefer calling it as an improvisation of Ringu. For I have seen
both movies and in my personal opinion the producers of The Ring have
made the story a bit deeper and of course with the music and special
effects scarier.

A particular thing worth mentioning is the work done by the child actor
David Dorfman (playing the role of Aidan). My personal opinion is that
he has done a very good job. And Ehren Kruger, in his script for the
movie has given a major role to Aidan as opposed to lesser important
role given to Aidan's Japanese counterpart.

Full credit to the Ring's makers for a very fine adaptation of the
original Ringu. And yes, a small word of advice for those who have not
seen the real Daveigh Chase (playing Samara). After seeing this movie,
do look up on the net for a picture of hers and make the comparison!
And do try and watch Ringu as well. A very respectable movie indeed.

A good story, nice scares, decent acting and smooth direction! Enjoy
the movie!
<|_=00=_|>
I first watched this movie with a couple of friends. To be honest, I
was expecting a teenage, slasher flick, I was proved wrong.

The film circles around a cursed videotape that causes it's viewers to
die in seven days. Investigative journalist, Rachel Keller, begins to
uncover the secrets of the videotape, and must race against the clock
to save herself.

The movie was very unsettling and disturbing, which worked more
effectively than some teens getting slashed with axes. The videotape
was nightmarish and disturbing, and the images will stay with you long
after the movie. The setting was gloomy and atmospheric, which enhanced
the mood. Naomi Watts portrayed Rachel perfectly, her emotions are
believable and haunting. 

So if you are looking for a horror flick to watch on Friday night, be
sure to watch The Ring, just make sure to watch it at night with the
lights off.
<|_=00=_|>
The Ring did three things no film of late has done. It took the genre
of Horror seriously without going over the top. It is derived from a
superior story and translated to American film superbly, regardless of
what the naysayers say. And, while it starts off typically, it ascends
into a beautiful, darkling, twisted, genuinely creepy story, which
holds you through to the end.

Gore Verbinski's style is unmistakable. He has left this work well
marked with his stylistic shots, and suspenseful progression.

Actually, I found this far superior to most horrors done in the last
thirty years or so. A lot has been said about Ringu, the work from
which this was adapted for American cinema, and inevitable subsequent
comparisons made, however, that is certainly NOT the case. That
argument is moot, as this work was based on the novel, "The Ring" by
Koji Suzuki, so if you want something to which an honest comparison may
be made, I would suggest you read the book, and leave Ringu where it
belongs. Personally, I found the American adaptation much more to my
liking than Ringu.

This is one twisted little creep-fest! It rates an 8.7/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

My husband took me to see this film and when he said it was a horror I was
expecting to sit through another of his kind of horror films i.e.stupid
teenagers with lots of gratuitous blood, guts and violence thrown
in.
I was fortunately very mistaken! I have not seen the original "Ringu",
which
everyone keeps harping on about, but I am glad I saw this first as it is
good not to have anything to compare it to. Taken by itself, I think it is
a
fantastic film. It's not everyone's cup of tea and the usual horror fans
may
think it slow, incomprehensible or just plain unscary. However, I loved
the
mystery and weirdness of it.

It begins a bit like your typical American nonsense with two teenage girls
chatting and the conversation coming around to a videotape that is
supposed
to kill people that watch it. My first thought was: how "urban legend"ish
and ridiculous!!
However, as the film went on, it clearly had a darker, more powerful and
very much more thought provoking aspect. The images on the videotape
itself
are so "nightmarish", in that disjointed and freaky way that real
nightmares
can be. They really got under my skin anyway and I actually came to
believe
in the power the tape had to kill. You  wonder how on earth Rachel is
going
to escape the same fate as the others and I felt real horror and despair
on
her discovery that Aidan has also watched the tape.

One thing that I think really robs horror films of their ultimate "horror"
value is when you come to the explanation/discovery of what's behind it
all
at the end. I thought the film had let itself down with a typical,
rationalised ending. I was very pleasantly surprised with the horrifying
twist that developed and I loved the eerie "non-ending" ending - it left
me
really freaked out and actually believing that the whole thing might be
real
after all. It is wonderful, psychologically terrifying stuff and I defy
anyone to watch it and forget it - I am still thinking about it and giving
myself the shivers months later! I won't give any film 10/10, as this is
the
ultimate and I am always challenging for there to be an even better film
out
there (this film does exist and is Ringu if everyone else's comments are
anything to go by). I give it a superior "must see" 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

A one line review of this film would simple be `The Ring does what most
scary films promise, but never deliver'. That should be enough for any scare
enthusiast to justify the price of the ticket, and for the most part no one
will be disappointed. I say `for the most part' because it is tough to
define what is scary for everyone, and I don't deny that this film may not
scare many people as easily as others. It must be said however that this
film is probably one of the more successful scare flicks, in the spirit of
movies like ‘The Exorcist'. 

Well crafted, extremely well developed and perfectly executed this remake of
the 1998 Japanese Horror film ‘Ringu' is one movie to fit into your top 10
scare flicks. Disturbing from start to end the film quite effectively leaves
you writhing in your seat, grasping a loved one until its gripping
conclusion without a single piece of gore at all. An art often lost on
modern films and obviously inspired by the original (I have not seen the
original), the subtle approach to making these kinds of films is delivered
to the screen close to an eerie perfection. 

The Ring is about a tape, a tape that features some rather disturbing yet
very `student film' like snapshots of what can only be described as
someone's nightmare. The problem is when the tape concludes, the phone rings
and a voice tells you that you will die in exactly seven days. When four
teenagers die, simultaneously at 10pm exactly seven days after secretly
staying at a secluded cabin a reporter named Rachel, who was the mother of a
boy named Aidan, who was a cousin to one of the girls decides to
investigate. Partially motivated by the will of the dead girls parents to
find an answer as to how their daughter's heart simply stopped, Rachel
successfully finds the tape the group watched. Unfortunately for her, she
watches it and to her horror she receives a phone call, she now has seven
days to solve the puzzle or end up like the others. What follows is an
exposition mystery about the chilling origins of the tape, and the power
behind the sudden death of each viewer.

Notably, there is nothing terribly exceptional about the acting in this
film, it is by no means truly award worthy. It is however extremely well
suited to the film and very well executed. Naomi Watts as Rachel holds up
very well as the centrepiece of the film and remains a constant link to the
audience making the drama more real. Martin Hendersen as the X-Husband Noah
was quite well played and David Dorfman as Aidan was not only well cast, but
will most likely go on to be apart of many more films that involve a child
like this (very much like the Sixth Sense). 

The most notable part of this film is its visual and auditory construction,
which is responsible for creating most of the tension and scares in the
film. There is a great deal in the sound design that will go unnoticed by
the average movie-goer, but it features some very subtle sound ranging from
scratching to moans and groans and a few other twisted noises. These are
woven into the films music to create a deep sense of abnormality during the
films more freaky moments and mood sequences. 

The visual aspects of the film are close to perfect, a delightful blend of
colour that looks digitally graded as opposed to filtered. A strong cold
blue dominated throughout the entire film, very rarely mixed with any warmth
at all, with the exception of a few scenes. The autumn colours are used
quite sharply in contrast to the cold to create another level of abnormality
that accompanies the sound design and makes certain aspects of the film
standout quite deliberately. From there the camera captures the direction on
screen perfectly and with some very well paced editing you end up with a
visual treat as much as a formidable film. Much of the story is told with
the camera and most of the stories best moments come from effective use of
visuals.

I am afraid now that I can't go on without spoiling the film, except to say
that the climax is one of the more simplistic yet terrifying moments I have
had in a cinema. To watch the packed audience all twist in their seats, gasp
and groan in a sort of painful anxiety while the events unfolded on screen
was just as much of a treat as the film. This film should scare or at least
in the best part disturb you, but I am not promising anything as there have
been the odd one or two who claim they found nothing frightening in it at
all. Still, scary or not, it is one of the better made Hollywood horror
films and more importantly it does not stick to the Hollywood formula not
does it give us a Hollywood ending. 

<|_=00=_|>
The Ring, an American remake of the Japanese film "Ringu", is in my
honest opinion a spectacular and enthralling film. The writing,
directing, performances and replay value are amazing in and of
themselves. I especially love the premise, and I will review this movie
as it's own film, not a remake. What really makes it wonderful is the
incredible performances and suspense. I really love all the actors' and
actresses' dedication and believability, there being very memorable
deliverances of lines and scenes after the film is over. The suspense
is top-notch, because of how well the movie is played out and how
creepy and fun the material is, that I was both eyes on the screen
every second. Naomi Watts is radiant and brilliant; the scenes where
she slowly puts the pieces of the puzzle together, or uncovers
something dark and haunting are haunting themself because of how
marvelous she makes this material.

Do not get me wrong, the material itself is great, but it would have
been nothing were it not for the cast. The characters are all
interesting, and the main story is quite saddening and effective when
it is slowly revealed through many different aspects. While it seems as
though the main threat, a "killer videotape", would be a ridiculous and
stupid threat, hard to make convincing, it undoubtedly works to the
fullest here and is entirely convincing, the videotape's images and the
events themselves all being very interesting and entertaining. While
the movie is not a masterpiece, it is not too short from it, having a
great replay value and being one of the top 20 most effective horrors
of the 00s, in my opinion. I am glad it receives a lot of positive
reception, for it deserves every bit of it.
