

Ive been reading some of the user comments here on IMDB, and am a little
stunned that most of them didnt really get the plot, and therefore shouldnt
really comment on how "bad" it is. Like Winslet not having any chance in
understanding the plot, thats the entire point of the movie, and if you
didnt get that, you should not comment on how "bad" it
is.

This movie is by far Spacey's strongest performance since the magical Se7en.
Actually, all leading actors gives amazing performances in this movie that
has a plot taken out from heaven. It will leave you moping, gasping for air.
Giving Hollywood stick for a "too complicated script" is silly, since its
far too seldom Hollywood actually offers a script like this. I would rather
welcome that fact, than be mad about it.

If you feel you have what it takes to crack this puzzle before it unveals,
go see this movie instantly, and be prepared to be taken on a
journey.
<|_=00=_|>

Don't be put off by one movie critic's assessment (morally dishonest, no
stars) of this film - he just didn't "get it." This character driven
murder
mystery is one of the decade's best! Definitely four stars!

The layered conflicts drive the story forward like a Mack truck careening
down the side of a mountain, making the movie seem much shorter than its
130
minutes.  Kevin Spacey's compelling portrayal of David Gale, a brilliant,
principled man with more than his share of human flaws and bad luck, is
excellent and is surely Oscar material.

The story begins four days before Gale's execution in a Texas prison.
Gale
is finally breaking his years of silence by agreeing to tell his side of
the
story to news-magazine reporter, Bitsey Bloom. Skeptical that this Death
Row
inmate is out to convince her, and the world, of his innocence, Bitsey
takes
the assignment expecting it to be a typical, no-brainer.

Gale's story is told in a series of tightly choreographed flashback
sequences, each building in character, motive and momentum toward an
exciting and most unexpected conclusion.

The story also puts a very fine point on the debate over the death penalty
and gives its audience something to talk & think about on the way home.

Not since "Presumed Innocent" have I been so deliciously unable to predict
an ending! It is a pleasure to leave the theater feeling completely happy
about having invested the price of my ticket in this movie!  It is two
hours
very well spent.
<|_=00=_|>
Kevin Spacey stars as David Gale, a life long campaigner against the
death penalty finds himself on death row after being found guilty of
the rape and murder of a fellow anti-execution campaigner. Kate Winslet
is the reporter who interviews Gale during his last three days and she
is convinced of his guilt and need to be executed, but as she
interviews Gale she begins to question his guilt.

This was a great story very well told without deteriorating into a
'execution is wrong' lecture. And as usual, Kevin Spacey's performance
is fantastic. Because of the twists and the amount of after-thought it
provoked, I give 'The Life of David Gale' 8/10.
<|_=00=_|>

`No one who looks through that glass sees a person, they see a crime.  I'm
not David Gale, I'm a murderer and a rapist, four days shy of his
execution,' exclaims Gale (Kevin Spacey) to reporter Bitsey Bloom (Kate
Winslet) on one of his last few days of life.  While Gale might be right,
no
one who looks at The Life of David Gale on the silver screen sees a movie,
they see a work of art.  This isn't The Life of David Gale, this is one of
the most meaningful and insightful films created in years.  Its gripping
screenplay, brilliant acting and creative cinematography explores one of
America's most pressing issues in a captivating manner.

David Gale, top of his Harvard class, was Texas' leading death penalty
abolitionist and professor at the University of Austin.  Now on death row
for the rape and murder of his best friend, Constance Hallaway (Laura
Linney), reporter Bitsey Bloom interviews Gale on his last three days of
life.  The film is produced as a series of flashbacks exploring Gale's
intriguing life and the crime he allegedly committed.

Gale was written by former Vienna philosophy professor and first-time
screenwriter, Charles Randolph.  The story is full of remarkable twists
and
turns constantly forcing the viewers to change their thoughts on who
committed the murder.  The film is packed with memorable lines, both
serious
and humorous.  When city-savvy Bloom and her intern, Zack, first arrive in
small-town Huntsville, Bloom remarks, `You know you're in the Bible belt
when there are more churches than Starbucks.'  Zack adds, `More prisons
than
Starbucks.'  When Bloom first meets Gale, the prison guards seem
unnecessarily rude toward Gale.  He remarks `they are practicing being
cruel
and unusual.'  In a flashback, Gale describes the pro-death penalty Texas
Governor as being `in touch with his inner frat boy.'

The strongest part of the script occurs toward the end of the film when
Bloom begins a race against time to discover what really happened at the
crime scene.  The last ten seconds expand the film's meaning into a
questioning of the purpose of life.  This theme is brilliantly touched
upon
in earlier segments of the movie.  During a flashback of Gale teaching his
U
of A class, he lectures `The only way we can judge the value of our own
lives is by valuing the lives of others.'  In our hollow world of How to
Lose a Guy in 10 Days, Bringing Down the House and Old School comes this
film that is truly meaningful.

While the overall script was extremely powerful, it did have one
significant weak moment.  On the night before Gale's execution, Bloom
discovers some odd occurrences at the crime scene.  Instead of spending
the
night investigating, she goes to sleep.  The following morning is a battle
against the clock to determine if Gale is guilty; she finally realizes the
truth just a few minutes before the execution.  The plot would have been
notably more gripping if Bloom had spent the night working on the case
instead of snoring.  Mr. Randolph: Certainly not bad for your first
screenplay; it is worthy of keeping you off this reviewer's death
row.

Each actor was ideally selected for their respective roles (George Clooney
was originally solicited for Spacey's role; thank God he turned it down).
Spacey's role as Gale was one of the best in his career.  Much of his
offbeat, sarcastic and monotonous American Beauty voice seems to emerge
when
Gale first meets Bloom and explains why he called for her.  One of
Spacey's
best lines ever uttered occurs later in the film when he tries to convince
Bloom that he is innocent.  He shouts, `I used to be the state's leading
death penalty abolitionist and now I'm on death row.  Doesn't that strike
you as a little odd?'
Another memorable Spacey scene occurs in a flashback at the U of A when a
seductive female student, Berlin, pleads for a higher grade.  Gale
approaches Berlin and whispers in her ear, `Okay Berlin, I will give you a
good grade, a very good grade, if you would just. study.'

British actress Kate Winslet flawlessly pulls off an American accent
throughout the entire film.  Winslet's tones of voice and minute
expressions
reveal a dynamic change in her personality from when she first arrives in
Texas to when she leaves.  She enters Huntsville conscious of her status
and
hardened from city life.  `I'm a reporter, you're an intern,' she explains
to Zack when they first arrive at the scene.  Later, she becomes so
immersed
in Gale's story that she nearly suffocates herself when trying to reenact
the murder sequence.  This occurs when Bloom infiltrates the crime scene
and
secures a plastic bag over her head with duct tape to determine how long a
person can survive without air.

Director Allan Parker took this powerful screenplay and perfect cast and
created Gale in a strikingly different fashion.  Parker worked with both
Director of Photography Michael Seresin and Editor Gerry Hambling in 1999
to
create the depressing, slow tale of old Ireland in Angela's Ashes.
Considering Gale was done with the same key crew members, you would think
that there would be strong correlations between the two productions, but
this was not the case.  Gale explores present-day issues in a fast paced,
suspenseful thriller.
Parker uses a fresh and different film technique when going between
present-day and flashbacks.  The camera seems to be spinning 360 degrees
as
the film cuts between present-day, the flashback and graphics of a variety
of buzz words (like `death,' `truth,' `power,' `love,' etc.) until the
flashback phases out the other footage.

Parker masters the technique of intercutting to convey meaning.  On the
day
of Gale's execution, Parker rapidly cuts between the jail cook preparing
his
last meal, reporters discussing the execution, Bloom trying to tell the
world of her findings and finally, Gale walking down the hall toward the
death room.  These visuals, along with the frantic track, `Media Frenzy,'
portray the extreme sense of tension.  Similarly, in a flashback, shots of
Gale having sex with a student at a party are rapidly intercut with the
fast-paced dancing of the other partygoers.  Parker smartly conveys
emphasis
through juxtaposing striking images following a scene.  After Gale utters
to
Bloom, `I'm running out of time,' the film cuts to a steak sizzling at a
nearby barbecue.  Parker is comparing Gale's hopeless and desperate
situation to frying dead meat.

The Life of David Gale is a truly remarkable film, one that will force
tears out of your eyes and cause your knees to shake throughout the entire
130 minutes.  This absolutely riveting film will leave you thinking, for a
long time, about the purpose of the death penalty and about the meaning of
human life.  Beware: The film is so thought-provoking that it just may
change your stance on the death penalty issue.

<|_=00=_|>
Directed by the legendary Sir Alan Parker, this is the story of David
Gale, a University of Texas professor of philosophy against capital
punishment who is accused of murdering a fellow activist and is sent to
death row.

Kevin Spacey and Laura Linney deliver great performances in the
flashbacks. This movie is by far one of Spacey's strongest
performances, he is always very subtle and insightful portraying David
Gale. Laura Linney really makes a name for herself in this motion
picture, she's as consistently complex and likable here as she is in
"Primal Fear" and "You Can Count on Me". Kate Winslet, however, has
problems in carefully crafting her character. She's called upon to cry
about four or five times in this film and each time she does so, the
action unfortunately rings more and more false. Other than that, she is
average. Meanwhile, Gabriel Mann, Leon Rippy and Matt Craven also
provide colorful backdrops to the story at hand with their credible
supporting characters.

"The Life of David Gale" is a film that had a great opportunity to
create controversy about the death penalty. Unfortunately, it is
excessively underrated by critics, despite being nominated for the
Human Rights Award from the Political Film Society and being present at
the prestigious Berlin International Film Festival. 

Sad and stunning. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"The Life of David Gale" is a terrific thriller and is one of the best
of 2003. Despite going to this movie through the worst date of my
life... shudder, I still have nightmares, this movie was the silver
lining. I was very excited to see this movie because it has such an
awesome actor, obviously Kevin Spacey and then a great actress Kate
Winslet.

This political thriller keeps you on the edge of your seat and keeps
you guessing what's going to happen next. Wither you're for or against
or undecided about the death penalty, this movie gets to you and keeps
you thinking after wards about our justice system in the United States.
David Gale is an accused murderer on death row, his last few days he
requests to be interviewed by Bitsey Bloom, a journalist who likes to
keep her mouth shut even when she shouldn't. He tells her his
incredible story about from being one of the most respected men in
Texas to one of the most hated for being accused of rape.

"No one sees a person when they look through that glass, they see a
murderer and a rapist three days shy of his execution". Is he guilty or
not? Trying to figure this out in the story you jump to your own
conclusion, this man has been accused of rape, murder, he's lost his
family and friends. Take away everything and find out if people just
overlook cases or if we should judge the first minute we hear one side
of the story. The Life of David Gale is an amazing story that will keep
you interested. Just trust me, it's a great movie. I can even watch it
without having nightmares about my horrific date. :) OK, just watch it.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Kevin Spacey deserves another one OSCAR nomination for this movie while
supporting cast is not such creative except maybe Laura Linney.

Alan Parker is back with stunning material - provoking and sophisticated.
This movie makes me think about world we live and life in general. I'm not
an expert in capital punishment issue, but acting of Spacey is superb and
deeply touching. This is not usual stupid Hollywood popcorn movie and
thank
You for that. My personal rating is 10 out of 10. 
<|_=00=_|>

If you're a fan of Kevin Spacey's, you will not be let down by "The Life
of
David Gale."  Do not read reviews.  Do not watch stuff about it on
television. Just go see it and experience it for yourself.  It's not a
perfect film by any stretch (as many, MANY critics have been pointing
out),
but it does grab you and it does deliver. 
<|_=00=_|>
This is one of the only films I've seen which tackles the widespread
problem of false-rape accusations, showing just how easily such
accusations can be made, the often trivial reasons behind them and the
ruins of lives that can be left behind when they are made. Few people
know or want to know just how commonplace such accusations are made,
and how many men have had their lives destroyed on the whims of a
bored, angry, or mentally unstable person. Most people would rather
continue to believe such things never happen, and that 'a woman
wouldn't make up something like that'. But, as one of the characters in
the film says, "When it comes to rape, an accusation's as good as a
conviction: it sticks like sh*t".

I wasn't expecting any of that going in, so was fascinated & moved at
the attention and compassion given to mens lives and humanity in this
film. I knew, of course, that a twist was coming, and I dreaded that
the only twist it could be was that the Spacey character was going to
be 'guilty' (in some way) after all. I saw this rumbling over the
horizon right from the first 5 minutes but hoped it would turn out to
be something more original, instead of another Basic Instinct or Jagged
Edge.

And in fact it was, and the way it makes sense of what has gone before
gives one much to ponder on afterwards, about convictions and morality
and self-sacrifice. It works because you realise the film is about
something other than you thought it was only at the very end.
<|_=00=_|>
The Life of David Gale (2003)

Whether you are pro or anti death penalty, there's not getting past the
sensational, brave, and maybe insane elements of this story. Based on
fact about a death row inmate who had been famous as a death row
protester, the core of the movie is how a young reporter (a convincing
Kate Winslet) interviews the inmate (an equally convincing Kevin
Spacey) in the days before his scheduled execution. We are gradually
shown the backstory through their interviews, and another story builds
as the reporter chases down new leads, including missing video
evidence. Laura Linney plays an important third lead that starts to
throw doubts into everyone's mind, including the audience's.

All of this sounds like a great movie should have come out of it:
superb casting and acting, a great story with believable but astounding
twists, and a nice tight framework, day by day, with methodical
flashbacks. Instead the movie both tries too hard and fumbles some of
the key moments. What is clearly dramatic is sometimes made
over-dramatic (Winslet running and running and running, or words like
"innocent" spinning across the screen between scenes). Other
sensationalist add-ons make the movie cheap (seeing a chaingang neatly
working along the road just as they drive by). And simple reactions
aren't believable (they way characters respond to someone following
them, or to other threats). This is important stuff for a movie trying
to recreate the truth. 

By my guess, the director is the key suspect, though he has a raft of
successful films behind him, including the closest echo, Midnight
Express (1978), which is about injustice and a prisoner who is
extraordinary. But in all his films (that I've seen, which is quite a
few, it turns out), there is a feeling of powerful story line carrying
the day (Mississippi Burning, Birdy). Parker has also made a series of
films tied to contemporary music, from Evita which is fair to The
Commitments which is terrific fun, as well as The Wall, which might be
his best film in all, though a difficult one. All of these films have a
great setting, either musically or geographically.

Here we have only the dull backdrop of conservative Texas (if that's
not redundant). And a blazing, heartwrenching story. Which is fair
enough as a start. The Life of David Gale is a powerful morality tale,
most of all, with some great acting, and many or most people watching
will be glad they saw it. All those little flaws fade further and
further as you get toward the end.

And then the end, the famous big final twist. That's memorable stuff.
Wow.
