
There's seems to be a lot of misplaced animosity among, what I presume,
are "white" commentators, regarding this film's racial thrust.

The film isn't about belittling or ridiculing "white people."

The film is about tackling prejudices: And specifically those among the
U.S.'s so-called "white" and "black" populations, but told from,
ostensibly, a "black" perspective, and told with humor.

Reading the negative comments on this film I wonder what movie some of
the angry folks were watching. Racism is using one's own physical
traits to establish social superiority over another person, or group of
people, who don't look like themselves. I saw nothing of any of the
African/Black/persons-of-color trying to "reverse role play" by holding
themselves in a superior light over so-called "white people."

It simply wasn't there.

Myself, I hate "white guilt" messages in media of all forms. I've had
enough social agenda thrust in my face. But that's NOT THE MESSAGE of
"Undercover Brother."

What a lot of the "angry-white-commentators" are bothered by is the
fact that they believe this film makes ALL so-called "white persons"
look like evil-clowns, or condescending jerks. IT DOESN'T. If that's
what you see in this film, then maybe you shouldn't be watching movies
in the first place.

This film, as stated clear as day by both cast and crew, is an attempt
to tackle a social problem with good humor. If you're offended by the
jokes in this film, then you've completely missed the point, and are,
in fact, the racist idiot that you claim this film to be (I believe
psychologist call this phenomenon "projection," where someone refuses
to acknowledge their own faults, and casts their own negative qualities
on people they dislike).

But to the movie; it was hilarious. Myself, not being black, I couldn't
help but laugh of the number of stereotypes this film poked fun at;
especially "Conspiracy Brother" (played by Dave Chappell), whose loose
form of illogic-thinking and one-liners had me, quite literally,
falling out of my chair with laughter. And Neil Patrick Harris (Doogie
Howser M.D. fame) playing the "affirmative action" intern nearly bust
my gut, particularly near the end of the film. And Chris Kattan as the
evil high energy second in command was just brilliant. The entire cast
and film was superb. Think "Shaft" meets "Get Smart" here. :-)

What this film needed was to poke more fun at itself in a more direct
manner. In a large sense this film pokes fun at itself in terms of its
genre, but I think it also needed to show a couple more stereotypes.
One of the great "high-profile" stereotypes in white America are black
people talking in theaters, or otherwise being loud and obnoxious in
places and circumstances "white" Americans thinks inappropriate. It
would've been nice to see Undercover Brother cleaning up "his peoples"
stereotypes, but doing so with humor before going after "the man." 

I think that's a thing the film makers missed, because the other thing
I believe "angry white commentators" are bothered by is the fact that
there are "black" folks who have their own prejudices, and that this
film might seen by that segment of black-America as a green light for
ridiculing "whites." IT ISN'T.

One of the other themes the film makers missed is the coupling that
that occurs between Denise Richard's character and Eddie Griffin's
character. One of the primary drives of racism is the abhorrence of
interracial couples. This plot point, even though it's high comedy,
seemed implausible for a racially motivated antagonist. Then again,
that may've been part of the film makers' strategy to show how
ludicrous racial prejudice is, and can be.

The final mistake, and this is more of a minor quibble, but a profound
one from a fan of this film, was the downplay of Jim Kelley's role in
this film.

Where I grew up Jim Kelley was a hero, and this was amongst a circle of
friends who were all white. I think the marketing decision to ace Jim
Kelley's role in this film was a mistake. Not a huge one, but a mistake
nonetheless.

If you're still of the opinion that this film is racist (assuming
you've read this far and haven't burst a blood vessel), then I would
suggest you're taking the film too personally, because the film isn't
ridiculing so-called "white-people," but prejudice that, in this case,
is assumed by a large chunk of white America. If you think otherwise,
then you're not viewing this film with a clear mind.

Beyond that, it's one of the funniest films I've ever seen. View it
with a relaxed and open mind, and enjoy some of the biggest laughs to
ever hit the big screen.
<|_=00=_|>
An Afro-American organization, the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D., is in
permanent fight against a white organization, The Man, defending the
values of the black people in North America. When the Afro-American
candidate Gen. Warren Boutwell (Billy Dee Williams) has a weird
behavior in his presidential campaign, the Undercover Brother (Eddie
Griffin) is hired to work undercover in the white organization and find
what happened with the potential candidate.

I do not recall the last time I laughed so much with a comedy.
"Undercover Brother" is one of the most hilarious and silly comedies I
have ever seen, and very underrated in IMDb. The story is a big joke
with the North American racism, both white and black, with very funny
situations "à la Austin Powers". I believe this is the major point of
the plot, keeping a neutral position and ridiculing and satirizing
racism of Caucasians and Blacks. Dave Chappelle is the funniest, but
Chris Kattan, Eddie Griffin, Aunjanue Ellis, Denise Richards and the
rest of the cast are also amazingly funny. I did not understand the
joke with mayonnaise, but I believe that usually Afro-American people
do not like this dressing, or at least there is a clichés about in USA.
There are many other jokes related to the North American culture that
are impossible to be understood by an overseas viewer, but anyway I
loved this movie. My vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "Undercover Brother – Com a Cor e a Coragem"
("Undercover Brother – With the Color and Courage")
<|_=00=_|>

I loved "Undercover Brother!"  It's the movie "Pootie Tang" should have
been!  I found it over-the-top, laugh-out-loud funny!  Eddie Griffin scores
as Undercover Brother, an afrolicious version of Austin Powers.  And Chris
Kattan is hilarious as Mr. Feather, an evil underling of The Man, devoted to
the white man's dominance, but succumbing to hip-hop influence.  Other funny
performances came from Dave Chappelle as the paranoid Conspiracy Brother,
and Neil Patrick Harris as the clueless caucasian intern Lance.  Some
viewers may complain about the black stereotypes, but you must look at it as
black actors and filmmakers laughing at themselves.  It's all a "solid"
laugh!
<|_=00=_|>

Undercover Brother is a smart and sassy comedy similar to Austin Powers.
Eddie Griffin stars as Undercover Brother a smooth seceret agent type cat
who is out to save the world from the Man. He gets help from the brother
hood who have employess with names like Conspiracy Brother & Smart Brother
and Sistah Girl. The supporting cast of Chi McBride, Chris Kattan and
Denise
Richards are all very good but Dave Chapple steals every scene he's in.
Malcom D.Lee has made a worthy follow up to The Best Man and Unisversal may
have a new franchise on their hands.
<|_=00=_|>
If you find 'Family Guy', 'Married ... with Children' or even 'The
Simpsons' to be in bad taste, you may want to avoid this movie. If you
found 'Good Times' and 'What's Happening!' to be stereotypical and
buffoonish, you probably won't like this movie.

If you are still reading ...

According to this movie, African Americans have made numerous advances
as a result of the Civil Rights movement. But a powerful Caucasian male
known as 'The Man', whose face we never see, wants to put black people
back in their place.

Which is why the B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. must stop him.

If there was such a person as 'The Man', he could have written this
movie.

Eddie Griffin did quite a good job in what were essentially two roles.
Most of the time, he had the giant afro and the cool clothes and the
classic Cadillac pumping out funky 70s music as he represented
everything good (or bad, depending on your view) about the
'blaxploitiation' genre. And he worked undercover as Anton Jackson
wearing a suit and acting more white than I do. A very good contrast,
showing a lot of acting skill.

Billy Dee Williams nailed the potential presidential candidate
obviously based on Colin Powell, who was acting very strange for some
reason. Not quite stereotypical, because he was always dignified--but
shouldn't have been. His advertising campaign was hilarious!

Denise Richards and Aunjanue Ellis also gave good performances as the
two female partners of Undercover Brother--one when he was black, and
one when he was undercover.

Chi McBride and Gary Anthony Williams were very funny as two of
Undercover Brother's associates. And Dave Chappelle was very
stereotypical, very racist, but very funny--it was just satire, after
all. Neil Patrick Harris did quite a good job as the organization's
token white. And let's not forget the one associate of 'The Man' who
seemed to want to be black and even acted black at times. That must
have been Chris Kattan.

With all these talented actors, there were of course very clever
writers to make the material so hilarious. It takes real talent to
produce satire as opposed to just being mean-spirited.

The music was good too, for this type of movie. I personally would like
to have heard Jay-Z do Lawrence Welk. Or maybe not. Today's artists
don't often sound as good as, say, Rod Stewart. I'm not hopeless,
though. I can't stand Michael Bolton or Celine Dion or, even though he
wasn't mentioned but could have been, Kenny G. For some reason I do
like 'Jungle Boogie' by Kool and the Gang.

I highly recommend this movie for fans of satire.
<|_=00=_|>
These days, we're all used to the weekly deluge of movies adapted from
novels, comics and other mediums, but 'Undercover Brother' – released
in 2003 - was one of the first movies to be adapted from an internet
source. The film is based on a series of internet-based short animated
episodes, also called 'Undercover Brother'. The adaptation is
successful (with some scenes lifted directly from the animated shorts),
focusing on racial stereotypes while paying homage to spy movies and
seventies blaxploitation films.

Eddie Griffin is brilliant as the confident, swaggering, yet
good-hearted title character, who is called into the
B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D organisation to stop The Man after he kidnapped
presidential hopeful General Warren Boutwell (Billy Dee Williams) and
brainwashed him to sell fried chicken, with an aim to wipe out the
black community.

One of the strengths of this movie is the cast. Aside from the
aforementioned Griffin and Williams, there's Dave Chappelle as
Conspiracy Brother, in a role not dissimilar to his stand-up routine
(in this case a good thing), Gary Anthony Williams (who provided many
of the voices in the original internet series) as Smart Brother,
Aujanue Ellis as the headstrong Sistah Girl, the backbone of the group,
Neil Patrick Harris (before his breakout roles in the 'Harold and
Kumar' movies and 'How I Met Your Mother') as the
B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D's white intern Lance, Chris Kattan as Mr.
Feather, the underling to The Man who is secretly enchanted by black
culture, Denise Richards as White She-Devil, described as 'the black
man's kryptonite', and a cameo from James Brown, the Godfather of Soul.

While there is a lot of silly humour in this film (like the 'Austin
Powers' trilogy) and broad racial stereotypes – black people like fried
chicken and hate mayonnaise – the black director Malcolm D. Lee, and
the predominantly black cast ensures the black characters are never
mocked for a cheap laugh.

The soundtrack is a highlight, with a lot of songs from the
blaxploitation era, some Michael Jackson and more modern urban music.
Even if you're not a fan of this genre of music, it's still fairly
catchy.

Though it's very much a comedy (at times very silly but never stupid),
the film has a lot to say about how ridiculous racial stereotypes are.
The role of Boutwell as the possible first black president is relevant
to modern viewers (even though the film's only six years old) with the
presidency of Barack Obama only a few months old.

Overall, 'Undercover Brother' is a hilarious, silly film, which pays
homage to the spy and blaxploitation genre and explores racial
stereotypes without ridiculing them for cheap laughs.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw "Undercover Brother" on cable a few years ago and since
then it's become one of my favorite comedies of recent years. Though
it's basically a "blaxploited" version of the "Austin Powers" concept,
"Undercover Brother" is funny enough to be enjoyable on its own merits.

As the film opens, we are filled in on the ongoing battle between the
black community and a super secret organization known as "The Man," who
works tirelessly to negate African-American influence on the world at
large. Fortunately, the black community has its own underground group,
known as "The B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D." created to undermine The Man's
plans to "Whitewash" the world.

Eddie Griffin stars as Undercover Brother, a funky '70s throwback hero
with a huge Afro and platform shoes, who drives around in a pimped-out
Caddy performing acts of Kung-Fu derring-do to aid the African American
cause. Normally a lone wolf, he is drafted into the
B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. when a black war hero (Billy Dee Williams)'s
plans to run for President are derailed by a mind control drug designed
by The Man. Now rather than run for the White House, he runs a
nationwide Fried Chicken chain instead. Ably assisted by fellow
B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. agents Sistah Girl, Conspiracy Brother, Smart
Brother, and "Lance" (Neil Patrick Harris in a hilarious turn as the
lone white member of the group -- he got his internship through -- what
else? -- affirmative action), Undercover Brother infiltrates The Man's
organization to destroy the plot, though he nearly becomes a victim of
their most potent weapon, the gorgeous Denise Richards, aka "White
She-Devil" (whom "The Man" calls "Black Man's Kryptonite.") along the
way.

I have seen a lot of discussion on IMDb about this film being "racist"
towards whites, but to be honest, I found "Undercover Brother" to be an
equal opportunity offender, with no stereotype about blacks OR whites
going un-skewered. The cast is excellent, especially Dave Chapelle as
the eternally paranoid agent "Conspiracy Brother," and the always
welcome Chi McBride as the long-suffering "Chief" of The
B.R.O.T.H.E.R.H.O.O.D. Denise Richards looks amazing in a white leather
catsuit (her catfight scene with "Sistah Girl" is worth the price of
the DVD all by itself), and oddly enough, even though I usually find
Eddie Griffin and Chris Kattan (who plays The Man's flunky, "Mr.
Feather") quite irritating in other films, their shtick totally works
in "Undercover Brother." Fast, funny, and an utterly silly good time,
"Undercover Brother" is -- in the words of its hero -- "Solid."
<|_=00=_|>
In the 80s there was a film called "i'm gonna get you sucka" about a
black gang led by keenan ivory wayans who bring down a white company
run by Mr. Big played by john vernon. It was hilarious and "undercover
brother" is the same type of movie and equally funny. Whitey has
mind-controlled a black general modeled on colin powell, and turned him
away from running for president. Instead they have him shill for a
fried chicken restaurant that has mind control drugs in their
chicken.!! Whitey wants to turn blacks into slaves and the BROTHERHOOD
led by our hero UB, is out to stop them. Among the choice bits of
silliness is when smart brother develops a vaccine against the drugs
but says they can't use it cause it only works on one person at a
time!!! Now how can a vaccine only work on one person at a time?
HAHAHA. I give this movie a B+.
<|_=00=_|>

Many films in the history of the cinema 
have been difficult to identify, and this 
one embodies some of the typical 
exasperations of critiquing film. Definitely 
a hit or miss film, you either have to 
know about the blaxploitation movement 
of have a very low sense of humor. Since 
I have both attributes, I give this movie 
a 6/10. Some of the moments were 
genuinely funny and entertaining, but 
overall, I probably wouldn't pay to see 
this film (I work at a theater, and get to 
see this stuff for free). Eddie Griffin was 
surrounded by a rather solid supporting 
cast which seemed to parody all of the 
common elements of a typical blaxploitation 
film. But then again, is this film really 
anti-white propaganda or some silly 
parody? It's hard to tell, which means 
the decision is certainly up to the viewer.
<|_=00=_|>
Uneven but entertaining comedy which puts an effective comic spin on
popular blaxploitation films. Griffin—a stylish, super cool secret
agent who always gets his man—is recruited by an ambitious black
brotherhood to investigate the ambiguous actions of a prominent black
general who's given up his love of politics for fried chicken. In
addition, Griffin also matches wits with an evil, megalomaniacal white
man. An undeniably goofy setup is made worthwhile by a lot of hip,
amusing dialogue and clever, innovative sight gags. Suffers from
occasional lapses—as most films of this genre do—but the cast is
clearly having fun and make it worth the viewing experience. **½
