

I avoided watching this film for quite some time after its release. In part
this was because what little I knew about the story hit a little too close
to home in terms of substance abuse problems, and equally so because I'd
generally read negative reviews about how bleak, depressing and meandering
it was.

Boy was I wrong. As it turns out this is a stylishly photographed,
atmospheric little film noir set in the world of crystal meth junkies and
hoods. Val Kilmer registers a most impressive performance as a musician
turned junkie turned.... well, I won't give anything more
away.

The film's story line just seems to flow out toward the viewer in a
languishing, yet engrossing stream, sucking you along in its undertow.
Couple that with enough plot twists to catch your interest and this film
makes for a perfect evening of quiet movie watching over a bowl of
popcorn.

Give this little gem a chance. Odds are you won't be disappointed.

<|_=00=_|>

Excellent adult thriller. 
Stylish, intense, funny and unexpectedly moving. Intricately
plotted
 (it will always be one step ahead of you) and fluidly, inventively directed
(including a unique twist on Eastwood's classic "Did I  fire six
bullets...or only five?" line). 
Well-acted, especially by Kilmer. The less you know about it beforehand the
better, though, so I'll just add this:
this film is not always pleasant to watch, but it
has personality and will take you on quite a journey. Don't read about it,
see it.      (***)
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was great, this time I'm actually glad I took the Blockbuster
guy's advice and rented it.  It's not like LOTR or a Rocky movie where you
come out feeling like you're on top of the world, but you will feel spun
like by a great rollercoaster.  I wouldn't say it starts off slow, but it
definitely eases you into things, then move on to the drug fests and the
story starts to take shape, but without really revealing itself all at once.
 As you watch more, you get that much more involved and gripped.  I found
myself really captured by the movie to the point of having anxiety myself in
some of the Poo bear scenes.  So towards the end I was strapped to my chair
waiting to see what was going to happen, I did care about Kilmer's
character, and I loved it how the movie keeps you guessing and on your seat
till the end.  Being such a dark movie though, it wouldn't have been so
memorable for me if the ending had been different.

Kilmer's performance was good and he held his own, but Vincent D'Onofrio was
brilliant in his role of Poo bear.  I also liked the scene with Bobby
`hobby' as it was definitely memorable.

I loved this movie, but as other reviews have said, if you are faint of
heart then this movie is not for you.  It is dark, druggy, very pawn scum of
life kind of thing, and you watch it with your guts in a knot for some of
the movie, but it's worth the knot I tell you!  Did I mention that I liked
the ending too?  Even though it was a dark movie overall, I left with the
sensation of `Damn that was a good movie'

<|_=00=_|>
The Salton Sea is an interesting film. It is a film that looks
initially to be about drugs and the people who take them. Val Kilmer is
in the lead role as a tweaker of crystal meth, and other substances, as
well as a quite good sounding trumpet player. He begins by telling the
viewer, via narration, explaining that he does not know who he really
is and asks you to decide as we wind back through a recent period of
his life to see how he came to where we first meet him.

The movie gets its title from a key event to the film occurred at the
Salton Sea and Kilmer's character has a huge tattoo in memory of this.

What unravels is an intricate mystery that holds the viewers' attention
but only just. The story is quite good but it is not in your face as
one might expect a film of this acting calibre. It sunk at the cinema
but maybe due to its art-house feel and advertising did not communicate
this.

Vincent D'Onofrio is nearly unrecognizably as unpredictable drug dealer
Pooh Bear, named as such because of his flat nose, and Danny Trejo is
here as one of his scary henchmen.

If you are looking for a decent mystery, darkish thriller, some noir,
drugs, love lost, and cops, then you could not go far wrong renting The
Salton Sea.
<|_=00=_|>

This is the back shelf treasure that everyone hopes for when browsing the
not-so-recent releases at the video store.  Pay attention to the other
reviews posted here - they're not kidding.  This is a very well made film
on
every level.  Great script, acting is standout, direction is thoughtful
and
involved.  Not for kids.
<|_=00=_|>

Although having seen this seemingly obscure movie for the first time a few
months ago, I truly feel like it makes my Top 15 list. Val Kilmer is
convincing as a tweaker and has a crew around him that is priceless for
their absolute comedic value (of course this is all with their brains on
chemical overload).  Also, Vincent D'onofrio is brilliant as Pooh Bear
(especially when you consider his Law & Order CI character "Goran").

 I like this film becuase of the complexity of the story, the graphic and
sobering nature of Danny Parker's drug culture and the intermittent comedic
value with Pooh Bear, Kujo, Finn and Creeper.

A must see if you have the chance to find this hardly publicized
film.
<|_=00=_|>
The Salton Sea is a hypersaline artificial body of water accidentally
created when engineers lost control of the Colorado River flow with
which they were replenishing irrigation canals in California's Imperial
Valley. For two years (1905-1907), the Colorado River was
uncontrollably diverted from its natural course, filling the Salton
Trough (part of the San Andreas Fault) before finally being set back on
course. Since then, the Salton Sea continues to be replenished by
irrigation runoff with no means of outflow except evaporation. It lies
approximately 130 miles northeast of San Diego at the lowest point of
the Sonoran Desert (278 feet below sea level). In that part of the
world, the temperatures in summer, effectively April through November,
can reach 120 degrees Fahrenheit, or even higher. In recent years, it
has experienced massive fish and bird kills. In short, the Salton Sea
is an apt metaphor for Hell ... which is just where Danny Parker/Tom
Van Allen (Val Kilmer) finds himself at the beginning of this film,
surrounded by flames. "The Salton Sea" is a highly stylized movie in
which nearly all elements are executed well. The acting is generally
excellent. Kilmer in the lead role does his best work since
"Tombstone", and Vincent D'Onofrio, an actor for whom I don't
ordinarily care, is utterly convincing as the demented crank dealer
Pooh Bear. He was so good I forgot I was watching D'Onofrio. Excellent
supporting performances are contributed by Peter Sarsgaard as
Danny/Tom's best friend, Doug Hutchison and Anthony LaPaglia as the two
L.A. County Sheriff's deputies for whom Danny snitches, and Adam
Goldberg as tweaker-in-residence Kujo. Even the minor characters of
Creeper (Ricky Trammell), Big Bill (Josh Todd), and the gun seller
(Mpho Koaho) are portrayed to perfection. My only complaint is that
Deborah Kara Unger simply wasn't able to pull off her part as the
strung-out lowlife Colette, perhaps because she's just too beautiful to
be convincing in such a role. As an anti-parallel, imagine Danny Trejo
cast as James Bond.

Cinematography and editing were top notch, and the production design
for this film was fantastic, from the diseased walls of Danny/Tom's
apartment to the Level 4 biohazard lab in the 'Kujo's Big Heist'
segment, with technicians wearing space suits that look like they came
directly from Stanley Kubrick's "2001: A Space Odyssey". Even the
smallest details were done with style, such as the flames cascading
down Danny/Tom's arm from the sunburst tattoo centered on the scar of
his shoulder wound. The intricate plot of Tony Gayton's script requires
the viewer's suspension of disbelief at some points, but not enough to
detract significantly from the overall merit of the movie. This is a
very strong feature film debut for director D.J. Caruso, and I look
forward to his future work. One of the best films I've seen in the last
three years, "The Salton Sea" is definitely worth watching. Rating:
8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Val Kilmer has made some of the most peculiar and daring career choices of
any actor now working.  His decision to appear in the disastrous remake of
"The Island of Dr. Moreau" with Marlon Brando could have sunk him once and
for all, save for his exceedingly nasty (and accurate) impersonation of
Brando, tics and all, late in the film.  Now, as his features have thickened
and he is well past his pretty boy phase ( something he can apparently give
up, and Tom Cruise wouldn't dare: we might notice there was no talent
underneath the face cream), he is assuming roles that make full use of this
brutalized looks.  SALTON SEA is a magnificent performance in a wholly
satisfying film, with Kilmer being fully assisted by a dazzling supporting
cast.  There are elements of classical balance in this story that make it
not merely intellectually stimulating but emotionally moving.  It has
everything: great acting, great writing, and great directing.  Don't miss
it. 
<|_=00=_|>
Val Kilmer in Salton Sea is about as close to home as anything for me
in this movie. He looks like just another guy on the streets of So Cal
back in the 80's, looking for a quick high, with no idea of
consequence. Salton Sea is a beautiful location that many don't know
of. Kilmer's performance carries one through the movie effortlessly.
From the intricacies of the actual life he portrays to the unshown
details of the tenderness of the characters heart, "Salton Sea"
delivers a complete package of salty and sweet. I would have never
rented the movie had it been any other actor. The only reason I was
drawn to the movie, was the title, because so few people know of the
hidden gem in the California desert, and I had been there as a child.
The theme was a place that I unfortunately also visited and I feel that
the movie delivers a compelling reason for people to think before the
act. To realize that there is always more than meets the eye.
<|_=00=_|>
*Very Minor, Undetailed Plot Spoiler Warning* 

Director D.J. Caruso has run into decent fame as of late after
directing Eagle Eye, (Which I thought was pretty terrible by the way.),
and the very popular Disturbia, (Which is basically a reversion of
Hitchcock's classic thriller Rear Window.). However, I believe that he
should be most recognized for this little gem of a film from his more
distant past, 2002's The Salton Sea.

One of the greatest things about The Salton Sea is that it unravels in
very unexpected ways. Wrapping up the viewer in some dark unknown
mystery, that piece by piece becomes clearer and clearer as the
intriguingly masked plot unfolds into a tale of drugs, dirty law
enforcement, love and revenge. From the visuals, to the dialogue, from
the acting, to the delivery, The Salton Sea really is a gritty,
enjoyable, and somewhat unique piece of work.

Don't even bother with the plot hole scenarios that some people are
conjuring up out of the thin air resting between their ears. The truth
is that they just didn't pay enough attention to the details while
watching this underrated little diamond in the rough. If you like dark,
gritty mysteries, take your mind for a dive into The Salton Sea.

7/10
