

When I first heard about Scooby Doo being turned into a movie, I will
confess to being rather reticent about seeing it. I am just old enough to
remember the original Scooby Doo cartoons on rerun, and was at the high
end
of the right target age group when Scrappy Doo hit the scene, and of
course
remembered Scooby Doo with a certain love. Of course, the cartoon was
actually pretty terrible; the writing was bad, the cliches came in at a
rate
of knots, and the animation was second rate... but that's what we all
expected of Hanna-Barbara cartoons.

I digress: I had heard about SD the movie on the Internet quite early in
production and let out a groan; my childhood was being raped again for a
buck in Hollywood. Why? Why bother??? Then when I heard Scooby was going
to
be CGI I actually groaned again. Of course, there is no other way you
could
have pulled Scoob off on-screen without CGI, at least not
realistically...
but CGI... that's just so passe any more! I still enjoy the artistry in
modern CGI, but to me it felt like SD was going to be done just to prove
that it COULD be done with modern technology... not to tell a
story.

So it came, I read a few online reviews that panned it and failed to be
surprised. I caught the trailers and failed to be inspired. I steadfastly
avoided the movie theatres and just didn't go see it.

Fast forward to July of 2003; SD is playing on Cinemax (I think) and I've
got some time to kill. Aw, what the hell... could be good for background
noise if nothing else...

So having sat through SD the Movie, what do I think? Well, as much as I
wanted to hate it because it was Hollywood raping my childhood, I just
couldn't. I'm not going to say I loved it because that wouldn't be true,
but
I'll be darned if I can't admit that it was a whole hell of a lot better
than I expected. Let me fill you in;

The cast is incredible. They have a real on-screen chemistry that really
makes the movie for me. Especially Matthew Lillard as Shaggy... if he
hasn't
just completely NAILED the character as perfectly as you could in live
action, then I'm the queen of France. There's the romantic attraction
between Daphne and Fred that comes out on-screen pretty much throughout,
and
of course the distant attraction Velma had for Fred is right there too.
But
do I detect a little bit of an attraction to Shaggy? Don't remember that
in
the cartoon... but I can accept that.

The story? Well, it's a hell of a lot better written than the cartoons!
Yes,
it borrows heavily from them (and borrows from some of the SD animated
movies that have been made in the interim), but still it's an interesting
story with a nice twist at the end that had me actually laughing out
loud.
Not Shakespeare by any stretch of the imagination... but a fun and
engaging
story that keeps your attention.

So what about the CGI Scoob? Wow is all I can say! I don't know what
makes
it more, the quality of the CGI or the way in which all the actors really
made me believe they were sharing the screen with a 6'5" intelligent dog.
The interactions were believable, and not once did I catch anyone making
the
mistake of looking in the wrong place on-screen (which is clearly evident
in
many instances where CGI characters are used). The personality is
captured
perfectly and translates Scooby from the two-color animation of my youth
to
a perfect rendition of how I envisaged him in my minds eye.

I'm sure many have heard about them already, but there are plenty of
in-jokes that pepper the movie for those willing to pay attention. I
won't
say they're all laugh-out-loud funny, but they are amusing... and it was
obvious pretty early on that the film-makers didn't like Scrappy Doo
either
(I know I didn't... I didn't even like him as a kid), but rather than
pretend he never happened (*cough* Galactica 1980 *cough*) they actually
bring him to life in this movie too... and actually he has one of the
lines
that made me laugh out loud (to those who have seen it, it's the line he
never finishes saying...)

So did I love it as much as I loved Scooby as a kid? No. The movie was
definitely not without flaws, and it did depart from the cartoons in some
pretty major ways; for example one of the nice things about the cartoon
(looking at it now from an adult's perspective) was that at the end of
every
episode it was reiterated however lightly that there are no such things
as
monsters, ghosts, ghouls etc. and that we as people are always
responsible
for these things. This is something I picked up on as a kid but didn't
understand until I was an adult; and kids should be given that
reassurance
early in life that there are no monsters. The movie departed from that
part
of the formula... so personally I couldn't recommend the movie to younger
(under about 8 or 9) children. However, even with these kids, recommend
that
a parent watch it with them... but of course there's plenty of adult-type
humor in there too that will completely pass the kids by. To me that's
the
mark of a great kids movie these days; the ability to appeal to all
ages.

Overall, I'd say a 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I've always been a big fan of horror films and when I was too young to
watch them, SCOOBY was my favourite cartoon because it had cool heroes and
I
could see all sorts of monsters in it. Even now that I'm an adult, I still
find a lot of pleasure in watching an episode. Just to say that I wasn't
very excited at the perspective of seeing my cult cartoon turned into an
unnamable stuff as the first pictures in the magazines announced a
visually
ridiculous movie with probably (like most of the other TV series
adaptations) a boring and incoherent script.

When I left the theater, I was in love with this movie. It's a Scooby
fan's
dream come true.The film's never ridiculous: a colourfull and coherent
universe was built around the visual of the cartoon. It's a very rare
thing
but this time, an exact transposition of a cartoon is perfect and doesn't
breed an example in visual bad taste.

The script intelligently breaks several rules of the cartoon in order to
bring more deepness to the characters. For example, Daphne's tired to be
the
eternal "stupid" beauty in danger and Velma can't stand Fred's attitude
anymore as he always acts as if he had solved the mysteries alone. But
these
efforts would have been vain if a "dream team" of actors hadn't been
gathered around the hilarious Scooby. Even if the team's composed of five
characters, they're all treated with
the same importance, and that's rare enough to be underscored.

Matthew LILLARD IS Shaggy: he reproduces perfectly the attitude of the
animated character and his capacity to make you believe in the virtual
Scooby is very impressive: when he's with him, you feel like if the dog
was
really on the set. The duo's perfect.

Sarah Michelle GELLAR and Freddie PRINZE Jr have a very communicative
energy. It's obvious that they had a very good time playing the two
"beautiful and quite stupid" characters of the team. Even if
the
role of Daphne was written with "Buffy" references, Sarah Michelle GELLAR
succeeds in preserving the essence of the character: I never thought about
Buffy when I saw her as Daphne.

And the last but not the least, Linda CARDELLINI delivers an outstanding
performance as Velma. She took the animated character and managed to make
her more human, funnier and even touching by bringing all sorts of
irresistible details and mimics as for example in the way she laughs or
says
that she's the most clever of the team. Great job for a great
actress.

I hope that no sequel will ever reach the screen if any of them is missing
from the cast.

The story's quite simple but very well paced and entertaining. There are
lots of cool dialogues and "private jokes" for the series' fans. All the
gags are in the tone of the cartoon and always effective. I wasn't in
favor
of the use of martial arts through the character of Daphne but finally,
kung
fu fits in the universe of SCOOBY DOO as it's used with parsimony to bring
a
few more good gags.

As a conclusion, I would say that SCOOBY DOO's a terrific movie: it's fun,
fast and very well acted.I found in it everything that made me love the
cartoon and even more. Don't miss it if you're a SCOOBY
fan: you won't regret it!
<|_=00=_|>

I watched Scooby Doo, the cartoon, only with medium level interest as a
child, so I went (with my wife and kids) mostly as a kick.  Matthew Lillard
is brilliant as Shaggy (how is that possible?  His impersonation skills
were
flawless!).  The cartoonimation of Scooby and Scrappy Doo were interesting
but were so 3-D rendered that they did not match the original 2-D versions
very well.  The plot was reasonably interesting and twisted.  No mere
disgruntled janitor in a spooky disguise-- there's some evil genius at
work.
There were some minor plot issues with Velma, Fred, and Daphne having much
greater insecurity issues than in the cartoons, but experimenting with such
ideas is very cartoon-like.  The set and cast worked very well.  There's
some biological humor with Shaggy and Scooby that I did not expect, but the
last bit that they did helped.  If you're prudish about gas-passing and
belching, there are about 4 minutes you can do without, but they seem very
much in character.
<|_=00=_|>

This might be a disappointment to die hard Scooby Doo cartoon fans, but I
enjoyed it.  I thought the gags were hilarious, and since I never cared
for
Scrappy Doo, I was especially fond of the end.  I think Matthew Lillard
should get an academy award for the way he interacted to a character that
wasn't even there.  In my mind, every time I see a Scooby Doo cartoon, I
will picture him as Shaggy.  It also brought the characters even more
alive
for me when the "human" sides of their personalities came out.  It's
really
reaching to think that a group of people would be able to spend that much
time together and not have individual jealousies and get on each other's
nerves.  I can't wait to see the sequel. 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie works because it tries to mimic the cartoon in many ways. Even
the first shot looks like the first shot of the cartoon with the fog and the
creepy old house. I had originally thought that the CGI Scooby would bother
me during the movie, but I was completely wrong. I only really thought about
that the first time Scooby is shown. After that the dog was Scooby to me
because the things he says and the way he says them are accurate to the
cartoon. The movie is pure cheese, but so was the cartoon. "Scooby-Doo" has
maybe the most effective farting scene since "Blazing Saddles." Most fart
scenes just come off as gross and not very funny, but in the world of Scooby
a fart scene works. One interesting aspect of the film was seeing Rowan
Atkinson in a role where he actually talks...a lot! I hope he gets more
chances at dialogue-heavy roles here in the States.  Fred, Daphne, Velma and
Shaggy all feel like their cartoon counterparts adding to the effectiveness
of the movie. Lillard is amazing as Shaggy because he gets his voice to
sound like a carbon-copy of the cartoon Shaggy. This is a fun movie to watch
because you can turn your brain off and just enjoy the
show.
<|_=00=_|>

Scooby and the gang investigate a mystery on Spooky Island.

OK...this is NOT a good movie.  The jokes are very obvious and the PG rating
keeps things very clean and family friendly.  Still, I was laughing a lot. 
Maybe it was my mood, but I kept giggling over all the jokes.  It works
mostly because the entire cast plays it straight.

Sarah Michelle Gellar looks nothing like Daphne in the cartoon, but she is
good. Likewise, Freddie Prinze Jr. looks nothing like Fred either, but he's
OK.  Matthew Lillard, however, is letter perfect as Shaggy.  Also the woman
playing Velma is right on target.  And the CGI Scooby was just great...his
expressions and body language provided lots of laughs.  Great special effect
and the movie moves quickly.

My only real complaint--did we really need a burping/breaking wind contest
between Scooby and Shaggy?

A very good family movie--I liked it a lot. A very guilty favorite all the
way.


<|_=00=_|>

I really think that this movie was pretty good.  Some parts in the movie
were really funny.  This casting was also good, the actors played the
characters pretty well.  I also think it was funny because in cases they
made fun of the cartoon.  Although, I didn't really like the villians.  I
could think of some better villians for the movie, but it just made it more
interesting in the end.  Over all - my rating: 8.
<|_=00=_|>
Scooby-Doo is a worthy live action film to a brilliant original T.V.
show

Plot: The Mystery Inc. gang have split up and are each off on their
own, only Scooby-Doo (Voice of Neil Fanning) and Shaggy (Matthew
Lilard) remain together and they own the Mystery Machine. They are
called back into action when a strange man shows up and invites them to
Spooky Island to solve a mystery. They are convinced when he mentions
an all you can eat buffet and are on their way to the airport. There
they run into the rest of the gang, Fred (Freddie Prinze Jr.), Velma
(Linda Cardellini), and Daphne (Sarah Michelle Gellar). Still resenting
each other they refuse contact and once on the island they meet the
owner, Emile Mondavariours (Rowan Atkinson) who informs them of the
problem. He believes that somebody is casting a spell on the visitors
who come to his resort. Starting off on looking for clues by themselves
the gang realizes after a attack that they need to put their
differences aside and team up if they ever want to solve the mystery.

The Good News: This being the motion picture film to a T.V. series that
spawned thousands of imitators it had a lot to live up to and it
delivers. Since it was released people have bashed this film to pieces,
but if you take a minutes and look at it closely it is a pretty
underrated film. The actors all do an outstanding job at bringing the
gang to life. At first glance Freddie Prinze Jr. may seem like the
wrong choice, but he fills Fred's shoes amazingly well with adequate
skill. Linda Cardellini portrays the brainy smart Velma we all know,
but Linda plays her with a sensitive side which is new and a a nice
choice. Sharah Michelle Gellar is the shining light here bringing
warmth and believability to her character as Daphne, everyones favorite
danger prone female who proves she is tougher than most think in one of
the film's best scenes. Matthew Lillard plays Shaggy well and plays off
of Scooby-Doo well even though there was nothing there during filming.
Lillard's acting is a key success to the film. It doesn't matter how
well the CGI Scooby is made Lillard really has to bring it to life by
make believing that Scooby is actually there. The whole thing could
have gone completely wrong, but luckily this escapes that. Now the
question that most people are asking. How does Scooby-Doo stack up?
Neil Fanning's has to be the best since the original and the CGI Scooby
looks pretty convincing. The action is a big part of this film as it
plays a huge part. There are plenty of action scenes to keep you
interested. My favorite one probably has to be the castle scene, a ten
minute romp where the gang uncovers clues and it all ends in a big
bang, but there are many more to more than fulfill your attention. The
screenplay keeps thing's nice and simple and so is the direction.
Constant and flashy cuts would've gotten in the way here so the
direction they took works the best. The film all ends with more action
scenes, big bangs, and many great twists. This could've been a lot
worse.

The Bad News: The could've taken out the crude humor, but that's my
only complaint

Conclusion: See this at any cost if you are a hardcore Scooby-Doo fan
and others will all so want to check this out. Recommend

Rated: PG
<|_=00=_|>
Sigh... 

This joke has been done before, but there's more Doo Doo than Scooby
and there's more Crappy than Scrappy..

Where do I begin? I'm torturing myself just to review my thoughts on
this film for you guys. Just going to hop straight into it.

The beginning starts off with a bloody hip hop yo yo Scoob piece of
crap. The song sounds cheap and too modern for my liking. Representing
the kids nowadays and their love for Drake and Kanye West. Surprisingly
enough, it ends at the typical scooby episode with Daphne already
bloody captured by nothing. Why do I say nothing, because the CGI is
horrible. I've seen better CGI In goldeneye's opening sequence. I mean
dear god! The ghost looks like a stock footage paste in and doesn't fit
in with the background. Scooby now looks like a freakish dog mutant.
There are such pleasant images in this film for its crappy cgi. Also
makes no sense how they literally quit after completing the mystery.
Even worse than the reason of why Spider Man quit in Spider Man 2!

Since I'm bored of reviewing this awful excuse I'm just going to say
that the monster is REAL and the bloody villain is Scrappy. Everyone is
out of character, they'd never do what they did to scrappy on the
original franchise. This film can go to hell...
<|_=00=_|>
The film concerns about our friends who form ¨the Mystery Inc¨ group .
After an acrimonious break up, the Mystery Inc. gang are individually
brought to an island resort to resolve strange goings on . After two
years separated, Fred, Daphne, Velma, Shaggy and Scooby are
mysteriously united together to investigate an issue on Spooky Island.
As Scooby Doo ,Shaggy (Matthew Lillard) along with the remaining group
(Sara Michelle Gellar, Freddie Prince Jr , Linda Cardellini) are back
to solve a case that takes place at an eerie island where occurs weird
events including some monsters with nefarious purposes . A theme park
affects young visitors in very strange ways . But it seems to be they
are brought back as one for more than just solving a magical mystery .
Meanwhile Shaggy falls in love with a tourist (Isla Fisher). The
equipment members are going out to investigate towards the amusement
park, whose owner is a suspect man named named Mondavarious(Rowan
Atkinson) . He needs their help, figuring out why the vacationers are
leaving mellow and sober . The Mystery Inc soon realize that they
cannot resolve this enigma without help from each other .

In this entertaining picture there are comedy , tongue-in-cheek ,
slapstick, humorous moments, mild diversion and is pretty amusing. All
are given an adolescent treatment which means no gore and no bad
language just some old-fashioned likable scares , being funny watching
humans meld into the CG characters . However , it contains bad taste
when takes place a contest about fart jokes between Shaggy and Scooby.
Of course , coward Scooby steals the spectacle as food-obsessed canine
anti-hero with its grimace , faces and gesture .Many gags are good
however the tale sometimes drags. Special mention to gags between Shagg
and Scooby,they make a sympathetic comic couple . Movie combines live
action with breezy computer generator animation on Scooby Doo creation
, special effects are well done . The motion picture is regularly
directed by Raja Gosnell who also filmed the follow-up . Kiddies may
find the corny, flat humor and bemusing situations , but most adults
will be disappointed , exception for the fans the classic cartoon
series created by Hanna Barbera. Rating : average but entertaining and
clearly aimed at the junior audience . Protagonists' antics might
provide the silly smiles , but this cartoonist physical comedy is
mostly ineffective . It's followed by a second part in similar style ,
cast and realization , titled ¨Scooby Doo unleashed¨ with lots of fun
and as amused as the first , and will be best appreciated by preteen
enthusiasts of the cartoon movies .
