

"Basic" takes a lot of plot twists through the steamy jungles of Panama.
They are often impossible to follow. No, literally. Impossible. As in they
literally do not piece together. You can try to analyze them, but when you
do, you find out there is nothing really to be analyzed. But the film, by
confusing and tricking the audience, makes it appear as if something is
there, which is almost as good as if something really is there. Therefore,
the movie, though frustratingly difficult to follow at times, is
entertaining. Confused yet? Yeah, that's what the movie will make you feel
like.

 The film opens up in a rain-drenched Panama jungle at night on an Army
training mission headed by Sergeant West (Samuel L. Jackson). Most of the
film--ALL of the film, for that matter--takes place at night, during a rainy
hurricane, and adds to the nonexistant plot. What is so intriguing is that
the plot isn't really there, but the writer tries to manifest one, and we
feel as if we are staring at some nonexistant, material wad of words and
flashbacks and images thrown together in a blender, the writer hoping for it
to come out smelling of roses. But I already went over that, didn't I?

 Flash forward to the next day. An Army chopper picks up two men from the
training mission, one injured and one very much alive. The injured man,
Kendall (Giovanni Ribisi), is sent to a hospital, and the alive man, Dunbar
(Brian Van Holt) is sent in for questioning by the very sexy and very
Southern Osborne (Connie Nielsen). Dunbar refuses to speak to anyone except
a Ranger. So in comes Ranger Tom Hardy (John Travolta) to piece together the
events surrounding the death of Sgt. West and his team.

 The writer of "Basic," James Vanderbilt, has so many twists and turns that
the film is impossible to keep up with. I like movies like these, where you
see different characters telling their version of one event, but the mistake
Vanderbilt makes is that he overuses the plot flashbacks in the middle of
other events. It becomes hard to seperate present from past and what's real
from what's not. So many revelations happen that I feel like I'm in the
middle of the writer's mind, as he comes up with new ideas and tries to
squeeze them in time after time after time. There is a limit to how many
times you can use "surprise" revelation endings. Vanderbilt uses three of
four in a row, piled on top of each other, time after time after time. Just
as we think the plot twists are done, and we start to smile because we think
we might finally understand the basis of the plot, something else happens,
and we zoom in suspensefully on John Travolta's face as he, along with the
audience, realizes something. Which leads me to something else.

 The end of the film leaves more open than concluded. So many plot holes are
never ironed out. With the ending being the way it is, you can look back at
certain events and think, "Why did that surprise (so-and-so)," and "Why did
that event happen as it pays no relevancy to the plot?" The answer to all
this? Simple: It's called audience manipulation, and James Vanderbilt uses
it a lot. He throws the audience a bone to keep them happy, continues with
something else, throws another bone, and when it's all done and over, we're
choking on all these bones and he doesn't realize it. Interesting how he
said he named his character Tom Hardy after the Hardy Boys. If I recall, the
Hardy Boy novels, which I was an avid reader of at one time, usually
revealed a lot at the end. "Basic" tries to, but does not.

 The film has an excellent director at its helm, John McTiernan. A man who
chooses his projects carefully and wisely and, unfortunately, sometimes
horribly ("Rollerball" was exceptionally bad). But "Die Hard" and "Predator"
are two of my all-time favorite action films, "Predator" being my all-time
favorite "alien" movie. Who wants McTiernan to return to his roots and film
a "Predator 3"? It would be good, but don't count on it. Like I said, he
chooses wisely, and if I assume correctly, he's the kind of director who
doesn't like to return to old projects.

 "Basic" confused me, but after the film was over and my mind was in a knot
trying to figure out all the different plot twists, I realized how much fun
I had being duped by this film. I laughed to myself as I came to realize
that this movie has a paper-thin plot, and the filmmakers all tricked us by
taking so many twists and turns and throwing so many confusion bones at the
audience and making us believe that the underlying plot of the film was
something deep. I really enjoyed this movie, even if I still don't really
understand it fully. Then again, I don't think you're really supposed to.

 3.5/5 stars -


<|_=00=_|>

Man, I can't believe I almost overlooked this because the major film critics
panned it. Basic is seriously good and the kind of mystery/suspense story I
don't see anywhere near enough of. I enjoyed every minute of this movie. I
couldn't figure it out and was surprised at the end. For me, it doesn't get
much better in the entertainment department than a movie like Basic. John
Travolta does what John Travolta does best, playing a wise guy better than
anyone, and Connie Nielsen delivers a great little performance and she's hot
to boot. This movie has an amazing number of plot twists and the pacing is
quick so try to keep up with it. I loved it!
<|_=00=_|>

Infamously cruel Sergeant West takes his unit into the Panama jungle on a
training exercise. Two days later two of his men return and report the
rest
dead.  When the base investigator makes no process, the base commander
calls
in shamed DEA agent Hardy.  The investigation continues well with both of
the two men telling their stories, however Hardy finds that the stories
contradict themselves and that the truth is much, much more complex than
first appeared.

For the majority of this film everything goes the way you expect it to,
but
yet it all still works reasonably well.  The plot twists in several ways
as
each contradiction brings out a bit more truth in the overall tale.  It is
filled with dramatic interrogation scenes which, although clichéd, do
still
serve to be reasonably gripping.  However at some point, and I can't say
exactly when it happens, the sheer volume of twists and the leaps we are
expected to make simply become too much for the quality of the material
and
it more or less collapses in on itself.

It isn't that the twists are too much of a stretch, it's that they are too
much of a stretch for this film.  Usual Suspects has massive twists that
bewilder and require big jumps, but that had the acting and script to back
it up.  Here the same isn't true, the script doesn't do a good enough job
of
gradually revealing a story to us just to twist it; instead it just seems
to
be constantly changing the foundations to the point that I felt I was on
quick sand rather than a base where the walls kept moving (if you get my
meaning).  What I'm saying is that the story didn't set itself up well
enough to provide killer twists, instead it was constantly pulling small
then bigger twist after twist - to the point where I was expecting the
next
one before it arrived.  Not to unfairly compare, but Usual Suspects
gradually added layers rather than twists as it builds to a climax.  Basic
just keeps twisting but eventually gets to the point where it
overstretches
itself and the twists lose their impact.

The dramatic tone suffers for this reason and, after a good start it all
too
quickly loses it's impact.  Travolta tries hard and for the most part he
does OK, but his slick character loses it towards the end, and his final
`winks' are not easy to understand.  I got the feeling that he didn't
understand his character anymore that I did.  Jackson gives a better
performance in flashback although his character is pretty much a basic
sergeant-major cliché, until the ending goes and ruins a fair amount of
what
he had done up till that point.  Nielsen is pretty good but gives a
masculine performance in a masculine film.  The support cast is actually
pretty good although Ribisi damaged his reputation with me by doing some
sort of weak effeminate spoof character.  Diggs, Holt, Daly and Sanchez
all
do pretty well and their solid flashback sequences help the interrogation
to
be more dramatic.

Overall this film is too twisty and some of them really demand jumps that
are just not made possible by a script that doesn't do enough to help the
audience out.  It still manages to be pretty dramatic and enjoyable for at
least the first half, but the final third demands too much and twists too
much for the material to cope with.  Not as awful as other reviews lead me
to expect but it collapses alarmingly fast towards the
end.
<|_=00=_|>
now a days, you see a movie and in the middle of it, you already know
the ending, so it's really refreshing to see that 'basic' defies that!
i was really having a blast, was loving it, and when the end came i was
blown away, but for only one second, because then the brain kicked in,
and realize that the plot was wrong, didn't made sense! there were so
many twists (and i love that in a movie) that even the editors got
confused, if that ending was meant to be, than there were things that
happened earlier on, that don't make sense, that are just wrong.

despite all that i liked the movie, i enjoyed't when i was watching and
even more when i came out of the theater room and debated with my
friends, trying to make sense on why some scenes happened, i bought the
DVD only to get to the sad conclusion that i was right and there's
something wrong with the story. if only the story would have matched,
it would be, one of my favorite action movies!
<|_=00=_|>

Despite all the horrible reviews written of "Basic," I decided to give it a
chance as a rental because director John McTiernan has made several of my
favorite movies. Admittedly, I haven't seen a good one of his since "Thomas
Crown Affair" (a remake), but I hoped "Basic" would work on some enjoyable
level.

It starts off quite well. John Travolta and Connie Nielsen are investigating
a murderous incident at an Army base, and both of their witnesses are
untrustworthy. Their stories go back and forth, eventually painting a
picture of what "really" happened. It's all been done before, I suppose, but
it's fun to watch.

Unfortunately, the movie derails late in the picture. After what seems like
a perfectly good ending (I won't elaborate, but you'll see), the movie just
keeps going. All of a sudden what "really" happened was fake, here's what
"really" happened, or did it? The conclusion of the film is an absurd
reversal of (nearly) every premise of the film. I half expected one of the
characters to reveal themselves to be an alien or a vampire or some other
Tales From the Crypt/Twilight Zone nonsense ending.

Much like "The Recruit," the script doesn't know when to quit with all the
reversing. Thanks to the masterpiece film, "The Usual Suspects," now every
dopey mystery has to have "the big surprise." And you can do that once,
maybe twice in a story. But you can't press that "reset button" five or six
times! If I spend 90 minutes watching a film, I've got to know that at least
part of that story "really happened." You can't wash it all away with "that
guy was lying." No wonder Entertainment Weekly titled their review
"Trashomon."

P.S. If you watch the film on DVD, there is a really funny extra segment
with the screenwriter. Besides reading his own writing on camera, he
explains with incredible arrogance how original his story and characters
were. So pompous it's hilarious!
<|_=00=_|>
Tagged by many critics as overly predictable despite trying to be the
complete opposite, BASIC is nevertheless a strong, original and
entertaining film.

The cast, from big names John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson to
lesser-knowns Connie Nielsen and Taye Diggs, ably unravels the mystery
surrounding the disappearance of a reviled army sergeant during a
hardcore training outing. The episode is recounted in as many ways by
as many witnesses, an interesting method that has worked so well in
other films such as COURAGE UNDER FIRE. It may all seem confusing at
first, but gifted director John McTiernan gradually weaves everything
together, though perhaps not as seamlessly as one would ideally prefer.

BASIC is not without its flaws, but they are not as glaring as one
might think from professional reviews, or even many of the comments on
this website. Its originality is welcome at a time when so many films
follow the same cookie-cutter formula.
<|_=00=_|>
Basic engages your attention pretty early on and keeps you guessing
throughout with the twists and turns in the storyline and its
refreshingly unexpected ending.

As you would expect Travolta and Jackson are both superb, as is Connie
Neilson. The characters build well, the writing is very solid, and the
story is quite original.

All in all 'Basic' is a good thriller that is a little complex and
confusing for the casual movie fan.

Definitely worth watching, but not a classic 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

I'm still shaking my heads hours after seeing this lousy movie.  First of
all, the acting was great.  End of compliments.  It's one of those movies
where something mysterious happens.  By way of flashback, we see one
soldier's version of the story, and then another soldier's.  But then
Soldier #1 changes his story to defend himself against what #2 had said. 
The writer/director at this point hope to get you to go, "Hmmmm, now THIS is
getting interesting.  I wonder what REALLY happened out there?"  At this
point, you really do wonder.
But then both soldiers change their stories, they implicate a doctor who
tells (then changes) HIS story.  They implicate a colonel who tells(then
changes) his story.  Then both soldiers, for the 42nd time, change their
stories.  By this point, you'll be like "Who the hell cares what happens." 
You'll no longer wonder...you just won't care.
It's a good thing that you don't care what happens, because the ending makes
no sense whatsoever. 
<|_=00=_|>

There's a whole lot of deep analysis going on here, but in the end, since so
many others have analyzed this to death, I would recommend just watching it
with an open mind and seeing if you find it entertaining.

I thought it original to a point, well acted out, and while predictable on a
couple points, for the most part, leaving me wondering when we would find
out the absolute truth of what the heck was going on...

Maybe later I will put something more in depth here, but for now, beware of
the critics and their "plot holes," because in the end, aside from a couple
very small glitches, this was pretty well done.
<|_=00=_|>
I saw this movie back in 2004 and I liked it (or so I thought).

After a few years I had the opportunity to watch it again. The strange
thing was, although I remembered how it ends, I couldn't find a logical
path of what happens in the movie and what was true and what wasn't.

Today (June of 2016), after I watched Connie Nielsen in another movie,
I remembered the existence of "Basic" (and how she looked good with her
short blond hair and the uniform) and I sought it to watch it, but
again, although I remembered the last couple of scenes and the
resolution of the film, I still couldn't remembered how the plot
evolves. 

What I'm saying is that the movie is incoherent and the narrative is
(purposely I guess, to give a sense of continuous twists) confusing. I
also find it less satisfying in todays standards despite the obvious
chemistry between John Travolta and Connie Nielsen.

To realize how confusing the plot is, take a look at the contents in
Wikipedia. Usually in a movie, there is a "Plot" section with a summary
or a more detailed description of the plot. Here you have
...subsections of the plot as follows:

1.1 Dunbar's story

1.2 Kendall's story

1.3 Dunbar's second story

1.4 Kendall's second story

1.5 Pike's final explanation

1.6 Final twist and explanation

I don't recall any other movie to have such a structure in its topic in
Wikipedia!!

The thing is you are trying to follow what is happening (especially in
the first viewing) and you even might have a suspicion about who the
actual bad guy is, but the convulsive script combined with John
McTiernan's erratic direction, have as a result a movie that is
ultimately confusing.

If you see it superficially you will probably enjoy it. Travolta's
character has an attitude of a "know-it-all" maverick investigator,
Connie Nielsen looks really good, and the end is designed to think of
it as rewarding and satisfying.

But if you look more closely and give it a second thought you will see
clearly that this movie is more like a disappointment.

**P.S.: The atmosphere and the theme of the movie, plus the similar
lead role of Travolta, but with Madeleine Stowe instead of Connie
Nielsen, reminded me of The General's Daughter (1999). A better movie
if you ask me.
