

I used to like movies like: "The Matrix" and "Bad Boys". But I've grown
very tired of violent conflict portrayed as easy, fun, moral, and
without risk. This is a movie where all the violence is fearsome,
difficult, and wholly unpleasant. As it should be, anything else really
is dishonest and evil. 

This is one reason i think most people don't like this movie. There are
two more. One is a somewhat complicated plot. There are about a dozen
characters and each one have different motives and I think most people
can handle no more than 4 motives. The other reason is that the "main
characters" are not the heroes of the story. They set the story in
motion and keep it together but they are not who the movie is about and
to tell a story in such an unconventionally roundabout way is entirely
confusing for some people.

So you may not like this movie if...

You are uncomfortable with violence being violent,

You can't keep track of the motivations of 8 separate characters,

You automatically believe that the story is about the characters played
by the actors pictured largest on the box.

otherwise you may really like this movie because it's really well made
in all its aspects.

<|_=00=_|>

I can only comment negatively about one scene in the movie. I thought the
movie was extremely effective in building up the intensity of certain
scenes, however they used probably their most dramatic and climatic
orchestra number for a scene where they simply dumped bags of money into a
truck and drove off. My girlfriend and I stood confused as the music built
up and built up, then finally climaxed. Didn't make a bit of sense to either
of us.

With that said- I thought this movie was outstanding. Benicio Del Toro has
this presence about him that radiates "coolness", and Ryan Phillippe did a
remarkable job as well with his role. There were scenes in which hardly any
dialogue was spoken, yet whole paragraphs were spoken through facial
expressions. Thats a testament to the abilities of the actors right there.
The double meaning of the game of hearts explanation was fascinating and fun
to decipher.

Plots twists galore, not a single one of them predictable. The terminology
was all new to me (i.e. bagman/dejudication I think it was...) and it made
me feel like I was actually participating in the movie.

This is a thinkers movie, and some people may not be in the mood for that.
The entirely creative car chase scenes and shoot out sequences are enough to
satisfy the most mindless action fan, however.

This movie is just cool.
<|_=00=_|>


"Way of the Gun" is the best western to come down that
perverbial turnpike in a great while. Like the aging cynical
worn out outlaws in Peckinpahs Wild Bunch, these modern
day anti-hero's whether Old or young realize that 
sometimes life gives you that one chance. It is up to you to
seize it . whether its kidnapping your fortune or giving birth
to it we all soon realize that in the end  we all come in the
same way & go out the same way the difference being on
how hard. 

Although I know I am in the extreme minority "Way of the
Gun is a much more complete film than Usual Suspects it
is a metaphor for the careless way we lead our lives only
realizing that the one most innocent and beautiful thing is
life it self. Bravo Christopher a fine film indeed!!!
<|_=00=_|>
THE WAY OF THE GUN (2000) ***1/2 Ryan Phillippe, Benicio del Toro,
Juliette Lewis, James Caan, Taye Diggs, Nicky Katt, Scott Wilson,
Kristin Lehmann, Geoffrey Lewis, Sarah Silverman.

Christopher McQuarrie makes his directing debut in a big way with an
obvious nod to Sam Peckinpaugh with his screenplay about two ne'er do
well criminals (Phillippe and del Toro, both exemplary) who decide to
make a mark for themselves by kidnapping a very pregnant surrogate
mother (Lewis) to a wealthy businessman (Wilson) that eventually pans
out to be a big mistake in a tangled web involving the woman's
bodyguards (Diggs and Katt) and the bagman friend of the rich man (Caan
in one fine, low-key performance of nuanced dread). More than enough
rich dialogue and pinpoint camera angle set ups to go around with some
live wire moments of unexpected turnarounds, double crosses and shoot
outs may be the film's only fault in being an excess of too much of a
good thing. A roundelette of pulp fiction best served by its exciting
cast (as a side note, del Toro reminded me for some reason as a young
Robert Mitchum in some scenes; go figure) and a filmmaker to watch.
<|_=00=_|>
For any action movie fans out there that love shoot-outs that hinder on
the brink of insanity then this movie is for you. The plot was hard to
understand in some parts yet it was still good and sometimes the
motives were beyond the viewer's grasp but it still flowed well
regardless. There were some kick ass quotes as needed in this genre of
film and James Caan was simply awesome in his role as an aging bag-man.
While I'm not a huge fan of Ryan Phillippe he actually was passable as
this character and utilized a suiting accent. Benicio Del Toro was
probably the best as his expressions and just the way he says things is
unbeatable. Even though it was two hours long it seemed like only half
that, so overall it's a great watch. My only warning is that if you're
included in the faint of heart then this probably is one to avoid as
this was definitely a dab of the good OL' ultra-violence!

Final Say:

Movies: Would've been enjoyable to see it there.

DVD Purchase: Based on how low it's currently priced I probably won't
be able to help myself.

Rental: Come on, you know you want to!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Look I love 'The Usual Suspects' as much as the next guy, and think it's one
of the few movies of the 1990s that can truly be considered a classic. But I
think comparing that movie to 'The Way Of The Gun' (Christopher McQuarrie
wrote both and directs this in an impressive debut) is unproductive and
misguided. Both movies feature criminal anti-heroes and tricky plot twists,
but in different ways, and are very different in approach and theme.
McQuarrie isn't repeating himself here, this is something new. Something
that has more in common with Sam Peckinpah than the plethora of shallow
post-Tarantino rip-offs Hollywood has foisted on us in recent
years.

The basic premise is fairly straightforward - two losers "Parker" (A
surprisingly effective Ryan Phillipe in easily his best role to date) and
"Longbaugh" (the always excellent Benicio Del Toro), cook up a half baked
scheme to kidnap a surrogate mother (Juliette Lewis - 'Cape Fear',
'Kalifornia') and hold her for ransom. Little do they realize that she is
carrying a child for Chidduck,  a Mob money launderer (veteran character
actor Scott Wilson - 'In Cold Blood', 'The Ninth Configuration') who has
some nasty associates, and is reluctant to pay up.

The guys soon find themselves embroiled in a chinese puzzle of relationships
including ruthless bodyguards Jeffers (Taye Digs - 'Go') and Obecks (Nicky
Katt - 'SubUrbia', 'The Limey'), and Chidduck's bagman and troubleshooter,
the complex Sarno (the legendary James Caan - 'The Godfather', 'Thief'), and
Sarno's colleague Abner (frequent Clint Eastwood sidekick, and Juliet's real
life father, Geoffrey Lewis).   

To reveal what happens would be to ruin this wonderful movie. 'The Way Of
The Gun' isn't a stupid popcorn action flick. It requires thought and
attention to fully appreciate, and that fact, along with the lack of heroes,
and the matter of fact violence, seems to have turned many people off. But
in my opinion it is just those factors that will make this, like 'The Usual
Suspects', a movie that will stand the test of time. 

Along with 'Chopper', the movie that has impressed the most so far this
decade. Don't miss either one!
<|_=00=_|>
The title itself is based on the samurai code Way of the Sword. You
live by the gun/sword, you die by the gun/sword. Phillipe and Del
Toro's characters are reminiscent of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance
Kid, The Wild Bunch, and The Man with No Name. The two say so much
without ever talking. Their facial expressions and personal ticks speak
louder than words ever could. In a world with seemingly no law, these
two men get in way over their heads when they kidnapp the wrong
surrogate mother. She just happens to be the surrogate mother to one of
the richest men with the most mob contacts. Violence and mystery ensue
as we see there are no heroes. The grand finale is a shoot-out that
ruvals that of The Wild Bunch.
<|_=00=_|>

Does one usually go into an action film starring Ryan Phillipe expecting to
think, expecting to be challenged.  I did not, in this case.  And so, as I
found myself confronted by this extraordinarily cool contemporary
crime/western, I was shocked. This has all the makings of a generic film. 
The philosophical/amoral central team...  could've been Pulp Fiction redux. 
The wise older criminal sharing his wisdom with those below him...  If I
really went into all the elements of this movie that could've been handled
as shameless rip offs of other films, that list alone would take me over
1,000 words.

The brilliance of this film is that MacQuarrie, impressively directing for
the first time from his own script, takes familiar elements, tired cliches,
and breaths new, inventive life into them.  This is a neat hat trick, and
not an easy one.  Godard did it with HIS first film, Breathless.  Tarantino
did it with Pulp Fiction.  And MacQuarrie does it here.  Note that the
aforementioned instance is the only place where you will hear a mention of
Tarantino similarities in this review.  Those who would criticize Way of the
Gun as being derivative of Taranton's film are missing the point and not
really watching the film.

This film reflects an utter familiarity with the conventions of CINEMA.  Of
the things that go into a great film.  Knowing those thigns so well, as
Godard did, allows MacQuarrie to become freed enough to work with them,
change them,  and make them become something knew.  It is quite an
achievement, and this is quite an awesome film.
<|_=00=_|>
"The Way of the Gun" to some people may just be an action piece puddled
up by drama and really REAL issues like Redemption, Consequences, Trust
and the differences between Bad and evil. I think it may be the purest
form of a perfect action drama. 

McQ makes the world its set even more realistic by making you quite
unsure who the good guys are...in actuality there really aren't
any...everyone here has done something unscrupulous at one time or
another...the only ones who have embraced their "bad" are the two
characters we follow: Parker and Longbaugh(brilliantly remade
characters based on Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid). 

McQ makes us see the story through their eyes(Mainly Parkers played by
Ryan Phillippe) They are both Butch and Sundance in a more real
underplayed way.

But they don't fool themselves about who they are and trick you into
believing they are someone else(Good or holsom). They are the perfect
guides into this world of shadiness, lies on top of lies and secrets.
Lucus used the same technique in Star Wars A New Hope by having a story
take place through the eyes of two inconsequential characters(R2 D2 and
C3PO). A trick he picked up from the great Akira Kirowsawa. 

SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER

The story of a woman becoming a surrogate mother for money to help out
her aging criminal father(THE BAGMAN) and in turn finding love from the
son of the very same man paying her is like...whew! It could be easily
told through the eyes of the daughter or the doctor(Who McQ has said is
the real hero of the story). But we see it through Benicio and Ryan.
And its great.

Their chemistry is terrific. Their almost secret way of communication
through glances, cryptic phrases and extreme situational
teaching(Mainly Longbaugh teaching Parker never to trust anybody by
setting Parker up to get killed a couple times:GUN IN DOCTOR PAINTER'S
BAG & SHOTGUN IN THE HOTEL ROOM) They know each other so well they
don't even have to say anything. That comes across on screen. 

Benicio Del Torro owns his role and plays it so low key. There are
scenes where he says nothing at all and conveys any and every emotion.
This is one of Phillipe's better films, a best personally seeing as I
wasn't a fan before this. After which case I was on a soap box shouting
that he would have been great as Anakin Skywalker in the Star Wars
prequels. James Caan is....James Caan...in a role I think must have
been written for him...cool aging badass. Taye Diggs...though I hate
him...is great in the film because this is one of the only times he
doesn't play "Taye Diggs". He turns his warm sex symbol persona on its
ear by playing a man of real menace in apathy. 

And for those who have read long enough about me droning on about this
films hidden dramatic elements...the action scenes are great. Some of
the most realistic gunfights I have ever scene. Actors were all Navy
Seal trained and took it almost too seriously.(Listen to the DVD
commentary when McQ talks about Taye Diggs persistent on how he run
down an alley with a shotgun in the correct hand or how the actors
never put their finger on the trigger unless they were shooting.) The
final gun battle goes down for me as one the greatest of all time set
eerily in similar surroundings as "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid"
I dare you to find a better shoot out.

McQ and a Mr Tarantino fella are how got into writing. And McQ has some
of the funniest and cool-as-hell one liners in this flick. Almost
better than his previous film Usual Suspects. Watch The Way of the Gun
and you will truly be seeing a hidden masterpiece.
<|_=00=_|>
now some of you are wondering what this movie is about. i don't blame
you.

the title says it all. now usually the title is a cryptic clue, but in
this case--it says it all.

if you are wondering why devote a film exclusively to gun-play, then
ask yourself why devote a summer movie solely to computer special
effects.

i know most of you are guilty of seeing one of the hot season flicks
because your friends said it looked awesome. it's the same motivation
for a different audience.

i'm an old pro, and let me tell you the action direction in this film
is awesome, and i don't use that word often.

this film is a gunfight pasted with story, instead of the other way
around. and i believe it shows a director who wanted to direct the
ultimate action+editing rendition of a running gunfight.

i can only say, that if the director and the technical adviser ever
read this statement, you have my vote as one of the best, most
thrilling and realistic film gunfights ever. thank-you.
