
Even more than the previous, awesome movie by the Polish
brothers, "Jackpot" presents a quiet, even-keeled portrait of what at
first seem like a ridiculous pair, but who's sincerity and refusal to
give up makes you admire them. There's a kindness to the ironic
view that is a relief; the characters are not exaggerated or spoofed
into cartoon-condition, their audiences aren't either. The tone of the
film is respectful yet ironic - a healthy mix. The cinematography is 
nothing less than beautiful, again as was
the previous film from M & Polish, "Twin Falls Idaho". Same
cinematographer, David Mullen, but this time the movie originated
on 24P, high-definition video, and was converted to film. It's really
very beautiful, the tones are just right, the look doesn't distract 
from
the story at any time, but if you care for such things, it is really a
visual treat.

I think the movie might have gained from a little 'scissors action'
towards the end it started to drag a bit, but not enough to change
the fact that this is a wonderful and completely enjoyable movie in
many ways.
<|_=00=_|>

A simple story about a simple man....with more in his head than
his brain can process.  He sits in his car, rewinding and
fast-forwarding his favorite song as he "spins" through the high
and low points of his marriage and singing "career."  Bizarre flick
brilliantly cut!
The film, I am told, was shot on 24p Hi Def video.  Bravo.....looks
like Film!  Great color too!  A technological must see.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is not just that typical on the road Middle America odyssey, with
frequent stops in kitschy bars and dusty diners.
Jackpot has a well written script with a strong focus on  character
development and interaction. Gries and Morris work well together as a
fly-by-night duo. Gries' goofy but personable character allows his mediocre
singing to be quite intriguing. The witty dialogue was enjoyable and
consistent throughout the film.  Most notable is Garret Morris'
performance.
The film was a clever attempt to show two zealous characters struggle for
an unrealistic, waste of a goal. You can't help but be envious of their
carefree attitude and at the same time loathe their divergence from ideal
responsibilities. It's realism allows for a vicarious experience and an
appreciation of great screenwriting.


<|_=00=_|>

    The Polish Brothers' "Jackpot" is a unique and well crafted, but
unfortunately flawed little movie about determination and the weight carried
that can cause one to let go of their dreams. It is as entertaining as it is
long, but endless on creativity.
    It is a bizarre, unpredictable trip following a mysterious kareoke
singer named Sunny Holiday and his even stranger counterpart Lester Irving. 
Both are pathetic in their obsessive desires, but also oddly  motivated. 
Sunny was a family man who sets out to find himself, and a future singing at
bars and lounges.  He does have his success, mainly because of Irving's
help.  
    The film has an ironic, sarcastic tone, floating across the Mid-Western
lounge scene introducing many wonderful characters.  The Polish Brothers are
excellent filmmakers and add a distinct humor and style to this original
sophmore effort.
    At times the film seems aimless, and going in circles (or not anywhere
at all)...it seems to go on for a very long length yet it manages to
eventually take off with the help of a lot of clever ideas (notably the
brilliant structuring).  But the greatness in storytelling makes "Jackpot" a
one of a kind winner. It is such beautiful and original filmmaking.  Life on
the road is captured with such a genuine feel as the two mysterious men
drive about in their pink car and encounter many weird and appealing
characters.  The high definition cinematography is pretty amazing as
wellreminiscent of Kubrick's "Eyes Wide Shut."  

<|_=00=_|>

This flashback, head trip style is confusing at first but really works
at the story unfolds.  Once we find Sunny Holiday (Jon Gries, great
job by the way) sitting in his car rewinding and fast forwarding his
tape over and over until finally interrupted by his karoake tour
manager, Les (Garrett Morris) you realize he is as obsessive
compulsive as his brother (played by Anthony Edwards and Rick
Oberton).

Funny moments besides a few fart jokes include Mac Davis not
feeling his own real life his BABY DON'T GET HOOKED ON ME
does not feel right for him.
<|_=00=_|>

Attached to every dream there is a ticking clock, an acceptable
window
of opportunity.  When that window closes it's time for the dreamer to
"Give
it up", and "Get a life", or run the risk of society labeling them a
pathetic loser.  An unfair stigma if you ask me.  Jackpot's Sunny Holiday
(Jon Gries) is one such dreamer, whose dream it is to make it big as a
singer.  His unorthodox means to that end is to hit the road and compete
in
a string of Karaoke contests, which he and his manager Les (Garrett
Morris)
hope will bring him exposure and much needed prize money to keep the show
on
the road and the dream alive.

It's a seemingly harmless pursuit, but society has another label for
Sunny - "deadbeat", as in "deadbeat dad".  Unless slipping the odd lottery
ticket into the mail from time to time is considered acceptable
fulfillment
of child support obligations, Sunny falls a little short in the parenting
department.  But he means well, dammit, and if, as they say, "the road to
hell is paved with good intentions", then that must be the road that Sunny
and Les travel down in their pink 80's model New Yorker, en route to
Jackpot, Nevada.  It's a road littered with broken dreams and broken
dreamers, and paved with the cruelty of hope.  The hope that lies in every
new town, where there always awaits a new contest, a new chance to win and
a
new chance to forget the past and make everything all right.

Jackpot, the second offering from Mark and Michael Polish (Twin Falls
Idaho), is a wonderful, often hilarious and oddly touching film.  Driven
by
the inspired lead performances of Jon Gries and Garrett Morris, and
deliciously peppered by a never-ending string of cameos and supporting
turns
by an eclectic ensemble cast that includes Daryl Hannah, Patrick Bauchau,
Peggy Lipton, Crystal Bernard, Mac Davis, and Anthony Edwards, Jackpot is
a
refreshingly original tale full of heart and humor and told with a
stunning
visual style and a dreamy vibe that has the Polish Brothers' thumb prints
all over it.  A rare film, this is the type of movie that reminds me why
movies are made.  I thoroughly enjoyed Jackpot and recommend it very
highly
to movie audiences this summer...and beyond.
<|_=00=_|>

If this was 1972, Jackpot would star Jack Nicholson as a talented, but down
on his luck musician searching the dusty corners of the country looking for
his big break and the pieces of his squandered life. Critics would hail it
as being gritty and brave. But Jackpot takes place in the here and now. And
while it's hero is searching the dusty corners of the country looking for
his big break and the pieces of his squandered life, he is utterly
talentless, mean spirited, self centered, and a pathetic jerk to boot.
Needless to say, critics did hail Jackpot in the least. Which, I can't blame
them for. A year and a half ago I left the theater feeling I experienced
nothing more than a loss of $10. I felt the film was pointless, aimless, and
without any real payoff. But, after 5 blocks on the walk home I realized, so
are the lives of the characters.

 Therein lies the beauty of the film. It's the man behind the legend that
was never a legend to begin with (except in his own mind). It's a '70s
anti-hero film except with the sense to show the "hero" for who he really
is. Not a tortured genius. But, only a loser with delusion of tortured
genius.

 And, upon repeated viewing it's aimlessness becomes invisible. In fact, the
script is militant in it's tightness. But, the direction never chooses to
hit you over the head with it's plot or it's points.

 Instead, opting to throw them about almost offhanded, allowing them to seep
in (as it did for me, and perhaps not for others).

 Jackpot is rich in it's rewards to those who pay attention. And besides,
any film that can go from being terrible to great in 5 blocks has to be
worth something.
<|_=00=_|>

This film is not just that typical on the road Middle America odyssey,
with
frequent stops in kitschy bars and dusty diners. Jackpot has a well
written
script with a strong focus on character development and interaction.
Gries
and Morris work well together as a fly-by-night duo. Gries' goofy but
personable character allows his mediocre singing to be quite intriguing.
The
witty dialogue was enjoyable and consistent throughout the film. Most
notable is Garret Morris' performance. The film was a clever attempt to
show
two zealous characters struggle for an unrealistic, waste of a goal. You
can't help but be envious of their carefree attitude and at the same time
loathe their divergence from ideal responsibilities. It's realism allows
for
a vicarious experience and an appreciation of great screenwriting.


<|_=00=_|>

This film opens with a SNAP!  Love the crazy use of the old car
cassette player to rewind and fast forward us through the thoughts
in Sunny Holiday's  otherwise empty head.  Jon Gries, who plays
Sunny, is excellent.

However, the movie slows down a bit from there.  Loved the
singing, the one night stands, the poetry readings that are voice
over, but some of the chit chat that happens in the long in
betweens, though funny at times, looses you.  Cut cut cut.

The camera work is a little static and dull, though the set design,
wardrobe and editing are exciting.  Just when you were bored or
squirming in your seat, Sunny hits the rewind button and brings
you back to life.

The movie gets fun in the end when Sunny meets up with his
equally dysfunctional brothers, played by Anthony Edwards and
Rick Oberton.

Go see if for the dirty jokes and go see it for the technology.  Great
use of the new 24p hi def medium.
<|_=00=_|>

In "Jackpot", the Polish brothers tell the story of a character who is
more
curious than interesting - a soap-selling professional karaoke hustler
(Gries) with his own agent (Morris) and impossible dreams of making it as
a
pop singer.  The film has a good premise and an excellent execution but is
doubtless destined to be one of those fringe indies with earnest integrity
which flies in the face of limited market appeal. An enjoyable watch for
those into films about quirky, down-and-out type characters.
(B-)
