

With the negative response from critics for this movie I was concerned that
this would be rubbish, especially when it was released straight to video in
my country (UK). As a Diesel fan I had high expectations for this film but
was aware he had a supporting part.

However I was actually pleasantly surprised that the film was actually
fairly enjoyable. The story is basic, about a mobsters son (Barry Pepper)
who has grown up disparaged by the life of crime his family are involved in,
but in his adults days he is unable to get the sort of legit career he
wants, as a sports agent, because no-one will hire him for the simple reason
that he is related to Dennis Hoppers character. 
Anyway he resigns himself to the fact that he can't go legit and that
working for his dad is the way forward, but since his father only has enough
faith in him to pick up his sandwiches, Matty is frustrated and begs his
father to give him some more responsibility, he gets support here from his
uncle Teddy played by John Malkovich.
He gets his responsibility of course but things go awry, by fault of Matt's
friend Marbles played by Seth Green. Half a million pounds has now gone
missing in a small town, with some fairly clichéd hicks. Matty takes two of
his friends over to assist Marbles in getting the money back, and on ensures
a tale of deception and murder, with dirty cops, double dealing mobsters,
and unwelcoming locals.

It's a fairly simple film that is nicely placed and very well acted. There
are comical moments and some moments of character depth, particularly with
central character Matty. There are really any surprises in this flick but it
is on the most part entertaining. Barry Pepper is very good in the central
role as is Vin Diesel as his best friend Taylor, who offers support and
advice as well as muscle when it's needed. John Malkovich and Dennis Hopper
are good in their small roles although they are cruising really but it is
Tom Noonan who steals the show in a delightfully seedy role as the bent
small town sheriff Decker.

All in all this is worth a rental, if you're a fan of Diesel like me you'll
appreciate his performance in a role that has more depth to it than XXX.
6/10

<|_=00=_|>
This is another of those films I thought was great the first time,
so-so on the second. Overall, it got high marks - at least on the first
viewing - because it's an entertaining film that doesn't overstay its
welcome at 92 minutes.

Four young guys get involved in their first Mafia-type adventure. One
is asked to do a simple job of picking up a bag of money out west and
bringing it back home to Brooklyn. However, troubles ensue big-time
when the bag is stolen at the little airport out West. His three
friends have to come out and help him get the money back and all kinds
of problems develop.

There is some black humor in here which helps spice up the film, which
then turns very serious about halfway through with a few shocking
twists near the end.

There are two famous veteran actors in here - Dennis Hopper and John
Malkovich - and four young ones who becoming better known these days as
well: Seth Green, Vin Diesel, Barry Pepper and Andrew Davoli.

The only problem I had with the movie is Pepper, who played Roger
Maris, the famous baseball player in the film '61." He looks so much
like Maris that I can't believe him as anyone else! To us baseball
fans, Pepper will always be Maris and nobody else.
<|_=00=_|>

Patience is the key element in watching a mafia movie.  "Knockaround Guys"
didn't require any patience for me, and I was hooked at the first scene.
This movie gives a formal description of friend and enemy.  Who exactly is
the real "bad guy" in a mafia movie?  In most mafia movies it is quite
obvious who the bad guy is, but this one will keep the viewer
guessing.
Berry Pepper plays the son of a well-known gangster.  He, however, does
not
want to follow in the footsteps of his father.  Peppers character's name
is
Matty Demaret, and he wants to be a sports caster.  He has no luck finding
a
job because people know of his father's past.  So, after a bombing
interview
, Matty decides that working for his father may be the only way for him to
make a living, but Matty's father and uncle beg to differ.  They believe
Matty doesn't have what it takes to be in the mafia.  After he convinces
his
father that he's got what it takes, his father gives him a job.  Matty
tells
his father that he and his friend Johnny Marbles (Seth Green) will go out
on
their mission to collect money.  Marbles flies planes, so he will be able
to
fly to collect the money.  He was given strict orders to come straight
back
to Matty with the cash, but Marbles gets side tracked.  He stops to get
gas
at a small airport, and leaves the bag unattended.  The bag ends up
getting
into the hands of the sheriff, and he wants to keep the money for
himself.
Matty then calls his other two friends in to help.  Chris Scarpa (Andrew
Davoli)who is a sweet talking mob wanna be, and Taylor Reese (Vin Diesel)
is
the only one is the whole movie who actually looked and acted like a real
gangster.  The four boys travel to a small town in hopes of finding the
money.  Matty knows that if he doesn't get that money back, his father
will
be dead, and he will be a failure.
This movie makes the viewer not want to take their eyes off the screen.  I
was very surprised at who was the real bad guy behind the plot.  I think
that anyone who watches this movie will be shocked at all the twist and
turns.  I would recommend this movie to anyone, because it was very easy
to
follow.  I enjoyed this film.

<|_=00=_|>

Loved this movie! It's the type of movie you'd want to see more than
once; so much of the humor is so subtle that it's easily missed. Deals
w/ the next generation of baby mobsters, & how much has changed since
"back in the day". Performances by Pepper, Davoli & Green have a
surprising depth; their characters are so immediately recognizable that
it's almost scary. As a strong Diesel fan, I have no complaints at all
about the Taylor Reese character. Diesel's moody acceptance of his
position in life & his lack of options, is gloomy, but believable. The
strong point of the film is the loyalty & love the characters have for
each other. It gives a true nobility to characters who mainly live
outside the law.

See it twice. No, three times!

rating: 8 out of 10 (Okay, I really mean 9!)

<|_=00=_|>
Born the son of a powerful and fearsome crime boss, wannabe mobster
Pepper recruits low-rent pals Diesel, Green, and Davoli to make a
routine delivery, impress his old man, then finally go into business
with him. Unfortunately for the young man and his pals, they get stuck
in a bleak little town where violence, mayhem, and every other thing
that can go wrong eventually does. It's no Goodfellas, but this
watchable, well-crafted little mob story is easy to take, and goes a
long way on its appealing cast and dark, profane sense of humor. The
only major let down is the film's story which—while interesting—lacks
momentum and builds toward a familiar conclusion. A not bad showing
from the film's young and old cast alike, especially Pepper and Diesel.
**½
<|_=00=_|>
You can feel about two ways when you're watching this movie. Either you
make yourself very angry about all the stuff this film steals shameless
from other classics in the genre...or you can just sit back and enjoy
and don't bother about all the rip-off elements. When I saw it, I was
in a 'sit back and enjoy'-mood so my thoughts on this are rather
positive. This film is well made and contains all the elements you
expect. Like I said, some things are stolen obviously ( the execution
GoodFellas-style, the True Romance shoot-out at the end...) but there
are at least as much good things to tell about it as well. This film
may count on a class A cast. Especially the older generation is great.
John Malkovich, even when this guy is acting half as good as he usually
does ( like in this movie ) he is still very entertaining. And
naturally, Dennis Hopper and Tom Noonan are good as always. There's
also a lot of talent in the younger generation: Barry Pepper, Seth
Green. And this is even Vin Diesels best film ( besides Saving Private
Ryan, but I'm not counting that one) Vin doesn't have too much lines,
so that's positive. Overall, this film will be forgotten soon, but it's
enjoyable while it lasts
<|_=00=_|>

Knockaround guys tells the tale about four guys wanting respectfull work
from a mob. Matty (Barry Pepper), Taylor (Vin Diesel), and Marbles (Seth
Green) are the main and interesting ones who end up losing $500,000 of the
mob's money and must find the money within 2 days or the mob is in huge
trouble. All the performances are greatly acted and the story (although a
bit slow at times) is exciting. Vin's tallent is showing that he's going no
where, but up! Barry Pepper delivers a surprising performance as the mob's
son. Seth green is funny as always and a good character to add to this 2
hour ride of near garenteed enjoyment. IMDB.com shouldn't have rated this
5.9 out of ten because this movie deserves much higher, almost an 8. Watch
this movie if you're a fan of crime dramas, comical action flicks or Diesel
fans and you'll truely get a kick out of this flick.
7.2/10- my movie pro rating
<|_=00=_|>

Almost all of my recent reviews have been very negative, but this movie is
worth watching if you are a Vin Diesel fan.

Summary: Matty is the son of Benny, a mobster and he is as bad as they come.
As a kid he is put to the test of killing someone, but fails, therefore his
father keeps him away from the life of a mobster, but now as a grown up,
Matty can't get a job anywhere due to his father's reputation, which gets on
his last nerve. So he decides to talk to his father about letting him work
for him. Benny puts him on a task, to collect some money in a bag and to
come back with it. Doesn't sound so difficult.
Matty meets up with his childhood friends, Scarpa, also a son of a gangster,
but trying hard to concentrate on his restaurant, his cousin Marbles who has
always been the screw up and Taylor, the guy that everyone brings in when
they need to scare the heck out of someone. So Marbles has a plane, he gets
the money, but in Montana he lands for gas, only there are 2 hillbilly cops
there, that intimidate Marbles, as he feels they are on to him and during
his panic he puts down the bag of money with other luggage that is being put
on another plane. Only he is too late to retrieve the bag so he calls upon
his friends to help find the missing bag, which didn't make it to the other
plane...so who took the bag?

Seth Green plays the messed up Marbles, who wants responsibility, but
doesn't know the meaning of the word. Vin Diesel was great in this movie as
a tough guy Taylor, he played his part perfectly. John Malkovich was the
ruthless right hand of Benny and he was great! As for the roles of Matty and
Scarpa, they were ok. The plot was a little weak, but got better after the
first 20 minutes or so. 

I rate this movie 7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

The son (Barry Pepper) of a mobster (Dennis Hopper) and his best friend
(Seth Green) lose half a million dollars that they were sent to pick up for
Pepper's father. If Pepper is not able to get the money back, his father
will be killed. So Pepper sends out for his friends in a desperate search of
the money. However, the money is somewhere in a small very southern town and
the towns citizens aren't exactly excitied about Pepper and company
presence. Routine crime caper offers no surprises and features many
situations that just simply don't make any sense and some rather horrid
dialogue. Saving it from the pits are performances that are much better then
the film deserves.

Rated R; Violence and Profanity. 
<|_=00=_|>

Greetings again from the darkness.  After seeing a few of the chick flicks
that are currently dominating the cinema, I was looking forward to a little
testosterone.  Relative newcomers Brian Koppelman and David Levien co-wrote
and co-directed this little mob film.  Barry Pepper ("Saving Private Ryan"
and "61") does an admirable job in his first attempt at carrying a movie. 
He does get some nice assistance from Seth Green ("Austin Powers" movies)
and Vin Diesel, Tom Noonan, Dennis Hopper and John Malkovich.  Vin Diesel is
surprisingly impressive in the second half of the film where he actually
gets to act.  Tom Noonan ("Manhunter") provides another creepy character for
his resume.  Dennis Hopper has very little screen time, and thankfully, the
directors keep his close-ups to a minimum.  John Malkovich provides some
veteran acting stability, but at times, seems to dare Pepper to stay in the
shot with him.  Overall, interesting, though simple, story that supposedly
addresses the lack of loyalty among friends - even in the mob
world.
