
This is a very good movie. I do not understand why so many of the
comments here are negative. The plot is great with no holes. The
characters are well developed and the acting is top notch. Maybe the
lack of computer animation or computer generated special effects or car
chases or machine guns blazing away turned some of you off. If you like
dramas that are heavy on acting and character development, you will
like this movie. The filming locations are very fascinating too. I am
not sure where the boardwalk scenes are filmed (Asbury NJ or Yonkers
NY) but it looks just like a formerly popular beach front local, that
is now a ghost town. Very underrated by the IMDb voters.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a somewhat run-of-the-mill modern-day crime movie elevated by
the presence of actor Robert De Niro. He plays a policeman who is a
father to his druggie son, who is accused of murder. 

"Vincent LaMarca" (De Niro) is torn between the guilt of being an
absentee father to his kid ("Joey," played by James Franco) but still
loving him enough to help him and yet still be a good, honest cop.

This is a gritty film, a bid sordid in spots. The locale is a grimy
Atlantici City-type on-the- skids town by the ocean. It isn't pretty.
As tough as the story can be, it's still interesting and recommended as
a decent crime film. Actually, it's much more of a drama than an
action-crime film....but I liked it. It's an interesting character
study, as well.
<|_=00=_|>

"City by the Sea" is all about De Niro as a New York homicide detective who
views the world as black and white and has trouble dealing with the grays of
interpersonal relationships. Adrift between a broken home history, an
ex-wife, a companion and bed mate (McDormand), and a adult son junkie
(Franco), the aging cop protag finds that forging needed reconciliations is
more difficult than busting the scumbags on his beat.  A solid three star
drama, "City by the Sea" is a must see for De Niro fans and a good watch for
anyone into gritty dramas. (B+)
<|_=00=_|>

City By the Sea is definately the most depressing movie I have ever seen.
It's amazing to see how much troubles one man has to endure all at once. I
wasn't expecting much from this film but I was surprised at the strength
that this movie has. It takes your emotions on a roller-coaster ride. Robert
DeNiro has an amazing screen presence and his performance is very well done
and is very convincing. It was great to see DeNiro in a role like this after
seeing him in somewhat demeaning roles like that in 'Analyze This'. DeNiro
is truly a powerful actor and this movie reassures that. James Franco is
equally convincing as Robert DeNiro's junkie son. Some parts of the movie
are so morbid that it is discouraging, but the overall excellence of City By
the Sea is well worth it. At first the characters seem a little
one-dimensional, but as the plot progresses all that changes. This is a very
well done movie with great acting, directing and cinematography. Powerful
and moving.

****
<|_=00=_|>
2002's 'City By the Sea' was a film that slipped by me when it first
came out. I was living overseas and missed it completely. Having
finally had a chance to watch it, I think it is the best film that
Robert DeNiro has been in since 'Ronin' and up to 2006, his last great
dramatic performance. He stars in 'City By the Sea' as the absentee
father of James Franco. DeNiro is a decorated homicide cop who, while
investigating a murder, finds uncomfortable evidence that concretely
links his son to the murder. The film becomes a redemptive tale as
DeNiro's character tries to make up for the damage of the lost years
and save his son from a series of rapidly expanding catastrophes.

'City By the Sea' borrows from the noir tradition with a gritty locale,
seedy characters and two male leads who have unlocked a series of
events that are bigger than they are. DeNiro and Franco are both
excellent here. Franco is tremendous for the entire film as a junkie
who is trying (perhaps not very hard) to escape from his current life
for one mixed of fantasy and memory. His final scenes with De Niro are
powerful.

The DeNiro performance? I think that he played it perfectly. His
character in the film tends to be very restrained and controlled. He
analyzes and then makes his move. Part of this has to do with the
background of the character. He hides his past because he's trying to
protect his own vulnerabilities. By the time we reach the climactic
scene towards the end of the film with his son, the restraint and
control are gone. He is trying to save his son and the impassioned
speech he gives is some of the best work I've seen him do. 'City By the
Sea' is more of a redemptive drama than a crime drama and I think that
the way the film was packaged and marketed may have confused that. In
the climactic scene with Franco, you see the culmination of a great
performance by a great actor. I was more impressed by the emotion and
power of that scene than I was by anything else I've watched in quite a
while.

'City By the Sea' is slow, but worth the journey. Very good acting all
around and you might very well be a James Franco fan after seeing this
if you weren't before.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm really not a fan of cop/crime dramas.

I watched this on a recommendation without any clue about its content, and I
have to say I quite enjoyed it.

De Niro is Vincent laMarca, a detective of many years on the force. His wife
is estranged and he hasn't seen his son Joey in 15 years but finds himself
pursuing the boy when Joey is wanted in connection with the murder of a drug
dealer. Joey is in a bad way, being a drug addict himself and father of a
son he can't support, so perenially finds himself in conflict with his
mother who reluctantly tolerates his junkie nature and internally with
himself.

Frances McDormand plays Michelle, Vincent's current relationship, though the
depth of the relationship seems rather superficial given the 2 live in the
same apartment block but seperate appartments.
She wants to know more about Vincent when she decides she doesn't know him
at all, but his past is murky with a complex and dark family
history.

Add to this, his son, Joey's own son with Gina who essentially loses faith
in both Joey and her own ability to be a mother, and you have a rather
subtle and dark drama with a lot of complexities.

It is worth noting that all the performances are as excellent as you would
expect, particularly the breath-taking de Niro, in one of his best roles for
years. This is the type of character he was born to play and he's so
convincing as Vincent.

As a crime story and cop drama it's one for fans especially, but if you know
good cinema you will appreciate it too.


<|_=00=_|>

The problem with this movie is that it has real substance, real integrity.
Men won't like it because it's much too serious, and the bodycount is
relatively low.  Women won't like it because the message is for men.

But let there be no mistake about this picture.  It is first class
storytelling with a first rate group of actors.  And the result is a
terrific picture that is hardly predictable (no matter what other reviewers
might opine).

City By The Sea is a dark, unrelenting look into a dysfunctional family.  It
addresses the frailty and imperfection of a father who chose to retreat
rather than to fight for his son during a divorce.  It shows the near-total
destruction of the son based on his father's absence.

But it also tells the story of a father's epiphany, a son's salvation, and
brutal truths which guide this movie to one of the more compelling
denouements I've seen in years.

No, this movie isn't for everyone.  If you go to the theater simply for
distraction, choose another movie.  If you bring a clicker to the movie so
you can count the number of dead and maimed, this one will disappoint.

 But if you want to watch some great craftsmen dissect some touchy subjects
and do so while constructing a very intriguing whodunit, this is YOUR movie.
A 6.2 reviewer rating makes me wonder who's doing the reviewing.
<|_=00=_|>

"City by the Sea" starring Robert DeNiro and Frances McDormand (Fargo &
Almost Famous) is an exciting and heartfelt melodrama.  Director Michael
Caton-Jones proves himself with one of his greatest efforts to date,
bouncing back from his previous disappointing and misdirected film "The
Jackal."  Caton-Jones displays a style all his own with stunning atmospheric
poignancy.  The city by the sea, to which the film refers to is Long Island,
N.Y., a wonderfully lonely and dilapidated city to where junkie Jimmy Nova,
(DeNiro's son) calls home.

DeNiro plays a well-respected cop with a terribly troubled past that seems
to constantly haunt him.  His ex-wife, played by Patti Lupone, struggles to
get over the violence of their past relationship while his son, played by
James Franco, is headed down the same path as DeNiro's father once was, that
of an (alleged?) murderer.  Jimmy Nova, as he's known around town mixes with
the wrong crowd, as do most junkies, and one night finds himself struggling
for his life, and before he knows it, stabbing and killing a high profile
drug dealer.  This relatively small act of self-defense cascades a sequence
of irreversible events, which never seem to let up until the end.  DeNiro,
of course, is assigned to the case and unknowingly hunts down his own son
who he hasn't seen or heard from in several years.  Both father and son have
moved on with their lives since their seperation, but still harbor intense
emotional feelings for each other that seem to slowly emerge further and
further into the film.  To top it all off the two men are involved in
complex relationships of their own which naturally complicates things
further.

 DeNiro's relationship with Frances McDormand seems quite convenient at
times, but nonetheless shows the tenderness and compassion of both
characters, while Franco's relationship feels more like a fling with
multiple strings attached.  In the end, both DeNiro and his son must face
the issues that have plagued them for three generations and make one of the
hardest decisions of their life.

Similar topics and themes in "City by the Sea", were explored in "Road to
Perdition", however it is the way that they are explored that keeps the film
feeling fresh and unique.   Similar themes explored are the father-son
relationship, the destructive path of violence and crime, and most
importantly the will and courage to fight for a second chance at life. I was
particularly impressed with the atmospheric mood of New York that
Caton-Jones set from the beginning, reminiscent of Scorcese's "Taxi Driver",
thus giving the film the reality that many recent Hollywood films tend to
lack.  The acting in this film is of the highest quality and will not be
overlooked, contending with so
<|_=00=_|>
Straight-laced detective Vincent LaMarca(a pained and restrained Robert
DeNiro) has already lived a disrupted and uneven life of broken
relationships and the memory of his dad who was imprisoned and executed
for the death(later deemed accidental)of a kid that he had kidnapped).
As if that weren't enough to bear,his troubled son Joey(JAmes Franco)
has ran away and faces trouble with both the law and the
baddies,particularly a vile thug named Spyder(William Forsythe). This
is the general construct of director Michael Caton-JOnes' and
screenwriter Ken Hixon's film. Set in an unspecified part of New
Jersey(though one might infer that it's Atlantic City,given the
title),this film is mostly character study,with actors Franco,Eliza
Dushku(As Joey's scared girlfriend)and Forsythe making the most of
their characters,while DeNiro and Frances McDormand(as DeNiro's patient
friend and lover) provide fine,if not exception,performances in this
drama. Good for a viewing or two. 8 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
Homicide detective Robert De Niro (as Vincent LaMarca) has a skeleton
in his closet. Mr. De Niro's father was executed as a baby killer.
However, De Niro "turned his life around" and, with help from a
law-abiding father figure, became a respectable police officer.
Unfortunately, he left his wife and young son on the wrong side of the
tracks. Fourteen years later, De Niro's handsome son James Franco (as
Joey LaMarca) has become a gaunt Long Beach junkie, with a neglected
son of his own. While scoring some junk, Mr. Franco knifes a dealer, in
self-defense (this is the film's opening). Then, father De Niro is
assigned the task of bringing in his estranged son as a murderer...

If you give "City by the Sea" a chance, it should make a good
impression, thanks to the skillfully focused cast and crew. De Niro is
particularly good at elevating the story; he keeps everything real. The
story is, otherwise, not structurally sound. To give an example
(without giving anything away) note that Franco's opening "killing" is
hardly a crime. Wouldn't the film's theme have worked better if this
was a real, however warranted, passionate murder? This would strengthen
the sense of loss/salvation expressed by De Niro and Franco in the
final act. There are other puzzling story developments, right up until
the final "beach" visit. Director Michael Caton-Jones' near-ending
"auto body shop" segment is exciting, though.

******* City by the Sea (2002) Michael Caton-Jones ~ Robert De Niro,
James Franco, Frances McDormand
