

Ok, it's a given that you cannot make a good movie from a good book.
(Unless
you make it a trilogy :-) But comparing the book Corelli's Mandolin to
this
movie it's clear how much has to be cut to fit a screenplay. The book is
very funny in places, romantic (of course), dramatic. What's left of it
in
the film is inexplicable romance -- as other reviewers have remarked,
it's
unclear why she falls in love with the italian while her betrothed is
still
around, and I have no idea why this was changed from the book -- and some
gratuitous gunning and bombing scenes, more than in the book which
derives
its power from not hammering on the obvious points. Whole characters are
cut: Carlo has maybe 10 seconds screen time, while in the book he has a
whole story line that runs several chapters.
<|_=00=_|>

As is often the case when you attempt to take a 400 plus page book and cram
it into a two hour film, a lot is lost.  Here director John Madden
(Shakespeare in Love) takes on an extremely ambitious project and almost
pulls it off.  What we get is a charming and emotionally compelling film
that seems somehow incomplete.

There is much about this film that is wonderful and fantastic.  The
cinematography by John Toll (Cinematographer for Braveheart and Legends of
the Fall, winning Oscars for both) is splendid.  Working with Madden, the
choices for locations on the Greek island of Kefallonia are superb and the
visual images that come from photographing these majestic locations in
varying light are lush and beautiful.  Madden also uses numerous Greek
actors as the townspeople, giving the town an authentic feel.  The
soundtrack is also terrific and the mandolin passages and vocals by the
Italian soldiers are marvelous.

Madden does an excellent job of bringing us the Italian occupation and the
romance, which take up the greater part of the film.  There are numerous
sweet and funny moments throughout this segment.  However, by the time the
serious battle drama is ready to unfold, there isn't much film left in the
reel and this component is extremely rushed and abbreviated.  While the
battle scenes are well done, subsequent to the battle it is obvious that
increasingly greater compromises are being made to keep the film from
running too long. By the time we reach the post war scenes, the treatment is
merely skeletal.  Another negative is that the DVD is particularly sparse on
features.

Nicholas Cage is charming in the romantic lead as the sentimental Captain
who seems to have joined the army to sing rather than fight.  When fight he
must, Cage switches gears seamlessly into a man of fierce principle and
resolve and somehow remains believable in both personas.

Penelope Cruz, whom the camera loves, gives an uninspired performance as
Pelagia.  In part this is because Cage so dominates the screen, but Cruz
just seems too placid in a part that should be emotionally torrential and
dynamic.  She allows the character to be objectified as Corelli's love
interest rather than establishing her as a powerful character in her own
right.

John Hurt gives a fantastic performance as the wise old doctor, who knows as
much about human nature as medicine.  However, Christian Bale seems a bit
overwrought and stiff as Pelagia's fiancé.

I rated this film an 8/10.    Despite some drawbacks, this is a touching
film that is well worth seeing.  The photography alone is worth the price of
admission.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to admit that I approached this movie with a sense of expectation and
dread. Louis de Berniere's bestselling novel is one of my favourites and
anyone who has read it will realise that there is no way in hell that any
screen adaptation can be 100% faithful. 

All the way through I found myself convincing myself that the movie was
unsuccessful, and had stripped the book's plot back so far as to render it
redundant. The ending, however, is much better than that in the novel, and I
could not stop thinking about the movie afterwards. Still, the plusses (John
Toll's magnificent cinematography, Stephen Warbeck's great score, etc) I
felt did not outweigh my initial negatives (Cage's miscasting, a heavily
diluted script).

But, two days later, I was queuing again to see Corelli, and although not
perfect, I have to admit now that the movie is the best anyone could have
expected. Cage is actually brilliant in a role that even de Berniere was
concerned was not a fully rounded character: his carefree spirit which gives
way to shattered remorse is spot on, and complements the superb double act
of Penelope Cruz and John Hurt perfectly. David Morrissey is quietly
effective as Weber, the Nazi officer trying to reconcile his feelings for
his newfound Italian friends and his inbred superiority complex to those
around him. And the fine Greco-Italian supporting cast bring de Berniere's
sundrenched world of Cepholonia dazzlingly alive.

On leaving the cinema second time around, I finally let go my passion for
the novel which prevented me from fully appreciating the story of WW2
Cepholonia in cinematic terms. My hat goes off to John Madden who, despite
the almost expected critical drubbing he is receiving from the British
critics (any director who has had a major success like Shakespeare in Love
behind them is always a target for these moaning ninnies!),has managed to
transfer a terrifically difficult book to the big screen with such heart,
verve and humanity (the core virtues of the novel, in fact) that he has
created another classic love story that will probably only be fully
appreciated when the dust has settled a few years from
now.

If you are a fan of the book, like me, it's hard, but try not to make the
same mistake on your initial viewing. Try to erase the book from your mind
for two hours, bathe yourself in the glorious Mediterranean atmosphere, and
discover Corelli, Pelagia, Mandras, Dr Iannis, as if for the first time
(pretend you're watching something made from an original screenplay), and I
guarantee you won't be disappointed. 

In fact, you'll be eagerly waiting to own your own copy of this delightful
movie on video or DVD.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Being Of Cephallonian descent, I was happily surprised when watching the
movie. I have
heard the true history from my relatives that still live in Cephalonia,
but
when watching
the movie and reading the book the sketchy bits of history were filled. It
is all true, the
Italians would sing, the oppression and the earthquakes that rock the
island
so often. The
earthquake in 1953 killed my great grandfather and the book and movie both
portray the
feeling of the era with great compassion. If you haven't seen the movie go
and watch it
and read the book, it is not only a love story, and yes, there were plenty
of Italians in love
with Cephallonian women, in fact, boat loads of Cephallonian women were
taken to Italy
after the war, it is a true depiction of history.
<|_=00=_|>

After a somewhat slow start I thought this movie about the Italian
occupation of a Greek island during World War II picked up and became a
quite enjoyable watch for a couple of hours, from primarily two points of
view. 

The love triangle is an interesting one and strikes me as believable,
because I know it happened in various places under occupation. Penelope Cruz
played Pelagia, a young Greek girl engaged to be married to Mandras
(Christian Bale). I had questions about the depth of their love from the
start, but their future was torn apart when Italy invaded Greece, and
Mandras went off to fight. After German intervention, Greece is conquered
and the island Pelagia lives on comes under Italian occupation, during which
Pelagia meets and begins to fall in love with Captain Corelli (Nicholas
Cage.) This, of course, was a dilemma that came to many young women in
occupied lands. As they got to know their occupiers, they started to see
them not as the enemy but as real people, and sometimes fell in love - often
to the disapproval of their neighbours. I just finished reading an
interesting book about the German occupation of Britain's Channel Islands in
which this was a major issue. Once Mandras returns to the island, Pelagia is
torn between them.

The second background issue is the Italian occupation itself, which I
thought was quite realistically portrayed. First was the contempt with which
the island treated their Italian occupiers. Greece defeated Italy (quite
true from a historical perspective) and was really conquered by the Germans.
The refusal of the town to surrender to the Italians and instead to insist
on surrendering to a German officer struck me as something that could well
have happened (and was quite funny in fact. I loved the line, "we would
rather surrender to this German's dog than to you Italians.") The portrayal
of the Italian troops also struck me as believable. The Italian Army was
never enamoured of their German ally, and never enthusiastic about fighting
with them. Although Hitler and Mussolini were close friends, their soldiers
tended to treat each other with contempt. Here, the Italians are more
interested in singing than fighting (which the German troops on the island
simply can't understand,) and are ecstatic when Italy makes peace and
withdraws from the war - until they discover that this may well make them
prisoners of the Germans. It was all quite well done, I
thought.

It falters a bit at the end with an all too predictable finish, but still
deserves praise.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Unlike many, I have not read the book and so I watched this purely as a
film
in its own right.  I'm not especially keen on romance dramas, and I
expected
this to be a bit slushy and/or operatic so I was rather hesitant about
going
to see it in the first place...

But I'm glad I did, because it was good.  Beautiful, "feel good" scenery
and
with a light touch of humour that made it rather more endearing than a
straight drama would have been.  The romance was gentle, inoffensive and
sufficiently interwoven with enough "proper" story-telling to keep my
interest, and the score was not too obtrusively operatic.

Overall, the film takes a satisfying circular route from start to finish,
inducing a range of emotions as it progresses.  It's about 2 hours long,
but
I didn't find myself fidgeting or looking at my watch once - and that's
quite a feat for me!!  Very enjoyable.


<|_=00=_|>

Well, I see most of you liked this movie(I didn't). I read the book a few
years ago and thought that it was quite good. I am of the firm belief that
one shouldn't really compare books to their adaptation to the screen but
this time It was hard not to. OK it's somewhat beautifully shot and the
scenery is as I had pictured it but it ends there. Nick Cage is probably
one
of the most overrated actors of our time and his embarrassing shot at the
Italian officer is remarkably unconvincing. I had hoped that American film
makers would stop making the actors do fake accents to represent them
being
Italian etc. but no...audiences are obviously thought to be so stupid that
they wouldn't understand that Corelli is Italian if he spoke with no
accent.
Then we have the Hollywood ending and all the other major changes in the
script...
(spoilers)
Mandras is in this movie some kind of hero/friend of Corelli and helps him
as opposed to trying to rape Cruz's character and getting killed as in the
book. And of course Cages and Cruz's characters get back together a few
years later instead of when they're in their 80s. I wish Hollywood wasn't
so
afraid of telling an uncomfortable story so that good books could become
good movies instead of bad ones like this.
<|_=00=_|>

At first I didn't think I would like this movie, but as it progressed it
became better and better.  I love music and I was impressed with how well
Cage could fake the movements of playing a mandolin.  My son was with me and
he also like the movie a lot for its music and the story and the way the
story unfolded--- slowly showing how Corelli won the girls heart.  The
acting and the story were both well done and well directed. At first
Corelli's bravado was irritating, but soon he grew on you.
The twists in the plot were intriguing especially the relations with the
Germans.  I would like to see this again to follow all the side plots. I
also want to buy the sound track to hear the music again.

<|_=00=_|>
The main problem with 'Captain Corelli's Mandolin' is that it focuses
primarily on the romance between Corelli and Pelagia and that too is
half-baked. What is it that draws Pelagia towards him is too unclear.
Is it just his musical talent or his zest? The film is set against the
backdrop of a war between the Germans and Italians in a Greek island
but the war is given less significance and what we see appears very
sketchy. The entire film appears too sketchy, melodramatic and clichéd.
Much of it is also historically inaccurate.

On the technical front it is well executed. The cinematography of the
beautiful exotic locations is breathtaking. The score is terrific.
Where acting is concerned, Penelope Cruz can't seem to lose her Spanish
accent (she's playing a Greek character) but her performance is
otherwise wonderful. John Hurt and Christian Bale are equally
marvelous. Nicolas Cage is a miscast. His Italian accent, energetic
personality, overdone non-verbal gestures all yield to a caricature
rather than a character.

Perhaps director John Madden was pressured to fit the entire novel into
a two hour period and he chose to focus on the romance more to draw a
larger crowd. I can't shake the feeling that perhaps someone like
Anthony Mingella would have made a better and more complete film of it.
<|_=00=_|>
When I was watching this movie one thought had come to my mind for
several times: "It's not really what I expected, I thought it would be
better", but now that I finished watching it I realize: why should I
expect a better result from this movie? Isn't it just a "love story"
made up in Hollywood show's standards? Of course, it is! If so, why
expect more? 

Captain Corelli's mandolin is a romance story in war time (WWII) and
the plot which I was noticed about before watch the movie seemed very
interesting to me. All that I didn't count was the "Hollywood
standard's" touch... What I mean by this is that I expected a story a
bit more realistic and with a stronger plot (which was not full of
"plot holes" as this one is!) instead of this "sweet story romance,
with the perfect ending", which we're used to watch in a great part of
Hollywood's movies! Another Hollywood standard's gaffe which is very
common is the natives' languages issue. The differences between
Italian, Greek and German languages were all done just by a stupid
accent, and all people seem to understand each other very well. The
Italian and the German army arrive to a "forgotten" Greek island and
they all understand each other very well as they all speak the same
language! Of course it's just little technical details that don't even
matter to the plot, but are all this little details which separate a
good from a bad production! 

But the movie has not just bad-sided arguments! On the good side, I can
find the original idea (which comes from a book), and the thought that
is possible to be Human, and have Human feelings, even inside a War.
It's possible to sing and be happy, have good feelings, to love and to
be loved in a War time! Was because of that main idea that I wanted to
watch this movie, and at this particular point I wasn't disappointed! I
just was dissatisfied about the way it was made! Another good-sided
argument is History's knowledge The movie is not very deep at that
issue, but it's good enough to have a little idea how was the WWII in
the Eastern-South Europe.

Globally Captain Corelli's mandolin is not a bad movie but it's not as
good as I initially though either, mostly because of the "Hollywood
show's standards" up-mentioned.
