
Some people never liked Ali. He is one of those characters who is so
strong, most people are forced to either love him despite his
weaknesses or hate him. He was one figure in American history who never
really needed anybody. 

He was a conscientious objector against the Viet Nam war, yet he is
honored by presidents of the nation he refused to capitulate with in
crimes against humanity. His story is that vital to America. 

When Ali was still a teenager, he tried his best to prove his personal
excellence in a society prejudiced against black people. He won the
boxing gold medal at the Rome Olympics in 1960, yet he came home to
Louisville and still wasn't "good enough" buy a sandwich at a white
restaurant, because he was black. 

He then decided if the gold medal wasn't good enough for America, then
it wasn't good enough for him. At this point in his life, when he had
nothing else; he took the gold medal and threw it in the river. 

He observed the wrestler, Gorgeous George, and admired the way he used
the negative energy generated by those who disapproved of him as fuel
to become the top attraction and make fools of all those who were
against him. He wanted to make people boo him. He proclaimed himself as
more beautiful than any creature on the planet. He told the world he
was the greatest who ever lived. The more they booed him, the more
energy it gave him. 

He didn't have a mentor or a manager. He assembled a group of
Louisville investors to bankroll him, all by himself. He knew exactly
what he wanted from the world, reached out and took it. He made a crown
out of it. Nobody gave him anything, and nobody can ever take that
away. 

He discarded the name of a great white civil rights leader during the
civil war and reasoned that if he was really free to be what HE was,
then he should take a name that he thought was a natural black person's
name. It didn't make sense for others who came before him to fight and
win the rights to do whatever they wanted, if they were then going to
do nothing but turn around and say "Thank You". He decided in order to
validate the fight for freedom, his role was to be free. 

Muhammad Ali is played by the maybe the only person in the universe who
would dare to even attempt it and he succeeds marvelously; not just in
a marginal way, but in a big, big way.

This film isn't just swagger, or an imitation of Ali. This is a deep,
sensitive, poignant, and romantic story about one of the greatest
public figures of the twentieth century. This man truly is a poet and
he's lived the life of a poet. To a great extent, Muhammad Ali made his
life a manifesto of truth about the American experience. Of all the
stories of the twentieth century in America, this was one of the most
important ones to tell. 

This film has characters galore: from Jamie Foxx as Bundini Brown, who
keeps chanting "float like a butterfly, sting like a beeee!" when
everyone in the world thought Ali was going to die at the hands of
Sonny Liston; Jada PinkettSmith as Ali's devoutly religious and adoring
first wife; MichaelMichele playing Veronica Porche, a beautiful jet set
model with whomAli had an affair, to a strong performance by Mario Van
Peebles as Ali's conscience; Malcolm X, who forces Ali to think against
himself and his adoring Black Muslim following in the interests of
right and wrong.

This film has irony, choreography, conflict, humor, drama; and
accurately portrays the highest highs of any public figure I've seen in
my lifetime, as well as some of the most bitter defeats.

This is about male psychology. This is about female psychology. This is
about a religious movement in America. This is about a culture in
America and many cultures in America and their struggles to live
together and treat each other right and fairly, while trying to do the
right thing as concerns their own conscience.

The most glaring weaknesses of any sports film ever made are in the
sport scenes themselves. This is the strongest point of this film and
also makes it the greatest sports film ever made.

I've been a boxing fan since I was eleven. I was a part of crowds who
gathered around Muhammad Ali before he became champion. I know what he
looks like face to face. I've watched his boxing films dozens of times,
and I'll tell you that the scenes in this movie are perfect
reenactments of what actually happened in the ring. This couldn't have
been done in less than dozens of takes per scene. They throw punches
exactly like the fighters in the real fights. They're in the same part
of the ring when they throw those punches. They react to the punches
the same way. They even get knocked down in the correct parts of the
ring in exactly the same way as the fighters who were in the original
fight.

I'm not going to comment on whether it should have won an Oscar for
best picture, best actor, best supporting actor, best direction, best
photography, best choreography, or other features in the film. Maybe
it's better that it didn't win those awards in that year because this
film is bigger than any year.

This is the sports film that all others will be judged by from here on
out by anyone with any sense of realism and art in movies.

This is one for the ages.
<|_=00=_|>

The fights are not rocky-type or "entertaining" but REAL. Inside the
boxing
ring, things are different. I was glad to see close to perfect adaptation
of
Ali's fights (I watched documentary on Ali's career). Michael Mann gets
credit for painting all the different aspects of Ali's life superbly.
Well,
'Ali' is based on a real legend and not a super-hero and so it is hell of
a
job to portray such a personality on big screen and make it so
entertaining
to watch.

The only downside of the movie was to focus a little longer on effect of
Africa on him. But the "Loud mouth" CHAMPs witty and "punchy" remarks in
his
real life along, with his big blows inside the ring, will keep you glued
for
more.

Overall, Will Smith's hard-work, Mann's adaptation and Mohammad Ali's
legendary life makes 'Ali' a must watch for movie goers.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, if you went to Ali to see an boxing movie you might have been
disappointed, but if you went to see a great film you hit the mark.  The
hype was due.  A conglomerate of great acting, great direction, and a
great
story has made Ali a landmark film.  This film is socially important
because
it raises up one of the most notable and underappreciated figures of the
twentieth century, Ali.  Many considered Ali just a boxer with a big
mouth,
but this film finally exposes him for what he truly was, one of the
greatest
civil rights leaders of our time.  The film makes subtle but
amazingly-done
comparisons between Ali and other civil rights leaders, notably Malcolm X,
and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and highlites Ali's influence with
theirs.
This theme is climaxed in the beautiful scene of Ali (Will Smith) running
down streets in Africa with local chidren chanting his name.  At this
moment
in the film, we understand as viewers that Ali did not fight for fame or
fortune, but he fought for his rights and the rights of all black people
in
the United States and the world.  No other film has exhalted Ali's
influence
in such a way.  It was beautifully done.  Ali will become one of my
favorite
films of all time, and I believe will be remembered years from now as the
crowning achievement of both the main actor and the director.  I applaud
their efforts
<|_=00=_|>

There are many critics out there who have given this film negative reviews
on the basis that the film didn't succeed in giving the viewers a focused
look at how significant and grand Ali was.  I understand completely the
motivations and arguments behind those negative reviews.  However, I must
say they misunderstood what the movie was trying to do.  Because most
thought Ali would be a standard bio-pic, the film was expected to cover a
sprawling canvas of a larger-than-life figure of charisma known as Ali from
childhood to present with deft focus on his life.  This was NOT director
Michael Mann's goal.  Mann's ultimate objective, in my humble opinion, was
to create an intimate portrait of a man whom the public saw only as a
cultural icon.  To give him a soul behind that grand persona.  To reveal him
as a fellow man among men; how he lived, how he behaved in his personal
life, how he sat, how he looked, how he talked, every little insignificant
moments of his life in the film were there to give the public an idea, a
glimpse of him as a fellow human being and not as an icon or a symbol.  That
is why the movie was an absolute masterpiece.  Although Will Smith's
performance in the film was hypnotically amazing, I must say the real star
of the movie for me was Michael Mann.  From the first 10 minutes or so of
the montage sequence in the beginning of the movie, Mann absorbed me right
in with his achingly beautiful, intimate, and minimalistic photography and
compositions.  I still see the imagery in my head going on a loop and
forcing me to play back the memorable images my eyes were exposed to as if
they were photographic printing paper.  The movie was so beautiful and
poignant, I found myself weeping during the many moments of introspective
scenes with Ali looking on towards the horizon or vacantly into nothingness
as if internally struggling to find his identity.  Before I stop myself in
rambling on and on about how much I'm in love with this film and Michael
Mann's directing style, I should note that there is a sequence in the movie
where you won't resist in emotionally breaking down.  The sequence in
question is the jogging sequence in Africa where Ali runs past non-chalantly
through a village and looks at children's murals on concrete walls of
himself.  I WILL NOT spoil this because I want you viewers to go through the
same shock that I had.
<|_=00=_|>
Muhammad Ali is a heroic character with legendary wit, humanity, and
boxing skill. Always a fighter and always a lover, Ali's life is a
subtle and clever story of dignity, strength, and compassion. And Ali
himself wrote that story. This film profoundly reminds me of an
autobiography Ali wrote several years ago with the help of a friend.
Never afraid to do what needed to be done to get where he wanted to go,
Ali was never a stranger to controversy, flambuoyance, acid wit, and an
outspoken promotion of truth - even when most of his own fans couldn't
see it. This film captures the champ's many battles, not the least of
which are the internal battles he wages with himself over politics, his
ego, money and his own destructive patterns in relationships with
women. But thankfully, it does so in a respectful way which does not
compromise the man's heroism, nor does it spare the audience of the
laughter, mischief and joy Ali became so well known for. 

Michael Mann's film has relatively little boxing in it, and is in no
way a chronicle of Ali's career. A better choice for that subject is
"The Greatest" - http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0076111/combined starring
Ali himself, or one of the many documentaries on Ali. This film is
about how and why Ali is who he is, and how he drove himself and
everybody around him to reach phenomenal heights. It features the
beginnings of Ali's career and follows him through the most difficult
part of his career, when he fought the US government over the Viet Nam
war, fought his own religious establishment over his outspokenness, and
even fought against hypocritical promoters he relied on who were bent
on exploiting the third world. Too intelligent to just be a prize
fighter, too passionate to just shut up, and too faithful to give up
his religion when it gave up on him, Ali just kept on driving. The film
ends after Ali's fight against George Foreman in 1977, so it does not
cover his entire career, and does not discuss his more recent
activities. His life since retiring from boxing is equally interesting,
in my opinion, but since Mann wanted to depict the most dramatic and
challenging aspects of the Ali legend, I can't blame him for his choice
of time frame.

The cast is very strong. Will Smith gives a fine performance
wonderfully recasting Ali's wonderful facial expressions, gestures,
physical style and speech pattern, Jamie Foxx, Ron Silver and Mario Van
Peebles are all excellent in their supporting roles. And the boxers are
all very believable. They even look like the people they play. Smith
doesn't really look anything like Ali, and you are occasionally aware
(mainly through Smith's imitation of the greatest's very unique speech)
that you are watching an imitation, but this does not in any way
detract from the film.

Highly recommended for those interested in real-life drama and heroism,
the civil rights movement in the 1960s and 1970s, and the intelligent
and political side of American sports. NOT recommended for fans of
boxing movies and action films. This is a slow moving, intense drama
and neither a feel-good film nor a slug-fest.
<|_=00=_|>

I personally think this movie was one of the best of last year. As a
biopic
it might be interesting to compare this movie with Beautiful Mind, that
other biopic that won too much awards. I often thought about, what if Ron
Howard,together with his writer made Ali, how would that movie be? Because
Ali's life can be told in a very Beautiful Mind'esque way.

Show how Ali became the greatest, then let his world fall, show how he
begins suffering from his disease, until he has to stop boxing, and end
the
movie with some sort of heroic end moment, maybe an award show, where Ali
get's an award like, sportsman of the decade/century whatever (I don't
actually know if he ever got something like
that, but it's just an example). Can you see where I'm
going?

Now if you look at Ali, how this movie turned out, you see it's a complete
different movie. They don't show Ali getting sick, they show only 10 years
of his life, the 10 years that transformed him from a Good boxer to a
Legend.

By limiting it's storytime to these 10 years, I think Michael Mann,
succeeded in not making Ali sentimental. When we leave the theater we
don't
feel pity for Ali because he had such a hard life, like we did have in a
sense with John Nash in B.mind. We leave the theater in a state of awe.
The
movie shows us how Ali became a legend. How he struggled and fought, and
we
never pity him, Ali is to powerfull a personality to pity, we respect him,
and given that Ali is very much real and alive in the real world, we can't
help but to look up
to that person.

However, the movie doesn't glamourize Ali, it doesn't make of him a
flawless
larger-than-life hero. By portraying his troubled relations with his many
girlfriends/wifes, how he more than once let himself be used by others
etc.
the movie shows Ali was human. It doesn't shy away of his questionable
relationship with The Nation of the Islam, for instance. Just as Ali in
real
life probably wouldn't hide those facts.

Now to come to the practical aspects of this movie...because Ali is truly
a
magnificent film. Of course Smith plays Ali incredible, and if you compare
him to footage of the real Ali, when he was about 20/30 years, you see
just
how close he comes to recreating Ali. But next to him we also have Jon
Voight, Jaimi Foxx, Mario van Peebles, all playing so completely
in-character that you hardly recognize them as actors.
Then there is Mann's directorial power. From the brilliant opening 10
minutes, to the truly awe-inspiring, moving, scenes in Africa at the end,
Mann carefully directs this picture, never making it dull, but also never
forcing plotlines. He tells the story so subtle, you won't ever feel like
he
thinks that you as an audience can't understand something unless it's
explained in big bright words. If someone breaks down in tears, he won't
compliment this with violins in the background, soft-focus or whatever, he
just shows a person breaking down. And I like this style incredibly well,
especially in a biopic like this.

So to come to a conclusion, Ali is indeed a masterpiece. Not as instantly
accesible as the Insider or Heat, and not as conventional as Beautiful
Mind,
but in it's own right one of the (not THE:) greatest Biopic's yet
made.

<|_=00=_|>
Average movie. What was best in this film (and that was really good)
was the Sound, The Soundtrack and the Camera. All of these where at
least worthy of a nomination, if not more.

On the contrary, the screenplay was totally lacking (I think the
Director knew this, hence the very frequent and prolonged musical
interludes...) and the dialogs empty, somehow incomplete. In spite of
another great performance by Will Smith, the characterization is also
sketchy to say the least, we never really get to understand the main
characters, their motivations, the reasons for their actions, and
therefore can never really identify. All in all, the movie feels
superficial, there is no real 'depth' to it. Younger audiences who are
not familiar with the actual occurrences 30 years ago will be totally
at a loss watching this film. I must say that even I was lost at times
(and I actually lived during the period).
<|_=00=_|>

Ali is a film that both succeeds and fails at the same time. Will Smith's
performance was very solid, yet I never was able to shake the feeling
that
on screen it was Will Smith playing Muhammad Ali and not simply Muhammad
Ali.  Perhaps that is through no fault of his.  He truly does a great
impression of the fighter.  The script is again decent, centering on
several
facets of the star's life that go beyond the sports pages. However,
overall
the whole project has a rather distant feel. The viewer rarely is truly
captivated by what is occurring. Michael Mann's characteristic
documentary-esque filming style works well in parts, but services to
alienate the viewer in others.  Yes, it feels as though you are almost
watching a documentary in many cases, as if the viewer is a bystander to
the
circumstances at hand, but this is a work of drama, not a documentary. I
wish someone had told Mann to stop shaking the camera and shifting to
view
Ali between the standard stock of blurred reporters for a few seconds and
do
a more typically dramatic shot. With Heat and The Insider, Mann managed
to
pull off this style successfully. In Ali he does not. In many cases
conversations begin to rise but then only dissipate before anything
really
gripping has been said. Simply put, this film could have used a few more
motivational speeches along the lines of a Rocky film. Perhaps it
wouldn't
have been as accurate, but it would have serviced a more dramatic story,
at
least one where the viewer really felt involved. Ali goes through two
wives
in the film and in neither case do they even serve to get very angry with
him. Voices begin to rise and then either the woman or Ali leaves the
room.
The scene ends without any heavy emotion other than stern faces being
shown.
He's divorced a few minutes later.  The fight scenes also have a lack of
emotion.  The film style is interesting and visually stimulating, but it
could have used a few `it's over Rock!' lines here and there to punctuate
things.

Mann's standard use of music again fails in many cases here. Whereas in
"historical" films like Forrest Gump period music is used to punctuate a
dramatic score, in Ali it is almost the sole backing track of the film.
There is scarcely any musical score involved. When it is used, it often
seems like it was just pieced together from leftovers to provide
ambience.
In a few key dramatic scenes, the pop ditties being played (although
sometimes fitting lyrically) really end up being a distraction. The death
of
Malcolm X is a prime example.  Ali's close friend has just been killed
and
you're just waiting for a rising orchestral number (however cliche and
standard it may be, that's what you're looking for), but instead you get
a
period song that, at this point in the film, is beginning to sound like
half
a dozen others before it. In several cases Mann's musical style does work
(Ali's jog through the streets of Zaire being an example, the closing
number
another) but the technique fails overall.

I've mostly criticized this film, which should not be the only viewpoint,
because cinematically it is a fine work. There doesn't need to be another
Ali film made, as this will service his legacy nicely. It has flaws, but
I
point out these flaws taking for granted just how good much of it is. The
banter between Ali and Howard Cosell (Jon Voight, who completely
disappears
into this role) is classic, and work by Jaime Foxx and Mario Van Peebles
(as
Malcolm X) is solid as well. Michael Mann knows how to handle a film and
I
would rather watch a sub-par outing from him than most of what Hollywood
produces any day.  He's just done better.  Some script work and a better
musical score could have pushed this good film to greatness.

7/10

<|_=00=_|>

A certain kind of critical response kept me away from this film when it was
in theatrical release, and I should have known better!  Michael Mann is one
of the most original storytellers working in film today, and his sensibility
is absolutely in sync with his subject here.  Muhammad Ali always did it his
way, and from the brilliant opening sequence (which breaks all kinds of
rules of time and space) to the last scene, that's what Mann does, and with
great style, as ever.  Of course if an audience demands a literal drama,
they might not catch the poetry Mann and his team create with sound and
picture.   Will Smith is outstanding as Ali, vocally and visually, Jon
Voight is a unbelievably convincing Howard Cosell, and Mario Van Peebles is
subtle and moving as Malcom X.

<|_=00=_|>
Michael Mann is a very hit-and-miss director for me. His movies either
blow me out of the water ("The Insider," "Heat"), or they leave me cold
("Miami Vice," "Public Enemies"). Unfortunately, "Ali" belongs to the
latter category.

Mann's filmmaking is always very assured, so when his movies miss, I'm
never exactly sure why. There's just something boring about "Ali." It
tells Muhammad Ali's story, and it does so with what could be mistaken
for passion, but it just felt rote and lifeless to me, and far too
long.

Will Smith and Jon Voight were honored with Academy Award nominations
for playing Ali and Howard Cosell, respectively, but clearly I'm not
the only one to be underwhelmed by the film, as it bombed with
audiences and couldn't even crack 7.0 here at IMDb.

Grade: B-
