
I'm a 17 year old male teenager who happened to stumble upon this movie
two years ago at school during a free day in math class (when I was
15). I liked it then, but the math class ended before the movie could
be finished. Finally, on the WB a few days ago, the movie aired and I
saw the conclusion. AWTR contains a heartfelt conclusion to a story
where you get to care about Landon and Jamie, two polar opposite
teenagers who face peer struggles and the perils of love and death. The
situations that occur are very real, and very sad. Once the movie
finishes, you'll be left wondering what happens to everyone (heck, even
though it doesn't make sense, I want a sequel!).

As a maturing male, I couldn't help but cry inside, and I'm someone who
felt indifferent toward movies like Titanic. I found myself wishing I
were either Landon or Jamie, because they represent the real virtues of
life and love. Aside from the movie's undying message, there are some
slight flaws. The ending could have been expanded a bit more (you'll
see when you watch it as I don't want to spoil anything) to include
more emotion. Otherwise, the acting done by Mandy Moore and Shane West
is superb and top notch - these two actors have quite the career ahead
of them. You'll see as these two characters develop that you can't
imagine any other people doing the job.

This isn't your typical love story, because when it comes down to it,
the love is only part of the whole scheme. While I never expected this
to touch me so much, AWTR enters as perhaps my favorite movie of all
time. You will feel as if you're a part of the movie, you will be able
to relate to them, and you will love it. AWTR succeeds in delivering a
great experience. Available on DVD now, you'll be wishing the release
had deleted scenes, et. all. Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't know - I'm way too old for a middle life crisis, maybe its the onset
of dementia, but this film really got to me. Never in all these years have I
come across as beautiful and pure a character as Jamie Sullivan - and to
think I gave MTV the flick whenever Britney-clone Miss Moore, started up her
song of the month. Call it manipulative, unrealistic, contrived, saccharine,
whatever your pleasure - but I absolutely lost my heart to Mandy Moore's
character here.  Perhaps the deep-rooted protective instinct in my nature,
maybe a reminder of what I never found but always desired, but I would be
lying if I did not admit to falling totally in love with Jamie, matter of
fact that would be an understatement.

An impossible blend of strength, integrity, natural beauty, youth,
feistiness, femininity and vulnerability - Mandy Moore delivered a
performance so genuine and moving it totally stunned me. She was utterly
spellbinding in every scene she was in - which was most of them. I thought
her rendition of "Its gonna be love" during the school play was cinematic
magic. She was for those moments, every man's dream and the epitome of
virginal translucence.  

I was impressed too with Shane West's performance who at times was so
reminiscent of a young Kevin Bacon somewhere around his FOOTLOOSE days. At
times I agree, the film seemed to be headed down THE MAJESTIC path of
over-sentiment but I'm sorry guys, I don't care. So long as Jamie was
on-screen ripping my emotions apart, the rest really didn't matter!  What a
stunning performance from so young a girl with barely any acting experience.
The mere fact that this flick has pulled an everage user rating of 6.6 would
suggest a LOT of people liked it. It blows LOVE STORY totally out of the
water. On reflection, it is the film's very simplicity, lack of  pretension
and strong supporting actors that serves it so very well.

By the way, it does so help being a hopeless romantic!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie doesn't have an original plot, but it is good because of the 2
leads give wonderful performances.  Mandy Moore is especially good as the
straight-laced preacher's daughter.  And I liked how they showed the
transformation of Shane West's character.  It was very believable. Of
course, the ending won't leave you dried-eyed.  It's sad, but we get to
witness a sort-of "miracle" as the film puts it of how a wayward teen turns
his life around.  The music was great too.

FINAL VERDICT:  I definitely recommend this. It isn't just some teen movie. 
The film has depth and the acting is much better than you would
expect.
<|_=00=_|>

After seeing this movie today, I walked out of the theater in tears. Jamie
and Landon create a miracle. Landon lacks faith in himself, in the wonder
of
life and in God. Jamie has the faith that Landon lacks.

Teen peer group pressure in the form of a dare causes a young man to be
hospitalized. Landon is partially responsible. His punishment is dealt out
by the school principal. The principal wants to somehow reach him, to
teach
him humility. Landon has to do math tutoring for resistant kids, perform
janitorial duties around his high school, and perform in the school
play.

He's known Jamie all his life. However, his attitude as a cool kid, is to
ignore her in public. But due to his community service responsibilities he
really gets to know her. And he needs her help in rehearsing his lines for
the school play. Through working on the play, Landon starts to fall in
love
with Jamie. He is softened. He sees her faith. She develops faith in him,
and he then finds faith in himself. Mandy reaches her audience in
portraying
a ministers daughter whose faith helps her to resist peer
pressure.

Why she warns Landon not to fall in love with her... that's the point of
the
movie. The movie will help remind people of the value of life and of
simple
things!

I give this 5 stars! But I'm a sentimental guy who likes romantic
movies.
<|_=00=_|>
I can not say that A Walk to Remember was a movie that I went out of my
way to see, or even that I recall it being aired in any UK cinema. I
happened to watch it on TV one Sunday morning expecting something
somewhat usual and predictable.

I must admit I was more than pleasantly surprised, enough so to
actually watch it more than once, and consequently feel compelled to
write these comments. I find myself struggling not to watch it whenever
I see it listed, such a charming movie is this! The plot seems to be
initially a rather predictable foray into the traditional territory of
bad boy meets good, but sadly plain girl. At some point in the movie,
girl momentarily transforms from ugly duckling into swan. At this point
I found myself feeling that comfort that we all feel in the knowledge
that we know exactly what is going to happen in a movie. I was entirely
convinced that the entire culmination of the thing is for girl to gain
some peer group acceptance. The presence of a seemingly overly
protective father hints at overtones that he may be some kind of
parental tyrant figure from whom she may require some sort of heroic
liberation.

However as Jaime reveals her secret then all becomes apparent, and a
far more absorbing plot unfolds than is initially to be expected.

Performances are competent and heartfelt, Shane West gives an admirable
portrayal of an angry young man on a path of reformation. Mandy Moore
is strong and almost graceful in her role as Jaime and enhances the
charm of this romantic interlude with several pretty vocal solos.

Daryl Hannah and Peter Coyote both fine actors add a lovely depth to
the general proceedings and are certainly worth a mention for their
respective roles as concerned parents.

It is impossible for me not to like this little film, because I am an
insufferably romantic female and A walk to Remember has romance in a
monumental dosage. There is little or no sexual content, rather
emphasis is put upon the more admirable and sincere aspects of
courtship little seen in the average teen movie.

Without going into territory that could be classed as spoiling, it is
worth mentioning that some people may place A Walk to Remember into the
tear- jerker category, and consign it to a dark dusty corner of their
DVD collection which is only delved into in the most girly of moments.

For some, several scenes may be a little too saccharine- but if you
don't like romance then this picture probably isn't for you anyway.

In my opinion, this category is a little too narrow to slide A Walk to
Remember into. The true themes of this lovely story are in reality-
faith, and redemption, which are universal aspects of humanity with
which we can all identify in various amount.

The end result for me was that I felt uplifted at the end. Like eating
a tub of ice cream or having a nice bubbly bath this is a movie to put
on when you feel low or have had a bad day and it's sure to make you
feel much better. You will fall in love for the first time all over
again for a couple of hours.

You may well sit down to watch with preconceptions about what you are
going to see. You men may sit down and watch it solely to win a few
merit points from your girlfriend so she'll let you watch the football
in peace later. As my title says though, this may be the one romantic
movie you will hate yourself for loving.

You don't even have to admit to anybody that you watched it and liked
it, but I encourage you to watch it all the same without prejudice.

A little charmer- comforting and sweet- sets out to do something very
simple, and delivers well, I give 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

What can I say? it's one of my favorite movies. It has everything:
love, romance, action, sorrow, and happiness. Shane West and Mandy
Moore have wonderful chemistry together, and it shows. It makes you
feel like you want to become a better person, and not be so selfish,
self-centered, and makes you realize that there more important things
in life.

Another reason why it's such a great movie is because you see the
transition of someone who I guess you can say was "heading on the wrong
path" given another chance to make something out of themselves, and
that makes you feel good. You have to give a lot of credit to the young
main actors in the film (Mandy Moore and Shane West) they did a great
job for both of them just starting their movie careers only a couple of
years ago.

Although for anyone that has actually read the book, like myself, you
catch a lot of the differences between the book and the movie, and in
your own way you can note what could have made the film a lot better
than how good it was. This was definitely Mandy Moore's best movie, and
think it left a big positive mark for her in having a acting career. I
undoubtedly give this movie 4 1/2 stars out 5.

<|_=00=_|>
This movie is so indescribable and unique.I have seen it about a
million times and I own the DVD,book,posters,and both soundtracks. I am
obsessed!In fact,I am watching it right now.Every time I see this
movie,without fail,I cry. Yes...I will admit I am a hopeless romantic
and I love to watch these types of movies.But...if there is one thing I
hate..its teeny-bop per movies like Mean Girls,and I also hate it when
people say AWTR is one.This movie is most certainly not a teen movie.It
is a movie for everyone..for the older it gives them something to look
back on;for the younger,it gives us something to dream of in the
future. Partially..I love this movie because I feel like I am Jamie.And
I think it is great to watch a movie that makes you cry and smile all
at the same time,and yet come out with such a happy feeling. I
recommend this movie for everyone.If you haven't seen it,I will
personally lend it to you.
<|_=00=_|>

This film was such a wonderful surprise.  While I was expecting a
moderately lightweight piece of teen fare, the film came in with truly
profound depth, impeccable performances, solid direction and
good pacing through a difficult story.  Mandy Moore is a certifiable
superstar.  And Shane West is really good, and a big surprise was
Lauren German, who is not only a very good actress, but so
beautiful it is pure joy to watch her. The religion elements of the
story are effectively interlaced into the narrative without feeling like
the viewer is being force-fed a theological viewpoint.  And bring
tissues- this one is a real tearjerker which leaves you feeling
uplifted and optimistic.  
<|_=00=_|>

I read this book and it is SO good! It's not like other teen movies - and
trust me I know, b/c I've seen them all! You shouldn't judge this movie
before knowing what it's really about. Yes I know it's about people from
opp. sides of the track and it seems so cliche, but there's so much more
than that. And even though I don't like Mandy Moore, she's a great
actress.
Honestly! Much better than Britney. But anyway, this movie will make you
cry
and laugh and there is such a great message. It's about first loves and
opening up to people, saying goodbye, miracles, growing apart, destiny,
and
letting yourself become something you never imagined, but it won't end the
way you think it will. Besides, Shane West is hot. So why shouldn't you
like
this movie again? Oh, and go out and read some more of Nicholas Sparks
books. They're a must read, trust me!
<|_=00=_|>
Let's get this straight: 

It's not an artistically excellent movie. It is not a movie with
performances that are going to constitute landmarks in the acting
profession. It is not a movie with high-end special effects, storming
action or astounding scenery. It is not a story that copes with the
deepest causes of adolescent misbehavior / frustration / desperation in
the sense of a purely sociological cinematography. It can be
characterised light (although it includes sadness as a feeling) and
shallow (because in its limited duration the director does not have the
convenience of "looking" deeper into the characters and - at the same
time - include an extensive plot which must be given in order to see a
considerable change in Landon's personality) 

I could go on giving cons about this film but I am sure you can find
many in previously posted negative reviews - and many of these reviews,
more or less, hit some quite substantial spots about the film. BUT...

I gave it 10 out of 10 for a single simple reason: whatever its flaws,
it made me cry unashamedly and that's something that not a lot of
movies can claim, in all honesty. And despite the sadness it inevitably
brings (which is not necessarily bad) it also brings innocence,
sweetness, optimism - yes, that too - and faith in life and love and
the ability of every single person for change, the ability - and the
obligation - to become better. It is a movie-edition of an adorable
book, and as always, it cannot be better than the book. However, in its
own scope it brings out the message quite clearly, quite beautifully,
and quite optimistically. It is a film that I have watched repeatedly
and will continue to watch with joy. And melancholy.
