
I always liked Owen Wilson and Eddie Murphy, so I thought, in case the
movie is worth nothing, I'd still get to see some friendly faces. For
better or worse, I can say it was about what I expected.

I put this movie in two categories, and I think I placed it right: it's
a decent comedy, with parts attempting to live up to an action movie.
At its heart though it tries to be comedic and funny, so that's upon
what it should be judged. Thankfully, you will get the chance to laugh
out loud, but unfortunately not as much as you'd like to laugh out loud
at a comedy. I won't even mention rolling on the floor. 

The story isn't something really new, but it has quite a few humorous
plot twists. The so-called funny character is Kelly, who really
inflicts a fair amount of pain on his adversaries, but he is just such
a nicely drawn, egocentric guy, that it actually works on a comedic
level. It's always just about him, and him and then some more. 

The actors have their charm but I won't really dwell on this as they
are as high profile as it gets, Hollywood style, so you know what you
get. Perhaps Wilson could have spiced up his game with a bit of the
unexpected, but all in all he does what he does best.

I did feel a bit let down by the special effects, with some flimsy
looking explosions placed here and there. However, the host city of
Budapest looked really gorgeous throughout, making it well worth it's
money shots.

To draw the line, the film isn't great, but it's fine enough. No
brilliant ideas, or anything like that, just the usual comic stuff.
<|_=00=_|>

When a top secret camouflaged plane is stolen and hidden, secret agency BNS
needs to get an agent into Hungary to uncover and prevent the sale of the
weapon.  Agent Alex Scott is selected to go undercover with civilian boxer
Kelly Robinson and use his upcoming fight to gain access.  However Kelly is
less co-operative than first hoped and the mission risks being compromised. 
Can they stay out of trouble long enough to stop the sale?

Take a little bit of Shanghai Noon, a little bit of Rush Hour, remove the
oriental spice from the stew et viola! – you've got I Spy!  By mixing the
essence of Jackie Chan's sidekicks from both these films and putting the
resultant stew into a comedy spy movie you have this enjoyable if
unspectacular film.  Wilson does his usual stuff but is still effortlessly
funny, Murphy does his best Chris Tucker impression and does a good job
playing a little dumb and is funny as well.

The plot sees them doing, well, it doesn't really matter what they're doing,
just that Wilson is Wilson and Murphy is playing up to good effect!  The
plot just about provides enough material to keep the film going, but the odd
moment where the comedy banter quietens down, the weaknesses of the plot are
immediately laid bare.  This is not to say it isn't good enough for this
type of film, but just that at times it is all very slight and a bit thin. 
The comedy is more based on banter than anything else, so if you like the
two aforementioned Chan movies then this should be enjoyable as the humour
is of the same vein.

The support cast are all pretty average.  Janssen does an OK job looking
pretty but Malcolm McDowell just shows his face to no great effect.  The
funniest cameo is Gary Cole who plays an Irish spy playing a Cuban – he is
just so unexpected in his actions that I had to be amused (of course he is
helped by Wilson'' reactions to his character).

Overall this was kinda overlooked at the UK box office and I think it was
because it was very slight and flimsy.  However for gentle laughs based on
good banter rather than set up jokes, this is a surprisingly fun comedy
despite not sticking in your mind for longer than 15 minutes after you watch
it.
<|_=00=_|>

"I Spy" is an action comedy starring Owen Wilson as the opposite of your
usual James Bond, and Eddie Murphy as the cocky boxer assigned to help him. 
Wilson and Murphy are pretty funny together, but sometimes their constant
arguing gets overdone and rather old.

Still, the two have good chemistry and you will always be sure to laugh when
you put on "I Spy".  About the action, well, it's okay.  It sure isn't as
good as "Bad Boys" or "Bad Company", but that's not really what this film is
geared for anyway.  Plus, Murphy and Wilson are STILL ARGUING during the
action (this is when it gets old!).

Entertaining, but a little annoying, I give "I Spy" a 6.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Another Hollywood offering based on the time honoured principle of remaking
classic TV shows to guarantee financial returns. However, unlike some that
still managed to flop, I Spy for the most part delivers.

The story is typical Bond-style spy action: Someone has stolen a top secret
invisible plane from the American government and is selling it on the black
market, and it's up to our heroes to get it back. The story is secondary to
the comedy in this movie, mostly between its two stars - Eddie Murphy and
Owen Wilson. Murphy reprises his wise-cracking sidekick role, last seen in
Shrek. Instead of a talking donkey though, this time he is a world-champion
boxer. If you can with-hold your disbelief of this concept for ninety
minutes his performance is fairly enjoyable. At times there is a glimpse of
great chemistry between his egotistical celebrity and Wilson's downtrodden
spy in love.

Unfortunately this is a movie that suffers from an identity crisis: Is this
a spy thriller with jokes, or is it an all out spoof of the genre? Because
of this the movie falls somewhat uncomfortably between the two, with long
periods with no jokes at all followed by hilarious set-pieces.

Having said all this, I Spy is still fairly entertaining, and if you're just
looking for a film to fill a friday evening you could do a lot worse than to
choose this one. 
<|_=00=_|>
Every ten years or so, a comedy comes along that redefines Movie
Comedy. Police Academy, Coming To America, Wayne's World & Austin
Powers are some recent examples. This isn't another one.

It's fair to say I hadn't been as excited about the pairing of Eddie
Murphy and Owen Wilson since Pacino and DeNiro in "Heat". The movie
seemed to have all the ingredients, but an ordinary script and the "max
factor" of Kelly Robinson made sure this movie never reached it's
potential. Don't get me wrong, there's a few gems, most notably when
Eddie's character helps Owen pick up a woman and when the two have a
brilliant heart-to-heart in a sewer. Unfortunately there's not enough
of these moments and we're left wanting more. Still worth seeing
though.
<|_=00=_|>

A lot better than I expected! I'd read dreadful reviews, and while I clearly
see the bases of the critics' points (I try to only read good critics,
critics with useful insights), I must confess I wound up liking the
movie.

The first 45 minutes or so was pretty lame--- slow, awkward, annoying. But
the it picked up steam, and allowed Eddie Murphy and Owen Wilson (my two
favorite actors, for real) to be their charming and weird selves. And that
Famke Jannsen--- Wow! Those Dutch folks grow some hot babes! At least, I
think she was Dutch, once??? Whatever--- she's VERY sexy, charming,
intelligent, and graceful. All 3 of these folks were largely very
watchable.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a re-make of sorts, not from a movie but from a television
series that made history when Bill Cosby became the first black actor
to star (or co-star) in a regular TV show. He and Robert Culp played in
the show of the same name.

Here, Eddie Murphy plays Cosby's role and Owen Wilson takes over Culp's
character. As funny as Murphy has been over his film career, I, for
one, have gotten tired of his loud and abrasive characters. It's
getting tiresome. Even in the animated hit, "Shrek," Murphy was loud,
too talkative and obnoxious. He can't seem to get away from that kind
of character. Wilson was more likable in this film and Famke Janssen
was interesting.

There are a few wild action scenes in here and this film is played
strictly for two things: comedy and action. Another thing: it should
have been rated "R," not PG-13. Overall, the story is lame but it is
entertaining so, for that, it's worth a rental.
<|_=00=_|>
We all know Eddie Murphy's classic scene in "48 Hours" when he sings
The Police's "Roxanne" off key. Now about 20 years after, in this movie
he sings Marvin Gaye's "Sexual Healing" on key! While the scene he did
so in "I Spy" was amusing, it was not what the 48 Hrs scene was. So
let's face facts, Eddie ain't what he used to be. 

He once again parodies himself in a role, albeit in a lesser way than
in "Bowfinger" and "Showtime". I don't care much for Owen Wilson, but
he actually plays off Eddie well as a straight man. The two have decent
on-screen chemistry. If this movie did a little more business, these
two could talk sequel. 

As for the movie, there are actually funny scenes, where Wilson's
character Alex is given second-hand spy gadgets; Kelly Robinson teases
his boxing opponent in a pre-fight; a plane dive to coerce Kelly into
working. Plenty to go around. The action scenes are not bad, with the
exception of the silly balloon sequence. That part should have been
rewritten. And of course, I cannot neglect Famke Jannsen in her
underwear.

It would have been better if "I Spy" had copied the more serious,
realistic and dramatic TV series of the same name. Alas, it is much
like soda, acceptable only because the vastly superior "48 Hrs" exists
to wash its pasty aftertaste out of our mouths.
<|_=00=_|>
Obviously the creators of this film did not care for the original show.
If they had, they wouldn't have gone so far out of their way to alter
it beyond recognition.

Kelly and Scotty were suave, urbane, competent. Neither one of them was
James Bond. They never stopped into the spy center to pick up their
gadgets.

Kelly did NOT have a posse, a bevy of bi-atches or a private airplane
with his name splattered on the side, and he did not refer to himself
in the third person. AND, he was a WHITE tennis player, not a black
exhibition boxer. (I guess white men can't jump, so they made the black
guy the athlete.) Robert Culp was incredibly sexy but did not refer to
himself as "Agent Double Oh Nine and a Half". I mean, ewe! But, these
are all elements of this film, which for some reason bares the name of
the series and heists the character names.

I don't think I would have hated this movie so much if it weren't
pretending to have anything to do with the classic series. If it were a
stand alone flick about a couple of spy guys, then, so what. But, as it
is, it's basically an affront to the original "I Spy". Was their only
research a poster or something? Because, the original show is available
on DVD, so it's not as if it's gone from the planet.

It brings to mind the horrific "update" of the "Wild, Wild West", a
Razzie Award fav.

I don't have any problem with black people updating these characters
and stepping into the roles. But, do they have to do it so badly? Kelly
and Scotty were never goofy, or grossly incompetent. (Ok, so they
walked into a couple of fists along the way. It was subtle comedy, not
this over-blown mess.) This Kelly and "Alex" are hopelessly off the
mark.

Updates can work, (Scooby-Doo, Addams Family, Bradey Bunch) but there
has to be SOME respect for the source material, even if it's parody.
How can you parody something you've never bothered to see.

And gawd, this movie makes me love Culp and Cosby even more than I
already do!
<|_=00=_|>
I was expecting something really lame when I slipped this DVD in.
However it turned out to be quite okay. Eddie Murphy is in really good
shape and Owen Wilson delivers.

It is well made from a comedy point of view, but surprisingly also
fairly well made in the action aspect (for a comedy that is). It has
good pace and doesn't leave you bored for long. I actually found some
really big laughs in this, especially from Wilson.

I'm not a big fan of director Betty Thomas, I thought "28 Days" was
really flat. I thought she was a weird pick for this one - however, she
surprises me with both comedy and action skills that I've never seen
before (but in truth I haven't seen much of her rather extensive work
for TV). I tip my hat of to the lady who brings this plane in for a
sufficiently smooth landing.

If you like action comedies and don't expect anything more then to pass
an hour and a half, you should be quite fine with this one.
