

This film, which opened in New York recently, was a total surprise. Director
Niki Caro has done wonders in bringing this story to the screen as it shows
a different and much simple world than the rat race of our society and the
horrible times we live in.

The film presents a glimpse of the Maori society in New Zealand's North
Island. Having visited New Zealand, but not being very familiar with the
Maori culture, this film was a refreshing way to learn some aspects of
it.

The story presented here has a lot to do with pride and tradition, which is
a running theme among different cultural groups the world over. It has to do
with the frustration of Koro by the defection of his eldest son, the
designated heir of hundred years of a bloodline where only the males can
carry the knowledge and the legends from one generation to the
next.

Because of the rage Porourangi, the eldest son, feels after the death of his
wife giving birth to twins, where only the female survives, he leaves his
country and the baby girl is taken by the grandparents. The girl, Pai, will
grow to be an enchanting girl who will be excluded from the teachings of her
grandfather Koro. Even though he loves the girl, he can't deviate in his
narrow vision of the world he knows.

Basically, it is a simple story very well told with a great performance by
the child actress Keisha Castle-Hughes. This girl has such a strong
magnetism while on camera that one tends to forget the rest of the other
characters every time she appears. The grandparents are very well portrayed
by Rawiri Paratene and Vicky Houghton. 

This is a film for all ages to enjoy. Compare it with the latest releases
from Hollywood, and it's no wonder to arrive at the conclusion that stories
like Whale Rider have such an universal appeal that  should be brought to
the screen more often because of the positive way they show a society and
its people at its best.
<|_=00=_|>

I don't use the word "masterpiece" often when reviewing a film but for
"Whale Rider," it's an inadequate accolade. This is one of the most
moving,
beautiful and powerful films I have seen in years.

Screenplay author and director Niki Caro faithfully translated Witi
Ihimaera's novel of the same name, a poignant and sometimes sad but
ultimately uplifting story of New Zealand Maoris seeking, with the
leadership of a difficult, stubborn and often harsh elder to sustain
their
peoples' values and customs.

Australia and New Zealand are both encountering, in politics and in
culture
(and often the two are inextricably linked), their shared heritage of
white
oppression of native peoples. Much of this history is unknown to
Americans
and Europeans who view Australia through a bird's eye picture of the
Sydney
Opera House and New Zealand with even fewer associational
icons.

Recently, "Rabbitproof Fence" painfully depicted the policy of Australia
to
force lighter skin aborigines into "schools" where they would be nurtured
to
become "semi-whites" and then married to those of similar skin tone. The
object was to bleach the blackness out of Australia and the horrors of
this
incarnation of cultural and anthropological genocide are on full display
in
that film.

"Whale Rider" takes a different and, in the end, perhaps a more powerful
approach. There are virtually no whites in the film and only children's
t-shirts and some music blasting from a boombox suggests the encroaching
force of the controlling majority.

The cast is unknown to Americans and their names can be found on the IMDb
homepage for the film. The lead actress, however, must be named. In the
role
of "Pai," a young girl whose mother dies at her birth along with her twin
brother, is the extraordinary Keisha Castle-Hughes. She imbues every
scene
with a commanding and inviting vitality. Hers is an Academy Award (and
any
other major award) performance.

Pai's father left New Zealand for Europe, there to create and sell Maori
crafts. She lives with her grandmother and grandfather, the latter some
sort
of unelected chieftain of the oceanside community. Bitter that no male
heir
will succeed him and alternately cruel and loving to his reluctantly
acknowledged granddaughter, Koro starts a school to supplement the young
boys' secular education with inculcation of the ways of the Maori. Pai
wishes to join as an equal and is firmly, indeed harshly rebuffed at
every
turn.

If the Maori language has the phrase "You go, girl!," then it be directed
towards the indefatigable but not arrogant Pai. It would have been easy
to
make her the kind of thoughtless rebel that nature often programs
teenagers
to be. The depth of her character resides in her simultaneous quest for
equality and her understanding of her grandfather's unyielding attachment
to
patriarchal values. Pai's close relationship with her grandmother, a
woman
living a life universally recognizable to Americans, provides warmth and
support and do some of her other relationships.

The story unfolds seamlessly with Maori music and rituals bridging the
spoken dialogue (mostly in English, some in Maori with
subtitles).

Partly a straight tale, partly a gripping mystical fable, "Whale Rider"
never becomes saccharine.

The music and Maori songs complement but do not compete with the
dialogue, a
welcome change from many movies today. The land and the ocean are rawly
gorgeous.

As in Australia, relations today between New Zealand's indigenous people
and
the descendants of their vanquishers are sometimes tense. There are open
wounds from continuing political collisions over land and culture. The
Maoris are not a monolith and internal dissension is active. Serious
attempts to sustain Maori values and culture in the face of assimilative
pressures meet with varied degrees of success (in Koro's Maori school the
kids wear t-shirts with rock themes and one has a shirt advertising an
upstate New York resort area if I saw correctly). New Zealand's most
internationally renowned Maori is the opera diva Kiri te Kanawa who is
now
dedicated to Maori cultural restoration projects. "Whale Rider" can only
give a boost to such efforts which, as this film shows, makes not only
New
Zealand but the world richer.

This is a film I will acquire on DVD as soon as it is available.

10/10.

<|_=00=_|>
A beautifully filmed and convincingly acted treat for the entire
family. Adults need NOT beware since the film respects its audience and
contains levels of depth suitable for all ages. Although ultimately an
upbeat movie, there are some grim plot elements that may not be
appropriate for very young or overly sensitive children. However,
there's no actual violence or anything truly frightening or morbid. 

This is the story of a 12 year old Maori girl who knows that she is
born to the destiny her grandfather believes died with her stillborn
twin brother. I won't spoil the ending (which is hinted at early on)
with specifics, but suffice it to say that the story's ultimate lesson
is that change is sometimes as necessary a component of living
traditions as repetitive ceremony. And that the Maori must ride that
"whale" as bravely as their mythological ancestor rode the whale from
Havaiki (a satellite island of Tahiti, NOT Hawaii) to New Zealand. Not
to destroy or denigrate their culture, but to ensure its vitality and
continuity in the cultural matrix of the modern world.

A great lesson in true cultural diversity without preachy slogans or
"politically correct" censorship. It should be shown in all the world's
classrooms. Keisha Castle-Hughes is unforgettable as the heroine, and
richly deserves the Oscar for which she has been nominated.
<|_=00=_|>

A present day New Zealand community of Maori tribe people is waiting for the
sign of a new chief to be born and lead the village and it's community to
greatness.  Many have been born, but for the village elder all have been
disappointments.  The beginning of the movie starts out with the birth of 2
fraternal twins, with the grandfather patiently awaiting the birth of the
son.  Unfortunately the boy dies while the girl lives, and resentful is the
elder who blames the girl for the sons death since he was the last recent
hope for the village to gain a chief.

 Then something happens as the film flashes forward 12 years.  The girl
"Pai" (pie), is discovering that her community needs her, and all the signs
point that she must lead her people.  There is only one problem.  The chief
must be a man.

 It's at this point the film literally becomes a simple story, as a young
girl goes about trying to convince her awful grandfather that she is to lead
the village.  Many obligatory scenes are set up, and we all see the
pre-destination, but it is the transformation that the viewer witnesses that
is so powerful, and a payoff that can only be described as awe-inspiring.

 Incredibly touching, deeply moving, wonderfuly acted, and beautiful
cinematography, it's not small surprise why this film is a winner.  Pai is a
complete scene stealer, and it's finally nice to see Cliff Curtis show off
some true acting skills.  For Cliff who has played everything from a tattoed
Hispanic gang leader in Training Day, to a Arab villan in the Majestic, it's
pleasing to see him in a character that mirror's his true national identity
since he is actually a New Zealander and not a Hispanic or Arab person.  He
must be incredibly proud to be part of this special film.  The actors who
played the grand parents are exceptional particularly the stubborn
grandfather who's demands Pai keep away from all male activities (The
grandfather's insistence to teach a young group of boys in a special school
how to be chiefs, and Pai's insistence to learn without her gradfather's
knowledge provides most of the light humour in the film).

 Amazing film easily one of the best of the year

 Rating 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

Whale Rider is a story of the quest for the new leader of an indigenous
Maori tribe living on an island off the coast of New Zealand.  Often this
type of film ends up making a caricature of the people, accentuating their
quaint customs and idiosyncratic behaviors and causing us to smile
condescendingly at their ignorance and stunted development.  Whale Rider
does nothing of the kind.  Director Niki Caro treats her subject matter with
profound respect, genuine curiosity and effortless grace, while refusing to
ignore the signs of cultural disintegration.  It is as if we are invited
into the Whangara community, and are free to observe comfortably, without
fear or embellishment.  The 11-year-old first-time actor Keisha
Castle-Hughes gives the most astonishing performance by a child that I have
ever witnessed, and lifts the movie from being just plain good to a
profoundly moving experience.  Whale Rider is a tale of the evolution of a
culture, wrapped in humor and hope.   It is a story of an indomitable
spirit.  It is a movie about love and change, about the grim realities of
life and the marvelous miracles of faith.  If you have a chance to see this
film, do not miss it!
<|_=00=_|>

If you have lost your belief in magic, perhaps this is a tale you need to
hear about a film you need to see. It is the story of a thirteen-year-old
girl, a class clown, a show-off. When strangers invaded her classroom one
day, she continued to do what she was used to doing, playing the fool,
thus
attracting the strangers' attention.

The strangers cast her as the lead in a film. Though it looked like a
small
film to begin with, it turned out to be an international blockbuster. Then
one day, she read in the newspaper that she had been nominated for the
most
prestigious acting award in the entire world. Her first acting performance
had catapulted her from obscurity to the winner's circle, in competition
with Diane Keaton, Samantha Morton, Charlize Theron and Naomi Watts for
Best
Actress in a Leading Role.

Keisha Castle-Hughes is the youngest person ever to be nominated for best
actress by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. Anna Paquin,
discovered by the same casting agent, won an Oscar in 1993 for The Piano,
but that was for Best Actress in a Supporting Role. Yet she was not the
youngest. In 1973, Tatem O'Neal won for Paper Moon at the ripe old age of
ten.

So, we have established that fairy tales can still come true, but not
without the proper vehicle, and I do not mean a pumpkin drawn by white
mice.
The vehicle in this instance is a very carefully designed and orchestrated
film. And where do great films start? With the writer(s), of
course.

Another fairy tale? Witi Ihimaera is the first Maori writer ever to have
published both a book of short stories and a novel. He says he was sitting
in his New York home one day overlooking the Hudson River when he saw a
whale breach the waterline. A whale in the Hudson River? Mr. Ihimaera took
it as a sign.

Inspired by stories of ancient tradition that streamed into his mind, over
the next three weeks, Mr. Ihimaera wrote The Whale Rider. It is this one
work of his that the Maori community accepts as being most representative
of
their culture, and the novel that became the backbone for the screenplay
for
the film Whale Rider (co-written by Witi Ihimaera and director Niki
Caro).

Maori legend tells of a great man, Paikea, who came many ages ago riding o
n
the back of a whale and landed on the shores of a new world. He left word
that someday another great whale rider would be born to lead the Maori
people.

The film begins with a scene in a hospital of a young woman giving birth
to
twins. The boy is stillborn. With her last breath, she whispers to her
husband, `Paikea, Paikea.' The remaining girl child is blessed with that
name as the mother dies.

Paikea's father, Porourangi (Cliff Curtis), crushed by the loss of his
wife,
departs his homeland, leaving Paikea in the caring hands of his parents,
Koro and Nanny Flowers. `Pai' grows and becomes strong in the teachings of
her people, yet she hears an inner voice as well.

Koro, her grandfather, is the chief of his people. When he sees that his
son
will not return, he begins to train the local boys in the ways of
leadership. Pai believes that she could become the leader of her people,
but
her grandfather, though he loves her, rejects her.

Pai cannot be daunted; she is tougher than any of the boys. She hides
around
corners and eavesdrops as the boys are trained, learning the lessons,
dance,
movements and traditional ceremonies of her people.

Once he feels they are ready, Koro takes the boys out in a boat on the
ocean
and here he removes the carved whale's tooth, symbol of the chief, from
around his neck, tossing it into the water. Though they try, none of the
boys is able to retrieve it.

Here, the film takes a turn, one that is somewhat unexpected, and one that
sets this film apart from the run of the mill. As part of a school
pageant,
Pai has written a work in honor of her people and has asked her
grandfather
to attend. It is this performance of the young woman that tests her skills
as an actress, and is certainly one of the most touching moments in the
film.

The rest of the film does not hinge so much on whether Pai's grandfather
attends her performance or not. Something else occurs. Seven whales have
beached themselves on the shore. Paikea has called the whales and they
have
responded to her call. As the people of the village struggle to help the
whales return to the ocean before they die, Koro's other son shows him the
carved whale's tooth.

`Which of the boys got it?' Koro asks. His son tells him it wasn't one of
the boys. `It was she,' he says, pointing to Paikea, now sitting on the
back
of the biggest of the whales.

There is a very big difference in a film made for twelve-year-old girls
and
a film about a twelve-year-old girl, especially one on the threshold of
womanhood. This is a film about traditions, about beliefs, about growing
up,
about magic, and about love.

Director Niki Caro transcends ordinary film making with Whale Rider. The
film played to standing ovations at both the Toronto and Sundance film
festivals, and with good reason. It is not a film that tells us anything
is
possible. It shows us. It does not sink into despair over the disappearing
way of life of the Maori people. It shows us that any group of people, any
tribe or village, any nation, can survive and even prosper if we rely on
what we feel in our hearts.


<|_=00=_|>

"Whale Rider" can accurately be called an art film, but it's also one that
will appeal to mainstream audiences. That's because it has a strong story
that deals with universal themes like family, tradition, childhood and
rebellion. The story is unique and unpredictable but also comfortingly
familiar. 

The main character is a young girl named Pai (Keisha Castle-Hughes) who is
the grand-daughter of the chief of a Maori tribe in New Zealand. Her twin
brother, who was to be the future chief, died along with the mother in
childbirth. Grief-stricken, her father (Cliff Curtis) fled, leaving Pai as
the only family descendant, but of course she can't be chief because she's a
girl. That doesn't stop her from trying, though. 

Her grandfather (Rawiri Paratene), a stern, traditionalist chief, loves Pai
dearly, but refuses to mess with tradition by even attempting to train her
to be the chief of the tribe, even though she truly believes she is meant to
be chief. He begins to train first-born male sons of other tribesmen, but
Pai eavesdrops, soaking up all the knowledge she can. 

The first 2/3 of the movie is excellently done but fairly familiar. Pai is a
terrific and instantly sympathetic character and we feel for her in her
struggle to assert herself in the face of a sexist tradition without losing
the love of her stern grandfather. Then, in the last third, when the whales
actually come into play, the story enters territory that is thrillingly
unpredictable and incredibly powerful. 

The ending, in particular, has quite an emotional punch.

It also bears mentioning that Keisha Castle-Hughes is one of the best child
actors I've seen in years; she will get some tears from you, guaranteed.

This is a great movie for kids, but it's not a "kid's movie". It's moving,
beautifully filmed, and inspirational without being the slightest bit
cheesy. It's worth seeking out even if you don't follow the art-house
circuit.
<|_=00=_|>

While 1994's "Once Were Warriors" was a violent look at Maori culture this
is easily more upbeat and lyrical. Story starts out in a hospital where a
mother has just given birth to twins and the male twin dies as does the
mother. The remaining twin is a girl and the film is about her and how she
thinks and wants to be the future leader of her village. The film is set in
modern day and we see the girl Pai (Keisha Castle-Hughes) as a 12 year old
who knows that her twin brother that died was suppose to be the future
chief. Pai's father is Porourangi (Cliff Curtis) and he's an artist who has
left the village for a career and Pai is raised by her grandparents Koro and
Nanny (Rawiri Paratene and Vicky Haughton) and she craves the respect from
Koro but he is of the old ways and is still searching for a new chief. She
wants to learn the ways of being chief but Koro yells at her not to fool
with the sacred ways of their people. Women are treated as second class but
Pai eavesdrops on Koro's classes with the young boys and learns the ways.
The film is directed by Niki Caro and its only her third film but this
should definitely put her on everyones list as a great future director. The
film is beautiful to look at and even though its not a big budget movie the
story and images make this an unforgettable viewing experience. Caro does a
wonderful job of allowing the story to tell itself without relying on plot
contrivances. Even though the story is more of a fable it still comes across
as relevant and believable. One scene in particular stands out and its the
one where Pai is receiving an award at school and she has invited Koro to
watch her but instead of him making the obligatory entrance, Koro has
discovered something more important. The performances are superb and
Castle-Hughes gives I think one of the best performances of the year. What
makes it so amazing is that its her film debut! You would think that you
were watching a seasoned actress but your not! She's incredible to look at
and in some scenes she comes across as so strong willed but then in other
shots she's just a fun loving young girl. Castle-Hughes conveys both sorrow
and pity as she dreams of being a chief. A remarkable performance that was
crucial to the film. Without her performance the film would come across as
more distant emotionally. The images of Castle-Hughes on the back of the
whale as it submerges are so haunting and beautiful and its these scenes
that give it a lyrical quality and the emotional impact of the story is
impossible to ignore. This is more than just a film its a viewing experience
that everyone must see! Beautiful, haunting and a performance that you will
never forget. Go see it! 
<|_=00=_|>

Slow pace but never boring. Small girl 'Paikea' touches your heart with her
quiet strength and determination. Time and again, she faces prejudice from
her grandfather whom she never gives up loving. Her grandpa loves her too,
but tradition and the single-mindedness that Paikea will never be the leader
of their tribe forces him to refrain from showing his true emotions towards
his only granddaughter. But young Paikea never gives up; she respects
grandpa's decision and masks her desire to become the whale rider of her
tribe. 

The remarkably beautiful and serene scenery of New Zealand complements the
eventual inner peace that Paikea achieves. To save the whales their tribe
loves so much, she shows remarkable calmness in guiding the whales back into
sea despite death staring her straight in the face. 

An inspiring and well-executed film. 
<|_=00=_|>

I don't use the word "masterpiece" often when reviewing a film but for
"Whale Rider," it's an inadequate accolade. This is one of the most
moving,
beautiful and powerful films I have seen in years.

Screenplay author and director Niki Caro faithfully translated Witi
Ihimaera's novel of the same name, a poignant and sometimes sad but
ultimately uplifting story of New Zealand Maoris seeking, with the
leadership of a difficult, stubborn and often harsh elder to sustain their
peoples' values and customs.

Australia and New Zealand are both encountering, in politics and in
culture
(and often the two are inextricably linked), their shared heritage of
white
oppression of native peoples. Much of this history is unknown to Americans
and Europeans who view Australia through a bird's eye picture of the
Sydney
Opera House and New Zealand with even fewer associational
icons.

Recently, "Rabbitproof Fence" painfully depicted the policy of Australia
to
force lighter skin aborigines into "schools" where they would be nurtured
to
become "semi-whites" and then married to those of similar skin tone. The
object was to bleach the blackness out of Australia and the horrors of
this
incarnation of cultural and anthropological genocide are on full display
in
that film.

"Whale Rider" takes a different and, in the end, perhaps a more powerful
approach. There are virtually no whites in the film and only children's
t-shirts and some music blasting from a boombox suggests the encroaching
force of the controlling majority.

The cast is unknown to Americans and their names can be found on the IMDb
homepage for the film. The lead actress, however, must be named. In the
role
of "Pai," a young girl whose mother dies at her birth along with her twin
brother, is the extraordinary Keisha Castle-Hughes. She imbues every scene
with a commanding and inviting vitality. Hers is an Academy Award (and any
other major award) performance.

Pai's father left New Zealand for Europe, there to create and sell Maori
crafts. She lives with her grandmother and grandfather, the latter some
sort
of unelected chieftain of the oceanside community. Bitter that no male
heir
will succeed him and alternately cruel and loving to his reluctantly
acknowledged granddaughter, Koro starts a school to supplement the young
boys' secular education with inculcation of the ways of the Maori. Pai
wishes to join as an equal and is firmly, indeed harshly rebuffed at every
turn.

If the Maori language has the phrase "You go, girl!," then it be directed
towards the indefatigable but not arrogant Pai. It would have been easy to
make her the kind of thoughtless rebel that nature often programs
teenagers
to be. The depth of her character resides in her simultaneous quest for
equality and her understanding of her grandfather's unyielding attachment
to
patriarchal values. Pai's close relationship with her grandmother, a woman
living a life universally recognizable to Americans, provides warmth and
support and do some of her other relationships.

The story unfolds seamlessly with Maori music and rituals bridging the
spoken dialogue (mostly in English, some in Maori with
subtitles).

Partly a straight tale, partly a gripping mystical fable, "Whale Rider"
never becomes saccharine.

The music and Maori songs complement but do not compete with the dialogue,
a
welcome change from many movies today. The land and the ocean are rawly
gorgeous.

As in Australia, relations today between New Zealand's indigenous people
and
the descendants of their vanquishers are sometimes tense. There are open
wounds from continuing political collisions over land and culture. The
Maoris are not a monolith and internal dissension is active. Serious
attempts to sustain Maori values and culture in the face of assimilative
pressures meet with varied degrees of success (in Koro's Maori school the
kids wear t-shirts with rock themes and one has a shirt advertising an
upstate New York resort area if I saw correctly). New Zealand's most
internationally renowned Maori is the opera diva Kiri te Kanawa who is now
dedicated to Maori cultural restoration projects. "Whale Rider" can only
give a boost to such efforts which, as this film shows, makes not only New
Zealand but the world richer.

This is a film I will acquire on DVD as soon as it is available.

10/10.
