

Katie Holmes is well-cast as an intellectual college student in this
intellectual thriller, a strange bird of a movie to sit alongside the
current batch of "teen" horror films (did you know that in this one the
students actually - gasp!- study?). Admittedly it moves at a measured pace
(some would say "like molasses"), and doesn't really take off until the last
2 minutes or so (!), when it presents a final twist which I, for one, did
not see coming, and which saves the entire picture. All through the film you
get the feeling they have something to show you at the end, and indeed they
do, but perhaps they shouldn't have waited so long to get there. Excellent
score and cinematography.    (**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>


B-

I was a little hard on this film when I initially reviewed it upon its
release. After watching it on DVD again I realized that there is a very
clever and beautiful story to be told but problems in the script prevent
it
from truly taking off. The performances, cinematography, and music are
all
great but it just can't seem to find a solid direction.

A film's trailer is a gateway to success and sometimes failure. In the
case
of Abandon, it proved to be the latter. The film was marketed as a
non-stop
psychological thriller but to be honest the thrills are few and far
between.
Abandon is more a character study with the atmosphere of a thriller. The
film's main priority is to tell a story and I think audiences were really
disappointed when they saw a movie that was short on thrills. That could
explain its not so great $10 million dollar box office gross.

Abandon is about a beautiful young girl named Katie Burke (Katie Holmes)
who
is nearing her graduation from a very prestigious school. She has a nice
future ahead of her, including a potential job at a top New York firm.
However, things begin to unravel when Katie's past comes back to haunt
her.
A police detective, by the name of Wade Handler (Benjamin Bratt), is
investigating the disappearance of Embry Langan (Charlie Hunnam), Katie's
wealthy and sometimes eccentric ex-boyfriend. Embry has not been seen or
heard from in 2 years, and the lawyers for his estate want to know
whether
he's alive or dead. When the detective begins to bring up several events
from the past, Katie begins to see Embry around campus and other various
locations. Has Embry come back for love or revenge?

Abandon has a lot of positives but a thriller it certainly is not.
Abandon
falters when it tries, at great lengths, to scare and surprise its
audience.
Stephen Gaghan, who won an Oscar for writing Traffic and is directing for
the first time with this film, can't seem to properly direct scenes that
are
suppose to keep us on the edge of our seats. However, He does a good job
of
making us wonder if Embry is really back or if Katie is seeing things.
Most
of his encounters come about when she's half asleep or frustrated and the
possibility of these two different outcomes are one of the scripts
strengths. Another  scene that  resonates  involves a truly alarming
surprise for our main character when she's alone in the library. Other
than
that, all the thrills are by the book or non-existent.

Abandon's biggest strength is what isn't shown in the trailers. First and
foremost this film works as a very deep character study. As a character,
Katie is very interesting and her past experiences with men (including
her
father) who have left her plays an important part into the mysterious
disappearance of Embry. The character is well developed and several
scenes
give us great insight into her inner struggles. We learn about her
relationship with Embry through beautifully filmed flashbacks that are
probably the best aspects of this picture. The flashbacks are backed by a
very moody score and a sense of realism that make for really good scenes.
We learn through these sequences that Embry and Katie were a very happy
couple, with a possibly nice future ahead of them. When the film switches
back to real-time we realize why his disappearance has hurt her so much.
There is also an interesting tidbit about how she attracts men and
doesn't
even realize it. This part of the story establishes many key points in
the
plot that I simply can't reveal here. Needless to say Katie's development
as
a character is far more interesting than the thrills, or lack thereof,
that
are present in this film. More emphasis should've been placed on the
characters and not on what might scare us.

I must give major kudos to Katie Holmes for conveying all the emotions
necessary to establish Katie Burke as a very interesting character. Katie
Holmes proves that she can carry a film all on her own. Holmes usually
turns
in adequate performances in supporting roles such as in Wonder Boys and
The
Gift. In this film everything is on her shoulders and she comes out of it
on
top. A crucial scene during her job interview for the law firm is not
just a
statement of power for the character, but for Katie Holmes as well. The
scene shows us that Katie Holmes is ready to play a WOMAN and is prepared
to
leave the fickle role of Dawson's Creek's Joey Potter behind. She carries
herself so well during this film it makes you wonder what she can really
do
in a movie that has a better focus. Another asset that Katie brings to
the
role is a nice mix of naivety and sex appeal. Katie Holmes has a look of
pure innocence but she carries herself with a sex appeal beyond her
years.
This works for the character during several key scenes. After Dawson
Creek
comes to an end this year Katie will be one of the few to have a
flourishing
movie career once the Creek dries up. The cast members should get in
touch
with her agent.

> Benjamin Bratt is stuck in a thankless supporting role that isn't much
of a
challenge for the actor. This is essentially the same part he played on
Law
& Order and in Miss Congeniality. I heard that he displayed a great deal
of
range in the critically acclaimed Pinero so maybe he should focus more on
leading roles instead of throwaway supporting roles.  I will say that I
did
buy the relationship between he and Katie that developed during the film.
Some critics found it unbelievable but for this story I felt that it
worked
on a certain level.

Charlie Hunnam has a very difficult task of making Embry an interesting
character. Since Embry is only shown through flashbacks and his few
"return"
encounters with Katie it must've been really hard for him convey the
emotions necessary to make Embry the eccentric character that everyone
describes him as. Hunnam is quite adequate in his few scenes. He does a
good
job of making Embry into a very spoiled and eccentric personality but
there
is something about this that hurts his character development. Half the
flashbacks show him as a pampas asshole. The entire time they were trying
to
figure out if Embry just left town or if he was dead I really could care
less. When a character is mostly unlikable it's very hard to care about
what
dastardly deed was committed against them.

Supporting performances from Gabrielle Union, and particularly Zooey
Deschanel are quite good. Deschanel provides the film with much needed
comic
relief. When the film begins to lag she brings it back up with a very
sharp
delivery of some funny lines.

I guess the most disappointing thing about this film is that Stephen
Gaghan's directorial debut is flawed, mainly because of his very own
direction. There is a more compelling story to be told here and I think
if
he would've explored it more this film could've been much better. His
script
lays down the foundation for some great ideas but his direction doesn't
allow them to shine through. He did some great work with the complex
Traffic
screenplay, creating interesting characters and interesting circumstances
for them to fall back on. This is what makes this muddled effort a minor
letdown. While watching a making of feature on the DVD I learned that he
had
never even picked up a camera to record anything as he was growing up.
Maybe
some more experience could've helped him as he was making this
picture.

Technically the film is almost a masterpiece. The cinematography paints a
very moody and effective atmosphere for the film. The cinematographer
also
did work on Requiem for a Dream and some of the brilliant work he did on
that film is evident here. The use of beautifully lit backgrounds and
scenery paint a perfect portrait for the flashback scenes and his use of
dark blues and muddy greens provide set the mood for the darker themes of
the story. For instance, there is a scene where Katie first sees Embry's
return in a room that consists of a strobe light. The scene is so well
done
that it's one of the scenes that generates any tension. It's a scene that
proves that atmosphere is key.  The music, which was composed by another
Requiem for a Dream team member, is also great. The score supplies a
unique
voice for the main character and almost serves as a way to get into her
mind. There is a scene where Katie ventures back to Embry's country house
for the first time since his disappearance and the scores soft yet moody
use
of the piano during this scene is enough to convey the emotions that the
character is feeling.

I also was a bit hard on the film's ending when I first reviewed it but
upon
second viewing I think it actually works. It is a bit cliché but the
acting
throughout this sequence makes it bearable.

I recommend Abandon only if you're willing to accept the film for what it
is: a character study that is light on the thrills. If you're going in
expecting something that's going to keep you glued to your seat in fear
then
you may be disappointed.

B-

<|_=00=_|>

Caught this on cable last night and I liked it. I thought Katie Holmes
did extremely well with a very tricky role, and I thought there were a
lot of well written exchanges between the characters, excellent
atmospheric touches, and enough psychological ambiguity to allow me to
figure out what was really going on before the ending, but this didn't
make the film predictable - it made it clever. And the title is a good
one - extremely telling, a clue in itself. Of course, it's not a
perfect film by any stretch; there's too much stuff that really doesn't
need to be in the movie but I still give it a 6 (my IMDb equivalent of
*** - a decent premise, decently executed).

<|_=00=_|>

I went with my younger sister for the sole purpose to see the lovely
Katie
Holmes.  I didn't expect much.  But trash, the movie was not.  I was very
impressed with the story, the acting, the Hitchcock-like suspense, and
the
turn that occurred at the end.  My favorite part was the library scene
with
the eyes behind the bookshelf.  A big stepping-stone for Katie Holmes,
who I
think will continue to get starring roles and turn into a Natalie Wood
like
star.  She is both beautiful and a good actress.  This film is definitely
a
renter, and should have been better accepted when it was released,
critic-wise and box office-wise.  *** out of ****.  Watch it and
enjoy.
<|_=00=_|>

I wasn't sure what to think of this film during the first hour.  I thought
it was unfocused and a bit confusing at first.  But sit through this one,
once you get to the end, you will see there is a reason for the unfocused
quality of the film.  I will not say anymore about the story than that.
Katie Holmes is fantastic in this film, I will watch her movie career with
interest.  Her acting is somewhat reminiscent of Ashley Judd, but not
completely.  It may seem to some people that this film is slowly paced,
but
stick with it.  It's worth it.  8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Upwardly mobile Katie Holmes (as Katie Burke) tries to concentrate on
her college thesis while thinking about a career after graduation.
Understandably a little stressed, Ms. Holmes has occasional flashbacks
about beautiful blond ex-boyfriend Charlie Hunnam (as Embry Larkin). A
rich bohemian artist-type, the charismatic Mr. Hunnam disappeared two
years ago. Holmes has had no steady lover since then, although
tree-hugging Gabriel Mann (as Harrison "Harry" Hobart) shows interest.
Meanwhile, recovering alcoholic detective Benjamin Bratt (as Wade
Handler) is assigned to investigate Hunnam's mysterious disappearance
as Holmes is frightened by a stalker who looks just like him...

Multi award-winning writer turning director Stephen Gaghan gets good,
steady cinematography from Matthew Libatique. However, the positioning
of actors and set direction is sometimes obvious and distracting.
Holmes has the messiest imaginable room but likes to straighten Bratt's
pictures. Matches her psyche. Getting Holmes crotch-level with
therapist Tony Goldwyn (as David Schaffer) matches the script. So,
there is cohesion. However, you care more about what happened to poor
"Harrison" than the lead characters, who come together for the
predictable surprise ending. There is life-sustaining support from
friendly Zooey Deschanel, mousy Melanie Lynskey and clean-cut Mark
Feuerstein.

***** Abandon (3/1/02) Stephen Gaghan ~ Katie Holmes, Benjamin Bratt,
Charlie Hunnam, Gabriel Mann
<|_=00=_|>

Abandon is a very average movie.  It's nothing that's going to blow the
viewer away, but it's not a terrible movie either.  Katie Holmes does a good
job playing Katie Burke a student nearing the end of college, trying to get
her thesis done and land a good job.  The movie focuses on the investigation
by Wade Handler (Bratt) into the disappearance of Katie's boyfriend two
years earlier.  Although the film had some good twists and wasn't really
predictable, most of the characters other than Katie Burke came off as kind
of flat and boring.  Embry Larkin played by Charlie Hunnam as Katie's
ex-boyfriend was made out to be a wonderful, highly talented genius, but he
didn't seem anything special to me.  I didn't think Wade Handler, the police
officer investigating the disappearance, came across as an very interesting
character either.  Overall, I'd say that this is an all right movie, but I'd
only watch it if nothing else better was available.
<|_=00=_|>
"Abandon" plays out like a B-movie, but a very good one at that. It's
not as polished as most Hollywood fare; it's gritty and dark, and I
think this does the film a huge service (thought I was gonna say
'disservice' didn't you). 'Abandon' is at moments chilling and this is
thanks in large part to Holmes performance. Katie has always had
potential but it wasn't until just before she went cuckoo for Tom
Cruise that she actually began to tap into it. The rest of the cast
does a fine job as well. Benjamin Bratt does his best to stand out but
doesn't fare so well. His scenes are smothered with Katie's commanding
presence. Zooey Daschanel is funny and witty as Katie's friend Samantha
and the beautiful Gabriel Union delivers as Amanda (although I really
wish she had more screen time). The ending was great and left you in a
state where you knew that there had to be a sequel.

Stephen Gaghan's script is tightly woven and, while not exactly mind
blowing and or original it manages to strike fresh blood; creeping us
out as well as making us think. The only problem with "Abandon" is how
it is a little slow at the beginning, and the scene when they are drunk
or high at a party, I felt that that scene was a little too much. The
film follows a very dark and ominous tone, everything done in dark
color schemes, voice's low and images grainy, and that adds to the
mystery bound to be unlocked. So, all in all, if you don't mind that
the story develops very slowly, and that some things don't add up, then
you might like this film! 

Overall rating: 7 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>
Warning, this review reveals the outcome. Please do not read it if you
have not seen this movie. This film is much better than the reviews
indicate but one has to deal with a subtle conclusion. We seem to have
trouble with ambiguity in film narratives. Further, the point-of-view
at the end of the film is like that of a modernist novel. I appreciate
criticisms of "Abandon" but I think it deserves to be what it is.

"Abandon" never lacks focus. If you follow closely, you read a coherent
narrative. Katie Holmes' performance is the core of the narrative but
fine production qualities, direction, and attention to details are also
important. There are lapses, perhaps, though I will have to watch it
again to know this. This is a quick review. The film deserves
better.The clue is to hide as the victim even if you are not.
<|_=00=_|>

The surprise ending and the amazing supporting cast could not save this
movie. For starters, the movie was promoted as a Katie Holmes thriller. The
movie does have several moments of thrilling, on the edge of your seat
moments with terrific direction to make the movie a good (almost horror
like) movie. Still, the movie drags ans drags and drags that you don't care
what happens to any of the characters or whether or not the mystery is
solved. 
Katie Holmes tries, but fails to carry the movie. Even though with strong
supporting roles from Fred Ward and Benjamin Bratt, Katie Holme's eye candy
only goes so far until you begin to lose interest.
The love scene between Bratt and Holmes was not only sad but not believable.
The thirteen year old age difference could have had something to do with
that. Also, you don't see much during the love scene accept for some close
ups and the post-sex scene. 
The transitions between scenes do nothing to keep the audience drawn in to
the film's conclusion. With that, nobody is left to see the end of the film
because they have fallen asleep somewhere in the middle.
