

Liu Jian (aka "Johnny") is a top level cop from Bejing on
temporary assignment in Paris to aid French police in a sting
operation to take down a Chinese heroine kingpin. But things go
bad and a double-cross ensues, leaving Liu Jian framed for
murder and running for his life. One is thing certain, though, our
hero won't be taken without a fight... a really good fight... and a few
more after that.
Luc Besson's screenplay isn't exactly creative, but given the
genre, it's pretty darn good. I know I sure sighed with relief that Liu
Jian (played with subtle excellence by Jet Li) wasn't driven by
some emotionally haunting past, like the death of a wife and child,
as is so typical in super-cop action films. In fact, we get just the
opposite--a man who simply loves his job and does it very well,
but is still human enough to make mistakes, feel pain and make
realistic choices (well, mostly).

The story isn't without its flaws, however. Mindless thugs do
play their part and there is an utterance of the most over-used
villain line of all time: "Bring him to me alive; I'll deal with him
myself" (or something to that affect). But somehow, it doesn't
sound quite so corny coming from actor Tcheky Karyo (as
Inspector Jean-Pierre Richard), who manages to play the
heartless villain with a great deal of intelligence. Rounding out the
cast is Bridget Fonda's Jessica, the prostitute with a good heart
and, yes, a young daughter in jeopardy. But despite its few
formulaic shortcomings, Kiss of the Dragon still delivers.

What really stands out in this film is the way the fight
sequences flow with the rest of the story, unlike so many other
movies that seem to be constructed around a few preconceived
action scenes. It's a martial arts action film done right. Thanks to
the superb direction of Chris Nahon, Kiss of the Dragon is classy,
well paced and gives us a near perfect blend of drama and levity
(no ridiculous one-liners here, but definitely some laughs along
the way). Best of all, Nahon engages the audience and makes the
story work to a reasonable level of believability.

<|_=00=_|>
I expect most of these Hong Kong martial-arts films to be packed with
action but most feature either a little humor (Jackie Chan) or
beautiful scenery ("Hero," etc.) or wild special effects ("Crouching
Tiger, Hidden Dragon" and more).....but this one features a mean edge.
I'm not used to seeing these Asian films with a lot of profanity
(mainly f-words) or bloody scenes almost to the point of being gross,
which one scene was in here.

The hero is likable guy played by Jet Li. Despite his martial arts
penchant for violence, he has a soft, boyish look to him and doesn't
seem to fit the type. He's always the gentleman in here, with no
profanity either. The villains, led by Tchecky Karyo, are brutal.
Bridget Fonda, playing a hooker, at least wasn't some "Pretty Woman"
type figure. She was rough, too, but at least realistic and I give her
credit for not worrying about how she looked in here, beauty-wise.

I don't regret seeing this film. It was entertaining, but beware: it's
a rough movie.
<|_=00=_|>

This is definitely Jet Li's best action movie since he came over from Hong
Kong. Some scenes reminiscent of Fist of Legend in this one. Quite well
choreographed fight scenes with good realistic violence a la Bruce Lee. The
plot is rather formulaic, as is much of the dialogue (I expected better
from
Besson), but the movie has a bit of the 'Nikita' flair (guys going crazy
with fully automatic weapons in public places). A bit too much talking and
not enough fighting, but far superior to 'Romeo Must Die'. The use of no
wires is also a very nice touch. Best action movie of this summer so far.
(8/10)
<|_=00=_|>

The action scenes in "Kiss of the Dragon" are outstanding. The skill of the
players, and their direction is nonpareil. One doesn't see any of the little
scenes where two or three fighters are jumping up and down waiting for their
cues. Pay attention to the fight scene in the police training room. I think
its the best I've seen. A trademark of Jet Li films seems to be a display of
the highest quality martial arts. His skills, and those of his antagonists,
provide detailed and polished confrontations that are simply thrilling. And
I love those needles!

The pace of the film is excellent too. The action just keeps coming.  There
is just enough talking and character interaction to keep the plot alive and
well. Bridget Fonda manages well in a role I think was not really designed
for her. She is one of those actors who always finds her character and makes
it work. 

The film is violent, to be sure. And the bad guys are the worst. Their
blatant, public methods are almost too much to believe. Still, the pace of
the action leaves one little time to ponder details. One element I wish the
director had left out is Jet Li dodging about a thousand rounds of full auto
gunfire. Everyone seems compelled to shoot such scenes, but two guns raking
rounds across the hotel lobby could not possibly miss. It is virtually
enfilade fire, and no one could get through that. Otherwise, the firearms
action was believable and thrilling to watch. 

Even the music, though not my style, seems to work well with the action. The
director puts it all together in a wild ride I can recommend to any action
film fan.  
<|_=00=_|>

Kiss of the Dragon is a hyperactive martial arts movie with a heavy
European feel. After Jet Li's fans were left disappointed with the
fake, CGI-enhanced fighting in Romeo Must Die he decided to go back to
practical, hand-to-hand combat with literally no strings attached. KOTD
is the perfect excuse for action, with minimal plot and impossible
odds.

Basically, Jet Li plays a Chinese cop Lui Jian who travels to Paris to
help the police bring a crime boss to justice. But the French police
just happen to be heavily, heavily corrupt and kill Mr. Big, framing
Lui Jian in the process. 

Keen to stay alive, Lui Jian flees the scene, but not before screaming,
mad and completely hat stand police inspector Richard (Tcheky Caryo in
his typically delirious role) sends just about every hardened police
psycho after him. Outrageously outnumbered, Lui Jian prevails and
fights his way through swarms and swarms of thugs out for his blood.
Using only his hands and feet (and any useful nearby tool) he manages
to wipe them all out.

Far-fetched it may be, but action choreographer Cory Yuen shoots it all
in the most realistic and stylish way. You really will believe Lui Jian
is capable of such an impossible feat, that's how realistic the action
is. And all without glamorising guns.

KOTD uses the rule of increasingly mad set-pieces. The first desperate
escape through the corridors and passageways of the hotel, the
death-defying escape from the Seine Barge and through the tunnels and
sewers, the orphanage confrontation and (especially) the final scene in
the police station where Lui Jian takes on a dojo full of martial
artist police officers, evil twins and finally Inspector Richard. It's
all breathtaking stuff and very, very violent. With far too many
sanitised PG-13 minded 'action' movies abundant these days KOTD is a
breath of hardcore fresh air.

If you like this then I suggest checking out The Transporter. It may be
slightly tamer but it's made by the same people (producer Luc Besson,
Writer Robert Mark Kamen and Cory Yuen) and is also set in France, only
with a warmer, more exotic look.

The DVD is in 2.35:1 anamorphic widescreen with a great Dolby 5.1
soundtrack. There are some extras and a commentary if you're into that
sort of thing.

<|_=00=_|>

I was hoping this movie to be better than 'Romeo Must Die' and I was not
disappointed. I truly believe this is Jet Li's English coming out movie
(too
bad it was released in the summer when other bigger movies come
out).

I did not go to see the movie for the story line and those who don't won't
be disappointed either. The action was great especially the final scenes.
Bridget Fonda did not do much (found her irritating in some scenes) but
then
again, did not watch the movie because she was there.

Believable, maybe not ... Jet Li as the new Bruce Lee, most
definitely!

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

KISS OF THE DRAGON 
/ (2001) *** (out of four) 

By Blake French:

	I admire "Kiss of the Dragon" because it's a wake-up call to the
increasingly desperate genre of martial arts action movies. After disasters
like "Romeo Must Die" and any recent Jackie Chan production, my expectations
for "Kiss of the Dragon" were not exactly sky high. It seems as if every
movie like this replaces a story and characters with silly special effects
and high-tech action sequences involving martial arts fighting. Here, there
are solid, visible characters and an involving story. That's a real
accomplishment these days.

	Jet Li starred in 25 successful Asian films before making his debut in
America as the villain in the lackluster "Lethal Weapon 4." His last film,
"Romeo Must Die," was a pitiful action extravaganza that borrowed elements
from Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet." Before this film, I could not stand
this martial artist turned actor. Here, he makes a strong name for himself.
He co-produces the film, stars in it, and created the original story.
According the production notes, Li initially envisioned a dramatic film that
combined his trademark martial arts and action heroics with strong,
recognizable characters.  

	"I wasn't interested in making a movie about a big action hero who saves
the day," explains Li. "My character, Liu Jiuan, is one of China's best
agents, with tremendous abilities in martial arts and acupuncture. He's
determined and driven. But he's not a superman; he's human. When his mission
goes wrong, Liu initially doesn't know how to handle things."

	Liu Jiuan is the most skilled law enforcer in China brought to Paris on a
top secret mission where he must assist an unorthodox police official named
Richard (Tcheky Karyo) in dealings involving some off the record drug
traffic. His mission goes awry and he quickly learns that Richard, who
seemingly has a limitless supply of henchmen, is the villainous mastermind
behind most of the crime in France. 
Liu becomes trapped in a dangerous conspiracy-Richard frames him for a
murder he tried to stop. Liu also becomes involved with a local American
woman named Jessica (Bridget Fonda), who was forced into prostitution when
Richard kidnapped her child. 

The story feels real, instead of a clothesline for countless gratuitous
action sequences. There are plenty of action sequences, however, and the
fighting does not involve wires, phony stunts, or computer generated effects
like in "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon," and "The Matrix." The fights are
grounded and real. "We went back to the basics," explains Jet Li, "keeping
the fighting simple and based more in reality." Liu's principle fighting
weapons are not guns or swords, but acupuncture needles, which play an
important role in the mysterious "kiss of the dragon" revealed at the
movie's climax. 

"Kiss of the Dragon" is directed by French commercial director Chris Nohan
in his feature film debut. He does a good job of involving the audience in
the action, and distracting us from some of the film's weaknesses. But no
director could conceal some of the bad writing, terrible dialogue,
unanswered questions, plausible motives, and stereotypical character traits.
"Kiss of the Dragon" is not a great movie, but for Jet Li, this is good
stuff nonetheless.  

<|_=00=_|>

‘Kiss of the Dragon' might be just another ‘action/martial arts' movie that
is sitting on the shelf of your local video store. However once you start to
watch it, you will realise that like some of its characters, it is a movie
that is very deceptive and will leave you breathless. With the screenplay
based on the story written by star Jet Li himself, this film has moments
that no-one could ever comprehend seeing. While Li might be criticised for
being ‘one dimensional' in his movie roles, it has to be said that he is one
of the best martial arts actors going around at the present
time.

Liu, a Chinese intelligence officer, goes to Paris on assignment and becomes
embroiled in a deadly conspiracy. When the man he has come to help betrays
him, he is forced on the run, accused of a murder he didn't commit. He teams
up with Jessica, an American woman forced into prostitution against her
will, who wants to escape and seek justice. As Jessica and Liu go up against
cunning and ruthless adversaries, Liu makes a promise to Jessica that could
compromise his career, even his life.

The star of this film is Liu (Jet Li), who is an expert Chinese cop sent to
stop an international drug conspiracy. He is traveling to the city of Paris
for the first time, making it totally alien to him. Liu carries only a gun
and needles which are rapt around his wrist. These are acupuncture needles,
which he has the skill to use, to help heal his friends or kill his enemies.
The finale action sequence has Liu refer to the title of the film, whereby
the use of a needle technique called ‘Kiss of the Dragon', which is highly
illegal, as it must be, which can disrupt the body's blood flow, making all
the blood travel to the head and then killing the person as it tries to
escape from whatever cavity it can. This scene was astonishing to see being
played out.

The supporting cast in ‘Kiss of the dragon' consists of Jessica (beauty
Bridget Fonda), a girl who is forced to take drugs and be a prostitute by
French Police inspector Richard (Tcheky Karyo). You do not refuse Richard,
as the consequences could be fatal. He has many henchmen that are on the
lookout for ‘John' (Liu), as he has the evidence that could destroy Richard.
Along the way Jessica meets up with Liu and they help each other out of
sticky situations that have arisen. I enjoy the role taken on by Fonda a
lot, as her character gives the story its emotion and balance whereby she
helps Liu get around Paris.  

I like how and where this movie was presented. The director shows off Paris
in many ways, such as landmarks like the Eiffel Tower, which is cleverly
incorporated through a fighting sequence. The director Chris Nahon was able
to do this, via producer and screenwriter Luc Besson's help in getting
leading cinematographer Thierry Arbogast, who did some great work. While the
story might be simple on the surface, who can complain when there is such
great action scenes to compensate.

This then leads me into ‘Kiss of the dragon's' action and stunts which are
exhilarating. Li's character has many fighting sequences that you would
believe he has no hope of winning. The start of the film makes uncertain of
what is going to happen, then in the blink of an eye you are presented with
action and stunts that will leave you speechless. The one scene at the start
which shows Liu slamming a billiard ball to kill a villain was unbelievable.
Then the fighting scenes at the shop, boat, office building and orphanage
are full-on, making them intoxicating to the viewers. However one of the
final fighting scenes with Liu taking on a whole class of Black belts is
hilarious, as you know he is going to win. 

‘Kiss of the Dragon' works, because where the story is lacking, the action
and fighting scenes take up the slack. Jet Li has done some good movies,
such as `Lethal Weapon 4' and ‘Romeo Must Die' where he shows off all his
martial art skills. If you have not seen him in either of those films, then
watch them by all means. Finally, I want to mention that I have had many
treatments of acupuncture in 2002 which have helped me immensely. However,
when I have my next treatment of those ‘little needles' I might squirm a
bit, being quick to remember what Liu could do with an acupuncture needle.

CMRS gives ‘Kiss of the Dragon': 4 (Very Good Film)
	


<|_=00=_|>

 Jet Li really packs a punch in this action farce. I believe it's his best
so far...followed by the decent Romeo Must Die and the laughable disaster
The One. Bridget Fonda is astounding in this movie. She is a knockout. The
villain and his henchmen are magnificent. Exciting and thrilling action at
it's finest. 9 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

As part of an international case, Chinese police officer Liu Jian comes
to France to assist his opposite number in a sting operation. However,
Richard turns out to be on the wrong side of the law and frames Liu for
the murder of several key people in the case. Liu goes on the run with
evidence that he didn't commit the crimes, with only the word of an
innocent prostitute to back him up. With even the Chinese embassy
unable to bring Liu in, he is forced to try and expose the corruption
and take the fight to them.

With so many of Jet Li's American movies being pretty messy
disappointments, it was no surprise that I just gave this a miss when
it came out at the cinema and never got round to seeing it on video.
However on television the only thing I am wasting is my own time (not
money) so I gave it a try and was pleasantly surprised to find that,
though not comparable to his best films, Kiss of the Dragon is easily
one of the best films that he has made outside of Hong Kong. The plot
may have been made up by Li and turned to a script by Luc Besson but it
does come off as a bit obvious and overblown. At times the dialogue is
a bit heavy and there are a few moments where the film is a bit talky
for a bit long without any of it coming to a great deal but mostly it
is pretty enjoyable. It is not a great story but there is enough to
engage even if it is pretty poor in some ways – the whole coincidence
around Liu meeting Jessica again was a bit shoddily done but the detail
is not that important in this sort of film.

No, what is important is the quality of the action and here it is a lot
better than his recent films such as Romeo or Cradle. The action scenes
are scattered a bit thin around the film at times but generally they
are enjoyable sequences which are pretty exciting and fluid. The film
is refreshingly free of flying and wiring work, lending the fight
scenes a more realistic (!?) and brutal air. Not only are the fight
scenes good but the mix of the usual action movie 'guns n' running'
stuff is also well handled with some pretty fast scenes.

The cast are pretty good even if the international mix of actors all in
Paris is a bit strange. Li is natural and pretty good – I have always
maintained he is a good actor (or at least a charismatic leading man)
but most American movies have forced him to be silent and posturing to
match the gangbanging story. Here he plays a good character as well as
being given plenty of good fights to show how technically able he is.
Fonda is OK even if she is a strange casting decision for this
character; she does well enough but at times I could have accepted less
of her as she is the reason for a lot of the talky stuff that could
have been scaled back. Karyo just simply hams it up so much that it
would have been possible to actually glaze him at some points near the
end. He is effectively bad and it works but he is on auto-pilot for a
lot of this. The support cast are all OK, although some of Li's
sparring partners are obviously not that good at acting (the white
twins are good examples) but fans of Harry Hill or the Pink Panther
will find much amusement from the minor role given to Burt Kwouk!

Overall this is a good film in its own right but, compared to Li's
other American films so far, this is by far the best. The plot is
pretty run of the mill but still engages but some parts of the film are
a bit too talky for no real reason. The fight scenes are pretty brutal
and are better for not overdosing on wire-fu stuff and my only
complaint about them was that there could have been a few more. Of
course, this doesn't really compare to the best of Li's Hong Kong
material but it is still much better than the rest of his American
stuff and is worth a look for fans of martial arts action.

