

I grew up on Cape Cod. First of all Summer Catch was filmed in North
Carolina not the Cape. One Crazy Summer (John Cusack/Demi Moore) was
filmed
in my hometown on the Cape but I hear the unions make it near impossible
to
film in Massachusetts now. Some of the pictures of fields and buildings
were
really from Chatham however. Much of Summer Catch rings true. Very few
Cape
kids actually have ever played in the Cape League. It is elite baseball.
The
summer on the Cape is full of babes and booze just like the film shows.
The
rich of the rich have summer homes on Cape Cod (like Rand in the film)and
I
was a "lawn boy" just like Freddie Prinz back in the 80s but not good
enough
to make the Cape League baseball. I could relate to this film and enjoyed
it
thoroughly. It brought me back to the parties and warm summer nights on
the
Cape that have a feeling like no where else on Earth. Rent it or catch it
on
HBO like I did. As for Ms Biel I am a fan for life and I hope she has a
great career and maybe comes down to the Cape and parties with us
sometime.
She burns up the screen. I saw Scooby Doo before this film so seeing
Shaggy
catching and Fred pitch it made movie a little funny and I ws waiting for
Scooby to run on field. Final Analysis...Summer Catch is a Grand Slam!!!

<|_=00=_|>
I actually vomited and pooped out the wrong holes while watching this
film. After I awoke from my epileptic seizure caused by the line
uttered by Jessica Beil (Let yourself be great), I found myself
imprisoned in some sort of Russian Gulag. I was beaten and tortured day
and night for two years, but this pain could not compare to that which
I experienced while watching this film. After being released from the
Siberian Prison, doctors told me that I am now slightly retarded, not
from the malnutrition of the forced labor camp, but from (as you may
have guessed) watching Summer Catch. I am married now and my children
were born with flipper fins because my wife and I conceived our
children while watching this movie. I have enrolled them in the
institute for children with mutations caused by "Summer Catch" also
known as ICMCSC. I have started selling bracelets similar to those
created by Lance Armstrong to help fund ICMCSC. They read: "Summer
Catch Ruined My Life". An alternative slogan, that was later rejected,
read: Let Yourself...Summer Catch Sucks. Till my dying day I will never
forgive those who have taken so much from me. I have made peace with my
alcoholic abusive father, I have forgiven that one guy who stole my car
and then ran me over with it, I have even buried the hatchet with my
cousin who actually lit me on fire and then peed on me to put it out,
but since he had so much alcohol in his system, it actually further
engulfed me in flames...but I will always carry the hate for those who
made, starred in, and produced this Godless abomination of a film. Have
a nice day.
<|_=00=_|>

A care free movie about the love of base ball and the opposite sex. Well,
Freddie Prinze is the hot shot pitcher trying to make his mark in life while
mowing lawns. Along comes Jessica Biel and he is head over heels in love. 
Playing base ball and making the big time is his goal, but the super rich
father of the opposite sex has other diabolical plans and doesn't want the
guy who mows the lawn involved with his daughter.  But as happens, love
congers all and Freddie and Jessica are united in the end. Ad nauseum. 
Predictable.  But a lighthearted movie and  worth the time to watch.

<|_=00=_|>

`Summer Catch' gets points for trying hard, but it is saddled with so many
liabilities that it crashes and burns without getting much altitude.  The
script is a mish mash of tired themes.  Small town boy makes good meets boy
from the wrong side of the tracks meets baseball underdog gets big break. 
The film tries to bill itself as another `Bull Durham' but it has none of
the subtlety, comedy or insider perspective of that film.  Mostly this is
just another lightweight Freddie Prinze, Jr. romantic comedy where Jessica
Biel is the catch of the day.

Prinze plays his standard romantic hero role and tries to throw in some
baseball.  He is fair at both but keeps getting outshined by his supporting
cast.  I've never really understood the big sensation over Jessica Biel. 
She shows in this film that her acting is far inferior to her looks.  Biel
and Prinze interact like marble statues, nice to look at but no chemistry
whatever.

The best performances were given by supporting cast members.  Fred Ward does
a terrific job as Ryan's dad.  Brian Dennehy is always fabulous in
supporting roles and does not disappoint as the coach of the A's.  Brittany
Murphy does a fantastic wild thing, with a provocative earthiness that is
simultaneously seductive and cute.

There is not much substance here.  The baseball scenes are weak and the
romance is tepid.  The film has some endearing moments but fails to
distinguish itself except that it gets goofy far too often.  I rated it a
5/10.  Fans of Prinze and Biel will enjoy seeing them look sexy for an hour
and three quarters.  Others might want to miss it.

<|_=00=_|>

I'm gonna make this short and sweet. Stupid, inane dialog, ridiculous
stereotypical characters, predictable story, horrible acting. I would have
given it a 1, but Jessica Biel is worth 2 points by herself so I gave it a
3. She is the only reason to watch this awful excuse for a
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Unfortunately, I'm not a young girl! (although I am still in the target
audience).  This utter mess of a movie is so mundane, so poorly acted,
written, and directed, that I was literally squirming in my seat as to
when
the movie would finish.

The basic plot of "Summer Catch" is Freddy Prinze Jr. has some emotional
crisis going on because he messed up a chance at 'making it', although
that
was never clearly explained.  See, Prinze is a less-than-minor league
pitcher, and he pitches good (those 50mph fastballs strangely clocked
on-screen at 95mph!!) but once his mind gets clouded he folds on the
mound.
So, 7th Heaven star Jessica Biel comes into the fray to win Prinze's heart
so he'll be that great pitcher that we all know he can
be!

Prinze gives his usual "cute boy who smiles a lot" routine, and Matthew
Lillard also gives his usual "side-kick to Freddy Prinze Jr." routine.
Although Lillard is hilarious in some scenes, I can't figure out why he
didn't have more screen time.  Wilmer Valderama (Fez from That 70's Show)
gives a great performance, although I don't think I saw him for 10 minutes
total in the movie!?  Marc Blucas (Buffy the Vampire Slayer) also has a
memorable performance, although again his talents are avoided to give
Prinze
and Jessica Biel more kissing screen-time.  I'd say that whenever the
story's focus goes back to Prinze's "overcoming-oneself-to-make-it"
over-used plot, the movie comes to a complete hault.

Lack of pacing, no story, bad acting, bad casting, and a combination of
washed up actors (Brian Dennehy, Jason Gedrick) and new "talent", makes it
impossible for me to recommend this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

I did not plan to comment on this movie. In fact, I planned to stay as far
as possible away from anything remotely concerning it. But after seeing
comments praising it I feel I must say something.

This film is like three different films. A mushy teen romance that not even
I (a teenager) could fall for, a sports film, and a porn film - none of
which seem to be connected in anyway. My friends and I went to see this
because a friend of mine loves Freddie Prinze, Jr. She spent days
apologizing profusely for it.

We can't talk about plot holes because there is not a plot to find holes in.
Perhaps a more feasible exercise would be to try and find the places where
it made sense. The dialogue was corny and crude by turns - jerking back and
forth between the two with no apparent attention whatsoever. Trying to
summarize the story now in my head, I can't do it.

I am not a big fan of sports, but I do like sports movies. I love Tin Cup
and it doesn't even take much inducement for me to watch The Mighty Ducks
once in awhile. But in Summer Catch, even to someone who understands the
game (what was it again? baseball?) would be entirely lost.

The sex scenes, inserted at random moments are so perverse that I will not
go into detail. Just thinking about them now makes my skin crawl. Of course
the thought of Freddie Prinze, Jr. in a thong doesn't help matters much. (If
you're a teenaged girl you might think differently - trust me, from one
teenaged girl to another it's not a pleasant sight.)

The theater was practically empty except for my group of friends and another
group of people whom we knew who happen to be actresses (I go to an arts
school). We were all shell-shocked for weeks afterward, and any time we come
even close to the subject of bad movies, this one is always first to come
up. After leaving the theater, we told everyone we could find, "We just saw
the WORST movie ever made."

One good thing - I laughed more in it than I've ever laughed in anything.
The writing, acting, directing, editing, even the costumes were bad. Amidst
my revulsion, I simply couldn't help laughing, it was so
horrible.

Any respect that I may have had for anyone involved in this movie has gone
down 100%.

I gave it 1/10 but it deserves less. And by the way, my friend doesn't love
Freddie Prinze, Jr. anymore.
<|_=00=_|>

The movie "Summer Catch" is a love story that combines the trials of a
college baseball player trying to make the majors. The movie takes
place in Chatum; it is a town where baseball is life. Every year
college players come to the Cape League to get their chance at the
major leagues. This year Ryan Dunne (Freddie Prinze Jr.) is getting his
chance to play for his hometown the Chatum A's. When Ryan has any
problems, he takes them on the field and does not pitch as well. He
stopped playing baseball for Boston College, because his mother died
and he could not focus. Then he got kicked out of junior college,
because he got into a fight with a teammate. During the Cape League
season, he faces many problems balancing his old friends with new ones.
He also faces problems with his father and his girlfriend, Tenley
Parish (Jessica Biel). By the end of the movie, he learns to leave
those problems off of the field and that he loves Tenley. He realizes
that he will do anything to be with her. Also he receives a contract
with the minor league team, the Muckdogs. This leads to him starting
for the Phillies.

The film's intent is to tell the viewer about the troubles that Ryan
goes through in his life. It teaches the viewers that some times they
need to leave their problems behind and move on. It is also a love
story about two people from different worlds and the troubles that
their relationship goes through. The movie accomplishes these points
very well. It lets the viewer see into the mind of Ryan and lets them
feel like they are part of the movie. It also has a suspense level
letting the viewer wonder if Ryan and Tenley's relationship will
survive. This movie is a very good movie for someone who likes love
stories, but there is also the baseball element for the guys. This is
also a great movie for a couple to see, because they both learn a
lesson from the movie. I would recommend seeing this movie many times.

<|_=00=_|>
I like this movie because i can relate to it and it is a baseball
movie.. this is what all baseball players wish to do is to play in the
cap code league in the summer after collage baseball season ends. so i
like it cause it is a dream i and most baseball players can dream for
and this movie explains what the cape is like. also it is somewhat of a
romantic movie and the girl that the guy falls in love with is pretty
smoking hot.. which is a plus while you are watching the movie. another
reason why this movie is good is because it is funny at some points and
you feel good for the guy when he is pitching. so this movie is a plus
for me and fun to watch on summer nights
<|_=00=_|>

Summer Catch is a romantic comedy about a local college baseball player
(Freddy Prinze Jr.) playing in the Cape Cod baseball league, who falls in
love with a rich girl, Tenley Parrish  (Jessica Biel), who is home in cape
cod for the summer and is going to leave to San Francisco to work for her
rich uncle because her father told her to.  The Cape Cod Baseball league is
a league of the finest college baseball players who are bought together to
play in a summer league using wooden bats.  These players are usually close
to making the Major League and getting paid.  It is said that 1 out of 6
major league players has played in the Cape Cod league.  Many scouts come
to
watch these games.  Prinze plays the baseball player Ryan Dunne who is a
Dr.
Jeckle and Mr. Hyde type pitcher.  He always starts the game well but
ultimately comes to the point where he loses his focus and blows it.
Prinze
is always seen as a failure to his father and his brother.  They think that
he will end up cutting grass for his father for the rest of his life.
Jessica Biel, has rich parents and can have whatever she wants.  She falls
in love with Ryan Dunne and is caught between choosing her fathers wishes,
moving to San Francisco and working for her uncle, or staying with Ryan
whether he makes it to the big leagues or not.
At first Ryan is not a hit with some of his teammates such as the Dodger
Blue, Eric Van Leemer, who turned down a 2 million dollar contract.  Eric
acts kind of a character foil for Ryan.  They are both off the wall
pitchers, Eric has a glove that is different colors and has flames, while
Ryan just blows up on the field but Ryan found his success in the end by
working hard at it.  Eric just always had the talent and never had to look
deeper to find his pitching groove.  But Ryan becomes good friends with his
other teammates such as Billy "Bru" Brubaker, Miles Dalrymple and Mickey
"Domo" Dominguez (Wilmer Valderama).  The movie does have its funny moments
such as the times that Ryan and Bru wear the thongs or how Domo's "baseball
mother" loves the young cape cod baseball players and gives Domo his own
private show which involves a cucumber (lets leave it at that).  But
baseball and love stories do not mix.  The movies ending is horrible, just
as the final baseball game gets to its climax, Ryan is 2 outs away from the
baseball Mecca of achievements for a pitcher, a no-hitter, he leaves it for
Tenley Parrish.  I just feel that he should have at least pitched the
no-hitter instead of taking himself out.  In the end, Ryan Dunne did make
the Major Leagues for the Philadelphia Phillies, and ironically, he still
has the destruction point in the big leagues because he gives up a homer.
After watching this movie, writers have found a way to turn the American
pastime game of baseball into a chick flick.
