
My summary of the movie is my opinion. I love this movie because I feel
that Sidney Shaw is using a metaphor throughout the whole movie. She is
comparing Hip Hop to her best friend Dre, both of which are alike. I
find this movie amazing because of all the metaphors found within the
movie, that only one can find if they look closely.

For example, when Sidney and Dre are in the store looking at something
to buy for her new place, they come across a "vase" and the woman at
the store explains to them that many couples enjoy that piece. Later
within the movie, you see that that vase is in Sidney's house.

I also enjoy this movie because everything that is said, and everything
that is done within the movie has a meaning behind it. Foreshadowing is
found everywhere, you just have to look closely enough for it. Nothing
in this movie is done without a reason.

Every line said within the movie is said beautifully and has
significance behind it. My favourite line within the movie, that I've
carried with me ever since I heard it is, "So what is the difference
between rap and hip-hop? It's simple. It's like the difference between
saying you love somebody and being IN love with somebody. Rap is just a
word." When I heard that line, I fell in love with this movie and I had
to watch it over again, and I have watched it many times. Each time I
find more meanings that I missed the first time. What I like even more
about this movie is that they use actual artists in the movie that
state their opinion on "When they first fell in love with Hip Hop."
"Brown Sugar" spoke to me. It's real. Nothing in it is fake like in the
majority of movie's these days which is why I think I enjoy it so much.
I recommend this movie to anyone who has a passion about something or
to anyone who looks for significant meanings behind anything.
<|_=00=_|>

Brown Sugar (2002) could have been retitled Love & Hip-hop if only to
simplify matters.  Like Love & Basketball, it marries the tried-and-true
romantic flick formula to the emergence of mainstream "black" culture.
Because of these similarities and the presence of Sanaa Lathan, most
viewers
will quickly lump Brown Sugar into one of two pools.  They will either see
it as yet another "black" film about a lifestyle that was once
counter-cultural and is now, thanks to MTV, cliched or as one more in a
long
line of romantic comedies.

This film fits into both categories but is far better than most of its
fellow films.  The hip-hop culture is a childhood background that has
turned
into a profitable lifestyle for Dre and Sid, the two main characters.
Their
careers are products of the American craze for pop culture but their love
for hip-hop is strong enough to allow them the hope that they can somehow
make a difference in the business.  Films with black stars tend either to
drown them with imagery of the ghetto (a la Menace II Society, Baby Boy,
etc) or completely ignore the African-American element, dress the
characters
in business suits, and absorb them into the "white" corporate world of
success.  Brown Sugar does neither.  Hip-hop is natural to Dre and Sid and
is present in their conversations without being obtrusive. Writer Michael
Elliot is wise to let them lead their lives in the corporate world without
ever losing their childhood backgrounds.

In the other camp, romantic comedies generally sacrifice character
development and plausibility to accomodate the dreaded near-misses, love
misunderstandings, and the climatic scene where the man publicly confesses
his undying love.  For the most part, Brown Sugar steers clear of these
pitfalls and remains true to its characters.  The movie never pretends
that
any of its characters are perfect or indeed that any of them are ever sure
of any of their emotions.  This is not a fairy tale movie where characters
have sex because they are in love.  This film is more realistic.  The
characters are young and romantic at heart and for one reason or another,
they find sex first. That then leads them to at least the misguided
pretense
of love.  As one character explains it, "put a man and a woman together
for
long enough and something's bound to happen."  Infidelity is shown as a
sign
of emotional uncertainty not of villainy.  Even the best of the characters
eventually considers it.  But neither Famuyiwa's camera or Elliot's script
vilify them for it.  The characters earn the viewer's sympathy despite
their
mistakes and when confronted by their angry spouses, they do try their
best
to be honest and direct.

The script also avoids the kinds of contrived jealousy traps that most
romantic comedies rely on.  When one character finally falls for another
and
acts on his feelings, he is not lead astray by a misunderstanding.  He
arrives early enough to realize that she has managed to find love
elsewhere
while he was making up his mind, but too late to do anything about it.
Even
the public pronouncement of love is cleverly flipped.  All in all, this
movie should be watched by anyone who has seen one too many weak romantic
or
African-American comedies and needs to be reminded that a string of bad
movies does not ruin a genre.   
<|_=00=_|>

A delightful film from the beginning to the end.  I liked this film for so
many reasons.  The primary reasons are the following:

1) A creative and deep look at the impact of hip hip as a music and
culture
on individuals
2) Beautiful chemistry between the characters Sidney and
Dre.
3) Mos Def - period
4) Sanaa Lathan - for her essense as an actress in this film, as well as
her
amazing beauty.
5) Hip Hop Cameos

The start of the film was especially interesting with the old school (and
some new) artists explaining their love of hip hop.  I've grown so tired
of
seeing these new rap films with phony actors like Master P, Snoop, and the
Roc-A-Fella crew.  It was rewarding to see hip hop artists in a film IN
THEIR ELEMENT.  With that, I'd like to point out that Mos Def has
established himself as one of the few rappers who has sucessfully crossed
into the film industry without totally insulting the quality of movies
(2pac, Will Smith, Ice-T to some degree, and Eve are a few of the better
acting ones).

Aside from the hip-hop aspects, the romantic part of the movie worked very
well for me.  I really enjoyed the up and down relationship of Sidney and
Dre.  It helps that I love Sanaa Lathan no doubt, but overall it really
was
an enjoyable romantic comedy in that aspect.  Taye Diggs was cast well as
Dre, and I thought he showed a good perspective on the being-real v.
getting-money  battle that so many in the industry go through.

The Cameos were great with everyone from Russell Simmons to good ol' Angie
M. up in the New York Studios.  Personally surprising to me was seeing one
of the assisant basketball coaches at my univeristy appear as a bartender.
Questlove, Kool G. Rap, De La Soul all had good comments.

I can't refrain from commenting on Mos Def's character hitting up on Queen
Latifah.  hahaha, what a great series of scenes.  Also cool was the
reappearing blue vase (notice that?).

If you haven't seen the film, go out and rent it.  Enjoy!
9/10
<|_=00=_|>
They're both approaching 30 and have found success in their different
but equally demanding careers. He's a hip-hop producer/exec, and she's
a magazine editor for XXL. Their relationship is defined by their
mutual love of hip-hop, and for each other. His name is Dre (Taye
Diggs) and her name Sidney (Sanaa Lathan).

It was three years ago that I fell in love with H.E.R. (a girl named
Katie) and offered her "Brown Sugar" as a Valentine's Day gift and for
her birthday (which was two weeks later). For most who fell in love
with H.E.R., hip-hop started back in the '70s with DJ Kool Herc driving
around the Bronx flatlands blaring the sound of a new era on his
speakers. For me, I fell in love with H.E.R., hip-hop, the first time I
heard "Walk This Way" by Run-D.M.C. and Aerosmith, which was recorded
in 1986.

Director Rick Famuyiwa has a passion for the music, and it seems to
have culminated with "Brown Sugar," a film that some have called an
urban version of "When Harry Met Sally" with a hip-hop beat. Sidney
begins nearly every interview with the same question: How did you fall
in love with hip-hop? For her, it was July 18, 1984, when she
discovered a music genre with break dancing, DJing, emceeing, and
graffiti tagging - the four elements of hip-hop.

It's the passion for the rhythm and the beat that brought Sidney and
Dre together as children. Early in their time in college, they both
considered giving it a go at romance, but Sidney decided it wouldn't be
right. Her close friend Francine (Queen Latifah) warns she's turning
into a Terry McMillian character. Now, as adults with careers and
goals, their romance lives have taken radically different courses. Dre
has become engaged to Reese (Nicole Ari Parker), who is beautiful and
not some monster as movies like this would require. There is a sense of
sincerity in a scene where she and Sidney confront one another about
Dre.

Dre, meanwhile, who works for Millennium Records, has been assigned by
his boss (Wendell Pierce), who wants MTV rotation, to produce a pair of
jokesters named Ren and Ten and who call themselves the "Hip-Hop
Dalmations" - "they represent that whole unity (that's 'u.n.i.t.y.')
thing." Dre quits Millennium after this fiasco and decides to start his
own label by first signing Chris Shawn (Mos Def), who he believes is a
real artist. Dre and Sidney both realize they have to keep their
feelings for one another on the down-low, especially since she is now
involved with professional ballplayer Kelby Dawson (Boris Kodjoe).

"Brown Sugar" works as a pretty sweet romantic comedy that also doubles
as a metaphor for the loss of dignity in hip-hop. Sid and Dre's being
in love is paralleled against hip-hop's acceptance into the mainstream,
and its loss of any meaningful qualities. They both feel the beat, and
the passion since that day in July 1984 when they fell in love with the
same thing, and its growth over the years. But despite the
over-commercialization of my favorite music genre, one thing is
certain:

I still love H.E.R.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

I put this movie in the same category as The Wood. Here it's all about an
era, were the music meant everything from the DJ to the MC. In the movie
you
have a brother who loves the music, and a woman who can't understand the
brother's love for it and how it seems to drive him. On the flip side you
have another woman that understands the brother, and supports the brother
(take note ladies SUPPORT we need it). What makes this a good movie, or
love
story is it could really happen. Imagine finding a supportive soulmate who
is down for you, and you could relate to on many levels. However, often
times that is never who you end up with for one reason or another. If your
feeling this holla back.
<|_=00=_|>
..........when I heard Spoonie G's Love Rap & Spoonin' Rap. Hip hop was
ingrained into me and many native new yorkers just like the movie portrayed
it. The movie speaks to my heart, in that hip hop has been romanticized on
the big screen....finally! 

Sanaa was great, DIggs was great, Mos Def and La were both off the hook. The
essence of hip hop was put up on the screen in this movie, so if you didn't
know before, you've seen it now.

I went to high school with Slick Rick, Dana Dane and the whole Kangol Crew
(Al Sneed, Lance Brown and Omega the Heartbreaker to sum them up) and know
them personally. The opening sequence in the park with the three
aforementioned rappers doing their thing brought tears to my eyes......that
was the purity of hip hop, before millions could be made....these cats were
street celebrities that you could reach out and touch at
anytime.

The simple fact that the movie is saturated in hip hop culture is enough of
a remark for anyone who is in LOVE with hip hop.

ANyone who slammed this movie as dumb or stupid is quite simply cuturally
stagnant...you just don't understand.

As far as comments go about the movie's shortcomings.....please, spare me
the high-minded movie speak. If you didn't live it, you can't say what is
and isn't believable. I KNOW these characters in many different people that
I deal with....the director and writers GOT it.

It's like that, y'all!!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is ultimately one of the best love stories i have seen on
film.You don't even have to like hip hop to enjoy this movie. It will
make you laugh, and it will even make you cry(tears of joy). Lathan and
Diggs light up the screen together. It's a beautiful love story which
sends a message of how to friends can really fall in love. It will
certainly make you think twice about that friend of the opposite sex,
that you have known for years, that you find attractive, that doesn't
have a mate. It's just a wonderful movie to see, its not too raunchy on
language or sex scenes. It's kind of funny how something like hip hop
music can join two people together.
<|_=00=_|>

I just loved this movie!!!!  It brought back the "old-fashioned" love
story.
Everyone was so good in it but I thought the actor who stood out was Mos
Def especially with his "Humphrey Bogart/Casablanca" analogy.  It was
just
too funny and yet it made a lot of sense.  Also his conversation with
Boris
Kodjoe in the kitchen was also very funny.
This (to me) seems to be the first piece of film work that took hip-hop
seriously and beautifully incorporated it into a love story. I was also
impressed with the fact that there was no nudity and hardly no profanity.

<|_=00=_|>
Its kind of sad that I couldn't find this DVD in stores and had to
revert to purchasing it online at Amazon.com. You can find 100 copies
of some overrated blockbuster in these stores but you cant find one
copy of Brown Sugar. I think somebody is making sure that we remain
sheep-like trendies. At any rate...

The story is about Sydney(Sanaa Lathan) and Dre(Taye Diggs). Two best
friends that have feelings for each other but never attempted to date
each other. Sydney is a journalist and Dre is a record executive at
Millennium Records. Dre ends up marrying a woman he just met(played by
Nicole Ari Parker) and Sydney is not too happy about it. Sydney ends up
dating a ball player(played by Boris Kodjoe) and they end up getting
engaged. Dre has to deal with with a record label that only cares about
making money and Sydney has to deal with her feelings for Dre.

Sanaa Lathan and Taye Diggs have wonderful chemistry together. They
come across as real people on the screen and that is one thing I enjoy
about Rick Fumuyiwa's movies. The people in them seem like real people
and not these cardboard cutouts that we are used to in Hollywood
movies. Also great in this movie is Queen Latifah and Mos Def who plays
Chris, a struggling hip hop artist. Brown Sugar is not only charming
and has a heart, its also smart and funny too. I'll admit that I
laughed quite a bit especially at Rin and Tin scenes. I also love how
the movie uses Sydney and Dre as a metaphor for hip hop. Its a well
written and well acted movie that deserves a lot more credit that it
receives. Nowadays movies are being oversold to death and stealing all
the hype from movies that deserve hype. Its sad but this is the
Follywood machine at work and it has never been any other way. Sanaa
Lathan is not only a sight for sore eyes but she can actually act. Taye
Diggs brings his usual charm to the film and I must say that they make
a beautiful couple on screen.

Conclusion: Brown Sugar is one of the best and is most underrated
romantic comedies of 2002. The story is great, the acting is cool and
the chemistry is there. What more can you ask for from a movie? The
people that gave this movie less than 7 stars should stick to reviewing
Quentin Tarantino and his awful overrated movies(all of them!)and leave
movies like this one alone. Tired and formulaic? You spineless fanboys
say that about every movie that isn't oversold by Hollywood! That's why
I hate reading most reviews on IMDb because most of the time they all
go along the same lines. Don't you freaks have anything different to
say? Just like I thought. Support the black directors that give you
great work and Rick Fumuyiwa has given you great work with The Wood and
Brown Sugar. Don't take directors like Bill Duke, Rick Fumuyiwa, Matty
Rich etc for granted because you will helping in the downward spiral of
quality in Black cinema. Give Brown Sugar a chance. It deserves that
much which is more than I can say for most of the over-hyped junk that
comes out now.
<|_=00=_|>

Brown Sugar is hot!  I appreciate the writer and producer's creative
accomplishment in producing a quality story for this genre.  It is
refreshing.  Taye Diggs showed us another dimension of his talent in this
film, by revealing his genuine sense of humor.  Sanaa Lathan was
captivating
in the film.  Mos Def proved yet again there is absolutely no limit to
this
man's ability.  Queen Latifah...well...that's all I have to say...I think
people immediately want to love her.  She appears to be a very giving
actress.  Nicole Ari Parker can't help but look silky fine!  The story was
another step forward for films in this genre, it's too bad this script
will
most likely go unnoticed for Best Screenplay honors.  Films like this are
ahead of their time.
