
Let's face it, if you're going to rent one of the later movies in a
slasher movie series, you'd be an idiot to expect high art. The fact
that this is the tenth movie in the Friday the 13th franchise, the most
knuckle-draggingly, ball-scratchingly cretinous 'horror' series of all
time AND it's set in space doesn't exactly suggest that this'll be an
all-time classic, but it's a good fun way to kill an hour and thirty
minutes nonetheless.

Okay, the plot is so thin even a slight breeze would make it
disintegrate and the horror element is practically non-existent but
then Jason movies abandoned that long ago in favour of just providing
dumb escapism with inventive and bloody death scenes, which this film
certainly provides. People are sliced in half, impaled on large spikes,
blown up, one poor woman even getting her head dunked in liquid
nitrogen and shattered on a desk, but the characters are so
one-dimensional and it's so cheesy you're more likely to laugh than
scream. And I defy you to watch the scene when Jason gets transformed
into 'Uber Jason' for the first time and not have a colossal grin
traverse your face. There's even a later scene which pokes fun at the
earlier movie's clichés with a hilarious "beating one camper to death
with the other" sequence.

This is not The Exorcist, it's not The Omen, it's even a very long way
away from the original Friday The 13th, but as director James Isaac has
said, "it's just fun." Get your mates round, pop open a beer, disengage
brain and you've got a very entertaining ninety minutes.
<|_=00=_|>

Basic plot: It's 2455 and Jason is loose on a spaceship killing a bunch of
brainless, annoying 20 somethings.

Critics have been merciless on attacking this.  Why?  It's the 9th sequel to
"Friday the 13th".  What were they expecting?  "Gone With the Wind"?  For
what it is, this is very good.

The plot is old, no characterizations, and the killings aren't really all
that interesting (except for one at the beginning which was GREAT).  Also it
has an annoying tendancy to have characters say some really stupid jokes
WHILE they're dying!!!  The acting is totally horrendous--the worst I've
ever seen in a "Friday..." film.  I realize that's saying alot but it's
true!  All the cliches are squarely in place including the dialogue ("Get
your people out of there!"  "We're all safe here."  "He's finally dead."). 
Basically this is so bad it's funny!  Also, surprisingly, it wasn't too bad.
 It had it's dull moments but the characters, acting and lines were so
funny...

So is is scary?  No.  Is it a good movie?  No.  Is it fun?  VERY.  So far
the best bad/good movie of 2002.

Extra bonus--Some of the WORST jokes I've ever heard in a movie. 

<|_=00=_|>

Jason X is an entertaining blend of horror, sci-fi and comedy, though the
film doesn't go very far in any of the three categories alone.  The best way
to view this film is to simply not expect it to deliver anything and just
sit back and enjoy it for what it is: a slasher flick!  And for being that,
it is quite amusing.  The comedy in the film does succeed considerably more
than other slasher flicks which try to incorporate comedy into the mix.  At
least I thought so.  Really, I just enjoyed this film cuz I had nothing
better to do when I watched it and was in the mood for something... well,
stupid.  That's what it is, and for being stupid, it's fun.  Sometimes it's
fun to be dumb.
6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Retrieving a relic of Jason Voorhees frozen in time, a group of
students studying in the future find themselves stalked through their
space-station home by the reawakened killer and must use the technology
of the time to stop him.

This was an absolutely fantastic entry which was one of the more
enjoyable and exciting entries in the series. The best part of this is
the extremely high-impact action scenes, which generate the best times
here, starting with the opening attack on the guards in the facility in
rather fun fashion before the big chase that gets him frozen with her,
while the retrieval and stowing him on-board gives this one some really
good times along with the initial rampage through the ship resulting in
a lot of cheesy goodness to come from having these scenes set in the
futuristic landscape. The initial resurrection on the heating bed
alongside the oblivious worker while the screwing couple signaling the
true rebirth which spawns a brilliant, original death scene with the
infamous face first into ice, then shattered on a counter-top along
with the two soldiers playing a virtual reality game and don't know
Jason isn't part of the game, then they allow Jason to kill them quite
easily. The action is non-stop, and there are many impressive scenes
with this one, as the inclusion of the soldiers allows for some
incredibly fun times with a spectacular stalking scene in a cargo-bay
that generates some fine deaths and great suspense as Jason uses a ton
of creativity to his kills which allows the great shoot-outs with the
soldiers as well to generate even more good times with this one. There
are more, from the battle in the engineer's room to the numerous
stalking in the lab where it gets some fun action and classic stalking
scenes involved in here as well as getting the action requirements out
very nicely. The gunfight in the corridor getting the cyborg into the
proceedings on Jason is a standout, and Jason's continual sit-ups after
being hit by the shotgun really makes the scene impressive. Also, the
humor is here with a bit of subtle comedy here and there and a total
tongue-in-cheek attitude, not just from the jokes but the goofy tone
here with the look of Jason and Uber-Jason and his dealings throughout
here. As well, the shift to outer space was a refreshing change of pace
and a source of much needed originality here with all these changes
giving this a rather unique change in appearance that suits the film's
more Sci-Fi leanings perfectly. Coupled with a Jason that is absolutely
menacing and scary and looks like he's having too much fun in the role
and a few nice odes to the others in the series, there's not a lot
wrong here. The biggest issue here comes from the apparent lack of
logic here, most of which comes from the behavior of the characters.
It's really hard to believe that Jason is fooled by a holographic
representation of Crystal Lake that's not even a full-on trick with the
edges exposed, yet he still takes time to destroy holographs of two
women who look like they belonged in the first movie and allow the good
guys to escape, which is the biggest example here. The plot line
involving the idiotic professor who only wants to profit from Jason and
his continuous assurance that Jason will get taken care of is quite
lame, as well as the finale of Jason gets ridden like a surfboard as
he's falling back to Earth. However, here the action tends to hide a
lot of these issues and it's really not all that noticeable when they
occur. All in all, it really only comes down to personal tolerance of
the cheese to find any flaws here, since it's a lot of fun regardless.

Rated R: Graphic Violence, Graphic Language, Brief Nudity, and a short
sex scene.
<|_=00=_|>
Not Jason & his Argonauts seeking for the golden fleece: that would be
too intellectual for the year 2000. The 10th or 11th "Friday" movie,
and it was time for the crap to move into space. Plus, it was time for
the franchise to sink to new lows, much lower even than was promised at
the outset, back in the 80s.

This film is TYPICAL of the 90s and 00s: the brand new level of idiocy
that has engulfed Hollywood movies. So much here is cretinous that it
would be pointless to list all these things. But since I happily
indulge in pointless things I'll mention a few: 1) Jason V. (not X)
actually stabs a women with a machete THROUGH A HALF-A-METER-THICK
MILITARY METAL DOOR, 2) why does Jason V. get an automatic run-over by
the medicinal worms (bugs) (whereas they seems to ignore the other
piles of bodies)? 3) we are never given Jason's full bio, including his
20th-century studies of 25th-century space ships and how to move about
them without getting noticed and without getting all-too confused, etc.
Jason V. is one smart cookie, both omniscient and omnipotent.

Then, of course, there are the obligatory really, really bad, dumb
gags, people cracking wise even when being pierced, decapitated - or
close to getting there. And talk about political correctness: there are
almost more women aboard than men - of whom the greedy captain is white
(well, of course, we can't have a greedy black captain because - as we
all know - only white men can exhibit greed; Michael Moore's
best-selling garbage "Stupid White Men" tells us all about it). Towards
the end we practically only have women and black guys as survivors
(even the android is a a woman). Alright, alright, we GET IT. Equality
of the sexes and between races and all that And what better place to
hammer that boring old point than in a SILLY HORROR film?

A movie that represents 100% the sadly retarded times we live in. Call
it the AGE OF Paris HILTON, if you will
<|_=00=_|>
OK, I have been warned that the bloom is off the rose and this is
nothing more than "a porn movie ... with gruesome murders instead of
gratuitous sex." Still, I venture in.

Earth has become uninhabitable. Voyagers from space dropping in after
400 years just happen to stumble upon Jason, who has been cyrogenicly
frozen. They take him as a souvenir. Ha, are they in for a surprise.

Of course, Jason is indestructible, both on Earth and in space with
weapons 400 years in the future,

Lisa Ryder as Kay-Em 14 stole the show. She was one hot mama that
smokes Jason after everyone else fails - or so they think. Now, we have
Super Jason.

Yes, it's cliché and silly, but it's Jason and we watch to see
decapitations, and smashed faces along with that big machete in action.
Just fun folks.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is incredible... incredibly BAD, that is. I can't believe that
any screenwriter and/or director is willing to put their name on this--it
simply has to be an attempt on professional suicide in the
business.

The script is so full of cliches that belong in slasher-films of the
'80s,
not the new millennium. Good old Jason Voorhees gets cryogenically frozen
and is thawed up several hundred years into the future, and guess what...
NOTHING has changed at all. There are still tons of beautiful model-like
teenagers showing their belly-buttons and having casual sex, and they all
still get slaughtered by the monster in the hockeymask. This time around,
however, he gets and upgrade in the last 15-20 minutes of the film, and
is
turned into some kind of hybrid man/monster/machine killing
apparatus.

The dialogue is below even the worst standards, the plot far from new,
the
acting is just above kindergarten ability... frankly, I don't know why
any
studio would jump onto a script like this.

For God's sake, I know it's just another teen slasher movie based on an
ancient franchise, but for crying out loud: Who ever said that innovative
writing is forbidden in films like this one? I was very tempted to watch
the
entire movie on fast forward, but didn't.

In the end, though, there is one positive thing about my Jason X
experience:
Luckily, I wasn't the one who paid for the rental.
<|_=00=_|>

Alrighty now.. the long awaited 10th film in the legendary "Friday the 13th"
movie series hits theatres and what is the result? If you liked the previous
nine you will like this one, if the hockey masked machete wielding Jason
Voorhees isnt your cup of tea then you should probably avoid the latest
installment in the franchise. In this film, Jason (once more played by
stuntman Kane Hodder) is placed in suspended animation and winds up getting
thawed out on a spaceship some 400 or so years later to wreck havoc on a
hapless group of hollywood newbies who decided to audition for this film.
Actualy the cast is pretty good as this sort of thing goes and the producers
decided to have some fun with the concept, throwing in everything from an
obvious "Alien" inspired storyline to a "Terminatrix" babe (played by Lisa
Ryder, who like co-star Lexa Doig hails from the "Andromida" TV Series). 
Some funny bits with Jason and a pointed parody of the original film due to
a virtual reality simulation (!) make this one a step above most of the
efforts in this series. So, until Jason rises again, this one is a keeper
for fans of slasher movies worldwide. GRADE: B+
<|_=00=_|>

I thought that this was probably one of the better Friday the 13th movies
in
it's franchise. Granted it takes place in space but it was still pretty
excellent for a B horror film. I mean did you see "Jason Goes To Hell"
thats
all i have to say. Kane Hodder comes back to play Jason Voorheis again and
did a very good job. Lexa Doig who played Rowan was hot and played the
authority female very well. Lisa Ryder as Kay-Em 14 Her scenes were
hilarious.

I just thought that this was a very great film and i reecommend it too
anyone who enjoys horror films. Todd Farmer who worte this did a very good
job. Especially after that disater of a film "Jason Goes To Hell". The
actors were great, the movie had suspense , GORE, and comedy- Especially
the
scene with Jonathon Potts and Melyssa Ade, you all know what i'm talking
about, that was hilarious. Let's just hope that if they do make another
Friday 13th film hopefully it will be good as this one and that they bring
Kane Hodder back as Jason Voorheis
<|_=00=_|>
First of all, I don't quite understand the 'hate' for this tenth
installment of the Friday/Jason series. It's "Friday the 13th", for
crying out loud! ANY change in the direction of the series is welcome
at this point. It seems as if the fans have forgotten how 'winded' the
Jason series had become - after the absolute dregs of the series in
"Jason Goes To Hell", "Jason Takes Manhattan" and "The New Breed", the
series' creators were not just beating a dead horse, they were dragging
it around the track behind a tractor. "Jason X" at least tries to give
the horse a jolt with the defibrillator. 

In spite of the 2nd rate effects, and general silliness, the 10th film
in the series has visual energy and freshness that has been missing for
at least a decade. The characters are all stereotypes, but they are
GOOD stereotypes in new, snazzy 'futuristic' costumes, and they get to
use snazzy new assault rifles and hologram projectors and stuff to
fight back. It doesn't work of course, and Jason still kicks
everybody's butt, but the change in atmosphere and sets does rescue the
film from the tedious dread of previous installments. There is some
actual levity and some winking tribute to some of the classic
conventions of earlier films (such as when Jason beats one camper to
death with another one, but it's OK because they are holograms). And
Jason gets a 'new look' in the middle of the film. It doesn't really
add that much to the character, but again, at least it is different
enough to help you 'see' the character again after decades of
over-familiarity. 

I rented this DVD fully expecting it to suck, but to my surprise, the
opening scenes and the way the premise was set up caught my bemused
interest, and the SFX of the future were JUST good enough to entertain
my eyes. And eventually I ended up enjoying the proceedings quite a
bit. Not nearly as much as a 'real' movie, of course, but much more
than I ever expected from "Friday the 13th" ever again. I'd say it is
the only really watchable entry in the series in several years, and if
there are no more after this (and I hope not), "Jason X" is not a bad
way for FXIII to end.
