

I've visited IMDb frequently in the past and have voted on over 250 films,
but the previous comments regarding this film compel me to write my first
review. "Blue Car" is, like most films, not without its flaws, but its
strengths make it, in my opinion, one of the best American indie films
I've
seen for quite some time.

"Blue Car" is a movie that lacks clear villains; its characters are
imperfect people who sometimes make the wrong decisions. I read a
flattering
review before seeing the movie, which I later regretted... The review gave
away just enough to make me anticipate the film's climax and resolution, a
reason why I have decided to remain conspicuously vague
here.

The film is about Meg Denning (sp?), a troubled high school student whose
poetry impresses her AP English teacher. Meg is still struggling to
overcome
the emotional abandonment she experienced after her father left. Her
sister
is likewise depressed and refuses to eat. Her mother is preoccupied with
her
job and night school. I realize these issues have been dealt with so
thoroughly by Disney and Hollywood hacks that they have almost become
cliche. Nevertheless, the fact that these situations are relatively
commonplace make the story more plausible. The dialogue never degenerates
into the pathetic sentimentalism one expects from Spielberg... The
dialogue
is robust -- the film's characters are dealt with fairly and
realistically.

At the suggestion of her English teacher, Meg enters a poetry contest...
As
Meg's family problems are compounded by subsequent events, she begins to
rely increasingly on her AP English teacher for encouragement, emotional
support, and self-affirmation...And then, being as vague as possible,
complex situations emerge... :o)

Every character in the film has sympathetic qualities. You might not agree
with the decisions they make, and some of their actions might even disturb
you...But in this age of simpleminded, dualistic rhetoric, when
politicians
talk about Good and Evil as though life were an episode of "He-Man," "Blue
Car" is a refreshing film filled with characters who occupy the grey void
lurking between black and white.

The film is not perfect. Certain events occur involving Meg's sister Lily,
which are pivotal to the movie. I'm not that fond of how the film deals
with
Lily's emotional troubles, and facts surrounding the culmination of Lily's
troubles are, in my mind, highly questionable. (Sorry. I can't be more
specific without ruining the movie. If you see it, you'll probably know
what
I'm talking about.) These minor flaws are well worth overlooking.

Unfortunately, film as an industry is as white-male dominated as the field
of theoretical physics -- perhaps even more so. It is sad indeed that the
greatest living female director is probably Leni Riefenstahl, the
despicable
opportunist whose masterpieces include "Triumph of the Will."

That being the case, Karen Moncrieff's debut comes as a relief. She has
proven herself to be a talented, insightful, up-and-coming director whose
career will be worth keeping an eye on. Overall, I give the film a
9.
<|_=00=_|>
Blue Car is a dramatic story about a young teenager (Agnes Bruckner)
that is over taken by the bad hand she was dealt in life. Trying to
juggle school with a harsh family situation, she has become a product
of her misfortunes making her that cliché isolated, depressed, quiet
girl. With an absent father, disturbed mother, and a suicidal sister,
she seems close to the breakdown point. However, a hopeful teacher
(David Strathairn) comes a long and opens up a world to place her
troubles upon... a world of poetry. The story follows her adventure of
dealing with home problems while attempting to be prominent in a large
poetry contest. Meg finds herself basking in a deep metaphorical state
of catharsis as she seeks to find answers in a poem she writes about
her father, titled Blue Car. 

Finally, a coming of age/ school film that strays from the normal
school formula of a John Hughes's film. The film's dramatic unexpected
twists and turns will entice you to be emotionally involved with the
characters on a seemingly depressed, yet interesting level. Fantastic
film making teams up with even better acting to portray a film that is
not only intriguing but important. This films proves that a budget can
carry a film so far, and the rest lie with the actors and artistic view
of the film makers involved. Director Karen Moncrief carefully films
this story, exploiting her points through different film techniques.
The story almost reads as a poem itself... the story is slow but moved
gently and rings true to all who can relate. Actors Agnes Bruckner, and
David Strathairn are two forces not to be reckoned with. The characters
portrayed by the actors truly carry this film... making it an emotional
journey for all who watch. If you appreciate superb acting and film
making that pays more attention to realism and truth, you will enjoy
Blue Car.
<|_=00=_|>
It's always nice to come across a little gem of a film like this one
is. The characters are crafted so well that there is nary a false note
in the entire piece. The dynamics between the daughter (Meg) and her
mother, Meg and her sister, and Meg and her teacher all ring true; at
times painfully so. As things so often occur in real life, this was no
neat little package of events and resolutions but characters stumbling
through situations making good and bad decisions and coming out on the
other side having learned something from their experiences.

Why can't everyone write like this! Kudos to Karen Moncrief for showing
such great respect for her audience. I hope you have many more
opportunities to add to your writing and directing resume. I've seen
tons of films and very few of them are standouts. This is one of them.
<|_=00=_|>

Ah, the romantic enigma that is the English teacher. Only Hollywood
could bring these bookworms into the heroic light usually reserved for
legendary leaders and men of action. Look at Robin Williams in "Dead
Poets Society" and you'll find the prime example of this species. A man
who moves throughout his classroom spouting lines of inspiration as
important as any presidential address. A voice who encourages his
students to embrace their independence and seize the day.

Now meet David Strathairn as Auster in "Blue Car". A man who actually
looks and acts like the disheveled English teacher you had in high
school. An inspiration only to those too lost and vulnerable to find it
elsewhere. Like Meg - an 18 year old girl whose gift for poetry is the
only good thing to emerge from an otherwise miserable life.

Played by Agnes Bruckner in a brilliantly understated performance, Meg
writes about what she knows. And, unfortunately for her, all she knows
is pain. The pain of her parent's divorce and the abandonment she felt
when her father drove away for one last time in his blue car. While her
classmates laugh at her poem, her teacher pulls her aside and tells her
to "dig deeper". At first, it appears he may be trying to further untap
her hidden talent, and help her to begin a kind of healing process.
But, as he takes her under his wing, his motives seem to grow less
noble and more selfish as it appears he is the one in need of healing.

Writer/Director Karen Moncrieff takes on an obvious point of view for
the film. In every scene, we can't help but connect with Meg. Everyone
seems to want a piece of her. From her mother to a passing acquaintance
with a true delinquent, we watch as they befriend her and then cast her
aside after she fufills their need. After a while, you just sit back
and begin to wonder how much more of this she can take.

It should come as no surprise then that the relationship she nurtures
is the one with Auster. In her mind, he can be all things for her -
mentor, friend, lover, and most of all, father. It is her changing view
of him that anchors the film and, when she finally sees him for what he
is, leads her to an ending we can only hope will be better for her.

Rating [on a 5 star system] : 3 1/2 stars

<|_=00=_|>
Small but recommendable film about a young girl, growing up in an
unstable environment with a lack of people who care for her and various
people abusing her. Agnes Bruckner gives an excellent performance as
Meg. The story isn't something refreshing and new, but it doesn't
disturbs me. The subject is handled very well and the co-actors are
good as well, although Bruckner's performance is by far the best. I
also saw her in "Home Room" but her role in that movie is very small.

Excellent directing debut by Karen Moncrieff. She managed to make it a
remarkable debut. "Blue Car" is an enjoyable film who's certainly worth
watching.

7.5/10
<|_=00=_|>
BLUE CAR (2003) **** David Strathairn, Agnes Bruckner, Margaret Colin,
Frances Fisher, A.J. Buckley, Regan Arnold, Sarah Beuhler, Dustin
Sterling, Mike Ward. Excellent indie festival hit about a teenage girl
(Bruckner in a heartbreakingly raw turn) whose only solace from her
crumbling domestic life is in her gift as a poet is mentored by her
well-meaning but clearly coercive English teacher (Strathairn in one of
his best performances) who goads her into a contest. First time
filmmaker Karen Moncrieff delivers a truly audacious debut with a gift
for character development and strong narrative as well as a shrewd cast
(Colin gives her best turn too as Bruckner's downward spiraling mom and
young Arnold as her baby sister is absolutely stunning) adds a lift
above the norm in coming-of-age flicks that resonates with
pitch-perfect depictions of a young woman coming into her own. One of
the year's best films.
<|_=00=_|>
I find myself in an unusual situation. I've read through many of the
comments about this movie, both the glowing and the dismal, and
discover that to some extent I agree with all of them! The ones who
praise the film accurately point out the high points, and the ones who
trash the film accurately point out the weaknesses. However, I think
both unabashed praise and utter demonification go too far. I'm going to
assume if you're reading this, you've probably seen this movie, so
beware of spoilers if you have not.

No need to go through the plot as other users on here have done a good
job of dishing it out. Here are the POSITIVE points.

(1) Acting. Not a bad performance in this. Especially notable is Meg
(we have a tendency to point out stellar youth performances because
they often are few and far between due to lack of experience) who is
able to speak a hundred words in each subtle expression and her English
teacher. Straitharen is an underused force in the industry and he shows
his true talents here.

(2) Complex characters. Meg's teacher, her parents, her sister, and
others all elicit different emotions from us. Sometimes we think they
are supposed to be "good" characters; other times we think they're
supposed to be "bad" characters. The film purposely leaves these terms
out. Instead, we get an honest picture of how confusing the world can
be, especially in the mind of a teenage girl.

Straitharen's character is the most complex. Here we have a man who at
first seems to sympathize with his obviously troubled student, latching
on to the one interest which gets her away from all the problems:
poetry, and he nurses this interest until it becomes something she is
proud of. He comforts her like a father she needs when her already
fractured family falls apart. For this, we like him. But the director
suddenly turns this on its head, when the teacher begins a
romantic/sexual relationship with the Meg which she does not
assertively resist. "Is this okay?" he asks over and over as he goes
further and further as if they are both twelve-year-olds kissing in a
closet. Because she didn't ever say "no", are we supposed to sympathize
with the teacher? Meg's answer is obviously in the negative, as she
criticizes him publicly at the poetry reading in perhaps a more
"honest" piece than her "Blue Car".

Some users are asking what the teacher did wrong. Here it is in short:
he should have known better. There are two possibilities. One is worse
than the other but neither is good. Either the teacher had foul
intentions concerning Meg from the beginning of the film and everything
that followed was a rouse to get her into bed (this would be despicable
without question), or the teacher honestly wanted to help Meg with her
poetry and her troubles and during the course of his teaching and
consoling, he developed sexual feelings toward her. Even if the latter
is the case, the teacher is a acted very wrong. Why? I said it before:
he should have known better. He knows all about this girl's troubles.
He knows she has no one to turn to. He knows he is her only "ear" and
she looks up to him. And what does he do? He shatters her only lifeline
by making her life even more complex by adding sex into a relationship.
Sex never simplifies things, especially between a teacher and student.
He should not be asking her if it is "okay" as he sexually advances on
her. The fact that she is in such a fragile state in that she is
incapable of answering this is a resounding NO. He was the adult, he
was the one with a more stable life, he selfishly let his own feelings
(whether they were genuine or not) complicate a girl on the verge of
falling apart herself.

The above was assuming the second option was true. However, there is
some evidence that the first, more deplorable motivation, is correct.
First, there is the fact that he lies to her early on about his novel.
When she asked, he could simply have told her that it wasn't a novel.
Instead, perplexingly, he lies to her and pretends to read from it. At
the time, we don't know this is a lie, but thinking back now, what were
his reasons for doing so? Was he trying to cultivate Meg's trust and
appeal? Was he trying to make himself what she wanted in her mind in
order to cultivate a trusting relationship he could take advantage of
later? Also, there's the interesting situation with his wife. She gets
depressed when she sees Meg and the teacher offers to walk Meg home.
Some of her lines make it seem that the teacher had been inappropriate
with girls (students) before. Is this a habitual practice for him? To
gain the trust of young girls and use it for his own selfish and
deplorable motives? Finally, there is the issue of the deleted scene
(which I haven't viewed but heard others talk about) in which after the
sex scene the hotel manager tells Meg to get out and that her teacher
had only purchased the room for an hour. This shows where the director
was heading. The guy obviously had foul plans from the beginning and
was too cold to even give her a place to stay for the night. I think
the director cut this out because it unquestionably answered the
question of the teacher's intentions. From the final cut of the film,
though, there's not enough information to decide either way.

I agree with the NEGATIVES that some other users have brought up (too
much melodrama for only 90 minutes and not an uplifting moment in the
entire film), but I don't think these detract enough to make this only
mediocre.
<|_=00=_|>

There's a moment in this film where Meg(Agnes Buckner)is scribbling a poem
on a napkin in a diner in Florida. This waitress orders her a breakfast out
of kindess knowing this girl didn't have money. I point this scene out
because it comes nearly at the end of the film and is possibly the only
moment that is a true act of kindness where no one is using someone and poor
Meg isn't being used. Meg is an unfortunate deer caught in a bear trap. She
never wanted the hardships that occur to her but somehow trolleys into
difficult situations out of misdirection. The character of the utmost
cruelity in this film is a supposed trustworthy poetry teacher named
Auster(criminally overlooked David Strathairn whose most noteworthy
performance was as the always drunkened abusive husband of Kathy Bates in
"Dolores Claiborne"). He spins Meg into his web with what appears to be
sweetness and a great hear for her problems. Meg has a troubled sister named
Lily(Regan Arnold)and overworked divorcee mother Diane(Margaret Colin,Tom
Selleck's girlfriend in "Three Men and a Baby"). Meg thinks Auster is a man
for whom she can go to. He sees vulnerabilty and pretends to care when
really he wants her as a type of conquest. Many use poor Meg along the way
and she suffers many heartbreaks. She has this goal to enter into a poetry
contest in Florida. This goal was realized when Auster tells her she can win
in his slick way to get her in the sack. This is a great film about a chance
to just have satisfaction with one thing. Meg is a very realistic character
and one that is perfectly acted by Buckner. Buckner displays a young woman
not sure on herself and very self deprecating. She possesses a kindness, but
is badly misguided and makes bad decisions. Still, Meg is a true character
and her situations are very realistic and in ways mirror another film about
teen growing pains called "Thirteen". The film is not a happy one. Most of
the characters are miserable, but the film is very true to
life.
*****/*****
<|_=00=_|>
It's always gratifying to see an independent film that tackles a thorny
subject, knowing well that any of the major studios won't dare to
sponsor any director who is original and has a different way to present
the story. Such is the case with Karen Moncrieff, a courageous new
voice who is a first time director working with her own material.

The idea that school is a safe haven for the innocent, is the subject
to this film. Meghan who comes from a recently broken home can't accept
the idea of her parents living apart. When in school, she looks up to a
male role model, perhaps trying to fill that void in her life. At the
beginning of the film Ms. Moncrieff steers us into thinking one way,
when in reality she wants to tell us there is another side to the
apparently kind man who takes Meghan under his wing.

As we have witnessed by the recent wave of revelations of sexual
impropriety in the Catholic Church, there are people that tend to go to
jobs where they can prey on unsuspecting young minds, only to satisfy
their own sick desires. The film is an eye opener for any
impressionable young person into believing these people that befriend
them don't have ulterior motives.

Agnes Bruckner, as young Meghan makes an excellent appearance in the
movie. Equally effective is David Strathairn, as the teacher. This
actor is always a welcome addition to any film. Margaret Colin, as the
mother, gives a painful characterization as Diane, who must make ends
meet and has her feet on the ground. Frances Fisher, is the jaded
teacher's wife who has seen her husband get involved with other young
girls before.

Ms. Moncrieff is a talent to watch.
<|_=00=_|>

How often do you see a movie which does a good job of portraying the real
complexities of a relationship?  In other hands this would have ended up as
a crass made-for-TV movie, but in Moncrieff's talented hands the characters
have a real chance to be the flawed but still moving personalities they are.
A wonderful and different coming-of-age story and a subtle treatment of
several relationships, each of which turns out to be more complex than even
the characters initially understand.

A great example of a fine film on a very modest budget.  My only criticism
is that I would have liked to hear more about the evolution of the story
from the writer's perspective during the DVD commentary.  That criticism has
nothing to do with the film itself.
 
