

Reading the other review, I just had to post the opposing viewpoint. I am a
58-yr-old well-educated woman, so go figure...I just HOWLED at this movie, I
had tears running down my face. Haven't laughed this much and so
unexpectedly since Rodney Dangerfield's antics in 'Back to School'.  The
sight gags were dead on, the whole premise of the loser worshippers of N.
Diamond was hysterical and milked to perfection, and the send-up of misogyny
was perfectly done. Actually, these three hapless fools were just perfectly
pathetic and loveable in their own ways.  The acting was wonderful....Amanda
Peet was wickedly funny, and all three male stars were equally crass and
deliciously low-down. Jack Black as usual was unnervingly disgusting and
real. Neal Diamond was a wonderful parody of himself, without being
condescending...he fit the spirit of the movie to a 'T'. The ending was
great, reminiscent of the 'feel good' ending of 'Back to School'. Whenever I
feel blue, I watch this movie and just can't help laughing. Maybe it just
wasn't British humor (referring to the previous review), but this is FUNNY
stuff.

<|_=00=_|>

I don't know why I expected so very little from this movie (probably that
since "American Pie" we've been getting bombarded with really weak rip-offs
of the "teen, gross-out" comedy), but I shouldn't have; it's actually a
hilarious movie. Jack Black & Steve Zahn are two of the funniest actors
working today (and, I guess, Jason Biggs isn't so bad), and they carry this
movie. There are so many funny jokes and situations, this movie truly is one
of my favorite "stupid" (as opposed to intelligent, I guess) comedies. But
please, oh please, if you plan on seeing this, you MUST get the R-rated DVD
version, not the PG-13 one that was released in theaters and on most VHS
copies. There are so many funny jokes and moments cut out of the PG-13,
you'd be doing yourself a disservice. It's still funny, but you miss some
good stuff.

"Comingtoyaaaahaaaa..."
<|_=00=_|>

Dennis Dugan the director of great comedies such as Problem Child, Happy
Gilmore, Beverly Hills Ninja, Big Daddy & National Security brings to us
"Saving Silverman" which is a lot better than your average teen comedies.
First of all the movie has 4 top stars, Jason Biggs, Jack Black, Steve Zahn
& Amanda Peet who are all hilarous in their own way, Black & Zahn do stand
out the most they are ridiculously funny. I've seen this movie about 5 times
and i never get sick of it. I don't really wanna go into details about the
movie just to let everyone know that this movie is better than your average
comedy. In Australia & some other countries this movie is known as " Evil
Woman" so don't be confused about the different names. The story to this
movie is a little weak but it still works because of the fact the humor is
great through to the end. 8 / 10.
<|_=00=_|>
In my opinion, SAVING SILVERMAN is a sexy, seductive, deliciously
diabolical, hilarious, and witty film. Even though I thought that
Judith (Amanda Peet) was a beautiful lady, she was a b****! I laughed
really hard when Wayne (Steve Zahn) gave Judith a shock in her
buttocks. Another part I laughed at was when Wayne gave Darren (Jason
Biggs) all those shocks. Those parts were laugh-out-loud funny! When I
first saw SAVING SILVERMAN, I was with a friend of mine, and all
throughout the movie, my friend and I were rolling. In conclusion, I
highly recommend this smash hit to all you Jason Biggs, Steve Zahn,
Jack Black, or Amanda Peet fans who have not seen it.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is incredibly unbelievable and incredibly stupid, but dont let
that hold you back from really enjoying it. Jack Black and R. Lee Ermey
are
hilarious, as always. The plot is worthless and I would have been
satisfied
with just Black, Zahn, and Ermey on screen the whole time. Easily worth
one
good viewing, in the right mood, preferably intoxicated. An underrated
triple-buddy gem.
<|_=00=_|>

Jack Black and Steve Zahn..you gotta love them.

This film is just about as stupid as you could possible imagine. The
story line is puerile in the extreme. The characterisation is
non-existent. The direction lacks any sense of control. And yet....and
yet this is the funniest film i have seen since There's Something About
Mary.

Jack Black and Steve Zahn are two of the best comedic actors in the
business today. It seems to me that, precisely because of Dugan's lack
of control, these two guys gave free rein to all of their
improvisational instincts and they save the film from being a complete
mess. They are sensational. Jack Black's constant mimicing of Neil
Diamond's habit of singing "come on now yaaahaaa" when he does Holly
Holy is insidious and sticks in your head long after the film has
finished.

Amanda Peet and Amanda Detmer are sex on legs here. Their parts are
badly written but who cares when they look this good! Even Neil Diamond
shows he is a trouper by showing up for a cameo in a film that,
essentially, pokes gentle fun at how uncool his stage persona is
perceived to be.

This is just great ...9/10

<|_=00=_|>

Bitch: a malicious, spiteful, or coarse woman. Sound familiar?  Whatever the
explanation or situation, it is an art form many women have mastered,
executed and blamed you for at some point during your life. So why not make
a film about it?

Wayne (Zahn), JD (Black) and Darren (Biggs) have been best friends since the
fifth grade, but when Darren starts dating the beautiful Judith (Amanda
Peet) their friendship begins to crumble - as well as their Neil Diamond
tribute band - as Darren becomes pussy-whipped by the evil bitch from
hell!

Believing Judith to be a greater enemy than Darth Vader, Wayne and JD kidnap
the bitch and fake her death, hoping that Darren - who by now is a sorry
exuse for a man - will move on and rekindle his interest in Sandy (Amanda
Detmer), Darren's lost love from high school who has returned to town to
take her vows as a nun!

Saving Silverman is an enjoyable funny movie, brought to us by the director
of Big Daddy and Happy Gilmore.

My rating: 7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Granted, Saving Silverman is not good movie. Jason Biggs is only funny as
the American Pie guy, and even that act got old by the sequel. But Steven
Zahn and Jack Black are two very funny individuals. A Neil Diamond cover
band called "Diamonds in the Rough." I could laugh about that for days.
And
the crazy, gay coach. I don't see how anyone with a sense of humor could
walk out of this movie feeling bad.
<|_=00=_|>

Warning: may be some spoilers and this does not paint a pretty picture of
this film!

There are some films that are so inept, so misguided, so void of anything
worth praising, that you wonder how it got so bad.  Was this film good on
paper?  Did it look funny at the time?  I don't know.  I'm not even sure if
it is possible for this film to look good in any form.  I was intrigued by
the trailer, it looked damn funny and the principal players in the film are
all actors that I like.  Amanda Peet has a great resume of smaller films
such as Body Shots, Playing By Heart, Whipped and She's The One.  All films
that I loved.  Jack Black thrilled me with his comic genius in High
Fidelity.  Steve Zahn was irritatingly likable in Out of Sight and of course
Jason Biggs was awesome in American Pie.  Hey, I even admire a lot of Neil
Diamonds music and I am one of the few people that liked The Jazz Singer. 
So how did this movie get so bad?  That is simple.  It starts with making
Judith ( Amanda Peet ) such a bitch!  Seriously, that is all that did it for
me.  Not to mention the fact that the film wasn't funny but when you have a
film that is predicated on showing how one friend falls madly in love with a
woman and abandons his friends, you had better give a good reason as to why
he is expunging himself from his friends of 20 years.  You can't just have a
hot chick come into one man's life reason enough to turn it upside down. 
There has to be reasons.  This film doesn't give any reasons.

Jason Biggs plays Darren Silverman as a romantic at heart.  His two best
friends are apparent losers that do nothing in life except party and listen
to Neil Diamond songs.  The three also have a Neil Diamond cover band.  They
are close buds.  Then one day, Judith walks into a bar.  She is beautiful
but crass and rude.  Eventually her and Darren hook up and he is in love
with her.  He falls in love with her because she makes him masturbate
instead of making love to her.  She makes him abandon his friends of 20
years, she forces him to quite the band that he loves, she makes him take
relationship counseling, she orders him around, she makes him wear a beeper
so that she can have him at her beck and call, she tells his friends that
Darren is her puppet and that she is the puppet master, she tells him what
he can drink on the very first day that she meets him and she makes him burn
all of his Neil Diamond records.  There is no growth of this woman into the
mind control freak that she is.  She is just a bitch from the moment that
Darren lays eyes on her.  How could anyone fall for someone like that?  I
know many guys that have been in love with many different beautiful woman
but not one of them has ever been as nasty as Judith is and hence not one
guys has ever had to live his life like he is in a convent.

Another problem with the film is the lack of comedy.  As I said earlier,
Black and Zahn have shown before that they are plenty capable of comedy. 
But as much as they try here, it falls flat.  I don't think that is their
fault, it is the script that they are working with.  Black has a few parts
that look as if they are going to be funny but you are waiting for a payoff
that never comes.

Saving Silverman is one of the worst movies I have seen in about a year. 
There was a romance that came out last year called Here On Earth starring
Biggs' American Pie buddy Chris Klein and Leeleeleelee Sobieski that was so
bad and so inept that I measure all bad films against that one.  While this
one isn't quite as bad, it is close.  I wonder if this is a pattern with the
boys from American Pie.  Are they all going to make sucky movies for quite
some time?  If these two films are any sort of barometer for the hopeful
success they are praying for, things don't look to good.

There is one plus for the film.  Amanda Detmer looks good.  That is
it.

1 out of 10-- half being for Detmer and the other half because it wasn't as
bad as Here One Earth.


<|_=00=_|>
"Saving Silverman" is about as far away from, say, "Citizen Kane" for
film greatness as any film could. But it's not a clunker either. For
what it is, it's a very enjoyable, occasionally hilarious movie pretty
much guaranteed to give anyone a good time.

Movie history (especially in the 1930s) is littered with small comedy
films that were never meant to be critical, award winning films but
made for audiences that wanted to laugh like "We're Not Dressing" and
any number of WC Fields' films (Fields' "Million Dollar Legs" seems
very similar in tone to "Saving Silverman"). Unpretentious, funny and
entertaining films and "Saving Silverman" falls squarely into that
category. It's dopey but harmless and frequently charming. All of the
actors are in-synch and none of them hold back especially Amanda Peet
as the woman from hell. She's beautiful and you can completely
understand why Darren would fall for her the way he does. Peet's
willingness to give it her all (especially at the end) is key to the
movie working as well as it does. Any vanity on her part would've sunk
the already flimsy premise but she goes into it wholeheartedly. Peet's
not given enough credit here.

Yes, Black and Zahn are great. That pretty much goes without saying.
Biggs is well cast but he's essentially playing a male victim. The role
is largely just his puzzled reactions. Last but not least is Amanda
Detmer as Sandy in a role straight out of 1930s comedy: the good, down
to earth girl who ever so slightly off her rocker (but in a good
appealing way). R. Lee Ermey rounds out the cast in a silly but
memorable role. Who would've thunk that the uber-intimidating drill
sergeant from "Full Metal Jacket" would turn out to be one of the most
reliable character actors around?

"Saving Silverman" is a simple, funny little film. Not great but it was
not made to be.
