

This film was held up for release more than once and now it's apparent why.
Dreck!!! This dressed up "B" oater is a sobering reminder of how really
well
done films used to be.  Even the bad ones were better than this.  While it
aspires to something profound and "hip", the overwrought and corny
dialogue,
the bombardment of cliches, and the horrid soundtrack and use of current
music (Moby in 1865?  Puh-lease!!!) make it anything but.  The script
smacks
of something that might have been written for Audie Murphy or Jeffrey
Hunter
in 1964 and soundly rejected.  By comparison "Young Guns" looks like "The
Wild Bunch" (Yikes!!!).  The filmmakers were apparently trying the "outlaw
as rock star" motif but Peckinpah's "Pat Garrett & Billy the Kid" set a
high
water mark that handily drowns these guys.  But, like "Billy" in the
earlier
work, everybody, and I mean EVERYBODY, loves Jesse.  It's sometimes hard to
tell who wants to sleep with him more; his brother Frank, partner Cole
Younger, or Zee Mimms, the purty gal he aims tuh marry.  But fear not,
bible
thumpers, ain't no sinnin' goin' on here.  Just good old-fashion killin'.
The only people sleeping together would be the audience.  The bad guys love
him, too.  They must, because whether it be at point blank range with a
pistol, or with a Gatling gun during a Civil War battle , they just can
seem
to want to hurt this guy.  Either that, or they're close to being the worst
shots in film history.  And woe be to those that do shoot at him 'cause all
Jesses's got to do is smile.  See him smile and it's a guarantee that these
hombres ain't long for this world, by cracky.   Remember the smile, folks,
it's integral to our hero's save-the-day and "this one's fer Ma" antics.
Les is a usually competent director and a nice guy to boot (old classmate
o'
mine).  I hope he can recover from the savaging that the paid critics will
give him.  If you want to see the James gang saga told in a good movie save
your money, stay at home, and checkout "The Great Northfield Minnesota
Raid"
or "The Long Riders".  
<|_=00=_|>
Many of today's younger viewers probably won't know too much about the
James Boys, and The Youngers. So they can enjoy this for what it is, "a
funny, bullet dodging romp, through the wild west. ". However the older
generation should probably steer clear of this one. The Goodies are
Baddies, and the Baddies are Goodies. Some of the one liners could have
been written by the writers of Joey or Friends, with additional
material by Mel Brooks, who might have called it "Men in Strides" I
notice that the stunt men and special effects (which seem mandatory in
today's films,) got all the awards. Figures about right. Jesse's escape
from the train is strictly Van Damme. So, if you've never heard of Bob
Ford, watch this, you'll probably enjoy it. However, if you are old
enough to remember Bob, and Tyrone Power, I have a feeling that you
won't.
<|_=00=_|>

There is just something about seeing a western that has real characters in
it.  What is it about outlaws that peaks our interest?  What was it about
Jesse James that made people love him so much?  Was he really as benevolent
as he was made to be in this film?  Was he really as crazy and theological
as he was in the Rob Lowe/Bill Paxton film Frank and Jesse?  I'm not really
sure, I would probably have to guess he was somewhere in between.  In
American Outlaws Jesse is played rather blandly by Colin Ferrel.  I can
honestly say that I wasn't overly interested in Jesse James in this film the
way I was in Frank and Jesse.  Rob Lowe had a much more complete
interpretation of outlaw Jesse James.  But what may be lacking in the leads
is more than made up for in some of the supporting characters, and for that
I would say that American Outlaws is almost worth seeing.  Not quite, but if
you have nothing better to do with $10.00, go see this
film.

Gabriel Macht plays Jesse's older brother Frank and Timothy Dalton, of James
Bond fame plays Alan Pinkerton, the man responsible for hunting down the
James gang.  Macht plays Frank James as the older and much wiser brother. 
He calmly solves disputes, writes and plans many of the heists and robberies
and helps Jesse court the love of his life.  Yet he is not there to take the
spotlight away from his brother or from Cole Younger.  Frank is basically a
peacemaker.  I enjoyed Macht's performance and when he was on screen the
picture was a lot more interesting.  He adds some needed credibility to a
somewhat lame film.  When you have great actresses like Kathy Bates looking
disasterous in their small roles, you know you are in trouble.  I don't know
if you can attribute all of this to the director, Les Mayfield, but it has
to start somewhere.  The actors weren't really allowed to shine and maybe a
few more takes should have been filmed before deciding on which one to
use.

Two other actors stood out as well and one of them was Timothy Dalton.  He
seemed a little out of place in this film.  He just looked as though he was
one step ahead of everyone else and just seemed to know something that we
didn't.  He could make you think that just by a smirk, or a tone of voice or
a tip of his black fedora.  He is evil, conniving and yet he has some
admiration for the James/Younger gang.  He can empathize with their
situation but his job is to hunt them down and kill them.  I would like to
see Dalton in more roles like this, he was fun to watch in this film.  Also
intriguing to watch is Will McCormack as Bob Younger.  He is unfamiliar to
me but anyone who watches The Sopranos religiously will recognize him from a
few episodes.  I thought he was believable in his smaller role as one of the
Younger brothers.  At first he comes off as being a little slow, but his
character builds towards the end and eventually he turns out to be one of
the stronger characters.

It's a shame that American Outlaws couldn't build a better script around
these three characters because they seemed better than the script they were
given.  

American Outlaws isn't a bad film, it's not really a great one either but it
is worth a look.  If anything, it will make you want to go home and pop in
your copy of Tombstone and remember what it is like to have compelling
Western characters.

6 out of 10--could be better, could be worse.  
<|_=00=_|>

This movie made me angry. Not just because it is a routine Western, filled
with cliches, but because it is hard to imagine that in 2001, the writers of
this embarrassment wouldn't give any regard to history. I realize it's just
a movie, and there's a long tradition of glamorizing the murderers and
psychopaths of the American west, but there has been enough research lately
about Jesse James that makes this film's treatment of him as Robin Hood an
outrage. Let's be clear: Jesse James was in essence a terrorist. He rode
with Bloody Bill Anderson and William Quantrill, who were Confederate
raiders who performed unspeakable atrocities in the name of slavery. James
was no Robin Hood. He was in it for the money. The gang is represented in
this movie as good-hearted guys just doin' what's right and carin' bout
their mamas. Horse-hockey! Read the new biography by T.J. Stiles to get the
true story. A realistic movie about James would be fascinating, but is
beyond the talent of the crew involved in this boil on the butt of cinema.
And besides, didn't Young Guns make this unnecessary?
<|_=00=_|>
...you think Jesse James was a loser and should be portrayed that
way on the
big screen to set the record straight.
...you like knowing what's going to happen in the next scene because the
screenplay was targeted for someone with the I.Q. of a
mop.
...you like to be reassured that just in case the action of the movie isn't
easy enough to follow along with, you can count on characters spelling out
what is going to happen in the next BIG EXCITING SCENE.
...the only other movie playing is Pearl Harbor.
<|_=00=_|>

The legend of Jesse James is one of those stories that people just never
seem to get tired of.  Every few years, we see a new cinematic version of
the life of James, a former Confederate raider who became a folk hero after
he turned to banditry following the war.  The latest iteration of the story
is "American Outlaws", a red-blooded B-style shoot-'em-up that offers little
in the way of historical accuracy and even less in the way of storytelling
elegance, but does serve up plenty of action and lots of
fun.

Jesse (hot Irish newcomer Colin Farrell) makes a name for himself on the
battlefields of the Civil War as an unpredictable live wire willing to do
anything to get the Yankees.  After the war, he and his levelheaded
sure-shot brother Frank (Gabriel Macht) return to their home in Liberty,
Missouri, only to find the railroad coming through town.  The big rail
money, backed up by hard-skulled detective Allen Pinkerton (a glowering
Timothy Dalton), wants to buy the James farm, but the boys aren't selling. 
They didn't shed their blood on the battlefields just to give their home
over to a railroad.  Soon, however, it's back to war when a bomb destroys
their farmhouse and the only way to get revenge is to strap on your guns and
ride.  As they rob railroad payrolls and bedevil the authorities, Jesse,
Frank, and their gang get something besides revenge:  they become authentic
American legends.

It's a story every schoolboy knows.  Hell, Bobby Brady was a Jesse James
aficionado.  Still, it's been a while since we've had a telling of the
story, and this one does a fairly good job of keeping us entertained. Les
Mayfield is not the obvious choice to direct a western (his most notable
previous film was "Encino Man" with Pauly Shore), but he actually does a
decent job.  He handles the action sequences with flair, particularly a
crackerjack bank shootout and Jesse's escape from the rail baron's train. 
The film's period accoutrements are all present and accounted for, the
costumes and guns appropriately impressive, the cinematography by Russell
Boyd all vibrant browns and golds.  

There are also some nice performances from the mostly young cast.  Colin
Farrell makes Jesse a likable, oddly sweet kid whose charm is just as deadly
as his gun.  Scott Caan matches him as the hotheaded Cole Younger (more on
him later), and Gabriel Macht is a sensible and solid Frank, his performance
the best thing in the film.  Ali Larter is nice eye candy as Jesse's lady
love, but the story really gives her nothing to do, and while Dalton growls
impressively behind a grungy-looking beard, he doesn't really get the chance
to do anything evil.  

This is where "American Outlaws" starts shooting itself in the foot.  There
is no real sense of a concrete enemy for the boys to battle, a true and
implacable adversary.  Harris Yulin blusters and barks as the railroad
baron, but he never truly emerges as a figure of loathing.  As a result, the
film's finale is unfocused and confusing.  Pinkerton's final action in
particular makes no sense to me at all.  Is he just giving a cocky young kid
the benefit of the doubt?  Is he doing it because Jesse's wife is hot?  I
don't get it.

"American Outlaws" is a frustrating film in some ways because everything you
like is balanced by something that rubs you the wrong way.  A great Civil
War battle opening is marred by the sparseness of the Union ranks (Mayfield
should have called for more extras that day).  An appropriately Coplandesque
score by Trevor Rabin is almost wholly sabotaged by the inclusion of a Moby
song (MOBY!) at both the beginning and the end of the film.  It almost makes
you want to grab a six-gun yourself and blaze away at the troublemakers,
leaving behind only those who are contributing admirably to the enterprise. 

Still, I've come to expect the good with the bad this summer, and "American
Outlaws" joins "Tomb Raider" and "The Mummy Returns" as a piece of escapism
that is better than the critics' comments indicate, but not as good as it
probably should be.  Still, with these flouncy dull MTV teen comedies STILL
dominating the marketplace, it's nice to see someone delivering a good old
fashioned genre piece.  In these parlous cinematic times, even a problematic
western is better than no western at all.

I close with a bit of real history:  after they stopped riding with the
James boys, Cole Younger and his outlaws kept going, and one time even
attempted to rob a farmhouse in their area.  The woman of the house got the
drop on them, though; she slammed a window on a gang member's hand, costing
him two of his fingers.  She survived to live a healthy long life, and have
children and grandchildren of her own.  One of those grandchildren was my
grandmother.  Someone should put THAT in a movie.  It would make me happy.  

<|_=00=_|>

Was this a joke? I am serious, was this a joke? Where are the Mystery
Science Theater Boys when you need them? This is a Western about Jesse
James. Of course, you might not have realized, Jesse wears Gucci clothing,
has his teeth capped, a designer haircut and always hangs out in rooms that
must be lit by 1,500 kerosene lamps. Of course, his gang consists of a
number of male models that are just "ahhh shucks" funny. They really are
some good ol' boys, that look real good. The dialog is quite refreshing as
well. I never knew that they used the words "suck" and "cool" so often in
the late 1800's. You see, this movie is educational. Silly me, I used to
think James was a ruthless outlaw and racist. 0 out of
****
<|_=00=_|>
Released in 2001, "American Outlaws" is yet another rendition of Jesse
James, Cole Younger and their Gang. This one focuses on the end of the
Civil War and the first few years of the gang's activities,which lasted
a whole decade in reality, from 1866-76, ending with the foiled
Northfield, Minnesota, bank robbery on September 7, 1876. Jesse & Frank
escaped while the others were captured or died. While Frank tried to
settle down to a normal life in Virginia Jesse restarted the gang in
1879, but was shot by Robert Ford, one of his trusted gang members on
April 3, 1882.

"American Outlaws" is highlighted by a great cast with palpable
chemistry, including Colin Farrell as Jesse, Scott Caan (aka 'Danno')
as Cole, the beautiful Ali Larter as Zee, Jesse's girlfriend/wife, and
Timothy Dalton as the lead Pinkerton. Gabriel Macht, Will McCormack,
Nathaniel Arcand and Gregory Smith are also on hand as notable members
of the gang. The film plays it fairly serious accented by a fun, joie
de vivre spirit, sorta like Indiana Jones in the wild West. You can
tell the cast had a blast during filming. This is the exact opposite of
the grim "The Long Riders" from 1980, which is arguably the best and
most accurate film about the James-Younger Gang. 

As far as historical accuracy goes with "American Outlaws," well, there
was a group of outlaws in Missouri called the James-Younger Gang and
they did rob banks, trains, and stagecoaches in Missouri, Kentucky,
Iowa, Texas, Arkansas, Kansas, West Virginia and Minnesota (whereas
Jesse's later group continued the gangs' criminal legacy in Alabama,
Missouri, Louisiana and Mississippi), other than this the historicity
is pretty butchered for the sake of rousing Western entertainment. See
"The Long Riders" for a more austere and accurate version of the tale.

BOTTOM LINE: Even though "American Outlaws" loses points for
inaccuracies and implausibilities, it scores high in overall
entertainment value. It's a turn-off-your-brain-and-have-a-blast kind
of Western. The movie performed poorly at the box office in 2001 and
Roger Ebert gave it a scathing review. Ebert compared it to 1972's "The
Great Northfield Minnesota Raid," which he praised. This was strange
because that film wasn't exactly realistic either; in fact, it's a
veritable parody or black comedy. These movies shouldn't be compared in
the first place since "American Outlaws" details the gang's first year
in action and "The Great Northfield Minnesota Raid" the gang's final
bank robbery, a whole decade later. Furthermore, the two films are
expressly opposite in tone: "American Outlaws" makes the wild West
larger-than-life and ALMOST fun while the other film de-glamorizes it,
making it profane, ugly and idiotic. In any event, "American Outlaws"
is seriously rollicking Western lore worthy of one's video library. 

The film was shot in Central-East Texas (great locations, by the way)
and runs a short-but-sweet 94 minutes.

GRADE: B
<|_=00=_|>
This is a slight and plain biopic about Jesse James who ranks with
Billy the Kid as the most famous of Western outlaws . Legend and
folklore have cast him as a Robin Hood , a good boy forced by
circumstances to follow a criminal life . The picture provides a simple
portrait of Jesse and his band , as they move from Civil War to there
territory becoming into demi-legends . Jesse (Colin Farrell) and Frank
(Gabriel Match) joined the Confederate guerrillas of Quantrill and
learned to kill in ruthless company . Jesse and Frank along with
cousins Cole (Scott Caan) , Bob (Will McCormack) and Jim Younger return
from War to find mommy (Kathy Bates) and family threatened by railroad
. Then a Midwest town to be aware that mean railroad barons (Terry
O'Quinn , Harris Yulin) have captured the deeds to their homesteads
without their knowledge , as a group of young ranchers unite forces to
take back what is rightfully theirs . As Pinkerton (Timothy Dalton)
detectives were hired by the railroad company to hunt down Jesse and
Frank . So James Brothers commence to robbin' banks and trains to help
out the poor folks who been done wrong . In the course of their revenge
, they will become the object of the biggest manhunt in the history of
the Old West . Along the way , Jesse courts attractive young , filly
Zee (Ali Later) . As their fame grows, so will the legend of their
leader, a young outlaw by the name of Jesse James.

A sophomoric wild bunch look-alike that ends up resembling a Western
version of Bowery Boys . Features various passable acting by a popular
group of today's known stars . This is an average look about the known
story of the West's greatest bandit along with Frank , Cole Younger and
brothers . Contemporary-style Western with acceptable performances and
professional direction by Les Mayfield who creates some good action
scenes . Jesse is middlingly played , though sometimes overacting , by
Colin Farrel, he plays as a likable, sympathetic, attractive young and
favourite with girls . This passable Western packs lots of action ,
shootouts, and explosive violence . Taut excitement throughout ,
beautifully photographed by Russell Boyd and with spectacular
bloodletting but realized with some flaws . atmospheric and evocative
musical score by Trevor Ravin . The story is similarly to ¨The young
guns I and II¨ with loads of noisy action and violence . The film gets
spectacular shoot em'up , thrills , exciting horse pursuits ; it's
entertaining , although nothing new but displays an ordinary pace and
with no originality . People have been writing the obituary for a few
years now , but ¨American outlaws¨ cannot be the bullet in the genre's
back .

The picture was based on actual events , these are the following : At
the war's end in 1865 , Jesse rode in to surrender and was shot and
seriously wounded by a Union soldier . It is believed that Jesse took
part in his first robbery in 1866 when a dozen men held up the bank in
Liberty , Missouri . A bank cashier was killed in the raid and a reward
was offered for each of the James brothers . In 1873 Jesse and his band
derailed and robbed a train on the Rock Island line . Jesse married his
cousin Zerelda , who bore him two children . Pinkerton detectives were
contracted to chase Jesse and Frank , the agents surrounded the home ,
believing they to be there , tossed a bomb and the explosion killed
Jesse's young half-brother . This outrage brought much sympathy for the
brothers . On 1876 Jesse and Frank in company the three Younger
Brothers , attempted a bank robbery at Northfield , Minnnesota , and
walked in disaster . The alerted citizens opened fire on the raiders ,
of the eight bandits involved , three were killed and three Younger
brothers were captured . On 3 April 1882 Bob Ford , a new member of the
gang , treacherously shot Jesse dead in back of the head in his home at
St Joseph , Missouri .
<|_=00=_|>
Don't bother watching this lightweight, predictable, boring waste of
time. Like "King Solomon's Mines" was tepid rip-off of "Indiana Jones",
this movie is a rip-off of "Young Guns". This movie belongs in the
filing cabinet with "The Apple Dumpling Gang", which would be more
enjoyable to watch. It falls flat in it's attempt at bringing humor to
the tale of the James-Younger gang. I cannot imagine the ruthless
killers taking time to stand around in the middle of robbing a bank and
discussing who is the better shot or who should receive more credit for
their criminal activities. OK to watch if you have absolutely nothing
better to do for a couple of hours, otherwise, skip it.
