
In New York, the process server Joe Tyler (Matthew Perry) is assigned
to deliver a divorce paper to Sara Moore (Elizabeth Hurley). Her
wealthy Texan husband Gordon Moore (Bruce Campbell) is cheating her and
also trying to take all their money for him. Sara offers one million
dollars to Joe serving Gordon first, and he travels to Texas with Sara
trying to accomplish his task. Meanwhile, the serving company sends
Tony (Vincent Patore), the colleague and enemy of Joe, to serve Sara. A
dispute begins with the oponents trying to serve the divorce papers
first, to get financial advantages in the process.

I liked a lot this chase movie that slightly recalls "Midnight Run".
There are many funny moments, Matthew Perry and Elizabeth Hurley show
great chemistry and the IMDb User Rating of 4.6 is quite unfair. Every
time that I see the beautiful and delicious Elizabeth Hurley, I recall
the amazing choice of Hugh Grant for Divine Brown. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "A Serviço de Sara" ("Serving Sara")
<|_=00=_|>
I don't know why everybody is bashing this little movie. Granted, it's
not an "extraordinary film" nor is it Oscar material, but it does get
the job done, and that is to entertain for an hour and a half. Matthew
Perry's character is not that far removed from what he does in
"Friends", so if you like "Friends" style of humor, you'll have no
problem enjoying "Serving Sara". The premise of a guy delivering court
notices isn't very attractive, but the movie does a fine job in
stretching this premise and making it funny. Liz Hurley looks, as
always, hot and Bruce Campbell(EVIL DEAD) is funny as the Texas
business Honcho trying to divorce his wife.

I actually had my reservations about watching this one, because neither
the title nor the cast was that appealing to me at first, but again, I
must confess that I did enjoy this little sucker and I'd be lying if I
told you otherwise. 7* out of 10*!
<|_=00=_|>
Frankly, the amount of stars this movie received on this site is
sickening. I honestly found this movie to be an adequately comical
film, and can't see how it only received 4.8 out of 10. Now, obviously
it wasn't the best movie I've ever seen, but I did find myself laughing
at it quite frequently. I really can't think of anything major that
would yield such a low score. The acting was good, the cast had Mathew
Perry, Elizabeth Hurley, Jerry Stiller, Cedric the Entertainer, a cameo
from Mike Judge, and someone who I believe deserves to be in many more
movies, Bruce Campbell. The story was sufficiently original, and the
movie had, a brilliant, yet unforeseen twist towards the end. The only
thing I could possibly think of for people giving this movie such a low
rating, is that people tend to over-analyze comedies way too much. You
can't expect a drama movie to be the same as a comedy, it just doesn't
work that way. Personally, I would like to see this movie again, and
feel that it deserves a better rating on this site than it obtained.
<|_=00=_|>

I saw this movie, mainly because Matthew Perry was in it, and I love his
Chandler Bing character. Now, I first feared "oh no, this is going to be
some romantic mumbo jumbo", but NO. Ofcourse this film contains romance, but
it's ok, cause it's funny as hell. Perry makes several characters in this
movie, which are worth it alone. Hilarious and I can definately recommend
it, eventhough the plot line is a little weak, but Perry and his co-stars
makes totally up for it..
<|_=00=_|>
Matthew Perry and Elizabeth Hurley serve up a very funny, and fine
comedy romp in "Serving Sara". Perry plays Joe Tyler, a processing
server who boss(Cedric The Entertainer) is more conniving than himself.
He and his lackey Tony (Vincent Pastore) makes lots of money serving
people. Upon making a serve, he meets Sara(Hurley) and gives him a
offer he couldn't refuse. After getting his nose busted, the new
partnership has begun. I like the part at the airport where Sara's
jeans get mangled up at the conveyor belt. Then when they get to a
cheap motel, she flashes the night auditor. The recipe of this team-up
is revenge on her ex-husband(Bruce Campbell). Tony, Ray Harris'
co-worker is more inept than helpful. He gets the paperwork done, but
the time zone gives his the disadvantage. Revenge does have its price,
but if it's right, it's a payoff. The result, living large and in
charge! Great movie, great cast, so-so response from the critics. But I
don't care! You got served! 3 out of 5 stars!
<|_=00=_|>

After seeing all the promotion Mr Perry has been doing over the last week
or
so for Serving Sara I started looking forward to this movie more and more.
I
went in today after reading what some of the reviewers had been saying
about
the movie and I have to admit I was a little worried I would be
disappointed
but the reviewers couldn't have been more wrong about this one. Matthew
Perry is a fantastic actor and I have to agree with everything Larry King
said to Matthew on Thursday 22nd August on his show

KING: My late friend Jackie Gleason made a movie once with a fellow named
Tom Hanks, and he told me, this kid, big. You going to be the next Tom
Hanks.

PERRY: Thank you very much.

KING: I'm predicting it, Perry. You're a lot like him, you have that air
about you, you look the type, and I think you're going to get major roles
and this one, "Serving Sara," is just another springboard on a great
career.

After watching this movie I can defiantly say Matthew is going to be the
next Tom Hanks. His comedic timing in this film was superb and the
accents... hilarious!!!! the whole film had me in hysterics.

Everything about this movie was fantastic... not much else to say except DO
NOT listen to the people reviewing this movie who say it's not worth
seeing... they couldn't be more wrong !!!

I give it 10/10

<|_=00=_|>

"Serving Sara" is a modern-day comedy movie about a man who gave up a
successful career take a job that he enjoys. He becomes frustrated as he
struggles to accomplish his daily job duties and he cannot figure out why.
He learns (the hard way) that his coworker is not only jealous of him, but
also competitive towards him.

The main male character is Joe who is played by Matthew Perry.  Matthew
Perry works for a private investigator as a process server and is hired to
serve divorce papers to the main female character Sara, played by
Elizabeth
Hurley. Matthew Perry has goals and struggles to stay on track to
accomplish
his goals.  Once he serves Elizabeth Hurley her divorce papers, she
convinces Matthew Perry to work with her to save her share of her fortune.

This movie is very similar to another movie starring Matthew Perry titled
"Fools Rush In", 1996, also starring Selma Hayek.  The movie is about a
man
whose struggles to be successful at any cost and slowly learns what is
important to him.  He struggles to reach his true goals, as Matthew does
in
"Serving Sara".  Like "Fools Rush In", "Serving Sara" is light humor with
little or no real point to the movie.  In both movies Matthew Perry plays
a
funny guy who works along side of beautiful women, and in the end is able
to
accomplish his goals.
<|_=00=_|>

I watched `Serving Sara' on Saturday. I wish I could say it was a very
funny
film. I wish I could say that Matthew Perry doesn't look unhealthy for most
of the movie. I wish I could say that Elizabeth Hurley was a good comedic
actress. I can say that it's clear even when she's acting that Ms. Hurley
is
a very classy lady. She's also obviously comfortable in front of the
camera.
However, her use of exaggerated hip swaying and mouth expressions isn't
effective in carrying the jokes. When I think of popular actresses who are
naturally funny, I think of Julia Roberts and Meg Ryan. Both these ladies
utilize their eyes and whole faces in delivering their comedic lines. As
for
the very likeable Matthew, the circles under his eyes and his drawn face
made it hard for me to focus on his performance. His delivery was similar
to
his acting in `Friends', but in `Serving Sara' his appearance throughout
the
whole movie seemed subdued. Perhaps he lacked gusto due to the health
crisis
he was battling at the time of filming or maybe he was directed to be less
`Chandler', and more streetwise and scrappy. As for the other two main
co-stars, Vincent Pastore basically plays his character in `The Sopranos';
I
couldn't detect any difference between his movie performance and television
persona.  Cedric `The Entertainer' caught my attention with his
on-the-verge-of-a-heart-attack performance as the boss with a short temper
and high blood pressure.  However, his schtick ran out of steam rather
quickly.  I became unimpressed after his second remark about `that bitch'
revealed a lack of original dialogue.  Still, if you're a Matthew Perry
fan,
as I am, the movie isn't an entire waste.  The actor's good nature shines
through, even when his role calls for him to be something of a jaded
character. I had a few chuckles at some of Matthew's more physical scenes
and got to watch him for an hour and a half, so I left the theatre with a
smile on my face.
<|_=00=_|>

I thought the bad Matt Perry movies were over now that he is out of rehab.
He constantly tries to play the cool guy, which is uncomfortable for
everyone to watch. He should have been the humorous fish out of water that
people enjoy. After this film anything with the Matt Perry stamp on it
should be direct to video. Anyone associated with this movie is suspect.
Elizabeth Hurley should not have agreed to this movie, hopefully she got
paid up front. The villain Hurley's husband is the star of a funny
comedy-horror movie, but this character was barely two dimensional. I
officially blame the director for putting this garbage together. A good
movie can effect you. Well I was physically uncomfortable when they tried
to
develop a love story towards the end. In that respect is the only way this
movie could be classified as good.
<|_=00=_|>

SERVING SARA(2002)*** Matthew Perry, Elizabeth Hurley, Cedric the
Entertainer, and Bruce Cambell.

In this screwball comedy, a process server, Joe Tyler,(Perry) tries to serve
divorce papers to Sara Moore(Hurley). But when he finally serves her, she
makes him an offer. If he tears up the papers and serves Sara's
husband(Cambell), she would give him 1 million dollars.

I have no idea why everyone is hating this movie such. It was good! I think
it could have benn funnier, but it was still enjoyable, and sweet. I think
Perry and Hurley have a lot of chemistry, and I would like to see them
paired up together again. Stop being so cruel! jk

SERVING SARA-***/****

PG-13 language, and some crude/sexual humor.This wasn't as innapropriate as
it looked in the previews. Like most of the bad stuff is in the preview.

