
Out Cold is one of my favorite movies. It's not intelligent, the acting
isn't anything special and the plot is sub-par. But it's hilarious, and
as a snowboarder wildly entertaining. I watch it in the summer when I
miss the season, in the fall when I'm waiting for the season, in the
winter when I'm NOT snowboarding, and in the spring when the season is
ending. There is so much truth to the movie in some aspects that it
just feels right. The movie is so funny in so many little ways, and if
you open your mind and are willing to accept it for what it is, I think
you'll love it as well. It has a great soundtrack featuring a LOT of
Jack Johnson, some Weezer, Sum 41, other stuff, all of which is good.
Jason London is great as Rick Rambis, Zach Galifinakis is hilarious as
Luke and whoever plays Pigpen does a great job of acting dumber then
you would think anyone could actually be. You'll either love it or hate
it, but if you snowboard or like to have a good time, I think it will
be the former.
<|_=00=_|>

When I first saw the trailers for this film I thought it looked like just
another run-of- the-mill comedy, and I guess in a lot aspects it pretty much
is, but still, I thought it was much funnier and much better than I
originally anticipated.

Sure, the story is nothing profound, nor terribly original, but that doesn't
necessarily mean it isn't good and fun to watch. The story is basically: guy
finds girl, girl dumps guy, guy can't get over girl, guy and girl run into
each other again, girl explains why it will never work, guy must decide what
he should do... Like I said, nothing profound, or original, but there's
still fun stuff to be seen.

The comedy in the film is what made the movie for me. Zack Galifianakis
(Luke) is absolutely hilarious and plays a fantastic character. Jason
London, David Denman and Derek Hamilton also have their share of comedic
moments.

I also feel very much obligated to mention the women in this film. This is
reason enough to watch this film. Victoria Silvstedt (Inga) looks nothing
less than perfect throughout the film. AJ Cook (Jenny) is also quite the
looker and not a bad actress. The last woman I have to mention is Caroline
Dhavernas (Anna), very nice!

Normally I'm not one to pay too much attention to the music in a film
(unless it's just atrocious), but anyhow, I thought the music choices are
great in this film. The movie is packed full of great music (my favorites
being Eve 6 - "Anytime" and Weezer - "Island In The Sun").

All in all, I would definitely recommend this film to anyone who likes
snowboarding or just likes comedies. Just don't go in expecting the best
movie you've ever seen, it's not the best, but it certainly was worth my
money. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did. Thanks for
reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

OK, I'm a sucker for this type of film. I know it's something we have all
seen a million times, but, darn it - we NEED this type of movie.

Yeah, yeah, yeah…the story line's predictable: idyllic local winter ski
haven (Bull Mountain) is under threat by a big-business tycoon's (Lee
Majors) plans for turning it into a high rollers' resort town. And, yeah,
yeah, yeah…the subplot is equally original:  boy loses girl, boy wants girl
back, girl has fiancé, boy must go through trials and tribulations to win
girl back, etcetera, etcetera, ad nauseum. Add a few crass scenarios, a
big-breasted beauty (Victoria Silvstedt), beer and you've got yourself
another boring teen-sex comedy. Right? Not so fast, partner.

Out Cold joins the ranks of other great teen comedies (Animal House, Better
Off Dead, Caddyshack, and the hundreds of others) in its magical ability to
stop time – if just for a moment. Like its predecessors, Out Cold captures
that youthful time when friends surround us, we are having the time of our
lives and the party never seems like it is going to end. Those are our
`rites of passage' years - generally, between the ages of 16-25 - nine very
short years.

Out Cold takes place in the fictional tiny-town of Bull Mountain, Colorado -
elevation 10,000 feet – a winter wonderland of snow, skiing and
snowboarding. A place where there's always fluffy powder to plow through and
a hilarious friend is at every corner you turn. There's always the local pub
to chill in after a hard day of playing – the characters in these movies all
have jobs but no one seems to work. Loneliness is not an option. That's what
makes this movie (these movies) great. 

Out Cold isn't just about gross-out gags with guys running around trying to
get laid, it's about the escapism that these films offer. Even if you've
never experienced the perfect winter or summer vacation – even if you've
never gone to that ivy-league school where no student has homework – even if
you've only dreamt about spending time at exotic locales with fun in the
sun/snow – this is the reason why we NEED this type of movie. If only for
ninety minutes, these movies offer a fantasy or nice remembrances of times
gone by (or, to come.) 

For all of you naysayers out there who pooh-pooh this film on the account of
its wonderfully juvenile content, I say, `Go see Harry Potter, you bombastic
moralist and leave me alone!'

<|_=00=_|>
OK, this film is not going to win any awards for best acting, or best
cinematography, or best picture for that matter. However, this film
will make you laugh. It will spend about a buck ninety of your time in
a very guilty pleasure sort of way. It revolves around a town in
Alaska, a ski town, that is about to encounter a shift from a peaceful,
secluded atmosphere to a bustling, main stream atmosphere. Our heroes
are the snowboard instructors who have to save the day from a
irritating, stereotypical land developer. Putting aside the obvious
overtones of similar movies of this genre, and dispelling some
predictability you really can have a good time. The jokes are funny,
the characters have some witty dialog and the story moves briskly. The
only drawback for me was the inept love story, but that was balanced
out with some good jokes derived from it. It's no Schindler's List, but
is a worthy addition to a home library or just a rental on a Friday
night.
<|_=00=_|>

Being only one of two people in the world to see this movie twice in the
theaters makes me perhaps what one would consider an Out Cold expert.
After
buying the movie on DVD (available now in all self-respecting stores) I
have
enjoyed it four more times, and I have to say that not only does this movie
not deserve the current ranking in the 4's, but the movie is far better
then
it is being portrayed.  Out Cold is part teenage-gross-out laugh-fest, part
Ode to Casablanca, part kick-ass snowboarding.    This movie is rich in a
deep, philosophical plot, in which our protagonist Rick Rambis, is locked
into a bitter war to keep his life and his town.  Bull Mountain has been
his
home forever, and when the departed owner's son decides to sell the
mountain
(to the Six-Million-Dollar-Man Lee Majors, playing John Majors-no relation)
Rick and his n'er-do-well comrades must conform to the new ruler.  Majors
foresees the Black Diamond in the Rough as the next Aspen, and begins to
change the quaint heritage of the land to conform to his new vision, Snow
Nook.  Rick and his friends decide to rebel and take back the mountain.
And
if the rich plot is not enough, it also has Victoria Silvstadt, former
Playmate of the year, Zach Galifianakis, a great comedian who gets his
helmut stuck in a hot tub, and a cast of tens of...well...tens of extras.
The movie was unfortunately passed over at the Oscars for movies that did
not have anyone having sex with a hot tub, that didn't have any playmates,
that didn't have the Weezer song "Island in the Sun", nor did it have the
greatest words of wisdom ever in a movie, "No regrets, that's my motte.
That and 'Everybody Wang Chung Tonight'".   
<|_=00=_|>
My hopes were not high for 'Out Cold', they really weren't. I thought
this would be just another stupid American comedy like 'Dorm Daze'
which i also watched a few days ago and was far from impressed with. It
wasn't so thank god for that!

For an American comedy the humour is at times sharp even though at
times it is blunt but still works very well. Who the heck wouldn't
laugh at the drug test scene!? The acting is also spot on. I think
Jason London's character is a bit stupid though because that girl Jenny
that likes him is much better looking than that french bird Anna he
dated for three weeks. No Contest! I was like "Dude, stop being such a
douche and go for sweet Jenny who likes ya instead of Anna who is a
cheating ho!".

The locations in this film are beautiful and the snowboarding scenes
are breathtaking at times. All in all a nice comedy which ultimately
tells the story of corporate America f***ing things up. Well worth
watching. 9/10
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, I know everyone think this movie is idiot, predictable and has its
stupid jokes. I could be with you, I dont like this kind of movies,
specially when it gets as bad as "The Sweetest Thing" , "The New Guy" and
others from the genre...

But I am here to say that this is one funny movie! The Snow boards
sequences
are super! We don't care for the acting in movies like this, since we
laugh
and feel good, it's all right.
I am asking you to not be led by the critics, because people sometimes
forget to watch a movie as it is supposed to be, do yourself a favor and
don't do that.

I recommend you to watch this movie and have a laugh with your friends.
But
i must say it is not great, there are no mesmerizing jokes, but still got
its charm...

My rate would be 6 out of 10, but that blondy , oh man, she deserves a
nice
star so my rating is : 7 / 10

have fun!
<|_=00=_|>
When talk about this movie you might think it is just another Jason
London movie that you barely heard about and is doubted weather to
watch it or not; after all he is not very much of a extreme type of
guys to be playing this role. Anyway, he did! And tell the truth the
movie ain't that bad.

It is about the group of friends try to save their beautiful town from
taking over by the rich tycoon.

Not very original story but movie did offer more on pretty funny
casting that turn out to be good (Caroline look great); some of the
scenes are funny and smile worthy and even to laughable at time.

Recommendation: Definitely worth a watch 

Rating: 7/10 (Grade: C+)

Please Rate My Review After Reading (YES/No), Thanks!
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is HORRIBLE and you should love it.

From a cursory glance, this movie looks like a retread of what larger
names (Adam Sandler, Chris Farley) have done and failed at, but this
movie is different. THIS MOVIE IS FUNNY. It is pure unclean fun and
what it lacks in a "message" it more than makes up for with sharp
humor.

While people may take issue with the subject matter (drugs, dick and
fart jokes, boobies), the story and dialogue are exceptional. This
isn't Les Miserables (or even South Park: Bigger Longer Uncut, taking
jabs at society) but it is smart and witty and you'll find jokes on the
third trip that you didn't see before. Give it a try--it's definitely
worth your time.

8 out 10: Rated Excellent for Casablanca references, the scene on the
mechanical bull, and just being absolutely fun.
<|_=00=_|>
Out Cold is a little-known comedy gem from 2001 that has somehow
managed to find its way on my list of movies that I watch on a
semi-regular basis.

The film is set in the fictional ski town of Bull Mountain, Alaska, a
place which manages to maintain its unpretentious, laid-back small town
atmosphere despite being located in an area famous for its great skiing
and snowboarding. The plot focuses on a group of young twenty-something
local residents who enjoy snowboarding, getting drunk, getting high,
and playing practical jokes on each other. Leading this group of
likable misfits is a man named Rick Rambis (played by Jason London),
who is unable to form a relationship with attractive snowboarding
instructor Jenny (played by A.J. Cook) because he is still pining over
a girl he met during a drunken binge in Cancun, Mexico.

When wealthy businessman John Majors (played by veteran actor Lee
Majors) steps in with the intent of buying Bull Mountain and turning it
into an Aspen-like "espresso and tofu" resort that caters to rich
yuppies, the residents of Bull Mountain begin to fear that they will
all be fired and forced to leave town. Adding to the turmoil is the
arrival of Majors' two daughters: Inga, (played by former Playboy
Playmate of the Year Victoria Silvstedt) a gorgeous blonde bombshell,
and Anna (played by Caroline Dhavernas), Rick's old flame from his
Cancun vacation.

What follows is a slobs versus snobs comedy in the tradition of
"Caddyshack" and "Animal House" as the locals try to stop their town
from being taken over by Majors and his cronies. The film also directly
parodies Casablanca in several parts, with Rick finding himself in a
situation similar to Humphrey Bogart's most famous character from his
most famous film.

The acting or script will never win any awards, but the film does
provide enough humor to make it worth a rental. It also features some
truly impressive snowboarding footage performed by some of the top
snowboarders in the world. I also feel the need to mention David
Koechner, who provides a hilarious performance as Stumpy, a
hard-drinking, tall-tale telling local who is probably insane.

One complaint I have about the movie is that it feels like several
scenes were edited or removed entirely so that it would be given a
PG-13 rating rather than an R rating. Hopefully someday an unrated DVD
will be released.

I give this film a 7 out of 10. It's not a classic comedy, but it's
entertaining enough to be worth a rental.
