

I can't say I suspected much from the previews.  I anticipated another lame
comedy and a cheap imitation of "Men in Black."  "Evolution" can be compared
to "MIB" in certain aspects, but it breaks new ground.

I can't give a really scientific review, because quite frankly I was too
busy laughing to weigh out the pros and cons.  This is a great popcorn
movie!  (Metaphorically speaking, I was eating nachos) There are scary
moments involving slimy creatures, so chances are if there are any females
with you--they will be clinging onto your arms.  

Ivan Reitman is the famed director of the "Ghostbusters" movies, and
"Evolution" has much of the same charm and quirky sense of style and humor. 
David Duchovny (who really has a good sense of humor off-camera, but happens
to get stuck with mostly serious roles) is terrific in a looser role that
enables him to flaunt his knack for comedy.  Of course, Orlando Jones is the
funniest in the bunch.  He has a terrific scene in which a bug crawls inside
his skin and doctors have to get it out...rectally.  I have to say, that was
the highlight of this offbeat comedy and had me on the floor!  Julianne
Moore plays the clumsy assistant.  I can't say I found her role all that
humorous.  Her pratfalls are pretty lame and predictable.  But that minor
hint of cheap slapstick didn't ruin the overall experience. 

"Evolution" is great fun from start to finish (a very interesting finish
with an innovative product placement)!  Sure, it's all low-brow, but it
works and the crude humor is tamed down to a tolerant level (Well, compared
to the average contemporary comedy).  This is not a movie to be studied or
analyzed or discussed for hours at a time.  Just sit back and HAVE SOME
FUN!!!  Because chances are (considering previous 2001 releases) you won't
be having this much fun at the movies in quite a while.  I could be wrong,
but better to be safe than sorry.

My score:  7 (out of 10)  
<|_=00=_|>

A lot has been said about what's good and bad in the movie. I won't
revisit those comments. I thought the creatures were creative and
hysterical.

Sure they weren't logical or realistic, but they were fun in a fantasy
sort of sense. I enjoyed the watching the entire alien "ecosystem"
evolve.

Fortunately, I'm the kind of person that understands a movie made to be
predominantly a comedy doesn't require scientific accuracy, nor should
the audience expect it. It was intentionally silly.

One last thing. I thought David Duchovny did a great job playing a
character that had a wry, dry sense of humor. He wasn't exactly a
straight man, but it was clear to me, he was laughing at the world.

Rating, I gave it 8/10 because it entertained me AND my wife, something
many movies can't do.

<|_=00=_|>

Okay, this may surprise you, but, this film is way better than every one
says it is.  It's hilarious.  It is kind of like Ghostbusters, well its
alot
like Ghostbusters, but who didn't like that one?  I'm sick and tired of
movies going down thanks to bad reviews, hint hint look around at some of
these.  People, if you've read this far it may already be too late to catch
the next showing of EVOLUTION however go see it asap.  Dan Aykroyd alone is
worth seeing in this flick.  In my opinion this is one of the best of the
year.  
<|_=00=_|>

When I first read about Evolution, the latest sci-fi scheme to come from
DreamWorks, I was interested.  A story about aliens with humor, not bad.
Then when I read that Ivan Reitman, the BEST comedic director of the 80's
and one of the best of all time was at the helm, I was thrilled.  I mean,
come on, after he was given duds like `Father's Day' and `Six Days, Seven
Nights' to work with, isn't it about time that Hollywood gave him a project
worth while (I won't even mention the bombastic disaster of `Junior'oh, I
just did)?

It begins with the introduction of Scott's character, Wayne Green, a wannabe
fireman practicing for his fireman final (questionable at first, hilarious
in the end).  Then he gets an unexpected visitor - a meteor, carrying alien
organisms hits the heart of the Arizona desert. After a community college
science professor, Ira Kane Duchovny, working with one screwed up screen
name)and his eccentric geologist buddy, Harry Block (Jones) discover the
meteor, they find that the `bleeding' rock starts to create these weird
alien creatures and soon they begin to multiply.  Kane's nemeses, Gen.
Woodman (Levine) and the military get involved, things get too
out-of-control, so it's up to the teaming of Kane, Block, Green and
government scientist Allison Reed (Moore) to stop the evolution.

If you're a Reitman fan, the plot of this could make you go in expecting
some kind of tribute to both `Ghostbusters'.  In a way it is, and is that a
bad thing?  Hell no!  If you liked, or even loved (like me) `Ghostbusters',
I can bet my clean pair of boxers that you'll get a hoot out of `Evolution'.
But of course any film must maintain some distance from the films its being
compared too, and `Evolution' does that.  The characters and situations are
different, atmospherically.  Duchovny turns in a `cool' performance, by that
meaning he wasn't Mr. Badass or Mr. Laugh-a-Minute, he was just, well,
Duchovny and that itself is always pleasing to watch.  Jones is his usual
funny self, delivering some funny lines. Moore's ability to do just about
anything comes in handy here, playing the hottie-yet-clumsy love interest.
Scott's acting resembles the other roles he's done in the past, and I've
come to appreciate that (that thing he does w/ his eyebrow is getting
funnier every time).  Can't say the same for Levine; his cliché performance
as the bad-guy-who-doesn't-listen character gets annoying fast.

A lot of the film makes me question what it is, and really what it could
have been.  The script, penned by three writers, was originally written as a
sci-fi THRILLER, not a sci-fi comedy.  There were a lot of laughs, but
because of the script's origin, there could have been more.  But considering
the script was originally a sci-fi thriller, the filmmakers, including
Reitman, did a great job.  Can't say much for the ending, though: the ending
looks and feels like a meshed-up result of what-could-have-been, and from
that mushiness, the filmmakers poked at and took at least some of the good
elements.  Thank god the film is a comedy; if it was its original idea, the
ending would have been disastrous.

`Evolution' is a overall crowd-pleaser with nice special effects and makeup
(those dead aliens looked great).  It's a few laughs and comedic situations
short of comedic greatness, but look on the bright side-Reitman is back in
his lovable kick-ass form.  He's tapped into the present and how most
comedies are made, but he didn't dare forget his roots: there is a sequence
in the film where Duchovny, Jones and Scott chase down a flying creature in
a mall.  The three, equipped with shotguns, dispose of it in true
Ghostbusters style.  And with me being a big Ghostbusters fan, I fell in
love with the it, plus its the best scene in the film. (The trio singing
after their battle; nice touch).

GRADE: B+
<|_=00=_|>
While this film is far from a masterpiece, Evolution deserves better
ratings than it currently enjoys here at IMDb. The cast and crew
contribute superior work, and the storyline is quite inventive. The
premise has been done a few times before, however, it has never been
done quite as well as the treatment it receives here.

Alien spores land here on Earth and begin to wreak havoc.

I found this highly entertaining, cleverly witty, with a slick
production quality which tends to draw in the audience, who finds its
members laughing, sometimes in spite of themselves. You won't WANT to
like this. There is a large amount of juvenile humor, which usually
would detract from a work such as this, but this is a sci-fi comedy
that WORKS.

Again, it's no masterpiece, but it IS clever and fun, in spite of the
sophomoric humor.

It rates a 7.3/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>

Evolution is a step up from most gross-out comedies. With a nice idea for a
plot, it starts off quite serious before the stars show their comic talents
off. David Duchovny has good comic timing that hasn't really been tapped
before, Orlando Jones is far better here than in Double Take and Say It
Isn't So and Seann William Scott is a damn fine comic actor who uses his
goofy charm to his advantage. Julianne Moore's constant falling over isn't
funny, but you can't have everything. It's a shame that it flopped in the
US, because it's really good. The special effects are decent, the turns are
likeable and the script is loaded with sharp wit. OK, maybe some jokes go
dead but seeing Orlando Jones getting lubricated after a bug enters his body
and Scott singing to a flying monster in a mall is reason enough to go see
this excellent summer blockbuster.
<|_=00=_|>

It has been ages since I've seen a movie that I laughed so hard it brought
tears to my eyes, this one did.  It was hilarious, I highly recommend it to
anyone who just wants to laugh.  I intend to purchase it as soon as it comes
out onto video.
<|_=00=_|>

"Evolution," starring David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott
and
Julianne Moore, is a terrific fun summer romp. A meteorite crashes to
Earth,
bringing with it microscopic alien organisms that rapidly begin evolving
and
threaten humanity's very existence. Enter our heroes, two community college
science professors Ira Kane (Duchovny) and Harry Block (Jones). They
investigate the meteorite, take samples and Kane quickly realizes what is
going on. But the Army has been monitoring Kane's work ever since he was
drummed out of the USAMRID because of a tremendous mistake he made. They
try
to take over the situation, but don't really know what they're doing. CDC
scientist Allison (Moore) at first works with the Army on the project, but
soon realizes that it's Kane who is making the most sense.

The whole movie is done as a comedy and the jokes are fast, furious and
really funny. The chemistry between the leads is fantastic. Special effects
-- the alien creatures -- rocks. Don't miss this one!
<|_=00=_|>

This movie makes no pretensions--it's a simple, fun summer movie full of
special effects.  The cast handles its duties in a professional manner,
and
there are enough laughs to keep you entertained throughout the
movie.
<|_=00=_|>

So far, this has to be the funnest movie of the summer. Director Ivan
Reitman got MIB & Ghostbusters and smashed them together and found himself a
perfect comedy. The cast works perfectly and the Aliens were amazing. Great
Special FX. If you want to have a blast at the movies, don't miss this
one.


