
As other reviewers have suggested, "Uptown Girls" is a hard film to
classify: it's not a "comedy," per se, because it isn't funny (and
barely even seems to try), but it also isn't particularly dramatic
(though there are dramatic elements). I'm reminded of a term I've heard
critics use a number of times -- "charmer" -- but only now do I realize
how necessary it is to their lexicon. This film's greatest ambition, it
seems, is to make its audience smile - and, as far as that goes, it
succeeds. I may not have laughed at all for the whole ninety minutes
(though I probably did), and I wasn't very moved; but, oh boy, did I
smile a lot. Very few movies accomplish even that, so I'm forced to
give "Uptown Girls" a strong recommendation.
<|_=00=_|>
I actually saw this film by mistake, and couldn't help posting a
comment here (which I actually think it's my first, but hey, it
deserves it). I think it's a very thoughtful and sensitive movie, with
plenty of funny but also moving scenes. Despite my better judgement,
Brittany Murphy does a good job at playing the "confused" grown-up,
while Dakota is a charming, if not absolutely fantastic grown-up "in
the making". I think this movie is worth watching, at least, if not
exclusively, for the terrific relationship between Ray and Molly. I had
never expected to grow such fond of these "Uptown Girls"....

Watch it! It's worth your bucks!
<|_=00=_|>

Over the years, we've seen dozens of films labeled as chick-flicks that hold
true to the same clichés, jokes and rehashed plots that have been done over
and over again. After seeing a trailer for `Uptown Girls,' one would
naturally think that the film would be a hopeless mesh of the same simple
ideas of a lost girl or woman trying to find herself in the most unlikely of
places. In all honesty, `Uptown Girls' is just that. However, it has some
redeeming qualities that make it rise above its own conventional nature-it
actually has an emotional depth to its characters that wouldn't occur under
normal circumstances. Also, it stars Brittany Murphy and Dakota Fanning, two
wonderful actresses that dazzle the screen with their very presence.

	Molly (Murphy) is a woman in her mid-twenties who is completely detached
from reality. Her deceased rock-star father has left her a wealth that
affords her the finest apartment, friends and possessions that money can
buy. However, life turns upside down for Molly when her broker skips town
with all of her money. All of sudden Molly is faced with a world where
everything she's been absorbed in has disappeared. Her only choice now is to
get a job and start living life like a normal person. After several attempts
at some of Manhattan's most elite shops, she accepts a position as a nanny
for a friend's boss. But she has no idea what she's in for-a little girl
named Ray (Fanning) who is completely obsessive and compulsive. What's more,
she wants nothing to do with Molly. The two feel each other out and
eventually start to discover that they have a great deal in common, as they
are both suffering from the loss of the one's that they cared for most
deeply. As such, they have both entered into their own delusional worlds
that don't hold true to reality. It's up to the two to help each other out
in finding a purpose in life and discovering the true beauty of friendship.

	Fanning is truly the prize of `Uptown Girls.' She's an adorable young
actress who can actually perform. She steals every scene she's in and the
audience can't get enough of her. The moments in the film where she breaks
down and cries, you get the impression that its real and this isn't
acting-she has that the innate talent to become the characters that she
portrays in the script marvelously. Look for her in the recent `I am Sam,'
as well as in `The Cat in the Hat,' coming this November.
	Murphy proves once again that she is a gifted actress. I guess we can
forgive her for this past winter's `Just Married,' as her track record
generally shows her showing off real talent in films like `8 Mile,' and
`Girl, Interrupted.' Her portrayal of Molly makes the audience feel sadness
for her character, but at the same time, we can't help but feel that she is
incredibly pathetic, and not in the comic sense. 
	The most rewarding part of viewing `Uptown Girls' was how tender the film
is. Murphy and Fanning come alive together and you feel their pain and the
isolation that they have surrounded themselves in because of the lack of
truly loving people in their lives. You walk out of the theater fond of the
characters and rooting them on at the end, regardless of the film's
parallels to so many others in the genre. 
	`Uptown Girls' isn't a great movie, but it sure is something that is
surprisingly likable, if not lovable. ***

<|_=00=_|>
I will not attempt to prove that this movie should be ranked among the
great movies, but I am more than willing to defend Uptown Girls against
the mostly male haters. True, this movie could be deemed a 'chick
flick', but why is that so unbelievably, unforgivably horrible? If you
don't like movies with mostly female characters and even some slightly
feminist themes, than you will not like this movie. I, on the other
hand, watched this movie for the first time expecting the worst and
most guilty kind of entertainment, and was more than pleasantly
surprised by the dark tones and impeccable performances. I'm a harsh
critic, and if you don't trust me, check out the link to Ebert's review
of this film via 'external reviews'. Murphy and Fanning are a
refreshing duo in a buddy film and like many female buddy films, Uptown
Girls is unfairly abused and underrated. If you are trying to sound
pretentious you probably shouldn't admit to liking this film. However,
if you honestly found this film entertaining, and in some small
respect, refreshing, you should admit the merit of this 'chick flick'.
Murphy should be commended for choosing roles like Molly and her
character in Little Black Book, because in a sea of fantasy and
escapism there is an aspect of actual female representation written by
women and made for women. Boys, if you want to win points with the
ladies, stop letting your testosterone take over your actual pleasure
gauge, and attempt to see the positive attributes of films such as this
one. Trust me, it will do no good in the long run to hide your opinions
on the basis of reputation and ornery stoic persuasion.
<|_=00=_|>
Uptown Girls ranks as one of the best comedy-drama motion pictures for
the masses. The perfect blend of comedy and drama that has the sharp,
biting, gut-roaring laughter along with the hard-hitting, emotional
turmoil of pain and happiness. This movie deals about growing up in
real terms, about facing death, about loss, about caring, about love,
about family, about learning to have fun but also to become
responsible. There is so much packed into this overall simple,
comprehensive fairy tale yet poignant look into the soul movie. While
not a box office winner because the guys will hate the movie (with
little action and little sex), this female, mood-feeling movie hits
just the best balance of laughter and serious script development (among
the best that has come along FINALLY). This is what real film is all
about...this film is the closest one can get (without becoming an
independent film...without becoming cheesy, without trying to please
everybody and losing its soul) to a great film in its girl-growing up
romantic comedy genre (yet it really isn't about romance as much as
becoming a whole person (young or old). 

Re-reviewed 1/4/2013. 8 from 9 rating. The great blend of comedy and
drama that has the sharp, biting, laughter along with the hard-hitting,
emotional turmoil of pain and happiness. This movie deals about growing
up in real terms, about facing death, about loss, about caring, about
love, about family, about learning to have fun but also to become
responsible. There is so much packed into this overall simple,
comprehensive fairy tale yet poignant look into the soul movie. While
not a box office winner because the guys will hate the movie (with
little action and little sex), this female, mood-feeling movie hits
just the best balance of laughter and serious script development (among
the best that has come along FINALLY). This is what film is all
about...(without becoming an independent film...without becoming
cheesy, without trying to please everybody and losing its soul) to a
great film in its girl-growing up romantic comedy genre (yet it really
isn't about romance as much as becoming a whole person (young or old).
<|_=00=_|>
In New York City, Molly Gunn (Brittany Murphy) is a spoiled wealthy
immature young woman, living as if she were a princess in a fairy tale.
Her father was a popular rock-and-roll guitar player, who died in a
plane crash with Molly's mother when she was a little girl. On her
birthday party in a nightclub, she meets Lorraine "Ray" Schleine
(Dakota Fanning), a nasty young girl with attitudes of adult , living
with her careless mother and a terminal father in a fancy uptown
apartment. When the accountant of Molly vanishes with her US$
100,000,000.00 inheritance, Molly is left with nothing but debts, and
she needs to work to survive without having previous experience or any
skills. She is hired to be Ray's babysitter, and their close contact
makes Molly reach the maturity and Ray act like as a child of her age.

"Uptown Girls" has just a reasonable and predictable screenplay, being
corny and boring sometimes, but supported by two of my favorite
actresses: Brittany Murphy and Dakota Fanning. For me, they are the
greatest attraction of this common flick and the reason why I bought
the VHS. There are a few worthwhile moments along the story, the script
has many flaws and this movie is only recommended to fans like me of
these two great actresses. My vote is six.

Title (Brazil): "Grande Menina, Pequena Mulher" ("Big Girl, Small
Woman")
<|_=00=_|>
Rich girl loses all her money and has to be a nanny for an uptight
brat; it certainly sounds like a bad movie in the making. But actually
I quite enjoyed this one. The stars are appealing, a lot of the scenes
are quite funny and even though the movie is predictable and maudlin it
does have scenes with a genuine emotional impact. With a script that
has some intelligence and nuance and actresses who bring sincerity and
belief to rather clichéd characters (child-woman and woman-child,
essentially), this movie winds up being far better than it has a right
to be. I feel like I have to make excuses for liking it, because it is
kind of dumb, but I really very much enjoyed it.
<|_=00=_|>

This just goes to show you that you shouldn't go into movies with
preconceptions, because I went in expecting (hoping, even) to hate this
movie, and did for a while, but somewhere along the way it started working
on me, and by the end I was practically eating out of its hand.

Molly Gunn (Brittany Murphy) is the rich, immature, hard-partying daughter
of a deceased rock star, but when she loses all her money and belongings,
she has to take a job as the nanny to a rich little girl named Ray (Dakota
Fanning). Ray is very young, but acts like an uptight 45 year-old woman,
because she's been ignored by her cold, socialite mother (a "Melrose
Place"-ish Heather Locklear). 

Both of these characters, but especially little Ray, are entirely fantasy
creations. I don't care how self-sufficient she's had to be, no single-digit
kid is going to act like this all the time and speak this kind of dialogue.

What makes the movie work is the actors. Murphy is a very likeable actress
and with her mixture of raspy sexuality and innocent flakiness, I can't
think of anyone who would have been better playing this spoiled rock
princess. 

And as Ray, Dakota Fanning once again shows that she is one of the absolute
best child actors out there. This is the third time in a row she's been the
best part of the movie she's in (the other two being the irritating "I Am
Sam" and the downright hideous "Trapped"). Once her character begins to
lighten up in the second half of the film, her performance really takes off.

So the story is very predictable, the dialogue often weak, and I hated the
character of Molly's on-again, off-again "rock star" boyfriend (who
inexplicably makes it big with a horrifyingly bad song about Egyptian
cotton), but the characters played by Murphy and Fanning are a pleasure to
spend time with, and that's what sold it to me.
<|_=00=_|>

Altogether, it's an amusing film, but its overbearing sentimentality
prevents it from really taking off.  Basically, if you've seen previews, you
can pretty much predict the whole plot of the film.  Brittany Murphy is an
irresponsible girl who suddenly has to face up to reality when she's evicted
from her home, has to get a job babysitting a pampered rich girl (Dakota
Fanning) who also has to face up to reality, and by the end Murphy becomes a
responsible, mature person and Fanning loosens up and acts more like her
age.  Blah, blah, blah.  There are moments of truth that work, despite
spawning from cinematic contrivances.  There are in fact a lot of spoiled
girls like Fanning's character, who get whatever they want simply because
the mothers or fathers don't want to deal with them.  That's also why I wish
the film could've developed Heather Locklear's character more thoroughly,
since she's the reason why her daughter acts the way she does.  But the film
does have a lot of contrivances that are corny and predictable, which is why
I give it merely an above-average rating.  Plus, Fanning's snooty sarcasm
gets terribly annoying at times.  I always hated watching that moment in all
the previews where she'd say "News-fe-lash!"  All in all, "Uptown Girls" is
a fluffy, superficial feel-good comedy that doesn't fail to entertain, and I
will recommend it for a rental.  

My score:  6 (out of 10)      
<|_=00=_|>
This film is about an uptight child who wants to play everything by the
rules, and her interaction with her young caretaker who is playfully
childish.

Dakota Fanning is an amazing child actress. The arrogant and cocky
faces she managed to pull was in itself an achievement! No wonder she
subsequently got so many major roles. 

The backing music was good, I liked the songs a lot. The plot itself is
quite predictable, but it is still fun to watch. It did bring a smile
on my face and kept me interested in the film. This is a good brain-off
film for the evening.
