

`The Transporter' is pretty good for what it is - a sleek, slick,
high-octane action thriller that couldn't possibly expect us to believe
anything we are seeing on screen and, quite frankly, doesn't care that we
don't.  That attitude is probably all for the best in this case, since it
allows the filmmakers to devise elaborate action and stunt sequences
without
having to pay the slightest heed to that fantasy killjoy known as
`credibility.'

Jason Statham literally drips attitude as The Transporter, a stolid,
nattily
dressed former military man who spends his time delivering packages (no
questions asked) all over the French Mediterranean for what turn out to
be
some pretty shady criminal clients.  One day he discovers that the
`package'
he is to deliver happens to be a human being - a pretty young Chinese
girl
named Lai Kwan who has been dropped, bound and gagged, into the trunk of
the
sporty car on which he lavishes most, if not all, of the love and caring
he
has to offer.  Yet, Frank turns out, despite his initial air of callous
and
self-serving indifference, to be a criminal-type with a heart of gold,
and
he is soon helping Ms. Kwan foil an attempt by her nefarious father to
sell
a crate load of Chinese immigrants into slavery.   However, the plot is
the
least of the matter when it comes to a movie like `The Transporter.'
This
film is far more concerned with attitude and style than it is with its
storyline, which exists merely as a vehicle on which to hang all the
explosions, car chases and kickboxing fight scenes that have become the
stock-in-trade for modern action pictures.   The movie is well directed,
well edited and quite beautifully photographed by cinematographer Pierre
Morel, who gives the film's French Riviera setting a bright, sparkling
sheen.   In fact, Morel's camerawork here is some of the best I have seen
in
a film in a very long time.

In addition to Statham, who makes for a very `cool' action film hero,
Francois Berleand turns in a wonderful performance as a shrewd,
wisecracking
police inspector who knows that Frank is up to something but who has
enough
faith in his own instincts to at least give the man the benefit of the
doubt.  Qi Shu is cute and charming as the uninvited and unwelcome
`complication' that steps into Frank's smooth-running, well-ordered
life.

`The Transporter' is the cinematic equivalent of junk fast food - not
high
in nutritional value, but quickly consumed and satisfying when you don't
have the time or inclination for something more demanding.   Like its
cool-under-pressure protagonist, the film delivers the
goods.

<|_=00=_|>

All action movies should strive to be this imaginative!  OK, the plot was
not particularly intriguing, but what action movie's actually is?  But the
plot was secondary to the action, it only served to make the bad guys bad
and the good guys good.  The rest was up to Jason Statham's considerable
fighting talents.

There were some unbelievable yet jaw-dropping stunts, a terrific fight scene
in oil, and some great car chase scenes.  There were no smarmy one-liners
making light of good action sequences as is too often the case in
American-directed action flicks.  The hero was cold, yet compassionate.  He
didn't kill unnecessarily, but when he had to, he was ruthless.  There are
many great action sequences, some so unbelievable you have to just shake
your head and remember that action movies are not supposed to be based on
reality.  There is even a great shot of the hero jumping off a speeding semi
while it races over a bridge onto the back of a bus going perpendicular to
the truck under the bridge!!  I mean, come on!  It would never happen, but I
have to give credit to the stunt coordinator who imagined the
possibilities.

There is another hilarious scene where the hero chases down an airplane on
foot, hijacks it, jumps out of the plane at great altitude in order to land
on the back of a speeding transport with a conveniently located borrowed
parachute!  I am glad all crop dusters carry such indispensable equipment
and that it is so easy to land on the back of a truck speeding down the
highway at 130 KM/hour.

All in all, 90 minutes of sheer enjoyment.  Even with the predictable
ending, I have to highly recommend this movie.  If you can suspend belief
for a little while, you will be rewarded.
<|_=00=_|>
The Transporter (2002) was a fun action film that was directed by Jet
Li's fight director Corey Yuen and it starred Jason Statham. Jason
stars as Frank Martin. He's a hired gin who does driving jobs for a
hefty fee. For his services he'll use his superb driving skills to get
his paying customers out of a jam. He asks no questions and needs
precise instruction in order to perfectly time his getaways. His number
one rule is to never ask questions. One day he takes a gig from a
sleazy and shady man named Betancourt (Matt Schulze). Instead of
delivering the goods, he breaks his number one rule and peeks inside
the package...

A fun action film filled with bone breaking action and wild stunts.
People have unfairly slammed this movie for being unrealistic. What do
you expect? The action scenes are performed to flamboyant ans stylized
you have to suspend belief. It's one of those movies that doesn't throw
in realism all of a sudden to make the movie more interesting. Jason
Statham is pretty cool as well as the Transporter and he seems legit,
not another tough guy phony. HE looks like he can knock the tar out of
you in a real fight. Co-stars Shu Qi (she learned to speak English
phonetically for her role in this movie).

Highly recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
I still rate this pretty high even if the last 10 minutes got totally
out of hand and went crazy, action-wise. By "out-of-hand," I mainly
refer to the usual excessive action and bad guys-keep-missing-good
guys-even-from-short range-type mentality. Actually, a lot of the film
is that but it's such a fun movie that I didn't care.

Jason Statham is very cool in the lead and it's he that makes this a
decent film. I also enjoyed Shu Qi, a very pretty woman; the witty
dialog of Francois Berleand and some stylish, tongue-in-cheek directing
by Louis Leterrier and Corey Yuen. Another director whose films are
known for their hip styles also co- wrote this: Luc Besson.

Some of the action scenes are outrageous. To Statham's credit, he did
most of the action scenes himself. I guess he's a tough guy in real
life, too. He's pretty amazing.

A no-brainer-but lots of fun movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Jason Statham plays the Transporter, an ex-military man who will move
anything that needs to be moved...no questions asked. He has three simple
rules. But when he breaks his cardinal rule, no peeking, he opens a
varitable pandora's box that he might not survive. Statham plays one cool
character. I could see him as a serious action hero type. The project was
spearheaded by Luc (The Professional) Besson and directed by Cory Yuen. The
film has high energy and is a load of fun. The fighting scenes are cool and
the beginning and ending sequences are a blast. Forget the Fast and the
Furious use The Transporter 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
There's no question that Luc Besson is one of Europe's biggest action
producers. I mean with the cult classics "La Femme Nikita" (1991) and
"The Professional" (1994) behind him, he's basically been given the
green-light for every big action picture he comes across. One of his
latest and most ambitious projects was "The Transporter," released in
2002.

I have to admit this is one flick I approached with a very open mind -
very open. I mean, I like Jason Statham. I think he's a pretty cool guy
and at first, even I questioned his casting as Frank Martin in "The
Transporter." But the problem is, and I'm assuming this is the result
of the quickly edited action scenes (which were toned down to make the
film "PG-13"), he's not being given the room to really be the best he
can be.

As the lead character, he's a transporter. He can get you, your
associates or your property anywhere, anytime, on time, no questions
asked. But you know what? Common sense tells us that it was curiosity
that killed the cat, and the cat in this picture thankfully doesn't die
some horrible death but instead, curiosity yields him a break - a
beautiful woman named Lai (Shu Qi) - bound and gagged, and in the trunk
of his BMW.

It's not spoiling much that she and Frank get together and as a result,
are forced to do battle with shady and vicious American businessman
Wall Street (Matt Schulze) and his army of high-kicking, disposable
assassins. There's a little more to the plot and Lai, and the
circumstances surrounding her appearance in the trunk of Frank's car,
and it involves some smuggling of poor Chinese immigrants from China to
Europe, where much of the action takes place.

Speaking of action and there's plenty of it, Statham does display some
pretty impressive moves but the frantic editing just doesn't do him
justice. He obviously worked out for this part and there are frequent
moments when his ripped torso is on display. He also (barely) manages
to shy away any possible accusations that he's just a British novelty
to American audiences. Director Corey Yuen (whose work on Jet Li's 2001
action film "Kiss of the Dragon" I admired), is behind it and Besson's
got a producer credit.

The problem may not be Statham because I think he's a really cool actor
with a raspy British accent, but the script is worth some deeper
examination by more thoughtful minds. There are plenty of holes and
unanswered questions (i.e., the extent of Frank's military training and
experiences, Lai and how she wound up with Frank and her quarrelsome
relationship with her father who is played by Ric Young, and the plot
with the Chinese smuggling).

But why am I making such complaints? "The Transporter" is an action
movie; no plot required. Despite some bumps in the road, "The
Transporter" is pure action fun from beginning to end, and I got my
free ticket to see "The Transporter 2" on Friday.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
I am usually apprehensive about seeing films with relatively unknown
faces,because either they are shoddily directed,or woefully low-budget
affairs that are quickly forgotten.This movie however proved me wrong
completely.Jason Statham plays a retired military man who makes a
living by transporting goods in France,and no questions asked about
their particulars.Things are hunky-dory until he finds that he is
transporting a young Chinese girl in his car,who happens to be the
daughter of a crime-lord,illegally bringing in immigrants from
Asia.What's more,she is bent on stopping her father and this makes both
of them targets of the organization.The film is extremely well made,and
the action sequences are deftly handled by Cory Yuen.Jason Statham has
the makings of a good action hero in him , and I wouldn't mind seeing
more of him.Newcomer Shu Qi is pretty articulate ,but in the end it is
the fast-paced action that makes this film a product worth trying,as
none of the characters save Statham leaves any impression on the
viewer.Pure unadulterated action for a Saturday night.
<|_=00=_|>
The first time I watched this movie, I was hooked, I think it is a
sleeper cult classic.

This movie has all the makings of a great testosterone flick. It starts
with a wild car chase in France, introduces some memorable phrases,
adds an attractive woman and antagonist with a very bad hair piece.
There is also the required explosions and fight scenes, but they are
not over-the-top.

The plot is not spectacular, but hey, it's a guy movie. Jason Statham
makes a great tough guy, loved him in The Italian Job as well.

I recommend inviting your friends over, grabbing some Orangina, and
watching this great movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Nearby Nice, Frank Martin (Jason Statham) transports and delivers illegal
cargoes. His business is supported by three basic rule: Rule no. 1 – The
deal is never to be changed; Rule No. 2 – No names; and Rule No. 3 – Never
watch the cargo. The day he breaks his own rules, he realizes he is
transporting a Chinese girl, Lai (Qi Shu), and he gets in many troubles due
to his fault. This movie is pure action having all the usual clichés: car
chasing, explosions, fights when nobody uses guns, the lead actor gets some
kind of involvement with the victim etc. But the choreography is excellent
and the action scenes are great.  Jason Statham recalls Bruce Willis in `Die
Hard'. If the viewer do not think, he will have an enjoyable entertainment.
My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): `Carga Explosiva' (Explosive Cargo') 


<|_=00=_|>
Meet Frank Martin. Martin (Jason Statham) is a retired British Special
Forces officer currently enjoying retirement in France. Well, sort of
retirement. Frank actually makes his living by transporting goods or
people from one location to another. His services have made him a
millionaire many times over, evidenced by his oceanview palace. The
two-tower structure comes complete with fancy gates, a brick driveway,
a garden, two kitchens and even an elevator. In his pristine garage
resides the only love of his life, a perfect BMW. His services come
with three rules: the deal never changes, no names, and never look in
the package.

The movie begins when Martin arrives with perfect punctuality outside
of the world's richest bank. He is to whisk three robbers to safety,
but four emerge. Citing rule number one, Martin refuses to leave and
calmly explains why he cannot carry four men. The lead robber puts a
gun to his head, but without the ignition code, he cannot drive.
Checkmate. The panicking leader executes the fourth man.

Martin starts the car and is pursued by police in a wild chase through
busy streets and narrow alleyways. Dodging and swerving his way to
safety, Martin outsmarts the police in the film's high point. This car
pursuit has drawn comparisons to a similar scene in The Bourne
Identity.

The movie only rests for little while, and then it is on to his next
job. His contact explains the job, then says, "It is for a man
named..." "No names," Martin interrupts, reiterating his strict
adherence to the rules. The client's name is Wall Street, I suppose,
since he is only addressed with pronouns. The cargo is large bag to be
fit in his trunk.

While tending to a flat tire on the way, he notices his "cargo"
squirming. Curiosity gets the best of him, and he discovers a
hopelessly bound girl (Qi Shu) with her mouth sealed shut as well. He
has no sympathy and completes the deal, but when his customers double
cross him, he enacts revenge and the hostage ends up in his home.

The girl, Lai, is grateful for the help and stays with him though she
is free to leave. However, her former captors are not too happy with
her current quarters. 5,000 bullets later, she informs Martin that she
was smuggled in from China as part of a human slavery operation and
many more will follow.

Up until this point, the film is performing admirably, but once it's
second half commences, the wheels begin to fall off one by one. The
chemistry existing between Statham and Shu in the first act quickly
evaporates. Not even the discovery of Martin's conscience works.

We are led to believe that Lai's father (Ric Young) is one of the
slaves, but we later find out that he is the mastermind behind the
operation. This new discovery throws into question why Lai was in the
bag in the first place, and raises many other questions as well. The
film never gives its audience the courtesy of answering those
questions, and it feels as if Luc Besson is making it up as he goes.

The action also goes down the toilet. It mostly consists of Frank being
confronted by a group of ruffians and knocking them to the floor. Each
man rises up to fight again, and every time he has them beaten more
henchmen appear and join the fray. His reluctance to use lethal force
is astounding. The invulnerability of every character completely
undermines the effectiveness of everything the film wants to do, and
reduces it to the level of Beverly Hills Ninja. The climax involves
Frank parachuting onto to a semi-truck in an attempt to commandeer it.
It is boring, and reminded me of how much more I enjoyed the semi-truck
chase in License to Kill.

Statham flourishes as the amoral Martin and Qi Shu fares well as the
confused and vulnerable young girl in strange surroundings. Francois
Berleand is satisfactory as a friendly but suspicious detective, but
has no interesting material. Matt Schulze falls flat in embarrassing
fashion with his lifeless treatment of Wall Street. Ric Young is
equally bad. Even Shu, who probably set the record for time being bound
on camera, becomes a drone in the second half.

Cory Yuen is better than this. Luc Besson is better than this.
Moviegoers deserve more than an action film that slowly destroys
itself. The first half warrants a good score, but what follows is so
putrid that The Transporter rates only a four out of ten.
