

I'll be totally honest and confirm to you that everything what they say
about this movie is true. It's a brilliantly animated masterpiece with lots
of humor that actually works and a plot that really brings tears to your
eyes from time to time. The modern artists of Pixar never cease to amaze the
audience in expanding their horizons. Finding Nemo is visually stunning and
you can have nothing but respect for the people who created it.

I was more or less skeptic about watching it, because it was so overhyped !
Two days before it got released in my country, the TV and press loudly
announced that the DVD broke all records in the USA during its first
release-day. That's usually a sign of being typically mainstream and
fake...but Finding Nemo is not. I'm allergic to fake sentiment and pathetic
feel-good movies but I was really touched by this one. The moral and
valuable life lessons are always present, but they're not shoved down your
throat or thrown in your face all the time. This movie really relativates
itself and that's important for a good comedy. And it's hilarious !!! Every
side character in Finding Nemo (and there are a LOT of them) is exceptional
and worth a mention. And the voices are cast perfectly as well...like the
voice of Willem Dafoe for Gill, for example...a perfect choice. The
character of Dory ( speaks through the voice of Ellen DeGeneres ) steals the
show. She's an adorable blue fish who suffers from amnesia. She forgets what
she's doing or going to every five minutes and that really leads to
hilarious situations. 

Movies like this aren't just being made for children exclusive... They're
good for everyone to realize you have to entertain yourself from time to
time and just to enjoy the little things in life. I recommend this to
everyone in the world. No matter if you're 9 or 99 years old, Finding Nemo
will bring a smile on your face and leave behind a warm feeling in your
heart. 
<|_=00=_|>
I have enjoyed most of the computer-animated films made so far, ranging
from Pixar films like "Toy Story" and "The Incredibles" to DreamWorks
films like "Shrek." But "Finding Nemo" is the one that remains
unparalleled, not because of its comedy or creativity, both of which
are equaled in the "Toy Story" movies and in "Monsters Inc.," but
because it truly, more than any of the previous computer-animated
features, reinvents the genre of the children's animated film.

Humor in traditional animation is usually based on broad slapstick and
physical exaggeration. There are occasional nods to this brand of humor
in "Finding Nemo," as when a flock of seagulls ram into a boat and we
see their beaks crowing on the other side of the sail. But such
sequences only call attention to how far this movie generally departs
from old cartoon conventions. Instead, the movie invests its world of
sentient animals with a surprisingly scientific texture. All of the
animals are based on real species. The fish tank is constructed out of
real devices. There is a strong sense of locale, as Marlin (Albert
Brooks) travels across the Pacific to Australia, where even the animals
speak with an Australian accent. In a scene that I'm sure Gary Larson
of "Far Side" fame loved, a pelican discusses with a group of fish the
intricate details of dentistry. The fact that the animals talk and
understand what's going on is treated as though it were a natural
feature of the world. The realism is so striking that by the end of the
film, you'll almost believe it possible for fish to plot an escape from
a tank.

Far from making the film pedantic, this approach results in an
intelligent but still entertaining picture. Most of the humor is based
on parodies of human behavior: repentant sharks start a club that's
like Alcoholics Anonymous, a school of fish act like obnoxious DJs
while forming themselves into spectacular patterns, and a four-year-old
girl behaves like most kids that age, oblivious and destructive. The
manner in which Marlin finds his way to his son is so inventive that we
can forgive the film for the number of coincidences involved.

The story employs the same basic formula used in "Toy Story," in which
two characters, one uptight and the other clueless, are thrown together
as they're forced to journey through a world populated by creatures
that are a lot more knowing than the humans realize. This movie,
however, creates a unique character in Dory (Ellen DeGeneres), a fish
with short-term memory loss. To give a cartoon character a real human
disorder is risky, to say the least, and I'm glad the filmmakers didn't
lose the nerve to include this ingenious device, which not only
generates some of the film's biggest laughs, but reinforces the
character interaction that is so central to the story. This is in fact
the only Pixar film to feature true character development. In the
course of his voyage, Marlin learns to be more adventurous, getting
parenting tips from a surfer-dude turtle voiced by the film's director
Andrew Stanton, while his son Nemo learns to be self-reliant.

Of course, none of the sharks, jellyfish, whales, gulls, pelicans,
lobsters, and humans that Marlin encounters along the way really mean
any harm. They're just doing what they do. As Nigel the Pelican tells
Nemo at one point, "Fish gotta swim, birds gotta eat." That's perhaps
the film's most interesting insight, that there are no true villains,
just creatures that act according to their nature, and a few that
transcend it.
<|_=00=_|>

Pixar Studios have done it again. I have to say that these guys are
totally
good in computer animation, as well as in storytelling. Rarely do those
qualities come together but here they are, delivering unto the audience
once
again something that one can only be drowned with wonder. Such is the
marvel
of Finding Nemo.

The story is about Nemo (voiced by Alexander Gould), a young clownfish who
is fed up with his dad Marlin's (Albert Brooks) excessive paranoia over
him.
He swims to a place where his dad forbids him and ends up being captured
by
a scuba diver. He is then placed in a fish tank in a dental clinic
somewhere
along the harbors of Sydney. Thus the quest of Marlin, along with Dory (a
hilarious forgetful blue tang voiced by Ellen DeGeneres) to find Nemo
before
it's too late.

The story is a simple one but where the film more than makes up is on the
overwhelming sense of detail and rich, lavish colors and textures as if we
aren't really watching an animated film at all. Scenes such as Marlin
bringing Nemo to school while swimming through corals and anemones, to the
aquarium where Nemo was taken to, are nothing short of breathtaking, and
undoubtedbly one of the most outstanding animation ever to hit the
screen.

The world of "Finding Nemo" is simply alive with lovable creatures
swimming
about their daily lives under the ocean, darting across the screen in
playful manners. The viewer almost literally dives into another world for
nearly two hours and one cannot help but be completely captivated.

The music and screenplay also blend very well with the visual feast that
it
produces such a high quality movie. From its basic storyline, to the
father-and-son relationship theme, to the wonderful underwater world
throughout, this is really an adventure through an ocean of stunning
visuals
and storytelling.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>

One of the best animated films I have ever seen.
Great characters, amusing animation, and laugh-out-loud
humor. Also, watch for the little skit shown after the
credits.
It's all great stuff that simply must be seen.
<|_=00=_|>

Remember back when you were little.you know, back when tall to you was
about as high as a mailbox? In those days, Disney animated films (e.g.
`Lion
King' and `Beauty and the Beast') were some of the coolest things out
there
and were movies to watch over and over (much to your parents' chagrin).
Now,
animated movies aren't exactly the `coolest' things to see, but an
exception
can be made for the uber-hip Pixar movies, the most recent of which being
`Finding Nemo'.

After losing all but one of his brood, Marlin (Albert Brooks) an
over-protective clown fish that strangely lacks a sense of humor, has
resolved to protect his one (slightly disabled) `child' remaining, Nemo
(Alexander Gould). But disaster strikes as Nemo is taken by a Sydney
dentist
and plopped into a fish tank where he is comforted by a host of other
captive fish (William Dafoe, Vicki Lewis, Allison Janney, et al). But
back
in the big ocean Down Under, Marlin has resolved to search out his one
remaining progeny.

Along the way on his quest, Marlin acquires a tag-along `friend', Dory
(Ellen DeGeneres)-a fish with, well, the memory capacity of a fish. The
two
must surmount hurdles like a group of sharks (Eric Bana, Barry Humphries
and
Bruce Spence) that have (mostly) sworn off eating other fish, a nasty
swarm
of jellyfish, a bird-brained flock of seagulls, and others.

This is the bridge! Well, in a way. Back when I was younger, one of my
favorite films was `The Incredible Mr. Limpet', which, for the
uninitiated,
combined live-action with under-the-sea fish animation. What Pixar has
done
here was bring back that film to my mind and start me thinking, because
they
have created a wondrous undersea environment (with `normal-looking' fish
instead of 1960s animated fish).

My favorite feature in this movie chock-full of sweet treats must be the
sharks. I have always been partial to the shark family, but what has been
done in creating three humorous sharks (what a movie concept), just sent
paroxysms of laughter through me. Another thing that (mostly) works is
Ellen
DeGeneres' fish (character?) that provides a fairly constant source of
laughter with her antics (although a couple gags do wear on the viewer
with
time). On the whole though, there is not a single bit of shoddy
voice-acting
or animation in it.

Compared to `Monsters Inc.', `Finding Nemo' is something of a revival for
Pixar. I like how they have stepped up their efforts to make an
altogether
pleasing film without any big flaws. The thing that I did not like with
`Monsters' was the inclusion of a single key (but EXTREMELY annoying)
character. Director Andrew Stanton has done an excellent job at making
the
film work and be (basically) non-annoying to most of the general public
(and
this critic).

I suppose life has come full circle-now that I am (relatively) old as a
high school graduate, animation is cool again, thanks to high-powered
computers, at any rate. `Finding Nemo' is one heckuva movie and a good
one
to take anyone you know to, trust me on this-nine out of
ten.

<|_=00=_|>

Has there ever been a better-looking feature-length animated film than
`Finding Nemo'?  We doubt it.  With its shimmering underwater landscapes -
be they in the vast immensity of a limitless ocean or the cramped confines
of a dentist office aquarium - the film sports a look unlike anything we
have ever seen before.  The fish tank setting, in particular, is a
veritable
wonderland of eye-popping, many-hued visual splendor.

Although the script by Andrew Stanton doesn't scale the comedic heights
of,
say, `Aladdin,' `Shrek' or `Toy Story 2,' it still sparkles with enough
wit
and inventiveness to entrance youngsters and beguile the grownups who will
be joining them in their viewing.  I hasten to point out that the
screenplay
is blessedly free of all the double entendres and off-color humor that
have
blighted so much alleged `kiddie' fare in recent years.  This is a film on
e
can watch with one's children and grandchildren and not once have to blush
or turn away in embarrassment while doing so.  Creators of children's
films
please take note (and take note, too, of its phenomenal box office
take).

Like many tales designed for the junior set (`Dumbo,' `Bambi' etc.),
`Finding Nemo' taps into the fear all children have of being separated
from
their parents - and the concomitant fear all parents have of being
separated
from their children.  It is upon this common ground that members of both
generations will meet in their emotional response to this film.  In this
case, it is little Nemo, an adorable clownfish, who is plucked out of the
ocean and plunked down into the saltwater aquarium of a dentist in Sydney,
Australia.  The subject of the film's title is Marlin, Nemo's
overprotective, worrywart dad who swims his way towards the continent to
find and rescue his little tyke.  Along the way, this Nervous Nellie
parent
learns a little something about giving his son the freedom a boy needs to
grow up and become a man, and Nemo, himself, learns a thing or two about
just what kind of a fish his dad really is.

Albert Brooks and Ellen DeGeneres are brilliant as Marlin and Dory,
respectively, the latter a befuddled, daffy and utterly good-natured fish
who helps Marlin in his epic quest not only for his lost son but his own
definition of filial love.  Those familiar with these two fine comedic
talents in their live-action performances will actually be able to see
many
of their distinctive inflections and facial expressions reflected in the
animated characters they are portraying.

As directed by Stanton and Lee Unkrich, and executed by an army of
wonder-working animators and technicians, `Finding Nemo' takes PIXAR
technology to its ultimate, final level of perfection - till the studio's
next release, that is.


<|_=00=_|>
Those guys and girls at Disney/Pixar have done it again, they've
created the perfect underwater world, full of fascinating Disney
characters.

A truly enchanting story of a father (Marlon) who loses his son (Nemo),
and with help of his new found friend (Dory) ventures out into the
ocean to try to find him. On this epic voyage he gets to battle sharks,
surf with some turtle dudes, dice with some jellyfish and survive an
encounter in a whales stomach.

All the characters are vibrant with Disney charm, but my favourite is
Dory, the comic relief, probably one of the funniest Disney characters
ever written and superbly voiced by Ellen DeGeneres, pure genius.

All in all this is another success for Disney and Pixar, It brings out
the child in all of us.

Solid family fun 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
"Finding Nemo" is a wonderful animated adventure movie that simply is
irresistible for young as well as older persons.

The most excellent thing about "Finding Nemo" is the perfect timing,
just like in "Monsters, Inc" the jokes are extremely well placed in a
quick pace and are good for more then just a few laughs.

There are some very fun and great characters which brings me to the
only problem I have with this movie. There are too many minor
characters, I would have really loved to see some of the characters
getting a bigger role with some more importance to the story instead of
meeting character after character that are only on screen for no more
than 5 minutes (such as the sharks). Sure it's good for the sense of
adventure but it leaves some missed opportunities to make the story
even more fun.

I think it's pretty obvious that the story is inspired on the "Lord of
the Rings" trilogy since it uses lot's of elements from it and it has
the some feeling of adventure and excitement so it's really not a big
thing that the story isn't very original, the original and fun way the
story is told in compensates for this.

The voice cast as in many animated movies is impressive but the one
that stood out was Ellen DeGeneres as Dory that you love to hate.

Irresistible movie for the whole family with great jokes and lines and
some memorable characters and situations. 

Mine, mine, mine!

9/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>
Pixar Animation Studios has a very good knack for making thoughtful,
intelligent and humorous family films (note that I didn't say kid
films). "Toy Story" 1 & 2 and "Monsters, Inc." are some of my favorite
family films; "Finding Nemo" isn't one of my favorites, but it isn't
disappointing like "A Bug's Life," and it is thoughtful, intelligent,
humorous and incredibly watchable, just like the other Pixar films.

As always, Pixar takes a world of something and completely builds their
story around it. In "Toy Story" they gave life to toys and created the
world through their eyes. In "Monsters, Inc.," they showed us the
monster world. In my review on "A Bug's Life," I said that the reason
the film didn't work very much is because it was about bugs, and not
about something mystical like toys or monsters that bring back
childhood memories. Well, I guess I was sorta wrong, because "Finding
Nemo" is all about fish, nothing too mystical about fish, and I still
loved it.

This tale takes place underwater with the fish Marlin (voiced by Albert
Brooks), whose spouse and baby fish eggs get eaten by a vicious shark
in the beginning. All but one egg which Marlin names Nemo.

Years later Nemo (voiced by Alexander Gould, Elliot's son?) is a bit
older, and heading off to fish school for the first time. But haunted
by the fact that his spouse and offspring were all killed years ago,
Marlin is extremely over-protective of his one remaining family member.
Nemo, sick of being treated like a baby, proves how brave he is by
swimming near a fishing boat, only to be captured by a scuba-diving
dentist. And so Marlin heads off to find Nemo, with the help of his
newfound companion Dory (voice of Ellen DeGeneres), who has short-term
memory loss and forgets things sooner than she can carry whatever she
is doing out. (Like when she is showing Marlin the way towards a
fishing boat and suddenly forgets why Marlin is following her.)

Pixar doesn't let down the audience on this film. There are a few
things that one can always expect from Pixar films: They can expect
something (such as toys) to be given their own world. They can expect
that world to be given careful attention to detail. And they can expect
humor.

"Finding Nemo" gives fish their own world, and the underwater realm
they live in is paid careful attention, painstakingly captured on film
with computer graphics. And the humor is always there. All the
characters are funny. I especially like the sequences from the inside
of a fish tank in the dentist's office, with a bunch of fish including
Gill (Willem Dafoe's vocal talents), who constantly tries to escape. By
doing so, Gill has suffered major injuries, including landing on the
dentist's tools and getting sliced up. This is, of course, a parody of
escaping POWs. The fact that Willem Dafoe was in the great war movie
"Platoon" might have something to do with that.

This is taken from my "Monsters, Inc." review: "Pixar once again not
only expands our mind, but our very worlds. I respect their company and
commitment values very much, as you can read in my 'Toy Story' review.
They stick to the values that made Disney films so family-friendly back
in the fifties and sixties: Respect for the audience, respect for
quality, and respect for the audience's INTELLIGENCE, something Disney,
who has recently coughed up a bunch of lousy, thoughtless sequels, has
forgotten. Now, I know that LEGALLY Disney is co-creator of 'Toy Story'
and 'Monsters, Inc.,' but they really are not. They just give Pixar the
money and get their name branded on the front box of the film. And even
then, I have heard multiple claims that Disney is very mean-spirited
towards Pixar (read into sequel trouble for 'Toy Story 3') and gives
them the bare minimum.

With "Finding Nemo," I still stick towards what I said. Pixar Animation
Studios is probably the best family film company out there right now, I
really hope they separate from Disney some day and form their own
production company. They know what interests both kids and adults, and
it's almost creepy how they can make their films so engaging and fun to
watch. This is one to take the kids to, and afterwards, maybe even
sneak back into again by yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
Marlin, a nervous and neurotic clownfish is heavily overprotective of
his son Nemo, who only wants to explore the sea in its entirety. When
Nemo gets caught by a scuba diver and taken away, it is up to Marlin to
swallow his own fears and find Nemo. The ensuing search and rescue
organized by the him is a mass effort by swimming and flying creatures
of all sizes and personalities, such as a threesome of vegetarian
sharks, a fish with short term memory and an aged turtle, all helping
him realise the error of his ways in restricting himself to just his
home.

As charming as it is beautiful, Finding Nemo is a joy, both visually
and cinematically. The characters are all so appealing and sweet that
you want to hug each and every one of them, Nemo and Dory in
particular. But the film transcends above just a generic animated film,
for there are lessons to be learnt by it too. The film often tells a
children's tale from an adult's point of view, with risky situations
and emotional soul-searching putting stress on a disjointed family.

The sea is brought to us in such a memorable and unique way that there
is brilliance and beauty in every frame. The animation is of all time
high for Pixar, and the sound mixing and editing are also to be
credited, as they capture the heart of the sea creditably. But perhaps
the best thing about the film is the musical score by Thomas Newman. He
creates the essence of the sea, as well as the emotions felt by the
fish throughout. Note the masterwork that occurs as an upbeat, jovial
number quickly escalates into something darker in a matter of minutes.
In short, the music is superb.

The voice cast are capable and cannily chosen, from young Alexander
Gould as the naïve Nemo, as well as Albert Brooks as the bumbling
Marlin. But the star of the show is Ellen DeGeneres as Dory. As the
forgetful but caring fish, she is sweet and soulful, and provides much
of the comedy of the film. But the humour is also provided by the great
script, which delivers a potentially dull story with wit and soul, and
shies away from the sentimentality that could so easily arise of a
Disney film. And the jokes, what jokes – from satire, spoof and
slapstick, they'll be a one-liner for everybody here.

Gorgeous to look at and utterly adorable, Finding Nemo sets the
standard for how animated movies should being terms of entertainment
value as well as story and themes – ending with the touching,
thought-provoking message of how too much protectiveness on the
parent's side will repel, but, no matter how independent a child (or
fish) believes themselves to be, they'll always need their parents.
