
In my opinion, House of 1000 Corpses is a fan movie. Fans of both the
horror genre and Rob Zombie are likely to love it. Though I do not
count myself a fan of either, I do like both at times, and I am quite
familiar with both. Those familiar with Rob Zombie are likely to be the
only ones who completely 'get' this clever little film - appreciating
its depraved sense of humor and nihilism. Zombie's themes are fairly
consistent - evil (without the usual religious connotations and
clichés), murder, sex, insanity, and stereotype "hillbillies". Zombie's
world is not a place for people who are terribly concerned with
reality, but, for Zombie himself, it seems to supply endless muse for a
prolific and interesting commercial creativity.

Two couples traveling across country and working on a book on bizarre
roadside attractions stumble across a filling station / theme park run
by a vaguely evil clown with a bad attitude - Captain Spaulding.
Spaulding teaches them of a few local legends, including a mad surgeon
who worked in a local insane asylum and came to be known as Dr. Satan
for the grotesque surgical procedures he applied to mental patients in
secret. They pick up a pretty blonde hitch-hiker on their way to see
the tree where Dr Satan was hung, and run into some car problems, so
the hitch-hiker invites them to her family house. The family,
apparently headed by the phenomenally weird Karen Black, makes The
Addams family look like the Brady Bunch.

My narrative has described the first 20 minutes or so of the film, and
at this point the film, much like RZ's songs, is so campy that it seems
a straightforward horror comedy. However, once our protagonists are in
"the house", the plot takes a decidedly more sinister spin, and never
lets up from that point forward.

This film successfully and entertainingly portrays all of RZ's themes
in about the same proportions as his music. Of them all, sex is the
least explored, and I, for one, am thankful for that. The film also
walks a delicate line between Hannibal Lector grotesque art realism and
supernatural forces. For example, at one point, one of the bad guys
turns on a cassette player with low batteries so that the voice
recorded on it sounds extra-satanic.

If you have problems with blood and other bodily fluids, and utterly
repulsive surgically induced variations on the human body, you might
want to avoid this film. If you don't have any great objections to
standard hardcore horror imagery, or if you like it, you might want to
see this. It is masterfully visualized and does a much better job of
making horror into art than the standard Hollywood horror fair. This is
Rob Zombie's art, and he does it much better than most. This first
major effort in film bodes well for his future use of the medium, and I
will look forward to his next.
<|_=00=_|>

Its sad that a film as wonderfully made as this is so grossly
misunderstood.

Let me say this right off that bat. If you're idea of a horror film is I
know What You Did Last Summer and you consider Scream and The Exorcist to
be
the most shocking films ever made, this is not a film for you. If you
havent
seen I Spit on Your Grave, Evil Dead, Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Dawn of the
Dead or Last House on the Left, this is not a film for you. If you've
never
listened to "Living Dead Girl" or "Superbeast" this is not a film for
you.

Now having said that, this is a film for me. It is a film for true horror
fans, the kind that stay up and watch Dawn of the Dead and The Beyond, who
know who Lucio Fulci and Dario Argento and George Romero are. This is a
film
that was meant to be seen by people like this and will only be enjoyed by
people like this. This is not exactly mainstream stuff here. Only a small
percentage of people enjoy this stuff, and for those people, this film is
a
true rivival of classic exploitive horror.

Rob Zombie has created a homage to 1970's exploitation/horror films, and
he
has been extremly successful in achieving that goal. The film borrows
largely from Texas Chainsaw Massacre and Last House on the Left, with his
own little bits of original demential thrown in and an assortment of other
horror film references. The film tells the tale of four teenagers who are
terrorized and tortured by a bizarre southern family living in a remote
farmhouse in 1977. The film uses all sorts of camera tricks--negative
colouring, split-screens and seemingly random inserts of grainy snuff-like
footage of various S&M and gore images; the off-the-wall effect is similar
to what Oliver Stone did in Natural Born Killers. The film is not about
plot, or about characters. Its purpose is to shock and disturb, to serve
no
other function than to entertain through exploitation and disgusting and
bizarre violence. Just as you think the limits of weirdness are
approaching,
Zombie takes the film a step farther, and before long you surrender
yourself
to the mercy of the film and just accept things for what they are. The
film
has the feeling of an out of control freight train being piloted by a
madman
and the climax of the film is truly bizarre. The reviewers who wrote the
film off as overly-sadistic with little in the ways of character
development, plot or suspence have come to see a different kind of film,
perhaps more at home with titles like The Sixth Sense or Silence of the
Lambs. The have no busineness debasing a great film like
this.

Rob Zombie has created a film that is both a homage and derivative at the
same time; most things in the film have been done before, in one shape or
another, and the level of gore is a fraction of what was intended, due to
its shameful R-rating. To see the inevitable Unrated Directors Cut on
video
is going to be a true horror experience.

But this film is something has hasnt been seen in decades and it has been
made with the utmost care that only a true horror fan could provide. It is
a
film made by horror fans for horror fans, a true labor of love by Mr.
Zombie, despite some flaws. If you arent sitting the theater going "hey,
theres Bill Mosely from TCM 2!" or "hey, that shot is a homage to the
cover
of Evil Dead!" or "hey, he wears peoples skin like Leatherface!" then you
probably arent meant to be seeing this film. But for those who are, the
film
is a true gem and a rarity; it is a kind of film that hasnt been seen on
the
screens in over twenty years and probably wont be for another twenty
years.
Get out there and enjoy this rare experience while you still
can.

An instant cult-hit.

Grade: A

For true horror fans only. Everyone else just wont get
it.
<|_=00=_|>

I love that line!  I remember hearing that line in a cool trailer I saw
while watching "Urban Legend 2".  Obviously, this was a way better
movie!!!
Besides "Scream," and "Funny Games," this is the best horror film in the
past 15 years!!!  We wanted blood, and we got it!!! Whoa, that would have
been another great line in this "uber celebration of depravity" as those
lame Universal execs so succinctly called it.  This flick was definitely
worth the wait!!!

First off, the directing: Rob Zombie gave this film a unique visual style
I
had never seen in a film before.  It was well made and very well edited.
I
loved the split-screens, filters, stock footage, use of color, and that
infamous slow motion shot (I loved that scene!).  Although he borrowed a
little from "Natural Born Killers," "Texas Chainsaw Massacre," and "Last
House on the Left," what great horror film doesn't nowadays?  Seriously!!
So Mr. Zombie brought something new to the table, and will hopefully make
a
great contribution to horror (he has already in my opinion).

Secondly, the acting: Sid Haig and Bill Moseley totally stole the show!!
They made horrifying, creepy, and relentless screen sickos, and gave me
hope
for the screen villain again (as opposed to lame efforts by thugs in
cheap
masks).  Mrs. Zombie, or Sheri Moon, was totally insane as well as hot!
Also, genre veterans Karen Black, Micheal J. Pollard, and Irwin Keyes
brought creepiness to their insane roles!  Tom Towles was also good in a
good guy role!  The late Dennis Fimple was hilarious as Grandpa Hugo!
Newcomers Matthew McGrory and Robert Mukes were disturbing in their roles
as
Tiny and Rufus. As for the "victims," Chris Hardwick's Jerry was the only
one I reasonably liked.  The other three made lame efforts at acting, and
need lessons from Marilyn Burns, and the cast of "The Hills Have Eyes"!!
So
it was hard to root for them, which was another twisted feat that Zombie
accomplished.  I actually rooted for the villains!!!!

Thirdly, the music: I loved the music!! It fit well with the atmosphere
of
the film!  I own the soundtrack, and I loved it!  My favorite song was
the
title theme, of course!  I was expecting songs from Black Sabbath, The
Stooges, Sex Pistols, Alice Cooper, Deep Purple, King Crimson, Blue
Oyster
Cult, and other "creepy" bands, but oh well.  I was satisfied.  I also
loved
the film's score.

Lastly, the atmosphere at the theater I was at: It was totally insane!!!
People were screaming, jumping, laughing, walking out, and commenting
loudly
on how awesome it was!!!  I was surprised there was such a packed
audience,
and it was barnone the best theater-going experience I had ever
had!!!

Overall, this film is a creepy, intense, amazing, disturbing, and darkly
funny attack on the senses!!!  I definitely can't wait to see it again in
the theater and to buy the DVD!  Finally, a real horror movie with balls
the
size of Canada has hit the masses!!!  This gives me great hope for the
new
wave of horror: the 70's throwback horror film!! There's plenty this year
with "Irreversible," "Cabin Fever," "Wrong Turn," "Jeepers Creepers 2,"
"Highwayman," and the "Texas Chainsaw Massacre" remake!!!  Out of Five
Stars: FIVE STARS!!!!!  See this movie!! All Rob Zombie fans, metal music
fans, horror fans, or people who want to see a hardcore horror film
should
go out and see this movie!! If you like it, you're awesome!! If you
don't, I
guess you're not ready for hardcore horror.
<|_=00=_|>
I already had a user comment for "House of a 1.000 Corpses" submitted
here on this site, dated over a year ago and…um…not very praising. In
fact, my first viewing of this film was so disappointing that I
excessively discouraged other people here to see it. Rather than to
simply ignore the old comment and pretend I never bashed it, I wish to
write a new – more positive – review, if it were only to convince other
people (who also disliked at first) to give it a second change. Several
factors (like the praising reviews on "The Devil's Rejects"-sequel and
conversations with fellow horror fans) nearly forced me to re-watch
"House of a 1.000 Corpses" and I'm glad I did. This truly is a film
that requires multiple viewing before one can properly judge it. Rob
Zombie's style is often innovating and so overwhelming that it might
look overly hectic at first but, in reality, his dedication towards
obscurity and his knowledge on classic cinema is one of the best things
that could ever happen to the horror genre. And that is something you
(or at least I) have to discover with repeated viewings… 

The power of this film lies in the fact that the screenplay covers all
kind of successful horror premises. Serial killers, mad doctors, a
family of crazies, deranged clowns, devil-worshipers….you name the type
of terror and "House of a 1.000 Corpses" features it! This movie is a
small revival of the entire horror genre all by itself. No extended and
boring intros or pointless red herrings in this film, "House…" is
straightforward and surefooted sickness from start to finish and you're
given almost no time to breathe. Some of the sequences in this film are
so damn close to brilliant that I can't possibly figure out why I
didn't love them right away!! The execution-scene guided by the moody
"I Remember You"-song, for example, is amazingly atmospheric and quite
unsettling. Although Rob Zombie's directing skills are still open for
improvement (the abrupt climax, overly rough editing), his debut is a
staggering gorefest that every horror fan has to experience…repeatedly!
Bring on the sequel…I'm ready now!!
<|_=00=_|>

Now, let's not get carried away here: is this the best horror flick ever?
Not that I've seen.  Does it sometimes trip over the fine line between
scares and laughs?  Sure.  Will it remind people of certain other movies?
Probably.  But bottom line, is this movie a blast?  Absolutely.

Writer/director Rob Zombie's music has always had a kind of comic
book/horror movie sensibility which he translates into his screen
project, a
tribute to the pioneering take-no-prisoners classics of the 1970's like
"The
Hills Have Eyes" and "Texas Chainsaw Massacre," in fact a prominent role
is
played by Bill Moseley of "TCM II."  We're informed at the outset that
it's
Halloween Eve 1977 in some one-horse town in an unspecified region of the
country (which of course allows each actor to use any accent he or she
likes, even within the same household).  The chief attraction of this
town
seems to be a "horror museum" run by a Captain Spaulding (who bears no
resemblance to Groucho Marx) played by veteran B-movie stalwart Sid Haig,
whom I recall from way the hell back in "Busting" as the big menacing
bald
guy.  He's still big and bald but not so much menacing as jovially
deranged
with undercurrents of menace (and lots of make-up).  After a delightfully
overwritten robbery sequence involving a couple of local yokels, four
fresh-faced young people with one foot in the grave show up at the
museum,
setting in motion a series of unpleasant events.

No particular reason to dwell on the plot, especially if you've seen
"Texas
Chainsaw Massacre" and/or it's sequels.  It's the tried-and-true damsels
(and their boyfriends) in distress.  (We even get a pack of cheerleaders
thrown in as a bonus.  Apparently people have been going missing in this
town but back in the Seventies the term "serial killer" was waiting to be
invented, so no squads of Feds and profilers have arrived.)   For movies
like this to work, the actors have to be on the same page in tone; aside
from Haig and Moseley I barely knew anyone except Walt Goggins from TV's
"The Shield" and of course Karen Black, whose performance is the only one
that doesn't quite click.  It's like she's playing a whack job where the
others are just being whack jobs.  (But if they ever wanted to remake
"Whatever Happened to Baby Jane,"  there's your girl!)   In terms of
direction, Zombie takes a kind of kitchen-sink approach; some of it
reminded
me of Oliver Stone's "Natural Born Killers" and others of that ilk, with
the
eye-blink jumping to and from videotape, color variations, flashback
and/or
fantasy, etc.  Some of the editing's a little too jumbled in the modern
trend of trying to obscure what's happening, although not to the
"Darkness
Falls" degree of complete chaos.  (I'm old-fashioned, I still think the
best
way to scare you with something in a movie is just train the camera on it
so
you can see it coming at you with no way to escape.)  But Mr. Zombie has
a
nice feel for where to put the camera and how to move a scene along.
Some
of his sequences have a kind of sinister poetry to them, like when the
two
deputies go checking out the homestead from hell, the kind of setup we've
seen in how many shlock items (I just saw one in a recent victim of the
Mystery Science Theater 3000 crew) but in this case Zombie replaces all
sound with a Slim Whitman tune (we recall how Whitman's voice was enough
to
slay big-brained Martians a while back) and holds the final crane shot an
audaciously long time.  Then once the coffin gets lowered into the water
towards the end, "House" kicks into overdrive and from then on if there's
nothing in the movie that spooks you, then maybe you're unspookable.  I
know
a lot of that imagery will be lingering with me for a while, such as Fish
Boy.....

Ordinarily I try to ignore a movie's external circumstances and go by
what's
on the screen in front of me but in this case it's pointless to pretend
this
movie has not been in limbo for three years due to it's supposedly
violent
content.  I've read it had to be cut to make the R rating, although I
really
can't see how an NC-17 would've hurt it; people will go see it partly
because it's by Rob Zombie and it's said to be gory and for those put off
by
such factors, an R rating won't make them less put off.  "Hey, honey,
it's
an R now--forget the babysitter, let's bring the kids!"   I've also read
Zombie was satisfied with the released version.  As released, there's
really
nothing there you haven't seen before in some form or other; some gore
fans
may even feel let down, but of course there's always the DVD.  I think
that
had it been released as made three years ago without all the hype, with
the
chance to "sneak up on" us, it would've been even more effective.  But
maybe
that's what the studio feared?  Well, Mr. Movie Mogul, if you're going to
commission the guy from White Zombie to do a horror flick, what exactly
do
you anticipate as a result?  Please either defecate or get off the
toilet....

Hard to nail down a favorite moment with this one, but it's hard to
resist
picking the youngsters getting abused in their bunny suits.  It's
visually
striking, it's unusual, it's blackly funny and also somewhat unsettling
the
more you think about it.  When we watch a horror flick, what exactly are
we
anticipating?  Is the one-sided nature of the conflict (overwhelming
villain, hapless or helpless victim) part of the appeal for us?  Do we
"identify with" the chaser or the chasee? Should we feel a little ashamed
of
ourselves afterwards?  Or, as Captain Spaulding put it, are these just a
bunch of jack-ass questions?

Great soundtrack, I may have to buy it....
<|_=00=_|>

**Spoilers**

I saw this movie yesterday, I don't really know much about Rob Zombie, I
don't listen to his kind of music. I'm not a big splatter fan, but I did
like Texas Chainsaw Massacre and other horror films, so I thought I would
give this one a chance.

I actually liked it at first, it was kind of scary and bizarre enough, but
it just became more and more sickening, the evil family in this movie was
just absolutely disgusting, which wouldn't have been so bad, but they are
almost treated as the heroes of the movie, I get the feeling that Rob Zombie
doesn't find their behavior all that reprehensible.

One thing that happened was just to ridiculous, there were 5 local
cheerleaders that went missing that keep getting mentioned in the movie, and
when one is discovered in the trunk of a car, dead, with the words "trick or
treat" carved into her, they send 2 cops to check things out. That place
would have been crawling with cops, my suspension of disbelief doesn't go
that far.

I don't mind downbeat endings, sometimes I find them preferable, but this
ending just took the cake, I think mostly because it wasn't presented as a
downbeat ending, again, I get the feeling that RZ views this as a happy
ending. Also, if they were going to end it that way, couldn't at least one
of the villains have gotten their comeuppance? I would have loved to see
that evil, annoying (but very pretty), blond bimbo get whacked. But of
course, I think the director saw them as the heroes of the
movie.

I felt dirty after watching this movie.
<|_=00=_|>
House of 1,000 Corpses (2003) marks the directorial debut of
Trash/Industrial Artist Musician Rob Zombie. This film was sitting on
the shelf for a couple of years before Lion's Gate released it
theatrically. A homage of sorts to Zombie's favorite genre, southern
fried horror. Throw in Texas Chainsaw Massacre, add a little Eaten
Alive and a dash of FunHouse and you'll get the flavor of this film. 

Four twenty somethings are riding along the back southern roads when
they come across a roadside carnival run by an eccentric clown named
Captain Spaulding. He gives them a personnel tour of his fun house of
horrors and tells them the tale of a local ghoul named Doctor Satan.
Inspired by phantasmagorical tale of the good doctor, they decide to
search for his grave. Captain Spaulding draws them a map and gives them
directions to an area where the Doctor allegedly died. On the road,
they meet a pretty blond hitch-hiker who also knows about the legend of
Doctor Satan...and a little more! What happens next? You'll have to
visit House of 1,000 Corpses!

A great film that does what it sets out to do. I'm so glad to see old
school grind house horror is back in the mainstream. A sequel is out
and it's even better! I have to strongly recommend this movie. You
won't regret it!
<|_=00=_|>
Is it possible that in my lifetime or for that matter in the tenure of
mankind on this earth to see a film worse than this? This putrid piece
of cellulose is terribly written,acted and edited. I remember Rob
Zombie pimping this garbage and assuring us that it was so gruesome and
gory that no movie studio would give it a go. I thought to myself,well
finally somebody will scare the hell outta me like "The Exorcist" and
"Hellraiser". Never been more wrong.Even with the obvious satirical
overtones. This cinematic insult makes "Plan 9 From Outer Space" look
like "Citizen Kane".I have the feeling that Mr.Zombie went on a "Texas
Chainsaw Massacre" and "Top Secret" bender and came up with this pile
of fecal matter. I understand Rob's fascination with gore,blood and the
like,as I have seen him perform live with his band,and they were quite
good,but for the love of God,Rob,stop making movies. There are
absolutely no redeemable qualities to it. No scene stood out.No likable
characters,just all annoying as hell. In short,if this movie was a
meal,I'd spend an hour licking my dog's behind to get the bad taste out
of my mouth.
<|_=00=_|>
This film does not merit further comment. But IMDb requires such. So...
here we go. Hey Rob! Here's an interesting concept -- how about a
story!? Have you noticed that the actors in the behind-the-scenes all
praised Mr. Zombie? It is so embarrassing to observe actors gushing
over how great their director is while (here is the key point) making
the movie? Funny, but I don't recall seeing any of these lunkheads
blitzing the press or talk shows doing the same after this crap was
released to the general public and they were paid. Good grief, how far
Karen Black has fallen. I see it took "Halloween" for Mr. Zombie to
construct a film based upon a story and plot. Too bad, although not
surprising, it was written by a real screenwriter and filmmaker named
John Carpenter. Who in the world thought it was a good idea to throw
money at this freak-show, Rob Zombie? Well, with all of that said, it
remains a fact that if this bonehead can carve out a living making
films like this, they by gosh... ANYONE CAN DO IT!!!
<|_=00=_|>

WOW, I cannot believe how terrible this film turned out to be. I mean
borrowing ideas is one thing but completely remaking Texas Chainsaw
Massacre? and badly to boot!  There were no scares, no gore, no nothing,
just a bunch of people running around screaming trying to be scary. What
a
bore! It's like remember those lame haunted house rides you used to go on
as
a kid where you would pay tickets and sit in a car and it would go around
in
the dark while lights and buzzers went off and maybe like a coffin would
pop
open or a door would shut really loud behind you or something...now
imagine
watching 90 minutes of that.

Then throw in a girl giggling at the top of her lungs in the most
annoying
way possible EVERY 2 SECONDS FOR NO REASON, well, no reason other than
maybe
waking you from the coma/sleeping marathon the movie will undoubtably put
you in, and you'll grasp how painfully annoying and awful this film is.
Like
seriously, aspirin bottles were getting passed around the theatre no
joke.
Pathetic attempt.
