
The star of the show is Justin Chambers and he gets incidental billing
which is ridiculous despite his lack of acting skills. More good and
bad news:

BAD - Having a weak lead actor is not the way to have box-office
success. Stupid dialog doesn't help either, along with the Rambo action
mentality in which the good guy doesn't get hit from close range.

GOOD - Some of the action scenes were spectacular, the best swordplay
I've ever seen. The ones at the beginning and the end of the film were
the best, with some incredible stunt work. This is beautifully
photographed, too. Tim Roth was a good villain, as usual, and the
heroes - even if they couldn't act - were fun to watch. The language is
tame in here and the film should be rated PG, not PG- 13.
<|_=00=_|>
The Musketeer really did the novel it was based upon no justice what so
ever. The movie had incredible stunts and great fights...if you were in
the Matrix. These fights are the only reason I give this movie a rating
of four.

There is no acting what so ever. Tim Roth, although he can play a great
villain, he shows barely any emotion. Justin Chambers is the same way.
I'm sure he didn't perform those stunts such as the ridiculous scene
where he is pictured jumping from saddle to saddle across moving
horses.

This movie brings nothing to the table except fancy martial arts. Keep
in mind this takes place in old France. I don't recall the Musketeer's
learning how to fight while rolling across wooden wine barrels.

If you are desperate for a fight scene, be my guest. There are
certainly some good fights going on in this picture. Everything in
between is just a joke. The Musketeer is not the worst movie ever made,
but it's far from great.
<|_=00=_|>

Just really, really, really bad!

First off, this film is too much action, not enough story.  The first
time
we see D'Artagnan fight, there doesn't seem to be any point to it, other
than the fact to let us know that he's this amazingly (and somewhat
unbelievably) skilled swordsman and fighter.  He also escapes the
situation
way too easily, thanks to pathetic bluff and a cut away.

The only saving grace in this film (in my opinion) is Tim Roth, who had
to
make due as best he could with a very bad script.  But he looked cool
(the
only person in this film with any fashion sense whatsoever).  Although
later
in the film he appears to have borrowed his Aunt Ida's - Sunday church
revival meeting hat.

Stephen Rea, who I usually find extremely enjoyable to watch - came
across
as very ineffectual as the Cardinal Richelieu.  Instead of being the
great
evil and manipulating mastermind, he almost seemed the puppet of Tim
Roth's
Febre...a character I've never heard of before, who seemed to fill the
role
previously occupied by Rochefort, as the one eyed man who killed
D'Artagnan's father.

(oh for Tim Curry's Richelieu)

Justin Chamberlain is incredibly dull in this movie, and never seemed to
show any emotion.  It almost seemed like he sucked the life out of the
actors around him.  His character comes across as a thinly veiled Bruce
Wayne.  A young boy who watched his parents get murdered in front of him,
but could do nothing.  He's taken in by the kindly older friend of his
father's.  He then grows up and trains himself to be the best fighter, to
become a hero and stop what happened to his parents from happening
again.

Athos, Porthos and Aramis might as well not even have been in the film.
All
of the Musketeers were portrayed as drunken, miserable, arrogant, lazy
jerks.  Apparently D'Artagnan is the only one who still holds the ideals
of
the Musketeers.  It seemed like Athos was only there to avoid the
question -
Shouldn't there be 3 of them?  He didn't do a damn thing.  They gave all
of
his character traits to Aramis, and Aramis the wouldbe priest was nowhere
to
be found.

King Louis XIII and Queen Anne were in their late 50's (huh?) and were
childless.  Okay, where do Louis XIV and Phillipe come from then?  I
somehow
doubt that a woman in her late 50's in 17th century France would be up to
having twins.  As far as I know, they should have been young, and not
even
married yet.

The Musketeers all seemed closer in age to their Man in the Iron Mask
selves, than their Three Musketeers selves.  Athos even had grey in his
beard.

You would think that the King's Musketeers could have afforded to dress
better.  Everyone looked like a bum...and there were a LOT of bad hats in
this movie.  D'Artagnan looked like he should have been riding the range
in
1880's Oklahoma.  And don't even get me started on the mullets.  Did
everyone in 17th century France grow up in the 1980's?  The hair
extensions
on Justin Chamberlain were pretty bad too.

The romance between his character and Mena Suvari didn't make much sense,
and seemed very forced.  Although it gave D'Artagnan an excuse to go
skinny
dipping so the bad guys could kidnap his girlfriend.

Bad bad bad dialogue.  When Mena Suvari threatened to cut off someone's
balls...I pretty much gave up all hope.

The action and fight sequences were way over the top.  Apparently the
Cardinal makes sure his men are well versed in the fine art of - How to
engage in a swordfight while hanging 100 feet in the air one handed from
a
rope in the rain and not fall to your death.  The final fight between
D'Artagnan and Febre (in what we dubbed "The Ladder Room") was too much.
It
seems the ladders are strong enough to support two grown men who are
jumping
and balancing on them, but are powerless when it comes to the mighty
rapier
blade.  It got to the point where I was thinking - for crying out loud,
would you just stand still and fight already!

D'Artagnan also has this amazing horse that appears out of nowhere when
he
whistles (despite having run off in a different direction earlier, or
having
been left lying in the road practically dead that morning).

What I found interesting is, it seems that the Musketeers all bought
their
cassaque cloaks at Disney's The Three Musketeers wardrobe sale.  They
looked
EXACTLY like the ones worn by Kiefer, Charlie and Oliver...right down the
length, colours and embroidery.

One of the most confusing moments came when it looked as though a
character
had been fatally shot, only to remark - I'm not dead.  But there is no
clear
explanation as to why they aren't dead, and show up later no worse for
wear.

I guess the palace kitchen staff are very stupid, as none of them realize
that some of them have been replaced by imposters, nor does anyone notice
that one of the waiters is wearing a sword...well okay, one person
notices,
but that scene is silly and kinda creepy.

Oh and the swords are all pretty ugly.  I'm also trying to figure out,
why
if they hired a Hong Kong fight director to do all the choreography, did
they also have a sword master?

Well that's my Musketeer rant.  As always that's just my opinion, I could
be
wrong.
<|_=00=_|>
The thing is that "The Musketeer" is not only the absolutely worst
adaptation of the Alexandre Dumas novel's I have ever seen. What is
more for me it's also a very strong contender for being called one of
the worst movies ever. Actually this rubbish has nothing to do with
classic Dumas' "Three Musketeers". 

For unknown reason screenwriters changed simply everything and in the
result they got silly and laughable story filled with numerous plot
holes and anachronisms. Dialogs look like they were written by a modern
teenager and somehow characters development was totally forgotten. No
one cares about movie's characters, they're uninteresting and pathetic
while the whole movie is emotionally flat practically all the time.
Poor direction leave room only for pointless action with ridiculously
made in Eastern style fight scenes sometimes mixed with silly jokes.
Add to all this horrible acting and most likely you'll get a
well-deserved position in your all-time worst list. Absolute waste of
40 million dollars as well as your precious time and money. Avoid it as
a plague.

2 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
This is a movie that really doesn't know what it is. For one thing, it
seems to try and hang on to some parts of the story by Dumas, and yet
it also is an entirely different story. Seemingly, the only real
similarities are the names of the characters. This movie would be much
more effective if it was entirely its own story, and not using the
names of the famous characters. The reason? This movie totally dashes
the names of those characters.

The most unsettling part for me was the fact that the Three Musketeers
are nothing like themselves. Porthos is not the least bit arrogant or
over-the-top. Aramis isn't religious at all. And Athos does not even
remotely resemble the character in the book. Sadly, Justin Chambers
makes a better d'Artagnan than Chris O' Donnell, but only because he
doesn't do any acting at all, which is better than the profuse
overacting of O' Donnell. And Stephen Rea is a good actor, but his
character isn't remotely as menacing as Richelieu should be.

With all of that said, if you just view it as a movie, and try to block
the actual story out of your mind, it can be entertaining. The fight
scenes are very well done, and the pacing keeps the viewer interested.
Perhaps this movie could have been really good if it was about the
story of a musketeer NOT named d'Artagnan, and his unique adventure.
But since it tries to be an interpretation of Dumas, it falls miserably
short. As a movie, it is so-so, but as far as an interpretation of the
famous story, it is absolutely terrible.
<|_=00=_|>

If you are a fan of swashbuckling, this is not a film to miss, as long as
you are 
able to overlook the bad acting and the obvious Asian influences in the
fighting.

I have seen worse films. Most definitely. The rating of 4.2 is much too low
for this 
movie, I think a 5.5 to 6 is more appropriate. It's not a great movie by any
means, 
but it does have it's moments.

The opening swordfight in the resturaunt is the best in the movie. At least
it was 
the most believable with the exception of the barrels. I found the ladders
and 
some of the ropeplay in the Versailles to be much more unrealistic. However
I 
tend to like movie due to the sophistication of  the choreography, because I
am 
involved in fighting choreography too.
<|_=00=_|>
I for one don't understand how people can rate this as a 4 or less and
then say Eraserhead is a masterpiece. The whole reason the movie was
called "The Musketeer" is it pretty much has no relation to Alexandre
Dumas' classic novel. The 1973 Three/Four Musketeers is about as close
to the book as we're going to get. This movie the acting is hampered by
really stupid dialog. It made George Lucas movies look literate. 

The action is great, but completely out of historical reality, then
again its a movie, not a documentary. Entertaining? Yes, I thought so.
Not as much as seeing Oliver Reed and Micheal York. As bad as the lead
was, he was Oscar caliber compared to the absolutely useless Chis
O'Donnell in the 1993 version. Given a choice between the 1993 version
and this movie, I'd take this one.

If you want a good swashbuckler, stick to Errol Flynn, or even Mask of
Zorro. If you want Musketeers see the 1973/74 version. Better yet, just
pick up the book.
<|_=00=_|>
The Musketeer is a film very loosely based on Alexandre Dumas' classic
novel The Three Musketeers.It stars Catherine Deneuve, Tim Roth, Mena
Suvari, Stephen Rea, Nick Moran, Bill Treacher and Justin Chambers.The
movie was directed by Peter Hyams.

The Musketeer was set in 17th-century Paris.A dashing swordsman named
D'Artagnan finds himself at odds with the powerful forces taking over
France. He sets out to avenge the murder of his parents and finds his
country cleaved by chaos and civil unrest. His heart softens only for
Francesca, a fiery peasant girl who claims D'Artagnan's heart on sight.
D'Artagnan, after witnessing his unarmed parents slain by the evil
Febre ,grows up wanting to be a musketeer, one of King Louis XIII's
loyal protectors. Upon arriving in Paris, however, he finds that the
Musketeers have been disbanded by order of Cardinal Richelieu, who is
usurping the king's authority with the help of his lethal henchman,
Febre.Traveling to Paris, D'Artagnan verbally spars with witless quip-
spouting musketeers Aramis, Athos and Porthos. D'Artagnan heads off
guarding the queen, who is traveling incognito as a commoner on her way
to meet Lord Buckingham. The evil Febre, his leash held loosely by the
evil Cardinal Richilieu, wants to kill the Queen in order to sow unrest
and war, which would create opportunities to profit, a war between
France and England.

The Musketeer is a film that relies mainly of cheesy action scenes
mostly on cheesy and unrealistic swordplay.Aside from that,it also has
poor story that makes minimized Dumas' classic into a forgettable
novel. Acting is decent and the editing presents somewhat a confusing
story.

Overall,The Musketeer is a MUST MISS film.
<|_=00=_|>
I'm a huge Dumas fan and watch every one of the adaptations but I
missed this one originally. Just caught it on netflix and it's nowhere
near as bad as it's made out to be. Yes, the lead is a little off and
there isn't much chemistry between him and Mena Suvari who isn't at her
best either. The wire based fight scenes look dated and there are a few
scene pacing problems.

But overall this was quite fun. There *is* chemistry between the Queen
and D'artagnan thanks to Catherine Deneuve who exudes star quality in
every scene she's in. There are some nice performances from most of the
character actors, the original 3 musketeers are great, and the humor if
not the plot is very in keeping with the book. 

I first thought this was a made for TV movie because of the credits at
the beginning so I wasn't really expecting much and this definitely
beat my expectations. The movie looks good and aside from a few
characters most of them seem fairly real, the balance between schtick
and too- serious was handled well.

Overall, too many faults to be a classic but definitely enough class
and fun to be very entertaining. Recommended for fans of period movies
and the tongue in cheek dramedy.
<|_=00=_|>

I dissent from the negative comments based on comparisons to the novel, or
earlier " Three Musketeer" movies. This movie has no pretense of remaking
the novel, or earlier movie versions ( the Michael York/Raquel Welch version
is a classic). It is, at most, a modest "prequel", designed to capture young
action viewers, and romantics ( Justin Chambers/ Mena Suvari); dirty old men
( Mena Suvari); and Deneuve fans (as all men ought to be).

Mena Suvari is wooden and ornamental, but Chambers here is at least as good
as Heath Ledger in "A Knight's Tale". Deneuve is excellent as always. Tim
Roth is a definitional villain, although Stephen Rea is a weak Richeleau.
Lesser knowns as the other musketeers , and the French actor as " Planche",
add spice.

I am a sucker for swordfighting movies, so loved this one.

There are many worse choices in your video store.
