

Except for the previews for several horrible kid movies and an
excruciating
ten minute Angela Anaconda short, Digimon: The Movie was a great
film!

I think that my friend and myself were the only people in the theatre who
understood it, as the little kids and their parents probably had no idea
what was going on or why. It's a deeper movie than I expected, and hard to
understand if you haven't been following the TV show to become acquainted
with the characters and their world.

The animation is great and fun to look at, there's a lot of comedy,
interesting characters and rad monsters. I was surprised to find there was
even a little poop.

If you're a fan of the show, you'll probably love every second of the
movie,
although a lot of it is apt to fly right over little kids'
heads.
<|_=00=_|>

I really can't bring myself to insult this movie as it got me into anime.
Actually, to rephrase that, it got me interested in the idea of anime:
Akira
got me into PROPER anime.

As for the film, it is actually pretty good. Digimon is one of those anime
series that, while aimed at younger audiences, is actually very enjoyable.
There are funny moments, and the fight scenes are cool without being too
violent.

The film is split into three loosely linked sections, the first really
just
setting the story up, but containing a cool fight scene at the end. The
second part is the longest and most enjoyable: it features Tai and Izzy
trying to stop a Digimon with a virus that has taken over the internet.
This
section contains the best jokes and interaction between the characters,
and
has a good plot and animation. The third part I didn't like so much, but
for
the record is takes place later, and deals with the aftermath of what
happened, this time set in the USA.

Obviously, Digimon: The Movie is just a kids picture, and the animation
and
plot are pretty basically, but it will be enjoyed by fans of the series,
children who are into anime, scifi, etc. and even my more mature (i.e.
older!) anime fans like myself who just want a fun little film to pass the
time with.
<|_=00=_|>

For those of you who think Digimon rips off Poke'mon guess what?DIGIMON
CAME
FIRST!Although Poke'mon appeard here in america first,it was Digimon that
came first in Japan where it all started,so Poke'mon is the rip
off!Anyway,about the film.This is a good movie,with some great action,poor
comedy,and some of the best drama found,and unlike most movies of a
show,this one is linked with the Tv series,I recommend this,and the show to
anybody,you'll like it,if you don't,better call for some help,if you know
what I mean whacko!
<|_=00=_|>
I was watching this movie today, having not seen it for about two
years, and I noticed a LOT more in it this time than when I last saw
it: 

1. The stunning animation. Not the Americanised, simplistic anime but a
prettier and more detailed style. Smoother animation, too.

2. The plot - a more developed version of what you get on the series,
which is what fans like to see! :) 

3. The humour! I have always loved Digimon's humour and it is
definitely improved further in this movie.

4. The fight scenes are as good as ever! 

5. Great soundtrack! (apart from that Digimon Rap thing at the start -
it got on my nerves o_O;;)

So, overall, this movie is great entertainment. Obviously I recommend
this especially to Digimon fans but it also appeals to other audiences.
I myself was a Digimon fan about 6 years ago, and hadn't seen it, and
when I saw the old videos I have of the series and the movie recently
after pulling them out of my shelves I remembered why I liked Digimon
so much :D As everyone else has said, beats Pokemon any day! And this
is coming from an ex-Pokemon fan too! Maybe the reason it beats Pokemon
(apart from the reasons above) is because Digimon shows a lot more
human emotion, rather than just fight fight fight pull Brock away from
girls and more fighting and getting shiny badges.

Three word summary: BIG Digimon adventure
<|_=00=_|>
Four years ago, when I first heard that my favorite animated series was
being brought to the big screen, needless to say I was ecstatic. Over
time, I've seen plenty of disappointing adaptations of TV series, such
as the much anticipated "Pokemon the First Movie" and, most recently,
the weak "Yu-Gi-Oh the Movie". But Digimon was different. Although it
may not have been a perfect movie in the myriad of overall excellent
films, It was the perfect Digimon movie. I do not think they could have
done a better job. There was a perfect balance of drama and humor,
seriousness and sarcasm, just what Digimon is all about. A great
comprehensible plot is depicted, plus it expanded on the Tai/Sora
romance hinted in Season 1. Overall if you are a digimon fan or just
want to know what it's all about, don't miss this one.

Animated Movie Score (10/10) Overall Movie Score (8.5/10) Recommended
<|_=00=_|>

For an animation, this film was the best I've ever seen. It had
exceptional
quality throughout and it actually convinced me to watch the television
series. I like the way it spans different time lines and explains the
whole
story, rather than the Pokemon movie. It entertained me every step of the
way with a great sound track, dialogue, and characters. The plot seems
rather simple when you first hear what it's actually about, but its modern
approach makes it original and likeable. The only problem was, the
screenplay was a little too quick, even for people who watch the
television
show, and I lost track in some parts of the movies; in fact, I had to
watch
it twice to properly understand the entire film.
But, everything else aside, I really liked this film and I'd seriously
recommend it to anyone, adults or children. If you think it's just another
Pokemon movie, you're wrong.
<|_=00=_|>

I like the second part of the movie best because of the way Izzy looked
liked when he was about to burst.  Furthermore, this movie serves as to
what
happens after the first series ends.  To me, I loved how it was told and I
loved how Tai got frustrated over a silly letter to his friend Sora.  It
was
funny to see the movie, especially when Izzy ate all that bad food of
Tai's
mother.  But its purpose of it will never be forgotten for this movie
really
rocks.
<|_=00=_|>
I must say, I watched a real lot of movies, and movies that were made
from games and/or existing series. As for the Digimon: The Movie it was
one of those very few movies, that actually was a great and interesting
movie! The story, characters, character design, and especially music
and animation was very well done (okay, animation got a little to the
bad side in the middle of the movie, but apart from that it was great,
especially the human character animation). I am really surprised that
this movie didn't got above 7.5 on IMDb rating, I'm not really a fan of
Digimon series, not that I don't like it, simply I didn't watch it
because of lack of access to it, anyway, the thing is: This is a really
great movie, I think the people only rated it lowly because instead of
watching it with the "Another New Experience" in mind, they watched it
as "Another Movie for Kids", and so they blocked themselves from having
fun, and enjoying the movie. I don't think this attitude is right
towards any movie which goal isn't offensive towards a group of people
(ex: racist, anti Christian, anti semitic, etc.). However I must add
that there are respectful people who can rate this movie lowly because
of it's clearly fictional story, but hey! It's a movie for teens! Apart
from that generalist review I would like to point out few things: I
loved the effects used for impact, like all the electronics going crazy
every time something from digimon world interfered with "real" world.
Also I loved the humor in the movie, it's really great.

I recommend this movie for anyone above 8 years old (because of the
fight scenes) and below 100 years old, and I don't recommend it for
closed minded people.
<|_=00=_|>

When I was in Vermont me and my sister was looking forward to seeing the
digimon movie.  Of course, we found out that it got such bad reviews that
they made a news article about it.

When my sister, my sister's friend and me went to see the movie, I was
surprised.  C'mon guys, it wasn't THAT bad!  The animation was cheap, but
detailed (an example of an oxy-moron).  Some parts of the movie were even
funny.  Example:

Tai: "Hello, my name is Tai, Taaaiii.  An this is my sister, Kari,
Kaaarrriii"

Koromon: "Hello Tai Tai Kari Kari!" (lol).

Alot of the movie was pretty violent, but at least it had good plots.
This
could beat a pokemon movie any day!  Those reviewers should get their
heads
examined!
<|_=00=_|>

It took me forever to figure it out, but after enough searching, I found
out
why.

I found that the movie was a lot like the show, so close that it seemed
like
they had just thrown three episodes together.  The only reason I put up
with
this, these three 'episodes' were effectively on their own and were
referred
to briefely in the series (well, 2 of them were).

It ends up that I was half right.  after searching, I found out that it
isn't three episodes strung together, but currently there are some 6
digimon
'movies' released in Japan, and three of them are in this single movie
that
we saw in the western world.  It seems that the Japanese form of a movie
is
30 minutes long (how this works is beyond me).

Outside that, it was enjoyable.  I had fun watching it, taping it and
watching it again, and catching all the jokes they had.  It's what makes
the
series enjoyable, and it sure saved the movie.
