

Honestly speaking I had not very high expectations for this one. 
Not because I thought it was bad, but because so much is
revealed in the trailers nowadays. So I figured all the funny jokes
had been given away already. I was wrong. 
This movie is truly entertaining and hilarious. I don't remember
having such a great time at the movies in quite a while, even if
some people think it is predictable, but... isn't that the reason most
of us go to movies anyway? To spend a good time, have a good
laugh and hopefully forget some of our everyday worries? Well this
film did it for me. Congratulations to Miss Bullock, she did great
job both as producer and as a leading lady, and the supporting
cast was amazing. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

This is an excellent comedy which kept me laughing all the way through
consistently without the flat patches you often get in longer comedies.

The premise is not so unusual with Sandra Bullock playing an ugly
duckling/Pygmalion turning into a swan, however, the performances,
especially by Bullock, Caine, Shatner and Bergen make the
film.

Bullock stars as the never been loved tomboy of the FBI who has to dump her
coarse manners and unkempt appearance in order to go undercover at a beauty
pageant. Michael Caine is the Dr Higgins figure grooming her for stardom.
Shatner plays Shatner, and Bergen is the matron of the Pageant. Benjamin
Bratt plays the love interest !

Bullock is excellent all the way through from uncouth to gorgeous, and is
particularly stunning in her transformed self. Caine is also excellent and
the interplay between these 2 and the cast in general makes for a lively
pace all the way through, til the final crowning ceremony.

A thoroughly entertaining film and well worth seeing.
<|_=00=_|>

There are some actresses who produce weighty or worthy pieces of work and
there are those who produce popular movies.  Sandra Bullock is an actress
who falls into the latter category.  Yet, in this category, she is at the
top of the tree and it is in films such as Miss Congeniality that she proves
this.

For a fish out of water comedy, this is a film that plays to Bullock's
qualities - her tomboy image from Speed, her warm humour and her ability to
play for laughs and be deadpan.  As such, Bullock is allowed to shine from a
castlist containing Michael Caine and Ben Bratt.  However, if I had one
criticism, it would be that there are occasions when Caine just appears to
be shamelessly mugging and camping it up for the camera to no real
effect.

There are some genuinely funny moments, mostly centred around the pageant
and it is nice to see such a movie which doesn't take itself or its setting
too seriously.  Many of the contestants give good supporting performances
and as such, it is hard to pick one out.

Overall, it is a bit slight but anyone renting/buying this movie would
surely know what to expect - familiar, funny and essentially sweet-natured -
just like Sandra Bullock herself.

8/10 - A good example of the genre.
<|_=00=_|>
Good-natured and funny comedy has Bullock perfectly cast as an uptight,
tomboyish federal agent who—for the first time in her entire
life—decides to embrace her femininity after she's assigned to go
undercover at a beauty pageant to try and apprehend an elusive
criminal. She's never even worn a dress, much less makeup and
accessories, and the results are hilarious as she tries to do her job
and be a credible contestant as well. Film's setup and execution are
predictable, yet kept afloat by a meaningful story, good lines, and big
time laughs. Bullock is as appealing as she's ever been, and surrounded
here by a first-rate supporting cast. ***
<|_=00=_|>
I have loved this movie from the very first time I saw it. Even taking
into account that it was 10 years ago when this Rom-Com was released,
and most Rom-Coms are forgotten throughout the sands of time by plenty
of people for how many there are and how unremarkable most of them
manage to be, this one has always managed to stick with me and uphold
an excellent reputation, in my eyes, for how wonderful and fun it
really is, and is truly one of my favorite movies in general.

The numerous upsides: I think the deliverance of all the lines and
scenes in this film is just perfect for what it sets out to accomplish.
Sandra Bullock was the perfect choice for the role, and all the other
supporting actors and actresses are simply magnificent in their parts
and bring to you a movie that is meant to be nothing but fun and
laughter from the beginning. However, you get a little bit more than
what you are in store for. I found myself being completely interested
every time I have watched it over the years, because it captures your
attention with the storyline and antics and does not let go. The
performances, like I said, are amazing and the cast really knew how to
work with what they were given. The jokes and antics are hysterical and
though many when they hate or dislike a comedy will tell you that the
movie was funny in a bad way, do not listen to any bad reception this
may receive and view it for yourself with a clear conscience, because
it really is enjoyable that way, in my honest opinion.

The very minuscule, few downsides: Yes, the movie does get a tad bit
mediocre, at times, and at others of course they could have handled the
material a little better, but aside from those two matters, I thought
the film was, in a sense, perfect, and was completely astonishing and
surprisingly hilarious and outstanding to every value it should have
been hilarious and outstanding to.

I have enjoyed the film for a long time now, I still enjoy it and find
it to be a fun and thrilling adventure from beginning to end that I can
always watch for the simple pleasure of just viewing it, not to just
pass the time. Guys, do not pass it off for just a chick flick, because
a few are liable to find this a superbly well time. Though it is a Rom-
Com, I consider it a near masterpiece for how much it gives to the
audience and how incredibly satisfying it always is.
<|_=00=_|>

"Miss Congeniality" is a fun little comedy with Bullock
at
the center playing an FBI agent who has to go undercover
as
a beauty pageant contestant. Bullock is finally in her
element in this flick which sports a lively screeplay,
a
clever script with lots of "call backs", and a good
supporting cast. A must see for Bullock fans and a fun
watch
for most others.
<|_=00=_|>
It's over-the-top, it's occasionally offensive--to men, to women, to
gays, to lesbians, and to poor Miss Hawaii--but "Miss Congeniality" has
Sandra Bullock, and she's wonderful. The opening moments, with FBI
agent Bullock busting Russians in a restaurant sting operation, are so
good that the movie might've played very well as an FBI comedy-drama,
with Bullock on different cases. I mean, maybe they should've ditched
the pageant stuff, at least until next time. But, no, Bullock goes
undercover as a contestant in the Miss U.S. pageant, and the movie
turns into your typical makeover thing. Lots of breast jokes, TOO many
high heel pratfalls, and Michael Caine as a peculiar makeover artist
(he's "dripping with disdain" one minute, fatherly the next, then
bitter, then cuddly). Bullock has no chemistry with Benjamin Bratt as
her boss on the operation (that's not her fault, however) and I wanted
more of her home life (and that doomed microwave oven), but what works
does work well. Sandra's "bonding" paint party with the girls is
terrific, as is her friendship with shaky Miss Rhode Island and her
attempts to face down snarling Ernie Hudson as the FBI chieftain (who,
like in "Ghostbusters", gets no funny lines). The movie rests solely on
Bullock's shoulders, and she delivers. It may not be comic genius, but
it is congenial. **1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>


I have been a huge fan of Sandra Bullock's since before Speed. The past few
years her movies, haven't fared too well and it's a shame as I didn't think
her last few roles were that bad. Sure the movies could've been better but
it wasn't her fault that Speed 2 flopped and I didn't think it was that
bad.

Anyway it was great to see Sandra back at her best and Miss Congeniality
definitely didn't disappoint, but the only thing Sandra, you cannot play
ugly, even at your character's worst you were beautiful.

Benjamin Bratt gave a brilliant performance as Sandra's co-worker and of
course potential lover that their chemistry was totally electrifying as
well
- a movie works so much better when you have that chemistry between
actors.

Michael Caine and Ernie Hudson were equally impressive in their roles and
not to mention William Shatner and Candace Bergman - she's hasn't lost that
comedic skill and the DVD addition of deleted scenes will sure bring more
laughter as well.

I'm not going to write the whole plot of the movie and give away certain
elements as being a huge fan of movies, I don't watch trailors or read
anything to do with a movie before I see it as I want to enjoy the ride and
not know what to expect even though you do know the outcome in some
movies.

Sandra is definitely, well in my opinion the best actress today and it's
great to see her in a role that showcases her talents as I honestly don't
think this movie could have worked without her.
<|_=00=_|>

                 If you love Sandra Bullock, Michael Caine, Candice Bergen
and William Shatner, view this film and have lots of laughs and just enjoy
seeing Michael Caine ("Dressed to Kill")(Victor Melling) make FBI agent
Sandra Bullock(Gracie)("THE NET") improve her entire body into a hot to trot
beauty contestant from the great state of New Jersey! Candice Bergen (Kathy
Morningside)daughter of the late Edgar Bergen, creator of "Charlie McCarthy
fame" and "Charlie Brown TV", played a very very hateful person, trying to
seek revenge throughout the entire picture.  William Shatner(Stan Fields)
did a good job of singing like "Burt Parks" of the Miss America Contests of
the past.  It is very slap stick and crazy at times, but it is a comedy
created by great actors having lots of fun on the screen.  If you watch
carefully, you will even see the CROWN blowing up before your very eyes!
ENJOY
<|_=00=_|>

How many crapola pageants have I seen in my life?  A ton of meaningless
models parading around in swimsuits claiming to want to help the deaf
orphans of the world while posing nude in some off the wall porno
magazine.
If you have ever seen - A dethroned beauty queen - A hacked off runner
up -
Or an incredibly stupid talent, then you just have to watch this movie.
It
is so incredibly hilarious at putting every single stereo-type out there.
I
remember watching Miss America years ago and Miss Indiana had a cow when
she
was named first runner-up.  I also remember some pretty lame talents like
"I
want to be a secretary" and these girls were top ten on national tv.
William Shatner and Candice Bergen are A+++++++++++++ in this movie.
Watch
it and laugh for days.
