
Before Richard Dutcher released the successful missionary feature,
'God's Army,' there was no "LDS cinema" to speak of. Sure Latter-Day
Saints worked in Hollywood and the film industry, at large, but no LDS
filmmaker had made an LDS film for the LDS market. To that extent, any
LDS filmmaker who profits from the emerging (and some say 'already
dying') LDS film genre, owes a huge debt of gratitude to Dutcher for
taking a huge risk.

Now on to "Brigham City." I read some of the previous comments about
this film and can see that some people really misunderstood what this
film is really about. Sure, on the surface, it's a murder mystery that
takes place in a small Utah town and it seems to showcase the beliefs
of the LDS people or Mormons. The first time I watched it, that's all I
got out of it too.

Upon watching it a second time however, that this is a film about
conflicting ideologies: Acceptance and tolerance of "the outside world"
vs. a rejection of it and a desire to stay innocent. On that second
viewing, I realized how much of this film really shows Latter-Day
Saints or rather some of their attitudes, in an unflattering light.

Dutcher's sheriff is really a close-minded individual who prefers to
live a sheltered existence and believes everyone in the town should as
well. In many ways, he is the embodiment of many of the people I live
around in Utah. Thankfully, many others are open-minded and wonderful
people, but there are certainly pockets of Latter-Day Saints who are
not willing to acknowledge that evil exists everywhere, even in their
own communities. They condemn "the sins of the world" as they see it,
but fail to acknowledge the sin in their own lives and the lives of
their families. Dutcher's character is a righteous, stoic man, but
almost to the point of self-righteousness at times when other members
of the congregation are in error.

Other incidences in the film illustrate a certain hypocrisy which
exists in the tightly-knit pocket communities. One example is Dutcher
seeing a member of the congregation he is bishop over, ordering a drink
at the local bar. I don't want to catalog all the situations, but they
are there if you look and they parallel reality in the way that so many
Latter-Day Saints in Utah rationalize their way out of guilt.

Having been raised most of my life as a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-Day Saints outside of Utah, this hypocrisy is not
nearly as pronounced in its non-Utah members, because the need to be
different from those you live around and associate with is so much more
obvious. These members outside of Utah are continually reminded that
they need to be an example of their religion for those not of their
faith and do their best to keep the commandments in the church.

This film really could be a metaphor for any tight knit religious
community that has a somewhat judgmental attitude toward "the outside
world." It doesn't have to be an LDS community that highlights these
attitudes, it could be a predominantly Baptist, Seventh Day Adventist,
Amish or other communities.

Dutcher proves with this film that he really is a master storyteller. I
find it ironic that many members of the church in Utah were put off by
the PG-13 rating given the fact that its this very attitude the film
highlights. Not to mention, that compared to many other pieces of
cinema rated PG-13, it is very tame.

And it's too bad that those not of the LDS faith saw it as some sort of
missionary tool to convert non-LDS to the faith, which it certainly is
not. It's an interesting examination of the faith and what happens when
they seek to live a sheltered existence.

The only criticism I have is that when the killer is finally revealed,
his/her motivations for killing seem vague and a bit weak. Other than
that though, this is a film that deserves a second and third viewing.
<|_=00=_|>

First and foremost, Brigham City is a murder mystery.  But it's also a story
about how a murder can make victims of everyone who lives in a small town
that is supposed to be safe. 

While Brigham City is set in a predominantly Mormon town in Utah, but it
could just have easily been any small town in America and the people could
have been of any faith (or none at all).  The people of the town feel safe
and secure.  No one locks they're doors.  Everyone knows everyone else. 
Then their sense of security is shattered by a spree of vicious murders. 
Suddenly everyone is on his guard and quick to distrust those they have
trusted for years.

The plot of Brigham City really has the feel of a traditional Hollywood
thriller, the addition of Mormon culture give the film a higher level of
depth.  While the film is about Mormons and provides some brief glimpses
into their beliefs and customs, it does not attempt to convert audience
members to the LDS church.

In his second film, Richard Dutcher does an admirable job of bringing this
story to the big screen.  The film feels more professional and polished than
his previous entry (God's Army), but at the same time doesn't feel like the
typical Hollywood fare.

What works in this movie is Dutcher's attention to detail and the depth of
the characters.  I was pleased to see how the violence in the movie was
implied rather than shown directly.  I was also impressed by the casting of
Wilford Brimley.  There may have been a commercial reason for him being
attached to the film, but his presence gave the film a feeling of
familiarity.

Dutcher also makes great use of camera angles and music to cast each person
as a suspect.  This is also the film's low point, as it is used so much it
begins to bog down the story.  Non-Mormons may feel that certain points of
the movie are a bit too preachy.

All in all, Brigham City is a decent movie.  I don't recommend it for
younger children, as some of the implied violence may be disturbing, but
most people over 13 will probably be drawn into the story the same way you
would a traditional Hollywood thriller.

You might ask why I (a non-Mormon) interested in seeing Brigham City.  Since
I manage the movie theater where the film is playing I wanted to be able to
give an informed opinion about the movie.  As a movie fan, I was interested
to see how Brigham City stood up to other Hollywood and independent films. 
As a person, I was interested for the glimpse of Mormon culture the film
provided.

<|_=00=_|>
When I read that the director casted himself in the lead, I thought,
"well, boy, it seems the only way for you to get a role". I couldn't be
more mistaken.

Script: Richard Dutcher - brilliant 

Directing: Richard Dutcher - brilliant 

Lead: Richard Dutcher - brilliant

Although the atmosphere of the movie is somewhat depressing, something
I am usually not looking for, I was nothing but impressed.

Brigham City is a character driven thriller with nice twists and takes
a very close look at religiously fundamentalist small town life in the
U.S. Bottom line is, no matter how much you try to shield your
whole-world-community from the hazards of the "outside world", you
can't. The script has some nice twists and stays suspenseful until the
murderer is finally discovered, but the real plot revolves around the
sheriff and his world being turned upside down.

Unfortunately we have experienced something terrible and unexpected in
our community, too, and it takes in fact some time until you are able
to admit the truth - you just think you are in the wrong movie.

Dutcher takes you on an emotional ride with the sheriff to exactly that
point.
<|_=00=_|>

I thoroughly enjoyed this one.  I watched it knowing it wasn't going to be
a
light-hearted film, which was an advantage over many people I know who
went
to it thinking it was a happy ending sort of show.  I must admit it was a
little odd to see the goings-on of LDS church meetings and other LDS
cultural aspects on the big screen, but it is territory that needs to be
covered so that future movies that cover similar territory won't be
weighed
down with reviews about the LDS church rather than focusing on the movie
at
hand.  I watched the DVD a second time with Richard Dutcher's audio
commentary and, after that, I concluded that he is someone who is
conscientious about finding the balance in film in regards to the
religious
issues dealt with, not too pro or too anti.  I was quite amazed as to how
resourceful he was, considering their meager budget he had to work with.
The outcome was superb and he told the story in a simple, yet elegant way.
I look forward to Mr. Dutcher's next film.  
<|_=00=_|>

Brigham's sheriff -- a terribly sad, but extremely decent man -- is
forced to admit that there is a serial killer in his small, friendly,
pretty little town. He sets about looking for the killer from what
appears to be a hopelessly blinkered perspective, refusing to believe
that anyone but an "outsider" could be responsible. He gradually finds
his way to the answer, and it hurts to watch. I could happily see a
film by this director every day of the week. This was absolutely
brilliantly done -- such a nice change from all the crash and bash of
more typical overacted, overplotted, punctuated-by-explosions movies.
Dutcher gives the lie to the idea that movie characters (especially the
police) need to be wisecracking, high-octane, postmodern cardboard
cutouts in order to solve a crime. It's a rare example, too, of a film
filled with deeply religious people who are not simply a bunch of
flakes.

<|_=00=_|>

You know, when most people hear about this movie and they find out that
writer/producer/director/star Richard Dutcher is a Mormon... and that the
movie has a definite Mormon agenda... they are going to be rolling their
eyes and thinking, "That can't be any GOOD!"  (Heck, that was my own
reaction initially.)  This movie is about a small Mormon town who's quiet
tranquility is rocked with the seeming arrival of a serial killer in their
midst.  I don't even want to say anything more about the plot lest I give
something away.  Suffice to say that the movie is one of the best-written
AND directed AND acted (with the exception of co-star Wilford Brimley, I
don't think anyone is a "professional" actor) police thrillers I have seen
in recent years!  And no, I'm not a Mormon!  Richard Dutcher has really done
something unexpected here... by infusing a traditional thriller with an
examination of faith... and emotion... and humanity... the movie works on
all levels... topped off by a searing ending.  I was really blown away by
this movie (though I still have no intentions of joining the Mormon
Church.)
<|_=00=_|>

In the theater my best friend and I made up half the audience. This is a
misfortune indeed, because I relished this film. We have two main
characters, Wes, a small town sheriff who believes his little community is a
sanctuary from the outside world and Meredith, who being raised in
Manhattan, finds the far out, little Mormon community kinda creepy. Together
they face the unspeakable acts of a cold-blooded killer. This film literally
gave me the chills and the filmography was very Hitchcock-like giving the
audiences plenty of suspense, without grossing them out, as other films
maybe would have gone overboard on. What makes the film even more eerie is
that it never shows the girls being followed or stalked before they are
killed. They are just found. Another remarkable performance to be noted was
that of Matthew A. Brown. His many-layered character was a thrill to watch.
I hope him more in the future. Wilford Brimley gave a wonderful perfromance
too. This movie is definate four star rating in my book!

<|_=00=_|>
Brigham City is a "Garden of Eden" story based in Brigham City, Utah.
Brigham City is a little piece of Mormon paradise interrupted by the
presence of an evil serpent. Never before has the city experienced a
murder. This movie portrays a definite contrast between the "real
world" and the naive town. This contrast goes hand in hand with Mormon
communities. Mormon communities are well known and criticized for their
isolation from mainstream society. The discussion between the sheriff
and deputy about real world news and the fact that the secretary at the
sheriff's office had not recognized the signal for a dead body
highlights the isolation of the town. 

The main character, Wes, holds a pivotal role in this film, as he
represents the entire religious community. Serving as bishop and
sheriff shows the difficulties of the Mormon community to hold dual
roles. His refusal to listen to the news serves as an example of the
isolation of the Mormon religion. Wes' naiveté represents innocence,
but as the pieces of Terry's gun are methodically put together, so are
the pieces of the investigation. Wes gains the knowledge he has been
searching for when the gun is whole. Then Wes makes a decision that
forces him to lose his innocence forever.

The dual roles of the sheriff also help increase the tension of the
film. The tension is first apparent when a woman comes into the
sheriff's office for a religious confession. The tension between these
roles climaxes during the investigation of Steve's house. Wes,
performing his duty of sheriff, had little patience for Steve trying to
ask for forgiveness for hoarding a pornography stash.

One should watch out for the color red in this film as it plays a
sinister role in the movie. The car of the first murder victim was red.
The blood on the wheel was bright red. Most of the victims have red
hair. The fingerprints of the murderer are taken from a red (admittedly
almost maroon) cup. The murderer, himself, admits that his only blonde
victim had hair that looked red when he finished with her. This color
seems to connect the murders and symbolize evil. 

The most telling scene of this movie was the shooting practice scene.
In this scene, Terry and Wes have a discussion about the killer. Terry
wonders whether the killer could feel remorse for his actions and
whether the killer could be forgiven and sent to heaven. Then we see
Wes miss most of his shots while Terry hits all of his targets. Terry's
concern for the well-being of the soul of the murderer hints and
excellent shooting skills are a strong indication that Terry is the
killer. Wes' story lack of marksmanship shows his innocence while his
story about his first hunting experience shows how easily innocence can
be lost.

Clearly, the foreshadowing of this film may be been a bit obvious.
Stu's death seems imminent from the very beginning because he says that
one day his companions will miss him when he is gone. An ominous moment
occurs when "All is well" is spoken at the gazebo. It should not go
unnoticed that the next murder victim was found shortly after under the
very same gazebo. And who could miss the signs that pointed to the
murderer in the shooting practice scene? But if one dials the
foreshadowing down some, imagine the suspense one could create. 

All-in-all, Brigham City may not be at the top of one's list of movies
to see if one is looking for suspense. At times, the movie becomes a
little too concerned with the religious message and the feeling of
tension is lost. The plot is a little tired and the foreshadowing
allows one to identify the last victim and the killer well before the
movie comes to an end. But if one is looking for a film that captures
the very essence and struggle of the Mormon community, this film is one
to see.
<|_=00=_|>
Richard Dutcher's follow-up to his spectacularly successful indie film
GOD'S ARMY was this little gem called BRIGHAM CITY. Dutcher plays
small-town sheriff Wes, who finds his little corner of paradise deep in
not only a murder mystery, but also in the grip of a serial killer. All
of a sudden, this quiet sleepy town is thrust into the national
spotlight and bodies start showing up all over the place.

Wes is not only the sheriff; he is also the bishop of one of the local
wards (congregations) in town, so he is placed in a dual role as both
physical protector from a law enforcement standpoint and spiritual
leader as well. His young deputy Terry (played by Matthew Brown) helps
him out as does an FBI Special Agent (played by Tayva Patch) who flies
in from New York to help out on the case.

As panic builds within the town and as they try to find who is doing
all the killing, everyone is considered suspect. A town that has long
lived on faith and trust begins to look at itself and each other in a
new light now that the world has invaded on their corner of paradise
and left their indelible mark on what for many of them had once been
hallowed ground. It's certain that many of them will never look at life
the same again.

Dutcher does an exceptional job of doing something nobody has dared do
before, and that is exploring the dark side of the Mormon psyche, and
doing so in a manner that does not denigrate either the Church, its
members or the principles of the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and for that,
he has my everlasting respect. All of us have our dark sides; if
sufficiently provoked, even the most mild-mannered of society's members
– in or out of the Church – can be provoked or driven to do things that
are beyond the pale such as serial killings and the like.

BRIGHAM CITY will leave you guessing all the way to the final scene
before you realize who the killer is, and the end will leave you
satisfied that you have indeed watched a true cinematic masterpiece. Of
all the films I have seen that were directed to a primarily
LDS-oriented audience, this one disturbed them the most, which tells me
this one is BY FAR the best, as most of the Utah-types are still mind
warped in the "Happy Valley" mode, and for them, they are better off
staying in their own little world. It disturbed them because it hit
home, and they did not like that – not in the least – and the fact that
it did, had me cheering all the louder for Dutcher.

Dutcher's film reminds us to use common sense in conjunction with our
faith. I can think of at least THREE preventable tragedies in the last
several years out in Utah that could have easily been avoided had more
of the "Happy Valley" mindsets used a little street sense hand-in-hand
with their faith. Come to think of it, we could all use more of both in
our lives.

On a scale of 1 to 10, I give this film a 12/10. ***
<|_=00=_|>

Having childhoods in the same hometown (Mt. Vernon, IL), Dutcher and I
come
from completely different worlds as adults. I was impressed with his
direction in this film, the tension created and maintained. The characters
show a refreshing honesty in looking at where they have
been.
