
I originally saw this movie because it stars Brendan Fraser, an actor
who can't seem to make a bad movie, and often makes great movies, such
as "Blast From the Past".

The big surprise was Elizabeth Hurley. As certain as Vivien Leigh was
meant to play Scarlett O'Hara, no one could have done a better job
playing The Devil...in this case a sly, brilliantly cunning, sexy devil
who playfully torments Brendan by dooming each of his wishes with
unintended, nasty surprises. She effortlessly leads him along like a
puppy dog on a leash.

Besides her comedic wit, (and some clever writing) I would be remiss
not to mention that Elizabeth Hurley looks perfect, absolutely perfect,
in every scene. Her clipped, refined British accent is the aural
equivalent of a film shot on Kodachrome.

Bedazzled exudes a positive, good-natured warmth, and is proof that
comedy doesn't have to depend on silly sophomoric antics, pratfalls, or
foul language.

ADDENDUM January 10, 2008. After two years, I have no idea if anyone
has ever read this review. Even if you don't like it, please give me a
thumbs up or thumbs down, just to let me know someone read it.
<|_=00=_|>

No, this isn't the best or funniest comedy in the world, but I certainly
enjoyed it.  There is a fair amount of really good comedy in the film to
keep you entertained.  ...And of course there's Elizabeth Hurley...need I
say more?

The story is a fun one and quite the fantasy, but nonetheless, it's
entertaining.  While not being anything terribly profound, this film
definitely has a point to make, be happy with yourself and only you can make
things happen, don't rely on others for your happiness.

The acting in this film is very good.  Brendan Fraser struts his acting
talent in this film quite nicely, playing virtually 5 or 6 characters
throughout the film.  Brendan really is a talented actor and should get some
notice for his role in this film.  Orlando Jones, Paul Adelstein, and Toby
Huss also deserve a great deal of notice for their work in this film, all
three of them play various types of characters in the film and do it quite
nicely.  Elizabeth Hurley and her ever-changing wardrobe should be reason
enough for any guy to watch this film.  She looks nothing short of fantastic
in every scene.  Frances O'Connor was a nice choice for the part of Alison /
Nicole (also playing more than one role very nicely).

All in all, this is a fun, cute movie with some really good comedy.  I would
recommend this film to anyone that likes those types of film, or is just a
fan of one of the actors or director Harold Ramis.  I hope you enjoy the
film, thanks for reading,

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

Wealth.  Power.  Admiration.  They all sound pretty enticing.  Indeed many
people spend their life in pursuit of these or similar goals and are
willing
to sacrifice anything and everything in the process.  But what if there
was
an easy way to do it, say, selling your soul?  You're not really using it
anyways .As the saying goes, the day I decided to do it there'd probably
be
a glut on the market.

Elliot Richards is, for lack of a better word, a dork.  Relegated to the
most dreaded of worker hells - tech support - he is a social pariah.
Mocked
by his colleagues, he spends his time trying to be cool and is hopelessly
in
love with one of his co-workers who doesn't even know that he exists.
While
lamenting his lot in life he casually mentions that he would give anything
to have his beloved Allison.  Enter the Princess of Darkness, stage left.

Although the basics between this movie and the 1967 classic of the same
name
are similar, there are so many differences  (styles of humor, characters,
plot, etc) that comparisons are pointless.  So I won't even try.
Bedazzled
offers something so few comedies do these days - laughs, and lots or them,
without relying on endless juvenile scatological gags.   I thoroughly
enjoyed the physical transformations that Elliot, Allison, and his cohorts
undergo (several of which are amazing) each time he makes a wish.  The
spins
on the wishes are especially amusing:  for example, when Elliot wishes for
power and wealth, he fails to take consider the how, and wakes up as a
cuckolded Colombian drug lord whose kingdom is quickly collapsing around
him.   Elliot soon discovers that when dealing with the devil - surprise,
surprise - nothing is, as it seems.

I have liked Brendan Fraser since his role in "Encino Man".  Since then,
he
has proven himself capable of doing both schtick ("The Mummy") and serious
roles ("Gods and Monsters").  With this part he shows just how versatile
he
is:  rather than one role, he takes on seven, and does so admirably (I
particularly enjoyed sensitive guy  - I was laughing so hard my side
hurt).
Elizabeth Hurley is deliciously wicked in a role that she was born to play
(if reports about her are true.) and it appears that she enjoyed herself.
Her spin on the ultimate temptress is hilarious and personally, I'll take
leather-clad vixens over slimy snakes any day.  Francis O'Connor, brings
the
same verve and versatility to Allison that she displayed in "Mansfield
Park", although here she is less subdued.  The supporting cast provides
the
finishing touch rounding out the film nicely.

Although it didn't dazzle me, I was greatly amused.


<|_=00=_|>
Here's a fun film with a number of good laughs. It is stupid? Yeah, in
parts. Is the theology sound? Hardly, but there was more truth than
fiction uttered in this film, believe it or not. Is the Devil made to
look attractive? Well, yeah, I'd say Elizabeth Hurley is pretty
attractive!

The beginning is the best part of the film, and the end - with a dumb
New Age message - is the worst. Along the way, the dumb Brendan
Fraser's "Elliott Richards" learns some valuable lessons in his battle
with the Devil. For selling his soul, so to speak, he gets seven wishes
and we witness how he handles, or mishandles, these wishes. Much of it
is pretty funny. Fraser is not a bad. He can play these goofy roles
(i.e. "George Of The Jungle" and he can get serious and be effective,
too, as in "The Quiet American.")

Overall, it's good lightweight entertainment. Don't expect much, and
you'll be pleasantly surprised. At least, that's the way I found it.
<|_=00=_|>

The 1967 original, starring Dudley Moor and Peter Cook and directed by
Stanley Donen was a droll dark comedy that bombed when it was first
released
to theatres but has developed a very strong cult following over the years.
This 2000 version, directed by Harold Ramis is not so much a remake as a
latter-day re-imagining of the story.  Aside from the basic premise, the
two
films share little else in common.  This new version is a wacky,
fast-paced
farce that makes up in some giddily amusing moments what it lacks in true
wickedness.

Brendan Fraser is perfectly cast as the hapless computer tech who makes a
deal with Satan; granted seven wishes in exchange for eventual possession
of
his soul, we witness each wish he makes as his life becomes a series of
colorful and very funny misadventures.  Some first-rate make-up and
special
effects transform Fraser and his world every time he changes wishes.
Elizabeth Hurley is extremely fetching and quite likable as the embodiment
of Satan, although I wish she'd showed a bit more evilness than glee in
her
characterization.

All in all, a very entertaining movie that, of course, leaves the door
open
for a sequel.  Bring it on!  
<|_=00=_|>

"Bedazzled" tells of a tech support geek (need I say more?)
who sells his soul to the devil (Hurley) for seven wishes
which he attempts to use to get close to a girl at work
(O'Connor). The flick is a situational comedy which takes
the audience on a fun ride as Fraser's wishes turn him
into
one exaggerated comic-book-type caricature after another.
A
cute flick sans slapstick, pratfalls, and jokes, "Bedazzled"
offers lots of outrageous situations, some sentimental
moments, and a whiff of philosophy. A fun watch with a
cute
ending, lots of eye candy for the guys, and Fraser doing
what he does best playing a big, naive, smiling guy.
<|_=00=_|>
The makers of Bedazzled were not out to make a classic comedy,they were
simply trying to make us laugh.Their mission was a successful
one.Bedazzled is full of laughs and great character acting by Brendan
Fraser and Frances O'Connor.After many forgettable roles in several
forgettable films,Brendan Fraser has really graduated into one of
cinemas' big time players in just the last couple of years.As I
said,Bedazzled will probably not go down as a comedy classic,it's just
your basic comedy filled with laughs from start to finish,and that's
good enough for me.It would be a worthy addition to the comedy section
of anyone's home library.Thumbs up!
<|_=00=_|>

Someone in Movie Heaven dropped a feather down on Ramis, the director of
such good time romps as Ghostbusters and Stripes. His remake of this 1967
classic rides on the slumped shoulders of Elliot (Brendan Fraser at his
best), a pathetically geeky loner who is so socially unskilled that he
makes
our skin crawl a little. When we first meet him, Elliot is trying to glom
onto his co-workers' after-hours social scene by using such
tried-and-true
means as showing photos of his speakers (from all sides), a truly awful
blue-eyed soul brother act, and plain old stalking.

Even though he is the guy you run from when he lurches towards you in
the hall - probably knocking over the water cooler at the same time -
Elliot
really does want to be different. One reason for this is his fervent
secret
crush on Alison (Frances O'Connor), a beautiful systems analyst who
doesn't
see him at all. Elliot is so smitten by her that he doesn't even realize
until too late that she has given him a polite brush off at the local
pub,
where he is busy trying to impress his buddies.

Now comes a simple but nifty transitional shot: a cue ball skips off
a
pool table and bounces down a flight of stairs and the camera follows as
it
makes a steady, inevitable trip across the crowded floor, pairs of feet
yielding right of way as it goes on to finally hit Elliot's feet where he
sits on a stool in silent yearning. He picks up the ball and looks across
the room, up the flight of stairs to where destiny, in the form of
Elizabeth
Hurley in a slinky red dress, is beckoning him.

Ms. Hurley is actually the Devil, although Elliot doesn't know it
yet,
and she will shortly be putting him through a series of transformative
experiences. In the meantime, though, he isn't buying her story, even
though
she presents him with a card that reads, "The Devil". Contrasted with the
heavy-handedness of recent 'Sign O'the Beast R' Us' flicks such as
Devil's
Advocate, this sequence is done with sly understatement and depends
simply
on giving Hurley a chance to play the vamp she was born to be.

We begin to like Elliot here because, even though he is presented
with a
slew of vanity-pleasing enticements, it isn't until she serves up a batch
of
his grandmother's cookies that he believes the Devil is really who she
claims to be. And when he is presented with the standard
seven-wishes-for-your-soul contract, it isn't until he sees a giant video
screen of Alison calling to him that he makes the deal.

Although the real treats - the deliriously goofy incarnations of
teeth,
hair and clothing that Elliot chooses for his ideal self in his endless
quest for happiness, success, and Alison's hand - are yet to come, I am
just
pointing out how masterfully Ramis has set the table. By the time he is
plunged into his voyage of self-improvement, we already know a great deal
about Elliot and have begun to move into his corner.

We've also begun to feel a certain sympathy for the Devil, thanks
mainly
to the fine work of Ms. Hurley, with her elegant voice and her clear zest
for the role. Although she is certainly not the scariest Lucifer yet to
appear on screen, she is one of the most persistently sales-oriented and
could hang with the toughest of David Mamet's phone scammers. By turns
sultry, pitiful, and practical ("Have you ever even seen your soul? Do
you
even know what it does? It's really just like your appendix - you'll
never
miss it."), she is always the ultimate Closer. Yet it's also never really
in
doubt that those with a glimmer of goodness can slip the bonds of her
contract with no hard feelings on her part.

Fraser's Elliot, who is almost always the dupe, is hilariously
baffled
by the persona the Devil has given him. Plagued in each adventure by the
same guys who torment him at the office, he can never figure out what has
gone wrong with his wish until it is too late. It's delightful to see
this
fine actor strutting the comic range he is capable of playing in all of
his
character's various selves, as well as the simplicity with which he
returns
to being the same old Elliot, wiser, at the end.

Fine supporting work by Orlando Wilson, Paul Adelstein, and Toby Huss
as
Elliot's co-workers and karmic cast members. Great script by Ramis, Larry
Gelbart of M.A.S.H. and Oh, God, and Peter Tolan (Analyze This, The Larry
Sanders Show).

<|_=00=_|>

Ever since GEORGE OF THE JUNGLE I've been convinced that BRENDAN FRASER is
one of the brightest new talents to come along in ages. He gets a chance to
show how clever he is at concealing his real self in BEDAZZLED, starting as
a nerdy office worker and going through a series of changes in an effort to
make a pact with The Devil (Elizabeth Hurley). None of his wishes are
successful because each one has a hitch devised by the cunning Hurley to
backfire. 

I never saw the original with Dudley Moore, but here I can see that the
script stands in the way of delivering a solid comedy despite Brendan's
flair for this sort of thing. He reaches the peak of his comic talent with
his impersonation of a Latin millionaire, guaranteed to draw laughs.

But much of the story is too episodic for the results to be anything more
than reasonably satisfying. Hurley goes about her role with a sexy
seductiveness that is almost as overwhelming for the viewer as it is for
Fraser's character. 

Summing up: Fraser's fans will enjoy his multi-faceted
romp.
<|_=00=_|>

I wasn't expecting too much when I rented this movie. In fact, I thought I'd
probably end up turning it off after a half hour, as it looked in the
trailer like it would be one of those silly, go for the gag-laughs Hollywood
pieces of junk. What a surprise! This was an excellent, entertaining film
that I thoroughly enjoyed. It's basically a love story, but far from a
"chick flick"(yeah, I'm a guy), it's a clever one that is well written, has
a number of different subplots that are interesting to see played out, and
deftly mixes comic overtones with a touching character study. I wasn't a
particular fan of Brendan Fraser till now, but I was blown away by the way
he perfectly captured the number of different personalities portrayed in the
movie. Even the technical aspects of the movie are impressive: in one
scenario the special effects wizards make Fraser into a 7'6'' pro basketball
player that is totally convincing.
