
The first time I watched this movie was in my living room with my
husband, daughter, and mom. We all laughed so hard we had to watch it
again to see what we missed (which turned out to be a lot!). Antonio as
Puss was genius! As was Jennifer Saunders as the fairy godmother. Kudos
to the casting director. Once again Eddie Murphy as the annoying and
talkative donkey was perfect and even much more lovable. And Mike Myers
as Shrek, what can I say? A perfect grumpy ogre. Cameron Diaz once
again lets her personality shine through even in animation. Oh, and
Rupert! With that voice being the narcissistic Prince Charming. I could
go on and on about the characters in this movie but instead I implore
you to watch it for yourself. I loved this movie as did my entire
family. The jokes in this movie were absolutely delicious! For those
naysayers who hated this movie, I say go buy a sense of humor!
<|_=00=_|>
I know what you're expecting me to say. "If you liked Shrek ..." And
it's so true. Fans of the first will be ga-ga over the second. The gang
at Dreamworks was smart enough not to monkey around with a winning
formula, so you have all the wit and charm of Shrek (Mike Myers), Fiona
(Cameron Diaz), Donkey (Eddie Murphy), and all the fantastic fairy-tale
creatures.

At the beginning of 2, Shrek and Fiona have been invited by Fiona's
parents (John Cleese and Julie Andrews) to the family castle. Imagine
their surprise when the honeymooning ogres show up! Seems the king and
queen haven't heard that a) Fiona's an ogre and b) that her husband is
one, too. Naturally, this doesn't sit particularly well with the king,
and soon he's hired a hit man - Puss in Boots, no less, voiced by
Antonio Banderas - to bump off his new son in law. Meanwhile, a Fairy
Godmother (Jennifer Saunders) offers help to Fiona. And quickly, the
main question of the film - conveniently, it was the main question of
the first film - is whether love conquers all. Oh, perhaps it's a bit
more complex than that - perhaps it's whether Fiona would love Shrek,
no matter what he looked like. Come to think of it, that was the theme
of the first one as well. 

Shrek and Fiona journey to the land of Far, Far Away, where the stuffy
king and the queen mum live. Far, Far Away is a clear knockoff of
Hollywood itself (complete with the sign on the mountain), and the
journey includes a pass through what looks like Beverly Hills. The
attention to detail is marvelous, as always.

As with 1, 2 drops all sorts of Disney references, most resulting in
full-out belly laughter. I was in stitches, although perhaps - just
perhaps - some of the humor will zoom over your tiny tot's tiny head.

Shrek 2 is a beautifully done movie, perhaps even more entertaining
than the original. Sure, at the end you know your emotions have been
manipulated somewhat, but in the end you really don't care. Outstanding
voice performances, flawless animation, and a crisp, moderately adult
(but not mature, definitely not mature) script reign supreme.
<|_=00=_|>
I much preferred this sequel, even though I also liked the original,
too, as millions of other viewers - kids and adults - did. This second
edition, to me, was better than the first one for the following
reasons:

1 - A faster-paced story; 2 - Better colors, just gorgeous with a 3-D
effect in spots; 3 - another great combination of humor, adventure and
romance; 4 - no one segment of the story overstayed its welcome; 5 -
Eddie Murphy's character wasn't played up as much, meaning less
abrasive shouting in this film; 6 - a genuine touching ending which
left the viewer very satisfied.

Some of these qualities were all there in abundance in first Shrek,
too, but the package was more complete here. It was softer, kindler,
gentler Shrek film than the first. Murphy is a funny guy but his
incessant talking can get on anyone's nerves, but with less to say,
that didn't happen in this sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

Ok, I have to admit that the surprise is gone. The original Shrek was
irreverent and made fun of all the children stories known to man... The
second one is on the same line but by now you expect it. Still it's been a
long time since I've seen an entire theater laugh from the start till the
end of a movie. Wonderful new characters (you have to love the pussy in
boots), superb animation and a all-round well made movie for everyone to
enjoy. But please, whatever you do DO NOT read any comments (like this one)
before you go see the movie, it can ruin it for you... And watch the credits
until the end, there are surprises... Enough said, just enjoy the film, it's
guaranteed to make any blues just fade away!
<|_=00=_|>
Shrek 2 has as much humor, talent, and fun as the original classic, and
almost as much heart. The film picks up where Shrek left off, with
Fiona and Shrek celebrating their marriage, but they are immediately
cast into a new adventure when summoned to the land of Far Far Away (a
clever parody of Hollywood), to the court of Fiona's mother and father,
for a surprise royal wedding ball. The only problem, as it turns out,
is that Fiona has married the wrong guy - according to everybody but
Shrek, Fiona, and their friends.

The plot, revolving around this central problem, is helped along by
nearly constant allusions to virtually every fairy tale in the English
canon, and satirical references to many recent popular films.
Unsatisfied with the combination of romantic comedy, Hollywood satire
and self-parody, the film-makers' also went all out with a clever
original soundtrack, making Shrek 2 as much of a musical as anything
else.

The voice talent is just as essential as it was in the first film, and
there's more of it, with John Cleese and Antonio Banderas giving very
memorable performances. And the animation is, unsurprisingly, lovely.

To their credit, Dreamworks kept the core talent in place, but created
a somewhat different formula for this film. Even though I expect most
fans of the first film to adore the second, I am not sure Shrek 2 is
going to make the franchise any new fans. Though more clearly made for
adult audiences than the original, Shrek 2 is still warm-hearted family
fare. As much as I DO recommend this film, and as entertaining as I
think it will be for just about anybody, I don't consider Shrek 2 to be
quite the classic Shrek was. It's touching and goofy, to be sure, but
it's much more of a Hollywood film than the original, and it doesn't
quite reach the same levels. Nevertheless, it is one of the better
sequels I have seen, and it was definitely worth both the price of
admission and a third or fourth viewing of the DVD.
<|_=00=_|>
I really did not like the original that much; I thought it was about 20
minutes too long and a bit disgusting for the intended audience. But
the sequel was brilliant, very funny and just a pure pleasure to watch.

The DVD (Canadian version if it is different) was also well made and
had a number of decent extra features. Even the starting menu is funny
and a good introduction to the laughter that follows.

The songs chosen for the different scenes matched the purpose and the
flow of the scene and tremendously enhanced the viewer's experience.
And the animation was very realistic. 

Well done DreamWorks. 

Note: do not turn the DVD off as the credits start rolling. Wait for an
appearance of one of the characters from the original movie.
<|_=00=_|>
In many ways, Shrek 2 is to fairy tales, what Kill Bill:Vol.2 is to the
Kung Fu genre. Although these are very different movies, both spoof all
previous movies of their type and are loaded with insider allusions
(just look at the length of the IMDb trivia sections for each!). Both
use latest technology to create a hyper-real quality which goes beyond
their forerunners to create a feel that the viewer is seeing something
that has not been seen before. But each also stays true to their
genres' formula conventions of character and plot that, though
seemingly worn out, we still love. As a result these movies are
satisfying, meeting some deep rooted needs but in novel and refreshing
ways.

2004 may signal a trend in this kind of treatment of well treaded
genres, with Westerns and Film Noir as two other potential future
candidates.
<|_=00=_|>
I imagined this film to be a crap, because it is almost a rule with few
exceptions,that second movies are always terrible in comparison with
the first ones. But not this one. I cannot say that I liked Shrek2 more
then the first, but the second one is very good too: New characters as
the Fairy Godmother,Prince Charming,Puss In Boots and Fiona's parents
are introduced to us, and a new reality comes, with Shrek and Fiona's
relationship going to a deeper step,and new confusions because of their
wedding.One of the good surprises, was that neither Shrek or Fiona
changed to the human form;I was almost sure that they would,but I think
that the movie would loose its magic. By the way: The voice of the new
characters really rules! But Julie Andrews, John Cleese and Rupert
Everett only could do a great job.:) I liked Antonio Bandeiras as Puss
In Boots as well! He really surprised me! (Usually, I hate his strong
accent)
<|_=00=_|>
I thought this movie would be worse than the first Shrek but it
actually turned out to be really good. This is a tale of love and
comedy. Mike Myers and Eddie Murphy star in this sequel. John Cleese
and Julie Andrews are the parents of princess Fiona in this movie and I
have to say they play that part well. They are perfect for each other.
If you see Mike Myers, Eddie Murphy, and John Cleese were all raw
comedians before and now they are in children movies and John Cleese
works for the humor department on TBS. This movie is worth the money
and worth your time if you are a Shrek fan or a Eddie Murphy fan this
movie if for you.
<|_=00=_|>
Shrek the Ogre, Pincess Fiona, and Donkey are back in the sequel to the
modern day fairy tale classic in this lesser, but still magical sequel.
Shrek and Fiona are returning from their honeymoon, only to find a
dejected Donkey who broke things off with Dragon apparently and the
King's noblemen inviting them to Fiona's parents castle in Faf Far
Away. Naturally the anti-social Shrek wants nothing to do with the
invitation, but gives in to Fiona and Donkey's insistence. Needless to
say the King is quite upset to find his daughter an Ogre and married to
Shrek. Add the dastardly vain Prince Charming, a not so good Fairy
Godmother and the delightful new addition of Antonio Banderas as Puss
In Boots, and you get a fun, but ultimately unneeded sequel that treads
to closely to the first plot-wise. However children will still love it.
Parents will still chuckle every now and then, and it's still one of
the better sequel's that I've seen.

My Grade: B- 

Where i saw it: Cinemax on Demand (available till September 9th, 2005)
