
This was a decent thriller with good-guy "Frank Morrison" (John
Travolta) trying to save his former family from the dangerous new
husband. That's not a new theme in Hollywood movies (the dangerous
husband) but this is acted well and presented without heavy-handedness.
They were smart to keep the story relatively-short, too, at 89 minutes.
As a consequence, nothing dragged.

To me, the film would have been more enjoyable had the 12-year-old boy
been a nicer kid, but he's an annoying brat. The mother (Teri Polo) is
not that endearing, either. Definitely a movie that will entertain but
a one-look film and nothing more, especially with the ending being as
predictable as it turned out.
<|_=00=_|>

What is it with John Travolta?  He can command just about any script he
desires, and he signs on for the lead in this pedestrian rubbish?  The man
has talent, but he needs some serious career counseling.  This script is not
even TV grade.  A kid has cried wolf a couple of times so the police don't
bother to follow up when he claims he saw his step father murder someone;
yes, that's very realistic.  The screenplay would make any Wisconsin dairy
farmer proud.  It has so many holes that it is better classified as
fantasy/comedy than drama.

I'm surprised that this product comes from director Harold Becker (`The
Onion Field', "Malice') who has given us a couple of fine thrillers. 
Besides the flimsy script, the cinematography is annoyingly underexposed. 
If Becker was trying for a dark look, he achieved it, because the film is so
dark that much of the time you can only tell who's speaking by voice
recognition, and that's outdoors during the day!

If there is anything that saves this film from the abyss, it is the acting. 
Travolta is sometimes fantastic and sometimes awful.  In this film he is
very good, especially considering the material with which he has to work. 
Matthew O'Leary is particularly good as the troubled son.  He gives a
convincing performance, capturing the motivations of his character
effectively with all the conflict one would expect from a kid in his
situation.  Vince Vaughn gives a decent performance, though he is a bit
tentative when trying to be duplicitous.  He is much more convincing as a
villain than a good guy.  Steve Buscemi is one of my favorite bad guys,
extremely underrated and unappreciated for his consistently sleazy
characters.  Again, he gives us a terrifically slimy portrayal of Rick's
former underworld buddy.

To enjoy this film you have to look beyond the tired plot, the unbelievable
departures from reality and the poor cinematography.  These are just too
many liabilities to overcome.  I rated it a 5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
'Domestic Disturbance' is pretty much another typical Hollywood
thriller. The thing with these movies is that they are very easy to
predict. We already know what will happen in the end. So why watch it?
Well, the plot might be interesting. In this case, it isn't bad but it
gives the deja-vu impression. It isn't anything intricate enough to
create suspense but what kept me entertained were the characters and
actors. I liked Travolta's Frank. A hardworking down-to-earth boatmaker
who's going through a slump in business because people prefer plastic
over wood. But through it all he remains a good father and a kind
person at heart. It was fun to watch Vince Vaughn play a sociopath. He
does not overact and brilliantly maintains Rick's deceitful gentleman
mask behind which hides someone dangerous. The child actor is clueless.
Teri Polo is pretty much given a clichéd role but I liked her,
especially in the scene where she discovers that Rick was the one who
set fire. 'Domestic Disturbance' doesn't have much (or anything?) to
offer in terms of novelty but it was not exactly boring for me so one
can give it a go if there is nothing else better on offer.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie was just trifling, right from the start. I tried to give it a
fair shake, but repeated examples of terrible acting (let's just say the
kid
won't win an Oscar) and even worse writing (watch the step dad and kid
play
catch, brutal) just wouldn't allow me to. I saw the trailer and expected
it
to be a tense thriller, with a lot of suspense, but all I could do was
laugh, and feel bad for doing so. The only reason this movie got a rating
as
high as it did (3), was Steve Buscemi's role in the movie. Buscemi is
great
as always, but enough to save this movie.
<|_=00=_|>

Well, this is certainly nothing we haven't seen before. A rerun of every
domestic situation thriller of the past two decades (everything from
"Pacific Heights" to "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle"), its one saving grace
is its excellent performances: Matt O'Leary, who was also fantastic as
Fenton in the brilliant "Frailty", gives a very intelligent mature
perfromance; John Travolta makes a likeable hero, while Vince Vaughan is
good as the creepy villian (much better than his camp performance as Norman
Bates in Gus Van Sant's pointless remake of "Psycho"); and Teri Polo does
the best she can with the role of damsel-in-distress. Otherwise, a very dull
(apart from the scene where O'Leary is hiding in the car watching the murder
- this is suspenseful) movie, with no originality whatsoever.
<|_=00=_|>

To start off, I enjoyed "Domestic Disturbance". I found it kept me shaking
and on the edge of my seat through-out the entire film (which was rather
short, by the way).

ACTING:
As you probably already know, this film has some of the best-in-the-biz.
Including such stars as John Travolta and Vince Vaughn, alongside newcomer
Daniel O'Leary. Travolta decently played the good-guy divorced father,
trying to protect his teenage son from an apparent murderer.

The murderer/stepfather was played typically by Vaugh who's portrayed
serial
killer roles in other movies such as "Clay Pigeons" and the remake of
Hitchcock's classic thriller, "Psycho". And on to the young victim of
mayhem...

Daniel O'Leary. A relatively good child actor who convincingly plays a
stressed, frightened teen boy seems the perfect choice, with his
convicingly
frightened facial expressions.

All in all good acting. Mainly on Vaughn and Travolta's part.

STORY/WRITING:
The movie flails mainly in this category. Thrilling, edge-of-your seat
thriller until un-eventful ending. I'll try not to give it away, but it's a
tad rushed.

The story isn't all-to origional, nor is anything else in this film. The
dialogue is mediocre. Basically the entire script is pretty
mediocre...

DIRECTING:
Very nice direction. The director's dark, creepy style carries the movie
along swiftly. If this director had been given a better script, with the
same actors, "Domestic Disturbance" could've achieved brilliance.

Once again, direction is a high-point in this film.

BOTTOM LINE:
A good thriller. 7 out of 10 stars.

<|_=00=_|>

Predictable (you know exactly what the last scene will be like right from
the start), contrived (the police really should have looked harder for
evidence), but well-made, extremely well-acted (especially by Vince Vaughn)
and psychologically accurate (the "baseball practice" scene was perfectly
written and played). Might have been better if it had kept us in doubt a
little longer about whether the kid is telling the truth or not. Still, the
running time of the movie flies by, and that has to count for something,
right? Some have complained  about it being "too short", but surely this is
preferable to the opposite, "too long".    (**1/2) 
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILERS.

It's not bad considering that it was probably designed by a committee of
recent film school graduates and greenlighted by a tight-lipped gaggle of
MBAs.  It has a certain splashy tension and there are lots of action
scenes
but it doesn't own an original thought.  And on the other hand it's not
bad
enough to be revoltingly amusing.

The story is elementary.  Travolta's ex wife has custody of their kid
(Jason, what else) and she remarries a recently arrived guy (Vaughn) who
is
a business success and is on his way to becoming a pillar of the
community.
The problem with Vaughn is that he has a "past" in racketeering under a
previous cognomen.  Buscemi finds out where he's living, tracks him down,
and applies a little blackmail logic, which is foolish because, as every
moviegoer knows, when you try to extort money from a really rotten guy
this
is as likely to lead to the furnace of a brick factory as it is to a
luxury
condo in Boca Raton.  The murder and disposal of the corpse is witnessed
by
Jason who tells everyone who will listen to him.  Nobody listens to him.
Except, after giving it due thought, Travolta realizes that Jason lies a
lot, true -- but never to HIM.  (This kid is a paragon of virtue.)  So
Travolta goes about uncovering the facts of the matter with the grudging
help of the police and the sometimes fierce resistance of Vaughn.  Things
turn out as you expect.  As I say, it's not original.

I lost count of the number of times someone gets whacked over the head (or
is thrown against a wall or clipped on the jaw) and falls unconscious to
the
floor, only to wake up just in time to save his/her life or otherwise
interfere with destiny.  One example.  Travolta is beaned by Vaughn with
what seems to be a crowbar.  He collapses in a heap.  Vaughn sets fire to
the building (somebody involved in this movie like fires).  The building
goes up like a torch around Travolta's body.  We have several shots of a
huge wooden ladder suspended from the ceiling just over his body.  In each
shot the ladder is more thoroughly burned.  It will fall on Travolta at
any
moment.  But does it?  No.  Slowly Travolta shakes his head, massages his
occiput, looks up and sees the flaming ladder about to drop.  He crawls
out
under it, gets to his feet and leaps into the water outside the boat
house.
What a close call.  What a very very tired close call.

Travolta is okay, though.  He gives a decent performance.  So does
everyone
else for that matter.  Whoever plays Vaughn stands out a bit from the
others.  He has the kind of bland face with a built-in open-mouth smile
that
could pass either for a priest's or a vampire's.  But the juicy villain
role
is usually more attractive than that of the upright hero.

This virtue is small potatoes in a huge olla podrida.  The movie rolls
along
in its self-satisfied way, with the cash registers clinking in the
background, until finally the credits roll.  It would be good if Travolta
picked his material more carefully.  Everything he does in this movie,
every
expression, every tonal quirk, all of it put together, does not add up to
what he contributes during the few seconds in "Pulp Fiction" when he comes
crouching out of the toilet and looks up to find Bruce Willis pointing a
machine pistol at him.  
<|_=00=_|>

Hollywood movies like this come out all the time.  Before Domestic
Disturbance came Don't Say A Word.  These types of movies have the
occasional pretty good lines and familiar Hollywood actors you all know and
love.  At times, you think to yourself that the movie is really good.  But
then it just gets so predictable, and by the end of the movie (which you
predicted, and were right), you feel warm and happy the good guys one, but
still cheated. 
C+, 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

If you see this movie, you might as well be watching a made for TV movie!
The acting,story everything about this movie has been done before. There is
nothing new from Hollywood from this movie.Basically if you've seen the
trailer and TV ads, you know what is going to happen. 

If you want to see this movie watch "The Hand That Rocks The Cradle". This
movie is the male vs. male version of that movie. Instead of a baby in
trouble, it's been changed to a 12 year boy.

if you wish to see it fine but it's another recycled movie from Hollywood.
Wait for it on DVD and video as it should be coming out in a few months. It
also did very bad opening weekend? I guess John Travolta's bad movie  streak
he started with "Battlefield Earth" is still going on. If you like the
film's main stars see it for that. But Vince Vaughn's bad guy drill is
getting old(Clay Pigeons,Psycho anyone?) and Travolta still plays the good
guy(expect for Battlefield Earth). 

I just wish this movie was a direct to video release and spared the big
screen release!
