

Usually this kind of film turns me off, but I was talked into watching
'Road Trip' with a bunch of college buddies and a couple of
twelve-packs, and I couldn't stop laughing.

Josh (Breckin Meyer) has loved Tiffany (Rachel Blanchard) since they
were both five years old. But Josh attends college in upstate New York,
while Tiffany has gone to school in Texas. Josh's friends think he's
crazy to keep up a long-distance relationship when there are plenty of
girls around to . . . date. Particularly alluring is Beth (Amy Smart),
who has the hots for Josh. When Josh is unable to locate Tiffany by
phone and begins to suspect that she's been cheating on him, he gives
in to his urges and brings Beth back to his dorm room for a night of
hot love. Beth, eager to show how wild she can be, decides to videotape
the encounter. The next day, Josh finds out that he couldn't reach
Tiffany because of a family emergency, and is immediately wracked with
guilt. Things get more complicated when his knuckleheaded suitemate
Barry mistakes the sex tape for a video message to Tiffany which Josh
had asked him to drop in the mail. Horrified at the thought of Tiffany
popping a tape into the VCR to see him making the double-backed beast
with another girl, Josh determines to travel to Texas to intercept the
illicit tape. His two best friends--resident prankster E.L. (Sean W.
Scott) and stoner-intellectual Rubin (Paul Costanzo)--offer to come
along, and help Josh persuade mega-nerd Kyle (D.J. Qualls) to let them
use his father's car in exchange for a chance to come along for the
ride.

 From that point on, 'Road Trip' follows the traditional teen
exploitation comedy format, though with greater wit and intelligence
than should be expected from the genre. Director Todd Phillips manages
to give us slapstick, gross-out comedy while simultaneously poking fun
at stereotypes and experiences familiar to anyone who's gone to college
(psycho-sorority hazing, TAs trying to make undergrad girls, alcohol-
and pot-related shenanigans, the nerd breaking bad, a hilarious run-in
at an all-black fraternity house,etc.). Compensating for the adolescent
hijinks is the surprisingly smart and thoughtful subplot for Kyle, who
transforms from nerdy object of derision into the film's most likable
and memorable character.

In the tradition of 'Animal House,' 'Road Trip' is crass and juvenile,
but irresistibly funny. Not a movie for date night, but a good choice
for gathering around the tube with bongs, brews, and bros. An instant
joe six-pack classic.

<|_=00=_|>

How can I explain this movie?  IT'S HILARIOUS!!  Though you know the plot is
no more than a setup for one wacky situation after another, it works and it
works great.  This comedy pushes the envelope in every aspect, and smiles
proudly.  Tom Green, who gets a pretty small role, is the scene-stealer. 
Fans of him will be very impressed.  One moment that had me almost on the
floor was the French toast scene with SNL regular Horatio Sanz.  I don't
want to give away any of the comedy, because that would be a sin.  Just take
my word:  You will love this movie!  You will not stop laughing!  This is
one trip worth taking!
<|_=00=_|>
Similar in style to American Pie, and ultimately stemmed from the likes
of Porkys and Animal house, this movie was right up my street.

Josh Parker is separated from his childhood sweetheart by a difference
of collage and of course 1800 Miles, until he videos himself having sex
with someone else and accidentally sends it to her.

The road trip then begins, and its a journey of disaster, discovery and
above all laughs, as Josh tries to get to his sweetheart before the
tape does.

A really funny film, with the right ingredients.

8/10 Also check out, American Pie, Old School and if you fancy
something older try Porkys and Animal house.
<|_=00=_|>

You have to thank Something About Mary and American Pie for doing what they
did.  These are two movies that came along and were bold enough to try
something different. Those films  included raunchy jokes, crude humour,
nudity and they had the audacity to poke fun at everyone, call them the
Quentin Tarantino of comedies.  Before American Pie, you had some ALMOST
good films with Can't Hardly Wait and 10 Things I Hate About You.  They were
good but not quite good enough to be mentioned in the same breath as Animal
House and Porky's and such.  Then American Pie comes along and shows
everyone that it is okay to have boobs again and to use the f-word liberally
with lines like " Sherman, what the f*** are you doing here?" and " Oz,
F***face, I don't think he's coming back!"  This was a film that didn't try
to imitate closely the way teens and young adults talk, it DID imitate the
way teens and young adults talk.  Road Trip continues that trend.  Hollywood
has to realize when it gives the green light to scripts that we are not as
stupid as they think we are, in most cases.  And what I mean by that is
simply, sure, it can make money off almost any excuse for a teen film like
Drive Me Crazy and Here On Earth and such, but if you want to hit the
jackpot, if you want young people to feel the need to see the film more than
once and recommend it to their friends, you have to have a smart ear,
likable characters to laugh at and more than just a simple boy meets girl
story.  Road Trip is that movie!

When I went into the film, I was shocked but pleasantly so, to see Ivan
Reitman and Dan Goldberg's name attached to the film as executive producers.
 These are guys that have brought us films like Animal House, Ghostbusters,
Meatballs, Stripes and even something like Kindergarten Cop.  These are all
funny films with a great ear for dialogue.  So it immediately starts off on
the right foot.

The next thing it did right is the casting of Tom Greene and Sean William
Scott.  Greene is quite sick and twisted by nature and Sean William Scott
stole every scene in American Pie.  So to include them in your cast as the
raunchiest guys of the bunch is great casting.  The next thing the film does
right is it goes back to the roots of campus comedy and it has plenty of
nudity.  Yes, sure this may sound sexist and primitive but it also sells
tickets.  And they can actually make a case for having it because the story
is being told by Greene's character so, as he puts it, " it is my story,
there can be lots of nudity if I want there to be. "

Road Trip has plenty of beautiful women, crude jokes, a nerd that discovers
who he is, annebriation, drugs, mean sprited jokes and a script that is more
convoluted and conventionally funny than any film save American Pie. 
Nothing is sacred here.  That includes the blind, obesity, women, animals
and of course nerds.  

This is a fun film and although I am sure that it is garnered more towards
males, if you can go in with an open mind anyone can enjoy it.  I will bet
that this film will go on to gross about 70 or 80 million dollars and I hope
that more films are made in this kind of tradition.  We need more films
inspired by Animal House.  We need more characters that are take-offs of
John Belushi and Tom Greene.  Maybe Ivan Reitman will have another script
like this one on his shelf somewhere and he is ready to dust that one off as
well.  Maybe.  All I know is that this film is fresh and it is worth your
time.

And of course, most importantly, it is one hell of a funny
movie!

8.5 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>
When I saw "Eurotrip" for the first time I heard this was some kind of
sequel on "Road Trip". Since I watched "Eurotrip" and loved it, I had
to see this one as well of course. Big was my surprise when I saw that
none of the actors that were in "Eurotrip" were in "Road Trip". I might
even say that the two movies have nothing to do with each other, except
for the fact that both are about students who are about to make a long
trip. Did I care? Certainly not, I loved this one as well! 

The story is told by Tom Greene, who brings it as some kind of urban
legend to future students and their parents who visit the university
for the first time. He tells them that three guys went on a trip from
Ithaca, New York to Austin, Texas, because they had to retrieve a video
cassette. On the tape was supposed to be a video message for the
life-long girlfriend of one of them, but instead it features him in bed
with another girl. Of course someone has send the tape to her by
accident and now he'll have to get it back before she sees it...

What you'll get to see is an hilarious movie that, it has to be said,
isn't all too original. It follows the typical guidelines for teen
comedies, but does it all very well. Even though it is irresistibly
funny, I loved Eurotrip a little bit more. I gave that one an 8 and
"Road Trip" a 7.5/10. Nevertheless, this is still one of those movies
to see if you are with some buddies.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is definitely a riot! A must see for anybody. If you like to
laugh, you will love ROAD TRIP. Not one second of this film is dull.
It's constant laughs from beginning to end. Tom Green is in it, need I
say more?

The film is about this college kid. (male) He is in a long distance
relationship with his girlfriend who is also in college and lives very
far away. To try to help each other deal with not seeing each other,
they exchange video tapes and talk on the phone all the time. But of
course, the guy grows weak when he gets the chance to have sex with a
hot blonde. He takes the opportunity, and actually video tapes it.
That's where the trouble begins. He asks his friend to send out a love
tape to his girlfriend, and he ends up sending her the sex tape! So
now, they have to drive all the way out to his girlfriend's college
before the tape arrives in the mail.

This movie is so funny. I could not stop laughing. Check it out. You
won't be sorry.

<|_=00=_|>

I found this movie to be funny, when compared to Something About Mary and
American Pie.  And since it is in that arena, it gets a good reputation
(though doesn't live up to it's precedors).  I found the plot alone
humorous- College guy (Breckin Meyer) from Ithica, who is dating a girl
(Rachel Blanchard)in Austin since he was little, tapes a sex tape with
another girl by accident and mails it to her, so he must retrieve it with
his friends (Seann W. Scott, DJ Qualls and Paulo Costanzo). 

The Always hilarious (especially here) Tom Green brings us along in this
story as he tells the story to a tour group and also includes himself as a
experimentist and snake feeder with mice.  The wackiness and sickness in
this film brings out the best and it is dead pan funny.  One of the best
comedies of the year.  Look for cameos by Horatio Sanz, Andy Dick and Fred
Ward.  A
<|_=00=_|>

The basic plot of the film is fantastically simple. Josh and his
girlfriend
Tiffany have been together forever. To maintain a long distance
relationship
through college, Josh makes a video to send to her telling her how much he
misses her.

Later on that evening he makes another video tape of himself and Beth, a
fellow student at Ithaca, having sex. You guessed it, the wrong tape is
mailed to Tiffany. Josh and his 3 buddies Rubin, E.L and Kyle set off to
retrieve it.

For the first time in a long while, this film is entirely honest and not
at
all patronising. If you're sick of films condemning sex, drugs and rock
'n'
roll then your time has come.

Though slightly disturbing in parts, this film was able to carry off what
was a potential cliche. The almost apathetic mood was perfect. Whilst some
films try to deal with indepth emotions about each decision made, 'Road
trip' overlooks everything that we overlook. It's OK for someone to steal
a
bus from a blind chick or exploit a rich kid, because your objective is
the
only thing that matters.

The casting was slightly daring with a film debut for Paulo Costanzo and a
first time lead for DJ Qualls but the characters were entirely believable
and developed well throughout.

I think it's best not to read too much into this movie because it's
essentially about having fun. Which is what it is.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a typical movie that's perfect to watch to kill some time with.
It's by no means a great, or highly memorable movie but it's still a
movie that serves its purpose.

Even though I highly enjoyed watching this movie, it wasn't as funny as
expected. The movie could had really used some more comical sequences
and situations. There were many missed opportunities in the movie but
still that doesn't of course mean that the movie is bad. The biggest
strength of the movie is its fun feeling. There are some great comical
moments, although not as many and as constant as I expected and hoped
for.

Another great thing about the movie are the characters. Breckin Meyer
might not had been the best choice for the main character but all the
other characters are simply great to watch, especially DJ Qualls. Tom
Green's antics were not always funny simply because he isn't a great
actor. It also was perhaps a bit too much distracting from the main
storyline.

It's a great movie for teenager to watch and it has some typical
teenagers humor in it, which I'm sure they'll find hilarious at times.
Adults will most likely not be able to fully appreciate all the jokes
in the movie.

7/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
<|_=00=_|>

ROAD TRIP stars Breckin Meyer as Josh Parker, a college student who
accidently has a tape of him cheating on his girlfriend mailed to her. What
to do? Go on a road trip with his buddies [Seann William Scott, Paulo
Costanzo, DJ Qualls] to get to the tape before it gets to her. On the way,
they get into some hysterical situations and give great comedic
performances. There are a lot of road movies, but this is the very best
one.
