

Man I don't understand why people come down so hard on this movie and
personally, I thought that is was a good but not a great movie but it
doesn't deserved all the negativity that you hear, anyway it's about Jerry
(Cuba Gooding) who proposes to his snotty girlfriend Felicia (Vivian A. Fox)
and he and his unsophisticated friend Nick (Heratio Sanz) decide to go on a
cruise so they can meet some beautiful woman but after Nick cussing one of
the cruise agents out, they wind up on a GAY CRUISE!! There's a funny
appearance by Roger Moore who was a former James Bond and there's a funny
scene by Felicia who tells a guy to be careful with her luggage cause she
claims that they're worth more than what he makes in a
year.

When I saw this movie in the theater, they're was only 8 people, only 8, can
you believe that.

If you ask me if I would watch this movie again, the answer is yes but I'll
wait till it comes out on DVD or the video.
<|_=00=_|>

I picked this one up (the DVD version) totally on impulse the other night,
not having a clue as to what it would really be like. The title, cover
design and descriptive blurb on the back of the DVD would indicate
something
quite different than a couple of guys who accidentally wind up on a cruise
for gay men.

But no matter, as the film turned out to be a "guilty pleasure" sort of
comedy. In that respect it's not unlike "Deuce Bigalow, Male Gigolo", or
some of the more risqué Benny Hill skits: sure it's stupid, vulgar and
corny, but sometimes exactly those kinds of comedies can fill a comedy
niche
with certain viewers.

Most of the humor IS combination corny/vulgar - with some of it venturing
into the gross-out variety. But, I did laugh out loud more than once, and
at
least found myself chuckling throughout most of it. The scenery is great -
I
mean, you've got the Swedish suntanning team prancing around in bikinis,
providing proof that Swedes aren't all a bunch of square-heads afterall.
(Victoria Silvstedt, who really is from Sweden, is quite beautiful, BTW).
In
addition, there are some picturesque scenes of a Mediterranean coastal
town
where the cruise ship makes a port visit. The cruise-ship set - created on
a
soundstage in Cologne, Germany, believe it or not - is quite well done (I
was going to say "gorgeous", but since I'm straight, I guess I shouldn't
use
that word).

Roger Moore co-stars, and I wasn't shocked or disappointed or disgusted
(as
some other commenters appear to have been) to see the great former James
Bond, 007 make an appearance in the film, playing a double-oh-gay,
double-okay sort of old poof. He actually has some pretty funny lines in
the
film, especially at the end when they are preparing to
sky-dive.

The other actors - Cuba Gooding Jr., Horatio Sanz, Roselyn Sanchez, et
al -
were certainly more than adequate to convey the whole silly sex-farce
comedy
of the film.

So, I would have to recommend it as worth seeing - the caveat being that
it's probably intended more for adults, and for those times when you want
a
light-hearted, zany, not mean-spirited sex-farce sort of comedy. (You'll
never look at Roger Moore in a James Bond film the same way again, I
guarantee it!).
<|_=00=_|>

Well, I thought this movie was pretty funny. Two straight guys on a gay
cruise. Which they don't know when they board. It's not exactly a
masterpiece of a comedy. Cuba Gooding does what does best, plays around
acting like an idiot. But in this scenery it works, he is kind of
girly.
Just don't expect to much of it, and it's quite enjoyable. When I went to
see it didn't have any expectations, and ended of feeling good about
myself
(im not gay by the way, although it might sound like it). The swedish
swimsuit team was a bit much though. It might have been funnier if they
actually spoken swedish.
But to summarize, it's a good movie to rent with your buddies!
<|_=00=_|>

I stumbled on this movie by pure accident and I had absolutely no idea
what
kind of movie it was before I saw it. As I didn't recognize the name of
that
movie, I guessed that it would be really bad flop, but the movie turned
out
to be a pleasant surprise.

The movie is not a masterpiece, but I found it quite entertaining,
relaxed
and maybe even hilarious. And I guess it is really hard to make a comedy
that people would consider a masterpiece. I will definitely show this
film
to my friends and I think this film can be enjoyed more than once. It is
somewhat clumsy film, but mostly in a positive way.

The movie had a lot of silly jokes based on different kind of stereotypes
like swedes and gays, but I think it worked quite well. And in my opinion
none of the stereotypes was done in offending way and all of the
characters
were likable - even the promiscuous, but a bit "blond" Swedish woman and
her
strict coach. At least as a gay I didn't find the movie homophobic or the
gay stereotypes offensive at all, unlike some comments.

I think that the movie could have been a bit better if it wouldn't have
had
that explicit "I guess gays might be OK" phrase and the stereotypes had
been
a bit nastier. And with a bit better directing the movie could have had
better fluidity.

But I can recommend the movie even though it wasn't flawless. I
especially
liked the performance of Cuba Gooding Jr. But some straight guys might
find
the movie boring or maybe a bit embarrassing even though the movie has
some
relatively good looking women and the main characters are straight. And
of
course not all people like this kind of comedies with adolescent and a
bit
tasteless humour.

<|_=00=_|>
The movie is about two guys (Cuba Gooding Jr and Horatio Sanz) who go
on a cruise hoping to have a lot of fun with girls. Unfortunately, it
turns out to be a gay cruise. I watched the movie in spite of the poor
ratings awarded at this site and Rotten Tomatoes too. Both sites seemed
to rate it quite poorly. However, I was surprised to find that the
movie is not bad at all. Quite enjoyable really - and not even
gay-bashing or anything like that. I guess that you can't rely too much
on opinions posted at sites like IMDb or Rotten Tomatoes or any other
like that. You have to watch it for yourself and judge for yourself. It
definitely did not deserve the extremely poor rating that it received
at Rotten Tomatoes. I rate it 7 or 8 out of 10. I think that is quite
fair, in my opinion.
<|_=00=_|>

After reading many reviews for this film I feared the worst...
But after seeing this film I was pleasantly surprised...
I'm gay myself so I thought I would be offended by this film, but I was
not... It was all in good fun...

For me personally I thought that Roger Moore was the best...
His humour and style made this quite a special film...

All in all it's not the best film I've ever seen, but it isn't the worst
either... If you wanna have some laughs just go and see it...you will be
pleasantly surprised too!
<|_=00=_|>

What an incredible surprise this movie was.  When I read the description
about two guys going on a male "gay" cruise boat, it sounded totally
unappealing to me.  The fact that it was a gay cruise turned out to be very
integral to the plot and made it most interesting.  What caught my eye the
most on this supposedly all male cruise, were the stunningly ravishing women
on board - the sensational Roselyn Sanchez, the drop-dead gorgeous Victoria
Silvstedt, and the rest of the tanned hotties.  Right from the get go, there
was hilarious laugh, after laugh, after laugh.  I might add that the part
played by Lin Shaye as Sonya the trainer, was comedic genius - if you like
rowdy, sexual inclined humor, this movie does it for you!!

This movie you will either love or hate, depends on your personality and
character.  If you're Mr. or Mrs. Politically Correct, you will surely
demean this movie as one of the worst ever made, but if you flat out just
like sophomoric, sexual fare - this is it!
<|_=00=_|>
Two straight guys end up on a gay cruise. I really, really wonder how
anyone could have thought that this simple idea would make for a good
and funny movie, but unfortunately a lot of people thought so and there
we are.

I mean, in my opinion the worst kind of movies are bad comedies. I can
live with bad action movies or bad horror movies or even bad dramas.
But watching a really bad comedy is like getting beaten up. Other bad
movies at least can make you laugh (sometimes) but if a comedy is
really bad there's nothing left to enjoy.I can honestly say that "Boat
Trip" is one of the worst comedies I have ever seen. 

The story itself is awful and even worse, unbelievably predictable.
There isn't a joke you don't see coming miles before it happens and
it's always one you really wish won't happen, because it is such a bad
one. But every joke here hits its bad mark and leaves you with nothing
more to do than to stare at the screen in disbelief.

The whole "gay" issue is handled as bad as possible. There is not a
single "normal" gay person on this ship. Everyone is a kind of a freak,
dresses like a woman, makes exaggerated moves and is saying "uh" and
"oh" and "ohoho" and "ohlala" and things like that all the time. Every
cliché you can imagine about a gay man is implanted here and beaten so
long until it's last drop of life vanishes. And it's all about sex.
Everyone is kissing and touching and making sexual advances at everyone
else. At the breakfast buffet there is an ice sculpture that looks like
a bunch of penises. That's supposed to be funny. 

When one character makes a change of mind from hating gays to being gay
it is so unconvincing that 1 minute later he is running after one of
the babes. When he asks a store clerk if they got any condoms, a dozen
gay men hand him some condoms, because, you know, gay people need them,
ho ho. 

The other guy has to act as if he's gay so he can sleep with the girl
he loves (don't ask about the logic). When they do so under an orange
tree, oranges fall down, so that afterward they are covered in about
100 oranges. He also does a dance show as a drag queen for about 3
minutes. Everyone is shocked or disgusted about being gay, no matter if
it's a man or a woman. Imagine that: this movie is about gays and it
isn't even sure what to think of them. When one guy starts
philosophizing that gay people may not be so bad after all you're
almost ready to believe him. This movie is as sexist, homophobic and
horny as a movie can be.

The characters are unbelievable cut-out stereotypes played by
untalented actors with no conviction at all. Yes, there is Cuba Gooding
Jr. who, let's face it, is not a talented person and hasn't done a good
film since "Jerry Maguire" and "As Good As It Gets". His fat, stupid
partner is one of the worst actors in this movie. Victoria Silvstedt
plays one of the super babes by showing as much as she can without
undressing. Roger Moore wanders through the movie as a kind of preacher
who wants everyone to become gay and says one line that is
unforgettable. Before parachuting out of a plane he really says: "I was
in the service for her majesty once." That hurts. There is Vivica A.
Fox on auto-pilot, Bob Gunton in a 5-second bit (nevertheless credited
in the opening credits), Richard Roundtree in a 10-second-bit (dito)
and Lin Shaye as the babes' trainer and at the same time as the most
painful-to-watch person in this film. Roselyn Sanchez as the love
interest-girl is the only one who doesn't make you cringe every time
you see her. But maybe that's just her looks and who cares anyway?

There is nothing good in this movie, nothing at all. The music is
stupid (with references to "West Side Story", of course), the gay men
wear colorful dresses, women's clothes or leather suits, the women wear
bikinis or see-through dresses and even the extras are unconvincing.
Uneccessary to ask how two loser guys can pay for such a luxury trip.
Or why Roselyn can jump into a pool and dry in 2 seconds afterward. Or
why she says she likes being on a ship with gay men because then she
doesn't have to care about her make-up or her clothes when, while
saying that, she wears a lot of make-up and very sexy clothes.

Two scenes of unbelievable stupidity are worth mentioning. In one the
fat guy somehow has sex with the babes' trainer instead with one of the
babes. How this worked I don't know, since the room is obviously lit,
so that you see exactly who's lying in the bed, but he nevertheless
crawls between her legs, which leads to the two fighting across the
room, while the trainer gets orgasmic when being shot through the room
with a fire extinguisher.

The other, absolutely worst scene, shows Roselyn Sanchez showing Cuba
Gooding Jr. how she satisfies a man orally and she does it with a
banana for about 2 minutes. The scene ends with Cuba Gooding Jr.
ejaculating out of the window on the face of one half of a gay couple.
This scene was one of the most painful scenes I ever had to watch in a
cinema and the temptation to walk out has never been bigger.

This movie is simply dead in the water in every way. Avoid it at all
costs, please. Let the makers know what they did to the world by making
this movie. Have mercy with yourself.
<|_=00=_|>
When Jerry vomits onto his girlfriend when trying to be romantic, he
finds himself dumped and depressed. Weeks turn into months and his best
friend Nick decides to help him out of his funk by getting them onto a
cruise together. However a fight in the travel agents see them being
"accidentally" booked onto a gay cruise. Unfortunately for them they
only realise this after they have set sail. With no land in immediate
sight, things look bleak but both Jerry and Nick find more
opportunities than they had expected.

If there is a warning noise in comedies (ie a cinematic fire alarm)
then surely it must be any film that has the main character dancing
alone in their flat to a James Brown song. So when this film opened
with that I immediately got on edge – a feeling that didn't change for
the rest of the film. With a foundation of homophobia, bikini wearing
models and loud humour this is very much a comedy that aims at a
teenage market and probably does enough to satisfy them if not anyone
else. The gags are obvious and simplistic and are unlikely to appeal to
anyone who doesn't think that cum jokes are the height of humour,
homosexual men are 99% clichés and that large breasts are the most
important thing in a woman. I don't really think these things so I only
laughed once the whole time – and even that was cut short as a good
joke immediately turned into crudity. Without laughs the story is
exposed for the predictable, puerile mess that it is.

The cast don't help the material and seem to just accept the level that
it is at. Goding Jr mostly mugs his way through it and to his credit at
least puts his all into it – a "lesser" actor would have shied away
from some of his scenes but Cuba seemingly has no shame. The one good
thing to say about him is that he does have an easy chemistry with
Sanchez, although that may be more to do with the fact that she is sexy
and natural and is easily the best thing in the whole film. Sanz is a
typical "fat funny guy" but I use the word "funny" with reservations as
he is nothing special. Fox may get a hard time from Boondocks but films
like this hardly help her case – she is poor in a small role. Moore
puts his heart into his role but at times he does himself no favours
and pushed it too far. Why people like Gunton, Silvstedt and Roundtree
bothered is beyond me.

Overall a very basic comedy that has very, very few laughs and will
probably only appeal to the male teenage market that it is squarely
aimed at. The stereotypes are flying, the crudity and homophobia is
rampant and the only thing missing is entertainment value. Sanchez
dominates with a sexy and natural performance but that is mainly down
to just how very average everyone else is.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay people, i read so many mixed reactions about this one, that I
literally tip toed to watch it. My friend Evan hated, and said it was
worse than Dogville, but my Dad said it was great. And i am a big
Horatio Sanz fan, but who isn't?!... so I ventured.

I loved it! Don't let the liberal media fool you, Academy Award winner
Cuba Gooding Jr. is a great comedian and scholar, and he manages to
cruise this moving picture with grace and gusto. There are some darker,
gross out moments, but they serve the story (just like the gross out
moments in any Cronenberg or Bela Tarr films). Vanessa Williams (Ugly
Betty) is great as the b***h, but her character is well developed and
goes well beyond clichés.

Till next time.
