

The first third of Dreamcatcher is worth the time.  Four childhood friends
make their annual trip to a hunting cabin, weird things happen, and,
before
you know it, you're smack-dab in the world of Stephen King, at his most
darkly comical and gaily grotesque.  It's flatulent, bloody fun on the
page,
and Goldman had no problem translating this hideous orgy of gas and guts
from novel to screenplay form.  As the screenplay proceeds, it strays from
the book to the point where the film becomes a Hollywood embarrassment of
epic proportions.

The Dreamcatcher novel also fell apart in its second half, but what kept
you
reading the book was the mind games going on in the lead character,
Jonesy's
(Damian Lewis) head.  Jonesy's brain and body has been taken hostage by an
alien named, Mr. Gray.  In the novel, Jonesy notices Gray becoming tempted
by the trappings of humanity, and uses that to his advantage.  It's fun to
watch the alien craving various human indulgences, more and more, with
each
passing minute.  This aspect of the novel is completely removed from the
film, leaving us with nothing more than Damian Lewis, playing both Jonesy
and Mr. Gray, making silly faces, and putting on goofy accents, as he goes
between the two characters.

The second act of the film, one taking place in a concentration camp for
American citizens whom may or may not be contaminated with an alien virus,
is nothing more than a shadow of what is shown in the book.  Even the
shoddiest of cliffnote "authors" would be embarrassed to condense a novel
down to this elementary a form.

In the book, the head of the camp, Colonel Abraham Kurtz, played in the
film
by Morgan Freeman, was a nasty man, so over the edge that he was
frightening, from his first appearance to his last.  In the movie, we're
made aware of the fact that he has lost it, but almost exclusively through
exposition, rather than action.  Seeing these innocent civilians locked up
like animals was disturbing in the novel, and would make for an extremely
tense mid-section of this movie, if this movie dared to have any tension.

In King's Dreamcatcher, the people locked in the camps join together, with
help from the telepathic Dr. Henry Devlin, in the film played by Thomas
Jane, and start a massive uprising against the guards.  At the same time,
Devlin is working on Colonel Kurtz's more conscientious subordinates, both
through words, and the power that he, along with Jonesy, Beaver and Pete,
was given by a mysterious fifth friend, Duddits.  In the movie, the
uprising
never occurs, and it feels as though each of the concentration camp scenes
were put into the film to pad it out, while giving a plum role to Morgan
Freeman.

I won't give away the finale to either the novel or the film, but I will
say
that everything good about the finish of the book form of Dreamcatcher, is
noticeably missing from the film version.  Instead of an emotionally
moving
climax, we get a sloppy CGI-fest that reminded me a bit of Godzilla VS.
King
Kong, or maybe even Species 2.  Although I found myself squirming over the
laziness displayed during the majority of the second half of the picture,
I
was still undecided as to whether or not I would recommend it.  The lousy
last few minutes of film made up my mind.

This is the first movie I can think of that I can only recommend in
patches.
Drink a couple of gallons of water before you attend the picture, and run
to the bathroom to let it out, whenever things start getting stupid.

If you're a fan of horror, you will enjoy the first hour of the film.  The
bathroom sequence is a near-masterpiece, and, for that alone, Lawrence
Kasdan should be commended.  Kasdan also handles the flashback scenes,
featuring the four main characters as children, adequately enough to get
my
thumb working its way toward the "up" direction.  Finally, during those
few
times Kasdan does take us into Jonesy's brain, he does so in an incredibly
interesting, oftentimes humorous, manner.

When Jonesy leaves the relative safety of the locked room he has nuzzled
deep within his cerebrum, only to find the evil that is hiding behind
boxes
of stored memories inside his mind's warehouse, it genuinely gave me
chills.
More scary moments like this, placed throughout the film, and Kasdan may
have had his first instant classic in a long while.

There was a lot of money and time put into Dreamcatcher, and it shows on
the
screen.  Steve Johnson's work on the puppet versions of the "s***weasels"
is
extremely effective, and shows, once again, that anything CG can do, human
hands can do better.  The CG isn't the best I've seen, but it's
significantly less cartoony than either of the last two Star Wars
prequels,
and does the job nicely, even though I would have enjoyed the effects far
more, if CG wasn't a part of them.  The cinematography by John Seale (The
English Patient, The Talented Mr. Ripley, Witness) is gorgeous, but not
noteworthy enough to make the Director of Photography the star of the
film,
like Caleb Deschanel's work did for him in the recent semi-stinker, The
Hunted.

What we end up with is a nice looking film that feels hollow.

<|_=00=_|>

Man, where does Stephen King comes up with this things?
Again, we have the childhood friends we think we know from "Stand by me"
only this time they're older, have weird powers and face some really nasty
creatures. I just come from watching it for the first time and i just
wanted
to say: What a weird movie!! I've seen some really weird movies, but this
one... It's sort of a mixture of horror, sci-fi, comedy... At some point
you
don't know whether to be disgusted or to laugh! The special efects are
great, and so is the music ("On blue bayou..."}. It may not be a great
movie, but it's great entertainment. And it's sooooooo insane!!!! I liked
it. Go see it.     7/10 
<|_=00=_|>

As Stephen King fans should probably know, there are a lot of things in
Stephen Kings books that make sense only where they are - that is, in
Stephen King books. Translating them to film is usually a bad idea, as many
filmmakers who had adapted King's books before probably figured out. But
along comes Lawrence Kasdan, a talented and acclaimed veteran director, who,
with the aid of a no less acclaimed screenwriter William Goldman, decides
while writing a script for Dreamcathcer that it would be better to bring
along all the trademark King's weird goings-on - and voila! We have a movie
filled with telepathy, butt-ripping aliens, crazy military types keen on
killing everyone, telephone-guns, indian symbols and even a lot of CGI
thrown in for a good measure. Of course, it all fails - but oh how
gloriously! I'll go as far as to state that Dreamcatcher is absolutely the
best unintentional B-movie trashfest in years! It was totally amusing that
such a bunch of undoubtedly talented people (Morgan Freeman, Tom Sizemore,
Thomas Jane, besides aforementioned Kasdan & Goldman) were able to make this
film without a single smirk - while the material is pure trash'n'cheese.
That was the whole beauty of it, for me, at least - the level of money, work
and talent that went into creating this film. I would like to personally
thank all the people involved with Dreamcathcer - they made my year! Thank
you, Lawrence Kasdan! Thank you, William Goldman! Thank you, Morgan Freeman
- your eyebrows rocked! And most of all, thank you, Jason Lee - the bathroom
scene involving Beaver and an alien worm under the toilet lid is pure
classic!    
<|_=00=_|>

I actually liked Dreamcatcher enough that I saw it twice. However, this
may
be mostly due to the fact that I really liked Jason Lee as Beaver and
Timothy Olyphant as Pete. Regardless, this was actually a movie I did
enjoy
seeing.

I was not particularly interested in seeing Dreamcatcher initially. And
this
is me, who wants to see every scary movie. Not Scream type horror, but
certainly of the creepy not entirely natural variety: Ring, Resident Evil
(is that even horror?), you get the idea. However, my sister and her
friend
convinced me to go. After seeing an interview with Jason and some video
clips from the movie, I was actually more enthusiastic.

Part of the reason I did enjoy the movie is because of the younger era
flashbacks of the four friends. It had a kind of supernatural stand by me
feel to it for those scenes, and I'm quite a fan of Stand By Me so that
appealed to me. It also appealed to me because it did seem like a nice
jump-out-and-scare-you horror. It's no psychological thriller which relies
on your own imagination to scare you (and the fear stays with you well
after
you're done seeing it). It's much more blood and gore and chase the
monster
down kind of fun, which thrills you while you watch. I just love horror
movies - any kind.

Also, I think that the movie did manage to get you to like most of these
characters. Beaver was just loveable off the bat because of his
"beaverisms"
and his general charm. (I think Lee did a great job). Timothy Olyphant's
character was also likeable (whether or not that it attributed to his
acting
skill, I don't know. I'm a horrible judge of acting, so I could say good
but
not really know the difference.) But I think his introduction scene worked
well to help you connect to him despite his limited screen time (compared
to
the other "main" characters).

Thomas Jane and Damian Lewis were well enough. I don't think I grew
particularly attached to either of their characters - Jonesy or Henry. And
I'm sorry but the whole "british" Mr. Gray really threw me. It seemed so
oddly thrown in - Why would an Alien speak with a British Accent? I
realize
on some level it was to draw a distinction, but still.

Morgan Freeman, I love him. I can't be unbiased about his role, because I
just love him too much. I also liked Tom Sizemore, or at least his
character
was very likeable. And talk about creepy: "No infection here." stuff.

The effects were well done (I think) and I liked the soundtrack. That
opening main theme, I want it! It was great and creepy and mysterious. I
think the composer was the same guy who did the theme music for
Unbreakable
and Signs, and well, I like those too.

What can I say? The show entertained me. Maybe it's not a masterpiece but
I
think it was money well spent. I wasn't bored at any time. I was
interested
in how everything came about. I can completely see why those who read the
book first would be disappointed. I read the Harry Potter books prior to
seeing the movies and I hate every change they made - and that movie is
always said to be so faithful. So I can see people's issues with the end
and
other changes.

I think a lot of the other reasons people dislike the movie is that it
does
have a lot of different ideas coming together. I read a review critiquing
it's various directions, but honestly, I think all the different pieces
come
together fine as a cohesive whole. I understood the storyline and I wasn't
jarred by flashbacks or scene changes. To me, it flowed, made sense. I
could
connect the dots easily enough.

And hell, if that ripley red-fungus s*** isn't enjoyably disgusting, I
don't
know. 
<|_=00=_|>

This movie starts very interesting and then, around the arrival of Morgan
Feeman, becomes almost total crap. What I thought was going to be a
supernatural thriller, the way it started, turns out to be a silly sci-fi
horror almost as bad as the Stephen King adaptation of 'Sleepwalkers',
just
to name one.

May be it is very hard to make a good Stephen King adaptation when it
involves creatures not from this earth, or in a different time, or et
cetera. 'The Langoliers' is another great example of something that starts
very interesting and once those monsters appear becomes something stupid.
There it took a while for them to appear, here we are only at a quarter of
the movie.

The interesting supernatural part I was talking about involves the four
friends Henry, Beaver, Jonesy and Pete. As kids they meet the mentally
retarded Duddits, who seems to have supernatural powers and passes some of
them to the four friends. As adults (they are played by Thomas Jane, Jason
Lee, Damian Lewis and Timothy Olyphant) they still have the powers and
that
is where the movie begins. They have telepathic gifts; they know things
from
strangers and are able to have contact with each other without speaking,
and
this is demonstrated with the great opening scenes.

When the four friends go to the woods for some hunting things go wrong.
With
them, and the movie. I will not tell you what happens exactly because you
can guess by then. The movie never gets scary or interesting after the
opening scenes again. For me the only thing I could enjoy from there was
snow falling from the sky and performances that were alright. With two
hours
and ten minutes the movie is way too long and with a something this stupid
and predictable you can only waste your time. Read the book and make your
own version instead.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm a sci-fi fan, but am pretty discriminating.  Often _years_ will go by
where I don't like even a single sci-fi film that comes out.  This one
scared and "wow-ed" me.  Doesn't just rely on special effects, but has a
good plot and at least decent acting.  I don't see why this film was rated
so poorly, unless other viewers didn't know ahead of time it had a strong
sci-fi bent (I didn't).  Great storyline, eerie memorable scenes, and a
complex background story that evolves slowly but consistently throughout
the
movie through flashbacks from the main characters.  Great way to condense
the novel, I assume.
<|_=00=_|>
I have never read the book, I have only read a small handful of Stephen
King's works ... they're generally not my preferred genre. I could go
on here, but I don't think most of you care if you are reading this.

Okay, I liked the movie. I would rate it around 7 or 8 for sheer
entertainment factor. Sure, there were a few scenes that were a little
thin, there were a few elements of dialogue (sp: I'm Canadian, eh?)
that were a little weak. But since I didn't even know this was a SK
movie, I had absolutely no predisposition regarding this movie.

In fact, I hadn't even reviewed any of the synopses or shorts regarding
this film ... I was totally green going into it. And I found myself
highly entertained. I liked seeing a bunch of characters whom I am not
entirely familiar with, and I appreciated the casting of a few
well-knows.

Enjoyment: 8 Cast: 8 Acting: 6 for some, 7 or 8 for others. Dialogue: 6
in general CGI: 7 (pretty good, but lots of 'off screen' stuff)
Overall: 7
<|_=00=_|>
If movies have taught me one thing it's that aliens are obsessed with
the human anus. They cross galaxies to probe and explore it. What
mysteries lie up there…? But Dreamcatcher goes one step further. These
aliens aren't merely obsessed with exploring the rectum; they hide up
it. It should be a shock, but aliens have been crawling out of my colon
for years… 

Dreamcatcher gets off to a reasonable enough start. We get a nice
little sequence where we're introduced to the four main characters and
their respective powers – they're telepathic. Then we get a bit of
King-style strangeness when one of the characters gets run over. So far
so good. The man survives and then we get a pleasant sequence in a log
cabin where the friends talk, joke and give thanks to the kid that gave
them their strange gifts. It's here that the film begins to go
downhill. We get a Stand by Me-style flashback to their childhood where
the four friends save a half-wit from a couple of bullies who want to
make him eat faeces. It's not a terrible scene, but the kids come over
as insufferable do-gooders. The fact that they're fans of Scooby-Doo
speaks volumes. But they save the half-wit, a kid called Duddits (is it
law that movie half-wits have to be infuriatingly lovable?) and he
gives them all sorts of gnarly powers. It's not a great sequence, but
the film is still chugging along.

The film derails, though, when we go back to the log cabin and the
adult characters. Jonesy (Damien Lewis) stumbles upon a man lost in the
snow. The stranger's not feeling too well and he's got a strange red
mark on his face, so Jonesy gives him shelter. The man is grateful but
he keeps on farting. Then Beaver, played by Jason Lee, stumbles into
the cabin and the two friends have to put up with the noxious fumes. To
cut a long story short the two friends then give the bloke a place to
sleep but he ends up dying on the toilet. You see, this is what happens
when aliens invade. They find a nice warm place in your colon and then
you die on the bog when they want some fresh air.

The scene that follows is laughable. The two friends have the alien
trapped in the toilet (it can't get out while the fat bloke is sitting
on the khazi) but somehow Beaver ends up sitting on the closed toilet
lid instead. Jonesy then decides that it's a good idea to get some tape
from the shed to keep the lid shut, so he leaves Beaver alone on the
lav. It's kind of like Lethal Weapon 2, only with an alien instead of a
bomb. But to show how stupid the film is, Beaver is wrested from his
safe position because for some reason he wants a toothpick to keep him
calm (is he Razor Ramon?). Personally I'd be more worried about my bum.
But the alien gets loose and kills poor Beaver right before Jonesy's
eyes (Jonesy takes an age to find the tape).

But what of the alien? What does it look like? Well, it's worm in shape
but it has a mouth like a tooth-filled vagina. I'll get onto my
interpretation of this in a moment… 

But the worm isn't the real alien. The real alien confronts Jonsey a
few moments later. It's a CGI monstrosity and is kind of a human-shaped
blob. But then after it stares at Jonesy it seems to explode in front
of his face. I was puzzled for a moment or two but then it's revealed
that the alien has possessed him. And how does the alien speak? Why, it
speaks in an English accent, of course! Pip-pip, old chap! But the
Gollum-like scenes where the real Jonesy and the camp English alien
Jonesy talk to one another are hilarious. I kept wondering whether it
was a joke. Surely such assured filmmakers couldn't make such a grave
miscalculation. But apparently they could, because the film only gets
increasingly stupid.

Another brilliantly dumb scene is when another one of the friends is
stuck in the snow with some beer. He gets a little bit drunk and needs
to urinate. So he's relieving himself, and writing a boy's name into
the snow ('Duddits'), when one of the alien worms leaps out and bites
his penis off. And this brings me onto my interpretation of the alien
invasion (as its never explained). My theory is that a race of
self-hating, gay, English aliens (there's no way alien Jonesy can be
straight) are trying to kill Earth's homosexual population – none of
the friends are married and one is rather fond of talking about his
privates. And to do their bidding they have teeth-filled vagina worms
to bite off the genitalia of any man who isn't 100% straight. Hey, it
makes as much sense as the rest of the movie! 

Adding credence to this far-fetched theory is Morgan Freeman's
character. He and his second-in-command, Tom Sizemore (who are the gay
military men trying to stop the gay alien invasion), spend a lot of
time giving one another flirty glances. And Freeman's character has a
John Wayne pistol, Dennis Healy eyebrows and talks of crap weasels. And
the two men also end up killing one another. This scene is certainly
one of the funniest. It's Tom Sizemore versus Morgan Freeman, only
Freeman has a helicopter (with the most phallic mini-gun known to man
attached to the nose) and Sizemore has a pistol. Who do you reckon
wins? Man in helicopter? Or man on foot with a pistol? Why, the man on
foot wins! It doesn't make any sense. But then again none of the film
does. It's a Byzantine puzzle that begins with bums and ends with
dumbness.
<|_=00=_|>
I have read Dreamcatcher and think it is one of King's most
under-appreciated books. In an interview, King said his wife didn't
care for it. King wrote it out on a yellow legal pad while he was
recovering from getting hit by that van.

I have also listened to the audio version of Dreamcatcher, so all that
remained for me was to see this movie. While I knew there were things
in the book that probably wouldn't make it to the screen, I was
pleasantly surprised by how many did. However some scenes were so brief
they were little more than tributes.

The cinematography was beautiful from start to finish, but where the
first half of the film felt paced to perfection, the last half felt
rushed. The ending was different than the book, so be prepared for a
shocker.

The acting was good, I particularly enjoyed Jason Lee as Joe 'Beaver'
Clarenden and Damian Lewis as Gary 'Jonesy' Jones.

A real disappointment was Thomas Jane as Dr. Henry Devlin. Pretty woody
acting there.

Before seeing this movie, I would not have believed that Morgan Freeman
could play Kurtz. I was wrong. That guy can play anything.
Unfortunately, He didn't get enough chances to flesh out this crazy
S.O.B.

Jonsey's dual nature was handled differently in the movie than it was
in the book. Too bad. It was just right in the book, and was given a
more "Hollywood" treatment in the movie.

Note to the director: This movie failed because not enough time was
spent introducing these characters and making us care about them. The
notable exceptions to this where Jonesy and the Beav.

Remember: SSDD.

No Bounce, No Play.
<|_=00=_|>

When John Grisham or Stephen King writes a book, everyone can expect it to
be turned into some sort of movie that's not as good (the only one that
hasn't had that happen to it is the latter's Insomnia-and it really deserves
to be made into something great) as the book was. Of course, there's
exceptions (such as The Shining and Carrie-both of which were poorly
remade), but one that makes the book look like string cheese is
Dreamcatcher. The book was 1000 pages of hit-or-miss horror, and the movie
condenses it into two and a quarter hours that takes most of the best parts
from the book. Having doubted William Goldman's ability since Marathon Man
and the partial butchering of Misery, but since he's writing here with
director Lawrence Kasdan, he can't foul up that badly.

The hardest part of having the arduous task of adapting a King book is
taking 1000+ pages and putting it into a reasonable amount of time for the
viewer. That's why the miniseries are always hot to trot, because they can
stretch things out to the length of the book. Trouble is, eventually, it
gets boring and too true to the book. That's how the aforementioned remakes
failed. Filmmakers need to be able to have creative licenses, and that's
what Kasdan does. He knows how to work with the material that he and Goldman
wrote, and it turns out to be something much better than the source
material.

Four childhood friends, Beaver (Jason Lee), Henry (Thomas Jane), Jonesy
(Damian Lewis) and Pete (Timothy Olyphant), go to some woods in Maine for
their annual hunting trip. In their childhood, they had been united by a
mentally retarded friend, Duddits (Donnie Wahlberg), which linked all of
them with some sort of telepathy that they usually don't talk about. During
their twentieth year of going out there, aliens land nearby and alter the
course of their lives forever. Meanwhile, Col. Abraham Curtis (Morgan
Freeman, with the named changed from the original Kurtz, a reference to
Apocalypse Now, because I guess hearing a name will automatically trigger
the "plagiarism" sensor in viewer's minds more than reading it) is in charge
of the governmental side of the aliens, while he supposedly goes crazy. For
those who thought Jack Nicholson's transformation in The Shining happened
too quickly, they obviously haven't seen Dreamcatcher.

I think the reason most people didn't like Dreamcatcher is that they didn't
know what the hell was going on. I can understand it, since some of the most
important stuff is just referenced in passing (such as most things relating
to Mr. Gray). I thought that all of the Curtis subplot seemed to drag
everything down, because everything that's done there could have been
brought about some other way. But much of the movie is pretty scary, despite
the absurdity of not only some of the aliens and the CGI, but the ending. I
didn't have that many qualms with it, but those who did probably also
complained with the oddity of the ending of The Hulk (understandably). The
plot held up through all of the reductions, and makes an effectual, creepy
film.

The acting, however, could have been better. Although Jason Lee is always
good, all of his catchphrases that his character had in the book seemed
scripted and stilted. The actor who played Beaver as a child also seemed to
just be reading his lines. The other actors don't really bring any
personality to their roles, although Lewis's "dual role" was pretty cool.
There seems to be an overwhelming amount of material in this film, but when
you think about it, it all flows together pretty well. And considering
you're taking 1000 pages into a 135 page script, that's pretty good to have
everything flow together. My respect for William Goldman has come back, as
for good horror films. Dreamcatcher is not the best King adaptation, or the
best King book, but it's entertaining and creepy, and that's all we ask for
from Mr. King.

My rating: 7/10

Rated R for violence, gore and language.
