

Watching Ghosts of the Abyss on the big screen simply took my breath
away.
The photography was simply majestic, and will leave you in awe. If you
are a
hard core Titanic buff, you will recognize a little of the footage from
another documentary that Cameron did at the same time as Ghosts. The 3-d
effect is pretty interesting, but probably a bit overrated. This would
have
still been a fantastic documentary on the big screen even without the 3-d
effect. It does make it very interesting though. They go into parts of
the
ship never seen before so it was very good. I left wishing it would have
lasted about 2 hours longer. Even 90 years later the ship still has the
power to take your breath away. I would rate this a 10 for people that
truly
love the Titanic, but maybe only a 7 for those do not. I left this movie
feeling that James Cameron really has a love for the ship and really
believes in what he is doing, and not that he just did it to make a buck
like some have suggested. A must see for any fan of the Great ship.

<|_=00=_|>

If this were James Cameron's slideshow of his ocean vacation, we would all
agree he did 
a great job.  Unfortunately, this collection of nice pictures doesn't work
well as a film.  
Moreover, the incredibly high technology that enables remote cameras to drop
two miles 
to the sea floor without imploding is not matched by state-of-the-art 3D
imagery.  To 
fit in their sardine cans, the 3D cameras used for this film had to be very,
very small, 
and they had to use extreme wide-angle lenses.  The result is that,
notwithstanding the 
IMAX format, the scale ends up feeling small.   There are a number of shots
of the giant, 
four-story tall engines that powered the Titanic, still intact at the bottom
of the ocean.  
Amazing!   These things should take your breath away.  Somehow, they don't
in this 
presentation.  You just don't get a feel for their size.   Also, the
blue/red 3D technology 
borrowed from the 1950s is not in the same league as the new polarized 3D
technology 
used in, for example, the most recent Space Shuttle IMAX film. 
Disappointing.  Also, Bill 
Paxton was not the right choice (yes, I get the whole "life imitating art"
thing, but he 
added exactly nothing to this film).  Rod Serling's narrations for the
Cousteau films were 
interesting because, well, he was Rod Serling, but also because he had
interesting things 
to say.  You didn't hear Rod saying "look at that" or "wow" or "I can't
believe we're really 
here."  Finally, a crew member describes seeing an object on the ship that
really brings 
home the humanity of the tragedy.  Do we get to see the object (I am not
identifying it 
here so as not to spoil this part of the film)?  No.  A waste.  Now the
good:  the 
computer graphics are terrific, the reenactions are good, and the lighting,
expert 
commentary, and photography are engaging enough to remind us of how many
souls 
were lost in the Titanic disaster, the heroism and cowardice along the way,
and how 
terribly sad and unnecessary the loss of life really was.  Worth seeing,
despite its flaws.
<|_=00=_|>

Director James Cameron scored, against all odds (and his swarm of nervous
auditors) a huge success with "Titanic."  Not as artistically strong as
several predecessor films about the legendary disaster it rocked the box
office boat as new generations of Titanic enthusiasts and curious folk
flooded the theaters.

Personally fascinated by the tale of the doomed April 1912 maiden voyage of
the era's seaborne tribute to Mammon, with its unsolved mysteries -
technical and human - Cameron dives to the wreck site in this 3-D stunning
documentary, "Ghosts of the Abyss."

RMS Titanic's grave was discovered by Robert Ballard, the foremost maritime
archeologist working today.  Using the then latest technology he first
located the wreck and then filmed it with "Alvin," a submersible of amazing
capability.  But today ""Alvin" is to underwater exploration and technology
what a typewriter is to a PC.  Basing his expedition on a Russian research
vessel, Cameron takes to the depths and launches "Jake" and "Elwood," two
camera-equipped robots that can be guided from the mother ship's two
submersibles through the interstices of the sprawling Titanic.  These robots
can and are guided through spaces no person could maneuver in, even at
shallow depths.

Cameron's intense nature masked by good humor comes clearly across as actor
Bill Paxton narrates much of the film.  Paxton doesn't seem to be acting as
he seeks multiple reassurances from the Russian crew man operating the
descending sub that there are ways to escape if something goes
wrong.

"Jake" and "Elwood" capture scenes from the ship no previous expedition
could.  At one point the viewer is staring up front at a bathroom mirror
with water jug and glass eerily standing exactly where the stateroom's
occupant left it before the collision.  The grand staircase is gone but its
cavernous space is superimposed by scenes from Cameron's feature film,
creating an almost scary sense of reality. Period music accompanies the
changing scenes which alternate the brief life and long interment of the
grand vessel.

This was a scientific expedition with microbiologists on board to assess the
continuing and inevitable reduction of RMS Titanic to dust.  But the bulk of
the film deals with the evidence of life on the ship during its short
journey and the story is told with verve.

This is a 3-D film that fully and beautifully exploits the medium and it's a
deep sea outing for the whole family.  

All that said, is there anything negative about "Ghosts from the Abyss?" 
There sure is: whatever the cost of 3-D cinematography it's a near crime to
limit the end result to a mere 60 minutes!!

9/10.
<|_=00=_|>

As a big Titanic buff I was more than excited about the prospect of seeing
more Titanic footage.  I really had this movie built up in my mind and was
so disappointed by it.  Much of the film was wasted, in my estimation, of
the process of getting to the Titanic rather than actually seeing it.
Also,
when you did have the image of the Titanic on the screen it was obstructed
by two squares of other images......Cameron and Paxton viewing what you
are
TRYING to see.  This was very frustrating to me.  The 3D images were
really
good and that part was the positive side of this film.

In short, I feel James Cameron is more in love with himself than sharing
the
Titanic with the audience.  Next time (and I would guess there would be a
next time) PLEASE let the audience see ONLY the Titanic!
<|_=00=_|>
Experiencing the ship firsthand and her mysteries, histories, details
respected and moralities still teaching, it's a love, an awe inspiring
and sad tale of Bibilical proportions.

The mystery and history of the Titanic is fascinating and evocative;
nearly Biblical. The largest liner, the ignorance to think it could
never sink and the arrogance of not putting on enough lifeboats due to
aesthetics, I'm just glad in this day and age we have life rafts which
take up so much less space we will never run into a shortage of life
rafts problem ever again.

Paxton is great as always, and a documentary setting brings out the
explorer within, and is respectfully and well made. Learning about the
stairway floating out allowing for easier access to the interior of the
ship for example I did not know about.

Good movie.

QUESTION: Anyone know why they were not supposed to go into C deck?
They seemed to have a very good, albeit unspoken reason for this.

I see nothing wrong with Cameron's love for the Titanic story, it's a
near mythical experience and I find it truly a learning experience and
a marvel.

Soon the sea will claim the ship utterly, and the Titanic is a teacher
of morality, of a past, and the failings of modern man, and the mystery
of history in heart of exploration and awe.

The Titanic will always have something to teach us, and that is
important.

The museum pieces are important because it allows for the memory to be
respected and a teacher to future generations.

That we can put a name to artifacts assures their memory lives on.

There was no disrespect, in fact quite the opposite.
<|_=00=_|>

A fascinating blend of present-day remains, and the grandeur of the
ill-fated ship on its maiden voyage over 90 years ago.  The ghosts refer to
the super-imposed figures of that bygone era, who give us a glimpse of what
it would have been like to travel on the Titanic back then.
With all the effects of 3-D working to their advantage, and the eternal
intrigue surrounding the sinking, you are nevertheless left awestruck at the
ability of the producers to put this film together from over 12,000 feet
below the ocean surface.  I found that feeling never left me for the
duration of the film, even when I made an involuntary movement to catch a
rope thrown at us to more fully exploit to wonders of 3-D.  This is
undoubtedly an above-average film of this type, and worthy of at least 8/10
from me.
<|_=00=_|>

I'm not sure what negative reviewers were expecting; I went in looking for
the very rare high-budget 3D experience and got what I was looking for.  I
personally spend most of my television viewing time watching TLC, TDC and
History Channel and I think my interests and tastes mirror Cameron's to a
great degree.  For me, it's fascinating and exciting to go down and
penetrate the wreck of the Titanic for the same reason that I will be
eternally fascinated with the Apollo missions to the moon.  It's really
exciting to see the previously unseeable.  I found watching the scenes
outside and inside the wreck to be as exciting as watching the first
pictures from Mars Pathfinder... a sense of excitement and wonder in seeing
something so remote and so exotic and bizarre.

When I read these reviews I try to find someone who appears to have a
similar outlook to myself and then predict if I will like the film or not
before I go to see it.  My guess is that if you really loved Apollo 13 then
you will have a great time watching this movie.  You must love science and
that frontier spirit to truly enjoy this movie.  I think I can say with fair
conviction that if you didn't like Apollo 13, you should stay home.  There
won't be that much here for you.  For example, if the fact that the pressure
down there is (I just worked it out) is 5482 pounds per square inch doesn't
add to the coolness and excitement of watching film from down there, but
Jennifer Lopez being on board would, look elsewhere.

If you like 3D, this 3D is as good as I've seen and to be honest I'd love to
see this movie again just for the really enjoyable and unique experience of
"feeling" right off the bow of the Titanic in 12,462 feet of
water.

This is in no way a rehash of the movie Titanic and it has no plot.  It has
a little funny dialog but it's unscripted.  I liked one moment (during the
long descent to the bottom):

Bill Paxton: "So, if the motors or battery died, we could get back to the
surface by dumping the um.. uh..."

Russian Pilot: "Ve have many options in this situation."

Bill Paxton: "So, we could dump the batteries, though, right, and we'd come
up no matter what?"

Russian Pilot:  "Yes, but we do not want to do that.  This battery costs, I
think, two hundred and fifty thousand dollars."

Bill Paxton:  "Can I write you a check?"
<|_=00=_|>

Nicely done, but no shock and awe here.  I can't give it more than a 7 out
of 10 for Paxton's progressively more melodramatic narration and Cameron's
too-heavy reliance on the computer gimmickry, but neither hurt it so much as
to take away the effect of seeing Titanic up close and personal.  My only
other complaint was that Cameron somehow managed not to take full advantage
of the IMAX-sized screen.  I kept waiting for some soaring shots of the
various sides and parts of the boat, but it seemed like he always had the
camera right up against them where you couldn't get a full measure.  I kept
thinking, "Dammit, man, back up."  And the CG overlays really did start to
irritate me a bit.  I wanted to see the boat, but often as soon as the CG
effects wisped away, it cut to something else.  Overall I guess I thought it
a little too cluttered technically and not enough lingering over the human
touches.

As for the 3D, I thought it did increase the impact some, more than being a
mere novelty, but I agree with Roger Ebert that Ghosts would have been a
perfect showcase for Maxivision 48.  Someday maybe true film fans will
unite....
<|_=00=_|>

Rating: **** (out of *****)

James Cameron's journey down undersea into the heart of the Titanic gets the
IMAX treatment, with Bill Paxton as the narrator. The words "into the heart
of the Titanic" may scare off some people, but don't worry, there's no
wooden love story here. Instead, we get a fascinating, well-prepared and
detailed documentary about the Titanic and some of its passengers,
underlining how many of the ship's elements have stood the passage of time.
Unfortunately (in my opinion anyway), it's a little pretentious, not always
involving and sometimes self-indulgent. But I still highly recommend it to
those really interested in either the history of the Titanic or the 1997
film, and also to general audiences who are looking for something a little
more innovative than what we get in cinemas these days.
<|_=00=_|>
I did not get to see this in the IMAX theater setting, but at home via
VoD. It was not presented in 3D, and it was 4:3 format which kind of
annoyed me as my TV is 16:9. I have watched many movies, both fiction,
and true to life/documentary about tragedy and historical ironies and
such. This one takes the cake. I saw "titanic" in the theater, and i've
even seen "a night to remember". Heck, i once saw a movie called "raise
the titanic". None of them come close to the raw emotions this
documentary will evoke. The one scene that really got me was the final
sinking sequence of the stern from "titanic" overlayed with the
tragically long series of quaint old photographs, each one representing
one, two, a family lost. Even as i think about it now, and even though
i know there have been worse losses of life at sea the irony of this
story and its place in history make it both unique and quite potent. I
highly recommend this movie to anyone who has ever wondered about
Titanic and her fate, and the fate of the people she carried into
history.
