

We all remember Chuck Barris as the creator of some of television's most
successful - albeit notoriously mind-numbing - game shows: `The Dating
Game,' `The Newlywed Game,' and `The Gong Show.'  But did you know that he
was also a hit man for the CIA?  Well, that's what he claims, straight from
his own `unauthorized autobiography' entitled `Confessions of a Dangerous
Mind,' which has now been made into a movie by director George Clooney and
writer Charlie Kaufman.  Kaufman is known for devising elaborately absurd
scenarios for his fictional films (`Being John Malkovich,' `Adaptation'
etc.), yet even Kaufman, in his wildest fantasies, could not have come up
with a more bizarre premise than the one this real life story affords.  No
wonder he was drawn to this material.  They are a perfect fit.  In the world
of movies, who says fact isn't stranger than fiction?

In many ways, Barris was one of the men responsible for starting the trend
towards `reality television' that so dominates network programming today. 
His most famous hits (especially `The Gong Show') were all based on the
premise that millions of Americans would be willing to humiliate themselves
in public for a few moments of fleeting fame – and that millions more would
tune in to bear witness to the spectacle.  Barris, craving fame himself, was
simply savvy enough to plug into that national mood - and managed to make
himself a fortune and turn himself into a household name in the process. 
What most of us didn't know about Barris at the time was that, while all
this was going on, he was ostensibly leading a double life as a secret
agent, tracking down and killing any number of `bad guys,' all in the name
of `national security.'

Given the inherently incredible, jaw-dropping nature of the material, George
Clooney, in his directorial debut, brings an appropriately surrealistic tone
to the work.  He employs a number of visual devices that help to fragment
the world in which the story takes place.  Certain scenes break through the
constraints of time and space, as when Barris is talking on the phone in his
apartment to an ABC executive, who is sitting in his office, and the two
locations become one on the screen.  The sense of dislocation this technique
creates perfectly reflects the mental split occurring in Barris' own
disturbed psyche.  This style is further enhanced by the use of slightly
off-kilter camera angles, color filtering and sepia tones in some of the
shots.  Scenarist Charlie Kaufman, as always, brings his own quirky vision
to bear on the material.  He cleverly balances the two `sides' of Barris'
life, transitioning smoothly between those scenes revolving around his
career as TV show producer and those revolving around his career as CIA
operative.  Moreover, Kaufman does a nice job getting inside the head of
this man who is trying to fight the demons of his own past, make a name for
himself in the high stakes world of network programming, cope with his own
inadequacies as a person, and come to terms with the vile things he is doing
in his secret life all at the same time. 

As Barris, Sam Rockwell gives a terrific, high-energy performance, capturing
the sadness and paranoia of a man who seems to know deep down inside that
his fame is probably undeserved, built as it is on mediocre ideas and a
willingness to exploit the baser instincts of human nature.  Drew Barrymore
brings her usual charm to the role of Penny, Barris' one true love and the
only person genuinely drawn to Barris as a person, even though he is unable
to commit himself to her fully, preferring instead to keep the relationship
`casual' and uncommitted.  Barris finds it impossible to make a real,
meaningful connection to another human being, so twisted has he become in
his value system and bizarre lifestyle.  Rounding out the cast are Clooney
himself, as the mysterious CIA agent who draws Barris into this strange
netherworld of intrigue and danger, Rutger Hauer, as a fellow hit man who
pours out his feelings about his chosen occupation to Barris, Julia Roberts,
as the icy cool CIA operative who pops up at various moments and in various
places to keep an eye on the young recruit, and even Brad Pitt and Matt
Damon, who show up for a truly hilarious cameo appearance together, one that
had the audience at the screening I attended howling with
delight.

The $64,000 question becomes, of course, is this story even remotely true,
or is it merely another case of this master showman's playing the public for
all its worth?  I haven't the slightest idea.  The filmmakers certainly take
it all very seriously, as evidenced by the fact that they have various
friends and business acquaintances of Barris (Dick Clark, Jay P. Morgan)
providing interviews for the film, interviews which hint at the dark
possibility that the basis of the story might indeed be factual, given the
kind of person these people claim Barris is.  This gives the film a kind of
pseudo-documentary realism that heightens the verisimilitude of what we are
seeing on screen.  Whether the film is really a true story or merely a grand
lark perpetrated on an increasingly credulous audience, the fact is that
`Confessions of a Dangerous Mind' turns out to be a thoroughly entertaining,
utterly loony piece of original filmmaking.

`Confessions of a Dangerous Mind' marks an auspicious debut for Clooney as a
director, who, in his work behind the camera, demonstrates a thorough
command of vision and style.  One looks forward to his next endeavor. 


<|_=00=_|>
One of Charlie Kaufman's more overlooked and underrated screenplays,
'Confessions of a Dangerous Mind' may have been something of a
departure from the high-concept experimentalism that made his previous
brainchildren, 'Being John Malkovich' and 'Adaptation' (a masterpiece
and a near-masterpiece, respectively) such striking breaths of fresh
air, but on no account should its ability to engage and entertain on
those strengths of its own be underestimated. Taking a well-earned
break from the surreal situations and the complex plotting, Kaufman
turned his attention here to a much more straightforward yarn that was
better grounded in reality; the twist there being that it was based on
a story that, while allegedly true, just as likely never happened.
'Confessions' though is willing to give Chuck Barris the benefit of the
doubt in regards to his dubious claims to have been a secret assassin
for the CIA in the midst of his days as a game show host, giving life
to such controversial classic as 'the Gong Show' and 'the Dating Game'
while taking it from a range of human targets around the globe. It sits
back and lets the scenario unfold without question – and does so with
such considerable spirit and vigour that it's hard not to get lured in
and pulled along for the ride. Regardless of whether the real-life
Barris truly did have some incredible adventures within his time, or
simply an overly-active imagination, this movie translates it into one
heck of an enjoyable romp – slick, stylish and entrancing on the
surface, and with a bracingly poignant and sobering tale lurking
underneath.

Kaufman continues to rule supreme with his flair for developing the
most heavily flawed and eccentric of characters, investing them with
witty dialogue and sharp situations and, as with his previous
screenplays, the humour is a pleasantly mixed bag – lightly amusing at
some points, laugh-out-loud hilarious at others, even outright alarming
whenever it needs to be. George Clooney's direction, meanwhile, though
it stands a fair distance from the eye-seizing zippiness that we're
used to seeing Spike Jonze apply to this writer's workings, is still an
accomplished visual take on the material, made sensational by its
meticulous attention to detail. Indeed, the film's fondness for subtle
in-jokes, crafty cameos (some great ones among the Dating Game
contestants – absolutely great), background gags and general all-round
intricacy is partly what makes it so rewarding and worthy of repeated
viewings (I was watching it for what must have been sixth or seventh
time last night, and still I found myself picking up a whole range of
details that I somehow missed out on the first few times around). Sure,
things can move a tad slowly every now and then, but with this number
of niceties up there to be marvelled at you know you're never for a
second going to be bored.

It also draws a fine contrast between the two separate pursuits that
Chuck Barris is called to follow – the game show scenes are colourful,
light-hearted fun, the assassin scenes murky and deliciously paranoid,
and Sam Rockwell, at the helm as our savvy and hapless main man, has
the timing, the energy and the appeal to emerge from the two as both a
comic figure and a tragic one. Kicking off as a likable, familiar kind
of anti-hero, whose goofy grin and offhand ways have us smiling through
the bar fights and the womanising, he gradually evolves into something
more enigmatic and sorrowful; a lost, confused individual whose more
innocuous contributions to society, in the form of lowbrow 'trash TV',
are widely scorned (not that I've ever seen any of the genuine Chuck
Barris's shows myself, but it would amaze me if they were really any
worse than the kind of mind-numbing reality TV that's enjoyed
popularity over the past few years), while the hidden talent he
discovers in contract killing begins to understandably repulse him soon
enough. One of the most effective things about 'Confessions' is just
how deftly it uses its gags and its pathos, along with interview
snippets from those who were acquainted with the real-life Barris,
which punctuate the story at various points, to reflect upon this man,
his life, and just how much he really achieved either way, arriving in
the end at quite a biting conclusion. I don't think that any other
rendition of 'If I had a Hammer' could feel nearly as sad and haunting
as it does here.

Drew Barrymore and Clooney himself offer nice support all the while,
each epitomising different ends of the Chuck Barris spectrum –
Barrymore, as Chuck's bubbly girlfriend Penny, is a fun-loving
innocent; Clooney, as his CIA director, is aptly subtle and mysterious.
But neither of them, or anyone else involved for a matter of fact,
comes even close to upstaging Rockwell, whose input is simply fantastic
– there's no doubt in my mind that the Best Actor Award which, as the
blurb on the DVD so proudly states, he picked up at the Berlin
International Film Festival for his efforts, was well-and-truly earned.

It's not an innovative, far-out, one-of-a-kind experience (a la 'Being
John Malkovich'). But it's an entertaining, well-made and entirely
satisfying flick with one particularly brilliant stand-out performance,
and that's more than enough to do the job. Kaufman can probably pen
avant-garde better than anybody else today, but 'Confessions of a
Dangerous Mind' goes to prove that, when in the right company, he can
write 'normal' just as impressively.

Grade: A
<|_=00=_|>

What if the creator and host of two of the 1970s biggest and lamest
television game shows was also a part-time CIA hitman?  That he used The
Dating Game and The Gong Show as a cover to stage assassinations in the
netherworld of Cold War espionage. Ridiculous you'd say. But that's what
exactly what Chuck Barris claims in his autobiography, and Charlie Kaufman
accepts carte blanche as the premise for his screenplay. The film plays it
straight up as if Barris were telling the truth. 

Can Charlie Kaufman, the screenwriter, and George Clooney, the director pull
it off? Mostly. It is competently acted by Sam Rockwell as Barris, Julia
Roberts as a fellow spy, Drew Barrymore as his love interest, and director
George Clooney as his CIA recruiter and handler.  The bizarre landscape, a
marriage of television and espionage, is presented without a smirk or wink.
If Barris is telling the truth, this is what it must have been like. It's an
interesting idea, and Clooney and Kaufman have taken it and crafted an
enjoyable film. 
<|_=00=_|>

George Clooney's directorial debut is a compelling dramatic biopic about
`Gong Show' host Chuck Barris, who claims to be a hit man for the CIA.
Barris started out small, but decided to go for the big time and move to New
York, where he got a job at NBC. Soon he becomes a manager type person, and
creates an idea for a game show called `The Dating Game'. It becomes a hit,
but he feels unfulfilled, even though he has Penny (Drew Barrymore). Also,
Jim Byrd (Clooney) from the CIA recruits Barris to kill for the CIA. As we
watch the movie, we don't know which is true and which is a figment of his
imagination. Think of it as an R-rated Beautiful Mind.

Barris is played with great intensity by Sam Rockwell. Clooney took a risk
of planting a not-well-known name as the lead. With such star power behind
him like Clooney, Barrymore, and Julia Roberts, he stands out. Rockwell has
starred in such movies before like Heist and The Green Mile, all three times
with great acting. He brings out the inner demons of Barris. Rockwell was
exceptional, and exceptionally believable. Even though he was billed fourth,
he has his name out now and we can expect him in larger
things.

Many scenes were standout, with their camera angles and unique way of
playing it. At times it seemed like a play, with a wall disappearing, for
instance. However, Confessions of a Dangerous Mind wasn't as funny as I was
hoping. Sure, some scenes were quite funny (like the scenes in the beginning
where it was a montage of the f-word). It had an authentic feel to the 60's
(including the soundtrack), like Catch Me If You Can did. At times, it had a
documentary style to it, which would have been more effective if they had
more substance behind it, such as more of the interviews or none at all.
Many of the camera shots were close-ups, which looked quite cool. I am a
game show aficionado, so I thought that most of the time would be spent on
Barris going onto the CIA, but it was evenly divided between the two, so I
was happy.

At times, the mood was light-hearted, almost satirical, but at other points
it was serious drama that poked at your emotions. As I said before, Rockwell
is definitely lead material. Clooney did a good job portraying the CIA
recruiter, and Barrymore is the other standout as Barris' girlfriend. She
and Rockwell, besides good chemistry, both displayed true emotions. Roberts,
as another CIA agent, put in her usual mediocre performance, though she was
better than normal. However, many characters have no substance behind them,
namely Roberts, who was billed third and had about three scenes (which, I
guess, is better than Jennifer Aniston in Office Space).

Possible the only downpoint of the movie was that at times, it got too
trippy for its own good. Even Barris didn't know what was real and what
wasn't. It got a little too muddled in plot, such as who is who, at times.
When Barris sees everyone who he killed, that was just…weird. Anyway, I
would highly recommend Confessions of a Dangerous Mind to about
anyone.

My rating: 8/10

Rated R for language, sexual content and violence.
<|_=00=_|>
While quite very obviously a well crafted lie sold as truth this movie
does not fail to entertain and was one of the more underrated films of
the year of it's release. A commercial failure the film was re-released
later based on word of mouth buzz. This film appeals to a fringe
audience that remains just out of reach of mainstream films. What do
you expect from a screenplay written by Charlie Kaufmann? This film is
a telling of the story of Chuck Barris, creator of various TV shows and
all around uncomfortable guy. Barris holds many stations in life, TV
producer, songwriter and CIA assassin. The meat of this story is not so
much in his occupations but the mental condition and back story of
Barris throughout the film. With something lurking just below the
surface of an ambiguous nature you aren't certain if you should root
for Barris or despise him.

Through various twists and turns you follow what is one half
mockumentary and one half spy thriller the film plays it very loose and
fast and it let's your mind run wild and free without the burden of
tension that a spy thriller would give. Definitely worth a watch if you
enjoy strong acting performances mixed with offbeat plots.

Clooney takes what is basically a poor mans "THE KID STAYS IN THE
PICTURE" and makes a very entertaining and watchable film with great
acting and stylish but reigned in technique. Finally a someone takes
the theory of taking a bad idea and making a fine film and makes good.
<|_=00=_|>

Chuck Barris is a man who decides that his future is in television and
tries
to come up with ideas for new shows to elevate himself up from the
position
of tour guide.  When his show isn't picked up from the pilot, he is
approached by Jim Byrd who offers him work with the CIA.  When he finds
out
that this work is basically as an assassin, he still does it and begins to
become quite proficient at it.  When his show ideas get picked up by the
network he continues to kill, using his job as a producer as
cover.

Although I missed this at the cinema, I was keen to get this film when it
came out on DVD and wasn't disappointed by the film.  The tone from the
start is darkly comic, becoming increasingly dark and decreasingly comic
as
it goes along.  Supposedly based on a true story this can be enjoyed with
little or no knowledge of the characters and TV shows involved - indeed I
had never heard of Barris even if I was aware of what UK TV calls Blind
Date.  I don't know if it makes it a better or worse film for supposedly
being true - I enjoyed it even with me treating it like a work of fiction
more than anything else.

Not all the plot really worked of course.  As it gets darker it begins to
lose it's grip and become slightly less entertaining but strangely more
watchable.  It is at it's best in the first half though.  While Barris and
Byrd are good characters, some aren't as well used and you get the
impression that the script wishes they weren't involved at all, certainly
Penny and Patricia were a little confused and what was hinted at was never
revealed in terms of who they were.

Rockwell runs the film really well and copes with the comic stuff and the
darker stuff.  Clooney is quite a good character in a small role but he
does
better as director.  He uses cross cuts really well and has a lot of help
from his cinematographer in terms of effective use of lighting and such.
Considering this is his debut as director he does a surprisingly assured
job
and has a good sense of style.  Stars clutter the support cast, some in OK
roles and some in cameos.  Barrymore is OK but I didn't find her character
that interesting, Roberts is more interesting but the significance of her
character in Barris' life wasn't developed well enough.  Hauer is good and
Pitt, Damon and Gyllenhaal make fleeting appearances.

Overall this was a very enjoyable film with it's own unique dark tone and
comic content.  It may not be 100% successful but it is a film more worthy
of viewing than most of the stuff that you see on the shelves at your
local
video store.  Not to everyone tastes perhaps (and it didn't make money at
the box office) but Rockwell is great, Clooney shows a deft touch as
director and the story is both funny and dramatic even if I'm still unsure
whether it is true (or semi-true) or not.
<|_=00=_|>
Since "ER" George Clooney has been a very popular actor, mainly because
so many women find him very attractive. But through the years he has
been able to prove that he's more than just a pretty face in the crowd.
He has acted in many popular movies and did it pretty well in most of
them. But being a good actor doesn't mean that you are automatically a
good director as well of course. So before seeing "Confessions of a
Dangerous Mind", his debut as a director, I had my doubts...

This time we don't get to see Clooney very often in the movie itself.
We only get to see him a couple of times as the CIA agent who has hired
the game show impresario and producer Chuck Barris (Sam Rockwell).
During the day Chuck invents game shows like 'The Dating Game', 'The
Newlywed Game' and 'The Gong Show'... Shows that are all very
successful, because they are easy to understand and fun to watch. But
next to his regular day job he is also a CIA assassin. At least, that's
what HE claims to be...

I must say that Clooney has done a very nice job in his debut as a
director. He has added a nice surreal tone to this movie which makes it
even harder to understand whether all this really happened or not. And
even though this is a bio-pic, it is never hard to keep watching it or
to stay focused. Thanks to the light and satirical feeling in it, this
movie stays fun to watch from the beginning until the end. Of course
without the interesting story and the good acting by all of his main
actors Clooney wouldn't have been able to make this movie. Withouth
them this movie wouldn't be the same and might even have been awful to
watch. Especially Drew Barrymore was a lot better than I had expected.
She never really convinced me in her other movies that I saw, but this
time she's really good as Barris Sweetheart. And Clooney himself was
interesting to watch as well. Even though he could be found more behind
than in front of the camera, he still proves to be a talented actor.

Overall this is an interesting and fun movie. Certainly because it is
Clooney's debut as a director. The man sure has a lot of talents and
I'm already looking forward to his next movie as a director / actor. I
give this one a 7.5/10.
<|_=00=_|>
"Confessions of a Dangerous MInd' was excellent and I'm surprised it
doesn't receive more credit.

The story is an 'autobiographical' tale of TV producer Chuck Barris
(Sam Rockwell) who doubles as a CIA-assassin. The movie is based on the
book with the same name and the beauty is that no one knows if Barris
made up this story or if the events are true. Regardless of its reality
or not, the film is a tremendous example of great movie making.

This is an all-star movie. George Clooney stars as CIA-agent Jim Byrd
and also directs the film. He has such a cinematic eye. The scenes in
which he incorporates the movie with real- life clips of the game shows
is brilliant. The acting is superb with Rockwell delivering what should
have been at least a Golden Globe nomination. Also in the movie is Drew
Barrymore (delivering one of her better roles), Julia Roberts, Rutger
Hauer, and cameos by Brad Pitt, Matt Damon and Maggie Gyllenthaal. The
cinematography is superb, and Director of Photography, Newton Thomas
Sigel, creates a film with such innovative lighting and tones, and to
top it off, the screen play is written by one of Hollywood's best,
Charlie Kaufmann (wrote 'Being John Malkovich, Adaptation, Eternal
Sunshine).

The movie was shadowy but not dark, humorous but not too light,
mysterious but not deceptive and was honestly one of the most original
films I've seen in a long time. 

The only minor hiccups I had with the movie was 1) inaccuracies with
aging characters. Barris was born in 1928, yet the scenes in the late
1970s and early 1980s he looks like he's still in his thirties! At
least the movie was consistent in not aging any of the characters; and
2) I felt the pace dragged slightly at times. There were moments when I
felt the momentum falter inexplicably and the opener was slightly slow
as well.

But those details are very minor and do not take away from the strength
of this film. This is an engaging film, one that is intelligent and
well-written, one that is acted superbly and crafted with such subtle
craftsmanship from the best Hollywood has to offer. Great film! I'm
surprised it doesn't get more credit

8 out of 10!
<|_=00=_|>
Let me start by saying my respect for Clooney as a producer and now a
director continue to go up. Backing this one was also Steven
Soderbergh... and as a result you get stellar (for scale only)
performances by Julia Roberts and Drew Barrymore. Also watch for Brad
Pitt and Matt Damon in fleeting, non-speaking cameo roles.

The film (and book) explore the double life of Chuck Barris who was
once described as lowering the bar on television for ever. The double
life however, is the life of a CIA contract assassin.

The premise is hard to buy into. But then again, so was the man. True
or not, the film and story raise Barris up to the level of Andy
Kauffman. In a Tyler Durdensque manner this Beautiful Mind takes you
thru Barris' theoretical hell or coming to terms with his own
personality foibles.

Rockwell is spot on in his portrayal both on and off the small screen
as Barris. The reproduction of Gong Show Antics are spooky to say the
least. The film is inter-cut with appearances from actual colleagues
from Barris' past (such as J.P. Morgan, Gene Gene the Dancing Machine,
and others) in an almost Harry-Met-Sally style of nostalgic interview.

Clooney's use of live scene cuts to transition fluidly from thought to
thought or scene to scene are reminiscent of The Graduate's Poolside
swan-dive directly into Mrs. Robinson's bed. This is a film that has a
touch of "Fight Club", "Forrest Gump", and "La Femme Nikita"... all
tied together by the man that brought up Rip Taylor's $1.98 Beauty
Show.

The film presents more questions than it answers. Matter of fact the
only question the film really answers is whether or not someone really
answered the weirdest place they ever had whoopie.

I saw this on Starz thanks to the marvel that is Tivo. The DVD is now
definitely on my wish list.
<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

Yet another example of why even the best actors cannot be trusted with
intelligent material. They just don't have the skills required. But
this is a pretty good try, better than most films in fact.

Here's the setup: a man invents a role for himself in a created world;
that 'self' is in show business and he creates yet another world and
persona for himself. Both selves write a book from a . All three levels
are shown here, all sliced and diced according to Kaufman's clever
folding techniques.

Clooney plays the great manipulator of one of these levels (the CIA)
and is also the grand manipulator of the top level, this film. He does
a great job in some respects by creating great scenes that shift from
one layer or time to another. These are very clever and worth watching
on their own.

But it just isn't enough. Part of the problem is that Kaufman's
original notions weren't followed. They moved the narrative stance into
extremely strange territory with several untrusted narratives. These
were ditched. The producers weren't as crazy as Barris, which is a real
shame.

But the other problem is that too much emphasis is placed on doing a
good job from the perspective of the actors. All the scenes are shaped
for the benefit of the actors, all towards clarity. Should have been
shaped as a multi layered ambiguous unit, just as Kaufman envisioned.

Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.

