

Robert Altman's long, fragmented and very hit-or-miss career reaches
another
of his periodic highs with this clever and beautifully realised
dissection
of the English class system and skit on the classic Agatha Christie
whonunnit.

Altman's preferences for kaleidoscopic social observation has sometimes
failed in the past due to the weight of its own ambition: multi-plotted
and
multi-charactered snapshots of time and place held together by loose ties
or
a general thematic framework. Sometimes it pays off spectacularly
(Nashville); sometimes it flatters to deceive (Short Cuts).

It works well here due to the necessary discipline of the single location
and the greater opportunities for interaction among the characters this
affords. Add to that an exemplary cast of (mostly) British character
actors
and a knowing script by Julian Fellowes that gives Altman's keenly
observant
camera plenty of time to make its own points.

Rightly, Altman is less concerned with the murder mystery, which is
almost
an aside, than with the opportunity given by a shooting party at a 1930s
stately mansion to observe the English aristocracy and their servants in
social interaction.

Never happier than when involved in a bit of human anthropology, Altman
lightly dissects the complexities and hierarchies which go on both above
and
below stairs; in which many subtle and unsubtle rituals are played out
among
groups of people who clearly dislike each other but are forced through
circumstance, need or employment to observe the fundamental social
practices
required.

1932 is also a time of intruding change into the nature of the old
English
ruling classes, slowly disintegrating in this between-wars period and, in
this case, largely reliant on the wealth of one particularly reluctant
patron to keep them in furs and flunkies. In on this act comes the (to
them)
faintly odious whiff of 20th century new money, represented by Hollywood
and
popular culture. These intruders are kept in their place, but the message
is
clear - change is coming, and coming fast.

The muted colours and autumnal setting continue this theme of a world in
terminal decline and of a group of characters keenly conscious of place
and
tradition yet also wearied and exhausted by it. Only at the very end,
when
fundamental change has occurred and many characters are left to face up
to
very different destinies do we see a bit of sunshine creeping in,
heralding
the dawn of a new era.

The cast are all excellent, with special mention deserving of Maggie
Smith's
effortless scene stealing as a bitchy but broke old Countess; the ever
reliable Jeremy Northam as matinee idol Ivor Novello, well aware of his
place in the great scheme of things and young Kelly Macdonald in the
pivotal
role of Smith's harassed maid who's inquisitiveness rattles a whole load
of
family skeletons.

<|_=00=_|>

The reason why many viewers strongly dislike or even hate the movie
"Gosford Park" is because they misunderstand the point trying to be
made. Gosford Park wasn't made to focus on whodunit (if it was, why
would they tell you who did). If viewers think that Gosford Park is
"boring" or "confusing" or even "the worst movie ever", it may be that
you're not willing to see what really is portrayed: the authenticity
and its story. The authenticity of Gosford Park is as close as it can
get to real life as it was back then as it can get. Experts who were
maids, butlers, or cooks themselves were constantly at the scene
criticizing the actors behavior and moves. Another main focus is the
story behind it. The brilliant story as well as excellent character
development are like no other: only Robert Altman could do a film such
as this. So, next time you see it (which I highly recommend that you
do), be PATIENT and actually be WILLING the enjoy the differences in
film-making, not just the kind of films you like.

<|_=00=_|>

When Robert Altman makes a new film, it's always a noteworthy event that
gets
the attention of critics and audiences alike: large productions with
huge ensemble
casts of major Hollywood movie stars, playing real people with full,
fleshed out
characters, each with their own subplots that intertwine only subtly,
until
the end when it
all finally makes sense. In Gosford Park, Altman makes only two changes to
this
formula: Hollywood stars are replaced by Top British talent that may be
unfamiliar to
most American audiences, and a straightforward murder mystery supplants
his
traditionally complicated plot line. It is in these changes, however,
where
Altman charms
his audiences in a new way.
The story takes place in 1932 at a
gathering of aristocrats and their servants
for a hunting country weekend at the
estate of Sir William McCordle.
Some time after all the guests are settled in
and whose affairs begin to intertwine, one of them
is bumped off. While all the characters
are well fleshed out, it's Mary, played by Kelly
Macdonald, who is the focus of the drama.
She's the maid of Maggie Smith's Countess
Constance of Trentham, and is being
groomed to follow a path to become head servant.
After the murder takes place, emotions
unfold and secrets from the past are revealed
that help the characters - and the
audience - solve the mystery. The drama is even more
punctuated when Mary's innocence and
naiveté is lost as she pieces together the deeper
scandal, involving servant-master sexual
relations and bastard children.

One of the best aspects of film is how it illustrates that fine line
dividing the
master-servant social structures, and how often that line is crossed,
reminding us that
life is just a game of costumes and masks, and we're all the same
underneath. While the
story was reminiscent of Agatha Christie's Ten Little Indians, where it's
the mystery
that captivates the audience, Altman goes beyond the mystery with Gosford
Park by
using the murder as a vehicle to draw attention to the human condition and
class
hierarchy.

On the downside, but to no surprise to
fans of Altman's work, the movie is often
hard to follow. His style of filmmaking
involves entanglements of characters and
subplots that don't appear to have much
to do with one another at first blush, and
Gosford Park takes this to the next
level. Here, the murder takes place at the climax of
this confusion, leaving you rather
disoriented in the middle of the 2-hour-plus drama.
Fortunately, the tone loosens up when a
comedy-dim police inspector basically gets
nowhere in his investigation, but the
pieces start coming together through the other
characters. The good news is that it all
seems to come together in the end in a way that
didn't require grasping every detail of
every scene.

Despite its intricacies and confusing
moments, there is so much more to Gosford Park that makes it interesting
and
enchanting. While it is clearly a sophisticated piece of film work with
impeccable acting,
directing and design, don't stress about not keeping up with it all the
time. Sit back and
take it in, and you'll feel satisfied in the end.
<|_=00=_|>

Violence, mystery, sex, and murder, Gosford Park has it all.  Director
Robert Altman once again takes the Hollywood formula and gives a unique
twist.  The story begins when aristocrats during 1932 gather at Sir William
McCordle's (Michael Gambon) estate for a shooting party.  The guests are
wealthy people with their trusty servants.  People arrive at the McCordle
estate two by two and the traditions begin.  The servants set up dinner for
their masters and the aristocrats begin their personal routines.

 The story moves on as the characters begin to establish their names and the
audience learns their varying social status.  The intertwining stories among
the guests begin to surface and the audience begins to realize there is much
more in this house than what meets the eye.

During the night one member of the elite group is killed.  None of the
guests seemed to be fazed by this event and are only upset by the
inconvenience it sets up for their lives.

The only one troubled is Constance, Countess of Trentham's maid, Mary (Kelly
McDonald).  The story begins to focus on Mary, who discovers secrets among
the visitors and leads the audience to solve the mystery.

The great aspect about this film is Robert Altman's abilities to bring the
past to life.  He pays excellent attention to detail and is able to recreate
the feelings and morals during the time period.  He emerges the audience
into a film world filled with history and story.  Throughout the film Altman
visually shows the audience the contrast between social classes through his
various shots, lighting techniques, and camera filters.  His fluid camera
movements visually portray foreshadowing and relationship among characters.
These elements give the audience a complete understanding of the mood and
atmosphere in the film.

I recommend this movie to anybody who has the patience to sit and focus on
this excellent film.  Although the beginning is appropriately slow moving
and the characters names are difficult to remember, the payoff is worth the
efforts.  This movie is made for active film viewers and all Robert Altman
fans.

<|_=00=_|>

I wish I was more surprised that there are so many negative comments, but
I'm not. This is not American Pie. It's a beautifully acted and very well
written film for adults with an attention span of more than 5 minutes.
Concentrate, it's worth it. I don't give 10's easily. This is a
10!
<|_=00=_|>
There are directors who can direct huge, massive Cecil B. deMille epics
like Peter Jackson. There are directors who have done nail-biting
suspense, usually drenched in subtext, like the Director, Alfred
Hitchcock. There are others who can do whatever they want and create
beautiful, detached yet powerful films like Stanley Kubrick. Then there
are ones who are brilliant with ensembles, telling stories which
converge and often overlap within a main plot. One of them is the great
Woody Allen. The other one is Robert Altman.

GOSFORD PARK is an update of Jean Renoir's 1939 film LE REGLE DU JEU,
in which wealthy relatives of an aristocrat come to a shooting party at
a country home. Here, because of the obviously strained relationships
between the host and his family has been less than amicable, it serves
as a springboard where everyone's worst behavior and heretofore
concealed feelings towards each other really come forth with an
undertone of mean-spirited cruelty just brimming below the surface,
while the servants act as non-entities when in their employers'
presence but occasionally break into.

Boasting one of the best introduction sequences ever, itself lengthy
but necessary, GOSFORD PARK is a tour-de-force of narration that
recalls Jane Austen's work. We first see Mary Maceachran (Kelly
MacDonald, playing innocence that becomes a keen observer), maid to
Lady Constance Trentham (Dame Maggie Smith, having a splendid time in
her role), and Lady Trentham's flighty demands and annoyed conversation
as they make their way to Gosford Park. They cross paths with movie
actor Ivor Novello (Jeremy Northam), his agent Morris Weissman (Bob
Balaban), and Weissman's protégé, Henry Denton (Ryan Phillippe), who is
the only one who doesn't introduce himself proper for reasons made
clear later on, also heading towards the manor. The hellos are strained
-- Lady Trentham is clearly not the friendly type --, but Mary is
starstruck like the young girl she is. Once they (and the other guests)
reach the house, activity is buzzing almost factory-like (factory being
an important term here) as the housekeeper, Mrs. Wilson (Helen Mirren,
taking self-control and omniscient stillness to a whole different level
in a performance that has to be analyzed frame by frame), calmly gives
out her orders. However, Altman, Fellowes, and Patrick Doyle bring a
little extra dose to the scene the moment Robert Parks (Clive Owen)
enters the picture and introduces himself to Mrs. Wilson while Mrs.
Croft (Eileen Atkins) passes them by and turns to hear. Not soon after,
the camera makes a zoom into a bottle of poison: itself symbolic since
immediately after that, the rest of the characters begin to show hints
of their own shared "poison." Isobel McCordle (Camila Rutherford),
William (Michael Gambon) and Sylvia McCordle's (Kristin Scott Thomas)
daughter, is carrying on with Freddie Nesbitt (James Wilby) who is tied
to a marriage of convenience to Mabel (Claudie Blakely) whom he feels
ashamed of. The Stockbridges are also on the outs, Lord Raymond
(Charles Dance) preferring the safety of "his own kind" according to
Louisa Stockbridge (Geraldine Sommerville) who is one of William
McCordle's many women. Mary learns of the McCordle's familial relation
to Ivor Novello from fellow maid Elsie (Emily Watson) who, while
staunchly expresses her near-hatred for Lady Sylvia, suggests
ever-so-slightly she whom she prefers working for. A later scene
reveals little love between the McCordles, William McCordle's
repudiation of Lady Constance (and his threat of withdrawing her
pension) and even less love between the Nesbitts, and even more tension
between the Merediths (Tom Hollander and Natasha Wightman) as they try
to con McCordle into some odd business. Greed, lust, and secrets,
permeating every pore of Gosford Park and its inhabitants.

As a script (and a story written by Julian Fellowes), GOSFORD PARK is
one of the most tightly and detailed ever committed to film because it
forces the viewer to pay close attention to what characters are saying
or suggesting to each other through their body language because
everything has its own meaning; nothing is said or done to fulfill a
plot requirement or for the sake of making conversation and even the
most trivial hints are steps leading towards bigger and bigger
denouements, primarily because the characters reveal in snippets pieces
of information that tell us they know more about themselves than we do
-- and this is its greatest asset. It is the equivalent of an abstract
painting that upon scrutiny reveals layers and layers of what people
dare not express up front and direct. This makes it, in fact, a
delicious mystery and an open secret at the same time. 

Death and its cause-effect, an element ever present in an Altman film,
never looked more elegantly funny. In this movie, with death coming as
a murder (or double-murder if you will) to a widely disliked character,
only Louisa Stockbridge expresses concern and even then it's somewhat
insincere. Altman has great fun exposing the crime scene, but even more
fun introducing Stephen Fry as the largely inept investigator because
while the truth is brandished right in front of his face under the form
of the aforementioned "blink and miss" pieces of information we've been
getting, he doesn't see it before we do.

GOSFORD PARK is also a meditation about an era where people who
represent the exploited part of British society -- Robert Parks, Mrs.
Wilson, Elsie --, and outsiders such as Mabel Nesbitt or Morris
Weissman react against this caste system that seemed unmindful of the
changes happening in the outside world. This doesn't necessarily solve
anything or everything that occurs in GOSFORD PARK -- some plots are
hinted at and that is fine -- but it does present an intricate comedy
of manners of a time gone by just before WWII when Upstairs people
mingled and shared their lives with the Downstairs people.

Edited 11.17.2006
<|_=00=_|>

This film opened the London Film festival and I was lucky enough to see get
tickets. Robert Altman was there and so were most of the cast.

I've seen over half of the Altman cannon of work and this has to rank up
with his best. Set in the 1920's, a group of people get together for a
shooting weekend at the estate of Lord and Lady Mcardle. There are two sets
of characters, the Toffs upstairs and the servants downstairs.  With his
customary multi-streaming overlapping narrative, cross cutting dialogue and
interwoven storylines, Altman sets up dynamics within and between the two
classes. There are up to 32 speaking parts and each of them is invested with
a clear identity. Just from a few lines, a gesture, raising of an eyebrow,
we have an idea of a character's feelings and motivations.

At times the narrative moves at such a fast pace, but we never lose track of
whats going on. Scenes such as the Toffs in the Drawing room having tea -
many conversations happening, dynamics being set up - and another where the
servants are rushing around downstairs, as the camera weeves its way through
the corridors, are exhilirating cinema!!  Altman has a tight grip on the
proceedings and this only wavers slightly towards the end.

There is a fantastic scene, where Ivor Novello - a guest, is invited to sing
for the other guests and all the servants listen covertly from whatever
vanatge point they can find. Novello oustays his welcome, amongst the
gentry, but the servants cant get enough.

What Altman has done here, helped enormously by the wonderfully humourous
script by Julian Fellows, is invested these period characters with a modern
sensibility. These are not the boring, stuffed dummy museum pieces of your
typical period picture, these people are real. Rich or poor, their
fallibilities, desires, disaffections and frustrations are evidently clear.

 This movie is so good, I wanted to get up and cheer at certain points.
Altman is well served by the 'creme de la creme' of British Actors. All are
excellent; Maggie Smith, Emily Watson, Helen Mirren, Kristin Scott-Thomas
and Jeremy Northam to name a few. This film may not be everyones cup of tea
and i am someone who can go watch anything from Scream 3 to the latest hot
film from Asia, but those that invest the time on this film, will be much
rewarded.  Altman deserves the Oscar that has eluded him for far too long.

<|_=00=_|>
In 1932, a group of socialites, landowners, Americans and their
servants arrive at a country house for a shooting party over the
weekend. As the relationships and tensions twist and weave upstairs, so
too do the dynamics and relationships between the various house staff
and valets below the stairs. Stories and characters play out but
whenever a murder takes place, the police move in and everyone is a
suspect.

My plot summary suggests that this is a sort of murder mystery and that
this will act as the driving force behind the narrative, however this
is not the case and in reality the film is much more about the
characters and relationships than it is about the murder. To this end
the film will annoy some people who are perhaps not used to the sort of
film that Altman produces and will be looking for the mystery aspect to
be the all. However, I found the rather free-wheeling ensemble approach
to be very enjoyable and the first hour moved quickly by thanks to the
natural interactions and relationships and it was actually the mystery
aspect that didn't work as well because it required too sudden a change
in pace – a change that the material seemed to resist and hamper.
Despite this it does still work mainly because the Oscar winning
writing brings out such convincing relationships and social politics,
making it enjoyable and interesting throughout. The direction is great;
the use of two cameras in group scenes means that the actors seem to
flow around as naturally as their dialogue would suggest – few seem
forced to act to a fixed point and seem more realistic.

Considering the talent on board, it is not surprising that nobody
really upstages anyone in particular and the ensemble feel is strong.
Smith, Gambon, Thomas, Dance, Northam, Balaban and others make the
upstairs fizzle with snobbery and unspoken resentments. Meanwhile the
downstairs staff are just as well drawn and delivered by Mirren, Owen,
Jacobi, Watson, Bates, Grant, Atkins and others. Stephen Fry is fairly
minor within the plot but he is delightfully comic, even if he doesn't
quite fit into the film that well.

Overall this is a classy film very much in the Altman style – an
ensemble piece of characters and relationships that we are left to
drift within. Some viewers will find it frustrating that it takes so
long to get to the point where the mystery kicks in but I actually
found this to be the weaker aspect of the film and the most enjoyable
parts were the well written characters and dialogue, which deservedly
won Fellowes his Oscar.
<|_=00=_|>

I've read through the first page of comments made by the many users, and I
think I can understand why many think this film is overrated.
People think that this film sucks because they don't like multi-story plot
and they find it difficult to follow the stories. Some may expect a
spine-chilling murder and want to be scared and wet the seat. However, those
who really appreciate and understand the movie know more than clear that the
film itself focuses on the life of the upper-class people (and the life of
the time) rather than a bloody crime. 

The movie defines the word originality no better. In fact, Julian Fellowes
deserves all the awards he received since the screenplay is challenging to
write and it's difficult to pack all the stories in a 150-minute movie. He
explains the complicated relationship between the visitors so well, and he
virtually creates a motive for murdering Sir William for everyone so that
the crime itself becomes very mystifying. Of course, I must admit that there
are really too many characters and it's simply impossible to keep track of
everyone's movement in the first half of the movie; but Julian leaves the
necessary hints for our understanding that our feeling intensifies more and
more as the story unfolds. Even better is the dialogue - sharp, sarcastic,
amusing, clever. It confers life to the film and fully delineates the
character of the many visitors however short the time is when they appear on
the screen. Before I saw it, I had always asked why Memento did not win an
Oscar. But the time when the film ended, I was left stunned on my seat. I
mean both stories are great and original, but when comparing the relative
difficulty in writing the screenplay, Gosford Park apparently
wins.

Gosford Park is to me perhaps the second best movie I've seen this year
(after A Beautiful Mind). If you like films like Magnolia and Traffic, which
require much patience to enjoy, it's perhaps the greatest movie of your
lifetime.
<|_=00=_|>

It thrills me to say that after a string of stinkers ("Dr. T and the Women,"
"The Gingerbread Man") and so-so light films ("Cookie's Fortune"), Robert
Altman has an unequivocally excellent film on his hands with "Gosford Park."
 It's a film that works on many layers and needs to be seen more than once
for one to fully appreciate its resonance.

The film admittedly stinks as a murder mystery---it's almost funny how
little Altman himself seems interested in the who-dunnit.  But, typically
for Altman, it's the deconstruction of the genre that he's interested in,
not the genre itself.  This movie isn't about a murder in a country house;
it's a movie about class differences and people connecting (or not
connecting) with one another.

It seems futile to mention stand out performances in a film filled to the
rafters with stand-out performances, but I did especially like Emily Watson
as a cheeky maid, Helen Mirren as the "perfect servant," and Kelly MacDonald
as the novice lady's attendant who grows more than anyone else over the
course of the film.

The film is at its best when it's probing the emotional depths of the
story---it comes across as a bit too glib when the satire gets especially
acidic (mostly with the Kristin Scott Thomas character), but like the best
of his movies ("Nashville," "M*A*S*H," "Short Cuts") Altman knows how to
control his own cynicism and doesn't let sarcasm rule.

With his on again-off again track record, we can expect the next Altman film
to tank, so let's enjoy this one while we can.
