
OK, not Oscar material and this was pretty badly made. But again like
most brainless comedies, I walked in the theater with a good mood and
expecting a laugh and I got that with "Scary Movie 2". I mean people
are being so harsh on this film, I understand, I know this isn't the
greatest movie or comedy. But if you aren't expecting fun and laughter,
I think normally you just feel like bashing the movie then.

We have some of the old cast members from the original Scary Movie:
Anna Farris, a surprising return of Regina Hall, and Marlon and Shawn
Wayne. This Scary Movie took on the films like The Exorcist(hilarious
scene by the way), Poltergeist, The Haunting, Mission Impossible,
Charlie's Angels, and What lies beneath. With some great add ons like
Tim Curry, I just had a great time. Tori Spelling, yeah, she's a bit
scary, but for some reason she still gets her equal share of laughs.

The Butler just killed me with the hand. Yes, it was gross, but I think
you just have to let go and just go with the joke. Scary Movie 2 isn't
the best comedy ever, but it's a decent one with your brain turned off.
Sick jokes, yes, and very crude one's, this movie isn't for everyone.
But I think if you enjoyed the first Scary Movie, you'll enjoy this one
too! 

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Why do a lot of people who really enjoyed the first movie hate this
installment? I can understand why some critics would, or people that
just thought the first was okay, however, I enjoyed both the previous
film before this and this film itself, thinking this film is really
funny and enjoyable. It was great fun and total entertainment to watch,
and I have watched it quite a few times.

The comedy might have been a little too over-the-top and repitive at
times, as it seemed like this one tried really hard to please the
audience when the first one just went with the flow, but that is really
how a lot of comedies are like, even more so now than then, so I do not
see how this one is any different. Anna Faris pulls off Cindy
Campbell's character wonderfully, again, and nobody could have done it
better than her. All the other familiar characters, as well as the new
ones, are excellently portrayed and likable, in a sense, and the movie
has a high replay value, for me at least. This movie was not a
disappoint to me either, because I thought it lived up to Scary Movie
perfectly.

There were a lot of funny parts in this film, such as the opening song,
the Charlie's Angels spoof scene, the scene were buddy gives back
Cindy's book, and the Cindy singing in the car scene. If you have seen
the film, you know what I am talking about and hopefully enjoyed those
scenes as well. If you hated this film, please try to watch it again,
and you'll see just how good it really was, hopefully.
<|_=00=_|>

Although not quite as funny as the original, I still enjoyed Scary Movie 2
very much. While some bits are downright idiotic, some are genuinely
hilarious, and will have you rolling in the aisles. If you're not a fan of
Scary Movie, you won't like this one either, however. But, if you enjoyed
the first, come back to see this one too. 
<|_=00=_|>
This is the raunchiest of the Scary Movies. If you thought the original
was "too much", well, this one will truly give you more reasons to
avoid it for it's vulgar content and crude sex jokes. That's for you,
easily offended people. 

I had a great time with it when it first came out in theaters. I really
liked the crude sex humor and vulgar spoofs. So for those who are into
sex jokes and scatological humor, you will be amused.

The opening sequence is truly hilarious and in my opinion, the best
part of the movie. It was about time that the "Scary Movie" franchise
had an Exorcist spoof! It was great. James Woods in the role of Father
Merrin delivers a hysterical performance relying most of his scenes on
scatological humor and profanity. For example, when Reagan says "f***
me" and he immediately jumps into her and simulates to be penetrating
her. Another example is the line where Reagan's mother says "she won't
even let me touch her!" and the priest responds "yeah sometimes that
happens, you have to give candy to the children" (or something like
that); obviously referring to recent pederastry cases. On the other
side, the movie also has "classical" but always effective teen humor .
For example, when entering the room for the first time, he gets scared
and runs away when Reagan turns her head on 180º; and the always
effective vomiting cycle. 

After the Exorcist spoof, the movie centers on the Poltergeist and
Entity spoofs. That's when the movie takes a new direction and does not
changes from it. Expect spoofs from popular t.v. commercials, songs
(Vitamin C), and even racist and homophobic jokes. The sex jokes worth
a watch specially on the infamous clown scene, and the sex ghost. 

"Scary Movie 2" does not "cross" the line on the vulgar factor. It's
just a good rated R movie with spoofs for all tastes; of course, if you
are not easily offended. But be sure to watch it on DVD; do not watch
the t.v. version because it's very cut (specially on dialogs).

This is in my opinion the best of the "Scary Movies".
<|_=00=_|>

Since the first Scary Movie completely ripped off Scream, at some points
scene for scene, the film had a very developed, rich storyline which was
filled with tons of hilarious gags.

Half of that works in the sequel.  The storyline is weak, mainly copying
the
plot of the lackluster "The Haunting" which leads the main characters to
spend a weekend in a haunted house.  This is a great idea, but the story is
not developed enough and after watching the film, I couldn't even remember
why the characters ended up in the house in the first place.

Yet, the film's cast and writers give constant hilarious moments to add to
the weak storyline and make a great film. Anna Farris returns as Cindy
Campbell and is just as hilarious as she was in the first film.  Other
returning members are Shawn Wayans as Shorty, Regina Hall as Brenda, and
Marlon Wayans as Ray.

There are several other new cast members, such as Tori Spelling, who does a
tolorable job as a fellow college student, Alex.  Several other cast
members
make the film enjoyable and the gags are hilarious.  This is a great movie
to see, because it's short and just something to laugh about, so fork over
the nine bucks and laugh your ass off.
<|_=00=_|>
I just got back from "Scary Movie 2" just about an hour ago and I'm
still laughing from thinking about it.

The cameos by James Woods, Veronica Cartwright, and Natasha Lyonne are
funny enough just to pay for admission. But that's before the film
starts to get funnier as the Wayans spoof "The Haunting," "Hannibal,"
"Save the Last Dance," and "Charlie's Angels." The only (semi) downside
to the movie was that the sex jokes in this were racier than the ones
in the original film, especially the spoof of "Titanic" that ends very
messily.

But besides that, "Scary Movie 2" may probably be the most fun you will
probably have at the movies this summer.
<|_=00=_|>
To start with, I love the way this film was worked around a storyline
where the original Scary Movie seemed rather random. Ferris, Hall and
Marlon Wayans all once again completely steal the film, but new
additions Cross and Elliott also have some amazing writing and scenes.

The highlights for me were the opening scene with the spoof of The
Exorcist, Cindy vs. Cat, the talking parrot and any scene involving
Chris Elliott. I also thought the Charlie's Angels spoof towards the
end of the film was also brilliant, particularly when a cow was being
sucked around the tornado.

Definitely a movie to watch if you want some good amusing immature fun
with over the top acting and great gags.
<|_=00=_|>

I have various mixed emotions about this sequel to the hit SCARY MOVIE. It
wasn't as good but it delivered many laughs and slap-on-knees. I was a
little surprised at this one on how they could spoof any movie right after
the other. If you really liked the first one, you could be disappointed or
satisfied with this one. I was satisfied. 7/10

My MPAA rating: R for strong crude sexual content and humor, drug use and
language.
<|_=00=_|>
I'll admit that I written off Scary Movie 2 when I first seen it as a
sporadically funny sequel to Scary Movie(which I love). After seeing it
again it's a lot better than I gave it credit for and is better than
what comes after it.

Scary Movie 2 pokes fun at haunted house movies, The Exorcist and even
Charlie's Angels. The movie has its fair share of laughs in the
beginning of the movie but sometimes the gross out gags are way over
the top. To explain why I think this movie is a mixed bag, I'll
contrast the funny parts from the unfunny parts.

Funny Scene#1: The beginning with the spoof on the Exorcist was pretty
funny stuff.

Unfunny scene#1: The scene with James Woods on the toilet is flat out
disgusting. Bleeech! James Woods already gives me the creeps so the
last thing I need to see is him on the john.

Funny Scene:# 2: Marlon's character teaching Anna Faris's character how
to be hip and she mistakenly beats up on some unsuspecting girl.

Unfunny Scene# 2: Chris Elliot's abnormal hand digging into a pie as
well as a turkey. Nuff said! Funny Scene# 3: Tori Spelling's character
becomes clingy to a ghost after a night of sex.

Unfunny Scene# 3: Shawn Wayan's character impaling the evil clown from
Poltergeist with his third leg. Need I say more? Funny Scene: # 4: The
spoof on the Nike commercial.

Unfunny Scene: #4: The wisecracking parrot pooping.

I could go on forever.

Scary Movie 2 is a lot better than most people give it credit for but
it could have been a lot better than it predecessor. What kills it is
the excessive gross out gags are focused on more than the movie that
its supposed to poke fun at. All in all it was a good spoof not a great
spoof. Its definitely better than Scary Movie 3 and 4.
<|_=00=_|>

I might have to do some checking up on this, but I'm pretty sure that seven
writers is a record high for a non-anthology film. And just what is this
cinematic treat scripted with so many pens? It's probably really good,
right? I mean, with seven writers, it would have to be extremely goodor
very, very bad. Unfortunately, it is the latter, and the movie is `Scary
Movie 2.' This sequel of the funny teen-horror spoof `Scary Movie' has none
of the subtleties, parodies, or even big laughs the original film did.
Instead, it digresses to overtly sexual and gross-out humor which doesn't
even work on a gut level. I feel sorry for every person associated with this
project.

The story line is actually a little more involved for `Scary Movie 2,' as if
you needed a plot to set up the horrendous `laugh scenes,' which are fewer
and far between this time. Classic camp actor Tim Curry is Professor Oldman,
a college teacher who recruits a group of students to spend the night in a
haunted house so he can conduct some sort of experiment (though we never
really understand what that experiment is all about). Of course, this group
contains most of the kids from the first `Scary Movie,' including innocent
Cindy (Anna Faris), loud-mouthed Brenda (Regina Hall), marijuana-obsessed
Shorty (Marlon Wayans), and sexually questionable Ray (Shawn Wayans). New
this time is straight-arrow Clark (Christopher Masterson).  The house is
inhabited by the twisted butler Hanson (Chris Elliot) and even a ghost
(`Night Court's' Richard Moll). The kids slowly discover the mysteries and
secrets of the house, and make every bodily function, sexually oriented,
inappropriate joke along the way.

There are those who complain about this style of humor in general, and
therefor will not see this movie. However, sometimes it works, such as in
the original `Scary Movie,' `American Pie,' and even at the far end of the
scale, `There's Something About Mary.' There, the gross out is permissible
because there are characters we mildly care about, or there are other types
of humor going on as well. 

However, `Scary Movie 2' is the prime example of where gross out humor can
go wrong. Instead of playing up some of the humorous character stereotypes,
or mixing in some creative horror movie parodies with the gross-out humor,
`Scary Movie 2' relies solely on it. It seems to me that many scenes in the
film were robbed of their comic potential so our seven scriptwriters could
fit more vomit, feces, and other unmentionable bodily concoctions into the
film.

There are a few laughs that harked back to `Scary Movie,' and those scenes
always feature one of the two Wayans brother's characters. Even though they
had five other folks working with them, its clear that this is their
project. Maybe those other five scriptwriters fought back and added in the
gross-out stuff.

As for performances, the same can be said. Both Wayans seem to have more
comedic experience than their fellow teen-age counterparts. Faris is better
than she was in the first `Scary Movie,' but nowhere near as funny. Plus,
she still looks and sounds just a little too odd for me. Curry hasn't had a
good role since the mid 80's, and its sad that this is the caliber of film
he works in. There are other famous cameos including James Woods as a priest
and former Conan O'Brien sidekick Andy Richter as his assistant, but one
must wonder what they are doing slumming around in this film. After watching
Woods in his worst performance to date, it frightened me to realize that
Marlon Brando was originally cast in the role. There would be no saving his
career had he gone through with this. 

If you have any desire to be thoroughly disgusted, or like your humor from
the bottom of the barrel (and I mean bottom!) then check out `Scary Movie
2.' Otherwise, go on living your life with the knowledge than unlike myself,
you managed to escape this waste of a sequel. 

