

SWORDFISH (2001) Rating: 7/10

 Hell, I liked this movie. It's been a while since I've seen an enjoyable,
mature action movie. With the slew of PG-13 action movies of recent years,
it's refreshing to see one that at least acknowledges that many intense
situations do involve language, sex, and mixed character reactions -- it
wasn't just another black and white, good and bad movie where the good guy
does only good things and the bad guy has only evil intentions. The good guy
didn't always do the right thing, and the bad guy could hardly be accused of
sinister motives.

 I loved the three leads in this film. Hugh Jackman is officially a star
with this movie. Hugh has proven himself once before in X-Men as a worthy
actor, and he does it again in this film. He's the one that basically pulls
you into this movie from the get-go and you actually feel for the poor guy.
John Travolta, obviously, has a blast with yet another solid "bad guy"
showing, redeeming himself after the lacklustre results of Battlefield Earth
and Halle Berry must have enjoyed making this one, since it is a departure
from her standard movie roles. Not to mention, she's sexier than ever.

 There actually isn't as much action as you would expect in this film, but
the opening and closing scenes in the film are some of the best action
scenes I have ever seen  and really hooks you into the film in the beginning
and leaves you thoroughly entertained at the end. It's one of the first uses
of "matrix-style camerawork" that I've seen that really adds to the film and
isn't just something that "looks cool."

Overall, if you're looking for an "action popcorn" flick with lots of bad
guys, gunplay, quick camera movements, fun action sequences and a
surprisingly decent storyline that moves along at a quick pace, I'd
recommend you rent this film.
<|_=00=_|>
What is the highest pressure job interview you've ever had?

Well, Stanley Jobson (Hugh Jackman) a convicted Hacker, fresh out of
prison and desperate to see his daughter again, can beat you, i'll bet
on it. He has to hack into the FBI Computers in a fairly public place,
with a gun to his head and a beautiful woman performing an act of
Felacio on him, and he has just one minute to do it. (A Great Scene,
Not Explict, just cool)

Anyway, he is recruited by John Travolta to hack into a dormant DEA
Fund worth 9.5 Billion Dollars to finance his terrorist activities.

Full of Slick Dialogue, cool Direction and the simply gorgeous Halle
Berry, this turns out to be a very enjoyable Thriller, with some clever
twists (some of which don't quite work) but are forgivable anyway.

Not a classic, but a good film none the less. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

Action... explosive action. Clever script. Eye popping special effects. A
strong cast, but too much confusion in following the story line. A highly
successful computer hacker(Hugh Jackman)is coerced to help a ruthless
spy(John Travolta)steal billions of unused government monies obtained in an
old DEA drug operation. Don Cheadle is the run ragged FBI agent trying to
spoil the by-computer hijacking. Sam Shepard has a small role as a corrupt
Senator. The alluring Halle Berry is supposedly an undercover DEA agent
whose purpose in the whole procedure is not clear cut.

If you are looking for a good escape from reality; this flick will give you
several big bangs for your buck. It is good to see Travolta play a clever,
bad ass thug. Some of his best work in a long time. And for the first time,
Miss Berry appears topless on screen; and in other various degrees of
undress...so nice my eyes hurt. Vinnie Jones is impressive as a strong arm
enforcer. Rough and ready entertainment worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>

I think people have been a little to harsh on this movie. No it is not
revelatory but it is a nice glossy diversion. The all-star cast, especially
Hugh Jackman, is more than competent though they aren't really challenged.
There are enough special effects and stunts intermixed with a fairly
compelling narrative (it is not confusing if you just pay attention) to make
the film more than worthwhile. Overall good entertainment,
7/10.
<|_=00=_|>

Swordfish was one of my anxiously awaited summer flicks.  And after seeing
it a couple hours ago, I am not at all disappointed.  It's been awhile
since
I've seen a truly enjoyable, mature action movie.  With the slew of PG-13
action movies of recent years, it's refreshing to see one that at least
acknowledges that many intense situations do involve language, sex, and
mixed character reactions - it wasn't just another black and white, good
and
bad movie where the good guy does only good things and the bad guy has only
evil intentions.  The good guy (Jackman) didn't always do the right thing,
and the bad guy (Travolta) could hardly be accused of sinister
motives.

The film starts off with a bang ... literally.  A big-time action sequence
to get out attention, then a flashback to show how the climax of the film
came to pass.  The out-of-order editing was actually effective and
interesting, rather than seeming like yet another failed attempt to mimic
Pulp Fiction and those other movies that brought attention to the idea of
showing a film out of chronological order.

Jackman was great as computer hacker Stanley Jobson, devoted father who
just
happened to get brought down for computer-related felonies after hacking
into and making public an FBI e-mail surveillance operation.  Forbidden to
even touch a computer for the rest of his days, he is lured back into the
life by Travolta, who offers him $100,000 just to meet him (and take an
interesting version of an initiation).  Jackman is quickly becoming
Hollywood A-list material, and with his performance in Swordfish, it's easy
to see why.  He can keep up with the smooth-talking, fast-moving Travolta
as
well as show enough emotion to make him seem like a real person and not
just
a run-of-the-mill action hero.

The plot of the film is fantastic.  It's not just a typical heist film, or
action plot where the hero has to save the hostages, blowing the hell out
of
the bad guys in the process.  The plot is complex, interwoven, and has a
point.  The plot was crucial to keeping interest during the slow parts of
the film.  Starting out with an action sequence carries the danger of
losing
audience interest if not followed up by more and more action.  Thankfully,
the plot manages to retain interest during those points in the film where
things aren't exploding and buses aren't flying through metropolitan
airspace, suspended from a heavy loading chopper.

The best part about this film was the interractions between the characters.
Stanley is a smart guy, and Gabriel's smarter.  Just when Stanley (and the
audience) thinks they have Gabriel in a tight spot, he'll surprise everyone
with some improvised ingenuity.  There are so many films in the action
genre
that result to dumbing down the smart villains, just so the hero of the
story will look good when he comes up with a relatively weak solution to
the
complex plot.  The villains often slip up or make some kind of fatal faux
pas in judgment that allows the hero to triumph.  There's none of that
here.
The hero and villain are both smart, and both stay that way until the very
end.

This is a great summer movie.  See it.  See it twice or three times, even.
If you're looking for high art or something that really speaks to you and
changes the way you see the world, don't see it.  But if you want to see a
movie for the sake of entertainment and having a good time, Swordfish is
the
movie to go to.  If Swordfish is any indication of the rest of this
summer's
big action blockbusters, we're certainly in good shape this
year.
<|_=00=_|>
Here's a film I really liked the first time, and was totally turned off
on the second viewing as the Hollywood bias machine was in high gear
again, and you can guess in what director (left or right). Anyway, two
things remained the same: John Travolta as "Gabriel Shear" was riveting
as an anti-terrorist terrorist. The explosion scene where people are
flying sideways is awesome, particularly in the sound department if you
have surround system. Oh, and yes, Halle Berry and her figure was on
display in this film and quite a sight. Wowzer!

Some of this script is a takeoff on Dog Day Afternoon, which Travolta's
character re-enacts a role from that famous '70s film. "Shear" talks
about that movie during the film. 

I almost got discouraged watching this in the first half hour because
there is so much computer terminology that I was lost. However, if you
find yourself in a similar spot, take heart because that that ends
after that first 30 minutes and is no longer a problem.

Credibility and bias aside, it's still a fun movie for at least one
viewing, with that early bomb scene most memorable.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie can be summed up as: lots of very cool action scenes (fans
of both bullet time and explosions will really enjoy this), a lot of
style, and a standard implausible plot. This movie is very entertaining
if you like non-stop action in a cool high-tech environment.

The ingredients are pretty standard. There's a stylish kick-ass villain
(Travolta) with a plan, being a high-tech bank robbery. This is all
garnished with lots of weapons, technology, car chases and beautiful
women. This movie really delivers on the action front, I don't think
there's any 'quiet' scene that lasts more than 2 minutes. It also
contains the now standard implausible hacking scenes, where getting
into the computer system of a bank involves solving a kind of Rubik's
cube on your computer screen. I hope you're not offended by product
placement because a certain computer brand is quite prominent when IT
hardware is involved in this movie. But it's by far not as obnoxious as
in "I, Robot".

The filming is top-notch, unlike some other movies you can actually see
what's happening in the action scenes (which is sometimes due to the
amazing slow-down effects in some scenes). Unfortunately the entire
plot becomes quite thin when the movie is stripped of all this action
and style. However, it works. The ending is rather vague, as if room
was left for a sequel without making it too painful if there wouldn't
be one after all.

Overall I would say this is a pretty OK movie, but don't expect the
best cinema ever.
<|_=00=_|>

Final Score: 

8.3 (out of 10)

I just love movies like "Swordfish". Like clockwork they bring egghead,
elitist critics out of the woodwork and send them into tizzies about logic,
acting and depth as it they expected something Shakespearian out of a Joel
Silver action movie about computer hacking and terrorism.  It's one of those
movies that sends critics on tirades about "the state of movies today" as if
every movie released now is mindless, ultra-violent trash and every movie
made in the past was modest and sensible art.  In actuality, the reason I
like "Swordfish" so much is because it is so rare.  At the time of it's
release the reverse is actually true- MOST action movies nowadays homogenize
themselves into a commercially friendly PG-13. Movies like "XXX", "The Fast
and the Furious", "Armageddon" and Sena's own "Gone and Sixty Seconds" would
have been much more interesting had they been sectioned off as adults only
flicks and allowed to do what they want instead of sticking a bunch of sex
and violence under the radar of a teenagers PG-13 movie.  However, Swordfish
is none of these things. It is visceral entertainment- nothing more. It is
more of a throwback to sensational, hyper-violent action movies of the 60s
and 70s. It doesn't want to hear your story. It is not in competition with
any Oscar contenders, it is mindless, intentionally ridiculous, sensational
and proud of it.  It is a top-notch guilty pleasure. Take it for what it is,
not what you want it to be. If you took this movie seriously the joke is on
you.  

The opening scene features a well written monologue by John Travolta
complaining about the lack of "realism" in today's movies.  From that moment
on "Swordfish" goes on to be one of the most convoluted and absurd things
I've seen in a long time.  It seems to be having a lot of fun throwing one
extreme and nonsensical idea after another at the audience- as a result the
fun is infectious.  Much of the fun of this movie is laughing along with it
as to how silly it is.  It hits all the points crucial to making a great
guilty pleasure. There are plenty of explosions (the slow motion opening is
an eye-popper), bloody shootouts, sex and nudity without any false dramatic
pretense.  Skip Woods dialogue is served best when pointing out the films
absurdities ("I just watched that madman murder 8 men in the street"). The
visuals are stunning. The cinematography is glossy and the whole film is
washed out in this retro yellow palette. Paul Oakenfield's music (featuring
"Lapdance" and the end credit "Get out of My Life Now") and the rest of the
soundtrack ("50,000 Watts of F---ing") is absolutely perfect.  The pace is
slick and quick and the story cycles around in a nifty non-linear format. 
Obviously, the acting is nothing that was Oscar snubbed, but everybody is on
the same page with the director's vision.  Travolta hams it up fantastically
(rescuing himself form  recent bombs) and Hugh Jackman (who finds himself
running around in a suit and tie with a rocket launcher before it's all
over) is a likeable reluctant hero.  

I rented it expecting trash and got exactly what I expected. But it is
superior to a lot of other guilty pleasures because it does have an
imagination.  Yes, in all the madness and mayhem there is some gruesome
creativity at work.  Obviously not for all tastes, if you want a truly
"good" movie you can intellectually discuss with your friends go search in
the Independent Films section- there are plenty of great one's out there. 
But every once in a while I get in the mood for a pure fun movie to contrast
those and "Swordfish" fits the bill gloriously. Personally I'll take "dumb"
over "boring" any day.  

 

<|_=00=_|>

Spoilers herein.

Films transport you to a different world, so the beginning of the film, the
initiation into that world, is key.

Scriptwriters these days seem to spend much more attention on beginnings
than endings, and this film has a terrific beginning. In fact, I was so
impressed by the beginning that I will recommend this otherwise dreary film.

It is dreary indeed: Travolta cannot convince that he is as brilliant as he
plays. The girl is very pretty, but absolutely fails in convincing of guile
and intelligence. The plot doesn't play fair, and that is a must with these
types of twists. I cannot understand the hostage plan: if they could do
that, why blow that capability on simply getting access to a bank
terminal?

Otherwise, we have here a rather ordinary selfreferential device of actors
playing actors.

Back to the beginning. That beginning has two parts: Travolta's character
talks to us about "Dog Day Afternoon," and how realistic it was. That film
is notable specifically because it established a new style of
self-awareness, a specific type of theatrical reality. A very intelligent
segment -- in what is said, how it is delivered and how the camera acts. (We
are eased into this by video sputtering through the titles.) `Vertical
Limit' was another disappointing film with a slam-bang
beginning.

The second part of the opening segues to the very set of Dog Day, except the
attitude here is much more ruthless. A hostage IS killed in a spectacular
fashion. And that fashion is highly cinematic, with all sorts of post-matrix
still pans and small object tracking. The point is clear: we are here
creating a new form here by annotating the Lumet/Pacino
model.

A very clever notion. The twists are intended to be a sort of machinegun
"Usual Suspects" effect, where everything we learned is undone. Problem is
that skills of everyone involved --  actor, writer, director -- aren't
strong enough for what they intend, to the thrills stay
tepid.

Hugh Jackman could have been the key, leaving travolta to just do his
"Broken Arrow" bit but with a cigar instead of a cigarette. And Jackman has
the face, halfway between Ed Norton and Mel Gibson. He's at the level of Ms.
Berry though, and that's at the merely mugging level.

Finally, I have done some hacking in my time (not cracking as shown here),
and I can say that nothing in this film, except maybe the keyboards,
resembles either the appearance or the real mystery of the enterprise. It is
far cooler and spookier than is imagined by these kids, just hard as hell to
show on a screen with what they had to work with.

<|_=00=_|>
It's ironic that Travolta wastes the first 3 minutes talking about the
"problem with Hollywood", and then the movie uses the next 2 hours to
evidence the problems in detail. Why can't film-makers actually use
input from computer and security experts to improve their scripts? How
hard would it be to have the computer-related bits make sense?

Computer-related inaccuracies aside, the plot was contrived and trite.
It was predictable and unrewarding.

"Unbelievable, unremarkable sh*t" indeed.

It's only redeeming quality was providing me and my developer-friends
with a great new catch-phrase to throw around carelessly: 

"It's got 512 bit encryption! You'll never crack the firewall!"
