

I've seen Gods and Generals twice, and I've enjoyed it both times.  The
critics I've read seem to object to the piety, the length, and lack of
political correctness.  It seems to have escaped them that the Civil War
was
fought in Victorian times, and that the Victorians were extremely pious
and
sentimental, not to mention hypocritical.  However, this did not stop them
from efficiently making war on their enemies.  The movie caught this
perfectly, with Jackson's assumption that God's will is his will -- the
scene before the battle on Sunday, the contrast between his sentimental
love
of children and his 'Kill them all' about his enemies, the constant
references to Bible verses ripped out of context.
Regarding the length of the movie, all I can say is that I wasn't bored at
all, or restless, just fascinated with what was happening on screen.  I'm
sure for MTV critics any movie over 90 minutes is epic.

Regarding the lack of political correctness, which in my opinion is our
modern version of hypocrisy (we can do anything we want as long as we call
it by another name) I would like to point out that this is an attempt at a
historical movie and that the Civil War was NOT fought to free the slaves,
nor were many people in the North comfortable with the concept of a
franchised Negro.  And some slaves in the South were relatively well
treated
by their owners, not that they probably didn't want freedom, but they
didn't
particularly wish their masters ill.  The system was set up so that
everyone
involved, slaves and masters, had something to lose by destroying the
status
quo, and that's a very difficult thing for people to do.  It's easy for us
now to say 'they should have freed the slaves' but if you knew that to
free
your slaves would beggar your children, would you be able to do it?

As with Gettysburg, the battle scenes were impressive and awe-inspiring.
And they made the strategy and tactics clear to the viewer which is a
monumental achievement, not to mention showing the pure courage on both
sides, going to probably death or dismemberment without flinching.  I
would
have liked more about the Northern command struggles to balance the
picture
but I can see how tempting it was to show the Southern victories to
balance
the horrible defeat at Gettysburg -- and this picture is meant to be one
of
a trilogy.  I can only hope that word of mouth defeats the critics and
gets
this movie the audience it deserves.
<|_=00=_|>

Gods and Generals (despite the ravages of many critics) is a very good film.
The acting, writing, cinematography are all of top quality. Billy Crystal
once said, "We know where we would be without the critics, but where would
they be without us?" This film is historically accurate, deeply moving, and
with outstanding acting by all concerned. Stephen Lang's performance of
Stonewall Jackson should be remembered at Oscar time. Some critics condemn
it as being sympathetic with the Southern cause. Jeff Daniels and others
give their side in eloquent dialogue for their feelings on the conflict. I
suppose Gone With the Wind would be criticized the same if released today.
Since the story revolves around Stonewall Jackson it will obviously give his
point of view on the subject also. The religious overtones given by the
characters of both sides conformed with the religious feelings of the times
that is lacking today and as such it gives the critics something else to
condemn. And the moving scene with human emotions between Jackson and the
little Corbin girl brings the human touch to the character. What is wrong
with the critics....they must have slept through most the film. They say it
is pro-slavery. There are at least three fine speeches by Martha, Jim Lewis
and Lawrence Chamberlain bringing out the wrongness of that issue. Even
Jackson says that slavery should be abandoned. Such is a great movie trashed
by the critics and they miss the whole reason for this masterpiece. I give
it ten stars. See it, and decide for yourself about this film. Every minute
of it's close to four hours is worth it. Yep. Yep. And
Yep.
<|_=00=_|>

My View in Summary: Overall, I enjoyed the movie (despite some of its
apparent flaws), and I plan to see it again in the theater, as well as
purchase the extended version when it comes out on DVD.  I liked
Gettysburg
and the novel "Gods and Generals" better.  I am fairly confident that the
majority of Americans will not like nor support this film due to its
overall
pro-southern emphasis.

What I liked about the movie:  I thought Lang did an excellent job
portraying Jackson.  I was deeply moved by his final scene in the film.

The attention to detail was good; overall it was historically
accurate--with some exceptions.

The costumes looked good.

I appreciated the show of how Christianity influenced many in the Civil
War, such as Jackson and Lee.

I liked the fact that many from Gettysburg reprised their roles in this
film, although there were some who couldn't, which was a little
disappointing.

What I didn't like or wished was better about the movie: The fake beards
were more than obvious in this film, with the exception of Jackson's and
Lee's, but this is relatively minor to the overall film.

I thought, with maybe the exception of the Fredericksburg battle, the
depiction of the battle scenes were not nearly as well done as in
Gettysburg; but to be fair, there were more battles to cover in this film.
Gettysburg only had one, meaning more time could be given to the details
of
the battle.

The battle of Antietam was not in the movie at all, not even mentioned,
which is very disappointing given its significance and
effects.

Some of the CGI is poorly done (i.e., very obvious), but, again, this is
a
small part of the movie and in my opinion neither makes nor breaks
it.

Some of the speeches were a bit stiff and seemed contrived, particularly
Chamberlain's speech before the battle of Fredricksburg.

Not enough time was given to developing the characters of Lee,
Chamberlain, and Hancock, all of whom are important in the novel.  In
fact,
in contrast to the film, the novel gives most time to Lee, not Jackson.
To
be fair, however, novels usually are better than their film counterparts
given the constraints of time.

My thoughts on some of the common complaints about the movie:  Some
complain
there wasn't enough realism as to the carnage of war.  To that I say there
was enough to get the point across, and for myself, it is refreshing from
time to time to see a movie that doesn't rely too heavily on blood and
guts.
This is not meant to be a blood and guts movie.  The novel is even less
bloody.  Anyone who wants to see a blood and guts war movie should buy or
rent Saving Private Ryan, Full Metal Jacket, Hamburger Hill, the Patriot,
Braveheart, etc.

Others complain that there were too many poetic speeches.  Indeed there
were many speeches, but that was also true of Gettysburg, which most view
as
a good movie.  I didn't mind the speeches so much other than they
sometimes
truncated the character in such a way that the audience fails to see their
visceral humanity.  As stated above, the only speech I thought was a bit
over the top was Chamberlain's before the battle of Fredricksburg.  It
seemed forced, showy, and odd that the whole regiment would stand
motionless
and quiet for so long to hear him go on and on.  Clearly it was intended
to
be a poignant moment showing historical parallels between the American
Civil
War and Roman history.  But the whole scene ends up feeling staged and
apathetic.

Others complain about the strong emphasis on religion.  As stated
above,
I found this emphasis refreshing, for certainly Jackson and Lee were very
devout Christian men.  Christianity was a part of the ethos of this
country
at that time and affected many in both north and south.

Still others complain about the pro-southern perspective being so
strong.
While I admit there is an imbalance between the northern and southern
perspectives, which clearly favors the southern view, I also think this
only
stands to reason, since the overall focus of the film is clearly on
Jackson,
a southerner.  And given the fact that many other movies often underplay
the
southern perspective (i.e., it was fought over State's rights) or ignore
it
altogether, some will find this movie's emphasis a refreshing change.  On
the other hand, the clear downplay of the role and effect of slavery in
this
film will no doubt trouble many Americans.

Finally, others complain that the movie is too long.  But I find this
to
be a misnomer.  What most really mean by this is that the movie is not
entertaining enough to justify such a length.  This is not the first long
film in cinematic history.  Other films were very long and yet praised as
wonderful (Terms of Endearment, Dances With Wolves, Gone with the Wind,
Braveheart, Lord of the Rings, etc.).  The real issue here, I believe, is
that this movie for many is too "slow" or "mundane" in their estimation.
This, I think, is a result of our becoming so accustomed to roller coaster
rides at the movies.  If it isn't constantly exciting or humorous or
action-packed, it needs to be short.  I suppose that in a TV age wherein
we
are accustom to pure entertainment compacted into ten-minute blocks of
time
separated by pithy, entertaining commercials, this complaint ought not
surprise us, given the historical orientation of this film.  But I think
such a complaint is evidence of a deeper cultural problem, which should
concern us all.

My opinion who will like this movie: many Historians, Teachers, and
Homeschooling parents; most southerners; Civil War reenactors; many
Christians.

My opinion who will not like this movie: Most northerners, most African
Americans, many Liberals, most in Hollywood.

My opinion on how the movie will fare: It will likely not last long in the
theaters.  Most critics will hate it.  It will come out on DVD/Home video
sooner than most movies.  It will likely not rake in as much money as it
cost to make.  However, I hope to be proven wrong here.  Though not
without
flaws, I believe it is worth seeing and discussing.
<|_=00=_|>

Great Civil War film that DOES NOT WHITEWASH slavery.  One of the best
things about this film is that it does not follow the PC slime that is so
prevalent in society.  Don't take my word for it but this movie followed
the
lives of these people with great attention to historic detail.  I think
the
biggest mistake that people make when watching something like this is that
they are thinking with 21st century minds.  When you see this you have to
understand that this country, both northern and southern states, was very
different.  I've read other reviews for this and have noticed that  people
have'nt read their history.  This movie accurately shows the events
leading
up to the war.  Yes slavery was a cause, but not THE cause.  Most of these
people like Lee and Jackson loved the Union Army and were not
seccesionists.
Lee himself said "I believe that seccesion is unconstitutional and I
believe that slavery is an immoral and political evil in any society".
These men were fighting for their homes and what they believed in.  When
you
watch the film, try and keep that in mind and don't listen to these
doorknobs who claim that everybody in the northern states were all
righteous
and pure and wanted to liberate the black slaves in the south and that all
southerners were racist traitors, dry that out and you could fertilize
Central Park in New York.  You be the judge, but honestly if history and
the
Civil War are not your thing then don't see the movie.  However for those
who love history and have an open mind then this is the movie for you.
The
acting is top notch, most noteably Stephen Lang as Stonewall Jackson.
Also
Jeff Daniels and Robert Duvall as General Lee.  The costumes and sets were
very believeable and historically accurate.  The sound and special effects
were well done, and it gives you the feel that you are there in 1863.
Wonderful classic 9/10 stars.
<|_=00=_|>

For the first time, I am very disapointed with the vast majority of reviews
on a movie on IMDB.  Actually, I was shocked that the movie I just saw was
in no way, the movie that so many people called out right disapointing. 
Though this movie does have it's flaws, it is one of the most moving war
pictures I have ever seen.  Actually, it is more of a character study than a
war film, and appeals to many different audiences.  

Many have commented on the long running time, and the lengthy, and I'll
admit, at times superfluously long speeches, but to tell you the truth, I
was so engaged with the performances of Steven Lang, Jeff Daniels and Robert
Duvall, that the close to 4 hour running time felt like a regular 2 hour
movie.  It was definitely nice to see more of the aspects of the war for the
Confederate and Union people that you don't read in your regular high school
history book.  I won't make this a political commentary because frankly, one
thing everyone can agree on is that this was without a doubt, our nation's
darkest time, and both sides lost far too many brave young souls, that were
robbed of their chance at life.  Both sides were full of young people, many
of which did not fully understand their cause, nor why they were thrust into
this horrible war, but both sides knew one thing...that they were fighting
to preserve their very livelihood.  But, I will say that the film did depict
a more truthful nature of both sides, especially with the issue of how
slaves were treated, and the ideologies (that are sometimes conflicting on
the same side, as we see in a scene between Daniels and C. Thomas Howell)
between both sides.  To be honest, what you read in the history books in
school is only partly true, and is in fact biased.  And the film does
portray the fact of the matter that it was a hard time for everyone, and the
U.S., even the world, had a much different view on life, liberty and even
the horrible slavery of others.  It was a time of the birth of a new nation
and the death of its people, a coming of age for this great country, and is
a theme that is portrayed wonderfully throughout.

This film also depicts the role of prayer, and shows how God's Will, to
those who search for it, can work wonders.  Now, whether you are a Christian
or not, the very morals derived from the prayers ought to be an inspiration
to everyone, and if anything, was an accurate representation of the men
portrayed.  Chamberlain, Jackson and Lee were all, indeed, devoted followers
of God, and it is almost poetic how Gods and Generals shows how their
devotion enabled them to have the insane bravery that they did.  I found it
very moving, and I know many others will too.

All in all, there have been few films that have touched me as much as this
movie did.  The dialogue is incredible and the battle scenes are very well
choreographed.  I do have to agree though with another viewer that at times,
the music seems a bit out of place...for instance we hear a thundering choir
similar to the famous charge of Fort Wagner in the movie Glory, but, though
a great piece, it seems almost tacked on in a way.  There are other
instances of a sad love theme throughout that are not needed, but all in
all, that is my only major complaint.  The film is long, and I really
thought I'd be bored as hell throughout.  However, I was pleasantly
surprised at how the movie flows.  Yes, there are jingoistic, drawn out
speeches, but they all are moving, are performed masterfully, and flow
nicely.  There were very few moments of 'dead time' where the movie just
stopped at a stand still.  I would recommend this movie to anyone,
considering it isn't just a war movie junkie or Civil War buff movie.  It
has appealing elements for everyone, and is one of the most realistic
portrayals of such a sad time in our history that I have ever seen.  Like
Schindler's List, this movie should definitely be seen by everyone so we do
not forget the horror of a country at war with itself, and take the extra
steps in order to ensure that it never happens again.  I had low
expectations going into this movie, and honestly thought I would get bored
during the non-war scenes, but I was wrong, this movie was a very pleasant
surprise, and probably got a bad rap from the same people that teach the
history that all Southerners mistreated their slaves and that the only Union
cause was to free said slaves.  Both sides had a cause willing to die for,
and both sides are sympathized for equally.  Gods and Generals shows that
there are no heroes in war, and that through all of the madness, humanity
will always survive.  Highly recommended. I rarely give this, but this movie
deserves it, and it was truly touching...10/10 stars. 
<|_=00=_|>

The film "Gods and Generals" is essentially a biographical film about
General Thomas "Stonewall" Jackson of the CSA. Those who have no idea, or
interest, as to who this man was should probably stick to such heavyweight
box-office competition such as "Agent Cody Banks," "How to Lose a Guy in
10
Days," or "Daredevil" instead. "Gods and Generals" is well-made,
old-fashioned film that gives an absorbing view of the U.S. Civil War and
one of its leading figures. The portrait of Jackson is accurate from the
big
issues (his profound religious faith) down to the trivial (his fondness
for
lemonade). Characters both Northern and Southern are portrayed
even-handedly, and the historical and social aspects of the film are
authentic. Characters quote poetry from memory and sometimes speak in
almost
biblical cadences, in the same way that Lincoln's speeches were deeply
influenced by the language of the King James Bible. It is a beautiful film
to look at, with great feeling for the often-wild landscape of the era; in
this respect, it gains immeasurably from being seen on a full-scale
theatrical screen. Two criticisms of the movie have been made repeatedly:
(1) it's "too long"; and (2) it doesn't accurately portray the horrors of
war. On the first score -- too long for what? It is the right length for
its
subject matter. It's the right length to give an earnest and thoughtful
account of a great general's life and a turning point in American history,
even world history. (Many believe the Civil War might have gone
differently
had Jackson survived.) It IS too long if you have Attention Deficit
Disorder
or have been raised upon television sitcoms and the constant jump-cuts &
meritricious visual razzle-dazzle of TV commercials and music videos. On
the
second score -- no one will ever walk away from this film eager to see war
in real life. Men line up with their rifles (in a mode of combat no longer
practiced), blast away at each other nearly face-to-face, and drop en
masse
like bags of bloody meat. In one memorable scene, Col. Chamberlain [Jeff
Daniels] sleeps on the nighttime battlefield using his fellow soldiers'
corpses as bedding; come daylight, he uses those same corpses to absorb
flying enemy bullets once the battle resumes anew. Apparently what some
critics actually desire are cool special effects, with exploding bodies
and
mangled limbs flying across the screen. "Gods and Generals" is a movie of
great integrity and power -- one made by adults for adults.

<|_=00=_|>
This a decent movie and a wonderful tribute to a fine, fine man in
General "Stonewall" Jackson, but I didn't rate it higher only because
it's not a film I would watch many times. The lulls are just too long
for a film that goes over 3 1/2 hours. For those who enjoyed the
even-longer, but better "Gettysburg" this is must-viewing. I think a
third movie would be in order to complete the Civil Story story.

What's very impressive about this movie was (1) not overdone violence;
(2) beautiful cinematography; (3) an unusual and refreshing reverence
for God, the Bible and Christian thought and (4) a better portrayal by
Robert Duvall of Robert E. Lee than Martin Sheen's version in
"Gettsyburg." On the point 3, all it was - to those atheists/agnostics
who were offended by Jackson's reverence - was showing an accurate
portrayal of how people thought and believed back then in the south.
That's simply the way it was and the way people viewed everyday life,
though Biblical standards and language. So kudos, to the filmmakers
here for at least giving us an accurate description of the times, even
though they probably don't share those beliefs. Of course, the critics
- almost all of them secular - hated the film.

One thing I did miss from "Gettysburg" was a bigger role from Jeff
Daniels, who was so good as "Col.Chamberlain." His role here in that
capacity is limited.

In summary, an accurate film with ideals and worthy of anyone's
collection, particularly if they are Civil War buffs, but a movie that
needed more punch to it to be more "watchable."
<|_=00=_|>

`Gods and Generals' plays less like a movie and more like a
three-hour-and-49-minute long lesson in Civil War history.  Grueling and
plodding, the film is almost the antithesis of `Gone With the Wind,' in that
while both films are epic tales told from the viewpoint of the defeated
South, `Gods and Generals' (unlike the earlier film) has been essentially
drained of all emotion, drama and characterization.  `Gods and Generals' may
be a more `realistic' war film than `Gone With the Wind' (what wouldn't
be?), but it's not nearly as entertaining.

`Gods and Generals,' which begins right after the firing on Fort Sumter and
ends shortly before the Battle of Gettysburg, is the first part of a planned
trilogy.  Despite a handful of `name' players in the cast (Robert Duvall,
Jeff Daniels, Mira Sorvino and even Ted Turner in a ludicrous cameo
appearance), writer/director Ronald F. Maxwell is unable to bring a single
character in his film to convincing life (with the possible exception of
`Stonewall' Jackson, who gets to carry the burden of what little drama the
film has almost single-handedly).  In lieu of dialogue, the actors spend
most of their time looking wistfully up to heaven or scanning the
mist-shrouded horizon while delivering endless homilies about the rightness
of the cause and the place of God in human affairs.  To keep it all
palatable for more enlightened and egalitarian-minded modern audiences, the
filmmakers are quick to have the Southern characters declare that, even
though the South is forced to fight against the North to protect its
God-given right to sovereignty, they, as individuals, are all personally
opposed to slavery as an institution and firmly believe that their resident
blacks will be freed someday as a matter of course.  Hell, the Northerners
in this film seem more prejudiced against black people than the Southerners,
who just can't say enough good things about their sycophantic slaves. 

The battle scenes, though well staged and appropriately graphic in nature,
are strangely unmoving, primarily because we have no emotional stake in any
of the characters we see doing the fighting.  Without anyone for us to focus
on and care about, the audience becomes little more than curious bystanders,
passive and unengaged observers of this brutal display of ritualized
slaughter.  Although the visuals are splendid throughout, the musical score,
except in a few places, is like a thick, heavy syrup poured over the entire
film.

By providing subtitled identification of the principal people, places, dates
and battles, `Gods and Generals' does provide a service as a history lesson
of sorts.  As a drama, however, the film is woefully lacking in every way
imaginable.  `Gods and Generals' may thrill the heart of the diehard Civil
War buff.  The rest of us will have to stick to our dreams of Scarlett and
Rhett, and of a romanticized vision of the South that only a Golden Age
Hollywood mogul would have dared come up with.

<|_=00=_|>
I am a big..big fan of the original Gettysburg..and a civil war
buff.....I am not sure what happened but it seems like it was made by
"Confederate lovers of America".....incredibly one-sided....cheesy
preachy dialog... and laughable scenes of Sonewall Jackson praying with
his slave to end slavery,(sure that happened!!!!)....and his slaves
lying to Northern soldiers to keep their property from being
looted....Was is really a war between with greedy North...and the
Christian, righteous, glorious South??

the original Gettysburg was fascinating with equal time to both North
and South....Why not at least one shot with Lincoln??? Would that shift
too much sympathy to the North?? 

.while "Gods" missed this opportunity showing about 80% of the
South.......Did we really have to Christmas with the Lees??

Even the music is a big step down from Gettysburg.. 

It really deserved its critical drubbing and box office failure....
<|_=00=_|>
The period detail is impressive and clearly most effort went into its
creation, and the actors make what they can of it, but it is far too
long, not enough action and sickly sentimental. It did present the
extent to which public figures at the time were motivated in their own
conscious mind by religion, including generals, but given the fact that
the South was fighting to maintain slavery, the message seemed
confused. As someone said, just as you do not judge a person by what
they think of themselves, you cannot judge an age by its consciousness.
Jackson and others may have been convinced that God was on their side,
but how exactly did they square that with support for a system that had
already been abolished in the British Empire? The United States was the
last but one country in the Western hemisphere to abolish slavery
(Brazil being the last). Are we supposed to take their false moralizing
at face value, or is this a satire? Hard to tell. It may be an effort
to contrast Jackson's of his grief for the death of the little girl
with his apparent enthusiasm for setting thousands of young men to kill
each other, but if so, the scene with the girl and the family are far
too long to make that point. Jackson appears to be a monster, but was
that what the director intended? For all the effort, not half the film
which Gettysburg was. Gettysburg concentrated more on the bravery of
ordinary soldiers, and in some instances, their equivocal feelings, to
better effect.
