

I admit that I watched this movie for the most frivolous of reasons: I liked
Brittany Murphy's performance in the trailer ("My daughta's a tramp!").  I
really never cared for Drew Barrymore, before.  However, my opinion of her
has changed.  Drew put in an INCREDIBLE performance in this movie.  She
really nailed it.  In fact, all of the actors gave commendable performances.
I was so moved that I was quite uncomfortable for much of the movie.  The
pain that was portrayed was so real that I almost regretted purchasing what
I thought was supposed to be a comedy.  I'm glad I got through it - and an
hour later I'm still stunned by what I saw.  This movie is well worth
seeing.

 Perhaps the reviewers who hated it don't understand that you can be
repulsed by another person's behavior, but you don't have to agree with
them.  You don't have to accept their morals (or lack thereof) in order to
recognize what they are going through.  And perhaps in seeing these roles
acted out, you will see someone you know who has touched your life.  Perhaps
you'll even see yourself.  I profess to have high moral standards, but I was
not offended by this movie.  I just felt very sad.  I've known people like
these characters.   I don't feel that they were trying to justify their
decisions.

They were just telling a story.  I also think that this movie was a kind of
therapy for Beverly, who is standing up, triumphantly, shouting, "I went
through a lot of crap and I made it!"

 Sure the viewer gets beaten up by this movie, but in a respectful way.

 This isn't a fairy tale.  This is a story about real life.  And real life
is brutal.

<|_=00=_|>
It's a shame that this movie can't be shown in high schools, as an
educational video. It would certainly serve a terrific purpose, of how
one small mistake can change the rest of your life forever.

Beverly (Barrymore), at fifteen, falls in love with the quarterback of
the football team. She decides one night at a party to show her love to
him, by presenting him with a poem, she's written for him.
Unfortunately, being as naive as she is, she presents it to him, in
front of all of his friends, where she is then made fun of. Feeling
sorry for herself, and very hurt, she runs upstairs to the bathroom, in
the house where the party is taking place, crying. There, she meets the
man she will soon fall for, and give herself to, for the very first
time. However, this boy is not the boy she wants to marry, but is
forced to, by her parents, because she is now pregnant. At fifteen, and
married, she is now faced with a new life, and new responsibilities.
The movie circles around this new life, and how she is able to overcome
so much, with so very little. Her deadbeat husband, small and poor
home, young child to raise, and at time hopeless future, all gang up on
her, while she tries to overcome all of it. Her dreams are not
unrealistic, but rather unreachable because of all the problems and
mishaps that happen throughout the next fifteen years of her life.

It's poignant, sweet, funny and honest. There is not one person who
will watch this, and not relate to at least one thing from the story.
Although it may take place in the 1960s-80s, it's still very true to
life, and understandable.

I would recommend it to anyone, and hope that everyone will see the
power of a message this film holds. It's really an amazing true story,
and there aren't many like this out there.
<|_=00=_|>

I  have seen this movie more times than I can count! Whenever it is on
cable, I watch it and I have purchase the CD as well. As an only child of
a
single mother, I can relate to what Jason felt as a child. As an adult
now,
I can relate to the challenges that Beverly must have faced. Drew
Barrymore
is amazing and believable. The actors who played Jason at various points
in
his life added so much comedy to the movie. Some of my favorite scenes are
with Drew and the real-life brothers who portrayed 4 and 7-year old Jason.
I
admire Drew so much for putting her heart and soul into this movie--a real
movie that explores the sometimes complex relationship between children
and
their mothers. 
<|_=00=_|>

I put off watching this for a long while, until well after its release on
video, because of the very mixed reviews it got and the perception that the
content was drab and potentially preachy. Well I was wrong. This is an
excellent movie, well worth the expenditure of two hours of anyone's time
(well... unless maybe you've only got 24 hours to live, or something).
Although the subject matter may sound dour, and certainly does deal with
"kitchen sink" issues which can strangle the human spirit without even
allowing it the luxury of looking heroic as it succumbs... still the film is
about life, not about defeat, and the characters never lose an inner spark
and humanity which makes us care about them, and like, or even love them by
the time the movie finishes. It's funny and moving... and in a way which
seems to have more to do with the way life is funny and moving than with
movie conventions.
<|_=00=_|>

 
  This movie is about Beverly Donofrio (Drew Barrymore) who's life is messed
up when she gets pregnant from Ray Hasek (Steve Zahn). Now, Bev's life is
turned upside down. She tries to get through the hard time while her best
friend Fay (Brittany Murphy) sticks by her side. Her mother (Lorraine
Bracco) and Father (James Woods) are very disappointed in her, and now she
has decided to marry Ray. Sit back and listen to Beverly tell the story of
her troubled life, where she finally found peace. 

   This was a great movie. It was really sad too. This was a good girl's
movie, but also would be enjoyable to guys like me. I give Riding In Cars
With Boys an 8 out of 10! :)
<|_=00=_|>

Based on the life of Beverly Donoforio, and the book with the same
title,this movie was phenomenal. The 'feel good' feeling that this
movie is gifted with, makes this movie a top notch drama/comedy.

This will undoubtedly be Drew Barrymoe's greatest performances. Her
performance as Beverly seemed as if she was just born to play it. The
way her voice, sweetness and personality blended with the character,
seemed as if Drew was playing herself and not Beverly. Brittany Murphy
gives a solid performance as Faye- Beverly's best friend. This movie
had a great cast including Steve Zahn- who was outstanding as Ray-
Beverly's drug taking husband, Adam Garcia, Maggie Gyllenhaal, James
Woods, and Peter Facinelli- who all gave unforgettable heart warming
performances.

The make up is also another reason for watching this- teenage,middle
aged and older Beverly are all played by Drew, and it looks natural-
it's same with Ray. The humour in this movie along with its drama, make
this a must see for everyone. A good production.

<|_=00=_|>

Riding in Cars with Boys is definitely a step into a new direction for
actress Drew Barrymore.  Drew, in her most difficult role to date, tries and
succeeds through the majority of the movie.  There are times when she goes a
little out of bounds, and becomes outrageous -- but for the most part, she
nails the part.

The film tells its story nicely, and has a strange and some-what
heartbreaking ending.  Steve Zahn is easily the high-point of this film. 
Zahn's character will be the one you think about the most when this film
ends.

Riding in Cars with Boys works on enough levels to make it worth
seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
While not belaboring this entire string of comments, I was glad that a
couple of people have already mentioned about getting the truth from
the book, as opposed to this movie.

The movie itself is excellent and will keep you glued to your seat.
Drew Barrymore did a phenomenal job in her portrayal of Beverly
Donofrio, as Beverly is depicted in the film meaning how the storyline
was written - and it is definitely a story, but an enjoyable one
nevertheless.

I could barely find any similarities however between what took place in
the movie and what actually happened to Beverly in real life. Had they
produced the movie as the book was written, it would have been a much
more intense drama with tons of sex, drugs and rock and roll,
literally. Beverly Donofrio as depicted in the movie is nothing short
of a Miss Goody Two Shoes compared to how Beverly actually was. But had
the producers gone this route, it would have been very depressing to
see.
<|_=00=_|>
A great movie in my opinion,not the usual melodrama-stuff,as some might
believe reading just the plot.

The story of Beverly and Ray could be that of anyone of us.

Their marriage enforced by her pregnancy and consequently due to
unwritten rules of puritanism governing a small Connecticut
community,brought together two rather unexperienced and immature teens.
Her behaviour after giving birth to Jason,conflicts to a certain extent
to that of a normal mother.But was she a normal mother? We need to
understand her! This pregnancy linked her to a unwanted man and brought
life unexpectedly to a child.It blocked her dreams of going to high
school and college,so her behaviour is justified to a certain extent.

Two scenes,at the end,I consider as masterpieces.

First her meeting together with the grown-up son at Ray's house,after
years of separation,finding there a still drug addicted
person,physically and even mentally finished.Ray feels guilty for all
pain inflicted to her,but the only thing he can do now is to sign that
paper authorizing her to publish the story of their life.

Secondly the scene of Beverly and Josua reunited as mother and son for
a short while,embracing near Ray's house,before going each one a
separate way.Josua to his beloved,she calling her father to catch her
up with the car and go to home of her parents.

The last scene is particularly moving,father and daughter driving home
in the car,sing that lovely song "Dreams".This might be bout all the
unfulfilled dreams of her life,or perhaps an illusion that all her
hardships were nothing else than a dream.No dreams whatever,all she
lived was true life.And this was a serene,nice end ,after so much drama
unfolding in her life!
<|_=00=_|>
I cried all the way through the movie - the drama and plot were well
developed and the surface plot was anything but shallow. Barrymore
played a different role from her normal persona, but it was definitely
a success for her. The movie is told mostly in flashbacks, and is a
little confusing at first. As the plot continues things start to fit
into place, and you can't stop watching the screen. Murphey definitely
stuck out in this movie too. Her personality bubbled off the screen,
and she brought what little humor there was to the movie. I wouldn't
classify it as a comedy, but it is a movie that I'd want to see again
and again. I recommend it to anyone who is in the mood for a good
drama.
