
This expose is for people who have seen the movie and can't quite put
their finger on why they have come away feeling so dirty. Well people,
following are a few reasons why The Core poops all over science along
with having the worst plot, characters and premise of all time. 

Firstly, that little speech the physicist gave to the class about sound
traveling through rocks? He says something about the wavelength
increasing (ding right), and then says the frequency will decrease
(bzzz wrong). Frequency stays the same regardless of the medium it is
traveling through. It is the wavelength that will in fact decrease.

Secondly, what's with the explanation of how the Earth is going to end?
Burning a peach with a deodorant can? Come on, I know military people
are considered no-brainers, but he was demonstrating this to the people
that lead a high tech organization. This patronises any military
personnel, as well as the audience. 

Thirdly, The premise of the film is based around the effects that occur
because the core of the Earth stops rotating. Let me just first note
that there are geological records to say that the magnetic field has
changed direction many times in the past, with evidence to support that
each time it has been reduced close to 0. To the best of my knowledge,
and that of every history book out there, this happens without any of
us combusting like the peach.

Fourthly, the scene with the golden gate bridge heating up because of a
hole in the magnetic field? I think someone got magnetic field and
ozone layer mixed up. The idea of punching a hole in a field is absurd.
The field may be weakened, but the atmosphere would still protect our
little bridges from cosmic radiation.

Fifthly, there is a force field (magnetic) around the Earth, not much
of one, but there is one, not an "electromagnetic energy field". An
energy field would do sweet f*ck all to deflect radiation. The same
radiation that is supposed to wipe out humans like the peach... 

Sixthly, 5 200-megaton nukes? Come on, those would weigh about 250 tons
together. Let's try transport that on the dildo shaped 'virgil'. And
the computer simulations of how they would be set off? All in 1 spot?
That wouldn't create the required rotational force, since there would
be no rotational force due to symmetry. He finally gets it right in the
end to place them apart from each other. How they initially overlooked
this one, I have no idea.

Seventhly, the material used to withstand all the pressure and
temperature on 'virgil' was called 'unobtainium'. nuff said.

Eighthly, assuming we just spent the entirety of the world's budget on
developing paradoxically copious amounts of unobtanium, it would take
another 10 budgets over to have the resources to "control" the
internet.

Ninthly, when 'virgil' was tunneling downwards, why could the people
walk around inside as if it was horizontal? They mentioned the rotating
bridge, but didn't mention anything about rotating hallways, or the rip
in the space-time continuum needed to walk straight between the bridge
and the subsequent hallways. The compartments would need to rotate
individually, which would put them out of alignment with each of the
other compartments. Logically, they would be aligned parallel for
everyone to be walking horizontal, and not fall to the front of the
ship, as the front is pointing towards the centre of the Earth. If only
they could pretend virgil was round, and the entire inside could rotate
as one. A pity every shot shows a long cylindrical ship incapable of
this.

Tenthly, the giant geode that they crash into? All that pressure, all
that temperature? But if that wasn't enough, they get out, and walk
around. I know those space suits they had on looked cool, but they
couldn't withstand the ~1000 degrees of temperature, and a few thousand
kPa of pressure that is needed to keep the geode from collapsing under
the weight of the world. 

Eleventhly, when the ship springs a leak? It would have been like a
nuke going off in the ship, but instead, it took a few minutes for the
compartment to crush. 

Twelfthly, the unlucky guy that has to walk through 9000 degrees
temperature in a suit only designed to withstand 5000 degrees. He makes
it to the duct and switches the lever? 9000 degrees is about 2-3 times
the temperature of a nuclear bomb going off. I think the walls and
floor of the corridor would have been glowing white with heat. Our man
would have been vaporised, but lucky for him, only his converse pumps
melted to get to the lever. 

Thirteenthly, the guy that pulls out the plutonium rods undergoing
fission? He didn't even have a helmet on. $10 says his kids will have 5
noses, 3 mouths, and a foot coming out of their heads. I guess it's a
good thing though that the DNA of such a twit is wiped from our society
in these industrial accidents.

Fourteenthly, when the power cut out from the lack of reactor rods,
they hook up the power cables to the inner hull. Where do they put the
ground? There needs to be a potential drop for power to be gained, and
if there was a ground, then anyone that touched the hull would have
been electrocuted. 

Fifteenthly, the arming code for the nukes was the first four prime
numbers... 1 2 3 5... Pretty sure 1 is not a prime number. 

Well, thats about all, and thats not even going into the fact about how
the core could stop spinning in the first place. Thanks for your time.
<|_=00=_|>

Hollywood's gone to the outer reaches of our galaxy (not to mention
others),
it's plumbed the depths of the ocean, mapped dank swamps and arid deserts,
but one place it hasn't gone to with any sort of regularity is the inner
core itself.

The Core is certainly one of those movies for which one must suspend
disbelief. It's a science-fiction movie that emphasizes fiction over all;
that is, the physics of the film don't hold up to snuff. If you're an
engineer or physicist, you should be smart enough not to watch it - you'll
just spend most of your time second-guessing the inane psuedoscience.

It seems the inner core of the Earth has stopped spinning, for some
reason,
and this has caused the electromagnetic  field that surrounds and protects
the planet to begin to decompose. This is evidenced by, among other
things,
pigeons in Tralfagar Square in London suddenly veering at plate-glass
windows and sundry people who wish they were extras in a less-violent
movie,
like Daddy Daycare or maybe Finding Nemo. At any rate, the world's leading
scientists, commissioned by the military (it wouldn't be a Save the Planet
from Imminent Destruction without our pals in the movie military), figure
out that the core's stopped rotating, and that Something Must Be Done to
get
it going again.

Ah, but what? We've only drilled down about 8 miles, and according to my
calculations the distance from the surface to the core is .... a bit
further. We must drill down, sayeth the sage scientists, and lo and
behold,
through the magic of movies, there's this guy in the desert who's been
working on a laser rocket thingy that'll help them blast all the way down.
This handy little thing is just the cure, so a crew is hastily assembled:
Commander Iverson (Bruce Greenwood), Major Beck Childs (Hilary Swank), Dr.
Josh Keyes (Aaron Eckhart), Dr. Serge Leveque (Tcheky Karyo), Dr. Conrad
Zimsky (Stanley Tucci), and Dr. Ed Brazzelton.

Like such doomsday movies as Armageddon, what The Core has going for it
are
likeable characters and a lot of nifty FX. It also has the unknown working
for it; we don't know what lies beneath the thin crust of the Earth,
because
we haven't drilled beyond it. That allows filmmakers a lot of free reign
to
depict whatever the heck they want in terms of What's Down
There.

What The Core has going against it, however, is a predictable plot and
some
howlingly awful dialog. Now, it's not giving anything away to mention that
at least one person doesn't make it back from this mission. It's also not
giving anything away to note that there's at least one knockdown, drag-out
hissy fit of a scene in which Keyes admonishes Childs for something she
didn't do. It's hysterical to watch, although I suspect the emotion the
director was attempting to convey was more like empathy, not euphoria. Or
ennui, which is unfortunately how some of the movie felt.

The Core is cheesy. No, not the actual inner core - although, come to
think
of it, maybe it is, since we don't know for sure what it's made of. And
wouldn't that be fitting? A cheesy core for a cheesy film made by cheesy
people in a cheesy society? Who's up for some Muenster?
<|_=00=_|>
The Core is a solid action-adventure/disaster flick with a novel idea
and a great cast. True, it is very silly, and some of the effects don't
quite come off, but that's true of most films in its genre. I've
watched it on DVD a couple of times now, always late at night, always
steeped in alcohol, and I have to say it passes a couple of very easy
hours. The opening scene in Trafalgar Square with the crazy pigeons is
better than anything in The Day After Tomorrow. And who can resist the
beautiful, talented, Oscar-winning actress Hilary Swank? So please give
The Core a break. Stop taking it so seriously. Down a six pack and
accept The Core into your lives.
<|_=00=_|>

** out of ****

The Core is the "low-budget" answer to Armageddon, meaning it was made on
less than half the cost but desires to be its equal in delivering thrills
and big buckets of popcorn fun.  Now, whether or not you liked Armageddon
is
a good determinant of whether or not you should even bother watching The
Core in the first place.  I myself haven't seen that Michael Bay/Jerry
Bruckheimer production in a while, and memory serves that it was an
unbelievably preposterous, but enjoyable thrill ride that had a great
sense
of humor.  How does The Core compare?

Well, if I hadn't seen Armageddon, I might have liked this film more,
which
is not to say that it's a weaker movie, just that the disaster formula
plays
out in much the same way so there's a sense of deja vu hanging over the
proceedings.  There are a lot of people out there who hated Armageddon,
perhaps for its absurd science or for its quick-cut action sequences, so
for
those who didn't like the latter, The Core would be more up their alley,
though the science here is even sillier.

The premise is the anti-Deep Impact/Armageddon.  A group of expert
individuals have to go to the center of the Earth to jumpstart the core,
which has stopped spinning for some unknown reason.  Heading this mission
is
professor Josh Keys (Aaron Eckhart), who's leading a six-man team, with a
woman playing a key role, of course, as the pilot, played by Hilary Swank.
Recognizable faces Delroy Lindo, Tcheky Karyo, Stanely Tucci, and Bruce
Greenwood round out the rest of this very expendable team.

Already, we realize the plot is fundamentally impossible.  The only people
who wouldn't recognize this are those still in grade school, so they'll
probably get a kick out of the movie while thinking they're getting some
kind of education out of this because of all the scientific mumbo-jumbo
and
technobabble.  More discriminatory viewers will scoff at all the sudden
new
inventions that aid our intrepid group of heroes, particularly the hull
Delroy Lindo devises that's actually strengthened by heat.  For me,
scientific flaws are acceptable so long as it's not so blatantly obvious,
but this movie's stretching my suspension of disbelief.

But those who don't care for any scientific inaccuracies will wonder, is
the
action any good?  The answer's a mixed bag.  Almost all the action is
entirely CGI-related, so the question of whether or not you find it
exciting
to see an "earthcraft" (named Virgil) get banged around quite a few times
is
crucial to your enjoyment.  The action aboveground is all given away in
the
trailers, and none of it's particularly exciting, thanks to the weak
special
effects.  The space shuttle crash, the destruction of the Roman Colosseum
and the Golden Gate bridge are not examples of CGI-work at its best, to
put
it kindly.  A 60 million dollar budget isn't quite enough to pull a movie
of
this sort off, and it sometimes shows.

Surprisingly enough, the scenes set below ground do somewhat make up for
the
slack.  A crisis is introduced every five to ten minutes to keep the
characters working, so what we get is a briskly paced and often enjoyable
second half.  The effects work is still spotty, but I found the characters
relatively engaging, the situations fairly compelling, and the
Mcgyverish-solutions amusing.  Still marring this outing on a consistent
basis, however, are the film's predictability, the occasionally really bad
dialogue, the lack of solid intentional humor, and the stilted finale.
The
Core is not an unenjoyable timewaster, but it's not exactly a great night
at
the movies, either.  
<|_=00=_|>
I am watching "The Core" after having read several other comments about
the movie. The sentiments expressed go from being "Fine Movie" to
"Worst Movie ever," the last obviously coming from someone who rated
"Starship Troopers" as the "greatest Sci Fi movie ever made." There are
parts of this movie that are actually very good. The first thing to
give credit for was the cast that they had. It is a very good cast. Let
me repeat, a very good cast. Alfrie Woodard has never given a bad
performance, and although her role was relatively small, she brought
moral gravity to the role that the movie needed. Delroy Lindo showed a
range that I have never seen him do. Obviously better recognized as a
man in control, he was nigh on perfect as the forgotten but brilliant
scientist who still stings over Stanley Tucci's Conrad Zimsky having
stole his discoveries from a generation earlier. Tucci, a fine actor,
did take it over the top a bit too much. DJ Qualls gives an underrated
performance. He is 6'2" but makes us believe he is a 5'7" geek. He gave
a touching performance as he tried to slow down the big bad that caused
the problem in the first place. Aaron Eckhart, normally a baddie, did a
believable performance, with Hillary Swank, a two time Oscar winner
bringing her easily recognized skills to the screen. 

I originally wanted to blame Director Jon Amiel for the faults of the
movie, but when I went back and considered individual roles and scenes,
I realized that he did the job he was paid to do. The visual effects
were more than adequate, constrained by the need, not for realism, but
by the need to show things that would further the story.

So where did it go wrong? First, the problem, I believe, was with the
writing. The script was very uneven. Part of it came from what appears
to be last minute changes in the story line. Early trailers suggest a
very different story -- and rumors from Hollywood at the time indicated
this was true.

Too much of the story telling was quick and dirty, trying to just get
it done. Had they not been locked in to a predetermined release date,
they could have gotten the script right. Second, it seems there was a
problem with editing. There were times when the film just went clunk.
Was it poor editing in and of itself? Or was it editing that had to
serve the problems with the script. Far from a perfect movie, but one
with some very good elements. Give credit where credit is due.
<|_=00=_|>
How do you jump start the Earth's core? Well, if you want to find out
(and have a few laughs in between) all you need to do is watch 'The
Core'...

Yes, it's stupid, yes, it makes no sense, yes, the science is flawed,
and yes, it's impossible. Nevertheless, I have to say I enjoyed
watching this movie. It's one of those 'get a beer and some popcorn,
turn your brain off and enjoy the afternoon' type of pictures. If you
are not pretentious and take this film for what it is, you are more
likely than not to enjoy it as I did.

All in all, this is a classic disaster flick, and for a disaster flick,
this is above average.
<|_=00=_|>
I remember the critics really laid into THE CORE on its initial release
. Granted the central premise of Planet Earth stopping on its axis is
ridiculous but the script structure compensates for the bizarre
scientific impossilbilities . Look at the opening scene with people
dropping dead in Boston , it does its job of drawing the audience into
the story . It doesn't stop there because a few moments later we cut to
London and see a remake of THE BIRDS . Not not good enough for you ?
Well wait around because they'll hopefully be a disaster around the
corner that will appeal to you 

It's never explained in any convincing detail how the Earth's core
stopping spinning can cause these effects but we're talking about a
Hollywood movie not some theory put forward by Stephen Hawking .
Unlikely events do happen in Hollywood movies as if you hadn't noticed
so when people criticise this movie as being " Dumb " they're perhaps
taking life a little too seriously 

For what it is - A dumb movie with special effects and an action
adventure concept - THE CORE certainly succeeds . We're shown a ballsy
heroine played by Hilary Swank who can actually act and unlike say the
very similar Armageddon we don't have to put up with macho American
flag waving at every opportunity .

If you're looking for an entertaining pop corn movie THE CORE should do
the trick
<|_=00=_|>
How could trillions of tons of spinning molten metal suddenly just
stop- A WIZARD IT.

If it had stopped, wouldn't the magnetic field just collapse
immediately - A WIZARD DID IT.

Why would a vanishing field cause electrical storms- A WIZARD DID IT.

Can you use a 3000 degree nuclear reactor as a power source when the
temperature outside is 9000 degrees- A WIZARD DID IT.

Why even have EVA facilities if there are no conceivable circumstances
under which you expect to use them- A WIZARD DID IT.

Why would you put headlights on a vehicle that doesn't have windows- A
WIZARD DID IT.

How do you bend your arms under a jillion quatloos per square inch of
pressure- A WIZARD DID IT.

Do NASA-trained pilots often abandon the controls immediately after
they've established that the autopilot is incompetent- A WIZARD DID IT.

Hang on though; how do you steer a vessel with no control surfaces
anyway- A WIZARD DID IT.

How on Earth (or in Earth) are a few megatons of explosives supposed to
effect a trillion tons of superheated metal- A WIZARD DID IT.

How... how did they expect to go back up.. what... how- A WIZARD DID
IT.

And the biggest mystery of all; how did such a dull, unengaging,
androgynous botoxed stick insect with more fat in her lips than the
rest of her body, and an acting range that runs all the way from
"pouty" to "petulant" win an award for best actress in a leading role
not just once, but twice?

You guessed it: A WIZARD DID IT.
<|_=00=_|>

I just got done watching this...uhhh...movie, if that's what you can
call it. It happens to be one of the worst movies I've seen in a long
time. Not since "Mission to Mars" have I hated a movie so much. This
movies few supporters try to say "relax, and enjoy a mindless disaster
flick."

The question is, exactly how mindless are we supposed to be? Should we
completely remove our brain first by smashing our head on a rock until
it falls out, because if so, I'll do it. It would surely be a hell of a
lot less painful than watching this rancid mass of decay again. And I
love mindless action flicks. The problem is even for a pure f/x only
movie, it sucks. All the "special" (as in, short school bus special)
effects look like they were done by some failing college students using
their pirated and hacked version of 3D studio. During the space shuttle
crash sequence, I was half expecting to see little strings attached as
it bounced around like it was in a freaking puppet show.

The "acting" (a very loose term) was below sub par, and everyone seemed
like they hated the very movie they were acting in. Hilary Swank's
character couldn't be any more plastic, annoying, and clichéd if she
tried, and as for the rest of the cast, yuck. Delroy Lindo, was okay as
Dr. Ed Brazzleton. I wish I could have skin that could withstand 4500
degree heat for 5 minutes. (It was 9000 degree in the core, but the
suit could 'only' handle 4500 degrees, and naturally, someone has to go
outside.) Then again, it might have been lucky for him, so he didn't
have to suffer the humiliation of being 'saved' by whales.

All in all, this movie was an abomination; a freak of nature that could
have only been devised by the most twisted and sadomasochistic of
minds. Maybe in about 10 years or so, they'll do a "Mystery Science
Theater 3000" for it.

<|_=00=_|>
How can you tell when a director is bad? I mean, assuming the director
is given $50 million or so, competent actors, and a halfway-decent
script, what would the film look like if he/she REALLY didn't know what
he/she was doing? I think that film would look a lot like "The Core."

From the preview stage, this movie was on my "might see it but not pay
for it" list, so I just now caught it on cable. Hilary Swank and Aaron
Eckhart will definitely have Oscars someday, and most of the other
actors who make it on the ship are of similar caliber. The comic relief
generally works ("I'm going to need Xena tapes and lots of Hot
Pockets"), and the plot is no more ridiculous than, say, "The Day After
Tomorrow" (though it is slightly LESS ridiculous-- at least this movie
attempts to offer a cause for the problem, however unlikely).

I remember watching "Entrapment," another John Amiel film, and thinking
it was, in a word, awful. The editing was off, the plot lumbered ahead
only through the will of Sean Connery's accent and Catherine Zeta-Jones
spandex-clad anatomy. Watching "The Core," Amiel has decided his
mistake was pacing, and turns up the volume to eleven and full speed
ahead, hoping the charisma of his actors covers his butt. In the second
half of the film, this works fine. In the first half, it just shows his
limitations as a director... poor special effects during the space
shuttle landing that could easily have been fixed with model work or
different camera angles; birds going crazy and smacking into buildings
look exactly like someone tossed a dummy against a building, then the
editor cut it as close as possible. Truly, this is a man at the helm
who doesn't know what a good film is supposed to look like. I wonder
what an Ed Wood movie would have looked like, if someone had given THAT
guy $50 million?

Characters die with clockwork predictability, and my only problem with
the resolution was the actors were TOO good. They play geniuses, the
absolute best in their fields, so when the movie ends I wanted to spend
more time with them, see what incredible problems, discoveries,
adventures they had next. The movie itself is barely a D+, thanks to
the actors, occasionally adequate special effects (which we will call
simply "effects"), and a really great score to hold it all together.
I'd buy the score (not the pop songs over the credits) before I'd watch
the movie again, but it's a thumbs up effort for everyone who isn't
Amiel. Worth a dollar if you have two hours to kill.
