

First off...why does the fact that this movie deals with spousal abuse and a
woman smart enough to run and hide automatically make it a ripoff of
"Sleeping with the Enemy"?  Because "The Count of Monte Cristo" has
swordplay, does that make it a ripoff of all of the Zorro movies, or the
Robin Hood movies?  Does the fact that Spiderman is a Marvel Superhero make
it a ripoff of "The X-Men"?  Of course not. And only the very basic
storylines make "Enough" and "Sleeping..." similar at all. Let me
illustrate...

In "Sleeping with the Enemy", Julia Roberts plays a weak willed woman who
stays with her mentally abusive husband until she finally has enough and
leaves when she gets the chance to fake her death. Julia never
changes...always the weak willed, scared out of her gourd hiding
wife.

In "Enough", Jennifer Lopez plays a strong minded woman who decides to leave
her abusive husband as soon as she finds out what he is really like.
Jennifer never changes either...but in this case she maintains her strength,
and although scared out of her gourd also, she sets out to confront him in a
physical battle...his forte usually. 

This movie was great entertainment. Anyone who says they felt this was a
total yawner, with no tension at all is too critical. This is what
entertainment is about. This was a great way to spend 2 hours as far as I am
concerned.

Ms Lopez is becoming a better actress with each film. But, as far as the
female actresses go in this flick...the little girl who portrayed Jennifer's
daughter out-acted everyone else...male or female. Two thumbs UP for this
little lady!!


<|_=00=_|>

What's everybody's problem? This movie realistically portrayed domestic
abuse and had a great plot, acting, everything. The end scene is the best,
in my opinion. maybe it is just a chick flick, but it does a good job of
drawing you in and keeping you there, my emotions ran high.

Maybe people should stop looking at movies so critically and look at them
for what they are - a way to gain understanding of other people's lives
and
issues like domestic violence, which is society's problem, not just the
victim's. 
<|_=00=_|>

SPOILERS

I won't bother making jokes about this film's title, as it seems others have
beaten me to that punch.  Jennifer Lopez and her celebrated butt go on the
run, trying to protect her little potato-dumpling-faced daughter from rich,
violent, powerful Billy Campbell and his weaselly servant.  If you think
this sounds like a simplistic scenario, well, tough, because that's all ya
get.  

This `story' plods on from one `thrilling' episode to another, and the
`conflict' is ultimately resolved in a way not exactly notable for its
complexity: J. Lo takes kickboxing lessons from some kind of cross between
Pat Morita, Louis Gossett, Jr., and Obi-Wan Kenobi; then she just breaks
into Billy's house, kicks his ass and kills him!  The end!  To say this
finale is morally ambiguous and simplistic is being very, very kind; but
then again so is referring to this thing a film, and I've already done that,
so who cares.

The style could accurately be described as soft-core-porn-without-the-sex,
and someone should tell Michael Apted that nobody's interested in that.  As
for the cast, J. is her usual blank self, Billy Campbell sleepwalks through
his cartoon-villain role, Potato Face is among the more irritating movie
children in recent memory, Juliette Lewis continues her career degeneration,
and man, does Fred Ward look old.  

Final verdict: good for some laughs, but not many.  1 out of 10.  Okay, I
will indulge in one joke about the title: they should have dropped the e-n-o
and just called it Ugh.

<|_=00=_|>

My approach to most movies is a bit different.  As a therapist, I try to
see
how true the movie's life situations and story lines are.  "Enough" set the
stage in the first 10 minutes.  The process of the abuse follows very well
how it goes in reality ... the denial ... the male determination to be in
charge ... not wanting to go to a shelter ... not wanting to put her
husband
in jail ... the dad fooling the child into beliving what a good guy he
really is ... the attitude of the male "what are you going to do about
it"... the getting up the courage to run away ... the police telling her of
the
complexities ... the lawyer telling her that there is nothing he can do
(legally)... the child witnessing or geting involved in the violence ...
and
so on.  Over 70% of all murders of the woman by the husband occurs AFTER
she
goes to the authorities.  NOW ... the ending is NOT realistic.  But rather
it is the ending that most wish would happen. I see these situations
regularly.  Domestic violence is (with rare exception) against the
woman.
<|_=00=_|>
...who have had ENOUGH of turning the other cheek! I'm sure
there are many
abuse survivors out there who could identify with what she went through
and
wished they'd had the strength to follow in her footsteps.  Kudos to
someone's imagination of "what if I could fight back?"!

<|_=00=_|>

Everyone is entitled to their own opnion but when it comes to this movie,
it couldnt of been done any better, the cast speaks for itself along with
the message. The movie isnt about fame and fourtune or how big J.lo's butt
is. Jennifer Lopez portrayed Slim very well and i recomend this Girl Power
movie to anyone who enjoys inner power flims.
<|_=00=_|>

I love this movie, for a variety of reasons... Jennifer for a start gives
it
a green light in my book, and yes, while its is reminiscent of Sleeping
with
the Enemy, I find Slim much stronger than Julias character in that
movie....
Michael APted is a brilliant director, and Juliette Lewis makes up the
rest
of a great cast. I was shocked when it went strauight to DVD in the UK, i
saw a pirate copy from a friend who wokrs at Columbia, and I loved it ,
and
raved about it for weeks...

It keeps me on the edge of my seat , and everytime I watch it, that first
time Mitch hits Slim still makes me gasp.
I whole heartedly recommend this film top anyone...

<|_=00=_|>

This movie reminded me of Sleeping with the Enemy, with Jennifer Lopez
playing a physically abused by her husband lady who first runs away and then
fights back. Lopez does a credible job in her role, and the movie was pretty
good. I loved her martial arts training scenes. You might like this movie if
given the chance.

** 1/2 out of ****
<|_=00=_|>
Made in the same vein as 'Sleeping with the Enemy' Enough actually
manages to entertain and be its own film quite easily. Slim (Jennifer
Lopez) thought she was entering domestic bliss when she married Mitch
(Billy Campbell), but after the birth of their first child; Mitch
reveals his darker side and Slim goes on the run with their daughter.

Now hunted by her spouse, she finally has enough, and engages Mitch in
a battle of wits and physical ability.

'Enough' is good entertainment and despite some minor flaws it has
plenty of action, thrills and tension.

OK it's nowhere near the best thriller around, but its worth a look
6/10
<|_=00=_|>
Clarissa Rodriguez Movie Review 9 November 2012 

"Self Defense is not Murder"

"Punch, kick, slap!" Not exactly what any mother or wife has in mind
when marrying the man that's supposed to be the man of her dreams. The
movie Enough I must say is one of my all-time favorite movies ever
made. Jennifer Lopez plays a woman named Slim who gets married to a
man, Mitchell, who she thinks is the one. After birthing their child
Gracey, Mitchell begins to have affairs. Not liking the situation she
is in once she finds out about the affairs she confronts her husband
which leads to a brutal beating. She then finds the courage to leave
after consulting her best friend Ginny, and then it becomes a massive
task for Slim to keep her daughter and herself out of harm's way. She
then comes up with a brilliant plan to get Mitchell alone after
training with a defense teacher. He won't give up on getting his
daughter back and also won't give up on trying to get Slim back so she
ends up killing Mitchell for the sake of her life and the life of her
off spring. This movie reaches out to all women in my opinion. It lets
you know that it isn't OK to harm woman. It also in some sort shows
that woman have a right to leave the relationship if it ever becomes
too toxic for the wife or the child involved.

This movie connects with the world in ways that make me admire the
movie even more. It is not morally correct to cheat and beat your
spouse after they have given you everything. I loved the characters in
the movie. Joe was one of my favorites. He played as the ex-boyfriend
of slims who was still in love with her. Joe is an example of the moral
man in this world. He helped slim and her daughter as much as he could.
That's what a real man should do, he most definitely shouldn't hit you
much less be disloyal to you. Yes, Mitchell had money so if he was sent
to jail he would automatically get bailed out. Ladies don't let money
be the prime factor that scares you into staying with the man that
beats you, just because he is rich doesn't justify violence.

I enjoyed the end the most when she plotted against her soon to be
ex-husband. She broke into his house and found his weapons then put
letters in his drawer to indicate she was coming to talk about custody
over Gracey. They day he came home she was waiting for him and she
planned that he would attack her and she would defensively fight back
and kill him. In my opinion the training she got was impeccable. The
techniques that were taught to her saved her life and ended the
pro-longed nightmare coming up ahead of her due to the fact they had a
custody hearing. I also liked how the movie appealed to the emotions of
slim having her father leave her and then later on in the movie he ends
up helping her get through this because of how much he was not in her
life to begin with. In real life situations outside of a movie people
always have others that will help you. This moment lets women know it
is OK to confide in loved and even friends like Jenny and Phil. A
little message to the men out there who find it OK to hit women why
don't you watch this movie and get the hint.
