

Dutch director Dick Maas has essentially remade his own 1983 film De Lift
with 2001's The Shaft (originally entitled Down), about an evil elevator
system that suddenly begins killing people in a fancy-schmancy skyscraper.
Artisan has shamelessly redesigned the cover art to resemble The Ring, and
to highlight the presence of star Naomi Watts, though who that kid on the
cover is supposed to be is really anyone's guess, because he is certainly
not in the movie I watched.

In between the dull investigative drivel, Maas delivers a few fun horror
moments, including a spectacular elevator door decapitation and a fun
bird's-eye P.O.V. of a character's leap off the observation deck. Maas
even
subjects an elevator full of very pregnant women to a terrifying ride.

With the exception of a few establishing shots, it appears that much of
The
Shaft was shot in Europe, and the unconvincing "New Yawk" accents of most
of
the extras is definitely giggle-worthy. To Maas's credit, he has somehow
managed to fill the film with a decent blend of familiar faces in
supporting
roles, including Edward Herrmann (the building manager), Dan Hedaya (a
police lieutenant), Ron Perlman (the elevator repair company boss) and
venerable bad guy Michael Ironside.

There are brief moments of great fun in the murderous elevator flick, The
Shaft, but too much time is spent talking and the dramatic payoff is a
real
eye-roller, even in B-movie horror terms. Artisan has supplied a solid 5.1
surround track, but the horribly cropped 1.33:1 fullframe transfer almost
negates that.

Yep, The Shaft has its ups and downs.

6*(10* Rating System)


<|_=00=_|>
After being completely disappointed with The Ool, my friends and I
stuck in The Shaft only to be completely delighted (ouch, bad one). The
Shaft (or Down,as it was apparently called at one point) follows the
exploited elevator industry as the poor machines have to fight off
babies and blind men and roller bladers.

The Shaft is a perfect fit for anyone who wants some fun. I mean, look
at that cast! It's B-movie heaven. Watching Ron Perlman's impassioned
defense of the elevator industry is golden, and Naomi Watt's 'acting'
is once again fun to watch. 

The pacing is the real villain in this flick, as it drags on with
useless characters and stupid tangents when elevators killing people
really should have been the sole focus of the movie. 

The climactic battle between the evil elevator which includes, yes, a
rocket launcher that shoots invisible rockets, is golden. I will admit
with little uncertainty, that this is simply the best
Hedaya/Herrmann/Perlman/Ironside/Watts v. possessed elevator movie out
there, and, for my money, was worth the fifty cent rental.

Rating: 2/10
<|_=00=_|>
Before Naomi Watts became a big star from her excellent performances in
excellent films like "Huckabees", "Mulholland Drive", and "21 Grams";
she was delivering excellent performances in a lot of garbage movies
like "The Shaft" aka "Down". And while her performance here does not
save the movie, it does elevate (bad pun intended) it to a viewable
level.

The only other reason to watch this thing is to see yet another example
of the film-making phenomenon that big is not only not better, but much
worse. Which is probably related to the human interest angle in
journalism, where a large disaster cannot sustain interest as long as
the same story on a smaller more human scale.

For those who don't already know it, "The Shaft" or "Down" is Dutch
Director/Writer Dick Mass's remake of his 1983 classic "De Lift". One
posted comment about the original says: "…. looks technically
proficient, with fine color texture, smooth cinematography ( by Marc
Felperlaan ) and tight editing ( by Hans van Dongen ), elements that
help to maintain a high level of suspense. The story clearly echoes
Jaws, with its obsessed hero and corrupted authority figures, who would
rather disguise the truth than face it. Despite this movie being his
debut, many of Maas's personal trademarks are also already in place:
quick pacing, sadistic gore effects modified by edgy humor, mild satire
on bourgeois preoccupations, and broadly etched supporting characters".

Apparently the title "Elevator" was already taken and "Lift" was too
European for the remake he was left with two very stupid titles with
which the distributors have been experimenting since 2001.

In the 1983 version, the elevator of an Amsterdam flat (another
European term) misbehaves badly. The elevator begins trying to crush,
suffocate and decapitate passengers. Fearless mechanic Felix does
battle with the seemingly haunted machine. But the anti-technology
twist is that the elevator has developed a mind of its own due to an
experimental 'biochip'. Felix is assisted by a magazine reporter named
Mieke de Beer ( wasn't that the name of Scotty's German pen pal in
"Eurotrip"?).

The original was shot in just 30 days with a very limited budget, this
constrained the production resulting in an intimate story, viewers
identified with the characters and this greatly enhanced the suspense
level. This time someone gave Maas a lot of money and he pumped up the
production; moving it to New York, adding tons of unnecessary effects,
making the elevator absurdly powerful, and geometrically increasing the
size of the cast. The Amsterdam elevator was deadly but in ways that a
malfunctioning elevator could be deadly. The new elevator is like a
cross between a James Bond story and a poor 1950's science fiction
film.

Not surprisingly the human interest wheels fall off immediately. If you
ignore your strong impulse to bail and just keep watching you will see
decent performances from Watts and the from various character actors
who populate the cast.

Unfortunately for Mass, he choose New York City for this 2001 movie and
deviated from the original by throwing in some misdirection about
terrorists being behind the elevator accidents. There is even a line
about the first bombing of the World Trade Center. Apparently this was
embarrassing enough to insure that there was no theatrical release.
<|_=00=_|>

You know, people will probably bust up this movie, but it was really
pretty
good.  It had a bit of a far fetched plot, but it was funny in places and
the gore wasn't bad.  The bit when the elevator chopped off the guy's head
was a decent effect -- slow motion and relatively seamless.  And the fact
that they had references to terrorism in a NY skyscraper -- before 9/11 --
was pretty cool.  Even made reference to the 93 attempt on the WTC and to
Bin Laden -- a while before the actual event.  Eerie.  At least someone
out
there connected the dots. I'd rent it again.
<|_=00=_|>
It amazes me how often deliberately cheesy, tongue-in-cheek horror
films are misconstrued as poorly made garbage. Down (AKA The Shaft),
director Dick Maas' 2001 remake of his own 1983 Dutch horror De Lift,
opens with the camera gliding gracefully over the NY skyline to
eventually come to rest on 'The Millennium Building' where two night
watchmen use an observation telescope to spy on big-breasted hookers at
work in a neighbouring skyscraper; it's a superbly executed and
wonderfully trashy opening that should make it crystal clear that Maas
knows exactly what he is doing—making a highly entertaining, campy
schlock/horror that shouldn't be taken seriously—and yet there are
still those who seem to have missed the joke.

Oh well, it's their loss, because when viewed as intended, Down proves
to be a lot of fun, packed as it is with outrageously silly deaths,
delightfully daft dialogue, and knowingly clichéd characters—precisely
the kind of stuff I would expect to see in a horror film about a
murderous 'living' elevator controlled by a malevolent state-of-the-art
computer chip enhanced by living brain tissue.

An excellent cast clearly have a blast in their two-dimensional stock
roles, with a gorgeous pre-A-list Naomi Watts as a feisty newspaper
reporter, James Marshall as a cocky elevator engineer, Ron 'Hellboy'
Perlman as the shady owner of the elevator company, Dan Hedaya as a
grizzled NY detective, and Michael 'Scanners' Ironside as a loathsome
scientist hellbent on perfecting his pet project, whatever the cost.
Maas keeps the action moving along at a brisk pace, handling the
special effects set-pieces, wry humour, and gruesome shocks with
confidence, even going so far as to kill off women, children, and
animals along the way.

And if all that isn't enough to pique your interest, let's not forget
about the eerily prophetic scene in which characters discuss the
possible use of a plane in a terrorist attack on the World Trade
Centre; with 9/11 just around the corner, it stands out as a genuinely
chilling moment in an otherwise intentionally ridiculous and
wonderfully OTT piece of nonsense.

7.5 out of 10, rounded up to 8 for IMDb.
<|_=00=_|>
It all begins with a sweeping, awe-inspiring shot of The Millennium
Building, one of New York City's premier hotels, housing all of
100-some odd floors. We zero in on two goombah bellboys spying on an
old man and two old-looking women boinking in a highrise across the
street; this scene brings to mind Brian De Palma's "Body Double," and
the decent production values mixed with aforementioned homage give the
viewer an (admittedly misleading) impression of what's to come. While
fully aware of the (admittedly deserved) bad reputation most DTV
efforts have, "The Shaft" at least starts off with promise.
Writer-director Dick Maas (remaking his 1983 Dutch original, "The
Lift") has a knack for framing scenes, building suspense, and keeping
his camera firmly in the moment. The problem is, his script is a
muddled misfire, never quite settling on a solid path; the result is an
accidental bending of sci-fi, horror, and flat-out action that never
gels as well as it should. After an elevator in the Millennium knocks
off a bunch of victims in extravagant fashion, the plot devolves into a
drawn out (and ultimately unsuccessful) search for The Truth--suddenly
elevator repairman James Marshall (imagine a cut-rate Brad Pitt) and
fetching reporter Naomi Watts (pre-"Mulholland Drive") are standing in
for Guy Pearce and Russell Crowe, turning this into "El.A.
Confidential." And in the final act, Maas spins the film into the outer
limits of absurdity with a Michael Bay extravaganza of stunts and
explosions, throwing in some references to Osama bin Laden and
terrorism (pre-9/11!) for good measure. Save for Watts' lead role, most
of the big names on the video box (including Ron Perelman, Dan Hedaya,
Edward Herrmann, and Michael Ironside) are relegated to smaller 'guest
appearances' (though every little bit helps). Big names aside, the
premise is stretched so thin that you'll be hard-pressed to care about
anything by the time the noisy climax rolls around. "The Shaft" takes a
concept with genuine horror potential and transforms it into a bowl of
cold oatmeal.
<|_=00=_|>
Released in the US as The Shaft, this is Dick Maas remake of his own
striking debut. 1983's The Lift was a blackly comic chiller about a
skyscraper's lift that begins to take the lives of its occupants. This
beefed up version keeps the original premise intact, right down to the
odd bio-mechanical explanation, but takes place in New York City, pre-
9/11. Beginning with an extravagant pan through the Manhattan skyline
and onto the observation deck of the CG rendered Millennium Building,
Maas's film looks ever bit as stylish as its $15 million budget would
suggest. Given its blockbuster production values its easy to take this
absurd movie at face value, but those familiar with the original may
recognise that Maas is actually attempting deadpan parody. Slickly
directed in widescreen frame, Marc Felperlaan's cinematography
complements both the city (which was used only for exterior shots) and
the gorgeous art deco production design of the building itself. James
Marshall, as the rugged young hero, has something of Christian Slater,
Mark Whalberg or Josh Hartnett about him, while his love interest is
none other than Naomi Watts, who shortly after became a star in another
US-set remake of a foreign classic. In this and that other film she
plays a reporter investigating an absurd concept, here a killer lift,
there killer videotapes. They are supported by respectable cast of
character actors Michael Ironside, Edward Herrman, Ron Perlman and Dan
Hedaya. Kicking off the scene with the sounds of Aerosmith's Love in an
Elevator, an extravagant race takes place between two incredibly
skilled risk takers through New York traffic and into the basement
parking garage of the Millennium Building. One of the skaters is then
sucked into the lift, in an unexplained supernatural moment, only to be
thrown out from the top floor. Bold, inventive and darkly humorous,
this brief sequence, which has no dialogue or featured performers
present, displays Maas' talent with his rehashed material to the
greatest effect. This film was, unfortunately, somewhat prophetic and
is laced with unintended irony as a result. Released over two years
after the destructive assault on the World Trade Centre, it's not
difficult to see why. The very first shot shows us those twin towers,
which will forever provoke gasps of remembrance in whatever film they
appear, and soon we are in a similar building where horrifying acts are
occurring. This seems at first a rather tenuous reason to delay a
release, but then the moment arrives when the narrative enlists
comments from the fictional President, in which he expresses fear of
the occurrences as a terrorist act. This remake is something of a cross
between its inspirational text and the likes of high-rise horror's
Poltergeist 3 (Gary Sherman, 1988) and The Tower (Richard Kletter,
1993), and is certainly superior in the execution of its novel concept
than either The Mangler (Tobe Hooper, 1994) or sequels. The only thing
that really lets this film down is the bad language. The F-word is used
gratuitously and repeatedly throughout.
<|_=00=_|>

One of these "so-bad-it-is-good" movies. In the first half it's just
boring,
a badly done thriller. In the second the story (and acting and directing)
gets so ridiculous i was laughing my balls off. Watch out for a
"shocking"
scene in which a hand has an important role. That must be one of the most
creative scenes in film history. You'll know what I mean when you see
it.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a typical Dick Maas production. Cheesy to the max, limited plot,
laughable dialogue and comic action sequences.
Anyone who has seen anything by Maas will recognise these as his trademark
and just go with the flow.
I was dreading watching this movie from all the comments on IMDB but while
it is hardly a classic (it's pretty poor really), it IS very entertaining.
It's a real no brainer that passes the time quite nicely and while
artistically his original "De Lift" is a better movie, I found this one to
be more entertaining.
Score out of 10? 5/10 for the film itself, 7.5/10 for entertainment
value.
PS~ Forgot to mention the acting.... probably for the best
;-)
<|_=00=_|>
What can be said about this film? The character development is
flawless, the writing and directing on par with Citizen Kane, and
performances that leave one breathless. Particularly, Michael Ironside,
who follows up his performance in Starship Troopers with this
masterpiece. Not since his played the ruthless Richter in Total Recall
has Ironside left his audience so convinced of his villainy. Not to
mention Ron Perlman's heart warming defense of the elevator industry
which only leaves tears in ones eyes. Bravo to Dick Maas for conjuring
up such an original storyline that is clearly on par with other amazing
movies. Sidekicks, Top Dog, Jingle All the Way, all need to move over
and make way for as the number one film in all of our hearts. See this
movie and you will be left with a euphoria that is indescribable.
