
If you're a hard core movie fan, you learn to appreciate good "Bad
Movies." There are movies that go so far off the tracks in terms of one
or several essential features of film art -- casting, script, sets,
pacing, editing, lighting, coherence -- that there is no way that you
could, being honest, recommend them without qualifications to an
unsuspecting viewer.

Movies that go off the tracks in these essentials and offer no
redeeming features are just plain Bad Movies. You you make fun of them,
and then you forget about them.

But some Bad Movies offer, amidst the badness, unique moments of grace
and truth. You allow yourself to be sucked in, and you studiously
ignore or forgive all the screw-ups that went into making them "Bad
Movies." "Angel Eyes" is a *Good* Bad Movie.

Why Bad? Genre incoherence is the biggest problem here. "Angel Eyes"
was marketed as a supernatural thriller that offered spooky, scary
insights into fate, love, danger, and perhaps life after death. Ads,
and the first portion of the movie, hinted at a weird alternate
identity for one character. Was he a ghost? An angel? A devil? Would
"Angel Eyes" be another "Sixth Sense" or "Wings of Desire"? That's all
just smokescreen. I'm not revealing any spoilers by saying that no one
in the movie is a ghost, an angel, or a devil; that conceit from the
ads is jettisoned pretty quickly.

There is a subtext of fate, destiny, love and death, but that isn't
worked really hard, either. That whole subtext could have been skipped
and you'd still have pretty much the same movie.

The movie you get is a movie about traumatized people finding love and
rebirth. And that is one great theme.

Another problem with the movie is its misunderstanding of how quickly
people can recover from trauma. But, hey.

I say "but, hey," because this movie has a lot going for it, and it's
worth seeing for what it has going for it.

Jim Caviezel is an underrated actor. He's not wooden; he's subtle. It's
tragic that we've gotten to an era where audience's eyes can't
appreciate a quiet actor in the Gary Cooper mode.

Caviezel is a worthy inheritor of the Gary Cooper mantle. He's
stunningly handsome, has a big, gorgeous body -- he's a former
basketball player, and it shows -- and he possesses Cooper's quiet
masculine tenderness and humility.

All these qualities have allowed him to strike the perfect note of a
very male spirituality in a number of films, from "Frequency" to "Thin
Red Line" to "Pay It Forward" to "The Passion" to "Angel Eyes." In his
early scenes, when the movie doesn't want you to know quite what he's
about, he is perfect as a perhaps ghost-angel-devil-weirdo homeless
bum-savior.

He's equally good, later, as an entirely corporeal lover.

He plays a wounded man, and Caviezel has the gifts to convey his
character's inner pain. You believe that he cares as much as he does
about what wounded him; you believe that his wounds could have done to
him what the movie wants you to believe they did to him.

Jennifer Lopez is equally good. Face it -- Jennifer Lopez is a fine
actress. Yes, she appears on tabloid covers. Yes, she made "Gigli."
Yes, she poses in naughty clothes a lot. Yes, she is a Puerto Rican
from the Bronx.

And you know what? She's a fine actress. Don't let her non-silver-spoon
pedigree keep you from appreciating what she can do on screen.

Lopez is as good as a cop here as she was in the more celebrated film,
"Out of Sight." She's winning, charismatic, natural, and lovely to look
at. Even in a white t-shirt and navy blue cop uniform slacks, she is
beautiful.

Like Caviezel, Lopez plays a wounded character ready to be reborn by
love. She's equally as good as he, but she conveys her different wounds
in a different way. One wounded person retreats; another lashes out in
violence. It's interesting to see which party picks which method.

Sonia Braga is in this movie. Any movie with Sonia Braga in it can't be
all bad.

Victor Argo, in a very small part as a very flawed man, is JUST
PERFECT. 100% believable and heart-wrenching. I'll never forget his
moments locked in silent misery, a misery he causes and a misery he
feels.

Finally, there is a not-to-be-missed scene between an abused family
member and the abuser. A character speaks into a video camera at a
family reunion and ... the scene just took my breath away. At that
point I wanted to cry and surrender my full respect to the movie, in
spite of everything it had done wrong so far.

Don't let bad reviews prevent you from seeing this movie. Nothing's
perfect. There's enough heart and beauty here for the discerning viewer
to appreciate.
<|_=00=_|>
I stumbled on this film--because there was nothing obvious that made it
look like a film worth your time. It's a film with a lot of misplaced
evaluations. For instance, Jennifer Lopez was nominated for a "Razzie"
award but the film shows a very fine effort from the lady. Again some
comments on the photography infer the late cinematographer Piotr
Sobocinsky has done a shoddy job because obvious Toronto landmarks
appear in a film set in Chicago. This again is a fault of the Director
and editor, not the cameraman who was one of the finest in his business
(Kieslowski's "Dekalog" and "Three Colors--Red"). An intense viewing of
the film affords the viewer to appreciate the opening shots, the alley
shots, and the corridor shots that evoke feelings. It is quite
different from the typical Hollywood camera-work.

There are flaws in the film. The film jumps to situations without a
build up--Catch appears on a life saving situation, seemingly out of
nowhere; two beers appear on Catch's table in the restaurant, without
him ordering the second; no mention is made of why Catch chose this
name; etc.

Yet despite those faults the film sails through as fine entertainment
because of fine believable performances from Caviezel, Lopez, Sonia
Braga, and Shirley Knight. The casting of these four was perfect (thank
you Lopez for insisting on Caviezel!). The film is great entertainment
because the film refrains from sex and promotes fine values--including
family values, reconciliation, dealing with bereavement and doing good
to make a better world. How many films are brave enough to deal with
such subjects today without depicting sex and violence?

The film touches on subplots that could have been fleshed out--Catch's
lonely neighbor who invites him share a pizza, Catch's friend who
recognizes him at the restaurant but Director Mandoki clearly steers
clear to present the two psychologically wounded persons and their
healing by coming together through a sheer accident. The film may be
very Christian in character but it presents a very secular, humane
scenario that will uplift any viewer. Though unevenly woven, the film
has several sequences that show Mandoki has fine capabilities. One only
wishes he took greater care of details.

Flaws apart, the film is above average cinema that the publicity has
shrouded by misplaced evaluations.
<|_=00=_|>

ANGEL EYES / (2001) *** (out of four)

By Blake French:

	Luis Mandoki's "Angel Eyes" begins as a melodramatic tragedy that feels as
if it's missing something. Its centerpiece is a love story between an
unlikely couple who save each other's lives under different circumstances.
At first, the film plays with interesting ideas about fate, love, destiny,
mystery, and the past, but does so with stunning blandness. The male lead,
James Caviezel, plays Catch, a mysterious character with an absorbing,
revealing past. But his inceptive existence switches back and forth between
two negative impressions: Catch is either a balmy character, or Caviezel
delivers a boring, uninteresting performance. To my pleasant surprise,
however, by the time the movie reaches its emotionally effective climax, it
proves these original perceptions to be wrong.  

	Jennifer Lopez stars as a tough Chicago cop named Sharon Pogue. She patrols
the crime-ridden South Side of Chicago with her police buddies, including
her partner and friend Robby (Terrence Dashon Howard). In the same
neighborhood lives Catch-who sleeps in an empty apartment and delivers
goodwill to many around him. He wanders around the area as if he is in some
kind of existential daze, thus some believe him to be a lunatic, but for
most, he appears to be a peculiar but harmless figure.

	Both of these characters have undergone deep emotional struggles. The vast
majority of the conflict in "Angel Eyes" lies inside the characters. I do
not want to give away any of the movie. Therefore, I must be terse in my
explanation. Experiencing violence early in her childhood, Sharon has taken
a stand against her father's abusive ways and is still paying the price; her
entire family disowned her. However, her parents have invited Sharon to an
upcoming marriage celebration. Should she attend, forcing her to come to
terms with inner demons and face her father for the first time in years?

	"Angel Eyes" provides no easy answers for its characters. Sharon's private
and public lives are well developed and intriguing. The film gives her a lot
of dimension-I especially like her family related aspects. I will not reveal
any more information about Catch; based on the advertisements, his different
people will have different expectations of his identity. By explaining
anymore about him, I risk giving away a large portion of the movie. Although
the film does not contain startling identity twists or surprising ninety
degree turns, it is very deliberate about what information is revealed at
what time-thus the lack of information in the beginning. "Angel Eyes"
deserves to reveal itself on a full scale, rather than me giving its plot
away right here and now.  

Luis Mandoki has a certain knack with directing love stories that disclose
their plot at the perfect moment. In 1999, his film "Message in a Bottle"
examined another troubled soul coming to terms with his future. He does the
same kind of thing with "Angel Eyes." "He's keeping a lid on his demons as
Sharon does with hers, explains Mandoki about the character's behaviors.
"It's only when they fall in love and then risk losing that love that they
are forced to examine who they really are, present and
past."

	Screenwriter Gerald DiPego creates character's who connect with the
audience. The story is about "the conflict between isolation and
connection," says DiPego. "We become isolated because we're afraid of
opening up to each other, especially these days. On the other hand, there's
a longing inside of us to connect. I think our salvation lies in keeping
connected." 

	As "Angel Eyes" concludes, each of the two character's has come to terms
with their troubles and past. What they discover, I will leave up to you to
find out. This is an uncommonly absorbing picture because we believe these
characters live in our world, not in face their most private and deepest
fears, and, although nothing is truly solved by the end of the movie, for
Sharon and Catch, for better or worse, their problems become a different,
more fulfilling internal battle. some movie fantasy. So often movies end
with a fluffy, soft attitude for their characters-but not in "Angel
Eyes."
 

<|_=00=_|>

This movie was put out as a thriller on the commercials, making it seem
like
the premise is about a cop who meets a guy who turns out to be a serial
killer. When in fact, this movie is a great love story. Jennifer Lopez
plays
Sharon Pogue, a tough female police officer, who is still recovering from
an
abusive childhood. Apparently when she was seventeen, she called the cops
and got her father (Victor Argo) arrested after he beat her mom (Sonia
Braga) up. She hasn't been in contact with her family since then; until
now,
when the family reluctantly invites her to a ceremony renewing her parents
vows. The there is Catch Lambart, played by Jim Caviezal. He is a wanderer
who lives in an apartment equipped with about three items - a bed, a light,
and a table. Catch never smiles; however, he does walk around looking for
good deeds to do. The two emotionally torn people meet when Catch tackles
Sharon's assassin who is seeking vengeance of the death of his brother. The
two quickly fall in love. But now Sharon wants to know about Catch's past,
which he wont say a word about. And basically the rest of the movie is
about
the Sharon trying tragicly dealing with her abusive childhood, Sharon
trying
to find out more about Catch, and Catch knocking down the wall he built
around his past.
I can honestly say that Jennifer Lopez delivers one of her best
performances
surrounded by the character of Karen Sisco in "Out of Sight", and her
should-have-won-an-oscar performance in "Selena". Jim Caviezal also did a
great job, keeping it "real". But Jennifer Lopez is the major power-hitter
in this movie. Jennifer never had to belch an emotion out, it was natural
for her. Guys, ask a girl on a date and GO SEE THIS MOVIE!!!
<|_=00=_|>

So let me set the scene here, I was in a motel, in the middle of nowhere,
and was flicking through the channels of the limited cable that the motel
offered... I spotted Jim Caveizel (or however on earth you spell his name)
and put down the remote as he is an actor that I admire and respect.  Of
course JLo then came into the scene and my instinct was to pick up the
remote and flick the channel but I didn't and I am glad that I made that
decision.  Not being a fan of JLo I have never seen Angel Eyes and had no
reason to seek it out either on video or on the TV but hell when you are in
a motel with limited cable options you don't have alot of choice right? 
Nevertheless, I was thoroughly delighted that I left the remote where it was
and watched this movie because in the end I loved it.  I loved it more for
the subtle points than the big "hollywood this is a romance you better weep
points."  "Hang up and I'll call your machine" in this day and age how
relevant is that? how many people (if they would be honest) would much
rather talk to a machine than the person because it is impersonal and they
can save face?  The teeny tiny aspect of him playing the notes of the
trumpet on her back as they were dancing... okay so I am married to a
musician so that resonates with me but it spoke volumes, no matter how much
he had tried to block it out, his soul was still there, and in his soul was
his music.  I thought both leads played their roles with skill and
conviction.  I was never quite sure (until the end of course) if Catch was a
good guy or a bad guy, and I liked the fact that it kept me guessing.  As I
said I am not a JLo fan, in fact I could be described as quite the opposite
but in this movie she played her part beautifully, with conviction and
totally believably.  Jim Caveizel as always was understated, calm and played
his role with a sympathy that is rare to see.   Loved this movie, and cannot
wait to see it again.  I will agree with everyone however about the
advertising hype that surrounded it, they ended up portraying it as a
psychological thriller, if they had stayed true to the story and advertized
it for what it was, a beautiful romance, I think it would not have died as
it did.  Shame on the publicity people for burying such a fine film. 

<|_=00=_|>

Jennifer Lopez did a great job of acting along with a strong script that
probed into a good topic for thought.  The action/mystery was a revealing
approach to a somewhat predictable plot but was carried on with such
intensity and emotion that it made tears from the audience.  I really
enjoyed what became a romantic movie that held substantive quality above
simplified action thrills and special effects to deal with family
relationships and the horror of loss and the liberation of
love.
<|_=00=_|>

Do you remember the previews for Angel Eyes? Many of us don't. What few of
us remember is a 30 second preview that ran only a handful of times that
showed Jennifer Lopez as a female cop. That was it. Na drama, no emotion,
the previews told the audience a story about a female police officer,
nothing else.
This is probably the biggest reason why nobody went to see this movie when
it went to the cinema. Only when it hit the video stores, did people start
wo watch.
A beautiful film, Angel Eyes is a romance. Dealing with redemption, it deals
with many degrees of love and hope. In fact, many people detail Jennifer
Lopez as "Angel Eyes." This is not true. Take a deeper look and you will see
that James Caviezel is the true Angel Eyes. 
<|_=00=_|>

This was a truly touching film, and an excellent performance by both
Caviezel and Lopez. My view of Lopez has gone up a lot since seeing this
film. It made me cry, which is a rare occurrence when I watch movies. The
scene with Catch at his family's grave was just beautiful, the words were
right from the heart straight to mine. Caviezel should do more films like
this.
<|_=00=_|>
I have to admit two things, one is that I'm not a big Jennifer Lopez
fan. Secondly, she's very good in this film. The film opens at the
scene of a car accident and a female police officer (Lopez) is telling
the survivor who is all banged up that everything will be okay and to
look at her. Then the film shifts to a year later and Officer Sharon
Pogue is a Chicago cop who doesn't relate well to others except other
cops and hates the whole dating process. While in a diner with her
fellow officers she notices a man (James Caviezel) across the street
looking at her and then suddenly a car drives by and starts shooting
the place up. Sharon takes chase after the car crashes and chases a
youth down into a secluded area when she is ambushed and the youth gets
her gun and is ready to kill her when out of the blue the man who was
staring comes out and saves her.

*****SPOILER ALERT*****

Later in a bar she meets him again and talks to him. She asks him his
name and all he says is "Catch". She's intrigued by him and he says he
likes her but he says very little about himself. He wanders the streets
a lot and also helps a handicapped woman named Elanora (Shirley Knight)
with groceries. Meanwhile, Sharon has family trouble and her parents
(Sonia Braga and Victor Argo) are going to renew their vows and she's
not sure if she should go. When she was a young girl she called the
police on her abusive father when he was beating her mother and after
all these years he still has not forgiven her.

This film was directed by Luis Mandoki who also has shown in earlier
efforts that he has a good flair for portraying relationships with
believable emotional attachments. The problem is the area of the story
surrounding Catch. We know right from the get-go who he is and what
he's hiding. The film goes just a tad too long and of course there is
an upbeat ending. I think it would have been totally appropriate to
have a more open ending with some questions on the future of the
characters. But the film is enhanced by a very good performance by
Lopez. Not only is she believable as a tough cop but we can understand
her emotional problems dealing with others. Its a performance that
rings true and reminded me of why so many people are intrigued by her.
Her character is the core of the film (not Catch) and she does a
terrific job of balancing her emotions between the tough cop and the
lonely and vulnerable woman. This isn't a great film by any stretch of
the imagination but it is an underrated one. One of Lopez's shining
moments.
<|_=00=_|>
Surprisingly moving film with Lopez proving she is more than just her
looks for a change. It's an early chance to see the guy who was later
to play Jesus Caveziel. The director creates a touching scene when they
are at the relative's graveside. Lopez plays a woman alone in Chicagio
with no real friends until the shy man (Cavaziel) comes into it. They
form a rapport over their shared insomnia. They start a disastrous
relationship as it is afflicted with a cat and mouse game with both
playing hot and cold. Because of their isolation and loneliness, the
film is concerned with the need with forgiveness of self and others,
reconciliation and redemption through a relationship. This is
demonstrated through Cavaziel's previous secret life which he is
running away from like the Lopez character. I can recommend this movie
as I really enjoyed an intelligent and psychological work that had the
courage to direct Lopez in something more challenging than popcorn
liked Anaconda. Prior to this the most convincing thing I'd seen her in
was in a couple of sketches by the actor Stephen Armourae and that was
just pencil, paper and pastel. I hope she continues to be cast in these
more demanding roles.
