

This movie could be an excellent film, having a great cast and budget,
photography and soundtrack, but it does not work well. Why? Because of the
confused screenplay and a terrible and even pretentious direction. There are
two stories, one of them excellent. In 1873, two women are ax murdered in an
isolated island in New Hampshire. A man is accused of the crime by the
survival, Maren Hontvedt (Sarah Polley), and condemned to be hanged. This
story, presented through flashbacks, is wonderful, with an outstanding
performance of Sarah Polley. In the present days, the newspaper photographer
Jean Janes (Catherine McCormack) is researching this murder. She is married
with the famous writer Thomas Janes (Sean Penn), and she convinces her
brother-in-law Rich Janes (Josh Lucas) to sail to the island in his yacht.
Rich brings his girlfriend Adaline Gunne (the delicious Elizabeth Hurley),
who is a fan of Thomas and tries to seduce him, playing erotic games. This
story is totally confused, spinning and never reaching a point. The
intention of the director was to have a parallel narrative, linked by common
points. But in practice, it becomes a mess, with unresolved situations and
characters not well developed. In the end, I felt sorrow for such a waste of
a talented cast. My vote is five.

Title (Brazil): `O Peso da Água' (`The Weight of the Water')


<|_=00=_|>

In its basic structure and format, `The Weight of Water' is very similar
to
the far more impressive film `Possession' from 2002.  In both movies, we
get
two different stories running simultaneously: one, a mystery set in the
past, and, the other, a personal drama located in the present, involving a
group of characters reflecting on and trying to make sense of the events
that took place a century or so earlier.

The story-within-a-story in `The Weight of Water' is a true-life account
of
a brutal double murder that took place on a remote island off the coast of
New Hampshire in the 1870's.  Two out of the three women who were on the
island that fateful night fell victim to the murderer, with the third
escaping and fingering a man - a former boarder - as the culprit.  The man
was convicted and hanged for the offense, yet, more than a century later,
a
shadow of doubt hangs over the verdict.  One of the modern-day doubters is
Jean Janes, a photographer who ventures to the island to do a shoot of the
location, only to find herself strangely obsessed with uncovering the
truth
about the case.  Accompanying her on her quest are her husband, Thomas, a
celebrated poet; Rich, his handsome brother whose boat they use to get to
the island; and Adaline, the latter's gorgeous girlfriend who also happens
to be a devotee of Thomas' literary work and a bit of a `groupie,' as it
turns out, in both tone and temperament, attaching herself rather
obviously
to the talented young bard, despite the fact that his observant wife is on
the boat with them.  As in `Possession,' the filmmakers in this film -
screenwriters Alice Arlen and Christopher Kyle and director Kate Bigelow -
shift constantly between the past and the present, allowing us to piece
together the clues as to what really happened on that island over 130
years
ago, and, at the same time, to examine the strained relationships among
those contemporary figures looking for the answers.

The problem with `The Weight of Water' - as it is in many films with this
dual-narrative structure - is that one story almost inevitably ends up
dominating over the other.  Certainly, both tales seem to want to make the
same unified point:  that love and passion are often such overwhelming
forces in our lives that they can end up destroying us in the process.
How
often do luck, fate, personal demons or societal pressure force us to
compromise those elemental passions raging within our hearts, leading us,
ultimately, to all the wrong choices and wrong partners that we end up
having to live with for the rest of our lives?  This is certainly the case
in the part of the story set in the past where loneliness, regret, even
incest and lesbianism play a crucial part in what happens to the
characters.
We can understand what motivates these individuals to do what they do,
since their hungers, needs and intentions are cleanly laid out and clearly
defined.

The same, unfortunately, cannot be said for the outer story set in the
present.  These characters lack the necessary delineation to make us truly
understand where they are coming from or to make us care where they are
going.  Catherine McCormack does a superb job as Jean, capturing the
fears,
jealousies and anxieties of this insecure modern woman, but the screenplay
doesn't let us into her mind enough to show us what is really going on
beneath the surface.  We know that she is unhappy in her marriage, but we
never really get to know why.  The situation is not helped one bit by Sean
Pean who barely registers an emotion in the crucial role of Jean's
husband.
Apart from the fact that he seems to be brooding all the time, we never
get
the sense that Thomas could really be the world-class poet we are told he
is.  As Adaline, Josh's tawny-haired girlfriend, Hurley looks great in her
bikini, of course, but the character is little more than the stereotypical
temptress placed there by the writers to serve as a source of strain and
tension on the marriage.  The movie also builds to a mini- `Perfect
Storm'-type climax that seems forced, phony, arbitrary and all too
convenient and, worst of all, fails to make the connection between the two
narratives clear and comprehensible.  The final scenes seem strained at
best, as the authors attempt to bring all the disparate elements
together -
but to no real avail.   The fact is that the filmmakers never make their
case as to why we should find any kind of meaningful parallels between the
characters and events in the two stories.  The characters in the past are
obviously hemmed in by the repressive society in which they live so we
give
them a little leeway and offer them our sympathy; the characters in the
present, with so many more options open to them, just come across as
whiney
and self-pitying and we find ourselves growing more and more impatient
with
them (all except Jean, that is) as the story rolls along.

`The Weight of Water' wants to be an important and meaningful film, but
only
one half of its story truly earns those adjectives.


<|_=00=_|>
The problem with "The Weight of the Water", the film, is the way the
novel by Anita Shreve, was adapted for the screen. This is the basic
flaw that even a good director like Kathryn Bigelow couldn't overcome
when she took command of the production. The novel, as it is, presents
grave problems for a screen treatment, something that the adapters,
Alicia Arlen and Christopher Kyle, were not successful with their
screen play.

The picture is basically a film within a film. Both subjects, the
present time and the story that is revealed as Jane gets involved,
parallel each other, but one story has nothing to do with the other.
Also, the way this film was marketed was wrong. This is not a thriller
at all. What the book and the film are about is human situations that
are put to a test.

In the story that happened many years ago in a settlement in coastal
New England, there was a notorious murder at the center of the
narrative. It has to do with a wrongly accused man, Louis Wagner, a man
that is basically crippled with arthritis that is accused by Maren
Hontvelt, his landlady, as the one that killed two women, Karen and
Anethe. In flashbacks we get to know the truth of how an innocent man
is hung for a crime he didn't commit.

The second story shows how Jane who is traveling with her husband
Thomas, in his brother's yacht. She is a photographer on assignment
about the place where the women were murdered, years ago, is lured to
the subject matter she is photographing, and makes the discovery of the
truth. Her own relationship with her husband Thomas is a troubled one.
They are doomed as a couple, one can only see the way he leers after
his brother's girlfriend as she parades almost naked in the pleasure
boat they are spending time. In the novel the tension comes across much
deeply than what one sees in the movie.

The amusing thing about the film is that the secondary story is more
interesting than the present one. Thus, the luminous Sarah Polley, who
plays Maren in the secondary tale, makes a deep impression, as does the
accused man, Louis Wagner, who is portrayed by Ciaran Hands. Sean Penn,
comes across as somehow stiff as Thomas. The wonderful Katrin Cartlidge
is totally wasted.

The film has elicited bad comments in this forum, but it's not the bad
movie some people are trying to say it is. Better yet, read Ms.
Shreve's novel as it is more satisfying than what came out in this
movie version.
<|_=00=_|>

"The Weight of Water" (interestingly obscure title, isn't it?) is not a
masterpiece, and sometimes seems to be striving for a "greater meaning" that
simply isn't there. However, that's no excuse for its excessively poor
critical reception. Yes, the "seduction" part of the present story is a bit
cliched, and the story of the past goes pretty much where you expect it
(after a point) to go. In spite of all that, the film is able to get by on
the strength of Kathryn Bigelow's direction, which is, in a word,
impeccable. Every single shot is meticulously planned and - when it has to
be - visually beautiful. Bigelow has already proved that she is a master of
her craft when it comes to directing high-energy action sequences; here she
proves that she is equally adept at subtlety. There are facial expressions,
small gestures and glances that speak volumes in this movie. Of course part
of the credit for that has to go to the cast, which is mostly superb (with
the notable exception of Elizabeth Harley); Catherine McCormack and Sarah
Polley are the best, each one holds her own story together perfectly. The
film also has stunning photography and a beautiful music score.   
(**1/2)
<|_=00=_|>
It's pretty slow, ponderous, portentous, and moody. It's also
confusing, partly because the cuts back and forth between the current
and past stories take place at awkward times and partly because the
editing of the modern climax leaves me in doubt about exactly what the
heck HAPPENED and in fact, even who SURVIVED.

I've always kind of enjoyed Katheryn Bigelow's work. It's commercial,
but man does she have an eye for the camera. In "Blue Steel" the lens
lingers lovingly over a pistol's contours as if the two objects wanted
to get it on.

But here, well, I can't help wondering if she overdosed on a full
sleepless weekend of Ingmar Bergman.

The historic part first. I liked it. It reminded me a little of
"Babette's Feast." The life is one of hard work and infrequent bare
wooden pleasures. Bigelow does a splendid job of visualizing this
nearly joyless existence and the acting is unimpeachable on the part of
everyone concerned, especially Sarah Polley who is given a pinched
wind-reddened face and a delivery that never deviates from the tone of
a casual remark. She is what is known as repressed. It's like watching
a boil grow as her emotions simmer. As in a Bergman film there's a lot
of sex around here. Not just ordinary marital bliss, which never seems
much fun, but homosexual and incestuous too. The final confrontation
between the three women has Polley sitting in a bed with her
sister-in-law and being accused of corrupting her. I can't get over the
way Bigelow and Polley handle this important scene. Polley, previously
the epitome of emotional restraint, glares at her accuser from under
her tousled blonde hair, her blue eyes now big and blazing with anger,
lighted from above so that they seem to glow from within the shadow of
her brows. Finally Polley's character seems fully alive although mad.
The story is a success in almost every respect, and much of it is due
to Polley's extraordinary performance.

Then there is the modern story of four amateur sailors come to
investigate this century-old murder case. There's a lot of sex in this
part too. Well -- let's face facts. With Elizabeth Hurley in a major
role, you get sex whether you want it or not. What a succulent morsel!
Not that I mean to knock her and her beckoning lisp. She's never
delivered a better dramatic performance. Catherine McCormack has a
better, more complex role, and she delivers too. She doesn't exude
sexuality the way Hurley does but her beauty is more subtle and more
enduring, the kind of woman you must get to know to appreciate. 

Sean Penn is unconvincing as a lapsed poet. The other guy seems a nice
enough fellow but I'm not sure why he's around except maybe to
introduce a fourth character on whom suspicions can be cast. 

This is a plot in which people sit around ogling one another and
intuiting so many things about the other characters, without actually
voicing them, that it's enough to make Henry James twitch in his grave.
Somehow -- I'm just guessing at this -- McCormack identifies with the
repressed Polley. When Penn approaches McCormack in the deserted
library stacks and tries to make love to her up against the tomes, she
balks and says, "I can't do this." I suppose this is to be taken as
repression rather than just a lack of desire to perform this kind of
acrobatic pas de deux while standing up. (Penn may be a poet but he's
no gentleman.)

There's also the evidence of identification provided by McCormack's
drowning hallucinations about coming face to face with Polley's smiling
corpse underwater. But that's about the only parallel I can see, if in
fact it exists. It would have been easier to follow if McCormack had
bopped Hurley over the head and flung the slut overboard, but that
isn't what happens. 

The score is as moody as the picture. Lots of cello leads in the
orchestration, although not Bach, as in that Bergman movie about sin
and guilt and incestuous sex among family members on an isolated
island. Nobody can criticize the photography though. In these
latitudes, even in midsummer, the sun is never high in the sky but the
weather is usually clear and windy, or at least it was during the
summer I spent in Digby. It's a truly beautiful climate and it's
thrilling to see it so well captured on screen.

If you're caught in a storm offshore in a sailboat and lose your
engine, can't you throw over a bow anchor and ride it out? Or, failing
that, a drogue? I don't know. But then there are a lot of things about
this movie that I didn't get.
<|_=00=_|>

When a movie gets itself over certain hurdles, establishing
believability, mainly, and creating audience sympathy with/for one or
more characters-- I am willing to silence my nagging inner critic, who
is perhaps a thwarted pleasure principle raising its head to be fed.

Sarah Polley makes this film. Her acting was excellent, but I found
myself, at first, most delighted by her "Norweigan" accent. As the
movie went on, I got addicted to that accent, which for me had become
integral to her performance. She, not Hurley, not Penn, was the
centerpiece of this movie. But everyone was good, and the two story
lines came together at the end satisfyingly. 

Until I looked Sarah Polley up on IMDb I didn't realize how "busy"
she's been (and will be). Also a writer and director ...

<|_=00=_|>

In spite of it's convoluted plot, there is much to admire about this
picture, particularly the sexual tension it exudes.  The contemporary story
is derivative of Polanski's brilliant KNIFE IN THE WATER, while the
flashback story is ripe with atmosphere and an ominous mood that overwhelms
the rest of the picture and sustains the whole movie.  The ensemble
performances are first rate, slightly uneven at times, but generally
committed.  Elizabeth Hurley is appropriately sexy in her bit, and no less
interesting than anyone else, despite what you might expect.  This is a
rather somber, mood piece from Bigelow, whose reputation as a keen director
of action movies is only briefly apparent in this subdued thriller.  Well
worth a look.
<|_=00=_|>

I had the good fortune to read a number of reviews and user comments before
I saw "Weight of Water", so I modified my viewing technique. On DVD, and
using the fast forward feature, first I watched only the 1873 part of the
movie, starring Sarah Polley. That took about an hour and 15 minutes, and
was an excellent presentation of the story. Then I watched the modern part
of the movie, where two couples are going back to the site of the 1873
tragedy, to photograph it. In the process they also ended up doing some
research in the county archives. Elizabeth Hurley finds time to do some
topless sunbathing on the boat.  Watched that way, the old story followed by
the modern story, was very interesting.

SPOILERS, for my recollection, please read no further. Although not revealed
in chronological order, Polley plays a Norwegian woman who was in love with
her younger brother and had had an incestuous affair with him, so her father
married her off to a man who took her with him to fish off the coast of New
England. She never forgets about her brother, doesn't love her husband, is
excited when she hears brother is coming to visit, is hurt when he shows up
with a young wife. While the men are overnight on the mainland, older
spinster sister catches Polley and the young wife asleep together in a
romantic setting, tells about the incest, young wife is hysterical, Polley
beats then strangles her sister, goes outside and uses an axe to kill the
young wife, drags her in, falsely blames German boarder who had made passes
at them, the German is convicted in a trial, is hanged, Polley goes to
authorities two years later and admits what she had done, but the prosecutor
suppressed this, can't undo the hanging, the account is found in modern
times during the other half of the movie.

MORE SPOILERS -- the modern half of the movie has two brothers, a wife of
one, a girlfriend of the other, all on a sailboat. We learn married brother
(Penn) is having an affair with girlfriend (Liz Hurley) of his brother
(Lucas). Things are complicated, the wife begins to believe the 1873 story
did not happen as written, that the wife really was the killer, and they
find papers in the county archives. Weather turns nasty, Hurley falls in
water, Penn jumps in with a rope to save her, which he does, but drowns in
the process. The modern story was nowhere as interesting as the 1873 story,
and apparently only existed to (1) provide a modern explanation of the old
story and (2) to make the movie more than 60 minutes. But Liz Hurley does
look good when sunbathing topless!
<|_=00=_|>

I like Kathryn Bigelow as a director and she can direct any type of film no
matter how technically challenging but their was something really lacking in
this film. I'm not sure what it is but my guess is its imagination. Their is
nothing special about this story. The film is about two stories. One a true
story about two women that were murdered at the Isles of Shoal in New
Hampshire in 1873. The other takes place in contemporary times and its about
a writer named Thomas Janes (Sean Penn) and his photographer wife Jean
(Catherine McCormack) who are going to spend time on a chartered yacht with
his brother Rich (Josh Lucas) and his sexy girlfriend Adaline (Elizabeth
Hurley). While on the yacht they visit the the actual murder area and Jean
starts to read actual letters and transcripts about the case and thinks that
the man Wagner (Ciaran Hinds) who was hanged for the murder is actually
innocent. The film goes back and forth telling both stories and the first
has a woman named Maren (Sarah Polley) who is married but doesn't love her
husband. One day her brother comes to visit with his new wife and this makes
Maren upset. She is in love with her own brother and they share an
incestuous past! The second story has Thomas jealous of his brother and
jealous of his wife but still can't help but to stare and flirt with
Adaline. The editing in the film tries to intercut both stories but the
rhythm and flow seem uneven. The film tries very hard to make us think that
both of these stories have a connection between them. But except for the
obvious that its about trying to make amends for the past, their really is
no hardcore evidence that they are connected. The film looks good, both of
them! Bigelow knows how her films should look and she should be commended.
Both stories have a very different look and feel and obviously a lot of time
was spent on each story. The performances are pretty good especially Polley
as Maren. She gives the type of performance that should send out a signal to
all studios that she's a solid actress and should be considered for larger
roles. Penn also is good as the writer with problems from his past and
McCormack is exceptional. She really carries the film and her jealousy and
boredom are very evident and understandable for her character. Some have
said that Hurley is nothing more than eye candy for the film but I disagree.
The film needed an actress that could make us believe that Penn's character
would be tempted to stray from his wife and Hurley is so exceptionally
beautiful. As she lies in her skimpy bikini or parades topless its hard to
not believe that any male wouldn't flirt, even a little bit! But the film
lacks any real passion or imagination. The storm at the end of the film
seems so forced like its there as just an excuse to set up certain events.
It just didn't ring true. When the filmmakers decided they were going to go
ahead with this picture, what did they think the point of the film was? It
seems both murky and a little contrived. Some real talented individuals were
involved in this film but the core of the story seems very
hollow.
<|_=00=_|>

Clever script, clever acting, especially by the late Katrin Cartlidge.
This
is about a history murder case. Who did the axe killing? The supposed one
or
the certainly unsupposed?

There are two parallel plots here, the murder case and the case of those
who
are examining the case 130 years later. In many (emotional) ways the two
plots are really the same. The murder case takes over the souls of the
investigators.

You get confused and found out quite many things after leaving the movie
house. That's typical for a good thriller.      
