

Jon Favreau's 'proper' follow-up to 96's 'Swingers' see's him as part of a
double-act with Vince Vaughn. The whole film is based around this
double-act, and the various banter that passes between them - mostly
ricocheting from Vaughn's outrageously outlandish interactions with everyone
he meets, and Favreau's handling of the ensuing situation.

At times this makes for extremely funny entertainment, at other times
however it makes for extermely cringe-inducing entertainment. Your not quite
sure whether to love Vaughn's antics, or want him dead. Your also left
wondering exactly WHAT Vaughn's character helped Favreau's out with in their
younger days in order for Favreau to have such as deeply-routed tolerance
and understanding for the man.... personally, I would have gotten rid of him
years ago.

The story itself takes a backseat because of Vaughn's antics, which is a
shame, cause there's some really juicy material in there. I would have loved
to see more development between Favreau and his girlfriend, played by Famke
Jansen, and also Jansen's daughter. Peter Falk (yes, 'Columbo') is
absolutely brilliant as Max, the ageing boss, fully believable and a
fully-realised characterisation.

Overall the film fit's together extremely well - the pace is fast, and you
do get caught up in it... even during Vaughn's most cringe-worthy moments.
Basically if you like 'Swingers' or general crime-capers, you'll love
'Made'.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a much darker comedy than the breakthrough hit, "Swingers", to
compare the two would be useless.  The dialogue and chemistry between
Favreau and Vaughn, though, is still at it's comedic best.  Since Favs was
directing this flick, he let Vince go all out on his character Ricky.  The
two longtime friends go to New York to do a mob job with little experience
on how to do any kind of job.  They, needless to say, get themselves into
quite a bit of trouble along the way.
The entire movie itself is hilarious, there is quite a bit of profanity
and a strip scene at the beginning, but if you can handle that, you should
enjoy yourself thoroughly.  If it were up to me, Vaughn and Favreau would
make a movie together once every other year.  The chemistry is so money,
baby.
<|_=00=_|>

All I have to say is I saw Made Saturday nite and it was hilarious.  I great
follow up to Swingers, but please do not expect the same movie.  This is a
different kind of flick, somewhat of a send up of the old crime/mobster
movies.  Favreau and Vaughn (especially Vaughn) are in top form, the two
have a great chemistry and are a wonderful on screen comedy pair.  As a New
Yorker I especially liked the fact that this is a New York picture where as
Swingers was a West Coast pict.  Locales all across the city are used to
tell a great tale (indeed one of the funniest scenes in the movie took place
right outside the movie theatre).  Also, big praise to Peter Falk (perhaps
this is an Oscar worthy supporting actor role) who provides many humorous
comments and gets the comedy rolling.  And P Diddy, Sean Combs... I was
ready to hate him, but a funny thing happened, he is excellent in his role
as a NYC crime big.  Funny movie, funny lines, funny moments. Definitely go
seee it - a great follow up to Swingers.
<|_=00=_|>

MADE writer, director, and co-producer Jon Favreau did a good job with this
film in that the movie was shot in twenty-six days. That is a very short
amount of time in making a movie.  With a low budget, Jon Favreau and Vince
Vaughn steal the show as two would-be boxers that are hired by a mob
figure(Peter Falk) to settle business with another boss in New York City.
Bobby(Favreau) and Ricky(Vaughn) dont know what is in store for them when
they are confronted with the "real mob."
Vince Vaughn is hilarious in this movie in that he tries to act like a
typical mafia figure with money, women, and a rich lifestyle.  He fails
miserably in his attempts which backfire on him and Bobby completely.  I
remember seeing Jon Favreau as Sean Astin's best friend at Notre Dame in
the
movie RUDY, and as Cameron Diaz' husband in VERY BAD THINGS.  I enjoy the
work he does and RUDY is one of my personal favorites so that probably has
something to do with why I like his work.
I thought this movie was well worth watching although there is one thing i
didnt like.  The fact that Sean "P. Diddy" Combs was given the role of a
mob
boss didnt take to me very well.  He should just stick to rapping and bag
the acting.  Other than that, I enjoyed watching MADE, especially Vince
Vaughn's constant humor.

<|_=00=_|>

I can't believe anyone could have seriously enjoyed this movie. This was no
doubt one of the worst movies of the year. Vaughan's character couldn't
have
been any more annoying ! And Favreau was pretty much the same character he
is in everything else I've seen him in. Sure, I loved Swingers too, but
Vaughan and Favreau are one-role actors, always playing pretty much the
same
guys. I'm tired of them already. If you want to waste some more money go
see
Vaughan's new timewaster " The Prime Gig ". He's a little less annoying,
but
the movie is equally boring.
<|_=00=_|>

I tried not to have many pre-conceived notions about 'Made' before renting
it. Then again, having Favreau/Vaughn together again will always conjure up
thoughts of T & Mikey. Swingers may well haunt Favreau for the rest of his
career. He alluded to that with his guest shot on 'The Sopranos'. It was a
special movie, an instant classic which would be hard to top for any writer.
'Made' certainly tries to follow suit with the writing style but it falls
flat. Vaughn (Ricky) plays a character who talks exactly like Trent but is
more of a lunatic loser who's dream is to give up boxing to be a mob guy.
Favreau (Bobby) is the level-headed friend who vouches for him while getting
an assignment from his boss (Falk). All he wants is to get some $ so he can
make better life for his stripper girlfriend & her child. Basically from
there it splinters off into Ricky & Bobby trying to take care of 'the drop'
in NYC for the boss (Falk). Ricky's "Goodfellas-like" mentality is causing
headaches for Bobby who just wants to take care of business. I thought Sean
Combs did a fine job playing himself essentially (a ganster living the high
life). Yes, there are some funny lines but overall the movie is just too
sloppy.  It feels like a low budget flick, the camera work is not very good
and the film takes no risks. Characters were not developed & the ending
tries to be all sweet but I don't think enough was done to set that up.
There were just too many missing ingredients. If Vaughn & Favreau want to do
future films together maybe bring Doug Liman into direct it. He did a
marvelous job with Swingers and maybe they could recapture some magic. It
sure was missing in 'Made'.

Rating 6/10
<|_=00=_|>

Made Poorly

Spoilers herein.

`Swingers' was ambitiously clever. Flawed but showed some awareness of
itself.

Now along comes what is advertised as chapter 2. But this time one of the
duo directs. Big mistake. Actors just have a different set of sensibilities
and concerns than filmmakers. Filmmakers need to worry about the delivery of
a narrative that inserts itself into your soul/ They're composers. Actors
are single instruments.

So what we have here is just a loosely connected collection of skits,
engineered to allow Vaughn to embarrass. We are given the Falk character as
surrogate to tut-tut about the dope. That's pretty thin justification for
capturing us.

Nothing clever or rewarding here, folks. That's even stranger when you
consider they sought out Christopher Doyle, the man who put new life into
cinematography with Kar-wai Wong. His eye is subdued here; I guess he just
couldn't find an educated mind to attach his educated eye
to.

Famke is redhead here, sorta. I'm beginning to appreciate how redheads are
used in film, usually without thinking. Here, she is a sexy loser, even to
the point of giving away her child.

Ted's evaluation: 1 of 4 -- You can probably find something better to do
with this part of your life.
<|_=00=_|>

Jon Favreau's "Made" is an unusual film.  It's ostensibly a comedy, and
indeed a lot of it made me laugh hard.  Still, when I thought about it
later, I realized that I had not really seen a comedy at all.  The
situation
isn't funny, the main character doesn't react to it in a funny way, and the
resolution isn't played for laughs.  What you get is a straight-laced,
sometimes even rather flat kitchen-sink crime drama which Vince Vaughn
grabs
by the throat and, through the sheer force of his heroically obnoxious
portrayal, turns into a bizarre sort of almost-comedy.

Jon Favreau is Bobby, a rather unskilled L.A. club fighter who makes his
real living doing odd jobs for Max (a gravelly Peter Falk), the local
small-time crime boss.  Bobby lives with a stripper (Famke Janssen) who he
bodyguards for, but one night a bachelor party guest puts his hands where
they shouldn't go, and Bobby lays into him rough.  Max is furious, but he
likes Bobby, and gives him a chance to right his wrong.  He must go to New
York, rendezvous with big-cheese crime kingpin Ruiz (Sean "Puffy" Combs),
and make some sort of ill-defined "drop".  It might all go smoothly...if
Ricky wasn't along for the ride.

Ricky is Vince Vaughn's character, and he's like a force of nature..if
nature was obnoxious and pushy.  He is not the sharpest cheese in the
fridge, and he begins acting like a Mafia big shot even before they leave
L.A., tormenting their stewardess with stupid questions.  He bulldozes
hotel
valets, waitresses, club bouncers, and pick-ups with the sheer volcanic
power of his boorishness, and most of it is actually really funny (not all
of it; I actually started to feel bad for the stewardess).  Vaughn proved
his ability to play charmingly rude in "Swingers", still my pick for the
best romantic comedy of the last decade.  Here, it's like that film's Trent
has been given a sharper suit, a mob expense account, and a small but
definitely serious chip on his shoulder.  Ricky is the reason "Made" is
being called a comedy; he basically provides the picture's only laughs.

The other performers operate on various levels of reality.  Favreau is more
or less the film's lead character, but he's basically there just to play
off
Vaughn's disgraceful behavior and act indignant when Ricky gets them in
another scrape.  Falk is like a caricature of a too-powerful- too-long
neighborhood kingpin.  Janssen's character is played completely straight,
and comes off as unlikable and rather depressing.  Oddly enough, the only
other actors in the film who really seem to be contributing a humorous
atmosphere are Combs and Faizon Love, who plays the boys' liaison to Ruiz.
Combs has a surprisingly versatile array of put-upon expressions, and
Love's
massive bulk and hostile bark of a voice work to scary-amusing effect.

Overall, though, Favreau seems a little shaky on what the tone of his film
should be ("Swingers", written by Favreau but directed by Doug Liman, had a
confidence that this picture never even approaches).  There's lots of
gritty
hand-held camera from Hong Kong-based lensman Chris Doyle, and the sets'
grungy low-rent atmosphere (even the hotels that are supposed to be nice
look dark and a bit run-down) make it sometimes feel like we're watching a
weird documentary rather than a fiction film, let alone a comedy.
Favreau's
dialogue is yet another "realistic" display that illustrates, if anyone had
any doubts, that the f-word in and of itself is not a punchline.  The film
has a bummer of an ending followed by an out-of-nowhere epilogue that,
quite
frankly, I didn't understand.

I guess "Made" is what you'd call a human comedy, a picture where we're
supposed to smile with recognition as we see characters not unlike
ourselves
who find themselves in unbelievable situations and try to deal with them
just by being who they are.  I'm usually not a big fan of this type of
film.
If you're calling it a comedy, I'd better be laughing.  Still, Vaughn,
Combs, and Love provide enough good moments that the picture is worth
checking out at least once.  Just don't expect "Swingers", and you should
be
all right.


<|_=00=_|>

Peter Falk?  How can his acting be anything other than a perfect 10?  Peter
Falk is undeniably `money!'  But, he does not make the whole movie, however.
Nay, Peter Falk is only one part of what I would call `Swingers with Balls.'
 Swingers was a great movie, but Made was even better.  `Made' is more in
your face!  Sure Vince Vaughn is more obnoxious in Made, and sure the
characters are pretty close to the same as Swingers; nevertheless, I have
this distinct feeling that if Made were released first, instead of Swingers,
Made would have been the movie people were talking about, and not the other
way around.  Maybe it is just my personality and my love for the shock value
in movies, but I just feel that this one was more on the `money.'  Did I
mention Peter Falk's great acting?  Oh yeah, there is some real talent and
dark humor in Jon Favreau's writing and directing.  Jon cannot afford to
make too many more movies like this one, and I hope he has some other
creative colors in his pallet, but only time will tell, and I would love to
see some more dark humor from this guy.
<|_=00=_|>
If it weren't for Peter Falk playing a middle management Mafia guy this
film wouldn't rate as high as it did. After a while stars Jon Favreau
and Vince Vaughn are more annoying than entertaining.

Favreau and Vaughn are a couple of Mafia wannabes they want to become
Made guys. Of course the last guy who dreamed of that, dreamed no more
and that would be Joe Pesci in Goodfellas, a much better film.

Favreau plays a run of the mill boxer with a run of the mill record of
5-5 and one draw. He does some construction work on the side, but his
real occupation is bailing out Vaughn from situations he creates with
his own big mouth.

Vaughn is a small time hustler who enjoys nothing more than getting
over on people even when he doesn't have to. He avoids actual work like
the plague and has fixed ideas from the movies about how gangsters
should operate.

Falk sends them on an errand to New York City and of course they think
they're on the way up. After that the mission is screwed up in every
way possible though Vaughn shows some chops in a bad situation. What is
learned is that they're on the mission because they're two of the most
expendable guys Falk knows.

The audience gets some idea of Favreau's almost unlimited patience
after putting up with Vaughn for more than 90 minutes. You'd better
have a reservoir of patience to sit through this one.
