
I saw Chicago with my sister yesterday and we were hoping that he movie
as going to be fun. We were fulfilled to the fullest. The movie
Lavishly well done, energetic and fun to listen to, Chicago is easily
on the top 10 best musicals ever. The music in the movie, the rhythm
just utterly spellbinding, that's how incredible Chicago is. The movie
mostly benefits from it extremely talented cast. Catherine Zeta-Jones
shines in Chicago and gives the performance of her lifetime. She
well-deserved her Oscar. John C. Rielly, Renee Zellwegger and Queen
Latifa deserved their Oscar Nominations.

The cinematography, sound, art directions, and especially the costume
design they were all expertly done. I resisting the urge to dance and
tap my shoe. What an amazing production it took to create this film.
Everyone deserved their Oscar Wins or nominations whomever took part in
the production. 1920s Chicago comes alive in breathtaking detail.
Everyone whom likes musicals or music should definitely have a listen
and watch Chicago.

Rob Marshell truly out did himself in this masterpiece. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Fictional characters, as a whole, get away with more than is permissible
in
reality.  They do things we would never condone in our peers, yet still
manage to elicit our sympathy.  Maybe it's a form of catharsis--instead
of
inflicting violence on other people, we watch someone onscreen do so and
cheer them on.  Such is the case with "Chicago"--the film features a
large
rogue's gallery of criminals, con men, and crooks, yet most of these are
surprisingly likeable.  And yet, the urge to root for the bad guys is
somewhat unsettling, for "Chicago" is a story about people beating the
rap
by manipulating the public, illiciting their sympathy and playing on
their
deep-seated need for the bizarre and bloody.

Told one way, the story of "Chicago" sounds like a showbusiness drama: a
young girl dreams of stardom.  She is initailly naive but learns quickly,
rising into the blaze of limelight while an older, more experienced rival
resents the new face that's stealing the show.  The twist is that the art
is
murder, and the stage is comprised of the papers, the radio, the
courthouse,
and the all-devouring public eye.  The veteran is Velma Kelly (Catherine
Zeta-Jones), a nightclub singer who did in her husband and sister after
finding them in what is usually called "a compromising position."  The
newcomer is Roxie Hart (Renee Zelweiger), a cutie-pie who shot her lover
after finding out he was using her, and who expects her husband Amos
(John
C. Reilly, excellent as the quintessentail doormat) to stand by her
afterwards.  Both women are represented by Billy Flynn (Richard Gere),
who
brags he can beat any rap for the right price and is probably what
Shakespeare had in mind when he made that crack about killing all the
lawyers.  Flynn's formula is simple: turn the client into a media
darling,
spin a tragic tale of the good girl ruined by bad choices, and an
aquittal
is certain.

"Chicago" is a musical, and the film uses a gimmick of establishing two
worlds: the real Chicago and a surreal fantasy world in the form of a
Jazz-Age theater, where the song and dance takes place.  In many musicals
this wouldn't work, but here it makes sense. Director Rob Marshall fuses
the
two worlds together very well, creating images that compliment each other
effectively.  Some of the concepts look like things you'd see in an
editorial cartoon: a press conference becomes a ventroliquist act and
puppet
show, a trial is depicted as a literal circus.  Others offer a reflection
of
the character's inner self: Amos, in the guise of a baggy-pants comic,
bemoans the fact that, like all second banannas, nobody really notices
him--even the fantasy audience seems indifferent to his performance
(which
is, in truth, wonderful).

The ensemble all turns in excellent performances in the acting category,
but
the singing is more uneven.  Zeta-Jones has by far the best voice of the
leads, as exemplified by the casually sensual "All That Jazz."  Zelweiger
is
passable, mostly because one gets the impression that her Roxie has more
charm and determination than actual talent.  Gere only barely manages
with
the music, and does so mainly on the grounds that Billy Flynn isn't one
of
the more vocally difficult roles in the music theater cannon.  But what
he
lacks in pipes he makes up for in the character department: his Flynn is
a
perfectly charismatic scoundrel, one whose talent and danger is in his
ability to be so charming.  Taye Diggs, who presides over the dream world
as
the Bandleader, doesn't get to sing, which is a shame because he can--he
was
in the original cast of "Rent"--but works very well with what he's
given.

The mix of glitter and grime in "Chicago" is reminicent of last year's
"Moulin Rouge," but those who thought the latter too excessive will
probably
find this one more appealing.  Any fan of music theater, however, will
not
want to miss this film--it may just be the rebirth of the movie musical
we've been hearing about.
<|_=00=_|>

I thoroughly enjoyed the current Broadway stage revival of Chicago
-- the Kander and Ebb original, with Bob Fosse choreography,
opened in 1975, starring Gwen Verdon (Roxie), Chita Rivera
(Velma) and Jerry Orbach (Billy), all proven musical theatre talents.
I saw the revival fairly early in its current run, starring Ann Reinking
(Roxie), Bebe Neuwirth (Velma) and James Naughton (Billy), who
are all proven in musical theatre as well.

The casting of this new film adaptation had me wondering --
Renee Zellwegger (Roxie), Catherine Zeta Jones (Velma) and
Richard Gere (Billy)? Sure, they can act, but can they sing and
dance?

Big time. The strength of their performances alone is almost
enough to carry the film. Whether the stars come by these moves
and voices easily, or were rehearsed within an inch of their lives,
it's clear they come by them naturally -- they each perform their
own songs, and the dance moves are both fluid and stylistically
true to the Fosse choreography. Attention to choreographic integrity
in this film is to be expected: director Rob Marshall is a
choreographer by trade. The sizzling staging of Velma's and
Roxie's "Finale" is practically a Fosse quotation from beginning to
end, and is razzle-dazzling beyond the stage version, via the
cinematography and editing techniques that only the film medium
provides.

I was prepared for a watered-down Hollywood take on the wildly
popular, 6 Tony Award-winning Broadway revival, but sans the
stage talents that got it there. But I actually liked the film BETTER.
The film's screenplay adaptation, by Bill Condon, fleshes out the
narrative to allow an emotional connection to the characters in a
way that I didn't experience in the theater. The film integrates the
songs to the story by cutting between an electrifying staged
rendition and the 1920's Chicago world of the narrative. This
technique gives the characters space for an inner emotional life
thus letting the audience better connect with them.

I did have a few quibbles. The song "Class", a personal favorite,
was cut, likely to keep the momentum up as we rush toward
Roxie's sensational jury trial, which delivers several musical treats
of its own, and is the dramatic apogee of the story. And, while I
found John C. Reilly a most pathetic but sympathetic Amos, I felt
that Joel Grey evoked those qualities much more effectively in his
Broadway rendition of "Mr. Cellophane."

The story, while providing an opportunity for some juicy songs and
sharply funny characters, is more than just eye candy. Its portrayal
of cynical manipulation of the criminal justice system by creating a
celebrity-hungry media circus (the raison d'etre of Richard Gere's
Billy Flynn) is more than apt today. But if there's any moralizing
going on here, it's with a wink and a flash of leg. Chicago is a
treat.
<|_=00=_|>
I've been a tap & jazz dancer most of my life. Chicago "razzle-dazzled"
me into a state of great stage memories & utter delight in the revival
of a dynamite musical. Bring them on! Don't know about you, but I need
real entertainment... considering I live in the US during it's most
politically corrupt decade. I need a dance, singing & music that is
equal in intensity to my blues symptoms. "Chicago" is one of my
'cures'.

My favorite production is "The Jailhouse Tango." It made me reach way
back to Elvis's "Jailhouse Rock." However, the stage of this era is
much more well equipped to do such a gigantic show-stopping, lengthy,
hysterically funny & ever so well danced & sung routine. I can watch
that 1 number time & again & find something new I love about it. I also
have to agree with the other commentators who couldn't find a single
'bad' number in the entire show.

Yes, Richard Gere can certainly dance & sing in a musical. I found the
editing of the trial & Gere's tap dance utterly fascinating. You know,
when a dancer is being filmed doing a routine we never know who or what
will be in the final cuts. For instance, in "Staying Alive." I knew
those dance routines & a few of the dancers. They were truly peeved at
the nasty chop job that was done to great dance routines. Not so in
"Chicago." Credit has to go also to terrific camera work which did the
best job I've ever seen to avoid losing any parts of the stage or the
all of dancers' movements.

Most outstanding is "Mr. Cellophane." Shirley Maclaine once did a TV
version of "One" using her gorgeous figure & a simple hat, plus a
series of ever so subtle dance moves that expressed pure classiness of
pure Shirley the marvelous dancer. Reilly uses his costume & hat with
those very few subtle moves to express the whole character he plays.
It's easy to write he is quite emotionally moving & sings very well.

The contrast between the big production number of The Jailhouse Tango &
Mr. Cellophane couldn't be greater. Tango is way high energy, lots of
lovely female dancers & singers, with the exception of a very few
males: Mr. Cellophane is nearly done in one man's singular slow motion.
The choreography had to have been the dancers' delight! Yum.

Zellwenger & Zeta Jones make for a very similar contrast in both their
dancing & singing styles. I was nearly shocked that Zeta-Jones could
belt out a song Ethel Merman style! At times she brought Merman back to
life. Zellwenger belongs in musicals she's so sizzling hot in dance
costumes that accentuate a dancer's body & she can really sing while
she's performing the piece quite exotically. I can see why prudish
folks detest the show. It's sensuous with lots of sexy body work going
on. Puritanicals Beware! Nevertheless, the way The Jailhouse Tango
started off quite cleverly with such a simple sound as the drip, drip
of a jail cell faucet to pace the rhythmic beat at the beginning of the
production number was unique & brilliant. So that's one reason why I
write that number is the one that stands out most to me. But just as I
write that I recall the big number of the live human 'puppets'. How
clever was that. Zellwenger & Gere pulled that one off masterfully
together with much of the cast as their backup chorus.

I can't possibly understand anyone who writes that it was a flop or
they didn't like it. But I do respect your opinions. 10 of 10,
undoubtedly. (Chicago makes "Moulin Rouge" look like gooey
overly-romantic, made for teenagers, face sucking >blek<. I'm too old
to appreciate that nonsense. Give me the all out flaming musical for
adults ::winking::).

PS--If you love song & dance musicals, or want to, see "Cats." (Or
perhaps fast forward to Grizabella's scene singing & acting out Andrew
Lloyd Webber's classic rendition of "Memories"). Musicals can take us
away from the heaviness of today to another realm to view the insides
of another character through their movements & songs. Thank you for
reading me~
<|_=00=_|>

"Chicago" represents the latest salvo in a mini-revival of one of
Hollywood's most venerated genres:  the live-action musical.  Since the
end
of the golden age of big-budget studio song and dance extravaganzas,
musicals have appeared only at irregular intervals, and most have met
with
mixed critical response and equally indifferent gross figures (the most
recent example:  Alan Parker's box-office also-ran "Evita").  But the
holiday-season success of the Coen brothers' music-filled Depression
comedy
"O Brother, Where Art Thou?" (2000) indicated a new song filling the
Hollywood air, a notion confirmed last May with the release of "Moulin
Rouge".  Baz Luhrmann's phantasmagorical tale of 19th-century Parisian
decadence, memorably scored with contemporary pop tunes, may not have set
the summer box office on fire, but it was heaped with critical raves, won
an
enthusiastic cult following, and became the first musical in decades to
receive a Best Picture Oscar nomination.

"Chicago", the feature-film debut of veteran stage director /
choreographer
Rob Marshall, is not as radical or experimental as Luhrmann's picture.
Like
"Evita", it is a cinematic adaptation of a hit Broadway show, namely Bob
Fosse's tale of two 1920s murderesses who milk their crimes for
headline-grabbing glory.  And, like Parker's film, it doesn't attempt to
re-invent the musical; it's content to be a solid, well-crafted genre
product that knows what audiences expect from a musical and delivers in
spades.

Indeed, the story (adapted from the original musical by "Gods and
Monsters"
scribe Bill Condon) is the most radical thing here, following as it does
the
exhilarating up-and-down fame rollercoaster of two cold-blooded killers.
Roxie Hart (Renee Zellweger) is a wannabe, a small-time song-and-dance
girl
who looks at the bright lights of the Chicago clubs and longs for her
night
in the spotlight.  She gets it in a rather unexpected way after she kills
her lover (Dominic West), a sleazy furniture salesman who'd filled her
heads
with lies about showbiz connections.  Sent to prison, Roxie finds that
the
public's thirst for scandalous headlines has turned her into a celebrity,
and the scared, confused young murderess transforms into a media monster,
playing the people like an orchestra and turning her crime into an act of
self-sacrifice.  Roxie's rise to fame incurs the wrath of her one-time
showbiz idol, Velma Kelly (Catherine Zeta-Jones), a Louise-Brooks-bobbed
former chorine who's doing time for killing her sister and philandering
hubby...and who was the number-one star of Murderess Row until Roxie
sauntered in.  Caught between these two vixens is Billy Flynn (Richard
Gere), Chi-town's biggest celebrity lawyer, who's representing them
both...and who has a few "razzle-dazzle" tricks of his own up his
sleeve.

As anyone who ever saw Bob Fosse's films ("Cabaret", "STAR80") can
attest,
the man had a cynical streak a mile wide, so it's not hard to see why the
tawdry material of "Chicago" (based on a real 1920s murder case) was
attractive to him.  Condon, fortunately, does not file down the story's
rough edges, and his script scores some trenchant observations on the
curious nature of modern celebrity.  Velma and Roxie are just like Lorena
Bobbitt, Kato Kaelin, and all those other small-timers who, through one
stupid action or simply by being in the wrong place at the right time,
become famous beyond any right they actually have to achieve such
heights.
And who lets such undeserved accolades come their way?  Us, of course.
The
film's howling chorus of reporters and courtroom gawkers eagerly sucking
up
the latest sensational story are the on-screen stand-ins for the
audience,
whose appetite for scandal and thrills has become so insatiable that the
unremarkable are remarked upon, the unworthy celebrated, the evil
elevated.

It's a deep message for what is essentially a song-and-dance comedy, but
Condon allows himself to engage its darker implications without cramming
"message" down our throats.  We are, after all, mainly here to see the
numbers, and Marshall's expertise with choreography and music makes sure
the
songs (composed by "Cabaret's" John Kander and Fred Ebb) pack a
satisfying
punch.  "Roxie" is our little killer's exhilarating ode to her impending
fame, complete with her name in big red lights.  "Cell Block Tango" finds
Velma and a gaggle of murderesses singing about how their victims all
"had
it comin'", complete with some admirably sleazy choreography.  Marshall's
imaginative staging of "We Both Reached For The Gun", a musical press
conference, has Roxie as Billy's wooden ventriloquist's dummy and the
reporters as marionettes under his control.  And, of course, there's a
knockout closing duet for Velma and Roxie, the biting, excitingly filmed
"Nowadays".  I've never seen "Chicago" onstage, but if this movie
captures
the energy of the show, it must be one showstopper after
another.

Marshall's direction is not always as assured as his staging of the
musical
numbers.  Oddly, the film almost feels like it was shot in sequence, as
Marshall's initially choppy editing and scene-pacing grows progressively
more seamless as the picture goes along.  This is crucial, as the numbers
all take place in a sort of fantasy nightclub cut off from the main
action.
Still, Marshall generally gets high marks for his debut, and he is ably
abetted by a top-notch technical crew.  In addition to the aforementioned
editing (by Martin Walsh), strong work is put forward by costume designer
Colleen Atwood (who nicely recreates the sometimes anachronistically
revealing dance outfits of the stage show), cinematographer Dion Beebe,
and
the set design crew, led by production designer John Myrhe, who are able
to
make their squalor a little more authentic than what one would see on a
stage.

Of course, as with any musical, the lion's share of the picture's success
rests on the shoulders of its performers, and while Astaire and Garland
aren't losing any sleep, "Chicago"'s cast members acquit themselves
surprisingly well as song-and-dance artists.  Gere, slick with oily
charm,
displays a witty way with a lyric and a nice relaxed tap-dance style.
Zeta-Jones, a dancer in London before she hit the silver screen, shows
off
the flashiest moves of anyone here, all the while oozing fearsome
sexuality.
Also turning in fine work are Queen Latifah as the corrupt warden of the
women's prison and John C. Reilly as Roxie's hapless cuckold of a
husband,
whose "Mr. Cellophane" poignantly sums up his nowhere-man
status.

As far as I'm concerned, though, this is Renee Zellweger's show all the
way.
For me, Zellweger's onscreen work has been wildly uneven, ranging from
the
agreeable "Jerry Maguire" to "Me Myself & Irene", where she seemed
stunned
to find herself in front of a movie camera.  Here, however, her
confidence
is exhilarating, and as Roxie transforms from a timid criminal to a
vampish
media super-vixen, Zellweger projects sex, sarcasm, and sweetness (often
insincerely) like nothing I've seen from her before.  Her dancing is not
as
polished as Zeta-Jones's, but she more than holds her own, and her
numbers
are easily the most memorable of the film.  Roxie may not be a star, but
Zellweger certainly is here; I'm rooting for her to take home a Best
Actress
Oscar for this.

"Chicago" is not quite the masterpiece some of the early reviews have
suggested.  The lack of a more experienced director keeps it from being
more
than a top-notch screen transfer of a venerated stage work.
Nevertheless,
the film is funny and exciting, with plenty of memorable numbers, and it
proves for sure that the success of "Moulin Rouge" wasn't a fluke.

Now...how about that Sweeney Todd movie finally?


<|_=00=_|>

"Chicago" is a stunning, brilliant piece of cinema.

It tells the satirical story of a group of characters living in the windy
city, in the roaring twenties: a voluptious vamp that burns in the
spotlight, a red-hot mama matron, a greedy, flamboyant lawyer, a
wannabe-star chorus girl, and her neglected, suffering, and lovable
husband.
There lives are interwoven and elaborated on, centering on the chorus
girl's rise to fame, through shooting her lover.  The genra here is
musical.
And every number is wildly entertaining, taking on the musical form of a
vaudevillian show: there is a flashy, signature opener (All that Jazz), a
legendary closer (Hot Honey Rag), a circus-show me act, and each character
is rewarded a song of their own, to express themselves: the chorus girl,
Roxie (Roxie), the voluptious vamp, Velma (I Can't do it Alone), the
red-hot
mama matron, Matron Mama Morton (When You're Good to Mama), the greedy
Lawyer, Billy (All I Care About) and the neglected husband (Mr.
Cellophane)
dance gorgeoussly around in gold lamee, flapper outfits, sultry black
vixon
dresses, and tramp costumes to exagerate their personas.

The story's main center (the telling of the voluptious vamp and the chorus
girl, fooling the public with their murders) is filled with juicy
dialogue,
and a beautiful flow from song to scene to song.

The talent of "Chicago" is unsurpassed.  Renee Zellweger gives a legendary
performance as Roxie, the chorus girl.  Her brilliant, realistic acting,
and
her oozing charismaa through her musical numbers earned her an Oscar
nomination, a SAG Award, and a Golden Globe.  Richard Gere gives a fine,
haughty potrayel of Billy, the lawyer, with a marvelous tap routine
elaborating his talent.  He was awarded a Golden Globe.  Queen Latifah,
and
her wildly entertaining number (When You're Good to Mama), as well as her
red-hot potrayel of Matron Mama Morton, earned her Oscar and Golden Globe
nominations, the same as John C. Reilly who gives a beloved, funny, and
heartbreaking potrayel of Amos.  Mr. Reilly can belt out a mean Mr.
Cellophane.  But the highlight of Chicago's cast is Catherine Zeta-Jones,
as
Velma Kelly.  Every time I view Chicago I am reminded of her brilliant
talent.  Miss Jones is a phenominal dancer, in rememberence of Cyd Charise
and Ginger Rogers, as well as a fabulous tune belter, up there with Judy
Garland.  She's also an amazingly real actress, and brings beauty and
class
back to the movie musical.  Her frankly beautiful potrayel of the vamp
earned her a Golden Globe Nomination, a SAG Award, a BAFTA Award, and the
grandaddy, an Oscar.

However, the man of the hour involved with Chicago is Rob Marshall, who is
forever-presesnt behind the camera.  He weaves a perfectly gorgeous mood
throughout the memorable scenes, and his choreography and dancing
abilities
are on par with Bob Fosse.  The star of Chicago is its impeccable dancing
and choreography, with sure and creative movements everywhere you look.
Mr.
Marshall earned a DGA Award, and an Oscar nomination.

Chicago is one of the best films of the year, of the generation.  Never
before have I seen anything quite like it.  It brings back the old movie
musical, while giving a Broadway flare.  It is completely revolutionary
and
legendary.  A perfect 10/10. 
<|_=00=_|>

Having just seen "Chicago", I must say I was very impress. Kudos to all
involved. Rob Marshall has done a fine job in adapting this beloved
musical
to the big screen (not an easy task), and considering the fact that this
is
his first big-budget feature, his accomplishment is even more
resounding.

The movie follows the lives of two women, living in the tough city of
"Chicago" in the 1920's. Velma Kelly (played by Catherine Zeta Jones) is a
sexy stage performer, who finds herself thrown into prison after a fit of
rage results in the death of both her husband and her sister who have been
carry on an illict affair with each other. The other lady in question is
wannabe starlet Roxie Hart (played by Renee Zellweger), a married woman,
who
after being seduced and duped by her devious lover, get revenge on him by
shooting him dead. This act of vengeance also see's her taking a trip to
prison, and it's here that a battle of one-up-man-ship commences between
the
two ladies, as both use whatever means at their disposal to get (a) out of
jail and (b) gain the most publicity doing it. The connecting factor
between
Velma & Roxie comes in the form of an unscrupulous high profile defense
attorney Billy Flynn (played by Richard Gere), who also knowing when to
take
advantage of an opportunity, becomes counsel for both women and their
respective cases.

"Chicago" is fortunate enough to have several things going for it.
Aside
from strong direction from Rob Marshall, the film is blessed with
memorable
performances from it's three leads. Catherine Zeta Jones oozes a vampish
nature to her portrayal of Velma Kelly. Looking every inch the star, she
commands a strong presence in the film, and appears right at home handling
both the singing and dancing aspects of the role with ease and class, not
to
mention a high degree of sexiness. Richard Gere also plays his part in the
movie with aplomb. Despite his questionable tactics and somewhat dubious
nature, Gere lends a roguish charm to his character which has you walking
away if not liking then at the very least admiring his character's quick
skill and cunning guile. Gere is also a strong performer in the areas of
singing and dancing (much to my surprise!!). However, it's Renee Zellweger
who takes centre-stage in "Chicago" - and boy, does she relish every
moment
of it. She is without doubt, the "star performer" of this film. With sly
nods to past "blonde bombshells" such as Jean Harlow & Marilyn Munroe,
Zellweger runs the gauntlet of high and lows that require of her
character.
From demure & sweet, to sly & munipulative, you never know what she gonna
do
next. And as with Zeta-Jones & Gere, Zellweger also does justice when it
comes to belting out a tune, or doing the hot step.

Our three principals are lucky to have an equally talented supporting
cast to back them up. From John C Reilly as the down-trodden husband of
Roxie Hart, to Queen Latifah as the "larger-than-life"  matron of a
women's
prison, everyone in this film is right on the mark with their
performances.
Yet at the heart of any good musical, is of course the musical numbers,
and
in this respect "Chicago" does not disappoint.

From the opening heat of "All That Jazz", to the saltry "When You're
Good
To Mama", through to the electric "Cellblock Tango", onto the wistful
"Roxie", then to the playful kitsch of "Razzle Dazzle" to the all-out
"Finale" featuring Velma & Roxie, "Chicago" scores big-time. The
choreography, costume & set designs are all terrific, giving the film the
look and feel it's rightly deserves.

With the high-profile success of "Moulin Rogue" in 2001, "Chicago" is
likely to follow in the same footsteps, and hopefully this will continue a
trend in Hollywood to bring back "the musical" - with the same love &
attention that has obviously gone into making "Chicago". I highly
recommend
this film. You're guaranteed a enjoyable & entertaining night at the
movies..... with a smile on your dial, a tune in your head, and a spring in
your
step ....... go and treat yourself ..... you know you want
to.......
<|_=00=_|>
Unless you've been exiled to the Patagonia for the past twenty years,
then maybe you might not know the premise of Rob Marshall's perfect
rendition of Bob Fosse's CHICAGO which depicts the lurid events
surrounding a pair of murderesses, their shady lawyer, and the media
circus which ensues.

Kept on hold for years and going through a revolving door of directors
and actors slated to play the leads and supporting players, and
benefiting from the smash success of Baz Luhrmann's MOULIN ROUGE!,
CHICAGO manages to virtually re-invent and resuscitate the musical to
its fullest. Featuring dazzling visuals and musical numbers which segue
seamlessly from scene to scene as it delves into Roxie Hart's vivid
inner dialogue (with some exceptions, such as Velma Kelly's rendition
of "I Can't Do it Alone" or Mama Morton's "When You're Good to Mama"),
Rob Marshall breaks down the walls which in other way would have made
the story less mobile.

CHICAGO tells the story of Roxie Hart, a vague young thing married to a
colorless man, Amos Hart (John C. Reilly), but carrying on with a
low-life Fred Caseley (Dominic West) who's made more promises than he
can keep. She shoots him dead, and is thrown in jail where she meets
Velma Kelly (Catherine Zeta-Jones), a vaudeville star who's also in for
the murder of her sister and lover, whom she found in bed together. The
rousing musical number, "Cell Block Tango" is the show-stopper here,
where Velma and five other inmates tell their story of how they arrived
in jail. It is visually stunning, with each of the women using
blood-red scarves which they use to describe their murders, and the
dancers are in top form, sexy, ferocious, and dangerous -- pure Fosse
material.

Into the story comes Matron 'Mama' Morton (Queen Latifah) who hooks
Velma up with Billy Flynn (Richard Gere), the hot lawyer who takes on
her case. Roxie, seeing she is down on her luck, has Amos hire Flynn,
and he turns her story into the thing of tabloid fodder: soon everyone
is following Roxie's move down to her hairstyle, and this of course
causes Velma to go into a fit of jealousy since the spotlight has been
taken away from her.

When seeing CHICAGO, it's not hard to compare it with the real-life
circus shows that the trials of Michael Jackson and O.J. Simpson have
become. The climactic court scene in which Billy Flynn literally
tap-dances his audience into exonerating Roxie despite the obvious
evidence as showgirls pirouette over the bumbling witnesses is one that
blurs the lines of reality with fiction, and the rapid editing sparkles
in sheer brilliance. People don't want to hear the true story even
though they may say so; to see Roxie as the innocent waif and Velma as
the glamorous star is all they want as expressed by the movie's
conclusion. Killers become media darlings and use up their fifteen
minutes of fame -- that is, until then next lurid murder.

Fantastic performances are all over this film. Catherine Zeta-Jones
brings forth the energy of a very young Joan Crawford who made a number
of dance-oriented films early in her career. Richard Gere, ignored at
Oscar time, stands out in his smarmy part and proves his capacity for
dance and song, especially in his "We Both Reached For the Gun" number
with Christine Baranski playing Mary Sunshine. Renee Zellweger reveals
a vulnerable persona as Roxie Hart and comes across a little Marilyn
Monroe, a little Ginger Rogers, and totally breathless, as in her two
beautiful numbers "Funny Honey" and "Roxie". We don't expect her to
sing well -- she's a wannabe star. Queen Latifah smolders as 'Mama,' so
much that I wanted more of her. She reminded me of Sophie Tucker (whom
the film mentions), all brass, tough, and sexy, and a less
self-conscious Mae West. Her "When You're Good to Mama' is a more
subtle take from Mary McCarty's growling number which made every line a
symbol of double entendre. John C. Reilly plays the sap affectionately,
and what a number he has! "Mr. Cellophane" is the saddest song ever,
which he performs as the clown he has become. All in all, Rob Marshall
has created a powerful, lurid film, made darker due to much of its
subject matter but treated as if it were SINGING IN THE RAIN, full of
instant classic sequences, and ending in a full applause.
<|_=00=_|>

Funny thing about watching a movie like "Chicago", which won the award for
Best Picture last year. I eagerly awaited the DVD, and when I first sat down
to watch it, I didn't finish it. I guess I just wasn't in the mood. I began
to wonder what all the hoopla was about. Now, a couple of weeks later, I
watched it from the beginning and now I "get" it. I must have been in a
different mood, because this time everything "clicked" for me, it was great
fun, simply a very entertaining movie. Now I'm glad I own the DVD, aside
from my desire to have as many Oscar winners as I can. The whole story is a
parody of fame, crime, and use of a slick lawyer to fool a jury. I will
enjoy watching it again and again.

My favorite scene was where Gere's lawyer was puppetteer to Zellweger's
Roxie, the acting, the singing, the timing were all just perfect. It has
been well-publicized that Zellweger neither sang nor danced professionally
before "Chicago", and I found her more than adequate for the role of Roxie.
In fact, I quite enjoy her singing voice. Yet, Catherine Z-J has the more
powerful, trained voice, having started out on stage, and it is apparent
when they are together that Z-J is the more seasoned performer. I was very
pleasantly surprised at how well Gere handled his singing duties. Some have
complained about his somewhat "nasal" singing voice, but to me it fit his
character well. A rich, operatic baritone would have been out of
character.

I viewed the DVD with the DTS track selected and it delivers with a fine
surround sound. Plus, the picture is very sharp, in all a good DVD to own
for fans of musical comedies.
<|_=00=_|>
I have come to consider CHICAGO the best and most satisfying movie
musical that I have ever seen. And I like movie musicals. The first
delight was how well Catherine Zeta Jones, Renee Zellweger, Richard
Gere, Queen Latifah, and John C Reilly did with these roles-- acting,
Singing!!, and Dancing!!! I was surprised, and amazed! In addition, the
cheeky satire about America's obsession with the cult of celebrity and
the three-ring circus that the media and opportunistic lawyers make of
our justice system is razor-sharp and very timely. (It's a little like
watching "O.J.: The Musical"!)The creative and brilliant direction by
Rob Marshall is entertaining and wonderful. As I think over the films
of the last ten years, this is the first one that comes to mind. I love
it!! I simply can't watch without singing along! CHICAGO certainly
deserved its Academy Award for Best Picture!!
