

A Truly wonderful film that left you thinking and feeling for hours after
walking out of the cinema.

Michelle Pfeiffer is exact in her portrayal of the smart, rich, no-nonsense
lawyer who realises how empty her luxurious and successful life is. As
always she delivers an outstanding performance and reminds us of just how
excellent and beautiful an actress she is.

Sean Penn is so believable that you forget that he doesn't actually have
anything wrong with him...he captures every emotion perfectly and instills
all of that emotion in the audience. Penn is highly under rated in the world
that is movies, as he shows with this Oscar potential performance.

The young actress who plays his daughter is amazingly mature in her acting,
whilst always managing to capture the innocence of her youthfullness. On top
of all that she is gorgeous. The combination of three excellent main actors
combined with the supporting actors and the genuine theme and style of the
film makes I am Sam an excellent and must see film. Truly Inspiring.

<|_=00=_|>

There's only one reason why I don't like this movie right now.  Because I
have a splitting headache from being emotionally drained!

IT'S A WONDERFUL LIFE has been the top of my list for all time favorite
movies, now I AM SAM has moved in right next to it.  

I'm not saying that you have to have kids to understand the true meaning
behind this movie, but I must say it certainly helps.  I told my wife on the
way back home from the movie that she was sooo stuck with me.  She knew what
I was referring to; our 6 month old little girl and our 5 year old little
girl.  I guess I'm just a good ole fashion softy.  I came home and gave my 5
year old the biggest hug of her life and the tears just started flowing.  I
felt I had been impatient with her lately and just needed to let her know
how much her daddy loves her.

I know this isn't a true rating of a movie.  I'm not describing certain
scenes that I thought were great or needed improving, I just wanted to
express how it made me feel.  And though I have a pounding head right now, I
feel like I'm the luckiest dad in the world!


<|_=00=_|>
I know that title isn't very descriptive, but all I could say for
awhile after watching I Am Sam was, "Wow!" Although that's a positive
endorsement of the film--it's rare that a film has me basically
speechless afterward (I usually suffer from logorrhea, which sounds
close enough to diarrhea that you could call it (verbal) flatulence
instead if you like)--it turned out to be quite a problem, because we
went to dinner right afterward and I had to give a lecture. I believe I
was served some kind of raw beef, and I have an exorbitant dry cleaning
bill from the tomatoes and rotten eggs.

But I won't bill director/co-writer Jessie Nelson, because it's not her
fault that her film is so powerful and so stunningly constructed that
it made me monosyllabic. I can only blame myself for putting off
watching her work for so long.

I Am Sam begins with Sam Dawson (Sean Penn) at his job. He lives in
Santa Monica and works at Starbucks. We can see that he's mentally
retarded. He appears slightly autistic. Because of this, he's given
only menial tasks to do. Suddenly, his boss tells him that he has to
go. We see Sam running through the streets, catching buses and so on to
end up at a hospital. A woman is in labor and it turns out that he's
the father, but she wants nothing to do with him afterward--apparently,
it was something like a one night stand. She abandons him with the
baby. Aided by a quartet of developmentally disabled friends and his
agoraphobic neighbor, Annie Cassell (Dianne Wiest), we see Sam doing
his best to raise the girl, Lucy Diamond Dawson (eventually played by
Dakota Fanning)--so named because Sam is a big Beatles fan. At least
until he is "accidentally arrested". Government officials question his
ability to raise his daughter, and I Am Sam becomes the tale of Sam's
legal battle to retain custody of Lucy, aided by high profile lawyer
Rita Harrison (Michelle Pfeiffer).

I Am Sam will likely make you say, "Wow!" afterward because it is a
masterpiece on every artistic and technical level.

All of the major cast members give one of the best performances of
their careers, and many of these actors have had a number of artistic
triumphs on their résumés. Sean Penn is completely natural and
believable as a developmentally disabled man. Two of the men playing
his friends really were developmentally disabled, having been found at
L.A. Goal, a non-profit agency dedicated to helping such people through
a variety of programs, and it's next to impossible to tell them apart
from the other actors. Nelson and her co-writer, Kristine Johnson,
spent a lot of time at L.A. Goal doing research, as did Penn. Pfeiffer
perfectly executes a complex character who has to undergo a number of
far reaching transformations and even a breakdown of sorts. As for
Fanning, I haven't seen her in a film yet where she didn't threaten to
steal the whole thing from her senior, much more experienced
colleagues, and during the filming of I Am Sam she was only 6 or 7.
Wiest, Richard Schiff, Laura Dern and others also turn in very complex
performances that convey characters with deep, multifaceted histories,
despite their relatively little screen time.

Nelson approaches the film with a number of unusual artistic and
technical angles that all work wonderfully. The cinematography is
mostly hand-held work. Unlike similar attempts in films such as Lars
Von Trier's Dogville (2003), the hand-held work never feels affected or
intrusive here--it's completely "organic". The most common purpose of
the unusual cinematography is to give the viewer almost a subjective
sense of what it's like to be Sam, to experience the world in the way
he does. Cinematographer Elliot Davis moves his camera in a way closely
mirrored with Sean Penn's movements. There's an additional emotional
symbolism. When Sam is feeling agitated, the camera-work is agitated.
Likewise when Sam is confused, pensive, and so on. Davis shoots from a
lot of unusual angles. All of them work.

Nelson also has the editing, lighting and production design match the
aesthetic of the cinematography. The editing is sometimes very choppy,
but always feels "natural", just right for conveying Sam's experience.
Sometimes there are odd incongruencies between sound and image, or
between temporal sequences. The lighting, camera angles and production
design often make some elements appropriately fantastical. The
production design and costuming match not only Sam's world, but other
characters' worlds, as well. Not one aspect of the film seems to have
gone by without close examination and artistic justification.

The music, which largely consists of Beatles tunes performed by other
artists, fits the film perfectly. Sam and his friends are all a bit
obsessed with the Beatles (and apparently, so were many L.A. Goal
members when Nelson visited). The Beatles tunes exquisitely match the
various moods of the film, and the lyrics often complement emotions and
actions.

But even above all of that, I Am Sam tells a heart-wrenching story
that's something of an exciting, emotional roller-coaster. There are
many humorous scenes, often centered on Sam and his buddies going about
the world with a kind of Winnie the Pooh-like wisdom that seems more
honest and admirable than most of the film's "normal" folks. Of course,
there are also many scenes that will require tissues for tears. And
there's just about every emotion in between the two.

Finally, the film has a great message. Does parenting, or general
personal worth, really hinge on intellectual ability and amassed
knowledge? I don't think so. Parents who are very smart can have more
than their share of flaws, as we see with Pfeiffer's character early
on. Plenty of us had parents who were smart enough but couldn't help us
with our geometry homework. Love may not be all you need, but it's
definitely one of the major prerequisites.
<|_=00=_|>

I Am Sam is a great movie that deals with marginalized people in our
society
and how they're treated. It's a very realistic portrayal. I watched it
with
my 13 year old daughter and it alternately made us cry, got us angry and
caused us to laugh uncontrollably.

Sam is loved and respected by those who know him (Starbuck's patrons, IHOP
Waitress, friends), taunted by those who have no regard for anyone
different
(Lucy's arrogant classmate and his equally arrogant father) and generally
misunderstood by everyone else.

I especially liked the irony of the lawyer, who is an emotional train
wreck,
yet because she's an adult intellecutally, no one questions her ability as
a
parent. Sam on the other hand loves his daughter and it
shows.

This movie is not for anyone looking for a "fun weekend rent". If you rent
this, be prepared to have your values and your emotions
challenged.
<|_=00=_|>
I Am Sam is one of, if not the best, motion picture of all time.

I Am Sam is about a retarded man named Sam (Sean Penn) who has a mental
capacity of a 7-year old. He works as a server at Starbucks, is
obsessed with The Beatles, and loves IHOP. After he accidentally has a
daughter (Dakota Fanning) with a homeless woman who he names after the
song Lucy In The Sky With Diamonds. The woman leaves him, and Sam is
left to care for Lucy by himself. However, when Lucy intentionally
begins to hold back in school to prevent becoming smarter from her
father, child protective services takes her away and Sam must fight to
obtain custody. He befriends a lawyer, Rita (Michelle Pfeiffer) with a
bad marriage and a son who she thinks hates her. Together, Sam and Rita
fight for Lucy's custody in a heartwrenching roller coaster of tears,
laughs, and the overwhelming power of human spirit.

This is all beside some of the most stunning performances I've ever
seen in a film. Sean Penn is top of his game and gives an amazingly
realistic performance as a disabled man without a single flaw. To this
day it makes me furious he didn't win the Oscar. Dakota Fanning's
premiere role is by far her greatest ever, and at only six years old
opened the eyes of actresses who've been in the business for years and
basically screamed into their faces "This is how acting is done." And
Michelle Pfeiffer delivers a phenomenal, incredibly realistic
performance that will absolutely take your breath away.

As the film progresses, you will find yourself laughing one minute,
crying the next (you WILL cry no matter how mature or old you are, so
make sure you have tissues), the next moment tapping your foot along to
the familiar Beatles tunes found throughout the movie (even though
they're covers) and the next moment simply staring at the screen not
believing your eyes and ears at how emotionally powerful a film can be.

And after watching, you won't want to ever give the DVD back to
Blockbuster. If you don't at least give this movie a chance, you will
truly be missing out on one of the shiniest gems of modern cinema ever.
<|_=00=_|>
I haven't been a fan of Sean Penn's since Fast Times at Ridgemont High.
Since that time, nearly all his films have left me flat. In fact, I
nearly didn't watch this film since he was in it. What a loss it would
have been if I'd missed it! I won't go into the story line since that's
been reviewed a lot by others. The story is sort of a cliché'd one and
has been done before, though not as well. The story isn't this film's
strength anyway - it's the acting. Rarely have I seen a film with this
much powerful acting. Penn's performance as Sam is brilliant! He must
have studied autistic/mentally challenged people to pull this
performance off. I also want to mention how good Michele Pfeiffer was
in this. Her character starts out as a hard-hearted witch and ends up
being very human, thanks to her exposure to Sam. The change in her is
gradual, subtle and fun to watch. Sams friends, very well played by
Brad Silverman, Joseph Rosenberg, Stanley DeSantis and Doug Hutchinson
are very important support characters. Laura Dern gives a stellar
performance as Randy. Dakota Fanning as Lucy very nearly steals the
show. This little actress has quite a career ahead of her, I hope! This
film is delicately balanced, and has a good bit of humor interspersed
with parts that will have even the most insensitive of you reaching for
a tissue. The film has a sort of a sappy (and somewhat surprising)
outcome, but by this time any other ending would have been pretty much
unacceptable to most people. This movie blew me away and I gave it a 9.
<|_=00=_|>

Sean Penn as a devoted father (Sam) who despite mental challenges,
fights for the right to raise his child is convincing in a complete
departure from his usual "bad guy" characters. Michelle Pfeiffer plays
his reluctant "pro bono" elite lawyer, who eventually puts 110% into
this case.

The love between Sam and his 7 year old daughter is evident in many
sweet scenes (got Kleenex?), best described by a reclusive neighbor
(wonderfully played by Dianne Wiest), who overcomes her hermit-like
condition long enough to testify in Sam's behalf. Even the social
workers who insisted on doing everything to "help the child" appear to
be fighting emotions over this unusual case. The "support system",
which includes several equally challenged "buddies", a very supportive
employer, and many other people in the community gives evidence of our
changing society, fostering inclusion and tolerance. Eventually even
the prospective adoptive parents of Sam's daughter can't go on fighting
against this exemplary father.

The girl playing Sam's daughter appears to be "gifted", at age 7
reading middle school material. Perhaps the "difference" between father
& daughter's intelligence did not have to be in such an obvious
extreme. The implication of a romantic involvement between Sam and his
lawyer could have been avoided as well. The former is stretching it,
but the latter is going too far. One can suspend her/his disbelief only
so much! Since there are no "perfect" movies, I still consider this one
pretty darn close! Highly recommended.

<|_=00=_|>
In 'Rain Man', Dustin Hoffman gave the best portrayal I have ever seen
of a mentally disturbed person, but Sean Penn came very close here. He
was quite convincing but somewhat funnier. With Hoffman, I never quite
knew when he was supposed to be funny, but with Penn there were many
funny moments that I felt okay about laughing at. And I just had to
like the character.

I've heard so many good things about Dakota Fanning, and now I see for
myself. She's great.

The actors playing Sam's friends also seemed very convincing, one in
particular. I didn't catch his name, but he wore glasses and I think he
must have really been mentally disabled. The others could have been but
might just have been acting.

MIchelle Pfeiffer was very good also, and gorgeous. And Richard Schiff
was likable as the lawyer on the other side of Sam's case. In fact, I
didn't see those who were against Sam as evil. They just had Lucy's
best interests in mind. But I wanted Sam to win.

While it is true this may have been done before, I think this movie
offered unique twists and qualities other movies didn't have, and the
performances were very good.
<|_=00=_|>

I have to confess off the top that I am not and never have been a particular
fan of Sean Penn. I have no specific criticism to make of him; as an actor
he simply doesn't appeal to me. Because of that bias I approached this movie
with low expectations. The story of a mentally handicapped man fighting for
custody of his seven year old daughter sounded intriguing, but it starred
Penn. But what a pleasant surprise this movie turned out to
be!

Penn is actually very good in this role. He brings a realism to the
character of Sam Dawson, and portrays him sensitively and with real emotion.
In fact, I thought the only performance that was better than Penn's came not
from Michelle Pfeiffer (who disappointed me a bit, actually) but rather from
little Dakota Fanning as Sam's daughter Lucy. She seemed so natural in this
role, and I would hope that we see more of her in the years to come.
Pfeiffer, on the other hand, (as Sam's lawyer Rita Harrison) just didn't
carry the role off that well, and even the courtroom scenes to me lacked the
tension one would have expected from such an emotionally-laden
issue.

The movie weakens in the last little bit, going for the sappy (and highly
unrealistic) ending - unrealistic particularly in the way Lucy's foster
mother (Laura Dern) ends up handling the situation.

Having said that, I still enjoyed this movie very much. It's raised my
assessment of Sean Penn's acting abilities and I would recommend it to
others and would watch it again.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>
Skepticism is a wise approach toward a film whose central message is
that society need not concern itself with the safety or well being of
children raised by severely disabled adults.

Sam is a single father whose mental age is supposed to be less than an
eight-year-old child, yet he holds a full time job that pays for a two
bedroom apartment which he keeps cleaner and better decorated than the
average suburban home. 

In other words, despite a suite of tics and speech impediments
performed by the talented Sean Penn, the Hollywood treatment transforms
a person who would not be able to support himself in the real world
into a middle class parent. The neighbor is even a Juilliard graduate
who gives free piano lessons.

The lack of realism here is stunning: does a job sweeping floors at
Starbucks really pay for a decent apartment in any major city? Of
course it doesn't. People with the mental age of grade school children
don't make competent housekeepers either: they end up with dwellings
full of vermin, they stack newspapers next to oily rags because they
don't know any better, they mix the wrong household chemicals with
toxic results. In the real world a child whose parent has a mental
disability is more likely to get singled out by pedophiles or
schoolyard buddies than by a kindly agoraphobic pianist. Reality can be
ugly; this is why child protection agencies exist.

The plot of this fiction then challenges whether such a person should
keep custody of his child. With the dice weighted like this, how much
of a mystery could the outcome be?

In one scene in particular Michelle Pfeiffer, who plays Sam's lawyer in
his defense against Child Protective Services, loses her temper for a
moment at her own children and then wonders whether she is so different
from Sam? Yes of course she is different because a normal parent is
capable of learning from his or her mistakes but a mentally impaired
parent lacks that learning curve.

There is no doubting the skill of the cast in their profession and
Dakota Fanning is a darling. The writing goes as far as it can toward
making this premise plausible, which in a different sort of film could
be harmless. We all know, for example, that zombies can't really exist.
Yet it can be thrilling for two hours to pretend that they do. This
film is far more toxic because it attempts to depict a real world
problem, and then it encourages all the rationalizations that leave
helpless children in unsafe situations. The film's emotional arc shifts
to how much Sam wants to be a parent--rather than whether he is
competent at it. That is exactly where the focus in child safety cases
should never be.
