

When Sara's mother is killed in a car accident she comes to live in a
predominately black area in Chicago.  She is befriended by black Chenille
and starts to fall for her brother Derek.  Derek teaches her the latest
hip-hop dances to help her fit in and together they begin to fall for each
other.  However a white girl seeing a clever black man is never going to be
popular and the couple must overcome many obstacles to see their dreams and
be true to themselves.

Did someone say `a black Dirty Dancing?'  Essentially that's what this is,
although the story is naturally a bit more urban than that film.  The story
is about overcoming to reach your dreams, and it does it quite well – better
than I expected.  The love story is nice without being too romanticised. 
The obstacles are the usual things in an `urban' film – the challenge of
mixed race relationships, the temptation to back up your crew instead of
getting out etc.  These are quite cliched but are still well
done.

My main problem came with the strength of black culture in the film…not
every black person (even in a poor area) talks like a gangsta…and not
everyone says `aiiiirite' – and why did Sara only become accepted when she
started to imitate black culture and speak in that way.  It may be
realistic, but I felt that Sara should have been allowed to be herself
rather than be seen to be assimilated into the hip-hop culture (I don't mean
that she shouldn't have got involved with the scene – but did she have to
lose part of herself to get there?).  However these are minor side issues
that many people won't even think about.

The cast are good for MTV teens.  Julia Stiles is cool and Thomas is cute
and charming.  The rest of the cast fall into so many black stereotypes – we
have gangsta friend, baby mothers galore, useless baby father, jealous
bitchy ex-girlfriends etc.  However they are just what you expect so I
wasn't too upset.  Fredro Starr was cool as Malakai – even if the character
was just one big hood cliché.

The soundtrack is hot and the dance scenes are sexy – I wish I could do it! 
They are much more enjoyable than Dirty Dancing's scenes – although some day
this will feel dated too!  Overall I expected another piece of MTV teen tat,
but I was pleasantly surprised by a story that, despite being ridden with
clichés, is actually very involving and enjoyable.
<|_=00=_|>

I really wanted to see this movie, I like Julia Stiles in her other movies
(Down to You, 10 Things I Hate About You) and think that she is a very
talented actress.  I was not disappointed.

As for this movie... I am very impressed.  I feel that Julia portrayed very
real emotion and reactions to losing her mother, and placing the blame for
losing her mother firmly on herself is the reaction that most people would
have in that circumstance.  The train scene in the beginning sets a very
good foundation for the rest of the movie, and it goes from there.  To those
who would say that her acting is overdone, I say put yourself in those
shoes: you've lost your Mom, best friend, confidante, and the foundation
your entire world rests on, and think how it would affect you.

There are some parts of the movie that are slightly cliched.. dancing as she
walks under the L - we saw Jennifer Grey dance her way up a flight of stairs
in "Dirty Dancing" - but then again, not much in life hasn't been done
before, so I don't count that against it.  Even Nikki is a believable
character - I know there were quite a few like her when I was in high
school! While it seems improbable that Sara would instantly fit in with her
new crowd, it is made believable by Stile's portrayal of Sara as a slightly
self-conscious, but not shy person, who will take a person at face value
while still believing in the inherent good of people in general.  The match
with Derek is natural, since they share these traits.

There are a few unbelievable parts - the empty studio (complete with barre)
that she practices in with Derek, Steps, Sarah offering to walk the 5 blocks
home alone, Sara dancing ballet (not that she didn't dance well, just that
Stiles body is not standard for classical ballet) but all in all, I feel
that this is a very touching movie, and would recommend it to everyone
female, even my Grandmother (the language may be shocking, but she was in
the Army, I know she's heard worse :)
<|_=00=_|>

I just finished watching this terrific movie, I had always meant to see
it but somehow never got around to it. This time when I came across it
in the video store and saw that Julia Stiles was in it, I had to get
it. I did not know who she was when the movie was released, but have
since enjoyed her in Mona Lisa Smile and the Prince and Me and couldn't
wait to see her in this film. 

This was the best work I have seen her do to this point. It was so much
better than I expected, based on the meager 6.1 stars it received
overall on IMDb...Julia was wonderful in it, as was Sean Patrick
Thomas. Their chemistry was terrific and the story was riveting and the
dancing awesome (both the ballet and the dancing throughout the movie.)
I don't know how much of the dancing Julia actually did, but all of it
was beautifully done.

The film was sweet, touching and violent, and worked in all aspects.
The rest of the casting was very good too, all the performances were
terrific.

I will buy it on DVD asap...it was that good! I think it will be
enjoyed by men and women, I can't wait to have my teenage son see it.
Truly a must see!

<|_=00=_|>

Okay, so it won't bring home a little golden guy. . .it's from MTV Films
for
crying out loud.  But who says everything has to?  I will say this; this
movie actually had a little more substance than what I walked in expecting.
I went to the theater on opening night with 5 girlfriends expecting to hear
some good music and see some good choreography and scenery of Chicago--a
city I dearly love.  I got all of that.  But I also got a glimpse of broken
homes, the dynamic between a father and daughter who don't know each other,
friends who've gone by the wayside that you still don't want to let go of,
I
could say more.  Oh, and the thing that really still pisses people off
though it's 2001. . .interracial relationships.  I'm not saying the plot
isn't a little rehashed, but there's not a whole lot that's new out there.
No, it's not a great film--I give it a B, but I'd see it again.  In fact I
did see it again with another set of friends on Saturday night.  All in
all,
I saw this movie with 10 friends of varying sex, age and race and all of us
liked it.  I think that's a pretty good showing.  
<|_=00=_|>

This movie does what few movies over the past year or so have been able
to
do. It takes you to a place which actually exists and it takes real issues
head on. Julia Stiles and Sean Patrick Thomas give real performances they
do
not come off as "cardboard" characters but as real human beings. The plot
was simple enough to be good, it didn't require you having a past
knowledge
of the world of dance but yet didn't rule you out if you weren't black
with
a bunch of "black talk". This movie talks to teens. We are able to
understand the pressures that surround us, the music we listen to, and
just
our world. Sure, you have your typical characters but what movie doesn't.
Go
see the film and then make up your mind. It is one of my favourite new
films
for the past few years.
<|_=00=_|>

[This comment contains SPOILERS!]

The main problem with Save the Last Dance is that it is too clichéd. We've
been there, done that several times before. Also, some scenes were very
embarrassing because they were so silly. E.g. when Sara is auditioning and
Derek runs up on stage. Oh please... The same point could have been made in
a more subtle way. Having said that, though, I must say that the film was
also very entertaining, the music was great and the acting was more than
just okay, especially Julia Stiles was impressive. (5/10)
<|_=00=_|>

Let's get one thing straight.  Teen movies are starting to get unbearable.
So it is a relief when something like "Save the Last Dance" comes along
and
offers something up that's just a little off of redundancy.  There seems
to
be a lot going on here, with the main characters dealing with everything
from death of loved ones to single parenthood to racial issues.  You don't
see THAT often in teen movies!  But what it really comes down to is DANCE!
Julia Stiles plays a former ballet dancer whose dreams are self-imposingly
dashed by a tragic event, and the rest of the movie is about her
re-chasing
her dream in totally different circumstances than what she's used to
(mainly: being the only white girl in a rough Chicago all-black
neighbourhood).  The movie does touch upon a lot of issues, as previously
mentioned, but none of them are explored enough to give  the film a lot of
substance.  What does make the film somewhat enjoyable is the dance
sequences and the performances.  There seems to be a real chemistry
between
Stiles (who's great in everything she does!) and Sean Patrick Thomas, who
is
really talented!  I've only seen him in supporting roles, but this film
shows he can be a leading man.  The scene stealer award goes to Kerry
Washington, who is so much fun in every one of her scenes.  I hope to see
a
lot more of her in the future.  IN A NUTSHELL:  It's good to see a teen
film
that deals with more issues than just prom dates, and it will make you
think, but it's not deep enough to be more than just a "dance" movie in
the
same vain as "Centre Stage" and "Dirty Dancing", culminating in long dance
routine by Stiles, and when the routine is over, everything is resolved.
Are all the issues REALLY resolved?  Only in Hollywood!! Skippy's Rating:
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

Unless you like cheesy MTV-style teenage movies of the ilk of Flashdance,
this may not be for you. If you do, it's a well-made piece of that easily
digestible junk-food genre. For me, it was interesting mostly because of the
dancing (fusion of hip-hop and ballet). There's some interesting
performances, even if the editing is there to show the dancefloor moves to a
perfection that might not have actually been achieved by Julia Stiles. The
standard boy-meets-girl, gets-her-to-realise-her-dream-as-a-dancer-stuff is
the stuff large buckets of popcorn were made for . . .
<|_=00=_|>

**maybe spoilers**

I can't believe the number of positive reviews i have seen for this tragic
excuse for a movie. OK, maybe it's not that bad, but at the very best, it
is
mediocre.

It boasts some grand overacting from the normally very likeable Julia
Stiles, an oversimplistic plot, and to top it all off, eveyr actor in the
film seems bored with their stereotypical character. There is no chemistry
between any of the characters, even the hatred between Stiles' character
Sara and her 'nemesis' Nikki, seems forced and tired. The dancing in
uninspired (except for the big finale scene at the end).

The pace is slow, and most of the story telling techniques used are stale
and obvious. The characters are flat and worthless, for example Derek's
friend Malaki, whom Derek says 'has a good heart'. This 'good heart' is
nowhere in evidence in this movie, because he is played as a standard "bad
guy" with absolutely no redeeming qualities. It is impossible for the
viewer
to understand why the bright, intelligent, and kind Derek would remain
loyal
to his jerk of a friend. What does any of this have to do with the plot of
a
dancer struggling to get along in a new world? Nothing. That's another of
the problems with Save The Last Dance: there are too many sub plots that
are
not dealt with in an interesting and entertaining way. Instead of weaving
the sub plots together to create a coherent story, the sub plots are cut
and
pasted crudely so that it looks like this: Sara moves to the ghetto, must
try to fit in; Sara doesn't like her dad; Sara makes friends with Chenille;
Sara falls for Derek; Sara learns how to be hip hop; Derek must choose
between Sara and the evil Malaki; Sara gives up on everything; Sara tries
again; Sara makes friends with her dad; Sara triumphs over all her
difficulties with one astounding blow. The end. There is very little
correlation between different aspects of the plot, leaving me the audience
feeling bored and hollow.

This is not a good movie. It does not realistically show life. It is not
inspiring (becuase it is uninspired). It is vaguely entertaining, but don't
have high expectations. I went in thinking it would be energetic and funky,
and left yawning and wanting to go to bed and forget that i saw it. Wait
for
the video... don't waste the cash on the big screen... it's not worth
it.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a sort of updated Romeo and Juliet- meets- Dirty Dancing,
and attempts to take on the complex issues surrounding racism and
stereotypes while showcasing some fun dancing. Unfortunately, it fails
on every level, thanks to a poor script that allows this movie to lapse
into the many stereotypes it was hoping to dispel.

The two leads - Julia Stiles and Sean Patrick Thomas - do what they
can, but nobody could sell this drivel. The writing is cringe-worthy in
many, many spots. At times, even the actors seem to be unable to
believe that they're actually require to say some of the things that
they say. Everyone in the film besides the leads speaks in the sort of
"gansta" talk that seems like a Hollywood/MTV notion of how kids really
speak. Then there are the clichés: the teenage mothers, the drive-by
shootings, the drug dealers and pretty much everything else you could
think of.

Even the dancing - the film's supposed highlight - is poorly shot, so
you don't get to see the sequences properly. Stiles insisted on doing
all her own ballet, rather than using a body double - an admirable
sentiment, perhaps, but someone should've noticed that it made the
whole subplot of her being good enough to audition for Julliard rather
unbelievable when she's shown stumbling over even simple steps. The
dance scenes at the club were so chopped up that the audience is denied
even the simple pleasure of some great dance scenes to break up this
saccharine, eye-rolling plot.

Save The Last Dance could never have been a truly excellent movie, but
it could have at least been fun and entertaining. But the writing was
so terrible, it doesn't even achieve this goal.
