
The Last Castle was a good movie - until it got pillow-fartingly
ridiculous.

A military prison. Warden: Tony Soprano. (Anyone who writes to me,
explaining the distinction between an actor's character name and his
real name will get a reply explaining the distinction between hebetude
and tongue-in-cheek.) New inmate: profusely-decorated 3-star general
Robert Redford. Theme: Battle-theorist (Tony, battle memorabilia
collector) versus battle veteran (Redford, whose field credits include
the Gulf and other inane political coups). Premise: Inmate Redford
takes a dislike to the way Warden Tony disses his marine and army peeps
behind bars, so launches a prison revolt, inmates rallying behind him
due to his iron-fisted reputation and rakish good looks.

Let the farce begin.

Requisite character stereotypes abound: Aguilar, the dim bulb; Yates,
the amoral prison bookie; the fallen-from-grace doctor, the big black
guy, the big white guy, the big guy of uncertain ethnic descent and the
token Latino guy. Redford coaxes The Patriot from this ragtag band of
uncertain heroes, twisting Tony's panties into cat's cradles in the
process.

For we who came to see Tony Soprano bust a move other than his renowned
Gansta Rap, we were not prepared for the impotent swab his warden
character turned out to be - even as a 'character actor playing against
type', Tony was reined in by director Joe Lurie to such an extent that
even when the situation warranted explosive retaliation during the
siege, Tony simply sulked around his crumbling office in a prissy rage.

Saluting is not allowed amongst prisoners in a military prison -
something to do with loss of rank and lack of hairspray. Redford's
clichéd one-liners evokes inmate-saluting soon enough, causing big
trouble in Little Italy. Which leads to Redford's punishment: to bare
his virile, octogenarian man-torso (we're talking' carpet-chest that
makes Paul Stanley's look like a bowling green) and to move a pile of
rocks from here to there. With his blond ambition and undeniable
desirability to prison men of all persuasions, Redford turns this
punishment into yet another spectacle with which to win over the hearts
of his fellow crims.

All the philosophy, chess-playing and tough love comes from the
convicted criminal in this film - Redford - so the viewer is cajoled
into rooting for the WRONG side. The attempts at tear-jerking and
patriotism and brotherhood are completely misplaced by the fact that
this bake sale is held - in a JAIL. And the good guys.are the bad guys.
When was the last time you supported a prison revolt, replete with
murder and destruction of taxpayer property, cheering on the cons in
their noble cause to usurp authority?

Redford uses Tony's own armaments against him; the water-cannon, the
trebuchet (the wha-?). This last weapon turned up out of nowhere, like
Monty Python's Trojan Rabbit, when the plot had degenerated to guys
running around and burning things, and the director thought no one
would notice the appearance of a construct that literally cannot be
hidden anywhere on prison grounds. (The Great Escape this ain't.)
Checkmate is to capture the warden's American flag and fly it upside
down, which denotes a distress signal, a concept which they make
abundantly clear through the dialog of about twenty people. Okay - I
heard you the SEVENTH time - so if the American flag winds up flying
upside down, nobody's a terrorist or anti-American - sheesh!

To cap this farce with the seal of disbelief, these guys don't even
want to escape - they just want another warden. I got news for you,
guys: the warden may change, but the JOB-DESCRIPTION remains the same,
i.e. it's his DUTY to retain your low self-esteem, disorientation and
to KEEP YOU IN JAIL. Changing the management amounts to nothing more
than amending the names on the doors and letterheads. Of all people,
you military perps should understand that in contravening The System's
laws, you yourselves have empowered The System to isolate you from it.

A prison is NOT a democracy - at least, not the last time I was in one.
Since when do we grant prisoners the expertise to diagnose anti-social
behavior in a warden? Or the inalienable right to OVERTHROW the prison
if they "don't like the conditions"? Yeh, jail sucks - it's meant to!

In the final scene, Redford flashbacks to his Sundance Kid days, as an
army trains their rifles on him in the rec yard, waiting for the word
from Don Soprano to bake his ziti. Redford carries the folded flag
stolen from Tony's office, and word on the street was that he was gonna
raise that puppy upside down, thereby broadcasting Tony's incompetence
to the Five Families. So Tony must stop him at all costs; he faces
Redford, staunchly: 'Give me back my flag!'

Redford: 'It's not 'your' flag.' Ouch! - now that was so patriotic, it
made my thighs supple. Sundance strides to the flagpole and resolutely
starts raising the flag, as Tony is screaming at his men to shoot him
down - but of course, each rifleman's dreams were now rife with
frolicking in that snowy-white chest-jungle with the blue-eyed
avenger-general who defied a mob boss. They lower their weapons - and
it is up to The Jersey Godfather to whack Boy Redford. Of course, he is
arrested immediately by his lieutenant; something to do with The Law -
The Law which they suddenly want to adhere to, after not giving it a
moment's thought during the last hour's siege.

Camera pans up the flagpole and - the flag is flying, proud and true -
RIGHT SIDE UP. And the convicts salute it. And the guards salute it.
And the music swells, as Redford dies with a smile, flag fluttering in
battle-smoke breeze, cheese glutting all Exit doors.

Probably the best advice one could offer to someone contemplating
viewing this movie - Fuggedaboudit!

(Movie Maniacs, visit: www.poffysmoviemania.com)
<|_=00=_|>
Redford's ability to fade into a character is profound. Sometimes an
actor who has been in the business a very long time will become larger
than any role he plays... John Wayne for example (with a couple of
exceptions). He becomes Eugene Irwin in this movie. This movie isn't
about Redford's character, just like "The Legend of Bagger Vance" isn't
really about Bagger Vance. The Last Castle is about honor to one's self
and honor among soldiers, even if they are prisoners. James
Gandolfini's portrayal of a colonel who knows nothing of this honor or
brotherhood is excellent. He makes you despise his character. Colonel
Winters is a deeply disturbing study of corrupt power and jealousy of
others' glory. A fine ensemble cast of characters make this movie well
worth watching.
<|_=00=_|>

This was probably one of the most under rated movies of 2001. I didn't have
many expectations for it either. I am not a Robert Redford fan and I was not
familiar with the work of James Gandolfini, but because I am an action fan
and the trailer made this out to look like a not to bad action movie I
decided to pick it up. The problem with most action movies that run over two
hours is that they usually become boring and bogged down with confusing plot
twists that ruin the entertainment value. But this movie never once became
boring, my eyes were glued to the screen the whole time. Redford and
Gandolfini lit up the screen with red hot performances that kept you at the
edge of your seat. This movie has everything you could ask for in an action
movie, strong performances, strong script, beautifuly directed action
sequences and dare I say it, a few touching moments. Redford plays a war
hero who is sent to a prision for war verterians. He then plans an uprising
against the corrupt prision guard. Your heart will instantly go out to a shy
inmate who was accused of beating someone to death with a hammer. The film
also has some of the most mouth dropping action scenes that I've seen in a
long time. I couldn't believe what I was seeing. So whether you are a fan of
prision movies like The Shawshank Redemption or Fortress or a hardened
action fan this movie will not dissapoint. I rank this film as one of the
best of 2001 along side Made. 
<|_=00=_|>

I have eagerly awaited my chance to see The Last Castle. I thought the
previews looked interesting and at the very least I loved The Rock and think
Redford is great so I figured this movie would be good. Heck I almost
skipped paying the $4 rental fee to just buy the DVD. Glad I
didn't.

Despite what others may believe, I feel that this movie strongly apes
Shawshank Redemption and other heretofore well-tramped ground. We have a 
power-hungry, egocentric warden, a quiet, reserved new prisoner who was
quite successful on the outside and whose previous life is known of by his
inmates. And a struggle of wits, warden vs. prisoner plays out like a game
of chess. Interesting to note, both Shawshank and Last Castle incorporate
chess as the greatest battle of wits...I doubt the similarity is
coincidental.

The acting is good...I won't take that away from the film. The characters
are relatively believable and the actors handle their roles well. The
problem with this film is that it relies too much on illogical or
contradictory ideas to move itself along. Ok, first the title "the last
castle" is contradicted again and again as Redford keeps saying that
anywhere you raise the flag and say you can't take this away from me is a
castle. It's almost the theme of the film and it directly contradicts the
title...seems like a case of a line too good to throw out, even though it
really does not fit.

Also, Redford demonstrates a great deal of respect to the warden but speaks
very harshly of him when the warden is simply removed to the other room to
grab a book to have signed. Redford criticizes the warden in a most uncivil
way right in front of the warden and it just doesn't make sense...it's
completely unlike the character to do so. But there has to be some animosity
between the two and that was the easiest way to do it...illogical yes, but
whatever gets the action moving, right? The guards are also painfully
one-dimensional. We get a glimpse early on that the captain is a good guy
forced to do bad things but all that we know of the snipers, etc. is that
they enjoy shooting prisoners and that the warden enjoys manipulating
everyone within the walls. A scene that showed them to be human, to have any
feeling other than hate for prisoners, would make them far more believable
and make the story that much better...again, this is an action movie and
moving the story along fast is key: not a logical progression of events, not
keeping the promise to show both sides of the story made in the opening
scenes.

In short, this movie is woefully inconsistent. Is it filled with good action
sequences, especially for a prison movie. Is it entertaining...sure, it's
not bad. But as a film, a piece of art, it just does not pass muster...in
their attempts to push this movie onto the screen the film makers simply
left too much out and obviously did not spend enough time developing the
script. It has so much potential and so little payoff. A 6 in my
book.
<|_=00=_|>
A prisoner's fantasy: decorated U.S. General Robert Redford has been
Court Marshalled for disobeying orders during wartime--which resulted
in the deaths of eight soldiers--and is sent to a prison for violent
criminals (!). He immediately gets on the wrong side of warden James
Gandolfini and rallies the inmates to take control of the yard. Fairly
typical genre picture with all the usual details, including the
stuttering innocent whose bad treatment becomes a catalyst in the
warring sides. The film is well-cast and has some fine passages, yet
the heavy symbolism (with flying flags, chess moves and endless talk of
castles) comes off as self-important in a movie which uses its entire
second half to allow violent criminals to run roughshod over security.
Redford gives a modest, self-effacing performance--he's so noble he's
like visiting royalty; Gandolfini plays his Colonel like an offended
child, affecting a soft but precise, lispy voice, giving the
one-dimensional role some unexpected subtext. The handsomely
photographed film looks great and works its way slyly on the viewer
until all defenses are down, but in retrospect its earnestness seems
woefully silly. **1/2 from ****
<|_=00=_|>

This film starts with some information on castles : They`ve been around
for
a thousand years , they contained garrisons and flags and were built to
keep
out intruders . Yes indeed I can confirm this , castles are very old and
they were built to keep people out . As THE LAST CASTLE continues we learn
lots of other interesting information like bullets can travel very fast
and
can kill you ( No sh*t ) and where saluting comes from . What I didn`t
learn
was anything about the military prison where it`s set or about the inmates
which is a major disadvantage seeing as the movie revolves around a
military
prison

I`ve no idea how the United States treats servicemen who`ve fallen foul of
the law , but I do know how Britain treats hers . In Britain servicemen
commiting minor infractions are usually sent to the " Glasshouse " ( Every
military base has its own ) while for more serious disciplinary matters
like
testing positive for drugs or going AWOL British servicemen are sent to
the
military prison at Colchester for a period ranging from a few days to
several months after which they`re returned to their regiment or
discharched
from the military . For more serious crimes like murder , rape etc
servicemen are sentanced by a civilian court of law and this is what
confused me about THE LAST CASTLE - Why are the inmates sentanced to many
years in a military prison ? Wouldn`t they be sent to a state prison ? Not
only that but if it`s a military prison wouldn`t it be a disciplined
environment ? The one seen here is no different than any other one you see
in cinema with all the inmates hanging around the yard , all aged in their
mid 20s to late 40s and all hanging with their own ethnic groups . I often
found myself forgetting this was a military prison for large chunks of
time
and was only reminded it was run by the military when the action cut to
Col
Winter`s office

!!!!! SPOILERS !!!!!

The actual plot of THE LAST CASTLE is about the battle of wills between
the
prison commander Col Winter and new arrival General Irwin . Irwin was a
hero
from Vietnam ( I wonder if he`s based on John McCain ? ) who upsets Winter
by stating that because he collects all sorts of military memorabillia
Winter couldn`t have served on a battlefield which understandably upsets
Winter because it`s a bizarre comment to make . Let`s see now absolutely
no
one in history who collects military artifacts has never been in the field
!
I won`t bother to point out how inaccurate this sweeping generalization is
except to say it`s used to set up the battle of wills in a very weak
example
of scripting . And the more the story goes on the more aware you become
that
the production team have little knowledge of military or political matters
.
It turns out Irwin was in charge of a mission to Burundi in central Africa
which cost the lives of eight American soldiers and it`s this that led to
him being sent down for ten years . Are you trying to tell me that if an
American commander is in charge of a military mission that goes wrong
he`ll
find himself sent to prison for many years ? Well in that case General
McArthur should have been sentanced to hundreds of years in prison for the
Chinese intervention in Korea and General Westmoreland should have been
shot
for the Tet offensive . Did General Garrison do time in prison for the
events in BLACK HAWK DOWN ? Oh and it should be pointed out that America
never intervened in Burundi , just thought I`d point that out . But it
goes
from bad to worse as General Irwin leads his men on a prison revolt ( Bet
you couldn`t see that coming chaps ? ) where the inmates reveal right out
of
the blue a siege engine . " What`s that ? " Col Winter shrieks . A siege
engine , a catapult to be more accurate , a catapult that must stand
thirty
foot high that none of the guards seem to have noticed , isn`t there a
minimum eye sight requirement in the American military ? Just curious
since
no one seems to have noticed a thirty foot catapult standing around .
Perhaps Hollywood should bring in a basic intelligence test for its
screenwriters ?

I won`t bother telling you how the story ends except to say if you can
reach
the end credits without turning off you deserve some sort of medal for
watching a movie above and beyond the call of duty


<|_=00=_|>
Despite the setting, this movie has little to do with prisons. Rod
Lurie's vision, combined with the extraordinary talents of Robert
Redford and James Gandolfini, is a morality play set in the most
unlikely of locations. We have a man who has risen to the height of his
potential, the Colonel, who will never advance above that rank, and is
bitter with his role in life. He is an administrator among soldiers who
wanted to be a soldier and was instead given the task of maintaining
order at a prison. That he could show leadership by helping these men
to regain their self respect and dignity has escaped him, and he is
content to amuse himself by creating situations which lead to the
prisoners becoming the animals he believes them to be. When the General
comes to his prison, he thinks he has found a kindred spirit who can
appreciate his manipulation of the men. To his disappointment, he finds
the General a thoughtful and honorable soldier who has chosen to accept
his punishment without excuse or explanation. While the Colonel must
fight to maintain control, his methods and his intellect lack humanity
and understanding. The General is given control by the prisoners
because of his intellect and understanding. He offers the prisoners the
one thing the warden cannot, dignity. Rated R for language and
violence, this film is not for everyone, and certainly not for the very
young. It is, however, an essential element in the creation of a
leader, and should be seen by anyone who aspires to lead.
<|_=00=_|>
One of the funniest films I've seen in a long time - but unfortunately
I don't think it's meant to be. From the forbidden salutes to jailed
general Robert Redford - which prisoners get round by saluting and then
smoothing down their hair - to the ridiculous siege weapons which the
prisoners have somehow been able to make in the prison workshops. I
mean, we know the director is trying to compare the prison riot to a
medieval siege but do we really need all the prisoners running around
with shields made of trays, bows and arrows and a trebuchet (oh yes). I
was only waiting for the final swordfight between Redford and the
warden to be shown as shadows cast on the prison wall. It's totally
laughable and has one of the cheesiest endings you will ever see.
<|_=00=_|>


The Last Castle is a fine if somewhat predictable jail movie of redemption
and determination against the odds. Having seen the previews I thought
nothing of ever seeing the film, but saw it on the shelf in the video store
and thought it would pass an evening.

It did that very well, and is worth seeing for at least one reason. Although
Robert Redford puts in a solid performance, James Gandolfini steals this
movie with his simpering, bully-boy performance. Despite knowing from the
opening scene that he will undoubted lose against Redford's disgraced
general, Gandolfini's depiction of a man in authority but with little power
is very subtle and worth watching.

The rest of the film has some clever moments, but you see everything coming
- Redford inspiring the other prisoners, the inevitable conflicts and the
finale.  The Last Castle is worth seeing once. 
<|_=00=_|>

Most of the raves and pans you will read of this movie are equally true in
their own respects.  For my money, the film's weaknesses slightly outweigh
its strengths but I can easily see someone else's scales tipping the other
way.

The performances are splendid all around.  Most especially, James
Gandolfini
(who had the inside track with the most richly drawn character) excels as
the ambiguous villain who is actually right more than half the
time.

The message which deals with the value of pride and the importance of
identity and self-worth is certainly admirable.  The fact that this occurs
among men who have marred their own self-worth through violent crime makes
the concept that much more interesting.  It almost (but never quite)
raises
the idea of reclaiming integrity, once lost.  If it had gone this extra
mile, it may well have been a better film.

The weaknesses lie in the hundreds of stupid little inaccuracies which
culminate into one stupid BIG inaccuracy:  This place doesn't feel like a
prison!

It is difficult to make a prison movie within ten years of 1994 without
inviting comparisons to "The Shawshank Redemption."  Rather than
belaboring
the obvious, I want to note one detail that is exemplary of the earlier
film's superiority.  Even the jolliest, funniest, most easy going
prisoners
in Shawshank had an underlying sense of danger about them.  You didn't
want
to get on their bad side.  You never doubt that they belong in prison
(except, of course, for Andy Dufresne).  But this is not so in "The Last
Castle."  No matter how often someone reads from a prisoner's file and
discusses the horrible things he has done, none of the words, actions, or
other moods conveyed by the men in this film make them seem in any way
dangerous.  Maybe it's a case of mass miscasting but I doubt
it.

Compounding this problem is the lack of scholarship to be found in the
little details.  Robert Redford shaves with a safety razor in spite of the
fact that no prisoner would be allowed such a tool.  Razor blades, like
belts and shoelaces, are potential suicide tools and, thus, prohibited in
prisons.  Also, people keep referring to an officer's side arm as his
"gun"
instead of his "weapon."  These mistakes were easy to avoid and yet they
remained in the film.

All of this makes a potentially fascinating film, filled with talent, seem
a
touch removed from reality.  Like in "The Contender," director Rod Lurie
has
shown that his view of reality is based on his opinions rather than the
other way around.

With all it had going for it, it's a shame really.

