

Surprisingly, this was an excellent movie and certainly one that extends
beyond simply being in the action genre.  The 6th Day grapples with the
ethics behind cloning and the broad spectrum of implications cloning could
have on our everyday lives.  While yes, the movie near the end becomes
pretty action-oriented, it is a very smart movie overall, and it certainly
merits one's attention.

Don't let the concept of Schwarzenegger with guns make you think that this
movie is brainless...you'll be grossly underestimating
it.
<|_=00=_|>

This was a pretty big flop when it came out, it's actually better than half
of Arnie's movies, the storyline is very unique & has some credited actors,
such as Michael Rapaport as his best friend, the movie is a little harder to
understand than most Arnie movie's but makes perfect sense at the end, this
is not a great movie & its certainly not a bad movie. There are a few
similarities to "Total Recall", both sorta in the near future but at the
same time they cover different issues, but the subject of Human Cloning is
probably a little more realistic & actually is becoming an issue in the
world now. If your an Arnie fan you should like this, even if your not a fan
of the Big man you probably would appreciate this. A fairly decent movie
that deserves a second viewing. 7 / 10
<|_=00=_|>

I recently had the pleasure of teaching the wonders of film criticism to an
English composition class at Marietta College in Marietta, Ohio. The
experience was enjoyable, and the class posed a number of questions. One of
the more interesting questions concerned the films I had seen that I
believed had potential, but ultimately failed in execution. While I have
seen a number of films that fit into this category, I couldn't think of a
decent example. This was because I hadn't seen "The 6th Day" yet. What
could
have been an interesting and exciting look at the evils of cloning was a
"B"
grade action film at best, despite an above-par script and one of Arnold
Schwarzenegger's better roles to date.

The film's premise is heavily based in TRUE science fiction; that is,
fiction having its basis in scientific truth, using projections of the
future to fully examine some aspect of our society. Sorry to go into such
an
elaborate definition, but I believe a lot of stuff gets swept into the
category of science fiction simply because it has a robot, or takes place
in
outer space. But I digress.

This fictional reality here deals with cloning. In the film, which takes
place in the "near future," cloning is an every-day practice, but only with
pets and animals. Cloning people has been outlawed, as the original human
cloning project went horribly wrong. Schwarzenegger plays Adam Gibson, a
decent family man and helicopter pilot chartered to fly Michael Drucker
(Tony Goldwyn), a rich businessman who owns Replacement Technologies. This
corporation is at the height of cloning technology, running everything from
a fish cloning company to help repopulate the oceans, to "RePet," a company
that clones dead family pets. There's even a rumor that the company's head
doctor (Robert Duvall) is experimenting with illegal human cloning.
Something goes terribly wrong on Drucker's first flight, and before he
knows, Gibson discovers he has been cloned. Its up to him to discover the
secret controversy, and get his life back.

With this premise, the film is wide open to make many social observations,
and does so very well, on occasion. Much of the legalities concerning
cloning, as well as the ethical concerns, are discussed and examined by the
characters. Even though the technology exists in the future, it is not
widely accepted. Some of these observations are stated with all the
eloquence you could expect from an Arnold/action film, but others are done
so subtly, and surprisingly, with biting humor. Much of the concept of
"RePet" is quite amusing.

However, if science fiction is the film's basis, lame action sequences are
its filler. In between these intriguing dialogues are shoddy, cookie-cutter
action scenes one should expect from a made for TV film. No matter if it's
a
car chase, a laser gun shoot-out, or a helicopter battle, it all feels very
dull. It's not that I'm knocking these things, because they have to appear
in action film; I just wish they were done well. Ultimately, the action
suffers from a lack of creativity, which ironically, is where the rest of
the script excels.

And one can't blame Arnold for not trying, as he is both charming and
believable in his part. His is a performance with a surprising level of
humanity, especially in scenes where he's going about his daily life. One
almost forgets he's an action star and begins to take him a little
seriously. But don't worry, after the first half-hour he's picked up a
laser
gun and is fighting and one-lining his way to the climax.

I guess my one qualm with "The 6th Day" is its failed potential: with some
better action sequences (like those found in "The Matrix"), this could have
been a very decent film, one I would be sending you to right away. Instead,
it's simply a wait-for-video flick, and by my guess, that wait won't be
long.

<|_=00=_|>

"The 6th Day" marks the return of Arnold Schwarzenegger to a role that
seems
to be second nature to him: action. This time there is an added twist;
there
is actually a decent plot attached to it.

"The 6th Day" revolves around a man who has been cloned and ends up on the
run from a corporation who wants him dead. Arnold is this man who has lost
his family, life and taking on the corporation who took it from him. All
the
while, Arnold is searching within himself to find a way to get his family
back.

The 6th Day" boasts a cast that includes Robert Duvall, Michael Rooker,
Tony
Goldwyn and Sarah Wynters. I knew the second I saw these names flash
across
the screen I was in for a real treat.

The best thing about "The 6th Day" is the performance of Schwarzenegger
because he is not only an action star in this film but a dramatic actor as
he combines these two talents to pull off one of his better performances
of
his career.

Arnold did not make this film a hit by himself, he had a little help from
his friends. From Robert Duvall who played the doctor who performed the
cloning operations to Michael Rooker, who was one evil henchmen with his
menacing attitude and presence "The 6th Day" is one great film to see.

I enjoyed how the plot of film didn't rely solely on the action sequences.
Though, the action is fine and dandy; I believe that a film needs more
than
just action and "The 6th Day" has it.

"The 6th Day" is one of the best Arnold films I've seen including the
"Terminator" series. It is filled with action, twists, turns, edge of your
seat suspense and drama that will appeal to all movie fans of every age.

<|_=00=_|>
Arnies films fall into many categories, he has his best films
(Terminator series, Predator, True Lies, etc.) his average movies
(Commando, Red Heat, The Running Man, etc.) and of course there's his
bad movies (Red Sonja, Raw Deal, Jingle all the way, etc.). The 6th Day
is somewhere between his average and his best movies, and is a must for
all Arnie fans.

The plot is actually pretty good, in a world where you can clone your
pet if it dies, and be unaware of the difference, Arnie finds himself
cloned, and is left on the run from the people who cloned him,
(standard procedure, you can't have two Arnies running about, or can
you?) 

With a pretty good cast, plenty of action and some neat visuals:
coupled with a cool story, good script and some Arnie one liners. And
yes, you've guessed it, you've got yourself a good movie.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
Impersonated by "Impostor," 2002, this production is far superior in
many ways. The casting was excellent; many of the main players having
had only obscure parts until now, lent a crisp freshness to the
production. Even with a few of them lacking in experience, these
performances were completely professional and the characters were
developed along the way well enough to enable the audience to care
about what events occur.

The mental turns this production takes are quite clever and
intelligent, and demonstrates a superior directing ability. The
scenery, sets, and background content are all quite well done; as if
real thought went into each detail and scene, rather than just throwing
a house together, decorating it like a mobile home and a hearty,
"...send those actors in there!" Very nice.

The story itself is quite disturbing down on a deeper level where
people seldom reach you. It was both thought provoking and compelling.
I found this movie hauntingly disturbing. We ~are~ in the age of
cloning, after all.

This is one of Schwarzenegger's best films, in my opinion; one of many
very entertaining, intellectual action films in which he has starred.
While there was not much science to this science fiction, it was still
extremely entertaining. If you liked Terminator 1 or 2, Total Recall,
or True Lies, you will thoroughly enjoy this wonderfully-written,
(almost) directional(ly art-house) work of art.

It gets a sound 8.3/10 from...

the Fiend :.
<|_=00=_|>
I was pleasantly surprised with how good the not very favorably
reviewed 6th day was. It delivered in several ways:

- It has the expected action, stunts, effects.

- It has the expected one-liners and humor.

- Acting is generally perfectly adequate for the purpose. Rather, it
must be pretty good when I never was disturbed by any bad acting.

- It is nicely futuristic in a near-future fashion with many perfectly
or partially believable ideas (and some that we don't quite believe in,
but hey, if we accept hyperspace travel then we can accept this).

- It has a message that actually keeps us thinking after leaving the
movie. The cloning problem is considered from many points of view (not
only as the bad guy's evil plan). How far can we heal, how far can we
preserve life, when does it become an ethical problem, when will it
clash with religion?

That is quite impressive if you ask me.

However, sometimes it fails on two points: Predictability and suspense.
Some scenes, especially involving the bad guy, are so embarrassingly
predictable that it makes me wish they could have skipped some clichés
just for once. And the movie misses great suspense opportunities on
several occasions. I won't tell you how, who or when, but when a guy is
assassinated, it should not happen just out of the blue, but we should
be led into the situation slowly (for example from the assassin's point
of view) so we get the chance to worry about it. That opportunity is
missed at least twice, when the movie jumps straight into the kill,
giving us momentary cheap shock instead of thrill. Compare it to the
killing in, for example, Predator (one of the most excellent Arnold
movies). Most kills by the Predator don't come out of the blue, we are
warned, and it adds suspense and thrill.

Those flaws push the movie down from the top marks, but I still rank it
pretty high for the points mentioned above. Quite entertaining and even
interesting too, which makes it one of the better Arnold movies.
Recommended!
<|_=00=_|>

THE 6TH DAY / (2000) **** (out of four) 

By Blake French:

	Roger Spottiswoode's recent action film "The 6th Day" is of the best
thrillers you will see this year, and possibly the next. Seldom do action
pictures have as much thought, insight, and are this well written and
developed. With a screenplay by Cormac Wibberley and Marianne Wibberley, the
movie takes one of the most controversial current subjects, cloning, and
applies it to a time when it may cause discern for public, the near future.
This is a movie with ample prominence and proximity, and depending where you
stand on the issue of cloning will determine whether or not we will side
with the main character here. He is played by Arnold Schwarzenegger, now
forgiven for his last several bombs, "Jingle all the Way," "End of Days,"
and "Batman and Robin." If one thriller can make up for those three hideous
productions, you know it must be very good...and it is.

	Schwarzenegger stars as Adam Gibson, a middle-aged everyman who has a
lovely wife, Natalie (Wendy Crewson), and a young, pretty daughter named
Carla (Taylor Anne Reid). Adam and his friend, Hank (Michael Rapaport), are
pilots for the Double X Charter Company, a helicopter touring service. While
most of society has adapted to the advancements in technology, such as the
ability to clone deceased pets and to own a realistic looking and behaving
doll, Adam is pretty old-fashioned when it comes branch of knowledge. At
least until one night when he returns home to find his family and friends
celebrating his birthday with him already inside. Outside his house waits
several agents, including Talia (Sarah Wynter), Robert (Michael Rooker), and
Vincent (Terry Crews), who attempt to kill him. 

	Adam and Hank were cloned by a multi-billion dollar food cloning company,
Replacement Technologies. This corporation is run by an individual named
Drucker (Tony Goldwyn), who supposedly used his cloning equipment to
replenish the world's food supply. While human cloning is illegal, he and
his chief scientist, Dr. Weir (Robert DuVall), are constantly cloning for
various reasons. After they discover Adam escaped his assassins, they begin
an all out scheme to destroy the evidence in which they have created. 

	The tedious measures the filmmakers take in development of the characters,
situations, events, and motives are outstanding. We get to know the main
characters. They are intriguing and the conflict is highly engrossing; even
the antagonist's motives provoke thought. The film is engaging throughout
because the subject and its execution are so relevant and controversial.
"The 6th Day" does not feel like a high tech action film, although it is.
But it also has a very authentic flavor because it uses the special effects
to further the story, and the action sequences are all in context of the
plot. 

	About those action scenes and special effects, they do not distract from
the movie's themes or story. Roger Spottiswoode, whose most poplar work
consists of  "Tomorrow Never Dies," (1997) and "Turner & Hooch," (1989),
keeps the story fast-paced but finely focused. The futuristic material, so
often overused in movies nowadays, is kept to a believable realm here. The
film handles the material with delicacy; if the movie was to use too little,
its subject matter would be unconvincing; if there was too much, then the
film would become too far-fetched. Spottiswoode contrasts just the right
amount, and blends the effects with the various character's personalities
beautifully. 

	What impresses me most of all about movies like "The 6th Day" is how the
writers deny the urge to allow the special effects and action to take place
of the passion in characters. In the year 2000, we received big waves in
"The Perfect Storm," big explosions in "U-571," computer animated sequences
in "X-Men," and all sorts of special martial arts stunts in "Charlie's
Angels" and "Legend of Drunken Master." But what those movies were missing
is depth and insight of the real world, and the movies that did contain
heart, like "The Perfect Storm," were contrived and shameless. With "The 6th
Day" we have a movie that contains all the excitement and special effects,
but within a story that is character-based and relevant to our times. This
is one of the top ten movies released in the year 2000. 

 

<|_=00=_|>
In the near future, cloning technology is highly developed and the
corporation Replacement Technologies owned by the wealthy Michael
Drucker (Tony Goldwyn) is responsible for cloning pets in RePet shops.
However there is a law called Sixth Day that prohibits human cloning
and many groups and movements that are against any type of cloning.
When Drucker needs to travel to a remote location, he hires the
professional helicopter pilots Adam Gibson (Arnold Schwarzenegger) and
his friend Hank Morgan (Michael Rapaport), requesting an eye test from
them first. However Hamk flies since it is Adam's birthday; the family
dog has just died and he is thinking about the possibility of cloning
the animal for his daughter. Adam decides to by a doll called Cindy
instead but when he arrives home, he finds that Oliver and he have been
cloned. Further, he is hunted down by four professional killers and he
needs to flee. What happened to Adam and why was he cloned?

"The 6th Day" is a thoughtful and full of action sci-fi from the
beginning of this century. Possible consequences of cloning human
beings are shown through the family man Adam Gibson performed by Arnold
Schwarzenegger in a double role. The plot has funny moments, lots of
action and excellent cast. My vote is seven.

Title (Brazil): "O 6º Dia" ("The 6th Day")
<|_=00=_|>
This was the least successful movie box office wise out of the three
films listed above. But that doesn't mean it's the worst film. It's a
lot better than the other two films I mentioned, and the closest thing
he made to being a good movie until Terminator 3 came out. The movie is
passable entertainment, but nothing more. There is no intelligence in
the story to engage your brain, or give suspense. Arnold gives a pretty
bad performance in this movie, but he makes up for it with blowing
stuff up in the action scenes. The special effects are good, and some
decent performances by Tony Goldwin and Robert Duvall make the movie
watchable. At least it's better than the other crappy films Arnold made
in the last couple of years.
