

Amidst a year of big eye candy live action movies that will make a ton of
money and lame teen comedies that everybody but me seems to find funny, a
movie like The Powerpuff Girls isn't likely to stand out. However, this
fresh little charmer should be given more than just a fair shot. Sour
disappointments like Attack of the Clones and Undercover Brother pale in
comparison in many themes and elements to this bouncy, giddy
movie.

Last year was a very good year for computer generated animated movies. For
me, though, only Shrek wowed me. Monsters, Inc. was a good if fluffy entry
from Pixar. Ice Age was also amusing but left a somewhat bitter taste in my
mouth. And I don't even want to know about Final Fantasy. This year, it
seems that low budget traditionally animated movie reign supreme. Two appear
to be duds. Hey Arnold the Movie looks like very cheap, rank garbage. I'll
reserve judgement on Spirit, but needless to say I won't be rushing out to
see it until it's available for rent at a video store. Then along came Lilo
and Stitch, and I was overjoyed. Never before have I felt so alive watching
an animated movie. Now add this movie to the "good" pile. It's not Lilo and
Stitch, but anybody who thinks that it's trying to be needs to have their
brain re-wired.

Granted, you need to be a fan of the series to enjoy the movie. Or at the
very least, you have to be open-minded and willing to check out what all the
fuss is about. No doubt many critics will pick at the movie's "cheap
animation". If you're looking for Disney style brilliance, watch another
movie. The Powerpuff Girls has its own brand of style that I still find to
be superior to flatly drawn, pandering animated movies like much of Don
Bluth and fare like Ferngully. Unlike all of the other
cartoons-turned-big-screen movies, The Powerpuff Girls is actually fun to
look at. Many scenes are positively magical, some where the animation
becomes more fluid than usual to suit the need, others that are a dizzying
array of exciting camera angles and colors. In fact this movie is so
hyperactive, you'll either go "WOW!" or "What?"

The scripting is a hundred times more well thought out than any of its
"cartoon based movies" counterparts that came before, whether it's
Transformers, Pokemon, or Winnie the Pooh with The Tigger Movie. The
Powerpuff Girls is smooth and clean and never overstays its welcome. There
are no cliches, no plot points that seem weird, no sudden changes in pacing
and direction that plague many animated and live action movies. The
characters are oddly endearing, and there are many moments of warmth and
just feeling good. The relationship between the professor and the girls is
strangely touching. Other moments are genuinely shocking, heartbreaking, and
dramatic in a light kind of way. The climax is suitably ridiculous, with bad
puns galore, but there is no shortage of excitement. There is also a running
gag in this movie that is quite unexpected. Yet ultimately what makes this
movie shine is what's buried beneath this cream puff movie, a message about
accepting the gifts that make one special and unique as well as the
importance of showing love to those that are shunned and deemed
"freaks".

Fans of the series will notice that this movie is not as zany as most of the
series' episodes or many of Disney's movies. Yet The Powerpuff Girls was a
welcome surprise that I was initially wary of. It is a fresh, light-hearted,
bouncy break from the mess that is 2002 and is quite the refreshing change
from modern Disney. Go ahead and see Men in Black 2 if you want, but I,
personally, would wait until Two Towers came out and skip everything else in
favor of Lilo and Stitch and this movie. No, The Powerpuff Girls isn't going
to floor you. But if Lilo and Stitch is this year's filet mignon, then The
Powerpuff Girls is this year's peanut butter and jelly sandwich--simple,
sometimes hard to swallow, but ultimately delicious.
<|_=00=_|>
I love the TV show, so naturally I wanted to see this movie. And I
really enjoyed it, perhaps it is a little short and one or two parts
are repetitive, but as a standalone and as a movie to compliment the
series it succeeds wonderfully. The animation is excellent, keeping to
the style of the show while adding some promising CGI to it too. The
music is energetic and kitsch, the dialogue is hilarious and has a lot
of wit and the story with its fast paced kick-ass action and
wonderfully chaotic finale is enormously entertaining, it actually felt
more than an extended TV episode. The characters are as infectious as
ever, the Powerpuff Girls are still cute and Mojo Jojo is a welcome
presence, while the voice work is top notch. All in all, great fun and
worthy. 8/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

****Excellent

***Good

**Fair

*Poor

As a recurrent viewer of the Powerpuff Girls cartoon series I was a bit
hyped to catch this film. The film is a prequel to the cartoon series and it
is meant to explain how everything came about. However, the Professor isn't
developed to the maximum. The film begins with his character and quickly
explains how he is fed up with society and wants to create his `own' perfect
race. 

With sugar, spice, everything nice, and Chemical X he not only created the
crime fighting perfect little girls (Bubbles, Blossom, and Buttercup) but he
created the evil Mojo Jojo as well. 

Mojo Jojo is perhaps the best part of the Powerpuff universe. It's great how
his character is also suffering the same things as the heroes and he takes
advantage of the situation to battle his own demons. 

Like the cartoon series the film is full of action, charm, and a lot of
social and pop culture satire. It's fun for the whole family.

RATING: 3 STARS
<|_=00=_|>

Whoo! Talk about the noisiest roller coaster ride you can watch right now!
The Powerpuff Girls is 90 minutes of bright neon fun, and it is definitely
worth a look, but be warned: some kids and adults may find that the
experience is too loud or taxing. I think the creators of the film just
didn't know when to quit at some points, throwing a thousand images at the
screen in succession for over half a minute until my eyes were just
watering. Like when the monkeys are screaming, "I!" "I!" "I!" at the screen
one right after the other, or when the Girls are punching everything in
sight. After a while, it gets tiresome. If you can take the ride, however,
it's a hoot and a holler. There are some groovy action sequences (like the
destructive game of tag), great jokes for the kids, adults, and movie-buffs
(Jay and Silent Bob are there, man, just look for them!), and some amazing
animation. More humor would have been welcome, however, since the Mayor
doesn't get a lot of screen time and the Narrator, who's always good for a
laugh, only talks at the opening and closing of the movie. Also, we don't
get nearly enough of the Girls just by themselves, in moments where the
audience can have some down time and just connect with the characters before
moving on to the next action sequence. Despite these flaws, PPG is still a
must-see flick for those who can bear down and take the pulse-pounding
imagery (seriously, Grampa may have a seizure with this one). 3 out of 4
stars.
<|_=00=_|>

I, for one, loved the movie. There was enough action, humor and fun to
make
this a movie well worth paying for. The animation is simplistic, yet very
cool and there are movie references galore. Quick warning for parents: One
of the girls utters the word "damn." There's also some violence, so this
isn't for real little children (under age 7). But if you can read this
review, you're old enough to see it. PS-If you hate the show, don't
bother.
It's great, but it doesn't stray from the teevee show.

<|_=00=_|>

This movie rocks... so hard.

Not in a teenage boy "XXX" kinda way, or in a preteen girl "Barbie" and/or
*NSync kind way... but in a Cinematic, Fun Time at the Movies kinda
way.

The cartoon is cute enough, and the writing is always sharp, with little
in-jokes or puns thrown in... but how often do grown-ups watch Cartoon
Network, anyway?  (not often enough, I tell you!)

The film is storyboarded within an inch of its life... each little dramatic
beat during the opening credits and up to the girls first day of school is
hysterical.  Things start to lag again once Mojo Jojo is thrown into the
mix, however...

Jojo's trademark repetitive speech seems to have been toned down a bit,
unfortunately, as he only occasionally breaks into those spiral
Yoda-on-drugs monologues that are so fun to listen to.  ("I will now speak
the words that I must be speaking to you, for these are the words I will
speak until they are spoken..." or whatever).

This is a minor complaint.  The girls have to have an arch-nemesis, and to
throw Mojo Jojo into the mix (voice of Roger L. Jackson-- a genius) is the
best possible choice, like when Batman fought the Joker in the original Tim
Burton classic.  All other villains pale by comparison.

"PPG" doesn't talk down to kids, nor does it make adults feel like they've
wasted their time sitting through this-- like just about every Disney film
has that I've seen in the last 2 years.   Too bad it didn't get marketed
like a real movie.... many people are missing a real treat.

Here's hoping the girls never grow up.... but if they do, I hope I marry one
like Buttercup.  She kicks butt.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Well, I can't say I was not entertained! But the endless repetitions of
everything made the movie a bit tedious at times.

Genius to see all the different creatures they've created for this movie.
And thankfully, the PPG's haven't been made into family friendly puppets in
the movie.. they can still kick ass and even kill.. which they certainly
do..!

What has been done to strengthen the PPG's as a movie:

Far too many puns and playoffs of movie classics and far too many tedious
repetitions, as mentioned.
Many things for some reason happen in rhythm and sequence as they would in a
musical, this is also cool sometimes in the series, but only in small
portions at a time. None of these elements add too much positive stuff to
the movie.

In addition to special effects and an avalanche of cool characters (which
are both good stuff), this is what has been done.
They also seem to have changed the mayor's voice and behaviour somewhat -
he's not really that funny in the movie.

If the entire movie was going to be set in Townsville (except a small scene
on an asteroid), it might've been better to play off the misc. genius
characters from the movie, Fuzzy Lumpkins, Him, etc..

And/or take the girls on a voyage/trial (underwater? space?) that would give
us a different setting than (misc tall grey concrete buildings) in faceless
Townsville (which we've seen so much from already).

Boring, unchanging setting, some annoying bad elements, annoyingly different
mayor character - BUT - some phat effects, fun story, exiting graphics and
interesting characters.
Ah well! 7/10

<|_=00=_|>

Sugar, spice, and everything nice: that's what little girls are made of.
Add
in a dose of Chemical X and you've got the Powerpuff Girls, a trio of
crime-fighting tots with some freaky-cool super powers and huge bug eyes.
They're also really, really cute. Like, painfully cute. Sickeningly cute.
But they're also tough. Kick-ass tough.
450-lightning-fast-punches-per-second
tough.

Actually, that's a fairly apt description of the Powerpuff Girls series
itself, one of the many jewels in Cartoon Network's crown. Created by
Craig
McCracken in 1998, the show has equal doses of humor, heart, razor-sharp
comic timing, kicky visuals, and good old-fashioned anime-style butt
kicking. It's this potent mix that makes The Powerpuff Girls such a riot,
and the same applies to the movie. Released in 2002 to a rather pithy box
office take (read: bomb), The Powerpuff Girls Movie is nonetheless a
great
way to kill 80 minutes.

In case you're new to the whole PPG phenomenon (and it is indeed a
phenomenon, now a multi-million dollar industry spawning every
conceivable
form of merchandise from keychains to breakfast cereals), the story goes
like this: Professor Utonium set out to create three perfect little girls
by
mixing the above ingredients. However, he accidentally spilled some of
the
mysterious Chemical X into the mix, and the Powerpuff Girls resulted.
These
little tots can fly, run at amazing speeds, shoot laser beams out of
their
eyes, and even talk to squirrels (well, one of them can). Unfortunately,
during their first day at Pokey Oaks Kindergarten in the city of
Townsville,
they get into a, shall we say, "rough" game of tag. Much property damage
ensues as the girls fly around, smash into buildings, tear up the roads,
and
just generally trash the whole town with their super-powered shenanigans.
No
one in Townsville is impressed, the girls are labeled "freaks" and become
social outcasts, and they soon end up wandering the streets of Townsville
on
their own. Hope arrives in the form of a mutant monkey named Mojo JoJo,
but
unfortunately, Mr. JoJo is not all that he seems....

The series' trademark visual style is here in full force, and with some
slick CGI added to the mix in certain scenes. The colors are bright, the
animation is simple and effective, and the action is as fast and furious
as
ever (if you thought Pokemon was seizure-inducing, get a load of THIS
stuff). The plot is fast-paced and funny, with some hilarious pop-culture
references that may require a second viewing to fully register (let's
just
say that Bill Maher and Van Halen are involved, not to mention King Kong)
.
The last 20 minutes of the film are delightfully chaotic
(so....many....monkeys), and the whole production oozes cleverness and
fun.
The creators set out to make the best possible movie they could, and
they've
passed with flying colors.

The DVD includes some great extras, including "character interviews",
director commentary, a behind-the-scenes featurette, and even the
Dexter's
Laboratory short "Chicken Scratch", shown in theatres with the movie.
Overall, it's a great rental, and an even better buy if you're a fan.
Either
way, check it out. It's by no means an animation breakthrough, but The
Powerpuff Girls Movie is a blast from start to finish, and that's good
enough for me.

My Grade: 8/10
<|_=00=_|>

The animation is so fast-paced it's actually like the staff is hyper-high
on...well, sugar and spice. And the way the Girls fly around SO FAST it
makes you think of those mini-M&Ms you see on TV commercials that are out
for trouble and mischief-making. Just like tiny, tiny little elves with
BIGGG eyes that can drive any adult hopping crazy and desperately reaching
for aspirins!

At least that's how someone outside the PPG fandom sees this movie...if he
or she doesn't get too giddy from all the startling, dizzying sequences
first, that is. But like the kindergarten-going superheroines themselves,
the movie itself can be far "more than meets the eye". So, it carries a
pretty interesting story that reveals the very origin and birth of
Townsville's littlest crimefighters and of course, it's not a pretty sight
to behold. Still in their infancy, the alien-like Girls suddenly lose
their
scientist-parent (who's a real mouth-watering hunk!) and thus are doomed
to
wander the dark, lonely streets as everyone detest their very existence.
And
then a homeless lab monkey with distended brains picks the wee tots up and
gets them to join forces with him to DO EVIL IN THE WORLD! No wonder so
many
parents are spooked away from this pretty bizarre film in the first
place!

The use of many different kinds of monkeys (with distended brains, of
course!) as a part of evil force is a very interesting concept indeed and
some CGI effects are fascinating to witness, like a whole army of gigantic
monkey robots ravaging the innocent little city of Townsville. And the
graphics aren't so bad, either. But whewww...what a ride!

So this curious little movie is best made for those who like the world's
oddest-looking female toddlers with eyes the size of moons and the weird,
strange little world that they inhabit...for whatever reason, that is.

<|_=00=_|>

I just saw the movie today and  I  really liked it.I thought that in the
beginning the girls had a special bond with the Professor in a
great non-Disney way. He was trying to be a good father to little
girls with super powers. But near the end of this movie the
Professor goes bad on this relationship in a very dumb way, by not
believing them. I mean they have been truthful, good little girls up
till now -- why not trust them?

Mojo Jojo is surprisingly a very good (or evil) villain. He's smarter
then your normal PPG villain is and is funnier than all the things in
this move at times. He has an amazing voice a kind monkey to a
bad monkey in minutes Rodger L. Jackson out did himself.
