

I enjoyed this movie immensely. But, like "The Phantom Menace," I've had a
very hard time viewing it objectively. There was so much anticipation
leading up to its release, I simply enjoyed the experience of being there.
Having read all four books in the series a few times each, I am overly
familiar with the events in the story. As I watched the movie, my
continuing
thought was "How well will the next part of the story be translated to the
screen?" rather than "How entertaining is this film overall?" I have
trouble
answering the latter question because I was already entertained by
watching
a wonderful story dramatized, so I'll never know how I'd have reacted had
I
seen this movie without having read the books.

Critics talk about how incredibly faithful the movie is to the book, and
perhaps I'd have had an easier time detaching the two in my mind had the
movie set off on its own course. Indeed, many classic children's movies,
like "The Wizard of Oz" and "Mary Poppins," are so successful partly
because
they're so different from the books that inspired them. But these are
exceptions; in my experience, most children's movies reveal their
weaknesses
in how they diverge from the books upon which they're based. And much of
what makes the Harry Potter phenomenon unique is that it is the first time
in ages that a children's book, without a movie accompanying it, has
generated this much popularity. According to an article I read a year ago,
the universe of Harry Potter has become as real in the minds of youngsters
and adults as that of a popular movie series like Star Wars. Therefore, it
will be very hard for any film based upon it to compete with it. In the
minds of die-hard fans, any changes made to the story will be seen as
desecrating the fantasy world that Rowling created. That's why it's easy
to
understand why the filmmakers were so reluctant to change
anything.

As a faithful rendering of the book squeezed into a two-and-a-half hour
period, the movie is beautifully done. I don't have a single complaint
about
any of the actors, who successfully bring to life, with the aid of costume
design and special effects, the many colorful characters from the book. My
favorite character, the giant Hagrid, is played by Robbie Coltrane, and I
say with no exaggeration that he is exactly how I imagined him while
reading
the book. It's as if they took the image in my mind and transferred it to
the screen. While I had my own personal image of Snape (for some reason, I
always imagined him as the head villain from another Chris Columbus film,
"Adventures in Babysitting"), Alan Rickman is perfect in the role. I
usually
expect to have words of criticism for some performances, but I just don't.
The remaining adult actors, including Maggie Smith as Professor McGonagall
and Richard Harris as Albus Dumbledore, are as good as they possibly could
be, and the kids do an excellent job of holding their own against these
veterans. Some have criticized Daniel Radcliffe for appearing too subdued
in
the title role, but that's exactly how the character is portrayed in the
book: modest, unassuming, and laid-back. The kids who play Harry's two
best
friends are flawless.

I had a lot of worries about the fact that it was being directed by Chris
Columbus, whose entire directorial career so far has consisted of
over-the-top slapstick films. I was pleasantly surprised that he did not
direct the Harry Potter film in this way. Except for brief moments like
the
children's delayed reaction to a giant three-headed dog they encounter and
Harry's swallowing the quaffle ball, there is nothing here to remind us
that
this film is directed by the same person who gave us films like "Home
Alone"
and "Mrs. Doubtfire." Indeed, I think Columbus may have gone just a tad
bit
too far in trying not to make the film seem cartoony. I would have liked
to
see a little more emotion on the actors' faces at certain times. Overall,
however, his restraint works nicely in giving the film the kind of
believability the book possesses.

But much is left out. Harry's caretaker Uncle Vernon, a prominent
character
in the book, is given less attention in the movie than some of the bit
characters. The gently satirical aspects of Hogwarts School aren't in the
movie at all. We never see the ghostly history teacher who died several
years back but kept on teaching. Lines like the following--"Professor
McGonagall watched [her students] turn a mouse into a snuffbox--points
were
given for how pretty the snuffbox was, but taken away if it had
whiskers"--find no equivalent in the movie. The movie does include
platform
nine-and-three-quarters, though the way the kids disappear into the wall
isn't as mysterious as I had visualized, and the sorting hat is there,
minus
the great poem explaining the differences between the four
schools.

Not that I'm blaming the movie for omitting some details. Some things from
the book would not have translated easily to the screen, and it would have
been very difficult to stick everything in. Had Columbus done so and
allowed
the film to be as long as necessary (eight hours, maybe?), like a BBC
miniseries, the film might have been a masterpiece, but few kids would
ever
have had the patience or attention span to sit through
it.

The problem is that the amusing details are much of what make Harry Potter
such a special story. A whole universe is created in Rowling's series, in
which a magical society exists within our own ordinary "muggle" world and
is
kept secret by a bureaucracy with its own rules, history and politics. The
way magic is treated in her books, not as something medieval but as very
similar to the way our own contemporary world works, is a large part of
their charm. Take away these details, and you're left with a fairly
conventional tale of a young wizard fighting an evil sorcerer.

Although the audience I was with broke into applause as soon as the movie
ended (something I've never seen happen before, though I don't go to the
theater that often), some people have complained about the movie dragging
at
certain points. I didn't have that problem, but, as I said, I wasn't
really
trying to get involved in the movie's story. After thinking about it, it
does seem like parts of the movie fail to convey a sense of urgency. Why
should this be? I never felt that way when reading the books, and this is
without a doubt the very same story.

The answer, I think, is that the books portray much of Harry's anxiety in
trying to succeed in school (for if he's kicked out, he'll go straight
back
to his horrible uncle) and fit in with the kids there. The movie doesn't
tap
into these anxieties enough, so why should we care whether he wins the
Quidditch match (other than that he survives in one piece) and gets
through
the school year? The only real suspense in the movie after he arrives at
Hogwarts comes from the story of Lord Voldemort returning, which in the
book
is almost secondary. Harry's adventures getting along in the school are
fun
and interesting, but as they are presented to us in the film, there isn't
enough tying them all together.

What we have here is a serviceable dramatization of a wonderful children's
series, but it doesn't entirely succeed in standing on its own. Perhaps it
should have diverged from the book just a little, to compensate for the
difficulties in translating some of the book's delights to the screen. In
its current form, it's almost like a preview of the book. Its lack of
fullness, and its dependence on the book, might actually increase the
popularity and endurance of Rowling's series by making those who see the
film yearn for more, which they can get from the real thing.
<|_=00=_|>
This movie is a delight for those of all ages.

I have seen it several times and each time I am enchanted by the
characters and magic.

The cast is outstanding, the special effects delightful, everything
most believable.

You have young Harry, a mistreated youth who is "Just Harry" to
himself. And then, he embarks on a most beautiful adventure to the
Hogwarts school.

He meets Ron and Hermione, one an adorable mischief maker, the other a
very tense and studious young lady.

Together, the trio try to set things right in the school.

It's the ultimate fantasy for young and old.
<|_=00=_|>

We live in a world where economics is hard. This forces practical
limitations when making a movie. Time and money are sadly finite, cinema
owners need to be pleased as well as fans and computer animation ain't
perfect. Given these limitations, this film is about as close to human
perfection as it is possible to achieve. However, it's extremely clear what
an immense challenge it is to turn Philosopher's Stone from book to
film.

Two and a half hours is not long to explore a wonderful, magical world.
Furthermore, the directors have bowed to the inevitable temptation to show
us things that cannot be communicated so effectively in a book. The
consequence is the feeling of a slightly breathless sprint in
places.

It also means that the movie has to stay true to the spirit of the book
rather than to the letter of it. There are omissions and there are changes.
The changes that were made capture and maintain the spirit of the story
really well; indeed, there are places where the story is more clearly and
straightforwardly told in the movie than in the book. Some aspects of the
story are fleshed out on screen and the additions are delightful,
completely
in keeping with the flavour of the world.

The humour of the movie is inevitably more visual than that of the book; no
belly laughs, but a lot of smiles. Some punchlines have changed, but the
reasons why the jokes are funny remain the same. Not knowing exactly what's
coming next is a good thing! It's all kept tasteful, classy and above the
belt; there's nothing to cringe about.

The voice acting is almost uniformly brilliant. However, there are
occasions
where some of the actors are required to convey high emotions and are only
given a second or two of face shot, or head-and-shoulders shot, to do so.
This isn't as much freedom as they need and they fall a little short. The
blame here must fall on the decision to give the actors too much to do too
quickly, not on the actors themselves.

Other than these rare jarring instances, the physical acting is frequently
excellent and seldom less than completely adequate, judged against the
highest of targets set by the book's clear emotion descriptions.

Dan Radcliffe has the look, the mannerisms and the charm of Harry down pat.
His strongest expressions are the bemusement that must be inherent at
entering a world where science does not rule alone and the bravery that
Harry shows in his achievements. Emma Watson possibly slightly overplays
Hermione, but does so in a fully endearing fashion. There's one scene which
gives her too little chance to truly express panic; otherwise her
performance needs no changes.

Rupert Grint has comic timing way beyond his years, hitting Ron's lines
perfectly. Tom Felton makes a stylish Draco; Matt Lewis' Neville character
suffers from the acceleration, so the finale does come as a slight
characterisation shock.

The Phelps brothers' Fred and George are distinctively cheeky rather than
proactive pranksters; Chris Rankin imbues Percy with genuine authority.
Sean
Biggerstaff shines; his Oliver Wood is likeable and an ideal Quidditch team
captain.

Robbie Coltrane's Hagrid is the single dominant adult character, with
maximum laughs extracted at every step. The movie changes strongly
exaggerate one side of Hagrid's nature, though; probably inevitable
considering how much plot exposition his character has.

David Bradley has a vicious Argus Filch; John Hurt's Ollivander is an
eccentric treat, giving a wonderful introduction to the Wizarding World.
The
professors are uniformly excellent, though Richard Harris' Dumbledore comes
off as disappointingly flat until the end.

The most ambitious point of the movie is the computer generated imagery.
The
stills are wonderful, but the fastest animation is restricted by the
limitations of real-world technology. The book makes extremely stringent
demands of the CGI; sometimes their overall effect in the movie is merely
good rather than insanely great. Some of the magic spells and effects look
awesome; others don't capture the imagination nearly so
much.

The world cannot yet completely convincingly animate human beings doing
inhuman things, which serves as a clear reminder that you need fictional
magic to make the impossible possible. The Quidditch scene is the most
demanding of them all; while the sequence is action-packed and
good-looking,
disappointingly, it's not a total success. Perhaps some of the scenes would
have been better with more conventional special effects? (For instance, the
lower-tech-looking Sorting Hat scene is one of the most delightful of them
all.)

The set looks gorgeous. However, it may not stand up to detailed analysis.
It's fairly obvious that things are shot in many disparate locations,
rather
than one big Hogwarts School near Hogsmeade.

The score is absolutely wonderful. The soundtrack may rely too heavily on
The Famous Bit, but it's clear that the balance and mixture of things in
the
finished movie are exactly right.

The feel of the whole movie is everything fans could have hoped for. The
dialogue is intensely measured, the colouring is suitably epic, the
selection of what to leave in is really tightly considered. You get chills
in your spine at the right places; you feel the triumphs as
all-encompassing
endorphin highs. It's clear that the production have thought long, hard and
lovingly. They are true fans of the story, they are the right people for
the
job, it all bodes very well for the second film.

So it could never have been the film that the hyper-literalists were hoping
for, then, but it is as good as the practicalities of the real world could
possibly permit. Don't expect miracles and you'll love it. I look forward
to
watching it again and again.

8/10 at the very least. A really satisfactory film!

<|_=00=_|>

To millions of children of all ages, November 16 has been more eagerly
anticipated than Christmas, as the long-awaited film version of J. K.
Rowling's beloved novel "Harry Potter and the Sorceror's Stone" hits the
screen.

Each of Rowling's four Harry Potter books have been critically acclaimed
worldwide best-sellers, turning a generation of video-game playing
children
into avid readers.

In translating Rowling's world of wizards and magic to the screen, the
film
makers claimed to be intensely aware of the fans' high expectations and
had
sworn to be faithful to the book.

"Harry Potter and the Sorceror's Stone" is indeed the most loyal film
adaptation of a book that this fan has ever seen.

It's the story of an orphaned boy who discovers on his eleventh birthday
that his parents were wizards and that he is in fact a famous and powerful
wizard himself.

Released from the clutches of his desperately ordinary (and non-magical)
Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia - and their deliciously obnoxious son
Dudley -
Harry takes his place in the wizarding world as a first year student at
the
venerated Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.

A great deal of "Harry Potter and the Sorceror's Stone" is an introduction
to this fantastic and dangerous world and its richly drawn characters.
There's not only a lot of plot to cover in this film, but an entire world
to
create.

At two and a half hours long (hit the restroom before it starts), the film
includes the book's most memorable scenes, bringing many of them to life
with pure cinematic wizardry.

The Quidditch match (a soccer/hockey/rugby thing played on broomsticks) is
much more exciting on the screen than on the page, as is the bathroom
battle
with an enormous mountain troll and the larger-than-life game of wizard's
chess.

The frightening aspects of the book are in full force in the film, and its
PG rating (for some scary moments) should be taken seriously.

Screenwriter Steven Kloves ("Wonder Boys") has done a fine job of
streamlining Rowling's tale while maintaining its spirit. Director Chris
Columbus ("Home Alone") makes good on his promise to be faithful to the
book. But at times the film is a bit too reverent; you want the actors to
cut loose and have a bit more fun.

Columbus clearly understands that fantasy works best when it's played most
real. Across the board, his fine ensemble of actors are so perfectly cast
that they appear to have literally stepped out of Rowling's book.

In the title role, Daniel Radcliffe pulls off the very difficult task of
playing an introverted hero who spends most of the movie reacting to the
amazing sights and events around him. He beautifully captures the deep
soul
and untapped potential of Harry Potter. And when this kid smiles the
screen
lights up.

Rupert Grint is delightful as Harry's sardonic buddy Ron Weasley and Emma
Watson nearly steals the film as their overachieving friend Hermione
Granger. Three cheers to the film makers for giving three unknown child
actors the top billing they deserve.

The strong cast of veteran actors includes Richard Harris as the wise
Headmaster Dumbledore and Robbie Coltrane as the lovable giant Hagrid.
Alan
Rickman is wonderfully villainous as Professor Snape and Zoe Wanamaker has
just the right touch of girls gym teacher as flying instructor Madame
Hooch.

As the strict but just Professor McGonagall, Oscar winner Maggie Smith
seems
born to play the role - and is ready for another Oscar.

John Cleese (as Nearly Headless Nick) and Julie Walters (as Mrs. Weasley)
have all-too-brief cameo roles, but if the next film "Harry Potter and the
Chamber of Secrets" remains true to the book, we'll be seeing more of
them.

In addition to being highly engaging, the film is a marvelous thing to
look
at. From the bustling wizard street Diagon Alley to the magnificently
gothic
Hogwarts School to the dark and misty Forbidden Forest, the film breaks
new
ground in imaginative production design.

To paraphrase the film's tagline, let the magic (and box office records)
begin.
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie first time when I was left with no choice. My
expectations were extremely low as I always wondered if Harry Potter
books were over-hyped. How-ever after watching the movie it did make me
a Harry Potter movie fan. And needless to say - this continues to
remain my favourite of HP series. That brings to a point here.... the
effect of expectations over a movie. True, expectations reduce joy.

Without going into the story I would certainly say Chris Columbus
churns out a perfect pot-pourri of emotions, suspense and magic,
delivering something appealing to all ages.

Every character brought to life on screen has done justice and leave an
impression on you. Particularly notable performances by Emma Watson and
Alan Rickman.

CGI are in plenty and made good of. The Quedditch game is picturised
amazingly. The wizard's chess is treat to eyes.

Let's hope that the forthcoming HP series carries the similar magical
touch.
<|_=00=_|>

When I knew the film was being made, I thought how could they make a film
that would be up to the standard of such a perfect book. But they did! Sure
they missed bits out but they captured the essence of the book brilliantly.
One member of the cast was mis-cast for me but my children disagreed.I even
found myself believing they were flying and not wondering "how are they
doing that?" So 10 out 10 Warner Brothers. Bring on the next
one!
<|_=00=_|>

To be faced with the challenge of adapting Harry Potter for the Silver
screen must have been any director's nightmare- the chance of directing
possibly the biggest film of this decade, but also the hardest audience-the
millions of fans of the book who know every line and will pick up on every
mistake. Being one of the above, I can only say that Christopher Columbus
and all of the team working on HP did marvelously. The cast was brilliant
(particularly notable are Alan Rickman as Snape, Maggie Smith as McGonagall,
and the eerily creepy David Bradley as Argus Filch), the directing
wonderful, and the scenery perfect. The only qualm is that it does not track
perfectly with the book, but squeezed into 2.5 hours, this can only be
expected. Well done all involved!
<|_=00=_|>

	Once upon a time (and not that long ago), in the vivid, fertile imagination
of author J.K. Rowling, a character was born:  A boy.  A young boy named
Harry, who was destined to become one of the most beloved characters to
emerge from a work of fiction in a long, long time, and was quickly embraced
by young and old alike in all corners of the world.  And now, thanks to the
magic of the cinema, Harry and his companions fairly leap from the pages of
the novel to the silver screen in the phenomenal motion picture, `Harry
Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone,' directed by Chris Columbus and written for
the screen by Steve Kloves.  Indeed, Harry Potter is a boy, but not just any
boy; because Harry (Daniel Radcliffe) just happens to be a wizard.  But,
orphaned as a baby, Harry has been raised by his Aunt Petunia (Fiona Shaw)
and Uncle Vernon Dursley (Richard Griffiths), who never let him in on the
fact that he was, well-- what he was.  It seems that Petunia didn't approve
of her own sister-- Harry's mother-- because she was a witch; nor of Harry's
father because he, too, was a wizard.  When Harry turns eleven, however, the
secret is out of the bag when-- after some strange goings-on-- a giant of a
man named Rubeus Hagrid (Robbie Coltrane) shows up at the Dursley's door to
collect Harry and take him off to `Hogwarts,' a school for wizards and
witches and all who would perfect the gift with which they were born:  The
gift of magic!  And from the moment Harry boards the train (from station
platform nine-and-three-quarters) that will take him to his destiny, the
magic is alive-- for Harry, and for the audience, as well; and it's a
journey you will never forget.

	What a monumental undertaking to even think of attempting-- translating and
transferring this passionately beloved work from novel to the screen. 
Because to millions of people, Harry and his companions are so much more
than merely characters in a book; these are characters for whom people have
made a special place in their hearts, which puts a great burden of trust
upon the man who would attempt to bring them to life.  And Chris Columbus,
it turns out, was the right man for the job.  More than rising to the
occasion and with some magic of his own-- and a lot of help from an
extraordinarily talented cast and crew-- Columbus has delivered a film that
is not only true to the story, but true to the very spirit that makes Harry
Potter so special.  The special effects are absolutely beyond astounding,
and Columbus, with a keen eye for detail and without missing a beat, keeps
it all on track and moving right along at a pace and with a sense of timing
that makes this an absorbing, thoroughly entertaining and enjoyable
experience from beginning to end.  From the opening frame you get the
feeling that you're about to have a singular experience; and you're right. 
Because you've just entered the world of Harry Potter.  And it's
magic.

	Even having the best special effects do not a great movie make, however,
and this film is no exception; what catapults this one to the top are the
performances, beginning with Radcliffe, whom you quickly forget is an actor
playing a part.  And that about sums up what kind of a job this young man
does here.  Without question, he IS Harry Potter, physically and
emotionally, and when he waves his wand and does what he does, you believe
it.  A wonderful performance by a gifted actor who has a great career ahead
of him; without question the perfect choice for the role of
Harry.

	Also turning in excellent performances are Rupert Grint as Ron Weasley, and
Emma Watson as Hermione.  As with Radcliffe, the casting here could not have
been more perfect.  Grint is `Everyboy,' with that special glint in his eye
and a manner that makes him especially endearing.  And the spunky Watson
adds some real sparkle to the film as Hermione, the one with the sense of
urgency and the wherewithal to get things done; a real role model for young
girls everywhere.

	It's obvious that a lot of care went into the casting of this film, and
it's a big part of why it is so successful.  Richard Harris, as Headmaster
Albus Dumbledore; Maggie Smith as Professor McGonagall; John Hurt as Mr.
Ollivander; Ian Hart as Professor Quirrell.  Exceptional performances from
one and all, with two that stand out as especially memorable:  Robbie
Coltrane, who readily conveys the fact that Hagrid's heart is of a size that
matches that of the man; and Alan Rickman, as Professor Severus Snape,
deliciously droll while demonstrating menace through the fine art of
articulation.  

	The additional supporting cast includes John Cleese (Nearly Headless Nick),
Warwick Davis (Professor Flitwick), Julie Walters (Mrs. Weasley), Zoe
Wanamaker (Madame Hooch), Tom Felton (Draco Malfoy), Harry Melling (Dudley)
and David Bradley (Filch).  From Rowling's imagination to the written page
to real life (albeit via the movie screen), `Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's
Stone' is a triumph many times over; a unique film of truly universal
appeal, the likes of which is as rare as, well-- a sorcerer's stone.  A film
in which adults and children alike will rejoice, because it speaks to the
heart in a universal language of life, love, experience and imagination; a
film that states unequivocally that magic exists-- as long as there's a
single child with a single dream somewhere in the world, and real wizards
like J.K. Rowling, Chris Columbus, Steve Kloves and every member of this
wonderful cast and crew around to bring it to life as they have here.  An
instant classic in every sense of the word, this is truly a film for the
ages.  A remarkable achievement, this IS the magic of the movies.  I rate
this one 10/10.    

	 

	    

	                  
<|_=00=_|>

I feel, next to Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, Harry Potter and
the
Sorcerer's Stone is the best book-to-movie adaptation that I've ever seen.
The sets were stunning - the actors were first rate - the effects were
breathtaking.  The film flowed quite smoothly in it's transition from page
to screen, never tripping on the awkward conventions that other books on
film have struggled with.   The screenplay, by Steven Kloves, stripped
away
all unnecessary elements to get to the root of the story.  Though many
events from the book were excluded, the essential ones made it to the
film.
And it makes for one smooth story and very enjoyable movie-going
experience.

Many kudos to Chris Columbus and the rest of the Harry Potter cast/crew
for
not turning this movie into what it easily could have become:  a 2 and a
half hour commercial advertisement for action figures and collectibles,
kid's meals and fast food tie-ins, soft drinks and snack products, etc.
and
instead focused on bringing J.K. Rowling's story to life as accurately and
as lovingly as it deserves.  There has been much speculation on whether
Columbus was the correct choice for the first two installments of the
series
and I say to that, Yes.  I feel that he accomplished what most would have
failed.  He has proven, at least to me, that Diagon Alley truly exists -
if
only I could find the right brick to tap on.  The world of Harry Potter is
no longer fantasy to me, but instead a place where any of us mere Muggles
could hope to visit, one day.

One of my favorite moments, is what I'm going to refer to as the
Adrenaline
Sequence.  By Adrenaline Sequence, I mean the sequence in a movie that for
all intents and purposes, doesn't necessarily propel the story, but gives
the audience a huge theatrical payoff, ala the Pod Race sequence in The
Phantom Menace.  The Adrenaline Sequence for this particular movie is the
Quidditch sequence.  I was very happy to finally see the 'hockey/soccer
hybrid on a broomstick' come to life.  The Quidditch Sequence is, by far,
my
favorite sequence in the whole film.  The scene is dizzying in it's
violence
and it's one breathless moment after another.  My hat goes off to Columbus
and his team for succeeding in making this scene as memorable as it should
be.

Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is a fantastic movie for children of
all ages.  Fans and non-fans alike will enjoy this colorful story of good
versus evil and the friendships that endure.
<|_=00=_|>

HARRY POTTER / (2001) *** (out of four)

Here's a method of evaluating a movie based on previously published
material: ask yourself if the film makes you want to read the material from
which it is based?  

Before the release of "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone," I was one of
the few remaining souls who had not read J.K. Rowling's fantasy book series.
After screening the first film installment, I did want to read the book.
Borrowing the novel from a family member, I briefly skimmed over the
chapters. The book's intelligence and similarities with the film really
surprised me.  

With over 100 million copies sold in over 46 different languages, J.K.
Rowling's best-selling series of books has become a worldwide phenomenon.
Naturally, with soaring expectations abound, the filmmakers felt great
pressure to create a faithful adaptation. They have. This film is
essentially a visualization of the words in the novel, with very few
differences. 

That said, the film does run into a few conflicts with the book's story. The
middle of the movie has nowhere to go. It's like a false second act; almost
nothing of major significance occurs in this period of the film. The young
characters wander from scene to scene with nothing much to do and nothing
much to say. We're left with a grand display of eye-popping special effects.

"Harry Potter" certainly dazzles us with a solid beginning and an engaging
final act, however. We first meet a young wizard boy named Harry Potter
(Daniel Radcliffe). Soon after the film opens, the boy discovers he has
magical powers. He's then thrust into an enchanting world of sorcery, magic,
and witchcraft. He's sent to a school for young wizard children, where he
meets new friends, learns about magic, and participates in fun competitions.
But someone at the school doesn't like Harry, as mysterious events begin to
occur. Harry soon finds himself in the middle of a diabolical scheme of
revenge. Who is the culprit and what do they want with Harry?

The film asks some involving questions. Too bad it doesn't give enough depth
to the side characters or subplots. We don't really care about the mystery
because we don't know enough about the suspects. The movie does conclude
with a twist, but it doesn't encourage another examination of the movie. It
lacks a foundation altogether. The story spends so much time foreshadowing
the villain's identity, it is pointless for the story to abandon its
proceeding plot points and develop a new villain at the end. The book gets
away with this; the movie does not. 

After his gentle "Home Alone" and sweet-natured "Stepmom," many questioned
the ability of director Chris Columbus to bring a sense of darkness to the
story-and for good reason. "Harry Potter" contains charming, likable
characters and a rich pallet of lush, inventive images. Unfortunately, the
film lacks an edge. It's missing the dark atmosphere Rowling's novel so
vividly brought to life. Columbus does construct some memorable sequences,
but the individual scenes themselves are much better than the movie as a
whole.

Despite it's childish story and pre-teen characters, many define "Harry
Potter" as a film for all ages. While that's debatable, during my screening,
adults were plowing through the isles every five minutes. Going to the
bathroom? Getting drink refills? Buying concessions? Who knows? But not a
single child budged from their seat. Their eyes were glued to the big
screen. 

Conclusion: It's a sure-fire experience for children, especially if they've
read the books. But adults may not encounter the same enticement as kids.
Then again, if I had nothing better to do than to count the people leaving
the theater, why am I recommending the film? 

