

`Austin Powers in Goldmember' provides us with an hour and a half of
inspired silliness.  Not all of the film's elements work equally well, of
course – a seemingly common occurrence in even the best of comedies – but
this third in the series of popular spy spoofs generates more laughs than
almost any other movie released in 2002.  

Prime credit goes, of course, to Mike Myers, who both co-wrote the
screenplay and inhabits no fewer than four of the movie's main characters. 
By this time, Myers has become so adept at his characterizations that
watching him at work and at play here provides one of the prime pleasures of
our viewing experience.  Also in attendance are the usual suspects:  Verne
Troyer as Mini-Me, Michael York as Basil, Robert Wagner as Number 2, Seth
Green as Scottie and Mindy Sterling as Frau Farbissinia.  Folks added to the
brew this time around include Fred Savage, Michael Caine and Beyonce Knowles
as Foxxy Cleopatra, a bad-ass soul sister brought back from 1975 – Afro
hairdo and all - to help Austin rescue his kidnapped father and prevent Dr.
Evil from yet again trying to destroy the world (this time by using a giant
meteorite to melt the polar ice caps and flood the earth).

Co-written by Michael McCullers and directed by Jay Roach, the film has the
good sense to throw caution to the wind and give Myers free rein to indulge
himself in his own brand of inspired lunacy.  The film starts off with a
deliriously clever and funny opening credit scene in which many of
Hollywood's biggest names make surprise, good-natured cameo appearances. 
That sense of unbridled fun carries through pretty much the entire film,
although there are, as to be expected, ideas, bits and jokes that seem less
effective than others.  As with the two previous films, this `Austin Powers'
suffers from the unfortunate tendency to both repeat and explain too many of
its jokes.  Sometimes you do find yourself wishing that the writers would
put a bit more faith in the audience to get the humor the first time around.
 Still, there seems to be much less of that in this particular episode, and
there are plenty of laugh-out-loud moments to more than compensate for the
occasional – though not all that frequent – clunker or lull that manages to
sneak its way in there from time to time. 

`Austin Powers in Goldmember' wallows a bit overmuch in the sordid moments,
the gross-out gags, the locker room and bathroom humor that have become,
alas, the hallmarks of the modern comedy.  In short, this is probably not
the film to take the family to see if your family includes impressionable
children and/or easily offended adults.  The sexual and scatological meters
run into the red zone rather often in this film.  

Nevertheless, `Austin Powers in Goldmember' works well if you enjoy a comedy
where the actors seem for once to have been actually having a fun time while
making it.   Their infectious joy spills off the screen in a way that it
doesn't in movies like `Mr. Deeds,' `Men in Black II' or, perish the
thought, `The Master of Disguise,' to name just a few of the comedic bombs
that have been foisted upon the unsuspecting public this summer.  In
contrast to the makers of those films, Mike Myers knows how to deliver the
goods and, in the process, give his fans their hard-earned money's worth. 
Reserve us a seat for the next installment.

<|_=00=_|>
While the first two Austin Powers films in this comedic series
concentrated on spoofing the late '60s/early '70s, James Bond movies
and concentrated on female anatomy in the process, this one was
centered on penises. I kid you not. (Hence, the title, a play-on-words
from "Goldfinger.") 

I watched this film twice, within two weeks of each as I showed a
friend the second time. The first time I thought it wasn't as funny
overall as the other two Powers films and was a bit too raunchy,
especially for the PG-13 rating which is ridiculous. After the second
viewing, I changed my mind about the comedy (not the rating): it is
just as funny if not more than the other two.

A couple of the scenes were hilarious, although very crude in spots but
some of the crudeness is what makes it funny. However, most of time I
laughed more at the many subtle double entendres and all the double
takes by Mike Myers, who plays at least four characters in here...all
of them very well.

It's goofy, stupid and nothing spectacular but definitely fast-moving
and entertaining. If you've seen the other Austin Powers films, you
know what this basically is going to be, humor-wise.

Beyonce Knowles, who played the female lead, didn't have the beauty or
body of Heather Graham or Elizabeth Hurley, stars of the other two
films, but she isn't bad. There are numerous cameo appearances in here,
starting right off the bat with Tom Cruise.

Overall: sick (again) but funny (again.)
<|_=00=_|>

If I can describe this movie in three words, I would say, "Shagadelic,
baby,
yeah!" Mike Myers, the comedic genius who made the phrases, "Yeah, baby"
and
the word "Shag" famous is back again in a movie that is superior to the
Spy
Who Shagged Me.

While the original Austin Powers is better, this movie focuses on
intellectual jokes. Many of the people I know who didn't like it, knowing
them, it was probably because they didn't understand it. There were a few
references to movies even outside the James Bond series. I even remember
one
instance where Dr. Evil was speaking as though he were Hannibal Lecter in
an
obvious Silence of the Lambs reference.

Beyoncé Knowles has proven to be a worthy actress. I don't see what the
problem is with singers doing some acting, because singing is a form of
acting... But I digress. Beyoncé had a couple of punchlines, much like
Hurley and Graham, but once again, Austin's babe is just there for
Austin's
(or in this case Mini-me's) sex jokes.

Goldmember was one of Myers' most creative villains. As simple as lines
like
"I LIKE GOOOOOLD" and "I am from Sweden. Isn't that weird?" sound, the
delivery makes Goldmember a one-of-a-kind villain, and I find him to be
even
better than Fat Bastard.

Myers also cleverly planted some special appearances in that movie, and
when
he does, they do draw laughs.

I will not compliment the end of this movie. While it was an unexpected
plot
twist, Goldmember could have done better without the scene they closed the
movie with, especially since this is supposed to be the last movie of the
series.

If you watch one movie this year, watch Star Wars. If you watch two, watch
the Godfather... but if you watch three, watch Braveheart... Ah, hell. We
all see more than 3 movies a year. Just fit Goldmember in there
somewhere!
<|_=00=_|>
The first Austin Powers film was so fresh, zany, charming, witty and 
unique.

It took some time for many people to catch on (hence it's legendary 
video rental record), but it was dazzlingly, mesmerizingly adorable. 
The sequel came out and rather tarnished the prior film by either 
dumping or revising various story elements and especially by taking a 
turn towards the crude and vulgar. Still, it had it's share of 
interesting moments and laughs. In this third installment, the goodwill 
is almost completely gone. What remains is a hopelessly indulgent, 
often foul and unfunny conglomeration of "jokes" and gags, many based 
on bodily functions or other off-key subjects. That is not to say that 
the film doesn't still deliver quite a few laughs. It's just that by 
now, the whole enterprise seems very worn and familiar. There are 
several truly funny sequences in the film, but mostly it is saved only 
by some surprising and "right on" star cameos and the fresh appeal of 
Knowles. The (typically) ludicrous plot kicks off with Powers having to 
rescue his father (Caine) from the title character by travelling (too 
briefly) to 1975. Then the whole parade of series characters is 
involved in either starting or stopping the world's total destruction. 
Myers is undeniably brilliant at creating various characters and giving 
them each a voice of his own. He succeeds in creating these people who 
seem real unto themselves. Unfortunately, he also is bent on catering 
to what has to be a 13-year-old boy target audience with endless, 
endless potty jokes and gross out gags. Some of them are very amusing. 
Some of them are just gross. After a short while it becomes overkill. 
Knowles (who is certainly no "actress") comes across as very attractive 
and surprisingly charismatic on film. Her character is mostly 
decorative, but she serves the purpose very, VERY well. Her 
take-no-prisoners attitude is refreshing, even if she is continuously 
shown being kicked in the face. By now, Myers is so much the whole show 
that previous supporting cast members (Sterling, Green, Wagner, York) 
can barely get a word in. Who knows how much of their stuff was cut in 
the hour-plus of leftover material, but certainly plenty of Myers was 
left in. It's hard to imagine the lengthier cut because this one seems 
interminable, even with the bright spots. The opening sequence is 
brilliant. The character named Dixie......hilarious full name. Other 
creative and funny bits occur throughout, but the film can not escape 
it's pall of crudeness and alienating self-indulgence.
<|_=00=_|>

While this is still not as funny as the first one, it's still worth
watching. It has a load of recycled jokes from both of the earlier films,
and a little too many references to the first, in my opinion. It's not
entirely bad though, after a slow start it kicks off and gets very funny,
very quickly. Most of the old characters return, with a few new ones too.
The plot is pretty much the same old deal from the first two, still spoofing
old Bond movies. The acting is still pretty good. The characters are more
colorful in this one, I think. More developed, perhaps. The sexual crude
humor is still there, and is better here than in the second movie, I think.
The first is still the best, but if you only see one of the sequels, I
recommend you see this one. I thought the twist-in-the-end was pretty lame,
but it didn't entirely ruin the movie, as it didn't seem totally out of
character or totally unbelievable. I'd recommend this to anyone who liked
either or both of the first two movies. The humor is mostly the same, and
people who enjoyed the first two will most likely also enjoy this one.
7/10
<|_=00=_|>

To be brutal, this movie is cynical. I mean, Mike Myers is a funny guy,
but
this constant rehash of old material (see the radar jokes, the
shadow-on-the-wall, the father-son misunderstandings) is just a bit
worrying
and suggests Mr. Myers has run out of ideas.

There are some classic moments in the movie, like the beginning sequence,
and the shadow-on-the-wall sequence involving Mini-me, but the whole
thing
stinks of self-indulgence and money-making rather than originality or
passion.

I felt myself, straining to laugh throughout the 90 minutes or so I was
in
the cinema, and I SO wanted to love this movie as I loved the previous
two
installments. Mike Myers is funny, and Beyonce Knowles is surprisingly
good
too, but Michael Caine isn't given the right material to shine and the
Osbournes cameo verges on the pointless.

Good, but not your best effort. Austin Powers 4? No thank
you
<|_=00=_|>
After thoroughly enjoying the first two Austin Powers movies, they were
daft but enormous fun, I watched this third instalment. I was
disappointed admittedly, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. The plot takes
the whole meaning of daftness to a whole level, so some of it verges on
ridiculous, and while Mike Myers is brilliant as Austin and Dr Evil, he
overdoes it as the Dutch villain Goldmember and the cameos are very hit
and miss. That said, the sets and costumes are still wonderful, the
soundtrack is groovy and the script is comedy gold with the cool
catchphrases, bad-taste buffoonery and surreal slapstick. In terms of
supporting performances Beyonce Knowles is a knockout as sexy and sassy
Foxxy Cleopatra and Michael Caine is a dentally-challenged delight as
Austin's dad. Seth Green is also fun as Scott Evil. Overall, an
inferior sequel, but it was still a lot of fun, with Myers still having
his mojo. 7/10 Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

Mike Myers returns for the third installment of his "Austin Powers"
franchise.  In "Goldmember," he comes full circle with the histories of
Austin and Dr. Evil.  Myers again plays shagadelic secret agent Austin
Powers, his arch-nemesis Dr. Evil and horrible henchman Fat Bastard, and now
also a new bad guy, the Dutch hedonist Goldmember.  I found this movie
hilarious and outrageous!  It had a lot of crude humor, like Austin hiding
behind Mr. Roboto's fountain.  But there was also a good amount of
self-parody.  The best scenes included Dr. Evil's prison rap video, and the
suggestive subtitles in Mr. Roboto's office.  The several cameos were also
enjoyable, especially Ozzy Osbourne pointing out the joke carried over from
"The Spy Who Shagged Me."  The scene with Godzilla and its copyright was a
relevant joke, considering the MPAA's temporary ban on the use of the title
"Goldmember."  I did have a complaint about the continuity.  The difference
in Austin Powers' trademark "choppers" was noticeable.  And although I'd
have liked an explanation for the absence of Felicity Shagwell, I'm glad she
was not revealed in the movie as a fembot!  Anyway, with this third
installment, Austin Powers goes out with a bang!
<|_=00=_|>
I was a late comer to the whole Austin Powers craze. I passed on seeing
the first two after seeing the trailers for them, I automatically
figured they'd be dumber than dumb. I only saw this movie because 12
hour work shifts get really long and we have a t.v. here at work... so
what are you gonna do?? 

This movie was hilarious. I was never really impressed with Mike Myers
from his Wayne's World lore, but he certainly impressed me in
Goldmember. The irony of it all is that the funniest things about this
movie were the characters Mike Myers played besides Austin Powers.
Austin Powers was humorous and had his place, but Fat Bastard, Dr.
Evil, and Goldmember were a riot. This movie was a great mix of subtle
humor and in your face comedy. This movie propelled me to see the prior
two, but I don't think they were as funny.

Goldmember was excellent, and definitely a top comedy in my book.
<|_=00=_|>
Okay so this film has been reviewed at the cinema already, so I'll save
the story details. I won't even mention the great opening sequence or
the truly hilarious turn by Sir Michael Caine. Although both are
highlights of the film.

Lets just get straight to the DVD. And what a great DVD it is. I wasn't
the biggest fan of the film, but history has taught me that the Austin
Powers DVD's are always a top buy.

Take for instance the special features. The deleted scenes, as with the
second Austin powers DVD, shine through and present a series of cut
sequences and gags which are, quite frankly, funnier than 90% of the
scenes in the films. It's odd but these collections of gags seem almost
to work better by themselves and show how strong, when stripped down
and without the need for a story, Myers creations are.

On top of that, after the almost 15 mins of deleted scenes, is a very
funny selection of outtakes, showcasing Myers talents at their best (Dr
Evil/Austin Powers) and worse (Fat Bastard/Goldmember). Simply
hilarious.

The rest of the DVD – documentaries, scene break downs and music videos
are good also and prove how much the medium of DVD can shine when time
and effort are taken with it.

If your not a fan there's little here that will convince you otherwise,
but Austin Powers fans will rejoice in this DVD. It the words of the
man himself "Yeah, Baby, Yeah!"
