

John Singleton did an excellent job portraying a young African American
urban male, who is not a gang member or a street pharmacist. Jody is
just trying to live. I thought the opening scene was very artistic,
didn't love it though. I loved the relationship between Jody and his
best friend Sweetpea. Both are trying to live but with different ways
to do it. But despite differences, they both have each other's back. I
liked Ving Rhames character as well (Melvin). Melvin showed that the
street mentality never leaves a street thug, but he can learn to make
better and more positive choices. His character showed that anyone can
make it in life, once they have accepted who they are and where they
are going. The women played strong roles as well. Not the typical
cinematic role for a black woman either. Both Yvette and Jody's mother,
Juanita, proved to be strong black women in their own way. Excellent
movie, a little sluggish once or twice, but whose life isn't?!
Singleton kept it true to the game. No one's life is truly cinematic,
if it was then we wouldn't need cinema.

<|_=00=_|>

I really liked "Baby Boy."  But maybe that's because I'm as white as they
come.  I've just read some other User Comments here, and whether John
Singleton does or does not dish-up nothing but stereotypes about blacks, I
won't debate.  Look, I totally dug this film because of other reasons. 
While watching "Baby Boy," I had two thoughts:  1) that I don't relate to
the 'black' culture presented, but 2) this didn't matter because I did
relate TOTALLY to a lot of the issues at the core of this story. 
Psychological and emotional issues about growing up, about cheating, about
love, about undesirable characters working their way back into your life and
screwing everything up.  And so on.  OK, I understand Users' complaints here
about "stereotypes," but I say to them, "Don't worry about it... this white
guy kind of thought the same thing, too, and so this movie didn't paint a
picture for me of 'what all blacks' lifestyles must be.'"  Dudes, all I saw
were universal themes about, like I said, about love, about becoming a
responsible adult, and all that.  White people go thru exactly the same
shi.. stuff.  Those universal themes just happened to be wrapped up in some
kind of black wrapping paper.  This viewer set that paper aside, and
appreciated the gift inside.  This movie really pressed some emotional
buttons with me, and I appreciated it.  [And by the way, we white people
don't assume that all black people see all white people as the characters we
are presented as in films: all the terrorists, rapists, mid-western nerd
housewives, financiers, CEOs, trailer-trash, etc etc etc.  Why do (some of)
you assume we think ALL blacks "are" as presented in films such as "Baby
Boy"?  We don't.  Period.]

In fact, I could relate to the issues of this film's men AND women.  So,
this script was universal in that way, too.  Anyway, here's all what I
really wanted to say about this film:  All these emotional issues were
brought to life by EXCELLENT performances.  (I say Ving Rhames is one of our
best actors working in America today.  He is consistently excellent; I never
see him "acting," I always only see him "being" his character.  And his
performance here in "Baby Boy" was Oscar-worthy, if you ask me). 

I had no idea, until the ending credits, that "Baby Boy" was written and
directed by John Singleton.  Honestly, while watching it (on cable) I was
convinced that it must have been written by a woman, because it so perfectly
expressed such poignant emotional moments.  Of course, the actors - and
Singleton as director - can also share credit for those moments.  Also while
watching, I had the thought that "this is well-directed; who did this?"  I
guess my point here is [and this comment may annoy some Users here] that
"Baby Boy" offers proof of Singleton's talents as one of those very good
filmmakers who actually DESERVES the accolades critics and "industry" people
give him.  [Although, I never saw "Higher Learning," which Users here say
stunk.]  Anyway, not the BEST film ever, but a solid 3 out of 4 stars. 
[Okay, one more word about the acting in this flick:  I'm an actor myself,
and many of the performances here made me LOVE acting... there were nice
meaty scenes and speeches here, and always so well done that it made me
proud to be an actor.  (Especially one monologue by Mr Rhames -- phenomenal,
Sir!).  Bravo to all this cast.]  Perhaps the best overall thing I can say
about "Baby Boy" is that it left me wanting to see it again. 

<|_=00=_|>

Baby Boy, the sequel-cum-remake of Singleton's last great feat Boyz 'N' the
Hood, returns to the same neighborhoood 10 years later to look at new people
in the hood, very personally at that, and it is fascinating.

The film stars in a debut of Tyrese Gibson (some may remember Cuba Gooding
got his first speaking role with Boyz) as Jody, a boy (age 20) who still
lives with his mother, is the father of 2 children from 2 different mothers,
has no real job and often just hangs about complaining and being spoiled. 
The film looks at this character, but also the forces that sort of make him
into what he is.  It is a really good character portrait that also has some
really fired up performances from Ving Rhames, as a new ex-con boyfriend of
his mother, A.J. Johnson as the mother, Omar Gooding (Gooding Jr.'s brother)
as Jody's good friend, especially Taraji P. Henson in one of the best female
performances of the year as Jody's girlfriend and also mother of one of his
children, and of course, Snoop Dogg as a version of himself (albiet evil). 
It's a delight from the streak of not that good movies out now, and it
should be able to appeal to both black and white audiences.  Definately
reccomended.  A-
<|_=00=_|>
OK. i respect Singleton's work in Boyz in the Hood and Poetic Justice.i
was greatly disappointed with Baby Boy. i think we could start with the
terribly racist and sexist roles represented by the main actors. some
might applaud the work for showing "the way things are" but every
perspective has a bias. his perspective is mirrored by racist and
sexist thinking from the Moynihan report in the 60s suggesting that
black males are children, and should be sent to war. his film echoes
sexist sentiments that black women are the cause of black men's plight.

the film did not challenge racism or white supremacy at any level, in
fact conversely it coaxed the men to live up to the "American dream" of
individualism. it just showed a few idiots trying to gain ground
without a cent of integrity, strategy, or intelligence. it fed into
stereotypes of black men and women as sexually overactive and
temperamental. surrounding that theme was an animal-like, consumerist,
macho-ism that speaks to black men as irrational, hormone-driven,
dangerous and brutish. i must say the worst scene was the "rape"
incident. for one thing this girl played the nagging role, another
stereotype for black women, who actually never communicated with her
partner. they yelled and had sex, but that was about it. why can't
there be a movie where black people actually have a real conversation
and understand one another instead of a dog-eat-dog fight? the longest
conversation they had was about who had sex who when. which reminds me,
the worst scene was when Jody hits his girlfriend, and then goes down
on her. what was that about? mixing domestic violence with sex
glamorizes and condones it. the girlfriend did not defend herself
against her rapist. in fact she only cared about her child watching,not
her own safety. instead of kicking him out, she complains to Jody in an
effort to induce pity in him. bad acting, and a weak acting role
combined.i don't believe that this portrays urban youth culture. the
most pressing decision of these young people's lives was to find out
who to have sex with, and if the person they cared about was cheating
on them. it also portrays people driven by base desires who live within
a fantasy exemplary in the neighborhood without cops, garbage in the
streets, druggies or prostitutes, only and fresh lawns with plush green
grass, and gardens. i think Singleton can do better.
<|_=00=_|>

R&B Crooner Tyrese takes a stab at acting in this realistic film about 'Baby
Boy'  . He thinks he's a man... he's got 2 kids. But really, he's just a
baby who doesn't want to leave the cosy confines of his momma's house.
There's no actual real plot-line to this movie, it's basically just an
excerpt from Baby Boy's life - detailing his relationships with his mother,
his kids, his kid's mothers and his mother's new man. Rapper Snoop Dogg also
appears in this, as a rather nasty-lookin ex-boyfriend of Tyrese's woman.
Fine directing, strong acting, a good metaphorical element about him being
in the womb and sly humour make Baby Boy a good watch... although those
sexually inhibited might find this a bit strong!
<|_=00=_|>

I love all of John Singleton's film ever since I seen his brilliant debut
Boyz N The Hood which I was blown away by. When I heard about Baby Boy I was
expecting a follow up to Boyz N The Hood but both films are very unique
although some aspects are similar. Before I seen the film I wasn't expecting
Tyrese Gibson to be that good because the late great Tupac Shakur was
suppose to play the role of Jody but I was astounded at how good Tyrese is
at acting. This also has to be the best film Snoop Dogg has starred in
because some of his earlier efforts e.g. Urban Menace are just pitiful. I
recommend this film to anyone who is interested in life in the hood or to
people who like enjoyable dramas with good acting and dialogue.
8/10
<|_=00=_|>

The male characters were amoral and one dimensional, whose primary
interest
were sex, money, and violence.  The women were just as bad, but with a
pinch
of "neediness". If this were the only film that a non-black viewed about
African-Americans, they would have an entirely wrong impression of black
people in America. There was not one level headed, clear thinking person
in
this whole movie. The mother came close, but was still a few bullets short
of a full clip.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie very much, this is not another gang movie but a very good
story about a boy who doesnt want to leave his mothers home, but when his
mother gets a new friend, he must share the house.
And having a kid and a girlfriend, will bring much problems.
good acting of all of them, what makes this story believeble.
And whit some humor, and a appearence of Snoop Dogg, i dont like his rappin,
but he does this very nice.


<|_=00=_|>

Baby boy is a great movie that combines drama, comedy, music and action to
convey meaningful social issues.  I loved the way this movie developed and
the way the characters developed.  THere are about five parts that made me
laugh hysterically outloud.  If you like John Singleton and great acting
then watch this movie.  It is a pleasure.
<|_=00=_|>
This is not an uplifting film, nor does it try to be. A young black man
trying to survive in the hood and dealing with the mess he created. The
typical stereotypes abound. Unemployed, illegitimate child and crime.
The main character is always conscious of the possibility of being
killed on the streets. Part of the plot is that a part of him wants to
escape, but he knows no other way to exist.

You could sit in the passenger seat of a car driving through Compton or
Watts, run a camcorder out the window for about 90 minutes and come up
with the same thing.(Provided you survive the trip) There are a few
strange twists in this film, such as the mother-son dynamic and the
battle of good vs. evil featuring Snoop Doggy Dogg.
