


What's worse than a leather-faced madman chasing you through the bush
with a
chainsaw? How about three!!

`Wrong Turn' stars Desmond Harrington as Chris Finn, a man who is late
for a
very important interview. Finn takes a back country road to avoid a
traffic
jam and ends up involved in a car accident with three debutantes (Eliza
Dushku, Lindy Booth and Emmanuelle Chriqui) and their boyfriends (Jeremy
Sisto and Kevin Zegers). The group splits up as they try to find some
help.
Unbeknownst to them, they are being stalked by an unspeakable horror.
Living
in the woods around the crash is a family of cannibalistic mountain men
who
are overtly grotesque from generations of incest. Before the group knows
it,
they are in a fight for their very lives.

`Wrong Turn' was in one word an utter shock to the system. There hasn't
been
a film this gory, grotesque and chilling in a very long time. Not since
the
1970's `Texas Chainsaw Massacre' has a horror film such as this been
made.
The best way to describe the experience is that if you took 2001's `Joy
Ride' and `Jeepers Creepers' added 1972's `Deliverance' then threw them
all
in a blender. You may come up with `Wrong Turn'.

The tension in this film is harrowing and relentless as it bats you back
and
forth. You are exhausted and maybe even queasy when you come out of the
theatre. But if you love horror films then you probably have an ear to
ear
grin as well.

I really liked some of the early editing of this film by director Rob
Schmidt, who allows the scares and shocks to come with brilliant
accuracy. I
also liked how Schmidt barely shows the mountain men throughout the film.
The parts we do see are horrific but the filmmaker relies heavily on the
chase and shock than on the gore. Schmidt could have easily dived down
the
gore shoot to hell but he made a wise choice that works in
spades.

It's the film's harrowing tension and atmospheric pursuit that
overshadows
the young stars that make up the cast. Dushku is strong and emulates some
of
her `Buffy the Vampire Slayer' character, Faith in her portrayal here.
Dushku loves to play debutantes with edge and her character here has a
lot
of it. I wasn't extremely familiar with Desmond Harrington before this
film
but he plays a good leading man. The rest of the cast play typical
generic
20-somethings from the horror film franchises of old. I have always liked
Lindy Booth but she has nothing to play with here and the same is goes
for
Jeremy Sisto. But come on, this isn't exactly an intelligently written
and
detailed drama.

I liked `Wrong Turn' purely because of its shock value and its no holds
barred return to classic horror. It is always in your face and it doesn't
let go till the credits. This film isn't for the faint of heart. What a
rush! (3.5 out of 5) So Says the Soothsayer.

<|_=00=_|>

I decided to see this movie mainly out of boredom plus an eye-friendly
cast
was promised, so i basically thought it'd turn out to be another standard
popcorn horror flick. Thankfully, what i discovered was notably more
enjoyable.

Yes, it is true to say that it does follow along the same vein as many
other
horror movies in that many key aspects of it are quiet predictable.
However,
in spite of this, a distinct empathy can be felt for the majority of the
protagonists, who you really don't want to fail victim to the insane,
murderous, mountain psychos. Not alone this, but I feel that it is safe
to
proclaim, as i'm sure have and will many others, that the atmosphere is
one
of well created nail biting tension, which lasts throughout the duration
of
the film.

In fact, I found the atmosphere that the movie exuded to be so compelling
that I failed to notice certain flaws that would normally aggravate me in
a
film. I of course will refrain from elaborating on these details so as
not
to spoil the viewing for those who have yet to see it.

What I really liked about this film was that it didn't try what so many
other horror movies as of the last seven years or so haave tried- and
that
is to be ironic. It is just a horror movie, with the distinct and
generally
successful aim of scaring and entertaining. Its atmosphere undeniably
achieves this, however its not alone, it is true to say that this film is
not for the squeamish. Several scenes prove to be quite
graphic.

In this respect, I would have to admit that Wrong Turn doesn't have the
makings of changing the world of movies as we know it, but it does
however,
have the capacity to push you to the edge of your seat. My advice is, if
you're a horror fan, its well worth the watch!
<|_=00=_|>
I really like this movie. I've seen it 3 times, once in the theatre and
then twice on DVD (the unrated version). There's a big difference
between the version shown in theatres and the unrated version: as
usual, the theatre version is cut a lot, leaving out some pretty
gruesome scenes that are not for the squeamish or faint-at-heart.

The premise for the movie may be a little cliché (mutated, possibly
inbred, group of people living in the remote countryside, wreaking
havoc on innocent tourists), but, oh, the way it's carried out! I liked
it more than the original The Hills Have Eyes (haven't seen the new one
yet).

If you're into horror, I highly recommend the unrated version of Wrong
Turn.
<|_=00=_|>
Wrong Turn is about a group of 6 people (in two different cars) make a
wrong turn (hence, the movie title) in the back woods of West Virginia.
One car runs over some barbed wire which leaves them stranded in the
middle of the road, when another car crashes into it due to not paying
attention. They are in the middle of a forest where cell phones get no
reception and not a gas station or any other convenience for miles and
miles. Most of the group decide to walk back the way they came in hopes
of finding help while a couple stay behind with the vehicles. This is
where the mountain men begin their murder spree. They obviously began
well before the movie started but for these 6 people, this is where it
starts. It is also probably the most graphic and creepy part of the
movie.

The special effects on the mountain men were great. They remind me of
someone but I can not put my finger on it. They were creepy enough in
the way they walked and grunted that they were not too much of a joke.
I would probably run from these people if I was alone in the woods.
Much better than the Boogeyman from Boogeyman, anyways. Some
characteristics remind me of the main monster in Monster Man, though.

I thought the cast for this movie was great. I have always been a big
fan of Eliza Dushku and the other two girls, Emmanuelle Chriqui and
Lindy Booth, were no slouches themselves. In fact, if there were 3
girls to be stranded somewhere with, I would have no problem if it were
these 3. You could certainly do a lot worse.

The only guy in the movie that annoyed me was thankfully knocked off
first. It was like they were reading my mind. Jeremy Sisto and Desmond
Harrington were pretty likable and did a good job overall. The acting
in this movie was pretty good, especially considering it was a horror
movie.

The movie borrowed a little bit from a lot of different movies, most
notably Deliverance, which one of the characters even mentions by name,
but in todays day and age, when we have seen it all, it was a pretty
good effort. 8/10
<|_=00=_|>
This movie WORKS on many levels. Good actors, a solid storyline that
doesn't drag, great make-up and visual affects, and fast paced
directing make this movie a must see for the serious horror fan. Wrong
Turn is a great throwback to the classic horror movies of the 70's and
80's, with the an excellent production budget which a lot of the older
classics simply could not afford to have.

Wrong Turn did not disappoint this reviewer, and I really think it's
too easy to compare this movie to "Deliverance", as other reviewers
have. Regardless, I would rather watch these guys chase Eliza Dushku
through the woods and up the trees any day than to watch Ned Beatty
squeal like a pig! :-) Wrong turn is a truly scary and very creepy
horror film. I get the "willies" every time I watch it! You really want
these characters to make it out alive. Dushku is fantastic in her role
as the strong female survivor. She plays it with everything she's got
and it shows! The scene in which she is taken back to the cabin and
tied to the bed.....well, it's a great piece of acting just as good as
any of our beloved scream queens from years past.

The rest of the cast also delivers consistently throughout the film.
All in all this is a great film and a class apart from what has been
released to us horror fans in the last few years. I enjoyed it
tremendously, and would recommend this movie to anyone who is a horror
film fan!!
<|_=00=_|>

I went into the screener of WRONG TURN not expecting much.  After the
film
was over, I was pleasantly surprised.  The plot has been recycled a few
times, but this version of the "kids stranded in the woods" scenario has
some good points.  We have seen this before in Texas Chainsaw Massacre,
and
more recently in X-Files Episode "Home". A group of young adults are
stranded deep in the woods of West Virginia, and are hunted by a "family
of
cannibalistic freaks. Wrong Turn is very predictable, and the gore is
abundant, but the film is delivered in an in-your-face style, which kept
me
interested.  The acting is on par with most slasher flicks, which is good
enough to get the point across.  All in all, it was a good waste of a
boring
thursday evening.

I do want to spoil much, but the tree top chase is very well done.  Any
fan
of the genre might be surprised by Wrong Turn...I was.
<|_=00=_|>
Wrong Turn tells the story of Chris Flynn (Desmond Harrington), a
doctor who gets stranded in the middle of nowhere after being late for
an important meeting. In hopes of getting to his final destination in
time, Chris takes a back road through the woods of West Virginia to
avoid the traffic jam and accidentally crashes into a car which belongs
to a group of friends led by the somewhat bitchy heroine, Jessie
Burlingame (Eliza Dushku). Having two wrecked cars, the group decides
to wander through the woods in hopes of getting help, unaware that they
are about to get stalked and killed off one-by-one by a group of
hideously deformed inbred family who has been living and feeding with
human flesh in that area for more than 30 years.

Having seen the film countless times before, I was always strangely
fascinated by it, but I never truly understood why. I did always love
it, but there was always something about it I just really dug. Having
seen the film again now, I've finally realized what, and the reason is
very simple - the film is just a very well-done homage to all those
bad-ass 70s Horror films, and just combines the highlights of those
flicks in one simple and highly-enjoyable Slasher film.

Another reason why I probably like this movie so much is because of its
fantastic and unique eerie atmosphere. Throughout the whole movie you
repeatedly get that uncomfortable feeling of being watched by someone,
and the scares which constantly appear through the movie just add to
the atmosphere. The tension and the special effects are very well done
too thanks to Stan Winston who creates a really disgusting and menacing
inbred family, but he does it so good you don't even look at them in
that way; sure they are scary as hell and look horribly deformed, but
beneath that all you still do realize they are all just a bunch of
humans, well at least sort of.

The cast is really good too. The two leads, Desmond Harrington and the
lovely and talented Eliza Dushku, do an amazing job here and since they
both play likable, strong characters, you really root for them and want
to see them live. The other cast members, Jeremy Sisto, Lindy Booth and
Kevin Zegers, are all great actors, but they don't have really much to
work with here since their characters are basically wasted, though
Emanuelle Chriqui really stands out and plays the supporting female
lead role very good and convincing. Even though you already know from
the start who is going to survive, there's still plenty of tension and
scares present throughout the whole movie, so if you think this is just
another typical, gory Slasher flick - think again.

One thing I'm very impressed with here is the directing. Schmidt does a
terrific job, and you can say he's a horror geek by just watching
several clips from the movie. We get some "Deliverance" references now
and then, a little bit of "Last House on the Left", "The Hills Have
Eyes", "The Texas Chain Saw Massacre", and loads more. The kills are
very effective and absolutely gory too, so if you are a fan of brutal
death scenes, you will almost definitely dig the deaths. 

The film does have some weak points though. Some of the dialog is a bit
cheesy in parts, and the ending is really predictable, clichéd, and a
bit rushed if you ask me, but the film still really impressed me and is
definitely one of my favorite movies now.

So in short - Wrong Turn is a movie you either love or hate. I
definitely belong to the first group for a couple of reasons, and even
though I do realize Wrong Turn is not the best film ever, I love every
second of it for one simple reason - it's a simple, highly enjoyable
and scary no-brain throwback to 70s Horror movies, so if you're just
looking for a fun and gory Horror film, Wrong Turn is then definitely a
right turn, and an amazing film you should definitely not miss! Highly
recommended.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>
anyone who expects any movie to be perfect is just always going to find
failure. no movie can be exactly right because they have a large
variety of people to please. if you are expecting to find a movie
nowadays that totally freaks you out, that is hard. we have seen almost
everything by now. this movie isn't trying to be amazing, it is just
meant to freak you out and provide you with some gore. it does do this.
i watched it for the first time in the dark, it sure scared me. this
movie is a little different from the predictable and sometimes a little
bit annoying movies like Scream, I know what you did last summer, etc.
it is a good movie for people who aren't looking for too much. just to
have a different cast of people than the conventional ones, Eliza
dushku, who i am a fan of, isn't your usual wilting, running screamer.
she is just as strong as the men and doesn't always need help. Desmond
Harrington is nice to look at and has a strong quality about him. these
two working together can be enjoyable and have the ability to survive.
this movie is different enough and scary enough to be enjoyable. i sure
enjoyed it, and i bought it.
<|_=00=_|>
After seeing Wrong Turn, I decided to look back at other Stan Winston
produced movies to see what I may have missed by him. Stan is a special
effects master who has created scary monsters for some great flicks:
Alien, Predator, Artificial Intelligence, Edward Scissorhands, Chiller,
The Hand and more. Wrong Turn begins by introducing you to some very
real characters during daytime and in bright sunlight. The plot begins
with an intelligent med student (Desmond Harrington), trying to reach a
destination but coming across a traffic jam on a main route through a
mountain pass somewhere in West Virginia. He decides to make a U-turn
and soon afterward finds a shortcut through some very rural woods of
W-VA. Or so he thinks! He quickly meets up with a stalled vehicle in
the road belonging to four campers thru an accident he has with their
car, destroying both vehicles while no one is hurt. They are all
effectively stranded in the middle of nowhere. They begin looking for a
way to communicate with the outside world. Cellphones are useless out
here. As they begin their search we discover they are being stalked by
some awful looking inbreds, this flick's "monsters". The monsters are
actually disfigured people who capture any unfortunate souls who happen
to travel down the road into their neck of the woods. The main
characters stumble right into the empty homestead belonging to these
inbreds early in the story, which serves to make for some intriguing
discoveries about the nature of their stalkers. At this point the story
turns to a chase of sorts, with the intelligence of the quarry
sometimes helping gain a foothold on their stalkers. You find yourself
deeply involved in the movie, pushing all else aside as you start
rooting for the stalked as they disappear one by one, until the
survivors finally rise to the challenge as you find yourself cheering
them on, screaming "Yes!" as they start to get the upper hand on their
madmen stalkers! There are some terrific graphics which I haven't seen
in other films. I watched the original theatrical version on a whim not
knowing that my money would be so well-spent. I would like to point out
that there's some good talent being splashed around on the screen here,
both in the main characters played by Desmond Harington and Elisha
Dushku, as well as in the supporting cast of Jeremy Sisto, Emmanuelle
Chriqui, Kevin Zegers and Lindy Booth. I love this cast, and would like
to see them reunite for a second effort, possibly in an entirely
different setting -- maybe for a great haunted mansion flick. I'd give
this movie an A-.
<|_=00=_|>
Rating: ** out of ****

Wrong Turn seemingly has all the ingredients necessary for an effective
slasher: a good setting and decent premise, a very attractive and
likable cast, memorable make-up and gore effect, and a refreshingly
unironic tone that reminds us of the days when old-fashioned horror
didn't rely on self-conscious humor to pass for entertainment value. In
that manner, Wrong Turn is actually a little nostalgic, not unlike the
rest of the recent batch of backwoods horror flicks (Cabin Fever, House
of 1000 Corpses, and the Texas Chainsaw Massacre remake).

But aside from two solid setpieces, the movie rarely fulfills its
(admittedly limited) potential. The script matters little in this
subgenre, but there's almost no plot after the ill-fated teens arrive
at the mountain men's cabin. This is about twenty-five minutes into the
film, after we've already dispensed with the obligatory character
intros (basically: 3 hot chicks and 3 hunky, but also surprisingly
personable guys) and whatever reasons they have for being stranded in
the middle of nowhere, West Virginia.

Everything after that is typical cat-and-mouse filler, the killers
(three inbred, cannibalistic hillbillies) searching for their prey
while our protagonists run and hide behind trees. There's very little
in the way of suspense, namely because it's so obvious who's going to
live and who's going to die and in what order. And because the cast is
so small, you can't even enjoy a particularly large body count (half
the main cast is killed off less than forty minutes into the picture).

Wrong Turn is also missing much of what makes slasher movies fun to
watch: explicit nudity and the occasional bit of gratuitous sex. With
such an attractive cast (Emmanuelle Chriqui is cute, and Eliza Dushku
and especially Lindy Booth are total hotties), the movie regrettably
skimps on the goods. Such a complaint probably wouldn't matter if the
characters were better developed, but despite a talented cast, the most
interesting aspect character-wise is noting how different a couple
Lindy Booth and Kevin Zegers played in Dawn of the Dead. 

As for the rest of the cast, Desmond Harrington is a solid actor, but
does little more than run, grunt, and dive headfirst into every
dangerous stunt (his volunteering for every dangerous move actually
makes him pretty likable even when we question his logic). Eliza Dushku
simply coasts on her looks (and proves that all hottie TV actresses are
destined to play a big screen scream queen at least once in their
lives), while Emmanuelle Chriqui just shrieks her way through her part.
Standing out a little is Jeremy Sisto, who infuses a bit of humor into
an otherwise very disposable role.

The forest is something of a disappointment, as well. With a
potentially excellent setting at his disposal, director Rob Schmidt
fails to generate any creepy atmosphere in an environment where you'd
think atmosphere would almost come naturally (to be fair, a lot of
horror movies also seem to have this problem; the last time I saw a
forest setting utilized perfectly was in 2003's terrifically
frightening Dead End). 

Despite the fact I've done little more than harp on the film, there's
no denying that the middle half-hour is occasionally entertaining.
There's a semi-suspenseful scene set in a vehicular junkyard (finally,
a little variety in setting, huh?) and another effective sequence set
inside a watchtower that segues to an exciting chase atop the branches
of some very large trees. The murders are too sparse, given the small
cast, but they're gruesome and memorable, and thankfully not as
relentlessly cruel as the deaths in Cabin Fever, but boast just the
right touch of menace and hard-edged violence.

The three hillbilly killers aren't quite as successful as the gore; in
fact, seeing less of them would have been appreciated, considering
their grotesque appearance almost crosses into the realm of
self-parody. Even The X-Files knew better than that. 

Anyway, whatever momentum the middle half-hour built up comes crashing
down in the final minutes, with the film actually closing out with an
explosion, surely a sign of desperation on the part of the screenwriter
if he can't come up with any brighter ideas in a slasher (I was, in
fact, about to give the movie a ** 1/2 until the climax). Overall, this
is mildly recommended to slasher fans or anyone who wants to gawk at
Dushku for a little over an hour. Wrong Turn at least has its heart set
in the right place, which is more than can be said for most slashers
these days.
