

I found The Score a very rare treat in the era of Kill Bill 2 and Die
Hard 9. In The Score there is plenty of suspense but very little
violence. If I explain this too much, I will spoil. 

Except for lots of swear words, this is clearly PG-13, and provides a
strong lesson in how to craft an action movie without a lot of
explosions and gunfights. Plus: three generations of Method actors is a
real treat, with Brando playful and seemingly content, DeNiro cool
beyond cool, and Norton riffing away the whole movie. [Regarding
DeNiro: what's cooler than a) managing a sleek jazz club, in b) sleek
Montreal, with c) Angela Bassett as your sleek flight attendant
girlfriend?!] Rent it soon >> it's a sleeper.

<|_=00=_|>

The Score seems to start off slow for some, but the film's speed is
important for the movie. It shows how DeNiro's character lives his life and
his life is essential to the plot. "One more" is what he has been saying for
years, but this time he means it and will do whatever it takes to make sure
nothing goes wrong. Edward Norton's character gives Bob the most grief
because he isn't sure if Norton will fly straight. Norton's performance is
doubly magnificent and anyone who hasn't seen this actor in action is
missing out big time. Brando delivers about 5 scenes that are right on key
and provides some comic relief that fits nicely. Overall a really good film
that will leave audiences with their jaws on the floor.

<|_=00=_|>
Excellent acting is the attraction in this low-key heist movie, which
only gets into high gear in the last 30 minutes of the two hours, and
features some nice twists. Otherwise, it's a bit talky with a few
lulls.

However, I still found it interesting thanks to Edward Norton's superb
acting. His character, "Jack Teller" was very intriguing. Robert De
Niro, as "Nick Wells" also was good to watch. De Niro rarely is boring.
The third major player here is the even-more famous Marlon Brando, who
only is referred to as "Max." This certainly isn't one of his more
appealing roles but then, how many did he play since the '60s anyway?
He - like Norton and De Niro - always grabs your attention regardless
of the role, too.

Set in Canada, there were great shots of Montreal in this film, and a
sharp DVD picture to show off the city. For those looking for a lot of
action, skip this, but for those who are more interested in great
acting, check this movie out.
<|_=00=_|>

A robber, Nick (Robert De Niro) wants to retire and marry his girlfriend
(Angela Bassett).  But a friend of his Max (Marlon Brando) convinces him to
do one last job with young brash Jackie (Edward Norton).  Naturally
something goes wrong.  Nothing new or inventive here but very well-done and
engrossing.  Also it's a pleasure to see three exceptional actors doing good
work and enjoying themselves (especially Brando).  Only complaint--Bassett
(another great actor) is completely wasted.  Worth catching.  Also, it needs
to be seen on a wide screen--director Frank Oz uses the whole screen
inventively more than once.
<|_=00=_|>

Nick Wells is a patient, professional, old school thief who works alone.  A
narrow escape convinces him that it is time to pack it up and settle down
with his casual girlfriend Diane.  However his middleman Max comes to him
with a big score worth millions each and begins to try and convince him to
do it.  Acting as a downside to the job is Jack Teller, the guy with the
insider information who Nick must work with as partners on the job.  Even as
trust is built between the three men, little things begin to be revealed
that could put the whole job at risk.

Very few films are excellent in every regard, some have great plots but low
production values where others have multimillion budgets but awful stories. 
The Score is rightly sold on it's cast for it as little else to offer an
audience other than that.  The plot is overly familiar and, while not bad,
certainly doesn't hold any great surprises for anyone who's seen any `one
last job' movies before.  The telling is a little slow but holds the
attention pretty well, while the job itself is unspectacular but
enjoyable.

What makes it worth watching over many other similar twisty heist movies is
the cast, who manage to make the material seem better by their inclusion. 
None of them really have anything special to work with but they all do well
and do professional jobs.  Norton is probably the standout of the film as he
plays several types of character and is good in them all.  De Niro does a
reasonable job without being flashy or looking like he's making too much of
an effort.  Brando is OK but now always seems to have a half smile on his
face to suggest he isn't taking anything seriously.  I don't understand why
Bassett bothered to be involved as her part is very small and doesn't add
very much to the film – maybe it was a bigger part in the
script?

Overall this film is basically nothing new and can be seen in many different
forms at video stores world-wide.  The thing that helps lift this a little
above the rest is not the plot but the talented cast that have been
assembled to run it.  I enjoyed it and think it is worth watching for
that.
<|_=00=_|>

First of all, I didn't hate this movie. The acting was good, the locations
were colorful and interesting, and I wasn't bored. (Even though the plot of
the movie moved slowly, each scene was interesting for one thing or
another.) But we've all seen this basic plot many times. Sometimes seeing a
formula once again can be fun, if it's filled with energy or a different
perspective. But this movie just seemed content to present what we've seen
before, and add nothing new to them. If you're bored this movie will do, but
I don't think it's one to go out of your way for. 

(P.S. - Fans of Brando and Bassett will be disappointed; not only are their
roles very small, but their parts could easily have been written out with no
real consequence to the story.)
<|_=00=_|>

`The Score' is a fun, stylish return to the `Rififi,' `Topkapi' school of
crime drama.  The object of this particular heist is a 17th Century royal
scepter from France that happens to be languishing in the basement of the
Montreal customhouse just asking to be taken.  One of the would-be takers
is
Nick Wells (Robert De Niro), a seasoned heister dreaming of the quiet life
of retirement but compelled to do this one last job as a favor to Max
(Marlon Brando), an old buddy in hock to some pretty dangerous mob
figures.
Completing the triangle is Jack Teller (Edward Norton), a brilliant but
brash young criminal mastermind whose high-risk temperament is placed in
direct counterpoint to Nick's cool, levelheaded demeanor.

Perhaps the most amazing triumph for director Frank Oz is his success at
pulling together this impressive cast of stellar heavyweights who cut
across
three generations of movie acting.  Of course, one might wish to see them
in
roles more demanding of their thespian talents, but we moviegoers will
take
these three superstars any way we can get them.  And `The Score' is
certainly very entertaining on its own terms.  The technical elements
involved in the planning of the heist are beautifully detailed from start
to
finish.  And Oz generates genuinely nail-biting suspense in many sequences
involving close quarters and close calls.  In addition, the Montreal
setting
is novel and fresh and it is enhanced by some very impressive wide screen
photography.

A film like `The Score' lives or dies based on the intricacy of its
plotting
and the expertise of its craft.  In both cases, `The Score' excels as an
outstanding example of this noble and time-honored genre.  And watching
these three acting giants doing their thing in a movie together is OUR
well-earned reward.

<|_=00=_|>

Yep, it's another clichéd script: Career cat burglar Nick (Robert De
Niro, Meet the Parents) is about to take on a nearly impossible
heist that requires his joining forces with a talented but brash
young accomplice, Jackie (Edward Norton, American History X),
whom he doesn't particularly like. The dubious alliance, arranged
by Nick's longtime friend and fence, Max (Marlon Brando, Don Juan
deMarco), throws a wrench into Nick's plan to retire from crime and
settle down with his lady love, Diane (Angela Bassett, Supernova).

Uh-huh. The old, "One more job, then I'll retire," routine.
But that's where the routine ends. The trio of brilliant lead actors
transcend the plot, and overcome the sometimes sluggish
direction (courtesy of Frank Oz, who did Bowfinger and many other
comedies -- and children's flicks, such as The Indian in the
Cupboard). It's an absolute pleasure from start to finish, just to
watch and study these men -- but then, they could probably be
taking turns reading the phone book and make it seem 
fascinating. (Angela Bassett is excellent too, but she is
unfortunately relegated to the one-dimensional, obligatory
"girlfriend role" here.)

The score is a big one: a 16th century royal scepter worth $30
million dollars. It's locked away in the basement of The Customs
House in Montreal, Canada, and security is getting tighter by the
day. Jackie infiltrates the House, posing as "Brian," a janitor
afflicted with cerebral palsy. Norton is flawless in his dual roles
(remember his schizo debut in Primal Fear?), and better still, he
plays Brian as funny and endearing without ever creeping into
caricature-ville. Meanwhile, Nick is figuring out how to bypass the
ironclad security system and crack the uncrackable safe. DeNiro
doesn't have a lot to do with his character, but what he was given,
he runs with. He not only makes you believe the clichés, you like
them, dammit. Brando is clearly having fun with his role -- one
tailor-made just for him. "I wrote the part specifically for Brando,"
said co-writer Kario Salem. "I imagined him as a cross between
Truman Capote and Tennessee Williams -- someone of great
flamboyance and humor and wit and someone of great size, both
literally and figuratively." Brando nails it all the way. (Interesting
aside: the roles of Nick and Jackie were originally slated for
Michael Douglas and Ben Affleck.)

The twist ending is given away a bit too early (but then there's
another twist), and there isn't anything here we haven't seen
before. However, with three generations of the world's best actors
on the screen, The Score scores big.
<|_=00=_|>

The Score is a movie that holds many elements together that makes is a
highly watchable and ultimately suspensful crime movie.  These elements are
the cast, which has 3 of the finest American actors to ever grace the
screen- Robert DeNiro, Edward Norton, and Don Vito Corleone himself, Marlon
Brando.  Also though another elements is from director Frank Oz, who is a
household name (at least for me) by being a muppeteer since 1963 and has
also directed some hits (Bowfinger, What About Bob) and misses (In and Out,
Stepsitter).  Now he tackles his first crime drama, and he does it
exceptionally well in holding the suspense in a way that will hold it all
together, unlike some thrillers that always pop up suspense and by the time
the end comes your tired out from it all.  While The Score holds a couple of
things also that keep it from greatness (Angela Basset's character isn't
really needed for DeNiro's motivations and also the trailer revealed too
much of the movie so that the movie had to try extra hard to be thrilling),
it also holds controlled and outstanding performances and crackerjack
suspense throughout.  One of the few real must-see movies of the summer. 
A
<|_=00=_|>

Although not in the same category as RONIN and impossibly distant from HEAT
(what isn't???) this is a superb heist flick for those who really WANT to
experience acting at top drawer level!

The plot - doesn't matter...ageing safe-breaker De Niro is offered that "one
last" job by Brando who creates in his miniscule screen time, one of the
greatest supporting roles I have ever seen in a half century of movies. The
scene where De Niro is about to back out of the heist leaving Max (Brando)
stranded and with no way out of his financial dilemma is one of the most
moving and magnificent verbal exchanges in all screen history! 

Similarly Ed Norton's turn as the autistic Brian....gives Hoffman's RAINMAN
a run for its money! This guy is your once-in-a-lifetime
actor.

Yes, it is slow...painful at times! The end is predictable and not what
you'd call overly memorable..and to be frank, I have NEVER seen so many
people walk out of a film as I did during THE SCORE, but that's their
loss..this is a terrific film for those with staying power and appreciation.
The greatness outweighs the mediocrity!
