

Before I saw this movie, I was turned off by all the negative reviews and
the fact that it was a SNL spinoff. But I bought a used tape from my video
store. Instead of war coverage and serious drama, this has become a ray of
hope. Make no mistake, it ain't winning any Oscars. But the slapstick is
funny, has great co-stars like Joe Don Baker and Chris Walken. It has a good
plotline, a search for his family. It's a lot of laughs and fun for plebes
at heart. Serious, deep people will be offended, but when we try to make
humor serious and deep, we're in trouble.
<|_=00=_|>

Joe Dirt is simply one of those underappreciated comedies. Having
reacquainted myself with it recently (and repeatedly) after having not
seen
it in almost two years, I myself am beginning to realize that. Not only is
it thoroughly funny, it is entertaining and fast paced. David Spade plays
Joe Dirt, a kind, well meaning radio-station janitor with an unusual
hairdo
(mullet!) and extremely bad-luck. He shares his life-story with the
listeners of the radio station, which mainly focuses around his
never-ending
search for his parents (who ditched him on a family trip to the Grand
Canyon) and his unrecognized love for hometown hottie Brandy. Joe meets
many
unusual people along the way, has many misadventures, and as if you
couldn't
guess, sets himself up for many disgusting and painful situations. The
humor
is pretty low-brow, but who cares? The movie is funny and that's the
bottom
line. What I like about this movie is that I can just turn it on and let
go.
The movie is so well-made for a simple comedy. Spade wrote the script
himself, and you can tell he took his time. Every event in the movie
happens
for a reason and alludes to something that will occur later down the road.
Also, Joe Dirt is Spade's first likeable character. You actually feel for
this doofus. Even though he looks like white-trash, he is still a good
person. Which of course, leads to this movie's moral: Good things come to
good people. Or as Joe would say "Life's a garden, dig it!" or "You can't
have 'no' in your heart!" Christopher Walken has a hilarious bit as Dirt's
co-janitor at an elementary school that has been placed in the witness
protection program and Kid Rock plays Joe's bully perfectly (I love the
part
where he reads the note just like those guys in high school who couldn't
read past 2nd grade reading level). But Spade is the real star here. Too
bad
this character/movie never took off. I seriously love this movie. It is
consistently hilarious, has dozens of quoteable lines (stuff that you say
to
people in your daily routine) and has an overall feel good vibe to it. I
don't know how anyone can trash this movie. For one thing, it's an Adam
Sandler production, you know what type of humor you're in for. And
secondly:
The movie is called 'Joe Dirt!' There are no pretensions here, folks. I
wish
there were more movies like this out there. And although not everyone
appreciates it, I am glad that I at least have this movie and can watch it
a
million times if I want to. Joe Dirt, you're my hero.

10/10
<|_=00=_|>
Joe Dirt, played perfectly by David Spade, has to be one of the best
comedies I have seen in the last 20 years. While the plot may be
far-fetched, the movie does stick to it and is set up perfectly.

Alongside Spade, Dennis Miller's cheap jabs at Dirt are absolutely
priceless. His encounter with Miller sets up the whole premise for the
movie, and the story begins. It takes you through different experiences
Dirt has had from the time he lost his parents at the Grand Canyon all
the way to the present.

Christopher Walker also makes a great appearance in the movie.

If you like movies such as Dodgeball, Old School, Tommy Boy, Black
Sheep, Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back, etc... you will love this one.
You have to judge this movie on what it is aimed to do, and that is
tell a story of perseverance from Dirt, who gets picked on throughout
life and keeps a good attitude, which is a welcomed message. And first
and foremost, the movie is made to keep you smiling throughout, and for
that it accomplished the goal to perfection. 10/10
<|_=00=_|>

Yeah, this movie took a trashing from the critics, but what would you expect
from a movie produced by Adam Sandler?  I had a blast.  Joe Dirt had a
rocking soundtrack, I likeable lead character that you really want to beat
up, a rockin' soundtrack, funny dialogue and situations, and the usual slew
of Sandler humor; fart jokes, humping dogs, etc.

Even though, about a half-dozen of these movies come out a year, Joe Dirt
stuck in my mind mostly because of its hilarious premise.  Dennis Miller
also shined as the Howard Stern-like DJ who rips into Joe every chance he
gets through out the movie, with insuluts like, "you are exquisitely
pathetic" and such.

All in all, I really enjoyed.  Movies like this aren't aiming for Oscars. 
They're just to make you laugh, which this one does.  Kid Rock also has a
funny cameo as Robby, the bully who, like everyone else in the film, loves
giving Joe a hard time.  
<|_=00=_|>
For a typical low-brained Hollywood comedy of this era, it was a pretty
nice film. Of course, few if any modern-day comedies are "family fare"
and this one isn't either but the lead character is a gentle, harmless
guy. David Spade is very entertaining as "Joe Dirt," a down-and-out
nice guy (but not exactly pure, either) who tells his tale of trying to
find his parents to sleazy disc jockey "Zander Kelly" (Dennis Miller).
Brittany Daniel is an attractive, likable female lead.

It's a fast-moving hour-and-a-half. Some of the scenes are outrageous,
such as a dog getting his - can I say this? - testicles stuck to the
porch. Yes, it's good family fare!! Ha. Ha. No, really, this was a
funny film and worth looking for if you need a laugh. I'm surprised
there wasn't a sequel.
<|_=00=_|>

Okay, "Joe Dirt" doesn't have much of a plot and to say it loses focus is an
understatement. But I really love this lighthearted tale.

I thought David Spade turned in a wonderful performance as Joe Dirt and it
was nice to see him not do his usual cynical act. Yes, it is campy and it
was supposed to be. And it is stupid, it was supposed to
be.

The acting I think is good from all, although some are rightfully given
straight roles as I don't think Brittany Daniels could handle anymore than
what she was given.

Anyway, there isn't a whole lot to say about a movie like "Joe Dirt." I
guess if you've liked Adam Sandler movies but only wished they might be a
little less cruel then this is your movie.

The "atom bomb" scene always kills me, I love this movie. You know a movie
isn't all bad when you start laughing and you female friend starts looking
at you as if you are mentally challenged.

"You can't have no in your heart!" 6 out of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

I braced myself for yet another film with low grade humour, plenty of bodily
function jokes and not enough plot to go around.

Well, 'Joe Dirt' has all that and more... but surprisingly it turned out to
be not half bad.

Perhaps the day of the preview caught me in a particularly good mood,
because this story of a white trash loser searching for his parents who left
him for dead at the Grand Canyon when he was eight was relatively enjoyable
entertainment.

The movie is told primarily in flashback; Joe stumbles into the studio of a
radio disc jockey who coaxes out of him his incredible life story.  In the
process Joe Dirt becomes a media darling as his story of woe and misfortune
is heard by an ever sympathetic audience.

This is another movie which relies on the gross and disgusting to get its
laughs; dogs balls stuck to the front porch, being covered in excrement,
blowing up atom bombs, consumed by alligators and much much
more!

The movie works for the most part because of David Spade's affable loser Joe
Dirt.  He plays a character that is not a 100 miles away from his 'Just
Shoot Me' personna - a loveable idiot.  He goes through life having all
these setbacks - but he still maintains his positive outlook.

The movie does lag a bit at the three quarters mark, but this is a minor
quibble for a film that does what is sets out to with a lot more style than
its lamentable cousins.

A whole lotta fun

6 out of 10.


<|_=00=_|>
I usually hold myself to a high movie standard. I usually would not
consider a movie like Joe Dirt the "cream of the crop." But like many
other times in my life I was wrong. Joe Dirt is a fantastic heart-felt
flick staring David Spade as a pathetic white trash orphan in search of
his parents. He meets many a folk along the way leaving an impression
with them all. I saw this in the theater and thought, "wow what a funny
movie." But then I caught in on Comedy Central a few years later and lo
and behold I was hooked. Good plot, great humor, hot chicks, and even
Kid Rock playing his white trash nemesis (it was a real stretch for him
:P). If you see this movie for 10 bucks at Walmart or Blockbuster do
yourself a favor and buy it. It will keep you company on even your
darkest nights.

Life's a garden, DIG IT!!!
<|_=00=_|>
I'm no huge fan of David Spade and I tend to find the whole ex-SNL-star
feature film genre lame and unfunny, but I happened to catch JOE DIRT
while flipping through the channels yesterday afternoon and was
intrigued enough to watch. And oddly enough I stayed intrigued for the
next 90 minutes. The humor was crude, but rarely so much so as to turn
me off, and the cast was very good (sure Dennis Miller was obnoxious,
but isn't that his shtick?) but what surprised me the most was how
caught up in the story I became. Sure it's farcical and impossible to
take seriously, but for some reason I couldn't turn it off --- I kept
hanging in there to see what would happen next. Even the slightly
lame-ass ending didn't ruin things for me. I'd have to say JOE DIRT
beats the crap out of similar, more favorably received movies like
TOMMY BOY (which I found simply unbearable). Give it a chance.
<|_=00=_|>

"Joe Dirt" was a free rental from my local library and I was prepared, even
anxious to totally dislike it, while passing a cold and rainy winter day
inside.  While it is no masterpiece by any stretch, and uses jokes focused
on every kind of possible emission of bodily gases, fluids, and solids,
there is something about David Spade's earnest if simple portrayal of "Joe
Dirt" that adds up to a rather fun and enjoyable film. Stir in pretty,
sweet, and stacked Brittany Daniel as Brandy, Joe's unlikely best friend and
future mate, and you have an enjoyable movie of almost no consequence. About
the same lasting impression as watching an episode of Saturday Night Live on
TV.

About 2/3 into the film there is a scene in front of the abandoned home in
Baton Rouge where Joe's parents used to live, and an old Cajun says to Joe
in an almost unintelligble manner, "Home is where you think it is." He says
it three times, and Joe never does understand it, but that in fact becomes
the whole moral of the story. Joe eventually finds his parents, finds out
they left him on purpose 25 years earlier in the Grand Canyon while he was
playing in a garbage can, and returns to Brandy in Silvertown, the "postcard
town" that Joe had discovered years earlier.

There is a lot in the way "Joe Dirt" is done that reminds me of "Forrest
Gump."  He is telling his story to a stranger, in this case Dennis Miller
playing a radio talk show host. Joe, much like Forrest, bumbles from one
seeming random place to another, and each time has a great influence on
those he encounters. In each story there a beautiful girl he admires and
secretly wants but doesn't think he is good enough. 

The scene I found funniest was the night Joe met Brandy. He was stealing
hubcaps to get money for food, when the dog on the porch started barking. As
he started to run off, Joe noticed that the dog couldn't move. It's
testicles had frozen to the porch. (They used a stretchy prostetic similar
to Jeff Daniel's tongue frozen to the ski lift in Dumb and Dumber.) Brandy
came out onto the porch, Joe says to get some warm water and a spatula ("No,
not a fork, oooh..."), they free the dog, Joe and Brandy are fast
friends.
