

Let me preface by saying I am a fan of Rob Schneider, and of Adam Sandler. 
I enjoyed Deuce Bigalow, and all (except for Big Daddy) of Adam Sandler's
movies.  So I basically was expecting some (Ok, a lot) of low-brow humor, a
decent plot to keep rolling through, and to laugh throughout the movie. 
This movie provided just that.  It wasn't the greatest comedy in the world,
or a landmark motion picture, and it wasn't made to be that.  Colleen
Haskell's skills at acting reminded me of when they put a "famous" non-actor
on Saturday Night Live, and don't give them too much to do in the skits. 
She's only in the movie probably a total of 15 minutes, but does what they
ask of her, and does a decent job of it.  The movie is a hoot, and doesn't
actually stoop to every joke being a f**t joke.  I laughed about every 3-4
minutes, and enjoyed the ending as well.  If you're expecting something
similar to Deuce Bigalow, you won't be disappointed.
<|_=00=_|>
This was just plain funny and very entertaining throughout the goofy 83
minutes. Crude? Yes, at times, but what modern-day comedy isn't lately?
The PG-13 rating is a joke. With all the sexual stuff in here, "R" is
more appropriate.

Some of that sleazy stuff, to be honest, was pretty funny, though and
there isn't much profanity. 

Rob Schneider, as "Marvin," lays his goofy Deuce Bigelow-type character
on us, trying to get the pretty girl "Rianna" (Colleen Haskell). 

I really thought this would be a stupid film but Schneider's animal
imitations are hilarious and, overall, this a very fast-moving,
silly-but-lots of laughs film.
<|_=00=_|>

I liked this movie, even though I feel the trailer made it seem more funny
than it actually is.  Still, its enjoyable, and has the type of
unbelievable
humor that I like, that goofy off-the-wall ingredient that really good
comedies have.  Worth a watch or two.
<|_=00=_|>

Marvin is a wimpy guy, who's determined to follow in his fathers footsteps
by becoming a cop. Things aren't going well, until Marvins in a car accident
and when a very strange scientist finds him, he uses animal body parts to
rebuild Marvin. With all the animal parts in his body Marvin gets very
energized and leaves all his weakness behind, which them leads him to become
a cop and a famous one at that. Something he's of course always wanted. Life
is going great for Marvin until his the animals in his body start taking
over his body and makes him do the strangest things like falling in love
with animals and eating from bins. With all this going on, Marvin has to
remain the perfect gentleman to his new love, Rianna, which leads to a
strange and quite predictable twist at the end. 

The Animal is produced by the brilliant Adam Sandler, who also has a really
funny cameo as a Townie in this movie, which stars Rob Schneider, who also
wrote the screenplay here. Rob really funny. Schneiders love interest is
Colleen Haskell, from the US reality TV show, Survivor.

After the awful Freddy Got Fingered, I wasn't to sure what I would make out
of The Animal, but it was good. Not the most brilliant movie around, but
good. Rob Schneider is great in his role here too. There are some funny bits
in the movie too. All in all, enjoyable stuff.
<|_=00=_|>

What a great movie! Rob is  one of my favorites anyway so I went in
expecting to like it and I came out loving it. Top notch comedy! I was
really impressed with Coleen Haskell. 
Rob was just too good though. I love Duece Bigalow and I liked this one even
more....I took my Mom and she is now a big Rob Schneider fan. If you need a
good laugh go see this!
<|_=00=_|>

I will be honest with you, I went to see The Animal for Norm Macdonald.
But
what I saw was one of the funniest movies I've ever seen.  Not only is
Colleen Haskell a pretty good actress, but Rob Schneider was even funnier
than in Deuce!!! And Did I mention Norm's line "I'm not gonna be in a mob
to
kill a black dude"
Funny!!!
<|_=00=_|>

Well Rob Schneider has done it again! Much like his previous movie "Deuce
Bigalow: Male Gigalow," "The Animal" has little artistic merit. It bears
little or no relation to anything resembling reality. It is often stupid,
and the dialogue is painful at times. And not only that, "The Animal" is
also fairly funny. Unlike Tom Green and David Spade, Schneider has an
easygoing likeable quality that translates well onto the big screen. This
masks many of the deficiencies in the script, and makes us appreciate the
good parts even more. Unfortunately the same can't be said for co-star
Colleen Haskell. Colleen, the tribe has spoken; you are not a good actor! As
far as I can tell, Haskell has only three different facial expressions. None
of which are appealing. The person who hired her needs to extinguish her
torch, and ask her to leave the acting business immediately. So what kind of
grade do we give "The Animal?" The movie isn't a complete dog, and it does
have a certain amount of animal magnetism. 

3 stars and a leg of lamb out of 5. 

<|_=00=_|>
I was kept on the edge of my seat during this Herculean cinematic
experience -- the question of one's very identify with one's self is
set against a backdrop of hilarity and monkeys in skirts. The question
of police brutality in our society is dealt with on a Ciceronian level
as older policemen are cast as blood mongrels and middle aged police
officers are cast as muscle headed steroid-freaks -- a casting delight
surprise from Office Space is in store for educated viewers.

A dramatic tale from start to end, even the farm animals are in the
winner's circle when the time come to roll the credits. Happy Madison
productions has done it again. Bravo!
<|_=00=_|>

After a flood of really gross gross-out comedies, it's refreshing to see a
comedy that's not gross at all, and actually genuinely FUNNY.  Just like
Deuce Bigalow before it, The Animal is a well-made, well-acted, and very
funny film. Best part is it doesn't feel like someone took the teeth out of
it just to make it a PG-13, unlike two other movies recently released by
two
of Schneider's former SNL castmates. 
<|_=00=_|>
I think you have missed the point of 'The Animal' completely. It is
truly brilliant.

First off there is Schneider himself, with the acrobatic dexterous
slapstick genius that is only equalled by Keaton and Chaplin while his
characterisation of a failing, loser, police office evidence clerk is
the equal to any performance put in by Brando, Olivia, Hopkins or
Curry.

The production values, while not overly high, portray an attention to
detail unrivalled by any feature length, live action, slapstick, animal
based comedy that came out that year. Whilst the script is as cutting
and contemporary as anything produced by a Hollywood studio, the
directing demonstrates a brilliance that a comedy (even of this
calibre) rarely get the luxury of having.

The over loud animal noises, the nob gags, the bum gags, the brilliant
juxtaposing of 'funny' animal related physical jokes and human social
events that on the face of it a 7 year old could have wrote but in
reality could only have been penned by a genius.

The plot is brilliant, inspired and in places truly emotional. (I don't
want to spoil this truly great movie so don't read on if you haven't
seen it).

Mourning the loss of his father, Marvin has to come to terms with his
inability to find a companion and his spiralling out of control lack of
self confidence. Ostracised by his work colleagues, ritually abused by
his neighbour (and her viscous dog) and devoid of any and all
satisfaction personally and professionally. Its to this backdrop that
Marvin suffers a hideous debilitating car accident but is miraculously
saved by having his DNA spliced with an unknown amount of domesticated
animal DNA and having some body part replacement.

The movie covers politically hot topics such as whether using animal
DNA in humans is acceptable, the ethics of breeding animals for body
parts, the threat of hunting on animal populations and the cost of
animal conservation, that cannibalism is acceptable and that bestiality
isOK. This is not to mention the exploration between god, man and
animal and the questions regarding animal consciousness.

This is apart form the everyday elements of work place rivalry, racism,
fat-ism, sexism, gun control, murder, meat eating and monkey jokes.

On a personal level, I have watched this movie 1000 times and have yet
to not find it funny, I literally end up doubled up in pain,
crying.....with laughter its just that good. I challenge anyone to get
through this movie and not laugh at one joke, its not possible.
Brilliant brilliant brilliant.

The bit where the scientist suggest Marvin get rid of his latent
aggression fuelled by his sexual urge by sleeping with a chimpanzee in
a pink tutu is possibly the funniest thing I have ever seen in my
life...my life!! If you don't laugh at this movie your just dead
inside.

Mr Schneider we salute you another fantastic movie, lets hope he
ignores the billions of ignorant critics, the unjust reviews and the
failing box office returns and goes on to make the animal 2 and 3.
Brilliant!
