

"Crazy/beautiful" is a wonderful movie. It is really far better than most
teen movies. When I saw the trailers and TV spots for the movie last year,
I
was unimpressed. The impression I got was that the movie was another one
of
those teen jobs wherein the director and the actors all take themselves
WAY
too seriously! Kind of like a Charlie Sheen movie, back when he was having
all those ego problems. (Sheen is much recovered, and much over himself
now.
He's a charming fellow these days, and a great talent.)

I bought the DVD the other day, and am very happy that I did. I should
have
trusted that a talent such as Kirsten Dunst would not have placed herself
in
tripe. Sorry! This movie is thoughtfully written, sensitively acted, and
very well directed and cut. I am not a teenager anymore (far away from it,
in fact), so I am not impressed by hipness, hormonal chic, nor teen cool.
Thus I was very pleasantly surprised to discover that "crazy/beautiful" is
rich, touching, engaging, moving, uplifting, and extremely entertaining.
Yaay!

Hey Buena Vista marketing people--- please note that the movie you seemed
to
have presented via your trailers and such last year looked like crap! And
yet the real movie, the one Kirsten and Whatshisname made, is sweet and
marvelous!!! I know you marketing folks meant well, and all marketing is
some form of experiment, but perhaps you can learn from this that the
audiences needn't be sold cliched garbage to go see a film. In fact, the
apparent cliches presented in the trailers kept me away. Thank goodness
for
DVD!

Finally--- the DVD is also great. The "making of" segment is amazing, and
worthy of it's own venue. The director's commentary with Dunst is also
intriguing. It all adds to our enjoyment of the movie. Thanks,
guys!
<|_=00=_|>

The reason would be the two leads, Kirsten Dunst (Interview with the
Vampire, Bring It On) and Jay Hernandez (only having done a handful of TV
and small movie work). What looks like the set-up of a cliché-filled
storyline on the outside -- high-schoolers Dunst as the troubled daughter of
a U.S. Senator, and Hernandez as the intelligent inner-city kid meet up and
fall in love -- takes on a fresh twist (and "fresh" is a good thing --
especially in film today). With the dialogue seeming mostly improvisational,
the romance is impressively convincing. Dunst is already familiar to film
audiences -- making great strides at a very young age with Vampire -- but
this could arguably be her finest turn. You do feel something for her
character, as screwed up as she can be. But even "screwed up" people need
love, too, and you do want her to succeed. And good performances apparently
rubbed off on Hernandez as well, giving sensational insight into a
conflicted character torn between duty to family and education versus his
love for Dunst. The story does take a turn for the... well... crazy near the
end but recovers nicely -- and without being too preachy or schmaltzy. Don't
expect greatness, but don't be shocked if you like it.

<|_=00=_|>

I saw one promo for this film some time after I saw "Bring it On," and
thought it was another Kirsten Dunst comedy.

I was wrong, but pleasantly dissapointed.  The thing about teenage movies is
that the really good ones don't placate exclusively to the age bracket of
which the film is about.  "Crazy/Beautiful" focuses on the teenagers, but
shows the flavors of the leads' respective cultures, and how they are able
to combine both their intellect and emotions to overcome some very
superficial barriers, which create profound rifts among human
society.

The overall theme vascillates by placing the ball into each of the leads
court at various points in the film.  This makes for some interesting
interaction which, in the real world, I've personally observed.  On this
score the film is rather accurate.

The film gets a touch melodramatic at points, and there's no one actor to
really single out as all the leads have their moment of high energy at
various points in the film.

The film itself, because of the subject material, is somewhat lethargic, but
does keep one's interest in its presentation.

A definate thumbs up for a night's rental.
<|_=00=_|>

In Crazy Beautiful Kirsten Dunst (Interview With A Vampire, Bring It On)
plays Nicole a rich girl at high school who befriends a first generation
Mexican lad called Carlos (Jay Hernandez).	

        Nicole and Carlos hit it off in spite of Carlos's reservations about
the wild (crazy/beautiful) Nicole. He's from a poor family and keen to do
well at his studies. She's on a path of self destruction, at least
academically, probably physically. Carlos hopes to go to the navy academy
and become a pilot. 

	Now this sounds fairly ho hum but is brought successfully to the screen by
very strong acting performances from both Dunst and Hernandez and also by
Bruce Davison who plays Nicole's Dad Tom. 

	These characters are flawed and therefore interesting. The film is mindful
of how complicated real people are. 

	Nicole is a carouser, drunk or stoned most of the time. Jay is level headed
but becomes overwhelmed by Nicole. Dad certainly doesn't think he has all of
the answers.

	Crazy/Beautiful is inspired a little by the inter racial aspect of the
relationship but much more by the veracity of the performances.

4 Crazy Flys Out Of Five

<|_=00=_|>
I caught five minutes of this then decided to watch more of it and I
was pleasantly surprised at what a superb actress Kirsten Dunst is! She
is so natural and at ease in front of a camera. The chemistry between
her and the boyfriend is the best you will ever see and that's why I
watched this movie. I felt like I was eavesdropping in on two young
teenagers throughout the whole movie. The story is very simple and just
chronicles the life of these two high-schoolers who fall in love by
pure chance (the romance is instigated by Dunst and she does a great
job). I think everyone will be able to relate to the characters and
story in this movie. These are real-life characters and they are not
overly stereotyped which was surprising, as well. The leading actor did
a fantastic job, too. There is zero shock value thrown into this movie
to try and put you on the edge of your seat which is something you
don't find in Hollywood movies and which was really nice. Mostly every
scene involves Kirsten and her boyfriend and they pull it off. There
aren't many actors that can say that they can do that. This movie is
entertaining throughout and will keep your attention. Already I like
Kirsten more than I ever liked Julia Roberts, Gwyneth Paltrow, Daryl
Hannah, Winona Ryder, Chistine Ricci, Catherine Zeta Jones, Kate
Winslet, Sharon Stone, or any of these younger female celebrities. The
direction in this movie is very good. If you want a real nice relaxing
evening and you don't want to watch something with a lot of hype,
drama, violence, stereotypes, people pitting each other against one
another, etc. then I recommend this movie. I will definitely look for
more of Kirsten in the future.
<|_=00=_|>

It's not often that we see a REAL teen movie nowadays.  I live in Jersey
City, so I personally can't relate to these teen flicks involving blonde
airheads and guys who look like they just jumped off the pages of "Tiger
Beat."

In "Crazy/Beautiful" one of the main characters is a Hispanic--played
beautifully by Jay Hernandez who I hope to see in more and more
movies--which I CAN relate to.  Most of the friends I know are of Hispanic
origin, and it's very rare that you see a Hispanic as a lead in a film
like
this.  And Jay's Hispanic character wasn't used merely as a tool in
creating
melodrama in a preachy "West Side Story" manner.

Kirsten Dunst pretty much gives the best performance of her career.  I
like
how they didn't put much makeup on her face, giving her a much more real
look.  I think Kirsten is one of the most beautiful young actresses in the
biz, so I think she's beautiful no matter how little makeup she wears.  So
I'm not going to say it was a plus that they made her look "ugly."  She
didn't look ugly, but at the same time she looked like a real teenage girl
and it added to her character.

Bruce Davison has a great supporting role as Kirsten's father.  Of course,
in all teen movies, they feel it's needed to add a top-class, veteran
actor
to the cast to give it a touch of class.  Well, that's one cliche of teen
movies that I don't mind and Bruce was great, proving himself as one of
our
great, underrated actors.

I like how Jay's character is never really discriminated against by
Kirsten's white-collar Dad--who's a Congressman.  None of this "You're
dating a man of another race???" or "You're dating a man of low-class"
crap.
The film skips through all that, being that Jay is a well-to-do
individual
who has his head up high and wants to become a pilot.  The Dad has nothing
against that, in fact he wants to help him out, setting him up with an
interview and everything.  But he doesn't want him to see his daughter,
because of the way she is.  I don't want to give anything away, so I won't
reveal what exactly her problem is.  So I thought that was a good way of
flipping this sub-genre on its head.  Usually it's the father who doesn't
want the daughter to date the guy, because he doesn't like who she's
dating.
In this case, he didn't want the two of them to go together, because he's
concerned about the boyfriend.

I only have a few problems with this film.  First off, you never really
get
the feeling that Kirsten has a severe problem between the beginning and
end.
So it feels like her disorder was used strictly as a dramatic tool.
Through most of the film, she's amazingly jovial.  We see her drinking
once
in a while, but let's face it--what teen doesn't?  And I
thought--especially
for a PG-13 film--they went overboard with the sex scenes.  I'm not saying
that they were explicit, but there was a good deal of them.  I was
thinking,
as watching certain portions of the film, what my Dad said:  "The love in
most romantic movies nowadays seems to be based more on sex than love."
Don't get me wrong, we do get a feel of the love--not lust--between Jay
and
Kirsten, but they could've trimmed the sex just a bit.  It just came off
in
the wrong way.

For those looking for an escape from most of the lame teen flicks that
have
been fed to us in previous years, I recommend you check this one out.
It's
a shame that this movie didn't reach a big audience in theaters.  I really
hope more people will go out and rent this film, because it's very good.

My score:  7 (out of 10)  
<|_=00=_|>

For a long while now Ive been bombarded with teen movies that are crap.
Written by people who forgot what it was like, less mature than teenagers
themselves. Ive been waiting for a movie that was took itself seriously
without being pretentious. That was mature and REAL. This is such a find.
This movie is consistently good. Dialogue, Music, Acting, especially the
cinematography and directing which just made the movie. It doesnt struggle
to be hip or witty, theres no B.S.

The story isn`t complicated but it works. It`s just about the love between
two people, how it affects the both of them and the journey which Kirsten
Dunst`s character goes through. If your tired of the mindless repetitive
teen crap, see this movie and appreciate it.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a defining role for Kirsten Dunst.  She demonstrates the talent to
carry a film, from beginning to end.  She was great as Lux in the Virgin
Suicides, and demonstrated a penchant for comedy in Dick.  As Nicole - she
dominates in a dramatic role, arcing from crazy - to 'Crazy'; from beautiful
and then to 'Beautiful' with Jay Hernandez as boyfriend and catalyst.  We'll
be seeing a lot more of Jay in the years upcoming too.  No doubt about it. 
And Taryn Manning (best friend, Maddy) has a lot more to share with her
growing legion of fans.  She's a major contributor to this film's
success.

It touches the heart.  It holds the interest with old material rendered
fresh by a cast that jelled together.  A superb romantic comedy for all
ages.  7 / 10.


<|_=00=_|>

I was really pleasantly surprised by this film. It wasn't the usual dumb
teen movie. It address some real-world issues from a modern perspective and
managed to not make itself look silly doing it. The script was tightly
written with just enough edge to give it a sense of reality without it being
totally destroyed by it's kiddie rating.

The usual teen movie makes fun of the adult world and laughably tries to
make the teens somehow the center of the known universe. This is more real
in it's approach, showing two very vulnerable young people on the verge of
being thrust into that very real adult world and the issues they have in
discovering themselves as near-adults through each other's eyes. There are
quite a few relationships these days that mix cultures and this film handles
a realistic look at some of the problems. I think it had to or risk the
charge of being unrealistic. Still, there is more here, not just teen
romance, though that is certainly painfully portrayed by an emotionally
exposed Kirsten Dunst and the serious Jay Hernandez. It is also a film
ultimately about the good and evil influences that tug at us all and the
effects it can have on those around us. It managed to convey those issues
fairly well given the censorship restraints it was under. Adding to a solid
performance by Dunst and Hernandez is a fine cast, including Bruce Davidson
and a deliciously unlikable Lucinda Jenney doing a great modern take on the
evil stepmother. Taryn Manning as Dunst's best girlfriend nearly stole a
couple of scenes and certainly bears watching in the future; there's light
behind those big eyes. I see she also had a minor credit in the music score,
which was very entertaining on it's own (and this said from an old guy). I
also enjoyed the performance of Rolando Molina as Hernandez's brother,
though it was nearly too stereotyped. He managed to make it just believable
enough to be genuine. My major criticism would be the lack of subtitles for
the considerable Spanish dialog. I for one found this too frustrating to
forgive.

All-in-all, it's more than worth the price of admission and I can agree with
some other viewers that Dunst might deserve at least a nomination come
awards time next year.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a great executed romantic teen movie. Even though nothing in
the story of course happens as a real surprise, the movie still knows
how to create a believable and touching story about love with more than
enough original touches in it.

The main reason why the movie works so well is thanks to the two main
actors of the movie; Kirsten Dunst and Jay Hernandez. Both are great in
their roles and their love story in the movie is believable and
realistic. Their cultural difference are nicely shown in the movie but
their social class difference is perhaps a bit underdeveloped and
underused. They could had done some nice things with this story
element, so it's a bit of a missed opportunity for the movie.

The story is nicely told and the stereotypical elements of a romantic
teen movie are as much as possible avoided. It succeeds most of the
time in this and because of that the movie is better than the average
romantic teen comedy.

It's a perfectly watchable movie mainly targeted towards teens, however
also different age groups should be able to appreciate this movie and
its love story. A recommendable movie but by no means a must see of
course.

7/10

http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/
