
I had to see this gem twice to really appreciate all of it. When a
widowed father of two interrupts his two sons' sleep with a shocking
revelation, they are torn between believing him and not. As the
horrifying events of this tale unfold, we learn a lot about the father,
about his two sons, and about their destinies. With shocking twist
after shocking twist, this film never allows for a lull in the plot.
Bill Paxton plays the father, but the most notable performances are
that of his older son, Fenton, played by Matthew O'Leary and his
younger son, Adam, played by Jeremy Sumpter. This is one of the best
thrillers that I have seen in a while, and you will want to watch this
a few times to appreciate every intricate aspect of the plot. I give
this film a 9/10.
<|_=00=_|>
This is a very dark and intriguing horror type thriller based on the
idea of religious murders. The storyline centres on a deranged man who
lives in Texas, US who suddenly goes on a killing spree with his two
young sons after being instructed by God to redeem the world of bad
people.

Bill Paxton who directs this movie plays the deranged Father who is
known as the Hand of God Killer while Matthew McConaughey plays his
finest performances to date as the oldest son, Fenton Meiks. The film
revolves around Fenton who decides he can no longer hold the burden of
his murderous childhood alone and uses flashbacks to hauntingly tell
the story to FBI Agent Wesley Doyle (played by Powers Boothe).

I cannot think of many movies that literally keep the viewer chained to
their seat from start to finish and this is definitely one of them.
Even if you want to stop watching, you wont be able to because of the
sheer power of this movie.

The directors have filmed this movie very well, and they help to set
the plot through the good scenery. The acting in this movie is great
but if there is any drawback it is that some parts are very powerful
and may disturb some people.

Whilst the concept of this film is very dark, the young children help
to portray the idea through brilliant acting. This really is a spine
tingly movie and it is guaranteed to have you at the edge of your seat
throughout. I would highly recommend this movie to anyone who enjoys
horror, disturbing and powerful movies or anyone who just wants to see
something different.

8/10
<|_=00=_|>

There is such rubbish on the cable movie channels that I hit a gem with
this one. From beginning to end it had me gripped and deserves top
marks.

Father of two sons hears messages from "God" to kill people who he is
told are 'demons'.

When the opening credits showed the director as one of the cast that
can often be a warning of a bad film; exceptionally it is the reverse
here as the drama is non-stop from beginning to end.

And there is not one moment in the movie when one is not fully
enthralled as there are no unnecessary or needless sub-plots, and the
script is first class. 

All the actors give wholly convincing performances especially the lead
child actor who is exceptional. 

This film is at least as good as the likes of 'Silence of the Lambs'.

<|_=00=_|>
Bill Paxton stars in and directs this highly original film. Having
watched the first time I was by how good it was. The reviews I had
heard were OK . As a result I was expecting an average thriller at most
.However because of Paxtons excellent directing and acting the film is
well worth watching , especially if you are a horror film fanatic.The
film is also helped by the plot twists which keep coming until the
closing credits . The films strongest point is the storyline which I
have to say is highly original and is like I have ever seen before.
Well done also to the 2 young leads which perfectly convey the emotions
if these confused boys. I give this film 9/10 and I highly recommend
that everyone catches it.
<|_=00=_|>
The film is very complete in what it is, keeping one continuously
interested with the flashbacks to childhood and growing up with such a
bizarre father, and interspersing it with the tails of serial murder,
one simply cannot go wrong. The very plot in itself, the very story and
essence of the film, is entertaining. It is the sort of story that the
director (Bill Paxton) could do so much with, and in this case, he
really did do a lot with it.

From beginning to end you are kept anticipating more and more about
what is happening and where the film is going, and the creativity that
is behind this story is first class. I felt as if this film was
exquisitely done from start to finish, and one of those rare gems that
seemed to be without any boring lulls -- the action flowing neatly,
quickly, and tightly from one scene to the next. 

It demonstrates just how far people can go: so as to do such horrible
things to their loved ones, and to do such acts of evil, in the name of
'God' when they are disillusioned as in this case. It also is sometimes
interesting in its' twists & takes on the concept of morality as a
whole.

Overall, this is the sort of film that one easily overlooks, but I
would recommend you to not do likewise and to check this film out -- it
is very much so worth your time.
<|_=00=_|>
I first saw the trailer for Frailty on Yahoo Movies way back in the
day, after hearing Stephen King praise it to high heaven. Not really a
fan of either star, I still wanted to see it because I'm a huge
thriller fan.

I was not disappointed. The acting was superb, especially from the two
young boys. Usually I loathe child actors, but Young Adam and Young
Fenton were excellent. Bill Paxton really did a good job of directing
it too. It was beautifully shot.

One must also note the plot twists. The three twists at the end hit
hard and fast, and I didn't see them coming. The final twist of the
film, coupled with the gravity of what had just been revealed, gives me
chills to this day, even though I've re-watched the film so many times.

A true gem.
<|_=00=_|>
The synopsis for this movie does a great job at explaining what to
expect. It's a very good thriller. Well shot. Tough to believe it was
Bill Paxton's directorial debut, though some shots do look EXACTLY like
a storyboard version. 

Still, there are a few shots that really look good and show some real
imagination on the part of Paxton. 

It's a solid story with some great twists at the end, several of them,
all believable, all fun, and best of all, obscured well enough to make
them true twists. 

The child actors in the movie do a great, too. I'm usually wary of
movies with kids in starring roles because all too often they come off
as Nickelodeon rejects, but both these kids do a good job.

This movie is not gory. It's not very scary. But it IS very, very
creepy.
<|_=00=_|>
Matthew McConaughey is a mysterious man waiting for Agent Wesley Doyle
(Powers Boothe) in his FBI office. He claims to have information about
a serial killer chased by FBI. When Agent Doyle arrives in the office,
he tells him that the serial killer is indeed his dead brother. Agent
Doyle requests some evidence, and the man tells the story of his life,
since his childhood. They were a simple family of three: his widow
father Meiks (Bill Paxton), his brother and himself. One night, his
father gathers the two brothers and tells them that an angel of God had
just visited him and assigned his family to destroy demons. What
happens next is one of the most scary movie I have ever seen. 

I watched this movie four months ago on VHS, and yesterday I watched
again, now on DVD. Although being a low-budget movie, the screenplay is
sharp, with no flaw. The cast is outstanding, but I would like to
highlight the performance of Matt O'Leary as the young Felton. It is a
very difficult and complex role to be performed by a young teenager.
The direction of Bill Paxton is remarkable. There is no explicit
violence in this horror movie. A great debut behind the camera. I
regret the Brazilian title of this movie: 'A Mão do Diabo' (The Devil's
Hand'). If at least it were 'The God's Hand', it might be acceptable.
But calling this movie as 'the devil's hand' is indeed ridiculous.
Brent Hanley, the screenwriter, did not deserve such a lack of respect
from the Brazilian distributor. This film is highly recommended. My
vote is eight.

Title (Brazil): "A Mão do Diabo" ("The Devil's Hand")
<|_=00=_|>

A very promising directorial debut for Bill Paxton. A very dark
thriller/who-really-done-it recommended by Stephen King. This is a strong,
well-conceived horror tale about a devout, but demented man in Thurman,
Texas that goes on a murdering spree after getting orders from God to
eliminate demons trying to control mankind. A couple of plot twists and an
eerie finale makes for your moneys worth. Most of the violence you don't
really see, but still enough to double up your stomach.

Director Paxton plays the twisted man to be known as the Hand of God Killer.
Matthew McConaughey is equally impressive as the demented man's eldest son
that ends up telling this story to a Dallas FBI Agent(Powers Boothe).
Boothe, as always, is solid and flawless. Suspenseful white knuckler! Highly
recommended.
<|_=00=_|>
This entire review is a SPOILER! This is only for those who've seen
Frailty! You've been warned! 

I either see Frailty as a genius movie, or a badly botched effort. I
know what Hanley, the screenwriter, wanted. If the movie had been made
according to his wishes, I would agree with the commentaries on the DVD
and agree with the general premise as seen on the surface of the movie.
However, as it stands, I do not see it that way at all. And there are
subtle and not so subtle clues that Frailty was meant to be something
altogether even more subversive than what is seen. 

Other reviewers have spotted the anomalies, while others have gotten
upset at the thought that Adam and Dad Meiks really were getting orders
from God. I admit it... as a Christian, the thought does upset me, but
not nearly enough to attack the producers and actors in writing or
otherwise. And, I must admit, that Dad and Adam were receiving orders
from a god... but which one? The God of the Bible? Or the God of the
Earth? Either one could perform miracles... such as hiding Daddy Meiks'
kidnappings, fuzzing up the video monitor, lousing up anyone's memory-
and leading Daddy and Adam Meiks to think they are seeing demonic acts
in the minds of innocent people. The first three quarters of the movie
works perfectly, with nothing out of place, except Dad's supposed
visions. We at first see Dad Meiks as a madman, a ruthless killer, and
maniacal child abuser. When I first watched, I had the gut feeling that
this was no tale of human insanity, but this was the Real McCoy- a
supernatural thriller with vastly disturbing psychological
undertones... and I was right. The clues given in the FBI building let
any viewer know that some other power besides human capabilities is at
work here. The fuzzing up of Adam's face in the video monitor might
have been coincidence, but it's reinforced by the fact that a trained
observer also could not remember Adam's face.... plus, there are Adam's
visions, revealed in a chilling line up of scenes from the times Daddy
Meiks laid his bare hands on the captured 'demons'. 

Taken at face value, we are clearly shown that Adam has taken over Dad
Meiks' holy mission, and is pursuing it with a flair Daddy Meiks never
displayed. We see, on the surface, that Fenton Meiks was a demon,
planted by dark powers to bring an end to Dad's righteous mission. And
yes, Hanley did want Fenton to be the demon right from the beginning,
well before Frailty was made. Colombine reared its tragic head above
the horizon of public awareness while Frailty was in production, thus
forcing some changes in the way the plot was presented. Adam was shown
to be following God's orders, and he was a righteous human being, doing
everything any good American should do: fighting evil with all of his
cunning and might- and winning! The panning shot, as the camera pulled
away from Adam and his lovely wife pounded that fact home, thus
arousing the ire of many a Christian across this great land of ours....

But Bill Paxton's commentary opens up a whole new boiling kettle of
worms, as does Brian Tyler's great score for the movie. I do think Bill
Paxton has put together a different movie than the one that appears on
the surface... and he gives clues in his commentary, and there's a
great big clue in the story itself. I will get to it soon...

First, how many people did a double-take when Fenton asked Adam to bury
him in the rose garden when Adam destroyed him? How many viewers felt
as though the plot of a different movie had been pasted on? Matt
O'Leary seemed to me to be as disbelieving in that twist as I was...
way out of character for the character he had portrayed so excellently
all through the movie. Did the kid forget how to act in just that one
scene? Did Paxton forget how to direct? Was Fenton really the demon?
Please remember that Fenton was the only character in the entire movie
to display feelings of kindness and the actions of a thinking,
rational, caring human being. Let's go over them, to the best of my
memory.... 

Daddy Meiks, whatever his previous actions towards his kids might have
been, became a cold-blooded killing machine. While protesting love for
Fenton, he tortured his elder son without remorse or the slightest hint
of mercy. Adam as an adult is cold and calculating, the very picture of
smug self-righteousness and hatred woven into a finely honed killing
machine. Adam, the child, as acted so superbly by Jeremy Sumpter, had
all the human feelings of a radish as he bought Daddy Meiks' story
without hesitation. Little Adam was ready to kill right from the start,
even willing to slaughter his fellow students, with a made up list.
Daddy Meiks showed his sanity by stopping little Adam in his tracks...
or did he? Adam had the psychological makeup, right from the start, of
a fanatic. Was Daddy's mild rebuke going to stop him? I have my
doubts... 

The old sheriff was shown to be a very disagreeable man, at least from
Fenton's point of view. Let's see.... Powers Booth's character, Agent
Doyle. He was just as surly as the old sheriff. Maybe he really was a
demon, maybe he was just sick of the killings he had to investigate.
Whatever the reason, Doyle was not a pleasant man. We only get to see
his mother in the photo on Doyle's desk and in the vision of her
getting killed by her own son, the very Agent Doyle in charge of
investigating the God's Hand murders. The other agent, whose name
escapes me, is a butt-kissing toady, showing not an ounce of brains
whenever he is on screen. The 'demons' Daddy Meiks captures... whether
or not they are truly demons, they are hardly shown in their best
light. Who does that leave, in Frailty, who might show humane feelings?
Sheriff Adam Meiks' pretty wife, in his office? To tell you the truth,
she creeped me out. As pretty as she was, she made me glad I was not in
the same state as she was. Happy never to have met her... 

So.... we are left with Fenton to see humanity of thought and
action.... and he is the demon. Nice little message for those who see
this movie. I saw that particular twist coming, but wished it wouldn't.
It was the easy way out and Frailty, up until that point, was too well
done to deserve being trashed by that garbage pail of a twist. Or was
it?

We are shown that Doyle was a demon, who mercilessly slaughtered his
beloved mother. He even asks Adam how he knew. Case closed, right?

Wrong. The 'vision' Adam has shows a young Doyle knifing his mother to
death.

The photo on Doyle's desk, which the camera pans so lovingly, shows a
much older Agent Doyle posing in the photograph. Huh? Was that a
production mistake? Could be... but it was shown for so long. It would
have been easy to show a young Doyle in that photo, but they did not do
so. Was that a clue as to the truth? As another reviewer points out,
Adam could be delusional. I have this question: How could an older
Doyle be posing with his mom if he was much younger when he killed her?
If Fenton was a true demon, why did he not kill his Dad before his Dad
killed him? Daddy was trusting enough to sleep with Fenton in the
house, Otis was available, or a sharp knife. Fenton was shown to be
physically resilient and, despite the power which protected Dad, Fenton
was able to kill the man quite handily... Demons were declared to be
completely merciless, but Fenton did not kill Adam in his sleep, nor
with the axe, as he could have done. He need not have left the axe in
Dad's chest, please remember. 

Dad killed the old sheriff. Why? Because the angel had said someone
would have to die if someone snitched about Dad's holy mission... But
who would seek that vengeance? God claims the right of vengeance. Daddy
Meiks took it upon himself to wreak vengeance for Fenton revealing the
plan. I doubt if God would take kindly to that. It looked far away, but
the entrance to the cellar was very close by when Fenton and the old
sheriff had their little conversation... which revealed the old man was
exasperated beyond endurance with Fenton's 'lies'. Daddy Meiks had to
have heard them. He knew God covered his tracks under worse
circumstances than this (Kidnapping an old man in broad daylight in a
crowded parking lot comes to mind for starters.), but he slaughtered
the sheriff anyway. Supposedly, the old man was a friend of his. Is
this the actions of a man doing God's work? Like many so-called
Christians, Daddy is quite willing to blame Fenton for murdering the
sheriff. The DEVIL made me do it!" In other words, Daddy Meiks would
not take the blame for his own sins. 

There's a little more to think about. Daddy Meiks was told Fenton was a
demon... and Dad touches Fenton's bare skin with his bare hands for
what seems like a long time. Daddy proclaims his love for his son;
saying he loves Fenton and values him more than his own life. He then
proceeds to torture Fenton to within an inch of the child's life, in
order to prove to the angel Fenton is NOT a demon. Finally, Fenton
admits to being wrong and Dad receives him back into the family with
full honors... if Fenton will kill the next demon Daddy captures. Since
Hanley himself claims demons are remorseless killers, and very cunning,
why would Fenton put himself through this? Seems to me he would have
agreed from the get-go and slaughtered Daddy, as he did, when Dad's
guard was down. Why put himself through such an ordeal?

Maybe Fenton really was the truly moral one? Adam gave Fenton water
during the torture... on Daddy's orders. I strongly feel that Adam
would have given Fenton nothing if his father said not to. Adam saves
Fenton from Daddy's axe, after the old sheriff is murdered. Was this
not noble? Think about it... Why kill the fall-guy? 

Paxton's commentary, at the end of Frailty, was very interesting... We
are shown Adam's wife, and she is pregnant. Paxton says, "See? There's
another demon..." and waits what seems to me to be a rather long time
to correct himself, saying demon hunter instead. Huh? And that long
panning shot.... as the camera pulls away. Why, if Adam and his wife
are working for God, does the DEMONIC opening music start in? It does
not start after the credits begin rolling, but well before it. And
Paxton insisted that the opening themes be used. It is NOT godly music,
by any stretch of the imagination. 

Talk about subversive... Is Adam really a demon? Is he following
Satan's orders, thinking that the devil is GOD? Paxton says he sees the
movie as Dad's tragedy... he was killed because of Fenton's cunning.
With this in mind, the movie plays really differently on a second
viewing. However, what if I am right? That Daddy Meiks was sincere
cannot be doubted: he really did think he was working for God, and he
truly loved Fenton, as misguided as his actions were. And Fenton really
was the kindly, humane older brother... this would make it a double
tragedy... Dad's and Fenton's. What about Adam? His is the heart and
mind and soul of the born psychopath. Watch him as an adult... watch
him as a child.

Yes, Daddy Meiks, there really was a demon in your family. Guess who!
And wouldn't the right-wing Christian community have LOVED such a
message? My rating? If Fenton was the demon- 5 out of 10... If Adam
was... 9 out of 10. Take your pick!
