
What can I say? If I've seen a film worse than this, it certainly
doesn't spring to mind right now. I managed to get to the first
screening in the local area and, even though the audience was fairly
small, I still counted eleven people who walked out at various points
in the movie and never came back. Now either Michael Myers slashed them
up on their way to the lavatories or, like me, they were bored stiff by
this absolute CLUNKER of a flick.

The plot, or what little semblance there is of one, is simple yet
completely ludicrous. An organisation called Dangertainment, headed by
the entrepreneurial Freddie Harris (Busta Rhymes), gets together a
group of six students (!) to spend the night in serial killer Michael
Myers' childhood home, in the hope that they will "find clues" as to
what drove Myers to kill and kill again. Quite why, 25 years on from
the murders, they think they will achieve anything by sending a group
of teenagers into a house that, in the real world, would probably have
long been demolished, is beyond me. Surely it is the job of police
psychologists to dissect the minds of serial killers anyway? The film
conveniently forgets the previous five sequels (with the exception of
"H20"; this gets an irrelevant reference in the gratuitous opening
scenes which serve merely as an excuse to waste Jamie Lee Curtis'
talents in some customary 'running around' antics) and throws us almost
immediately into the environment of the house, where each of the six
kids are given a little handy-cam to strap to their heads and told to
go searching for clues... You with me so far? Well, that's pretty much
all there is to it. Needless to say, Myers himself shows up at the
house about 10 minutes into the movie (how? why?) and decides he wants
to kill everybody one by one, in the style we've now become accustomed
to.

This paper-thin tale is told so badly, it's almost hard to believe what
you're seeing on screen and that anyone was dumb enough to spend time
and money filming it. I suppose you could almost see it like a series
of noisy soundbites strung together randomly. It keeps things
simplistic to the point of being nonsensical, presumably to avoid
confusing its target audience of dribbling inbreds. I think I could've
written a better, more entertaining and reasonable script myself on the
back of a beermat. Nothing is ever explained or justified, no matter
how implausible and ridiculous things get, and yet, bogglingly, the
film still seems to take itself fairly seriously. It tries desperately
to shock with a series of boring but bloody knife murders (nothing we
haven't seen ad nauseam in any of the previous films) and innumerable
'false' scares with flashlights and toys falling out of cupboards. It's
all so by-the-books and done-to-death that you'd have to have never
seen a single horror film in your life to find it even remotely tense
or scary.

I think what bugs me the most about the film is just how terribly made
it is. Even forgetting the GAPING plot holes, there are loads of
obvious continuity errors and a sad, desperate style of direction that
seems to drag every scene to the point of agony in a desperate attempt
to pad out the already-short running time of the film. The cast do
nothing to help things - all the characters are cardboard stereotypes
and the ugly, plastic teens seem to be having a battle to see who can
be the most skin-crawlingly irritating. I think it ends up as a tie
between Katee Sachoff's hyperactive, squeaky airhead and Bianca
Kajlich's jitterbug 'heroine', who spends the entire movie simpering
and screaming loudly every time someone drops a pin. Oh, for the
record, Busta Rhymes is absolutely ATROCIOUS in this. His entire
purpose in this movie seems to be to deliver the worst examples of
wisecrack-by-numbers dialogue I've ever heard (ie: "Trick or treat,
motherf**ker?") and he plays his role as a cross between Eddie Murphy
and Vin Diesel, but without the charm or charisma of either.

I'd like to say John Carpenter would be ASHAMED to see such a horrible
mess made out of his characters, but when you consider the maestro
himself is making films almost as bad as this these days, he probably
couldn't give a toss so long as the money keeps rolling in. I think
this fact in itself proves just how much horror movies have changed
since the first "Halloween" was made and, to its credit, "Halloween
Resurrection" would be a perfect example of an "of its time" product
you could stick in an 'early 21st century' time capsule for future
generations to balk at. It is every bit as throwaway and pointless as
the culture that spawned it. It is loud, crass and in-your-face
constantly, despite having absolutely nothing to say when it gets there
- it's like the movie equivalent of an annoying little brat screaming
at you, desperate for attention. "Look at me! Look at me! I'm being
noisy and irritating!"... I would highly advise, for your sanity's
sake, that you don't look since, like that annoying child, you'll only
encourage it and I, for one, don't think I could cope with another
sequel this bad... This film is utter garbage and I fail to think of a
single way in which they could've made it any worse. A resounding 0 out
of 10.
<|_=00=_|>

"They don't make 'em like that anymore," friends of the horror genre often
remark on their web sites in reference to killer films from the late 1970s
and 1980s era. They are right.

It's not just that sentiments of nostalgia have turned those films into
little treasures in our memories. It's because current horror films stink.
Not all of them, but plenty or more anyway.

Ever since Dwight H. Little last captured the right Halloween spirit and
atmosphere in 1988's Halloween 4, the series deteriorated into a
ridiculous,
messy and pathetic show. I don't care how many fans of the series curse
part
3, it was a pleasant watch compared to what came after part 4. Halloween 5
was a complete prank and lacked any sense of storytelling (compliments to
Danielle Harris, who managed to perform extremely well under the
circumstances). Part 6, well, let's not waste any words on that one. H20
had
its moments and decent acting by Jamie Lee Curtis, but a Southern
California
private school seemed like a poor replacement for Haddonfield. The
producers
dedicated it to Donald Pleasance, ignoring the fact that his last name was
Pleasence (with an E) and had been spelled correctly on all earlier
installments that involved his acting. So much for Moustapha Akkad's
commitment to the project!

Halloween Resurrection had a nice opening scene. A 1960s home movie at the
Myers house, with the sounds of Johnny Angel performed by Shelley Fabares.
It was cut. Of course, the Akkads in their infinite wisdom must have
thought, why bother young people with an old song from someone they have
never even heard of! Let's keep the film simple (and let's take a popular
hip hop artist as the lead actor).

But, thank God, Rick Rosenthal filmed one other decent scene. It involves
Jamie Lee Curtis's character hospitalized in a mental institution. This
actually is quite a nice scene, with the actress performing wonderfully.
It
provides a satisfactory and surprisingly original bridge between the
events
at the end of H20 and the current state of affairs in "Resurrection", with
Laurie Strode at the end of her wits and a killer still on the
loose.

And after this? We might as well have left. After the promising Jamie Lee
Curtis opening scene there seemed no budget, and more important: no
inspiration left to come up with something, anything. It's a bore. It's a
drag. The prospect of a replica of the original Myers house showing up is
a
joke. We're allowed one glimpse, and even on that one occasion it is very
unsatisfactory: a big car is parked in front and taking the view, as the
camera briefly glances up from a low, moving position. It beats me why
they
even bothered rebuilding it. The interior scenes can be ignored in this
sense: it may have been any old house that Busta Rhymes's character
Freddie
Harris decided to do his online reality show in. And about these
characters:
have they ever been this flat in ANY Halloween sequel? NO! The characters
in
Halloween 5 or 6 were drawn brilliantly compared to what is presented to
us
here! Okay I realize this is actually pretty much of an achievement.
Credit
to Larry Brand and Sean Hood. It's amazing. The unimpressive cast (I'm not
counting Curtis) is highlighted by 'stars' Busta Rhymes (pop artist who is
kindly given the chance to act) and Tyra Banks (model who is kindly given
the chance to act). Let's suffice by saying that in this case the actors
have been given the roles they deserve.

Enough said. Or... We often are told one should not apply the same
criteria
to a horror film as the ones that apply to drama or classics. But why on
earth not? I admire more than one horror movie, but that does not mean I
feel I should appreciate the crappy ones by the grace of the good ones. I
can see when a film is made with no heart, no spirit and Resurrection is
the
key example of that. Furthermore, if these films -as we are told so often
by
people like Moustapha Akkad- are made for entertainment (read: cashing in)
purposes only and not for quality acting, complex storytelling or great
photography then why, why, why do they so vigorously renounce that one
basic
goal, the goal of being entertaining???
<|_=00=_|>
What the heck was this? Seriously, Halloween H20 was a perfect ending
to the Halloween franchise and so help me God if this was their "final
sequel" this was the worst way to end it. I remember seeing this in the
theater and afterwards just everyone saying how much they hated this
movie. First off they have Jamie Lee Curtis all crazed looking and
drugged up and then they kill her off! Oh, my, God! How could they?!
Shame on these stupid people, this is a pathetic attempt of the MTV
generation trying to add technology to the Halloween series. What did
the very first Halloween present to us? A killer who stalks babysitters
and wanted to kill his family off, nothing else, that's it. Very
simple, why do they try to crap up the story? How could you make a
Halloween movie bad? Apparently this stupid director must have been
drinking or doing some illegal substance because this was just a shamed
attempt at giving us a few scares.

Beginning three years after the events of Halloween H20, Laurie Strode,
has been confined to a psychiatric care facility. The Summer Glen
paramedic located the body of Michael Myers in the dining hall of
Laurie's school, Hillcrest Academy High School. When attempting to
seemingly do away with the terror from her brother once and for all,
she had killed an innocent man. Unable to deal with the crime and the
fear of her brother, Lauire was later confined to a sanitarium. Myers
had earlier attacked the paramedic and forcefully switched clothing and
his mask. The paramedic was rendered a mute from a crushed larynx. On
the night of October 31, 1998, Myers cleverly escaped once again. When
Michael finally appears, Laurie lures him into a trap, but before she
can kill him for good, he turns the tables on her. In a confrontation
on the sanitarium's rooftop, she reaches over to pull off his mask to
make certain it is actually her brother. He suddenly grabs her and
pulls her over the edge with him, stabbing her deep in the back. She
gives him a kiss on the lips of his mask, lastly telling him, "I'll see
you in Hell." Michael releases the knife from his sister and she falls
many stories below to her death. Myers finally accomplished killing his
sister, a pursuit twenty-three years in the making. He then makes his
way back home to Haddonfield, Illinois. One year later on Wednesday
October 30th, six college students win a competition to appear on an
Internet reality show in which they are to spend Halloween night in the
childhood home of Michael Myers. Their mission is to find out what led
him to kill. On the actual date of October 31, the investigation is
done in a style reminiscent of the MTV reality show, Fear. On this
night, through the entrepreneurial broadcast business Dangertainment,
it is shot live on the internet. Of course who is going to be there to
ruin it? You guessed it, Big Bird, Happy Halloween.

This is just a stupid sequel, Halloween: Resurrection makes the other
sequels look like masterpieces. Halloween 2 started off terrific, we
slumped just a little, nothing major, things picked up majorly with
Halloween H20, so how in the heck did this movie get messed up? Because
the director and writer were looking to relate to today's audience,
which are a bunch of ignorant teens and this was just a waste of my
time and it will be a waste of yours' as well, I promise you, you're
not missing out on anything, don't watch this movie. Let's just forget
about it and think that H20 was the way the Halloween franchise ended,
oh, Michael, please don't ever do this again, either that or kill the
director, or I will! Where's my butcher knife? Happy Halloween.

1/10
<|_=00=_|>

There are just some times when a good movie franchise is abused and milked
for all it's worth.  The first of the series is great and sets the mark ,the
2 occasionally 3 sequels that follow are mediocre and anything after that is
just trying to make money of an audience that has no other place to spend
their money.  I, unfortuantely was a member of that audience, as I paid
money to watch HALLOWEEN: RESURRECTION, the 8th installment of the once
classic HALLOWEEN franchise.

I don't even no where to start; bad cast, bad acting, boring death scenes
(not to sound wierd, but why else do you go see a movie like this), need I
go on.

If you noticed that this movie is mostly made up of celebrities, it is no
mistake.  This is all the movie has going for it, and yet it fails in that
department.  The biggest mistake a horror movie can make is when it spends
most of its time setting up the big death scenes and then knocks off its
characters one right after another.  That is exactly what happens in
RESSURECTION.  Every character w/the exception of 2 die in a consecutive
chain that takes up about 20 minutes of the movie and the other hour is
spent trying to gather of what little plot exists.

The horror doesn't stop there.  This HALLOWEEN installment doesn't have the
style that made the first two so good.  With the exception of a somewhat
unexpected opening, the movie is poorly put together.

Clearly an attempt to make some fast cash off a dying series, HALLOWEEN:
RESURRECTION  hopefully is the last time Micheal Myers takes the screen. 
Yet, I am sure there will find some way to bring back the masked killer. 
There always is a chance that the executives in charge of this franchise
will make a good decision and hang up the white mask and throw away the
knife.  HALLOWEEN: RESURRECTION rates as just a 2/10.
<|_=00=_|>

ANOTHER slasher pick? Yes, it's the new Halloween, the 7th or 8th in the
series, lost count. No 7th or 8th film in a series is any good, the 4th, 5th
and 6th usually aren't neither, but that's ok. Actually, I had some hopes
for this film, walking in the theater. 
The original Halloween was one of the best in the genre, with never-dying
Michael Myers entering the big-screen in spectacular fashion. But the second
in the series was already far beyond par, and the rest was pure formula
(haven't seen any of em though). Then came H20: 20 YEARS LATER, which
benefited again from Jamie Lee Curtis' presence. Not a good film, far from
being a stand-out in the genre, but at least it had SCREAM-writer Kevin
Williamson on the credits, and was actually pretty enjoyable too. So I
thought: well, maybe this new Halloween will have some suspense too, maybe
some surprises (I'm a sucker for surprises). But what I saw...well, I'm
still speechless. This film was even worse than most stupid entries in this
genre.

First of all, we get a stupid explanation for the fact that Michael is STILL
alive (unbelievable if you saw the previous one). Then we get Jamie Lee
Curtis in the mental hospital. What happens next, might show her attitude
towards the series by now. The beginning has actually nothing to do with the
rest of the film, it isn't even a good opening to this film, unlike the
SCREAM-intros.
Then we get to see the actual film, which is pretty much, like one of the
characters puts it, Halloween meets the Osbournes, or Big Brother, or the
German movie DAS EXPERIMENT, or whatever. You put the usual bunch of
irritating high-school friends in one house, put some cameras on top and let
Mike (umm...Michael) Myers do his thing. Is it thrilling? Nope, it just
seems Myers is doing a routine slashing in here. There's no suspense at all,
just people getting killed like you knew they would. Not hard to guess that
the "smartest" will survive. Is it funny? Yeah, if you can laugh at lame
dialogue and the aforementioned irritating characters. If that's your thing,
fine, shows why all these dumb-headed high-school comedies nowadays are such
a success. Oh, and it's so dumb-minded that you can't even stop shouting at
the screen: "Oh, come on! As if..."

But what could you expect from a movie that was directed by the same man
that directed Halloween II? It's so formula that you cannot only predict
everything from the first til the last minute, but it's so bad that the
last-minute surprise is even more irritating than usual. It's so obvious by
now that, indeed, "Evil never dies" , that it's even boring to see these
people trying to put M.M. to rest, without being ultimately successful. How
long will they go on with this and what's the point of making another movie
like this if nothing works out in the end. I'm sure Michael must be pretty
tired by now. But maybe we get a Halloween: 60 years later, in x years time,
where Michael is a geriatric patient, killing off his fellow patients. Maybe
that would be a thriller! As far as this one is concerned: it's more of a
thrill finding ways to stay awake while Michael is doing his thing than
watching this bore. 1/10
<|_=00=_|>

AAWWFFUULLLL doesn't even begin to describe it. I went in expecting
something else. But in the Big Brother era, sooner or later there would come
a movie about it.

Listing all thte things that bothered me would be too boring, but the main
thing is the predicability. The movie's end is known beforehand halfway in
the movie. You could guess thousands of things before they
happened.

The casting is really, really, really bad. The only ones that emerge are
Luke Kirby, Tyra Banks and the eternal Jamie Lee Curtis. The scary scenes
aren't scary; the setting is ridiculous and the screenplay: tedious. The
only scenes that had potential were Jamie Lee Curtis's cameo and the girls
death chase in the basement, not for director's talent, but for John
Carpenter's. For his truly fantastic and everlasting Halloween
theme.

Keep out.
<|_=00=_|>

Where to start?  Hilariously bad acting?  False scares? Plot ripped off from
"My Little Eye"? More false scares? Shameless rewrite of the ending of H20? 
Yet more false scares?  Tyra Banks? Busta Rhymes? BUSTA
RYHMES???!?!

You won't believe what you are seeing.
<|_=00=_|>
Halloween is the best in the series. Halloween H20 is the 2nd best.
Halloween 2 is the 3rd best. Halloween 4: the Return of Michael Myers
is the 4th best. Halloween: the Curse of Michael Myers is the 4th
worst. Halloween 3: Season of the Witch is the 3rd worst. Halloween 5
is the 2nd worst. And Halloween: Resurrection is the worst in the
series. I don't know why this movie was even made. Michael Myers was
decapitated at the end of Halloween H20. The acting was terrible. there
wasn't one original death. And since Laurie Strode died at the
beginning of this movie, there are none of the original characters
remaining other than Michael Myers himself. And there are so many
things that could've been better. 1. the title would've made more sense
if Laurie had succeeded in killing Michael. Then he really would've
resurrected for the rest of the film. 2. They should've kept the
original opening with the home video of the Myers family before Michael
killed Judith. 3. They should've gotten a better cast. Even Jamie Lee
Curtis was bad in this one. This movie is just plain stupid. Anyway,
I'll be reviewing the Friday the 13th movies next. A couple of them
were actually dumber than this movie as hard as it is to believe.
<|_=00=_|>
Halloween 8 Resurrection should really entitled Halloween 8 destruction
of a franchise or how to kill a franchise in 90 minutes. Halloween 8 is
an awful movie that is devoided of any orginality or redeeming qualties
(Trya Banks is smoking hot, but is little more than an extra with a
line or two). Halloween 8 spits on everything that previous movies have
worked hard to preserve since John Carpenters genre inventing original,
the worst Halloween 8 actually think's it has the goods.

H8 had an impressive budget (due to the healthy box office of the last
film) but squanders it on actors that add nothing to the movie but
prolong their own dismial carrers. Busta Rhymes actually proves a good
leading man until becoming undone by his own ego, most of the other
actors have tongue firmly pressed in their check and most phone it in.
Jamie Lee Curtis deserves special mention as she almost displays hate
for her iconic cult character and cant wait to put to the whole
franchise in the past.

As a fan of the franchise the biggest problem I had was an arrogance to
acknowledge previous movies in the series and tries to forge it's own
path that leaves Michael Myers holding his dick in his hand. Halloween
8 Resurrection come across as a scream hybrid that wont satisfy casual
fans or die hards and as the final reel fades out everyone will be
thinking "That would never happen".
<|_=00=_|>
Seen it on the pictures and i couldn't wait for it to end,thought id
give it another go on DVD with my folks and i was yet again subjected
to 86 minutes of pure trash,my parents fell asleep even before it
ended! The acting is terrible,Busta rhymes is a joke,there is nothing
and i mean nothing new about this entry.It seems the director didn't
give a monkey's behind about this film,i would be embarrassed to have
my name on the credits.Definitely the worst Halloween film by far!!!
I'd rather watch paint dry,at least that would be more interesting... 

Michael myers R.I.P (if only) some genius is going to bring out
Halloween 9...
