
Take this review with a grain of salt, because I am a massive fan of
Peter Pan and all things properly based on the James Barrie classic.
This sequel, however, made me cringe. I've enjoyed liberal
interpretations before - Hook and Finding Neverland, for example - but
this movie completely trashed whatever character Peter Pan is supposed
to have. Peter Pan is not a hero - he is a mischievous and often
forgetful boy. He is entirely selfish and entirely charming, and these
are his two flaws. However, in "Return to Neverland," this character of
"Peter Pan" is a mere ghost of the complex Barrie creation. Whatever
beautiful messages Peter Pan has about nostalgia and childhood, "Return
to Neverland" turns them upside down at worst, and simply ignores them
at best.

The animation wasn't bad, though.
<|_=00=_|>

One thing I've noticed about most Disney sequels is that the storyline tends
to be the opposite of the original. It's not different here. In the original
"Peter Pan", Wendy has no intention of growing up too soon and instead goes
to Never Land for a while, where she'll never grow up. But in "Return to
Never Land", Wendy has grown up, gotten married and had kids of her own. Her
son, Danny, who's still very young, is always intrigued by his mother's
stories of Peter, but her older daughter Jane, who feels as though now her
father's gone to war, she must protect her family, it means no more silly
stories. And then the movie develops from there, when Jane is thought to be
Wendy and is kidnapped by Captain Hook. Then, of course, Peter Pan meets her
and then the story continues from there. Jane thinks she's really mature,
and it's up to Peter and the Lost Boys to bring out her childish side
again.

I think "Return to Never Land" is one of the better Disney sequels, as heaps
of others have turned out to rip-offs of the original. If they thought this
was going to be like the others, they would've released it straight to
video. So, if you have to see a Disney sequel, then this is a pretty good
one.
<|_=00=_|>

All you need is faith, trust and pixie dust!  This is a surprisingly
pleasant sequel.  The C.G. Tinkerbelle is not as ...delicate as I remember
from the first, but she is still made well and is just as spunky!  I think
they did a very good job on this movie...so good of a job that I would not
classify it with normal sequels.  I think it will be on the shelf with the
other classics.  They still have the Tink that turns red when she's mad,
and
the lost boys haven't changed a bit.  Peter is just as I remember him, and
in all this they did a great job.  And overall, I love this movie.  The
credits did surprise me.  They reminded me of the last page in the Little
Golden Books I read as a child.  Very similar artistry...very similar lay
out.

Also, I'd like to add that the music was actually not torture for me to
listen to...which counts for a lot for my opinion of cartoons.

I would not miss taking my children to this movie.  It's even a sweet date
movie.

I think you will like it.
<|_=00=_|>

"Peter Pan In Return To Never Land" is Disney‘s animated sequel to their
truly classic 1953 adaptation of J.M. Barrie‘s beloved children‘s story.
Time‘s moved on since the first movie and although Peter Pan never grew up,
Wendy did. It‘s now World War Two and an adult Wendy is living in London,
still telling tales of Peter Pan, Captain Hook, Tinkerbell and all the other
inhabitants of Never Land to her two children; Danny, an awe struck little
boy and Jane, a more cynical, pragmatic older girl who has no time for
fairytales. However when Hook flies his sailing ship to London, kidnaps Jane
and takes her to Never Land, she soon wishes she has paid more attention to
her mother‘s stories.

With a budget of a ‘mere‘ $20M the film was produced by Disney‘s TV
animation department (who have previously toiled over ‘straight to
video/DVD‘ sequels for other Disney movies including "Cinderella," "The Lady
And The Tramp," "The Lion King" and "The Little Mermaid"), but this was
apparently always planned as a cinematic release. The film succeeds in
combining the traditional feel of the original ‘50s animation with a more
contemporary look, particularly for the intrepid young heroine Jane (whose
modern looking bobbed haircut was actually highly fashionable during World
War Two!). The use of computer generated animation does successfully enhance
certain scenes, sometimes so subtly you don‘t even notice, and sometimes –
in the case of Tinkerbell‘s magical pixie dust – to spectacular effect.
However Hook‘s computer generated ship, while certainly impressive,
unfortunately stands out uncomfortably from the traditionally animated
environments that surround it. Overall though "Peter Pan In Return To Never
Land" – only the second sequel to a Disney feature to be released on the big
screen – more than deserves a cinematic outing, and will no doubt go down
well with the latest generation of Disney fans, who have grown up with a VHS
copy of the original at home.

<|_=00=_|>

My friend and I went and saw this movie and felt like we were little
again.
It made us laugh and it was great to see some of our favorite characters
come alive again.  I hate to read about critics when they dissect the
movie,
all you need to know is that it's a wonderful sequel, that personally, I
plan to see again.  No matter what age you are you'll leave after with a
smile on your face.  Jane is the perfect portrayal of kids these days and
what they're missing.  So do yourself a huge favor and just go see
it.
<|_=00=_|>

I am a 13 year old kid and I saw the movie and when I saw the war parts I
was shocked and sort of felt sorry for wendy because she was in the war
area
but when the movie got to the where the ship is entering the second star to
the right I heard sounds in that scene like: I'll get you for this pan if
it's the last thing I do,ticking,and Peter famous line from "Peter Pan":
Once you're grown up you can never back. I liked the lost boys, though in
number one they used to fight alot.And pan wasn't mean to Jane he was just
upset because tink's light was fading and the ending was almost sad because
peter sort of felt that he didn't give a darn about wendy but she cared for
him.my favorite lost boy is Slightly he rocks. Plus the songs were great I
liked "So to be one of us" and "now that you're one of us" but My favorite
song is the new version of "Do you believe in magic" it's a new version of
the song then the oringal.the reason why disney wanted to do a sequal to
peter pan is because they thought that we kids and adults might to see
peter
pan again and take us back to neverland and have us forget what's going in
the world like the Terrorism war.The movie was a huge hit at my Regal
cinemas in lincoln city,oregon everyone clapped and I yelled "GIVE US MORE
PAN". Rumor has it that disney is thinking about doing a thrid Peter pan
movie called: Peter Pan 3, the plot: it is going to be about peter's
past,how tink came in his life,how hook and the pirates got to
neverland,and
how the lost boys got there too.
<|_=00=_|>
Sequel to classic history with an enjoyable Peter Pan , adventures ,
imagination ,astounding as well as gorgeous sets and brilliant images ,
though it was originally planned as a direct-to-video release in which
the protagonist of the story results to be Wendy's daughter and is set
in London during World War II . The picture mingles action , feats ,
humor , tongue-in-cheek , fantasy and a lot of entertainment . The film
centers about Peter Pan (voice by Blayne Weaver) , a nice adolescent
who doesn't want grow up , Wendy , her daughter Jane and brothers . As
Jane is kidnapped by Captain Hook from parents' home and they are going
to Neverland . As main starring is abducted by Captain Hook and Peter
Pan must come to the rescue in order to challenge his old enemy . Peter
Pan , Tink and Lost Boys (they were boys who fell out of their prams
while the nurses weren't looking , whereas Peter Pan is a permanent
resident of Never Neverland, the lost boys are only temporary lodgers ,
if they seem to grow up, Peter Pan sends them home) will take on
captain Hook , Smee and pirates henchmen . As Peter Pan's quest to go
back Jane safely home is jeopardized until she can start to believe in
the magic of imagination . 

The film contains emotion , humor , fantasy , songs and a lot of fun .
The plot is similar to Walt Disney's classic replacing Wendy with her
daughter Jane who along with Peter undertake several adventures in
Neverland ; as Pan with the help of her and the Lost Boys must save his
friends by battling with Captain Hook and Smee once again . From the
beginning to the end the amusement and entertainment is interminable .
An entertaining movie , a little tiring when the characters are singing
, but is still shines . The highlights film are the marvelous images
when Peter Pan and Jane are flying throughout Neverland , it turns out
to be colorful and delightful . Due to controversy over their
appearance in original movie , as Disney attracted negative comments
for their stereotypical depiction of Indians, as indeed did J.M. Barrie
with his original play , it's probably for that very reason that the
Indians do not appear in this 2002 sequel , though Peter and Jane
briefly visit their places , however ; as they fly over Tipis , Indian
tribes and skull monument . The giant octopus was created as a new
nemesis for Captain Hook because it was felt that the Disney animators
had exhausted all the comic possibilities of "Hook vs. the Crocodile"
in the original Peter Pan (1953). The octopus's tentacles make a "Pock!
Pock!" sound that is similar to the "Tick Tock!" sound heard from the
crocodile in the previous film . Although original author J.M. Barrie
is credited, this sequel and its original were the only major films
versions of "Peter Pan" and both of them use little of his original
dialogue . Because most of the original voice cast of the movie had
died, including Hans Conried (Hook) and Bobby Driscoll (Peter Pan), an
entirely new cast of actors had to be used to film this sequel such as
Corey Burton as Hook , Jeff Bennett as Smee , Kath Soucie as Wendy ,
Roger Rees as Edward , Spencer Breslin as Cubby , Bradley Pierce as
Nibs and Clive Revill . Many Peter Pan purists were very upset by the
characterization of Tinker Bell as a petulant and voluptuous young
woman as old film ¨Peter Pan¨ as its sequel the ¨Return to Never Land¨
. The fable will appeal to adventure and classic tale fan . Rating :
6,5/10 above average . It's a terrific familiar amusement that will
appeal to vintage tale fans .

Other films and stage productions dealing with this classic personage
are the followings : The original Broadway production of "Peter Pan",
or "The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up" by J.M. Barrie opened at the Empire
Theater on November 6, 1905 , it ran for 223 performances, closed on
May 20, 1906, and starred nineteenth-century stage actress Maude Adams,
who never made any films ; silent film ¨Peter Pan¨ (1924) starred by
Virginia Brown Faire as Tinker Bell , it uses much of Barrie's original
dialogue ; Peter Pan (1953) with voice by Bobby Driscoll, Kathryn
Beaumont, Hans Conried ; ¨Hook¨(2001) with Steven Spielberg with Dustin
Hoffman as Captain Hook , Robin Williams , Freddie Highmore , Julia
Roberts , Bob Hoskins as Smee , Maggie Smith and Caroline Goodall ;
¨Finding Neverland¨ (2004) by Marc Foster with Johnny Depp as James M
Barry , Kate Winslet , Kelly McDonald as Peter Pan , Julie Christie ,
Radha Mitchell , and recent version ¨Peter Pan¨ by JP Hogan with Jeremy
Sumpter , Raquel Wood and Jason Isaac .
<|_=00=_|>
Return To Neverland isn't terrible, but it does fail on many levels, so
can't be classed as a good sequel. The animation and the story were the
redeeming qualities, but unfortunately the songs and the characters
fall flat.

The animation is mostly bright and colourful, but falls flat in the
dark backgrounds. The story wasn't bad either, trying to keep Hook from
getting the treasure and everything. I also liked the war scene,
because that was quite interesting on an animation perspective, and
brought some intrigue on a contextual level. I was unimpressed by the
trailer, but the film itself wasn't bad, but loses the charm about 15
minutes in. I will say it has a great message about cherishing your
childhood.

The first problem was that the kidnapping scene took far too long,
despite the breathtaking animation of Hook's ship, and I hated the
change to Hook. In the original and the criminally underrated TV series
Peter Pan and the Pirates, which are both classics, he is complex and
vindictive, but here he was manipulative in a negative way, and lacked
menace. The best character was Jane, but that isn't saying much, and
Peter's new voice was horrible, too bolshy. The songs were terrible and
forgettable immediately after you've finished watching the movie,
likewise with the dialogue. The main problem was that it isn't a true
sequel at all, compared to the first film and the book. And the
octopus, why replace the crocodile may I ask?

I'm sorry that this is mostly negative, but Return To Neverland was
very disappointing. Though better than the trailer suggested, it is
still a pretty charmless film, with a 3/10(Adequate) Bethany Cox
<|_=00=_|>

***NOTE: my review contains spoilers, but none so spoiled as my
expectations.***

Some will say that Disney has sold out in recent years. But MY gripe is not
with marketing strategies, nor with flooding us with sequels to all these
classics within a couple year's timespan.  I can learn to accept
that.

My gripe is with this character development of Peter Pan. It's kind of like
the comic book that saw Luke Skywalker join the dark side, but without as
good an excuse.

Another user commented that Peter Pan always bordered on violence. I just
don't remember him being mean, though.

This movie has Peter Pan & the Lost Boys pulling a little girl's hair,
destroying her journal to shreds, and getting ANGRY at her and calling her
a
traitor (at a time when she was innocent)! (Where is the magic of
Neverland???)

Peter Pan lies to her also...in a plot to save Tinkerbell, he tells her
he's
sorry and wants to make it up to her...but he is just using her and has
already explained why and how, to the Lost Boys!

I guess this film was made for little girls during a time of war. I guess
by
showing her have a change of heart, SHE is the real hero, and Peter Pan is
irrelevant.

But I came to see Peter Pan! Do we really really have to have good guys do
bad things and not know any better...and did the sequel really have to be a
big fat trailer for the original classic?

Instead of endlessly discussing faith and believing, GIVE US THE OLD
MAGIC...THE PURE FANTASY back. I still don't know WHAT to believe about
this
effort.
<|_=00=_|>

This is a perfect example of why Walt Disney said very clearly "Don't let
them make sequels to my movies."  He didn't want Peter Pan 2, Snow White 2
and so on.  The studio has made some great movies (Lion King, Little
Mermaid), but has the creative well run dry?  Aren't there thousands of
wonderful fairy tales from around the world that could be done?  This movie
(short, like Tarzan and Jane short) felt more like an exploitation of a
classic than a tribute to a timeless and charming film.
