
One of those films which I don't think the current IMDb score (5.4)
actually captures.

It's a bit formulaic - ex-bad-boy super-DEA agent gets the bad guy,
pays with the life of his nearest & dearest, and goes out for revenge.
Even I saw the reveal at the end coming way-off (I rarely do), but I
still really enjoyed this film.

I thought it was very well plotted and paced; Vin Diesel played it
gruff, but mostly low-key (no huge sobbing moments, or tearful walks on
the beach, which was refreshing). His character, along with that of his
friend, were fleshed out into more-rounded human beings than the usual
action hero & sidekick. The enemies were straight out of 'the Big Book
Of Drug Dealers and Cartel lackeys', but Timothy Oliphant was amusing
and well played, as ever (also a great turn in The Good Girl).

And I found the violence viscerally satisfying & gritty, without being
seriously glorified, or venturing (too far) into Bad Boys style
Hollywood explosions, helicopter gunships, LA car chases etc.

Most surprising of all (to me) is that Vin agreed to grow his hair out
a little - as you would in an extended hospital stay - and roughen up
his otherwise clean shaven / macho male model looks. Wandering around
with the goatee, he reminded me more of the guy out of Cypress Hill.

Kudos also goes to the ending. It could have finished two scenes
earlier than it did, but the tying up of loose ends wasn't done in an
overly sentimental or triumphant way, which was similarly refreshing.

Good screenplay, good acting (in a pretty standard film like this), and
mostly avoiding the really obvious clichés of plot & character. I
really enjoyed it. On the scale of revenge movies - it's not as good as
Mel Gibson's remake of Payback, or The Rock in the remake of Walking
Tall. But it would hold its own alongside them in a collector's box
set.
<|_=00=_|>

Lately, i do not watch too many ‘old-fashioned' action films like this. This
has mostly to do with the fact that action films are somehow always the
same. The only things that can make an action film decent are not too many
corny scenes and some comedic elements. Take for instance Cradle 2 the
Grave, which I saw a couple of weeks back. Now the action was pretty OK,
there were some funny elements, but there were some stupid things as well
(such as a corny ending). Or Bulletproof Monk, which was a bit corny
overall. While A Man Apart is certainly not a good film, it is one of the
better ‘old school' action films I've seen lately. The acting is decent,
there are no corny elements and there is a good mix of emotion / softness
and action. The film might not be suited for the big screen, but it does
well as a rental (BTW: the film was shot between 2000 and 2001 and got
shelved at first). The film certainly has some interesting elements and is
better than most of Seagal's or Van Damme's new films. I was not
disappointed to have rented it.

6,75 out of 10
<|_=00=_|>

Vin Diesel is MUCH better in this drama/action film then he was in his last
action film, "XXX". His performance as a broken man who just lost his wife
to drug dealer, & his violent crusade against said criminals, while not
original in the least, does captivate you. As far as action movies go, this
one can hang with the better of them. The action doesn't mix too well with
the drama though...

My Grade: B-

Eye Candy: 2 topless women, 1 erotic dancer (Former Man Show Juggy, Paula
Harrison) in see-through cloth

Extras: 7 Deleted Scenes (the first having 1 more topless chick, the 7th
being an extended version of the aforementioned Juggy's dance) ; Trailers
for (of all things)Run, Ronnie, Run & Highwaymen
<|_=00=_|>
I watched this movie a few days ago, i have to admit it's different
from Vin's other movies, the story did not make much sense in some
parts,it felt a little overcooked in others., and slow paced in the
middle. While the movie had the explosions, gun fights and car chases,
I felt that it was not about the violence/revenge as much as it was
about Vin's character mourning his wife's death and choosing to do so
in anger, it was his way of screaming, letting the world hear his pain.

The thing that really effected me is the relationship between Sean and
Stacey, the connection they had, even though we did not see much in the
beginning of the movie, i felt that they had a strong bond. The acting
- in between the violent scenes is not half bad, specially Vin's scene
at the hospital, it's heart breaking. It is a good start for Vin in to
do more " human " normal everyday roles, we have to respect the guy for
that.
<|_=00=_|>
When I rate a movie or give my opinion of a movie, I try my best to
compare it to other movies like it. For example, if it is a drama about
family, I use other dramas about families as a benchmark. "A Man Apart"
is definitely a vigilante film. Sean Vetter's (Vin Diesel) wife was
murdered and he is out to find the killer. If you want a reference for
a vigilante film, see just about any Charles Bronson movie, or some of
the movies with Sylvester Stallone, Arnold Schwazzenegger, or Steven
Segal. One of my personal favorite vigilante movies is the Denzel
Washington starred "Man on Fire".

Comparatively, "A Man Apart" doesn't quite match up. Whether it was how
the movie was done, or it was Vin Diesel, I didn't quite feel the pain
of Sean when he lost his wife. This type of movie is dependent upon the
drive of the main character and getting the audience to understand or
feel that same drive. Sure, most of us would understand a man seeking
revenge or justice for the wrongful death of his wife, but the
character still has to have some type of charisma or believability. Vin
Diesel is too one dimensional to show a wide range of emotions, and
there weren't enough scenes showing the bond between Sean and his wife
for me to be too upset when she was killed. In the end, the movie was
about a vigilante seeking justice who I wanted to succeed, but I was
still indifferent about.
<|_=00=_|>
A Man Apart is nothing special but after the first 15 minutes I didn't
think I'd be saying that in my comment. It starts off really well,
exciting, good characters and it was moving along nice and quickly.
While the good characters and the moving along kept up throughout the
movie, the most important thing didn't - the excitement. The action
sequences just became like Vin Diesel's acting voice - exactly the same
the whole movie. The director tried his best to vary it (bombs, choking
.etc) but these things never seemed to have any effect, for what reason
I don't know. Also the storyline was unbelievably predictable.

There are a lot of action movie out there, a lot - you're not going to
find anything new in this one.
<|_=00=_|>
A MAN APART reaffirms my belief that Vin D. cannot act. He recites
dialog as if he were reading it for the first time off a TelePrompter.
His facial expressions range from A to A. And he displays all the
conviction and sincerity of a used car salesman. Maybe that's why his
best role was as a shady sales guy in THE BOILER ROOM. In this
half-baked actioner from half-based director Gary Gray, our man Vinnie
plays a DEA agent whose apprehension of a Mexican drug lord results in
his being injured and his wife being killed in retaliation by some
shadowy figure known as Diablo. Why he and his wife are targeted and
not any of the other DEA agents involved is a mystery best left to the
half-baked screen writers. Anyhow, Vin all too predictably goes on the
rampage, albeit sort of half-heartedly. For his troubles, he
continually gets beat up and shot. Of course, in the end, he gets the
bad guy. Now here's the interesting "twist:" the bad guy, who is
supposed to be this mysterious Diablo, turns out to be exactly who we
knew it was from the beginning, the very guy Vin busted in the first
place. So much for suspense. Also, Vin, who is now on leave from the
DEA, goes from a major shootout sequence to a rather abrupt
confrontation with the bad guy. Vin walks up and tells him he's under
arrest, more or less. And then Vin simply walks away as about a hundred
gendarmes suddenly appear out of thin air and overcome the bad guy's
minions. End of flick. It would seem here is a whole section missing
from this film. It is either the worst script or the worst editing I
have experienced in a long time. The action scenes are few, and get
confusing at times, especially in a major firefight halfway through.
Chalk that up to the MTV-style editing. I could be kind and say a real
firefight can be confusing. But, nah. It's the editing. Anyhow, let's
make things worse. Several key cast members are black, supposedly
former fellow street gang members turned avenging good guys (didn't I
already see this in XXX 2?). They talk in indecipherable street lingo
and hug and pose a lot. How authentic. I call it pandering. I didn't
realize I would be watching a blaxploitation flick, or I might have
safely skipped this.
<|_=00=_|>

This movie is alright for a gritty action film because it reminds me of the
grittiness of Narc with the action sequences of XXX.  The acting of Vin
Diesel as a DEA agent is going out for revenge after his wife was murdered
is good and alright and the acting Larenz Tate as his partner is alright as
well.

Overall, I find this movie a good gritty action flick to entertain yourself
any time.   
<|_=00=_|>

Ok performances, adequate to poor directing, a frequently nonsensical
script, inconsistent cinematography, and ambitions that far outreach the
filmmakers grasp. This film is passable entertainment for the hardcore
action crowd but it offers nothing new and nothing that is really good.
The
promise that Vin Diesel showed in Boiler Room and other earlier pictures
is
being wasted in unremarkable films like this.
<|_=00=_|>
BAD ACTOR ALERT! What can I say? I was home on my birthday sick and
snowed in. Nothing was on cable, 200+ channels and not a thing on. So
what does one do but check out one of the HBO, SHO MAX Direct station
which are already paid for. I searched for something, anything and I
found it..."A Man Apart" and a DMX movie. The DMX was actually a
surprise and was very entertaining, which is all I was asking for..to
be entertaining. This movie was not. First I want to say that I am not
a big Vin Deisel fan, the man just can't act, simple as that. Now I
have seen decent movies with him it though. This was not one of them.
Apparently DEA officers make enough money to live on California beach
front property. Now I live in NY so I don't have the exact cost of what
it takes to live on beach front land but I can tell you it probably is
not something a law enforcer cannot afford...being a daughter of one I
can attest to that. Well all the DEA officers are gathered there for a
party. Later on that night a few night crawlers burst into his
apartment...right off the ocean..doors unlock and kill his wife and
only injures him... You see he wakes up guns blasting and saves himself
but not his wife. I feel the only reason we were treated earlier to the
party was establish he loved his wife. You know the scenes...once you
see them you know she is a goner. a few weeks later he awakens in the
hospital with his best friend (poor Larenze Tate what happened to his
career) Larenz's wife and his boss at his side. In my experience one
always wakes up from these episodes 3 in the morning when no one is
around not even the nurses. He has no idea his wife is dead and when he
finds out we get the "I can really act scene" he tries to break out of
his IVs and starts yelling her name etc we are treated to a flashback
of them..he still can't act. Vin wants revenge and he is going to the
top to get it. Well this turns out to be some twisty movie that I
believe they made up while going. Heck I'll tell so some other soul
doesn't waste 90 minutes out of their life. Seems like a person called
Diablo is the killer. But he is not who we think he is. He is really
the older guy in prison who actually puts a hit out on his family to
gain Vins trust. THe first guy old Vin approaches about his wife's
death. Seems that he only wanted the wife dead so he could work with
Vin. If you look back at the scene the wife dies it wasn't even sure
she would die. If they were there to hit his wife they would of made
sure she was dead before they were through. So these were one of those
"Made while the went scene." You see the man wants to get transfered to
minimum security so he can escape during the transfer. Don't waste your
time with this dreck. The DMX movie is like watching Scorcese next to
this. The only reason I did not give this movie a 1 is because of
Larenz Tate, his career is picking up again with Ray etc...I enjoyed
just seeing him.
