

First off, I was quite surprised to see the cinema so full for this movie,
even on opening weekend. I guess not that many movies for women in their
30's plus exist these days!

I expected this movie, as I'm sure many people did, to be a Fatal
Attraction
but with the genders switched around.

I was pleasantly surprised and shocked by it NOT being what I expected,
and
I definitely enjoyed it alot more than Fatal Attraction.

The summary of this movie is that Diane Lane's character starts cheating
on
her husband (Richard Gere) with a beautiful French man(Olivier Martinez).
Everything else should be left for surprise.

The pacing of this movie is perfect. We got a sense of Connie and Edward's
home life before she met the dashing Paul. They have a darling son,
Charlie,
who adds alot of humour to the movie, but in a non precocious way. After
the
affair starts we see Connie's feelings range from excitement to complete
disgust with herself. And of course Edward inevitably finds out. His
reaction is interesting, to say the least, and perhaps very honest.

The acting is great, especially from Diane Lane. The sex scenes are pretty
raunchy, and made me uncomfortable at certain points, but it's interesting
to see how different sex with the lover and sex with the husband
were.

At the end of this movie I didn't feel cheated or robbed with some
contrived
ending (although others may argue differently). This film dealt with how
being in an affair must feel, and how finding out you're being cheated on
could make your react in uncharacteristic ways.

As a movie critic said, this movie will indeed make you never have an
affair!

<|_=00=_|>

I have read alot of reviews here that expressed displeasure for this film
based on the notion that this was basically "softcore porn for housewives"
and had nothing new to offer it's audience.  Ok, granted; this is not the
most original film/script ever written, but I think that many reviews
(both
Professional and Ametuer alike) have missed the point of this film.
Behind
the obvious guise of a morality tale showing what can happen if you stray
from your marital vows, there is a rather amazing piece of art to be seen.
This film is not about marital infedelity, but, rather, about DRAMA.  This
is what we in the Theater refer to as Drama As Art, meaning that the plot
is
less important than the impact that the various plot points have on the
characters, creating more and more and more drama as the story unfolds.
As
is the great ballets or stage plays ('Giselle', 'Whose Afraid of Virginia
Wolf', 'Swan Lake' 'A Streetcar Name Desire'), the DRAMA is the star of
the
production, not the actors or the plot lines.

And in this respect, 'Unfaithful' excells!  Watch carfully as the world
slowly turns itself upside down and rips itself to shreds around these two
people based on a SINGLE MOMENT IN TIME (the first scene outside of his
apartment:  Should she go in?  Should she go home?  One choice, one
mopment
in time, a world of difference).  Based on her choice(s), the drama begins
to build to a point when, at the end of the film, the DRAMA is the star,
not
Geer and Lane.  And Drama does a fine job holding this otherwise
middle-of-the-road film above the frey.


<|_=00=_|>

Whoever thought that director Adrian Lyne and star Richard Gere were
finished needs to see this haunting and provocative film. Because this is a
stunner that will put both back on the map - big time. For all their star
power though, it is the female star Diane Lane who must take huge credit
for
making this such an effective movie.

I've always liked Lane as an actress from when she was a kid in Francis
Ford
Coppola films, but she rarely got the chance to 'carry' a film. Well, she
not only 'carries' UNFAITHFUL, she delivers one of the most haunting and
powerful performances I have seen from an actress. Think Julia Roberts in
ERIN BROCKOVICH or Ellen Burstyn in REQUIEM FOR A DREAM and you get the
picture. Stunning acting.

While the committed performances are what make a great movie greater, it is
Adrian Lyne who has constructed such a wonderful and effective rhythm and
style to UNFAITHFUL. This is not an art-film, but it is not a blockbuster
either. It lays somewhere between the two and delivers on all fronts. I was
totally glued to my seat from start to finish.

<|_=00=_|>

Unfaithful was an extremely powerful movie and was much, much more than
what
i had expected when i rented the dvd. Diane Lane was the main reason i got
this film out because i had heard so many good things about her
performance
and that she has won the Oscar nomination for best actress in the films
main
role. Well, the hype was true. The film is excellent and Diane is
seductive,
sexy and downright awesome as the films main focus. She proves here what
many believed before... she is a beautiful and talented star capable of
carrying a movie. Richard Gere gives very solid support to her and the
films
director really knows his game. An all around winner. 
<|_=00=_|>
Adrian Lyne is fascinated by human sexuality and he presents it in a
way that is adult but without being pornographic. Unfaithful tells the
story of a perfectly normal and happy couple, Edward (Richard Gere) and
Connie (Diane Lane). They look ideal: he is a very successful
businessman, she is a wonderful and loving wife and mother to their
young son, and they live in a beautiful home. Everything is perfect
until one day Connie goes into the city to shop for her son's birthday
party when a wind storm makes her bump into a handsome French
librarian/book collector named Paul (Olivier Martinez). She is injured
and unable to get a taxi, Paul helps her and when he was unable to get
her into a taxi he offers her to come upstairs to his apartment to use
a telephone and bandage up her injury. Connie is immediately attracted
and fascinated by the handsome stranger, but nothing happens and she
goes home but she cannot stop thinking about Paul. She goes back and
finds him. In the second encounter with Paul nothing happens but she
still cannot stop thinking about him and it seems very obvious to Paul
that he is also attracted to her. In the third encounter, Paul and
Connie have sex and it is the beginning of a tumultuous affair that
will set a chain reaction of guilt, jealousy, obsession, heartbreak,
and murder.

I love how Adrian Lyne (very much like he did in Fatal Attraction) adds
the human drama of the family breaking apart because of an infidelity.
Connie was not looking for an affair and her relationship with Paul was
the result of an accident. We don't even question why Connie has an
affair with this person. She did it out of impulse, out of lust, and
for the pure excitement of how far she could take it until she realizes
the effect it begins to have on her: she begins to obsess over Paul,
she is hurting the man she truly loves, Edward, and she begins to see
the toll it takes on her as a mother. After another encounter with her
lover she is late to pick up her son from school who is waiting for her
on the steps of the school. We see the slow fall the family begins to
take and we are even touched at the little child's innocence and how he
never ever picks up the signals that his parent's marriage is breaking
apart. The performances by the actors are especially effective
particularly by the two leads: Richard Gere and Diane Lane. Gere is
heartbreaking in a role that plays opposite to the playboy image that
made him famous as he plays the role of a man whose own world falls
apart as he begins to suspect his wife's infidelity and his own
humiliation begins to take a toll on him. He never even asks his wife
if she is cheating but hires a private detective. The ending when he
tells Connie that it was her that he hated and it was her that he
wished would die...what a great Richard Gere moment! And of course
there is Diane Lane: she was beautiful at 13 and she is beautiful
today. She is magnificent in this role which was originally intended
for actresses like Sharon Stone and Kim Basinger who were the original
choices for the role of Connie. But one word describes Lane's
performance: luminous. The classic Lane moment was the scene with her
on the train on her way home after her first sexual encounter with
Paul. A scene that was shot only once and Lane's expressions changes
from giddy, guilty, shameful, embarrassed, and excited as she cries and
laughs and giggles. All of these expressions flashing through in a
matter of seconds all in one shot! The scene where she finds the
pictures of her and her lover taken by the private detective; How she
looks through them and waves of nausea, embarrassment, guilt, and
absolute regret. The scene where she sits by the fireplace as she burns
the pictures taken by the PI and she looks back and wishes that she had
never gone up in the apartment and if she had just gone home. Lane
doesn't make us hate her character but at the same time doesn't really
allow us to condone Connie's actions. She rather shows the audience
that Connie is only a HUMAN being and she is not perfect and she made a
mistake and that she feels lust and also feels guilt. It is a touching
and sexy performance. Even Olivier Martinez plays his role effectively.
He is if anything an innocent. He didn't fall in love with Connie and
he wasn't searching for anyone. He was simply fulfilling his own
desires and hers and it aroused him, but his desires in the end made
him the victim of a tragedy that didn't need to happen. He is also very
sexy and very mysterious and what woman in the planet wouldn't lust
after him! Unfaithful really plays itself out as a human story about
lust and the consequences but it doesn't preach. It's message is that
no one is perfect and everyone is only human and we respond to the
basic human desires and needs but there is always a consequence for
every decision or impulse made. An excellent film.
<|_=00=_|>

Is this a "great" film?  Is this a Oscar-winning masterpiece?  I honestly do
not know.  I was so engrossed in the plot that I didn't have time to judge
artistic value.  I was glued to my seat from start to finish.  This is
sassy, sexy thriller that delivers the goods and then some.  But the actors
make it work.  The chemistry between each of the characters is electric. 

Though Richard Gere gets star billing, it's the beautiful Diane Lane who has
the most screen time.  I'm always delighted to see her beautiful face on
screen, but this is her most powerful performance up-to-date.  Newcomer
Olivier Martinez shows great charisma.  He is a very talented actor, and if
he goes on with his career in American movies, he can become the next
Antionio Banderas.  I swear, there were moments in the film where even I
felt charmed by him.  Richard Gere hasn't had a successful movie in years,
and hopefully he'll get back on the ball with "Unfaithful."  He delivers a
fine, subtle performance and though I may be out on a limb, I'll say it's
one of his best.  

I haven't seen any of Adrian Lyne's past work, but I know he's an acclaimed
director and now that I've seen this film, I'm curious to check out "Fatal
Attraction" and his other past films.  He definitely knows how to set the
tone.  The scenes have a cohesive rhythm, and I even spotted moments of
symbolism.  

"Unfaithful" is an intriguing, compelling piece--a real edge-of-your-seat
nail-biter!  

My score:  8 (out of 10) 
<|_=00=_|>
I wasn't expecting much from 'Unfaithful' as I thought it would be
another 'The Perfect Murder' type thriller. But 'Unfaithful' is so much
more than what 'The Perfect Murder' could ever be. It's deeper. It's
darker. It has so many psychological layers. It's more a character
driven drama rather than than plot driven. The plot may not be exactly
original but it's the influence of it on the characters is what
'Unfaithful' is about. The film is very engaging as we witness the
psychological effects of the consequences of Connie's decision. Lyne
deserves praise for his excellent artistic execution. I loved how he
used symbolism (such as metaphors and pathetic fallacies) and shows
great attention to detail as is evident in the visuals. The editing is
clear cut. Biziou's cinematography is great and Kaczmarek's score sets
the tone. Note that during the key moments, when the main characters
are conversing, the background music is absent. Richard Gere and
Olivier Martinez, though a little too old, do decent jobs. However, it
is Diane Lane who gives a career-defining performance. Her sublime
portrayal of the incredibly sexy Connie is awesome. She carries the
film. It is Diane Lane and Adrian Lyne's film. 'Unfaithful' is a
magnificent engaging artistic drama. I don't understand why some were
even harsh enough to call it soft-core. Do they even know the
definition of soft-core? Others seem to have a problem with why Connie,
who had the perfect life, would have an affair. But I feel it necessary
to stress that nobody is perfect and therefore the perfect life does
not exist. Connie's affair wasn't a planned thing. Who knows why it
happened? Perhaps she wanted to feel younger, perhaps she was bored, or
perhaps she wanted more from her husband. I don't think it was with the
intention to ruin her 'perfect' life. There doesn't have to be a clear
reason...as affair's don't necessarily happen for the best reasons.
<|_=00=_|>

For much of his career,director Adrian Lyne has clearly had sex on the
brain,or thoughts of eroticial porno,turning out huff and puff features
both
good(the Oscar winning Fatal Attraction and the controversial Lolita)and
bad(9 1/2 Weeks and Indecent Proposal,the latter firmly cemented as one of
the worst films of its decade). Happily,Unfaithful
rests more toward the upper end of the spectrum;based on a 1969 French film
by Claude Chabrol(La Femme Infidele),the movie sports a
continental
demeanor that seems wholly appreciate,but as a whole we have seen this kind
of adulterated behavior several times before. Diane Lane's standout
performance is what elevates the first half,which could be easily dismissed
as a straight-to-cable soaper or straight-to-video softcore porno assembly.
A well to do housewife seemingly content with her husband(Richard Gere,is
one of his best works here and one of his finest performances since the
latter part of the 80's and early 90's),her son
(Erik Per Sullivan),and her home in a quaint New York(upscale Manhattan)
suburb,unexpectedly enters into a torrid affair with a French book
dealer(Oliver Martinez-who looks like something out of grocery store
paperback novel and one of those daytime TV soap hunks). Lane's complex
portrayal of a woman caught between the borders of reason and risk is
simply
smashing,yet eventually she's not required to carry the picture by
herself,as the second half heads off in some interesting and unexpected
directions that ultimately lead to the wonderful amibiguous final shot.
Unfaithful works for viewers willing to put some thought into it that only
works for those who want cheap thrills will probably be disappointed,but in
all its a
illusion of eternal bliss that will find this easily a satisfying picture.

<|_=00=_|>

The story in this film is pretty much exactly what I expected.  I really
liked that they made Richard Gere out to be a perfect husband and a very
loving husband.  You really feel for his character when he finds out about
the affair.  I thought Diane Lane did a great job as always and looks better
than ever, she is one gorgeous woman.  I thought Oliver Martinez did a good
job too, I'd never heard of him till seeing this film.

There are a few things in the film that didn't sit well with me, but they
were so minor that it's not worth talking about.  And the scenes that I did
like made up for it.  There is one scene in particular that I just loved. 
If you've already seen the film, it's the scene after Richard Gere finds out
about the affair.  Also the ending is very interesting, I won't say it's bad
or it's good, but interesting.  You'll see what I mean when you see the
film.

I will warn you though, there are some pretty intense/graphic sex scenes in
this film, so be careful who you see this film with.  I'm just saying that
you may feel uncomfortable watching these scenes with certain people sitting
right next to you.

All in all, I thought it was a very interesting movie, and the story was
told quite well.  I'm not sure if I liked this film better than "Fatal
Attraction", but you can tell it's the work of the same director.  I hope
you like the film as much as I did.  Thanks for reading.

-Chris
<|_=00=_|>

Adrian Lyne has succuced once again in making a film about the consquences
of an affair. While the trailer leads you to belive the film is like Fatal
Attraction it's nothing like it. The acting by Richard Gere is some of his
best work in a long time, but the tour deforce performance in he movie
belongs to Diane Lane. Lane gives an Oscar worthy performace as the wife
of
Gere. Diane Lane sexuality in the film is so sensual and awe insprining I
would cheat with her my damn self. I highly reccomned this
film.
