

When The Mummy hit theatres in 1999, critics everywhere panned it as being a
poor man's Indiana Jones. While the two movies are about as similar as Dr.
No is to GoldenEye (thankfully), I suppose comparisons between one non-stop
adventure film and other are inevitable. In the end, what really counts when
determining a film's quality is the level to which it can entertain. And if
there is one thing The Mummy did well, it was entertain. Brendan Fraser,
Rachel Weisz, and Arnold Vosloo were very well chosen for their
roles.

The Mummy Returns is easy to see as being another sequel churned out to
satiate the greedy money-machine that Hollywood has become, but it has a few
things working for it. One thing that is immediately obvious is that the
sequel was very much intended to be a film that could be enjoyed without
ever having seen the original. The only references to the previous film are
done to fill in the narrative gaps about who Imhotep is, and why he is the
way he is. The addition of The Scorpion King was an interesting effort to
give the film a new antagonist, but the lack of screentime didn't work well
in this tangent's favour. Another tangent that could have been better
developed was the rivalry between Imhotep's girlfriend and whatever her name
was. Imhotep originally mistook Rachel Weisz's character for being his
girlfriend reincarnated, so the use of a woman who looks exactly like her
while creating this new tangent needed to be developed
differently.

Most people won't give a damn about complex story tangents and will want to
know if this film is entertaining. And it is entertaining, alright. There is
barely a dull moment in the film's substantial running length, and Oded Fehr
does a bang-up job of providing a Mad-Max-cum-Indiana-Jones hero. I want to
know where they get those groovy costumes and tattoos from, they look quite
nice. Anyway, when all is said and done, this is an eight out of ten film. A
few badly constructed story details here and there, but some extremely
entertaining action sequences make up for them. Don't listen to the
nay-sayers. This is matinee-style material at its (almost) best. Get the DVD
when it comes out, it will at least tide you over until George Lucas gets
his head out of his proverbial and realises that the VHS era is well and
truly over.
<|_=00=_|>

On my day off from work today, I decided to pop in the Mummy Returns for
something fun to watch. I hadn't seen it since it was released for
homeviewing, so it's been about a year or two. I must say that this movie
takes my breath away each time I see it. The Mummy Returns is a roller
coaster ride which barely stops during the entire 2+ hours! I love the CGI
effects, and how lavish the scenery looks. The movie made me feel as though
I was witnessing Ancient Egypt and and the 1930's era in person. So what if
things look 'cartoony' during the battling sequences! I think that the
battle sequences in Two Towers looked just as much the same. I find that
with many fans nowadays, they take things way too seriously. If a movie or
TV series is not what they hope for, then they blast it all to hell just
because they are whining babies. Take for instance Star Trek Nemesis. That
was another really good movie, yet the so called 'fans' ripped it apart
piece by piece and then fed it to the dogs. I just wish that the babies
would enjoy the movies instead of complaining that a movie isn't good
quality. If thats the case they should just go back to their rooms and watch
Fargo or the English Patient! Both the Mummy and the Mummy Returns rock as
far as action movies go. Get a huge bag of chips a large bottle of pop, sit
down with your girlfriend and enjoy two great movies!! Excellent
fun!!
<|_=00=_|>
Most people compare this sequel to the first movie 'The Mummy', which
is a good thing of course, but I haven't seen the first one, so no
comparisons from me. 

So what can I tell you? Well, the movie isn't as bad as I expected.
It's all to clear that the director's first thought wasn't about the
script but about the many special effects, but i still quite liked the
movie. What made this movie work for me was the humor. Normally this
kind of movies takes itself much too serious, there is no place for any
joke or funny situation at all. In The Mummy Returns this is different. 

Thanks to the humor, this movie was very enjoyable, but it is of course
the many special effects that make this movie what it is. Don't expect
anything real: a mummy coming to life, sucking the life out of people,
armies of mythological creatures... will of course never exist in
reality, but it certainly was nice to see. 

I guess it is best to qualify this movie as some excellent way to pass
some boring hours on a cold and rainy afternoon. It's certainly not an
intellectual movie, but I didn't mind about that when watching it. I
give it a 6,5/10.
<|_=00=_|>

After seeing "The Mummy" in the theaters for the first time two
years ago, I knew I would be hooked. I've watched it about twenty
times since then, and as many people know, this movie does not
get boring or less funny after watching it numerous times, in fact, I
think it gets more and more thrilling each time. I began hoping for
a sequel to be released, and when I heard that one was in the
making, I was relieved that they weren't going to end this great
storyline with just one film. When "The Mummy Returns" was
finally released in theaters, it didn't recieve very many good reviews
right away. I was dissapointed because I didn't understand how
Stephen Sommers could direct such a great movie classic and
then totally botch a promising sequel. I let the reviews get to me
and I didn't see the movie while in the theaters. I waited until this
past weekend to watch TMR on pay-per-view not expecting much
due to the bad reviews, but I soon found out that, boy, were some
of those critics wrong.

Right from the opening scene I knew I wasn't going to be
disappointed. The action, special effects, acting, comedy, and
romance were all better than it's prequel in my opinion. The plot
was a little confusing, and the Scorpion King graphic at the end
looked like the same one used in the video game, but all in all it
was an extremely fun and enjoyable movie. I actually found myself
watching it three times in a row. I probably could have watched it
24 hours straight, but I didn't want to ruin it right away.

The SFX in TMR were outstanding. The pymies were so amazing,
and the Anubis warriors were excellent as well. But, on to the
greater aspects of the film. I thought that Jonathan, played by John
Hannah, is one of the funniest characters ever, his one-liners are
terrific, I was laughing out loud during his lines. Arnold Vosloo is
great as the title character, but could have been more like the
original, he was not as powerful in this film but was good anyway.
Many people disliked Alex O'Connell, played by newcomer Freddie
Boath, but I found him to be quite funny and likable. He had many
great lines and was sarcastic when the film needed it. He is a cute
kid and l hope he will have a good acting career. Oded Fehr is
wonderful as Ardeth Bay. He keeps the heroes grounded.

Meela/Anck-su-namun, played by Patricia Velasquez has some
good scenes, but I found her to be not as great as the rest of the
cast. I wasn't really looking forward to seeing The Rock as the
Scorpion  King in this film, but he wasn't as bad as I thought, even
though he was only it for about three minutes, I would have labled
him as an extra. It was all hype for him. My favorite part of "The
Mummy Returns" was the great chemistry between Brendan
Fraser (Rick) and Rachel Weisz (Evie). They looked like an actual
couple in this film, unlike other recent movies. This was why I liked
this one better than the prequel. A little bit of romance was what
was missing from the first 2/3 of "The Mummy", and I am so glad it
was included much more in this film. Brendan Fraser is very easy
on the eyes and he looks like a down-to-earth guy, not like a
stereotypical moviestar. I think this is why the two seem so
believeable in TMR, they are just two normal people who are still
very beautiful people. I am glad they made Evie more attractive in
TMR, she deserves to show off her pretty eyes. Rick is great
because he is still the same sarcastic, wise-guy, handsome hero,
who has all the females in the theater (including myself) drooling
and sighing, that he was in the first mummy movie.

I hope that they will make another sequel with Fraser, Weisz,
Hannah, Vosloo, Fehr, and Boath all included. They can't take out
any of these characters without the movie being butchered. I
probably won't see "The Scorpion King" since Brendan and
Rachel, my favorite characters, won't be in it. I know there are many
others just like me who love the romance in this film. I highly
recommend this film to anyone who likes action, SFX, comedy,
romance, and good clean fun. I would give this movie a 9.9 out of
10 points with the 0.1 being subtracted because it wasn't long
enough to really explain the plot in more depth. When it ended, I
wished it wasn't over. This goes in my top 5 movies of all
time.
<|_=00=_|>
Rick and Evelyn now married with a son, find themselves amidst the
second coming of Imhotep. After their Son Alex is kidnapped by Imhotep
as he seeks the Scorpion King (The Rock) Rick and Evelyn must pursue
their sons capture, with the aid of the clues Alex leaves along the
way.

Aside from some unusual revelations in Evelyn and Ricks past, the movie
concentrates mainly on the action this time out and runs a little short
on story.

I Liked the evolution of Evey's character, now she's hardened up she
makes a mean adversary, and takes part in some good battles.

All in all, i enjoyed the experience and once again the Visuals were
more than adequate.

If you enjoyed the first, then watch this one, its good fun and has
some fine moments.

7/10
<|_=00=_|>

The Mummy Returns is maybe a step above the first one. The action is
non-stop, and it does manage, for the most part, to rouse the audience, or
at least me. The good guys are likable. Brendan Fraser is where he
belongs.
Rachel Weisz is beautiful. John Hannah amuses as Jonathan, and Freddie
Boath
manages not to annoy as Alex, the kid. He's pretty good as a smart-mouthed
brat. The bad guys are, for the most part, fun to hate. Im-Ho-Tep is a
good
villain. Maybe he isn't given enough to do here, but he's still cool.
Patricia Valazquez is a real stunner as his love interst, Anck-Su-Namun.
She's probably the best thing about the film. Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje was
good as Lock Nah, the main henchman. Perhaps the weakest part of the film
is
the Rock as the Scorpion King. The narration during the film's prologue is
not nearly as good as it would be if we were watching the story develop.
The
Scorpion King is basically a boring character. His computer-animated
doppleganger at the film's climax is neat, but it would have been better
if
there were some feelings towards that character.

People who know their action flicks will notice that the Mummy Returns
steals about every action scene from every action movie made in the past
20
years, quoting movies like Aliens, Indiana Jones, Jurassic Park 2 (why?
that
movie was terrible), and especially Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom
Menace,
with which, if you remember, The Mummy I was competing with in the box
office successfully in May of 1999. They don't try to hide any of it. They
even make a jest at Spielberg with a shadow against the moon from ET and
Amblin Entertainment. It's all in good fun. You shouldn't be too angry at
the sloppy script. If you are going to be angry, the shoddy computer
animation should be your target. Still, it's not bad. 
<|_=00=_|>

	If you've seen the trailer for this movie, you're probably expecting fast
paced adventure, non-stop action and a special effects extravaganza with
just enough story to keep it all interesting.  And if that's what you're
hoping for, you certainly won't be disappointed; because that's exactly what
you get in `The Mummy Returns,' written and directed by Stephen Sommers. 
The story begins in Egypt, where Rick O'Connell (Brendan Fraser) and his
wife, Evelyn (Rachel Weisz) discover an ancient bracelet that had once
belonged to a warrior known as `The Scorpion King (The Rock),' who, back in
the day, had sold his soul to the god, Anubis, for control of his armies and
domination of the world.  Now, it seems, The Scorpion King's resurrection is
imminent, and if he succeeds and once again raises the armies of Anubis, he
could very well take over or destroy the world.  Followers of Im-Ho-Tep
(Arnold Vosloo), however, who are privy to this information as well, decide
to resurrect their dark leader so that he can face The Scorpion King, defeat
him, take control of Anubis' armies and conquer the world himself, putting
them in control.  But the key to the whole plan lies with who has control of
the bracelet at the time of The Scorpion King's resurrection.  And the
O'Connells have taken it back home with them to London. 

	So the adventure begins in earnest, moving from Egypt to London, then back
again to Egypt.  Along the way, there's plenty of mummies, fighting, and
bugs, but very few surprises, except for one scene near the end when
something quite unexpected happens.  The story itself gets somewhat lost in
the muddle, but it doesn't really matter; plot is fairly insignificant in a
movie like this, as long as it maintains at least a thread of credibility
and can give the action some context.  And that it does, so all is well and
it allows you to get on with what this movie is really all about, which--
simply put-- is having a good time.

	With shades of `Indiana Jones' and `Star Wars' abounding, the real success
of this movie lies in the fact that it never pretends to be anything other
than what it is or what it was meant to be, and that is an entertaining, fun
movie.  It's visually explosive, from the sweeping, desert vistas of the
converging, battling armies, to the mummies and assorted demons and
creatures generously sprinkled throughout.  And the hand-to-hand combat
scenes between Evelyn and Anck-Su-Namun (Patricia Velazquez) are especially
thrilling.  The one element of the film that doesn't seem to work too well
has to do with a particular mode of transportation to which the O'Connells
must resort upon their return to Egypt, and which ultimately plays a
significant part in the outcome of the whole adventure.  It's something that
seemingly would have been more appropriate in `The Adventures of Baron
Munchausen' or `Peter Pan.'

	As far as the performances, suffice to say that the actors involved all do
their jobs well; after all, in a movie like this you're not going to find
anyone struggling with `The Method.'  Fraser strikes a handsome, heroic
pose-- call him a poor man's Indiana Jones-- and Weisz is becoming as
Evelyn.  Most importantly, they all walk the walk and talk the talk, and
Sommers keeps them on track and wisely avoids allowing any lapses into
`camp' or tongue-in-cheek character interpretations, which makes this a
solid, fun-filled, action-adventure movie that is what it
is.

	The supporting cast includes John Hannah (providing some comic relief as
Jonathan Carnahan), Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje (Lock Nah), Freddie Boath (Alex
O'Connell) and Obed Fehr (Ardeth Bay).  As with most sequels, you'll get
more out of `The Mummy Returns' if you've seen the original, which had more
of a story and, of course, would give you the background of the characters. 
But even on it's own and taken at face value, this movie is a feast for the
senses, and just a lot of good fun.  Just don't go in expecting anything
more than what the trailer promises; if you can do that, chances are you're
going to enjoy the movie and have a good time.  I rate this one 7/10.     

<|_=00=_|>

This movie is pretty good, it delivers pretty much the same thing we got in
the Firs movie.  Some characters are more developed and some others more
expanded, all the same, some others are reduced and we are introduced to new
characters.  The plot is good, not as good as the first movie, but still
does a good job keeping you interested and entertained the whole time. 

The sequel takes place 10 years later, when Rick O'Conell (Brendan Fraser)
and Evelyn Carnahan (Rachel Weisz) are now married, and have a son, Alex
(Freddie Boath).  Alex has been kidnaped by the bad guys, including the
infamous Imhotep (Arnold Vosloo) and his eternal love reincarnated (Patricia
Velazques).  Now it's just a matter of time for them to find Alex before
it's too late for everybody...

The performances are pretty good, almost all of them.  Brendan Fraser does a
good job once again as the handsome Rick, he is strong, funny, charismatic,
what else can you ask?  Rachel Weisz role has been developed a lot more, she
is no longer the clumsy egyptologist wanna-be, now she runs the British
museum and is a mom; and she does a great job with that.  John Hannah is
also back as  the useless Jonathan, this time not as funny as he used to be.
 Oded Fehr  character has been expanded a lot, we get to see him a lot more
in this movie.  He did a good job as Ardeth.  One more time, the winner of
this movie is Arnold Vosloo as the villain; his performance was excellent! 
He manages to express all the emotions without opening his mouth!  This guy
has great acting skills, too bad not many movie producers/directors have
noticed it.  The Rock does his movie debut with this movie, he is the
Scorpion King, the whole movie turns around him, even though he was in the
movie for the first 5 minutes of it.  Still he did a good job for his first
time.  Patricia Velazques was the only one who did a BAAAAD job.  Her acting
is awful! She is pretty and everything, but she really needs some acting
classes.

The music once again is one of the key parts of this movie, it is really
good, even though Jerry Goldsmith wasn't in charge of it. The direction is
good too, just like in the first movie, and we get to see a lot more of
special effects.

This movie is good, i really enjoyed it, I liked the first one better
though, but that's just me.  You might like this one better, so YOU MUST SEE
THIS ONE! **** out of *****
<|_=00=_|>
Mummy Returns takes the characters and story from the first film and
develops on them in a big, big way. The situations and set-pieces are
wilder, the odds even bigger and character arcs more complex.

Set 10 years after the first movie Brendan Fraser and Rachel Weisz have
made a rich living out of plundering tombs and pyramids. Who could have
predicted that their old nemesis I'm-Ho-Tep would return faster and
stronger than before.

But I'm still having trouble seeing I'm-Ho-Tep as a villain. Surely it's
the scheming, lying, conspiring supplicants that are the real villains.
The look in his eyes at the end, when his lover betrays him, is
heartbreaking. I can't root for him as a bad guy when he never really
does anything bad. Sure he wants to rule the world and all but who
doesn't?

The effects are not the best (Star Wars Episode 2 used up all the space
at ILM at the time) but there are loads of them and they're all lavish
and imaginative. I HATE movies that are carried by SFX but Mummy
Returns incorporates them into the story in a seamless way. How cool is
the big balloon? Or the approach of Anubis' army?

Most directors screw-up big budget, big scale movies (AVP, King Arthur,
Sky Captain, Exorcist Prequel, Catwoman) but Stephen Sommers knows
where the heart of this kind of movie is and delivers, once again, a
cheeky adventure with loads and loads of action and enough story and
character to back it up. Filmed in Panavision the 2.35:1 anamorphic
picture is perfect and the Dolby/DTS 5.1 is very loud and thundering. A
very good soundtrack indeed. The extras are total fluff and not worth
the time.
<|_=00=_|>
The success of "The Mummy" in 1999 surprised everyone, and on the day
that it opened, Universal Studios greenlit another sequel. The original
(the 1999 one) was a lot of fun because it mixed creepy scares with
awesome action and goofy humor. The sequel does more or less the same
thing, except that the action sequences come pretty much one after
another from beginning to end.

Rick (Brendan Fraser) has married his love from the first film, Evelyn
(Rachel Weisz), and the have a son, Alex (Freddy Boath). After finding
the bracelet of the mythical Scorpion King, they're attacked by
villains who are intent on raising Imhotep from the dead (again) so he
can kill the Scorpion King and take over the world. Of course, it's up
to Rick and Evelyn to stop them.

All the characters from the first film in the franchise are back, and
they slide into their parts easily. Arnold Vosloo gets to do more with
his character, and Patricia Velasquez (who has about 10 times as much
screen time as she did in the first film) has a lot of fun acting like
Jennifer Lopez's alter-ego. There are a few new characters as well,
including young Freddie Boath, who is excellent as Alex. His screen
appeal rivals Macauley Culkin at his best. Shaun Parkes is a much
better source of comic relief than Kevin J. O'Connor (he's consistently
funny, and the dialogue between him and Rick or Jonathan is hilarious).
Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje is suitably creepy as a new villain and Alun
Armstrong is suitably kooky as the ringleader.

Stephen Sommers knows how to create an action movie. He creates real
characters, not actors who are given different names, and sends them
into action scene after action scene. It's a fun and exciting flick,
and that's all it tries to be.
